

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin, J> VoL 63.—N0. 3257.
’M 1 1 IE ! A/JO
July 15, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
S TOKE POGES CHURCHYARD, BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.
WHEREVER the English tongue is spoken the
little Churchyard of Stoke Poges must be
very hallowed ground. Here repose the mortal
remains of Thomas Gray, two of whose poems *
“Elegy in a Country Churchyard” and “Ode on a
Distant Prospect of Eton College”—will endure
so long as the language itself. The “Elegy is
the more widely known. It was after its publica-
tion, under somewhat curious circumstances in
1751 Gray was at once raised to a foremost place
among English poets, a position the passing of
the years has not affected. Gray, besides being
a great poet, was a scholar of the highest attain-
ments. Witness, for instance, his last publication
(1765) of some paraphrases from Gaelic and
Icelandic sources. The year before he had been
offered, but declined, the laureateship. The
appearance of his paraphrases was contempo-
raneous with his appointment as Professor of
Modern Literature and Modern Languages at
Cambridge University. The charm, magic and
popularity of Gray’s work may be said to have
their foundations in some of his simplest efforts
—those on his old Eton playground and the
“Elegy,” in which in all revisions he sought to bind
its simple harmony with the themes. The late Dr.
Henry Morley pointed out how Gray expunged
classicism:
“In one familiar stanza he put Hampden in
the place of Gracchus, or some other ancient
worthy. Milton and Cromwell for Tully and
Caesar improved the lines —
‘Some mute inglorious Tully here may rest,
Some Caesar guiltless of his country’s blood.
The first stanza of the “Elegy” is familiar to every
schoolboy and -girl, beginning “The curfew tolls
the knell of parting day.” In the “Distant Pros-
pect” are lines which have given us a familiar
proverb:
“Where ignorance is bliss
Tis folly to be wise.”


MmceJo-SS
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, yovr New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, M
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 142 *•'
The Red Page
NATURE ABOUNDING.
For anybody who is interested in the
charming things birds do, the odd things
tortoises do, the merciless things weasels
do and the monstrous things the scorpion
and the praying-mantis do, E. L. Grant
Watson’s Nature Abounding (Faber) is
as pleasant a piece of reading as one
could ever come across.
An anthology of writings about nature,
divided into the four sections Earth, Air,
Fire and Water, it is edited by Grant
Watson with a fine discrimination, offer-
ing not only the best in natural history
or in those intensely-felt descriptions of
landscape that are like a Lesson for the
Day in a ritual of earth-worship, but
also, in inevitable corollary, some of the
best of English prose. Reading the selec-
tion from Hardy on Egdon Heath, for
example, interest in the earth-mystery his
thought explores is indissolubly blended
with admiration at the sombre splendor
of his style:
The face of the heath by its mere com-
plexion added half an hour to evening; it
could in like manner retard the dawn,
sadden noon, anticipate the frowning of
storms scarcely generated, and intensify the
opacity of a moonless midnight to a cause
of shaking and dread.
In fact, precisely at this transitional point
of its nightly roll into darkness the great
and particular glory of the Egdon waste
began, and nobody could be said to under-
stand the heath who had not been there at
such a time. It could best be felt when it
could not clearly be seen, its complete
effect and explanation lying between this and
the succeeding hours before dawn: then,
and only then, did it tell its true tale. The
spot was, indeed, a near relation of night,
and when night showed itself an apparent
tendency to gravitate together could be
perceived in its shades and the scene. The
sombre stretch of rounds and hollows
seemed to rise and meet the evening gloom
in pure sympathy, the heath exhaled dark-
ness as rapidly as the heavens precipitated
it. And so the obscurity in the air and
the obscurity in the land closed together in
a black fraternisation towards which each
advanced halfway.
The place became full of watchful in-
tentness now; for when other things sank
brooding to sleep the heath appeared slowly
to awake and listen. Every night its Titanic
form seemed to await something; but it had
waited thus, unmoved, during so many cen-
turies, through the crisis of so many things,
that it could only be imagined to await
one last crisis—the final overthrow.
W. H. Hudson, another whom nature,
either in the grandeur of landscape or
the minutiae of the lives of living crea-
tures, moved to prose that, if lighter than
Hardy’s, is still among England’s best;
H. M. Tomlinson on the jungle ; Turge-
nev, a little sentimental, but refreshingly
lyrical on the Russian forest; Fabre, who
can impart to the stories of the scorpion
and the mantis something of the drama
of Macbeth: Melville, Havelock Ellis,
Darwin, White of Selborne, Jeans on
stars. Borrow on the wind on the heath,
Henry Williamson on his beloved Devon
rivers and Conrad, another master of the
English language:—
Something startling, mysterious, hastily
confused, was taking place. I watched it
with incredulous and fascinated awe, as one
watches the confused, swift movements of
some deed of violence done in the dark.
As if at a given signal, the run of the
smooth undulations seemed checked sud-
denly around the brig. By a strange optical
delusion the whole sea appeared to rise
upon her in one overwhelming heave of its
silky surface, where in one spot a smother
of foam broke out ferociously. And then
the effort subsided. It was all over, and
the smooth swell ran on as before from the
horizon, in uninterrupted cadence of
motion, passing under us with a slight
friendly toss of our boat. Far away, where
the brig had been, an angry white stain
undulating on the surface of steely-grey
waters, shot with gleams of green,
diminished swiftly, without a hiss, like a
patch of pure snow melting in the sun.
And the great stillness after this initiation
into the sea’s implacable hate seemed full
of dread thoughts and shadows of disaster.
“Gone!” ejaculated from the depths of
his chest my bowman in a final tone. He
spat on his hands, and took a better grip
on his oar. The captain of the brig lowered
his rigid arm slowly, and looked at our
faces in a solemnly conscious silence,
which called upon us to share in his simple-
minded, marvelling awe. All at once he
sat down by my side, and leanedforward
earnestly at my boat’s crew, who, swinging
together in a long, easy stroke, kept their
eyes fixed upon him faithfully.
Hardy and Conrad would probably be
judged by common consent the greatest
of Grant Watson’s prose-writers. But,
after Fabre’s supremacy is admitted, his
next-best naturalist would be hard to
pick. Melville, usually remembered for
the grim symbolical drama of Moby
Dick, is extraordinarily pleasant on his
tortoises:
As I lay in my hammock that night, over-
head I heard the slow, weary dragging of
the three ponderous strangers along the en-
cumbered deck. Their stupidity or their
resolution was so great that they never
went aside for any impediment. One
ceased his movements altogether just before
the mid-watch. At sunrise I found him
butted like a battering-ram against the
immovable foot of the foremast, and still
striving, tooth and nail, to force a passage.
That these tortoises are the victims of a
penal or malignant, or perhaps a down-
right diabolical, enchanter seems in nothing
more likely than in that strange infatuation
of hopeless toil which so often possesses
them. I have known them in their joumey-
ings ram themselves heroically against rocks,
and long abide there, nudging, wriggling,
wedging, in order to displace them, and so
hold on their inflexible path. Their crown-
ing curse is their drudging impulse to
straightforwardness in a belittered world.
Charles Waterton is interesting on the
sloth, which, reputed to be the laziest
thing on earth and to live in constant
pain, is not lazy, he says, and
does not live in pain; Hudson and
Grant Watson himself are fascinating
on the darker fascination of the
stoat for the rabbit and the weasel
(spinning round and round to hyp-
notise his victims, or to entice them
closer) for the chaffinches ; Grant Watson
is again interesting on Australia’s cicada
and almost monstrously interesting on the
love-life of the slug—a beast which, he
declares, enjoys literally that perfect mar-
riage that, as far as humans are con-
cerned, is recorded only in the highest
flights of the imagination of the most un-
reliable poets.
Every one of the naturalists is interest-
ing ; every one of the prose writers good.
Nature Abounding is that rarest of all
books these days—one made for no other
purpose than to delight the reader. Not
to condemn anybody; not to convert
anybody to anything; not even to pur-
suade anybody to be more helpful to
tortoises or more encouraging to scor-
pions and slugs.
Paris Under Fire.
“Anything may happen. We are living under
a Provisional Government, run by an old
gentleman of 74! He could disappear any day
and then you would see the crisis.”
That’s one example of the extraordi-
narily close resemblance between the
French scene after the debacle of 1870
and the present state of affairs. The
ancient in this case was Thiers —“the man
of 1866, the wise, white-haired veteran
who had replaced his aggressiveness of
the time of Sadowa with a cautious cun-
ning. His policy was not to hit his head
against a steel wall of Prussian bayonets,
but to negotiate so skilfully that he would
end by getting the better of his adver-
sary.”
The quotations are from Letters from
Paris (Dent); a historical “discovery,”
edited and translated by Robert Henrey,
of letters written by one C. de 8., a politi-
cal informant to the London House of
Rothschild during and after the Franco-
Prussian war. Many of the letters, the
most interesting, were written in Paris
while it was besieged ; C, de B. sent them
across the Prussian lines by the balloon
post the city had to improvise to main-
tain communication with the outside
world.
Informal, gossipy notes, they give a
vivid picture of the life of Paris under
bombardment; the despair, the terror,
the confusion, the continuous political
frenzy; the manoeuvres for power and
place, the internecine hatreds of Left and
Right, corruption and cowardice at the
top of society, rebellion and cowardice
at the bottom.
From 10 o’clock last night till four this
morning a rain of shells fell on Auteuil
from the heights of Saint-Cloud. The
population was too frightened to sleep,
and women, clutching their babies, rushed
out of the falling houses. It was a picture
of desolation and anger, especially on the
part of the women, who shouted to their
husbands and brothers: —
“You’re a lot of cowards to allow this to
go on without fighting back. Why don’t
you go and attack the Prussian batteries?”
This feeling dominates Paris, and will
oblige General Trochu to abandon his
policy of inaction.
After the siege, is an account of the
rise of the Commune. Frenchmen at
war with Frenchmen, and Paris a city of
desolation:
An emissary I sent to Paris tells me, on
his return, that the National Guard is
discouraged. The batteries returning from
the battlefield drag themselves miserably
through the streets while the population
watches them sadly and in silence.
Regular orgies are held at the War Office
and the Hotel de Ville. These feasts pro-
duce scenes of unbridled revelry. Having
stolen the cash reserves of the Paris Gas
Company, the Commune intends to appro-
priate the bank balance of the water com-
pany.
Then come the days of the Republic,
France’s amazing recovery and Bis-
marck’s threat to renew the war;
A letter from Berlin discloses that by
next month the German Army will be in-
creased by at least 225,000 men, making a
total of 1,500,000. The German papers
have started a campaign, on the orders
of Berlin, accusing France of building up
immense armaments to attack Germany!
The letters end at the point when,
saved from a second German onslaught
by British diplomatic action, supported
by the Russians, France was on its feet
again. Whatever hopeful or pessimistic
omens one likes to draw from the letters,
they’ll at least renew anyone’s assurance
that France has no reason to love the
Germans.
"Opp" on "Opp."
Having made his fortune out of writing
about criminals, Edgar Wallace devel-
oped a certain fondness for them; old
lags, recipients of his charity, could be
met at his house at any time. But E.
Phillips Oppenheim, who might be ex-
pected to have similar tastes, abhors
the living crook:
In the days when Prohibition was at its
height in the United States, New York
and Chicago were looked upon as the
crime centres of the world. An influential
friend procured for me an introduction to
the Chief Commissioner of Police Head-
quarters at New York and I was more or
less initiated into the mysteries of Ameri-
can criminal life. I saw nothing I wanted
to remember, much less write about. It
was all very ugly and repulsive.
“Opp” follows this horribly heresy
with an even worse confession. He
doesn’t like murder.
His autobiography, The Pool of Memory
(Hodder and Stoughton; Angus and
Robertson), in which these morbid revela-
tions are made, is a cheerful, pleasant
narrative told with great simplicity and
of about as much dramatic intensity as
a bag of peanuts. The great bulk of it
is set in the Riviera and consists of
harmless bits of gosip about celebrities —
Suzanne Lenglen, the King of Sweden,
Somerset Maugham, Sax Rohmer, Lady
Winifred Fortesque and about 23,785
more, all doing and saying much the
same sort of things as they have done
and said in dozens of other gossip books
by successful novelists.
Oppenheim was caught up in the mad
scramble and confusion that followed
the German attack on France in this war,
and had considerable difficulty in geting
to England. He tells this part of his
story well, and gives a curiously effective
picture of the gloom he saw in Spain:
The French peasants showed no signs
of any undue depression. The middle-
classes seemed almost to have recovered
their old spirits. The Spaniard alone gave
one the impression of a suffering race.
They talked as a people conversing of lost
causes, they spoke the language of a
weary, defeated country. I asked the hotel
manager what it meant. “The people are
afraid that they Will be led or dragged
into another war,” he explained. “Spain
has had enough of war. We want peace.
We want peace passionately.”
Poems or Blueprints?
In the very first line of Donovan
Clarke’s Blueprints (Robertson and Mul-
lens) glare the worst heresy of contem-
porary versifying and the greatest weak-
ness :
Our poems are like blueprints.
The heresy is in the word “blue-
prints,” implying that in this age the
finished edifice of poetry is not to be
expected. Matthew Arnold offered the
same excuse in his day for not writing
more poetry and better poetry, but it is
pretty well recognised now that the fault
lay in Arnold, not in his times. Weren’t
war, invasion, civil turmoil and social
change just as menacing to the Elizabe-
thans, in whose time English poetry
reached its greatest glory, as they are
today when poems have to be “blue-
prints”?
Mr. Clarke’s other error is the use of
the word “Our,” which he has picked up
from Auden, Spender and Day Lewis:
the weakness Roy Campbell hit at when
he satirised Wilfred Owen for declaring
“None will break ranks.” If a poet
chooses to regard himself as a member
of a group, one of the fashionable
coterie, he will disappear with the group
when the fashion changes. The poet who
survives is the one whose individuality
is stronger than the mass mind of the
age.
Possibly as the result of the surren-
der of Mr. Clarke’s mind to the “blue-
print” notion while his talent is still try-
ing to write finished poems, Blueprints
is a curiously mixed collection. The title
poem is strongly influenced by Day
Lewis ; a number, written with a deliber-
ate crudity of style that considerably
weakens their impact, have the mildly
satirical tone of Auden; “Lines Written
at Kalorama” is a pleasant, rambling,
philosophical piece in the style of Mr.
Clarke’s earlier Ritual Dance poems;
and “Rebuilding in Progress,” though on
the up-to-the-minute theme of a crashing
civilisation, is no blueprint but a finished
work of art, by far the best thing in the
book: —
Windows that none can see through any more
Give light to nothingness without a floor;
While the roof girders grin across the sky,
Silently screaming to heaven “Crucify!”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The Royal Art Society of N. S. Wales,
holding its 63rd annual show in war-time,
nails its colors to the mast in a catalogue
foreword. Its members stand for
“sanity and love of the beautiful”;
they “do not pride themselves on their
superiority to and their puzzlement of
‘the common herd’ ” nor do they purvey
“select art which only a small cult can
appreciate.” That’s honest enough. It
delimits a “frame of reference,” as the
relativist would put it, within which plain
commonsense alone has validity and
metaphysical considerations butter no
parsnips.
Within that frame and measured on
its own co-ordinates the show is a good
one —the best in five years, to go no
further back. With the exception of
Lister Lister, who has been sick, the
pillars of the society are represented by
works quite at the top of their powers.
President Howard Ashton excels himself
in “Craggy Mountain,” which goes to the
N. S. Wales Gallery. The landscapes of
Syd Long, James R. Jackson and Erik
Langker, the figure pieces of Norman
Lindsay, H. A. Hanke and Fred Leist
and the floral bouquets of Albert Sherman
hold the mirror up to nature with a
steady hand. J. Salvana improves ;he is
finding more color and variety in the Aus-
tralian bushlands than of yore. Richard
Ashton is developing a surer touch with
his sea pieces, Lance Solomon, still
wedded to the silver-grey aspect of the
bush, has taken to pointellisme, and man-
ages the shimmery effect very prettily.
Some of the old brigade are to the
fore. G. V. F. Mann shows that his pencil
and his sense of color are as sensitive
as ever. Half a dozen well-known, well-
loved pictures by Julian Ashton recall the
recent passing of a revered figure.
Tom Garrett’s monotypes, which give
him a niche alone in Australian art, the
water-colors of Margaret Coen, H.
Neville-Smith and H. R. Gallop, the ex-
ceptionally clever crayon-drawings of
Hilda Rix Nicholas and the etchings of
Cedric Emanuel also catch the eye.
Doris Fitton’s Independent Theatre
lived its first 12 years as an amateur
organisation,, during which time it out-
grew all and outlived most other such
groups of Sydney lilywhites. A merger,
as professional players, with the Minerva
people, Whitehall Productions, survived
a brief three weeks. Now the Indepen-
dents offer J. M. Barrie’s “Dear Brutus”
as professionals in their own right. It’s
a brave step, and for the future of the
theatre in Sydney a good one; and, on
the evidence of the production, it is based
on a confidence not unjustified. The play
is a good one —comedy that is much
more than mere clowning—and the treat-
ment of it sure. Jean Robertson, John
Alden, Lesley Ann Weedon and Harvey
Ross-Buchanan work sincerely and well.
Sumner Locke-Elliott makes the fantastic
and eccentric Lob a delight.
The Gilsullivan season is still shining
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne. This
year is Sullivan’s centenary, and the
company, from John Fullard and
Evelyn Gardiner to the well-drilled
chorus, is paying the tribute of singing
his music with a zest that doesn’t usually
stand the test of constant repetition. Nor
does Ivan Menzies, who leads a detached
sort of life in the body of the drama,
show any signs of flagging in his capers.
Ferociously the ballet kicks in an effort
to dislodge the moths from “The Girl
Friend” at Sydney Royal; but if it were
not for the roaring of Joy Youlden, like
a small wounded lioness at the telephone,
it’s doubtful whether the old musicomedy
would have come to life. Don Nicol
fools pleasantly; Marie Ryan and Allen
Christie sing pleasantly; the music is
pleasant, the jokes are pleasant; and it is
vaguely pleasant, too, to speculate as to
what long thoughts, if any, on audiences,
producers, work, money and mechanised
warfare run through the mind of a ballet
dancer as she kicks and kicks and kicks
and kicks. And kicks and kicks and kicks.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —-the foundation of coyifidence.
“THE S)
URNITURE
f
wrn^s
h
4-PIECE
TRAFALGAR
BEDROOM SUITE, £52/10/-
The Trafalgar Bedroom Suite of 4 Pieces
is soundly constructed, with Walnut veneer
fronts and solid Coachwood ends. It comprises
4ft Gin Wardrobe, which has two-thirds hanging space,
and one-third fitted with 4 dustproof Drawers, Hat Shelf, and
Shoe space; a Tallboy sft. Gin. high x 3ft. wide, with 4 dustprooi
Drawers; 3ft. 9in. Kneehole Dressing Table sunk top and centre
Drawers; 2 Cupboards, each with 3 dustproof Drawers; also 4ft. 6m. Bed-
stead to match. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, suite i.^/iu/~
(Easy Terms. Deposit, £lO/10/-; 24 Monthly Payments of £l/18/6)
THE EVER POPULAR CAPTAIN TALLBOY, £7/15/-
The Captain Tallboy in Waxed Maple is 6ft. Gin high, 3ft. 9in. wide JZHn. deep
(outside measurements), and stands on Cabriole Legs. llms fitted with 4SI d g
Trays, with 2 recesses above and 1 below, suitable for hats, shoe , £ _
hanging space on left side. At Anthony Iloiderns . nee
(Easy Terms. Deposit. 31/-; 6 Monthly Payments of 21/3)
\
I
■ I
> I
6-piece KITCHEN SUITE IN
TASMANIAN OAK, £ll/10/-
Solidly built 6-Piece Kitchen Suite in Tasmanian Oak, com-
prising 4ft.'Cabinet, rounded Walnut ends, having one full-width
Cupboard at top with headlight Doors, also 2 Drawers, one lifted for
Cutlery, a Bread Receptacle, and a large Cupboard at bottom. The Refectory
r Table measures 4ft. Bin. x 2ft. 6in., and 4 round-back Chairs complete the suite. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, suite til/ U/-
(Easy Terms. Deposit, £2/6/-; 9 Monthly Payments of 21/2)
• Furniture —Third and Fourth Floors.
Anthony Horderns
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


TWO STACKS OF HAY
By BRIAN JAMES.
THE two round stacks of wheaten
hay stood on the high bank of the
creek. The afternoon sun threw
the long shadows of the tall she-
oaks across them. They belonged to
Billy Rosen.
Dick Wendover, “Dirty Dick, 1 ’ owned
the chaffcutting plant. It consisted of a
huge portable engine, a very early model
with an absurdly high smokestack, the
chaffcutter itself, and a wood and water
cart. A team of bullocks dragged the
first two from place to place. The gang
must have rejoiced the hearts of those
whose special department is blasphemy
and the richer veins of profanity. Mr.
Wendover minded the engine and the
crazy-looking driving belt, as well as
supervising the whole operation of chaff-
cutting ; there were the two stack men,
the band-cutter, the feeder, the bagger
and sewer, the bag-stacker, the wood
and water man, and Georgie Ryan, whose
chief function was to carry chaffbags of
wine from Billy Rosen’s cellar to the
stacks
The first stack was opened and found
to be very wet, the bags filled with a
damp, blue sort of stuff that didn’t look
like chaff at all Old Charlie Box, the
band-cutter, protested “Be Gawd,
missus, he can’t sell that fer chaff.” Old
Charlie, despite appearances, had a deli-
cate conscience, and the “missus” had no
reference to anything feminine in the
company, but was a mysterious figure
of speech “Be Gawd, missus”-
Charlie appealed to Dirty Dick,
Mr. Wendover left the nurturing of
his engine and signalled the feeder to
stop Then be inquired in the name of
a highly immoral sort of Hades what was
wrong Old Charlie explained that the
stuff was all wet and blue-mouldy. The
summer had been abnormally wet, and
the stacks had been badly built; no one
ever bothered to build good stacks on
Billy Rosen’s place.
The feeder came down from his perch.
Alf Pheasant was his name, and very
wickedly cross-eyed he was. Nonethe-
less he spat with great accuracy on the
only white patch of tarpaulin, and invited
Mr. Wendover to examine the navy-blue
saliva as evidence of the “state of his
lungs.” Mr. Wendover turned the legal
liabilities in his mind, and decided that
these rested on Billy Rosen,
Then the bagger and sewer ‘ declared
that the elevators were clogging every
sanguinary minute, and the job was im-
possible. That seemed serious. Mr.
Wendover stopped the engine, and sent
Georgie Ryan for Billy Rosen.
Billy rattled down in his sulky at such
a pace that he cracked and broke two
of the half-dozen hock he brought as
lubricant. Billy was even more slewed
than was his habit at such times in the
morning. He gabbled for a half hour
in quite unintelligible fashion. It was
gathered in a general sort of way that he
recommended opening the other stack and
at the same time pitching the sheaves
from the first .stack out in the paddock to
dry. He was not really shocked at the
condition of the chaff. He seemed glad,
if anything, that it filled bags. What was
left of his consciousness seemed capable
of envisaging size and weight, though
it was insensible to color and smell. It
appeared, too, that the chaff had been
sold in advance, so all the bother about
damp and blue-mould was rather un-
necessary. He examined a handful of
chaff from a half-filled bag, and declared
it was “bloody good stuff —a feed every
week would last any horse a fortnight.”
Then he announced, “Try the second
stack first and then go back to the other
one when the first one is finished,” slashed
his spidery-looking horse on the flank,
and rattled back to the fuddled manage-
ment of his wide domains.
FROM that moment the seeds of dis-
content were sown and ran to quick
germination and growth. It was a long
job shifting the plant, and it was late
afternoon before the second stack was
broached. It had been built by the same
architects as had built the firsthand was
in much the same condition —if anything
a trifle wetter, though that perhaps was
a matter of opinion. Soggy, black sheaves
bs£aa to stream, towards the band-cutter
and then poor old Charlie yelled out that
his “thing” was missing.
The “thing” was an old sickle with
most of the blade gone, ideal for cutting
bands. Mr. Wendover called to the
feeder to put ’em through, but Charlie
said he could do nothing without his
“thing”—someone had “pinched his
‘thing.’ ” Ribald advice was offered him.
At last he passed the uncut sheaves to
Alf, who poked them through, bands and
all, Mr. Wendover roared at Charlie in
a voice that drowned the rattle and
rumble of the plant and engine. It seemed
to us that it wasn’t really necessary to
drag Charlie’s parents into the matter at
all, still less his grandparents. Charlie
was proud of his grandfather-—the first
man to grow wheat west of the moun-
tains —and, after all, he had lost his
“thing” in process of shifting from the
first stack.
Charlie was hurt, and climbed down
from the platform, informing us that
“Be Gawd, no one could speak to him
in that way.” As Mr. Wendover kept
on speaking in that way, it seemed that
something must happen, and we all
stopped work to see it. Charlie walked
on his toes, with arms bent well out from
his body, looking like a very old game-
cock staging a comeback. Mr. Wend-
over said it all over again with such trim-
mings as he had overlooked the first
time. Charlie circled the engine twice,
and refused to rejoice when Alf Pheasant
called out that his “thing” was found.
Charlie told Mr. Wendover that he was
finished with the job. Mr. Wendover
told Charlie to get off the place. Charlie
went to his tent, which was a simple struc-
ture —a tarpaulin slung over the creek
fence —and there he defied ejection. Mr.
Wendover appeared to forget him, and
called on me to cut the bands.
It was a ticklish situation in which
the Rights of Man and the wrongs of a
fellow-worker were involved. Since 1
was very young I appealed to the others
for guidance, and they decided that all
operations must cease till Charlie’s feel-
ings were consulted,
Charlie was sitting in a hunched
fashion at the door of his burrow, very
red-eyed and sulking with much dignity.
We dimly *felt that Charlie represented
in his person the oppressions of the
Master Class, the Master Class at the
moment being busily engaged resining
the big driving belt, in callous disregard
of the sacred things he trampled upon,
Charlie spoke in surprisingly quiet and
resigned tones that nonetheless showed
a spirit unbroken. “Be Gawd, Jack, take
the job; I don’t want it.” As simple as
that. But his tight grip loosened as he
caught sight of Mr. Wendover approach-
ing the chaffcutter: “But, be Gawd, I
won’t be shifted from this crick bank by
anybody with tight lips and short red
bristles on his neck ”
Mr, Wendover ignored the subtle
thrust, and with Charlie’s sanction, as it
were, and the conviction that the brother-
hood of toil had no great principle in-
vaded, the chaffcutting proceeded.
With Charlie’s “thing” I cut the bands,
and shoved the sheaves along the feed-
ing box. As fast as I went, however,
Alf went faster still, and every third or
fourth sheaf went through with the band
on. Alf’s faith in the digestive function-
ings of the horse was profound—that is,
if any horse could be discovered that
could eat such chaff as we were cutting.
JUST before six and knock-off time,
Adolf Himmelman appeared in Billy
Rosen’s wagonette. Adolf was a very
disreputable German who worked for
Billy Rosen in those doubtful and rare
periods when he was sober enough to do
so. He was also a man with strong lean-
ings towards science, politics and disser-
tation. At this moment he was obviously
in a state of wine, dignity and argument.
He pulled up the horses near the stacked
bags, and informed Mr. Wendover that
Mr. Rosen had instructed him to cart the
chaff up to the big shed near the house.
The men, he said, were to help load the
wagonette.
Mr. Wendover blew the whistle and
stopped the engine. With diplomacy,
rare in such a direct man of action, he
rattled the sugarbag of bottles that Billy
Rosen had sent down. That decided
assistance for Adolf. Then Mr. Wend-
over opened a bottle of sherry and passed
it round. In a truly decent spirit he
handed Georgie Ryan another bottle to
take to Charlie. Old Charlie was still
hunched at the mouth of his tent. He
observed the acts of peace-making. When
Georgie came to the fence Charlie waved
him and the bottle aside grandly. f Tell
him, Georgie, tell him, be Gawd, that
not a drop of that would I touch if my
tongue were breathing its last gasps in
thirst.” Georgie returned with the bottle,
Mr. Wendover took it silently and. made
as if to open it, thought better of it, and
returned it to the sugarbag. Then he
opened a different bottle and passed that
round.
Percy Williams, the bagger, com-
menced the task of loading. He threw
a bag into the wagonette and shoved it
forward. Then he yelled in genuine pain.
He had good cause ; a tine of a pitchfork
had gone right through his hand. It was
his right hand, and he vainly tried to
pull the fork back with his left. Mr.
Wendover rushed to his assistance and
removed the fork. Then babel burst
forth. Mr. Wendover demanded to know
who left the indecent fork with its
prongs up. Adolf climbed back to the
seat of the wagonette, expanded his chest,
and in language strangely chaste and
brief, but no whit less defiant, answered
simply “I did.” Then he calmly waited
till the storm of abuse subsided some-
what and, with terrible eloquence in
which science and ethics were blent, gave
logical proof that the right way to carry
a fork in a wagonette was with the tines
up —most certainly never with the points
to the floor. This carried the argument
to a higher plane, academic and theoretic.
It became too involved for most of us,
and we dropped out of it.
In the meantime Percy Williams had
crawled over to the fence. We found him
there later in a dead faint, and after fur-
ther argument Adolf was constrained to
drive him up for Mrs. Rosen to attend
to. Percy then went back to town, and
the gang did not see him for some weeks.
OTRANGELY enough, the accident
had a softening influence on both Mr.
Wendover and old Charlie. There was
recognised by both some sort of ancient
tradition that blood, and only blood,
could give satisfaction in quarrels. Cer-
tainly there was some little confusion
about whose blood it should be. Still,
blood had been let. So next morning
when the engine had puffed and snorted
and coughed sufficiently to blow its
whistle, Charlie was back on his perch
with his “thing” at the ready.
Work went on. Bag after bag of blue
mould piled up on bag stack. The wagon-
ette plied to and fro. Adolf was indis-
posed, and his place was taken by Jim
Bower, who was, if anything, a trifle
more useless than Adolf. Georgie Ryan
was detailed to assist in the loading. Be-
tween the two of them the bags were got
on somehow, and the horses did the rest.
Whatever might be said of the general
mental level of the men on Billy Rosen’s
place, it had to be conceded that his
horses were intelligent. They needed to
be.
The “second” stack was finished first,
and then the “first” stack, or the other
one as the case may be, was attacked.
Old Charlie and Mr. Wendover occasion-
ally drank out of the same bottle, which
seemed to indicate a better harmony be-
tween the great classes of industry.
When the other stack cut out, Billy
Rosen came down to settle with Mr.
Wendover—not with us, of course, for
our pay came from Mr. Wendover. Still,
we found the argument of no little in-
terest. Billy said there were 40 tons in
the two stacks, but Mr. Wendover main-
tained there were 45. Billy worked on
the mathematical basis of 25 bags to the
ton. Mr. Wendover held out for 22.
Not that Billy was mean, far from it, but
he objected to a bloomin’ contractor
doing him in the eye. “It’s the wet stuff,
don’t you see, Mr. Rosen, that makes the
difference,” said Mr. Wendover. “And
we earned the difference in the slowness
of the job.” We thought the case was
put with commendable restraint and with
legal flavor.
“So you want to charge me extra for
cutting water? said Billy,
“That’s just what I do mean
“Now, Mr, Wendover, Dirty Dick, I
mean” Having taken the plunge Billy
lost all coherence and repeated “Dirty
Dick, Dirty Dick, Dirty Dick” at least a
dozen times. He described the lot of us
as a “drunken gang of loafers,” and that
reminded him of the bill for the wine he
had supplied. His estimate of the quantity
was so high that it seemed we all owed
him something.
It was not clear who used the word
first, but “liar” (of a most unsavory type)
wa s soon bandied to and fro. Billy
hopped out of his sulky, took off his
waistcoat, put his false teeth on the step
of the sulky and shaped up to Mr. Wen-
dover. Old Charlie, however, stepped
between the combatants and “be
Gawded” to some purpose. The quarrel
collapsed, and Mr. Wendover and Billy
drove off to the house. What settlement
they came to we never learned,
The bullocks were rounded up and
yoked and the plant moved off to Mrs.
Watson’s place. We went across the pad-
docks to meet it there,
The two stacks were finished and the
b re eze again sifted shrilly through the
o aks.
Various Verse
The Soldier Speaks.
I cannot longer be as other men
Who trail from antic t moment to event:
Who, frantic in their fever as the ant,
Clutch futile fingers at the hurricane
And, failing, find that they must make their
run
Again. I who have seen the dragon’s teeth
Sown in sand, have known the clamorous crash
Of guns that garnished smoking holes with
flesh.
Have seen guts ripped with shrapnel when blind
faith
Was in men’s hearts and all they found was
death.. .
I would be lost how in that other stream!
A ghost swift-walking in a windswept street
Would never know the loneliness, regret
And grief that I would know like some dark
crime
Encircling the memory in a frame.
Let me stay where the incense of the dead
Rises to the heraldic blaze of stars.
Or, private with the dog-black storm, know wars
And a war’s ways; and at the end be laid
Softly down with the soil where the roots feed.
(But sometimes, turning in the dark, I’ll start
And know an idiot spark burn the brain.
Burn the mind; and, sensing the silent groan
Of a dead comrade, wish again to court
A small space of living with the heart’s hurt.)
A. IF.
SHAWN O'LE[?]
Men Laughing.
I had heard laughter when I was very young.
Long ages back I knew laughter,
And I laughed
(As men did)
At bedroom stories told in jostling bars.
Bellowed and shook at some Lothario’s fall,
And went away feeling a mighty fellow.
Tittered politely at women’s pretty tales.
Faintly indecent. And chuckled knowingly
At whispered scandals.
Laughed viciously.
Slung petty muck at many a pillory . . .
Far, far days
When laughter ruled,
And I laughed.
(Being very young—it was three years ago..)
That bleating, hollow laughter.
Now
I have heard soldiers laughing. ,
(You do not forget the sound of soldiers
laughter;
Deep, hard laughter, like anvils beaten in granite
caves);
Their challenge to blind, stupid Fate,
Knowing her blindness,
Hating her blindness,
Mocking her blindness,
The laughter of soldiers.
Ghost echoes,
Sounding back from the grey desert,
Splitting across tire red, bellowing air
Above Thermopylae,
Faint on the Syrian hills,
Crowing bitterly in lost Tobruk,
And crashing through torn, empty Darwin
streets.
Laughing men on leave,
Filling old arched streets with laughter.
Waking dim shades and stirring ancient tempi 6B
To thoughts that the crusades had come again-
Kind laughter at children tumbling*in the dust,
Laughter at the lovely, living things.
And in the smoking, blasted fields,
Tired laughter.
As at some joke enjoyed for overlong.. -
lhat jester Life, that torment, merry rogue—
Such silent laughter at his latest prank,
Sprawled gutted, grinning at the sky.
A.I.F.
JOHN QUINN.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63. —No. 3257
Wednesday, July 15, 1942
THE WISDOM OF THE EAST.
“America is bound to deal first with its most threatening enemy, Japan, and is beginning t o discharge this supremely important duty in the Pacific. By the end of
next winter Japan, with only 5,000,000 tons of naval and merchant shipping, will have only one-tenth of the strength of the United Nations."—Chiang Kai-shek.
“You know this gentleman, of course. Rightly used, he is our most potent ally."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington-
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C 4.
TO WIN THE WAR.
The heavy defeats of Marsha! Timo-
shenko’s armies in South Russia, together
with the perfectly feasible Russian ex-
planation that, as in the operations against
Kerch Peninsula, and Sevastopol, the
enemy contrived to be stronger at given
points, should have demonstrated to all
unprejudiced persons that the extent of
the German losses in the winter and early-
spring campaigns was grossly exag-
gerated, particularly by Communists and
wishful - thinking newspapermen. They
should have demonstrated also to all un-
prejudiced persons that it would be mad-
ness to accept and act upon the pet theory
of these champion tale-tellers, which is
that Russia is the main theatre of war.
Russia is no more the main theatre
of war in this world struggle than
it was in 1914-18. Now, as then, for
the people of this empire—in effect an
island empire—-the main theatre of war
is the sea. Defeated at Jutland, we
should have lost the war in 1916.
Defeated in the submarine campaign, we
should have lost it in 1917—though in
each year we and our allies had huge
armies in Europe, Africa and Asia.
Defeated in the present contest for the
mastery of the oceans, we could not con-
tinue, whatever the result of the cam-
paign in Russia.
This has, in effect, been stated in
startling terms by an American naval
authority, reported in a representative
Washington publication, the ‘‘United
States News”:
At a single East Coast port, 40,000 mili-
tary trucks are standing, waiting for ships
to ferry them to war zones where they are
needed badly. At one inland plant, 30,000
combat vehicles are ready to be shipped
This picture—of war goods piling up on
both coasts and backing up at some inland
war plants for lack of shipping space—
was painted for 12,000 West Coast shipyard
workers by Rear-Admiral John W. Green-
slade, commandant of the 12th Naval
District, Said he : “We lost the Philippines
and Singapore because we did not have
enough ships—combat and commercial. We
may lose Australia, perhaps Alaska, for
the same reason ” Victory or defeat, at
the present time, the admiral explained,
“resolves itself into a simple mathematical
pattern—can we build ships fast enough?”
The same note was struck last week by
the editor of the “Daily Express.” Writ-
ing on “our shipping position,” he de-
clared that “the gap between sinkings
and output constitutes a crisis as grave
as any we have faced in the war: the
whole prospect of victory depends on
our ability to counter the submarine
menace by counter-measures and in-
creased output” The amazing thing
is that the “Daily Express” is Lord
Beaverbrook’s paper, and that Lord
Beaverbrook and the editor of his
Sunday sheet, the “famous” John Gordon,
have placed their pens and voices at the
service of the Second Front agitators;
have, indeed, organised and spoken at
Second Front meetings in association
with Communists,
Not with the intention of showing that
sea-power is still our best bet, Lord
Beaverbrook referred to the tragic losses
suffered by the Navy in guarding and
rescuing the armies sent to Norway and
France.
Forty-seven warships sunk.... and when
the evacuation was over half our destroyer
fleet lay awaiting repairs in our shipyards.
He did not mention that, wounded as it
was, the Navy was strong enough to pre-
vent Hitler, though on a fine day Hitler
could see the cliffs of Dover, from mount-
ing an offensive against the United King-
dom when it had only one fully armed
division, and that a Canadian division
of infantry,. He did not mention either
that for a year after Dunkirk, though
more armies were frittered away and
many more ships and crews were lost in
exert and salvage work, the Navy stood
between the enemy and the Empire, its
sure shield against invasion. No, he went
on to assert that “Russia may settle the
war for us in 1942,” and that we should
“strike out to help Russia violently, even
recklessly, by setting up somewhere along
the 2000 miles of coastline now held by
the Germans a Second Front in Western
Europe.”
Thereupon, with the inconsequence
and levity of the flapper journalism of
which he is a leading exponent, his Lord-
ship touched blithely on the immensity of
the contract to which he would commit
Britain after three of the most terrible
years in all its history.
Each division now carries a thousand
tons of ammunition and consumes two tons
of petrol for every mile of travel. A single
anti-aircraft battery requires three tons of
ammunition in one minute’s action. Five
tons of shipping are needed to keep one
soldier overseas.
Five tons (only five) for one soldier.
That means 500,000 tons for 100,000 sol-
diers, 2,500,000 tons for 500,000 soldiers
—and God knows how many more for
replacement of loss and damage, which
must be serious and might be disastrous.
And there would remain the problems of
assembling warships and aircraft enough
to protect landings in great force on a
coast protected by minefields and bristling
with guns, with the enemy in possession
of all the ports and port facilities and in
a position to strike swiftly with clouds of
shore-based aircraft.
His Lordship’s arithmetic has been
questioned. On the American Major
Seversky’s reckoning, it would require
4000 vessels, averaging 5000 tons, to land
a million men in Europe, supposing they
could be landed. And without “clear-cut
mastery of the air,” which would have
to be striven for in the light of the fact
that Luftwaffe machines “could be
quickly shifted anywhere,” and, if need
be, “as quickly returned to Russia,”
“immense losses would result without
any substantial benefit to that country.”
Major Seversky is a much more com-
petent authority on war than Lord
Beaverbrook.
So is General Chiang Kai-shek. That
indomitable warrior is of opinion that the
democracies in the Pacific should make
it their main business to knock out
Japan. He points out shrewdly that the
apparent strength of the Japanese con-
ceals a cardinal weakness—they have
only 5,000,000 tons of naval and mer-
chant shipping, and their building capa-
city is relatively small, while the fronts
over which they have spread their forces
are vast. As a matter of fact, they have
gained all their successes by turning Brit-
ish principles of war, practised always till
the Continental-army obsession arrived,
against Britain and Britain’s allies.
Because of the skilful employment of
sea-power and air-power (having, by
various kinds of folly, been permitted to
attain superiority in the air) the Jap has
overrun far-flung territories with com-
paratively small armies of invasion—
—probably not more than three divisions
in any case. He could be driven out of
them by armies no greater once the
democracies in the Pacific, with such
help as Britain might be able to give,
established naval and aerial supremacy;
and with their unequalled building and
training resources the task is well within
their compass. It is probably true that
the enemy in the Pacific is already finding
it embarrassing to have mountains of raw
materials for which there is no market,
although the native populations must
live, and in process of time this embar-
rassment will become a running sore.
In the case of Germany also, conquest
can be made not only unprofitable but
a weariness of the flesh, and that without
risking the loss of the war and the per-
manent weakening of Britain (already
with nearly two million more females
than males) by trying to land a huge
army on the Continent. With American
and British Commonwealth sea-power
and air-power developed to the highest
point, Germany and its allies could be
systematically blockaded, while the
Anglo-American Powers traded among
themselves, with South America and with
great parts of Asia and Africa. In the
long run even Germans (especially those
with careers to make, those with busi-
nesses to rebuild from their ruins and the
unnumbered hosts of the homesick)
would tire of useless slaughter and of
being cut off from most of the world,
and the peoples of the occupied countries
would meanwhile be increasingly difficult
to handle.
Recourse to this method of making
war would mean abandoning the dream
of victory in 1942. It would mean furious
and destructive bombing and ferocious
attempts to cut the cordon of ships. But
if the iron pressure were maintained,
regardless of time and of whatever new
deviltries the cornered foe might attempt,
there could be only one result —an en-
forced acceptance of the principles of
the Atlantic Charter.
Soldiers, and Others.
In the training camps and at battle sta-
tions and other places where the A I F.,
Australia’s citizen army and fighting
forces in general are on duty, at call, 24
hours a day, reported aspects of the Aus-
tralian home-front scene still make hard,
almost incredible, reading.
While ever there is occasion for it,
Australian forces of all kinds will go on
fighting with the valor that makes them
the equals of any in the world, and the
superiors of most. Not even the worst
effects on them of considering continu-
ally reported sickening occurrences on
the home front will alter that. They have
a healthy contempt for the un-Australian
elements including those who put
loyalty to foreign countries first and
the good sense to realise that these
elements are, after all, a minority, while
they themselves and the general Austra-
lian community they represent make up
a safe enough majority.
Despite the truth of this, it would be
expecting too much of human nature,
certainly it would be taking too much for
granted, to suppose that, because little
on the subject is ever heard from any of
those in uniform, they must all be
dumbly satisfied with their lot, and never
compare it to themselves with that of
civilians at large, war-workers and
others. There is steady food for such
silent comparing in the too-common re-
ports like that of the resolution passed
the other day by the N.S.W. Miners’
Southern Delegate Board, which recom-
mended that, “owing to anarchy and dis-
loyalty existing amongst members in the
district,” die lodges should enforce a rule
providing for “the fine or expulsion of
members.” The resolution
was passed after the board had considered
reports from lodge executives stating that
many stoppages were caused by youths
who had no grievance to justify sveh action.
On the same day there was the report
that “a general stoppage by 1900 em-
ployees at a large munitions works was
threatened because the management
had refused to reinstate a dismissed
machinist.”
A listing of such reports, even since
Australia’s existence became directly
menaced, would fill out a large-sized
book in day-to-day diary form. In what
bare time training and duty leave them
for reading, Australians in uniform note
these reports with a grimness that home-
fronters can hardly be expected to appre-
ciate. When physical comfort, mental
recreation and practically all personal
freedom, as these are understood in
civilian life, are parted from, all such re-
ports have a new and bitter bite. Those
reading them in such circumstances feel
the mockery to their own considerable
sacrifices, the negation of their own seri-
ous efforts. Any such occurrences in
their own midst would amount to
anarchy; their organisation could not
function; there could be no discipline,
and hence there would be consequently
poor, even if still willing, fighters. Aware-
ness of this does not make the reading
of all these reports of un-Australian
doings of home-fronters any the less
grim.
On the latest sorry chapter of the Aus-
tralian coal sector in war-time Mr.
Fadden put the blame where a good deal
of it obviously belongs:
No longer can the Government be ex-
cused for allowing these daily strikes to
continue. If it does so it will be recreant
to its responsibilities to the men of the fight-
ing services, to our Allies, and to the
nation as a whole. Unless the Prime
Minister translates his frequent repeated
threats into action, these irresponsible
miners will continue their defiant and dis-
loyal actions,
Mr, Fadden’s recipe for dealing with
them was the usual political sidestep.
Action should be taken “to draft them
into the fighting forces, or into other war-
time activity.” As far as the fighting
forces go, that classifies their uniformed
lot as a form of punishment. No doubt
it would be that to the sorry sort of
Australians the miners’ board has to
describe as anarchists and disloyalists,
but only a staunchly civilian mind could
conceive of such being by any means
made into troops fit to wear a Digger
uniform. But others besides Mr. Fadden
have suggested this singular form of
“punishment”; and, in point of fact,
looking at the matter on a strictly com-
parative basis, the prevalence of the idea,
summed up in the expression that “it
would serve them damn’ well right if they
were put into uniform,” is not so sur-
prising.
What really is surprising is that the
general difference in the lot of those in
uniform and those not in uniform should
continue as wide as it is; so incompar-
ably advantageous to the civilian part of
the community, war workers no less than
others, and politicians and the like not
excluded. All that can be claimed for
any of these in the lopsided balance is
that they (most of them, anyway) are
working harder than ever before —keep-
ing the comparative basis in mind, it must
at once be "added And being well paid
for it, too. They have lost some of their
peace-time liberties —never losing sight of
the comparative basis, their liberties are
in point of fact scarcely touched They
have their choice of food—a much more
important consideration than anyone can
possibly realise who has never been
denied it. They have beds in houses to
sleep in—not straw (or nothing) in
draughty huts or tents, or in neither.
They have their accustomed recreations
—and time for them.
Anyone who has any doubts about these
or a dozen other considerable advantages
that could be listed in the comparison
should put himself in the position of
any one of hundreds of thousands of
Australians in uniform as ordinary sol-
diers. Anyone who doubts that the,
advantages are all —heavily and wnongly
—on the civilian side might care to try
the lot of any one of many thousands
of married Australians in uniform. An
allotment of 3s. 6d, a day for his wife
would leave him with 17s. 6d. a week
for high-priced tobacco, beer and such
other solace as he may be able to buy.
At call, he would be on duty 24 hours
a day; in actual practice he could find
his day’s working (training) hours stretch-
ing from 6 a.m. through to as late as
10 p.m. on alternate days; to 6 p.m. on
other days, provided he did not get guard
or picket duties to carry him on to 6
next morning or 6 next evening.
But probably no describing of hours
of duty, conditions or anything else could
make the comparison really clear to any-
one who has never sampled both lots.
Those who have are aware enough of
the difference, and their awareness isn’t
lessened or sweetened by these reports
of un-Australian capers by protected
home-frenters And the training side of
it —the general comparative lot of all who
go into uniform —is only the least part
of the comparison. It is a strange aspect
of our democracy that home-fronters —
war-workers along with all others
should, in the comparison, have the ad-
vantages all their way, in living condi-
tions, pay and all else, as against those
who, merely through the accidents of
their physical fitness, plus their not being
employed in some “essential industry,
have alone to take the risk of loss of life
or permanent incapacitation—the only
forms of sacrifice that merit the name.
Such considerations amount to the
strongest possible argument for a level-
ling of the balance, as between soldiers
and others. One more of many points
needs noting. Except in certain cases,
those who are in uniform for any length
of time can slip back seriously in regard
to their civilian occupations ; at the best,
they can hardly advance. The better
soldiers they made, the more truth there
could be in this. On the other hand, the
civilian can at least hold his standard,
and in the great majority of cases can
improve himself and so entrench himself
in his iob.
The Speaker at Canberra was taken to
task for stating in an article that “the
War Advisory Council consists of Iff
members, not one of whom has bad
military experience.” This was read as
a derogatory criticism. The truth is that
it was not only a simple statement of
fact, but also the statement (probably un-
conscious) of what is axiomatic in the
odd social state of things here considered.
It could almost as well have been said
that, of course, none of the ten had had
military experience, otherwise they would
never have had the full time and oppor-
tunity to reach such a. position. There
are exceptions in high places, but a count
of beads will show that to be so true as
to amount to ordinary general experience.
It would be a rash prophet who would
say how long such a social arrangement
is likely to last; how long those who do
the fighting part will have the advantaged,
in the comparison, all so much against
them. On the face of it, it is so prepos
terous that it’s a wonder the Australian
sense of humor alone does not change it
all overnight Certainly there is the
strongest case for everything possible being
done to correct the balance of advan-
tages. The soldier should, at the very
least, be on an even footing with those
who figure so consistently, and with suc.i
evident immunity, in anti-Australian per-
formances on their secure and protected
sectors of the home-front. Actually, ot
course, if there was any sense in the
scheme of things at all, he would be on
a better —not a worse—footing than
anyone whatever on the home-front


PLAIN ENGLISH
Where Terrorism Fails.
“The s.s. Mareeba was sunk cr captured by
a German raider. Twenty-five officers and
men were transferred to a German prison ship
which was sunk ‘in mistake’ by a U-boat.
Posted as missing, they are now presumed to
have been drowned ”
lu this war, as in the 1914-18 war,
the Germans obviously hoped for much
from the weapon of terror. They worked
it out that against fire and explosion,
against death and destruction on the
grand scale, provided it could be rushed
upon them, populations would wilt be-
fore them. In part, their conviction
proved correct, but only in part.
Their submarine campaign is as much
one of terror as of destruction. As they
undoubtedly see it, a ruthless and sus-
tained attack on merchant shipping could
be expected not only to destroy ships
but also to create in seamen’s hearts a
growing fear of the sea and the lurking
death that awaited those who sailed upon
it. And who, sitting comfortably on land
and contemplating the long and terrible
story of sinkings, can fail to wonder that
in this the Germans are wrong?
The airman goes to the battle in a
glorious rush of speed, well trained and
well armed, knowmg that the eyes of
his countrymen are on him full of admi-
ration The soldier goes to the battle
with his companions, all well trained and
well armed, capable of hitting back and
backed by reinforcements. Behind him
is a mighty organisation planned to
sustain him. The bluejacket rides in an
armored ship, heavy with guns that can
blast the enemy and again part of an
organisation planned and geared for war.
All men of high courage, they would
all acknowledge that the courage of the
merchant seaman is unsurpassed
The merchant seaman wants nothing of
war. All he asks is calm seas and peace-
ful sea-lanes through which to push his
ship, carrying commerce throughout the
world. For him there is no heat in
braving the enemy; only long, long hours*
of tense watchfulness, the ever-present
knowledge that somewhere ahead the
enemy lurks under the sea or high in the
sky. His ship has little or no defence
against bomb, shell or torpedo, and
should she be struck he will probably
spend hours and days in open boats, en-
during incredible hardships, perhaps to
die in the end.
Yet if he survives, he gets some clothes
from somewhere and seeks another ship.
If his ship comes through after weeks of
running the gauntlet with death, she is
emptied and reloaded and puts forth
again to the same long strain of tense-
ness and impending destruction. While
he is ashore, the merchant seaman moves
about in plain clothes —he has no uni-
form to draw admiring eyes—a humble
and generally quiet figure enjoying a
few hours of safety between weeks ot
close danger. He stands for the courage
and endurance of our race, as firm
against the weapon of terrorism as our
own belief in our cause.
"Youth Must Be Served."
Since General MacArthur arrived, the
amateur strategists of popular journal-
ism, as Mr, Curtin hinted not obscurely,
have found their occupation gone. They
must find it difficult to accommodate
themselves to the deprivation, for since
T 937 they have never wearied of giving
the public unsolicited instruction in the
art of war.
They were wonderfully erudite about
frontiers, particularly “our frontier,”
which they shifted as the spirit moved
them. At various times “our frontier”
was the Yangtze, the Guadalquivir, the
Rhine, the Danube, the Vistula and the
Dnieper. When last heard of “our
frontier” was in Java, and Mr. Curtin
was strongly recommended to conjure “a
few A.I.F. divisions” out of the ground
and send them to Java somehow.
Another theory of these amateur
strategists, and not only the Australian
variety, was that youth should be at the
helm. Away with Blimps and generals
steeped in the traditions of the Boer
War: the Empire must have young and
vigorous commanders! This was one of
the things that went wrong in North
Africa,
The fine campaign in Abyssinia was
planned and carried to a victorious con-
clusion by_ General Alan Cunningham,
ased 54. Transferred to Libya, General
Cunningham was relieved of his com-
mand in the held before the offensive of
November, 1941, had been decided one
way or the other. Mr. Churchill's ac-
count is that the battle would have been
lost if General Cunningham had not been
superseded. It is not the custom for dis-
missed generals to defend themselves
while hostilities continue, but Cunning-
ham has found supporters since his suc-
cessor was himself dismissed, It is now
suggested that he was sacrificed for want-
ing to break off the battle because the
Eighth Army’s equipment was inferior
to that of the enemy, and because, so
handicapped, he was not prepared to risk
a shattering defeat.
His successor was General Ritchie,
aged 44, who took the risk. After a brief
period of success, General Ritchie was
defeated and “Stelienbosched,” and
General Auchinleck, aged 58, placed him-
self at the head of the Eighth Army. In
the meantime Tobruk, with nearly all
its garrison, was taken by assault, ihe
general at Tobruk was the South African
Klopper, aged 31. Newspaper writers
who were all for a youth movement in the
higher command have since been trying
to say the nastiest possible things about
Klopper without being libellous. They
are like that!
The Coalfields Disease.
A lay physician’s study:
When the need for N.S.W. coal was greater
than it ever was before, and when the industry
was a prey to the most wicked strikes in the
history of this country, Mr. Badly, the Slate
Minister of Mines, began pulling 1600 men out
of the rnines—most of them were two years
younger than General MacArthur —in the first
place without Parliamentaiy authority. That
was on January 5. Four days later the Curtin
Government issued National Security regula-
tions under which workstoppers were made
liable to heavy fines and imprisonment —with-
out specified limits where indictments were
presented and compulsory military service.
By way of justifying the regulations, Mr.
Curtin said that “men who are not in the
fighting forces and who at the same time wifi
not work are as much the enemies of this
country as the directly enlisted legions of the
enemy.”
The regulations were not enforced. Neither
were other regulations imposed subsequently.
Declaring himself opposed to them, Mr. Ward,
the Minister of Labor, toured the N.S.W, coal-
fields professing to preach conciliation but
asserting that “unscrupulous owners” were
responsible for all the turmoil, and proclaiming
“nationalisation" of the mines ‘ the only solu-
tion.” He wound up at Lithgow, where em-
ployees of the N.S.W. Government coalmine
welcomed him with a strike.
The Prime Minister, for his pari, nafl
admitted that, in the first quarter of
283,000 tons of N.S.W. coal haa been mst
because of strikes —many of them “frivolous
and all preventive by recourse to the eiaoorate
and expensive machinery provided—2ol,ooo tons
“on account of absenteeism” ana 180,000
“as a result of the compulsory retirement of
aii coalmine employees at 60.” After hearing
Mr. Ward say that, as Minister, he would not
enforce Mr, Curtin’s own pet regulation (No.
77) against any striker, and seeing Mr Warn
vote for the very same regulation when it was
challenged in Parliament, the P.M. summonea
the union leaders to Canberra for a conference
Then he summoned representatives of the
employers to Canberra for a conference with
the union leaders. The outcome was another
“only solution,” described as a “code.” There
was some delay in applying the “code,” but
it was immaterial.
Strikes went on, and go on. Since Japan
came into the war, with tragic consequences
to Australian soldiers and seamen and evil
results to Australian imports of liquid fuel—-
some sources of supply the enemy seized and
the rest he threatens—the N.S.W. coalnuneiii
have never once worked a full week —which
consists of five days. There were stoppages
on the day Singapore fell, stoppages on the
day Darwin was bombed, stoppages on the day
Newcastle was shelled by a submarine—in the
Newcastle-Maitland district at that.
The effect of coal production in a market
now insatiable was mentioned on Friday by
the Premier of South Australia, a State increas-
ingly important to the war effort which wholly
depends on N.S.W. coal. Mr. Playford said
that if supplies did not increase it would be
“necessary to impose very strong restrictions
on the use of gas and electricity.” That day
2300 N.S.W. coalminers were on strike.
Three days previously Mr. Badly spoke of
conditions at Lithgow, having paid a visit to the
N.S.W, Government coalmine. He said the
N.S.W, Government coalmine would “probably
be run at a loss of “between £16,000 and £lB,OOO
this year,” and that “in recent months” pro-
duction per day had “fallen from 1800 tons to
1400 tons.” “I told the miners,” he added,
“that they must play fair with the Government
and cut out some of the silly stoppages ”
Only “some of the silly stoppages”—presum-
ably the silliest, in the same week two miners’
delegate boards threatened to fine or expel
miners who refused to obey lodge decisions
against strikes, and it belatedly occurred to the
president of the South Coast miners that
“members of the fighting services who are daily
risking their lives in defence of their country
are getting one-third of the wages received by
youths in the mining industry' who are nqf
playing the game,” So much for Mr, Ward's
declarations that loss of coal is the fault or
unscrupulous owners,” and that “nationalisa-
tion” is “the only solution.”
The chief cause of this base betrayal of the
Commonwealth by a section which has been
(Continued on page 8.)
FEAST AND FAMINE.
"While easy money gave every State Government a surplus last year, Commonwealth revenue appropriated to war and defence expenditure fell short by £210.938.000
which was provided from loana.”


Tough Old Cough
Yields To New
Canadiol Mixture
His relief almost overnight from Bron-
chitis of thirty years’ standing is re-
garded as nothing short of a miracle
by his friends and neighbours. Read
what Mr. Gull says:
“From the time I was a small boy until
the age of thirty-two, I was never free
from a hacking cough night and day.
Doctors told me I was suffering from
chronic bronchitis —that there was
no permanent relief. One day I saw
an advertisement for BUCKLEY’S
CANADIOL Mixture. The word bron-
chitis arrested my attention. I pur-
chased a bottle. It gave me relief. I
bought two more, and my cough left
me completely. That happened six years
ago, and the cough has never returned.”
BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL Mixture will
give you the same instant relief from
the strangling torture of Bronchitis. It
acts like a flash on coughs and colds.
Why not get a bottle to-day? Buckley’s
—by far the largest-selling cough medi-
cine in all of blizzardly cold Canada-
cold by chemists and stores everywhere
As a long satisfying drink, a liqueur, or as a base of your
favorite cocktail.
CLAYTONS _
A KOLA TON 1C
Product of CLAYTON BROS.. London.
Agents: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
*—Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
AH the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic payis and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
tip. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. If backache Is bother-
ins vou duo to tired kidneys, try DOAN'S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
pampered in every way that weak Governments
could think of is long-continued Communist
agitation. It was Communists who taught
young miners to hate the boss, to carry on a
class war, to regard industrial agreements and
awards as scraps of paper, to cherish a foreign
city as their spiritual home, to despise Aus-
tralia as a “capitalistic” country, not to be
worked for, much less fought for, and to look
forward to a “revolution” on European lines.
These hateful teachings have struck deep roots
in undisciplined minds, and the Australian and
N.S.W. Governments, which should long ago
have made the profession of revolutionary
Communism a legal bar to union office, have
done nothing to counteract them.
It is true that the Menzies Government put
Communist organisations and newspapers under
a nominal ban, but beyond a temporary irri-
tation the nominal ban has had not the slightest
effect. The present Government has pandered
to Communists ever since it came into office.
Mr. Forde’s first act as Minister for the Army
was to liberate two anti-“imperialist-war” Com-
munist propagandists from an internment camp,
though a tribunal headed by a Judge had
refused to recommend their release. Mr. Ward,
besides finding an unnecessary Government job
for a former Moscow pilgrim who is vaguely
understood to have recanted, has put notorious
Red agitators on a board.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Commonwealth Grants Commis-
sion blundered horribly last year in the
case of S.A. Though it mentioned the
war and “the growing economic stimulus
created by war industries and war expen-
diture,” it recommended a special grant
of £1,400,000 to the Government at Adel-
aide, payment of £250,000 to be deferred
till 1942-43. Politicians unmindful of the
infinitely greater claims of the Common-
wealth accept Grants Commission recom-
mendations as having the force of law,
so the Government in Adelaide received
£1,150,000 —£150,000 more than in 1940-
41. It wound up with a surplus of
£1,287,000, so it didn’t need a penny of
the easy money.
Dunstan is Parliamentary leader of the
“United” Country “party”—so-called be-
cause there are two Country parties
which fight one another briskly at by-
elections. For three years he was a
U.C.P. member of a U.A.P. Govern-
ment, being Deputy Premier at the end.
In April, 19*35, he quitted his U.A.P.
pals and formed a U.C.P. Government,
with Labor support. Now, Labor having
gone into Opposition, he is carrying on
with U.A.P. support. Such is “principle”
in Victorian politics.
Dialogue in the Victorian Parliament:
Mr. Cain; I will be surprised if there is
not a surplus of £2,000,000.
Mr. Dunstan: 1 can promise you that it will
not be that.
Mr. Cain: Of course you can... .because you
can represent the figures in such a way that
the real surplus may not be shown. Victoria
has an overflowing treasury.
Mr. Dunstan: 1 do not know where it is.
Mr. Cain: The Treasurer knows that revenue
is flowing very easily till he gets his hand on it
and then it ceases to flow.
When politicians fall out, taxpayers get
a glimmer of the truth.
That Soviet lottery loan has a currency
of 20 years. A point is made of the fact
that “all interest and the winnings on
bonds are exempt from State taxes*” and
it is added that “State loans are very
popular in the U.S.S.R.; the number
of bondholders throughout the country
totals more than 50,000,000.” Strange
that Australian Communists have never
told us about these features of Soviet
finance, especially as they are interesting
and worthy of emulation.
Canada has floated two Victory Loans.
In June, the Government asked for
$600,000,000 and %ot $710,958,950. In
Feb., 1942, another $600,000,000 was
asked for, and, discovering that it could
get at least half as much again, the Gov-
ernment raised the amount to
$900,000,000. In the end, 1,681,525 per-
sons —one in every 6.8 of the population
—subscribed $997,503,300. Mr. Ward
and other statesmen should note that
Canada does not propose setting a 4 p.c.
limit to profits, nor does it regard trading
banks as public enemies.
Under the new Maoriland arrangement,
an Administration of 13, representative
of both parties, is to be “responsible for
all matters connected with the war effort,”
leaving the ordinary Labor Cabinet to
“function in domestic matters.” Six of
the 13 are to form the War Cabinet,
which will exercise executive functions ;
to Holland, previously Opposition leader,
has been assigned control of all war
expenditure, and Coates, formerly P.M.,
is to “co-ordinate” the armed forces and
the war and defence policies of N.Z, and
the Allies in the South Pacific. A
Farmers’ Union man, Poison, is to attend
to the war-time production of foodstuffs,
and McLagan, a Labor leader, is to look
after man-power resources, with a scat
in the Leg, Council. Many Maorilanders
complain that the arrangement is too
complicated, but it does give the country
representation of all shades of opinion
and a War Ministry of all the talents.
The Government at Canberra is cum-
bered with passengers and speaks for, at
most, half the nation.
Because they were upset about some-
thing and because they held exemptions
from military duty, three men went on
strike at a N.S.W. quarry. Within a few
hours their exemptions were cancelled
and they were on the way to camp. Their
mistake was in assuming that they held
the same privileges as coalminers.
At the height of the Victorian disturb-
ance, Dunstan cried “Mr. Cain has heard
his master’s voice from Canberra. He is
prepared to act as Man Friday to the
Prime Minister.” He must have got very
tired of acting as Man Friday to the
State Premier.
Crayfish are selling wholesale at ten
shillings apiece in Melbourne and gummy
“‘All Aid to Russia’ must be our battle-cry!”— Lieut.-Colonel Spender, M.H.R.
DESIGN FOR A SPENDER COMMANDO.
shark at £8.5 a box of 801 b. Choicer
varieties of sea-food can only be afforded
by millionaires. The official reason for
the shortage is that most of the young
fishermen have been called up. No
doubt the official remedy will be a fish
committee, whereupon fish will disappear
from the nation’s table.
From an overseas contemporary;
Today, April 13, is exactly one year since
the conclusion of a pact of neutrality be-
tween the U.S.S.R. and Japan Notwith-
standing the extremely complicated world
situation, the pact has played a positive
role and retained its force By agreeing
to extend the Soviet-Japanese Fishing Con-
vention for one year the Soviet Govern-
ment reiterated its readiness to maintain
with Japan normal business relations based
on the sober appraisal of mutual economic
interests If the Japanese side will
strictly observe the obligations it has under-
taken, then the Soviet-Japanese neutrality
pact will have retained its significance to the
peoples of both countries.
The London “Times” or the New York
“Times’V? No; the Moscow “News,”
“translated from ‘Pravda.’ ”
Communist agitation, though nowadays
never mentioned in Australian dailies,
remains a live subject to their American
contemporaries. The sober New York
“Times” joined in the nation-wide pro-
tests against the release of Browder, on
the score of his “repeated perjury against
the Government” and his “record of vitu-
peration of our aid to the democracies
and our defence preparations.” And,
quoting the report of a committee of the
New York Legislature on the activities
of Communist teachers in New York
public schools, the “Times” remarked
that “it uncovered some shocking facts.”
There is no doubt whatever that members
and friends of the Communist party de-
liberately misused their teaching positions
for that party’s purposes. They obstructed
and distorted the educational process,
helped to organise subversive groups, sabo-
taged discipline in the classroom and inter-
fered with students whose object in going
to school was to get a normal education.
We have every reason to believe that if
Hitler had not attacked Russia they would
now be hindering our war effort.
Of course no one ever hears of Commu-
nists in Australian Government schools.
Well, hardly ever.
Billy Hughes, putting in a word for
Churchill, protested that the Lloyd
George Government was not held to
account for the “sins” of Haig. Not
errors or blunders or laches, as lawyers
might phrase it, but sins. Haig was
rewarded for his services with £lOO,OOO
and an earldom. Evidently the British
Government’s estimate of him was very
different from that entertained by Hughes.
War takes its toll of the aged as well
as the young. The large proportion of
elderly business and professional men
who have gone west thiS last year or two
must strike every reader of obituary
notices, and this mortality is showing up
in the old-age pension figures. Except in
1939-40, when 32,000 invalid pensions
were transferred to the old-age register,
there was a steady annual increase of
9000 or 10,000 old-age pensions for many
years. Last year, though 25,000 new pen-
sions were granted, the total dropped
1200-odd.
From a “West Australian” report of the
Crimes Act conspiracy case;
Messrs’. Bath and Seaton stated last
night that they had telegraphed to the
Minister of the Army (Mr. Forde, at Can-
berra) informing him of the acquittal of
[Miss] Krakouer and Quicke and asking
that the internment orders in respect of
them should be cancelled immediately.
Forde is expected to reply at the end
of September that he has consulted the
Solicitor-General and is putting on 16
typists to “expedite” the hearing of
appeals.
Mr. Fadden announced last week that
the Government could “no longer be
excused for allowing coal strikes to con-
tinue.” Most Australians gave up trying
to find excuses for it long ago.
Mr. Ward is touring the Common-
wealth to study man-power and labor
problems in the various States. It can
safely be forecast that his report to the
Cabinet will contain the words “irritation
tactics by reactionary employers*- need
for nationalisation —no evidence of guilt
for strikes among the workers.”
The Victorian U.A.P. is to keep Dun-
stan in office because it feels that elec-
tions would be out of place. In other
words, it is satisfied that State politics
aren’t worth a cent, and that Dunstan
may as well stay there as anybody else
for the short time left. Still, it would
create a roar of approval if some State
politicians had the backbone to resign
their seats on the ground that they were
wasting public time and money.
Just how far behind public opinion
party organisations are is illustrated in
Westralia, where the “No. 1 Wool Zone
Council of the Primary Producers” came
out in the party organ with an attack on
advocates of one Parliament:
It is not so long since the voice of the
people of this State spoke in no uncertain
tones in favor of secession. Few want
secession at this juncture it is reason-
ably certain that still fewer want unifica-
tion.
The same issue contained the P.P.A. con-
ference business-paper. Under “Politi-
cal” are four resolutions, two of which,
from Dumbleyung and North Dinninup,
are for abolition of State Parliaments.
From the last report of the Common-
wealth Grants Commission —at least, it
should be the last report:
Owing to the war, and to the very
large and increasing obligations of the
Commonwealth, it may be suggested that
special grants should not be increased
in a time of national emergency. The
commission fully appreciates this point of
view, but
“But us no buts!” should have been the
verdict of the House ; but by consent of
both sides the special grants were in-
creased. “Spend, spend, spend the public
money” is the motto of all parties. At
rare intervals a voice is raised on behalf
of the taxpayer, but the owner of the
voice is nearly always in a minority of
one.
“ ‘A.B.C. Weekly’ To Go On,” says
“S. M. Herald” heading. It would read
better “A.B.C. to go on ‘Weakly.’ ”
Victorian State politicians can’t agree
on the simplest subject. When, with
faded pomp and jaded ceremony, the
new session was opened there was an in-
tention of confining legislators’ august
deliberations to the daytime, but the de-
bate went on into the evening just the
same, and many members wonder if it
is not a pious hope while country mem-
bers are in revolt against it. Knight
John Harris complained that he had to
waste two days travelling to reach Mel-
bourne for day sittings. Even two
minutes would be wasted.
Eight Labor members of the Commons
had to “explain their conduct” in voting
against the Government on Wardlaw-
Milne’s no-confidence motion over the
Libya reverse. Partyism is still a ram-
pant tyranny, even in matters of life and
death.


BRAN DAU IK’S
y e
m
PENS
inu%y Every point
guaranteed-
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BBAHBAHSS * CO, ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No,” lust consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost I
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., I/TD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney,
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.O.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St, George’s Terrace, Perth,
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Queensland
insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
N.S.W. Premier McKeli has been a
hospital case for a couple of weeks. He
can take it—he always could. Nephew
of three McKells who were tiptop scrap-
P £ rs—Herb and Billy were champions
at their weight—he was himself, in
his boilermaker’s apprentice days, a
classy lightweight in Sydney amateur
rings. His boxing days were recalled in
recent Frith cartoons. When the A.L.P.
Conference ditched McKell’s plan to go
to the High Court along with the others
in the uniform tax tussle, Frith, having
just had him as a somewhat corpulent
pug speaking as winnah from the Dubbo
election ring, now presented him as a
well-pasted loser, complete with black eye
and missiles arriving from spectators, A
’phone call from the Premier’s office
offered to buy both cartoons, not to get
them burned by the public hangman,
but to have them framed ; to which Frith
naturally replied it’d be a pleasure to let
the Premier have them for nothing.
Bill (F. W.) Tonkin goes to the tidy-
sized job of controlling the American
cable-service of Aus, Assoc. Press with
tiptop credentials. He’s a better golfer
than he admits. He has passed with
F. W. TONKIN. JOURNALIST
honors through one of Sydney’s most
exacting solo academies. He’s a deter-
mined optimist—having once brought off
a 150 to 1 double, he has been led on to
emulate the feat, never with success, in
other respects, also, he has a usefully
extensive knowledge of the world, having
said au revoir to his native heath so often
—average, about once every four years—
that he could nearly be declared an
habitual expatriate. His longest stretch
abroad was 10 years in London, holding
down a job similar to the one he’s taking
over in the U.S.A, From London he re-
turned with the Duke and Duchess of
York, which might suggest possibilities,
particularly as he has the brand of frank
and open personality that Americans
take to on sight. As an extra qualification
there is the journalistic talent which has
carried him from the Bendigo (Vic.) news-
paper job he took on at 14 to the manag-
ing editorship of Sydney “Sun.”
“N.S L,”: The death of Brigadier Foott
throws my mind back to ’99, when I was
a Brisbane Grammar cadet. We were
standing on the wharf below the bridge
waiting for the old Lucinda to carry us
to Lyttoii. Two lieutenants and a captain
were there, ail in putties, spurs and flap-
ping riding crops. To this day 1 remem-
ber thinking how big their feet looked
and how thin their legs were. The two
lieuts. were Brudenell White and Foott;
the captain was Harry Chauvel.
Queensland has never forgotten its
Clement Wragge, and now it has its Inigo
Jones, The Crohamhurst (Q.) weather tip-
ster’s methods are to be one of the main
interests of the curious-sounding Long
Range Weather Forecasting Trust, regis-
tered in Sydney last week, trustees in-
cluding N.S.W. Bank g.m, Alfred David-
son, Graziers’ Federal Council chairman
E- L, Killen, N.S.W. Graziers’ Co-opera-
tive Shearing Co. chairman F, B. Flem-
ing, Meat Advisory Committee chairman
K. S. Henley and Primary Producers’
secretary John L. Shute. As well as hav-
ing attached after his name a string of
scientific labels as long as a wet week,
Jones has written serials for the “Queens-
lander,” and numbers among his recrea-
tions gardening, painting, music and
breeding stud Jersey cattle.
Any prize for the neatest original MS,
of a book would get a severe shake from
the one for which J. H. M. Abbott received
a Commonwealth Fund grant, J.H.M.A.,
scorning typewriters, adds to the singularly
neat effect of his small, curiously clipped
handwriting by penning it on halved
foolscap, always 12 lines to the page,
spaced at regular intervals, about lin.
between lines. The whole of his latest
product is thus written, and bound into
a neat vol. It will be published with the
title The Newcastle Packets and the Hun-
ter Valley —the story of the oldest steamer
line in Australia. Now the Newcastle and
Hunter River S.S. Co., its earliest vessels
were the Sophia Jane (built in England,
her eight-knots speed making her one of
the fastest steamers of her day) and Wil-
liam the Fourth (first Australian-built
steamer). Till a few years back the
line’s manager was W. N. Cuthbertson,
who began in the co, as office-boy and
was with it 60 years. Gordon Sinclair
is the present manager. One curiosity
enshrined in Abbott’s book is a verse
on Maitland by his uncle, W. E.
Abbott, in terms which certainly won’t
cause Maitlanders to rush out and put
up a monument to W.E.
Landed the important Guggenheim
fellowship in America, Stanley Bates, the
British composer who was recently in
Melbourne and who married Peggy
Glanville Hicks, the young Victorian
composer. Guggenheim fellowships are
worth 2500 dollars, and entrants come
from all parts of Northern and Latin
America.
“Wester”: “Sonny” Coleman (B.
8/7/’42), blew into Forbes (N.S.W.) in
the middle of the late depression a vision
of sartorial splendor—brown suit, bowler
hat, cane, gloves and spats. It was the
spats that sat Forbes back on its heels,
the village never having sighted things
like that before. “Sonny” was coursing
editor of a Sydney weekly at the time
and was doing a round of western
N.S.W. coursing meetings for the paper.
Still in the grand manner, he hired a taxi
to take him to the Forbes meeting, made
himself known to judge and officials, was
greeted with due reverence and then —
put on a bag and stood up to call the
odds! Afterwards he complained that
there were no punters in the place, but
the whole of a Forbes coursing crowd
of those stony days could hardly have
raked up 20 notes all told. “Sunny”
would have been a better cognomen ; he
was one of the brightest coves alive and
his tales of early Victorian sports would
keep anyone listening all night.
“Cine Ma” on an unscreened gangster
chase: —
Bestowal by Chief Commissioner Duncan
of the Valor Badge (the policeman’s V.C.) on
five Melbourne patrolmen—Sen.-Constable Ben-
jamin Walker and Constables Alan Ranting
(driver), George Herbert Stanesby, James Alipi-
ous Mclllwaine and Desmond John Suttie
(wireless operator)—appropriately rounds off
one of the most spectacular chases in Victorian
crime history. A stolen car was pursued at
high speed for 40 minutes through Melbourne
suburbs into the country and back again, with
three desperadoes pumping lead into the patrol
car. With their windscreen blown to fragments,
the police patrol continued the chase, return-
ing the hail of enemy bullets with another.
The most intriguing feature of the business,
which puts it in the class of movie melodrama,
was the fact that the wireless operator, in order
to acquaint headquarters of the position and
bring reinforcements, kept up a running com-
mentary of the fight, bullet by bullet, until the
gang Was rammed into subjection in a side
street. Cars speeding towards the fray got a
vivid description of the battle, and the broad-
cast was picked up and eageny listened to oy
patrolmen in cars as far distant as Bendigo. x2O
miles away in one direction, and Dandenong m
the other.
James Kali, at 85, gives up the chair-
manship of Adelaide Racing Club. He
has been on its committee for 42 years,
and in the chair for 23. He took it when
W. B. (“Doc”) Carr resigned it to go in-
stead on the committee of S.A. Jockey
Club (and soon to become chairman of
that). Hall has had a busy and blameless
life as a maker of lemonade and the like
beverages.
Peter Pike, Launceston (Tas.) secretary
of the P.I.E.U.A. (printers), has been
made Federal president of the union
In the ballot he got a majority in all
States except N.S.W. Before the
P.I.E.U.A. was formed in 1916, Peter was
Launceston secretary of the old Mel-
bourne Typographical Society. He is the
first Tasmanian elected to the presidency
for 22 years.
Of the six Australians who won V.Cs.
in the Boer War three are still on deck,
though only one, James Rogers, of Kew
(Vic.), now dwells in Australia. He turned
up the other day at the weekly shivoo ol
the Victorian Constitutional Club. The
Boer War didn’t surfeit his taste for
scrap ; he had another lash in the 1914-18
shindy, was knocked on Gallip. and came
back with a commission. He was born
in 1875, the sou of a Riverina (N.S.W.)
farmer, his own preferred occupation.
Harold Samuel Wootton, F.C.1.5.,
C.M.G., is Town Clerk of Melbourne
and looks like it —that is to say, he has
the sturdy appearance of a man accus-
tomed to direct big enterprises, and
directing Melbourne is a big enterprise at
the present moment. His people came
from the lovely Goulburn Valley —he was
born at Ballan, still loves the country and
escapes to it, preferably where there is
a river with good fishing in it, when the
cares of office will allow him. Those
cares include an enormous amount of
honorary work connected with war relief
schemes and the blanketing of the sprawl-
ing metropolis from the eyes of possible
Jap air invaders. Educated at the State
school, Waranga, and the Central Busi-
ness College, Melbourne, Wootton entered
the council’s service as a junior clerk in
1909, worked up through the service and,
MELBOURNE TOWN CLERK.
as Deputy Town Clerk, got invaluable
experience of .the workings of big-city
administration for 12 years before he
got his present appointment in 1935.
Brigadier Vivian Theophilus England,
D.S;O,, whose latest job is C. 0., A.I.F.
troops in South Aus. base area, first took
to soldiering when he was 18, and thrived
so well on it that he’s been soldiering, in
wars and between wars, most of the lime
since. He was a 12th Light Horse Regt.
trooper (1915 onwards) at Gallip. and. in
Egypt and Palestine; figured later in that
dust-up as a lieut.-pilot in the Aus. Flying
Corps; subsequently got into the militia
and became lieut.-col. in command of the
55th Batt. (N.S.W.). With that rank he
went off to the present disturbance with
BRIG, ENGLAND, D.S.O.
the 2/3 Batt, won his D.S.O, at Bardia
in the first Libyan campaign, became
C. 0., 6th Training ‘ Brigade, and then
brigadier in charge of the reinforcement
depot in the Middle East. A native of
Sydney, he is, outside his soldiering, a
N.S.W. Govt, engineer, with a B.F. gath-
ered at Sydney Uni. in 1922.
Into the silence :
Up around Saddleworth and Manoora (S.A.)
all bets on the age of Albert Gawler Ashton
have been settled by the old-timer’s passing.
He was in his 102nd year and is claimed to
have been the oldest native-born Croweater.
Son of the first governor of Adelaide gaol, he
spent most of his life in the State railway ser
vice. He was stationmaster at Snowtown
when he retired, having married twice and
fathered 18 children,' 12 of whom outlive him.
In Melbourne, one of the best-known skippers
on the Australian coastal run, Captain Cyril
H. G. Loriard. He arrived in Australia as a
junior officer on the Wyreema, and, after an
interlude winning the M.C, in the Great War,
commanded most of the ships of the A.U.S.N.
at one time or another. The Ormiston was
his last ship.
In Melbourne, at 87, L. S, Woolf, oldest
barrister in Victoria and one of a legal trio
of brothers whose collective ages must con-
stitute an Australian professional record. The
others are Henry Woolf and Joseph Woolf,
The Bulletin’s legal adviser in Melbourne
since the days of Archibald. L, S. Woolf was
admitted to practice in 1876 and specialised in
divorce, appearing in the Wallace divorce suit
in 1907 and many other famous causes. A
leading cricketer in his young days, he was
one of the last of the longstops in big cricket.
At Moonee Ponds, Vic., at 81, John Oliver,
after Guilfoyle probably the finest landscape
gardener in Australia. It was his pioneering work
when gardener to the Ballarat City Council
that gave that city the reputation of being
Victoria’s most umbrageous provincial centre.
At that time he had the use of prison labor.
He subsequently caused swamps and rubbish
heaps to flower like the rose at Essendon,
Moonee Ponds and other places,
Tom Mac Fie (85) was S.A.’s finest amateur
horseman in his day. He won the Adelaide
Hunt Cup back in 1883, and half a dozen times
altogether. His great year was 1886, when
he took the Hunt Cup with Stephen Ralii’s
Nocondra and in the same afternoon, on
Frank Downer’s Aberdeen, won first the
Maiden Hunters’ Steeple and then the Drag
Cup; which treble event he always claimed as
an Australian record.
In Adelaide, at 73, E. J. Monck, last sur
vivor of the first football team that ever repre
sented S.A. against Victoria. A valued legis-
lator in the game ever since.
At Caulfield (Vic.) Repatriation Hospital,
Harold Charles Goble, a Digger of the 39th
Battalion in the last war. Air Vice-Marshai
S. J, Goble, Australian liaison officer for the
Empire training scheme in Canada, is a brother
In Sydney, at 74, Phillip Lazarus, managing
director of Lazarus, Rosenfeld; a notable
helper of the sick —30 years a director of
Sydney Hospital, chairman of the Anti-T.B
Association, and member of the board of
Queen Victoria Home for Consumptives.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Listening Insect”: I would be inter-
ested to know how 8.8. C. is going
to carry out its project of sending out
a daily broadcast in Chinese that will get
to the deep heart of every Chinese
peasant and acquaint him with what the
democracies are doing in fighting for his
freedom. For one thing, not one in
a million of those peasants has receiving
equipment, and, for another, there is no
such thing as a Chinese-spoken language,
strictly speaking. Although the native of
Peking uses the same character to express
a word as does the native of Canton, he
gives it an entirely different sound. I
attended a dinner given by a Chinese
racing club in Shanghai, and the young
Celestial turf bloods, some of whom had
been educated at Harvard, some at
Oxford and some in their native
provinces, found they could conduct a
general conversation only in pidgin Eng-
lish. Pidgin is a crude, childish lingo,
but it is the only universal language the
8.8. C. could use in talking to Chinese.
1 can’t imagine a 8.8. C. commenta-
tor referring to the Archbishop of Canter-
bury as “number one topside joss pidgin
man,” but that is the only way he could
convey the position of Dr. Temple to
the Chinese peasantry.
,* * * *
“Wodgil”: Mr. Rupe Lockwood, .who
divides the honors of Dunkirk between
Britons and Spaniards (B. 8/6/’42),
rather fancies himself as a radio speaker.
I listened to him once, but never again,
and not only because I don’t care for
cocksure boys of the Leftist breed ; for
Rupe does his stuff in an Australian
accent which you could hack with a
blunt knife. Curtin’s faint Australian
accent I can stand, and Frank dune’s
full-bodied one I relish ; it seems to make
his racy monologues racier. But, unlike
Frank, Rupe is humorless, and Second
Front Leftism, expelled partly from the
mouth and partly from the nose, is in-
expressibly irritating. In other words,
Rupe Lockwood’s performance was rank;
A blatant and garrulous crank,
With a yap that recalls
The Shanty Creek falls
And the hide of a galvanised tank
Original? No ; adapted from a
Westralian jingle written in the
brave days of old.
* * *
“Lex”; Whoever told the
munitions worker-landlord that
no tenancy exists after notice to
quit has been given (B, 8/7/’42)
was incorrect. The tenancy
exists until the expiration of the
period mentioned in the notice
to quit. To say no rent can be
claimed after the notice to quit
has been given is also incor-
rect. Rent can be claimed up to
the expiration of the notice to
quit and even after this time.
And the acceptance of rent by a
landlord after the notice to quit
does not by inference give rise
to a fresh tenancy. Even if this
were not so the munitions
worker-tenant is still liable for
damages for “use and occupa-
tion” of the premises; and,
furthermore, if a judgment were
obtained against him his wages
at the munitions works could be
attached to satisfy the judgment.
So, except for the fact that he
might experience difficulty in
getting the munitions worker-
tenant out of the house, the
munitions worker-landlord isn’t
quite so bereft of legal remedy
as “Waster” would suggest.
“Clooter”; So, according to Mr. James
Aldridge, Tobruk was lost because the
Tommy hadn’t been taught to hate Fas-
cism sufficiently to make him “tough.”
Was shown a letter from an A.I.F. man
to his father;
Don’t worry about the chooms, Dad,
they’re good enough....! cobbered up
with a little bloke. A real card, t 00... .The
mail came and this Tommy got a letter....
his face went funny and I asked if it was
bad news... .The letter was an official state-
ment... his missus and three of his five
kids killed by Fritz bombers in England
He picked up his gear and went off. You
ought to have seen the look on his face.
Talk about guts
Add to this the statement in the Sydney
press of an “Ex-Tobruk Rat”:
It makes A.I.F. blood boil to hear that
English troops are no good. We were
proud to fight with them, and they have
no equals as fighters.
Somehow I prefer to believe the Digger
versions to that of Mr. Aldridge.
* * * *
“Rodder”: The Black Eagle of Harlem
is in the news again. He turned up in
Abyssinia in 1935 to command Haile
Silassie’s air £orce against the Italians.
But the Harlem wonder struck the rainy
season and couldn’t get the great air fleet
off the ground all three ’planes were
stuck in the mud. So Colonel Hubert
Fauntleroy Julian departed, announcing
that the Lion of Judah was losing a good
man, and Harlem swallowed him up
again. Now he’s a private in the U.S.
Army—“cote in de draft, boy.”
"I believe you like gin squash better than you like me."
“Too right! Gin's pretty scarce now.”
“Plaza Toro”: Strange things happen
in Sydney in war-time. One of the
strangest is a renewal of building activity
on Sydney’s mammoth Plaza Hotel, a
hostelry which, to use a Churchillian
term, is inextricably mixed up with the
Wynyard ramp. Through many long
years of peace (ever since Wynyard
station was opened) and two years of war
this riiagnificent structure has consisted
of a ground floor and a basement, erec-
tion of the main walls and pillars of
which was involved in the construction
of Wynyard station and its long
“Can you swim?”
“My oath I can , but 'aven't you got no boats?”
approaches from George and York
streets. Now, in the third year of the
greatest of all wars, with Australia
threatened with invasion and the building
trade restricted (in general) to work for
essential industrial and military purposes,
the Plaza has sprouted a second storey
on its George-street frontage. Very natty,
too, in dark red roughcast brick. The
lessees, or the Railway Department, how-
ever, cannot be accused of undue im-
petuosity. At this rate the top storey will
be reached about the year 2100.
* ❖ :;< *
“X.S.”: It isn’t often that a suicide’s
life is saved twice in the one night. An
American soldier saw a woman throw
herself into Melbourne’s Albert Park lake.
He fished her out, got her story from
her —she had been discharged from hos-
pital, was worried about the health of
her soldier husband and had several
children to look after —and took her to
her home, taking the precaution to ’phone
the police and report the matter. The
patrol set out, but had difficulty in locat-
ing the house. When they did they found
the doors locked and had to force an
entry. They found the determined life-
taker with her head in the gas oven and
unconscious. After applying artificial
respiration they took her to hospital, not
very much the worse for her two attempts
at self-destruction.
* * *
“Spokeshave”: The Law proverbially
has a long arm and a long memory, but
the Australian bureaucracy beats it
hollow. A young Scotch boilermaker
from the Clyde served through the 1914-
18 war and in 1920 came to Victoria
under an immigration scheme. He
called on a certain department in
Melbourne with first-class testi-
monials from his former employers.
The officials received him kindly,
took down his name, told him that
there were jobs waiting for just his
type of fellow and promised to let
him know as soon as a position be-
came available. He knocked around
for a few weeks and then drifted
into farming. The other day he got
a ring on the ’phone and was in-
formed that the Department
was speaking. “Are you Mr.
MacGregor?” said the official. “I
am,” said the Scotchman. “A boiler-
maker by trade?” “I was twenty years
ago,” said MacGregor. “With references
from So-and-so of Glasgow?” “That’s
me.” “Well, we’ve found you a job!”
* * * V
“Bob Punter”: Frith’s army spud-
peeling sketch with the gag “Never mind
what you’d do if you was Auchinleck;
do what you’re told to do as Gunner
Blair,” shows Diggers arrayed in Glen-
garries. For some reason this form of
headgear is so unpopular with Australian
troops that its issue is a waste of so much
good material. In the 1914-18 war the
things were to be seen occasionally about
Mena, and, shorn of their earflaps, were
sometimes part of the scant raiment of
Diggers on Gallipoli, but they were sel-
dom worn later. The present Digger dis-
like of them is such that even attempts
to make wearing of them compulsory
have failed.
* * * *
“Zake”: A Sydney woman, dreaming
that she was about to light a gas jet to
make a morning cup of tea, actually
struck a match from a box beside her
bed and applied it to the bedclothes,
causing a fire. There is room for scep-
ticism as to the possibility of dreams
becoming so realistic, but I can supply
a spot of personal evidence. Only the
other Friday night I had a particularly
vivid dream that I was a brilliant expo-
nent of the pocket-picking art; the
despair of detectives. Under the influ-
ence of my dream I must have got out
of bed, tiptoed over to the dressing-table
and opened the right-hand drawer where
the wife keeps her handbag. I was appar-
ently closing on the contents of the pay
envelope that, as usual, I had handed
over to her intact on arriving home, when
Mrs. Zake woke up. She had heard the
click of the handbag catch. A resource-
ful and determined woman, she grabbed
the alarm clock and let fly in the direc-
tion of the sound. As she was putting
some butter on the lump later, I was tell-
ing her how startlingly real my dream
had been. Strangely enough, she said
nothing, but the smile she wore had an
enigmatic quality that Mona Lisa couldn’t
hope to approach.
CHANGING FASHIONS.
‘Regulation military appearance has varied
throughout the ages (B. 8/7/’42).”
The soldier of Elizabethan days
Had very different external traits
From ours—so much you learn from Shak-
speare’s plays.
To get a glimpse of him it isn’t hard
From that pen-picture by th’ Immortal Bard;
“Full of strange oaths and bearded like the
pard.”
Strong words may still his colloquies pervade,
Such as our troops in Flanders once essayed.
But who can vision whiskers on parade?
The men who fought at Minden, Heaven wot!
Would look a singularly motley lot
By our sartorial standards, would they not?
The scarlet coat that once was a la mode
Has vanished —with the notice once bestowed
On rooibatjes singing on the road.
“The thin red line” has made its farewell bow —
A Cockney song springs into mind somehow
Entitled “It’s another color now.”
Such togs as were selected to equip
The Tommies under Raglan’s leadership
Would fairly horrify a modern snip.
Yet down the ages, it must be confessed,
Our Empire’s men-at-arms have stood the test.
However they might happen to be dressed.
If troops from other lands the chance have had
Of getting more artistically clad.
It really needn’t worry you, my lad.
For when the din of battle rends the air,
Be sure the weight you’ll pull, the part you’ll
bear,
Will rest on what you are, not what you wear.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
ONE GLEAM IN THE CLOUD.
Tis true my safety matches fail to strike
As regularly as they did aforetime,
And as reliably as I should like,
But Heav’n forbid that I should get the spike,
Seeing it’s war-time.
Beer grows more scarce —likewise the shirts and
socks
To which his coupon-book a chap entitles.
I set my teeth and scorn to show the shocks,
Like that young Spartan when the stolen fox
Gnawed at his vitals.
The baccy that they vend at the canteen
Seems every day more cabbagey and ferny.
I seriously doubt it would have been
Scheduled as tolerable nicotine
By Martin Burney.
Yet these are troubles that must be endured;
With millions, high and low (reflect), you
share them.
And when such deprivations can’t be cured
The only thing to do is, rest assured,
To grin and bear them.
And one improvement’s here, it seems to me,
Remembering how frequently I took one
For what it looked, but only looked, to be.
You needn’t scan each florin carefully,
As in the pre-war period, to see
If it’s a crook one.
N.S.W.
FORD.


Cauboy”: I see that A 1 Jolson is con-
templating a world tour to entertain the
troops, starting with Australia. I shall
never forget the occasion when I first set
eyes on him. I was walking along
Collins-street one evening when I ran
into a friend who seemed very excited.
He had just seen and heard his first talkie
at a near-by theatre, and he was so obvi-
ously shaken by the event that I accepted
his invitation to go in and try it. Al,
if I remember rightly, was standing be-
side the bedside of his dying mother with
tears rolling down his cheeks and his
body apparently in convulsions. But the
visual side of Al was as nothing beside
the vocal. Wave on wave of audible
treacle was pouring from him, and to
say that the audience was staggered is
putting it mildly—it was dumbfounded.
Al’s vocal style has since become the
fashion ; Australians indeed have be-
come so used to it that his method of
voice production will appear quite ordi-
nary when he visits Australia in person.
* * * *
“Bundy”: Postal officials are set tough
jobs by people who address their letters
incorrectly. A classic case, still
cherished in Sydney G.P.0., is that of a
letter written by a Chinese to a kins-
man in Sydney. The address was; “Sing
Hong, 145 A Little Bit Straight, Sydney.”
Everything but the Admiralty code was
pressed into service before someone real-
ised that Eastern ingenuity, unable to
come to grips with Western pronuncia-
tion, was attempting a phonetic version
of Elizabeth-street.
* Jji ♦
“Jindivick”: The unit was in the
throes of reorganisation and the going
was a bit tough. The colonel had been
engaged since early morning in bickering
with his officers, and finally they lost him.
The adjutant spent the best part of an
hour roaming around the camp, but could
not find a trace of the “old man.” Finally
chance led him to the kitchen, where he
nearly threw a fit. There was the colonel,
sitting on a bag of spuds, writing away
like mad, surrounded by a somewhat
awestruck fatigue party, shelling peas.
“Good heavens, sir!” exploded the
adjutant, “what are you doing in here?”
“What do you suppose?” snorted the
colonel. “You lot give a man the
willies. I came in here where I can do a
bit of work without being heckled all
the blasted time!” The adjutant opened
his mouth to reply, thought better of it,
and went back to his office to wait until
after dinner.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: A correspondent of
Melbourne “Age” asks why U.S. troops in
some camps arc supplied with fresh Aus-
tralian eggs while our troops are given
egg-powder from America. That’s no-
thing! At a camp somewhere in Vic-
toria which a friend of mine visited Aus-
tralian soldiers were eating apples from
California. An orchardist next door was
ploughing in his crop, having been paid
by the board not to take it to the market.
* f * * *
“Bohea”: In those semi - fairy-tale
romances of the sort Rider Haggard ex-
celled in, the travellers, wounded and
exhausted, who come in contact with a
long-isolated civilisation are always
given a mysterious warm aromatic drink
which soothes pain, banishes fatigue and
miraculously restores the faculties of the
wanderers. Most of us read that sort of
thing without a suspicion that the magic
brew is no further away from our own
land than is the tea-caddy in the kit-
chen. Therefore three cheers for the
liberalising of the Australian tea ration.
There is no land in the world where the
virtues of tea are better understood and
appreciated than in this continent. I
suppose there isn’t an adult in the com-
munity who knows what hard manual
labor means who hasn’t had the experi-
ence of being absolutely knocked out
and spent at noon, and full of beans and
fit for another four or five hours of
yakka at 12.15, after a couple of cups
of strong, hot tea. I’m not saying beer
isn’t welcome after the knock-off whistle
has blown, but tea is an essential to Aus-
tralians.
“Lao-dah”: The tea ration would go
a lot further if people infused what
there is of it properly instead of
throwing some of the most valuable in-
gredients into the dustbin. In Shanghai
before the Japanese occupation only the
number one cafes used fresh leaf. The
leaves were then sold to the cafes next
in rank below them, which, after use,
again sold them to the cheaper teashops.
Finally a Chinese millionaire philanthro-
pist used to buy the many-times-used
leaves and have them thrown into large
containers placed on the street corners
in the burning summer. Boiling water
was brought along in carts and the coolies
in the streets were able to get a free
hygienic drink that might not have satis-
fied a connoisseur but as a beverage
wasn’t at all bad.
“C. 8.”; Geelong used to be called
Sleepy Hollow. Now, though it has still
a long way to go, it is Melbourne’s most
important business and commercial rival.
Lately it has given tradition a kick by
employing female breadcarters, bus con-
ductors, taxi-drivers, butchers, letter-
carriers and trammies. Not only that,
but one of its women hairdressers has
started taking the shears to the manes
and beards —where they exist —of the
masculine population.
* * * *
“X.S.”: In the heyday of Freudian
psychoanalysis it was the fashion for
every bored young woman in Toorak to
imagine that she was the victim of some
deep-seated trauma or complex, but it
was only the other day that a Judge
heard a prisoner in the dock give an
analysis of the causes that had resulted
in his appearance before the Court.
Charged and found guilty of housebreak-
ing and stealing on four occasions, he
told Judge Book that he had got into
trouble at an early age, had spent much
time in reformatory schools and gaols.
He was tempted to steal because, having
been used to warm climates, he could not
sleep out in cold weather. He summed
up his condition as “an incorrigible psy-
chological outlook on life” produced by
incarcerations. A somewhat surprised
Judge remanded him for sentence.
“I want three mechanics and your strongest towing wagon.”
“Cauboy”: I should like to know
where “W.M.C.” (B. l/7/’42) got his
authority for asserting that Gilbert
dragged Sullivan’s best music out of him.
I should be astonished to learn that those
ridiculous polysyllabic jingles Gilbert
wrote were the source of Sullivan’s in-
spiration. It might as reasonably be
asserted that Shakspeare and Dickens
could have got the inspiration for their
magnificent galleries of human portraits
from the dull, stodgy, academic artists
who illustrated the plays of the one and
the novels of the other. I suspect
that the break between the com-
poser and the playwright was due to
Sullivan’s irritation at having to set to
music some of those trite, girlish, Early-
Victorian love ditties with which Gilbert
was so fond of interlarding his libretti,
and not to that carpet the sight and cost
of which drove the “poet” to heave
insults and threats at Sullivan and D’Oyly
Carte. “Sheenies,” he called them —“I’ll
get even with you Sheenies yet.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A recent reference to a sup-
posed Jap national anthem which
turned out to be something quite differ-
ent recalls Henry Bracy, the tenor who
introduced “Take a Pair of Sparkling
Eyes” to Australian audiences. “The
Geisha” was a great musical comedy of
the ’nineties, with one jolly Japanese
chorus “Chon Kina.” Bracy, much
travelled in the Orient, assured me that,
though his co. had to accept the libretto
as it had been printed in London, he was
sure the song would convey something
outrageous in Tokyo.
* % * *
“Hamfat”: Bland Holt scored two of
his greatest successes with Australian-
written plays; “The Breaking of the
Drought” and “The Winning Ticket.” It
was in the production of “The Winning
Ticket” that he introduced the moving
stage to Australia—with, of course,
horses galloping on it. Holt never left
horses out of any of his productions if
it was any way possible to squeeze
them in.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: England isn’t the only
country which has improved its health
since the war started. The Victorian Bush
Nursing Association expects when figures
are complete to establish a new
world record for low maternal death-
rate. In spite of the shortage of
doctors and nurses the total for
the year should be approximately three
deaths in 2300 births. The previous lowest
was 2.07 in 1000, set in the period from
1929 to 1941. This looks like further
confirmation of the London psychiatrist’s
dictum that one of the chief causes of
ill-health, especially neurosis, is boredom,
and that the best cure is air raids. Vic-
toria’s rural districts haven’t been raided,
but there have been enormous changes.
There is scarcely a family which hasn’t
most of its boys and girls in the army,
the air force or munitions, while mum
and dad keep the home fires burning.
Even the return to the horse and the con-
sequent loss of dependence on the con-
gested city is playing its part in the reju-
venation of the country.
* * * *
“Three States”; A Queenslander by
birth, though a Maorilander by education'
and service in the first World War, is
Air Marshal Arthur Coningham, in com-
mand of the airmen who have been doing
such great work in Egypt. He was born
at Brisbane in 1895, son of the Coning-
ham, also Arthur, who, an all-round
cricketer, was a member of the 1893
Eleven in England and came out second
in the bowling averages. Old Arthur,
didn’t get a game in any of the Tests
that year, but he played for Australia at
Melbourne a few months before young
Arthur was born. He was a happy-go-
lucky fellow, with the odd habit, when
outfielding on bleak days, of gathering
bits of paper and dried grass and setting
a match to the heap when a wicket had
fallen, pretending to warm his hands by
the fire. He introduced it at Lord’s, and
a mighty shout of laughter went up
from that London crowd when it realised
what he was about, though the top-hats
were horrified. In later years Coning-
ham was a party to a lawsuit that was
talked of throughout Australia. The son
served with the N.Z.E.F. in Samoa and
Egypt, and with the R.F.C. in 1916-18,
coming out with the M.C., the D.S.O.
and the D.F.C. He married Lady Frank,
a baronet’s widow, and they have a
daughter.
♦ * * *
“Lao-dah”: The man who had most
to do with China’s present stiff resistance
was a Maorilander —Rewi Alley. It was
he who organised China’s industrial
retreat inland from the coast before the
advancing hordes of Nippon. Son of a
sheepfarmer, he was a factory inspector
in Shanghai when the “incident” started.
He interested a Chinese magnate in his
notions of inland preparations and got
financial support. Factories were trans-
ported piecemeal on the backs of coolies,
in barges and on wheelbarrows thousands
of miles inland and reassembled. I saw
the great Hanyang Ironworks at Hankow
years ago. They are much bigger now
than they were then, and it is almost in-
credible to think that this vast organisa-
tion and its 60,000 tons of equipment
were shifted 1000 miles through the pre-
cipitous gorges of the Yangtze and then
reassembled, subsequently to almost
double their old output.
* * * *
“Lex”; “C.L.” (B. 1 /7/’42) errs some-
what in supposing that for the first time
a Judge has given consideration to the
great Australian adjective. As long ago
as 1911 the Lord Chief Justice (Alver-
stone) in England stated in a judgment
(Russon v. Dutton) that he was not pre-
pared to say the word “bloody” was not
indecent. More recently a Maoriland
Court (in Purves v. Inglis) held the word
to be indecent in the modern and popu-
lar acceptation of the term. But we can
rejoice that it was left to a real dyed-in-
the-horsehair Aussie Judge to put the
matter beyond doubt, for fellow-Aussies
anyway, by patriotically upholding the
propriety of our universal adjective.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland, which reads the
Australian newspapers, is affected (though
it pretends it isn’t) by tendencies across
the Tasman. Lately, following Australian
precedent, there has been a hullabaloo in
the pulpits, reflected later in the news-
papers in the Dominion’s larger cities,
about the awful goings-on of soldiers.
Some of these dreadful fellows, it appears,
drink beer and go walking with girls. On
this background the fecund imagination
of a certain type of wowser has painted
pictures that outdo the Dionysian orgies.
Falling on the tumult with a dull, final
sort of thud came the considered opinion
of Salvation Army Commissioner Smith,
a terse man:
I do not think the position in N.Z. is
very much more serious than it has ever
been... .Behavior in the streets may appear
rather worse today than formerly because
there are more men in uniform, and that
draws attention to them and their com-
panions. But we must beware of singling
out for suspicion every man in uniform
who is seen with a girl.... Let us beware
of thinking evil where there is no evil.
The Commissioner has been backed up
by Wellington’s respected City Missioner,
Rev. Jasper Calder, and by that city’s
Mayor Hislop, and hysterical suggestions
about curfews are becoming less vehe-
ment than formerly.
* $ * *
“John H.” resurrects one of Lachlan
Macquarie’s good deeds:
A recent par. (B. 1 /7/ ’42) concerning the
origins of Sydney’s irregular streets recalls the
fact that they would be even more so if Gover-
nor Macquarie hadn’t taken the matter in hand.
When he arrived in the town in 1809 he found
that most of the thoroughfares were encroached
upon by fences and yards, and that some of the
principal ones weren’t much more than lanes,
about 25ft. wide. So, on August 11, 1810, he
issued a Government and General Order. “The
Governor,’’ it read, “orders and directs that, as
far as circumstances will admit, the width of
the streets shall be 50 feet, including a foot-
way on each side; that the paling or palisading
on each side shall be of a uniform height of
four feet, and put up in a neat, regular and
durable manner; and he trusts and expects that
such persons as have it in their pow%r will
voluntarily assist by moving back their own
palings and enclosures.” Macquarie also gave
his improved highways definite names. The
necessity for this is evidenced by the fact that
the present George-street was known at different
times by such various names as High-street,
Spring-row and Sergeant-Major’s-row. When
Macquarie left Australia in 1822 the main part
of Sydney was much as it exists nowadays, so
far as names and alignment of streets were
concerned.
$ * * *
“S.T.S.”: Those gruesome stories about
the Russian thaw revealing heaps of
unsuspected dead bodies support an
idea used at least twice in English novels.
One was by Maxwell Gray ; in it a pic-
turesque white mound on the lawn
proves later to be a dead girl. In an-
other, a story that had a great run
in the ’eighties, heroine, delirious,
escapes into a storm ; hero follows, and
finds her, dagger in hand, over the body
of a man she had hated. The story is
dated to “the blizzard [first time we heard
the word] of 1881”; it gave time to get
the girl abroad and wait for weeks while
the snow wipes out all clues. The climax,
where a stranger has been arrested and
the girl returns to give herself up, is
thrilling. Those who can dig up Hugh
Conway’s Dark Days and his even more
famous Called Back may be grateful to
me for introduction to a pioneer in fic-
tional ideas.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The doctpr passed him
through the tests with flying colors. He
put his clothes on and was making for the
door when a thought seemed to strike him.
“Can I shake hands with you, doctor?”
he said, coming back. “Yes, certainly,”
replied the doctor, “but why in particu-
lar?” “You’re the first doctor who has
told me I am healthy,” retorted the new
acquisition to the fighting services. “Why,
don’t you think you’re healthy?” said
the astonished doctor. “Yes,” replied the
recruit; “but Dr. X [mentioning the
name of one of the greatest surgeons
in the country] says I’ve got heart dis-
ease.” “Did he now? Off with your
coat, man,” shouted the medico, rushing
for his stethoscope. A couple of minutes
later the new recruit was getting his rejec-
tion papers fixed up by the man-power
officer.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Retired Bard”: Whenever I think of
the very respectable amount of worth-
while verse that has been written in Aus-
tralia —most of it was baptised in The
Bulletin —I am astonished that so much
should have been done by so many under
dire and grievous handicaps. Right at
the outset of his nature-eulogy the Aussie
bard is at a disadvantage. He can’t com-
mence in the easy graceful manner of
the poet of any other land by a botani-
cal allusion to the season. What’s the
use of commencing with “ ’Twas in the
time of roses” in a country where the
blamed things never stop flowering, or
remarking that little Effie died when the
snowdrops were nodding their shy heads,
when, as every Sydney gardener knows,
the bulb plants pop up any time from
midsummer to midwinter inclusive. In
my suburban garden today, right spang
in the middle of winter, I note, un-
ashamedly in bloom, roses, narcissi,
canna lilies, poinsettia, hibiscus, waratah,
snapdragons and Iceland poppies.
Seasons? Bah! Botanically, there ain’t
any in Australia.
H= * * *
“Avon”; Being a frugal as well as a
hardy people, Maorilanders not only
grow a sizable proportion of their to-
bacco, but smoke it (mixed with imported
leaf) # with every appearance of enjoy-
ment. They are wise, for as time goes
on they will smoke still greater percent-
ages of the home-grown weed. Last year
the proportion, fixed by law, was 22} p.c.
This year 25 p.c. must be used. There
has been a record harvest —3,143,3551 b.
from about 3300 acres. A very substan-
tial increase of acreage is likely this year,
suitable land having been found in the
Nelson district. The tobacco is a bit
like the South African stuff in flavor, but
one soon gets used to it.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Now let me in with my fancy
camp site (B. 16/6/’42). In bull-spinifex
country pull out enough tussocks to form
an Bft. circle, inverting the bayonets in
the sandy ground. On this foundation
place two more layers, roots up. Over
all spread the tarpaulin, then blankets
and pillow. With a run, take a dive on
to the middle, which sags down, while
the outer interlocked tussocks rise up to
form a windbreak. You’ll soon be snor
ing in tune with the westerlies. Con-
versely, my worst camp was to lie looped
up in a sheet of corrugated tank iron,
minus nap, to avoid biting ants. For a
couple of days I travelled d la gorilla
till I hit a one-horse township where the
mongs hooled into me and straightened',
out the roach. The cop seemed doubtful
as he listened, and eyed - his newly-
acquired woodheap speculatively.
H* H* *l*
“Wippegong”: The way of the canteen
steward is hard. He works long and,
what’s worse, broken hours ; he is blamed
for delays and lack of supplies over
which he has no control ; he is subject
to the pestering of those who are never
content with a fair share ; so it’s little
wonder that his nerves tend to fray now
and then. Was in the usual rush just
on closing hour, and the steward had
just slammed my lot on the counter
when the wall clock flicked open and a
thin voice said “Cuckoo! ” The harassed
airman snatched back my tin without
looking up, hurled it in the general direc-
tion of the retreating mechanical fowl,
where it added to the varied dents, scars
and splashes on and around the clock.
He pushed me another tin, muttering “I’ll
cripple that damn’ bird yet! ” He will.
“Feathers”: Watched a brolga slide to
earth from a speck in the sky; he came
in one unbroken sweep to the spot he'd
selected, his long neck and bill held in
a straight line with his stumpy tail and
stilts of legs behind him. When he was
a few feet from the ground he breasted
up ever so little, shot his legs forward,
landed without a jar and took two strides
forward to balance himself. Then he
gave the courteous bow for which his
tribe is noted and went about his busi-
ness. In its way it was about the most
perfect bit of air work imaginable.
“Flight”: Just occasionally something
happens to disturb the bird world. About
20 peewees call this S.Q. rooftree of mine
their home. And the other morning
some species of madness overtook them
all. Within a few seconds the lot of them
were whirling in the air, closing, falling
in fluttering pairs to the earth, rolling
over in the dew-wet grass, stabbing, peck-
ing and buffeting. But for my dog’s
impatience I could have caught several
pairs, so earnestly were they engaged.
"They puffed with beaks agape, wings
bedraggled and sodden, and they wrestled
desperately. And after the bout was
over they played together. With the love
“Wake up, Tony, and see who's come to visit us!”
and hate motives removed, sheer ebul-
lience of spirits seemed the only reason
for the departure from normal.
“B. A. Ker”; A pair of greyish-white
wedge-tailed hawks have recently been
haunting the region of the sties ; and
they’ve left me somewhat disillusioned.
Between hunts one of the birds perches
on the topmost branch of a big dead box
that has always been a popular haunt of
a flock of starlings. My first surprise was
to see the latter congregate as usual,
regardless of the allegedly bloodthirsty
killer above. Stranger still, the challenge
of a peewee who gave a ton of cheek
from a couple of yards’ range wasn’t
taken up. And a diminutive fantailed-
flycatcher who consistently makes the
hawk’s life a misery with a series of light-
ning pecking attacks that strike home
anywhere from the back of the head to
the root of the tail has never been
attacked in retaliation! Hunting, the
regal-looking bird floats, hovers, veers,
feints and finally dives into the grass,
soaring up seconds later with a rodent
in his talons. Instantly there is a whir of
wings, and with raucous cries his better-
half pursues him across the paddock.
Does he tell her to catch her own damn’
mice? No! He lands in a tree and hands
it over like a lamb. “Lord of the air,”
my eye! He's just a henpecked husband
like the rest of us.
* * * *
“Munjong”: The “old cow-hand from
the Rio Grande” who “rides the range
in a Ford V 8” has his counterpart on
many a property in the mulga of Vic-
toria’s nor’-west, where the wages-sheet
for boundary-riders can be cut to
a minimum by using petrol in place of
horseflesh. Doing my round in a
utility I put up an old cock emu,
who preceded me up the cut-line at a
clip which aroused my curiosity as well
as my competitive spirit. He was clock-
ing an honest thirty-five before he decided
to turn it up—and even then he had a
win. On his right lay ten thousand acres
of open saltbush and spinifex, on his left
lay the fence. He turned left. Result,
four out of five wires broken, two panels
of fence torn out of the ground and half
an hour’s work for the mug. Our coin-
embellisher is certainly a cussed fowl.
* * * . *
“Fitzjay”: The boss instructed Choom
to scarify the patch of fallow in the crop
paddock over the rise, as the weeds were
getting up. In the evening when lie re-
turned, Cocky asked how the work was
progressing. Choom replied that the
weeds were terrible and he had a job to
get the machine through them. Full of
forebodings, the agriculturist hastened
to the paddock—to find several acres of
a potential seven-bag crop reduced to
tangled |tubble.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; In my almost forgotten
youth I had a penchant for reading yarns
of western America in the days before
the barbed-wire, fence and the motion-
picture industry ruined it, and time and
again there cropped up stories of the
road-runner. The yarns were always
written as if assuming the reader knew
what the road-runner was, much as an
Australian writes about politicians, but
all I could gather was that it was some
kind of bird with a derry on snakes.
Lately I saw a talkie short showing the
bird at work on a five-foot serpent, and
now I know why the old westerners
thought the world of it. It appears to
belong to the cuckoo family, about the
size of our mallee hen but taller and 100
per cent, nippier, and aggressive. What
it did to that snake, which it caught bask-
ing in a bush, was almost a pity. The
bird, watching its step, always hit the
snake just behind the head, gave a couple
of shakes and let go to duck out of sight
while Joe indignantly surveyed the land-
scape to see what hit him. Again and
again the bird struck and dodged, and
near the finish grabbed tight and tried to
pull his nibs from the bush. The camera
work was so good that the bird’s toes
digging into the ground while it strained
and the snake’s resisting muscles could
be seen. When it got the snake on the
ground, the road-runner grabbed its head,
lifted it high and bashed it down again.
After a few minutes of this there were
only the bird and a dead snake, which
was promptly dragged off to feed the
family. I detest talkies, but I’d go to
more like that.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: That reference to bow-
yangs (B. 20/5/’42) reminds me of a
first-sod-turning ceremony at a little
branch railway at Karangahake, M.L.
Seddon and Ward, then Minister of Rail-
ways, were present, and Ward made an
impression on the navvies and miners
present by the way he wielded the
“banjo.” “The first navvy on the line!”
exclaimed Seddon as Joey finished. “Why
didn’t you give him bowyangs?” a miner
shouted. “He wouldn’t know how to
use them,” replied Dick. “Wouldn’t I!”
Ward protested; then, turning to the
crowd, he insisted that he could “handle
the tool referred to by the Premier as
well as I handled that spade.” Seddon
led the laughter that went up, and when
it had died down he explained to his too-
confident colleague what bowyangs were.
* * * »
“Gypso”; Whether underground water
is or is not a lottery depends on the
underlying rock. If it is igneous in origin,
such as bluestone, greenstone or crystal-
lised basalt, a bet may be taken that
results will be the same for 20 miles
around the first borehole. If it be of
sedimentary origin, such as limestone
or sandstone, results may vary as de-
scribed by “M.U.R.” (B. 27/5/’42). The
reason is that igneous rock, being mas-
sive in formation, doesn’t lend itself so
much to tilting as do the sedimentaries.
Even when attempts are made as by
’quakes to tilt it it merely ruptures ; sur-
faces in time decompose to clay, which
heals the cracks and largely restores the
original homogeneity. And the rock
being the same right through, its water
content necessarily is likewise. With the
sedimentaries, lime or sandstone strata!
may have impervious layers sandwiched
between. When tilting takes place strata
may be thrown to all angles, these im-
pervious layers then forming numbers of
individual reservoirs. Water held in them
may vary in salinity because of the dif-
ference in the surface earths through
v/hich it drained, and also because of the
contained salt in the strata in which it is
held. An idea of how sedimentary rocks
may be broken and tossed about can at
times be gained when a deep cut is put
through a sandstone hill.
X * * *
“Graz”: For “BL3’s” benefit (B.
1/7/’42), successful ringbarking depends
on the weather conditions that follow,
and as these cannot be forecast it is safer
to poison the timber. I plump for this
method: Cut the friU as close to the
ground as possible, putting the axe into
the sapwood but not through it. Either
arsenate of soda or pentoxide may be
used. Follow manufacturer’s directions
and stir frequently to keep arsenic in
suspension. Poison while the trees are
very sappy after a good rain. To avoid
a crop of seedlings, which often follow
summer rains, I prefer doing the job
during the late summer and autumn
months. Poisoned timber dies quickly and
weed growth then takes possession be-
fore summer comes. The last block of
800 acres of thick timber I saw poisoned
in our Mudgee (N.S.W.) district took two
men only a fortnight to sucker.
* * * *
“Ngaduri”; Old Blinker had got into
verbal holts with the colt-breaker from
Yudnappinna, our neighboring station.
“Listen here,” he said. “I rode horses
and steers before you were born, and
I’ve ridden in more roughridin’ shows
than you’ve ever seen, and I say that
steers are the hardest t’ ride be a long
way. It stands t’ reason they’re harder,
’cos they got no wither t’ hold a man
on.” Well, the Yudnappinna sticks to
his theory that a steer makes easier riding
than the moke. Entries from Aboliars
are free, and you can ride with or with-
out your saddles.
* * * *
“Wang”: “I’m trampin’ along the road
through a dreary stretch of whipstick
mallee country,” recounted Dan, “an’
hadn’t seen a soul fer hours when a bloke
drivin’ a jinker overtakes me an’ offers
me a lift. He’s a long, narrer coot with
a vacant, dreamy look. We drive along
fer half a mile before he sorta shakes
himself half awake an’ speaks again.
‘Know a bloke called Joe Hay?' he asks.
‘A real hard case, Joe ; knows a lota
comic songs.’ ‘Don’t know him,’ I ses.
He mentions three or four others, none
of whom I’d ever met or heard of. He
don’t say no more for about another
mile, then he drawls in a disgusted sorta
voice: ‘Y’ ain’t kicked about much not
t’ know them blokes.’ ‘Have you?’ I
asks, a bit nettled. In about another 10
minutes the jinker goes over a gibber an’
jolts him to semi-consciousness. ‘Too
right I have! ’ he ses. ‘l’ve been t’ Bogga-
bogga half a dozen times, an’ Sangabilla,
too, four times.’ I kno\V both places,
one-horse towns with a coupla pubs in
them, 30 miles off, in diff’rent directions.
After that spasm of conversation we
drive along in silence for several miles.
Then the bloke pulls up at a turn-off an’
ses ‘Well, I turn off here. Hooray.’ I
trudge on a coupla miles, an’ strike a
shanty pub. Bung an’ another bloke’s in
there, lookin’ vacantly at each other. As
he pulls me pot Bung asks if I’ve tramped
far, an’ I tell him I’d got a lift from a
bloke with a sandy walrus mo. in a jinker
along the road. ‘Ah, that’d be Jim
Lewis,’ he ses. ‘A nice chap, Jim, he
goes on; Teal livewire, too ;as a matter
o’ fact, he’s the drivin’ force behind our
Progress Association! Very broad in
his views, too, is Jim, but, o course,
most blokes are who’ve travelled, ain’t
they?’”
THE CAVE.
From the world’s unrest
Seeking sanctuary,
In this cove-side, cave
Good it is to be.
Good it is to feel,
As the gulls wing by,
Presences that steal
Soothingly anigh.
For who hither hies,
And awhile abides
Musing lone, shall find
Solace here resides.
Tides that never cease
Lowly murmuring,
Music piped by Peace
To his heart shall bring.
Time, with all its woes,
Haply shall he deem
For a saving space
But a passing dream.
Waves on beach and bar,
Thundering as they roll,
Be they near or far,
Shall not daunt his soul.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Bill O’C,”; The partial change of skin
color in a darkie noted by “Scuta” (B.
1/7/’42), due to the gradual spread of
skin-grafts, seems natural enough, though
probably impermanent. An odder case
of changed pigmentation in the hide,
following upon a definite disease, was that
of another abo., a patient in the Adel-
aide Hospital about 44 years ago. He
developed while there a white skin patch
which gradually extended all over him.
Proud as he was of his new complexion,
he was doomed to lose it a little later by
the same progressive process of a rever-
sion to black. In the meantime I paid
sixpence to see him exhibit himself as
a sort of human piebald in a Melbourne
shop in the first Commonwealth year,
1901, and had the honor of signing his
“visitors’ book”—uncensored, because his
dusky highness probably was unable to
read the frank guesses of his callers con-
cerning the cause of the wonder.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Jacky was listening at the
campfire as an excited ringer asked me
to send this wire to his wife when I
reached Hughenden: “No letters. What
the hell’s up?” “Baal sendit that one
longa wire,” remarked Jacky. “Him wire
stop likit fence. More better sendit longa
telegram tomorrow, then missus gettit
that pfeller yestertoday.”
H*
“Lang Lang”: Gippslanders will grin
tolerantly at “Sur Cingle’s” sneer at their
country (B. 8/7/’42) when he snorts
“East Gippsland ! I’ve been talking about
station country.” “Banjo” Paterson,
looking for an ideal place to locate Aus-
tralia’s most famous and most recited
horse ballad, chose East Gippsland, and
“The Man from Snowy River” is a fit-
ting answer to any crow-eater who
imagines a few square miles of sand and
saltbush makes hard riding.
“Jay-Jay”: Of course, I’m only a
mug, but reading “Sur Cingle’s” harangue
about the stockman said to use his saddle
“On Sunday there'll be manceuvres with imaginary guns an"
imaginary mortars. Imaginary lunch will be provided .”
for a pillow (B. 27/5/’42), I humbly ask:
Supposing the horseman turned his saddle
over so that his head lay between the
pads, would any real harm result to the
piece of horse-furniture? I inquire
because during my purely pedestrian life
I’ve seen 16- and even 18-stone men
astride very broadbacked steeds with a
saddle between them and the quadruped,
and surely they didn’t ruin a saddle every
time they rode. And if that percussion
on a saddle was harmless it would be
strange if damage could result from just
a human head resting in the hollow made
to fit the back of a horse with a man’s
weight upon it. Personally I have
favored boots as a pillow, they being
the only spare clobber carried. But I
will recommend “S.C.’s” calico valise to
my equestrian friends —when I find any
of them with spare clobber to carry.
Usually they get along with a blanket
and a billy ; tea and sugar in the one
saddlebag.
“The 0.D.”: Fairly easy to pick the
direction of a snake’s travels over dry
sand (B. 8/7/’42). The sand thrust aside
by the flat scales under the body will go
out from the track in tiny waves, the
wider sweep of the wave being at the for-
ward end, which is the end pointing the
way. Again, look for tiny twigs or
pebbles; they’ll be pushed slightly and
there’ll be a wee hillock of sand on one
side. That’s the side against the push
and shows which way Mr. Blake went.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Most Australian bush
writers describe the uncrossed dingo as
the red dog. But was Warrigal entirely
confined to red as a coloration? Dig-
ging down into Swan River (W.A.)
records of the first four years, I find the
native dogs described as being of almost
as great a variety in color as the dogs of
Britain. Letter-writers, too, speak of
them as almost of two distinct species:
“Some are like little black-and-white col-
lies ; many of them yellow and large ;
our dogs howl whenever one of them
comes near the house.” Swan River
tribes had Warrigal partly domesticated ;
several were to be found in any native
camp. Up to the time mentioned there
was no chance of dingo crossing with
imported dogs, since the latter were
scarce, the few being prized as watch-
dogs against the natives ; others, such as
deerhounds, were highly valued for the
chase of the kangaroo. Exploring the
West Kimberley in 1838-39 Lieut. George
Grey also expressed the opinion that
there were two kinds of native dogs—a
small variety running at the heel and the
larger savage of the bush. To the latter
he also gave a wide variety of color,
though yellowish-red predominated. Per-
“Bah. you fellows make me sick!”
haps there were two species of dingo, and
the smaller collie-like variety has been
bred right out through crossing with the
white man’s dogs.
* * * *
“Nuffin Butt”; For quick thinking and
speed off the mark you can’t beat the
performance of the driver of the Burnie-
Queenstown (Tas.) express. This journey
—like Caesar’s Gaul —is divided into three
parts: Burnie-Zeehan, run by the Emu
Bay Company; Zeehan-Strahan, by the
Government Railways; and Strahan-
Queenstown, managed by the Mt. Lyell
Co. The distance is 140 miles. If you’re
lucky you leave Burnie at 8 a.m. and
arrive Queenstown 6 p.m. —an average of
a dizzy 14 m.p.h. Speeding into Rose-
bery one morning a month or two ago,
the driver beheld a little toddler, about
two years, calmly playing trains on the
track about 150 yards ahead, blissfully
oblivious of the pulping wheels tearing
down upon it. A couple of toots brought
no result. Did the driver jam on the
brakes or put the roaring juggernaut into
reverse and chance stripping his engine?
He did not. He simply climbed down
from his cab, jogged ahead alongside the
metals, calmly placed the infant aside
and swung himself aboard again with
all the dexterity of a city tram troub.
What I admired most was the bored look
on his face.
* * * *
“Scuta”: The glass eye, the man-made
teeth and the monocle have all played a
part in establishing the prestige of the
white man ; but it remained for a New
Guinea planter to set up an enviable repu-
tation among the fuzzies by an accom-
plishment unique in their experience. He
was a chain-smoker, and had the inevit-
able fag in his mouth when inspecting his
first team of “boys.” Doing the draw-
back as usual and expelling smoke
through his nose, he was astounded when
his team, after one awe-stricken glance,
bolted like brumbies into the bush. He
inquired of a native boss the cause of
the stampede. “You N feller all-time
smokum through eyes,” he was told. True
enough. Whenever he blew smoke
through his nose a column arose from
the inner corner of each eye through his
tear-ducts, the natural storm channels
carrying excess moisture from eyes to
nose. In youth his ducts had been dilated
artificially to relieve blockage and be-
came belching chimneys when he chose.
Regarded as god or devil he could always
get a splendid team ; even the Sepiks, the
most intractable tribe, were in his pocket.
So “Smoke-eye” is a name to conjure
with up there, as the Japs will find to
their cost.
* Hi %
“S.H.C.”: Being flush, we had bought
a horse and buggy and were driving
through the South Australian Mallee
picking and choosing jobs. On a cross-
roads just out of Pinaroo we paused to
decide the road, and Dan’s keen eyes
spotted a figure under a swag toiling
along the sandy track towards us. It
was a blazing day. Dan thought for a bit,
then fished a bottle out of the wet bag
we had ’em in and stood it prominently
beside a bush in the road; then we
backed the buggy up the side road be-
hind a clump of mallee and waited. The
traveller came wearily along, reached the
crossroads, dropped his swag in the
shade and sat on it. Presently he stared
at the bottle about 30 feet away. He
sighed and looked away, then looked
back. Slowly he got up and walked to
the bottle. Within a yard of it he
stopped dead, looked hurriedly all about,
then dived at it. He examined the
crown seal, held the bottle to the light
and an awed look came on his sun-
burned face. Without more ado he fished
a tin-opener from his nosebag, ripped
off the top and upended the bottle. He
emptied it in four drinks, wiped his
lips, threw the bottle aside, gave a scared
look around, picked up his swag and
fairly bolted. “T’morrow,” grinned Dan,
“he’ll reckon it must have bin a dream.”
* * * *
“N.”: A photo, of troops preparing
bush turkeys for cooking at battle stations
brought the comment from F. Lewis, of
the Victorian Fisheries and Game Depart-
ment, that there are no bustards left in
Victoria, that they are becoming rarer
elsewhere and that destruction ought not
to be allowed even for supplementing
camp rations. The bustard is an awk-
ward, sluggish creature and almost a sit-
ting shot for a competent marksman. It
lays only one egg in a season. David
Fleay, curator of the Colin MacKenzie
Sanctuary in Victoria, suggests that if the
troops want a change of diet there are
plenty of kangaroos, wallabies, native
duck, magpie geese and wild pigeon up
north.
* % * *
“Solitude”: “I never was one t’ believe
in what them novelists call poetic jus-
tice,” chortled old Seventyfiver gleefully ;
“but it just shows y’ a bloke sometimes
gets what’s cornin’ t’ ’im, eh? There’s
me sittin’ on the saleyard fence wantin’
that brindle heifer pretty bad, but each
time I shoves in a bid up comes that big
potbellied coot from over the ridge and
slams in another like he owns the place.
An’ what’s he want a milker for I’d like
to know? He ain’t got no missus alwus
growlin’ about no butter, I bet! Any-
way, I run the beast far’s I could, but
his nibs comes another five bob an’ it’s
knocked down. Then about ten minutes
later I’m standin’ ’longside ’im when a
bloke brings up a telegram, so I screws
round an’ gets an eyeful. It’s to say that
the Guvment’s goin’ to take over his
three thousand-acre joint and is willin’
to spar up £BO per. Well, if that ain't
justice, eh? There’s the silly cow standin’
there with a smart eight quids’ worth of
brindle heifer on his hands an’ not a
place to put ’er. Serves ’im bloomin’ well
right!”
* * * *
“Aratta”: Dave and his wife, with
their three-months-old son, were paying
a visit to the Greybox home. After tea
all the members of the family were
grouped in the kitchen around the infant,
which was lying on Mum’s lap and bawl-
ing lustily. “Ain’t he lovely, Dad?”
cried Mum proudly. “Jest look at him
kickin’ his feet about.” She held the
squalling baby up for Dad’s closer in-
spection and continued enthusiastically:
“Jest look at him close ; he’s got your
nose, and his hair is the same color tfs
mine. An’ he’s got his mother’s eyes,
and Mary’s funny little way of screwin’
up his mouth an’ a chin jest like Joe’s.”
“ ’Struth! ” said Dave in a peevish tone,
“I’m the kid’s father; ain’t he got some-
thin’ of me about him anywhere at all?”
“Too right he has,” replied Dad, grin-
ning ; “there ain’t no mistake about that,
me boy. He’s got plenty of you about
him all right. He’s got y’ loud voice,
an’ likes plenty of notice took of him.”
“Anything else nice y’ can see by any
chance?” inquired Dave sarcastically.
Dad appeared to ponder for a few
seconds, and then said: “Yes, there is.
I noticed it before, an’ it reminded me
of you when y’ useter help me here on
the farm —after he’s had his bellyful all
he wants to do is drop off to sleep! ”
SOUTHWARD HO!
And so we get the drum —we’re makin’ back,
lo do our stuff and hold the Japs at bay;
ere mighty keen to have another crack,
ran strainin’ at the leash to get away.
The pom- old Bth Division—now mafish,
xr 1 ,y f° u ght their fight an’ fell in Singapore;
, P‘ an es, no tanks, no anything—“ malish ” —
iwas just the rotten fortune sway of war.
the lot an’ took it on the chin;
xt l they wasn’t cryin’ out fer tar.
in. V , y ever had a tougher spin:
111 stake my life they gave the Japs a jar.
An so we got to make the leeway up;
„ /he enemy’s amassed a decent score;
w hh pride he’s swollen like a poisoned pup,
With plunder gorged, his fangs all stained
with gore.
Ys Churchill says, “Our cryin’ need is boats.
We re sendin’ all the shippin’ we can spare.’’
“ e * »• P us hack on anything that floats!
An pronto—for we’re needed over there!
Farewell to all the lousy Middle East,
The wogs, the smells, the snow, the heat, the
sand;
We go to spoil another Axis feast —
To guard our own good White Australian
land.
A.I.F. ABROAD.
TIP KELAHER.


WINTER FEEDING MUST INCLUDE MINERALS
Tri-cal: You must pay attention to the mineral
supply in the winter feeding scheme if you want pro-
duction to be maintained, because minerals are essen-
tial to life processes. Grasses and fodders are likely
to lack calcium and phosphorus, so provide the re-,
liable supplement, Tri-cal-os Bono Flour, to remedy
the deficiency and you will be surprised what good
use the stock will make of even the poor, coarse
feeding stuffs. I’ve great confidence in Tri-cal-os
because I know exactly what it is and what it does
—it is the pure mineral matter of bone specially pro-
cessed to ensure maximum digestibility; it contains
a minimum of 33 p.c. phosphoric acid and 40 p.c.
lime. I feed it to all my stock now; they like it,
and I’m convinced that Tri-cal-os is responsible for
the improvement in their production.
2
U.
'sc
M&MT
rs
t2>
I got my particulars about Tri-cal-os
and pigs from Davis Gelatine, G.P,
Sydney; also at G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588,
Perth; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane. Old Farmer.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREL, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOB NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Saving Woolpacks.
“Murrawong”: The N.S.W. Graziers’
Association has experimented with a
number of bales turned out at Grazcos,
Sydney, without the use of woolpacks.
The method is much the same as that
used in pressing sheepskins and baling
hay. A standard wooden press was used.
It had two doors, and on the false bottom
and the underside of the monkey four
hardwood battens, 4in. x 3in., were fixed
at equal intervals. The battens ran with
the openings between them towards the
doors of the press. Before filling, three
flat battens were laid across the four-by-
threes about 3in. apart. The press was
then filled with wool, tramped and
pressed as usual.
When the doors were
opened three pieces of
No. 8 or No. 10 wire
were passed round the
bale by threading
them through the
space between the
battens. Each wire
was then drawn tight
and fastened.
How long this type
of bale would stand
up to handling has
yet to be proved.
Much would depend
on the type of wool.
All sorts have been
successfully handled so
far, and when prop-
erly pressed it is diffi-
cult to pull pieces of
wool from the sides of
the bale. There is no
reason why this part
of the job could not
be done in a hay
press.
There is still the
problem of finding
a suitable material to protect the bale
from weather and dirt. The covering
must be capable of being produced in
Australia. It might be possible to make
a loosely-woven cover from coarse, low-
grade wool. Packs made of wool have
been tried, but, apart from the question
of cost, it was found that the pack was
too elastic and stretched tremendously.
This could be overcome, however, by the
suggested method of pressing the wool,
securing it with wire and covering it
either with a ready-made envelope or
with a sheet of rough woollen material
which could be held in position with a
few bale fasteners.
Time taken to turn out the bale is not
much more than half the time needed to
press the same amount in a woolpack.
1 he wool presses easier, there is no
danger of flaps slipping under pressure or
in skewering or difficulty in getting flaps
to meet on a long bale. Certain difficul-
ties might present themselves in handling
on the show floor, but these should not
be hard to overcome. Chief advantage is
that if wool had to be pressed and stored
in the country the job could be done
without jute packs.
Mallee Recovery.
“Koorlong”: An examination of the
northern Victorian Mallee is an educa-
tion in how not to settle land.
With good early rains this season the
country looks wonderful, and parts not
entirely destroyed are displaying the
Malice’s remarkable recuperative powers.
But everywhere there is evidence of ill-
use, unintentional at first; sandy ridges
which should not have been touched now
blown down four or five feet to the hard
clay and left bare. Good land fallowed
too often has extensive patches of sub-
soil showing. In many localities only
about one road in four can be used for
traffic—the others are covered with sand
dunes, in places 12 feet deep. There are
too many roads anyway.
“Mud rain” has fallen in Melbourne
and on the Alps two or three times a
year recently; once in three or four
seasons was the record 30 years ago. The
“'E Wants t' know 'ow many spare rooms we've got for billetin' troops."
red mud should be kept in the Mallee to
grow crops.
What is to be done? S.A. has
attempted something, but Victoria con-
tinues to play with the problem. Many
settlers are being paid to leave the land.
It’s a grand opportunity to reoccupy
parts of the Mallee on sound lines.
The country should be laid out afresh
in blocks of 1500 to 3000 acres or more,
according to quality and position. Suit-
able farmers could be given perpetual
leases, which should contain conditions
for proper use of the land, the penalty
to be cancellation. Natural growth on
each block must be kept in places where
it would do most good, such as the tops
of ridges and for road and house pro-
tection. A four-year or longer crop rota-
tion should be followed, and a limit fixed
on the numbers of stock carried.
Burning of stubble and grass must be
prohibited if soil is to be kept where it
belongs, and it would probably be neces-
sary to prohibit fallowing of certain
places unless some oats or the like, which
can be fed off later, are sown on the
fallow to hold the soil. It is fairly easy
to bring back blown-down ridges in a
good season or two, and, once recovered.
they should be fenced in and treated as
convalescents.
The Mallee is not beyond saving, but
it cannot be saved until there is a national
attack on sand drift —it is not enough to
leave it all to the cockies, although some
of them are doing a good job.
Improving Dairy Pastures.
“Pat Ater”: What can be done by
pasture improvement and rotational
grazing to increase milk yield and prop-
erty value has been shown at Moss Vale
(N.S.W.) by M. Lamond, of Coomungle.
On the 170-acre holding are mostly six-
to eight-acre paddocks for rotating morn-
ing and evening grazing. There are six
acres of maize for fodder, and seven acres
of lucerne gave 35cwt. of hay to the acre.
The lucerne is Lamond’s special pride,
because the ground had been farmed for
45 years and was said to be worked out.
The manurial preparation was a ton of
dolomite and 2001b. of super, per acre.
For the maize crop a ton of lime and
1201b. of No. 8 fertiliser to the acre were
used.
Perennial rye is the backbone of all
the pastures. White and sub. clover mixed
with the rye do splendidly. The white
clover suffers from dryness, but has the
virtue of staying in the soil and flourish-
ing when good seasons return. These
pastures get an annual topdressing of
1201b. of super, to the acre and before
sowing a ton of lime. Each grazing pad-
dock is used as such for eight or nine
years at a stretch, then sown to maize,
oats, etc., while a previously cultivated
area is sown to pasture.
Lamond stores fodder, and the recent
drought cost him nothing, except for
pollard and bran. He had three pits of
270 tons each, the silage made from
maize, rye grass and clovers. There
were oaten and lucerne hays. The silage
pits are only four feet deep, trench pat-
tern, piled eight feet above ground and
allowed to settle before the final cover-
ing. Green feed, in addition to grasses,
includes saccaline, and maize in bad
seasons.
Lamond practises herd improvement
and culling. He has Jerseys and Ayr-
shires. The general average of 50 cows
was three gallons on summer rating.
Moss Vale is on the highlands, where
winter is severe, and the selection of
grasses, fodders and cattle is made with
this in mind.
Pasture Values in S.A.
“B.”: Kybybolite experiment station
(S.A.) conducted five-year tests on the
grazing values of natural and sown pas-
tures —both topdressed. There were four
plots each of natural pasture, Wimmera
rye and subterranean clover and Phalaris
tuberosa and Mt. Barker sub. Three
plots of each were topdressed each
autumn with 901b. of super, and the
fourth got 1801b. per acre. Some of the
natural pastures were given lime without
any marked benefit over the others.
Over the period the average number
of sheep carried per acre-was: Natural
pastures, 3.18; Wimmera rye-sub., 3.76;
Phalaris-suh., 3.89. Ewes on the sown
pastures developed much quicker, average
increase in body weight for the first year
being almost 2i times greater, but in the
second, third and fourth years ewes on
the natural pastures were only 8 p.c.
under the weight of those on the sown
pastures and almost attained the same
weight in the fifth year. Lambing per-
centages on sown pastures were higher,
though there was no marked difference
on the two types of sown pasture, where
the average weight and value of wool
produced was 81b. more per acre per
annum than on the natural pastures.
Average yields of hay fluctuated from
year to year. Wimmera rye and sub,
proved superior to natural grass in four
out of five years, and Phalaris and sub.
in two out of five years. The sown
grasses made silage or hay when a longer
interval was allowed between grazings.
Baby Beef.
“BL3”: If milking herds have to be
reduced why not cull the cows and use
the least profitable to breed baby beef?
If a good beef bull be used with dairy
cows good vealers can be turned off nine
or ten months old. Value of beef pro-
duced in a year by this class of cow will
fall little short of her value as a cream
producer and the drudgery of milking is
eliminated.
Have the calves arrive early in spring
and they will thrive on their mothers
during summer. If topped off dur-
ing the last few week on green oats or
barley they will have the bloom which
makes all the difference in selling value.
Sell all; don’t keep the heifers for breed-
ing. If the cows are getting too old turn
them off at the same time and replace
with younger ones. Old cows in good
condition are valuable for canning.
The Bad-tempered Bull.
“T.C.A.”; Some are born bad. More
are made bad by wrong treatment and
can be cured. Irritability may be
accounted for by confinement in a small
stockade and consequent lack of exer-
cise, insufficient green feed, lack of work,
being tied up for long periods by the
nose-ring and dogs. Dogs are a doubtful
asset on any dairy farm. They tend to
excite the cattle, frequently with danger-
ous results.
In point of importance the bull is equal
to the rest of the herd and should be
treated accordingly. Give him a small,
well-fenced pasture paddock to himself,
preferably one that has been sown to
winter and summer pastures, according
to local conditions. This paddock should
connect directly with a small stockade,
in the corner of which should be a
narrow feeding crush. If the bull is fed
regularly, as he should be, he will go
into the crush quietly, where he can be
caught easily and safely.
When driving him in from the paddock
always carry a stout stick about three
feet long. A cut-down shovel handle is
ideal. If he behaves playfully, as bulls
often do, or if he attacks, give him a
sharp rap on the tip of one horn. It
will quieten him down quickly. As with
every other malady, “prevention is better
than cure.”
Hints for the Farm.
“Bundalinga”: Since a great increase
in wool quality and weight follows the
use of good rams, no flockowner can
afford to buy cheap rams when he can
get good ones for an additional few
pence per lamb. With proper manage-
ment it is not impossible to increase the
wool cut of the average flock by 31b. per
head in a few generations.
• “S.B.”: Charcoal for pigs can be made
on the farm by gathering stripped corn-
cobs in heaps and setting them on fire.
Old animal bones can be added. When
the cobs are well alight put them out
with water.
“Yeno Ham”: Pastures overgrazed in
winter may become clover-dominant in
spring, resulting in bloated cows and


COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
FEDERAL LAND TAX RETURNS.
Returns of land held at midnight on the 30th June, 1942, are required to be lodged by
(a) Persons who have lodged returns for prior years, and whose land holdings have altered in any way
since the 30th June 1941. Returns showing such alterations should be furnished in Form OB by
the 31st JULY, 1942, . ,
(b) Persons resident in the Commonwealth who held land of an unimproved value of £4OOO or upwarus
and absentees when the unimproved value is One Pound or over, who have not lodged returns for
prior years. Such persons should lodge full returns (Form A) by the 31st AUGUST, 1942.
Persons who have lodged returns for prior years and whose land holdings have not since altered
in any way ARE NOT REQUIRED TO LODGE RETURNS
Where land is held in more than one State and returns are necessary, the returns should be
forwarded to the Deputy Federal Commissioner of Taxation, Box 7690, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Forms of return and full information may be obtained at the principal Post Offices or at Federal Taxation
Office, 3rd Floor. Government Savings Bank Building, 21-23 Elizabeth Street, Sydney—Postal address
Box 404CN, G.P.0., Sydney.
Penalty for late lodgment 10 per cent, additional tax—minimum £l.
Penalty for failure to lodge returns £lOO.
N. GERBANS, DEPUTY COMMISSION OF LAND TAX.
,
Wireless alone can meet the
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT ★ CONSTANT ★ CERTAIN
V AUSTRALIAN - M A D E
RADIOTRON
Ue~
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
■» W*'"-”
“BILLABONG”
WINDMILLS
HAVE
i
AUTOMATIC
OILING AND
ENCLOSED
GEARS
THE BASIS FOR
EFFICIENCY IN PUMPING
&s
ty isi
fp-rv. I— tcd■
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MAKERS OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT FOR OVER 70 YEARS.
mr
mis
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. — Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: BW1S31 (7 lines). Box 3587S, G.P.O., Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
undesirable milk flavors. Close pastures
in autumn and let growth reach a height
of 6in. to Sin. before grazing begins.
Rotate grazing from paddock to paddock
as grass is eaten down to about 3in. Turn
excess growth into hay.
“T.C.A.”: A good cow is worthy of a
gobd rug, waterproof and warm. If the
rug be made of bags, care must be taken
in its use. Unless the weather is very
severe it is a good plan to let the cow
graze during the day without a rug, put-
ting the rug on after the evening feed
and milking. If she comes in wet for the
evening milking, rub her dry with a
cloth, paying particular attention to.
shoulders, back and loins. Then rug her.
It is advisable to have two bag rugs; one
to be dried and aired while the other is
in use. All rugs, whether waterproof or
not, should be aired periodically.
“Pat Ater”: It’s a “green winter” this
year on a lot of N.S.W. high country,
where usually there’s only dry or frost-
bitten stuff for winter pasturage. A spell
of steady, warm rain has made the better-
class stuff come through. One result has
been a saving of precious topsoil in areas
where washaways were prevalent when
heavy rain followed a long dry period.
But marks of erosion are still there.
Scoured flats, hillsides and slopes washed
down to the useless clay. Reasons are
overstocking, failure to maintain useful
ground cover with topdressing, sub-
division and rotational grazing and cut-
ting down needed trees, mainly on the
hillocks, where erosion starts. In a time
of labor shortage reduction of stock
numbers to well under carrying capacity
is necessary. If there’s one thing to be
learned it’s to look to the future.
“Jesmond”: A few years ago sub.
clover became established on Phillip
Island, Victoria, and spread so rapidly
that one shire councillor wanted it classed
as a noxious weed. With the spread of
the clover there has been a gradual im-
provement in the carrying capacity of
pastures and a marked increase in the
average yield of chicory, the island’s
staple crop. Last year the chicory crop
was the best on record and this year is
far beyond expectations. Old growers
are convinced the increase is due to the
sub. clover. All true clovers, being legu-
minous, improve soil fertility by concen-
trating nitrogen, and that’s what chicory
needs most.
Outback Occasions.
No. 44.
A NIGHT'S REST.
We’d been working pretty hard since
before dawn that day and when night
came we were just about worn out. It
was a cold, blustery day, with odd
showers, and the night promised to be
colder. At the tea-table you could see
Father was tired, and our brother and I
nearly fell asleep eating. After tea Father
pushed back from the table and said,
“Look, I reckon we’ve all earned our
bunks tonight. Say we all go early and
have a good night’s rest. We’ll have an-
other big day tomorrow.”
Everybody thought it a good idea, and
by eight o’clock the house was in dark-
ness and Father could be heard snoring.
For a little while I was restless and feared
I was too tired to sleep—you can get that
way —but after a bit I dozed off.
A thunderous knocking on the front
door awoke the whole family. We boys
could hear the wintry blast whistling
round the house and Father muttering as
he fumbled round lighting the lamp and
making for the door. We caught snatches
of talk, and then the door shut and
Father returned and quietness came again.
We boys didn’t say anything to each
other, but we knew that each had awak-
ened. We pulled the blankets round our
ears and settled down again.
A riot of noise shattered the night.
The dogs were giving tongue, we could
hear voices calling and then feet on the
front verandah and again a loud knock-
ing. Above all this were the howling of
the wind and the pattering of rain on
the iron roof. Then came our father’s
voice, “One of you boys see who that is,
will y’?”
“Go on,” said our brother.
“Go on y’rself,” I snapped, instinc-
tively rolling more blanket about me.
Our brother got out, put on his over-
coat and went to the door. A voice said,
“Look, we’re tryin’ t’ get t* Creekford.
Some bloke back there told us the way,
but we must’ve missed the turn or he told
us wrong, or somethin’.”
Our brother said, “Y’ turn t’ the right
out our gate and go straight along the
road f’r about eleven miles an’ you’ll run
right into the town.”
“Hey, wait on,” said the voice ex-
citedly, “that’s what the other bloke told
us. He”
Father roared from the bedroom
“That’s what I told y’, y’ silly cow! Y’
must have got slewed t’ get back here.”
There was a silence, then the voice
said in a hushed sort of way “Strike
me.” Our brother said “Y’ can’t miss
it. Good night,” shut the door and crept
shivering back to bed.
“Blinded fools,” Father announced;
“can’t follow their blanky noses.”
Mother murmured soothingly and then,
save for the howl of the gale and the
splatter on the roof, there *was peace
again. I fell asleep wondering who
would want to go driving to Creekford
on such a night. 1 was flying round upside
down among a lot of flowers and balls of
binder twine when the dinner bell rang.
Only it wasn’t the dinner bell but our
telephone, and Father was shouting and
our brother snickered and said “Go on,
lad, it’s your turn.” Whispering a word
to myself that Father would have belted
me for using, I shivered along the pas-
sage in the dark and picked up the re-
ceiver.
“Hullo,” I said.
“Is Bunny there?” asked a distant
voice.
“What?”
“Is Bunny there?”
A sort of savagery took possession of
me. Here we were, worn to a frazzle
and gone to bed early for a rest on a
bitter night;, and not only did strangers
have to come out of the night asking for
roads and getting slewed on them and
waking us up again, but strange galoots
had to get the wrong number and pull
us out to ask if Bunny was with us.
“Look,” I said, “which bunny do you
want? There’s more than one here?”
The voice seemed astonished. “I never
knew,” it said, “that she had any brothers.
She never told”
“Brothers, sisters, cousins, aunts, uncles,
fathers, grandmothers,” I roared. “Our
place and the roads around and the re-
serves are lousy with bunnies. But the
only bunny in this house is dead and may
be a pie tomorrow and”
Click went the receiver, and I hung up
and unfroze myself and got back to bed
and snuggled down, turning deaf ears to
the shouted inquiries of the family. They
talked at me and at each other for a bit,
then sleep claimed them and me again.
You’d have thought that was a fair go,
but I’d hardly shut my eyes and got warm
again when the dogs let loose and a
dreadful din arose outside. We lay
awhile, waiting for it to die down, but
it didn’t, and presently Father arrived
with a hurricane lamp and ordered
us out. He said he thought the cattle
must have broken into the chaffhouse.
We stumbled forth into the darkness, to
be greeted enthusiastically by the dogs
and led to the dairy-cwm-store at the
back. Old Dusty Sal, our ancient brown
mare, who was full of cunning, had
kicked the door down and got in there
for shelter, but had knocked over the
separator bowl and a few other things,
got frightened, jammed herself in the
doorway and was letting out with her
heels. We sorted Sal out, put her on the
shelf and took the separator bowl to the
stables, tied ourselves up and sent the
dogs inside to bed —or something like that
—and finally settled down again. It was
12.15 a.m. by the kitchen clock.
At 2.24 by the same authority our sister
began shrieking “Lemme go, lemme go.
Mother, Mother, he won’t let me go!”
and we fell out of bed and rushed into
her room armed with various weapons,
to find her tangled up in the bedclothes
and firmly gripping herself round the
neck with both hands. Mother smacked
her heartily, shook her awake and Father
and we boys retired to the kitchen. “Let
us,” said Father looking at the clock,
“boil the billy, have some tea and have
an early night to bed.” Good old Father
and his sense of humor.


The Manufacturers of
FELTEX
ask every housewife
jt&a. <***■
&
MI
W
-C,r
i&i
Now, more than ever before, we must
preserve the things we have. Take your
Feltex floor coverings, for instance: a
little extra daily care—the regular use of
your vacuum cleaner and the prompt
application of Feltex 6 ‘Dual Cleaner” to
any stains. In this way, you will keep
your home bright and attractive and save
a great deal of much-needed labour,
material and transport.
Save for Supremacy
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Ff.f8.16
OtL(
ofsL
fb**'
/
15330-5-4-2
“The secret’s in
the 333’s blend!’*
Our Service Department
Wants.
Words of verse “The Stockman’s Last Bed”
—or “Last Ride” —containing the lines: —
They laid him where wattles their sweet perfume
shed.
And the tall gum-trees shadow the stockman’s last
bed.
—3281.
Information Sought.
What is meaht by the "battle honors of the
First A.I.F.”?
Here is the Official Year-Book of the
R.S.S.A.I.L.A. on the subject: “In allotting
battle honors to any unit of the military forces
of the Commonwealth, it is required that head-
quarters and at least half the strength of the
unit shall have been present at the engagement.
Under these conditions Australian units of the
Great War are allowed to have emblazoned
on their colors one or more—up to ten —of the
following:—Australian Naval and Military Ex-
peditionary Force: Herbertshohe (properly
Kabakaul, as there was no fighting near Her-
bertshohe); A.I.F.: Gallipoli—Landing at
Anzac, Defence of Anzac, Suvla, Anzac, Galli-
poli (1915), Helles, Krithia, Sari Bair-Lone
Pine; Western Front —Pozieres, Mouquet Farm,
Hindenburg Line, Bullecourt, Messines (1917),
Menin Road, Polygon Wood, Broodseinde,
Passchendaele, Ancre (1918), Ypres (1917), Poel-
cappelle, Marne (1918), Lys, Bapaume (1917),
Albert (1918), Villers Bretonneux, Hamel,
Hazelbrouck, Meteren, Amiens, Chuignes, Mont
St. Quentin, Epehy, St. Quentin Canal, Beaure-
voir, Kemmel, Avre, Tardenois, Somme (1918),
Somme (1916-18), Arras (1917), France and
Flanders (1916-18); Egypt and Palestine —
Egypt (1915-17), Palestine (1917-18), Suez Canal,
Romani, Damascus, El-Mughar, Jaffa, Nablus,
Sharon, Gaza-Beersheba, Jerusalem, Jericho,
Megiddo, Magdhaba-Rafa, Nebi-Samwil, Jordan
(Es Salt, Jordan (Amman), Egypt (1915-16).”
* * * *
To whom is the George Cross awarded?
Flow does it compare with the Victoria Cross?
Any other particulars?
Who’s Who in Australia records that “The
Military and Official Secretary to the Governor-
General (Captain Bracegirdle) has kindly sup-
plied the following note: ‘His Majesty the King
has created the George Cross, which will rank
next to the Victoria Cross. For this honor, men
and women in all walks of civil life will be
eligible. The George Medal, which has also
been instituted, is a gallantry award for wider
distribution. There is no difference in merit be-
tween the Victoria Cross and the George Cross;
the George Cross ranks equal with the Victoria
Cross and after it in priority only.’ The George
Cross, instituted in 1940, is given for war-time
deeds of valor performed elsewhere than in
the field or in the face of the enemy. It has
been conferred in Britain for signal acts of
bravery performed during or after air raids;
for instance, for removal of the time bomb
which threatened St. Paul’s Cathedral in Sep-
tember, 1940.”
* * * *
When did Roosevelt and Churchill meet at
sea? What were the eight points of their joint
declaration ?
In August, 1941. The points were; (1) Their
countries seek no aggrandisement, territorial or
other. (2) Desire to see no territorial changes
that do not accord with the freely-expressed
wishes of the people concerned. (3) Respect
the right of all peoples to choose the form of
government under which they will live, and
wish to see sovereign rights and self-government
restored to those who have been forcibly de-
prived of them. (4) Will endeavor, with due
respect for their existing obligations, to further
enjoyment by all States, great or small, victor
or vanquished, of access, on equal terms, to
the trade and raw materials of the world which
are needed for their economic prosperity. (5)
Desire to bring about the fullest collaboration
between all nations in the economic field, with
the object of securing for all improved labor
standards, economic advancement and social
security. (6) After the destruction of Nazi
tyranny they hope to see established a peace
which will afford to all nations the means of
dwelling in safety within their own boundaries,
and which will afford assurance that all men
in all lands may live out their lives in freedom
from fear and want. (7) Such a peace should
enable all men to traverse the high seas with-
out hindrance. (8) They believe all the nations
of the world, for realistic as well as spiritual
reasons, must come to the abandonment of the
use of force. Since no future peace can be
maintained if land, sea or air armaments con-
tinue to be employed by nations which threaten,
or may threaten, aggression outside of their
frontiers, they believe, pending the establish-
ment of a wider and permanent system of
general security, that the disarmament of such
nations is essential. They will likewise aid and
encourage all other practicable measures which
will lighten for peace-loving peoples the crush-
ing burden of armament.
* * * *
Description and history of Madagascar?
Discovered by the Portuguese Diego Diaz in
1500, the island was prominent for the next
200 years mainly as a pirate refuge. The last
native sovereign of Madagascar, Ranavalona
(1861-1916), succeeded in 1883. The French
having claimed a portion of the north-west
coast as having been transferred to them by
local chiefs, hostilities were carried on in 1882-
84 against the Hovas, who refused to recog-
nise the cession. In 1885 peace was made,
Diego Suarez having been surrendered to
France. A French Resident-General was re-
ceived at the capital and the foreign relations
ot the country were claimed to be regulated
i onjf r^ nce ’ ,® y tke Anglo-French agreement of
1890 France’s protectorate over the island was
recognised by Great Britain; but, the native
Government having refused to carry out the
clauses_ of the 1885 treaty, a French expedition
was dispatched in May, 1895, to enforce the
claims of France, and on October 1, the capital
having been occupied, a treaty was signed
whereby the Queen recognised and accepted the
protectorate. By a unilateral convention made
m January, 1896, Madagascar became a French
possession, and by law promulgated August 6,
1896, the island and its dependencies were de-
clared a French colony. The island is separated
from the s.-e. coast of Africa by the Mozam-
bique Channel, the least distance between the
island and the continent being 240 miles; its
length is 980 miles, greatest breadth 360 miles
and coastline over 3000 miles. Area is about
241,094 square miles and population 3,797,936,
of which .3,758,338 are Malagasy, 25,255
French and 14,343 foreigners, including Euro-
pean and others. The Malagasy tribes are
very numerous, the more important being the
Hova (877,735), the Betsileo (515,880), the Bet-
simisaraka (537,124), the Tanala (184,085), the
Antandroy (162,170), the Sakalava (233,773 and
the Bara (176,103). Hindus, Chinese, Arabs
and other Asiatics carry on a small retail trade.
The most enterprising and intelligent tribe is
the Hova or Merina, whose language, allied
to the Malayan and Oceanic tongues, is under-
stood over a large part of the island. Exports
in 1938 included coffee, raffia fibre, graphite,
manioc, hides, sugar, canned meats, etc., cloves,
vanilla and mica.
* * * *
When was the University of Queensland
founded? What “chairs” are there? Who runs
the institution ? How many teachers and
students? Where is the revenue obtained?,
It was established by the University of
Queensland Act, 1909, and was opened on
March 14, 1911. There are Faculties of Arts,
Commerce, Law, Science, Medicine, Veterinary
Science, Agriculture and Engineering. The
governing body of the University is a Senate
cohsisting of 20 members, 10 nominated by the
Governor-in-Council and 10 elected triennially
by the council, which consists of members and
past members of the Senate, graduates of three
years’ standing, donors of not less than £SOO
to the University and others. In 1940 there
were 24 professors and 218 other teachers, in-
cluding part-time staff; 658 day students, 556
evening and 496 external, as well as students
attending “Extension Lectures.” Revenue in
1940 consisted of £38,455 Government aid,
£42,237 in fees and £25,542 from private foun-
dations.
* * * *
A few particulars about ice hockey?
The six players in a team are goalkeeper,
a right and left wing, a centre and two defence
players, one at each side of the goal and near
S? ir /.t enC r° ne i ine - Instead °f a ball, a hard
at rubber disc, about 3m. in diameter, termed
tnnrh UC tn’ 18 US t d ‘ • T i! le i. < ? nly P erson allowed to
touch the puck with his hands is the goal-
keeper. All other players must use their sticks
1° Pr ° pe Carry the P uck forward
Sticks have a maximum length of 54in., and
the offset blade at the bottom of the handleffias
to be no more than 15in. long and 3Lin. wide
Ah players are protected with shin-, knee-’
elbow- and hip-pads and gauntlets, and the
goalkeeper, who has to stop the puck more
olten, is heavily padded. The rink is divided
“ ntra > and neutral zones at each end,
and the referee decides all infringements and
enforces penalties.
* * * *
Who were the winners of the fiat-running
events {up to 1500 metres), high jump and
marathon at the Olympic Games in 1936 ?
Olympic records for these events?
200 metres, Jesse Owens (U.S.), 20.7 sec.
(record); 400 metres, Archie Williams (U S)
46.55ec. (record-holder, William Carr, li.S.’
46.25ec.); 880 metres, John Woodruff (U.S.)’
Imm. 52.95ec. (holder, T. Hampson, Great
Britain, Imm. 49.85ec.); 1500 metres, J. E. Love-
lock (M.L.), 3min. 47.8 sec. (record); high jump,
Cornelius Johnson ' (U.S.), 6ft. 7 15-16 in.
(record); marathon (26 miles 385 yards) Kitei
Son (Japan), 2hr. 29min. 19.2 sec. (record).
Brief Answers.
A.M.D.: Pressure filters for counters or bars
and for household use, and drip filters also for
household use, can be obtained from Guth-
ridge. Ltd., 10 Parramatta-road, Camperdown,
Sydney... .T.G.: “When a birth occurs within
an area in which a baby clinic is established the
Health Act of 1937 requires the midwife or
medical practitioner in attendance to forwatd
to the district Registrar of Births, Deaths
Marriages for that area a notification of the
birth of the infant within a period of 72 hours
after the birth. Such notification is in addition
to and not in substitution for the registration
of the birth by the parents” T.8.P.; The
Order of the Thistle was “founded in antiquity,
revived by James II in 1687 and re-established
by Queen Anne in 1703.” Australian connec-
tions with it are confined to two Governors-
General —Lord Hopetoun (Marquess of Linlith-
gow) was a Knight of the Thistle, and Sir
Ronald Munro Ferguson (Viscount Novar) was a
Member of the Order G.8.P.; Latest figures
available are for 1939, when a total of 141
certificates of naturalisation in Maoriland
were granted. There were also 33 children who
were included in the certificates of their parents.
Birthplaces were England one, Norway nine,
Sweden 14, Denmark seven, Russia W/o, Fin-
land two, Latvia two, Poland five, Germany
seven, Belgium two, France two, Switzerland
10, Italy 26, Czechoslovakia two, Yugoslavia
34, Greece two, Syria three, Palestine one, Japan
one, N.E.I. two, U.S.A. two, Society Islands
one, Western Samoa three, Tonga one
T.K.S.: It was on June 28, 1940, that Marshal
P&ain ascribed France’s defeat to “too few


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT DYKES ANDERSON Mac-
LEOD late of 109 Dangar Street Armidale. —
TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE MacLEOD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 683 of
1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance by the 2nd October 1942 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from EMIL
E. J. FORD & CO. Solicitors 350 George
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 641 of 1934.
TO HENRY ARCHIBALD TIMMINS late of
Fitzroy in the State of Victoria and formerly
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
STELLA LOUISA SUBINA TIMMINS has
filed a notice of motion for an order that the
Decree Nisi granted herein be made absolute.
If you wish to oppose the said notice of
motion you should do so before the Thirty-first
day of July 1942 which is the date upon which
the said notice of motion is returnable before
the Court This notice is inserted by E. A.
CLEARY & CO. Solicitors 56 Hunter Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GUISEPPE MATARAZZO late of Balmain
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
ANGELA MATARAZZO has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1258 of 1942 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance by 2nd October
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from F. W. REILLY Solicitor of
2b Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY KEITH COLLINS (known as
Stanley Keith Nettle late of Ballarat in the
State of Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that
NELLIE JANE COLLINS (known as Nellie
Jane Nettle) has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 971 of 1942 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance before the Second day of October
One thousand nine hundred and forty-two and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. BRAYE CRAGG & COHEN
Solicitors Bolton Street Newcastle or their
Agents MESSRS. BRAYE & MALCOMSON
Solicitors 92 Pitt Street Sydney.— <l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
m
ms
L_
HOW TO BE HEALTHY
.Constipation clogs the system and causes!
many ills. Doctors say, “To be healthy
you must keep free from constipation.”-
NYAL FIGSEN, the gentle laxative, aids
Nature in a natural way. It acts gently
and mildly to give you comfortable relief.
Easy and pleasant to take, Figsen is just
as good for youngsters as it is for grown-
ups. Get NYAL FIGSEN to-day and see
how easily this natural laxative will cor-
rect constipation and improve your health.
Sold by chemists everywhere- 1 / 3 a tin-
{The next best thing to Nature . . *
MysßSFi&sen
THE GENTLE LRXRTIVE
THE HOURS VOU
f.. ~
"(a
%
LNRO
Could Bring You Fame f
Spare time is both pleasurable and profitable if spent in
the study of COMMERCIAL ART. Fine careers are open
to both MEN and WOMEN in the fascinating world of
Illustration.
Provided you have some natural talent for Drawing, our
world-famed Correspondence Course can fit you for a
well-paid position in a little over a year of SPARE TIME
STUDY AT HOME !
Write at once for our beautifully illustrated booklet
of 32 pages. It is full of valuable information and
contains Art Ability Tests, which you may attempt
and send! back to us for Free Expert Criticism.
SEND 4jd. FOR POSTAGE AND MENTION “THE
BULLETIN.”
Art Training Institute
80 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
WASTE
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
%o>ie 'Man/
5000 POWELL
i
GAS PRODUCER UNITS
ON THE JOB’
m
m
a
OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE AND RELIABILITY
This preference for Powell, shown by thousands of experienced transport
owners, is a tribute to Powell’s superior .engineering, outstanding
performance and reliability.
Only Powell Gas Producers can give you . . . Government approved models
up to 40 h.p. . . . famous Bercsinsky Cleaner that reduces engine wear to
“less than with petrol” . . . Como upper-cylinder lubrication system . . »
full range of spare parts and the H. C. Sleigh after-sales services.
Blowers are available for all models.
Insure now against emergency by fitting a Powell Gas Producer.
<o3^
H. C. SLEIGH
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, or
Powell Dealers throughout Australia
POWELL
GAS PRODUCER UNITS
4-?° ew arms, too few allies”
vv.B.L.. Ihe R.S.S.A.I.L.’s Official Year-Book
credits the only V.C. not won in the face of an
en l y . to P. te - Timothy O’Hea, Ist Battalion,
io ® n S a de, who won the Cross on June
]y, 1866, at Danville Station, Canada, “for
extinguishing a fire in an ammunition car during
the Leman raid” R.8.D.: For a start you
i? U jr °main a copy of the South American
Handbook, 1941, “a year-book and guide to
the countries and resources of Latin-America,
inclusive of South and Central America, Mexico
and Cuba. ’ Price is about 75., and the book
should be obtainable from any large city book-
store....B.T.S.: When the Constitution of
fa was list . brought into operation members
of M.L. Parliament were termed Members of
the General Assembly (M.G.A.) to distinguish
b™ j-f° m members of the Provincial Councils
fnd.P.G.). Thereafter members of the House
of Representatives were designated “M.H.R.”
until 1907. By Royal Proclamation of Sep-
tember 10 of that year the designation of the
‘Colony of New Zealand” was altered to that
of “Dominion of New Zealand,” and the change
was accompanied by several minor alterations.
Henceforward members of the elective House
were designated “M.P.” The leader of the
Government was called the Premier until 1900,
when Seddon adopted the title Prime Minister,
which had been used in statutes many years
earlier, notably in the Civil List Act 1873
R. 8.: The area of the Vatican City is 108.7
acres; population at 1932 census was 1025....
8.G.P.: The Royal Flying Corps came into
existence in May, 1912; in April, 1918, the
R.F.C. and the Royal Naval Air Service were
amalgamated, under the Air Ministry, as the
Royal Air Force... .T.G.S.: Einstein was born
in Ulm, Wiirttemberg, and educated in Munich
and Zurich. He was exiled from Germany in
1933. Harvard University gave him a chair
G.L.R.: The Department of Agriculture in
your own State would be the best place to
apply... .8.D.M.: Write to the Department of
the Interior, Canberra.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The MuSe aroused; —
Typist:— ,
Every typist, slack or busy, in this wide Australian
State
Must append her own initials (and of course must
show the date)
When she cleaned and oiled and furbished, ’midst
the rush of war-time work,
Every key and bar and jigger—it’s a duty, do not
shirk !
And we do it ’cause it’s orders, weekly brush each
key and slot.
But we wonder how we’ll win the war with all this
rot!
J.D.S.: —
This spate of total strife
Has ruthlessly aroused fair woman’s passions
By adding to her cares a pruning knife
In clothing rations.
Uncompromising radio transmitters,
Announcing war-time regulations dire.
Torment her soul and procreate the jitters
In limiting the scope of her attire.
... .E.A.L.: A flail of indignant words isn’t
enough to make poetry W.D.: Too didactic.
. ...R.HJ.: “Just be forewarned and please
be very careful” J.C.G.: The skeleton of
a poem. Feed it, dress it or keep it in the
family cupboard... .B.C.: Thanks for letter.
Verse not up... Bring along the bears.
J.M.G.: Highly promising... .H.S.: Plea
for four kisses should be readdressed to the
lady... .P.A.F.: “Sonnet” not far off... .M.F.;
Don’t believe it was tea or coffee... .J.L.W.:
Your Skipper talks a most improbable mixture
of C. J. Dennis and Gracie Fields... .B.F.:
The form has Jed you into a sort of breathless
clumsiness... .EJ.: He deserves better treat-
ment R.V.J.: “Night Life” looked haggard
in the dawn... .H.D.; Spontaneous as a bird’s
song; but it’s a pity the bird was a crow....
. ...I.W.: Ingenious, without being funny....
D.N.W.: Four lines, then; —
He’s bummed his food in the cities,
Slept in the old Domain
With the Sydney “Morning Herald”
To keep out the cold and rain.
L.I.B.: Turgid N.F.: True; but rough-
ish G.H.: A long, long way after Hood.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
B.M.: Small boy with outsize in legs and
teeth sent to freak museum... .C.R.S.: Copy-
ing will never get you anywhere... .W.B.H.:
You increased the pile of artistic cadavers in
our morgue... .R.R.: Those boxers couldn’t
get through the ropes; they look, though, as if
it would be easy for them to throw themselves
down and bounce over WJ.: “I am only
doing this drawing so far for fun.” The merri-
ment is yours exclusively Bert C.: Hirsute
ruin making tea in his concertina almost wrung
our heart B.L.R.; The bloated child is not
saying anything funny to its 9ft.-high parent.


m
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Australian Consolidated Industries, Ltd-
t Dividends ■, Nominal
Net; Pref. Re-
Mur., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.*
£ £ £ £
’32 92,137 15,750 74 p.c. = 69,786 483,141
’33 122,439 15,750 9 „ „ 83,743 506,087
’34 129,602 15,750 9 „ „ 83,743 536,196
To superannuation fund, £5OOO .. 531,196
’35 175,522 15,750 13 p.c. = 120,962 570,006
’36 205,493 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 620,177
’37 231,199 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 696,054
’3B 287,628 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 828,360
Surplus sale assets, £4,331,718 . . 5,160,078
Bonus scrip issued, £2,558,814 .. 2,601,264
’39 324,512 15,750 6.86! p.c. = 239,598 2,670,428
A.C.I. and Subsidiaries.!
Share premiums, £99,694 .. .. 2,770,122
’4O 433,271 15,750 7 p.c. = 251,229 3,004,532
Share premiums, £99,694 . . . . 3,104,226
’4l 410,777 15,750 8 p.c. = 320,003 3,179,250
May,
Share premiums, £49,847 .. .. 3,229,097
’42§ 427,864 15,750 7J p.c, = 318,273 3,322,938
* Subject to goodwill, etc. (now £2,889,660).
! Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
! On enlarged capital. §l4 months.
The humble ** glass-bottle is the acorn
from which this oak, planted under the
protective conditions which the war of
1914-18 provided, grew. Indeed, glass
products of all sorts are still the sap of
the business, though its roots have been
extended to the engineering, plastics,
metal - stamping, fibre carton - making,
printing and other fields. All told, there
are now 19 associated and subsidiary
cos. turning out the variegated manufac-
tures or producing the raw material in
Australia and Maoriland. A tariff which
gave a virtual monopoly of some sections
of the market provided post-1918 oppor-
tunities ; shrewd, enterprising manage-
ment and technical efficiency have done
the rest, and W. J. Smith, one of the co.’s
founders and managing director, is now
Director of Gun Ammunition.
The past half-dozen years have seen
a threefold expansion of numbers on the
payroll to 7500. A large slice of the
development belongs to the second half
of that period, at the beginning of which
the present more-descriptive name-plate
was hung out, the business split into a
number of watertight compartments, and
£2,558,814 (11 new shares for every four
old ords.) capitalised from a surplus of
£4,331,718 which showed up from the
difference between the net book value of
the assets in the old and new cos. Shortly
after (Sept., 1939) 996,941 new £1 ords.
were offered and snapped at a 25 p.c.
premium ; the last £195,055 of that capi-
tal and £49,847 of share premiums came
in during the last term.
Most of the new money (and an extra
half-million from outsiders) has been
directed to ends now benefiting the war
effort in the provision of both tools to
work with and weapons to fight with.
Mainly in this direction, £683,000 was
expended on fixed assets alone last term,
depreciation of £256,377 (up £11,841)
reducing the apparent growth in the item
to £427,624:
Consolidated Balance Sheet Figures.
1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £4,062,601 £4,466,096 £4,661,151
Outside interests* 38,117 41,304 48,604
Sundry creditors! 509,706 926.003 1,018,045
Inter-co balance! 45,355 12,819
Freehold . . . . 1,185,654 1,373,228 1,553,932
Plant, etc. . . 1,268,013 1,378,569 1,625,489
Shares, etc. . . 753,847 766,017 757,016
Stocks . . . . 1,454,793 1,638,890 1,715,995
Debtors . . . . 500,427 650,470 932,106
Consols and cash 167,870 748,843 265,468
Intangibles . . 2,377,385 2,392,321 2,389,660
Inter-co. balance! 43,946 —•—
* Including proportion reserves. f Including tax
provision, etc. ! Due to differences in balance date.
Defence requirements, latest additions to
which are high-grade optical glass and
glass silk for insulation, are being pro-
vided at cost or a nominal margin of
profit. One feature is the size of the
main tangible, stock. Another is the in-
vestment of three-quarters of a million
in shares outside the group, affording a
close tie-up with other leading industrial
undertakings. Excluding these, the sur-
plus of more or less liquids (£1,882,705)
declined only £184,140, despite the capital
expenditure mentioned.
In the first table profits for 1941 have
been adjusted for £98,529 found under-
provided for taxation when the bill came.
In the early part of last term, all subsi-
diaries attained records in production.
But labor and cost conditions became
more unfavorable as the year wore on,
till the glass section particularly became
difficult to operate to meet the substitute
demand from tinplate users. Also, some
of the normal trade of the other pups
evaporated, and a good deal of the rest
was replaced by munitions production.
Still, after looking after anticipated taxa-
tion in unstated fashion, a group surplus
of £427,864 was shown A.C.I. share-
holders for the period of 14 months
covered, as against £410,777 for the pre-
vious year. The £427,864 was enough to
pay the parent’s 9 p.c. pref. charge, plus
a flat 7i p.c. to the ords., and leave
£93,841 to hoe in.
In the past 18 months or so the organ-
isation has been through searching inves-
tigations by both Customs and prices
people. The former’s report wasn’t pub-
lished. The prices folk found the co.’s
charges substantially the same as pre-war
prices. But because of savings in unit
costs consequent on higher outputs, glass
bottles and containers were reduced
p.c. and sheet glass by 1\ p.c. in Feb-
ruary. In several smaller subsidiaries, in-
creased production hadn’t balanced higher
labor costs, and increases were granted.
In view' of the swag of newly-created
intangibles, the co.’s div.-paying potential
in any 4 p.c. limitation of profits isn’t
clear.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends
A B Nominal
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
1932.. 39,711 10,500 19,200 2400 7,611 306,876
1933.. 34,167 10,500 19,200 2400 2,067 308,943
1934.. 36,366 10,500 19,200 2400 4,266 313,209
1935.. 42,324 10,500 19,200 2400 10,224 323,433
1936.. 37,267 10,500 19,200 2400 5,167 328,600
1937.. 40,835 10,500 19,200 2400 8,735 337,335
1938.. 39,841 10,500 19,200 2400 7,741 345,076
From contingencies reserve, £51,037 .. 396,113
1939.. 37,876 10,500 19,200 2400 6,776 401,889
1940.. 41,453 10,§00 19,200 2400 9,353 411,242
1941.. 36,717 10,500 19,200 2400 4,617 415,859
1942.. 32,360 10,500 19,200 2400 260 416,119'
* Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
Sales volume and value haven’t been
bettered since competition in the difficult
drygoods trade began to sharpen its edge
a decade or so back. Notwithstanding,
costs and taxation have reduced profits
to a level that it is necessary to hark
back to the last war to parallel. The
spread and intensification of hostilities
have paralysed certain sections which
were bread-and-butter lines, notably the
profitable business in Asian commodities
and the return export trade, while the
stringency of internal transport has added
to the difficulties of inter-State trading.
On the other hand, manufacture and pro-
cessing of local products have gained more
important dimensions, partly under the
stimulus of Government demand —a tran-
sient thing, of course.
Half the £32,360 (down £4357) of profit
shown last year came from investments.
All told, it was enough to pay the pref.
and B (employees’) shares and then
hand the ords. 8 p.c.—a rate again paid
—as against 9.9 p.c. in the preceding
term. That was after providing for con-
tingencies, doubtful accounts, “substan-
tial” amounts for taxation, aid to enlisted
employees and generous Red Cross and
A.C.F. contributions. These charitable
subscriptions are no longer allowable tax
deductions, except to £lOO. The excess
is subject not only to ordinary income
tax, but also the undistributed-profits and
war-time (company) imposts. An unfair
and absurd position that could scarcely
have been the Federal Legislature’s inten-
tion.
The solid position of Harpers today
partly reflects a conservative manage-
ment which trades on short terms, both
as buyer and seller, and which has always
opposed “supported” accounts, preferring
to have thousands of customers on the
books rather than be a silent partner in
a limited number of retail establishments.
Consider the results:
1934. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Sundry creditors 47,297 34,243 38,180 45,700
Freeholds .. 146,188 144,264 143,636 144,401
Plant, etc. .. 42,251 38,574 31,192 28,912
Stock.. .. 163,432 126,616 146,510 103,458
Sundry debtors 95,905 92,241 93,218 102,832
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 278,780 420,487 445,535 491,268
Tax reserve . . 20,000 20,000 40,000 43,000
Plant and the co.’s properties in five States
are conservatively valued, and the whole
of the capital and more is invested out-
side the business, mainly in Consols.
Obviously, trading hasn’t to turn in much
to cover current divs. Equally patently,
those rates won’t be interfered with by
intended war-time profit restrictions of
themselves. Because of the Melbourne
domicile, uniform taxation won’t be so
beneficial to Harpers as to some other
inter-State traders.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1932 .. 28,725 22J p.c. = 16,875 11,850 20,146
1933 . . 13,053 20 „ „ 15,000 18,199
1934 . . 30,202 20 „ „ 15,000 15,202 33,401
1935 . . 20,818 20 „ „ 15,000 5,818 39,219
1936 . . 25,876 20 „ „ 15,000 10,876 60,095
Doubtful debts written off, £5OOO .. 45,095
1937 .. 13,887 124 p.c. = 9,375 4,512 49,607
Estab. exes., etc., capitalised, £24,924.. 24,683
1938 . . 10,895 5 p.c. = 4,000 6,895 31,578
Net addition estab. account, £13,777.. 17,801
Pref. Ord.
7 p.c. 5 p.c.
1939 .. 11,265 8,633 4,000 16,433
7 p.c.
1940 . . 16,755 5,600 5,600 5,555 21,988
1941 .. 12,698 5,600 5,600 1,498 23,486
1942 . . 13,945 5,600 5,600 2,745 26,231
The extension to Australia early in 1937
—£Bo,ooo of 7 p.c. pref. money was
gathered in connection with the move —
was timely placed. The principal route
had turned out one of the most profitable
in the Commonwealth. As a result, loss
of the New Guinea business can now be
looked on with a certain amount of
equanimity. Indeed, war conditions had
previously so affected this competitive
end of things that it contributed only
£3753 to last year’s result, which is less
than had shown up at any time since the
co. pioneered the coast-goldfields air
route in 1928.
On the assets side, capital is protected
by war-damage insurance, and a claim
for £98,230 now appears on the balance
sheet in place of destroyed aircraft and
other property. Because of the liberal
depreciation policy of the past, this is
£48,959 more than the value at which
those assets had figured in the books, and
a depreciation reserve for that amount has
been raised to balance the accounts.
Settlement of claims will not be made till
after the war, however ; and as the Com-
monwealth has not yet made up its mind
on the governing principles to be followed
the £48,959 book surplus (not taken into
account in the first table) should be re-
garded with some reserve until actually
realised.
In Australia the co.’s services continued
to expand in this manner:
Cargo, Pas- Gross
Feb., Tons, sengers. Earnings. Exes. Profit.
1939.. 117 2,332 £54,862 £55,617 *£755
1940.. 135 5,938 80,248 78,392 1,856
1941.. 125 13,392 107,972 98,697 8,275
1942.. 308 19,591 169,589 159,397 10,192
* Loss.
A sum of £38,702 (cost of establishing
Australian routes written off against
reserves prior to Aug., 1938) is omitted
from exes, there. Mail contracts on all
routes are now held, and these have
helped to bring the balance out on the
right side since. Recent rapid growth has
been mainly the direct outcome of war
needs ; but it is calculated to make the
future more air-minded, and there has
been an accompanying natural expan-
sion. On the £160,000 of share capital,
Australian operations last year earned
6.3 p.c. ; so, with the New Guinea con-
tribution, there was 8.6 p.c. available for
distribution, and an all-round 7 p.c. again
went out. Depreciation took £41,726
(up £11,676). With insurance, it is a
hungry item in the clipper-of-the-sky
business.
For the first time, the written-down
value of Australian airlines, etc., is re-
vealed at just over £91,000. Since the
close of accounts, one of the aircraft has
crashed, unfortunately with loss of life:
1936. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £75,000 £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Liabilities* .. 12,549 24,444 31,798 27,851
Fixed assets . . 70,950 174,844 183,574 91,645
War claim . . - 98,230
Investments . . 31,788 3,152 3,634 1,090
Debtors . . 26,662 37,857 36,244 72,400
Cash . . . . 8,245 170 233 8,077
* Including taxation..
Allowing for the writing-up, last term’s
depreciation went apparently to finance
debtors, up an unexplained £36,156, and
add £7844 to the cash holding. It is
reflected in an improvement of £45,403
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£53,716). Under profit restrictions, the
course of dividends will be partly de-
pendent on the consideration, if any,
given to lost New Guinea assets in deter-
mining “capital.”
Country Producers’ Selling Co. (Sydney)
Bonus To
to Con- Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividend. signors, serves, sems.
1932.. 7,766 5 p.c. = 5,000 1,056 1710 49,217
1933.. 8,060 5 „ „ 5,000 2,300 760 49,977
1934.. 16,611 6 „ „ 6,000 4,583 6028 56,005
1935.. 6,772 5 „ „ 5,000 2,731 55,046
1936.. 19,635 10 „ „ 10,000 5,341 3294 59,340
1937.. 18,419 10 „ „ 10,000 5,275 3144 62,484
1938.. 14,384 8 „ „ 8,000 4,460 1924 64,408
1939.. 6,223 5 „ ~ 5,000 Nil 1223 65,631
1940.. 9,500 5 ~ ~ 5,000 2,764 1736 67,367
1941.. 13,432 5 ~ „ 5,000 6,346 2086 69,453
1942.. 12,586 5 „ „ 5,000 7,505 81 69,534
Solid connections have been built up in
the 32 years the co. has been in business,
and comfortable reserves accumulated.
In the period covered by the latest ac-
counts, Sydney wool sales and appraise-
ments were 3j p.c. (45,176 bales) lighter
at 1,262,087 bales, partly owing to
THE ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER
SUPPLY CORPORATION LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS.
The Forty-fifth Ordinary General Meeting of the ahove Company
was held at Manufacturers’ House, O’Connell Street, on 7th July.
The Chairman, Mr, Robert C. Dixson, in moving the adoption
of the Annual Report and Balance Sheet, said:
In presiding at the 45th Ordinary General
Meeting of Shareholders, I have the honor to
present the Report and Balance Sheet for the
Financial Year ended 30th April, 1942.
1 regret having to report the death of Mr.
Victor Elliott, which was a shock to the Board
and a great loss to the Company. He had
had business associations with the Company
since its inception, and had been a Director
since 1934. The vacancy on the Board was
filled by the appointment of Mr. H. G. Conde,
the General Manager of the Company. In
accordance with the Articles of Association,
Mr. Conde submits himself to this Meeting
for re-election.
Under the strain of war conditions, the year
under review has been again an anxious time
for the Directors and Senior Staff. Shortage
and rising costs of material, shortage of staff,
“brownout” conditions and preparations for
“blackouts” have caused many difficulties and
much expense. Additional expenditure was
incurred during the year constructing air-raid
shelters at the Power House to accommodate
the Works Staff and in providing special
shelters in the Turbine Room, Boiler House and
Electrical Control Room for the protection of
the “key” operating personnel, who are unable
to leave their posts. Air-raid shelters have been
constructed and other precautionary measures
have been taken at “Kelvin House” for the
protection of our staff, customers and tenants
of the building. We are also proceeding with
the protection of the plant at the Power House
and at the major Substations. War Risk Insur-
ance, special insurance of members of our staff
who may be called upon to face special risks
in case of a raid, copying and safeguarding of
important documents and records have all
added to the expense and work of the year.
Income Taxes, Land Tax and Payroll Taxes
paid during the year amounted to £55,819. The
electricity sold during the year shows an increase
of nearly 11 per cent. While the lighting restric-
tions deprived ms of a large amount of our
public business, there has been a big increase
of the lower-priced supply to war industries.
In view of the foregoing, the Board considers
that the Company has done well to maintain
the dividend rate at £5 Bs. 6d. per cent.
Work on the new Power House still proceeds
and the supply and erection of the two new
boilers is well advanced. The position regard-
ing delivery of . the generating plant is, however,
very obscure.
The proposal to interconnect the major power
systems of the Metropolitan area was advanced
a further step by the installation of a 15,000kva.
on load tap changing transformer at this Com-
pany’s Croydon Road Substation during the
year. The installation of this transformer
effected an interconnection between the trans-
mission system of this Company and that of
the Sydney County Council. . It will be of
interest to Shareholders to know that this is the
largest transformer yet manufactured in Aus-
tralia and has many novel features of design.
Owing to the restriction of the supply of
petrol we have fitted a number of our vehicles
with charcoal gas producers, but this fuel has
not proved satisfactory for much of our work.
Your Board has joined with a number of
other large city firms in forming a co-operative
society for the production of a distillate from
shale which we believe will be more efficient.
The Company’s present interest in this concern
is shown in the Balance Sheet under the item
“Shares in Other Companies.”
Owing to the shortage of staffs in the offices
of firms with whom we have dealings as well
as in our own office we are finding it difficult
to get our accounts made up, audited, printed
and sent out to the Shareholders in the time
allowed by the articles. At present the General
Meeting must be held within three months of
the close of the Financial Year. Your Directors
are recommending the alteration of Article 134
to extend the time to six months.


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
m W£AK M£H AND WOM£N
Loss of vitality and premature feeling:
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY,
T. JONES & CO.,
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfU
Chemists,
Sl9 George St., Sydney
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge ami experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
F.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
N. YARWOOD (Chairman)
A. E. BOND
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager.
Directors-. „
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND CECIL H. DOYLE
F. W. HIXSON JOHN EWING
N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
"mm
FISHING TACKLE FOR EVERY NEED
As practical anglers, with complete stocks of tackle, we can supply everything
needed for beach, rock, deep-sea, harbour and river fishing. Call or write
for full particulars ... or for advice about specialised tackle. Prices are
moderate ... and all goods are GUARANTEED by us.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
1
%
w.
»
%
%
mas
t/IWITtO
IT'S THE
GROUNDWORK THAT COUNTS
■>:
m
m
a*?
Ifltil
Gauge testing
precision built R.I.L.
hydraulic tank for
Beaufort Bombers.
\ *
m. yv
m
HICHARDS
A five-miles-a-minute dash
over enemy territory . . .
target sighted . . . then
hectic minutes of torturing,
racking twists and turns as
Hie pilot weaves his way through
probing searchlight beams and
fierce anti-aircraft fire. "All our
planes returned safely" is the cold
official tribute to the superlative
R.I.L. craftsmanship that imparts
toughness and reliability to weather
such ordeals night after night.
Every R.I.L. workman realizes
how much his R.A.A.F. comrades
rely on him, so each man devotes
his full measure of skill and fidelity
to uphold the R.I.L. tradition of
reliability and to make the task of
our Beauforts surer and safer.
RICHARDS
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
R 8M C Rl
seasons, partly to truckings from the west
and nor’-west now going to Newcastle.
Nevertheless, they were greater than any-
thing known in pre-war years, while
receipts of the C.P.S. actually expanded
9025 bales, or 10 p.c. In its livestock
section, an extra 41,237 sheep (472,053)
and 1925 head of cattle (10,752) were put
under the hammer, too, prices widely
fluctuating.
Sheepskins also fetched more, and,
though rabbitskins, hides and tallow were
in short supply, gross earnings (£101,936)
stepped ahead £10,531. Costs (£89,350,
including £3500 for taxation) got away
with all the increase and more, leaving
the net result £846 lighter at 12.5 p.c. on
capital, as against 13.4 p.c. the year
before. Shareholders, who are mostly
consigners, again got 5 p.c., sweetened
with a fat rebate of 40 p.c. of wool com-
missions. “If we are allowed to trade in
a normal manner, or as at present, there
is nothing to prevent this company con-
tinuing its handsome refund,” the chair-
man says.
The debt shown in this analysis is
mainly in respect of advances —mostly a
self-liquidating lot:
1939. 1910. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Sundry creditors 140,739 168,551 141,946 141,119
Freeholds, etc. 156,886 158,162 158,172 158,220
Shares in other
cos., etc. , . 9,445 10,229 14,044 21,777
Debtors & cash 145,038 174,527 146,083 139,156
Clients need less accommodation these
days, thanks to better prices and the
efficient administration of the Central
Wool Committee, which makes progress
payments of 95 p.c. of appraisement
figures and finalises its accounts within a
month of the season closing. Thus on
July 31 suppliers of participating wools
receive their 5 p.c, retention money and
a flat-rate adjustment payment of 9\ p.c.
(together £7,887,548, making a cheque of
£65,846,000 in all) to make up the 13.43 d.
a pound greasy at which Britain con-
tracted to take the surplus clip.
In the current term John Bull has
added 15 p.c., or 2d. a pound, to the
price he will pay, corresponding roughly
to the war-time rise in Australian living
costs, and recent rains promise another
heavy shearing. Meat-producers are still
uncertainly placed. The scheme to store
part of the clip in country areas —
it looked like being expensive to the
nation, growers and brokers —has been
severely curtailed.
After the swathe cut in Westralia and
Victoria, the man-power scythe is now at
work in the N.S.W, and Queensland gold
industries. But here mine labor, after
providing for maintenance, is to be
shunted to the production of essential
base metals, with which both States are
extensively endowed, though only lead-
zinc, copper and a little tin really come
into peace-time prominence. In 1940 the
Ma State had 3350 engaged in the gold
hunt, of whom 2100 were recorded as
fossickers, while in the opening year of
hostilities 3300 of the Forgan Smith com-
munity were listed as employed in allu-
vial and quartz mining. If private mining
profits are to be limited to 4 p.c. on
capital, plus a fifth of any excess, the
extra output of wanted war metals may
not be quite what is looked for.
* * * *
Mt. Chalmers coppermine, near Rock-
hampton (C.Q.), sailed along on a pro-
gressively increasing production pro-
gramme under the nominal charge of
Mt. Morgan, Ltd., until it struck a shoal
last month in the shape of a strike, now
settled after several weeks’ duration. The
ore is treated at Mt. Morgan, but no
official figures of output or grade are
published under war-time regulations.
It is, however, pretty certain that ore-
reserve grade is being maintained on a
basis of just over 2dwt. gold and 2 p.c.
copper. Reserves of this value were
quoted at 440,000 tons.
* * * *
Plevna oil-shale, in Forgan Smith’s
electorate of Mackay (N.Q.), passed the
elementary prospecting stage over three
years ago, but the field is still not spudded
out, although Mackay has been buoyed
up with reports that the co. had the
necessary plant ready to ship to the field
months ago. The co.’s estimate of 150 ft.
of 30-gallon oil-shale therefore misses
the bus as far as an active supply for
Australian military needs goes.
* * * *
Swan Bitter Gold (W.A.) circularises
shareholders to the effect that, first, re-
cent developments “should prove both
encouraging and comforting” and then
that work is considerably behipd schedule
owing to rains, shortage of man-power,
etc. ; indeed, further depletion of labor
may mean shutting down the mine. The
five-head of stamps is running mostly on
ore from the Star reef. Provided the
mine can be kept going, it adds that there
should be no difficulty in finding 2000
tons of ore per month to keep a bigger
plant operating. New ore-bodies are
claimed to have been opened up during
the past six months, and recent develop-
ment has disclosed an extension of
the Star reef at the 350 ft. sub-
level. Ore now being crushed averages
Bdwt. by amalgamation, and about 2500
tons of sands, assay has been
accumulated. The manager recommends
installation of a 10-head mill to treat at
least 1000 tons a month.


sd
WEAPONS OF VICTORY
ARE MADE IN
Australia
Indispensable to the lighting power of the man in the front line are the
materials and munitions of war. The greater the production, the faster
the output of these essential elements of success in the field, the quicker
the armies of democracy will humble and destroy the enemies of freedom.
In the great industrial works of Australia, men labour unceasingly at the
task of arming our fighting forces . . . doing their essential part for
eventual victory.
COMMONWEALTH
ROLLING MILLS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
KEMBLA ROAD, FORT KEMBLA
THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION
MANUFACTURERS OF STEEL SHEETS
The Mutual Life and Citizens*
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1883.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £34,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,200,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Post-war Credits
It has been emphasised time and again
during this war and the last how im-
portant td armies and other forces actu-
ally fighting are communication lines and
supplies. In Libya, in fact, it has been
part of the strategy on both sides to draw
the enemy away from his base, lengthen
iris supply lines and increase the strain
of standing up to fighting units whose
behind-the-lines organisation is more
compact and less vulnerable. Without
a good supply organisation an army
cannot feed itself, let alone fight.
But the keeping~up of food and ammu-
nition to forces doesn’t start even at the
supply bases. The production of war
essentials by Benghazi on the one side
and Alexandria on the other wouldn’t
be worth worrying about in battles of the
size to which we have become accus-
tomed in Libya and Egypt. From the
supply base the army’s lines of commu-
nication go back deep into the economic
intricacies of the country or empire at war.
The arms, the food and the clothing which
keep fighting forces in action are produced
by civilians. They, too, have to be organ-
ised, together with materials and money.
The course of a war, where the quality
of a country’s fighting ability is un-
doubted, depends very considerably on
its capacity to produce and its methods
of production. You can’t starve the
producing forces any more than the fight-
ing forces. Neither can you afford to
muddle in either case. We know the
importance of fire-power from tank and
naval battles. In Australia we need to give
more thought to producing-power. And
production, where we have the labor, the
plant and the materials, depends princi-
pally on organisation of a foolproof,
intelligent sort.
Two principal factors in organising pro-
pduction, war or otherwise, are money
and man-power. Under the drain of war
conditions, which mean call-ups, short-
ages of luxuries and essentials, taxation
and rationing, the sensitivity of the popu-
lation to money and other economic
matters increases. They want to be
assured that they are getting a fair go —
that they aren’t losing too much and that
someone else isn’t getting too much. In
order to get war-winning production from
them it is necessary to spread sacrifices
evenly and sensibly. This equality of
sacrifice under present-day conditions
depends more and more on Government
economic policy.
Away behind the lines though it may
at present be in Australia, Govern-
ment economic policy can be war-win-
ning or otherwise. And it is going to
figure largely in the peace. The simple
economic fact of war is that it represents
material waste, even if a stimulation to
skill and new ideas. No one is morally
or economically entitled to make money
out of war waste. A system that
pretends to confer benefits on its
citizens at a time when the national
income is being dissipated by war
is dishonest and disorganising. The
handing of illusive or unfair benefits
to certain classes has the effect of en-
couraging them to consume too much
of what they produce. And in a country
which visualises two-fifths of its national
production and services going into the
war effort this financial year we cannot
do the job asked of us if we consume any
more than half of what we produce.
That is putting ordinary saving of a
“commercial” kind out of the question.
Out savings, if any, must be of a
defence variety.
In the ideal conception of a nation
organised for war, war expenditure is
regarded as a tax, because in return for
it you get security, and security is some-
thing that must not be sold, mortgaged
or spent Therefore it cannot be capi-
talised or cashed in a commercial sense.
As war expenditure is a tax on the nation,
it follows that it is a tax on the people.
It is at this fact that Australia has —
dangerously chosen to blink. The
present Government has not taxed the
majority of consumers in proportion to
the cost of war generally. It has asked
for extraordinarily heavy taxation from
the small body of consumers on high
incomes, has taxed others moderately to
lightly, and has sought to finance any
gap between revenue and outgo by raising
loans on a voluntary basis and making
use of Commonwealth Bank credit.
This financial policy is not based on
economic commonsense or the fullest
possible war effort. Compromise and
political expediency enter into it on
a large scale. It arises from a diffidence
to govern forthrightly and without hum-
bug, and from lack of experience and
training. The present Government when
it came to office felt in politics
bound not to pay for the war as
we went along. Even in the matter of
borrowing it shied off compelling those
who paid light taxation to lend part of
their income to the war effort. When
voluntary borrowing fell short, behind-
the scenes methods like bank credit were
availed of. It is only because of ration-
ing and investment restrictions that this
inflation has not become more evident
in our war effort. Inflation, because of
its confusing and disheartening effects,
is a direct menace to the flow of mate-
rials to the fighting fronts.
This year Australia proposes to spend
upwards of £4OO million on war —two-
fifths of the national income. It is not
intended in Canberra to raise taxation
rates above those announced in the single-
taxation scales, which were based on 1941-
42 figures. Even in 1941-42 both taxation
and borrowing fell far short of war
expenditure, and bank credit was used
to fill the gap; how much more difficult
things are likely to be in a year when
the war outlay may be up £lOO million!
In 1942-43 Australia’s ordinary com-
mercial framework threatens to be dis-
located severely by transfer of man-
power to Government usage. The field
of taxation is bound to shrink from this
and other causes. How is the position to
be faced?
Provided the Commonwealth is physi-
cally capable of providing a £4OO-miilion
war effort —properly administered it
should be—-then, if the Government is
afraid to tax the voting masses more
severely, it boils down to the system of
post-war credits suggested by the Fadden
Government and thrown out with its
Budget defeat. The scheme operates
effectively in England, Any inflationary
effects it possesses are deferred until
after the war.
These post-war credits are deductions
from pay, like taxation. They are levied
widely over the lower and middle in-
comes. You have to lend money to the
Government whether you like it or not;
you are to this extent stopped from spend-
ing in competition with the Government,
which is the danger inherent in' bank
credit.
In order to keep its economic lines of
communication clear to aid the fighting
services in every way Australia will soon
have to abandon its reliance on bank-
credit finance and partial taxation, plus
voluntary borrowing. We all have to
pay, and it is better that we pay as we
go, even if we have part of the paying
sugar-coated to the extent of a promise
of repayment after the war.
Deposits in Australian savings banks
continue to show a buoyancy that can be
attributed to high earnings and low taxa-
tion of wage-earners engaged in war-time
industry. At May 31 the total deposits
throughout Australia were £269 million,
up nearly £22 million in a year and £25
million since war began. To the end
of May net subscriptions to war-savings
certificates were £24.5 million Since
September, 1939, notes in the hands of
the public have expanded by £5O million,
and subscriptions to Commonwealth
loans have totalled over £2OO million, of
which less than 10 p.c. was taken by the
trading banks. Since the war began
there is evidence on these figures alone
that Australians have added about £3OO
million to the credit of their accounts
during a period in which war has cost us
more than £540 million. Extra taxation
gathered by the Commonwealth since war
began runs to about £175 million,
* * * *
Wool appraisals in Australia during
the 1941-42 season totalled 3,577,966
bales, total weight 1,082,050,8041 b, Final
payments to growers should bring total
distributions to around £65 million. In
1942-43 the price goes up 15 p.c., bring-
ing it to approximately 15id.
* * * *
Accessible supplies of copra, coconut
oil and palm kernels will be pooled by
the United Nations and allocated in
agreed proportions. Australia's quota
will be handled by the Commonwealth
Government, and there will be no inde-
pendent private buying. Consumption is
to be strictly controlled by the Depart-
ment of Munitions. Before Japan’s occu-
pation of most copra-growing islands
north of 15 degrees south there was a
surplus of the dried kernel of the coco-
nut, and it lay rotting in many ports.
Now it is a prized product because it is
scarce. Fiji and Samoa are still substan-
tial supply areas.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DONALD IRBEN NESBITT also known
as Donald Irben Gordon—TAKE NOTICE
that LYNDA NESBITT (known as Lynda
Gordon) has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1293 of 1942 on the ground of desertion with-
out *just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards You may enter an appearance by 2nd
October 1942 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from McCAW MORAY
& JOHNSON Solicitors 75 Pitt Street Sydney. —
(1.5.) C, K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDGAR DOWLING BUSH late of Bowen
Queensland Farmer. —TAKE NOTICE that
JENNET BUSH has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1138 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance by 2nd October 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from W. lAN SHORT Solicitor 135 Burwood
Road Burwood and 74 Pitt Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
S‘vV'.- • '
Bn
\Vi »/
H
*s?fiPs
38
-imi
m:
m
\3
1
ss
m
m
m
YOU CAN BURN THE
CANDLE AT BOTH ENDS!
“You can’t bum the candle at both ends,” pro-
fesses the age-old proverb, but in war-time
there is no such word as “can’t”—certainly not
in the Thompson Works. Working 24 hours a
day, Thompson engineers and skilled craftsmen
have proved it. Devoting their entire energies
to the production of defence equipment they
have shown by their surprisingly enormous con-
tribution to our war effort the war-time import-
ance and value of such a peace-time organisa-
tion. To the entire Thompson staff, no burden
to ensure victory for, and the safety of, Aus-
tralian men, women and children is too great.
SO
om
ENGINEERING WORKS
Head Office: Castlemaine.
Melbourne Office; 343 Little Collins Street.
Williamstown Works; Nelson Point.
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
CRAVENA
are s« much smoother
i
c.v<?^
[O for lid,
20 for riO
' ;-\r <
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS 4005
wiiiiilii
' ,
>\ r *
'*% V -
• W <
V
What War Has Cost Us
War expenditure by Australia during
1941- was £319.4 million, Treasurer
Chifley announces, and a further £33.6
million was spent on behalf of “other
administrations.” How much of the total
£353 million is represented by Austra-
lian toil, sweat, sacrifice and waste isn’t
so far separated from help received from
overseas in return for Australian exports
and JOUs. However, the £319.4 million
net chargeable to Australia is a far bigger
figure than contemplated in the Budget—
it is up nearly £lOO million. It prepon-
derantly represents borrowed money,
°nly a third having been paid out of
taxation. The entire accounts for the
year, including civil expenditure, show
a 50-50 loan and revenue position.
Canada paid 50 p.c. of its war bill last
year out of taxation, or 78 p.c. if com-
mitments on British account are ex-
cluded.
Australia spent £544 million on war
between September 3, 1939, and June 30,
1942. Here are details of where the
money came from:
1939-40. 1940-41. 1941-42.
(£ mil.). (£ mil.). (£mil.).
Balances .. .. 2.0 28.0 2.0
Revenue .. / 65.1 108.5
Loans .. .. j \ 77.1 208.9
Total .. .. 54.3 170.2 319.4
Up to April 30 (10 months) Australia’s
war outgo in 1941-42 totalled £233 mil-
lion. It would appear from Mr. Chifley’s
latest statement that nearly £B7 million
was spent in the last two months. A
present expenditure at the rate of over
£5OO million a year seems highly im-
probable, however, in view of a fore-
cast of “upwards of £4OO million” in
1942- Seemingly there were adjust-
ments and additions towards the close of
the year which were not taken into
account when the progressive monthly
-•totals were published.
Although the sharemarkets had a mild
but sustained lift over several recent
weeks, followed by a break when
Rommel crashed through into Egypt, the
rise in the Sydney share index from a
low of 93.76 this year to 105.75 on July
2 was nothing in the nature of compen-
sation to those who have held shares for
six or nine months. Yet apparently in-
spired paragraphs have appeared in the
press to the effect that the Stock Ex-
change regulations have failed to prevent
“inflation in share prices.” The little
reflation that has followed the pre-
cipitous deflation resulting from the eco-
nomic “organisation” regulations and the
fall of Singapore so far hasn’t the vestige
of an appearance of inflation. Talk
about inflation in share prices at present
is pure humbug. They are at their lowest
average level for many years, whereas
prices of nearly everything else are at
their highest level. The basic wage has
never been higher, either, and wage-
earners in thousands of cases earn over-
time in addition. In May, 1939, the index
of shares mentioned here stood at 122.29
and the basic wage at 78s. Last week the
index was 104.38 and the wage 86s. It
is easy to see which has inflated and
which has deflated.
» ' * * 9
Share prices continued to edge back
last week in Australia after the first
break; in a recovery lasting several weeks.
Declines were moderate but general
among market leaders, B.H.P. perhaps
coming out worst with a total fall of
Is. 6d. from the 31s. 9d. reached. The
Sydney index of 104.38 last Saturday
compared with 105.75 on July 2, which
was the best day of the recovery period.
The moderate nature of the general de-
cline when compared with the drop in
such stocks as B.H.P. is accounted for
by the fact that “delayed action” in prices
of less active shares was still producing
rises when B.H.P. and Tooth shares were
falling.
* * * *
Sydney “Daily Mirror,” Ezra Norton’s
evening paper, has gone suddenly cold
on the 4 p.c. profits policy. Hitherto it
has been a champion of emotional eco-
nomics and Sydney’s staunchest supporter
of Federal Labor’s war-time policy. It is
now giving prominence to Mr. Menzxes’s
talks on the value of the middle-class,
thrift, and the burdens that the “new
order” will bring.
•Jc jJi
Melbourne Board of Works is seeking
£300,000 at par, currency 15 years from
August 15. Interest rate is 3| p.c. The
issue has not been underwritten.
H= * * *
After a session in Melbourne, the oil
distributors of Australia have agreed to
sell most of their products (lubricating
»oil is one exception) through a single dis-
tributor, Pool Petroleum Pty., Ltd., per-
mission to form which has been asked
for. Each co. will supply its quota of
staff, depots, vehicles, drums, pumps, etc.
The petrol will carry the brand of “Pool.”
Operations will commence on August 15.
A good deal of man-power should be
released by this rationalisation.
* * * *
First item on the A.B.C. news session
on Friday morning: “Port Kembla
branch waterside workers have decided
to subscribe £lOOO as a first instalment
to the third Liberty Loan and to ask
that employers subscribe pound for
pound.”
* * * *
H, J. Harvey, president of the Queens-
land T.L.C., said last week that in spite
of strikes, etc., coal output in Australia
had reached the “record” figure of 500,000
tons a fortnight. The same day N.S.W.
Minister for Mines Baddeley admitted
that the State-owned Lithgow mine had
recorded a decline in daily output from
1800 tons to 1400 tons “in recent
months.” He had told the miners that
“they must play fair with the Govern-
ment and cut out some of the silly stop-
pages of work.” A loss of between
£16,000 and £lB,OOO is expected for the
year.
* * * *
Call-ups under the man-power pro-
visions of the National Security Regula-
tions have perturbed members of the
country press as well as the city papers.
N.S.W. provincial A.J.A. members, led
by Oliver Hogue, told James and
Watkins, Ms.H.R., that they feared the
press would be strangled by sincere but
misguided Government forces. Mr. James
said he would try to have the man-power
provisions amended. He cited the case
of a man who had been granted exemp-
tion from service by a magistrate, but
who found the decision overruled by a
man-power officer.
Hf * ' *
Export of boot polish, silver, organic
fertilisers and vegetable seeds is now pro-
hibited except with the consent of the
Minister for Customs. Reason is that
most of the items or their components
are scarce, and that silver may be used
as a substitute for tin in solder and bear-
ing metals.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia is There!
“Ek Bum”: On July 12 Mr. Curtin
announced that elements of the A.I.F. in
the Middle East, part of the considerable
reinforcement of the Eighth Army, had
reached front-line positions in Egypt on
July 7 well equipped and intensely trained
since their last encounters with the
enemy.
Some of our men went into action on
Tuesday night with the patrols and de-
stroyed several guns, tractors and car-
riers, killed 15 Germans, inflicted about
40 other casualties and took nine
prisoners. They lost one man, “missing,
believed killed,” and six slightly wounded.
At the week-end the two armies before
and below El Alamein sweltered under
a pall of drifting sand and artillery and
bomb smoke in a temperature which has
at times reached 120 degrees.
All the week the Imperial air forces
maintained a sweep and blast against
the long enemy communication columns
racing up from the ruins of Mersa
Matruh and Tobruk; the probing
of the artillery fire sought to paralyse
an opponent’s particular operations, to
disorganise road traffic and building and
digging oi to cover some movement or
another.
Every little while an uneasy southern
flank stirred in an attempt to drift
round the other side’s flank so as to
shepherd it a bit more towards the sea.
lu spite of the awkwardness of the ter-
rain away from the Mediterranean both
sides had their eyes glued to the snak-
ing highway which leads past Faiyum to
Cairo south of the sand dunes of Quat-
tara.
Around El Alamein
there is strong contrast between this
battlefield and the bloody ground of the
Don front 1100 miles away in Russia.
The Russians are trying to hold back
Von Bock in green, rolling, fertile black
earth, something like the best of the Vic-
torian west, though intersected with broad
flowing rivers sliding to the sea without
great haste or into the stately waters of
the Don The climate is hot, but it is
the heat of Victoria or Mt. Barker (S.A.)
at the worst.
The nearest Australian comparison to
the El Alamein terrain is round the edges
of Lake Eyre in Central Australia, There
is the same red wind-swept earth (though
the hue is darker than the salmon of
the Australian landscape); the same small
shrubs with wind-blown sand piled
around them. But there is a little culti-
vation (or was), made possible by wells.
Across the baked sameness of the land-
scape little stony ridges, which have re-
sisted erosion, ripple between mirages 50
to 100 feet high
On the north is the Mediterranean. In
peace-time it is full of the curses of
skippers who have been painting on the
way to home ports, and who will have
to paint again after much scraping to
remove an emery of granulated sand
which overnight has marred the whites
and blues of masts and bridgeworks.
On the southern side of the coastal
strip between Alamein and Alexandria
there are salt marshes, also reminiscent
of the Lake Eyre region. The coastal
plain is only 25 miles or so wide, narrow-
ing down to the west and less and less
cultivated until it gets to Mersa Matruh,
where the sea is only about five miles
from the beginnings of the desert escarp-
ment, whose eroded edges climb into a
rocky plateau no higher than a modest
city building It is 10 to 15 miles wide
south of El Alamein. Water can be
found on it at shallow depth Beyond it,
again due south, the waste of Quattara
begins.
This is all marsh, loose sand with hills
and dunes Cairo motorists 15 years ago
legarded it with awe, but an experienced
Australian crossed it with old-type, high-
pressure tyres deflated and no special
pieparations. The 60 or 70 miles across
it to the Nile Valley should be mere
bread and jam to caterpillars or low-
pi essure tyred vehicles, driven by men
properly experienced in sand technique,
so long as the weather is dry. After
ram it would be impassable. But then ail
the region, the coast included, would
make a Blackall bullocky weep in the
rams.
The British have easily ail the advan-
tages of approach to supplies and bases
Rommel has behind him battered ports, a
broken and continually strafed rail and
road link. Ihe rail, built to El Hamid,
near Tobruk, by Maorilanders, was
wrecked during their retreat. Rommel’s
main replenishment bases are hundreds of
miles away. He can get and is gettting sup-
plies and men by the short sea route via
Crete, though some of his ships have
been sunk en route. But the British have
a main base 70 miles away. They have
the only trafficable road within 60 miles
of the coast —one on which it is possible
to reach Alexandria in \\ hours at a
pinch. They can use fighters from their
well-equipped ’dromes to hold up enemy
road operations, and if the fight gets
nearer to Alexandria and the fleet is still
there they can secure strong flank sup-
port from the sea.
At the same time 50 miles is nothing in
Panzer war. In Russia heavy German
forces have a dozen times advanced
further than that in a single day. Let
a storm of armor from the west crash
through the British barrier; let Rom-
mel’s torrent begin to flow towards
Faiyum and Cairo and gain real momen-
tum, and only heroic measures will save
Alexandria and/or Cairo and the Nile
Valley.
The Fight for Initiative
Both generals know this. All their
efforts are, therefore, directed at pre-
venting the other side from gathering
itself for a decisive blow. Every second
of the day for the 10 days of the El
Alamein operations up to the week-end
both General Auchinleck and Rommel
were at work, stirring up each other’s
interiors to prevent the opposing force
obtaining the cohesion necessary for a
heavy stroke, digging each other’s forma-
tions in the flank to prevent them achiev-
ing balance for a take-off or an outlet
through which to rush. And tails were
twisted violently whenever the bombers
could reach a communication line.
July 4 was the end of the second phase
of the engagement which had raged down
the coastline from Mersa Matruh. Then
it could be said that General Auchinleck
took over the initiative for the time being
and made the little use of it feasible for
one tired army against another tired
army.
It was said that Rommel had planned
to enter Alexandria the previous day.
Instead, he was watching—possibly from
a hospital whither he was reported to have
been carried wounded —a magnificent
display of air co-operation by the Im-
perial air forces and the F.A.A. which
lit up his rear 40 miles to the west
at El Daba with 50 fires. Naval fliers dis-
covered all the material for a Fourth of
July celebration west of El Alamein in a
concentration of 3500 enemy vehicles.
Satisfying detonations were heard in
the suburbs of Alexandria, while hun-
dreds of miles away other bombers were
beginning a bombardment of Benghazi
which lasted till dawn. Two ships were
hit —one in harbor, one out to sea.
Under cover of the smoke-filled sky
that evening the Eighth Army’s real
counter-attacks began.
Maori I and Again
It was the Maorilanders’ evening out.
With knowledge of their moral superiority
achieved in the tempestuous break
through the armored ring s.-e. of Mersa
Matruh a few days before, and plagued
and angered by 36 hours of bombardment,
they crept out on the rocky plateau south
of El AJamein, where the Italian Pavia
Division was communing with itself
under the dust-hidden stars after a nerve-
racking day. Musso’s warriors had
scarcely time to catch the gleam of
bayonets before the Maori and South
Island battalions were among them. Next
morning saw the plateau strewn with
corpses amid the wreckage of Italian divi-
sional impedimenta scattered for miles.
Rome spoke in quavering hate, not
untouched with awe, of the bloody do-
ings of the evening.
Next day the Germans applied them-
selves grimly to remove the Maori-
landers. Those terrible fellows had now
been linked in this battleground with
fresh S’Africans and seasoned North
of England Tommies of the 90th
Division, who had carved their way past
Gazala as Tobruk was about to fall and
right through the enemy line of advance
on that unhappy fortress.
The Maori battalion was the special
mark for Rommel’s July 5 preparations.
All too well he had been taught its
quality at Bardia, at Sidi Resegh, at
Gazala, at Mersa Matruh.
He was unlucky in his choice of a day
for their immolation. For Hori and
Timi it was a special occasion. For the
first time they were fighting under their
own officers, led by Lt.-Col. Timi Love.
Warily German armored lorries sur-
rounded them, ringing about their posi-
tions like stalking wolves. By dusk the
Germans seemed to have an overwhelm-
ing superiority. There was a sort of in-
ternal explosion, A torrent of yelling
figures preceded by grenades and bullets
tore through the enemy mechanised ling
as at Matruh and came out with bayonets
reeking.
Reinforcements and Supplies
Meanwhile the Germans were given
material which led them to claim that
several British counter-attacks had been
defeated. Each left its mark, but by July
7 ground fighting had thinned out till
almost the only activities, apart from
patrols, were the incessant raids of the
R.A.F, and R.A.A.F. and S.A.ATk and
the experimental bombardments of the
artillery.
The guns and their fire grew heavier
in the next day or two. The infantry
applied itself to rest or to the task of re-
equipping and reconditioning, while a
satisfying flood of reinforcements and
munitions overflowed the edges of the
Alexandria road.
The Australian official war correspon-
dent, Kenneth Slessor, watched the new
units “stream past in thousands, burnt
almost as dark as the soldiers of India
or Africa.” He wrote this on July 10:
All through the night the traffic flows
west, field guns, a.-t. guns, a.-a. guns, car-
riers, trucks, staff cars, “hush-hush” units
and —gladdest sight of all—clanking trans -
porters loaded with beautiful tanks. Many
are General Grants, with powerful 75mms
poking out of their turrets. For days 1
have been watching this mechanical cavak
cade roll on like “Ole Man River.” And
there seems to be so sign of slackening.
While, overhead, “an endless procession
of British ’planes” slid through the upper
dust, the correspondent noted that
“diminished numbers of Stukas, rarely
more than seven or eight,” were dive-
bombing British s.-w. positions. On the
main front, “definite air superiority is
ours. The Germans have had no respite
from the air for weeks.”
On the night of July 7 a heavy British
raid wrecked a number of guns and killed
a number of Germans, and the air forces,
in spite of a dust curtain which hid every-
thing and silted up engines, attacked all
the enemy aerodromes between the front
line and Mersa Matruh and some targets
beyond.
About 500 enemy vehicles were de-
stroyed in one concentration, and eight
enemy ’planes, besides one wrecked and
one damaged out of three which essayed
a reconnaissance over Alexandria.
July 9 was a day of “premonitory
calm” following an operation described
by Cairo’s official communique.
British mobile columns in the south
had engaged enemy mechanised forces,
including tanks, and shepherded them
northwards. And fighter bombers
Bostons mostly—attacked enemy trans-
ports on the road and destroyed 50.
Next day General Auchinleck struck in
the north of the line along the railway,
mainly with Dominion forces which in
eluded the A.I.F. elements and S.
Africans, and pushed back the enemy five
miles to El Elisa. More than 2000
prisoners were taken, 18 tanks destroyed
and many guns and vehicles captured.
Australians bagged upwards of 1400 of
the prisoners.
On July 11 these gains were consoli-
dated, and armored reconnaissances on a
heavy scale and artillery probed the
German centre and south of Rommel’s
line. The activity on the south was slight,
though several tanks were destroyed.
N.Z. troops were operating here.
The German communique made no
mention of retirement at any point, but
declared that “heavy fighting” was “con-
tinuing in the El Alamein sector” and
that bombers and dive-bombers had “in-
flicted great damage in attacks on British
positions and motorised units.” The
Italians on Sunday reported “repeated
enemy attacks in the coastal area, in
which we held enemy pressure and
destroyed 12 tanks.” They claimed that
Axis ’planes had destroyed 14 enemy
machines.
Nevertheless, the British air forces
appeared to have complete superiority.
The air fighting is as heavy as on the
north coast of France. Heavy forma-
tions of Spitfires, Hurricanes, Beaus and
Kittyhawks are in daily service. Every
port in enemy hands back to Benghazi
is regularly bombed, and the attacks on
enemy battle forces at the week-end were
of artillery barrage intensity. The Air
Ministry reported that more than 5000
British bomber and fighter sorties had
been made in 10 days.
British fighters attacked gun emplace-
ments on the north El Alamein front on
July 10 and shot down eight of the fighter
escort of a large Axis bomber forma-
tion. Many others were damaged. Two
planes were destroyed on the ground at
El Daba.
On Thursday and Friday there was a
general battle of supply lines which cost
the enemy 19 ’planes over Malta and the
R.A.F and FA.A. 13. Two hits were
scored on an Italian destroyer and two
on a 5000-ton cargo boat further south.
Mersa Matruh and Tobruk were bombed
—three enemy ’planes were brought
down by long-range fighters and others
damaged—and Benghazi had another visit
in daylight from heavy R.A.F. squadrons
which hit the waterfront and shipping
hard. A further fight at Malta cost each
side three fighters.
Fighter “sweeps” have been huge. In
one 130 bombers escorted by 130 fighters
were used ; in another operation 166 Spit-
fires and Hurricanes made hourly sweeps;
in the attacks on El Daba and Benghazi
up to 84 Wellingtons and a squadron of
Liberators were used.
The general situation had improved out
of sight up to July 13, but the issue was
far from decided. The main battle had
not even begun.
Hitler Over the Don.
“Ek Dum”: The Soviet newspaper
“Red Star” on July 8 reported that the
battle raging east of Kharkov and Kursk
was “not for Moscow or Voronezh but
for the whole world.” It is an exaggera-
tion, but important as showing the view-
point of the Russian Military Command
and the Soviet Government.
There can be no illusions in Russia as
to what the advances by the Germans in
the last month mean. Australian papers
may tell their readers that “the Germans
seem ready to pay severe losses in men
and equipment for the small advances
they are gaining against the tough Rus-
sian resistance.” The Russians know
the value of those “small” advances.
Australian newspaper maps may forget
last week’s conquests and minimise this
week’s. The Russians, fighting for their
homelands with the fortitude which dis-
tinguished them in 1915, 1855 and 1812,
have the realities mapped in blood and
fire.
The “small” advances which the enemy
has made since May 26 have given him
control of new territory three-quarters
the size of England and Wales and half
the size of Victoria. They have robbed
the Russians of all their positions
approaching Kharkov, of all bridgeheads
above Isyum on the Udi and Donetz and
Oskol, some on the Don.
On May 18 the Russians were threaten-
ing Krasnograd and Kharkov, of which
they had supposedly captured secondary
defence lines. They were apparently in
control of the railway which runs via
Kharkov from the industrial Ukraine to
Bryansk, the important railway junction
further north, which must be the heart
of the German railway organisation south
of Smolensk, They were 'also on the
verge of enwrapping the whole of the
Dnieper Bend railway system.
On June 9 the Russians still held three
bridgeheads over or west of the Donetz
and within 20 miles or so of the longi
tude of Kharkov By July 9 all Russian
forces for 100 miles south of Kharkov
and for 125 to 135 miles north of it at
Kursk were in retreat, and the retreat had
taken them anything from 120 to 180
miles east of Kharkov’s north-south line.
At the beginning of July a large staple
had been gouged out by the enemy, who
pushed the Russian line before Kharkov
back till 150 miles of it was 100 miles
east of that city. At once the offensives
between Kursk and Byelgorod and Byei-
gorod and Volchansk began to carve out
another staple, widening the previous one
by adding a 150-mile long northern sec-
tion to it and deepening the advance to
the Don.
Within eight days the Germans an-
nounced that they had swept in the north
to the Don, crossed it and captured
Voronezh, a city with a population of
327,000, which Marshal Timoshenko had
used as H.Q. after he took over com-
mand of the Ukraine sector. Three days
later they admitted that there was still
some street fighting in that area. Four
days after the Germans reported crossing
the Don the Russians announced that
the enemy had reached the Don but was
held on the western bank J they admitted
that Soviet forces had evacuated Staraya
Oskol, 60 miles or so south-west of
Voronezh, on the Yeletz-Tula-Moscow
line and on the Oskol River. They later
admitted that the Germans had crossed
the Don on a narrow front south of
Voronezh ; also that they had cut the
Moscow-RostoV railway, 110 miles south
of Voronezh, but west of the Don, at


Rosoch. Also, it was mutually agreed,
T ; e Germans have attacked heavily in
-■ e Volchansk corner below Byelgorod.
nese facts illuminate each other.
and the Volga
Viewing the matter at its best, it
seemed on July 9 that Timoshenko’s
whole front was faced with problems as
as or worse than anything which
menaced the Red Army last summer.
-n the Kursk area, assuming the Rus-
v; an denial that Voronezh had been taken
l® enem y i° be Vue, the Germans
s ill had pushed across the Don, within
artillery range of the city. They had
t-.erefore secured control of all that was
useful of the lattice of railways west of
L.e Moscow-Rostov line, which hangs
down from the Orel-Stalingrad line on
the n.-e. edges of the Kursk Hills mineral
belt. They had some bridgeheads east
of the river. They could shell the traffic
of the Don. They were also on the
verge of controlling rail traffic between
Kuibyshev and Rostov. Another advance
equal to that of the previous week would
bring them to the age-old direct road
from Astrakhan, at the Volga mouth, to
Moscow, country beyond the hills, in
terrain so easy that in 1807 Australia’s
Governor Macquarie negotiated the 700
miles between Astrakhan and Moscow
with pair-horse relays in a Russian car-
riage at the rate of 100 miles a day.
A drive of 300 miles north from
Voronezh along this easy fairway for
tank brigades would bring the enemy out
to the east of Moscow, with every rail-
way to the Urals cut, except those in
the far, bleak north.
A drive from Kalinin, n.-w. of Moscow
on the Leningrad line, 120 miles from the
capital, would need to travel only about
250 miles to link with the expedition
from the south. The heart of the
European Russian railway system would
then be corralled. Moscow and the
great industrial area round it would be
besieged. Every railway line of import-
ance from the supply centres of the Urals
and beyond would be feeding into Ger-
man hands. So would supplies from the
British Isles and the U.S.A. Only the
Caucasus would be open to receive aid
via Iran,
The enemy, too, at the Don below
Voronezh, was only 200 miles or so from
the Volga; and the Volga is a truly
vital supply line. Russian pipelines
carry only 1,600,000 tons of crude oil in
normal years. Sea and river transport
has covered the rest, Crimean route access
to oil supplies is closed for Russia ; the
other water access along the Volga,
of which 10,000 miles are navigable, is
threatened.
Further south the Russian retirement
from Staraya Oskol and a sudden new
drive between Volchansk and Byelgorod
—but further east —showed that another
sinister German movement had taken
place.
The enemy had rammed his way north-
east along the Oskol valley (B. l/7/ , 42).
The Russians had held to the Staraya
Oskol crossing, about 100 yards wide, to
prevent encirclement of large armies west
of the river and east of the Don
Their announcement of their with-
drawal across, the Oskol was preceded by
German claims to have surrounded large
Russian forces south and east of Kursk
and to be destroying them
It looked as if the small residue of
the Ukraine held by the Russians was in
imminent danger ; as if all pipe and river
oil line communication between the cen-
tral and northern and most of the
southern Russian armies was about to be
interrupted. And new and important
waterways and new railway networks
were on the edge of being at Hitler’s
disposal.
At the same time, though the stabbing
at Gzhatsk on the Smolensk-Moscow
road had died down, major battles seemed
to be developing in two regions.
Near Orel towards Bryansk, along a
line which forms the southern boundary
of the great Russian salient into the
German-held territory of the centre,
strong counter-attacks were in progress on
July 8, The Red Army’s object could
be guessed, if Russian statements as to
the area held were correct. It was to push
southward towards Kursk, threatening the
German rearward defence in depth along
the Kursk line. But in view of the savage
power with which the Germans had
struck and their great momentum, it
seemed unlikely that this gallant attempt
would prove more than a small diversion
By July 13 the Germans had pene-
trated the eastern side of the Don at
three bridgeheads, covering 150 miles of
river frontage. This premised the weak-
ness, if not the absolute defeat, of Timo-
shenko’s armies west of the river.
For 250 miles south of Voronezh
enemy forces also had full command of
the Moscow-Rostov railway. They had
three parts surrounded the last of the
great Do'bas industrial centres —in the
Lugansk 'rianglc—with all its network
of railways. They were only 200-odd
miles from Stalingrad, the great clearing
house for munitions, oil and grain on
the Volga ; they were less than 450 miles
from the nearest point in Asia, and were
threatening Rostov. They had pushed a
spearhead 70 miles from Orel, north of
Voronezh, threatening to engulf another
block of territory.
All the Russian troops west of the Don
were in deadly danger of encirclement
and assault from all sides, which would
make it impossible for them to escape
across the river or southward. Moscow
admitted enemy superiority in man-
power and in ground and air equipment.
There was the further deadly danger
that two swift spearhead thrusts due
eastward —one from the Donetz to
Stalingrad southward, the other from the
Voronezh or Orel sector northward to
Saratov, about 300 miles —would isolate
the main forces of Russians now in the
60,000 square miles of country between
the two lines from all major supplies
from Asia. The Saratov railway is the
main communication link for the middle
south with the Asiatic supply regions.
The joint between Zhukov’s central
Russian armies and Timoshenko’s forces
was already almost severed.
The huge island which the Germans
had retained through the winter between
Rshev and the southern side of the Mos-
cow road has been held up as a defen-
sive position, clung to desperately. It
has now resolved itself into a heavily-
weighted offensive claw, already in pro-
cess of being strengthened by an encircle-
ment of Russians near Gzhatsk. Its
opposite number is the Kursk-Voronezh
front. The two claws enclose a huge
bulge of Russian-held territory. If Timo-
shenko cannot hold further south all this
bulge is in peril. Moscow itself is in
danger of being stripped of its southern
and south-western defences to its gates.
Enemy communiques of July 12 said
that between June 28 and July 9 “German
and allied Axis troops” had “inflicted
annihilating defeats” on the Red Army.
They claimed the capture of Voronezh on
July 7 ; thereupon, they declared, the Don
was reached to the south on a 220-mile
front and several bridgeheads were estab-
lished across the river. Between the Don
front and Kharkov and Kursk “no enemy
force worth consideration remained.” It
was asserted that 88,687 prisoners had
been counted, that 540 ’planes had been
brought down and over 1000 Russian
tanks destroyed or taken.
The communiques from Berlin even
before the week-end insisted that Russian
resistance in the sector had been broken.
But Moscow declared that Voronezh
had not been reached and that a counter-
attack had pushed the enemy back a
considerable distance.
“Red Star,” however, said on July 12
that the situation was critical and that
the Germans began to “develop the suc-
cess of their offensive” after their occu-
pation of Rosoch, east of which fierce
resistance was being shown to the enemy
by numerically inferior Russian forces.
About 330 miles north-west of Kursk,
round the perimeter of the German
Ortschaft at Rshev, German forces began
to strike out towards Klin and the
Moscow-Leningrad railway—closed by
German siege troops at the northern end
—and the Moskva-Volga canal, which
formed the border between contending
forces up till the German winter retire-
ment.
Thus a giant embrace might soon be
built round Moscow if the enemy could
manage it. If the world were not the
stake, at least European Russia was.
Daily newspapers—so critical, some-
times contemptuous, of British generals
—showed their usual tenderness of
feeling for Russian generals, and used
all the usual devices to cloak the
extent of the defeat which the Russians
were suffering. It was even represented
in some quarters that Timoshenko had
given up control of 40,000 square miles
of country, two appreciable river barriers,
and most of the west bank of a river (the
Don) at the points where he had estab-
lished bridgeheads, 250 to 400 yards wide,
plus a vital railway grid, in order to entrap
the enemy. This in country in which the
Russians could have virtually no efficient
rail communication on which to base
their defence, and in which the openness
of the country left their communication
lines all the way vulnerable to the
superior blasting power of the Luftwaffe,
It was also quite obvious that in such
country, enabling swiftness of movement
on both sides, the work of defending
fighter ’planes would be rendered almost
impossible, the fighter being a short-
range instrument.
Russia’s Effort and Danger
The position of Soviet Russia is not
enviable. According to the Malaia Soviet
Encyclopaedia (military editor. Marshal
Voroshilov), the military Budget of 1938
was about £1,600,000,OCX); in 1939 nearly
double that amount (In 1940 the figure
again increased by a third.) Thus over
£8,000,000,000 (on present exchange of
about live roubles to the U.S. dollar) was
spent on defence in three years before
Russia entered the war.
European Russia proper consists of
1,862,524 square miles, with a population
of 140,000,000, plus territories annexed
in Rumania, Poland, the Baltic States and
Finland since 1939, 174,544 square miles,
with populations of 22,730,985 when the
war began.
The Germans have captured and still
hold:
Square Miles
Occupied by Approx. Pop.
Germans, Captive.
Provinces annexed
by Russia, 1939-40 174,540 22,740,000
Ukraine .. .. 168,000 32,000,000
White Russia .. 49,000 5,570,000
Crimea .. 25,800 700,000
Other areas occupied 154,600 18,600,000
571,940 79,610,000
Thus all the most thickly populated
parts of European Russia are in the hands
of the Germans, along with considerably
more than 50 p.c. of the productive power
of the whole 8,000,000-odd square miles
which constitute the Soviet Union,
If the Germans progress another 200
miles along the whole line, whether they
have taken Leningrad and Moscow or
not, they will be able to release huge
forces for other fronts.
Let us have no more illusions. Britain
should be looking to its defences. All the
Allied Powers should be concentrating on
defeating the Axis at sea, so as to have a
clear run for supplies and overseas man-
power when the final test comes in 1943
or 1944,
Australia's Own War,
“Ek Dum”: Dr. Evatt and Mr. Drake-
ford have done well to deprecate excessive
optimism about the Pacific front. Aus-
tralia owes a great deal to the airmen
operating with such skill and courage over
northern waters and islands, and momen-
tarily it may be safe, except from raiding.
Out of the 70 to 80 divisions Japan is
believed to possess, it would be difficult
to spare a sufficient force for a large-
scale attack on the Commonwealth.
But the collapse of China would release
anything up to 20 divisions. The defeat
of Russia by Germany might release 25
to 35 more. And new armies must be
in process of development all the time.
Indeed, in course of time Japan might
be able to dredge from its man-power
up to 200 divisions, without calling on
friendly Asiatics; and, now possessed of
oil, rubber and metals from the occupied
regions, it should be able to equip them.
Training for the type of war which must
continue to be waged in the Pacific need
not be so intensive as the “engineering”
type of war carried on in Europe,
The Japanese conquests have meant
much more to the Axis than mere sub-
jugation of territories and peoples. They
have completely altered the war-resources
balance.
Fighting has died down all along the
northern aerial front, but the enemy still
is able to hold his bases and still able to
use his air-power. The quality of the
material and arms which he is using is
improving. The new “0”-type fighter,
manoeuvrable, with a 30,000 ft. ceiling and
37mm. cannon, is at the moment superior
to any Allied machine, though fortu-
nately it is not yet being used in large
quantities. The announcement that U.S.
troops are now side by side with Austra-
lian troops at Moresby is a symptom of a
gradual move towards strengthening
potential offensive bases. But the fact
remains that, after nearly seven months
of war in the Pacific, the aggressors
have not been kicked out of an inch of
territory which they have occupied.
Their mercantile-marine losses, though
heavy, are exceeded by their building,
if it is at normal peace-time rate,
and they have acquired a- useful tonnage
of light coastwise Asiatic boats by their
occupations of places like Malaya, the
Tenasserim coast and the Indies. Every
week has a fresh symptom or two of the .
strengthening; of some of their outer
bases.
A diary of last week’s fighting on
Australia’s northern fringes—the dates
are those of the communiques;
July 6: Light attack on Atamboea
(Timor); buildings bombed; no Allied
losses. At Lae-Salamaua large fires started
by a series of heavy attacks. One enemy
fighter shot down and four damaged.
Haleta (Florida Is., Solomons) lightly
bombed. At Moresby, 20 Jap heavy
bombers, escorted by six “O” fighters,
and a later wave of seven bombers attacked
the ’drome. Slight damage and casualties.
July 7: Allied fighters intercepted 20
enemy bombers, escorted by at least seven
“O” fighters, outside Moresby. Several
bombers hit by m.-g, fire; ons Allied 'plane
missing
July 8: Horn Island, off Thursday
Island, had its third raid. Sixteen heavy
bombers attacked, but did little damage.
July 10: The air war having been inter-
fered with by the weather, attackers ffew
through storm and cloud to bomb Dilli
facilities. Direct hits were made in the
barracks area.
July 11: At high altitudes 21 Jap
bombers, escorted by eight fighters, did
some wild and scattered bombing round
Moresby harbor and barracks. No casual-
ties. Two bombers brought down by a.-a
fire. A third was seen smoking and losing
height.
July 12: Another 19 bombers, protected
by eight fighters, dropped bombs wide of
harbor shipping. Allied fighters shot
down three bombers and a fighter and
damaged three bombers. Two Allied 'planes
missing. At Buna, a village on the north
coast, two “O’’ fighters were destroyed
and one damaged, without loss to the
Allies.
In the far-north Pacific the enemy is
obviously strengthening his positions de-
spite the fact that during the week U.S.
Navy and Air Force reported having
sunk or damaged five enemy destroyers.
It is admitted in Washington that fresh
enemy forces have landed in the Aleu-
tians —they occupy three islands, Tokyo
Radio asserted that a large convoy
arrived there on July 10 escorted by
cruisers and destroyers and without en-
countering U.S. forces,
Allied aircraft are now co-operating
with the Chinese, though whether the
force represents more than Chennault’s
“Tigers,” who recently were absorbed into
the U.S, Army, is not clear. Last week
they bombed Japanese H.Q. in Kmngsi
and sank a transport and destroyed 10
grounded ’planes at Nanchang, the pro-
vincial capital, without loss to themselves.
Chungking reported the capture of
Nancheng. Chinese, it said, were pursuing
the enemy within 45 miles of Nanchang
and threatening the rear of a couple of
Jap divisions which had been beaten back
to the north and east in heavy fighting.
Good ; but it has to be remembered that
the Japanese frequently play the game of
retreat to entice Chinese troops from
other areas.
They have landed heavy reinforce-
ments in Chekiang, where with a hard
drive along the Wu River they captured
Wenchow, one of the greatest ports of
the province.
Much of the fighting in both Chekiang
and Kiangsi unfortunately looks like
Japanese mopping-up operations, in
which the gallant Chinese are putting up
a stiff resistance.
The battle of the Russian convoys is
raging fiercely in northern seas. Last
week Moscow reported that the 35,000-
ton battleship Tirpitz had been seriously
damaged by two torpedoes fired from a
Soviet submarine, and that 36 German
transports had been sunk. The enemy
denied the Tirpitz story and claimed in
turn to have destroyed a U.S, cruiser and
28 merchant ships in a Murmansk-bound
convoy. To this the Russians replied
that the convoy had arrived safe. North
of Kola the enemy seems to have con
centrated large numbers of sea-ranging
bombers and fighters.
m * * *
The U.S. Navy Department has
reported the sinking of four more Allied
ships—two U.S., one British and one
Greek —off the American coast. But patrol
’planes have saved at least 25 ships,
according to U.S. Civil Defence, by div
ing on submarines about to attack. In
recent weeks 10 Allied vessels have been
lost in American waters.
4 p ♦ * *
A British raid on U-boat yards at
Danzig on the afternoon of July 12 was
the first attack on the Vistula mouth since
Nov. 12, 1940. It involved 1500 miles
of flying for the heavy Lancaster
squadrons which took part Three
bombers were lost in the operations.
* * * *•
More R.A.A.F, and Maoriland trainees
last week arrived in Canada.
« * * *
Malta continues to show a bold front
to the enemy. Its bag of Axis planes
for the first 12 days of July was 72.
* * * *
Lists of missing in Malaya and neigh-
boring battle areas are being issued by
the Defence Department, but the Army
Minister has emphasised that this does
not necessarily mean that new informa-
tion has been obtained An Edinburgh
man, the chairman of the Prisoners of
War Relatives, has stated that the
Japanese Government has compiled full
lists of prisoners which are now on their
way to Allied countries, and that latest
information suggested that the Japs
appeared to be living up to the terms of
the Geneva Convention.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
July race week has come and gone, un-
regretted by most of those who struggled
to reach the course by tram, train or bus.
Never have the railways had to cope
with greater crowds, in which service
men and service women were largely
represented, for the troops, especially the
Americans, have loved their week’s
racing, notwithstanding one very wet day
and another showery one. Socially, how-
ever, there was nothing to mark the week
which once was the pinnacle of the winter
season. Women who were out with their
menfolk or to see their own horses run-
ning preferred to take it as a business
fixture, and not even try to mark it with
a lunch. From their stand on this it
seems obvious that the Cup Week will
be just a name.
It was an opportune thought on the
part of the League of Soldiers’ Friends
to extend the present hut in St. Paul’s
grounds to give accommodation to
women of the services, and a still happier
one to make the new rooms places where
peace would reign. There are now dotted
all over the city bright spots where the
troops and service women can whirl in
the tango and the latest sweet swing, but
mighty few where the tired can sit and
relax. The new rooms at St. Paul’s are
next to a well-run canteen and look peace-
ful enough with their green trappings to
suggest a rest to any service woman. Lots
of W.A.A.A.Fs. and A.W.A.Ss, were at
the hut when our Governor’s wife and
the Anglican Archbishop on Thursday
night gave the official send-off to the
new buildings and annexe.
Women whose menfolk are on service
abroad are putting a brave face to long
waits between news, letters and cables.
Some of those whose boys were in
Malaya have so far only the formal news
that their dear ones are “missing” and
are waiting with the best courage they
can muster for further news of their fate.
One of the anxious ones was Etta
Bernard, who raised her voice in song at
the last of the Lady Mayoress’s musi-
cales, held on Wednesday. Her husband
is with the R.A.F., and his wife and little
daughter have not seen him for two years.
However, a recent cable announcing his
safety gave them great joy. The daughter
is now of junior school age.
The backstage party with which the
100th performance in Melbourne of “The
Man Who Came to Dinner” was cele-
brated took place mostly in Edwin Styles’s
dressing-room, with the overflow extend-
ing down the passage towards other
dressing-rooms. Guests were able to hear
as they munched their sandwiches and
drank a festive glass how the leading
actor regarded the play. Refreshing was
Mr. Styles’s analysis of the relief he felt
when good parts fell to other experi-
enced actors, who then took the audi-
ence's attention off him at moments when
he felt they must be rather tired of his
monologues. Most of the party had
some connection with the theatre and its
life, but Mrs. S. P. Lyttle, of Goulburn,
N. S. Wales, was one who was there just
to say good luck to the actors, renew
acquaintance with old friends and take a
more than passing glance at the stage
“antiques,” on some of which she passed
appreciative judgment.
Girls of the A.W.A. signallers have
been busy in their hillside camp near
Melbourne, settling in and meeting one
another (they come from all the States),
and have now begun in grim earnest on
work which they find exciting and exact-
ing. They are all thrilled at the idea of
releasing a man for service at battle
station, and this thought is the best re-
cruiting slogan that has yet been put out
to a practical-minded sex. The tremen-
dous extension of the women’s services
brings the city face to face with new and
strange sights. Women seem to be driv-
ing all the khaki service cars and ambu-
lances, and to be everywhere on motor-
bikes as messengers. Those who are not
in the services yet are doing masculine
jobs outside. Women taxi-drivers and
railway porters will soon be common-
place. At first there were some com-
plaints that the women were offhand, but
that seems to have been sheer nervous-
ness, and to have passed, giving place to
more friendliness on the part of the girls
as they recognised a desire on the part
of the travelling public to be good friends
with them.
When the women’s committee of the
Women’s Hospital decided that it must
give its usual yearly luncheon to women
of the press, to say thanks for all pub-
licity, it agreed that the days of big
lunches in town were over, and so held
a small one at the hospital, the hostesses
making themselves responsible for the
cooking in their own kitchens. After
lunch the guests were taken to see the
babies and the air-raid shelters. The
latter look workmanlike enough, with
the beds and mattresses piled high and
the substitute lighting and the rest of it,
but what an effort to take 200 or more
mothers and children down to it during
a raid! The committee told, with obvious
satisfaction, that this apparent miracle
had already been accomplished once dur-
ing a trial alarm, and that everything
came off well. With shortage of man-
power and nurse-power the women’s
committee finds that it has more jobs to
its hand than merely meeting, and
various members are on duty in the outer
office at set times. In the nearly-new
maternity wing are three wards, called
after women whose committee work was
outstanding—Mrs. Kimpton, Mrs, Skene
and the late Mrs. Boyland. The last-
named had the joy of knowing, before
she passed on, that the hospital she had
served so well had remembered her.
Three weeks after announcing her
engagement Phyllis Goddard is planning
a wedding next Saturday at St. Mary’s,
Caulfield, with Lieut. Albert Farhood,
Sister, formerly Hazel Goddard, now
Mrs. Arnold Calder, and sister-in-law,
wife of Flying-Officer Ernest Lins, will be
matrons of honor. A wedding present
from Mrs. Calder to her sister is a por-
trait of the bride, who has been a
favorite sitter for Mrs. Calder, an accom-
plished artist. Coupon difficulties have
been overcome by borrowing the wed-
ding dress which Mrs. Calder wore a
few months back. Bridegroom was well
known as an athlete before joining the
A.1.F., and is an old boy of Scotch.
Maxwell Porteous made this picture of
Miss Goddard.
The first-night audience for “Pinafore,”
preceded by “Cox and Box,” overflowed
into the boxes at the side of the stalls,
which for most shows are empty. “Pina-
fore” this time seems likely to prove an
extra popular show, as “The Pirates of
Penzance” did, to everyone’s surprise, a
couple of weeks ago. Each season Gil-
sullivan devotees seem to get their big-
gest thrills out of a different opera. The
co.’s nice new clothes, of course, are a
fresh note, and old theatregoers observe
that never in this city has there been a
better-clothed performance. It gives a
fillip to a clothes-and-coupon-conscious
audience to see such a lovely splurge of
satin and flounces. Viola Wilson’s can-
can stripes and lovely up-at-the-back
hair-do took theatregoers back into the
pre-war days of bizarre evening gowns
and intricate topknots.
Friends who ran into Louie Blackburn
(daughter of Maurice Blackburn, of the
Federal House, and Mrs. Blackburn, who
is an authority on child psychology) dur-
ing her last hurried searchings through
the shops last week found her re-echoing
the phrase so often heard now, “I’m being
married tomorrow.” Peter Hamilton,
who co-starred with Louie in the matri-
monial ceremony, is hard at work in a
laboratory under Army auspices. He
shares his wife’s interest in reforms and
was pointed out in his University days
to visitors as the man who had knocked
out an opponent of “free speech” as he,
Peter, understood it. The couple will
commence domestic life at Ivanhoe after
a fussless knot-tying in a suburban
church. Louie, like most war-time brides,
will carry on with her job as a librarian.
She' was one of Huntingtower’s bright
girls.
To mark the conclusion of his lectures
on musical appreciation as well as the
end of the term, Claude Monteath turned
on an unusual entertainment at Albert-
street Con. on Saturday. Called “Shak-
spearean Fantasy,” it turned out to be
a collection of the Bard’s sonnets and
lyrics set to music and fitted into a bright
dialogue. Dialogue was written by Mrs.
Monteath, and the music arranged by
her husband. Ida Scott, who has helped
to make much of Fritz Hart’s music
known here, played the accompaniments
when the Con. choir warbled the songs.
From Sydney
Out of the grey and rain-washed day
last Saturday, three thousand stepped into
the warmth and color of the Symphony
Concert. Even the cavernous depths of
the civic H.Q. could not contain the
many who wished to listen, and 500 had
to be turned away. Percy Code combined
sincerity and dash in his conducting.
Vern Barnett set the organ rolling its
pleasant thunders in the Handel-Harty
Concerto for orchestra and organ.
Isador Goodman, very upright in khaki,
was the soloist in the Rachmaninoff
Concerto.
Lady Gowrie was in the audience. Mrs.
Walter Swinson and Mrs. Hope Gibson
received her and her party from Admir-
alty House. A.B.C. Commissioner Cleary
and his wife were there. Peter Lubbock,
too, was an applauder. A music-loving
group included Alice Prowse, the Nor-
man McLeods, the Charles Philip couple
and the Vern Barnetts. Mrs, K. Urquhart
and artist Dora Jarret were front-seaters.
Lute Drummond, Ivie Price, the Mervyn
Finlays and Mrs. John Collins were in
the vice-regal group. In the interval
Mrs. Hope Gibson presented Isador
Goodman to Lady Gowrie.
The Y.W.C.A. is making an appeal for
funds on behalf of women in the ser-
vices. A great lift up will be the after-
noon of music arranged for August 1.
Lord and Lady Gowrie are lending
Admiralty House for the concert.
Dorothy Helmrich, Harold Williams and
Isador Goodman will figure on the pro-
gramme ; also Joyce Hutchinson and
Ramsay Pennycuick as accompanists.
Mrs. Hope Gibson is the honorary
organiser.
Here’s a pretty picture of Jean Barnard,
V.A.D. .(abroad), whose engagement to
Captain Freddie Taylor, A.1.F., is caus-
ing a stir of pleasing excitement in Corowa.
Both parties belong to that bright corner
of N. S. Wales. Captain Taylor is
lately back from the Middle East. Pop
(Miss Barnard’s name among friends)
is a daughter of Dr. and Mrs. J. Fox
Barnard, of Struan, Corowa. She plays
a first-class game of tennis and golf.
Photograph by Julia Leslie,
From the beginning of its newspaper
life this country has produced clever
black-and-white artists. From the
’eighties onwards they are on review in
David Jones’s auditorium. Proceeds
will benefit the Red Cross ; the special
appeals committee has organised the show,
which will bear directly on comfortable
equipment for a military hospital. For
sixpence you can dawdle along seeing
events of the past as they appeared to
such masters of their craft as Bulletin
artists “Hop,” Phil May, Low, Alf Vin-
cent and Lambert and other artists who
sharpened the arrow of derision or struck
with the rapier of scorn against the shams
and wrongs of their day.
Among recent cartoons and joke draw-
ings one of the funniest is Ted Scorfield’s
drawing of the bemused lady with the
draggled boa, the beflowered hat hanging
by a hair and the bottle in the arm cajol-
ing a soldier on guard who is saying
tersely “ ’Op it, Mata Hari! ” Finey’s
sardonic art finds expression on many
subjects, none of them more terrifying
than his “Darling of the Gods,” showing
Hitler, Goring and co. bearing aloft
a smug little figure of “Treachery.”
Mahony’s American eagle winging away
from “apathy” and “isolation” is a thing
of glory. Here is Stan Cross’s “Wally
and the Major” and Jimmy Bancks’s
“Ginger Meggs” is shown in some en-
thralling episodes. Here are John Frith
caricatures, at once comic and kindly.
Here are Aria, McGregor, Lock, Gurney,
Jack Quayle and a host of other laugh-
or indignation-makers. Scorfield’s Uncle
Sam sharpening the hatchet will please
all American callers. Norman Lindsay
has a big screen all to himself, his art
powerful and vigorous as always. For
sixpence you can see the lot for yourself
and at the same time help the sick soldier.
And if you have luck and go in the
afternoon you may see the different
wizards of the pencil doing sketches of
people in the audience. John Frith is
set down to model Frank Albert’s head.
The show was opened last Monday by
L. R. Coleman, of the Walter Thompson
firm.
Dr. George Mackaness is pleased, and
rightly so. Charles Nordhoff and James
Norman Hall, who wrote the “Bounty”
trilogy, have dedicated their novel Botany
Bay to him, Charles Nordhoff came to
Australia in search of material for the
background of the new work. During
his stay here he met Dr. Mackaness, and
the two hobnobbed over old-time manu-
scripts and swapped yarns about Bligh
and Phillip. When Botany Bay was about
completed the Sydney man received a
cable from Nordhoff and Hall asking per-
mission to dedicate the new book to him.
The inscription is in the American edition
published by the Atlantic Press, Chap-
man and Hall are the English publishers.
The Scots College clan is at it again,
to use the words of secretary of the
women’s committee Jane Bernays. That
the lot of the prisoner of war may be
a little comforted, the college Parents
and Friends’ Association is working to
make the afternoon of music on August
4 a super-success. Lady Gowrie will
be guest of honor. The musicianly Mrs.
Rex Bennett is arranging the programme.
Flowers will be profuse and lovely, and
will be sold by Mrs. A. K. Anderson, of
Scots College, Mrs. B. P. Anderson-
Stuart, Mrs. Hugh Poate and Mrs. R.
Argue. Gardens near and far have been
bespoken for their treasure. Home-made
cakes will be sold and afternoon tea served.
When pianist Ignaz Friedman gives his
concert for the Polish and Czech forces
fighting with the Allies there should be
a bumper house. The campaign opened
with a meeting at the Australia last week.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly, fluent and decorative,
presided. The Minister for Poland, S.
Gruszka, that country’s Consul-General
de Noskowski, and the Consul-General
for Czechoslovakia (Dr. Solansky)
brought home (without a word) a vision
of occupied Europe under the oppressor.
The concert will be an afternoon one,
and will be placed, appropriately to the
greatness of the cause it serves, in the
city’s largest hall—the Town Hall. The
Governor and Lady Wakehurst will be
in the audience. Lady Gowrie also will
be present, if she is in Sydney on the
date, August 15.
It will be a military salute for Gladys
Moncrieff for the future! Australia's
most-loved singer received her appoint-
ment as honorary colonel of No. 3
Pioneer Company, A.1.F., last week. This
is in recognition of her enthusiastic and
successful efforts in collecting money for
war charities. Miss Moncrieff will be
duly invested at a coming Sunday-night
concert which she is arranging. The
money raised thereby will provide com-
forts for men of the No. 3 Pioneer Com-
pany.
The galleries at History House in
Young-street, near the Quay, are already
taking on a Dutch atmosphere. Entries
for the exhibition of the arts and crafts
of Holland and the N.E.I. are arriving
in numbers. Netherlands Consul-General
Van der Mandele will declare the show
open on the afternoon of the 22nd. The
candidature of Edmee Monod, who is
his country’s chosen regina in the Allies’
Day Queen Competition, will benefit.
Mrs. J. R. Gunning is hon. sec. of the
exhibition.
Week-end wedding of interest was that
of Elizabeth Sharp (father was Dr.
Ramsay Sharp) and Brian Massy-
Greene, a son of knight Walter Massy-
Greene, of Toorak, Melbourne. St.
Michael’s, at Vaucluse, blessed the vows.
Roslyn Dangar and Jill Massy-Greene
were the ’maids; Mrs. W. Millear
matron of honor. Elizabeth’s brother,
Captain Frank Sharp, A.A.M.C., was the
best man. Reception was at the home
of the bride’s mother, Mrs. Sharp.
Blair Athol, the new country section
of the War Veterans’ Home, now pos-
sesses a tall flag mast. It was presented
by the Young branch of the R.5.5.A.1.L.,
and erected recently by Herbert Smith,
assisted by residents of the institution.
Immediately after its erection custodian
of the flag Alec Eddie ran the Australian
flag up to the masthead. It is the daily
duty and pleasure of Mr. Eddie to hoist
the flag in the morning and lower it at
night. There’s just one fly in the oint-
ment—the flag is just a little too big for
the mast. Anyone care to present a
smaller one?


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
ever owned by
\V* V* Ellis, a dentist of Launceston, Tas-
mania, relieved doubles bookmakers of
heavy liabilities over Winterset and High-
laH - March when he won the Grand
National Steeplechase at Flemington on
Saturday He outstayed Victory March
in a bumping finish, and survived a pro-
test -or interference, Winterset, favorite
at a to 4, led until less than a furlong
from home, but weakened and finished a
weary third after a gallant attempt to
lead all the way.
Parentena’s success was a triumph of
judgment for his trainer, S. Murphy.
Latter purchased him as a yearling for
140gns. with the idea of making a jumper
of him, and Parentena raced over hurdles
in January of his three-year-old career.
Now five years old, the Parenthesis geld-
ing dead-heated with Highland March
over fences at Flemington last autumn,
and gradually shortened for the National
following his promising fourth to that
horse in the Wanda Steeple last month.
He was backed from 14 to 1 down to
tens on the course, but his owner did not
have the pleasure of seeing him win.
Godfrey, rfder of Victory March, alleged
that Parentena lay on his mount nearing
the finish and that he was unable to use
his whip, but the willingness of book-
makers to lay 5 to 1 against the judge’s
placing being disturbed was a true reflec-
tion of the fate of the objection.
The race was disastrous for the thou-
sands of backers who considered that
trainer D. McCormick had it in his keep-
ing with Winterset and Highland March.
Winterset made two or three faulty jumps
in the first round, was challenged by
Tempus Fugit at the third-last fence and,
after shaking that gelding off, veered out.
under pressure in the straight. The task
of conceding Parentena 451 b, and Vic-
tory March 381 b. was beyond him at the
finish of a tiring 3m. If, Highland
March, second favorite at 7 to 2, fell
about six furlongs from home. He was'
a long way out of his ground at the time.
National Debt and Grantley also crashed.
Tipton ran really well in fourth position,
but Tempus Fugit tired to finish a poor
fifth.
Reception, who is making a name for
himself as a straight-six specialist, deci-
sively defeated Fur Trader and Tea Cake
in the Lawn Handicap, Purchased in
Sydney last spring for 500gns., he has
been a wonderful proposition for his
present owner with seven wins, a second,
a third and £lB2O in stakes. Feature of
the betting on the race was a plunge
which forced Tea Cake’s price from 8 to
1 down to favoritism at threes. Tea Cake
looked to have every chance, but he was
racing for the first time since Match.
Arthur’s Find shaped well enough in
fifth position to suggest he may repay
following.
A section of the large crowd voiced
its disapproval of David Innis’s defeat of
Hathersage and Similar in the Winter
Handicap, but the demonstration was un-
warranted, David Innis’s failure when
favorite a week earlier had been ex-
plained by the stewards, who reported
that he collided with another horse at
the start and lost considerable ground.
He was racing over a distance new to
him on Saturday, 1| mile, but a brilliant
gallop over 10 furlongs two days earlier
was responsible for support which forced
his price from sixes down to favoritism
at 9 to 2. David Innis, who had never
previously won beyond a mile, was ridden
a quiet race by Badger, hit the front
about a furlong from home and won
well. His form, incidentally, was less of a
reversal than that of Hathersage and
Similar. Each of the latter pair had
finished last at his previous start.
The finish of the Two-year-old Mile
had a distinct Adelaide flavor, horses
from S.A, finishing first and third. River-
tide, a gelding by Parenthesis from Estu-
ary, racing in the same colors as Apos-
trophe, moved up second entering the
straight and withstood a strong challenge
from Amazed, with Mating Call third.
Quezon, favorite, was an unlucky fourth.
He struck serious interference during the
race, had to be taken very wide in the
straight, and finished strongly.
Backed to favoritism at 5 to 2, Con
Devon compensated for his G.N. third
by winning the Doutta Galla Hurdle from
the maiden hurdler Star Boarder and
Dominex. He hit the front near the six
furlongs, and, although momentarily in
danger of defeat when Star Boarder ran
to him after crossing the last, drew away
nearing the finish and won decisively.
Springhead gave bookmakers a 33-to-l
result by winning the Footscray Steeple
from Dorset and Sachem. A recent arri-
val from Adelaide, and now raced on
lease by A. W. Watkins, he led over the
last mile and won by 12 lengths. Spring-
head is only four years old and should
improve. Sachem made up a lot of
ground to finish third, and may have to
be considered in the Australian Steeple-
chase, for which he is being specially
trained. He was placed in the Grand
National and Australian Steeplechases
last year.
* * * *
The ballot disposed of about half the
acceptors for the Moorefield Welter Han-
dicap, which was to have been run at
Rosehill on Saturday, and limited the
programme to seven races. This was be-
cause at half-hour intervals eight races
could not be decided before it was practi-
C ally dark. The meeting was not held,
but as a result of the ballot more than
20 owners were deprived of a possible
chance of a win. This furnished further
g roun< Js for Government sanction to a
start at 1 p.m. at meetings held in July.
As Melbourne can commence at that
hour, why not Sydney?
There is so little racing in Sydney
nowadays that some provision for meet-
ings which have to be abandoned owing
to adverse climatic conditions would be
appreciated by everyone associated with
the business. While midweek racing, as
a regular thing, has not the slightest
chance of being resumed, it might not
be too much to ask that any club losing
its Saturday meeting owing to bad
weather should be afforded the oppor-
tunity of bringing it off on some other
day. Claims would have to be on really
sound grounds, and not based on the
possibility of a meeting being unprofit-
able if it had taken place.
* * * *
Sydney will get a surfeit of racing on
Saturday next with two galloping meet-
ings and a trotting fixture. The total
attendance at the three will give a fair
idea of the full extent to which Sydneyites
are now patronising racing, and may
throw light on the support likely to be
accorded the A J.C. spring meeting. Un-
less restrictions on train travelling are
eased the ruling body cannot look for-
ward to inter-State visitors being nearly
so numerous as at previous spring meet-
ings. .
* * * *
At the time of writing the AJ.C. pro-
gramme of general events for the spring
meeting had not been announced, but
presumably the Colin Stephen Stakes and
the Craven Plate will be the w.f.a. races.
As the former gives a good winding-up
race for the Metropolitan, it is sure of a
fair field, including some runners that
may have little chance of success. The
Craven Plate may suffer to some extent
owing to being run the same day as the
Metropolitan, but even if the latter should
be given preference for some of our best
horses there may be sufficient left to
make up a useful field for the weight-for-
age race. However, we are not really
strong in w.f.a. horses at present. It
would be difficult to go far beyond Beau
Vite, Yaralla, Mildura, Rimveil and pos-
sibly Katanga, Veiled Threat and It’s
Funny. Melbourne may be very lightly
represented at Randwick, as, in addition
to difficulty of transport, the closing day
of the A.J.C. meeting clashes with the
opening day of the V.A.T.C.
* * * *
If the A.J.C. should reduce the Derby
from £5OOO little fault can be found. The
winner of that event will lose nothing in
racing prestige even if there should be a
cut in its value. As a rule not more than
four horses have any chance in the
Derby, and the general good of owners,
more than the prestige of one race, should
be given principal consideration by the
committee. Therefore it is better that
owners whose horses do not rise above
handicap class should be catered
for as liberally as possible, instead of
£5OOO being allocated to a restricted race
at a two days’ meeting. Perhaps a pro-
gramme of fourteen races will not run
into much more than £17,000 in prize-
money, and the distribution would be
decidededly uneven if about two-sevenths
of that amount went to one race.
* * * *
In the Australian Hurdle Race Isam-
bard has been given a chance of atoning
for his V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle
failure. In that, though he was last at
one stage and jumped faultily, he beat
all but Saul. He has gone up 41b. in the
Australian Hurdle, against Con Devon’s
61b. and Vines’s 11b. Con Devon, who
continues to improve, should be trouble-
some. He was third in the National and
Vines fourth.
• * * * *
W. McCurley has had a good season
with two-year-olds at Sydney meetings.
Youngsters trained by him have won
10 races, those successful being Easy
Mark (4), Mardevon, Marquesan, Era,
Oriole, Grand Vision and April Tide.
Two of Easy Mark’s wins were in 14.2
handicaps. B. Payten equals McCurley
in winners, but is one behind him in
number of wins. Payten has scored with
Battle Dress (3), Young Valais, Hesione,
Minnamurra, Silver Crown, Display and
Vanity Fair (a 14.2 race). G. F. Gorrie
is well to the fore with five wins—Miss
Hua (2), Hugette, and Belle Desiree (2)
scoring for him. Double Birthday has
won five races for J. Dewar, and H.
Darwon is not far aWay with four and a
half—Fervent two and a half and Boor-
chief two. Fervent’s total is three and a
half, but for her first win she was trained
by her then owner, the late C. M.
Sawyer.
Baroda and Riverton each won twice
for G. Price, and Bangster put three wins
to the credit of W. S. Paul. Two were
the Breeders’ Plate and A.J.C. Cham-
pagne Stakes. P. Riddle also had three
wins, two with Modulation and one with
Temerity.
Double Remove’s progeny have done
best in two-year-old races. Five of his
youngsters have won 11 races, the prin-
cipal contributors being Double Birth-
day (5) and Battle Dress (3). The Marne
has had six wins. Equator five and a
half, Midstream, Hua and Pentheus five,
and Beau Pere and Brueghel four.
The tote continues to grow in popu-
larity in Melbourne. At the V.R.C.
Grand National meeting the turnover for
the two days was £211,290. Outsiders
have had their share of success at recent
Melbourne meetings, and the fact that,
as a rule, their tote prices compared
more than favorably with those laid by
the “books” has probably tended to an
increase in the ranks of machine bettors.
* * * #
Mercurial Alan Cooper has had some
good wins and his share of setbacks in
a few years. Gold Salute added to the
latter when he was defeated by Wiseland
in the Doomben Cup, of £2OOO, at Albion
Park (Brisbane) on Saturday. Trained
in Toowoomba by R. Fawcett, Wiseland
is an aged gelding by Wise Force.
*-. * * *
Reading was being so favorably handi-
capped in America that a win for him
was only a matter of showing something
approaching his best Australian form. He
did so at Arlington Park (Chicago) on
Saturday, and won the Green Velvet
Handicap ($5000) by six lengths in 1.58|
for nine and a half furlongs, a record
for the grass track on which the race was
run. Few American courses have turf
as well as the customary dirt tracks,
but Arlington is one of the exceptions.
* * * *
Redditch was the last winner of the
Grand National Steeplechase and
Australian Steeplechase in the same
year. He carried 12.3 in the former in
1933, and 12.13 in the latter. The follow-
ing year he was second with 12.7 at
Flemington, and won the Australian
Steeplechase, again carrying 12.13. Last
year National Debt won at Flemington
with 10.10, but with 11.7 was an indif-
ferent third in the Australian Steeple-
chase, also run at Flemington. Roisel
won two Australian Steeplechases, the
first in 1924 and the other in 1927. This
year’s Grand National winner, Parentena,
has been .given a reasonable chance of
winning die double. He has 9.13 against
the 9.3 he carried in the V.R.C. race.
* * * *
Wise Counsellor, one of America’s
greatest racehorses and sires, was kicked
by a mare in April. A leg was broken
and he had to be destroyed. Wise Coun-
sellor was an example of luck in horse-
buying. His dam. Rustle, was carrying
him when she was sent to auction and
realised only $lOO. As a racehorse Wise
Counsellor won $115,470, and up to the
time of his death his progeny had won
nearly $1,000,000.
* * * *
Battledress is a two Cups Maoriland
entrant concerning whom the V.A.T.C,
and V.R.C. handicappers differ consider-
ably. Han dicapper , Davis has placed him
21b. below Skipton in the Melbourne Cup,
and Hill has him 91b. above the latter in
the Caulfield *Cup. With the difference
so great as 1 lib. one handicapper or the
other must be wide of the mark. Battle-
dress was a close second with 7.11 in
the Wellington Cup, two miles, in
January; won the Wellington Autumn
Handicap, 1 mile 3 furlongs, with 8.9 in
March ; and the following month had an
easy win in the St. Leger, 1| mile, at
Auckland. He is by Posterity from
Midinette, by Limond,
Miscellaneous
Fouls were frequent in the Leichhardt
fight between Ron McLaughlin (10.8)
and George Elliott (10.4|). Trained down
finer than for some time, McLaughlin
was faster than his opponent, who did
most of the rough work. After having
been cautioned for holding and hitting,
Elliott was floored by a left uppercut in
the third, and rights to the head and body
rocked him in the fourth. Fighting
desperately, Elliott made the seventh
the most riotous of all the rounds. In
the eighth he was down again, and in the
ninth he was cautioned thrice. Full of
fight, but very wild, he offended once
more ; then the referee disqualified him.
* * * »
Saturday’s round in the mud left Uni-
versity and Parramatta (19 points) still
disputing leadership in the Rugby Union
competition. Parra, was hard pressed by
Northern Suburbs: a late penalty goal
gave it the victory (11-8), University
overwhelmed Gordon (36-7): Taubman’s
three tries lifted his season’s tally to 10,
and Rutledge’s five goals raised his points
score to 117. Manly did a good job by
defeating East (8-6); West was lucky to
draw with St. George (3-3); and Rand-
wick, after a lot of sweat and grime, just
downed Dmmmoyne (8-6).
* ♦ * »
Form followers got another shock on
Saturday when South Melbourne, which
had administered a sound beating to the
mighty Essendon the previous week,
almost gave Hawthorn its second win
for the season and escaped by three
points; South 12.19 to 13.10, South has
pooled its coupons for new shooting
boots. Essendon never gave Fitzroy a
chance, 15.17-12-10, Carlton led all the
way to a 13.17-10.7 win over Melbourne,
North Melbourne disposed of Colling-
wood by 17.8 to 11.16, and St. Kilda,
graciously allowed to kick 7.18 by Foot-
scray, is grimly contemplating ’Scray’s
19.17. ’Scray is now in. ‘'the four,” with
Essendon, Richmond and South Mel-
bourne.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
(Before Acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Loddon Trial Hurdle: Star
Boarder, 1 ; Sligo, 2; Fellah, 3.
Harrowby Trial: Martinez, 1 ;
Dream Girl, 2 ; Formidable, 3.
Murrumbidgee Handicap: Bur-
berry, 1 ; Night Life, 2; Quezon, 3.
Balmoral Handicap: Alcmena, 1 ;
Queen Baccha, 2; Aurie’s Star, 3.
Ascot Thousand: David Innis, 1 ;
Appeal, 2; El Golea, 3.
Somerset Welter: Grandson, 1 ;
Ellison, 2; Lugano, 3.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Brush Hurdle Race: Glittering
Flame, 1 ; Rameo, 2; Tea Dennis,
3.
Trial Stakes; Widden, 1 ; Winnie,
2; King of the Mist or The Gam-
bler, 3.
Flying Handicap; Milanja, 1 ;
Happy Bay, 2 ; Romero, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Yours
Truly, 1 ; Shining Night, 2 ; Cable
Boy, 3.
Highweight Handicap; Magi, 1 ;
Cable, 2 ; Chatting, 3.
Ashbury Handicap; Omapo, 1 ;
Many Ways, 2; Kimbell, 3. ~
FOR KENSINGTON.
(At Ascot.)
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Maiden Handicap: Whitefoot, 1 ;
Prepare, 2 ; Foxtrack, 3.
Fourteen - two Handicap: Te
Rama, 1 ; La Vallee. 2; Shop
Girl, 3.
Flying Handicap: Common
Sense, 1 ; Cradle Song, 2; Mar-
theus, 3,
Kensington Handicap. Happy
Lass, 1 ; Triggerman, 2 ; Fearless, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap: Peter's
Pence, 1 ; General Smuts, 2 ; Flying
Shuttle, 3.
Welter Handicap; Haridelle, 1 ,
Astounding, 2 ; Mary Lou, 3.


OWNER-SERVICE’
GUIDE BOOK
FOR FORD CARS
to keep your cor in good running order.
How to find and fix minor mechanical faults
0*»W tU
5w^
mv-
With the best will in
the world, your Ford
dealer simply finds it
impossible nowadays to
give to private owners
the service and prompt
attention rightly expected in the past.
Many mechanics are now caring for
transport in the armed forces, others
are in munition plants; and the Govern-
ment will require more. Further, the
trucks and vehicles on essential services
have, under Regulation, first call on
his remaining mechanics’ time.
To meet this heavy demand, your Ford
Dealer must carefully plan ahead the
allocation of his limited garage "man-
hours.” As a private owner you can
help, if your car needs service, by
bringing it in when your dealer has
the time available to fit in the work.
Telephone in advance and he will do
his best for you, depend on that.
In the difficult situation in which
garages are now placed, Ford owners
will welcome the means of dealing
with minor mechanical troubles on
their own initiative. To help them,
the Ford Motor Company has just
published an 'Owners’ Emergency
Guide Book.’ Thb book tells how to
care for your car; how to keep it in
reliable condition, even though it may
stand idle for weeks at a time. It
explains how to find and correct minor
troubles in carburettor, fuel pump,
distributor, ignition, generator, spark
plugs and fan belt. Other useful and
helpful information is included.
TO SECURE YOUR COPY
We shall be happy to send,
your copy free and post free.
Simply fill in the coupon and
post it to the address shown.
Or ask your local Ford Dealer
and he will arrange with us
to forward you a copy.
V
NORTH GEELONG VIC
Name.
Address
Car..
■Model.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Vic.) F 213.30.1
SMOKE-OH!
“The bridegroom, who wore white satin with
a tulle veil with orange blossom, carried a sheaf
of white arum lilies. The bride appeared five
minutes later.” — Suburban paper.
Perhaps she was having trouble with
her new braces.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘The women, of course, think Barbara is
conceited about her complexion,’ said the
colonel, ‘but I am not so sure about it.’ ”
—-Short story.
Maybe she was just putting it on.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Remember, Mary, that it is the girl with
brains who gets on.” — Dorothy Dix.
But it’s the girl without brains who so
often gets off.
“ ‘Yes,’ said Mrs. Driscoll proudly, ‘Leslie
is certainly a success. There aren’t too many
young men who can boast that the whole of a
great factory revolves about them.’ ”
—Serial novel.
What about some of the hands when
they knock off on pay nights?
4* *!• 4*
Some chaps seem to have a natural
bent for being broke.
4* 4* 4- 4*
“A Belfast council has banned all books
by P. G. Wodehouse.”
Doesn’t like his funny business.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Eire’s Fuel Shortage.”— News heading.
For peat’s sake!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Health Section.
“What exercise would you recommend for
waistline reduction?”
—Newspaper correspondent.
Take a deep breath, placing tips of
fingers on toes, and lean backwards until
the line of vision is level with the knees.
Now raise the feet alternately and place
them gently on the navel, keeping the
elbows stiffly against the small of the
back. Exhale, then take another deep
breath, meanwhile clasping both ankles
with the free hand. Then keep throwing
your head back sharply until you feel
something snap near where your back
collar stud rests.
Thereafter you will cease to be troubled
with your waistline.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Men’s shirts in Britain to be reduced two
inches.” — Cable.
Thereby doesn’t hang a tail.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘My Dearest Boy: God alone knows how
I miss you. The nights are so lonely without
you, my angle of love.’ ” — Letter in divorce case.
If she had been prophetic she’d have
said tri-angle.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Left husband (on dole) for lover (on dole).”
— “Truth.”
At least he’d be able to keep her in
the position to which she was accus-
tomed.
Costly Tears.
Blurber slammed the front door. Blast
women! He’d left his wife blubbering in
the house. The tears she had wept did
nothing to melt the chunk of ice which
Blurber used as a heart.
“Every time she howls like that it
means money,” he growled to a pub pal
later ; “and I’m no millionaire.”
“Yair, my wife’s the same. She wins
a row by busting into tears and then I
have to square off by buying her a new
dress or something.”
“Oh, we haven’t had a row,” Blurber
explained irritably. “But she’s peeling
onions, see? She’ll ruin me. Fancy
buying onions now when they’re a bob
a pound!”
E.
*?•
“Among the year’s bankrupts was a one-
time swimming champion.”— Financial review.
You’d think he’d be able to keep his
head above water!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“With the greatest wood will the girls them-
selves take turns at waiting on the table on the
maid’s day off.” — “Sunday Sun.”
A knotty problem this! It’s sad
(If we’d believe the printer).
A will of wood is very bad —
Too often it will splinter.
Loo.
If They’d Had “Famous” Correspon-
dents and Observers at the Battle of
Hastings.
II.
From Noall Blumermaeker, at an undisclosed
operational base somewhere in Sussex.
I predicted some time ago that our
armies would be seriously embarrassed
in the field if we stuck to elderly generals
who should be being pushed around in
Bath chairs instead of teetering about a
battlefield trying to put into practice out-
of-date textbook ideas.
My views have been amply confirmed
at Hastings. Harold was allowed to take
up a strong position on top of a hill.
To even a layman it must have been
patent that the Norman army would be
at a great disadvantage, and this was
borne out in the opening phases of the
battle. Our archers, thanks to com-
manders who wouldn’t be guided by ex-
perienced correspondents, wasted valu-
able arrows in shooting uphill, which
reduced their striking power. The Breton
charge from the left wing failed, as must
have been obvious to the veriest tyro in
warfare, for the Bretons are not good
shock troops. The result has been that
we have had to adjust our line.
* * * ♦
Special to the Normandy “Looking
Glass” from Ethelfried Boom.
Our reverse at Hastings, while no sur-
prise, is more political than military. The
effects of our serious loss of prestige and
je ne sais quoi will have grave repercus-
sions throughout Brittany, Gaul and
among the Saracens. But what were our
broadswordsmen doing? As I remarked
to one of the Martels who dropped in
to discuss high affairs with me, are they
just expensive, gilt-trapped showpieces?
More than ever does this bear out my
demand for a second front —aye, and a
third and a fourth front, if need be! —
against the redoubtable and brilliant
Harold.
* * * *
Later. —From Noall Blumermaeker, at
an advanced operational base somewhere
near somewhere.
Although the situation is still fluid, it
shows signs that it may shortly be jelling.
Our Bretons went up Senlac hill at a
great pace, and came down at a greater
pace, hotly pursued by the fyrd levies
of the English. The Bretons, masters
of mobile warfare over a vast shifting
front, certainly lacked nothing in mobil-
ity. I have had another hairbreadth
escape from death. Less than half an
hour after I had left my vantage point
an English arrow, I am told, flew within
, twenty feet of where my head probably
would have been if I had stopped there.
* * * *
Commentary prepared by Gurt Seldom-
berg and read to hearers in Caen, Nor-
mandy, by the town crier.
Der baddle ad Hastings going nod so
hodt iss. Der Engelisch soldiery moved
vorwart half, und dis enabled our army
to move bagwards hass. Perhabs dis
der plessing in disguise may prove, vor
id enables our vorces greater mobility
und vill our defences in depth test. Von
t’ing appears blain—if der Bretons un-
able are to wit’stand der Engelisch pres-
sure und yield more ground, dey fall
back still farder must. Should dey make
der stand, however, dey vill halted der
enemy half.
Bo.
Defence.
Now pray be logical, my sweet.
And make this fit of temper end.
’Tis true that I arranged a meet
With Angela, your dainty friend,
But why should that create a stir
And make you wildly scream and slap ?
You know that You’ve been out with her,
And was I jealous? Not a scrap!
T. W. NATHAN.
Mental Arithmetic.
“Some women not at all good at figures
show a remarkable aptitude for mental arith-
metic.”— Woman’s paper.
Too right they do.
Maria thinks of a \ number of griev-
ances, trebles them, adds “for heaven’s
sake don’t rustle your paper when I’m
talking and listen to me,” subtracts from
all my arguments, divides my attention
by a few casual remarks about the turpi-
tude of my relatives and takes away the
character of my own particular friends.
Then she works it out that the sum total
of her grievances can easily be doubled
by harping on what she has already said,
after which she adds another two hours’
argument for luck, plus all the side issues
she can think of.
Maria thinks she has lost her punch if
the answer doesn’t total up to a new hat.
H. M.
Home Truth.
“Listeners awaiting the war commentary after
the 8.8. C. news today were startled to hear
an angry voice saying ‘You’re a lot of bloody
fools.’ ” — “Sunday Sun.”
To listen to an epithet
Like that is apt to jar
Upon our finer senses; yet.
Considering the tripe we get
From 8.8. C. straight to our set
I’m satisfied we are ! ”
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4»d. per line; all others 3?id. per line.
“Knocking” the Soldier
Cheers for the article (B. 24/6/’42)
“ ‘Knocking’ Soldiers.” After 18 months
abroad and viewing the military out-
put of at least ten different countries,
I can endorse The Bulletin’s contention
regarding the bearing of the A.I.F. In
the several countries I have sampled I
have found no soldiers who could compare
with our own, either in bearing, conduct
or physique. Go to any country where
Diggers are stationed and you will find
they stand apart as soldiers and as men.
The critics at home don’t know what
they are talking about. Admittedly a
few Diggers get out of hand, but so do
a few civilians, and so do a few soldiers
of any and every nationality. I have
seen soldiers from at least ten dif-
ferent countries performing in the streets
more frequently and in a worse manner
than I’ve ever seen our own Diggers.
But the newspapers and the radio stations
of those countries don’t advertise the mis-
conduct of their troops. Only in Aus-
tralia does this type of critic get any
publicity.
I have noticed, too, that the people who
so loudly decry our conduct have never
been in uniform and are never likely to
be. What do they know of a soldier’s
feelings? How can they be expected to
realise the irksome monotony of army
life or the freedom a soldier feels on
leave? How can they understand the
awful loneliness that grips these men in
a foreign land when they hunger for
even a word or two of English? And
can they imagine what it is like to walk
the streets of a foreign city conscious of
the fact that every beggar, thief and
trader regards one as fair game to be
plucked? Having experienced all these
things, I have never been ashamed of
the conduct of a few of my fellow-
soldiers —rather I’ve marvelled that so
very few go over the edge.
Now we’re told we are ill-dressed and
slovenly; we don’t cut nice figures in
our uniforms. Well, if well-cut uniforms
and brass buttons will win this war let
us have them by all means. But when
the time for action comes our old and
well-tried A.I.F. tunics will do. When
our critics can find fault with our con-
duct on the battlefield they’ll be justified
in voicing their opinions. Until then the
Diggers will regard them with tolerant
contempt. —V. X. (Australia).
An Englishman Speaks
As an Englishman on my first visit to
Australia I feel I should be doing you an
injustice by not expressing my sincere
appreciation of The Bulletin. I have
read periodicals in many parts of the
world but I have never before enjoyed
such all-round reading entertainment as
your paper offers.
I was particularly pleased to read your
denunciations of apathy in Australia. I
was reluctant to believe it on hearsay, but
now I have seen for myself. Incidentally,
one sometimes hears “England has let us
down.” I wonder if this type of Aus-
tralian realises the size of the U.K. You
know well enough we are fighting on
every side with everything we have, and
as much as England can spare comes
here. It is not a pleasant sentiment to
hear when one has just travelled 13,000
miles with a load of war stores, which,
incidentally, would have made quite a
hole in the ocean if brought into contact
with an enemy torpedo.
I honestly dread to think how the aver-
age Australian grumbler would manage
to survive a spell in war-time England.
I think the time has come for some
Australians to cease shouting about lack of
help and to start thinking about helping
themselves. With the wages being earned
your Second Liberty Loan should have
been oversubscribed twofold instead of
a measly million. My home village,
Romiley, has a population of around
8000 people. In pur Warships Week, held
shortly before I left home last time,
£lOO,OOO was aimed at. The actual sum
raised in this small, spread-out country
area was £150,000. Let Australians
think about, that, —R. A. (Cheshire).
Second Front
With all due respect to “Old Digger”
(B. 1/7/’42) I, returned from this war,
contend that it is in no way comparable
with the last one. It may have taken
three weeks to move one division in the
1914-18, but events in Tobruk, Malaya
and other theatres have proved that the
enemy can move divisions fully equipped
far more rapidly than that. This war is
dominated by speed such as no one can
appreciate unless one has been in it and
seen just what this modern equipment is
1 capable of doing, amji what can be done
. with it.
A second front might be impracticable,
but, on the other hand, it has been proved
by parachute and commando raids on the
French coast that a landing can be under-
taken and that great and considerable
; damage can be caused to the German de-
fences on this coast. And if it is the
special request of the Russian Govern-
ment for aid by conflict we should not
regard it lightly, in view of the heroism
shown by the Russian fighters. In
1914-18 a divided front caused the
German army much hindrance and pre-
vented the enemy from throwing his full
strength against the Allied arms. —
H. P.R. (Vic.).
There are people in this country, as
well as Australia, who aver that Russia
“came into” this war to save the
British Empire. They won’t allow that
Russia, being attacked, had to fight if
she wanted to save herself —not discredit-
ing the noble fight she has put up, and is
putting up at the present time.
Such people do not care how many
British lives are sacrificed in a useless
expedition as long as it satisfied their
intense loyalty for Russia —most of them
have never seen a Russian or even spoken
to one. By the same token they think
that Russia should “lay off” Japan.
Strange thinking!— Kangakiwi (M.L.).
The Merchant Seamen
We have read with great pleasure the
sympathy of your journal in advocacy of
appropriate official steps to remove the
age-long discriminations against mer-
chant seamen in all directions where they
have been excluded from acknowledg-
ments, benefits and consideration ex-
tended to other branches of our fighting
forces.
Our association has been established
for the sole purpose of stimulating public
opinion towards influencing equitable
determinations in official and service
quarters. The attitude of your great
paper is characteristically Australian, and
I have been directed to forward this ex-
pression of gratitude.— Dorothy Jack,
Hon. Secretary-Treasurer (N.S.W.).
Militia Wharf-lumpers
Having just returned from Port
Moresby I’d like to put in a word for the
good job a section of the Australian
militia is doing in handling cargo.
Almost immediately the ship berthed the
first item landed safe and neatly on
the wharf. The scene from then until
the hatches were empty was a regular
hive of industry, and the cargo was
handled with a dexterity and a sureness
that were surprising in men who could
have had little or no previous experience
at such work.
And though work was carried on with
remarkable speed the bellowing and tem-
pestuous atmosphere usually associated
with the waterfront played no part what-
ever with these enthusiastic lads, who re-
ceived quietly spoken orders from their
superiors with a nod and a smile of com-
plete understanding.
When the job was over and the various
gangs had left the ship there was not
one member of the crew, from peggy-boy
to the captain, who did not acknowledge
the excellent work the soldiers had done.
—E.A. McL. (N.S.W.).
S.A.’s Transport Board
Pressmen in Adelaide have been stirred
by one of the worst examples of restrict-
ing the freedom of the press since the
war began. Knight Richard Butler,
Director of Transport, used the free
columns of the dailies to call a meeting
of “all interested in the carriage of
goods.” Although it was a public meet-
ing pressmen were forbidden to report
the proceedings. It is little wonder that
under such methods transport in this
State is in a muddle.
The Transport Board issued an order
that no one, whether farmer, private
owner, carrier, trader or anyone else, may
drive a commercial vehicle, loaded or
unloaded, on the roads of Yorke Penin-
sula without a permit from the board.
This in an area of nearly 4000 square
miles without a mile of railway. Still
another order from the same place pro-
hibits anyone from bringing produce or
stock to Adelaide from beyond an area
I of 20 miles, irrespective of whether the
vehicle is fitted with a gas producer or
whether the farmers and gardeners con-
cerned were in the habit of serving the
city. That eggs and vegetables are rare
and costly is only one result.
The operations of this Transport Con-
trol Board, which is really a continuation
of the old State Railways transport con-
trol, have brought nothing but resent-
ment and criticism from producers and
carriers. Its latest exploit—prohibiting
the reporting of a public meeting—should
not be allowed to go unchallenged. -
Camsa (S.A.).
“Houdini’s Successor”
That Churchill cartoon is going to
raise a fuss, and the “fors” and “againsts”
are going to get red in the face about it.
For a start, let me say definitely I’m one
of those who are against it. I’m strongly
against the way it was presented ; instead
of being tucked away in one corner it
should have been a full front page. That
cartoon said more in a few words than
five volumes could cover.
If I am allowed to offer advice to
Scorfield, or if I’m permitted to ask him
a question, I want to know why Gal-
lipoli and Antwerp were omitted from the
snares into which C. stumbled. Also, at
least, there should have been a busted
rat-trap in the background labelled
“Sidney-street.” That was where his
famous siege took place, wasn’t it? That
was the first time Winston showed the
lamentable lack of balance and judgment
of perspective which has cursed him ever
since.— Wait-and-see (Q.).
’ I ’ AYfnnAk <!
“Lord Luvus” (B. 24/6/’42) must be
one of those people who don’t want an-
other book because someone once gave
them one. There’s not a tradesman or
scholar in the world who has not had
to fall back on his books for revision or
for better knowledge. Even Harvey, whom
“L.L.” quotes as a non-bookman, saw
fit to put his discoveries into book form,
and so they are available to modern
students. Newton and Copernicus and
Einstein and countless others have done
the same. If you want to learn you’ve
got to read. —J O. L. (N.S.W.).
Education
If any finally damning evidence of our
past short-sighted educational attitude
were needed, it is furnished daily in the
radio appeals for “men to undergo tech-
nical training.”
For years the chief aim of primary
schooling was to get youngsters through
“ Cripes, look at this one, Joe!"
the entrance-to-high-school exam. That
was the standard by which they were
judged; if they couldn’t pass for high
school —well, they could go to junior
tech. Coaches were used to cram many
a potential first-rate plumber, fitter or
welder through to “high,” from which he
dragged on to become a stodgy clerk or
a fifth-rate teacher, dentist or lawyer.
Further, the white-collar fetish, tragi-
cally nurtured by many a misguided
mother, still regarded greasy hands as
evidence of some lower order; so that
when the bright son of sensible parents
enrolled for tech, when he could have
gone to high he was offered as much
condolence as congratulation.
Now, R.A.A.F. schools of technical
training are sending out a steady stream
of former pen-pushers equipped with
sufficient basic knowledge to enable them
to become a credit to their overalls ; and
you’ll notice that the blacksmiths, copper-
smiths, turners, welders, instrument
makers and various specialised carpen-
ters, mechanics and fitters are all in the
best-paid and closely-guarded Group 1 —
the few clerks and typists necessary are
placed several grades lower.— Wippegong
(A.C.T.).
“Emsy” (B. 24/6/’42) is under a mis-
apprehension as to the meaning of the
word “education.” It signifies training
or instruction, and has its origin in the
Latin duco, to lead —thus, educo, mean-
ing to lead or draw out.
Environment and external influence
are not educational, but are manifest
largely in the opinions and thought trends
of the individual. The task of education
is not to formulate the child’s opinions
or dictate what he shall think, but to
teach him impartially how to do these
things. Its first purpose is to equip him
with a trade of profession and to give
him facility in the manipulation of his
own language, so that he may read with
understanding. Secondly, it is to train
him in the use of logic and scientific
method, and to give him such a basis for
objective reasoning that he may apply it
to everyday life and learn to examine
everything analytically with absolute free-
dom from bias and dogma. It should
teach him something of art and culture
and imbue him with a desire to supple-
ment that knowledge and to use his
powers of observation.
Present education, however, consists of
a large amount of memory training and
not much else. The high school student
is introduced to science and mathematics,
but is not taught how to apply their prin-
cipia to the problems of life. Attempts
at cultural development are clumsy and
individual psychology is practically un-
known, particularly in the development
of the child’s natural talents.
The modern child’s environment is
detrimental to his education. The average
home influence is generally poor, since
parents are not sufficiently interested in
the intellectual development of their chil-
dren. The cinemas and radio, which
could be beneficial, merely cater for the
blatant and mundane tastes fostered by
the education system. The supply is gov-
erned by the demand, and the astute pro-
ducer realises that, the more rubbish he
provides for public consumption, the
greater the demand and the bigger his
profits.
All this has the effect of producing a
race in which there is no depth of culture,
but almost complete mental stagnation—
a race whose intellect is dominated by
its emotions. It is bad for both the indi-
vidual and the community, and action
against it should be implemented at once.
—D. M. Bray (N.S.W.).


The
ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
“E.S.A.”
branl
T res f ° r Frui t Tre
P Ur booklet “R f , PlckJl «g-
.Sft> b y
£**» H,;/"™ and O rdl ."™'
re quest. e s ®it glstcll
[ y on
lnx
bearing metals
GRApfjjjy£„
of ,t,r, d „j
base and an< N ran Re of
c adrnium-ni c Uj b faring metal T
e xtra-h* , eJ and carlJ?- etals > With
m . || eav y duty Tl r y miUrn ”siJver fU-
rrie taJJurg] Sts ,le C °rnpany’ s ex „
rtf”* 8 ' -fe”?
Jet will pmndj s Alio R
on the hand? 6 mudl useful inf y B ° ok ’
metals. Conf Wg , and uses n / [, mation
quest. C ° Ples *iH be senTgil^"^
s*aajy on re-
AGENTS /
PURCHASERS OF ORES, CONCENTRATES
and other material containing
COPPER SILVER GOLD
We settle promptly at the best available rates.
WRITE TODAY TO OUR Registered Office; 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 86371.
Melbourne Office; 360 Collins Street, Melbourne. M 4381.
Works: Port Kembla, N.S.W.
