

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.
—No. 3232.
Wednesday, January 21, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHARLES I DEMANDS FIVE MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT.
Whatever .he future may have in store for London, this may be accepted that its ccjourful p* hhhory cannot be exeeeded or
narrower, no less than its broader, sense, has always been on the side of pol tantl and” c,a ' i' o*"®' 0 *"®' „°”„ us °ration of London's noble trait,
this, directly leading to the Civil War which resulted in t e execu ion o - p ar ijament Pym Hampden, Hazelrig, Holies and Strode, who led the
In that year occurred the famous attempt of Charles to arrest five me members being ’sheltered in the city, Charles proceeded to the Guildhall
opposition to him. This was a violent breach of al constitutional nght. Chad’s request, being convinced that in
to demand their surrender, a scene the eminent artist, J. . P > y, dvfl waf were chus kindled . Charles left the capital and a deputation from
this instance loyalty to the throne meant treachery 1 • Lotldon * s support for the national cause. As Mullins correctly wrote, “That was a
the Commons was sent to the Court of Common to wm London Natjonai par , iament pleads for its sup Port.” The Rev. W. J.
Lof«c Tht “London ol righTLlamdth“ Charles teamed when too late that the aide of London was eventually the winning one. In the great national
strugggle German aggression forced on the Empire in 1039, London was true to its time-honoured ra i ion.
Hike Wie


Ml
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney "Bulletin.”
My Name
M y A ddress
S.B. 142
The Red Page
SEVEN FOR IMMORTALITY.
“Seven for Immortality” would have
been a safer title for Richard Church’s
little collection of critical essays than the
chosen Eight for Immortality (Dent), for
his eight contemporary “immortals” are
all poets, and so lethal are all arguments
about poetry that every reader is certain
to consign one or other of the eternals
to the dust.
Except in the case of Robert Frost,
whom —with too much enthusiasm; for
Frost, though he has been an important
influence in American poetry, lacks the
fire and the depth of a great artist —he
describes as a major poet, Mr. Church
fails to qualify his immortalities into
major and minor 1 . But, accepting Yeats
and Eliot as somewhere near major im-
mortals, and Davies, De la Mare, Blunden
and Robert Graves as fixed stars of the
second rank, this commentator’s only
query is the inclusion of Victoria Sack-
ville-West in such high company.
Yet Mr. Church pleads for her very
persuasively:
Such the circumstances, such the charac-
ter, which make The Land one of the most
complete and beautiful bucolics written in
English. I think that I must have read it,
sometimes to myself, sometimes aloud,
at least 10 times, with the strengthened con-
viction that here is poetry assured of per-
manence.
From another critic, such praise might
mean little. But Mr. Church’s criticism
throughout the book is remarkable not
only for the strength and lucidity of his
convictions, but for the quiet reasonable-
ness on which they are based. So that
at least he persuades one to re-read his
poets before disagreeing with him.
It is appreciation and defence he sub-
mits, rather than attack. He doesn’t say
that his eight are the only contemporary
immortals; they are, presumably, the
ones whose poetry he likes best. But the
attack, if not often explicit, is implicit in
every paragraph of these essays in de-
fence of simplicity, clarity, the lyric and
the poetry of the countryside: essentially
an attack on Eliot. Not the later Eliot,
who has become a simple, earnest and
profound seeker after intimations of
living divinity among the broken idols of
“The Waste Land”; but the early Eliot
whose wilful obscurity—in his own work
and in the works of others under his
influence —gave the public such a fright
that it has not yet come back to the read-
ing of poetry.
“The Victorians,” Mr. Church points
out, “wanted Tennyson’s poems so much
that publishers were glad to pay him a
retaining fee of seven thousand a year on
seven-year contracts!” What went wrong
with poetry or the world that even so
good and clear a poet as Yeats never
made more than £2OO a year out of his
work until he was over fifty? There are
two answers: T. S. Eliot; and the cheap-
ness and impatience of the age; and
anybody who wants a really good head-
ache is welcome to try to assess the
amount of blame to which each is en-
titled.
Mr. Church attaches more blame to
Pound than to Eliot, because Eliot learnt
his trade from Pound, and because
Pound, unlike Eliot, has never re-
pented ;
Ezra Pound, whose verse with its exploi-
tation of a dubious scholarship has out-
raged our academics and bored many
lovers of poetry; myself among them
His verse has for me the quality of an
archaeological junk-shop run by a Levantine
in the Tottenham Court-road.
Angry with Pound and the early Eliot,
Mr. Church is suspicious of the newer
poets who took from Eliot the aridity of
intellectualism and added to it the
spiritual poverty of Communism; sus-
picious of “Auden, Day Lewis, Spender
and others whose technique is slight and
whose theory of living is dogmatic and
puerile.” Here he is rash; Auden (how
is he getting on in America since Uncle
Sam came into the war?) may do remark-
able work if he comes to his senses ; Day
Lewis, Spender and MacNeice have all
written poetry fine enough to suggest
that some future lover of orthodoxy will
come to terms with them as Mr. Church
has with Eliot.
Behind Mr. Church’s indignation, lies
resentment at the mere fact that he has had
to write Eight for Immortality; that the
great highbrow invasion of poetry and
criticism has made it necessary to defend
such poets as Davies or Edmund Blunden.
He has to defend nature poetry as if
Auden had abolished the sun, Spender
the moon, Day Lewis the animal and
vegetable creation and Eliot all the earth
except the deserts of “The Waste Land.”
Against this wholesale liquidation, he
fights well; not, as he well might, stop-
ping to point out that the everlasting hills
are likely to last out any of their antago-
nists, but stressing the deep pantheistic
significance of what, superficially, seems
merely a “poetry of escape”:
So it is with the poetry of this Wealden
man; a stretch of country of the mind, in
which one feels native, yet is ever con-
fronted with surprises that startle moments
into ecstasy out of time.
As good an advocate for his theory of
poetry as any of his arguments is Mr.
Church’s prose style in itself. Unlike the
criticism that followed Eliot’s learned criti-
cism, Mr. Church’s essays read as fine
English prose rather than treatises on the
quantum theory by experts who don’t
understand it. Eight for Immortality is
a pleasure to read; and that is also true
of the poets he writes about.
Water, Water Everywhere .
Water. Yes, water. That wonderful
wet substance Sydney used to be able
to wash in. You get it out of taps.
How beautiful now to read a whole
book about water; millions of gallons of
genuine wet water. You have only to
take lon Idriess’s The Great Boomerang
(Angus and Robertson) within five yards
of a lettuce and its sad heart beats again,
five yards of a cucumber and it becomes
as cool as a cucumber. A member of
Sydney’s celebrated No-Water Board is
reported to have jumped into page 75
and drowned himself.
But it is not for Sydney’s benefit (alas!)
that Idriess has turned waterspout. It is
for the immediate good of the Dead
Heart and for the ultimate good of all
Australia. The Great Boomerang is a
plan to fill with water again Australia’s
enormous inland river and lake system.
Let us try to judge just what would
happen if we could fill the entire lakes
system with fresh water, not only Lake
Eyre, but all the great lakes, a thousand
lakes.
The Lake Eyre Basin itself is of 4000
square miles. Imagine the lake full of
water in place of the present desolation.
Besides Lake Eyre North and Lake Eyre
South, there are Lake Hope, Lake Howitt,
Coongie Lakes, Goyder’s Lake and the
huge marshes of Goyder’s Lagoon; then
Lake Perigundi, Lake Uloowaranie, Lake
Poolanna, Lake Dobie, Lake Poolowanna,
Lake Killalpaninna, Lake ... and hundreds
of other lakes to the north-east and north,
not to mention the south-west Queensland
lakes and marshes. South of Lake Eyre
is the great Lake Torrens; south-east, there
are the big lakes Gregory, Blanche, Calla-
bonna, Frome and numerous smaller lakes.
When the partial filling of Lake Eyre means
prosperity to the surrounding district for
years, what would the filling of the thou-
sand lakes mean to Australia!
What it would mean, Idriess considers
in detail: gigantic areas available for
settlement; land and a living for not
thousands but millions of immigrants;
work for thousands putting the scheme
into operation ; the possibility of huge
electric-power schemes and the con-
sequent flourishing of industry... the
making of this country.
Is it all a dream? Before condemning
it as fantastic, anyone will have to admit
with Idriess a few plain facts: (1) that
vast public works will probably have to
be started after the war to provide work
for returned men and to avert a slump ;
(2) that immigration on a big scab will
have to be encouraged if Australia is to
go ahead as a nation and if it Ss 4o be
safe from the perpetual threat of the
millions of the East; (3) that colossal ex-
penditures can be faced in peace as well
as in war; and (4) that, as the Jews have
shown in Palestine, good country cm be
made out of desert.
Where’s the water to come from?
From the Queensland coastal rivers.
We must lift or divert the floodwaters
from the eastern Queensland coast and drop
them back over the ranges into the head-
water channels of the inland rivers: the
Cooper and the Diamantina in particular,
the Georgina as the Plan develops, and
later the Bulloo, Paroo and Warrego. We
must divert the headwaters of the northern
rivers which flow into the Gulf of Carpen-
taria and, by means of channel, cutting
or tunnel, lead them back into the head
channels of the Diamantina and Georgina.
Impossible? Idriess argues it out;
points out that Western Australia, 38
years ago, with a population of 200,000,
was lifting water 1300 feet and sending
it by pipeline 350 miles through waterless
country to the goldfields; he mentions
that an engineer of the standing of Dr.
Bradfield advocates “diverting the head-
waters of the Tully, Herbert and Burdekin
rivers over the western watershed by
means of canal and tunnel, to irrigate
western rivers and districts” ; he believes
that his own Plan would work.
Whether it would or not is for experts
to decide. But it is worth reading about,
thinking about. Idriess knows the
country, and he presents his ideas clearly
and simply. The book’s packed with
adventures and anecdotes, illustrated with
photographs, and (except for an ’orrible
ghost story) is good Idriess as well as
good Australianism.
Commonwealth Fund Verse.
The Poems of Lesbia Harford: edited by
Nettie Palmer (Melbourne University Press).
Lesbia Harford died 15 years ago. Her
output was slight, and the verse is slight,
technically and in content; it has the
beginnings of a strongly feminine state-
ment, such as Emily Dickinson’s or Edna
St. Vincent Millay’s, but it doesn’t make
the full statement; it begins to make a
statement about factory work (years be-
fore Day Lewis!), but half a dozen
verses don’t make a Statement any more
than half a dozen drops make a beaker
full of the warm south.
So the Commonwealth Fund guarantee
—if the Fund is for works of national
importance—is hardly justifiable.
Read for its own sake, the verse has
much charm; and, amidst its slightness,
the strength of integrity. Every poem,
gay, tender, indignant or elusive, is a
revelation of personality, and the com-
plete book is a complete woman; a self-
portrait clearer and more charming than
could be conveyed in a prose auto-
biography :
He looks in my heart and the image there
Is himself, himself, than himself more fair.
And he thinks of my heart as a mirror clear
To reflect the image I hold most dear.
But my heart is more like a stream, I think,
Where my lover may come when he needs to
drink.
the hidden waters run strong and free,
Unheeded, unguessed at, the soul of me.
Two Works on Camouflage .
7he Art of Camouflage, by Lieut.-Col.
C. H. R. Chcsey (Hale, Ltd.), and The House-
wife’s Beauty Book, by Ursula Bloom (same
publisher).
According to the Colonel, “The first
British name connected with the subject
of camouflage is Solomon J. Solomon.”
That appears to establish the Colonel’s
qualifications to discuss camouflage as an
art.
Front-line Diggers of the last war will
corroborate his statement touching on
the dummy trees used as observation
posts, that “you could walk past one at
a distance of two feet and not realise
that it was a dummy till you tapped it.”
An artist would go to a handy trench or
shellhole, make a copy of the coloring
and shape of a suitable tree; then, at
night, the original would be carefully re-
moved, and its steel-lined replica set up
in its place, ready, complete with observer
inside, for use by day. It seems hard to
credit —but the Colonel vouches for it —
that “not one single casualty” occurred
in these dummy trees.
Miss Bloom advises: “Don’t sit down
to the fact that your face is the one that
Heaven gave you, and you have got to
put up with it. You can change it quite
a lot.” In making-up, “always remember
to dust the lashes after powdering. A
pipe-cleaner is splendid for this purpose.”
To “make a thick mouth look thinner,
lipstick it lightly all over ; widen the bow
with a lip pencil, and then block in the
corners ” (the italics are not Miss Bloom’s,
but the point seems important).
Oh, and for rubbing down after the
bath, girls, use one of the “harsher towels
the sort supplied to the Admiralty
are excellent.”
The Colonel is too happy being what’s
called “popular” to get down to very
much solid discussion of the art. He
writes for the general public, and is better
as an entertainer than as an instructor.
Miss Bloom sticks to the art with that
passion for detail which is said to denote
genius. Her book can be specially re-
commended to any struggling author who
has the misfortune to find himself with a
plain or unprepossessing heroine on his
hands. Treat her according to Miss
Bloom’s directions, and the result ought
to be a best-seller. A greasy heroine, for
instance, is soon cured. Nobody, says
Miss Bloom, is born greasy. First take
your heroine, then thoroughly clean her.
Jungle Friends: Osa Johnson (Hale).
Adventure in photographing and catch-
ing jungle animals per ’plane, with capital
photographic illustrations and early
kindergarten style.
Congo Doctor: W. E. Davis, M.D.
(Hale). Ten years of an American’s per-
sonal experiences in that line. Anybody
heading for such parts might perhaps read
it with profit.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Enter Ned and Dan Kelly, Joe Byrne
and Steve Hart, riding on an avalanche
ot coincidence. Also on N. S. Wales Chief
Secretary Baddeley’s piebald bull, foaled
when calling off a ban on a Kelly film:-
It would be ludicrous to ban such a pic-
ture when the world is experiencing the
unbridled horrors of war.
“T. the R.’s” Muse (B. 14/1/’42) gently
questioned Mr. Baddeley on that; but
Mr. Baddeley spoke with an air of con-
viction, after having seen the film,
, The . lifted ban-imposed in the Stygian
twenties on all Kelly films, good, indif-
ferent or secret-weapon—heralded the
worst wowser Blitz Australia has wit-
nessed. Bookr'mps were raided ; Customs
officials made a little brief authority
serve as a blanket; book-burnings by
apprentice hangmen were celebrated in
obscure hideouts. For those who like
something to chew over between meals
it can be added that, whereas art was
touched most gingerly and the stage only
mildly mauled, literature was attacked
with head-hunting ferocity. Cynical
(war - time) conclusion: comparative
strength equals comparative immunity?
Stated that one film now to be shown
by courtesy of Mr. Baddeley—“When the
Kellys Rode”—was made in 1923. Its
whiskers are 10 years shorter. Leslie
Simpson, a Sydney solicitor with a han-
kering for wild adventure—finally he set
out from Lord Howe Island for Sydney
with a fellow-film actor in an outboard
motor-boat and vanished —played Ned.
If filmhouses want something more
nearly contemporaneous they might dig
out “The Kelly Gang” (vintage 1906),
described by Edmund Fisher back in the
“Lone Hand” as “nearly 4000 ft.” long,
and “a very creditable first attempt at
picture-drama in Australia.” More is
claimed for it in the recent This Australia
(Angus and Robertson), in which broad-
caster Bill Beatty, who makes tip-
top radio entertainment out of his sin-
gular knowledge of Australian curiosa,
calls it “the world’s first full-length
feature film.” A Melbourne product, it
cost “the stupendous sum of £160” and
made a fortune.
Also in the Kelly avalanche —is war
atmosphere accountable?—a booklet, The
Death of Ned Kelly, and Other Ballads,
by John Manifold (Favil Press), just
arrived from London, and a new play on
the Kellys just written in Australia when
Ned and co, were ambiguously reprieved
by Mr, Baddeley. The balladist declaims:
“Come out of that, Ned Kelly,” the head
zarucker calls,
“Come out and leave your shelter, or
we’ll shoot it full of holes.”
A surprising rhyme . . . The play—“ Ned
Kelly,” by Douglas Stewart—is, like his
“Fire on the Snow,” a verse play, but for
the stage, not for radio. Because of the
dramatic strength in the conception of
Ned, it would require certainly one really
good actor. A direct —and practical-
stage drama, it could prove another win-
ner for Sydney Minerva, where a striking
stage success is being made of “The Man
Who Came to Dinner.”
A show of mostly oldish pictures by
Australian painters has been doing the
rounds of N.S.W. schools, its main point
the unintentional one of showing how
some painters steadily improve while
others recede—landscapes by Robert
Johnston, for example, much better than
anything he has recently painted ; on the
other hand, quite recent work by John D.
Moore right up to his high-water mark.
As the Chinese have it, in a typhoon
there are pears to gather. Owing to diffi-
culty in getting new confections, film
houses have been brushing the cobwebs
off old ones. As a result, Melbourne
Showman reports, the standard of film
entertainment has perceptibly improved.
The Australia, in Collins-street, has put
on a whole string of former successes,
from “Wuthering Heights” to “The In-
former,” and this latter stands up to
inspection as a much better film than
any of its imitators, the photography just
as good as if not better than the latest
technical marvels emanating from the
studios, and Victor McLaglen’s acting
better than anything recently seen of him.
Nine out of ten Hollywood comedies
being about (1) marriage, (2) divorce, (3)
marriage and divorce, (4) divorce and
marriage, “Skylark,” at Sydney Prince
Edward, fits in by relating how a mag-
nate’s wife finds herself neglected in favor
of business, how she divorces him and
how, after a brief interlude with another,
she sprints back. Claudette Colbert
(wife), Ray Mil land (husband), Brian
Aherne (interloper), Walter Abel (genial
friend); roles calling for no histrionic
ability—all they have to do is wander
about in front of the camera, with cus-
tomary self-assurance. They do that very
well.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —plain facts, open dealings. “THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
★
fa****
dfd
.
i;-4-
• ■; ';•/•:
■ ' ■
m
...... vitssssmt**.™..
S
•■ .<;;; ; -
• ...;>;■
mm
\ -xw-V:
%m
'■ Sss
"*>«» .
ws#x
■
:
;
THE quality of our Furniture comes from rigid
Standards —-the best of materials and correct
cabinet woods expertly joined and finished by cap-
able Craftsmen. Substantial value even at their
regular price, the pieces illustrated here are Extremely
Good Buying at Special Sale Reductions.
£35 BEDROOM SUITE
£29/17/6
Four-Piece Figured Walnut Veneer Bed-
room Suite, manufactured in our own
factory. Full size roomy Wardrobe
fitted with silky oak drawers and
shelves: attractive Dressing Table with
adjustable rimless Mirror, cabriole legs
and five drawers; fitted Lowboy and
4ft. 6in. Bedstead complete with suite.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price, £35
SALE PRICE £29/17/6
{Deposit 59/9. 18 Monthly Payments of
32/1)
£l9/17/6 Hammock £lB/10/-
Lawn Hammpck, strongly woven wire mattress, flock
filled mattress and canopy top, covered in Laid wearing
canvas. Obtainable in green, red, or multi coloured
canvas. At Anthony Horderns'. Price .... £l9/17/6
SALE PRICE £’*/10/-
(Deposit 37/-, 12 Monthly Payments of 29/2)
£lO/12/6Cane Day Bed £9/1 2/6
Cane Day Bed, strongly made and comfortable, bound
with lacquered cane binding. Complete with cushion
and pillow covered with shadow tissue material. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price ,•••■• £lO/12/6
SALE PRICE £9/12/6
(Deposit 19/3. 6 Monthly Payments of 29/7)
c
£l9/10/- LOUNGE SUITES
£lB/5/-
Three-Piece Polished Show Wood Lounge Suite
finished a medium brown walnut colour, com-'
prising Settee and two Chairs with deeply sprung
seats and comfortable backs covered in modern
tapestry finished with a cane panel. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price £l9/10/-
SALE PRICE £lB/5/-
(Deposil 36/6. 12 Monthly Payments of 28/9)
£25/10/- OAK DINING ROOM SUITE
£23/19/6
Six-Piece Oak Dining Suite comprising a sft. Sideboard with
linen and cutlery drawers and ample cupboard space; lab.e
sft. x 2ft. 9in.; four Chairs with sprung fabncoid covered seats.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price
SALE PRICE £23/19/6
(Deposit 48/-, 18 Monthly Payments of 25/10)
• Furniture—Third and Fourth Floors. Delivered free only within our delivery
area .
is
,
Mi
S
'Phone; M 2401, Day and Night Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


THE PRINCE OF MINERS AND
By JAMES HACKSTON.
‘ ‘ O LUGS of gold as big as ’ens’ eggs.”
\ “Salt?” mother asked, pushing it over
i j towards Old Tom.
“Gold! You should ’ave seen it.”
“Pepper?” mother asked, pushing the pepper
over to him.
“The creek bed was full of it, an’ me an’ me mate’s
eyes was dancin’ out of our ’eads.”
“Bread?” mother asked, pushing it over to him.
Old Tom grabbed the salt, salted his meat, grabbed
the pepper, peppered his meat, and then leaned over
a thin, long hand and seized a slice of bread. “Thank
y’, missus. The news spread like wildfire. Me mate
an’ me in three weeks”
“More meat?” mother asked.
“It was the greatest rush that ’ad been for years ;
fortunes were”
“Another potato?” mother asked.
Yes, he 11 have another potato,” said father hur-
riedly, drowning the rest of Old Tom’s talk. When
he started again father again blustered in and said
And give him some more tea, and—er—pass Tom the
sugar, my sonny, and, Mother, would you mind
going out and getting me another potato?”
Mother went out into the kitchen, and while she
was there father said softly “No more talk about gold
just now, Tom ; the wife’s got a very bad headache.”
Father was taking Old Tom up with him to his
cyanide plant. They were leaving next morning and
he had insisted on mother putting Tom up for the
night. While father was cyaniding, Old Tom was to
make himself useful about the plant, and loam the
surrounding country for the reef that he said he knew
was still there—the lost reef that had escaped from
the old mine. As father said, he was very lucky to
have such a famous miner with him; Old Tom’s
knowledge and experience appertaining to gold was
prodigious. He was the prince of miners.
“And the prince of liars, too,” said mother. “I
don’t believe a word he says. When it concerns gold
you’ll swallow anything.”
That night after tea we all sat round, and it was
not long before the prince, as I called him, asked
mother how her headache was, and, on mother looking
surprised and saying that she did not have a headache,
he started off again about a famous rush. Father
fidgeted to give him a hint, but could not catch his
eye, for the prince was looking into the fire while he
was talking, and, father not being near enough to
nudge him, the prince went rambling on.
“Yes,” said the prince, “we must’ve taken close
on a ’undred an’ fifty thousan’ pounds’ worth of gold
outa that mine.”
“Well, you should be a very wealthy man now,”
said mother meaningly.
The prince sighed. “Yes, an’ so I would ’ave
been ad me partner not got away with my share of
the gold,”
“What about a cup of tea now?” said father.
“And—er—l think we’d better retire early, Tom ; we’ve
got a lot to do tomorrow.”
Mother made the tea by the fire, and the prince,
stirring his cup with his spoon as if he were shovel-
ling gravel in a creek bed, said “That wasn’t the only
fortune I’ve been robbed of, either. There was the
rich reef I”
“Another cup of tea?” mother asked.
Yes, said father. “Give Tom another cup of
tea and then—er—to bed, all of us.”
As soon as the prince had drunk his second cup,
father stood up and said “Well, what about it?” This
meant that, as the prince was sleeping on the couch
m our “drawing-room,” we all had to retire before
he could go to bed. Father stood by the lamp. “Bed,
Tom. I’m waiting to put the lamp out,”
The prince began to undress slowly, talking all
the time: “Did I ever tell y’ of the big find I made at
Tom’s Creek?”
“Er —no,” said father, interested.
Yes, Tom’s Creek; it was named after me.
What do y’ think of that; namin’ a creek after me?”
Father looked impressed.
Yes, an’ I found it in a most perticler way.”
“Walter! ” my mother called ; and father went
in to her, and there was some mumbling.
■ “ night, Tom,” said father, coming out
again. “I’m going to hit the deck now, and I’m going
to turn the lamp out.”
“Yairs,” said the prince, “in a most perticler
way.”
I could see him sitting on the edge of the couch
with his trousers dangling round his feet, and father
standing looking interested, but wanting to put the
lamp out.
“Walter!” mother called again, and this time
lather said “fell me about it some other time, Tom.”
Then he put the lamp out and scurried inside.
T HEY left next morning ; I was to follow on with
1 provisions in a fortnight’s time and stay at the
plant until father cleaned up.
When I got there I could see that with mother
not about father was listening eagerly. He’d lean on
his shovel when shovelling the tailings into the vats ;
he’d put the barrow down when carting the tailings
to the vats. Never had the prince had such
an eager audience, and as the days and nights
went by he told of still more rich finds he had dis-
covered. He had father’s interest in gold worked up
to fever-pitch. In the hut at night they’d sit up until
all hours, and they’d talk in the dark, too. Lying
in ™y bunk ’ 1 could *8 prince yabbering away
and feel father ’ s reslless rovi "8 the darkless as
he lay listening; hear him turning resllessly under
his blankets
remembering what mother had said
about the prince, I counted up all the rich finds he
had “discovered” and worked it out that if it were
all true he'd be a millionaire.
Next morning fa(her said to me ataost enviously,
“My word. Old Tom’s a wonderful man. The finds
he has made, his experiences, his knowledge.” He
stopped in wonder. “Sometimes he almost takes my
breath away ”
c , T ,, , , .
1 hmkmg of how Id counted up the princes
“finds,” I asked father gingerly, “Why is he so poor
now, after finding all the rich reefs and rushes?”
Father looked at me with a faraway look in his
eyes. “Old Tom’s interest has always been in finding
S°ld ; that has been his life’s work ; not the gold itself,
That is why he is not the wealthy man he should be
today. He is an artist, my sonny ; and just as an
artist lays aside his brushes after painting a master-
piece, and is satisfied with what he has achieved, with-
out a thought of money, so with Old Tom. When
116I 16 has f° und a rich reef or started a big rush the artist
in . him is satisfied.” Father was still looking into the
distance with a dreamy look in his eyes, “Yes, that
is why ° ld Tom is P oor today, my sonny; that is why
ke as n °thing after all the great finds he has dis-
cov.ered. He is an artist who gets all he wants out
i mt Ending the noble metal.” He sighed. “And
an artist be leaves it to others to enjoy.” Father
now P° inte d to himself. “I am different. I can’t
affor d to be like that, even if I wanted to. He’s
s i n 8 le > and I’m a married man with a wife and family
to kee P> and I have to look after number one first
and last - 1 want the gold, not the glory and the fame
of finding it.”
HT HREE days later father cleaned up. It was his
* first clean-up, and the prince was standing beside
Either when he pulled the cupels out of the furnace,
T l 6 res ult was very poor, and father stood looking
disconsolately at the miserable-looking bead of gold
that lay in each cupel. “All alike,” he said. He
looked at the prince. “Not enough gold there to
pay for our keep.”
“Oh, luck always changes,” said the prince. “The
next lot’ll turn out better.”
“Yes, maybe,” said father, “but the trouble is I
can’t go on. I’m stumped for money.”
“You’ve got t’ ’ave a big ’eart chasin’ the gold,
Wal.”
“Yes, I know all about that, and I’ve got the
heart all right, but a man has got to have money for
supplies, chemicals and so on to carry on with.”
“A miner’s got t’ ’ave a ’eart like a bullick, Wal.”
“Yes, yes,” said father. “I know all about that.
But in this case I’ll have to hang up for a while till
I get some money to carry on with.”
“Coin’ t’ leave it?” the prince asked, a bit set
back. “An’ just as I reckoned I was gettin’ the bearin’s
of that reef, too.”
“Have to close down for a little while,” said
father, more to himself than to anyone else. Then
to me, “The plant will be all right here ; I’ll put most
of the stuff in the hut and it will be quite safe. No-
body ever comes this way.”
“I remember a man once,” said the prince, “ ’oo,
because ’e gave up, lost”
“You don’t understand, Tom,” said father. “I
was staking my all on this first clean-up. Had it been
a success, or a fair success, I’d have been able to
go on indefinitely.” He looked at the prince, then,
dismally, at the small beads of gold in the cupels’
“I’ll have to go back to work for a while until I can
scrape enough together to get going again.”
The prince never said anything, and father looked
at me. “We’ll go back home tomorrow, my sonny.”
I could see by his eyes what he was thinking about
at that moment, too. He was thinking about mother
and his not being able to give her any money. Later
he said to me, “I don’t want to say anything in front
of Old Tom, but as you know we’re in a bad way
at home now. I’ve put all I had into this venture, and
mother was set against it from the start.” He slowly
shook his head. “I don’t know what mother will say.
I’ve never squared up the account at the store yet-
kept that money, too, to help me get a start again,
thinking I’d win out and be able to square up every-
thing out of this first clean-up.”
“What are you going to do?” I asked.
“Get a job for a while until I get hold of a little
cash, then square things up a bit, and then put through
a second lot of tailings, but not from the same place.
I’ll make several assays next time instead of only one,
and then I’ll be on the safe side,”
We left next day.
"THE prince stayed at our place that night, and next
1 morning caught the coach up north. I went on the
coach, too, to see if there were any letters for us at
the store. When we got there the prince got out to
buy himself a plug of tobacco, and while there began
to talk to the storekeeper. Then after a while the
storekeeper took him into their little room at the
back and they were talking in there. I could hear
the prince quite plainly because he had a high-pitched,
squeaky voice that travelled. Then the coach was
ready to go on again, and the prince clambered up
and went on his way north. When he’d gone and
the storekeeper’s wife had finished giving the people
who were there their mail, I asked if there were any
letters for us. She had a look and then went inside
to her husband, and after a while they both came out
together and he gave me a letter for father.
When I got home father was sitting in the old
armchair looking pretty moody, and mother was sit-
ting opposite him sewing and looking pretty moody,
too.
“Well, did Old Tom get away all right?” father
asked.
“Yes,” I said, “but he got out at the store to
buy a plug of tobacco and was talking a lot to the
storekeeper.”
Mother raised her eyebrows.
“Oh,” said father. “He’s a matey old fellow,”
He took the letter from me, saying “Who’s it
from?” Then seeing that there was no stamp on it
he sat up suddenly, reached over to the mantelpiece
for his glasses, cleaned them very slowly on the cuff
of his shirt and then, also slowly and deliberately,
opened the letter and began to read it.
Mother had now dropped her sewing into her lap
and had her hands folded idly over it as she watched
father reading the letter. When father had read the
letter he folded it up again, and slowly put it back
in the envelope, mother watching him all the time.
Then he said, without looking at me, “My sonny, did
you say Old Tom was talking to the storekeeper?”
“Yes,” I said ; “a whole lot.”
“And you heard what he said?”
“Yes, a good bit of it.”
Father looked very quiet. “Come, my sonny,
tell me just what Old Tom said to the storekeeper.”
I twisted about a bit, for I felt a bit shy of having
to tell father what I’d heard.
Father looked up and saw me squirming about,
and said, “Come on, my sonny, out with it. I want
to know.”
“Well,” I said, “I heard him say that he was your
partner, and that you’d just cleaned up the first lot
of tailings and you’d both made a pot of money from
your first clean-up.”
Mother’s mouth moved into a slow smile. “Can
I read the letter, Walter, please?” she asked.
Father didn’t look at her; just handed the letter
across to her. Mother took it, opened it, read it
through slowly to herself and then read it out aloud:
“I was very pleased to hear from your part-
ner that your cyanide plant has turned out so
successful, and that your first clean-up returned
such a lot of gold. I hope your good fortune
continues.”
Mother stopped here for a moment, then read on:
‘‘As I have a lot of accounts to settle myself
by the end of this month I’d be glad if you’d
let me have yours. It all helps.”
“Son,” said mother, “was that all you heard
the prince of liars say?”
“No,” I said, “He said it was a sight to see
father taking the cupels with the gold in out of the
furnace. Just like taking a tray of scones out of an
oven, he said.” I stopped here, holding something
back.
“Go on,” said mother. “What else did he say?”
“Oh, he said that the gold in the cupels was as
big as hens’ eggs.”
THE COLDEN THREAD.
I, who dug for stones of gold,
Have taken now a blade
Of grass and let its roots in me
Dig deeper than the spade.
Yes, I have threaded with a blade
Of grass my mind to earth.
That I shall witness in the clay
The dark blood of my birth.
So when I lean upon a tree
Its long soft arms enfold
My spirit to the mystery
I feel its body hold.
For, yes, the feet I press to earth
Have worn this track before.
Have left their imprint burning on
Its forest-studded floor.
Across the earth I cannot walk
But that I hear the sound
Of dreaming in the worlds that sleep
In her, dark underground.
Nor can I drink the wine of leaf
That drips from every bough
But that I taste a vintage pressed
A thousand springs from now.
Nor can I break upon a star
The lances of my thought
But, broke in turn, I feel the barb
Of older memory caught.
I cannot lift the hand whose touch
Weighs down my scales of bliss
■ — Oh, but I know I reach through her
To older worlds than this.
QUEENSLAND,
JOHN HENDERSON.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63. —No. 3232.
Wednesday, January 21, 1942.
ASKING FOR MORE.
“On January 14 Australia declared war on Bulgaria as from 3 p.m. on January 6.”
“More, please, sir—and please make it retrospective."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.O.}, Wellington.
London ; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
RUSSIA. JAPAN AND
OURSELVES.
Australia has another enemy the
seventh. By proclamation issued on Janu-
ary 14 it declared war on Bulgaria, “as
from 3 p.m. on January 6.” Having, “in a
spirit of realism,” asked Stalin whether he
would like the British Commonwealth to
declare war on Finland, Hungary and
Rumania, and having acted accordingly,
in concert with its partners, when the “all-
right” signal went up in Moscow, our
Government could do no less than add
Bulgaria to its list of enemies, and no
particular harm will ensue to either party.
But it would be idle to pretend that em-
barkation on bloodless war with the Bul-
gars will bring the first point in the
Government’s external policy any nearer
realisation.
That “external policy,” Mr. Curtin
said, “will be shaped toward obtaining
Russian aid and working out, with the
United States as the major factor, a plan
of Pacific strategy, along with British,
Chinese and Dutch forces.” While ad-
mitting that “the determination of mili-
tary policy is the Soviet’s business” —a
strange admission, considering that the
Soviet was invited to determine Austra-
lian policy regarding Finland, Rumania,
Hungary and, in effect, Bulgaria—
Mr. Curtin takes or took the
view that “we should be able to look
forward with reason to aid from Russia
against Japan.”
There is no harm in looking forward,
with or without reason; but, so far,
Mr. Curtin’s overtures to Russia have
failed to bring even the faintest sugges-
tion of a favorable response. On the
contrary, Mr. Litvinov “made it very
clear” to Mr. Casey at Washington that
“Russia felt that its hands were pretty
full—that it must not risk jeopardising
the success of the present campaign by
any weakening of its forces in the West.”
And Mr. Keith Murdoch, one of the
newspaper proprietors invited to London
by the British Ministry of Information,
left that city with the conviction that
“Russia is secretive, suspicious and silent;
but there is one thing certain”;
Russia is fighting its own war, not any
ideological war, and it has more interest in
choosing its own best moment for any con-
test with Japan than in any assistance to
Australia.
And there is, of course, the unpalatable
fact that the Solidarity Pact signed at
Washington has a string to it, as far as
Russia is concerned. It had to be framed
in terms which exempt Russia from any
obligation to fight Japan,'
Until recent times the Russians were
Orientals to Western Europe, and their
relations with the Japanese belong to the
category of Oriental mysteries. For
years, to outward seeming, those rela-
tions were almost as bad as they could
be. Not only did Stalin send arms and
supplies to Chiang Kai-shek and the
Chinese Communists, but his Siberian
forces were frequently engaged with the
Japs holding Manchukuo (on at least one
occasion they fought a pitched battle),
and his agents in English-speaking coun-
tries clamored for a British Common-
wealth war against “the Japanese
butchers.”
In 1937 the flapper press broke out
in a rash of articles designed to show
what an ally Stalin would be. In one
Sydney paper, since notorious for its
attacks on British and Australian
generals, it was asserted that he had
made gigantic preparations for a war on
two fronts, and that his Red Army (the
“mightiest force of which history has
record ) would settle the Germans and
the Japs at the same time. And attempt
after attempt was made by “Australian”
Communists and their dupes to embroil
this country with Japan. The clamor
for an alliance against “the Japanese
butchers” went on even when the party
line had changed in Moscow itself, as
it did after the signing of the Molotov-
Ribbentrop pact on August 23, 1939.
At the beginning of 1941 Matsuoka
was Foreign Minister of Japan. On
January 26 he informed the Budget Com-
mittee of tne House of Representatives
that “an agreement” had been “reached
with the Soviet Government for the nego-
tion of an important treaty.” A few
weeks later he set out on a journey to
Europe, going to Moscow first, then to
Berlin and then to Rome, and tarrying
again at Berlin and Moscow. On April
13 he and Molotov signed an agreement
pledging their countries to respect the
“integrity and inviolability” of each
other’s territories for ten years, and for
the same period “to observe neutrality
in the event of military action being
taken against one of the parties by a
third Power or other Powers.” The
agreement was to come into force from
the date of ratification, and to “remain
automatically in force for a further five
years,” subject to a year’s notice on either
side. It was ratified without delay—by
the Japanese Cabinet two days after Mat-
suoka had signed and sealed it.
On June 22, the day on which the Ger-
mans attacked Russia, Hitler told his
people, with cynical effrontery, that he
had had a hand in the Matsuoka-Molo-
tov arrangement. “I advised Matsuoka
to bring about a lessening of the tension
with Moscow,” he said. Yet when he
gave the traveller this advice he must
have made up his mind to pitch into the
other party to the Molotov-Ribbentrop
pact before the second of the ten years
agreed upon had expired; indeed, the
preparations for his attack on Russia—
which, like the Japanese assault on Pearl
Harbor, was launched without a declara-
tion of war —must have been well ad-
vanced in April.
On the third day of the monstrous
invasion, Matsuoka himself was heard
from:
When the western wind blows fallen
leaves will be piled up in the east. If we
use the broom against the wind the fallen
leaves will scatter. That is the secret of
life and the key of everything. Something
must be wrong with the brains of those
who are surprised at what has happened
between Germany and Russia.
On the following day Tojo, then Min-
ister of War, said that because of the
German-Russian war the world situation
had become more delicate, for the war
threatened to develop into a world war.
What the United States would do could
not be gauged. Japan stood at the cross-
roads, and was putting itself in a position
of safety.
On July 12 Britain and Russia signed
their treaty. They agreed to carry on
together the war against “Hitlerite Ger-
many.” No other Powers were men-
tioned, not even Italy, though Italy and
Russia were then at war. It was agreed
that no separate peace or armistice should
be made by either allied Government.
On July 14 a Japanese Foreign Office
spokesman said that “the neutrality pact
with Russia remains in full force, as well
as all other engagements between the
U.S.S.R. and Japan.” Shortly after-
wards Tokyo Radio stated more than
once that the Japanese Ambassador at
Moscow had received assurances from
Molotov that the alliance with Britain
related to the war with Germany only,
and that there was “no Russo-British alli-
ance in respect of anything else what-
ever.” On another occasion the Russian
Ambassador at Tokyo publicly com-
plained that “a third Power” was trying
to embroil Russia and Japan.
Subsequent months brought inharmoni-
ous incidents. Japanese ships were sunk
by mines—Russian mines, Tokyo declared.
There were new forays on the Manchukuo
border. And the Japanese objected to the
sending of U.S. war materials to Siberia
through the Sea of Japan while Japan
itself was excluded from this traffic by
the U.S.A. and British Commonwealth
“freezing” laws. But there were repeated
assurances that a Russo-Japanese com-
mission was smoothing out all frontier
disputes, and that the neutrality pact and
other agreements continued in full force.
Among the other agreements there was
one allowing Japanese to fish in Russian
Saghalien waters, and a concession for
the extraction of oil from coal and shale
was granted to the Mitsubishi con-
cern. These agreements seem to be still
in operation.
On Nov. 20 Losovsky told a press con-
ference at Kuibyshev that the Soviet
Union was continuing to adhere to the
terms of the neutrality pact with Japan.
He was asked whether the Soviet Govern-
ment would follow the policy set forth
by Mr. Churchill: should hostilities
break out between Japan and the U.S.A.
Britain would be at war with Japan
within an hour. He answered:
This is a question of great interest, but
it is doubtful whether it is advisable to
discuss it at a press conference... .We must
await developments before arriving at con-
clusions. Of course it is a long way to the
Far East, and as negotiations between Mr.
Hull and Mr. Kurusu have begun we prob-
ably should wait to see what comes of
Jhem.
At Berlin on November 28 the Anti-
Comintern Pact was renewed for five
years by Germany, Italy, Finland, Hun-
garia, Rumania, Bulgaria, Slovakia,
Croatia, Spain, an alleged representative
of Denmark and Japan. Nine days later
the Japanese launched their savage and
treacherous attack on Hawaii. It drew
from Moscow no public expression of
indignation with the assailants or of sym-
pathy with the victims, though Moscow
was already indebted to the U.S.A. for
huge supplies, solicited from the Presi-
dent, granted freely and carried and pro-
tected regardless of peril. Instead, there
appeared in Stalin’s “Pravda” a bitter
attack imputing cowardice to the de-
fenders of Luzon, who, instead of show-
ing cowardice, have covered themselves
with glory.
Nor has Moscow been stirred to any
expression of sympathy, much less action,
by the fate of Hong Kong or by the
danger to Malaya and the Dutch East
Indies, though the perilous position in
Malaya is a direct result of the sending
to Russia of vast supplies of machines,
weapons and munitions particularly
fighter ’planes and tanks—at tremendous
risk to the carriers and escorts, by a Gov-
ernment which has all along been too
conscious of Europe and too careless of
the Empire. After the sinking of Prince
of Wales and Repulse, as stated in B.
17/12/’4l, Tokyo asserted that a Soviet
naval attache, mentioned by name, had
called to offer congratulations. Of course,
it may have lied, as it lied about Major-
General Bennett.
It is as true now as it was on
July 5, 1939, that the “one force that
could really attack Japan at present is
the Russian air fleet at Vladivostok.”
That was published in the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” of that date, along with the
statement that “the extension of the
Anglo-Russian pact to Eastern Asia” was
“urgent” ; and there have been scores of
assurances from the same quarter that the
first shot fired by the Japanese in a Pacific
war would bring a cloud of Russian
bombers over the Sea of Japan (“it is only
571 miles from Vladivostok to Tokyo”),
striking down their flimsy machines,
manned by half-blind crews, and making
hideous ruins of their “paper cities.” But
not recently. Oh, no! Nor has Stalin
or any of his associates been a target for
“Daily Telegraph” invective —that is
reserved for Britons and Australians.
On the contrary, Stalin is still a hero
to flapper papers—still the god of an
idolatry that in some cases plumbs the
depths of servility. But plain people, who
have no Red gods and who prefer
to judge the man on his record and his
“realism” (of late a much-abused word),
can only conclude that he won’t fight the
Japs unless he has to.
All the same, though his attitude to
Japan, comprehensible perhaps to Orien-
tals, is incomprehensible to us, from the
Russian point of view he is right in put-
ting Russia first. Would to God the
British leader and the British Common-
wealth press had put the Empire first!
Blundering Through.
Henceforth the old half-affectionate
charge against John Bull that he only ever
gets there by blundering through should
never be heard again in Australia. If
ever a country has sought to get there by
that process it is this country.
Today, in the third year of war and
the second month of such successes by
Japan that the time seems considerably
longer, the hard fact that this is a bitter
all-in war for sheer existence hasn’t even
yet been grasped. For all their fighting
words, the minds of Australia’s non-
combatant civilian leaders are back in
the romantic ages, when war had chivalry
in it and the fighting could be done on
distant fields by comparatively small par-
ties of selected troops representing the
engaged nations.
That other countries on the same side
have the same notion is no excuse. Com-
pared with Australia, Canada, for one,
is as safe as the gold hoarded in Uncle
Sam’s vaults, and for the same reason —•
Uncle Sam’s direct protection. South
Africa is also comparatively safe; in
any case, it accepts that the war is all-in
as far as its own continent goes, and that
includes a lot of country outside South
Africa’s boundaries or control.
The menace to Australia is direct, and
close. The aid that Australia counts on
to help it through is distant. All will be
well in time: but the menace is imme-
diate. When it first loomed up less than
two months ago there was a flurry of
excited acts and even more excited
words. It looked for a moment as if
Australia was about to be put on, and
put itself on, an all-in-war footing,
Mr. Curtin gave the impression of a
leader galvanised into action —an angry
leader, with the feeling that he had been
misled and let down ; one who now saw
the situation whole, clearly, in all its
stark threat. He appeared to take the
view of a statesman, seeing the exten-
sion of war to the Pacific as a threat not
only to his own country but to the whole
structure of the Empire.
That, apparently, had not been seen in
Britain. The concept of Britain as the
heart of the Empire and its end as the
end of the Empire cannot be questioned.
But there is another concept—that Britain
could stand, and be left at the end a
Little England without an Empire, or
only the remnants of one. Mr. Curtin
spoke in anger, if not in bad temper
when he said that “Australia looks to
America, free of any pangs as to our
traditional kinship with the United King-
dom,” but for anger there was evident
cause, and the concept of Empire he
seemed to have in mind was larger than
any inspired up to that time in Britain
by Japan’s entry.
The complacency of utterances in
Britain, both before Mr. Curtin spoke
and since, has angered more in Australia
than the Prime Minister, The reason
given for Japan’s being able to sweep
down to the near north of Australia
almost unresisted, especially in the air,
is as disturbing as anything could be. A
typical utterance was made by Sir Archi-
bald Sinclair, Britain’s Secretary for Air:
“We took risks in the Far East to help
Russia”; consequently, “Britain’s air
squadrons in the Far East were all too
few.”
It is only fair to point out that Aus-
tralia at the time was all in favor of that.
Australia at large can plead in reply that
it was uninformed; its leaders and its
daily press, most enthusiastically in
favor, can make no such plea.
But the time for escape by way of any
excuses whatever is past. Today Aus-
tralia should be thinking of itself as
standing alone, and should be acting ac-
cordingly, It should be on the same
footing as it would be if invasion was
already here. It is still on practically a
civilian footing. Above all, its civilian
leaders still cling to the concept of war
as disagreeable, but, thank heaven,
remote. In this view, it can be fought
by a section of the community, while
the great majority of the rest live their
lives undisturbed by anything worse than
the vicarious excitements caused by a
stunt press.
It has already been twice (apparently
officially) stated this month that the Gov-
ernment intends to stick to the “volun-
tary system” to which it is “pledged.” In
excuse, it is pleaded that “Recruits are
flowing into the A.I.F. in sufficient
number to remove any immediate danger
that there will be a shortage of troops
for overseas.” Unfortunately, Australia
at large has no means of checking up on
statements of this sort. Is this one accord-
ing to the facts? It might very well be
doubted. On all such matters — e.g., the
state of air defences in the Near North—
the truth comes out too late. Statements
like this one on A.I.F. recruiting are
made with such an air of authority and
sincerity that they pass for gospel. It is
not policy to give figures; hence there is
nothing to do but accept them —until, too,
late, the truth comes out.
And what authority in Australia can
say today what A.I.F. requirements are
going to be tomorrow? It may be good
policy not to deplete Australia’s small
enough supply of man-power any more
than can be helped; but it is tragic to
think that, as things stand, the position
can arise where a rush of reinforcements
to the right spot might keep the war from
Australia, and that they could not be sent.
The same applies to A.R.P. in Aus-
tralian cities. As things stand, this is
only the business of anybody who cares
to take it on. There have been punish-
ing fines for the breaking of experimental
blackout regulations; some buildings
have been protected with sandbags ; some
people have fled to the mountains. But
that city Australians should be put on
an all-in-war footing and ordered to do
jobs which political authorities say need
to be done —that is something unheard
of; it would be a departure from the
“voluntary system.”
The worst aspect of all this —of the
whole Australian civilian scene, from
miners who have to be driven to a recog-
nition of their national responsibilities to
civilian political leaders who sidestep and
vacillate over theirs —is that it would need
only a batch of bombs dropped on Syd-
ney to change everything. The same
forceful alarm has been needed to wake
up every country yet attacked by the
Axis ; and in how many of them was the
sleeping draught of the false peace too
potent for them to wake at all!


PLAIN ENGLISH
From Conberra to Johore.
As it seems to The Bulletin:
Like a clean salt wind blowing away mias-
matic vapors was the news trom Malaya that
Gordon Bennett’s Australians were m action m
Malaya and had accounted for a large party
0f It h came m after days of dispiriting reports
which scrappy as they were, conveyed all too
clearly that the invaders, already m possession
of a large part of the immensely productive pen-
insula, were continuing their advance towards
Singapore - days of furious scapegoat-hunting
on the part of British and Australian news-
papers marked by the dishonest and cowardly
pretence that ’’the men of Munich, Singapore
blimps and old-school-tie bureaucrats” are
wholly to blame —almost everybody, in fact,
except Mr. Churchill and the press; and, on the
Australian front, days of continued strikes in
N.S.W. coalmines, strikes on the waterfront
and in defence industries, and threats of a strike
of N.S.W. transport workers. Of these Mr.
Curtin spoke in good honest terms, sabre-cuts
of Saxon speech, and he gave the offending
wharf-laborers the alternative of working or
of seeing the job done by the navy. But, in-
stead of enforcing his national-security regula-
tions against the coalminers, a mob of whom
heaped injury on injury by invoking mob law
against a sexagenarian “comrade” because, in
courageous assertion of a legal right, he objected
to retiring on pension till February 21, he sent
two of his Ministers to argue with them.
Most welcome was the news from Major-
General Bennett, whose capture and then death
had been claimed by the Japanese, that the
enemy’s report was greatly exaggerated. But
in giving to the nation the major-general’s
spirited disclaimer, together with the heartening
though looked-for intelligence that the A.I.F.
was “fighting magnificently,” Mr. Curtin re-
vived bitter memories and made existing fears
more intense by saying that “the situation
remains most difficult, because of the absence
of air support.” Monday brought a message from
the Official Correspondent, who revealed that
an Australian battalion had had to contend all
Thursday, not only with Japanese ground forces
well supplied with tanks, but with “dive-
bombing and machine-gunning from the air
which drove us back; our fighters did not
appear till Friday.” Reading that, Australians
asked themselves moodily whether it was to
be Greece and Crete over again.
A more hopeful view may be fairly taken.
Singapore speaks of “the increasing activity
of our air defence because of reinforcements.
“Our offensive in the air is continuing on an
ever-increasing scale. This has already shown
results. In the past two days [Friday and Satur-
day] we have taken heavy toll of the enemy.
The Japanese were able to occupy at least two-
thirds of Malaya because of continued air
support for their ground forces.”
But why was such a position ever allowed
to arise? Why weren’t there more ’planes in
Malaya from the beginning? Mainly because
of the madness prevailing in the collective-
security and Peace Ballot period, Mr. Menzies
has pleaded in a broadcast speech:
“No nation can start four years behind its
rivals and in a couple of years provide ade-
quately, not merely for its own defence, but for
the defence of places scattered all over the world.”
Which is substantially true. And it is true
also, as the former P.M- said —turning scorn-
fully on a foolish newspaper critic —that “the
abandonment of the Middle East was unthink-
able.” Nor can it be disputed that the Menzies
Government and its successors “maintained in-
cessant pressure on the question of the defence
of Singapore,” as did the savagely attacked
Sir Robert Brooke-Popham. But “the service
chiefs in London took a more modest view of
air requirements for Singapore and Malaya
than those on the spot” and the Australian
Government, which “knew the facts (they came
to us promptly),” and “the results were un-
doubtedly and grievously disappointing.”
Then why was so much air strength sent to
Russia, which, on the evidence of recent re-
ports, did not need it? Like the “man-hunting
newspapers” at which he hits back, Mr.
Menzies avoids this question. He did not men-
tion Russia in his speech.
"The House Adjourned."
Five weeks after the Japanese started the
war in the Pacific the Sydney “Parlia-
ment” was called together by its Premier
for a “special session” —it had adjourned
on Nov. 20 to Feb. 25. Mr. McKell
and a few other gentlemen having talked
for a couple of hours, the “Parliament”
adjourned again, presumably until the
“position” becomes “more serious” still.
Mr. McKell told the House what his
Government was doing about the Jap
menace. Needless to say a War Effort
Co-ordination Committee had been
formed, there were “methods” for con-
trolling electricity and gas, more charcoal
kilns were to be built and a marvellously
ridiculous plan for “stepped” evacuation
of industries has been evolved.
Taxpayers waiting to hear of State
evacuation from the income-tax field and
motorists looking for reduced registra-
tion fees listened and looked in vain,
though Mr. McKell, without batting an
eyelid, coolly informed everybody that
the State surplus would be far greater
than he had bargained for and that a
proportion (unspecified) would go
“towards the cost of defence works.”
His War Effort Co-ordination Com-
mittee would, in an emergency, “be able
to impress equipment or man-power,” an
arrogant assumption of rights which no
State body should be allowed to possess.
Still, as there is an emergency, the com-
mittee could try its hand at impressing
strikers who down tools on any pretext.
Mr. Mair expressed disappointment.
Lesser lights had their say. Then some-
body discovered it was 6.20 p.m. and the
farce ended. And a fed-up city, short
of water, short of milk, short of other
things and likely to be still shorter, with
the tension of approaching physical
danger growing, turned anxious eyes to
Canberra and wondered how long the
nation’s leaders intend to put up with the
McKells and their kind.
Inside "Information."
Over the last 18 months the member for
Barker (S.A.) has repeatedly declared that
the Department of Information is useless,
dangerous and ought to be abolished.
He must have been grimly amused at the
latest development in its extraordinary
career, which saw the department present-
ing an indictment against itself.
Said the present Minister, Senator
Ashley: ...
The department as a news dissemination
organisation has failed. Frequent appeals
to it to become an effective arm of the
defence organisation have failed. If infor-
mation had been given about the real posi-
tion in Australia the nation would not now
be confronted with strikes and holdups.
Said Mr. Holmes, the last Director:
Senator Ashley’s charges are contemptible
and false. He has never once given us a
lead on Government policy, nor has he
contributed one suggestion about how we
might better serve Australia. He visited
the headquarters of the department but
once in three months. What he is doing is
trying to pass the buck.
Wrote Mr. Williams, Mr. Holmes’s
predecessor: —
The resignation of Mr. Holmes makes
the sixth change in executive control in just
over two years. In the same time there
have been four Ministers and changes
among the senior staff have been numerous.
The department was established without
0r,,, it had to do
any true thought of
None of the three Governments has made
a serious attempt to define ils.powers or
scope. It has had a heap ;
from Ministers who never bothered to nna
out what the men in the department were
doing .Some of them thought it existed
to act as a combined publicity agent and
apologist for the Government. When things
were going well and the press was smiling
nrafpfnUv tonk the credit
on them, they gracefully took the
ize the u . work m u th , eir t own department
When things were bad, it was Information s
fault.
The department cannot distribute, news to
the people, for it has no news source
Some senior Ministers have their own pub-
licity offices maintained at public expense,
whose job it is to release to the papers
news that reacts to the credit of their
news that reacts to me creair or uieu
bosses. They have become as mdispen-
sable to most Ministers as gold passes and
Ministerial cars. Mostly they are compe-
tent newspaper men, who try to help the
press whenever they can; but their first
duty, if they want to keep their jobs, is
to their Ministers.
I think Information has done good work,
despite an atmosphere of suspicion and
discouragement. It would be better to
close it down than to try to run it on the
cheap.
It would be better to close it down
onv nnnlifiratirm Rut Mr
without any qualmcation. is M .
Curtin and Mr. Ashley are going to have
a shot at “reorganising” it,
"A Hollywood Soldier.*'
“Ek Dum’s” story:
Major-General Odium, the Canadian Minister
to Canberra, was alleged to have told Cabinet
— privately, of course —that the Russian vic-
tories were “phony.” He paid for his opinion
—if it was his opinion and he did express
it, of which there is no proof—by being de-
scribed by one of the “D.T.’s” young men
as a wasp-waisted, Hollywood type of soldier
who was prone to inform every stranger that
he had been a military man since the Boer war.
Odium in the Great War was one of Canada s
finest soldiers. He proved it on and after that
awful day in the Ypres salient in April, 1915,
when the stragglers of the completely demoral-
ised French 87th Division staggered down the
exposed Canadian flank, choking, writhing, hold-
ing their throats and gasping “Pauvre France,
pauvre Paris.’’’ Mingled with them were panick-
ing Algerians whose screams died away in croaks
as the green poison of the first gas attack of
the war sent them reeling.
Through a dreadful 70 hours which followed,
with gas drifting into Canadian lines, seven
battalions of Canadians, about 6800 men, held
back 17,000 Germans of the 51st Division, the
crack Reussner regiment and naval units.
The 7th Battalion went in 37 officers and
948 men strong. Crucial and most dangerous
night-time reconnaissances did much to save
the position. They were carried out by Major
Odium. The C.O. was killed in action and
Major Odium took command. When, after 60
hours continuously in the line, he withdrew
his men to feed them, they were flung back
again at once of necessity. He eventually
took them out short 22 officers and 423 men.
Odium won the D.S.O. and bar and
numerous other decorations, and was mentioned
several times in dispatches. But to the whip-
sters of the flapper press he is a “Hollywood
soldier.”
SUBSTITUTE TREE-FELLING CONTEST—MUG CLASS.
“Sydney R.A.S. Show for this year has been cancelled."


KEEPS HIM FIT
"iou cant keep fit if you suffer from
constipation. NYAL FIGSEN —the
gentle, natural laxative—is dependable,
thorough and non-habit forming because
it is made from three of Nature’s own
laxatives—figs, senna and cascara. Try
Figsen Tablets yourself and slip a
tin regularly in your service parcels.
Figsen is one of the 168 dependable
NYAL FAMILY MEDICINES and
suits every member of the family. NYAL
FIGSEN is sold by chemists every-
■where, _ 1/3J a tin.
The next Vest thing id Nature * s a
Nyal Figsen
TOR CONSTIP RT lON
North u Sydney
y-t
S.C.E.G.G.S.
RIVER ROAD,
GREENWICH
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
Boarding & Day School for Girls
★ Situated in about 10 acres of bushland
grounds on the North Shore Line, with beautiful
Harbour views. Curriculum from Kindergarten
to Leaving Certificate Honours, with oppor-
tunities to specialise in Business Principles and
Domestic Science. Staff of graduates and trained
teachers. Spacious grounds and tenuis courts.
New term commences 11th February, 1942.
An emergency Boarding and Day School has
been established in Leura and will open on the
same date as usual for boarding and day girls.
Excellent air-raid shelters have been provided.
Full particulars from:
Mrs. E. M. Arundel, M.A. (Syd. Uni.),
RiVer Road, Greenwich.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. £1,260,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A,
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George SOeet
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE; 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE No. 150 DEEP-SEATED
KEMP
IN ALL KIP LEATHER.
£9/19/6
(MOUNTED)
This saddle is
very good
value. It has
Kemp pads,
deep seat,
good long
pads and
short pane with leather
points.
N.SJV. freight on saddlex
paid for cash with order.
WALTHEtU STEVEMSOM
1335 CEORCE ST. SYDHEY “]
POLITICAL POINTS
Moved —very tardily—by the national
emergency or tired of losing good money,
most of the striking N.S.W. coalminers
went back to work last week, but the Old
Bulli men remained out. Standing on
his legal rights, a groom who has turned
60 refused to leave on pension until the
end of February, and his “mates” refused
to work with him. Did the Common-
wealth Government congratulate him on
his sturdy assertion of statute law against
mob law? Did it set its own national-
security regulations in motion against the
strikers? No ; it let them hold up the
production of coal for a week and then
sent two Ministers to their stamping
ground to harangue them. Warnings
from Canberra seem to have had a sober-
ing effect on workstoppers in other in-
dustries, but the time for warnings is past.
It was Labor that encouraged militant
unionists to fancy themselves a class apart,
privileged to stop work when the fit seizes
them, even when the nation is in peril.
Labor will never get the notion out of
their noddles till it really governs.
The Australian Government is admit-
ting an unstated number of Asiatics and
Eurasians, chiefly women and children,
from invaded countries and countries
likely to be invaded. No harm in that,
provided the unfortunate people have
good credentials, are unlikely to be a
charge on the country and agree to be
repatriated after the war. But it has
already been made evident that Com-
munists will support them if they want
to stay on. Corns, at once seized the
opportunity to denounce the White Aus-
tralia policy. A pointed reminder to people
who are in danger of forgetting that there
is a White Australia policy and that Com-
munists hate it.
John McNeill, general president of the
A.W.U., as reported in a Sydney paper:
It is impossible to keep a large continent
like Australia for white people only. When
the war is over there will have to be a
rearrangement of boundaries, etc.
The Bulletin could not believe that the
president of a union which has stood for
White Australia since it was founded
would make such a statement, and he
says he didn’t make it. There was a talk
with a reporter, but in it was no such
sentence as “it is impossible to keep a
large continent like Australia for white
people only,” and “the rearrangements”
he had in mind applied only to access
to raw materials, foodstuffs, etc. Said
John McNeill to The Bulletin: “The
A.W.U. stanch; like a rock behind the
national determination for a White Aus-
tralia” ; and that is what Australia would
expect him to say.
McKell and his predecessor Mair per-
mitted 1750 tin-hare meetings to be held
in their State last year, with, in every
case, exemption from the anti-betting
laws. This open go for insensate gambling
in war-time bred a spirit of insolence as
well as other effects, and when the Com-
monwealth restrictions on Wednesday
and night racing came in attempts to get
round them were inevitable. A Sydney
crowd had the face to announce a Satur-
day programme of 19 races, beginning at
11.30. This was too much for even
McKell, and he said something about
“having to consider the question” of de-
licensing the brass-fronted gambling con-
cern if it “persisted with its refusal to
accept the spirit of the regulations.”
Thereupon the alleged “sporting body”
(McKell’s expression) condescended to
cut out 11 of the races, and honor or
something was satisfied.
Nelson, of Winkler-case notoriety, has
lost his job as president of the Miners’
Federation. Not apparently because of
Justice Halse Rogers’s report, but because
he was not “militant” enough for the
miners, though he used to speak on Com-
munist platforms. He was defeated by a
young man named Wells, who, judging
by the jargon he employs and the record
of the strikes in which he has been con-
cerned, presumably self-supplied, is
“militant” enough for any taste. How-
ever, Comrade Wells has promised to
recommend the miners to work until
Fascism is destroyed without indulging
their bent for being narks.
Though Dr. Evatt, who ought to know,
recently said that his information from
Moscow was that Russia was too busy
fighting Hitler to arrange for the recep-
tion of a mission from this country, the
“Men who are not in the fighting forces and who at the same time will not work are
as much the enemies of this country as the directly enlisted legions of the enemy.”
Mr. Curtin.
“Honorable striker, on behalf honorable Japanee nation, take, pleass, Order of
Wilted Chrysanthemum, Fifth Class, yes ?”
“famous” Godfrey Blunden, who always
thinks he knows, is positive that “the
Russian Government is anxious to ex-
change diplomatic representatives with
Australia at the earliest possible
moment.’ Blunden is the “roving re-
porter” whose Great Idea was that Aus-
tralia should send 500 airmen to Vladi-
vostok to man American machines. If
credulity, cocksureness and cheek qualify
a man for a diplomatic job at Moscow,
Blunden should be the first choice.
One day last week McKell assembled
his alleged Parliament and burbled that
he had established or was establishing a
War Effort Co-ordination Committee, an
Electricity Committee, a Central Co-ordi-
nating and Directing Authority, and so
on and so forth. “In an emergency,” he
proceeded, “the War Effort Co-ordi-
nation Committee, acting as a Co-ordina-
tion Group, will be able to impress equip-
ment and man-power, and there should
also be an organisation, equipped with
heavy tanks and staffed by engineers.
empowered to call up large reserves of
skilled man-power.” All this is merely
trespassing on Commonwealth functions,
and the Commonwealth Government is
doing tolerably well. After a small-beer
debate, it being dinner-time, members
were dismissed to enjoy their ill-earned
holiday for another six weeks at least.
“This State may expect to end the
financial year with a surplus considerably
in excess, of that for which I budgeted.”
This is McKell’s way of confessing that
he is bleeding the N.S.W. taxpayers for
far more than his Government legiti-
mately requires. But instead of under-
taking to knock 20 per cent, off income
tax, he muttered something about “con-
tributing to the cost of defence works in
New South Wales.” His words had
scarcely faded into thin air when Dunn,
his Minister of Agriculture, rushed in
with his head down and his hands out,
saying “the Federal Government will be
asked to make £500,000 available to New
South Wales for drought relief.”
Melbourne “Argus” has —or had —two
political gods. Of the one who is not in
Delhi it said the other day that “the
name of Mr. E. G. Theodore has been
mentioned as one eminently fitted” to be
Australian representative to the N.E.I. on
“whatever organisation is established to
consolidate the general direction of allied
policy.” He is “thoroughly acquainted
with the Near North and Malaya,” and
has a “reputation as a strong adminis-
trator.” Yes; it said “strong.”
Bobbing up at New York a couple of
months ago, Keith Murdoch predicted
that the Japanese wouldn’t fight. Going
to London he lauded Churchill, lam-
basted him and lauded him again. Then
after devoting himself anew to the
destruction of Germany, he reached this
sentimental conclusion:
The majority of the Germans were not
brought up to hate the British. A large
proportion even admire Churchill. A very
large majority would welcome a negotiated
peace with Britain.
Isn’t our imitation Beaverbrook wonder-
ful?
A son of the Charles Gavan Duffy
who was Premier of Victoria (1871-72)
and who died a K.C.M.G. was Justice
and then C.J. of our High Court. Another
son is a Judge of Eire’s High Court. As
such he has drawn world-wide attention
to himself by holding that a landlady
had a right to refuse tenancy to a Jew
who had bought a dentist’s practice from
the previous tenant. “The antagonism
between Christian and Jew,” his Honor
said, “has roots nearly 2000 years old.
It cannot be dismissed as the eccentric
extravagance of a bigot in a country
where religion matters.” Such a judg-
ment could not possibly have been de-
livered in Australia by brother Frank.
An all-party Ministry in Victoria is the
latest inspiration of Premier Dunstan,
Under U.C.P. rules members are for-
bidden to serve in any but a true-blue
Cocky Government unless they have the
consent of 66 p.c. of central-council
members. State Labor, as well as Federal
Labor, has declared against all-party
Ministries over and over again. If Dunstan
can get over those fences he ought to
nominate himself for the Grand National.
Forde is the latest to discover that
flapper-press favor, like fame, is a fleet-
ing ember. Three weeks ago he was
Sydney “D.T.’s” wonder-boy. Last week,
in a fit of passion, she threw her leg-
cream and lipstick at him:
We don’t eyen know definitely whether
the A.I.F. is in action in Malaya. Nor,
apparently, does Mr. Forde. Twenty-four
hours after the Axis report reached this
country he couldn’t say whether Major-
General Gordon Bennett had been cap-
tured. It is Mr. Forde’s job to find out.
Surely he has some liaison with our own
and British headquarters.
And all because Forde didn’t interfere
when General Mackay put the hated
Cameron on his staff.
Those little editors who went to
Malaya with Foil and found Gordon
Bennett’s men in a parlous condition for
lack of female society, films, cricket bats,
tennis racquets, mountain air and scenery
not wholly composed of rubber-trees that
bred “bloody-mindedness” were not just
voices screeching in the wilderness. They
were backed up and cracked up by,
among other organs of enlightenment, the
Sydney “Sun.”
It must come as a surprise to Aus-
tralians to know that moving pictures and
games are not available to the troops in
the Malayan jungle. Surely we should see
that they are not deprived of full enter-
tainment, recreation and rest periods. The
Cameron Highlands would provide a won-
derful rest resort. The question is one
of expense.... It is something that the army
authorities will simply have to face. There
must also be full provision of motion-
picture mobile units, of equipment for
games and plenty of books to read.
That rubbish appeared on September 8,
and there wasn’t a word about the need
for “full provision” of armored divisions
and ’planes. Three months later the
Japs were invading Malaya.
While farmers in the Sydney milk zone
were setting a zero hour from which they
would refuse to supply any more milk
unless they got another 4d. a gallon,
gutters in Melbourne were running with
the stuff as motor-borne gangs upset
carts, attacked drivers and smashed
bottles in attempts to enforce a strike
against Sunday deliveries. Both State
Governments are muttering vague threats
and hoping the bother will blow over
before they have to take any action likely
to antagonise votes. Both have Milk
Boards, with highly-paid members and
staffs, to “control” the industry.
A Victorian State Parliamentary Com-
mittee on Social Security has found time
to discuss the proposals of one J. F.
Nimmo, described as a Melbourne
economist, for a post-war scheme for
guaranteeing a minimum income for
every necessitous person in the com-
munity not yet provided with such by
the Commonwealth Government. If the
scheme arrives and State Parliaments sur-
vive, there will still be the problem of
providing the maximum income for neces-
sitous State Governments.


BRITISH NAVY'S TRIBUTE
“Submarines using your batteries
averaged 10,000 miles per month, and
there is no recorded instance of your
batteries failing.”
This striking tribute was received from
the British Admiralty at the conclusion
of the World War, 1918. Needless to
say, Exide Batteries are again playing
their part in the present war. You,
too, can depend on Exide.
df fdfddf
fd
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE
REST HAVE
m
sm
m ■:
/
m
PERSONAL ITEMS
Ex-Prime Minister R. G. Menzies has
equipment for his broadcasting besides
the clear voice and legal-political-tramed
mind that, enable him to comment on
the news with less bellow and more brains
than the familiar radio oracle. As a
mimic of political identities he could do
a turn at the Tiv., and if broadcasting
fails him he could earn, at the worst, free
feeds as an after-dinner entertainer. A
candid colleague summed up on his (tem-
porary) political eclipse: “Your trouble,
Bob, is that you can’t suffer fools gladly,
but that means that fools can’t suffer you
gladly, and as there are a lot of fools
and only one Bob Menzies you re going
out!” His known interest in art and
literature is sincere—not mere politics.
Like Parkes, he has tried a hand at verse
—a sonnet very indignant over Abyssinia
came from the Red Sea when he was
then on his way to England. He should
be relieved to hear that it long since
joined the late Mrs. Hunter’s frog.
Stated in the official citation on his
M. that Second-Lieutenant G. L.
Levett, of Melbourne, attached to the
Gold Coast Regiment in Libya, shot his
way out of a circle of Italians with his
revolver, was wounded in 12 places by
a grenade, became unconscious but re-
covered in time to hurl a grenade at an
Italian who was making off with one of
his Bren guns. His father was the late
N. L. Levett, managing director of
Leviathan Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Because its main pigeon now is the
extra plump one of Lease-Lend dealings
with Uncle Sam, Trade and Customs has
become one of the biggest jobs in Aus-
tralia, and one of the biggest men in Aus-
tralia is Minister in charge—Senator
Richard Valentine Keane ; 6ft.; 22st. He
was a tall stripling when, to make some
cash, he induced his cobber, son of the
then Melbourne gaol’s governor, to per-
suade dad to lend the gaol’s collection of
death-masks of hanged criminals. The
masks, arranged for exhibition, were a
gruesome enough entertainment, but
nothing to the pictorial masterpiece
painted by (Sir) Lionel and Norman
Lindsay to hang outside the show—a
huge canvas dominated by an outsize,
very corpulent, masked executioner stand-
ing beside a chopping-block with an axe
drrrripping with bllllood. The show was
Lease-Lend, Unlimited.
(Modelled by Frith.)
a box-office triumph. Some idea of
what Senator Keane’s present job means
suggests itself through the fact that last
year Australia officially sent Uncle Sam
no fewer than 97,000 direct cables.
Maoriland Labor’s strict adherence to
the pact not to contest Opposition seats
when the member dies on service means
no Labor candidate for the Mid-Canter-
bury seat rendered vacant by the death
in action in Libya of Major J. C. N.
Grigg (Nationalist). A candidate will be
Major Grigg’s widow* who comes of poli-
tical stock —granddaughter of old-time
M.L, Prime Minister John Hall.
First V.C. Speaker in an Australian
Parliament, John James Dwyer, of the
Speck, still owns the grin he wore when
he brought back to the A.I.F. lines at
Zonnebeke in 1917 a German machine-
gun whose crew he had wiped out, and
set it up alongside his own Vickers on
the right of the Australian attack. Rep-
resenting Franklin, in the Tasmanian
House, he goes to its Speakership after
10 years in politics.
Not since Wotan won the Cup has a
darker horse scrambled home than the
33-year-old Cessnock (N.S.W.) carpenter
Harold Wells, who pipped Charlie Nel-
son in the Miners’ Federation Presidency
Stakes. Even at the end of last week-
days after the event —expert Federation
track-watchers in their lookout on the
eleventh floor of Kyle House, Sydney,
knew nothing of the colt except that he
had won —by 140 votes in a poll of
15,178. The Secret Fund Commission’s
finding that Nelson received the disputed
£3OO did not prevent the veteran tearing
away to a lead of 2614 on the primaries,
but the colt came with a rattling finish,
justifying optimistic expectations of the
Aberdare Central Lodge stable, based on
spirited track gallops in which he led
the Mine Workers’ Area Committee on
propaganda, relief and general-strike
organisation in strikes from 1938 on-
wards.
Brother Gerard, who ends his second
term of directorship of St. Joseph’s Col-
lege, Sydney, to take charge of secondary
studies at St. Columbia (Springwood,
Blue Mountains), forms a strong contrast
to his successor, Brother Angelus. Brother
Gerard’s outward shell of natural dig-
nity doesn’t hold in his abundant sense of
humor. He holds a firm conviction about
the salutary influence of the classics,
Latin and English, on the immature
mind, and is one of the last extant en-
thusiasts for Walter Scott. Brother
Angelus has the gentle aloofness of the
scientist —he has long been “Joey’s” senior
science master —with the faculty of
applying discipline : for ten years he has
disciplined a large ana
high - spirited boarding-
school, well supplied
with Celtic blood, in
an atmosphere in which
“cane” has become almost
lost to the local language.
Though his eyesight
mightn’t have been equal
to reading all the letters
hung up before recruits,
J. P. Abbott, head of the
War Cabinet’s new Admin-
istrative Planning Com-
mittee, managed to wangle
into the first A.I.F. and
head for Gallip. as a
stretcher-bearer. Trans-
ferring to the R.F.A., he
finished up a captain with
an M.C. Good humor
and Newcastle Anglican
Diocese church interests
help to disguise the fact
that he has a useful left.
Chairmanship is nothing
new to him ; he has been
chairman or member of
many organisations —
Graziers’ Assoc., Graziers’
Federal Council, Banking
Commission, Country
Broadcasting, Ltd., New
England University Col-
lege. Included in both the Menzies and
Fadden Ministries, he owns Murralla, at
Wingen (N.S.W.). J. H. M. Abbott, who
is no midget, has to look up to talk to
“young Joe” (50; 6ft. 2in.); their father
was taller still.
Joe Rutherford, self-appointed per-
sonal representative of Jehovah a posi-
tion he found both congenial and re-
munerative —has finally stepped down
from the witness’s stand in California, at
72. A product of American Middle-West
farming, he became a Circuit Judge and
boosted William Jennings Bryan for
President, testifying that “God had ap-
pointed Bryan to cure the world,” though
it would have had to be a Presbyterian
world to suit the candidate. Disappointed
by Bryan, he took the mantle of saviour
on himself by becoming president of the
International Bible Students’ Association,
which changed to Jehovah’s Witnesses
and acquired million members in 34
countries speaking 60 different languages,
what time the Judge accrued shekels in
shoals. Here in 1938, he was refused
halls and radio, and was last seen retir-
ing north-east in a cloud of fulmination.
If, as is possible, Maoriland Minister
of Supply Daniel Giles Sullivan has to
take on Finance as well this year, he
won’t be lacking in the necessary extra
energy. Apprenticed to the furniture
trade, he organised it \ then, after getting
rid of more excess steam by working his
way round the world, he decided that he
had a flair for journalism, helped organ-
ise Maoriland’s scribes, and was their
association’s advocate in the first jour-
nalists’ case brought before any Arbi-
tration Court in the world. As well, he
has been president of the Federation ot
Labor, Mayor of Christchurch and editor
of his own “Dan Sullivan’s Magazine.’
Member for the suburban electorate ot
Avon since 1919, with six years as Min-
ister of Railways, he was born in Christ-
church 60 years ago, and still lives there,
in Sullivan-avenue.
William Dargie has painted his Archi-
bald Prize-winning portrait of knight
James Elder as a distinguished-looking
gentleman in sober black, faintly saintly,
as if he’d sat on Sundays. How wih
Dargie, who paints at 29 as if he were
60 get on in the official war-artist job in
which he succeeded Harold Herbert last
October? He has won plenty of prizes
to prove that he can paint; but Herbert,
as well as not having the physical
strength, hadn’t the power to deal with
the burning violences of the Middle East.
On the other hand. South Australian
Ivor Hele, having both youth and artistic
vigor, is making a striking success ot it.
“J.G.” on the scandalous past:
W. T. Clark, one of the owners of Ballarat
“Courier” and a son of its founder, kindly old
Bob Clark, has passed hence. At a Ome when
the “Courier” was one of the most influential
sheets in Victoria the pinching by someone ot
?he gold-topped mace of the Victorian Legis-
lative Assembly caused a first-class sensation.
But the “Courier” made a bigger sensation when
it said that the bauble could be found m
the then famous, or infamous, estabhshmen
of Madame Brussels in Lonsdale-street. It was
used, the “Courier” said, in mimic parlia-
ments by the Flossies and Totties of the estab-
lishment and their M.P. clients. This caused
an outsize row in Parliament, and when the
shocked members finished reading the article
they yelled for the scalp of old Bob and his
editor. Haled before Parliament, both had to
apologise and pay £2O or £3O costs. R• •
Williams, the “Courier” editor and alleged
writer of the article, was then the commanding
officer of the Ballarat militia regiment, and
afterwards was Town Clerk of Ballarat and
for a time during the last war was head ot the
citizen forces of Victoria.
When a call was made the other day
in the Vic. Railway Department for night
volunteers at the Montague shipping shed
where man-power shortage had delayed
essential war consignments, those who
signed on included the three commis-
sioners, N. C. Harris, M. J. Canny and
R. G. Wishart, goods superintendent
F. D. Greene and chief timekeeper S. L.
Greer. The volunteers will draw casual
rates—2s. 2£d. per hour. Chairman
Harris (Lieut.-Colonel; D. 5.0., M.Cd
served with the Engineers in Egypt and
France in the other World War.
“El V.” among dukes:
When the old Duke of Connaught, last of
Queen Victoria’s sons, died in his quiet retire-
ment, it was nearly 92 years since Thackeray s
admiring agent had noticed the arrival at Apsley
House of a “Broosh and for” and perceived
that “a gracious Prince was in the Shay, l
mention him with Hor.” The Prince Consort
came to call on old Wellington after Con-
naught’s birth. Wellington had nursed the
young prince the day before and the pair
shared a common joke in that, being both ot a
rank peculiarly anathema to revolutionists,
they were born on revolution’s private day
May 1. So Prince Albert could intone: —
You fought with Bonypart
And likewise Tippoo Saib,
I name you then with all my heart
The Godsire of this babe.
The pair formed a linkage of active military
history for 120 years. Wellington (b. 1769)
fought his first campaign in 1793 against French
“troops whom the revolution seemed to affect
in the oddest manner and who, when they
should have been off the board, insisted on
scrambling to the attack without a vestige
of formation, shouting the most unusual songs. ’
When Connaught was born, the old boy was
still C.-in-C. at 81, though marked for death
next year. Connaught served in. the army
actively for 40 years. His last military job
was C.-in-C. Mediterranean forces in 1909, and
he was later Governor-General of Canada and
inaugurated the S. African Union Parliament.
Film entertainment isn’t exactly pre-
adamite; yet, believe it or not, Sydney
Legacy Club’s president, Alan J. William-
son, is only five years short of 50 years’
association with the industry. Sketched
here by Dubois, he’s a Kentishman
(1885 vintage). He came to Australia in
1932 as rep. for Gaumont British, and
ALAN J. WILLIAMSON.
also represents General Films Dis-
tnbutors. His association with Legacy
links back to the old R.F.C. early m the
last war and a commission when it
became the R.A.F. If he has views to
air on the No-Water Board for cramp-
ing his gardening style, Avondale cad-
dies are as deaf as the species elsewhere,
and a wife and three daughters should
k now his views anyway,
. silence:
Harry (Arthur Henry Wickham) Cunningham,
lsml? ss-S arte
bank balances, seldom in the news, but doing
a vast amount of public service His native
heath was Bowen (N.Q.), and the best place
to find him was among the 40,000 or so cattle
on Strathmore or Woodhouse, though he took
a hand in most district affairs, especially shows
and racing. Harry Cunningham’s best service
was the creation and care of Scartwater re Patr,a-
tion station, one of the most successful of
soldier settlement schemes; it gave many
1914-18 Diggers their start on the land
At Cottesloe (W.A.), J. D. Polmer, a bearer
Q f one of S.A.’s most famous names. It was
his grandfather, Police Inspector Alexander
jolmer, who took across to Victoria an armed
party from Adelaide to escort successful S.A.
gold-diggers back from Ballarat and Bendigo
Mhey Se
inspector wrote a book about it which is a
classic of its kind.
George Carmichael Mack, who captained the
famous Narromine polo team which won the
Dudley Cup three times. Son of Frank Mack,
Qf Narromine station, he was a great judge ot
bloodstock, and also judged merino sheep at
many sheep shows and in Melbourne. Up to
a couple of years back he owned Weemabah,
the Q j dest mer ino studs in N. S. Wales.
A keen racing man; he was a member of the
a.J.C. and president of the Macquarie Picnic
Race Club.
The will of Edward L. Ramsay, station and
racehorse owner of Banchory, Darling Downs
bachelor, and Q.T.C. committeeman for 25
years, spoke volumes on the sort of man he
was: “I forgive and release, free of all duties,
all debts owing to a J : by any
sss-*-*?J? £ 00 k
thing for most sporting bodies on the Downs,
At 80, in Melbourne John Herbert Davies
building contractor, whose large-scale works
pepper the landscape of three States. He built
the reservoirs at Kalgoorhe, Coolgardie and
Port Hedland (W.A.); Cobban and the
Basin in Victoria ; his monument in Tasmania is
the aerial railway between Piccaninny Point and
St. Mary’s. He owned pastoral and city proper-
ties, and had big interests in the tin and mbber
of Malaya, where c L T wo H ( )t ta
Davies, is serving with the R.A.F. Iwo otne
sons are in the A.I.F.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Cripes! Heads again!”
“Bo”: I claim to be virtually immune
from surprise attacks from up above.
For this my thanks are due chiefly to the
genius who authorised the pictorial pre-
sentation of the various types of aircraft,
friendly and hostile, partly to my own
diligence in studying and memorising
them. To make assurance doubly sure
I have cut them all out and pasted
them in a book. Now, every time I hear
a ’plane I rush inside for the book, rush
out again, closely scrutinise the ’plane
and compare it with those in the book.
Unfortunately I have had to surrender
my field glasses, and at over 1000 ft. on a
dull day it would be a bit difficult to dis-
tinguish between, say, a Mitsubishi 45
and a Wirraway with the naked eye. But
1 haven’t made a mistake yet, I have
recognised every one as one of ours.
*.* * *
“Jamwood”: Yes, some of these “news-
reviews” are as funny as any “radio
quiz.” In a single issue of one I read
the other day (1) that Churchill is a sep-
tuagenarian, (2) that the Spanish-
American war was fought in 1889, and
(3) that Appomattox was an American
Civil War battle in which both sides suf-
fered severely.
*** * *
“Oliver Filter”; I see that a meeting
of Darwin Laborites has demanded the
removal of the N.T. Administrator,
C. L. A. Abbott. That sort of thing has
happened before in Darwin’s history.
Dr. Gilruth, the first Administrator under
Commonwealth control, “experienced
some personal violence at the hands of
extremists” before he left Darwin in
February, 1919. He was followed in
August by a “Director of the Territory,”
H. E. Carey. In October a public depu-
tation told the Director, the Judge and
the Government Secretary that “if they
did not leave the Territory they would
be forcibly put on board an outgoing
ship.” They left. From what I’ve seen of
Abbott and his methods of dealing with
intruders, I shouldn’t like to be the one
elected to tell him to leave.
• * * *
“T. McN.”; Ever since the war broke
out the flapper press has had its almost
daily picture of some sweet young thing
bandaging another s.y.t. and the accom-
panying burble of how the darlings are
training in first-aid and “ready for any-
thing.” We’ve been shown, not so often,
pictures of male heroes dealing with
theoretical air-raid casualties, the “vic-
tims” usually swathed in a mass of linen
and splints. Devoted A.R.P. ladies and
gentlemen have religiously attended night
and day lectures and demonstrations by
qualified first-aiders and learned how to
patch up anything from a broken toe to
disembowelment. And now the ukase
has gone forth to them all (in N.S.W.,
anyhow), under N.E.S. authority, that
when and if the real thing comes nobody
is to touch the injured except medical
men and their own staffs. It’s an awful
blow, dears, but the flapper press will
cushion the shock somehow.
* * * *
“Filmgoer”: Colored cinematography
goes on improving. Both Hollywood and
Elstree have developed discretion in its
use, and some of their effects measure
up to a very high aesthetic standard. But
what I can’t understand is that for all
dramatic purposes color (so far as I
am concerned, and others say they feel
the same) doesn't help the illusion of
reality, but detracts from it. There is
an air of utter unnaturalness, to my mind,
about every one of the scenes in such a
recent production as the technicolor
“Bitter-Sweet.” Possibly it is because
such pains have been
taken to make every
scene perfect in com-
position, design and
color-balance life
is never like that. Or
is it that, if one has
written and read
nothing but short-
hand for years,
beautifully written
long-hand is not
easier but harder to
understand? How-
ever it may be, I find
monochrome films
exercise a stronger
effect on my mind
and emotions than
colored ones do. The
only really satisfac-
tory effects I’ve seen
in color were the
moonlit sequences in
“North - West Pas-
sage”—possibly be-
cause, though osten-
sibly in technicolor, they were nearly in
monochrome,
* * * *
“Lohpa”: Blackout, rationing and
labor shortage have closed down “Lord”
George Sanger’s circus and menagerie.
It lasted 140 years, and was known all
over the United Kingdom. When a boy
I saw its wonderful street parade, with
Mrs. Sanger as Britannia and a real live
lion posed on top of a car. The show
opened in London in 1870 at Astley’s
Amphitheatre (a place immortalised by
Dickens), and was there every winter until
the building was pulled down in 1895.
® * * *
“Nakh”: Since the outbreak of hos-
tilities in Malaya my Melbourne daily
paper has informed me that Singapore is
being defended by tigers, leeches, croco-
diles and snakes ; the native peasantry,
armed with deadly krises; the jungle;
Chiang Kai-shek’s battalions; Mr. Duff
Cooper; the bridgeless rivers; the ano-
pheles mosquito ; in short, by such a mul-
titude of redoubtable opponents that it
is a wonder the paper ever advocated the
sending of an expeditionary force from
Australia. The paper’s reason for think-
ing that the anopheles is such a deadly
menace to Japanese aspirations is that
the Dutch East Indies has practically a
world monopoly of quinine culture. It
seems to have forgotten, or does not
know, that for generations the British in
Malaya have made war on malaria, and
have so far succeeded that epidemics in
the parts overrun by Nipponese are rare.
The anopheles is not a breeder of malaria
but a carrier thereof. It has to catch the
disease from a human being who has
already got it, and the disease has to pass
through all its normal phases before the
mosquito can pass it on by biting an-
other human being. I lived for years
on one of the Bornean islands now under
Japanese control and there was complete
immunity from malaria, although the
anopheles was there in millions. Then
a white man from the African Gold
Coast arrived and infected the mos-
quitoes. There was certainly an epidemic,
but it affected only a fraction of the
population, which was possibly non-im-
munised; the rest carried on as usual.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: I see that the British Lord’s
Day Observance Society has taken a lOin.
double-column advertisement in the
“Times” to protest against 8.8.C.’s
broadcasting of Dorothy Sayers’s Nativity
play. Ancient ideas of reverence persist.
Before the Renaissance artists painted
religious pictures according to certain
fixed conventions. Then some individual,
interested in the problems of painting,
painted his model, put a halo round her
head and a real baby in her arms, and
called the result “Madonna.” There was
an outcry; but great artists like
Titian and Michelangelo persisted, and
in due course the new kind of religious
painting became the fashion and the old
kind became hopelessly outmoded. There
was another outcry in Elizabethan days
when the common or garden actor took
the miracle and morality plays out of the
hands of the monks, who had hitherto
been privileged alone to perform them,
and put them on the commercial stage.
The British conservers of reverence are
reacting in precisely the same way to
wireless.
* * * *
“A.R.P.”; It was a N.E.S. lecture in
Sydney’s poshest suburb, and the lecturer
had got on to gas. “The known gases
can be detected by their smells —for in-
stance, every trained warden knows what
sort of gas is indicated by a smell like
that of musty hay—but a cunning enemy
may mix the gases to disguise the smells.”
Then the usual nark arose and said, “Mr.
Speaker, I should like to know how many
wardens in this city know what musty
hay smells like.” There was a second of
stunned silence, then both lecturer and
audience saw the point, and in the general
merriment the lecture took on a friend-
lier tone.
* * * *
“Looby”; The woman in the room
above nags husband, son, daughter
and canary. Last Sunday it was the
husband who suffered most. At the
height of the attack Mrs. X barked,
“Now look here! Why don’t you read
your paper and shut your mouth? All
that’s wanted out of you is silence.”
For five minutes only the melancholy
rustle of the paper floated down the
damp, deep well which (according to the
landlord) gives all flats “glorious fresh air
and sunshine.” Then came a screeching
“That’s right, bury yourself in your news-
paper! Can’t you speak a single blasted
word to a woman?”
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: Two opportunists headed
along Sydney’s Elizabeth-street under a
burden of wooden shovels and hoes of
the kind recommended by A.R.P. authori-
ties for dealing with incendiary bombs.
Dunno to whom they proposed to sell
their wares, but if ever caveat emptor
applied it did then, the tools being made
of light deal and pine from butterboxes,
etc. That stuff would be pie to an incen-
diary. The wood recommended is the
hardest Australian hardwood.
* * * «
“Hamer”: Undoubtedly words with
different meanings in different localities
are dangerous (B. 7/1/’42). Australian
artist Alex. Sass, a most amiable and in-
offensive chap, was moved at a Green-
wich Village party to refer to the hostess
as “a great little grafter.” He had accu-
initiated a couple of black eyes, a bleed-
ing nose and some torn garments before
he was allowed to explain that he had
meant that the lady was a hard worker
Sass was not to know that, applied to a
woman, the term has a particularly nasty
meaning in the States.
* * ¥ *
“S.T.S.”: I have come on an odd item
in an Adelaide paper of half a century
back. “Honest Tom” Playford, becom-
ing head of the S.A. Government (as his
grandson is today), decided to be called
Prime Minister, finding Premier “too
French-sounding.” There could be no
objection then to his using whichever he
liked of the two terms, which mean much
the same thing. Only with Federation
came a distinction between State Premier
and Commonwealth P.M.
* * * *
K.P. : Sorting over odds and ends
I came across a photograph of one of the
Siegfried statues which were put up all
over Germany in Hitler pre-war days as
the ideal of young Aryan manhood. It
bore a statement that the percentage of
German young men of (metric equiva-
lent) six feet and over had increased by
15 p.c. in the previous 25 years, proof
of Aryan superiority in Strength and
Beauty. That rather discounted Hun
meanings about the ruin of German
youth by the brutal British blockade of
foodstuffs during the 1914-18 war, and
it’s a fact that the same height increase
occurred in other countries in the period,
but little things like that don’t daunt a
Hitler propagandist. Siegfried is cer-
tainly not built for endurance. He has
long slim legs—that’s where the height
comes from —a relatively short body, a
small head and a long, narrow face. His
physical type is precisely that produced
by a well-known form of pituitary over-
action, and such individuals follow a
definite mental pattern characterised by
lack of stability and self-reliance, ten-
dency to emotionalism rather than
rational thought and dread of responsi-
bility. Such are the ideal followers of
an aggressive self-appointed leader who
will promise them future greatness.
“Now, lads , I Want you to feel as if you was in your own 'ome. Look
on me as your mother."
A REMOTE CONTINGENCY.
“After some searchings of heart and efforts to
obtain opinions from theatregoers, the .1. C. Wil-
liamson firm decided to stage ‘The Mikado’ in Syd-
ney', one reason given being that in the present
situation ‘any protests from Japan could be ignored.’ ”
So once again in stageland we’ll be seeing
Those airy, fairy figures Gilbert drew,
Who lived and moved and had their sprightly
being
In the fantastic Town of Titipu;
Once more we’ll hear the merry repartee-ing
Of Pooh-Bah, Ko-Ko, good old Pish-Tush,
too,
And the melodious philandering
Of Yum-Yum, Nanki-Poo and Pitti-Sing.
With memories in plenty they’re invested,
Yet what of their creator, gifted man,
Who drew his types from attitudes suggested
By native drawings upon screen and fan,
Wouldn’t his fertile pen have been arrested
Could he have guessed what manner of Japan
The coming generation of his race
Would be compelled to reckon with —and face?
Time was we learned these ultra-comic dealings
With Nippon’s sainted monarch and his Court
Wounded the gentle Oriental’s feelings,
Made him resentful—got his goat, in short;
And there were periodical appealings
This giddy opera was not the sort
Of skit to make us popular with those
Whom we would sooner have as friends than
foes.
But now, considering our changed relations,
If Japs can spare the time from fire and
sword
To criticise dramatic situations
They’ve reason for antipathy toward,
Their noisiest complaints and protestations,
It's pleasant to reflect, can be ignored,
Yielding another proof, were any lacked,
Of our producers’ never-failing tact.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
TOO BAD.
“The people who attend races for health and
relaxation are the backbone of the racing industry.
They are entitled to the greatest consideration, yet
now they are unable to reach courses like Randwick in
comfort and in safety.” —Professor D. A. Welsh in
Who are the mainstays of the racing game?
The chaps who breed or own or train the horses
They trust to win them stakes and bets and fame?
The nimble, nifty jocks who steer the same
Around our courses?
The tipsters and the oracles whose notes
On form and various performers’ chances
Set eager crowds, in pants or petticoats,
Determinedly converging on the totes
To back their fancies?
The books who bawl the odds with noisy glee,
Laying the dead ’uns with intensive unction?
No, none of these. Albeit, we may agree
They all fulfil—the last especially—
A useful function.
Of claims to notice doubtless all have some;
But pillars of the turf a heap more weighty
And numerous are citizens who come
To aid their health and take their otium
Cum dignitate.
No sordid urge of mercenariness
Brings them to mix in these surroundings scenic;
Seeking a break from toil’s exacting stress,
Their motives, one might say, are nothing less
Than hygienic.
A racecourse unto such is just a spot
Where one in comfortable ease relaxes.
It’s hard, uncommon hard, you’ll grant, their lot,
Now there’s a war and special trams are not,
These seekers after health perforce have got
To charter taxis.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Cripes, they're using live bait.”
“Tuart”: As it appeared in one of the
papers:—
Two attempts have been made to blow
up the Hannan-street home of the Kal-
goorlie R.M. In the second case a man
was disturbed in the act of firing a charge
of gelignite which he had placed under the
front verandah. He climbed over the gate
and made off on a bicycle.
I am not acquainted with the present
Kalgoorlie R.M., but if he is anything
like his predecessors of the Roaring
’Nineties only a maniac would try to
blow him to Kingdom Come. I know
that front verandah. Long ago I paced
it with a dear old Warden (he was also
R.M.) looking for traces of a male-
factor who, it had just been reported to
the police, had broken into the house
and got away with a large quantity of
jewellery and other valuables. It was my
first job as police roundsman, and I
wrote a flowery account of it for the
morning paper. New to .the town as well
as the job, I wasn’t aware of the Warden’s
financial embarrassments; and, puffed up
witA pride and bearing a folded copy of
the “Miner,” I did my Hannan-street
promenade next morning all unconscious
of the reason for the grins and chuckles
which attended my progress. Disillu-
sionment came when a Sundlay-paper
poet made savage mirth at my expense
and that of the Warden. In devastating
jingle he questioned my sanity, ridiculed
my style and rang the changes on the
word “piazza” (I had used it rather
freely), closing with two slaughtering
lines:
Away with this reporter and his idiotic gurgle!
A burglary be jiggered! There was nothing
there to burgle.
It left me crushed for a fortnight, but
the Warden didn’t turn a hair.
* * * «
“Apple Gum”: Customs Minister
Keane, who blames- smoking for stunting
his growth and keeping his weight down
to 22 stone, decided recently, on war-
economy grounds, to wrestle with the
Demon Nicotine. According to one
Melbourne newspaper the degree of
his victory was to cut his tobacco
ration (he smokes a pipe) from
one ounce to half an ounce a day.
According to another he cut out one
pipeful in nine and adjured cigarette
smokers to make eight coffin-nails do the
work of nine. There are people, of
course, to whom complete abstention is
less irritating than rationing, and more
likely to effect economy, but there’s yet
another course open to smokers, and that
is to get the strongest possible smoke for
the least possible money. A clay pipe,
costing a few pence, and a stick of nail-
rod or twist provides a smoke for
Anyone who wants more than about four
pipefuls a day should be immune to gas
attacks.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: When Melbourne
“Argus” took a street symposium of 24
citizens on daylight saving, not one
voiced the slightest criticism. Eighteen
wanted it made an all-the-year-round in-
stitution and only four had any doubts
even on that score. Yet before the inno-
vation I heard people in trams and trains
vehemently discussing it and everyone
had objections. Now people think that
they not only never had any objections
but thought of the idea themselves. 1
am wondering what Melbourne citizens
wou i d do if they had to eat horseflesh as
the Parisians did in the last war. I once
asked a man if he had tasted horsetlesn.
“Yes,” he said, “1 tried some in Pans—
disgusting stuff! But he had gone into
a cafd where he saw a notice disp ayed
Horseflesh sold here, and he only h
his prejudices fulfilled. In many Pans
cafes in those days horseflesh was sold
f beef, and he had probably often eaten
horseflesh and thought it prime b
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Sydneysiders will lick parched
lips when they learn that the tap has
just been turned in Melbourne on a new
conduit which is capable of pouring more
water under the city than citizens use in
a heat-wave. The water authorities can
be so lavish with the stuff that it is to be
used for electricity generation. The con-
duit starts seven feet below the Yarra,
runs 34ft. below Collins- and King-street
and ends its journey 63ft. deep at the City
Council’s powerhouse at Spencer-street,
About 2000 ft. in length and capable of
delivering 143,000,000 gallons of water a
day, it is a fine engineering achievement
for its designers. The only drawback is
that its use outs a possible air-raid
shelter.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Even in the midst of
the jitter -Blitz operated by Civil Defence
Minister Hanlon, Brisbane has found time
£ or a sn i gger . An A.R.P. warden is an
enthusiastic amateur gardener when not
engage d in war’s alarms, and his admir-
ably-kept lawn is the pride of his suburb.
He ordered a load of sandy loam for
topdressing it, and the material was duly
dumped on the premises. He and his
family were away for the day when it
arrived, and it so happened that a particu-
larly frantic senes of yelps from the
Blitz boys concerning the vital necessity
f° r keeping a bucket of sand handy for
extinguishing the incendiary bombs whic
might fall at any moment had appeared
m that mornings papa:. When he
returned only the barest skeir ck
mamed of his lawn-dressing. The local
inhabitants had mistaken it for
issue of extinguishmg-sand and had got
away Wlth the lot.
* * * * .
“Hamer”: “Colonel Bungstarter” evi-
dently adheres to the superstition that
Henry Lawson was a heavy beer-drinker,
Henry drank more than was good for
him, no doubt, but many drinkers could
handle all Henry was likely to soak in
on any one day without turning a hair,
He was one of the slowest drinkers of
my acquaintance; he usually asked for
the biggest sort of pot and “dwelt on it”
ip a way. rather aggravating to a quick
drinker. After we had quaff S
on one occasion, my own pot _P ,’
Uenry s with little but e 10 ,
I made a theatre matinee tba^. bad[
seen an excuse for leaving him with a
vague remark lhat l wouid see^ him aga.m
He was still in the bar on my icturn alt
the show. “Had a few since I was
here, Henry?” 1 suggested. He
tilted his mug to show the drain
still in the bottom before empty-
ing it, and assured me with that
curious chuckle of his that it was
the same pot. A man who could
dwell so long over a single pint
can hardly be described as a heavy
drinker.
♦ * m
“Nakhoda”: Canberra’s re-
action to the Penang evacuation
has been expressed in a statement
to the effect that the prestige of
the white race must suffer, as it
has been based on the realisation
by the natives that the white man
will never run away from a fight,
and if attacked will exact retribu-
tion. Nonsense! The prestige of
the white has rested on his posses-
sion of superior force and on
nothing else. The only whites who
ever had individual prestige in
Asia were the missionary monks
and travellers like Marco Polo.
The modern English bank clerk,
missionary or commercial travel-
ler may think his prestige is due
to his superior character and in-
telligence, but take away British
naval protection and he has so
little prestige that he has to scuttle
away to the nearest treaty port
and shelter behind his Consul.
“Marianne”: Tell “Bo” (B. 7/1 /’42')
that as one of the holders of hands I resent
his remarks. I’m 36 and my gentleman
friend is 40, and anyone less like a sissy
than he would be hard to find ; he’s 6ft.
2in. and a soldier. Just let some side-
walk buck say “00-hoo” as we wend
our entwined way along. Believe me,
it’s a very practical habit! Last beau I
had I let go his hand in a crush, consisting
mostly of blondes, and I have never seen
him since. Here’s to harder and more
determined hand-holding!
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Melbourne “Argus,” on
the subject of A.R.P., gives details of what
the uninstructed citizen should do if he
feels a burning sensation in the eyes, irri-
tation of the nose, sneezing, aching teeth
and gums and recognises there is gas
about. The information is most explicit,
but the article ends up with this enig-
matic statement:
If you are not handy to a solution of
hypo there is a cruder but equally effec-
tive method of counteracting gas that was
used by the Canadians in the first great gas
attack of the last war at Vimy Ridge. A
returned soldier probably will be able to
tell you all about it.
Why this sudden reticence? Is there
something in the method which is not
quite nice and might shock the suscep-
tibilities of some old spinster reader of
the journal? If that is the case—and it
seems the only reasonable explanation —
the “Argus” or its A.R.P. adviser is let-
ting the public down.
* * * •
“Ad”: The traditional link between
barbers and tobacco has had a blow in
S.A. The Hairdressers’ Association actu-
ally took into court a mere tobacconist
who had claimed to be one of their
honored profession. He said that there
was a sort .of bartering annexe to his
shop, and he thought it a fair thing to
advertise himself as a barber. The Court
told him to be more careful in future.
* * * •
“Spokeshave”: Australian prejudice
against Australian wine, is it? A Mel-
bourne man was dining at a Frenchman s
house in Paris before the present conflict.
His host trotted out a bottle of port.
“How do you like it?” he asked.
“Whouf!” gasped his guest, his eyes in
an ecstasy of pleasure, “we don’t get
wine like this in Australia.”
sieur, that’s where it came from,” said
the Frenchman.
* * * *
“Boniface” remembers a pioneer pub :
The opening of a new pub was an event in
Governor Macquarie’s time, not unworthy ot
the personal interest of that benevolent auto-
crat himself. The “Sydney Gazette” of July
29, 1815, spread itself about the vice-regal
inauguration of “that spacious and commodious
new inn at Windsor, called ‘The Macquarie
Arms,’ opened by the Governor on Wednes-
day, the 26th instant, when His Excellency
entertained at dinner the Magistrates and other
■principal gentlemen residing at Windsor and
in that neighborhood. Mr. Ranson, who has
taken on himself the duties of Innkeeper, is,
from his experience in the vocation, thoroughly
competent to the undertaking, which we are
convinced will be conducted upon a liberal foot-
ing. There was no house of public reception at
Windsor capable of accommodating large and
genteel companies; whereas ‘The Macquarie
Arms,’ from its extent, plan of buildings and
adequate number of apartments, will be doubt-
less found worthy of the most liberal patronage
and support.” This tavern was the original of
the present Royal Hotel in the old Hawkesbury
town, and its real proprietor was Richard Fitz-
gerald, then Principal Superintendent of Con-
victs in the district. It was leased to the Gov-
ernment on January 27, 1835, for five years, to
serve as a mess for the officers of the 50th
Regiment. The old building still stands, with
few alterations in its exterior appearance.
« * * *
“Ologist”: “Chink” accuses me of
being pedantic (B. 14/1 / ’42). Then
W. M. Fowler must be pedantic, too,
because that authority’s own words in
regard to “unique,” directly or indirectly
quoted, constituted the staple of my par.
“Chink” must also label as pedantic the
writers of several recent books on Eng-
lish, all of whom agree with Fowler.
“Chink” seems to be blissfully ignorant
of or smugly indifferent to Fowler’s
much-quoted Modern English Usage and
of these other books, among which may
be mentioned An A.B.C. of English
Usage, by H. A. Treble and G. H. Val-
lins ; A Dictionary of Correct English,
by M. Alderton Pink; and Technical
Writing, a particularly fine work by a
highly-qualified American, T. A. Rickard.
This last, though primarily written for
members of Rickard’s own profession of
mining engineering, will make any intel-
ligent man realise the importance of tak-
ing pains in writing. Let me quote
Rickard on the word under discussion.
He says: “‘Unique’ is a word that is
immune from qualification.” Four bad-
example sentences are given, and Rickard
comments: “Each of these four quota-
tions contains a superfluous adverb. If
a thing be unique, that sufficeth.” Now
a quotation from Pink: “A thing is
either unique or it is not, just as it may
be either first or not first; there can be
no degrees of ‘uniqueness’ or ‘firstness.’ ”
And all “Chink” can do to confound
these authoritative writers is to resurrect
an amusing but illiterate old-timer!
“An' I say it CAN happen here."


ABORIGINALITIES
“M.U.R.”: Tom had made a pet of a
tree frog and called it Joe. Joe used to sit
on the table sleepily watching us play
crib until one night when we were shar-
ing a bottle of brandy Tom took Joe
between finger and thumb, dipped a
match into the brandy and allowed a
drop to fall into Joe’s throat. Joe went
over backwards, lay still with his golden
belly pulsing 19 to the dozen, let out a
sound like the wail of a Viking death
song, then gathered himself together and
leapt through the window into the night.
An hour later we were frantically bar-
ricading the hut against the horde of
frogs of all kinds clamoring around it.
* * * •
“The 0.D.”; Bluey and Dutch, with
2s. between them, dropped their swags
at the waterhole one blazing noon and
were peering through the haze towards
the Dead Finish pub a mile away, won-
dering how to make that 2s. spin out,
when a stranger on a horse ambled up.
He got off to water the neddy, and Dutch,
looking shrewd, called him and Bluey
into conference. An hour later the pub-
lican snapped out of his drowse in the
bar as the .horseman shuffled in and
ordered a pint. Thankfully absorbing it,
he asked, “Seen anythin’ of a bloke in a
grey car?” Bung hadn’t, and the horse-
man cursed unrancorously, picked up the
change from 2s. and departed. Half an
hour later another horseman drifted in,
dropped sixpence on the counter, downed
his drink and put the same question with
the same result. Within 20 minutes a
third horseman went through the same
performance, except that he paid with a
shilling. “Look,” said the publican,
“you’re the third cove that’s been lookin’
for a grey car. What’s doin’?” “Aw,”
said the rider disgustedly, “we got 1500
Moora wethers down at the tank. The
boss was t’ meet us an’ cough up some
cash. Wonder what’s keepin’ the cow.
It’s flamin’ dry watchin’ them sheep an’
we ain’t got much dough between us.”
The publican hunted round, found a two-
gallon billy and filled it with beer. “Take
this,” he said ; “it’ll keep y’ goin’ till
the boss comes an’ y’ can fix up then.”
Towards dark mine host strolled down
to the tank, but there were only the
marks of a single horse going north and
of two pairs of feet heading east.
♦ * * *
“Mat's Mate”: Mat’s first ’plane
trip happened when I landed a big fenc-
ing contract out of Mildura (Vic.). I
wired him at Mt. Gambier (S.A.) and,
getting the impression that he was wanted
in a hurry, he went up to Adelaide and
took the mail ’plane—-in those days a
primitive biplane. “How didjer like
flyin’?” was my envious question, as he
arrived days before he was expected. He
looked at me hard. “Listen,” he said,
“a thing that always gets me is t’ find
some little squirt of a cove gamer than
meself. When we got goin’ I was all
right f’r a bit, then I look round an’ see
nothin’ between me an’ a broken neck
but some wood and canvas an’ about
10,000 feet of air, see? Just when I think
o’ that the flamin’ ’plane suddenly drops
about a mile an’ me heart hits the roof
of me mouth. The pilot looks round at
me with a big grin. He’s a squirt I
could take apart with one hand, and he’s
enjoyin’ it. No, Bally, 1 don’t wanna
talk about flyin’.” And the big hump
gave a bit of a shiver and shuffled his
boots firmer into the Mallee dust.
• * • »
“J. Rilston” : I’m still wondering about
that carvel-built dinghy that Blue bought
off NjcGuiness (B. 24/12/’4l). For 30
years; off and on, I’ve watched Old Bob,
a deepsea fisherman of south-west W.A.,
work his 30-foot carvel-built cruiser.
Every winter she went ashore for an over-
haul and repainting; the approach of
every summer saw her back in the water.
But winter or summer I never caught a
glimpse of light through any of her
planks above waterline. True, planks
below waterline, if allowed to become too
dry, will shrink and let the light through ;
but planks above the line are always out
of water, and they shouldn’t shrink unless
they were put in as green timber. And
even then, on being caulked and puttied
after a few months’ use, they would be
right for the rest of the boat’s life. If
carvel-built boats acted as “Narrin” says
there wouldn’t be any in service. For
sailers they’re unsurpassed.
* * * «
“B. 4”: Leaving the Suttor with a mob
of stores, I gave old Moonji the job of
ringbarking the stallion paddock. Re-
turning late one afternoon, I could see
from the homestead verandah with the
glasses that the trees were well rung.
Moohji and his mob were anxious
to go walkabout. Yes, he bin ringum
all-about good pfeller. Boss payum two
one pfeller five pound notes, fillum tucker-
bags, gibbit beef, terbaccer, matchis?
“BAKER!"
This done, the boongs left with smiles
that would fit a goat. Coming through
the paddock the opposite way next day
I discovered the reason for their hilarity.
The cunning cows had merely rung the
sides of the trees facing the’homestead.
* * * *
“Ah Me”: Abos. on the north-east
coast have no restricted notions as to
the use of fishing nets (B. 31/12/’4l).
Around some of the coral cays of the
Barrier Reef sardines collect in millions
in the daytime, herded into the shallows
for fear of bigger fish. I have seen them
so thick round Green Island, near Cairns,
that the sand close to shore was blacked
out by a solid band of Saturday night’s
tea, 50yds. long and 10ft. wide, and
packed as closely as any that come out
of tins. A piece of coral rock heaved
into the dense mass would cause a
momentary white patch to appear, but
the ranks would close up again at once.
Now and then a few would leap franti-
cally out of the water- as a hungry big
fish made a dash at the outskirts of the
mob. Binghi, never slow to exploit any
source of food, perfected a method of
catching them in nets. A lubra would
wade out carrying a carefully-folded net
about 20ft. long, and with a dexterous
swing of her body cast it into the dense
mass of fish. She never missed or tangled
the net, and the wriggling, silvery haul
would provide the whole camp with
breakfast.
* * * *
“The Duke”: Pop Gumleaf and his
son were at the bazaar at Wattle Creek.
In a tent a pretty girl was selling kisses
in aid of some charity. “Jim, me lad,”
said Pop, “ ’ere’s two bob. Go an’ kiss
’er. W’en I wos young I useter make ’em
scream.” Young Jim took the proffered
florin and disappeared into the tent. A
minute later he returned smiling cheer-
fully. “You must’ve made a welter of it,”
his parent observed, “the way she sang
out.” “Too right,” replied Jim. “That’s
because I kept the two deeners.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; Nominate the goanna as
the greediest creature extant. I once
worked for an old chap whose idea of
a pet was a foul-smelling five-footer.
The quantity of tucker that reptile could
wrap himself around was astounding.
Trying out a new shotgun one day we
accounted for a dozen starlings, and of
course the old fellow insisted on giving
the carcasses to his odoriferous pet. The
first seven or eight went down like
lightning, but towards the end the interior
accommodation became a bit limited.
However, the glutton wasn’t going to be
beaten. Taking a carcass in his mouth
he would bump it vigorously on the floor
of the cage, thus cramming the meal
down his gullet. Half an hour later
there wasn’t a feather to be seen.
* * * *
“Dai R.”: “Chemists are orright for
some things, I suppose,” said Hairy Joe,
“but some o’ the best remedies can be
made in the bush. One rainy season we’re
cartin’ wool inter Walgett sidin’ from
Euroka station, an’ one night we camps
about eight miles from the town. I strikes
a soft patch an’ me wagon sinks to the
axle. There was three other teams, an’
we hooks ’em all on —42 orses —but
they couldn’t shift it. After we’d bin in
bed awhile I notices ole Dan, one o’ the
other teamsters, messin’ round the fire,
an’ asks ’im what he’s up to, but he sez
ter mind me own bizness, so I goes
ter sleep. When I wake up nex’ mornin’
me wagon’s missin’. What knocked us
all bandy was the wheel ruts ’eadin’
straight for the town, but no sign o’ hoof
marks. Well, I catches the saddle ’orse
an’ off I goes in persoot. I finds the
wagon about four miles along the road,
movin’ steady, with the poultice Dan ’ad
made out o’ lantana leaves, as ’e told me
in at the pub, tied across the end o’ the
pole. Yair, it’s the best dr aw in’ poultice
y’ can make!”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Rorty was a steady little
bloke of clean and unassuming habit who
toiled honestly in the bush for six months
or so, then drifted into town, had a quiet
bender and went back to toil. He’d
reached the mid-forties and seemed set
in his ways when he struck the entire
western Riverina dumb by announcing
his intention to marry the cook at Gol
Gol pub. Astounded bushmen, bend-
haunters, fishermen, woodcutters and
rabbiters converged on that pub, filled
with a passion of inquiry. They saw a
quiet little woman who refused to be
drawn and who locked herself in the
kitchen. It took three days to celebrate
the nuptials, by which time the happy
pair had departed for Rorty’s humpy.
The spring and summer passed and early
in autumn somebody saw Rorty, with a
tremendous swag up, heading north.
“Yair,” he said, “I’m off. I could’ve
stood a lot o’ things from her an’ I did.
I didn’t mind wearin’ a collar and tie on
Sundees, washing the winders, or her
gettin’ cobbers with me dawg. But when
she tries t’ make me wear socks”—he
looked over the plains with a lost expres-
sion—“well, it’s time for Rorty to move.”
And with his dog he tramped into the
saltbush.
“Yours Etc.”: If patent medicines do
all their advertisements claim, then mil-
lions now living will never die —and
amongst the immortals \frili be a lanky
station hand named George. We calcu-
lated that 40 p.c. of his pay went in buy-
ing nostrums whose excellence was sworn
to by the makers. The mob thought he
had tried the lot, until one night a new
bloke produced a bottle with a strange
label. “What’s the name of that?” asked
George eagerly. “Can’t pronounce it,”
answered the new man. “Anyway, it’s
no good. I’m chucking it out.” “No,
don’t,” said George. “It might do me
some good. Er —what’s it for?”
♦ * * *
“Propalong”: When Sandy finished
chaperoning a trainload of Christmas
beef from Marree (S.A.) to Adelaide he
decided to combine business with metro-
politan pleasure by getting a job with
a stock firm near the abattoirs. They
gave him a polka-hopping chestnut pony
to ride and quarters comfortably near a
pub, and Sandy was happy. Every morn-
ing on his way to the stock paddocks
and yards he had to cross a slick-sur-
faced bitumen road. It had the top-
ender bluffed for a while, but the sophis-
ticated pony one-two-threed across it
without turning a hair. Then one morn-
ing Sandy found it necessary to whip
off the chestnut’s shoes before starting
work. The going was soft, and all went
well as far as the road. The pony
danced on to the black stuff, skidded, cut
a figure round a milk-cart, gave an exhi-
bition of roller-skating—learners’ class —
round a car, lurched, spun round and
fell with a crash almost under the wheels
of a thundering big service bus. Sandy
didn’t wait to find if all unshod horses
behaved like that on bitumen. An hour
later he limped into the railway station,
headed for the comparative safety of the
crab-hole country.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: The Council has had a
good session on eerie night calls; let me
add a champion daytime one. By that
freakishness of W.A. gold deposits the
Diorite King lay
far out in the
mulga —real abori-
ginal territory.
Myalls converged
upon it, lured by
the tale of “plenty
good whitepfeller
tucker, tea, plower,
chugar” that, so
mysteriously circu-
lates through the
wilds ; but few ever
arrived at the
promised land.
Binghi would be
seated at his camp-
fire, or drifting
along peacefully,
filled with that con-
tent that comes to
every rover when
the end of the jour-
ney is near, when,
suddenly, out of the blue would arrive a
most unearthly screech and the tribe
would light out for the hori2!bn. It was
only the mine whistle, a terrific siren that
some unconscious humorist in the Old
Country had included in the mine outfit,
but with a hundreds pounds of steam
behind it—well, the legend of that un-
earthly screaming monster must still be
circulating around the Warburtons and
the Rawlinsons and up and down the
W.A.-S.A. border.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Westralia hasn’t many
rivers, but almost all of them display
an odd similarity in form that is a puzzle
to geologists. Take the best-known,
the Swan. Beginning with a bottleneck
at Fremantle, it presently opens out to a
fine sheet that is really a sea lake, Mel-
ville Water, about eight miles long by
four at its widest, and with a depth in
places of over 25 feet. Through a narrow
gap, and one finds Perth Water, smaller,
but still a sizable sheet. Beyond, the
river narrows to a normal steep-sided
stream. Even tributaries such as the Can-
ning, entering the larger stream 10 miles
inland, have the same formation—a
bottleneck and then, farther in, wide-
spreading lakes of a good depth. And
the strange point is that though these
wide bottle-necked estuaries have been in
existence for unknown ages they have
maintained their considerable depth and
even now show no signs of silting. Yet
except for a tidal rise and fall of less
than two feet there is practically no flow
for the greater part of the year. There
are many of these streams, all designed
to the same pattern. Even the Prince
Rupert River, 1000 miles to the north,
shows the same formation. But there the
tidal rise is over 30ft. —the lakes rise that
much, and to see them discharge through
the bottlenecks is to witness one of the
natural wonders of the world.
THE COAST BY NIGHT.
To this grove of ragged ti-tree,
Bracken frond and wind-blown gum",
Tired of talk of town and tavern.
At the day’s end I have come;
Come to watch the quiet twilight,
Greying all things round about,
While the last cloud-tinting high light
Of the sunset dwindles out.
Stationed on a high-set headland,
Glimpse I now with failing sight
Cliff and cliff to north and southward,
Paled and veiled by nearing night;
Night that nears with noiseless motion,
Marshalling no starry host.
While a slowly dimming ocean
Beats upon an ancient coast.
Glooms the ocean, till full-statured
Night hides all its charm from me,
Boat nor bird upon its waters,
White of sail or wing I see;
Only by a salt wind driven
O’er the surging, sullen tide,
Doomed to roam like souls unshriven,
Sheets of spindrift shoreward glide.
Sheets of spindrift, souls unshriven.
Spectral ti-trees, warped and white!
Lord, what fancies come to ’wilder
One who walks the coast by night!
Winds that sigh in cleft and cavern,
Tides unseen that ebb and flow —
Back to talk of town and tavern,
Quitting them, in haste I go.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


So long , shipmate!”
“Gryllus”: The modest, retiring little
porcupine people deserve a share of the
limelight which the platypus gets. They
are the only other egg-laying mammals
in the world, and Mrs. P. grows a dainty
little pouch to carry the infant in until
its spikes get too long for her comfort.
They are amongst the strongest of all
animals, weight for weight, and prob-
ably the world’s best diggers. That last
qualification alone should endear them
to all other dinkum Aussies. The male
in the courting season can walk nearly
upright on his hind legs with a real shiver-
me-timbers sailor roll when showing off
before the girl friend ; if he’s late for an
appointment he also employs this gait.
They share the platypus’s much-adver-
tised peculiarity of a lower blood tem-
perature than any other mammal, and
also its reptilian skeleton-features. And
should any dyed-in-the-wool utilitarian
want to know what “good” they are, let
me inform him that a young adult porcu-
pine, buried overnight and baked in a*
camp-oven with sage and onion stuffing,
is better-flavored and tenderer than any
sucking pig he ever tasted. I’ve never
heard of anyone trying to eat a platypus,
but am game to wager that it wouldn’t
taste nearly as good.
♦ * * *
“Nor’-west”: One of the natural-
history mysteries of Australia’s north is
how the dugong, probably the most de-
fenceless of animals, has managed to sur-
vive in waters infested with sharks and
crocs. The adult sea-pig’s hide is tough,
but this doesn’t apply to the infants. Re-
treat to shallow water might serve as a
defence against the shark but would be no
protection against the amphibious croc.
Yet there are bays along W.A.’s north-
west coast where almost any time half a
dozen dugong may be seen sporting
around, while in the offing will be two or
three seemingly dead logs that are really
six feet or so of live saurian ; and in the
deeper water it would need only the
dangling of a few slices of bacon to
bring at least one shark to investigate.
» * * *
“Narrin”: Watching what appeared to
be a small agitated torpedo zigzagging
down our Murray reach we saw, when
the thing reached shallow water, that it
was a strange fish. A bullet, the only
really effective collecting instrument at
hand, keeled it over, and on examination
it proved to be a trout. Though we
wished to sample the novelty, we were
deterred by a number of small worms
whose heads apparently were buried in
the skin near the gills. They were little
more than a quarter of an inch long,
dark-ringed and lively. Can any Council-
lor identify the beasts and testify as to
their harmlessness or otherwise?
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Camped for quite a while
on country that showed promising
floaters and leaders, we found firewood
getting scarce. One evening young Harti-
gan, who did the cooking, arrived back
with a solid load of dry salmon gum.
“Struck it a bit lucky finding this. Must
have been some other party along here a
while back. It was all cut to nice lengths
and stacked under the shade of a big rock.”
Long Ned looked the firewood over.
“I’m afraid you’ll have to take it back.
That wood belongs to the blacks here-
abouts. You notice, every piece’s got a
bend in it. That’s boomerang wood. They
stacked it under that rock to season and
crack. Took them a long time to collect
those bends, most likely.” Hartigan
looked aghast. “But it’s a mile or more
back. Besides, it’s only the niggers’,”
Long Ned gathered up the wood. “That's
the kind of thing that used to breed
murders by the blacks, and then a dozen
or so of the poor devils might be shot.
They think as much of this boomerang
wood as you do of your rifle. They wait
12 months for it to dry. Then they
follow the run of the grain and so get
their boomerangs out. They come back
thinking to find the material all ready—
and some white man’s used their muni-
tions for firewood.” Hartigan took it
back.
« ♦ * •
“D.R.H.”: “Dawg-whistles! ” snorted
old Barney as he watched the boss swing
his new silent call into action. “Me ol’
dawg Greenhide didn’t need no patent
whistles, nor no handsigns or yack-ai-ing
either. All I had t’ do was t’ think what
I wanted him t’ do an’ he’d do it. Sup-
posin’ I wanted him
t’ turn in the wing-
well, I’d form a
sorta picture in me
mind of a dawg trot-
tin’ past the sheep,
wide or close, which-
ever I liked. He
got that way that as
soon as I got a clear
picture in me mind
he understood. 1
remember humpin’
me drum past a
butcher’s shop one
day when I got to
imaginin’ a nice
juicy chop. Nex’
thing I knew ol’
Greenhide’s waggin’
his tail an’ lookin’
at me with a
prime chop in his
mouth. Would’ve had him still, on’y
I got on the rum at Parachilna in South
Oss. A mile or so outside the township,
headin’ down the track, I got pretty
crook in the hot sun. Bein’
tough, I must’ve slogged on till
I went out to it. Ol’ Ted
Hames picked me up close t’
the Brachina tank. He told me
I was sort o’ the centre of a
couple o’ acres o’ snakes. He
was ridin’ up when he saw
Greenhide trottin’ to me with
another wriggler in his mouth.
He was pretty close when a big
brown cove tackled me an’ the
ol’ dawg flew t’ the rescue. The
snake got him an’ he was buried
before I was right again. Poor
ol’ Greenhide didn’t need no
whistles.”
* * *
“The Corner”: When the
stores arrived at the overseer’s
hut there was always a mad
scramble over the cases of jam.
Melon-and-lemon by its fre-
quency was unpopular, while
apricot for the opposite reason
was in great demand. On one
occasion the jackeroos were
camping out at a waterhole and
sent two of the men in for their
stores. Jones, the blackfellow,
knew most of the alphabet by
sight from branding, and, know-
ing the letter P meant peach or plum, he
collected a good stock of that. Bates,
an old bushman who also knew his
brands, laboriously spelt out each label
without having the least idea what it
meant. “Q-u-i-n-c-e —ah, apricot!” said
Bates; and off went Bates with his prize.
* * * *
“M. U. Ray”: I wish some expert
would explain to me just what a fish
dies of when taken from the water and
why some take longer to pass out than
others. Is it that when taken from water
the excess oxygen is too much or is it
that they simply dry to death? I’ve
caught cod, bream, perch and catfish in
inland rivers, and you can still get a
kick from them an hour after catching
if they’re kept in something wet like a
bag, but sea whiting, flathead and bream
are dead in a few minutes. The query
as to why some last longer than others
is prompted by a flaming catfish, found
cast up in a dry Murray waterhole and
with its body showing the white spots of
skin decomposition, which opened my
left hand with its cursed spike the
moment I picked it up.
* * * ♦
“Arev”: As Bill Jupp was walking
home from the township a big car pulled
up and the driver asked to be directed
to Mr. William Jupp’s farm. Bill
remembered that his wife had been talk-
ing about taking a paying guest. “I’m
Bill Jupp,” he said. “Just going home.
You must have missed the turn-off at the
creek.” The stranger opened the door
and Bill got in. As they bumped along
the bush road Bill wondered what the
city man would think when he saw the
humble farmhouse. In justice to his wife,
Bill put on a brave face. “The homestead
isn’t much to look at, but it’s comfort-
able enough,” he said. “I’ve stuck to the
old place for sentiment’s sake, but I was
thinking of rebuilding in brick. The
cost would be stiff, but I expect to
have a good season, and a man might as
well be comfortable, anyway.” Bill soon
warmed to his subject. He forgot the
mortgage, the debt on the header, the
store bill. “The next thing’ll be furni-
ture to match, I expect,” he went on. “I
hope the missus won’t hit me too hard.
You know what expensive tastes women
have.” The stranger nodded sympatheti-
cally. By the time the car pulled up at
the gate, Bill was feeling as proud as jf he
really did contemplate a flash new house.
Bill was sure he had impressed Mum’s
visitor. “Well, come in,” he invited.
“Mum will be expecting you.” The city
man stared. “But it’s you I’ve come to
see, Mr. Jupp.” “Me?” said Bill. “But
“Zack a bag, with instructions how to put out the bomb chucked in.”
aren’t you Mum’s paying guest?” The
visitor shook his head. “No, I’m the
representative of the harvester company,
come to see about the header you owe
us for.”
$ $ *
“Aratta”: The new policeman arrived
in the morning, and that night he arrested
Props, Gunnabudgeroo’s tame drunk, and
ran him in. It was quite a new experi-
ence for Props, the John’s predecessor
never having bothered about him when
he got pickled, except to give him a
friendly tip that it was time he got home
and on occasions when he was too far
gone to escort him himself. The next
morning Props appeared before old
Ben White, J.P. Ben was as sur-
prised to see Props there as Props
was himself; but he felt it incumbent on
himself to say something of a judicial
nature. “Dear me!” he exclaimed. “You
here, you poor, misguided creature.”
This was too much for Props. “What’s
that?” he exclaimed. “Misguided? If
I was it wasn’t my fault. I was on me
way home when this ’ere John grabs me
an’ takes me t’ the lockup, which is in
the opposite direction t’ where I live.
If anyone’s to blame for me bein’ mis-
guided it’s this iggerant fool for not tryin’
t’ find out where I lived, ’stead of doin’
things orf his own bat.”
♦ * * *
“Murlonga”: Woppida’s gin had pre-
sented her lord with a baby that went
creamy instead of deepening in color as
it grew older. Woppida was aggrieved,
as he’d hoped the boy would take after
him. He called the infant Harry. In
course of time his gin gave Woppida
another son, who ran true to form and
color. He called this one Chindera.
When the little fellow was about six
years old the manager of the station
had an idea he’d like to adopt Chindera
and offered Woppida a good horse and
saddle for the boy. “It’s a well-bred
horse,” said he, “and you might win
a race with him.” Woppida scratched
his big toe in the dust and considered
things. He wanted that horse ; he also
desired to keep his son. “Tha' one
Chindera ain’ too good,” he explained.
“Tha’ one good horse, all right. I’ll swap
you Harry belongit tha’ horse. Tha’ one
Harry him been well bred, all right.
Might it you win a race with him by-
’em-bye.”
♦ * * *
“Wang”: With a startled cry Dad
lowered to the ground the two buckets of
milk he was carrying and tore madly
towards the haystack. From the far side
came confused sounds and over the top
of it a thick plume of smoke was curling.
Dad raced around a corner of the stack
to find Dave and the hand, both with
scared faces, belting with bags and tramp-
ing on smouldering wisps of straw. A huge
hole had been torn out of the stack.
“What’s goin’ on here?” Dad bellowed.
“Smokin’ right agin the stack! A man
oughter out the pair of y’!” He con-
tinued storming; then Dave remarked
sulkily, “Oh, well, blarst it, what’s the
good of y’ cryin’ over spilt milk?”
“Hey?” cried Dad. “What’s that y’
say?” and at the same instant from
somewhere in the yard came sounds of
combat and rattling buckets. He raced
around to find a couple of pigs fighting
and nosing on the ground amongst the
overturned buckets. Back again to the
stack he tore, and dived into the hole ;
after a few seconds he emerged and con-
fronted Dave with a puzzled look in his
eyes. “I can’t see through. How the
hell did y’ know?” he asked. “Know
what?” queried Dave. “That them
flamin’ pigs was at the milk,” said Dad,
looking at Dave apprehensively. Then he
walked off slowly, scratching his head
thoughtfully. “Strike me purple,” he
murmured into his whiskers, “the feller’s
got second-sight.”
NIGHT-VOICE.
All night long the flowering lemon-tree,
Lost in dreams beneath her snowy veil.
Casts her perfume down the starry trail.
All night, too, the black-faced cuckoo mourns
Up on the cliff where the clematis grows;
His is an eerie call, for no one knows,
No one knows of what the bird is singing,
Though sometimes lonely riders in the lane,
Pensive, say: “He’s calling up the rain.”
One moon-drenched night I could not bear the
calling
Of the Outdoors a moment more, and ran
Down the dim paths to where the rocks began;
And there, among the still-warm boulders,
listened
For his call, and answered it; and he
Called back, crescendo, from the lemon-tree!
Night deepened, and his voice intensified,
Until it seemed the earth was full of sound,
And a strong magic rose, and crept around!
The big bird coo-eed as though mesmerised
By the enchanted air and staring moon,
.Chained by a perfume, fluting like a loon!
As I crouched there, bare arms about the bole,
And bare feet buried in the dewy grass,
A little breath blew through the mountain-pass,
Soft, like a secret! Then I understood
What the bird told! Of miles as yet untrod —
A hinterland forgotten even by God!
Voice of the inland speaking through a bird,
With something in it pleading and forlorn,
Yet stirring as an old-world hunting-horn.
All night he sang within the lemon-tree.
Lost in dreams beneath her snowy veil,
Her perfume drifting down the starlit trail!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


HTS
LYS
&
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Minerals for Pigs.
“Brecko”: Many pig foods do not con-
tain enough minerals. They can be sup-
plied by adding calcium, phosphate and
salt. Omit them and you have lower
health in suckling and pregnant ewes and
in growing pigs. There will be digestive
troubles, sterility and even paralysis of
growing animals.
Vitamins A and D are usually missing
from the Australian ration. Chief func-
tion of A is to keep surface tissues
healthy, thus rendering animals resistant
to infection. Lack of it is often respon-
sible for weakly or dead litters. Young
pigs, growing quickly, show signs of the
deficiency first. Provide green feed, rich
in vitamin A, for as many months of the
year as possible.
Given abundant green feed and good
sleeping quarters, pigs rarely suffer bad
health. The greenstuff should be young.
Old feed is indigestible and lacks vita-
mins. Butteffat has a high vitamin A
content, but not skimmed or separated
milk. Cod-liver and fish oils are rich in
A and D. D, which wards off rickets, is
in good hay, and pigs with access to the
sun absorb it through their skins. Shut
away from the sun, they need it in the
ration.
Supply lots of fresh water. The pig is
a non-sweater and water controls body
temperature. Dry rations or grain
demand an increased water allowance
within easy reach.
Among cereals barley is slightly bettei
than wheat or oats. It helps produce
better-textured meat and whiter, firmer
fat. Feeding trials’ show that two parts
barley to one part wheat is good. Oats
are not good for young pigs—whose
stomachs are too small for much fibre —
or for general feeding. On the other
hand, there’s nothing like oats to make
milk. Peas as a quarter or third of the
ration are fattening and rich in protein.
Crush all grain. If that’s impossible soak
it for 24 hours. Boiling destroys the
protein. Boil only potatoes. Then dis-
card the water, as it is poison to pigs.
Drug Shortage.
“Bungaree”: Importation of some
drugs used in stock drenches is stopped,
and it is unlikely that further supplies
will be brought to Australia until after
the war. Main drugs affected are carbon
tetrachloride, tetrachlorethylene and nico-
tine sulphate.
Without carb. tet. much high table-
land country will be unfit for sheep. It
is the only reliable drug for liver fluke
and is used extensively for large stomach
worm and for drenching cattle and
horses. Existing stocks should be con-
fined to eradication of liver fluke.
Drenches such as bluestone and blue-
stone-arsenic may be used for large
stomach worm, and, though perhaps not
so efficient as carb. tet., their use would
release it for the more important pur-
pose. As a worm drench double-strength
carb. tet. is required, but single-strength
is effective for liver fluke.
Nicotine sulphate and bluestone is
used for black scour worm and as a
spray for fruit trees. The only satisfactory
substitutes are either on the prohibited
list or very expensive. Phenothiazine,
excellent for all worm drenches, is dear
and scarce.
Replacing Sulphate of Ammonia.
“Huxave”; Supplies of sulphate of
ammonia are cut by over 64 p.c. The
C.S.I.R. says that, except in a few cases,
sodium nitrate can replace ammonium
sulphate for at least a few years without
any adverse effects. Immediate loss of
sulphate of ammonia will be felt, but
the texture and humus of the soil will
benefit by fallowing, green-manuring and
organic manures. Use of mineral ferti-
lisers only is detrimental to continued
agriculture.
Substitutes for the sugarcane crop are
green-manuring entirely for the first year,
and nitrogenous fertilisers for the second
and third year. For pineapples use
sodium nitrate only. Bananas, apples,
stone fruits generally and citrus thrive
under sodium nitrate and cover crops.
Where the land is irrigated animal
manures are good for citrus. For pota-
toes use farmyard manure. In market
"You'd better keep that dog of yours quiet at night. He keeps your neighbors awake.”
gardens sodium nitrate, and
poultry manures can all replace sulphate
°‘ ammonia -
i a _ vnilof
w „ p * , et , ops *
W.S.M. : Make certain any Japanese
millet seed is pure. A Denman (N.S.W.)
farmer sowed a crop of it for quicx
feed and put the cows on it when it was
nearly a foot high. Several died because
Sudan grass seed had got in with the
millet and the cattle struck the plants
when their prussic-acid content was high,
Jap millet gives a quick fodder crop
after rain. A Merewether (N.S.W.) man
cleared a block in winter, 1940, and
found the soil poor, sour and short of
phosphate and nitrogen. He ploughed
and limed it in July, sowed 12lb. of Jap
millet seed, lewt. of super, and of
sulphate an acre in September. By early
November the stand was 2ft. high and
he was able to cut and feed it to the herd,
At Millfield, H. Crawford sowed it in
January in rows 3ft. apart in good soil,
Rain was fair and the crop was being
grazed six weeks later. By March it
was sft. 6in. high and in head ; it cut
21 tons an acre of prime hay. At Single-
ton, on light country, G. L. Stacy sowed
it with super, through the fertiliser box
of a combine. Some of it made hay
and some silage—up to 17 tons an acre,
In country like the N.S.W. Hunter
Valley seeding rate is somewhere between
101 b. and 151 b. an acre. Anything lighter
than 101 b. is likely to be coarse. Many
broadcast the seed and harrow it in, but
sowing through the manure box of a
combine, only lightly covering the seed,
is all right.
For hay and silage the reaper and
binder is best, though mower and rake
will serve. Harvest when the grain is
doughy for hay and a little earlier for
silage. If it is for grazing, make several
successive sowings, because each grazing
will reduce the standand it is necessary
to later stutt commg on. i,
Millet is a good milk-producer when
fed with concentrates, is a splendid rota-
Mon crop, is easy on the soil and gives
nice feed in early summer It can be
sown and harvested within three months.
R<ick£>. c aa .
nusnnre season.
“Loopy Jim”: If it’s a small place
you’ve got have a look round the boun-
daries and note the dangerous spots. If
the neighbor has a heavy mass of dry
stuff right up to your fence try to make
a compact about a break. If not, put in
a break on your side.
Generally a small farm is in a closely-
settled area and if fire comes it’ll bring
helpers. If you’re isolated make sure
there’s a fair break round the house,
sheds and stacks, and if a fire should head
for one or ad of them burn back from
the break
. . mddn _ k<;
lf F “ S the 1
1 . Z 1 ® aoes “ rst * .f ls to wain
neighbors on the danger side.
Some people imagine a green lucerne
patch will stop a fire. It may, but it’s
more likely to carry the fire on, since at
this time of year there are enough dead
stalks and leaf litter on the ground to
give the flames a hold. Green lucerne will
dry out and burn if the fire is strong
enough.
Keep fire-fighting tools handy and
together. You’ll need a rake, long-
handled shovel and beaters. Leather
beaters are best, but some practice in
using them is necessary. If you have to
rely on bags have them heavy with water
when the fire starts or they’ll catch
alight and throw fire in all directions.
Stop anybody beating wildly. The right
way is a half-circular motion that swings
the beater down and into the fire, throw-
ing sparks inward. Keep the body and
head covered as much as possible,
On larger and more isolated properties
breaks should be put in. If there’s heavy
growth, like Mitchell grass or the plain
grass of the Riverina, it mightn’t be a
bad idea to keep a watch at night. Petrol
restrictions may have cut down the scope
of the water-cart; the remedy seems to
be more water-carts, horse-drawn, based
at likely points about the station,
Bushfire brigades may be short of men
this year. It would be a sound idea for
owners to get together and make plans
ahead to deal with outbreaks.
Hints for the Farm,
“ H uie”; Don’t strain new wires too
tight in hot weat her or you’ll have them
snapping when the first *, ld night comes .
“Canbelego”: Make sure the water
used for washing udders is clean>I Is t > s
bes t use f resb water for each cow If
water is scarce? usg a disinfectan t or
Condy’s crystals in it. If cow after cow
be washe d with the same water and cloth
there is danger that the milk will be pol-
luted. Water from iron tanks into which
manurial dust is carried from yard, roof
or spouting is unsuitable.
“Ben C.”: S. Australia, which gave us
the rust-resistant Ford, has another
wheat, Warigo, bred at the Waite Insti-
tute and said to be as good as Ford. It
is a Nabawa-Hope cross selection, made
10 years ago and tested since. Hope is
an American rust-resister unsuited to
our climate, but the cross with Nabawa
produced a selection with about the same
maturity and yield of Ranee—a good
dry-country wheat—but able to outyield
Ranee, Dundee, Nabawa, Bencubbin and
Bobin in y ears when rust is bad-
u “ Macka y” : A.Queensland test showed
that superphosphate placed in the furrow
2in. to 4in. below the seed is the best
method of sowing bean crops.
“Horatio”: Sugar bananas (B.
24/12/ ’4l) are slowly but surely being
wiped out by disease. Thirty years ago
f a i r ly large areas were grown success-
fully in S. Queensland and there was
always a good market. Today one is
lucky t 0 buy any in Brisbane. A lot of
time and money has been expended try-
ing to find a remedy for the disease,
Over 25 years ago I experimented with
a few sugar bulbs from Java. They
proved better than local suckers, despite
the fact that our Customs and Agricul-
tural departments butchered them solidly.
It might be worth while after the war


For InOamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
King St., Sydney
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL.
3400 feet above sea level.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL situated
in the country.
Spacious buildings and grounds—4o acres of
playing fields.
Well-equipped Junior House separate from the
rest of the School with its own playing fields
and tennis courts.
Matrons are trained nurses.
School prepares boys for the various Public
Examinations.
Boys are trained for Professional, Commercial
or Pastoral careers. A Special Agricultural
Science Course is offered.
Arrangements may be made for boys during
the short holidays.
Illustrated Prospectus on application to the
Bursar.
G. A. Fisher, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES. ON STOCK AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE MANAGER: A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
at i
"i .* >
>■ .
&;
. •• . € .vfflE
\
¥ -i
f.
■ '■ v
u
m .:#»#•
:"f.s
B-'
ill
I
i- •
■^7
n rt
Vi',' 1
iM'l-
is i
Wifi
.«■ -i* 1
.1'
576 C
FULL SPEED AHEAD!... In our war industries, full speed
ahead is the order of the day. To keep going at full
pressure ... to accelerate essential production ... these are
the watchwords of industry... and. in providing the finance
for this development, the Bank of New South Wales is
taking its full share of responsibility in speeding up the
Empire drive to victory. •
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
m
E 1867
I
i
01/l JO J OZ PU *°i 01
shvmp
"wj&yi~pmvA wmh
‘W** VNSLWaD
trying a few hundred Java sugar suckers c
or bulbs.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED. ‘
(Transferred from Service Department .) j
m Best district in central Queensland to
tet a shearing pen? (2) Rate per
rate of average shearer per day? (3) Starting j
Xd finishing times ? (4) Was there a shortage ,
of shearers in central Q ue *™ lan %l as J 2 1
(1) Barcaldme and Blackall. (2) £2 a nun
dred for shearing; average shearer about 130
grown sheep. (3) Shearing continues pretty j
well all the year round in Queensland except for
a break in the middle of summer and in mid- j
winter The two shearing periods are approxi-
mately from the end of January to the end of
May, and from July until October. (4) No, ;
although shearing was delayed by heavy rams
Enlistments and call-ups of younger men should
afford opportunities for pens this year.
Jj; #
(1) Where could I learn the processes through
which wool goes from shearing to dyeing the
hand-woven cloth? (2) Commercial value of
such knowledge? (3) Length and cost of
course? (4) Any chemical knowledge neces-
sary ? (5) Any knowledge of woolclassing
necessary 7
(1) Know of no one course covering the
whole business. Sydney Technical College pro-
vides courses in (a) woolclassing, ( b ) yarn
manufacture and cloth construction, (c) hand-
weaving and ( d ) dyeing of textile fabrics. (2)
' Depends on practical experience of person
taking such courses. In face of specialisation
which exists today it would be better to con-
centrate on one section. (3) The sheep and
wool course cost £16 16s. as a two-year course
(£10 10s. for students whose homes are in the
country) or £7 10s. as a three-year evening
course. Yarn-manufacture and cloth-construc-
tion courses are two-year evening courses, total
fees £2 10s. each. The hand-weaving course
is a one-year evening course, and the dyeing
of textile fabrics is a three-year evening course.
(4) Need for such knowledge would be greatest
in the processes of dyeing. (5) Depends on
what occupation you have in mind. For more
detailed particulars, write to Sydney Technical
College, Harris-street, Ultimo.
* * * *
(1) How many horses are there in the various
Australian States? (2) How many cattle?
(1) Figures as at December, 1938, were:
N. S. Wales 548,355 horses, Victoria 343,828,
Queensland 444,521, S.A. 195,834, Westralia
143,674, Tasmania 30,458, N.T. 33,191, A.C.T.
1195, a total of 1,741,056. (2) Figures as at
• December, 1938, and including beef and dairy
cattle, were: N. S. Wales 2,811,884, Victoria
1,697,295, Queensland 6,097,089, S.A. 318,897,
Westralia 767,680, Tasmania 262,407, N.T.
899,472, A.C.T. 7057, a total of 12,861,781.
Outback Occasions.
No. 19.
WHEN OLD JIM CAME.
Perhaps it was not the coming of old
Jim that was an occasion so\ much as
his going. Nearly everybody who has
lived on a farm has met old Jim. He
usually lives way up in the hills or down
in some forgotten creek bend in a little
bit of a hut. He always has one or more
dogs ; sometimes there are a cat and a
horse; less frequently a rarer kind of
companion, such as a cockatoo or an
iguana.
Our old Jim had three dogs and a
cat. Our brother was the only one who’d
seen the cat. It was when the chestnut
filly took to the hills and our brother
took after it on the brown horse. He
reckoned he chased that filly 150 miles
that day, and just on sundown he came
to old Jim’s hut. Jim wasn’t there, but
his cat sat up on one of the eaves and
glared at our brother, who yelled for old
Jim several times, then turned and rode
home, getting there just in time to let the
chestnut in the back paddock gate, where
she’d been waiting all day, to judge by
the signs. Our brother always reckoned
old Jim was hiding back in the scrub
and watching him.
Anyhow, about once a year old Jim and
his three dogs would come out of the
hills down to our place. It was always
on a Sunday night, after tea, in summer,
when we’d be sitting out on the verandah.
Old Jim would amble up and say it was
a bit warm and he thought he’d come
over for a “pitch.” Our mother would
say “Boys, get a chair for Mister —er.”
We never knew his second name. He’d
say “Never mind, Missus, this’ll do me,
and sit on the verandah with his back to
a post. Then he’d put his plug of
tobacco, his knife and matches down be-
side him and look round and say
“Gripes, these lads of yours are growin’,
ain’t they?” And we’d grin and hunch
up and try to look smaller because he
always made us think we must be about
7ft. nigh, he being such a little bloke.
Then old Jim’s dogs would pay their
respects to our dogs and they’d talk to
each other in deep voices, all strutting
stiffly on their toes and with erect tails.
And there’d always be a short-tempered
dog that would say something nasty, and
all the dogs would start fighting until
our big kangaroo dog came. Then old
Jim’s dogs would get under the house and
call our dogs names while the kangaroo
dog threw dirt about and trotted round,
sniffing under the house. Whereupon
our father would order us to tie our dogs
up, and after we did so old Jim’s dogs
would come out and lie down near him,
while our dogs rattled their chains and
shouted abuse and threats through the
dusk.
Well, old Jim and our father would
yarn away for a while ; then they’d sit
and smoke and be silent and all you d
hear would be the creak of our mother s
rocking-chair and maybe a wood-duck
crying far off and perhaps a cricket near
the tank. We boys used to lie on the
verandah floor and look at the stars and
dream our dreams. Sometimes old Jim
would tell yarns of the old shearing days
or the mining days or the convict days
until we used to wonder whether he was
170 or only about 120 or so.
Sometimes Mother would talk and ask
him where he came from and if he had
any people and what religion he was.
But old Jim never seemed to know much
about those things. He’d fall silent and
cough and scrape out his pipe and ask
our father how the sheep were doing.
And Father would give Mother a warn-
ing look and talk about the sheep.
Round about 10 o’clock our sister
would make some tea and she and
Mother would bring it out on the veran-
dah and old Jim would have five or six
cups and eat most of the brownie and
biscuits. After that he’d light up again
and tell our father about the big fire
in ’B6 —he always told the fire story
straight after the supper. Then Mother
would say she was tired and bid old Jim
good night and go off. Presently our
sister would go, too.
Then we boys would sit there with our
father and old Jim and hardly anything
would be said. Presently we boys would
go to bed and lie down. We’d fall asleep
and wake up to hear Mother calling out
to Father if he was going to stay there
ali night and Father answering that he
was coming “directly.”
After a While we’d hear Father say
good night to old Jim and come inside
and mumble things to Mother, and after
a bit there’d be a silence. Our brother
and me used to have bets about whether
old Jim was still there or not, and we’d
sneak to the window and look and he'd
be there
We never knew when old Jim went,
but in the morning we’d get up and
there’d be no sign of him or his dogs,
and we’d know we mightn’t see him for
another year. Once Father tried to see
how long Jim would stay, and deter-
mined to sit on the verandah until he
went. But Father fell asleep some time
after 3 a.m., and when he woke Jim was
gone, it being then daylight,
We boys grew up on that farm, and
for more than 15 years old Jim used to
turn up like that for a “pitch.” Some-
times he’d have a new dog or a new pipe,
but his clothes never changed, nor did
his y arns - Then he failed to turn up, and
after a while we went up to his hut. There
were some rabbits living there, and sheep
had used it for a camp, but old Jim
had vanished Maybe he’s sitting on the
verandah of heaven waiting for St. Peter
to go to bed.


Want to make you car
more dependable?
Worn-out spark plugs waste fuel,
cause loss of speed, loss of power,
loss of your car’s depend-
ability. Provide your car
with the spark plugs rac-
ing champions prefer
Champions and ensure
good hot sparks under all
driving conditions. They
pay for themselves in the
fuel they save. Factories,
Feltham, Eng. Windsor
Can. Toledo, USA.
Sillment seals Champions against troublesome
age, at the shoulder and past the center electrode,
common to ordinary spark plugs. This patented fea-
ture corrects rough, uneven and wasteful engine op
eration caused by leaky, overheated spark plugs.
m
n
leak
BN
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Aus-
tralasia, weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.;
6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s. (Ex-
change must be added to Country and
inter-State cheques.')
Posted Free to any address Overseas
(British Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 16s.; 3 months, 8s. To
MEMBERS OF THE SERVICES ABROAD I
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any Address Overseas
(Foreign): 12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6
months, £1 2s.; 3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua,
Fiji, New Hebrides and other places
within the British Empire, l|d. per copy.
United Kingdom, 2-Jd. per copy. To all
other places, 4yd.
SPECIAL, NOTICE,
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Is not just a modified closet pan but a complete self-contained sanitary system
in itself. All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and automatically
runs off and is absorbed in the soil. No water supply required.
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH AND IS FULLY GUARANTEED.
It has 12 years’ sterling: performance behind it and is hacked by a worth-while
guarantee of an old-established reputable firm.
Many other chemical systems have come and gone during this period, but the
sturdiness, efficiency and longevity of the Hygeia Dissolvenator are beyond dispute.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
No emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
Price, £l7/17/6, F.O.R. SYDNEY, includes 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 20/- war surcharge. Crating (if necessary) 10/6 extra.
WRITE OR TELEPHONE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co Pty. Ltd.£S*lS ET - 8 ™ NBI -
Obtainable direct from vs or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agmts all States.
Our Service Department
Wants.
Words of humorous recitation in which each
verse ends with the line “And so did I.” —3219.
To buy Japanese-English dictionary,—3218.
Information Sought.
(1) Who was the first person to win the
V.C. ? (2) Who was the first to receive it ? (3)
Who was the first member of the A.I.F. to win
it? (4) Who won it first on Gallipoli? (5)
Who was the first airman to get it? (6) Has
a V.C. ever gone to an Australian Light Horse-
man? (7) To an Australian artilleryman?
(1) Lt. C. D. Lucas, k.N., Baltic, June 21, 1854,
“for throwing overboard a live shell which had
Ellen on the deck of H.M.S. Hecla at Bomaa-
sund.” (2) Lt. C. W. Bbckley, R.N., Crimea, May
29, 1855, “for twice undertaking the desperate
service of firing Russian stores in the face of
a large enemy force, at Genitchi.” (3) Lance-
Corporal A. Jacka, 14th Battalion, for gallantry
at Courtney’s Post during the Turkish attack on
Mjay 19, 1915, when he shot five Turks and
bayoneted two who were at bay in a trench.
(4) An English marine, Lance-Corporal W. R.
Parker, a stretcher-bearer of the Portsmouth
Eattalion of the R.M.L.L, “for a very gallant
action in carrying succor to ‘Streets’ trench,
Cape Helles, at dawn on May 1, 1915. He
remained in the trench and, though wounded,
helped to remove the wounded.” (5) Second
Lt. W. B. Rhodes Moorhouse, No. 12 Squad-
ron Royal Flying Corps, who “bombed Court-
sai railway station on April 26, 1915, and
though mortally wounded flew 35 miles to his
s;ation to report.” (6) Yes, the only one went
to Captain H. V. H. Throssell, 10th Aust.
1 ight Horse Regiment, for gallantry at Hill 60,
Gallipoli, on August 29, 1915. (7) Yes, to
L ieut. A. R. Cutler, for gallantry during the
recent Syrian campaign.
* H* ❖ *
Any method of dealing with small worms
which burrow into the binding of books and
perforate the leaves?
Sounds like the larvae of a burrowing beetle,
not unlike a furniture beetle. Only satisfac-
tory way of dealing with them is to fumigate
tire books. The best fumigants are extremely
dangerous and should not be handled by
amateurs. Get in touch with Houghton and
Eyrne, T. and G. Btrildings, 135 Queen-street,
or Buzacotts (Q.), 443 Adelaide-street —both
Brisbane.
* * * *
(1) Safest diet for person suffering from
ulcerated stomach ? (2) A safe laxative ?
(1) Take regular meals and allow plenty of
t'me to eat them; alcohol and tobacco in all
forms should be avoided or, at most, taken
only in very moderate quantities. Avoid fresh
fruit with pips and skins, also highly-spiced
foods and condiments such as vinegar and
mustard. Eat sparingly of meat; fish and
chicken are recommended. Olive oil may be
taken thrice daily before principal meals. With
any return of symptoms, however slight, the
patient should rest for a few days on a strict
diet of milk in small and frequent feeds. (2)
Liquid paraffin.
* « * *
Has the R.A.A.F. established a branch similar
to the Air-Sea Rescue Service as operated in
Britain ? Particulars ?
The only R.A.A.F. mustering which could
be compared with the Air-Sea Rescue Service
is that of Motor Boat Applicants for
this mustering must be between 32 and 45 and
must be adept in handling all types of motor-
boats. They must also have a good know-
ledge of the rules of the road in relation to
small craft, the breaking strains of wire and
Manila ropes, and of knots and their uses.
Knowledge of signalling by Morse and sema-
phore is also useful, but not essential. As far
as this particular service is concerned there are
no outside classes for intending navigators, nor
classes for any type of training.
* * * *
Recipe for polish for string instruments?
(2) Details of the Brest-Litovsk Treaty?
(1) Most good recipes are trade secrets; it
is much simpler to buy a commercial prepara-
tion. Paling’s, Reviver, 25., post. Is., is a good
one, obtainable from W. H. Paling, 338 George-
street, Sydney. (2) It was signed by Russia
on one side and Germany, Austria, Bulgaria
and 1 urkey on the other at Brest-Litovsk in the
West Ukraine on March 3, 1918. The Russian
Government renounced sovereignty in favor of
Germany and Austria over Russian Poland,
Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and certain islands
in the Baltic; she also had to recognise the
independence of the Ukraine (where Germany
had set up a puppet State at that time), and
of Finland and Georgia (where German troops
were operating). She had to agree to pay
reparations of 6,000,000,000 marks in gold; she
lost 34 p.c. of her population, 54 p.c. of her
industry and 90 p.c. of her coalmines; and
she was cut off from the Black Sea and practi-
cally from the Baltic. The Treaty was abro-
gated in the armistice agreement of November
11, 1918, and formally annulled in the Treaty
of Versailles.
» * * «
In a published statement in which was out-
lined the recent holiday-restriction plan, it was
printed that “an employer may close his
establishment on Saturday, December 27, pro-
viding that he operates it on New Year’s day.”
Am I right in thinking that “providing” should
be “provided” ?
Though “providing” has found a place in
Webster’s International Dictionary and is not
uncommon in colloquial and business English,
it should not be used in writing. As Nesfield'
explains it, “ ‘Provided’ (an elliptical form for
‘it being provided’ = Lat. proviso) may be
used as a conjunction either with or without
that coming after it. It is not correct, however,
to use providing as an equivalent, though the
custom has been springing up of late: the
change is not at all needed, and sometimes
causes obscurity.”
* * * «
A list of “birth stones” ?
There are many. One gives the following:
January, garnet; February, amethyst; March,
bloodstone or aquamarine; April, diamond;
May, agate; June, pearl or moonstone; July,
ruby; August, sardonyx or peridot; September,
sapphire: October, opal or tourmaline; Novem-
ber, topaz; December, turquoise or lapis lazuli.
* * * *
Who won the 1941 short-story competition
conducted by the Fellowship of Australian
Writers ?
The 10-guinea prize was divided equally be-
tween J. Gaby for “The Knife” and Robert S.
Close for “The Book.” J. L. Tierney’s “The
Clearin’,” R. S. Close’s “The Sap,” C. S.
Watts’s “The Survival of the Weakest,” Mrs.
K. E. Graves’s “Alone” and “Convict Trans-
port,” D. McCormick’s “The Peach” and Alan
Marshall’s “Bushman” were commended.
Dulcie Deamer, Kylie Tennant and Louis Esson
were the judges.
* * * *
What countries and their areas are in (1)
South America, (2) Central America?
(1) Argentina 1,112,743 sq. miles, Bolivia
506,467, Brazil 3,300,000, British Guiana 90,000,
Chile 285,160, Colombia 440,846, Dutch Guiana
54,300, Ecuador 175,855, Falkland Islands 4600,
French Guiana 34,740, Paraguay 161,000, Peru
482,275, Uruguay 72,153, Venezuela 393,976.
(2) British Honduras 8867 sq. miles, Costa Rica
23,000, Guatemala 45,452, Honduras 46,300,
Nicaragua 51,700, Panama 32,380, El Salvador
13,176.
* * * *
(1) How often has a census been taken in
Australia? (2) Results?
(1) A census of the several Australian States
was first taken on the same date in 1881. Then,
under the Comnnonwealth Census and Statistics
Act, which provides for the enumeration being
dealt with from one centre, the first census for
the Commonwealth was taken in 1911 and the
second in 1921. In accordance with the Census
and Statistics Act 1905-1930 the third census
should have been taken in 1931, but the depres-
sion delayed it until 1933. (2) 1881, 2,250,194
persons; 1911, 4,455,005 persons; 1921,
5,435,734 persons; 1933, 6,629,839 persons. It
was officially announced on October 22, 1941,
that Australia’s population at June 30, 1941, was
estimated at 7,106,306.
*
What am ghost sharks?
They are distinguished from ordinary sharks
by numerous structural details, the most obvious
being the presence of but one gill-opening on
each side as in thq higher fishes. The mouth
ci P ro . vided w df> bony grinders instead of teeth.
Skin is quite smooth in most species, and there
is a stout spine before the dorsal fin. The
tail is usually prolonged into a long filament,
and the male is provided with a peculiar bony
nook on the forehead. They produce large eggs
encased in horny cases of various forms.
C hi truer a ogilhyi is sometimes taken by trawlers
o* l the N. S. Wales coast in depths of about
6t) fathoms; when first caught it is a glisten-
ing silver in color. Several other species are
known from Australian waters; elephant fishes
belong to the same order.
* * * *
(I) How long has cremation been carried out
in Victoria ? Particulars? (2) Any figures to
prove that cremation has become more general
m recent years?
Jhe Victorian Cremation Society was estab-
lished in 1892, but it was not until 1905 that
a crematorium of very simple type was built at
Innr pn . n ", va^e . Necropolis. It was opened in
1905 and closed in 1926, during which time there
were 176 cremations. When the new cemetery
;d Fawkner was designed in 1906 provision was
made for a modern crematorium, but shortage
of cash prevented the managers from consider-
ing the idea until 1926, when plans were
f° r an up-to-date establishment costing
i7OOO. Additions were found necessary within
seven years, and the present crematorium con-
sists of two chapels, three reducing chambers
and other auxiliary rooms. On March 9, 1936,
a second crematorium was opened at the
Necropolis at Springvale. Both establishments
are equipped with memorial niches for the
preservation of caskets containing ashes. (2)
In 1930 there were 162 cremations in Victoria,
or 1.02 p.c. of total deaths; in 1940 there
were 1624, or 8 p.c.
Information Supplied.
Splodger: Here’s the method I’ve been using
to re-ink typewriter ribbons for the last 10
or 12 years. Take the worn ribbon off the reel,
crumple it and place in about half a cup of
benzine. After soaking a few minutes wring it
out, letting all dark liquid drop back into the
cup. Get another worn ribbon, leave it on
its spool and drop it into the cup of black ben-
zine. Leave it there until the benzine has
evaporated. That’s all, and it makes a perfect
job after the treated ribbon has been given
about three days to dry.
Brief Answers.
J.G.H.A.: (1) Yes, heredity is a most impor-
tant factor in the disease. (2) No. (3) No
case can ever be regarded as permaneptly
cured. One attack succeeds another with inter-
vals of comparative, though seldom complete,
freedom. (4) Any skin specialist in the capital
cities may be consulted. Great relief can be
given, but details of treatment are too lengthy
to enumerate... .W.K.; Details given too vague
for accurate estimate; the tablets you are taking
are harmless.. . .E.C.: Rheumatism covers a
multitude of ailments; need further details to
advise... .C.K.: The apparent swelling is most
probably due to a slight exaggeration of the
normal curve of the spine in that part of the
back. Very unlikely that it would be altered
by any special exercises... .G.W.G.G.: Cricket,
tennis and rowing are of great assistance, as is
the use of Indian clubs and dumb-bells. For
further information, read My System (Muller)
or Swedish Drill at a Glance (anon.), both from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney M.F.: No
risk of infection in such cases J.A.S.:
Dental X-rays are a very useful means of
diagnosis and are harmless to the patient
R.F.F.: His father, as younger son of a duke,
was not a peer of the realm; the “Lord” is
only a courtesy title T.K.S.C.: Candidates
for entry into the R.A.N. Reserve must be
between 17 and 25; you are, therefore, above
the prescribed age E.L.K.: The A.B.C. has
had many readings of books on its programmes,
particularly in morning serial sessions. Fees are
paid where copyright still exists. If you wish
to broadcast you should apply for an audition
and submit the books you wish to read. Also,
find out if copyright exists on the books, apply
to the publisher for permission and fee required.
G.D.: Make application to A.U.S.N. and
B.H.P. for information regarding conditions
under which they accept apprentices for sea
service in their ships. Lads are indentured for
four years, and before being accepted they
must be passed by the Medical Inspector of
Seamen as medically fit for sea service. They
must also pass a sight and color test. Both
tests are arranged through the Marine Branch
of the Mercantile Marine Office, York-street
North, Sydney; medical examination is free,
sight test costs 2s. 6d R.F.F.; One Aus-
tralia-wide edition only F.M.: A trade
product called Glacier paper should do the
job it will diffuse the glare without interfer-
ing with the light. It can be bought plain or
patterned at Is. 6d. a yard, wide, from
James Sandy, 268 George-street, Sydney
M.C.L.: (1) From 15 to 18. If applicant does
not hold merit certificate he must sit for a
small examination. Lad porters and laborers
are needed at present, but applications for
h^te^ s , and turners h avc closed for the present.
(2) Call at Room 100, Railway. Offices, Spencer-
street, Melbourne... .F.T.C.: Your statement is
inaccurate. Although the axis of the earth does
move slightly, it would not move anywhere
near sufficiently to move the Equator into dif-
ferent countries... .F.H.: There was a very
brilliant meteor shower on November 27, 1885.
Halley’s Comet reached its brightest at its last
visitation in the beginning of May, 1910
L.E-FL: Booklet containing information re-
quired has been posted S.G.: Demand for
corkwood leaves is very limited— about one ton
a year supplies the world’s requirements of
the drug that is extracted from them
J.S.S.: Know of only one firm in Australia
promoting hydroponics—Terex Mineral Fer-
tiliser, 65 Bourke-street, Waterloo, N.S.W.
That firm has issued a pamphlet on the subject
and supplies the necessary chemicals. Books on
the subject include Ellis and Swaney’s Soilless
Growth of Plants and Dawson and Dorn’s
Plant Chemiculture .
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no M.S. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
R.P.:
The papers say “Oh, this and that I’*
—Who really cares a damn?
Most of us are just mad hat
And don’t know shim from sham.
G.R.T.:
I’d like to see old Hitler
Hanging from a tree;
It would be a sight
For everyone to see.
Or I’d like to see him cooking
On a grid in hell,,
And that would be a spectacle
We all would like so well.
Or I’d like to see him fried in fat,
For he is such a beast
The cannibals I’m sure would like
To have him for a feast.
. ...R.F.F.: Only fair, brother... .K.E.C.:
Leave it to Lear and Carroll A.D J.; Too
many rhetorical questions N.G.: Might
make a hymn... .N.N.: When you put a bit
more body into them you’ll be close L. 0.:
Not improved....C.S.: Turgid R.M.S.: The
end stings all right, but it’s hardly a poem.
. ...H.J.H.; Not at that length.. ..0.H.: The
“maw” by our dictionary is “The stomach;
esp. in the lower animals” N.G.: Don’t
you think it’s a little late? M.L.8.: Too
young L.W.; Not up....P.P.: Try it on a
Tiny Tots’ page H.M.: Trite J.S.L.: It
belongs to a daily... .E.H.: Read some more.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.M.: Forget decoration for a while and
concentrate on characterisation E.S.: You’ve
slipped back a cog or three F.C.M.: If you
must squander ink, try at least to get a worth-
while idea... X.D.S.: Picture of curate with
dial like a tin-hare urger’s talking to bibulous
organist might interest your parish paper....
T.VJ.; After seeing that atrocity we remem-
bered with a kindlier thought the horrors in
grand-aunt’s photo, album C.L.; A faint
sparkle of life creeping into your faces; keep
it up... .T.F.M.: That drunk and the crayfish
now have a permanent parking area on our
doorstep... .M. 8.; An atmosphere of stark un-
reality hangs over it.... Bert C.: But do ham-
fats still wear fur-collared overcoats in loud
check designs?... .BJ.: Your drawing of a
strange quadruped floating in mid-air against
a background of latticework has been added
to Gilbert’s never-would-be-missed list.


FROM PIPES...
Here is something not generally known.
Since 1934 the firm of Stewarts and Lloyds
(Australia) Pty. Ltd. have been manufac-
turing steel tubes here in Australia. These
are used for everything from household
gas pipes to boiler tubes for ships.
The first Nazi bomb was still to drop
on Poland when the Australian firm of
Stewarts and Lloyds, acting on its own
initiative and at its own expense, installed
the plant necessary for the forging and
rough machining of shell bodies in sizes
ranging from the 25-pounder to the
60-pounder. Immediately on the outbreak
of War this plant, ready to operate , was
placed at the disposal of the Common-
wealth Government.
This foresight has played a big part
in this country’s great contribution to the
War effort.
Prior to the outbreak of war the
British parent company of Stewarts and
Lloyds developed a process whereby shell
bodies could be produced in much the
same way as weldless tubes.
Up until this time, shell bodies, after
forging, required to be completely
machined on the inside as well as the
outside. One of the principal advantages
of the Stewarts and Lloyds process was
that the bore of the shell body could be
produced so accurately to size and shape
that the boring operation was completely
eliminated. It is this process which is
used by the Australian Company.
...TO WAR
SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
Australian-made shells from Stewarts
and Lloyds will be sent to business
organisations, clubs and schools as part of
a special War Savings Certificate drive—
one shell for every fifty War Savings
Certificates purchased. All employees, or
club members subscribing may write their
signatures on the shell which will then be
returned to its parent plant and sent on
its way to front-line guns.
• • •
TO SHELLS
• « •
r .
m
I
■
I
i
■9
■
■
B
CONTROL PLATFORM and forming and welding mill in
Stewarts and Lloyds welded tube works.
M
m
m
-*O5
»•*
E
K
\
■i
1
mm
SHELL BLANK emerging from the drawing operation in one
of the shell-making plants installed by Stewarts and Lloyds.
"t
EMPLOYEES of Bond’s Industries Limited signing their names under a
message for Hitler on this Australian made shell from Stewarts and Lloyds.
All applications for SIGNATURE SHELLS to be used as part of the
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATE DRIVE should be made to the War Savings
Organising Secretary at the Commonwealth Bank in each Capital city.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
~ M 4383. 86371.
mu
i
FUNDS 1869
£6-0-10 /
ABLE management, low administration expenses,
and careful selection of securities is reflected
in the 72nd Annual Report of the 'National Mutual.'
RESULTS -FOR 72 YEARS
1869 to 1941.
Amount paid in Claims £51,091,818 4 11
Amount Assured under
Policies Current ...... £119,849,938 12 7
income for year £6,614,361 4 3
Assurance Fund at 30th
September. 1941 £49.586,364 10 4
There are NO shareholders. The whole of the
Association's funds belongs to its policyholders.
A 'National Mutual' policy is a sound investment.
NATIONAL MUTUAL
Jfe Association of A/asia.Ltd.
Established 1869. ” v “”
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
offers all facilities for the transaction of every class
of Banking business . Since 1854 i-* over a century
ago ' the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
has maintained the confidence of its depositors and
the community alike.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
r-* —Dividends ,
■ _ Pref. _ Ord. To Ee- Nominal
June, Profit. lu p.c. 15 p.c. serves.Reserves.*
£■ £ £ £ £
1930.. 332,395 30,000 262,500 39,895 1,298,491
Hi p.c. Hi p.c.
1931.. 240,992 22,500 196.875 21,617 1,320,108
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1932.. 223,927 20,000 175,000 28,927 1,349,035
1933.. 234,540 20,000 175,000 39,540 1.388 575
1934.. 249,613 20,000 175,000 54,613 M43’188
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 468,188
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1935.. 270,668 24,000 210,000 36,668 504,856
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1936.. 381,653 30,000 262,600 89,153 594,009
12} p.c. 12} p.c.
f 53 * 997 37,500 328,125 88,372 682,381
1938.. 493,668 37,500 328,125 128,043 810,424
Properties, plant and investment
reserve disclosed, £972,000 ..1,782,424
* 939 -- 37 > 500 328 > 125 163,267 1,945,’691
r?r’F° 37 > 500 3 28,125 204,985 2,150,676
1941.. 545,661 37,500 328,125 180',036 2,330,712
•Subject to £BOO,OOO originally paid for goodwill.
This is the big operating co. which
amalgamated the interests of half a
dozen then-sick Melbourne breweries in
1907, paying £BOO,OOO (in scrip) for good-
will, etc. For the next 20 years it was
mainly concerned with consolidating its
position, financially and otherwise. Since
then it has gone on tightening its grip
on the trade by amalgamations and other
means, including purchase of hotel proper-
ties when values were relatively low, until
now it enjoys a lion’s share of the trade
in Victoria and helps to quench thirsty
throats in the north of Queensland and
the N. S. Wales Riverina and elsewhere
as well.
Although considerations of public
finance have lately curtailed the purchase
of hotel properties and outlay on im-
provements thereto, war activities have
stimulated consumption of beer by ab-
sorbing practically every employable
male, and many females as well, in one
or other of the fighting and supply ser-
vices or war-production industries, of
which there are many in Victoria, Be-
sides this lengthening of payrolls, there
have been lifts in wage rates, and our
fighting men overseas have not gone
short of good Australian beer. Indeed,
this export has been a considerable factor
in the turnover of C.U.B. and other Aus-
tralian breweries during the last 12
months.
However, despite the larger trading, the
board wrote net earnings £24,949 short
of the previous year’s record figure at
£545,661. That was partly because of
increased operating costs and the louder
call of the taxgatherer, and was after
allowing whatever was considered neces-
sary for depreciation and other contin-
gencies. The £545,661 was 18.6 p.c. on
capital as against 19.5, 18.1, 16.9, 15.5
and 13 p.c. back to 1936. Actually, the
position was a bit better than that. Con-
solidated figures for C.U.B. and its sub-
sidiaries show profit for the year to June
30 last at £559,774 (down £33,999), equal
to 19.1 p.c. on the £2,925,000 of share
capital, or 10.6 p.c. on capital and re-
serves combined, which suggests that
assets are well worth their book value.
The div. was kept at p.c.
The solid nature of the financial struc-
ture and continued expansion of the busi-
ness are seen in the following compari-
son of balance-sheet figures for C.U.B.
and its subsidiaries:
1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. . . £2,925,000 £2,925,000
Mortgages, etc. .. 16,794 16,288
Sundry creditors* .. 742,889 885,580
Freeholds, breweries, etc. 2,398,605 2,429,160
Plant 710,281 689,461
Stocks, etc 455,747 580,139
Book debts . . . . 1,259,847 1,303,210
Cash, etc. .. .. 571,649 730,353
* Including provision for taxation.
To add £30,555 to the book value of free-
holds, etc., £124,392 to the stock item,
£43,363 to debtors’ balances and £158,704
to cash, etc., the amount coming to sun-
dry creditors, which includes an unspeci-
fied provision for taxation, was increased
by £142,691. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,711,834) was £184,274. -
As for the current term, each gallon
of beer brewed will yield the Govern-
ment an extra 4d. in excise—3d. on the
beer and Id. in respect of the carbonic-,
acid gas used. This slug will be passed
on to the hotelkeeper and then over the
counter to the public—Melbourne’s
standardised lloz., 7oz. and 4oz. glasses
will now sell at 7d. (same as previously),
6d. (up and 4d. (up Id.) respectively.
The price of bottled beer is up per
bottle, except when served over the
counter in glasses. These adjustments
have been authorised by the Federal
Prices Commissioner, beer being now a
“declared” commodity. Much will de-
pend upon the extent to which increased
taxation of wages, etc., retards growth in
consumption of beer. Rising costs and
an extra Is. in the pound and other addi-
tions to the co. tax will bite deeply into
takings.
The next table shows the respective in-
terests of the holding cos. in C.U.8., the
dividends they pay and the yield obtained
from the last listed sale of their scrip:
Shares Last Market
Paid in Div., Yield,
Capital. C.U.B; p.c. p.c.
Carlton . . . . £816,992 928,295 15 4.8
Melb. Co-op. . . 431,981 986,901 26f 5.6
Castlemaine . . 225,000 176,121 10 5.5
Foster . . . . 115,200 124,574 13 5.0
Shamrock . . 141,345 124,574 11 5.3
McCracken’s . . 62,438 62,438 12J 5.4
In addition to divs. from the operating
concern, some of these cos. receive rents,
etc., on their own account.
Taubmans, Ltd.
_ _ To Re- Re-
•sept., Front. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ & £, £,
24.892. 8 p.c. = 20,939 3,953 102,956
1934.. 53,162 15 „ „ 39,261 13,901 116,857
Unexplained addition, £4 .. .. 116,861
1936.. uv,.., 1/2 p.c. = 45,806 14,318 131,179
Specific reserves disclosed, £18,120.. 149,299
lno Share premiums, etc., £18,310 .. 167,609
1936.. 71,350 174 p.c. = 53,058 18,292 185,901
Reserves capitalised, £56,981 .. 128,920
Unexplained additions, £17,984 .. 146,904
84,214 17 J p.c. = 69,802 14,412 161,316
1938.. 81,574 17J ~ „ 69,802 11,772 173,088
Unexplained additions, £5335 .. 178,423
1939.. 82,374 16 p.c. = 63,819 18,565 196,978
Unexplained additions, £12,030 .. 209,008
1940.. 83,196 15 p.c. = 59,830 23,866 232,374
Reserves earmarked for taxation,
£34,442 .. .. .. 197,932
Pref. Ord. Total.
1941.. 68,907 5 p.c. 13 p.c. 53,352 15,555 213,487
Share issue exes., £3333 ~ .. 210,154
Enterprise and caution alike character-
ise the administration. The first is amply
demonstrated by the continuous expan-
sion, the second by the promptness
with which sail has been shortened
whenever storm clouds have appeared.
The management early and correctly
formed the opinion that this war would
introduce problems greatly different from
those of 1914-18. The job of getting
essential materials and labor and of com-
plying with the strict requirements of
Government regulations is now rapidly
becoming more difficult. Trade with
regular customers is being submerged
under the flood of defence requisitions,
while supplies from overseas are harder
to obtain. And the hand of the tax-
gatherer grows ever more heavy.
A wide range of interests is indicated
by the variety of products—paints, var-
nishes, enamels, lacquers, etc., used for
building, motor-body, furniture, electrical
and leather trades —and of mill locations.
The main factory is at St. Peters (Syd-
ney) ; there is another at Wellington
(M.L.), and branches have been estab-
lished at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide
and Perth. There are also a number of
subsidiary interests which figure in the
books at £271,547 (cost). Balance-sheet
totals now run into £836,929, as com-
pared with the £6OO of capital with which
the founder, G. H. Taubman, started in
1902.
The present co. took over in 1912 with
a capital of £6OOO. The 1914-18 war gave
opportunities not neglected. Prior to the
1930 depression a link-up was effected
with Pinchin, Johnson and Co., the largest
paint and varnish organisation in the
Empire, resulting in a further big expan-
sion, including the acquisition of the
Borthwick and William Docker busi-
nesses.
Share capital, which has been growing
at a slower rate than output, received an
addition this year in the shape of a
£lOO,OOO 5 p.c. pref. issue. Owing mostly
to the very heavy increase of £24,250 in
the provision for taxation (£54,250), the
net profit was reduced by £14,289 to the
exhibited figure of £68,907. This was
after charging £4830 for depreciation,
against £5051. Net result, after allowing
for pref. div., was 16.9 p.c, on ord. capi-
tal, as compared with 23.8, 22, 20.4, 21.1,
23,5, 22.9 and 20.3 p.c. back to 1934.
Div. of 13 p.c. was paid on the ords.,
compared with 15 p.c. and 16 p.c. previ-
ously, with 17| p.c. in the four pre-war
years. Ord. and pref. distributions
absorbed £53,352, leaving £15,555 to go
to reserves. These total £210,154, equal
to a little over half the ord. capital. They
will soften the impact of excess-profits
tax, reducing it to around 2 p.c. on ord.
capital. In this particular case the taxation
difference due to reserves approximates
6d. per ord. share, illustrating the im-
portance of keeping an eye on the re-
serves owned by cos. earning a high rate
of profit.
Balance-sheet movements show sub-
stantial changes due to the new capital
introduced:
1933. 1938. 1949. 1941.
Paid capital.. £261,740 £398,867 £398,867 £498,867
Sundry creditors 44,336* 41,907 109,650 46,462
Freeholds .. 98,463 123,515 124,189 125,199
Plant, etc. . . 44,882 51,422 50,886 50,248
Stocks .. 88,187 138,942 243,230 228,716
Debtors . . 123,415 71,811 87,021 151,149
Shares other cos. 64,874 265,916 265,428 271,557
Cash, Consols, etc. 3,608 2,143 52 10,060
* Including contingency reserves.
Fixed assets varied little, expenditure
being £5202, less £4830 written off. Book
value of plant appears extremely conser-
vative in view of the proven earning
power of the business. Sundry credi-
tors, £46,462 (exclusive of taxation provi-
sion), were down by £63,188, while debtors
were up £64,128, all because of an in-
crease in advances to subsidiaries. Stocks
on hand decreased £14,514. The sum
of £lO,OOO was invested in Consols and
another £6129 in subsidiary cos., to which
a further £68,296 was loaned. Subsi-
diaries owe the parent £92,973, which is
about one-third of their investment cost.
After allowing for final dividend and
treating the whole of the provision for
taxation, £55,520, as a current liability,
net tangibles work out at £7 Is. lOd. for
each pref. share and 30s. 7d. per ordinary
share. The market in the ords. has never
been very active. During the 1937 boom,
shortly after their listing on ’Change,
they sold up to 82s. 6d. Outbreak of war
found them around 515., since which
time they have been down to 435. and
back again. At, say, 435., the yield would
be 6 p.c, from present div., and net
tangibles would be bought at about 30s.
in the £. Because of the prevailing un-
certainties, intensified in the paint trade
by recent freezing of outputs, forecast-
ing as to the future is heartily declined
by the board.
Exec., Trustee and Agency Co. (S.A.)
Added
Writ- to Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
1931.. 10,997 8 p.c. = 8,000 289 ) „ 208
Provident Fund, £5OO J 2208 108 > 106
1932.. 10,118 8 p.c. = 8,000 1218 1 ...
Provident Fund, £5OO j 400 108,000
1933.. 8,927 8 p.c. = 8,000 297 ( ......
Provident Fund, £5OO j 108,686
1934.. 11,367 8 p.c. = 8,000 392 K.-r ... ...
Provident Fund, £5OO j“ 4 ' J 111,161
1935.. 11,383 10 p.c. = 10,000 393 1 ~,
Provident Fund, £650 ]
1936.. 12,407 10 p.c. = 10,000 1383 1 ... ~ im-
provident fund, £650 $
1937.. 14,050 10 p.c. = 10,000 691 1 o7nQ
Provident fund, £650 f 2709 114 > 584
1938.. 14,422 10 p.c. = 10,000 487 1 o 9a -
Provident fund, £650 j 6SbJ 11 ‘’ 8ba
1939.. 14,021 10 p.c. = 10,000 15671
Provident fund, £650 {■ 564 118,433
Bldg, improvements, £1250 J
1940.. 14,380 10 p.c. = 10,000 980 1
Provident fund, £650 19n mQ
Bldg, improvements, £404 f - 5 * 540
Patriotic funds, £ioo
1941.. 12,215 10 p.c.= 10,000 549 7
Provident fund, £650 \ 1017 121 - 696
War in the Pacific with Japan has
crowded more uncertainty into the out-
look for Australia and seems likely to
accelerate the economic, social and other


INVENTORS.—Have vou an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and "Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney. — Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated ny
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
{lncorporated in Victoria)
8 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
'iUF r-:-3 vy
at
Tfte Symbol ol
Security I
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman)
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C. ; James Kidd; A
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: .
; Colin A. Sinclair
l. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
i. G. H. Shipway.
Correct belt tension, the all important factor
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street ,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States
X
Hi
m
>
+
IS
m
PULLEYS • BEARINGS . SHAFTINGS . COUPLINGS . ALL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
. m :
: 11
Va
7a
I MAIM
Market Strict) S|
■ Mb
'sm
STREEt
"near
OHK
in
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind-training.” Dr.
Norwood.
Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D
Can the Memory be
trained ? It can.
"The process of committing to
memory, being a straightforward
and controllable activity, is exceed-
ingly susceptible to training. --
Professor Woodworth, Ph.D., in
"Psychology: A Study of Mental
Life."
“....Intelligent training and
exercise will develop a high degree
of efficiency and service (in the
memory).
"The cultivation of the memory
is really a cultivation of the entire
mind, for the whole process of
intelligent thought depends upon
memory as a foundation.... In any
system of natural memory training
the entire faculties receive training
and development.”—W. W. Atkin-
son, author of “The New Psy-
chology.”
"Memory is not an isolated faculty
but the manifestation of other facul-
ties in varying degrees. It is an act
of co-operation in which each
faculty participates effectively
according to its development. The
training of any one mental quality
assists in training the memory, and
a conscious effort to train the
memory in any one of its many
aspects helps, consciously or un-
consciously, to develop other facul-
ties.”—The Pelman Institute.
"... .the graduated and scientific
system which is to be found in
Pelmanism unquestionably does
train the eye and mind together. . . •
I have known the Pelman System
for some seven years. 1 have served
both before and during the war
(1914-18) with many who have
followed it.... A memory which
works instantly and automatically
when roused suddenly from a short
and insufficient nap, or when the
brain is numbed by fatigue and want
of sleep, is a priceless possession.
—Major - General Sir F. Maurice,
K.C.M.G., C.B.
Sources of Strength
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being
wanted, of being acceptable to at least one group of people.
A second source is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make
ourselves of use to other groups and acceptable to them. The
enlargement of the number of groups and the intensification of
our influence in any one of them are determined by the degree
of development of certain qualities, viz.:
PERCEPTIVE FACULTY SELF-CONFIDENCE
CONCENTRATION WILL-POWER
SELF-CONTROL INITIATIVE
JUDGMENT ORGANISATION
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of
making A like B or anyone else, but so that he, as A, will be
as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training
sets out seriously to develop the individual so that he will be
himself at his best, able to make a good performance of anything
he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post free.
Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside representatives.
H.M. FORCES.
160 admirals and
generals and nearly
100,000 other ranks
have taken the
Pelman Course.
Approved bp the War
Office.
Write, call, telephone
(MU2355) or tele-
graph. When writing
or telegraphing
Pelman Institute,
Melbourne, is suf-
ficient address.
DOCTOR: “Pelmanism has shown me how
to observe instead of merely seeing.”
TEACHER: “Increase in my powers ox
Concentration and Memory. Increase in Selt-
Confidence. Greater interest in people and in
my surroundings.”
STAFF CAPTAIN: “I want to thank you
for your attention and express the hope that
I may keep in touch with the Institute in the
future as the occasion offers.”
ENGINEDRIVER: “It is with a wonderful
sense of ability and security that I face the
future.”
AIRRCRAFTMAN; “My memory is im-
proved, my concentration developed and I am
a better observer.”
PRIVATE: “I have developed Will Power,
Observation and Memory. I feel that I can
step into the future with both feet firmly
planted on the path to success.”
SOEDIER (ENGINEER) : “Yesterday I
learned that promotion, and to a higher rank
than that which I have expected, is coming
my way in the near future. I attribute my
promised advancement to Pelmanism. It was
only the benefit I had already gained from it
which carried me through at
SOEDIER : “I was one of three to be pro-
moted out of a class of thirty selected tor
special training.”
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 356 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone; MU 2355.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelmaa
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
r
i
l
i
i
i
I
I
I
I
To the Telman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
390 Hinders Eane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient
Mind.”
Name
changes which war with Germany has
threatened to bring about. Never, there-
fore, has there been greater need tor tes-
tators to revise their wills, and more t
ever are changing circumstances making
apparent the advantages of the corpora e
over the private trustee. Further, pru
testators never fail to create a hquic
fund in their estate to cover duties pay-
able at death, and so avoid the possibility
of forced realisation of portion of their
assets at what might prove an unfavor-
able moment. One way of creating sue
a fund is by fixed deposit with a bank ;
another is to buy a paid-up insurance
policy. Yet another, which the Govern-
ment would be well advised to consider,
would be purchase of Government bonds
if these were made acceptable m payment
of death duties. If further bond issues,
or some of them, were made acceptable
in this way, many people would satisfy
the strong obligation they feel to support
Government loans at the moment, an
at the same time carry out what
regard as a necessary duty to their depen-
dants. .
The E., T. and A.’s business—of its
kind the co. is the oldest in S. Aus. and
Australia’s second-largest —continues to
expand, and can be expected to keep on
doing so. But there isn’t the profit in
this class of undertaking that there used
to be. That is because corpus and other
commission charges have remained un-
altered, which means that the cos. have
had to bear all the burden of mounting
costs, including taxation. Last term the
amount of new business entrusted to this
co.’s care was £1,349,478 (up £296,364),
and estates to the value of £720,805 were
wound up, leaving the net gain in the
volume of trusts on the books at
£628,673:
Gross Exes p.c.
Trusts. Income. Exes.* Income.
1920.. £4,568,146 £22,477 £11,388 50.6
1930.. 10,036,608 44,426 28,416 63.9
1932.. 10,870,670 38,921 28.695 73.7
1935.. 11,527,693 40,206 28,823 71.7
1936.. 12,096.589 42,402 29,994 70.7
1937.. 12,214,348 47,080 33,030 iO.l
1938.. 12,306,937 50,441 36,019' 71.3
1939.. 12,116,390 51,390 37,369 72.7
1940.. 12,253,449 52,358 38,279' 73.1
1941.. 12,882,122 50.583 38,368 70.7
* Excluding depreciation.
Gross earnings, however, were £1775
lighter, partly because of the reduction
in interest rates and low rentals. Exes,
were £B9 heavier, owing to taxation,
leaving the net result (down £2165) at
11.6 p.c. on capital as against 14.3, 14,
14.4, 14, 12.4 and 11.3 p.c. back to 1935.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., which is
equal to only 4.6 p.c. on capital and
reserves combined.
The £lOO,OOO of paid capital, reserves
and £573 coming to outsiders are repre-
sented by Government securities £82,876,
mortgages, etc., £40,011, freehold, etc.,
£78,893, safe deposit £15,234 and cash,
etc., £10256.
At 12s. 7d. (12s. a year ago) the pound
shares paid to ss. each return 4 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing is
10s. 9d. in net tangibles.
Youanmi’s decision to close down
owing to an impoverishment of values
at depth aroused the ire of the local
miners’ union, which excitedly declared
(1) that there was a new big 14dwt. lode
in the mine, (2) that about half a million
pounds’ worth of gold was in sight, and
(3) that the co. could carry on all right
if it cared to. The Westralian Minister
for Mines sensibly said he could do no-
thing. Then two Federal Labor members
and a State politician wired Priminister
Curtin to do something. Meanwhile, say-
ing that operations were finished so far
as it was concerned, the co. began to
dismantle and remove the pumps. This
means that the mine, with its alleged
14dwt. lode and half a million of wealth,
will be flooded. The news behind the
news is simply the old, old story of an un-
profitable mine going from bad to worse
and a disheartened co. giving up and
telling ordinary shareholders that their
subscribed capital has gone with the
wind.
* * * ♦
Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.), after
debiting this and crediting that, claims
that on its last balancing date (July 31)
it had a cash surplus of £3270, which
represented a gain of approximately £6OOO
in the cash position compared with a
year earlier. Proved and probable ore
reserves are “conservatively estimated
at 30,000 tons of a recoverable value of
50s. a ton. An additional 50,000 tons,
making the total sufficient for about four
years’ supply at the present rate of out-
put, is expected to be blocked out as a
result of development work now in pro-
gress. Less than sdwt. grade, however,
won’t pay. On Linden’s cast-off mine, for
which Coolgardie Brilliant paid £3500
and has expended a further £l5OO, there
is reckoned to be 20,000 tons of tailings
from which a re-treatment profit of at
least Bs. a ton is expected.


(Wm* 1
M3ESI
I mm
N
kj;.-t;:
Ar
iS
ip-
t*W
tO*
SV6 M ,
'H
f£)
, //v London
*Ar
P.Mn
OMPANY.U^‘3!!^
NK-
-1
*»r
£&»r
’''ir
*er r
i.'ViV/fl £. .'«.*■ j£ :■' ■
m
{Sr
K TO
6/*
f-%23
g*®&
Gordon’s
St may coit a little mote
but iti WELL /
TANQUERAY, GORDON & CO.
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND.
Jhe lahqeit yin, diMiUcAi in the wottd
c, TH47*
‘H E
ANOTHER BOOK
WORTH READING
To men and women living In retirement and those whose professional activities
are particularly arduous, a book recently published by Burns Philp Trust Company
Ltd. is specially commended. The book is entitled, "Hand Over Your Worry."
It outlines a plan whereby the irksome detail of personal affairs can be passed
over to the efficient care of this Company. Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. undertakes
the supervision of investments and property; the preparation of income tax
returns; collection of rents, payment of rates and taxes, etc., providing relief of
mind and an assurance of conscientious administration for those who desire a
greater degree of equanimity in these anxious days. The book, "Hand Over
Your Worry," will be forwarded free of charge on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns > Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITEL
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Finance in Fetters
For better or worse, the Federal Gov-
ernment has been taking more and more
of Australia’s economic activity under
its wing since war started. The measures
adopted in many cases have been inevit-
able. “All-in” has meant the submersion of
individualism to a great extent, with
partial nationalisation in its place. The
State has not only employees on its pay-
roll; it has employers as well, sometimes
on a cost -plus basis. The banks find the
Federal Government a customer of
almost dominating magnitude. Ordinary
channels of trade and finance have a
much shorter circuit than hitherto. A
manufacturer may now have only one
customer the Government where
hitherto he had thousands. This concen-
tration has meant easier control—by the
Government.
Finance is as important as ever in the
life of the nation, but owing to the re-
stricted paths into which activity is
directed these days a cloaking-over
of many aspects to the public eye is
apparent. The war is the paramount job in
hand, and the thousands of other private
and national activities that in peace-
time—and for the greater part of man’s
life —constitute the chief human interests
and political controversies are set at a
discount for the duration. While ‘•we
are fighting the war some of the
things for which we are fighting are
in danger almost of fading away. That
is something we have to guard against.
The biggest danger arises from the pos-
sibility of the Government of the day
using its war emergency powers to further
some class-conscious programme that it
was unable to introduce in times of peace.
This war is being waged at tremendous
cost. The boot pinches all round. War
finance in Australia means the restriction
of new capital issues by private enter-
prise, the control of interest rates and
profits, the virtual confiscation of most
profit increases, the strict regulation of
new industrial ventures, control of many
raw materials, price control, import and
export restrictions and partial regulation
of labor. Wage rates are controlled in
the usual way, also to the extent that
private enterprise cannot lure workers
away from Government jobs by the
promise of higher pay. The call-up for
military service is more sweeping than
ever.
Many classes of stock-in-trade have
been “frozen” for Government purposes,
compensation being based on cost, plus
a percentage, and many other things have
been “impressed” or commandeered.
The Government has first call on every-
thing, including money, though it has
been diffident about taxing the voting
masses. The banks have been regulated
by the present Government, and advances
are subject to strict supervision. Heavy
taxation on undistributed profits of all
classes of companies has affected the in-
ternal financial policy of many cos.
In theory, the Government has tremen-
dous authority at present. It has supreme
control in matters falling under the
National Security Regulations and
almost any important matter can be dealt
with under these regulations if thought
fit. Actual nationalisation of banking
has not occurred, however, and, except
for the filling of a vacancy by a Labor
nominee, no changes have taken place in
the constitution of the Commonwealth
Bank Board, Although the Government
has the extraordinary powers due to it
in time of war, probably at no time is
the public more critical of Government
behavior than in circumstances like those
now prevailing. Taxation is so heavy
and so much is at stake that political
consciences have been awakened where
previously they were dormant. The
powers granted to Canberra have to be
administered with care.
Though in matters of finance, as men-
tioned, private activities have become
subservient to the war effort, the adminis-
tration of public finance becomes more
and more a matter of first-class conse-
quence. So much of the national income
these days passes through the hands of the
Treasury and the defence departments
that the financial well-being of the nation
is substantially wrapped up with how the
public funds are handled. Private in-
dustry is allowed to exercise few of the
protective measures it could employ in
peace-time. It is governed by the direc-
tion and general surge of the national
effort, which is concentrated on war, not
on the wide and elastic interests of peace.
The Stock Exchanges are of minor im-
portance and even less interest at the
present time. There is very little good
news for the investor and in many cases
bad news. The Commonwealth and N. S.
Wales taxation policies have between
them caused considerable depression
among share quotations. The special
taxation of companies has brought de-
preciation of share prices, whereas in the
value of most other kinds of property
there has been some inflation.
The Government has a great propor-
tion of the country s man-power under its
control, which ties financial policy more
and more to the Government. The fact
that Australian unemployment is now
down to near 3 p.c. because of the
activity in the defence industries and the
demands of the fighting services makes
Government encouragement of employ-
ment by helping private enterprise un-
necessary for the time being.
But though in the shock and reorganisa-
tion that have followed each new phase
of the war there is a tendency to forget
that finance and many of its associated
activities are of vital importance, the fact
remains that finance remains the greatest
organising factor behind all our munitions
production. On sound finance depends
to an extent not often understood the
successful carrying-out of much of the
war programme. One of the principles
on which this war is being fought by us
is that sacrifices should be spread as
evenly as possible over the entire popula-
tion, and such an even spread can be
achieved only by a financial system that
does not deceive or break down. Finance
must not be abused in times like the
present. Badly administered finance plays
tricks that affect production and living
standards, placing an unnecessary tax
on the people when direct war taxation
is already very heavy.
The year 1942 is going to be a testing
one for the Australian financial system.
The Budget presented late in 1941 seems
to have underestimated the war outlay
for 1941-42, and it looks as though a
greater strain than anticipated will be
placed on the economic system. Certainly
supplementary taxes have been introduced
since the Budget, but, though these will
bring in £24 million in a full year, the
help for the current period will not be so
much as that. And in all probability
our war commitments have increased
more than £24 million over the £221.5
million of Labor’s Budget. Even on the
Budget figure too much reliance appeared
to have been placed on public borrowing
and bank credit.
How this country will fare after the
war will depend to a major extent on
how realistically we shape up to financial
>and industrial problems now. War must
hit non-combatants in the pocket and in
their living standards, and it is no use
frying to disguise this fact or to give way
to noisy minorities which clamor for
favored treatment among the working
population as a whole. Inflation is to be
guarded against and artificialities in
living standards rejected. If we come
out of this struggle without much infla-
tion in finance and confusion in indus-
trial relations the widespread develop-
ment of new industries that have grown
out of the war should mean a new era
in Australian expansion.
Melbourne Board of Works is seeking
£250,000 of money, equal to the amount
of the loan which matured on Jan. 1. The
rate of interest offered is £3 Bs. 9d. per
cent., price par and the term 15 years.
lan Potter and Co., members of Mel-
bourne ’Change, have underwritten the
loan. The recent offering by the Sydney
Water Board carried £3 11s. 3d. per cent,,
but Victorian public-body issues usually
command a premium over N. S. Wales
debentures, the same as N, S. Wales
offerings carry less interest than Queens-
land stock. The Sydney Water Board
loan unhappily coincided with the
Japanese attacks in the Pacific as well
as the introduction of severe water-
rationing, and only 60 p.c. of the loan
was taken by the public, though the
underwriters looked after the balance.
* * * 9
Commercial Steels and Forge Co.
(Aust.) Pty. is an associate of John
McGrath, Ltd., which used to handle the
Chevrolet franchise for N. S. Wales.
McGrath’s formed the Australian Drop
Forging Co. in 1930, but the drop- and
pneumatic-hammers were not installed
until 1933 owing to the depression. A
co. named Industrial Steel Products had
been formed previously to handle a
number of overseas agencies. Its name
was later changed to Commercial Steels
(Aust.), and in 1933 the co. and the drop-
forging concern were housed in the same
building in Alexandria, Sydney. Follow-
ing the outbreak of war, in 1939 a larger
factory site was acquired at Lidcombe,
and at the same time the two cos. were
amalgamated under the title of Commer-
cial Steels and Forge Co. Production
was commenced in September, 1940, and
since then additional buildings and plant
have been found necessary to keep pace
with the demand for forgings for aircraft
and naval and military requirements. The
forgings range from an ounce to nearly
4001 b. The steel and machinery section
is carried on from Alexandria and from
branch offices in Melbourne and Adel-
aide. The British and American agencies
held are extensive. Early in 1941 it was
decided to issue another 100,000 new
shares. Prior to this the capital of the
co. had been not more than £lOO,OOO.
* * * *
Total war expenditure by Australia for
the first half of 1941-42 shows that the
Budget figures supplied by Fadden and
those endorsed by Chifley were wide of
the mark. Pre-Budget estimates by
Fadden were nearer the truth, suggesting
that actual Budget figures were under-
estimates, like so many Government
figures these days. For the six months to
Dec. 31 Commonwealth expenditure on
war was £123.3 million, which compares
with a Budget estimate for the full year
of £221.5 million. Outlay in the first half
of the current financial year by all indi-
cations except the Budget should be
exceeded by expenditure in the second
half, seeing that, even without Japan’s
entry in the war, the gathering
momentum of the war effort must by this
be reaching the stage where initial capital
expenditure and plant equipment should
be doing the job intended of them —the
production of more and more arms and
munitions. All those things in the way
of new weapons that we have been
promised should be flowing—or flowing
soon —from the factories established dur-
ing the 28 months since war started. The
Australian economy has been geared
gradually to an increasing war effort, and
something will be wrong if the results
are not soon forthcoming.


IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going Into middle age note 3
Blowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this Is to be expected to a de-
gree, if passage Is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting. Nature
may be warning that there Is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons ini your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puCl-
ness under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give hapny relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a!
special remedy for the kidneys and will give
quick and lasting benefit. Old and yours?
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS with perfect safety.
Announcing-
A NEW Complete Modern
Training in
Effective Letter Writing
The first practical, thorough, complete
training and service in the NEW
technique for modern needs approved
by experts in England, U.S.A. and
Australia, written wholly for and
applicable to Australian conditions.
mHE NEW Hemingway & Robertson Course and
Training Service in EFFECTIVE CORRES-
PONDENCE provides a thorough training in the
new technique of modern effective letters . . .
good letter writing which wins new friends, new
business, collects old debts, stirs to action those
who are dilatory ... and withal, builds
goodwill.
Every possible phase of business and social
letter writing is completely covered, supplemented
by examples and practical hints. And this
training provides you with an indispensable
accomplishment ... in any occupation . . •
in business or social life . . . equally valuable
to the Executive as to the clerical assistant; to
the social leader or the private secretary.
This NEW course and service brings you the
experience of the world’s best correspondents.
Wholly written for and applicable to Australian
conditions, it has been approved by experts here
and abroad, and provides you with the quickest
and most effective means to advancement to-day.
Wholly printed, containing in addition to the
hundreds of examples of letters of all kinds,
numerous charts, self-examination questions, and
progress exercises for practical work and test,
the twelve texts in the course provide the most
complete training available.
Post the Coupon for free, illustrated Brochure,
Department of Accountancy and Commerce
Hemingway & Robertson
Founders of Commercial Education In Australasia
38a Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney,
38a Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
Offices in all Capital Cities, Newcastle & L’neeston
To HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
Please send me Free, illustrated Brochure of
the NEW H. & R. Training Course and Service
in the modern technique of Effective Corres-
pondence.
Name. Age
m WftiK MfN AND WOMtN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY,
T. JONES & CO.,
ChemißtH,
319 George St., Sydney
rm
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
Public Notice.
I, ROSE LESHA, of Syrian nationality, born
at Zahley, near Beirut, and resident 50 years
in Australia, now residing at 128 Walker Street,
Redfern, near Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-36,.
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different */-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., U
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
THE
lIMITCIVNSURANCE
UNI I CU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 186?,
Head Office;
GEORGE 8 HUiVIM SUUtI, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - . C 1,000,000
AU classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Ocn. Manager. Asst Manager.
REST ASSURED
FOR LIFE
IN his 30th year, a dentist invested
A in an A.M.P. Endowment Assur-
ance policy for £l5OO payable to
him at age 60. He reached that age
recently, and found, to his great
satisfaction, that, by the addition of
bonuses, the £l5OO had grown to
£2586, a very pleasing return for an
investment equivalent to 19/2 a
week spread over 30 years.
He found that the £2586 he re-
ceived would obtain for him; —
1. An annuity for the remainder
of his life at the rate of £206
per annum; or
2. An annuity for fifteen years,
whether he lived or died, at
the rate of £214 per annum; or
3. As his wife was the same age
as himself, an annuity at the
rate of £153 per annum pay-
able for as long as either of
them lived.
He chose the last. An important
point is that he did not have to
choose until he reached 60. By that
time he knew exactly which plan
suited him best.
Can the Society help you “rest
assured for life”? Ask the nearest
office for a plan to suit your
income.
A.M,P. SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart
and Canberra, A.C.T.
District Offices throughout all States.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
14
iMM
jftoU*-
_7„- «*
tff s^Hib
tb m^<*-""
ISSLX Xss
Jl CAegr<
ae
IS A CHECK !
A cheque is a record of expenditure;
it enables the payment of accounts to be
made in the privacy of the home. Pay-
ment by cheque makes it unnecessary to
keep large sums of money in the house,
thus avoiding the risk of loss by fire or
•
theft. Further information will gladly
be given at any of the Bank’s 338 branches
in Australia.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
84 years experience of Australian Banking
2/16/42
Moderate recovery continued in the
sharemarkets until Friday of last week.
Broken Hill Prop, old ords. rose to 335, 6d.
at one stage, then settled back to 325. 3d.
A.C.I. was bought at firming prices, and
Tooth, the leading N. S. Wales brewery,
went up to 48s. 6d. After sinking to 109.01
early in the New Year, by last Thurs-
day the Sydney index of representative
shares was back to 112.37. Turnover
altogether was not very extensive, how-
ever, the main inference to be drawn
from the better tone being that the rot
had stopped for the time being, and that
there were people confident that in the
long run present prices would turn out to
be bargains. The immediate outlook
remained uncertain. On Friday there was
a check to the general firming.
A parcel of Bradford Cotton shares
has been on the market for some days,
tending to keep the price down. A call
of 7s. 6d. on the contribs., due at the
end of this month, has also had a ten-
dency to bring sellers of the old shares
on to the market. Yarra Falls shares
have withstood the market shocks in
good order, sales being registered at 41s.
Felt and Textiles ords. have come up to
335., but South Sea Island concerns are
still weak, including the big Burns Philp
concern and W. R. Carpenter. Placer
Development and Bulolo have drifted
also, but not much turnover has been
taking place. For Raub, in Japanese-
occupied Malaya, buyers were offering
Is. 6d. without attracting sellers. Emperor
(Fiji) staged a short-lived recovery;
Loloma is weak at under 15s.
* * * *
Canberra should go to the trouble of
making its policy known in connection
with the production of Australian oil
fuels. The whole atmosphere about the
matter of petrol since the outbreak of
war has been unpleasant and difficult to
penetrate. With regard to the turning-
out of fuels by the several processes put
forward by local and overseas inventors
and sponsored by petrol-using firms,
where users are prepared to finance such
ventures at their own risk no obstacles
should be put in their way, not even
under the capital-issues regulations. There
is a report going round to the effect that
a Sydney firm offered to make a small
venture on its own account into the shale-
oil business, but was informed by Can-
berra that it would have to put the plant
out of action as soon as the war was
over. If the report is untrue, then, as
said before, Canberra should make its
position quite clear. If the report is true,
then something should be done about
Canberra. It is no use passing off the
question with the reply that all the re-
torting processes are freakish. The fact
is indisputable that one Sydney firm is
perfectly satisfied with results from its
investment in shale-oil distillation ; it is
turning out petrol from a simple plant
which cost £15,000. And red-tape—or
other obstructive factors —should not be
permitted to stand in the way of pro-
duction of vital oil supplies.
♦ * * *
Canberra reports that the Government
and the C.S.R. are discussing the estab-
lishment of power-alcohol factories in
various wheat-producing States. The
Menzies Government launched the idea,
but on Labor’s taking office the plan was
shelved for a while on the ground of
cost. A draft agreement has now been
prepared, and sites are to be selected
soon.
* * * *
Following the div. experience of the
cos. mentioned on this page last week,
further variety is seen in dividends since
announced. Hotel Sydney is maintaining
its rate —city hotels have been doing
quite well—Pitt, Son and Badgery’s dis-
tribution is unchanged, as is that of
Mutual Acceptance Corp. But Meggitt
has dropped its interim from 5 p.c. to
3i p.c,, apparently because of heavy taxa-
tion and difficulty in obtaining linseed.
North Coast Steam has cut its rate from
5 p.c. to 4\ p.c. for the six months.
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co,
(Melb.) has dropped its interim from
4 p.c. to 3i p.c. G. J. Coles, the chain-
store concern, has brought its half-yearly
distribution down from 7i p.c. to 5 p.c.
Last term a final of 10 p.c. made p.c,
for the year.
* * * *
Australian Cement, Victoria, has main-
tained its \l\ p.c. div. out of profits only
£1278 lower at £96,076. Divs. from Aus-
tralian Portland Cement, in which the
co. is an equal partner with Kandos
Cement, were £92,500. Australian
Cement’s div., as usual, calls for most of
the disclosed profit, but more was prob-
ably available in the subsidiary if needed.
» * * *
G. J. Coles and Co. has cut its interim
ord. div. from p.c. to 5 p.c. Trade has
increased, but heavy taxation has forced
the cut. A. W. Coles, M.H.R., is a man-
aging director. It was he who helped
Labor into office and said the difference
between the Fadden and Chifley Budgets
was one of Tweedledee and Tweedledum.
It was also he who later on urged Labor
to alter its company-taxation policy—
without much result.
* * * *
Myers, Melbourne, has been “declared.”
Its gross-profit margins rather than actual
prices are to be controlled by the Prices
Commissioner. No “calculated attempt
to ignore the principles of price control”
is charged, but a failure by the co. to
reconcile its usual trading practices with
the principles of price control laid down
officially is claimed. Apparently in the
case of a retail emporium it is almost
impossible for the commissioner to con-
trol individual prices.
* * * ♦
The drillhole of Australasian Petroleum
at Kariava, on the Vailala River, Papua,
is down to 5117 ft. Papuan Apinaipi has
stopped drilling owing to the war situation.
* # * »
Wool appraisements to December 31
for the current season covered 1,955,155
bales, worth £31,799,249. Two million
bales had been allocated for appraisement
during the period and of the appraised
sum growers have been paid £30,298,979.
Average price for this season’s wool
in the grease for the Commonwealth up
to December 31 was appraised at 12.19 d.
per pound; at 31/12/’4O it was 12.17 d.
State averages for the current period:
N.S.W. 12.18 d., Victoria 13.09 d., Q’land
12.10 d., S.A. 10.87 d., W.A. 11.85 d., Tas.
13.41 d. First main New Year appraise-
ment is complete in Tasmania ; the others
are under way, and all should be done by
about May 31. Sheepskins appraised
under the agreement with Britain in the
current season totalled 25,814 bales, worth
£541,818.
• * * •
Mr. Beasley has promised a deputation
from Westralia that a survey of Westra-
lian electric power resources will be made
in order to ascertain whether the estab-
lishment of an aluminium factory in that
State is feasible. So far Tasmania
has the main attractions —its Great Lake
power supply is widely known. Appar-
ently Canberra does not think there is
any danger of overloading this source of
electric power. Westralia believes it has
something worth while in its Lake Cam-
pion and other deposits of alunite.
Bauxite is the usual ore from which
alumina is extracted, but alunite also
contains this oxide of aluminium.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia Joins Battle.
“Ek Bum”: Little information leaked
out during the early part of the week
about fighting in Malaya. This was not
necessarily ground for alarm, though
some newspapers and radio announcers
did their best to whoop up a panic about
it. Generals have learnt all too well the
quality of modern war reporting.
Wavell, in particular, knows his press.
On the night of the advance into Libya
m December, 1940, he was careful to go
to a dinner to put the newshounds off
the scent. And of last November’s ad-
vance into Libya not a whisper was
allowed to escape until the first objec-
tives had been reached.
The position was that the Japanese
continued to advance towards Singapore.
When they crossed the Slim River on
the west, after feeling for the first time
the weight of British frontal screens, their
line bent back across the hills far up
to the northward in the centre of the
backbone of Malaya. On the eastward
side it ran parallel to the coast to near
Pekan, south of their southernmost land-
ing point at Kuantan, about 170 miles
from Singapore by crow-fly. Whether
there was anything like a continuous link-
age of enemy forces behind this line,
which corresponded roughly to the
northern part of the Selangor-Kuantan
road system, was not clear.
However, their advance continued on
the western side. Kuala Lumpur, gutted,
deserted, its facilities on fire, its air pol-
luted by the smoke and smell of burning
rubber refineries, was abandoned to
them. They then held virtually the whole
of the States of Kelantan, Perak, Kedah,
Wellesley Province and Penang and the
Bindings, much of Pahang on the east
and Selangor, beyond Port Swettenham.
Port Swettenham fell into their hands,
giving them another minor naval base,
which was bombed.
Their western forces, on a rough esti-
mate, swept forward again southward,
apparently meeting not overmuch pres-
sure until they reached Seremban. There
was, however, no news from the eastern
side that they had yet penetrated further
south than just north of Kuala Lipis, in
the centre, or than just north of Pekan,
on the east coast.
At any rate, on the west they were
entering a new type of country. Further
north their line or advances across the
peninsula had straddled the central hills,
some nearly as high as the Blue Moun-
tains. Whatever their penetration their
communication system must continue to
feel the disability of this highly-broken
terrain, full of jungle and rushing river
and tropical scrub as nearly as impene-
trable as could be, and as full of leeches,
malaria, wild animals, snakes and at
this time of year rain—as it could hold.
Before them was the narrowing snake-
like head of Malaya, as represented by
the part of Negri Sembilan and Johore
and that part of Pahang round the Rom-
pei River which they had not taken, to-
wards which their eastern and central
columns were scrambling.
Facing them in the British screen lines
and defence in depth was a different type
of country. Very largely plantation areas,
but much still jungle, especially to the
east, and a lot was potential bog. For
the British Imperial forces it had not the
same difficulties of communication as that
which beset the Japanese in the rear.
They were near their base, and on most
lines the way was clear to the southern
Johore hills.
In the triangle of the outer Johore
border, with an apex at Gemas, and with
the base roughly drawn from the mouth
of the Muar River to some point on the
east above Mersing where Japanese
iron-ore ships used to load from Japanese-
owned mines—lay the first real oppor-
tunity for the British to throw a line
in depth completely across the peninsula
and serve it fully with communications.
The coasts below these points were
reported mined as far back as January,
1941. The main road runs with the
railway down the centre of the triangle
of land.
Late in the week the enemy landed
south of the Muar River under R.A.F.
bomb and machine-gun fire.
Unfortunately Malacca lies north of
the Muar, which might be called the
boundary of the outer perimeter. Gemas,
in a straight line to Singapore, is distant
about 130 miles ; by road and rail it is
more. The Muar mouth is about 100
miles from the base. On the way from
Singapore to Gemas, in the centre, is
ihe key aerodrome of Kluang, roughly
80 miles from Singapore proper. It could
be reckoned that this was the first point
from which the metropolitan air force
could be used with full fighter support.
After the Japanese advance guards were
reported to be in the neighborhood of
Seremban on Jan. 12 communiques dealt
almost exclusively for a time with air
fighting.
On Jan. 13, however, Tokyo Radio,
reporting again the “death” of Major-
General Gordon Bennett, who had twice
previously been immolated in engage-
ments in which no Australian troops took
part, announced that on December 31
90,000 fresh Australians had been landed
at Singapore. For three days Tokyo
continued to be the main source of battle
“information,” which it maintained at its
previous hopeful level.
Aussies in Action
On January 14 Tokyo was still the only
source of news concerning operations on
the surface of Malaya. It asserted that
on the previous day a tank spearhead
had penetrated Johore and had “reached
a certain point not far from Singapore.”
It claimed that the Jap army controlled
the whole of Pahang State, and that ds
foremost post on the west coast was 70
miles from the capital, at Batu Bahat.
This the British refused either to con-
firm or deny, but the tone of the Japa-
nese Radio did some of the denying for
them. Wherever the Japanese were they
had come up against something which
made their announcers ooze angry threats
and occasionally break into bursts of
inarticulate fury.
A communique issued next day by
Major-General Gordon Bennett proved
that the something was the A.I.F. On
Tuesday night, after three days of mov-
ing into position, during which no enemy
bomb touched it, its advance guard had
gone into the front line in fairly sub-
stantial force, instead of in isolated units,
as on the Slim River. On the central
west a formation of British, Australians
and Indians was changing shift with
weary and drenched British and Indians
who had been taking up the slack of the
Japanese march southwards. It was rain-
ing in sheets.
The first contact which the Australians
made was with a vanguard detachment
of Japanese tanks, supported by infantry,
somewhere toward the centre of the pen-
insula in eastern Negri Sembilan, about
130-150 miles from Singapore. The
Japanese gave the location as Batu Anam,
about eight miles west of Gemas.
On Wednesday, the 14th, about 4.15
p.m., our men went into action. The
enemy had been allowed to cross a bridge,
tanks and all. The bridge blew up. Then
“hell broke loose.” It was a neat
ambush.
By Thursday morning the Japanese had
revealed themselves as about a brigade,
with special tank and armored-car sup-
port. At noon, N.S.W. artillery began to
pound them, but the main bodies of the
A.I.F. did not begin to make contact
with the enemy till Thursday afternoon.
Then they waded into the fray, a N.S.W.
battalion in the van.
In the earlier stages the usual dearth of
air support had been reported, though
dive bombers were said to be repeatedly
attacking Australian positions.
Some unnamed spokesman claimed that
Britain would “have air superiority by
Thursday.” On Thursday ’planes began
to appear, about the same time that
Tokyo reported excitedly that the whole
landscape in the direction of Singapore
was covered with British troops moving
up to the front. The long lines of Japa-
nese* lorries carrying reinforcements for-
ward were catching it very hot. Major-
General Bennett said that bombers had
torn a 32-mile Jap convoy of 1000 lorries
to bits.
By Friday, when the fighting passed its
high intensity, at least in the centre of
the peninsula, the A.1.F., whose forward
units had outflanked the Japanese or in-
filtrated their territory, was receiving
considerable air support.
On Saturday, the command had begun
to pass out information —a sure sign that
major operations were afoot.
Major-General Bennett said that thus
far things had been going our way, but
“much heavier assaults can be expected
with tanks, artillery and infantry”:
We have given the Japs a terrific past-
ing which will have a tremendous moral
effect. Our boys already have been fighting
with the bayonet. This is an all-in scrap,
the toughest job I have ever had; but
I am confident because our men, some
of whom have been training for this for
II months, have gone in in a winning vein.
Their work has been marvellous.
Mr. Forde, Minister for the Army,
said that the first encounters cost the
Japanese casualties which exceeded the
Australian by 300 to 400 per cent. The
A.I.F. casualties were comparatively light.
In Thursday’s action the Japanese were
said to have lost 800 to 1000 killed,
against 100 A.I.F. casualties.
The tale of the first battle was full
of typical A.I.F. stories, which are
always plentiful the moment Australians
are trusted to use the bayonet. At one
stage the Japanese represented them-
selves as Indians. Greece had taught
old hands that typical German trick.
General Bennett mentioned one bit of
fighting “typical of the spirit inspiring
our men” —that of a corporal, command-
ing an advanced post, who crawled in
suffering from bayonet wounds.
Getting into a fight in which his own
bayonet became useless, he threw it
away, grabbed a Malayan parang, a sort
of cross between a cane-knife and an
executioner’s sword, and waded into the
enemy survivors until he had cleaned up
six.
But it was not all bayonet and
mortar work. Early in the piece the
Australians destroyed enemy heavy tanks.
Others they bypassed to tear into the
infantry behind. The Japs, it was dis-
covered, did not like the bayonet as
handled by Australians, any more than
they liked the Bren when applied to tree
snipers or some other arms, such as the
trench mortar, with which the A.I.F. is
adept.
The brunt of the battle of Gemas, the
first ever fought by Australian forces to
ward off direct approach to their own
country, seems to have been on Jan. 15,
though it continued next day. Major-
General Bennett’s summary is that it re-
sulted in “a severe defeat for the enemy,”
since when no major attack had been
launched by them on the Gemas front up
to Monday morning. The Japanese hold
Gemas. But the first Australian ambush
delayed their advance 24 hours.
There was plenty of air activity, plenty
of artillery shelling and active patrol
work, for which the country is made,
along the central western sector. Many
Japanese fifth-columnists in Malay
clothes have been rooted out. On Sun-
day Japanese reinforcements were on
their way. Major-General Bennett pro-
phesied “hectic fighting ahead.”
The British section of the line to the
west of the A.I.F. was still in battle
where the enemy was reported to have
crossed the Muar. In this sector, eight
tanks were destroyed.
General Wavell has established his
headquarters at Sourabaya (N.E.1.),
which is being developed as a naval base.
Following his African policy, which
took him 1500 miles into the battle for
Keren and back again during the height
of the Cyrenaican advance, he turned
up quietly in the Malayan front line
while fighting was in progress on Jan. 8
and consulted Lieut.-General Heath,
G.0.C., and all the divisional com-
manders.
A small body of Japanese troops fil-
tered into Burma late in the week. There
the situation was reported to be well in
hand. A powerful British army is being
built in Burma. Its objective can scarcely
be purely defensive, though an offensive
through the border country will be peri-
lously difficult.
In the Malayan Air
Early in the week the Japanese
appeared to be developing a heavy air
offensive against Singapore itself, but
they were not having matters all their
own way.
On Jan. 12 about 50 heavy bombers,
escorted by 20 fighters, approached the
island at a great height. R.A.F. fighters
intercepted them and drove them off
before they could do serious damage.
One enemy aircraft was destroyed, three
probably destroyed and several more
damaged.
There was an alert on the morning of
Jan. 13, but casualties were reported as
light and damage slight. On Thursday
70 bombers and fighters took up the
running again, and on Saturday 130
persons were killed and 100 wounded,
while fires were started in the oil depots
of the naval base. It was the first occa-
sion on which bombs had fallen on the
naval base. Two enemy ’planes were
shot down.
All other attacks were military and
were hampered by weather. The most
heartening news was the steady activities
of the R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. and the
wholesome respect in which the enemy
apparently has come to hold the joint
British-American forces which staved
them off from Rangoon in December
with their squadrons short by a third.
Sungei Patani, Singora in the north,
Kuala Lumpur and Swettenham in the
south and several other points can show
evidence that R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. squad-
rons still exist and are dangerous. But
better weather must be awaited before
there is a real trial of air strength in
Malaya. And good weather during the
January monsoon rains in Malaya is
about as scarce as human pity in Berlin’s
Wilhelmstrasse.
Japanese Strategy
So far the most noticeable feature of
Japanese strategy has been the expansive-
ness of the fling toward the south-east
—a reaching-out which is aimed both
at the extension of the island screen
against U.S.A., so that it may eventually
succeed in separating the naval, mercan-
tile and fighting air communications of
Australia, N.Z. and Uncle Sam, and at
later encirclements. In view of Japan’s
shipping shortage such a policy can be
implemented only by slow and thorough
acquirement and development of bases.
The present plan seems to be to build
the area which consists of the Philippines
and Borneo into the nucleus body of
an octopus which, once well nourished
and growing, can fling tentacles in all
directions if Singapore can be captured,
but certainly three parts of the way round
the circle—north, east to south —even if
Singapore hangs out for donkey’s years.
It is being built round oil, of which the
N.E.I. produces 2,000,000,000 gallons a
year.
The completed body of the beast would
centre on Manila Bay and would over-
lap the Philippines, Celebes, Borneo,
Java, Sumatra, Indo-China and Malaya,
armored and shielded by the bases of the
Mariannes, Carolines and Marshalls,
whose southern line, via Palau and Jaluit
in the Marshalls, is already extending
itself by naval and air operations.
From the elbow joint in the Marshalls
the Japanese have struck one heavy blow
at Honolulu’s defence areas and a series
of punches through Rabaul, the Gilberts,
Nauru and Ocean Island to Samoa,
where the furthest-flung raid from Japan
has taken place, crossing the line of air
communication from Sydney to Hono-
lulu on the way. Yokohama is 4057
miles from Samoa.
The line of attack aims straight for
Cook Islands beyond Samoa and the
French Society Islands and Tahiti beside
them. Expansion in this direction might
in time give the enemy control of all
Australia’s trans-Pacific routes ; also give
him a long line of bases from which he
could operate on both sides —toward the
north-west to capture Canton Island,
Palmyra, Kingman, Fanning, Christmas
and Johnson islands, thus providing
bases for air access to the Hawaiian
islands and forming as a new offensive
chain one side of an ugly mouth, opposite
the Marshalls, wide open to engulf
Hawaii.
On the other (south-west) side there
would be points from which to approach
the Australian coast by relatively easy
stages via New Guinea, the Solomons,
New Hebrides ; and from Samoa to Fiji,
Fiji to Noumea and Noumea to the
Queensland coast at the splendid harbor
of Gladstone 800-900 miles away.
These southern areas have been
touched —and that only on the Samoan
line —merely by reconnaissances, with a
little incidental bombing, save for the
New Guinea end, which has seen the
foundations of the inner edge of the
drive south-eastward being laid. Follow-
ing an extensive reconnaissance of the
Bismarcks on Thursday, Rabaul again
was bombed twice on Jan. 17 by aircraft
which approached at above 10,000 ft. The
first raid was at 1 p.m., the second at
7.30 p.m. Some damage was done to
property and there were casualties.
The R.A.A.F. twice bombed the Caro-
lines. On Thursday bad weather ham-
pered it, and one aircraft was lost.
Body Building Round Borneo
Most of the Japanese effort in the
south, however, has gone to the building
of the main body of its East Indian octo-
pus, whose birth pangs are not easy. The
gallant MacArthur still holds on to his
Bataan Peninsula, with his back to Cor-
regidor. Tokyo reported before the week-
end that 30 transports had arrived at the
mouth of Manila Bay to take the garri-
son of Corregidor away.
But it was announced in Washington
that reinforcements were reaching the
Philippines and that communication had
been reopened with several points in
those islands. Uncle Sam still holds the
islands of Cebu, Bonol, Leyte, Negros,
Panay, Samai and Mindanao, except
Davao. And three or four times Ameri-
can artillery has silenced the Japanese


mms and fierce shock-troop attacks
driven off. On Jan. 12 one of these heavy
duels lasted 24 hours. “Columns of
enemy tanks, armored units and infantry
concentrations were shattered and dis-
persed by our fire and 11 Japanese bat-
teries silenced ; our losses were relatively
slight”—so said the official U.S. com-
munique. Incessant dive-bombing has
not broken the Filipino spirit or Mac-
Arthur’s resolution. The first 200 U.S.
wounded have arrived at Darwin.
At the beginning of last week the
enemy took Tarakan Island in Dutch
n.-e. Borneo, after fierce fighting, and
after the oil and all other facilities had
been wrecked. He lost two destroyers
and a sloop, sunk by land batteries. He
also occupied Kakas aerodrome at the
main port on the Minahassa Peninsula
in the Celebes, and bombed Ternate,
off Halmatera, and Gilolo in the same
island of the Moluccas, between the
Celebes and Dutch New Guinea. The
Ternate bombers killed 15 and wounded
four. The same day 30 heavy bombs
were dropped on Kolonedale, Central
Celebes, but only one n.c.o. was seriously
wounded.
Later in the week there were skir-
mishes in Borneo between Dutch and
Japanese troops. American bombers
appearing on the scene destroyed two
enemy fighters off Tarakan without suf-
fering loss. The Japanese bombed Medan
(Sumatra) and made more than one
assault on Amboina, 600 miles from
Darwin, doing some military damage,
killing two and wounding 10. One of
the visitors was destroyed.
Hudsons Over the Celebes
R.A.A.F. Hudsons were engaged every
day for five days over the Celebes. On
January 10 one damaged a Japanese 97
type flying-boat over Molucca Strait dur-
ing the attack on Menado. Next day a
Jap cruiser covering a landing at Menado
was hit aft of the rear turret. On Jan.
11 five Hudsons shot down two fighters
and damaged a third during an R.A.A.F.
attack on warships. But when eight
Hudsons found themselves engaged ,by
a superior number of mixed fighters off
Menado they lost two machines defi-
nitely, and two more are missing, though
previous operations had cost the squad-
ron nothing.
Uncle Sam Off Tokyo
At sea there was as much activity as
in the air. The U.S. Navy reported the
sinking of a 17,000-ton N.Y.K.. boat of
the Yawata Mam class, the largest type
of Japanese liner on the seas.
Now that Vice-Admiral Hart has taken
over his Pacific command, U.S. sub-
marines have begun to operate right up
to Tokyo Bay, off Yokohama itself,
where they have sunk three vessels.
To Jan. 18 27 Jap ships had been sunk
by the U.S. Navy.
The Japanese made a hurried propa-
ganda counter. They declared that they
had sunk 37,000 tons of Allied shipping
in the Indies and two submarines further
afield. This was symptomatic of a general
uneasiness evident in enemy communica-
tions about the shipping position.
With no ships more than one-fifth the
size of Britain’s biggest and a maximum
deep-sea tonnage of 6,000,000 tons, the
Japs will need all the bottoms they can
get in a widespread Pacific war. Even
the new Tripartite Pact, which was signed
in Berlin at the week-end and the terms
of which are secret, cannot solve the
problem which the enemy will have to
face if his sea-transport losses mount.
China’s Part
Since the reports about the Changsha
victories, there has been little fighting
on the China front.
Chiang Kai-shek’s press bureau has
been more vocal about the alleged
failures and deficiencies of Britain and
the United States. No reference is made
to Russia in this connection, though
Russia’s problems in Asia are one with
those of China, if the Soviet is indeed
an enemy of Japan.
Sollum and Halfaya Fall.
“Ek Dum”: Cairo announced on
January 13 that Solium, the second-last
coastal stronghold of the Axis in Egypt,
had been taken by a Transvaal Scottish
regiment, which brought back about 350
prisoners, of whom half were Germans.
Along the Egyptian border only the Flal-
faya Pass positions—the strongest except
Keren the British have faced in Africa —
then remained.
The Halfaya position was very deeply
placed in a cliff-sided gully which had
been honeycombed from mouth to the
top of the escarpment and well guarded
by minefields. It was held by two bri-
gades of Italians and some Germans.
A merciless artillery bombardment be-
ginning on Friday, Jan. 16, went on till
Saturday morning. Early on Saturday a
German and two Italian officers under a
white flag came out to ask terms. General
de Villiers, commanding the South Afri-
cans and the Free French, who were
preparing to assault the place, insisted
on unconditional surrender, and the gar-
rison, 5500 thirsty men of the 55th Savona
Division, with their commanders, Gen-
erals de Giorgis and Buttafuoco, and a
senior German officer, gave in. Large
quantities of arms and munitions were
handed over. Seventy-two Allied pris-
oners were rescued.
The garrison had held out bravely for
two months, but in the last three days
it had been cut off by the R.A.F. and the
R.N. from all supplies and was without
water even for the wounded. The bom-
bardment finished it.
Some of the prisoners were so weak
they had to be carried. Axis prisoners
taken since Nov. 18 in Libya now number
31,000.
El Agheila becomes the only front line.
Cyrenaica was completely cleaned up to
a depth of 300 miles in 60 days.
Rommel has now set down a new front
in prepared positions along a defendable
wadi. His line stretches about 70 miles
from El Agheila to Marade. The Axis
forces are not the large-scale fighting
machine that they were when the cam-
paign began, but they are still to be
reckoned with. Their frontal protection
units give a good account against the
savagely hurled mobile attacks which
General Ritchie is throwing at them in
the course of his harrying and testing
operations. And there is plenty of evi-
dence that they have received increased
reinforcements both in tanks and aero-
planes.
At the week-end heavy sandstorms
were interfering with operations.
The enemy is now much nearer his
bases and has access through small vessels
to shorter routes across the Mediter-
ranean, while British communication lines
are every day lengthening and naval co-
operation is becoming more difficult. He
also has a passable water supply.
Air pressure on Malta increases steadily
—the island had 38 alerts in 72 hours,
Jan. 15-17 —and the Axis may be out
to make a bold bid for the control of the
waistline of the Mediterranean while
Rommel plays for time.
Berlin Radio has been devoting a lot
of attention to the alleged semi-
destruction of the British fleet, which, it
says, has made it impossible for the R.N.
to co-operate with British land forces.
The Admiralty has not heard the news
of most of its “losses,” which include a
battleship or two. It used ships against
the Halfaya positions in the past few
days.
The Admiralty reported the loss of
the corvette Salvia, against sinkings of
enemy vessels which included a large
transport and a medium supply ship in
the lonian Sea and the Italian mine-
sweeper Santa Pestro. The Italian Sirio
(5222 tons) had to be towed into harbor
after a gun battle, and another supply
ship was left on fire and down by the
stern. All this damage was the work
of British submarines.
Two Views of Russia.
“Ek Dum”: On January 15, Colonel
Knox, the U.S. Navy Secretary, said to a
press conference:
I do not think there is a German rout
in Russia, but merely a withdrawal. Hasty
perhaps; but that does not mean that the
Germans are licked. They still have the
greatest military machine in the world.
The Russians have put a crimp into it,
but we must not think it is falling apart.
In contrast to this, Losovsky, the
Soviet spokesman, said the day before:
Both the front and rear of the German
armies are beginning to fall to pieces.
German soldiers are now only concerned
with getting out of Russia alive and as soon
as possible. The position of the Germans
in the Mojaisk sector is unenviable. Their
position on the Crimean front is unenviable.
The German people have been brought
face to face with poverty on the home
front and terrible losses on the Eastern
• front. The foundations of Hitler’s regime
have begun to disintegrate.
He announced that between November
16 and January 6 the Russians had
taken 33,000 square miles of country —
this page estimated the advance to cover
from 20,000 to 25,000 square miles to
December 28 (B. 31/12/’4l). They had
destroyed (said Losovsky)) 2901 tanks,
159 armored cars, 4578 guns, 2327 trench
mortars, 6080 machine-guns, 32,763 rifles,
1136 ’planes, 30,453 motor vehicles,
11,295 motor-cycles; and during the
period more than 200,000 Germans were
killed. But once more there was no esti-
mate of prisoners.
The chairman of the Leningrad Food
Committee declared that the worst in
Leningrad was over.
The Red Army will soon smash the
enemy ring round our city.
If it does, it will have done a thing which
will have reverberations throughout
Europe —the one thing which Hitler has
announced definitely will not happen.
He has said that he will never loosen
his grip on Leningrad. May he have to
eat his words as well as bits of carpet!
Colonel Knox is again in conflict with
Losovsky on the question of conditions
in Germany. He said he “suspected
that stories of internal unrest in Ger-
many were spurious and were deliber-
ately spread to hoodwink the U.S.”
The “Times” supports the Colonel. So
would anybody else who listens to the
wails about misery and unrest poured
out daily via the German Radio, mostly
quotations from newspapers. They all
smell of Goebbels and have a curious
uniformity of phrasing.
Recent German summaries of the
Russian campaign have been brief. They
admit heavy fighting on the eastern front
from Lake Ilmen to the Donetz and some
fighting in the Crimea; but they say
nothing of wholesale retreats. They
usually refer to the operations as attack
and counter-attack, and nearly always say
that the Russians are repulsed. They
make little mention of territorial changes.
The position at the week-end was as
follows:
Fighting in the Karelian Peninsula
in 72 degrees of frost! —had resulted, ac-
cording to the Germans and Finns, in
the Russians being driven from several
attacked positions. But the official Rus-
sian newsagency says that Kandalaksha is
“a gigantic Finnish graveyard” and that
German-Finnish plans in the north have
collapsed.
In the Leningrad area the Russians
claimed to have “cleared almost the
whole eastern bank of the Volkhov
River,” and in one place to have broken
through to the western bank and taken
a village. Thus, south of Lake Ladoga
the Russian line is not nearer to Lenin-
grad save for raiding infiltrations than
65 miles. The Germans hold the Schlus-
selburg fortress on the s.-w. tip of Ladoga
and apparently the southern shores of
that lake to the Volkhov mouth, 72 miles
from the capital. For the rest, save on
the Gulf of Finland, Leningrad is still
deeply buried in mile upon mile of
German and Finn.
On the central front Hitler’s advanced
point still is Mojaisk, 65 miles from Mos-
cow, a highly defendable position, where
the Moscow road and rail first touch the
Moscow River valley in approaching the
capital.
Thence, westward, the main road —
which for generations the Russians have
affectionately termed the “Big Fellow”--
climbs over hilly and sometimes tim-
bered country from 600 to 1600-odd feet
above sea level and supplying plentiful
defence positions. Both road and rail
emerge to the edges of the Dvina and
Dnieper Valley plain at Smolensk, 160
miles away.
North of this main artery the Rus-
sians pushed down to the vicinity of
Rshev in what seemed a headlong drive,
destroying (they said) many divisions on
their way from Kalinin. But after pass-
ing n.-w. of Rshev to the upper Volga,
60 miles beyond Staritza, they had not
taken it. Their northern pincer arm
above the Smolensk road is said now to
be trying to bypass Rshev down the
railway to Viazma, on the route along
which the German pincer closed in
November. Without taking Rshev, this
will be something of a job—loo miles to
go with an exposed flank, and a parallel
n.-s. rail and road system in German
hands. What part of the Rshev-Moscow-
Mojaisk triangle is held by the Russians
and Germans respectively is not clear.
South of the Mojaisk-Smolensk road,
the movement forward is consistent with
the Russian claims to have smashed large
German armies in the Kaluga region.
Some other facts are not. The Russian
spearhead, about 50 miles wide, towards
its point has bored into enemy-held terri-
tory about 110 miles in 14 days; has
pushed to Kirov, n.-w. of Bryansk, and
beyond, and is said by the Russians to be
forcing its way to Yelnia, the starting
point of the German advance in October-
November and only 50 miles or so from
Smolensk.
So that all along a southern flank well
over 120 miles long Hitler’s communica-
tion line is menaced from distances not
more than 30 to 60 miles away. But he
still makes no attempt to withdraw his
spearhead or shorten his communications
along the 160 miles of road line across
the hills between Smolensk and Mojaisk.
At the time of writing, it looks as if
iti is his policy to take big risks to keep
the whole of the main road to Mojaisk
open through the winter, so that he will
have a starting point only 65 miles from
the capital to begin his new offensive in
spring.
Further south the Russians declare that
they are approaching Kursk and fighting
for Orel, which they were supposed to
have bypassed a month ago.
These places are both east of the
line held by the Germans in mid-
November. On January 16 it was claimed
that the outer ring of Kharkov defences
had been broken into. Good, but the
moral effect is greater than the material
effect. On October 28 the Red Army left
it stripped of machinery and plant, “a
mere shell.”
Events in the Rostov area deserve
attention. Rostov was the venue of the
first Russian advance on Nov. 25.
The Germans first alleged that they
had retired outside the city to inflict
punishment upon it for the illegal ex-
cesses of the inhabitants against German
troops. The claim of the Russians was
that Marshal Timoshenko’s 9th and 56th
armies had driven the enemy out by
smashing blows —“the greatest victory of
the war,” Moscow said. On December
6 the Sydney “Morning Herald” reported:
The Germans are in full retreat along
the Sea of Azov coast towards Mariupol,
110 miles from Rostov, scene of the rout
of General von Kleist’s army. The Russian
9th Army, pursuing them, has recaptured
the town of Taganrog. While mopping up
continues in Taganrog Russian advanced
forces have pushed on towards Mariupol,
and, it is reported, have reached the
Kalmius, where the Germans are trying to
make a stand.
The London “D.T.” said next day that
there was a “full scale massacre of Ger-
mans in progress west of Taganrog and
the roads are jammed with enemy lor-
ries and fleeing troops,” The next day
again 300 villages were officially reported
by Moscow to have been taken and the
advances by three Russian armies from
Rostov line were put down at 48, 60 and
70 miles —the furthest penetration would
be 40 miles beyond Taganrog. The Kal-
mius was then “crossed easily” and
the Germans were evacuating Mariupol.
On January 15 it came out that Rus-
sian troops were landing near Taganrog
and that Taganrog was “15 miles behind
the German front lines.” Next day
Moscow reported Marshal Timoshenko’s
armies as “hammering at the gates of
Taganrog” and “Pravda” reported:
The people of Taganrog can hear the
bursting of Russian shells.
On January 15 the position in the
Crimea seemed to share in the sudden
check which was obvious all along the
Russian front. Moscow warned that day
that “the absence of spectacular successes
for the last few days must not be inter-
preted as a sign of slackening.” “Izvestia”
declared that deep snow was impeding the
advance.
Early in the week there was said to be
fierce fighting near the capital, Simferol.
Fresh landings were reported on the s.-e.
coast and it was announced that a land-
ing on the west coast at Bojkosak
threatened to cut off the entire force in
the Crimea by blocking the Perekop
Isthmus. Perekop road was said to be
under bombardment and railway com-
munication with Simferol threatened.
Troops had been brought out of besieged
Sevastopol, which nevertheless did not
seem to have been completely relieved, to
“take part in general landings.” Rus-
sian warships also were said to have
made landings on the Gulf of Inkerman,
the long indented strip of water on the
southern side of which Sevastopol lies,
and secured a position near the main
anchorage.
But 48 hours after news of the threat
to Perekop was broadcast Moscow com-
muniques did not mention the Crimea.
“Fong Tsz”: The Japanese Govern-
ment says it is willing to exchange infor-
mation about war prisoners through the
International Red Cross in accordance
with ordinary usage, but Tokyo Radio is
using war-prisoner information as a bait
for listeners. It announced that the
quickest way for relatives to receive news
about captives was to listen to Tokyo
Radio. The information so far given
consists of the statement that 421 pris-$
oners from Wake, including a few Maori-
landers and a couple of Australians, are
all well but that no news can be given
about the crews of the U.S. aircraft-
carriers Lexington (alleged to have been
torpedoed off Hawaii on Jan. 12 by a
Japanese submarine) and Encounter, be-
cause the crews are at the bottom with
their ships and are the concern of the
U.S. Government.
* * * *
U-boats are now operating close to the
U.S. coast. Two 7000-ton tankers have
been sunk off Long Island within three
days. The last sinking was only 75 miles
from the American coast.
« * * *
“Pravda” reports that H.M. submarine
Trident sank three enemy ships while
operating with her sister Tigris and a
Russian submarine.
« * * *
Berlin announces the death “from a
stroke” of Field-Marshal Walther von
Reichenau (57), who commanded the 6th
Army Group in France and led the
assault on Kiev. He was a general staff
officer in the last war.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
If Archibald of The Bulletin ever
held a grudge against the National Gal-
lery the trustees of that domicile of art
expiated it during last week’s sultry
weather. Once again had come the judg-
ing of the Archibald Prize portrait
entries, and there were 133 of them.
Maybe, leaning over the bar of heaven in
company with Velasquez, Gainsborough
and Michelangelo, “Archie” flung a
good-natured jeer down at their labors.
But at length the trustees completed their
task, which resulted in Melbournite Wil-
liam Dargie, war artist in the Middle
East, getting the cheque. His entry was
a portrait of knight James Elder.
This hangs in a very good place on
the sideline in the court to the right
as you enter the Gallery. At the top
there’s a dominating picture of Charles
Lloyd Jones, in a suit as blue as his
Welsh eyes. Blue seems the popular color
note this year. Mrs. Huff Johnston’s
pretty arms gleam through full white
marquisette sleeves. Fred Leist is the
artist. Nobody would mind having a
whole gallery of ancestors who looked
like the people this artist paints. Ballet
teacher Mischa Burlakov looks out from
a white Russian blouse, bright with red
embroideries. Young artist Sylvia Davis
is there, painted by Hanke, her golden
hair and brown smock a nice harmony.
Everybody appreciated Dobell’s study
of Elaine Haxton. It has a sort of
butterfly-into-lady touch. Most striking
face among the women is poet Marie
E. J. Pitt’s. Joseph Wolinski was among
the crowds at the Gallery last Saturday
and heard some flattering remarks about
his portrait of a handyman.
Phillipa Street became the wife of inter-
national cricketer Jack Fingleton last
Saturday afternoon. The wedding drew
quite a little crowd to the Mary Immacu-
late Church, Waverley, and a group of
boys from St. Charles’s preparatory school
added choral support, A frock of ivory
lace and a veil of georgette were worn by
the bride, who is the daughter of the
Justice Street couple. Her grandfather,
Philip Street, was Chief Justice of this
State for years. Gwen Thompson was
the one bridesmaid. Reception was at
the Street Darling Point home.
Current show at the Independent
Theatre is Gwen Meredith’s “Shout at
the Thunder.” This new play by the
Independent’s secretary has both comedy
and dramatic situations and was approved
by first-nighters at the North Sydney
drama stronghold last Saturday. Gwen
has written several plays. “Shout at the
Thunder” deals with small-holding life
in the wayback, and ends like all good
outback stories should do with the
breaking of the drought. -Clive Coppard
plays the part of Tom O’Brien, who owns
the farm. Jessica Noad is the daughter.
The part of the slatternly maid is dealt
with by the author.
The convent of the Sacred Heart, Rose
Bay, has arranged a lease of The Rift, a
well-known guest-house at Bowral. This
will become the home of the convent’s
junior school. The older girls will con-
tinue at Rose Bay for the present. But
should the whole school have to be
evacuated, The Rift and near-by houses,
now under option, will be able to house
all the pupils.
In the 47 years since it was first
awarded, until this year, the Wynne
Prize has gone to a man. Lorna Nimmo,
who lives up the Blue Mountains, wins
it for 1942 with her “Valley Farms.”
Lorna is young, dark, and has a sparkle
to her. Last year she won the Art Gal-
lery’s travelling scholarship. As Hitler
and co. made travel in foreign parts im-
possible, Lorna did her travelling round
about Australia. Hanke’s “Queen’s
Square” and Erik Langker’s “Departing
Rain” were other exhibits admired.
When christened in St. Stephen’s, in
Macquarie-street, Margaret Ann Monroe
behaved in a manner that was a model
to all other babies. Margaret Ann is
the daughter of the good-looking Pay-
master-Lieut. Maxwell Monroe couple.
Grandparents, the Ernest Salengers, enter-
tained a family group later at their
Killara home.
Actresses, A.R.P. wardens, firemen,
sand, stirrup-pumps, actors, V.As. had a
grand time on the stage of the Minerva
on Monday and yesterday afternoon. The
production was a play written by Alec
Coppel on how to handle incendiary
bombs; and generally on “Correct
Behavior for All Occasions during Air
Raids.” The show was free and was in
the nature of a visual as well as oral
lesson on A.R.P. It isn’t all grim realism ;
there are plenty of laughs, and the whole
is made the most of by Yvonne Banvard,
Wayne Froman, Aileen Britton, Charles
Zoli, Edwin Styles and Dick Bentley.
The dose will be repeated this afternoon
and tomorrow afternoon at the Minerva.
Customers of the National Bank of
Australasia, George-street North, remem-
ber obliging ledger-keeper Mervyn Ellis.
Some time ago Mervyn left off drilling
rows of figures, joined the army and is
now Corporal Ellis, He has just per-
suaded Margery Maunsell, of Coogee, to
accept an engagement ring. Mervyn’s
home suburb is Ashfield.
When the history of this war is written
the part played by women will take quite
a few chapters. One of the sex shoulder-
ing responsibility with the coolness of
direction hitherto credited to man alone
is Eleanor Manning. She is now Major
Manning, Assistant-Controller of the
Australian Women’s Army Service,
Eastern Command. Parents are the
knight Henry Manning couple, of Sydney.
Norton Trevaire photograph,
C.U.S.A. is running a circulating
library in conjunction with the R.A.A.F.
Central Comforts Fund. And some of
the best news Darwin could have was
the large crate of books packed and
ready to ship off north. Already one
consignment of books under this scheme
has reached the Darwin soldier camps.
When a camp is done with a lot of books
they are sent off to another. When they
have finished the circuit they come back
home to 7 Young-street. Here is one
soldier library where women’s magazines
and novels of feminine appeal are eagerly
sought, for it caters for the W.A.A.F.S.
as well as their brethren in uniform.
All books are repaired and cleaned
before they are put into circulation.
Some of them emphatically need the
cleaning. Last week Mrs. L. Robinson,
president Mrs. Geoffrey Forrest Hughes
and other helpers were busy sandpaper-
ing the edges of the leaves and then put-
ting the neat blue covers on. Over a
thousand books are now in circulation
from these rooms alone, and the venture
did not start till a week or so before
Christmas, Books and magazines will
always find warm welcome.
The younger committee working in
the interests of the 2/15th Field
Regiment has re-elected Mrs. C. Filmer
president, Valerie Boyle secretary and
June Cohen treasurer. The committee is
planning a picture night for “Skylark”
on Wednesday, 28th. Details can be had
from Valerie Boyle.
The Mark Sheldons are wearing the
smile of relief. Last week daughter Mrs.
Marcus Rex and son-in-law the Hon.
Marcus, arrived in Sydney from Perak in
Malaya. With them are their own daughter
and the young daughter of some friends.
The clubrooms of the Friends of
France have a new and imposing photo-
graph on their walls. It is one of
the club’s founder, Mrs. Ivy Moore,
handing the flag of Free France to the
Ist Battalion of the Ist Pacific Regiment
of the F.F. The presentation was made
in front of the Cenotaph last Empire
Day. The photograph has been signed
by General de Gaulle, and also bears a
message from him. Mrs. Moore appeals
for books and magazines in either French
or English for the three army camps
ministered to by Father Brocard, now
stationed in New Caledonia as an army
chaplain.
Radio listeners have no need to be told
who singing girl Jean Cerchi is. Jean is
to be married on Saturday afternoon,
January 31, at St. Jude’s, Randwick, and
her bridegroom is Walter James Norman,
who plays the trumpet and the trombone
at the Trocadero. After she becomes Mrs.
Norman Jean will keep on singing with
the A.B.C. dance band. The reception
will be at the Trocadero, with Jim Gussey
the master of ceremonies. All the band
will be wedding guests, and trumpet-
player Lynn Miller is to be the best man.
Jack Carpenter, also known to radio audi-
ences, will add a song. Bride will be
attended by sister Mrs. F. Bennett and
niece Nita Watson.
To evacuate or not to evacuate has
become the topic of conversation. The
authorities have the matter of the chil-
dren well in hand, and if necessity for a
general exodus occurs plans will prob-
ably function with the satin smoothness
that marked the evacuation of the hos-
pitals. Practicallv overnight all the great
hospitals of Sydney had their serious
patients whisked into strong buildings,
turned into temporary hospitals, out of
town, while the not-so-seriously ill were
transported to their homes. Mothers who,
with their young, moved swiftly from
town in the first fine careless frenzy have
not in many cases found country-town
life altogether to their liking. One
woman friend with her brood of three re-
turned from the Far West after three
weeks. The heat, a slight sickness and the
feeling that she was out of things drove
her back to her own comfortable home.
A cottage up the mountains seems the
solution of every family’s evacuation
problem. But are there enough cottages
to go around?
New arrivals are the Brazilian Gov-
ernment’s Consul-General to Australia,
Mario Santos, and his attractive wife.
They come from San Francisco and bring
with them two small sons. Mrs. Santos’s
father was an Englishman who made
his home in South America. Her tongue
is equally at home in English, French,
Spanish and Portuguese. They are
making their home at Edgecliff.
From Melbourne
After starting off somewhat in-
auspiciously the Summer Girl Quest has
been given a splendid push by the patriotic
example of many hardworking girls who
have entered the lists for the fun of the
thing and the Red Cross and Comforts
Funds. Little do they care whether the
judges in the finals say that their noses
aren’t on straight and their figures not d la
Venus. They will not even mind if their
personality is not declared plus. What
they want is money for the funds, and
their many backers will see that they get
it. Among the entrants who take this
view are a master of science who is doing
a heavy laboratory job, a senior clerk in
a broadcasting office, a senior sales-
woman in a big store, several mannequins
and a woman journalist. These all have
intelligence, which, with, in most cases,
more than average good looks, should
carry them far into the finals.
Like so many of her gallant girl con-
temporaries, Betty, the Carl Jesses’ pretty
daughter, “comes out” into a world too
absorbed for the pleasantries of life. But
that makes no difference to a soldier’s
family, and the Jesses are carrying on
imperturbably. Betty, who was at Mel-
bourne Grammar, on Anderson-street
hill, has packed away schoolbooks and
set herself to learn typing and shorthand,
besides dabbling in Free Kindergarten
work. A holiday at Frankston has been
a happy break just now, and she’s ready
for 1942 and all. The picture of her is
a Broothorn one, and shows her wearing
the quaint embroidered jacket sent to her
from the Middle East by brother Lieut.
C. M. Jess.
When Mrs. Lort Smith said that she
would collect aluminium on her home
front at Malvern and Toorak, admirers of
her work for sick and deserted animals
reached for the nearest pot and pan
without a handle or with a hole in it.
The City of Malvern has “found” her in
horse and cart, and girls who know how
to ask “Any old,pots today?” have
offered to do a day each on the cart this
week. Mrs. Lort Smith, with the Lyle
lady, has, through the Animal Welfare
Hospital, made it possible for most of
Melbourne’s poor to have their pets cared
for free of cost, or for what little they
like to give to the hospital’s funds. The
hospital, at North Melbourne, is a model
one, and the whole staff, from veterinary
surgeons down to girls who collect the
animals in their small ambulance, are 100
per cent, efficient. Now Dr. Heslop, of
the hospital, and a few other vets, have
evolved a plan for the care and possible
removal to safety of pets in an emergency.
The Salvation Army has done a good
job by appointing Captain Myrtle
Watson to work with the First Training
Depot W.A.A.Fs. at Geelong Grammar
School, Corio. There are several hun-
dred girls there, enjoying the beach and
the fine old school in the brief intervals
they are given from study, drill and sport.
While no one has breathed the name
chaplain in connection with Captain
Watson’s appointment, she seems to do
much that a chaplain does with the
Forces, and so is a pioneer. But as today
strength of body and mind march
together, she will organise sport and take
a general interest in the lives and wor-
ries and work of the girls at the depot.
Her success in work for the army sug-
gests that she is the right woman in the
right place.
A much-relieved woman is Mrs. W. E.
Agar, who has just received into the
family home in the University grounds
Mrs. T. S. Taylor, one of her two
daughters. With one daughter in Eng-
land doing war work in a coastal area,
and a son till recently at Tobruk as
medical officer, and Mrs. Taylor with her
husband, Major Taylor, in Kuala
Lumpur, Professor and Mrs. Agar have
watched news of all battle fronts with
eagle eyes. Mrs. Taylor, who arrived
home after two years in Malaya on a
visit to her parents, loved the life in
Asia, and has described Kuala Lumpur
in glowing terms. Being active-minded
as the rest of her family (she worked in
her husband’s office in Kuala Lumpur)
Mrs. Taylor will be able to join her
mother in her activities, which include
Friends ’ of China and University
Women’s relief work for Bombed
Children of Britain,
Four days’ leave was all that Kathleen
McVilly and David Dickins had for
their wedding and honeymoon last week.
Kathleen, who is twin daughter of the
widely known chairman of the Charities
Board, Mr. C. L. McVilly, and Mrs.
McVilly, of Brighton, has been practising
massage at the Children’s Hospital, and
is in the thick of plans for the possible
evacuation of children. David, who is in
camp, is son of the F. H. Dickinses, of
Moonga-road, Toorak. The bride’s twin,
who is as like her as doesn’t matter,
follows her up the aisle as matron of
honor, having preceded the bride into
matrimony, and being now Mrs. David
Palfreyman. In spite of lightning speed
for wedding preparations, a lovely gown
of magnolia satin for the bride and one
in bouffant style for her attendant have
been achieved.
Clyde Old Girls are keeping the tele-
phone exchanges working telling each
other about the latest engagement in
their ranks. Margaret Tucker, who is
Dr. Cecil Tucker’s second girl, has just
announced the matrimonial intentions of
herself and Lieut. Noel S. Thomas, who
is away with the A.I.F. Margaret has
already made herself known to a wider
public through some sound acting with
the Little Theatre. Her father, Dr.
Tucker, in his spare time, has written
plays which have been produced here
with other local playwrights’ efforts.
Margaret has a job in the city, and has
made a study of physical education at
Melbourne University.
A jolly family atmosphere character-
ised the wedding festivities of Lindsay
Stott and Shirley, elder daughter of Mrs.
Clarence Weber, M.L.A. Shirley’s step-
brother, Peter Mitchell, son of Mrs.
Weber by her first marriage with Lieut.
Mitchell, killed at Bullecourt in the 1914-
1& war, was best man, and sister Michel,
a Firbank prefect, was first bridesmaid.
Lots of jokes were told against the bridal
couple’s having been at Firbank Church
of England Girls’ Grammar School
together, Lindsay having graced that
smart home of learning in his kinder-
garten days. However, he is now living
that down by serving his country in mili-
tary camp, and Shirley, who will stay
near his camp for a while, may resume
her war work at aircraft production
sometime in the future.


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAIILES!
(Conducted by “PILOT”)
A career of hurdling was planned for
Reception when he was purchased for
500gns. in Sydney last spring, but a
change of plans has brought two wins,
a second and £485 in stakes from eight
races on the flat in Melbourne. The six-
year-old Marconigram gelding won the
best race of his career when he fought
off Chatasan and Jack Again in a close
finish for the Tooronga Handicap at
Flemington on Saturday, and his connec-
tions hope that he will not be out of
place in the rich autumn sprints. He is
engaged in the Oakleigh Plate, and is to
be entered for the Newmarket.
Reception may have won the Tooronga
Handicap in any circumstances, but
his job was made easier when High Title,
7-to-4 favorite, lost his chance at the
start. High Title appeared to be standing
half-side on when the tapes lifted. Gold
Salute, backed from twelves down to
sevens, also lost sufficient ground at the
start to settle his prospects. He finished
seventh after moving into that position
about a furlong from home. The race,
however, should do a lot for Gold Salute,
whose owner-trainer, Alan Cooper, bred
and owns Busybody, winner of the Holi-
day Stakes. Busybody, a filly by Talk-
ing, is raced on lease by her trainer,
V. Watson.
Chatham, one-time champion miler,
has sired a promising stayer in Portfolio,
winner of the Anniversary Handicap
from Togo and Prairiedale. Heart’s
Desire and Gusher were only inches
behind the place-getters in one of the
best finishes seen in Melbourne in
months. Honors were with Portfolio.
He made the pace, looked beaten when
he veered out at the turn and permitted
the favorite, Togo, to shoot through to
the lead, but battled on gamely under
punishment, and worried Togo out of it.
Portfolio, a three-year-old colt, had won
only once previously, but more will be
heard of him. Portfolio’s dam, Nuit, a
daughter of the M.L. St. Leger winner
Afterglow, was bought for 80gns. at
H. A. Taylor’s dispersal sale in 1937.
Country-trained Royal Jubilee, winner
of the Rowena Welter, has started five
times in the corresponding race for two
first and a second. Considering that he
is in his ninth year, has been used at the
stud, and has travelled thousands of miles
to various meetings in Victoria, Royal
Jubilee retains his form remarkably well.
The harder the track the better he likes
it, and weight has never worried him.
Starting at 10 to 1 on Saturday, he over-
came the disadvantage of an outside
barrier position in a large field, hit the
front entering the straight and stalled off
a challenge from Alibi to win by half a
head. Astounding made up considerable
ground to finish a close third, and may
have won in a few more strides.
. . . . • •
Golden Aura survived a protest entered
on behalf of Curia after she had recorded
a remarkable performance to beat the
latter by a head in the second division
of the Koakaribb Trial. She and Curia
collided at the start, but Golden Aura
suffered most and was last at the end of
a furlong. Backers who sent her out
favorite would have sold out cheap,
but, favored by a clear run and helped
further when Stimulant ran wide at the
turn and took other runners with him,
she was one of the leaders when the field
straightened up. The protest against her
was for alleged interference in the
straight, but bookmakers bet 5 to 1
against the judge’s placings being altered.
They were good judges.
Backed from as much as 20 to 1
down to sixes, country-owned and
-trained Coline, who, like Golden Aura,
hails from Ballarat, ran out a very easy
winner from Portsea and Tunic in the
third division of the Koakaribb Trial.
Age is no bar to this half-sister, by
Devizes, to the Caulfield Guineas winner
Tea Cake. She is in her tenth year, but
it is doubtful whether she was ever better
than at present.
* * * *
Rosehill brought off its meeting at
Moorefield on Saturday, and though
there was a programme of ten races
only three were of much account. Four
divisions for the Maiden gave racegoers
a surfeit of indifferent horses, and to
meet the position it seems as if it will
be necessary for clubs to resort to longer
distances in this class of race.
Session, 6-to-4 favorite for the Flying
Handicap, did not get near the front
at any part, and Insignia, who continues
improving, taking charge before reaching
the half-mile, was not after headed,
though it was by only a head he defeated
John Halifax, with Diadem a close third.
Mary Lou, who has not lost her
two-year-old pace, was not far away,
but some of the other starters ran in
keeping with the way they travelled in
the betting market.
• . • i i i
Plimsol failed as a stayer in the Rose-
hill Handicap. Disposing of Climax
approaching the turn he looked a sure
winner at the top of the straight, where
he appeared to be going easily, but the
consistent Beau Frere finished gamely to
beat him in the last few strides. Climax
tired in the straight, and the distance was
beyond Beaucaire, who did well for nearly
nine furlongs. Haran was fifth, but never
looked a place-getter.
King’s Cross, Gold Head (by Bullhead),
Silvermere (by El Cacique) and Pannett
(by Pantheon), the last-mentioned three
being three-year-olds, each won a division
of the Maiden Handicap in similar
fashion, leading over the last furlong.
For an odds-on favorite Stainless cut
up badly in King’s Cross’s division, and
while other hot favorites in Ceres and
Fox Track were second in their divisions
they were comfortably beaten, though at
the turn the last-named appeared to be
going quite easily behind Silvermere. In
point of merit Gold Head’s win may have
been slightly better than that of the other
division winners. Beaten runners most
likely to improve are Royal Laddie and
Kookaburra.
The betting on the first division of the
Nursery Handicap suggested the race
was going to be little more than a match
between Kiaree and Miss Hua. The
latter did show some form by leading
into the straight with Bluebell, but Kiaree
was never a winning possibility. The
winner turned up in the Harinero filly
Era, who finished too strongly for her
opponents. She ran indifferently at her
previous appearance when favorite, and
in consequence her success was not well
received. Her dam, Real Mirth, is by
Top Gallant from Golden Jest, and she
therefore comes from the same maternal
line as Gold Spark. Era cost 130gns. as
a yearling.
Belle Desiree shot to the front at
barrier-rise in the second division of the
Nursery, and did not after give anything
else a chance. Peachbloom Beauty was
the only other runner that got within
reasonable distance of her. An unplaced
runner in Mannawonga (by Manitoba)
may improve.
Broadcaster, favorite for the Carling-
ford Mile, ran third, but had no chance
against Rhythmic and Patrician from the
top of the straight. Rhythmic, after
leading from barrier-rise, was joined by
Patrician two furlongs from home, and
though inside the last furlong the latter
momentarily looked a winner McMena-
min got a little extra out of Rhythmic in
the last few strides, and scored by a
half-head. McMenamin’s association with
B. H. Crowley has been a lucky one.
He has had eight mounts for that owner,
the result being four wins on Hilarious,
two on Arahura and a win and a third
on Rhythmic. Moodier was a good
fourth, while Rathlin, though third after
going nearly five furlongs, then collapsed
so completely that he finished second-
last. * * .
* * • •
Apart from the fact that Session dis-
counted her chance, nothing happened
at Moorefield that had much bearing on
the possible result of the Challenge
Stakes. Most of the horses fancied for
that race are doing well in their work.
High Caste’s sprints have been up to his
best previous standard, but, while he is
well up to his 10.1, an extra furlong at
least would probably suit him better.
Luck, or otherwise, in the draw for
positions has also to be taken into con-
sideration. Yaralla is pleasing his trainer,
but, brilliant as is the chestnut, 9.2 is
a steadier. He will be meeting Freckles
141 b. worse than weight for age.
Trimmer’s inclusion in the field should
not disadvantage Freckles. He may lead
the latter in the early part, but, though
Freckles has not shone at a mile in the
best company, we saw him put up a
great race with 8.4 against High Caste
(9.3) at seven furlongs at Randwick last
August, and he finished well that day.
Therefore it may not tell against him
if he has to drop in behind Trimmer in
the early part of the Challenge.
Soho and Sir Andrea each won in
impressive fashion at his last start, but
they are going to find it difficult to pace
it with such fast beginners as Trimmer
and Freckles. Surprises are always pos-
sible, but at this stage it does not appear
much use in looking outside Freckles,
Trimmer, Soho, High Caste, Sir Andrea
and Yaralla for the three place-getters.
* * * *
The last three Adrian Knox Stakes
have been won by favorites in Session
(8 to 1 on), Early Bird (5 to 4 on) and
Climax (even money). Betting is not
likely to take a wide range this time.
It will be difficult for backers to go
beyond Triad, Arahura and Whisper
Low. If certainty attached to Triad being
at her best she would be entitled to
preference, but, though she won a six
furlongs race with 9.1 in Brisbane in
November, she ran indifferently at Rand-
wick recently; and though she showed
better form at Moorefield on Saturday,
further improvement will be necessary
to enable her to beat Arahura.
At her last two starts at Randwick
Arahura won at a mile and at seven
furlongs in good time, and, though she
•does not equal either Triad or Whisper
Low in appearance, being rather light
behind, she can go fast and stick.
Whisper Low’s last two runs were dis-
appointing, but as they were below her
track form it might be unwise to rule
her right out. Marcoperi and Steal On
are outsiders that might have remote
chances, but the fact of so many others
being left in after first forfeit suggests
their owners either forgot them or are
pronounced optimists. Recent form
points to Arahura.
Dewar and Munro make a strong
Anniversary Handicap combination. It
is scarcely necessary to touch upon
Munro’s vigor, and Dewar, in addition
to having shown possession of a great
finishing run, is up to 8.12. Still, I ques-
tion whether he gave Grand Fils a 61b.
beating at their last meeting, and the
latter will meet him that much better.
Furthermore, as Thompson will be on
Grand Fils he will have a stronger
jockey than in Tattersall’s Cup.
Chatoona, who is now Dewar’s stable-
companion, may be a runner, but figures
do not say as much for him as the latter,
who will be meeting him only a pound
worse than when they dead-heated in the
Holiday Handicap, and will be better
suited by the extra quarter-mile. Gun-
dagai, with 111 b. off his back, can be
relied on to improve considerably on his
showing in the Warwick Holiday Handi-
cap. When he and Chatoona dead-heated
for the 11 furlongs Rosehill Spring Han-
dicap last September each carried 7.11.
Now Gundagai gets 21b. from Chatoona.
Beau Frere is not engaged, but Aristo-
crat, who gave him 81b. and a decisive
beating at Moorefield at the commence-
ment of the month, has only 7.3, and was
never brighter. Haridelle and Jymjon are
good workers, and while January Handi-
cap running may tend to alteration of
ideas my present choice is Grand Fils,
while Aristocrat, though disappointing at
times at Randwick, may be a good place
bet.
Rhythmic’s win at Moorefield has
gained him a start in the Anniversary
Handicap, with E. Terrill as his rider.
His owner is not exactly optimistic, but
Rhythmic’s credentials are much better
than those of Jymjon prior to his success
in the Winter Plate last June. Less than
a week before that race Jymjon was un-
placed with 7.2 in a mile and a quarter
handicap at Kensington.
• ♦ * •
There is very little doing on the Anni-
versary double. The horses most fancied
on Monday were:
CHALLENGE STAKES.
Freckles.
Yaralla, Soho, Sir Andrea.
High Caste, Trimmer.
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP.
Dewar, Grand Fils.
Gundagai, Chatoona.
Rythmic, Aristocrat.
* * * *
It is understood that most members of
the A.J.C, committee are against lifting
the ban on geldings as competitors for
classic races, and that at present breeders
are not going on with the idea of asking
for their readmission. Classic races have
for one of their objects the improvement
of our thoroughbred stock, but there is
a great deal between the ideal and the
actual. The ban on geldings has greatly
increased the number of indifferent stal-
lions, while a glance down the list of
classic winners does not suggest that as
sires many have done a great deal
to uplift the standard of Australia’s
thoroughbreds. Some have, and there is
a possibility of a few of the latest win-
ners doing so, but, while it is a matter of
opinion, it seems to me it is better to
risk the possibility of a gelding occasion-
ally winning a Derby than the certainty
that the present system will continue to
swell the ranks of undesirable stallions.
Geldings were barred from the A.J.C.
Derby in 1913, reinstated in 1918, when
Gloaming won, as did Phar Lap, also a
gelding, in 1929, They were ruled out
again in 1932, but so few have won since
the race was first run in 1865 that there
seems no absolute necessity for their
exclusion. Opinions naturally differ, but
it appears to me as unnecessary to bar
them as to close A.J.C. Derby entries 16
months and those for the St. Leger about
22 months before those races are run.
It is argued that a change might lessen
the interest in the Derby. That is ques-
tionable, seeing it is not an ante-post
betting race, and little consideration is
given to the possible winner until after
the autum meeting, which takes place six
months before the Derby.
* * * *
Last year William Inglis and Son
catalogued 538 yearlings for their autumn
sales at Randwick, but this year some
breeders have accepted the suggestion
that a cut would be advisable, and only
302 youngsters are to be offered. P.
Miller and H. S. Thompson in particular
have reduced their drafts, and bidders
will be at the advantage of knowing that,
with very few exceptions, only the most
promising youngsters from the various
studs will be offered. Compared with
last season contributions of breeders send-
ing up five or more yearlings are as
follows:
1942. 1941.
P. Miller 54 .. 108
H. S. Thompson .. • • 28 .. 60
St. Aubin’s Stud .. • • 27 .. 2 /
A. W. Thompson and Co. .. 18 .. 23
E. A. Haley Pty 16 • • 24
A. J. Matthews .. • ■ 14 • • 19
Sledmere Estate .. • • 1} • •
Thompson and Basche .. 11 • • t 3
Hunter White .. • • • • 9 .. 14
Lyndhurst Stud • • • • 8 . • 16
Willow Glen Stud .. • • 8 .. 10
P. Reynolds .. .. • • ‘ •• |2
Harris Bros 7 .. 14
A. E. Cooper 6 .. 1 /
P. E. Brown .. .. • • 5
F. W. Hughes Pty 5 .. 5
W. J. Lloyd 5 6
C. H. J. Schmidt .. .. 5
F. V. Kelly 5 .. 9
For the Melbourne sales 170 yearlings
are catalogued, against 220 last year.
The latest star in the N.S.W. swim-
ming world is Ken Sever, a youngster
from Singleton, of recent years a nursery
of good swimmers. In Sydney Domain
baths last week he won the 440 yards
junior and 880 yards senior State cham-
pionships. In the 880 he beat the experi-
enced Noel Ryan by 33 yards, and his
time was good —10.54. He is only 15.
“Bumpkin”: Cricket Club
has received a unique application for
country membership. It was signed by
Captain J. Russell Savige, M.C., proposer,
D. C. Quartermain, and seconder, I. Fel-
stead, being two M.C.C. members. The
address was a prison camp in Germany.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
(Before acceptances .)
Niddrie Handicap: Blue Valley,
1 ; Regency, 2 ; Busybody, 3.
Tweedside* Handicap: Foxhow,
1 ; Danfino, 2 ; Portable, 3.
Warrook Steeplechase: Highland
March, 1 ; Southern Night, 2;
Campaspe, 3.
William Reid Stakes: Gold
Salute, 1; High Title, 2; Tea
Cake, 3.
Cranmallan Trial: Woodgate, 1;
Hectare, 2 ; Similar, 3.
Caldermeade Welter : Darraweit,
1; The Decoration, 2; Blue-
beard, 3.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
FIRST DAY—JAN. 24.
Novice Handicap: Dark Warbler,
1 ; Pall Mall, 2 ; Turmoil or Ron
Rico, 3.
Valicare Handicap: Belle Desiree,
1 ; Contender, 2 ; Era, 3.
Adrian Knox Stakes: Arahura,
1; Triad, 2 ; Whisper Low, 3.
Widden Handicap: Mon Pere, 1 ;
Takarangi, 2 ; Modulation, 3.
Challenge Stakes: Freckles, 1 ;
Trimmer, 2 ; High Caste or Soho, 3.
January Handicap: Nightbeam,
1; Angus, 2; Aristocrat, 3.
Paddington Handicap: Broad-
caster, 1 ; Haridelle, 2 ; Patrician or
The Squire, 3.
SECOND DAY—JAN. 26.
Anniversary Handicap: Grand
Fils, 1 ; Aristocrat, 2 ; Gundagai, 3.


For
immediate
Delivery
igw
■■
m
i i
;
Consider the
Unusual Features
i of the
“FREDLIINE”
Vertical Turret
Lathe
The “Fredline” Vertical
Turret Lathe is a
production lathe specially
suitable for non-ferrous
metals up to f" diameter
and steel up to I" dia-
meter. It can be used for
turning Nuts, Short Set
Screws, Special Parts re-
quiring Knurling, Counter
Boring and Recessing,
Special Washers up to f"
diameter, Clevis Pins, and
a thousand and one other
jobs in Brass, Bronze,
Aluminium, etc. Handles
Die Screwing and Tap-
ping work expeditiously.
Maximum speed, 2,250
r.p.m.
• The revolving turret has an eight-tool set up. • 6 speeds ahead —3 reverse.
• Speed, feed, and work-control levers operated at high speed without fatigue.
• The vertical feed saves space.
Ask us to send full details, specifications, etc.
Sole Selling Agents All States—
WILLIAM ADAMS & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
Manufactured by
HAPSON & DUTTON PTY LTD.
MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURERS
General, Marine, Motor and Diesel Engineers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
TKIiPHONE 52277 (3 LINES) TELECR AMSi“ RAND;"'BRISHANf
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; F. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ; E. E. D. White, Esq. ; H. 0. Morrow, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and -Northern Rivers, JS'ew South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
I
■' -
11 l-mri|||ii
■ ISS sr-'
ii
in
>r
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per nl|ht.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 f 4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
Bridled Appetite.
“ ‘Correct diet will keep the average jockey
longer in the saddle than a correct seat,’ says
a sporting writer.”
Square meals a jockey should eschew —
’Tis better that he skip a course
And hitch his belt a hole or two
Than put la carte before the horse !
P. M.
•j* *2* *2* *2*
“Paint, for unessential decoration, will not
be available for the duration of the war.”
—Gazetted announcement.
Does this mean that a fellow will have
a chance of finding out what his girl really
looks like?
►l*
“She golfers had taken the precaution of re-
moving their clothes.” — “Sun:”
Just another thrill for the he-golfers.
❖ -I* 4* *l*
Evergreen Inquiry.
“Broadcasting Inquiry.”— “S. M. Herald.”
“Can’t you turn that radio down a bit?
D’you think everyone wants to hear it?”
“Sorry, m’dear. Is that better?”
“Not much. What station are you on,
anvway?”
“2DT, m’dear.”
“Well, it’s awful. Try another ... What
one’s that?”
“It’s static, m’dear.”
“That’ll do. I like those jazzy bits.
Can’t you turn it up a bit? Don’t you
think anyone else wants to hear it?”
Eve.
-S- 4* T - *j*
“Buying day-old chicks is risky for an
amateur. Better to buy week-old cockerels.
Properly fed, they will growl quickly.”
—Poultry paper.
This will be particularly handy for the
householder whose dog can only crow.
.“America’s First Wireless Wedding.”
— “World’s News” heading.
A hook-up.
•E
“Race Trams Restored.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Also the race to trams after the last
race.
“Wearily he came to the realisation that life
had beaten him, that he could no longer hold
out. He might pocket his pride and go back to
his father. But what to do then?” — Short story.
Hold out.
•F -}• 4* 4*
“Is a sarong a kind of skirt or a shawl?”
— Correspondent.
Neither. It’s worn by Hollywood
natives as a publicity-cloak.
•2* *2*
“Bookmakers believe that they should be
given more warning when a race starts.”
Punters believe the result should be
broken more gently when a race finishes.
•j*
“Mr. had been temporarily blinded by a
big flask.” — N.S.W. country paper.
But what’s noteworthy in that?
* * * *
“Marmite or Vegemite makes even an army
biscuit slip down. Razor blades are good, too.”
— Woman's paper.
To get the most of the nutritive value
out of these latter iron rations, however,
they should be eaten separately.
*2* *2* *2*
“Never marry a man who is inordinately fond
of a sister.” — Woman’s paper.
Especially if it’s your sister.
Invictis.
’Tish clear I’ve won the competition.
You’re losht in bibuloush confusion.
To prove that you’re in thish condition,
You can’t shay Bri’sh-hic-Cons’itution !
T. W. N.
•J* v
Escape.
The rather nondescript little man sped
furtively along the busy Sydney street.
Here was something that seemed to offer
more excitement than gawping at a dog-
man, a man digging a hole or a police-
man booking a motorist, and soon he
became the object of the crowd’s atten-
tion.
Policemen turned to watch him specu-
latively, women to look at the valuable
thing he carried, and idlers turned and
followed him. He knew, he felt, their
eyes were on the treasure he carried, and
from furtiveness his manner soon began
to show fear.
Then a vacant taxi cruised slowly by.
With a thankful gasp he threw open the
door, sprang in and muttered an address.
Brought up short, the now tonguing
crowd watched the taxi whirl out of its
reach the quarry and his precious bottle
of water.
MB.
“ They'd on'y give me ’arf a gallon !”
“The miracle diet by which you eat and grow
thin! ” — “Woman.”
We live on this diet, but how the actual
dishes are made is our landlady’s secret.
•|*
“He was a fireman when they married, and
professed to be fond of her. Quite suddenly
he resigned and left her without support.”
—Divorce report.
Perhaps some new flame caused a stir;
A thing old love erases.
’Twas wrong to leave his job and her,
And let her go to blazes.
Hamer.
•i* .4* *i* *i*
Uses For Feminine Peculiarities.
“Women who can write backwards are
wanted for the Australian Women’s Army Ser-
vice in Victoria.”
It just goes to show, now, doesn’t it?
Our typist used to keep the stamp book.
Holding the pen by the nib between thumb
and little finger, she started at the middle
of the page with a double-pincer move-
ment aimed at encircling the balance
figure (if any) between the two big ink-
blobs and where the letter-box-red nail
lacquer had spilt. It was not, however,
till she sprained her wrist while trying to
draw a pencil-line up the back of her
painted legs a la the seam of a fully-
fashioned stocking that her genius for
the bizarre in calligraphy got full scope
and the boss got a nervous breakdown.
She has since joined Women’s Army In-
telligence as an interpreter of blotting-
paper held up against a mirror.
The husband who is used to the sight
of his wife tearing out of the bedroom
with her hands full of bobby pins, snatch-
ing the grill pan from under the gas
range, taking a deep breath and extin-
guishing the jet-black object which, after
a few minutes’ knife-scraping, she will
flatter by calling toast may shortly have
to do this himself. Shrinkage of man-
power will make it a certainty that expert
women will be called upon to fill the gaps
in the now-important charcoal-making
industry.
A Melbourne citizen has offered the
Munitions Department the services of his
missus, confident that with the naked eye
she will be able to detect irregularities in
the alignments of shell-cases, gun-barrel
rifling, etc., to within 1-200,000 th of an
inch. He first noticed her uncanny apti-
tude for such superfine optical calculation
after he had hung a picture in the lounge-
room. Though he could have sworn it
was plumb centre and parallel to the
mantelpiece, his wife tilted one corner up
approximately 1-64,000 th of an inch and
immediately pronounced it straight.
Similar differences in the straightness of
blinds and curtains he had touched and
mats and carpets he had laid convinced
him that the utilisation of this uncanny
eyesight should be placed at the nation’s
disposal.
Driving her husband’s car, a Brisbane
matron backed it with great force into
another, also driven by a lady. Although
the duco of both cars suffered consider-
ably, the paintwork of neither driver sus-
tained any damage. The soundness of
their camouflage methods which stood up
to such a gruelling test led to their be-
coming instructors to an A.I.F. school.
Although there has been no indication
so far that they can be adapted for
defence purposes, putting of dead
matches back among the live ones in the
box, squeezing of toothpaste tubes from
the top, poking of fires the same way and
brushing of hair towards the roots when
it’s long enough to do so may yet be
utilised in the war effort. Says the “Daily
Flapper”; “Mr Forde must give these
important matters his earnest attention.”
80.
The Violent Life.
“His life was full of violent changes.”
— “Sun.”
Booted out of his father’s house, he
was thrown on his own resources.
Through the influence of a blonde he
kicked around with he was pitchforked
into a job and, flinging himself into his
work, he made good. But, although he had
had the hard facts of life hammered into
him, he forgot them ; and soon he began
to fall for the wrong kind of girls. He
hurled himself into the wild life, which
soon knocked him up, and shortly he
bumped trouble and crashed. Tossed
from pillar to post he wrestled with his
ill-fortune and struck out anew ; but blow
after blow came, and a heavy weight of
trouble fell upon him, crushing him com-
pletely.
Torn by doubt, battered by circum-
stance, beaten by ill-luck and bludgeoned
by fate, he borrowed a revolver and
went out with a bang.
H. M.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Tke contributor placed first is paid
4j|d, per line; all others 21d. per line.
Unions
For many years, as secretary of a branch
of a strong union, I have tried to get mem-
bers to come to meetings. Persuasion has
failed. Threatened action under the rules
has failed. When the meeting night comes
only four or five stalwarts roll up.
Time was when unionists attended
their meetings regularly. They felt that
attendance was a moral obligation. They
did a bit of thinking before and on the
way to the meeting, and as a result the
present “union bosses” were union agents,
carrying out to the letter the instructions
given. Today they are more or less
loaded with the responsibility of initia-
tive and action; and, whatever they do,
God help them.
Generally, unionists of today attend a
meeting when their own person or pocket
is threatened. Only then. And lam now
finding that even a personal interest is
not sufficient to bring members along.
Their little grievances, complaints and
opinions are now given verbally to me
and others to bring before the union.
Members, in nearly all instances, have
reason to be concerned, and expect some-
thing to be done at a meeting. Result:
the meeting may have a quorum, and
instructs the secretary on the action to
be taken, probably after the secretary,
with his necessary knowledge of awards
and conditions, has advised
the quorum of what may be -
done. Or there may be no\
quorum and the secretary
acts according to his own
initiative. He thus becomes
the union boss. If, because
there is no meeting, he does
nothing about complaints re-
ceived, he is condemned as
being devoid of brains and
stomach.
Most union secretaries have
had to develop a new tech-
nique in so far as they have
to tune their ears for the
rumblings of opinion from
their rank and file member-
ship. They have to gauge
popular opinion. They must
ascertain what they are re-
quired to do, and at the same
time be ready for a good kick
in the pants from some quar-
ters for doing it. Argus
(W.A.).
Birth Control
If one division of the A.I.F.
were completely wiped out
Australian reaction would not
be hard to imagine. Yet dur-
ing the last 27 years we have wiped out
some nine divisions, unmoved and indif-
ferent, by a declining birthrate. Nor is
that all. In addition to 180,000 potential
defenders of this country we have lost
100,000 women of child-bearing age.
France’s fall was probably just as well
worked out by Nazi statisticians as by
Nazi strategists. The elder Von Moltke,
referring to birth contx'ol, said: “France
loses a battle every day.” The spirit of
pleasure prevailed over that of sacrifice ;
result: average French family, 1834,
four; 1896, three; 1936, two. Areas
were depopulated, farms uncultivated, so
foreigners were imported. In 1938 of a
total population of 42,000,000 there were
4.000. aliens.
In the military position there were
1.000. fewer effectives than in 1917.
This was bad, but the deterioration of
morale was worse. The failure of France
can be traced directly to a declining birth-
rate, the national evil of birth control.
That is not new. The Greek republics
crumbled to dust before the onslaught
of the more virile Romans. The Romans
in turn fell before the march of a more
virile people.
Birth-preventioriists are shaken by the
results of their teachings. In England
the National Birth Control Association
has been changed to the Family Planning
Association. Lord Dawson of Penn
has receded from his former position and
is imploring mothers to have four
children.
In Victoria and Westralia Administra-
tions were forced to bow to public will
and curtail traffic in contraceptives.
Further, in Westralia it was public clamor
which prevented the establishment of a
Birth Prevention Clinic.
If Australia is to be a prosperous
nation, she must recognise this terrible
wastage of man-power brought about by
birth control. — Chippendale (Q.).
Reserved
I saw a Friday lunchtime parade
of Melbourne’s young men. Aged
from 18 to 35, they thronged the streets
for two hours, well dressed, intelligent,
fit and healthy; several thousand strong.
Practically every one of them would
have been in camp were it not for the
reserved-occupations system. Many of
them are breaking their necks to join up,
but are not allowed. They cannot even
do a short militia camp.
Two facts are patent: (1) the lists of
reserved occupations and men should be
ruthlessly revised, and (2) every man
should have some training in military
work, learning at the very least to fire a
rifle and use a bayonet, for these may
be our ultimate defences.
Some time ago the Government made a
determined step in revising the lists by
deleting theatre attendants. If it will
follow this isolated, brilliant flash there
may be one country less reserved for
easy invasion.— Pip (Vic.).
Banks in War-time
Even if one accepts the view of
A. D. B. Rowley (B. 31/12/’4l) regard-
"Gad, that's a good one!"
_ r li-
mg the creative powers of banks h s
argument reduces menfly to
tion l that private profit, even fo
rendered, is wrong. He might.as w
argue that the profits <rf retail sto,
picture shows 01 : factories f J* L ®
to the people and that all these industries
should be nationalised This *- sl e ading
to apply" itjonly to banking a s if that
«■*
bank shareho.de. -,-^good
.. ; ncrease j n the
Government business
transferred to the Commonwealth
P 4 * “V. «*> «»“ th -
R goes right off the rails in
his final remarks. If his policy had been
what
u e fi ar( j to imagine anything more directly
• flat j onary than the course which he
—No 3 Teller (NSW.),
recommends. JNo. 3 ieller un.o.w.j.
Wet Canteens
Once again the subject of wet canteens
for militia camps is worrying the Gov-
ernment. But surely there is only one
question to be decided: will wet cau-
teens or a beer issue help win the war?
Our new army commanders are mtro-
ducing a revised scheme of training to
toughen soldiers and fit them for the
most severe tests that modern war can
demand of them. Will beer aid this tram-
ing? Again, the camps are to be put
on a war basis,” with the possibility of
hostilities with a highly-trained and effi-
cient enemy at any time. Are wet can-
teens a necessary and helpful part of mili-
tary camps on a “war basis”?
After the Boer War, Lord Roberts,
writing about a severe test of stamina in
South Africa, said “the men who fell
out of the ranks were not the tall men
nor the short men, etc,, they were the
drinkers.” — Mac Moses (Vic.).
Mare and More Politicians
Singapore newspapers are asking that
Evatt be sent to Malaya; the Mur-
doch press suggests that Menzies be
sent to London; The Bulletin would
prefer Archie Cameron as our London
representative. All good men, no doubt,
but why must our choice of represen-
tatives be limited to politicians? We
already have Casey in Washington and
Earle Page and Bruce in London, all
politicians, and he would be an optimist
indeed who suggested that any of them
had been an outstanding success.
On the other hand, President Roose-
velt sent Hopkins to Moscow, Wendell
Willkie to London and Admiral Leahy
to Vichy. None of them politicians, yet
their representations appear to have been
adequate and satisfactory.
Here in Australia the sheer necessity of
appointing the best men has made Essing-
ton Lewis, of 8.H.P., Director-General
of Aircraft Production and Chief Justice
Webb Chairman of the Industrial Rela-
tions Council. Australia’s ideal repre-
sentative abroad may similarly be found
outside political circles. Indeed, the same
necessity which brought Australia’s lead-
ing industrialist and industrial Judge to
the fore may also demand that military
rather than political knowledge and ex-
perience shall be the qualifications of our
representatives at Singapore and London,
—Smilax (Q.).
War Correspondents
Perhaps it’s because I’m just a working
journalist who doesn’t get a by-line in his
own paper that I’m so keen on our being
fair to the war correspondent. Quite a
lot of Bulletin readers (and writers)
seem to find it easy to pick on him and
say he’s this, that and several other kinds
of a fool.
All of which is hardly fair. Most cor-
respondents, from this country at any
rate who are reporting the war were
ordinary working journalists like the rest
of us. They were sent to the war because
they’d done some pretty fair jobs of fac-
tual reporting or nice writing here.
One of them explained lately in the
“Journalist” that he went with the idea
that he was going out to do a job of
reporting. But he found out that that
wasn’t good enough. The readers wanted
something more dramatic. They (or so
the editors decided) wanted “glamor”
about the war. The editors particularly
wanted to give the public the impression
that only their reporter was on the spot,
Consequently the boys had to claim to
have been the first there, and to have
done really heroic things. Nobody more
than the journalist himself detests that
sort of writing.
Some war correspondents really have
done a good job of work. Some of them
have seen the actual fighting. Men com-
ing back from Tobruk talk of one re-
porter who used to go out on patrols
with them. Another war correspondent
was mentioned in dispatches for gal-
lantry in Mesopotamia, where he rescued
an officer under fire in circumstances
that would have earned him a V.C. had
he been a soldier with commissioned
rank.
And, while it is easy to blame the jour-
nalist for what he writes, it’s easy to
lose sight of the fact that a military
censor who ought to know has passed the
copy to be fed to the mob. In France,
for instance, the censors allowed only pap
that hid the danger and boosted the valor
of the French generals and the inviola
bility of the Maginot Line to be pub-
lished. You couldn’t blame the journal-
ists for that. — Reporter (S.A.).
Tasmania
Tasmania is part of the Common-
wealth ; therefore the conditions men-
tioned in B. 10/12/’4l are governed by
laws passed by the Federal Parliament.
The special grants paid to Tasmania have
been made only after examination of all
circumstances by a commission appointed
by the Commonwealth.
As a State we have managed our affairs
no worse than any other part of Aus-
tralia, and there is much to be proud of.
Have we not over the years been on the
best terms in commerce transactions with
N. S. Wales? The movements in cargo
both ways prove this.
In the domain of economics Tasmania
has produced many good officials. It
gave Sydney its present Lord Mayor —
not the first either. You have had a
Prime Minister and Cabinet Ministers
from the island State.
The difficulties of Australia proceed
from the position of the country. It
suffers from a limited rainfall, through
which a decay in towns in so many dis-
tricts is taking place. Land worker and
city worker are now widely separated:
the one is affluent, the other affected by
want of rain and other conditions brought
about by political influences. Some seri-
ous consideration must be given to the
farmer’s plight—his conditions are not
being helped by high wages from which
his town friends are gaining.
Citizens of Tasmania will be well
advised to study the Constitutions of the
Commonwealth and the States. The pro-
tection of each is fully set out and con-
trolled. References on the lines which
have from time to time been published in
The Bulletin are merely a small form
of irritation which should not be de-
veloped. —-T. Murdoch (Tas.).
Gresham’s Law in Politics
The alternative to Australia’s present
system of representation most certain to
secure a better quality Parliamentary per-
sonnel (B. 24/12/’4l) would be what is
called functional or vocational represen-
tation.
A functional franchise would assure
direct representation to every important
activity in the community cultural and
social-service as well as occupational. A
Parliament sio constituted would be a true
mirror of the national life. It would con-
tain members able to speak with
authority on any matter likely to come
before it. Far more people who are
national figures would enter public life
than is the case today. There would be
an end to the professional politician and
the party system. Departments of State,
instead of being under the care of men
without training or experience, as is so
often the case now, would be undei the
control of experts.
The territorial franchise in vogue in
Australia and other countries with Par-
liamentary government is not suited to
the conditions of today. It was evolved
in its present form early in the nineteenth
century to serve a type of polity radically
different to the modern State. Then the
prevalent political concept was that a
Government’s main duty was to keep
order and deal with purely political prob-
lems —those of a social and economic
nature were best left to adjust them-
selves. Nowadays the State exercises a
wide and steadily increasing measure of
control over the latter matters. With the
issues of primary moment now social and
economic, powerful bodies devoted to
the furtherance of one or other of these
interests have come into being. They
endeavor to advantage themselves by
bringing pressure to bear on the political
parties. , .
It would be healthier for such interests
to be openly represented in Parliament.
Then the influence of each would be
limited to its actual representation. At
present some are able, by putting pressure
on political parties, to secure great con-
cessions at the public expense. The poli-
tical parties, being composed mainly of
professional politicians, naturally give the
most consideration to the best organised
and more vociferous sections of a com-
munity, which do not necessarily con-
stitute either the majority or the more
worthy portion of it. — Lyle (N.S.W.).


RADIO
L
a
a
r 1
■' •
i.W
Answers the Nation's Cali
The manufacturing reb
facilities of Amalgamated
ources and
Wireless, as
well a. the Company's Research &
Engineering Laboratories ale t y
engaged in work of a national character.
advancing Australia’s war effort.
AR E MANUFACTURERS OF
WIRELESS APPARATUS
FOR ‘ I
the navy
THE ARMY
THE AIH FORCE
government depts.
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CIVIL AVIATION
SHIP OWNERS
airlines
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD,
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
