

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 32ii:
W 1942
’Peiee JS/
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Sepplts
CHIPPING CAMPDEN, GLOUCESTERSHIRE.
ENGLAND’S rural delights are justly renowned.
£ While their attributes do not conform to the
picture Ovid painted of rural happiness, wherein are
seen peasants gathered together over a “joyous glass
of wine, lying at ease on the green grass, each with his
sweetheart,” still they are such as to convey pleasure
of a more, perhaps, subdued order. It would be
difficult to instance any part of England wherein more
scenes of rural beauty and tranquillity are to be met
than are found in the county of Gloucestershire.
Accepting as absolutely and literally true the more
or less familiar assertion “Australia is carried on the
sheep’s back” it is understandable why in the Com-
monwealth the county of Gloucester, in England,
is held in such regard. Of the five chief Cots-
jvold towns. Chipping Campden is the most
distinguished and impressive. Herbert Evans, the
“historian of the Cotswold,” has related how it was
once the great emporium of the Cotswold .wool,
and its church is one of those splendid buildings
of the latter Middle Ages which owe their existence to
the piety and munificence of the great wool mer-
chants. Here lived William Greval, some of whose
descendants are resident in Victoria, the ancestors of
the houses of Warwick and Willoughby de Broke,
whom a “brass” tablet in the church describes as “the
flower of the wool merchants of all England.” He
died in 1481, bequeathing a large sum towards com-
pleting the church, then in progress. The dwelling-
house this great gentleman built for himself, with its
Gothic doorway and fine panelled bay windows two
storeys high, still stands—that is, of course, if it has
escaped the shots of o/rhfnW
time in those far-off Oiip^ng
Campden presented a scene g >. ■
actions of Greval projected the raw m g g
to foreign bases, an i 8 •j • t u in dns
native manufacture. The second period m he i
trial history of C^#. in 8 . be^an
eighteenth century and is alhe . with the ribbon trade
of sore-bombed Coventry, which encouraged the esta ■
hshment of subordinate branches of the silk industries,
especially those where watei was available. Th C _
wold district held a prominent P^ ce J. n r>
The great fifteenth-century C-hurch of a P
famed far and wide. It is a perfect combination ol
unity, magnificence and strength. I hrougioui the
county the adherents ol the old faith aie strong.


!i*J
This Book FREE to YOUi
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
U<fol:lei, explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.''
My Name
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
BUNDLES FOR BRITAIN.
Conrad, Joyce, Hemingway, Faulkner;
W. B. Yeats, T. S. Eliot... all bundles
for Britain. Exceptions must be made
of such men as Hardy, D. H. Lawrence,
Galsworthy and Charles Morgan ; but it
remains remarkable how much of the
best or most vital writing in recent prose
and verse has not arisen from within the
English tradition but has been a gift to
it from outside.
Conrad, the master of prose, was a
Pole; Joyce an Irishman; Hemingway
and Faulkner are Americans, Yeats Irish,
and Eliot American.
What called up the thought was Robert
Neumann’s Scene in Passing (Dent), an
outstanding novel by an Austrian refugee,
presumably Jewish. Both English and
American literature have benefited by
translations of the works of the German
Thomas Mann, now in refuge in the
U.S.; but Neumann is a still more
striking example of a gift to England
from the gods of war, for, like Conrad,
he has learned English and writes as if
it were his native tongue and he a master
of it. This picture of a village at dawn,
for example:
As she returned on tiptoe, she stopped
and looked out of the window. The night
was no longer black. To the east the sky-
line of the hill stood out distinctly. In
the market square, where a soldier without
a skull had been standing, some sheets of
newspaper gave themselves up to the silent
air and scraped restlessly over the cobbles.
On the rubbish heap in the backyard of
Morris’s General Stores you could already
distinguish the empty tins. Down in the
village, at the poor end, a very old man
called Plummer lay on his neat narrow bed,
his toothless mouth wide open. There he
sprawled like a lord, and smelled of gin.
Last night a silver coin had come his way.
There was allong sad wail drifting over the
black meadows, perhaps down from the
river gorge. The church clock chimed
slowly, and struck three-quarters. Slowly
the east turned grey. There was again the
great silence. Only the water travelled and
travelled on. «
It was very cold. There stood the young
woman Miriam at the window, shivering.
When he was driven from Austria a
few years ago, his publishers say,
Neumann could not speak a word of Eng-
lish. And now, describing an old man
and his married daughter, sheltering in
a country cottage after the bombing of
an English city, he can write prose like
this: —
“The boy’s restless,” she said in an
undertone.
They both listened in a tense silence.
Pugh, in his small room next door, was
muttering a word and another word, help-
less as one buried under landslides, under
whole mountain ranges of heavy sleep.
“He’s dreaming his dreams again,” the
young woman said in an undertone, with
clouds of apprehension passing over her
knitted brows. “You don’t mind?” she
whispered, rising and taking up the lamp
from the table. Carrying the lamp she
went on tiptoe, with soft, serious move-
ments, ennobled with the shadows that
lay about her. Her low voice next door
was mellowed by distance and tenderness
as she talked her child back into his
slumber. The lamplight was coming
through the crevice to the old man as he
sat with no one but (limself in this room’s
darkness, A great quiet comfort and faith-
fulness was in that faint light. Then it
went out, and the soft voice next door
went out with it. He is asleep now, said
the old man to himself. In the fireplace the
Jog had ceased talking and rested in a
quiet glow.
Like Conrad’s prose, this is English
with a difference—a freshness. Perhaps
the pains of learning to write in a new
tongue are wholly beneficial to a writer,
forcing him to take such care that these
gentle cadences and supple modulations,
characteristic of both Conrad and
Neumann, are the inevitable result. And
the new approach to the language gives
the foreigner an opportunity for daring
of phrase that would be unnatural in a
native writer. It is his foreignness that
enables Neumann to achieve the drama
of “eight wild years’ reality” in this end-
ing of a scene between husband and
wife, parting for ever;
And that Mexican dancer he kept, and
thought 1 didn’t know. And that Parisi-
enne, and that trip with that pompous,
blonde wife of the admiral. And there
were others. “Stop!” I said. The hot
blood had shot into me; the headache
was splitting my skull, and I was full of
despair. And I remembered a dark minute
of last embrace, not quarter of an hour
ago. I was to bid him farewell wisely and
tenderly. But there he was, not last minute’s
lover, but eight long wild years’ reality.
“Stop!” 1 said. ■ “I’ve been thinking it
over. I don’t want you to live in a cloud,
you fool. I betrayed you again and again.”
There is an unforgettable scene when
a German airman, wondering whether
the cottage is worth strafing, drops a
parachute flare, and the old man thinks
the light is from the moon:
There is still that white flare floating
down so slowly. Look into the mirror.
Your face so pale, like a dead man’s. Es
steht ein Wirtshaus
The moon, the old man Tibbs thought,
deep down in the cottage. There you
lay on the bed in your feebleness, and are
still living, and now God has not forgotten
you in the night and sends you this silver
moon. He could not see it from where he
lay; there was just the great flow of an
unearthly light shedding itself into his
silent room. A big droning was overhead,
beyond the roof, and this, too, was to the
contemplative a consolation and resource,
and a great symbol... .Had he looked
into a mirror at that moment he would
have seen a smiling, lonely, silvern face.
In contrast to this crystal prose, the
construction of Scene in Passing is
curiously vague. All the characters —
the old man, his beautiful elder daughter
and dreaming younger ; the crude Morris
of Morris’s Stores ; the delightfully funny
small boy Pugh—are clear: it is the
action that is cloudy. The bombing of the
village is merely an “outward irrele-
vance.”
It’s not the sort of obscurity one meets
in Joyce; but the sort in Stephen
Spender’s short stories or in the last novel
of the Australian Patrick White, Vaguely,
indirectly, one leams at last, for instance,
that the younger daughter in a certain
scene is confessing that she has com-
mitted a theft; but Neumann is incapable
of plainly saying so. It’s a “poetic”
method; never as satisfactory as
Conrad’s directness; but, in this case,
beautifully handled. The theme, too, is
vague but beautifully treated —the deli-
cate indestructibility of life amidst the
dark “irrelevance” of death.
Only in one odd way has Neumann
failed to adapt himself with complete
conviction to the life of England. His
repulsive Big Businessman, Morris, of
Morris’s Stores, is a familiar enough
figure in the English novel; but he is
also, so ruthlessly does Neumann por-
tray him, the perfect Hun, An English
novelist would never have made him
quite so grimly “not a comic character” ;
would never have made the “black rage”
of his lust quite so black, his brutality
quite so brutal, his arrogance quite so
arrogant. And yet, since the character
is fundamentally convincing, the new
approach may be useful to English
novelists in the future.
That is the great boon of these gifts
of Ireland, America, Germany and Aus-
tria; fresh life, fresh blood in English
writing. That so much has come to Eng-
land from outside, and so little of equal
vitality from within, seems at first to
indicate a failing of the English tradi-
tion. But it is also a great tribute, a
recognition of enduring authority, that
it is always to the English tradition that
these new works must be referred. The
novel in England may be temporarily in
the doldrums. But English poetry, once
it had absorbed the contribution of
Yeats and Eliot, woke to great vigor in
the school of Spender, Auden and Mac-
Neice. By analogy, the novel should
also revive. There will come a day, too,
when the English tradition will welcome
fresh life from Australia and New
Zealand as it now gladly accepts the
Americans and the Europeans.
The Niagara's Gold.
It’s not often a book comes along so
satisfactory from every point of view that
one feels impelled to go out to George-
street, shake hands with strangers, con-
gratulate them on existing and ask them
if they’ve read it; but James Taylor's
Gold from the Sea (Australasian Pub-
lishing Co.) does the trick.
First (and foremost in every heart)
they got the gold: £2,379,000 worth of
it from the strongroom of the sunken
Niagara. And, to win it, they had not
only to perform miracles of seamanship
and salvage, not only to risk eminently
satisfactory dangers of sea and storm in a
pleasingly unseaworthy tub, but they had
all the additional and wholly gratifying
dangers of working in the midst of a
German minefield.
They broke records for working at
great depths; they improved on the
Italians’ performance with the Egypt.
The minefield, all New Zealanders will
be pleased to recall, was off the coast of
N.Z., north of the Hauraki Gulf. Captain
J. P. Williams, Captain James W. Herd
and the two diving Johnstones are all
good Australians—either by birth or long
association; Australians and Maori-
landers were the crew. “S. M. Herald”
scored a world scoop ; Taylor’s articles,
as they began to appear in the “Herald,”
gave the twofold pleasure of a great
story, excellently reported.
And, capping the list of satisfactions,
Taylor’s book turns out to be as good as
expected. From start to finish there’s not
a flaw in the whole affair ; and every-
body whom the howling of wowsers and
moaners that has accompanied Austerity
has convinced that Australians are the
lowest hogs that ever wallowed in the
mire might well take a day off and con-
gratulate himself on not having been born
a mere Hottentot or Eskimo whose people
had nothing to do with the salvaging of
the Niagara’s gold.
If Gold from the Sea doesn’t turn out
a best-seller, this Page will eat a a seed-
potato. Though not a literary master-
piece, it is first-class journalism, packed
with adventure: guaranteed to please
everybody who loves the sea and every-
body who loves gold—which means
Everybody. Taylor came in near the end,
when the gold was in sight, and it stands
to his credit as a journalist that his recon-
structions of the dramas of marking on
the wide sea the area where the sunken
ship might be lying, the adventures in the
minefields, the months of searching for
the ship and the deep-sea blasting into the
strongroom are amongst his most vivid
chapters. Chief Diver John Johnstone’s
description of the world in which he
worked:
“The fish down there,” he said in his
diffident way, “become silver grey. They
no longer have the bronze and yellow
colorings that are so pretty when you see
them on the surface. This, I suppose, is
because the light rays do not reach such
a depth. Even the eels which slithered
in and out of the wreck —some of these
brutes were up to eight feet long and as
thick as a man’s thigh—shone silver blue.
The giant hapuka was all silver.,. .As for
the eels, whether they be big or small,
I don’t like them. I saw nasty specimens
with heads on them as large—well, cer-
tainly as large as the head of a seal. I
mean that. Yet these slimy devils moved
through the water with the grace of birds
on the wing. They grew fat and sleek on
the carcasses of fish killed by our explosives.
Scavengers of the first order they were.
But, as I say, they had a sinister beauty of
their own, especially when framed in the
swaying weeds and grasses that covered the
wreck and the junk.
“In these garden patches I marvelled at
the sight of myriads of teraki feeding on
such slender growths as suited their delicate
tastes. They, poor little devils, provided
many a meal for voracious hapuka and
yellowtail. Often I would watch a yellow-
tail move from a ‘standing start’ and dis-
appear in a flash when frightened by a
conger eel or a mako shark.
“Then, of course, there were the jelly-
fish. Some measured a yard or more
across. Some resembled great hairy cater-
pillars. The jellyfish life near the surface
was so prolific, so dense, that there were
times in the winter months when it blotted
out the sunlight. In summer, on the other
hand, the penetrating light of the sun
changed the whole scene into one inde-
scribable loveliness, rich in color, fantastic
in shape. Then,, as evening drew on, the
whole picture would fade. The jellyfish
would no longer be visible. They were
there, and yet they were not there.”
To a mere landlubber, the blasting of
a track to the strongroom and the taking
of the bullion—the blind mechanical
“grab” groping for the boxes of gold
among the wreckage in the gloom—is as
fantastic as anything else in the world of
the water. More than fantastic: impos-
sible. But they got the gold.
A Better Spelling: Thomas Arncliffe
(Eagle Press, Wakefield). Simple Simon,
the author informs us, went a-fishing
“For to kac a whal.” And Litl Jak
Horner, when he pwld out the plum, sed
“What a gwd boi am I.” And poor old
Mother Hubbard found that the kubord
was bar. Kac on? For Mr. Arnklif and all
such keuriuz jentlmen Hel has the gidi
whirlpwl and the botomlez kazm.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Enter Lady Macbeth ( fighting ) : “And
now, before the second act begins, I
have to do a very inartistic thing. I
have to warn this audience that unless
it stops interfering we shall have to let
down the curtain and conclude the
show.” Thus Miss Doris Fitton (and
one’s heart bled for her) at a “Macbeth”
matinee at Sydney Royal. And thus the
present status of Shakspeare in Sydney:
a candle for sniggering schoolboys.
Little Jackie may indeed be his
mother’s only joy; he may have come
top in mathematics and be the star of
the first XI; but little Jackie—and it’s
time the education authorities realised
it—is also a quarter-wit. Instead of
making Shakspeare compulsory for
children (and thereby putting them off
the Bard for life), the education people
should forbid them to read him. Under-
graduates may have sufficient knowledge
of life to be able to comprehend “Mac-
beth’s” terrible drama of ambition, temp-
tation, weakness, remorse, frenzy and
doom; but little Jackie (to put it as
Shakspeare might have) doesn’t know
a bee from a bull’s foot. Though the
production was ragged, Doris Fitton and
John Alden were sufficiently pleasing in
the principal roles to make one wish (as
every year when the school matinees
break out) that Sydney could occasion-
ally have a Shakspeare season for adults.
Until the outbreak of war —if it’s not still
running—John Gielgud’s Shakspeare ran
continuously in London, and the
Stratford-on-Avon festival lasted six
months.
Sydney Tiv. undoubtedly attaches some
mystic significance to the “William Tell”
Overture. Edwin Styles has played it
on a matchbox; another man on the
saxophone ; a third dresses up as a par-
son and whistles it in ear-splitting shrieks.
And in the latest “Folies Bergeres” show
the celebrated Parisian comedian Mo,
disguised as an infant prodigy from
Czechoslovakia, plays the darn thing on
the triangle, the jew’s-harp, the tambour-
ine and the drums. Mo seems to be run-
ning short of sketches (that’s the only
fresh one), but he remains a delight to
watch. Some day some daring producer
will engage artists of Mo’s quality for
Shakspeare’s clowns and, admitting that
the Bard’s patter has lost most of its
humor, will allow them to improvise.
The clown interludes, invariably painful
these days, were meant to be (and once
were) uproariously funny.
The Sundry Shows suggestion (B.
7/10/’42) that Edwin Styles and the other
Whitehall players might have had a pre-
view of the talkie version of “The Man
Who Came to Dinner” brought letters
saying that that wasn’t the case.
Wherefore Edwin Styles’s performance,
described here as, even rf influenced
by the film, “a magnificent job,” becomes
magnificenter and magnificenter. Moss
Hart and George Kaufman must have
turned out a first-class script for so
amazingly little difference to have
appeared in the two versions. The local
players, including the nurse and the imi-
tators of Noel Coward and Harpo Marx,
were slightly funnier than the Hollywood
people ; but the only notable variation
was that the mad Harriet of the talkie
didn’t spin like a top in the farcical but
engaging manner of Lettie Craydon.
Was it in the belief that no orchestra
can be happy unless it has a new con-
ductor each week that the A.B.C.
brought William Cade from Adelaide to
steer the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
through a Saturday-afternoon concert?
Mr. Cade made a good impression—he
has a neat logical mind and a sense of
proportion—but the A.B.C. should try
the experiment of letting each city
orchestra have a year under single direc-
tion. Surely the great orchestras of
Britain, Europe and the U.S.A. that
observe the rule of getting a good con-
ductor and sticking to him (unless, of
course, there’s a chance of engaging Tos-
canini) aren’t on the wrong track.
Though .talkie theatres are packed
nightly, there’s no great banquet of
profits left for the companies when the
costs of overbuilding and the demands
of Hollywood have been paid. Greater
Union, one of the two major groups
operating in Sydney, made (“Business-
Robbery,” B, 14/10/’42) profits of £1705
in 1939, £52,754 in 1940 and last year-
still subject to taxation —£100,728. “H. M.
Pulham Esq.” (St. James) is the likeliest
of current offerings to please the public
and the co. that offers it: Robert Young
demonstrates how to be quizzical when
tempted in middle-age. U.S. Marines do
their stuff in “To the Shores of Tripoli”
(Regent). “You Belong to Me” (State)
is a passable comedy on the career-
woman theme —husband jealous of his
doctor-wife’s patients. “The Fleet’s In”
(Prince Edward) turns on some good
vaudeville among the usual uproar of a
musical; and the programme’s helped
by Benchley and Disney shorts and the
singing of a 16-year-old Australian girl,
Myree Parker, in the stage show.
Until Vic. Nat. Gallery offered a hand-
some annual award for the best “subject
picture,” artists for the most part had to
be content with gum-trees, pots of
flowers, their faces seen in the bathroom
mirror and their cousins, their sisters
and their aunts, if they could get them, as
models. Now they can paint Judgments
of Paris, Crucifixions, Batman Discover-
ing the Carlton Brewery and suchlike
classic, religious and historic subjects.
The results last year were poor ; and this
year the trustees decided that no picture
was worth the award. If contemporary
artists can’t rise to the epical quality of
the “subject-picture”—or don’t want to
—the trustees may be forced to broaden
the definition to admit ordinary still-life
and landscape —of which the exhibition
has plenty of sound examples.


“THE SENIOR STORE”
119th Year of Service
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’
/iorPL4p
OFFICIAL SUPPLIERS
OF
NAVAL OFFICERS’
UNIFORMS
/A
V 1 1
=\
V X
PI/?
M
A.
A
*3
I
" T>
.1.1 '
tA
\ 1
( a«
y(
m
mm
\j
llll'
NL-ax ■ <
\\-
*‘ISAAA„
rr~v
A!l Naval Uniforms tailored by Anthony Horderns 1 are correct in every detail, and all
Materials arc of Standard Service Quality. We guarantee satisfaction with style and fit.
Realising that a quick and effective service is essential, we give preference to Service orders.
CAPTAIN, R.A.N.—Metallic Lace. Tailored from lightweight Serge. D.B. Jacket and'
Trousers. Price £6/13/3
LIEUTENANT-COMMANDER, R.A.N.—Metallic Lace. Tailored from lightweight Serge.
D.B. Jacket and Trousers. Price .... £6/5/6
LIEUTENANT, R.A.N.V.R.—Non-metallic Lace. Tailored fro»m lightweight Serge. D.B.
Jacket, and Trousers. Price £5/11/-
SUB-LIEUTENANT, R.A.N.R.—Non-metallic Lace. Tailored from lightweight Serge. D.B.
Jacket, and Trousers. Price £5/7/3
WHITE DRILL UNIFORMS, ALL RANKS—Coat and Trousers Price, each 34/-
Shoulder straps, pair, from 10/9
(If unable to visit us, we will gladly post Self-Measurement Form and all particulars.)
NOTE: The necessary authority must accompany all orders.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. Post to Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney


EARLY STORM
By CHRISTOPHER INMAN.
(NEVER cared much about night
shooting, but, as Eric said, it was
early to knock off for the year and
skins were still bringing a fair price.
If we sent our bundles away quickly we
might make a good thing out of the night
shooting for another month, and then we
could have three or four months’ spell
until March, when the skins would come
good again.
It was the first year I had shot with
Eric. He didn’t often take a mate, but
we had got on well together. What he
didn’t know about kangaroo-shooting
was nobody’s business. He showed me
lots of little dodges which made just the
difference between a first- and second-
class skin. It was hard going. We were
using Eric’s old Dodge truck to cart our
gear and skins and were shooting on
foot. I’d always shot with horses before
and I found the walking pretty hard at
first, but I grew used to it and agreed with
Eric that you lost a lot of time messing
about with horses. The worst part was
carrying the skins home at night. We
rolled them up into small bundles and
interlaced the legs, so that we had a chain
of skins, which we hung round our necks.
During the winter months it was cool
walking and there were waterholes
where we could drink through the day,
but now it was early November and
the waterholes were all dry. The only
water left was at the bores, and they were
out on the open downs, where there were
some good patches of ’roos. These we
hadn’t tackled as we knew we had no
chance of getting near them in the open.
We had stuck to the gidya and creek
country nearer the hills, where there
was plenty of cover.
Sometimes you would strike four or
five ’roos lying together at midday. If
you managed the first with a clean
shot the others would sit up in
turn, and you might get the lot.
If you missed the first and he ran a bit
before he dropped, the others would
clear off too. We used lead rifles,
thirty-two Winchesters. They didn’t
have much range, but they didn’t make so
much noise as 303’s and the ’roos didn’t
run so wild. We reloaded the shells our-
selves. It was late at night when we
finished. We’d make back to camp towards
sundown; then we’d Ijave to peg out the
fresh skins and take up the dry ones, do
a bit of cooking for next day, clean the
rifles and reload shells.
Eric believed in good tucker. We lived
well and always had plenty of tinned
fruit and luxuries like that, though we
had to pay a pretty stiff price for them at
the store. We’d stay out three weeks
until we each got about a hundred and
eighty skins, then we’d pack up and go
into town for a week. Eric reckoned
we’d have a real lay-off soon, but he was
keen on going out to Wilson’s Tank be-
cause the ringers from the station had
told him there was a good wing of Toos
watering there.
WE made camp a little way from the
tank. It wasn’t much of a camp;
there was only a stunted gidya for
shade, so we rigged the fly. We decided
to do half the night each, and we con-
nected a spotlight with the truck battery
and fixed it so that we could swivel it in
any direction.
I took the first spell, and as soon as it
began to get dark I made myself com-
fortable on the back of the truck with
the spotlight right at my hand. Pretty
soon I heard the “thump, thump” of
’roos coming in across the plain. They
stopped a little way back from the tank
because they could see the camp, and
probably a shift in the wind had given
them our scent. After a while they came
on more slowly.
It was a still night and I could hear
them as they came in. They stopped just
below the bank; then I saw them sil-
houetted against the stars as they crept
over the bank on all fours. When I
thought they were near the water I
pressed the switch. Three big bucks
blinked at the light. I took the biggest one,
and I could hear the bullet thud home.
The other two didn’t move. I fixed
another in the beam and got him too.
Every now and then I’d switch on the
spotlight and sweep the tank. Sometimes
a ’roo would have sneaked into the
water without making any noise. When
the light went on he would look up and
stare into the beam, so that his eyes shone
out like two yellowy blue lights. Mostly
I would manage a head-shot.
Sometimes I could hear a fresh mob
in to the water. After a while there were
roos moving all round the tank. I didn’t
bother trying any long shots but Waited
until they tried to come right in. By
midnight I reckoned I had hit about
fifteen. I woke Eric and turned in. At
daylight we started skinning.
It was hard work, and it was pretty
warm before we finished. The flies were
thick and a cloud of hawks whirled over-
head. After we pegged out we lay down
under the fly and tried to sleep.
Late in the afternoon we boiled the
billy and fixed the gear for the night.
Eric said that the best of two shooters
was that you didn’t lose so much
sleep. One man on his own had to keep
awake all night if he wanted to keep the
’roos out. And you had to keep them
out because if they came in and drank
they would clear out to some other
water. As long as they didn’t get in
where you were shooting they would stay
on that water until they got a drink or
perished.
THAT night the ’roos didn’t come in
quite so fast. I could hear them
thumping rpund on the plain and circling
the tank. Most of those shot were does.
Eric said it was always like that after
the first night. The bucks always hung
back while the does went in to water,
waiting to see what happened to them.
It was harder to get a shot. You had to
be quick, because when you picked up a
’roo with the spotlight it hopped away
quickly. Mostly I let them come right
down. I could just see them moving
against the bank in the starlight, and then
I’d make a mark as soon as they started
drinking. Still, we did all right that night,
and Eric reckoned that the bucks would
have to come in soon or perish along
the whitewood ridge where they hung
through the day.
The next day it was hot. During the
morning gusts of burning wind stirred
the dust around the tank and the white-
wood trees on the ridge across the plain
shimmered in the wavy air. At midday
a rider from the outstation rode up to
the camp and we boiled the billy for him.
He told us that there was still a big wing
of ’roos along the whitewood ridge. He’d
seen one doe with her sides so hollow
that they were just about touching; he
reckoned they must be pretty thirsty.
I felt sorry for the ’roos. I
could picture them lying there on the
ridge, panting in the heat. It wasn’t the
game that ordinary shooting had been;
stalking a ’roo in the open and waiting
for a half-perished ’roo to come in to
water were very different. I don’t
think Eric really liked it much either,
but, as he said, if we didn’t shoot
them that way someone else would, and
if there was one thing Eric didn’t like it
was some other shooter getting in on a
wing of ’roos which Eric regarded as his.
The bucks tried to get down to the
water that night. They came to the tank
soon after dark, and at daylight they scat-
tered on the plain just out of range, until
the sun drove them back to the white-
woods, We shot fifty-odd ’roos between
us, and by the time we had finished skin-
ning we were about knocked up.
We didn’t take much notice of the big
cloud which drifted up over the hills in
the west at midday, though we cursed
the heat as we dozed fitfully under the fly.
About two o’clock a sudden gust of
cool wind fluttered the fly and sent the
dust swirling round the tank. When we
looked up we saw that half the sky was
covered with black clouds. We watched
them as they worked up swiftly against
the wind until the whole sky was
darkened. Then suddenly it was lit
by a single flash of lightning and we
heard the crash of thunder. The wind
was strong now, and a couple of empty
kerosene tins went rolling off through
the dust. There was the strange smell
of rain and wet earth as a curtain of
water from the clouds swept over the
plain until it splashed on our shirts and
arms. We began to work like hell to pile
the skins and gear under the fly. Our
shirts were sodden and the wet black
earth clung to our boots.
When we had done the best we could
with the skins and gear we sat under the
fly and shivered in our wet clothes as
they were pressed against our flesh by
the wind. We could not see the edge of
the storm and it seemed as if the rain
would never cease. We watched the water
form in shallow pools wherever there was
a depression in the ground; then gutters
thumping across the plain as they camebegan to run towards the creek, carrying
small sticks on their crests and pellets of
dry sheep dung. An old tobacco tin
lying lidless near the fire was full of
water. That meant that already there
had been over an inch of rain.
TEN minutes later the rain slackened,
and we saw a misty sun again. The
clouds moved on, leaving a watery blue
sky in their wake. The steamy air was
noisy with the harsh croakings of frogs
near the tank, and flies settled stickily
on our bare arms and on the backs of
our shirts. Eric reckoned that we might as
well try to get out with the truck before
the ground was too sticky. We lurched
along over the plain to the whitewood
ridge, where the going would be harder,
and we followed it along to the road,
The wheels sank deeply into the soft
ground, but there was still plenty of water
lyirig about and the soil did not stick to
the tyres. Eric kept her revving and we
came through.
We saw the ’roos hopping steadily
along the ridge towards the hills. There
would be water in the rock holes there
now and in a few days there would be
green shoots on the ridges. One big old
buck lopped past quite close to the truck,
He had been wounded in his quarters
and dried blood stained his far. He
moved slowly and heavily, leaving long
narrow slits in the soft ground as his
legs sank in at each bound. He would
have been an easy shot, but we let him
go, and when we looked back he was
still making steadily towards the hills,
At the three-mile gate we ran out of
the storm, and when we reached the town
we noticed the dust rising thickly as
someone drove a mob of horses out
across the open downs to the Govern-
ment bore.
"I CAN REMEMBER.”
By BRIAN FERNANDEZ.
I’D got a job colt-breaking on Kul-
pareen, and was riding there from
Wellington. I had left Cooke’s Plains
behind about an hour, and reckoned
that I must be somewhere near Kulpareen,
when I heard a voice through the mallee
scrub that skirts the road. It was a high-
pitched voice—more a chant than a song
—with rising and falling notes, but totally
devoid of tune.
“I can remember,” it began, “one day,
when I was breaking in colts for old Joe
Miller at Coomandook, and we put a
big brown horse into harness and he
pulled so hard, even when we had the
brake on the trolley, that he broke the
traces, so we got a new pair of greenhide
ones, and we put this Barney back in the
trolley and we went for a drive. But we
weren’t out long when it started to rain,
and we all got wet as shags and the
trolley got stuck in the wet sand at the
bottom of a sandhill, and we made Bar-
ney pull so hard that the wet greenhide
.traces started to stretch until soon he was
standing at the top of the sandhill and we
were still stuck at the bottom. While we’re
there thinking about what we ought to
do, the sun comes out and dries the traces
and they start to shrink again. Barney digs
in his toes to stop himself from being
pulled downhill, and soon we’re back in our
proper place behind the horse, and we
drove off home; but we never told the boss
because he wouldn’t have believed ujj>.”
By this time I had tied down the fence
and led the horse over, and had ridden
up behind the bent figure of the old man.
He turned round and said “Oh, there you
are!” as if he had been expecting me,
and he asked me for a smoke.
Later I came to know old Jerry pretty
well. He was a knockabout on Kulpareen,
doing odd jobs, when he felt like it, for
his tucker and next to no wages. He was
an old sundowner and woolworker, but
with his old age the wanderlust had left
him. Apart from his monthly bender, he
lived a life in which comparatively
nothing ever happened.
Until I met old Jerry I had never
known that any man could talk unceas-
ingly to himself all day and in any cir-
cumstances. 1 knew plenty of men who
talked to themselves now and then, and
plenty who even argued with themselves,
but I had never met one like Jerry who
could talk and sing non-stop from before
dawn until long after dark.
Sometimes it was just talking, some-
times it was his chanting, halting song,
and sometimes it was shouting. Perhaps
if he was angry or insulted he would not
go out to work, but would sit by the
paneless window of his dirty old hut and
practically scream his hate of the one
who had insulted him.
All day, when working in the pad-
docks, cutting burrs and melons, he was
talking, singing or shouting to himself.
Always it was the same theme —some-
thing that he had seen or done in his
sundowning days.
“I can remember,” he would begin ;
then go on to remember the time when
“I rode the black mare on Albemarle.
She was the best stock mare on the Dar-
ling ; and the boss said' ‘Watch her when
she turns, or she’ll have you off in no
time,’ and I said ‘Don’t you think I can
ride a horse?’ So I got on and went after
the big roan bullock that had got away.
The bullock raced like mad for a small
clump of mulga and turned round it; the
black mare propped with him and left
me sitting on the ground.”
Sometimes he would remember some
of the yarns that he had picked up in
shearing sheds, and sometimes he would
remember the songs that he had learnt
in the mess-huts after the tea had been
cleared away; bjit for the greater part
old Jerry was a harmless old fool with
plenty of brains that he didn’t know how
to use, filthy clothes and ceaseless talk.
ALWAYS he wore the same clothes —
brown silk shirt that was more holes
than shirt, a torn and dirty waistcoat
that was too small even for him, and
that he wore only to carry his tobacco
and matches, and baggy trousers that
were mostly gone at the back, where a
hasty dab with an oil-brush was a rather
poor attempt at camouflage. The only
part of his dress that ever altered was the
footwear —sometimes he wore two heavy
elastic-sides, sometimes a right elastic-
side and a left pump, sometimes a left
elastic-side and a right pump, some-
times a pair of pumps, and sometimes
the more precious shoes from his sacred
hoard.
We often tried to find out where he hid
these more precious belongings, and then
we found them one day, all tied on a
string, hanging from the bough of a tree
out in number ten paddock.
It was an endless subject of discussion
and the cause of a good deal of gambling,
the question of whether Jerry did or did
not wash himself. I doubt it; for when-
ever I saw him he was always the same —
dirty beard clotted with black dirt and
spittle, and his face streaked where the
drops of perspiration had ploughed
through the grime. He settled the ques-
tion for us himself one day.
“I must find my soap and have a good
old wash,” we heard him singing. “I hid
it so a certain poddy stockman couldn’t
find it, and now I can’t find it myself,”
It was an infallible source of interest
to new hands that Jerry had eyes of dif-
ferent colors —one brown and the other
almost white. The story goes that one
time after his monthly bender in Murray
Bridge Jerry returned to the station with
over half a gallon of wine still left.
Knowing well that the boss would take
it away and dole it out to him in small
quantities, Jerry decided to camp under
the trees by the station-gate until his sup-
ply had run out. After drinking the half-
gallon he lay in the open for two days
without moving—and with his eyes open.
It was midsummer and the hot sun
bleached one eye almost white.
I heard that story told to over a dozen
new men, but only one ever asked how
it was the other eye didn’t turn the same
color. Indignantly Jerry retorted, “You
don’t think a joker can sleep at night
without one eye closed, do you? And
I had to keep one eye on me wine!”
His one great hatred was for that “cer-
tain poddy stockman,” Campbell. For
over twenty years he had harbored
his hate, but very few knew for
what reason. I learnt the story later
when I went to Coolinong, where
they had worked together at the time.
Campbell was notoriously lazy and, hav-
ing to cart water for the stock in the
summer months, he managed to cart only
two loads with the hundred-gallon tank
to the tank at the trough in woolshed
paddock. Jerry claimed that he could fill
the tank in half the time that Campbell
took. Now Campbell carted four loads
in a day, and managed to have the tank
almost full at night; Jerry claimed that
he could fill the tank before dinner-time.
He offered to bet ten pounds on it, and
Campbell took the bet.
Jerry set to work next morning, carted
three loads, and then the fourth, his heart
singing at the thought of the ten pounds,
only to find that the last hundred gallons
would not all go into the tank. While
Campbell carted, the sheep drank enough
water to allow the fourth load to go
in comfortably, Jerry was beaten on a
technical point. In twenty years he ha
not lost one scruple of the hate that he
knew at that moment when he saw his
ten pounds change hands.


The Bulletin
Vol 63.—N0. 3272
Wednesday, October 28, 1942.
THE MARSEILLAVALAISE.
“I have entered into an agreement to provide another 100,000 workers for Germany. France cannot remain indifferent to the immensity of the
sacrifices Germany has consented to make.”— Laval.
“Allons enfants de la patrie!
Le jour de gloire est arrive!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
FIGHTING FOR WHAT?
It has become the practice of Fireside
Fusiliers, Armchair Strategists and other
Non-starters to fill in apparent lulls in the
fighting concocting and advertising vague
nostrums warranted (by their manufac-
turers) to guarantee a Better World when
this war is over. What are these fabu-
lously green fields they’re babbling
about? Or are they green?
One of the oddest things about it dll is
the general acceptance of the notion that
the fighting must lead to the establish-
ment of a New Order —the very slogan
that Hitler and Co. flaunted when they
set out to conquer. As to this, it has in
a sense already been achieved. With
every necessary (or otherwise) increase of
regulations ; with every fresh batch of
added restrictions ; with every new en-
forced deprivation—the Old Order re-
cedes ; the New Order enlarges. And
as it enlarges it more and more resembles
that originally patented by the Hitler
firm.
It may be distasteful to admit it, but
that is the plain fact. What is this cur-
rent “austerity” business, for instance,
but a dose —so far a comparatively mild
dose —of that same belt-tightening that
evoked pitying contempt when the “totali-
tarians” went in for it? Other resem-
blances can be seen on every hand, in-
creasing as necessity dictates. There is
the only difference —the “totalitarians”
practised “austerity” with evil purpose ;
others resort to it because there’s no
choice.
This, then, is one form of New Order ;
and, far from anyone welcoming or fight-
ing to perpetuate any part of it, one
definite war aim nourished by practically
everybody in the democratic countries
is ultimate escape from it. Into what?
Here is where Confusion enters in
person to bewilder the whole camp of
post-war plotters and planners. For these
it isn’t nearly enough to have an Atlantic
Charter or Mr. Roosevelt’s Four Free-
doms set up to show a possible way—one
to be trodden as far as those great im-
ponderables human nature and national
character permit. The democracies must,
it is held, make explicitly and exactly
clear what they are fighting for ; other-
wise various countries (unspecified) will
either decline altogether to fight any more
or at all on the Allied side, or will fight
without heart.
As to all this, the actual choice would
seem at this date to be clear enough. The
Axis parties are bent on conquest; in
the frank boasting of Goebbels, these
former so-called “have-nots” have be-
come the “haves”—they have overrun
vast areas of Europe, of Asia and of
lands bordering the Pacific, and, if per-
mitted, they mean to hold and exploit
what the sword has won. If it meant
nothing worse, this would mean the en-
slavement of all peoples who are or may
be conquered, and a drastic lowering of
the standard of living among the rest,
the conquerors excepted. For small or
sparsely populated countries like Aus-
tralia and New Zealand it could mean a
lot worse. It could, and almost certainly
would, mean their positive extinction.
But, ever) when native to these parts, the
plotters and planners of the fabulous
New World have no time to consider
such prospects as these —except occasion-
ally, when things on the fighting fronts
look black. -
Actually these two countries —Aus-
tralia and N.Z. —have no choice. They
are fighting for survival, and for that
above and before all; and if they did
not realise this and were not prepared to
go as far as their leaders, and further,
in “austerity” and the like, that would
make the shape of one more New Order
—one in which these two budding nations
did not exist.
The other (unspecified) countries, which,
according to the New World dreamers,
will or won’t do this, that or the other
unless the warring democracies come out
now and specifically promise them all a
New Moon to live and laugh and love
under—all these unstated peoples would
also seem to have little in the way of
choice. Some of them though New
World builders would never admit it, even
secretly to themselves —have actually
appeared to prefer the “totalitarian”
bosses. Leaving these out, the rest have
the choice of actual or economic slavery
and consequent low standards under the
Axis, or freedom to make what they can
of themselves with such aid as the vic-
torious democracies would be able to pro-
vide. This seems specific and concrete
enough. A country asking for something
more definite before joining or continu-
ing to fight on with the democracies
might have a job to answer a charge of
trying blackmail, and mightn’t be up to
much as a partner, anyhow.
Obscured from time to time by the
New World merchants, but painfully
clear whenever there are reverses, the
real position of the democracies is that
they are fighting for their survival —that
is, for their survival as free democracies.
Victorious, each will have its own affairs
and problems to look after. These, for
peoples like Australians and New Zea-
landers, are certain to be pressing and
difficult. It is blithely overlooked by the
whole gang of New Order tub-thumpers
here that by the time this war is won these
are likely to be very heavily impoverished
countries. The bill is mounting daily, and
enormously; and there must come a day
of reckoning. It should be taken into
account by those in these parts who now
promise a rosy New Order for all. When
the blood-and-tears phase of this struggle
is over, there will still have to be plenty
of the sweat part of it, and for a long
time.
The New Order gentry do not stop at
insisting that the war must be to ensure
an economic paradise, world-wide im-
poverishment through the war notwith-
standing. Their vague nostrum has more
than a little of the element of politics
iij it. Overlooking as certifiable the
cranks who hope and expect to see the
democratic form of government enforced
on countries that never yet had any time
for it, and probably could not function
for a fortnight under it, there are numer-
ous enough others who expect to see
sweeping structural changes in the de-
mocracies themselves. They are vague as
to what these changes are to be ; but it
would seem that the color of the fields
they babble about is more red than green.
In fact, what they seem to aim at —and
are trying, some of them, to enforce
under cover of war necessity—is as clear-
cut a form of dictatorship as any that the
democracies are warring against.
What puzzles many is where, how and
when democracy can be shown to have
failed as a form of government. The
New Order noisebags want it both ways.
On the one hand, “democracy” is flatter-
ingly applied by them to countries that
have never yet attained to anything like
democracy; on the other, they imply
that democracy is rotten and must be
made over. Again, into what? The New
World cranks are as vague on this as on
everything else; but already what they’re
after smells to heaven of dictatorship.
This —as far as Australia is concerned,
at any rate —throws yet another New-
Order fantasy into the discard ; for it is
quite certain that, whatever those who are
doing the fighting may individually feel
about it, collectively they are not fighting
for any dictatorship. They look forward
no doubt to a better Australia, but that
does not mean a fundamentally changed
Australia. When the inevitable economic
aftermath of war arrives it will be a con-
tinuation of their grim job to help see
Australia through it. This time they will
have the numbers they lacked before ;
and the growing battalions of women in
uniform and others not in uniform will
be with them. It is not at all likely that
their idea of a New-Order Australia will
at all resemble that of those who are aim-
ing towards a dictatorship in their
absence. It is very likely that politically
their New-Order Australia will be very
like the Old Order which the War Order
has superseded, except that there will be
one Parliament with full and unchal-
lengeable powers, instead of seven Par-
liaments with conflicting powers. That
is, Australia will continue as one of the
very few free democracies, with duly
elected representatives to a national Par-
liament with supreme powers and to pro-
vincial councils with definitely limited
powers. The way things are now, and
are shaping, the war needs only to last
a few more years for that to look very
like a perfect masterpiece of New Orders,
on which Diggers and non-starters alike
could agree in saying “It was worth
fighting for.”
The Third of November.
For reasons which should be obvious to
everyone at Canberra, if nowhere else,
Australians can never again afford to be
indifferent to what goes on in the United
States. What is going on there in this
last quarter of a terrible year may pro-
foundly affect the future of our Com-
monwealth and its sister-Dominion be-
yond the Tasman.
The two historic parties, still the only
ones that matter, are engaged in another
Congressional election campaign, which
will be decided on November 3. For ten
years the Democrats have had command-
ing majorities in both Chambers. It is
taken for granted that they will remain
in control of the Senate for the next two
years at least, and on paper it is highly
improbable that they will fail to elect
most of the Representatives. Writing
two months ago, George Gallup, the
“poll” man, predicted that they would
come back with an additional eight,
giving them 274 seats and the Republi-
cans 154. Hitherto Mr. Gallup has been
uncannily right in these matters. But
the “Literary Digest” had as great a
reputation for political prophecy till it
was betrayed by a straw vote into herald-
ing a Republican victory over Mr.
Roosevelt. That, as Miss Squeers put it,
was the Hend.
In 1918, the second year of Dr. Wil-
son’s second Presidency, the Republicans
wrested control of Congress from the
Administration party. They made their
big gains in the Middle West, but Mr.
Gallup thinks a repetition of this achieve-
ment beyond them ; his survey shows “a
Democratic gain in that area.” Other
surveyors are by no means convinced
that the Middle West won’t turn Repub-
lican again. Mr. Gallup allowed that
the Republicans might win four more
seats in New England and seven more in
the Middle Atlantic section. Maine vot-
ing suggests greater increases: the little
State, which always polls first, has re-
elected its Republican members by a
2-to-l vote —the biggest since 1928.
What may augur worse for the
Democrats is that the President has been
badly rebuffed in his own State of New
York. He exerted himself (and so did
Mr. Wendell Willkie) to deprive Mr.
Hamilton Fish, the pre-war isolationist,
of the Republican nomination in the
Twenty-sixth New York Congressional
District, only to see Mr. Fish win the
primary hands down. At the same time
he tried to get Senator Mead chosen as
Democratic candidate for Governor of
New York in preference to State Attor-
ney-General Bennett, the nominee of Mr.
Farley, formerly his Postmaster-General.
Delegates to the State Democratic Con-
vention turned down Mr. Roosevelt’s
man by 1014 to 623.
American newspapermen agree that
the interposition of the President in State
politics at a critical stage of the war was
a bad blunder, and that the rejection of
the White House nominee will have far-
reaching effects. One, John O’Donnell,
summed it up as “the greatest defeat of
Mr. Roosevelt’s career ; the President no
longer can control or speak for the
Democratic party in his own State.” An-
other, Westbrook Pegler, hailed the Con-
vention vote as a repudiation of the New
Deal, which he identifies with harmful
meddling in business and finance. Others
aver that in the result Mr. Farley will
control the New York vote at the
National Democratic Convention in 18
months or so, at which a fourth term
for Mr. Roosevelt will be the vital issue.
Mr. Farley was a candidate for nomina-
tion in 1940, being opposed to a third
term.
Mr. Gallup refers to “the victories of
a large number of pre-war isolationists
in the primaries.” In his judgment, this
does not mean that voters in either party
“are tired of the war or opposed to the
war or anxious to make peace ; on the
contrary, all the evidence shows that
voters in both parties are anxious to get
on with the fighting and willing to accept
far more drastic measures for the
prosecution of the war.” All the same,
it is not exactly reassuring at this end
to read a New York “Times” statement
of pre-war Republican policy on “(1) the
repeal of the arms-embargo, which made
it possible for our present Allies to get
weapons; (2) lease-lend ; and (3) Selec-
tive Service, which gave us a real army
in a moment of great danger.”
The record shows that every one of these
measures was adopted solely because the
President received the support of a large
majority of his own party. The tally
of Republican votes in both branches of
Congress was: (1) On repeal of the arms-
embargo, only 29 in favor and 158 against;
(2) on lease-lend, only 34 in favor and 152
against; (3) on Selective Service, only 53
in favor and 98 against; and (4) on exten-
sion of Selective Service, after its first year,
only 28 in favor and 146 against.
Nevertheless, Republicans as well as
Democrats are committed to seeing the
war through to a successful issue. And
there may be no great significance in
the President’s New York reverse. He
is not the sort of leader from whom
electors abruptly turn away, and a re-
sounding victory in battle—there is still
time for one before November 3 —may
send them trooping to the polls with all
the old fervent loyalty to their great-
hearted chief.
The Two Jacks.
Study of a Great Conversion:
Mr. Beasley is one of the few Common-
wealth Ministers whom the press has conspired
to praise. “Tory newspapers” (his own descrip-
tion of them over many years) agree that he has
made a great job of Supply and Development.
Perhaps he has, though it may be rather early
for roses and raptures; and it is doubtful
whether he altogether appreciated the chorus
of praise which greeted his appointment as
Minister of Shipping, seeing that to justify it
he will have to deal ruthlessly with wharf-
laborers, many of whom are his own constitu-
ents. Possibly the impression that Mr. Beasley
is an administrative has been fostered
because he was shrewd enough to keep his
mouth shut while some of his colleagues were
opening theirs so wide as to admit repeated in-
sertions of their feet.
Of recent weeks Mr. Beasley has broken
this prudent silence —not happily. He de-
livered a tirade against employers, alleging—
incredibly—for one thing, that manufacturers
had forced their employees to join unions be-
cause arbitration-award rates were less than the
wages they were paying. Then,. his Govern-
ment’s first anniversary having come round, he
was heard extolling Mr. Curtin.
“The people will never realise what Mr.
Curtin has done during his term,” said Mr.
Beasley. “He never sought the Prime Minister-
ship, but the people will say when the full
story is told ‘Thank God John Curtin became
Prime Minister.’ ” There was more in this
strain, including something for the whole
outfit —“If you only knew what the Labor
party has done over this last twelve months in
office, if I could tell you the full story, the
Labor party would be in office in perpetuity.”
The panegyrist returned to the congenial theme
a few nights later: “Till the day you die you
will owe eternal gratitude to John Curtin,” he
boomed. The Labor party had given the people
a lead for 25 years ( only 25?), but the people
had not followed the Labor party. They must
do so now and in the future; “you must stand
by the Government as you never stood by a
Government before.”
All this is rich indeed coming from Mr.
Beasley. Though he and Mr. Curtin have
been associated for 14 years, off ami on—
principally off —the surpassing merits of Mr.
Curtin are a comparatively recent Beasley
discovery. Both were members of Caucus at
Canberra on October 22, 1929, when Mr.
Beasley was voted into the Scullin Ministry
and Mr. Curtin was excluded. Within 18 months
Mr. Beasley was out of office and out of
Caucus, having whirled himself away to lead
a so-called N.S.W. Labor party devoted to
the cause of Mr. Lang, interest-default Plan
and all.
On November 25, 1931, after furious faction
fighting, Mr. Beasley moved the adjournment of
the House to call attention to an alleged
manipulation of an unemployed-relief grant in
Mr. Theodore’s electorate of Dailey. Mr.
Theodore denied the impeachment and retorted
that “the chief cause of the chagrin evident
in the corner party is that its members have
not been able to work their own political stunts
at Cockatoo Island and elsewhere”; also that
“the Lang Government has used its political
power to exercise patronage of the worst and
most tyrannous kind.” After a further exchange
of compliments, in the course of which Mr.
Ward accused Mr. Theodore of having been
“too cowardly to subject himseL to Cfoss-
examination,” the motion was carried against
the Government. Among the ayes were Mr.
Beasley, Mr. Ward and Mr. H. P. Lazzarini,
and among the noes Mr. Curtin, Mr. Ford©, Mr.
Frost, Mr. Holloway, Mr. Chifley and Mr.
Keane. All are now members of the Govern-
ment, and Mr. Theodore is Director-General of
their Allied Works Council.
An election necessarily followed the carrying
of the Beasley motion, control of tl).e House
having been wrested from the Government.
It saw the defeat of most of the Scullin
Ministers and rank-and-file supporters, Mr.
Curtin among them, but Mr. Beasley and his
followers got back.
Mr. Curtin was out of Parliament for three
years. Meanwhile Mr. Beasley remained
leader of the N.S.W. Labor party, and he
continued in that position till 1936. Re-elected
in 1934, Mr. Curtin had in 1935 succeeded Mr.
Scullin as leader of the larger Labor group.
In the ensuing year Mr. Curtin and Mr. Beasley
met at Canberra, hailed each other as “Jack’
(“How are things, Jack?” “All right, Jacx;
how are they with you?”) and agreed on
“unity” under Mr. Curtin’s leadership.
“Unity” lasted two or three precarious
years. Then Mr. Beasley led another breakaway
movement, though this time Messrs. Ward,
Lazzarini and James elected to remain with
Mr. Curtin; and the 1940 election saw him
running what he delicately described as the
Non-Communist Labor party. To the indignant
Mr. Curtin it was “the ‘scab’ party,” having
“no part in the Labor movement; in fact, it has
no reason to exist.” Each party fought the other
briskly on the platform, in print and at the
polls. It was reserved for Mr. Menzies to
compose the new quarrel by appointing bom
Mr. Curtin and Mr. Beasley to the Advisory
War Council. Thus brought together by a
singularly obliging opponent they concluded an-
other “unity” agreement, and so Mr. Beasiey
found his way into Mr. Curtin’s Ministry.
The Prime Minister is a forgiving man, but
when he considers the issue of bud 6 * - “ OI JJ
Supply and Development (now Supply atm
Shipping) his thoughts must turn to that brick
day in 1931 when the Beasley motion seemed
to have blasted his career. And you can almos
hear him intoning the words
Perhaps it was right to dissemble your love,
But why did you kick me downstairs?


PLAIN ENGLISH
Hess and Related Matters.
During a week big with events, people
in Australia were babbling as if the ex-
change of Ministers with the U.S.S.R. was
not only a Beautiful Dream Come True,
but a fact of immeasurably greater im-
portance than anything happening in the
South Pacific or the Mediterranean. Into
this atmosphere of false romance broke
harsh voices from Moscow demanding
the immediate trial of Hess, and suggest-
ing that the No. 3 Nazi’s head was being
spared by “forces” in Britain opposed
to a Second Front in Europe and “not
wholly behind the Anglo-Russian alli-
ance.”
This extraordinary agitation, which
A.B.C.’s young “Moscow correspondent,”
lately from Australia, reported with
obvious gusto, coincided with accounts
of the chaining of a batch of British
prisoners taken in Norway and of an
unfortunate incident in a German
prisoners’ camp in Canada (it was grossly
exaggerated by “Time”), connected with
reprisals for previous Axis chainings. At
the same time the Japanese threatened
“drastic action” against American air-
men captured after the raid on Tokyo—
a fact belatedly admitted in Washington.
Replying to Moscow, Mr, Eden said
there was “no cause to apply to Hess
treatment other than that now being
elaborated by the United Nations for
dealing with war criminals, whoever they
may be.” The United Nations, other
than Russia, had “accepted proposals for
the establishment of a commission for
the investigation of war crimes,” and “we
are still awaiting a reply from Russia.”
The “Times,” obviously inspired, went
further; —
No reason appears to have been advanced
why action against Hess, who has been
a prisoner of war in Britain since before
Russia became a belligerent, should be
pressed for at present. Such a step is con-
trary to the British viewpoint and could
only serve as a pretext for a campaign
of frightfulness against British prisoners in
Axis hands It can be safely said that
nothing would at present be heard of Hess
if British and American armies were fight-
ing in Europe.
The present controversy has few merits,
but it is important because it raises the
broad issue of confidence b pt,v een Hie
Allies... .Confidence will be fully estab-
lished only through the unified machinery
of grand strategy.
Other papers have dwelt on the neces-
sity for the unification of strategy. While
existing relations between the U.S.S.R.
and Japan are maintained there can, of
course, be no such thing.
The three Axis Powers hold 28,000 to
29,000 Australian prisoners of war, nearly
two-thirds of whom are in Japanese
hands. It is known that Mr. Curtin, a
man with a heart and a conscience, feels
their position keenly. No doubt he will
tell the gentleman going to Moscow that
his Government will not countenance any
proposal, from whatever quarter it may
emanate, which may have the effect
of making their sad plight sadder and
perhaps placing some of them in peril.
Mr. Blakeley Again.
Mr. Arthur Blakeley, once an A.W.U.
organiser, and afterwards a Labor politi-
cian, has completed another war-industry
“investigation” Demanded by union sec-
retaries and arranged for by the Labor
Government in shrinking obedience. His
report on his “investigation” at an air-
craft factory, closing with an order for
the re-employment of a refractory Red
with a “record,” was shot to pieces by
the Full Arbitration Court.
Premising that it is customary in
workshops for employees to make articles
for themselves or friends or employers
or supervisors from scrap in their spare
time, Mr. Blakeley found that “a number
of small jobs of the kind,” running into
“approximately 100 man-hours,” had been
done at the Port Kembla works of Com-
monwealth Iron and Steel, and booked
to defence-contract job-numbers. Very
wrong, of course, but the amount in-
volved, £2O at most, and the man-hours
lost are trifling compared with the poli-
tical travelling-expenses racket and the
plague of absenteeism, on which the
Government turns its blind eye.
There was no evidence, Mr. Blakeley
allowed, that the company had “know-
ingly allowed the practice to develop,”
and no attempt had been made to de-
fraud the Commonwealth. All the same,
the company was “negligent,” and so
were the officers concerned.
As in the aircraft-factory case, Mr.
Blakeley sees “a grave likelihood of grave
industrial trouble developing” unless the
unions are humored —in this case by hav-
ing the “question of staff operatives dealt
with by some industrial tribunal” (at
the rate they are being manufactured,
there must be at least a thousand). “A
formula for settling disputes” at Port
Kembla has been arrived at, but “its suc-
cess will depend upon the sincerity of
the parties.” “Apparently” the company
has decided that “all power of negotia-
tion should be taken from executives,
from the general manager downwards,
and transferred to the Industrial Officer
of Broken Hill Prop, or his deputy at
Port Kembla, indicating a lack of con-
fidence in high executives.” Mr. Blakeley
was at once informed, with natural
asperity, that it “indicates” nothing of
the k)nd.
One of the parties to the “formula” is
Comrade Thornton, general secretary of
the Federated Ironworkers’ Union or
Red racket. How much sincerity can be
expected of Comrade Thornton, of “We
made strikes our business” notoriety, was
indicated on the very day the Blakeley
report came out. On that day 150
female ironworkers employed in N.S.W.
munition factories, part of a body of a
thousand —the Demands of 850 in four
other war factories were complied with
—struck for the immediate enforcement
of an award issued by Mr. Ward’s
Women’s Employment Board raising
their weekly pay from £3 Bs. to £4 16s.
and dating the increase back to March 2.
There followed an application to the
N.S.W. Industrial Commission for the
dismissal of an ironworker from the
B.H.P. works at Newcastle because other
men would not work with him and the
union or Red racket would not admit
him to membership. Justice Cantor
refused to sanction the outrage.
"Child Welfare."
Another instalment of a serial:
There was laid on the table of the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly by the Minister of Educa-
tion, Mr. C. Evatt, what that gentleman de-
scribed as a copy of “a letter from the Director,
Child Welfare Department, to the editor of
The Bulletin, respecting statements by the
Minister at a Christmas function at Parra-
matta Girls’ Industrial School.” Presumably
the “letter” previously referred to by this
Minister as a correction of a “false report,”
a “concoction... .which The re-
peated almost week in and week out.”
The report appeared originally in a byu-
ney daily, and was here republished with
comment. No correction has been seen in the
Sydney daily, and none has been printed in
The Bulletin —for the good and sufficient
reason that no letter concerning it has ever
been received. Had one been received it
would of course have been published. Nor did
any protest against non-publication come to
hand, though in the circumstances alleged by
Mr. Evatt such a protest would have been
legitimate and, if ignored, would have put
The Bulletin utterly in the wrong. Mr. Evatt,
it seems, preferred to bear his unmerited
wounds, malignantly kept raw, for nine months
or so until an Opposition motion of censure
goaded him into Telling All.
Grateful for this magnanimity The Bulle-
tin is not. Its mind is dominated by other
sentiments, among them wonder at what
happens to correspondence in Mr. Evatt s de-
partment and disgust at his attacks, all made
under cover of privilege, on persons, who, m
criticising his administration, knowingly took the
risk of becoming parties to expensive lawsuits,
notably the Rev. Edward Walker, Rector of All
Saints’. Other Australian Parliaments have
set no high standards of controversy, but only
in the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly has a
Minister of the Crown attacked the Cloth, and
that without any other Cabinet Minister or
Ministerial supporter objecting.
Though the Rev. Walker heard the Evatt
speech at Parramatta, being a weekly visitor,
and gave his account of it in a statutory declara-
tion, Mr. Evatt professed to “have no doubt
that this minister of religion turned to The
Bulletin files to obtain” it. “The member for
Parramatta,” he went on, “was present.. . .but
will he join the minister of religion in this he;
Is he prepared to say in the House that the
minister of religion is telling the truth? (He
was, as it happened, and he defended the Rev.
Walker and the Rev. George Gray, a Methodist
chaplain, who had testified in a signed state-
ment that discipline had “seriously deteriorated
since the Christmas party; “there has been a
deplorable number of cases of riotous behavior,
and an abnormal number of girls have been
committed to Long Bay.”) Proceeding in his
abusive strain, Mr. Evatt quoted part of what
the Rev. Walker “put in his affidavit such
alleged statements by me as ‘Live your own
life; ring me on the telephone,’ ” and asked
“Does that sound true, or does it sound like
the work of some low person disguised as a
minister of religion who is probably working
with the U.A.P. to injure me?” He made
these allegations also:
This Mr. Walker is the same person who
wrote to me soon after I had been sworn in
advocating something in the nature of flog-
ging at Parramatta. I have sent for the
letters, and when they arrive I will have an
opportunity of placing them before this
Chamber: I was so disgusted with this
Anglican minister for advocating flogging
that I denied him the right to come and
discuss the matter with me What a de-
lightful touch for a clergyman, because he
(Continued on page 8.)
Q. E. D.
“But where are all the girls?”
“Absconded, Mr. Evan.”


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
9
111
I I I'
III;
r HtfHi
Wm
n
VI
Modern high-clfss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE ” Sydney .
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM
PROVIDES THE SAFETY AND COMFORT OF A
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
tmniun
NO SMELL. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 2200 in use.
Health Comfort Economy.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
£l7/17/6 f.o.r. Sydney, including Sales Tax, plus
25/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
30 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency and
mechanism.
It is not just a
modified closet
pan.
It displaces pans
and saves sanitary
rates.
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
ANY HANDY-
MAN CAN IN-
STAL IT.
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
did not get his visit to my room, and be-
cause I was opposed to the lash.
Horrified at these allegations, the man of God
denied that he ever urged “the lash” for girls,
and challenged his detractor to produce the
.alleged letters. They were not produced. In-
stead there was tabled a letter from Mr. Evatt’s
secretary, asserting that he “clearly” recollected
“the receipt of two letters from Mr. Walker
advocating stricter disciplinary measures at
Parramatta,” also a telephone message in which
“he definitely stated to me that the superinten-
dent should be given the power to inflict cor-
poral punishment on the girls.” But the secre-
tary admitted that he had “not as yet been
able to locate the letters from Mr. Walker;
they were not departmental letters, consequently
they were not filed.”
As Mr. Evatt should know well enough,
this “evidence” of his secretary would be re-
jected with contempt in any court of law.
On a party vote, 48 to 17, the House
approved of Mr. Evatt’s administration. Within
three days there had been another outbreak of
riotous behavior and escapes, followed by the
incarceration of some of the girls in a city
lockup for a night and the committal 9I
others to Long Bay. An unspeakably sordid
climax came nine days after the division, when
two escapees were found at a Maltese gar-
dener’s and arrested, together with the Maltese.
POLITICAL POINTS
Indignantly denying that his depart-
ment (War Organisation of Industry) is
crammed with “economists, sophisters
and calculators,” as Burke put it, Ded-
man read out a list. On it were the
names of two chaps from the Post
Office, a librarian (retired), a Professor
of Economics, a Lecturer in Economics,
an Economic Adviser, two Auditors-
General, a Parliamentary draftsman, a
Lecturer in Statistics (now a Director of
something or other), two vets, (one a
professor), a State politician, a former
State politician (“an M.L.A. for 30
years”) and three trade-union gents, Ded-
man is now convinced that he nailed the
lie properly.
Hitting at “Dr.” Dalton, a delegate to
the British Labor Conference said “The
only thing he has done since he joined
the Ministry was to take a couple of
inches off the tails of our shirts.” Now
Dedman is taking “three to five inches”
off the tails of Australians’ shirts. But
it isn’t all Deddy has done or proposes
to do. Vests have come under his taboo,
though so far he is the only person who
has been seen in a Dedman suit, and
pyjamas are to be cut to the Victory
pattern.
McKell, who when pelting flowers at
Curtin recently contrived to forget that
he wanted to fight the Curtin income tax
in the High Court until overruled by the
State Labor Conference, has been de-
livered of another Budget. Although his
Government is to receive an excessive
amount of Commonwealth income-tax
revenue, and has been relieved by the
Commonwealth of millions of expendi-
ture in respect of child endowment,
widows’ pensions and unemployed-relief,
his surplus, he says, will be a poor thing
—only £25,000. It should be twenty
times that figure, and would be more if
State politicians accepted the principle
that they should be paid according to the
duties they now perform, such as the
duties are.
In a note on Australian ambassadors
and the like, the “Argus” complacently
observed that “the choice of men for
these posts has been unfailingly felicitous,
and Mr, Slater’s appointment shows that
this sound tradition is being maintained.”
In Sydney, of course, it has been bitterly
remarked that “the choice” has fallen
in every case on a man from Melbourne
—Bruce (London), Casey and Owen
(Washington), Latham (Tokyo), Eggles-
ton (Chungking), Gorman (Sourabaya)
and now Slater (Moscow). Events pre-
vented Gorman from going to Java.
Casey excepted, all the gentlemen have
been lawyers, though Bruce never prac-
tised ; and Casey had a university
training.
Casey is rarely mentioned in British
newspapers, but the “Times,” reporting
Churchill’s visit to Egypt, gave Dedman’s
predecessor a five-line par. “To be able
to talk with the P.M. directly and per-
sonally,” the “Thunderer” said, “will have
been a godsend to Mr. R. G. Casey, who
has particularly difficult job on hand
in representing British politics.” So that’s
what Casey represents.
A Labor member once, T. J. Hughes
has worried his old party since East
Perth elected him as a political watchdog,
and the Willcbck Government is finding
him more pertinacious than ever. Re-
cently he carried his protests against its
administration of the liquor and gambling
laws to a Town Hall meeting, and the
record says “Prolonged applause greeted
Mr. Hughes’s concluding remark that in
view of the State Government’s failure
in the matter of s.p. betting”—it sanc-
tioned fines being allowed as deductions
from income tax —“perhaps the Common-
wealth Government will wipe the State
Government out.” It is 41 years since
a sentiment like that brought down the
house at a public meeting in the State
that voted for secession.
One day last week it was mentioned in
Sydney papers that (1) two seamen had
been punished for “absenteeism,” (2) South
Coast coalminers were threatening an-
other large-scale strike and (3) Sydney
wharf-laborers had stopped unloading an
American ship because it was raining.
All these men belong to unions which
Communists have made great efforts to
capture, with all too much success. Com-
munists now claim to be against strikes
and absenteeism, but a belated twist can’t
undo the fell work of many years.
Labor members voted to a man with
Ward when that worthy, taking over
“‘There is no one in Australia, however weak and humble, who cannot play his part,’
said Mr. Curtin after viewing a V.D.C. march in Perth.”
“Billy, that means you!”
from Curtin, tried to get the Defence Act
“amended” so as to prevent called-up
men being sent to Papua and the Man-
dated Territory. They were all on hand
when Parliament, at Dr. Evatt’s instance,
adopted Section 3 of the Statute of West-
minster ;
It is hereby declared and enacted that
the Parliament of a Dominion has full
power to make laws having extra-territorial
operation.
Nor did they pay much attention when
Menzies dryly commented that this would
admit of Parliament’s passing a law to
send called-up men to any part of the
Pacific or the world. They will be tartly
reminded of that clause and that inter-
pretation if things go wrong in the Solo-
mons.
From “S. M. Herald”:
Russia’s own exhaustion and sufferings
have sharpened Stalin’s demand for western
operations, and the West would have cried
out in the same strain if the position were
reversed.
Wasn’t it reversed at any time? ’ And
did anyone hear a nation in the West
cry out during the year in which it stood
alone?
Hobart “Mercury” on a recent event:
To exchange diplomatic representatives
between Australia and Russia is a desir-
able gesture... .Lifting of the ban on
the Communist party in Australia is not
a corollary. Friendship for Russia would
be on an insecure footing if it involved
countenancing the doubtful activities of that
organisation.
To be forever damned must be a painful
achievement.
South Australia’s Playford, a plain,
blunt man, though a provincialist, is very
rough on Dr. Evatt’s proposal to put the
Four Freedoms in the Constitution.
“President Roosevelt,” Playford says,
“has proclaimed this ideal for the en-
slaved peoples of Europe, where it would
have a real significance. What is its signi-
cance to us?” Playford is to ask his
fellow-politicians at Adelaide to give him
a mandate to oppose the Evatt plan and
method. He points out that “the con-
scription referenda of the last war can ed
more bitterness than any other political
issue has ever caused in Australia” ; and
that is true.
After a hearing which lasted several
weeks Judge Drake-Brockman fined the
owners of Richmond Main £5O and the
manager £lOO for having closed the mine
for a day, “without the consent of the
Coal Commissioner.” As the National
Security regs. under which they were
prosecuted—the fourth or fifth lot—
apply equally to the other side, this
should have been a Dreadful Warning to
miners; but that very night Comrade
Wells, president of the Miners’ Federa-
tion, was heard saying that “employees
in southern coalmines would cease iwork
unless pay claims by two Bulli miners
were conceded.” Next day, while “the
general stoppage on the South Coast”
was “under consideration,” 1035 miners
were on strike. Such is government, as
the Labor “Government” practises it.
Forde falls out with the flapper press;
In the days when he was talking about turn- 1
,r *S trained soldiers in ten days, Army
Mmistei Forde hearkened to the Sydney flapper
press and ordered the Owen sub-machine-gun
in large quantities, the weapon having been
boomed as if it were a new brand of leg-cream.
Now that thousands of the guns have been pro-
duced, the bitter cry is heard that they are not
being served out; Mr. Forde explains that,
having visited the N.G. front, he found that
most Australian soldiers prefer rifle and
bayonet to any quickfiring small arms.” In-
“*-ech “ e was . ‘/convinced” on his trip to
Moresby that, “if given the choice between rifle
and bayonet and an automatic gun, nine out of
ten soldiers would take the rifle.” The
Army is using for special purposes the heavier
Ihompson gun, which possesses stopping-power
the 9mm. gun lacks. The sub-machine-gun—
machine carbine” in military parlance—is a
purely specialised subsidiary weapon which bears
the same relationship to the ordinary m.-g.
that a pistol bears to a rifle.
Hobart “Mercury” calls the Tasmanian
Government proposal to establish a State
Arbitration Court a “waste of time.” So
is the Tasmanian Government—a waste
of time and tin.
“There will be no possibility of any
person in New South Wales travelling by
rail specially to see the Melbourne Cup.”
—Ukase following a conference of trans-
port heads. It’s going to make a lot of
holders of gold passes annoyed—or is it?
N.S.W. Chief Secretary Badly has
warned fish market agents to stop “abuses
and irregular trading” or the Government
will take “absolute control.” Whereupon
the confusion will become worse con-
founded.
The removal of Italians from the
enemy-alien list in the U.S.A. may be
construed as an attempt—the first of a
series—to manoeuvre Italy out of the
war. Force is a necessary accompani-
ment ; hence the movements in North
Africa and the bombings of Italian cities.
The Germans must be nervous about
Italian morale, otherwise they wouldn't
be complimenting Italian soldiers so lav-
ishly, particularly on their performance
in Russia. It seems an appropriate time
for bombarding war-weary Latins with
selected extracts from what their present
allies said about them in the last war,
beginning with the first historic compli-
ment. That was “Germany has another
enemy. An army of mandolin-players is
on the march against us,”
The contest for the Victorian Assem-
bly Speakership, vacated by Slater, off
to Moscow, was confined to Opposition
members, and Knox (Upper Yarra) won
comfortably. The ballot disposed of
expectations, entertained in some quar-
ters, that the U.A.P. had forgiven lan
Macfarlan, and might even be induced to
accept him as leader. The lawyer from
Brighton was nominated by Cook (L.C.P.)
and Mutton (Ind. Lab.) and was the first
man out, getting only a fifth of the votes
—ll out of 55.
After all the talk about a record rush
of N.S.W. State Labor politicians for
Federal party nominations, only two put
in their names—Lang and Geraghty.
Geraghty fancies he can step from the
North Sydney seat in Macquarie-street
into the one at Canberra which Billy has
occupied since Billy left Bendigo.
Geraghty has the fancy to himself.


m
ssiipspp
•^iSUrSS-
... SB
THE FLEETS of the DEMOCRACIES use
BATTERIES
Still keep going when the rest have stopped
AT LEFT: American battleships in
formation with gun turrets raised.
AT RIGHT: One of Britain’s most for-
midable battleships patrolling the seas.
4
PERSONAL ITEMS
Moscow-bound William Slater, M.L.A.,
has had an unusual Parliamentary his-
tory. Born on the north side of the
Murray in 1890, he enlisted at 25 as a
stretcher-bearer in the 10th Field Ambu-
lance and got a blighty in France in
1917. He was elected to the Victorian
Assembly as member for Dundas while
convalescing in Southern England, made
his first appearance in his electorate when
invalided home in 1918, added to his
education at Melbourne University and
Minister to Moscow.
was admitted to the Bar in 1922. He
was three times Attorney-General, once
under Prendergast and twice under Ned
Hogan, when he also had the portfolio
of Agriculture. Speaker in the present
House, he has been twice president
of the Law Society of Victoria and once
chief president of the A.N.A., and was
on the legal panel of the Council for Civil
Liberties. He holds the rank of sergeant
in the Ist Medical Unit, V.D.C., has
been president of his old army medical
for 24 years, and is a trustee of the
National Gallery of Victoria. His wife
is an M.Sc. It would be cold swimming
in the Moskva River these days, but
Slater once participated in a three-mile
swim in the Yarra.
Just over 25 years ago there was a
quartet of cub reporters in Perth. They
were often assigned to cover the same
job for their respective papers. Roy
Curthoys was with the “West Australian,”
Harold Campbell with the “Daily News,”
H. J. Timperley, his assistant, and Victor
Courtney with the “Sunday Times.”
Campbell went to Melbourne to a job
on the “Age,” of which he is now the
editor; Curthoys to the “Argus,” of
which he became editor, during which
time his paper won a big American prize
for journalistic excellence. He left the
“Argus” to become Australian represen-
tative of London “Times.” Timperley,
when still a junior, went to a newspaper
job in China. He came back to Aus-
tralia the other day in his new capacity
as Political Adviser to the Chinese Gov-
ernment. Courtney, the man who stayed
home, has become managing editor and
part proprietor of the paper on which he
was a cadet.
Archdeacon Cowie, of Auckland
(M.L.), equalled a fair sort of record
when he lately did the splicing service
for Walter John Goodare (of the N.Z.
Army) and Marie Mavis McKenzie. He
had done the same service for their
parents, and, at 25, for their grand-
parents. The only other instance of
a similar performance in Maoriland is
that of the Vicar of Onehunga, Dr. A.
G. Purchas, who also hitched up all the
parties making three generations.
Wymark, Bookman:
Fred Wymark, who passed on in Sydney last
week, was a topnotcher in the Australian book
trade. Jim Tyrrell reckons that Wymark’s
knowledge of Australiana was directly respon-
sible for half the Mitchell collection and some-
thing like two-thirds of the Dixon collection.
When the Mitchell Library was starting the
man whose name it wears wanted Wymark to
be first librarian, but Fred (as the book people
speak of him) declined. In one of the oddest
little tomes ever published in Australia —Henry
Lawson’s The Auld Shop and New —
George Robertson, in a note, records how
Wymark got his start. In those days, wrote
G.R., if you advertised for a boy 30 would
turn up for a five-shilling billet. The Angus
of the A. and R. firm made his selection
quickly, picking a boy from Balmain, with the
other 29 shouting personalities at him from
the footpath. Angus, who probably didn’t
relish the crew calling him “Ginger,” was fed-up
with boys when Fred strolled in. He told Fred
to “Clear out of this”; but Fred managed
to gather that the other boy was due to start
at 8.30 next morning, at which time Angus found
Fred sitting on the doorstep. When Angus
opened the door Fred, remarking that the other
boy couldn’t have been much good or he’d
have been early for the first day, stepped in-
side, grabbed a broom, swept out the shop
and announced that the job was his. Eventu-
ally he became director of the firm. Once in
Fred’s early days there Parkes came in, put
his gigantic top-hat on a book table and was
mopping his brow when Fred, sidling up, tried
on the cady. Fred’s head, ears and entire face
vanished in it. “Ha, my boy,” said Parkes,
“you’ll have to let that pimple grow a bit be-
fore you can wear that hat!”
Cables the other day carried a high
compliment to Maorilander Air Vice-
Marshal Park, “the brain directing one
of the world’s finest combinations of
fighters, radio location and anti-aircraft
fire” at Malta. Another M.L. airman
in a tidy job is C. W. K. Nichols, of
Auckland, who’s in command of the
Empire Flying School in England. One
of the school’s main interests is to im-
prove safety in flying. Everything that
flies comes under scrutiny, and what the
school doesn’t know about winged con-
trivances is scarcely worth bothering
about. Nichols’s offsider is a Newcastle
(N.S.W.) airman, Squadron-Leader T.
Boylan.
The face of Helen of Troy is credited
with having launched a thousand ships ;
that of Harold R. Redding, here depicted,
once had launched at it a thousand toma-
toes. At least, Redding believes there were
that many. In his salad (don’t shoot!)
days as campaign director for the late
Harry Gullett he was holding a meeting
for Gullett when the fruit began to fly.
When Gullett arrived, Redding left the
platform covered with tomato pulp and
dodged a hail of eggs aimed at the candi-
date. A lady supporter cried “Save him!
Help him!” “I’m too blessed busy sav-
ing myself!” shouted Redding, making
for cover. Now 40, he’s in calmer waters
as secretary of N.S.W. branch of the
HAROLD R. REDDING.
A.N.A., trying to instil Australianism
into all who will listen. Son of a Ruther-
glen (Vic.) farming family, he graduated
from Melbourne High School into com-
mercial life via the Commonwealth
Steamship Line, which chose him among
a score of youngsters to visit England
as part of their business training. When
the line closed he joined Harrisons, Ram-
say, Ltd., and later the Shell Co,, finding
time to practise public speaking and
win a couple of debating championships.
A term as secretary of the Victorian
Professional Golfers’ Association and 10
years as secretary of the Victorian branch
of the A.N.A. fitted him for the N.SAV.
job, which he has held since 1938.
Brigadier George Hodges Knox, the
Victorian M.L.A. for Upper Yarra, who
must have nearly established a political
record in holding his U.A.P. seat un-
opposed for 15 years, takes over the
Assembly Speakership. Now 57, he
graduated from Melbourne Scotch to
command of the 23rd Batt. on Gallipoli.
Then he was in Egypt, Sinai and France,
and came out C.M.G. and twice men-
tioned in dispatches. After being A.D.C.
to the State Governor, he went on a
special service mission abroad and came
back to a succession of
commands until 1927,
after which he was Cabi-
net secretaiy to the Mc-
Pherson Ministry, an hon.
Minister and Executive
Councillor. Next to sol-
diering, he talks most
enthusiastically about
polo ; he’s vice-president
of the Vic. Polo Associa-
tion.
When the history of
this war is written one of
its most remarkable
features will be the num-
ber of generals killed in
action ; and evidently the
war correspondent’s job
has increased risks also.
Two American corre-
spondents have now been
killed in these parts—
Melville Jacoby, of New
York “Life,” in a ’plane
crash at the end of
April; and New York
“Times” correspondent
Byron Darnton, in New
Guinea the other day.
Darnton, who served
with the U.S. forces in
France in the last war,
was one of the best at
his job and one of the most likeable of
the fair swarm of U.S. journalists who
have looked in on Australia since the
Japs started. An official spokesman said
that Darnton, in his press work up North,
“served with gallantry and devotion at
the front.” Yet another American corre-
spondent to run into the hazards of the
job is the U.S. Assoc. Press rep. Vern
Haughland, who, lost in New Guinea
after parachuting from a ’plane, was
brought very ill to an Australian hospital.
For “courage and devotion to duty”
General MacArthur decorated Haugh-
land with the Silver Star.
“M.W.8.W.”: Recent mention of air-
man Eric Donaldson reminded me that,
when he was residing at Cloncurry (Q.)
and was widely known as “Qantas Pilot,”
an inspector at the local school, ques-
tioning on Religious Instruction (with the
temperature at 114 and ’planes droning
overhead), noted that young Tommy’s
mind was wandering. The inspector
pounced on him. “Who was Pontius
Pilate?” he thundered. Tommy rose with
a start, but brought his mind back from
overhead and pat came the answer “Eric
Donaldson, sir.”
“A.J.M.0.”; That pure flock descended
from the original sheep imported by
Capt. John Macarthur and owned in
Victoria by the late Alan Currie (B.
14/10/’42) isn’t the only one. There is
and always has been a flock of these
sheep at Camden Park, Menangle
(N.S.W.). There also used to be a small
flock, owned by a son of the late William
Campbell, in Sussex (Eng.). Campbell
was at one time manager at Richlands,
Taralga (N.S.W.), for James and William
Macarthur.
Recently appointed Director of Loco-
motive and Rollingstock in the Ministry
of Munitions, Joe Ellis has a man-size
job looking over the whole of Australia’s
railway engines and vehicles. Coming
from the Old Country on a honeymoon
trip, Ellis found Australia so much to
his and his young bride’s liking that they
decided to stay here. He had joined the
London North-West Railways as a lad
and studied civil engineering. His first
job in Australia was with the Queensland
Railways, and in the 16 years he worked
there he built miles and miles of railway
track and bridges. He then went to W.A.
as a Public Works engineer, later becom-
ing chief engineer. Then he threw in his
lot with W.A. Railways, and within three
years was Chief Commissioner. He is a
member of the Commonwealth Land
Transport Board. Three sons are doing
their bit; one as an engineer with the
U.S. Army, another in the air over Libya,
and the third with the R.A.N.
The features modelled by Frith have
been familiar to John Curtin for 25 years,
and they became a nightmare to him
while the votes for Fremantle were being
counted two years ago, for until prefer-
ences were examined it seemed certain
that the owner, Roy Lee, would become
F. R. LEE.
the member. But over a thousand care-
less electors who had given their
primaries to Clark, the other U.A.P. can-
didate, continued down the ballot paper ;
had they exercised their preferences as
Clark asked them to do, Labor would
have had to get another leader, and he
could scarcely have become P.M. Three
months later Lee was campaigning in
Kalgoorlie, and he startled goldfields
Laborites by polling a much greater vote
than any non-Labor man had done* since
the electorate was created in 1901. If
he could do that as a stranger he ought
to have a political future in his native
State of Victoria. Long ago Lee ran a
paper in Perth. In later years he got to
know all the Commonwealth politicians
as secretary of the Associated Chambers
of Manufactures. An effective platform
speaker, he has a fund of good stories,
considerably added to by his electioneer-
ing, particularly in the wilder parts of
the goldfields, and Nature endowed him
with the gift of making friends wherever
he goes.
Into the silence:
At Glenelg (S.A.), at 59, Leo R. Seppelt,
chairman of directors of the wine firm, and
one of the best wine authorities in Australia.
In his youth a good athlete, and ever since a
busy man, he worked to the end; on the day
he died he had been in his city office, and
collapsed after being taken home.
Better known, perhaps, outside his own State
was Hubert Candy (“Bert”), head porter at
the S.A. Hotel opposite the central railway
station in Adelaide. Of his 60 years over 40
had been spent there, and he had a wonderful
fund of stories of visiting celebrities, from
Kitchener and Wilson Barrett onwards.
At 58, Sidney Massey, of Minto (N.S.W.),
who tried to realise political ambitions the tough
way—by pitting himself as a U.A.P. candidate
against Jack Lang in Auburn (in the election
in which Bavin and Co. were wiped), and
against Theodore in Dailey. Actually he beat
Theodore, but Rosevear was elected. As a ser-
geant in the 48th Batt. Massey collected an
M.M. for his part in the denting of the Hin-
denburg Line in 1918.
At Briagolong (Vic.), old Ted Bennett, who
got into B. 22/7/’42 on the strength of cele-
brating his 108th birthday with all his de-
scendants around him. He arrived in Victoria
from Ireland the year of the gold discoveries
(1851), was a timber-getter, horse-judge and
-buyer, prospector and soldier (in Maoriland),
and publican. He had six children, 63 grand-
children and 80 great-grandchildren.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Monkey Strap”: As a fully-certifi-
cated boundary-rider (retired), it used
to amuse me mightily to discover a
bunch of suburban lads and lasses bounc-
ing along the northern fringe of Sydney
on the sorriest collection of nags I’ve
ever seen. With them would be a spec-
tacle in scarlet shirt, leather pants and
10-gallon hat, like as not with a ukulele
or guitar. They were guests of the “Bar
20 Dude Ranch,” an establishment whose
advertisements guaranteed to the over-
worked office-boy or the harried lass
from the ’aberdash all the thrills and
ro-mance of ranch life—cowboys, range
songs, guitars, mesquite suppers, every-
thing short of Injuns to scalp. Associated
Press gave the outfit a few pages in its
“Pix,” large pictures of barelegged girls
in interesting poses, listening with rapt
expressions to chromatic troubadours in
the moonlight, or mounted, still bare-
legged and interesting, on something
touched up till it looked fit to win the
Cup. In various places you came on en-
larged pictures of large-hatted individuals
playing riatas or the same girls with the
same bare legs in the same interesting
poses, all calling you to the Bar-20. Now
the Bar-20 director and manager have
been called to the courts and fined £5O
each for cruelty to animals. A police wit-
ness with 27 years’ experience of horses
described the unfortunate mounts as
being in worse condition than anything
he had seen in the drought-stricken out-
back, It turned out, too, that some of
the horses had been sold at from 17s, 6ci.
to 30s. a head for dogs’ meat. So much
for ro-mance!
» * * r
“D.E.”; Musing on Smuts’s fine speech
to the members at Westminster, I came
upon a copy of a Natal “Daily News”
containing the first list of South Africans
“missing, believed prisoner of war,” at
Tobruk. There were 3000 or 4000 names,
and most of them were Dutch. All were
familiar to me when, as an urchin with a
retentive memory, I followed the Boer
War news—Botha, Coetzee, Cronje,
Erasmus, De Villiers, Fourie, Grobler,
Ferreira, Joubert, Kritzinger, Kruger,
Pretorius, Pienaar, Scheepers, Steyn,
Van der Merwe, Van Heerden, Van
Niekerk, Van Reenen, Van Wyk, Van
Zyl, Viljoen and many more. There
were actually 21 Bothas (a Louis among
them), and almost as many Coetzees,
Fouries, Van der Merwes, Van Wyks
and Van Zyls, while the fine old De
Villiers clan was very strongly repre-
sented. 1 could find only one De la Key
and only one Smuts. But what an achieve-
ment of the old Field-Marshal to bring
so many of the sons and grandsons of
the men who fought the Rooineks into
the fight against the Axis!
« * * *
“Adelaide”: What mugs we punters
are! S.A.’s Betting Board, going into
recess now that local racing is banned
and the licensed betting-shops are shut,
reports that the season (eight months
only before the ban) saw a turnover of
nearly £5,000,000 all cash, and
£3,000,000 of it wagered in shops. There
were 18,000,000 bets, and bookmakers’
profit was about 7 p.c. A sideline in the
report concerns those champion chumps
who don’t collect their winnings. Un-
claimed money handed over by book-
makers to the board had always been
“insignificant”; but, on a proper check
being applied, two months before the
ban, it began to roll in at about £lOOO a
month.
• * * «
“Zake”; Strong is the power of habit.
Springer, whose Sydneyside garden never
withered despite the long drought, came
out the other evening to water some
phlox seedlings he’d planted a few days
earlier. Suddenly the head of Callow,
the practical joker of the street, popped
up from behind his mint bush and
hissed “U.S.A.” In a flash Springer had
dumped his watering-can behind his
thickest-flowering shrub and was giving
an imitation of a man closely examining
a hibiscus plant. Then he woke up and
cursed Callow right heartily. No, he hadn’t
taken fright because he thought soldiers
of an Allied nation were approaching.
The warning was one designed in the
water-restriction days to save gardeners
of the community (banded in conspiracy)
from the wrath of Authority. “U.S.A.”
stood for “Upton’s Snoopers Around.”
* * x * *
“Avon”; There was a commendable
mixture of cynicism and resource about
a New Plymouth (M.L.) boy who was
picked to represent a fatality in an E.P.S.
trial. At the appointed time he was
hoisted on a stretcher and delivered at
hospital, where a nurse commenced to
remove the contents of his pockets (all
‘ She's nothing but a gold-digger !”
according 10 hospital routine). The
youngster reached into his inside breast-
pocket, produced a legal-looking docu-
ment, and remarked “Lay off! This
here’s my last will and testament. It says
‘all valuables to be buried with the
body.’ ”
• ♦ * «
“Oxmead”; There is one class at least
to whom the atmosphere of frugality
into which Australia is-—or is supposed
to be —entering should be no novelty;
that is, unless things have changed very'
much since the poet Kendall dejectedly
wrote about
the life austere
Ever pressing with its hardships on the man of
letters here.
I don’t know anyone who would describe
himself as a “man of letters” to whom I
could appeal to for an opinion; you
never see such an occupation listed in
directories or electoral rolls.
* * * *
“Bouquet”: Certain persons have been
criticising Sydney wharf-laborers for
refusing to work when a spot of rain is
about, at the same time pointing out that
soldiers brought in to do the work did
it quicker and at about one-fifth the wage.
This, of course, overlooks the wharfie’s
unique position in our social scheme. Let
trammies swing from the rain-slippery
footboards if they are silly enough to
do it; let policemen go on directing
traffic in tropic downpours; let young
Australians stupid enough to join the
army work and fight regardless of
weather. But don’t ask the gentleman
who honors the community by consent-
ing, for a mere pittance of eight bob an
hour, to wheel goods off a wharf to dis-
charge such duties when meteorological
conditions are not to his satisfaction,
Such a request will be regarded by him
not offiy as a gross interference with the
liberty of the subject but as a sinister
attempt to break up the solidarity of
men who are ever in the forefront of Uie
fight against oppression. If wharfies
worked in the ram and got rheumatism
m the arms and were unable to raise
pots of beer off bar counters, who would
come to their aid? The bosses? Of
course not!
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “Wodgil” notes that most
of the outstanding figures in this war,
as in the last one, are “men below the
average height” (B. 21/ 10/ ’42). This
recalls a recent controversy in ap English
paper as to who were the absolutely
tafllToS On ha T riSe H to
wl h T7ir d Coun . t f ry ; Accor ding to Have-
lock Ellis, a pretty trustworthy authority,
there are only two really celebrated Eng-
lishmen “known to have been as short
as five feet.” Few could name either of
them in a thousand guesses, but Ellis’s
nair are William Rlako (1757 IS77\ ami
Torn S™ 1 u B i 7) and
Tom Moore (1779-1852). Both were
poets, as everyone knows, but Moore
could hardly be called English, except by
long years of residence, I can’t recall
any reference to his diminutive stature
in anv bioeranhv
any oiograpny.
*„* * *
Capt. P. : The penchant for leaving
?“ ?U Vror l 8 ,?• } 4 J 7 f 42)
cTrtL Lv h n bad H faU i ° f f Sydne r
s ders their confirmed reluctance to
close a door. They attend to doors m
,< • , . . ... , ~ .. ,
tntii homes and public buildings much
the same as other people, but once they
board a tram all the winds from the Pole
won’t make them rinse a rlnnr either nn
Teo?- „ a i u a door either on
leaving or departing. Anyone unlucky
enough on a corridor tram to get a seat
near a door on a windy day can expect
to have serious elbow-trouble through
constantly shutting the darned thing. Re-
marked on it to a fellow-traveller, who
reckoned I was captious, so we had three-
pence on everyone who left by our door.
The total was nine. I collected Is. 9d,
and paid out 6d.
“c r rc ”. t c a
0.X.0, . Leaving Sydney trams on the
wrong side? In Adelaide you can’t do it
from the women’s seats. From the men’s
you could if you care to duck under a
bar and take the chance of (1) diving
into the standards between the lines, or
(2) being killed by the car coming the
Other wav But I haven’t seen anvhndv
oiner way nut i naven t seen anybody
take that chance for years.
* * * «
M. : Born under the old Welsh moun-
tain Cader Idris, Walter Owen-Idriess,
father of the bushman author, went west
the other day at fourscore, smoking his
pipe to the last. Like all Welshmen, he
swore he was descended from Merlin,
King Arthur and the Knights of the Round
Table; and he reckoned that if Black
Morgan (the Welsh pirate who ended up
as Governor of Jamaica) was alive today
there’d be no room left in the world for
Hitler. Having sailed into the Pacific
aboard H.M.S. Nelson (last British war-
ship to use sail and steam), Owen-Idriess
met in Sydney a pretty girl from an out-
back station, and that was the end of his
seafaring. For many years he travelled
N.S.W. as sheriff’s officer and mining
warden, starting in the days of the horse
and bullock wagon, the slab hut and
lonely selection, and floods and fires.
Once he was bailed up by a police posse;
that was when the bushranging Gov-
ernors were out, and the hunted men
had ridden across the track almost on
top of him. Later he became adviser of
the Afghans, whose constant feuds were
a characteristic of the far nor’-west of
those days. Altogether Owen-Idriess
lived a hard but stirring life, and
reckoned it was worth it when, nearing
the end, he lit his pipe and called it a
day,
* * * *
On a prince of comps.:
At one time the fastest comp, in the
Dominion, Robert Prince (who has passed on
at Wellington, at 77) had a rare collection of
stones connected with printing. According to
one, the Government Printing Office was print-
ing the matric. exam, papers when a cricketer
dropped in to see his cobber, who was in charge
of the job. It was raining, and the cricketer
(who was to sit for the exam.) was wearing a
long overcoat, with an immaculate pair of
white pants underneath. A proof having been
pulled while they were yarning, the cricketer
noticed that it was the Latin paper. He was
weak in Latin, and he was tempted. When his
cobber’s back was turned he seized the hand-
roller, inked the forme, and sat down on it.
Umpiring a bit later, he bent down to put on
the bails, and the batsman was astonished to
read clearly imprinted there the opening of
Caesar’s Gallic Wars.
* * * *
“Archbell”; Broke my watch glass the
other day, took it into a watchmaker’s
and asked him to fit another. “Sorry,”
he said, “we’re out of them.’* Then he
brightened. “Tell you what I can do
though; I’ll board it up for you! ”
♦ * * *
“C.H.S.”: Oliver Gilpin, the native of
the Kelly country who graduated from a
drapery store in Gippsland to become
head of 90 stores in four States, had his
own curious way of keeping records of
those who worked for him. Most of his
stores were staffed and bossed by girls and
women. One of these, going in to see
him about prospects of a rise, found her
name inscribed oh a large bean among
other inscribed beans kept in a big bottle.
To demonstrate progress, Gilpin shook
the particular bean up or down before
the interview, and the aspiring employee
was then permitted to see the position
her bean occupied among the others and
draw her own conclusions as to whether
she was rising or whether it would be
better to get married. His death, at 68,
removes one whose name was perhaps
the best-known in rural south-east Aus-
tralia,
* * * *
“Caesar’s Ghost” ransacks his Shak-
spearean memories:
The fuss oyer the unruliness of Sydney school-
children subjected to a performance of “Mac-
beth” recalls that the N. S. Wales education
authorities have more than once tried to enlist
the Bard as a pedagogue. Years ago the versa-
tile Judge Moffitt (he did black-and-white work
for The Bulletin, too), then a schoolteacher,
was given the job of finding scholars who could
play Shakspearean parts, but before that effort
got far Allan Wilkie came along and was
greeted as a godsend. The enforced support of
the schoolkids to Wilkie’s Shakspearean per-
formances was as good as a Government sub-
sidy. When Wilkie gave up, Roland McCarty,
who had been Wilkie’s manager, saw an oppor-
tunity to put on special performances for
schools. He had with him Gus Neville and other
well-versed Shakspearean mummers from the
Wilkie Co. That enterprise petered out when
McCarty and Neville parted company. Doris
Fitton’s effort to fill the breach is probably
as meritorious as any, but she wouldn’t have
pleased McKee Rankin, Nance O’Neil’s pro-
ducer and leading man. The profession still
remembers how, after a row with Nance, he
thundered: “No wo-man, how-ever won-derful,
could ev-er prrroduce Shakspeare!”
THE FOOL’S PARADISE
“The armistice, improperly called peace, between
1918 and 1939 was a period of feverish rest or
unrest, dreams and illusions.” —Jan Smuts.
Security we fondly deemed it spelt.
How few there were the hollowness who felt
Of that fool’s paradise wherein we dwelt!
Our careless thoughts were turned to other
things
Than war and all the horrors that it brings
To wishful dreams and vain imaginings.
The war to outlaw war eternally
Was won; they told us (will it ever be?)
The League of Nations was the agency
Beneath whose ;egis whilom foes should share
The fullness of the earth in concord rare.
Where is it now? And echo answers Where?
Ever we scoffed at those who voiced a fear
The day of grim awakening was near.
None are so deaf as they who will not hear.
False, fanciful illusions that deceive,
To these in blindness we were fain to cleave,
Believing—what we wanted to believe.
And when we’re through the present stress and
strain
’Twill show our lesson has been learned in vain
If we should ever be such dolts again.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
ON THE HOME FRONT.
“What have you done in the War, Deddy,
What have you done in the War?
This one, to wit, for you did your bit,
We know, in the one before.
But now you’re set in the Cabinet
That runs our end of the scrap,
Say, what have you done to euchre the Hun
And queer the pitch of the Jap?”
“I have spared no strain on my massive brain,
Devising any amount
Of worth-while stunts for our own home fronts
In the various things that count.
The Victory suit to my fair repute
You can credit beyond a doubt.
While others stop the Fritz and the Wop
I have walloped the waistcoat out.”
“But what have you done in the War, Deddy,
For test of your statesmanship?
Will sumptuary laws advance our cause
Or coupons rattle the Nip?
Will the war-drums cease and the wings of Peace
Be spread o’er the earth anew
When buttons three on our coats shall be
Replaced by a modest two?”
“From collar and cuff I have docked enough
My memory green to keep.
Now, by my duress, in pocketless
Garments o’ nights you’ll sleep.
And your shirts behind you will shorter find
By inches, and eke before.
That’s what I’ve done in the War, my son,
My way of winning the War.” _ _
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sixenate”: In spite of his long experi-
ence of criminal cases, just-dead Judge
Thomson, of Sydney, never got over
being shocked when shocking details wore
presented. But he had a sense of humor.
At Parramatta a particularly unsavory
case drew a packed court; as usual,
Thomson was disgusted to see such a
crowd and said so. He suggested that
perhaps those present did not realise just
how revolting the evidence might be, and
announced that he would postpone the
calling of the case for ten minutes in
order to enable any who cared to do so
to withdraw. Shamefacedly seven men
arose from their places and left the court.
“And,” said his Honor, telling the story,
“nine women rushed into the places they
had left!”
• * * *
“Wodgil”: I have read in two Great
Dailies that a marble bust of Edmund
Barton, to be seen in King’s Hall, Can-
berra, is frequently mistaken for one of
Fadden, the likeness being extraordinary.
Those who entertain this fancy never saw
Barton. Edmund’s hair had a natural
wave. Arthur’s hasn’t. Edmund had a
poet’s eyes and eyebrows (the latter any
woman would have envied); Artie’s, to
put it mildly, don’t answer that descrip-
tion. The first P.M.’s nose was of the
Greek type. The twelfth P.M.’s smeller,
though serviceable, with the broad nos-
trils which doctors vote a necessity in
the tropics, is decidedly not Greek. Really
the only point of resemblance I can trace
is a grooved upper lip. Not bad-looking
is our Artie, and a very nice fellow
withal, but don’t call him the living image
of Barton.
* * * *
“Ben Jonson’s Ghost”: I see that a
determined attempt has been made
to compel Sydney school kids to
like (or at least to conceal their
amusement at) a “repertory” perform-
ance of “Macbeth.” It failed, despite
vague threats, oral and printed, as to
what would happen to the young rap-
scallions did they not show proper rever-
ence. ’Twould have been grand, I grant
you, had we of the Mermaid Tavern com-
pany who sometimes had our plays pro-
duced at the Globe been able thus to
browbeat and cozen the unruly cits, with
a display of high authority, but would it
have made us better playwrights to know
that we could cram what fare we chose
down unwilling gullets? I trow not.
And I mind me well the time Will Shak-
speare toured the provinces with but
sorry actors —almost repertorians. But
“Macbeth” went well. At the first act
the audience laughed ; at the second the
players became infected with the gaiety,
and at the third our Will himself nigh
split his sides. Ah, sirs, a great night
and, what’s better, a fat treasury!
SK * *
“Ike Hollar”; Add to the good deeds
of Archdeacon Hammond (B. 21/10/’42)
that he gave a generous helping hand
to bibulous pressmen who fell on bad
times —and paid them good rates for
literary wallops against the Demon. The
Archdeacon contrived a fine funeral
edition for “Grit.”
* * * *.
“Season”: I was strolling through the
wicket at Wynyard into Mr. Hartigan’s
domain in the mental condition of the
farmer’s lad, “thinking of nothing at all,”
holding my season ticket aloft automati-
cally, when suddenly, without the slight-
est warning, the railway traditions of 87
years fell shattered to the ground. A
sweet soprano voice, emanating from
smiling ruby lips, and backed by a pair
of sparkling eyes, said “Thank you.” In
a split second I revised my estimate of
T. Hartigan and his service. “They are
not,” I said to myself, “entirely inhuman.
They discard now the pretence that they
regard me as a person of evil disposi-
tion prone to the smuggling of explo-
sives and the laying of obstructions upon
the rails. It may be that they do not
really believe that, if an air-raid warning
came, I should use it as a pretext for
wrecking their entire organisation by in-
sisting on taking refuge in their sacred
purlieus. The notices they stick up every-
where threatening am with severe penal-
ties are meant in but a Pickwickian
sense.” Thus I mused. But next day the
girl ticket collector didn’t smile and didn’t
say “Thank you.” 1 must have been her
very first passenger.
* * * 9
“Uramao”; A lovely spoonerism
comes from Maoriland. Before the
Armed Forces Appeal Board an orchard-
ist was seeking release from camp to do
his pruning and spraying. Piped up a
member of the board, very brightly, “And
how long will your spooning and praying
take?”
$ * * *
“Norther”; Wee Waa, up in nor’-west
N.S.W., was a great place for girls. In
most Australian country towns girls
are—or were—in a decided minority ;
“It’s all right , my man — I'm just getting the alcohol out of you!"
in Wee Waa they had an odd pre-
dominance. If you happened to hit
the place close to 6 p.m. you’d see
’em skittering up and down and across
the bit of a street and you’d involun-
tarily look for a circus or a convention
or something. It was my pleasant duty
to visit Wee Waa two or three times a
year, and its girls were a sight for eyes
sore from motoring across the black-
soil plains in summer. Recently I was there
again, but Wee Waa had become a drdb,
deserted place, with a few dogs hanging
about the pub, an old-timer sitting on a
box by the store and a couple of matrons
crossing the road. “Yair,” said the pub-
lican, “it’s a shame. They’ve all gone to
these here Waffs an’ Awas an’ muni-
tions an’ things. It’s a crool war. What’ll
y’ have?”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “F.S.” is right (B. 23/9/’42).
The effect of Bowdlerising depends not
only on the individual Bowdler but on
his audience. Many a broad music-hall
joke might be told in a Sunday school
without harm, just because the infants
haven’t the experience of life to under-
stand it. Lately one heard two American
soldiers in a film-play boasting about
their respective fascination for the girls
in Hongkong. It worked up to a sugges-
tion which The Bulletin wouldn’t print
if I repeated it here. But the mere words
were all right—to the innocent-minded ;
and an innocent-minded Censor had
found nothing wrong in them.
* * * *
“A.R.P.”: N.S.W. Minister for N.E.S.
Heffron had better stage a fake raid or
something if he doesn’t want his organ-
isation of suburban wardens to fall to
bits. The city organisation, despite that
there is a full-blown department with all
the accoutrements in Macquarie-street,
never functioned properly. Now, will,
the growing notion that all is well anc
no raiders likely to appear, the heads c.
suburban divisions are beginning to act
like a women’s sewing circle. Enthusi-
asm is giving way to disgust as intrigues
develop and all sorts of peculiar bodies
bob up armed with self-imposed or dele-
gated authority. Unless something hap-
pens in the next few months I foresee a
number of suburban posts with the ‘ to
let” sign hanging outside.
“Berma”: A.R.P. dress rehearsals in
M. are leading to some embarrassment
to people who do not greatly concern
themselves with the regulations. In these
stunts every provision is made for sup-
posititious events; each sort of emer-
gency has its own particular unit and
signal. Recently in a northern country
town the siren sounded and all the
N. people dashed to their posts and
watched out for the particular cases with
which they were to deal. The signal for
maternity cases was a white sheet hung
out from the window. The unit, observ-
ing such a signal on the hill, dashed up
nurses, ambulance, stretcher-bearers and
all. An astonished 60-year-old spinster
explained that she hung out the sheet to
dry it, after washing it.
# * * *
“T.M.”: The large lady with the
pleasant face and the clutch of young
hanging round her skirts eyed the group
of women soldiers or whatever they are
and muttered testily “Huh! Those men
at Canberra call them inspiring. I’m sick
of it. Any minute I expect some pert
young monkey to stick me up and say
‘Why ain’t you in khaki?’ Me, that’s
fought sickness and poverty all me life
since me husband went and got washed
off the rocks years ago. But I got
me kids, and they’re all healthy and well-
fed. Go and tell those men at Canberra
that. And tell ’em, too, I never took a
shilling from the Government. That
ought to inspire ’em.” Crushing back an
impulse to salute her, I withdrew.
* * * *
“N. E. Bottles”: You have to queue up
now if you want a bottle of wine from
a city store. In a big bodega t’other day
the queue was about half a mile long,
md the girls taking the orders moved
like somnambulists. The man ahead of me
fumed more and more as every minute
passed. After 20 minutes there were still
six ahead of him, and some bloke who
didn’t know what he wanted and wouldn’t
be satisfied with anything else seemed
“ You'll have to take over , Lieutenant—I've just got my callup for the
Labor Corps!”
likely to hold us up indefinitely. Utter-
ing a dreadful word, the chap ahead of
me stepped out of the queue. “Well,
s’long! ” he said to us all. “I’m off to
a seed-and-plant shop. I’ll then go home
and set some grapevines.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: It was early last week
when the news boards carried hints of
the Solomons fighting and nobody knew
whether or not the Yanks could hang on.’
Out of an office came a young man just
as a newspaper truck passed by. He
looked at the poster on its side, stopped
dead in his tracks and watched it go.
Then he turned to dash back and, as he
did so, gave tongue: “Gripes, I didn’t
know there was a lottery drawn today.
Must get me ticket.”
* * * *
“M.C.”: Some strange misfits get into
the army, here as elsewhere. One of the
oddest I’ve come across was a chap who,
selected for some reason or other to go
to an n.c.os.’ school, not only came out
bottom in a list of 100 after examination
(the rest ranged from excellent to good
enough), but made the almost incredible
score of 0. Also, a few months back I
witnessed what otherwise I couldn’t have
believed —no fewer than three out of a
batch of 17 each scoring 0 in 15 shots
with 303’s at 35-yard range! Leaving out
the group shoot, it meant that each
missed the target altogether with his 10
application shots, though at that range
to 99 Diggers in 100 it’d be only a matter
of pointing the rifle at the target to hit
it somewhere. All Australian-born, two
of them from country towns, the three
came to light with the equally astonishing
explanation that they’d never before fired
a weapon of any kind.
* * * *
“Chevroford”; Now that the Werribee-
beef controversy has died down it is just
possible some consideration will be given
to a suggestion made by A. H. Wood-
full that inland sewage treatment plants
in Australia should be scrapped and the
waste turned to irrigation and fertilising
purposes. Woodfull says the 23,000-
acre farm at Werribee has fattened 71,000
sheep, which yielded a record profit,
raised a ton of onion seed for Britain,
grazed 2000 horses and agisted 10,000
cattle. In China nothing is wasted, and,
although the primitive method of using
the waste from the cities makes a walk
through the country anything but a poet’s
dream, the 4,000,000 inhabitants of
Shanghai, including Europeans, have
been fed from vegetables produced in
this way for generations and disease has
never yet been traced to this source.
Chinamen have just as many prejudices
as Europeans, but they have no preju-
dice at all in this direction.. My lao-dah
once tied up my houseboat alongside a
concrete * erection and started to prepare
my dinner. I was just starting on the
hors d’ceuvres when I got equally con-
crete evidence that the spot he had
selected was a manure reservoir for the
local farmers. When I suggested shift-
ing he thought I had gone silly.
* * * *
“Unemployed Gravedigger”: To one
in my position the annual report of Bris-
bane Crematorium, Ltd., makes bitter
reading. Blank to September, 1934, in
which month my union was done out of
nine jobs, the report shows a steady in-
crease to a total of 1130 last year. An
idea of the fierce competition we’re up
against is had from the fact that in the
last five years B.C. has reduced charges
from £ll 11s. to £6 17s. 6d, about 40 p.c.
Despite this its finances have been im-
proved, by, among other things, the sale
of 569 niche spaces “in the columbarium
walls” in the year to June, 1942, the
realised £2710 allowing £723 to be trans-
ferred to the account “Provision for Care
of Ashes in Perpetuity.” Further, an
additional £2OOO was invested in War
Loan, shareholders pocketed a 6 p.c. div.,
and £7Bl was expended on A.R.P., in-
cluding, I note with some puzzlement, an
air-raid shelter. As yet I can still count
on an occasional job in “Hamlet,” but I
expect that to go next.
« * * *
“Cerberus” explains how a port got its
name:
It was discovered by Surgeon Bass on the
whaleboat voyage which also entailed the dis-
covery of Twofold Bay. After passing Wilson’s
Promontory he had intended to run over to
the north side of Van Diemen’s Land, but the
strained condition of his boat s timbers brought
him back to the coast of the mainland. On
January 4, 1798, he sailed along under the
shelter of the promontory looking for some
haven to run into. On the sth “we continued
running along the shore about WNW. ” At
7 a.m. he saw an opening in the land and made
towards it, eventually finding himself at the
back of a long spit, which low water prevented
him from getting round. But at high tide he
was able to cross it and entered “a very exten-
sive harbor.” Thus he found the big bay,
and gives a reason in his log for his selection
of a name for it. “I have named the place
from its relative situation to every other known
harbor on the coast, Western Port.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; The old Struggler, her
ancient engine flat out. at ten knots against
a nine-knot current, was making heavy
going of it up the flooded river and just
got into one of the Murray’s broadest
and most beautiful reaches .as the sun
went down. While the nankeen herons
called each other and flitted like wraiths
along the aisles of the cathedral of gums
the Struggler panted into the shadowy
bank and was made fast to a solid gum.
Her engine wheezed to silence, her
paddles stopped their fretting and peace
descended, what time the crew of four
feasted in the tiny galley. Replete and
dog-tired, they went to bunk and fell into
slumber so deep that none heard the
crack and fall of that carroty gum, nor
felt the strong river ease the little craft
out from the bank and send her down-
stream in slow circles, towing and being
towed by the fallen tree. In the dawn
the crew looked forth to find her fast
on top of a submerged sandhill out on
Tapalin station, a mile from the main
river. “Where are we?” demanded the
fireman in alarm. The skipper surveyed
the waters, then calmly replied “On
Mount Ararat, I reckon.”
* * * *
“B. 4”: “Flight” (B. 7/10/’42) reminds
me. We were out duck-shooting when two
hawks tore into a flock of black ducks
that rose from the swamp and whizzed
for the shelter of an adjacent timbered
creek. As the hawks dipped all the
quackers lofted except one apparently
doomed bird, which, with the harriers on
its tail, fled down the avenue. Seeing
us, the drake sought sanctuary by some
marvellous braking with wings, feet and
tail and landed at our feet. My mate
picked the pleader up, and handed it
to me to note the pulsing heart and
heated body. It nestled in my arm like
a chicken, and refused flight even after
ray mate downed one of the raiders. On
taking it to the creek it immediately
dived and hid. We left the ducks alone
that day,
jjj jJ{ jjj
“Backblox”: If “Betcha” (B. 23/9/’42)
could have taken alive that dingo which
“barked excitedly” at the wombat in a
hollow log he’d have made a fortune.
The one significant thing which struck
early settlers, and which has been re-
corded in a hundred naratives and books,
is that the wild dog of Australia is dis-
tinguished from all other dogs in the
world, with the exception of the small
pack wild-dog of India, in that it is with-
out a bark. Like the wolf, the dingo can
only howl —a long-drawn-out wail that
makes the flesh creep when heard deep
in the bush on a windy night. Even when
Warrigal has received a mixture of more
than half domesticated dog-blood he still
lacks the capacity to bark. So, though
a canine may be a wild bush vagrant, if
he barks he isn’t a dingo. Still, I don’t
blame “Betcha” ; many a bonus payment
has been made on scalps that came from
poor old Carlo and his brothers.
* * ♦ ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: The only time me and
Mat ever penetrated into the wilds of
Queensland was when we hit Cunna-
mulla. We put up at the pub about the
same time the rain arrived and, after irri-
gating, drifted into the parlor, where were
some half-dozen of the natives, looking
slightly morose. “How # about a few hands
of poker or nap or somethin’?” suggested
Mat cheerfully. Then those strange
people arose and, while four barred the
door, two departed and returned at once
with a mounted trooper. He made us
assemble our swags on the verandah,
then, pointing south, he said “Go that
way an’ keep goin’. We’ve had enough
of your sort round here, see?” It took
us a week to flounder through the black
muck to Enngonia and civilisation, where
we ran into “Professor” Burke and his
offsider. “Cunnamulla,” murmured the
“Prof.,” thoughtfully surveying our mud-
caked swags. “Yair, me an’ ‘Nicker’
was there about a fortnight ago. Cleaned
’em up at poker an’ then got out before
they woke up.” Sadly we took our re-
freshment, sorrowfully we watched the
“Prof.” practising his masterly double-
deal with the broads, and bitterly we
cursed the northern tribes and their sus-
picious nature.
* * * *
“Aperist”: “Naturala’s” mention of
the ability of the European wasp to turn
wood into paper (B. 23/9/’42) recalls
that the honey bee has a somewhat simi-
lar equipment which enables it to do
odd things with, at least, fibre and paper.
Unable to pierce the skin of a grape,
the bee can cut its way through a news-
paper. A way of uniting swarms is to place
one hive on top of another, with a spread
sheet of newspaper separating them, the
hives being oblong boxes with movable
tops and bottoms. In about 24 hours the
“What are the Gyppo girls like, Dave ?”
“Why, they never entered me head.”
occupants of both hives will have holed
through the paper and entered into com-
munication. They do it by persistent
scratching with the legs and possibly by
wetting the paper with saliva. String they
will deal with the same way. One of the
tricks of beekeeping is the tying of odd
combs into frames, particularly when
transferring from old-fashioned box-hiveS
to regulation frame-hives. The bees resent
this string, and no matter how good its
quality they will comb at it until it is re-
duced to fibres that can be carried outside
the hive. Yet caught in the flimsiest
spider web they are helpless.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’ve just heard a crooner
yowling to a female unknown his inten-
tion to build for her a love nest, the
structure to be as cosy and warm as a
dove nest. Somebody ought to warn the
girl. The dove is the laziest nest-builder
I know. A handful of sticks forming a
crude platform is the limit of his- archi-
tectural aspirations. Why the crazy affair
doesn’t blow out of its tree is a mystery ;
how the eggs retain warmth, seeing that
they are visible from the ground under-
neath, is even more mysterious. In a
tree down the paddock a dove is at the
moment brooding over eggs—with icy
wind and rain lashing her body. An adja-
cent tree holds a sparrows’ nest. Although
clumsy and untidy-looking, the “spags’ ”
home is the acme of comfort —roofed
overhead and lined with feathers, it is
open to the elements only to the extent
of a small entrance aperture It could
be called “cosy and warm.” What a
pity “spags”’ nest doesn’t rhyme with
love nest!
“Horseless Horseman”: Whenever
Aboliars argue about mustering »sheep
with and without dogs it recalls the only
canine trial I saw while on Toorak
station, Nelia (N.Q.). Mustering the
station’s 100,000 woollies then, you gal-
loped to wheel them, for H. C. Powne,
the manager, wouldn’t allow a sheep-dog
on the run. But a gun drover arrived from
the south with dogs. He had just taken
delivery of 15,000, and as he rode up
to us holding the counted mob the lead
began running down the bore drain to
drink. “Don’t bother turning ’em back,”
he directed ; “I’ve got a dog.” “These
sheep don’t know dogs,” we ventured.
“Oh, this . bloke’s a champion. Here!
Wayback!” Up in the lead the ewes
momentarily stared at the canine
stranger, then charged him. The dog ran,
flat out, and so did the whole 15,000
after him. I lost my two days off helping
that drover’s men to get the mob to-
gether again in 36,000-acre Kamarooka
paddock, and that champion dog’s never
been mustered yet.
* * * *
“Arev”: Bill Jupp didn’t like the look
of the two men who drove up in a truck
at sundown and stealthily walked to the
sliprails. Sidling up to the fence behind
which the potatoes were growing, they
showed surprise when Bill stood up
from behind a bag sewn tight. “G’day,
boss,” said the taller man, obviously a
Southern European. “You sella da bag
of potat’?” Bill shook his head, “The
board won’t let me.” The smaller man
broke in. “We giva t’irty bob a bag.”
Biff again refused. “No good. If I was
caught I might get six months’.” The
tall man spoke in a low voice. “But, if
you went in da house, boss, and some-
body stola da spud, no one blame you,
eh?” Bill opened his mouth, but the
caller continued: “An’ if da man vot
steal leava da t’irty bob on da ground
how dat do, eh?” Bill considered. He
knew his men. If he refused they would
“steala da spud” in earnest. “I think the
missus is calling me,” he said, and turned
on his heel. Through the kitchen window
he saw the men help themselves to the
nearest bag and drive away swiftly. Then
off Bill mooched over to the paddock
with Mrs. Jupp. “I don’t like it, Bill,”
she said. “Suppose the inspector stops
the truck? You can’t prove they stole
the bag.” Bill merely grunted. Where
the bag had stood he stooped to where
a clod of earth held down two pieces of
paper. One was a pound note ; the other
was a slip which read: “One pound
enough for bag of spuds. If you no
like it, tell inspector.” Bill pocketed the
banknote. “I expected something like
that,” he said. “AJi, well! A quid’s not
bad for a bag of swede turnips.”
* * ♦ *
“Pacific”: An old teamster mate of
mine in N.Q. unyoked 18 horses, and
the thirsty mob walked into a big water-
hole. • To his amazement not one
attempted to swim, all doing the dis-
appearing act. Twelve bewildered animals
eventually scrambled out on the oppo-
site bank, presumably having walked
under water, but the other six drowned
in the attempt. Cause of their failure to
swim has remained a mystery.
* * * *
“E.C.”: I’ve had mongs always eager
to tackle anything else, but offer them
a crow and they immediately yelp for
an armistice. Thought I’d trick one old
dog when I trapped a crow on the home
cultivations. He’d been accustomed to
dispatching the black jays along the line,
and at the usual whistle he trotted
towards the trap unconcernedly. .Sud-
denly he jerked to a horrified stop, his
hackles rose in protest, and he went into
reverse, calling loudly on the world to
witness such deception. Insistent com-
mands only increased his excitement. On
another occasion, because he was game
enough on the outside of a netted crow-
trap, I coaxed an untried pup inside
where some 30-odd captives waited retri-
bution. Thought I’d teach the youngster
to kill. But when the slaughter was over
I salvaged a shuddering wreck that was
trying to squeeze itself through the mesh
in the farthest corner. There must be
something about the sable scavenger that
is revolting to the canine.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Can vouch that there are occa-
sional exceptions to “Ophir’s” statement
(B. 7/10/’42) that serpents dine exclu-
sively on live prey. Nor does Joe restrict
his fell work to providing night repasts.
Many a feeding ground parrot and pigeon
is stalked and snapped by day. Recently
left a fishing line baited with a brown
tree-frog on the bank, intending to try
later. Returning carelessly, I was charged
by Old Black Joe, and during a frantic
gallop glimpsed a red flash as my pur-
suer was suddenly jerked back. Yes —he
had swallowed the frog, and subsequently
gave a splendid exhibition of leaping
hate as I teased him with my old shako.
His nips left four double stains, but
though he bit plenty he evidently ran
out of juice. I tied him up without tucker
for a week, and he lashed out savagely,
but his fangs left no souvenirs on my lid.
Deciding to train him for the second
front, I led him behind my touchy nag
for a couple of miles ; but as the refrac-
tory brute dived for a log the hawser,
weakened by the gastric juices, parted
somewhere down the tunnel. My moke
seemed delighted.
ik & * *
“Dilpo”: “Zake” is right about some
horses turning grey with age (B.
30/9/’42), Any colt of steel-grey, iron-
grey or dappled-grey color will start to
turn white about the head at the age of
four years; he will show more white
each year as he gets his new coat in the
springtime. Then at eight or nine he
will probably have dark grey on his legs
only, from the knees and hocks down to
coronet. In another two or three years
his legs will probably be as white as his
body. A black stallion and a grey mare
may produce a chestnut or a black which
will turn white later on as he gets very
old. Bays, blacks, chestnuts, roans,
browns, etc., bred from stock of those
colors will retain their proper color as
long as they live.
* * * *
“Solitude”: 1 told the new arrival
when he first settled on Stony Ridge
that the desert-blossoming-as-the-rose
theory wouldn’t work in that belt. How-
ever, he reckoned a place just wasn’t
home without a few fruit-trees around, so
laboriously he set up several dozen choice
specimens and sat back to await results.
They came, and he tackled them with a
spray-pump and my sheep drench. He
fought every known disease and a few
more, and when he wasn’t spraying, dig-
ging or replacing he was dragging water
from the dam half a mile away. And
year after year he raved enthusiastically
of that fruit he’d have some day. Then
the drought came, the dam dried up and
the trees followed one by one to the
woodheap until only about six remained.
After a particularly bad week I dropped
in to find him wearily surveying his fruit-
less effort. There was an unfamiliar
droop of disillusionment and resignation
on his face, and out of respect for his
gloom I scuttled my told-you-so grin.
“I’ve come to the conclusion,” he an-
nounced sorrowfully, “that this soil ain’t
suited t’ fruit-trees. So I guess there's
only one thing t’ do.” I nodded under-
“Yair,” he continued. “1
can see I’ll just have t’ cart up a few dray-
loads o’ silt from down along the river.”
« * * *
“Beamish”: During the milky process
6f growing up one of our pet lambs was
continually harassed by a child of three.
The lamb’s tormentor generally used a
stick, with which he’d crack the little
woollie on the nose. Now the iamb is
weaned. For every crack his nose re-
ceived the lamb now deals out punish-
ment to his tormentor’s other extremity.
Lambie never attempts any redress when
his youthful foe is in company. He is
satisfied to wait and exact his just revenge
as circumstances dictate. Often he 11 ban
the child in a corner and listen witn
obvious satisfaction to the pitiful cries
of human fear. The stupidity of sheep
is, of course, well known; but instin
doesn’t cover judicious waiting, gloating,
remembering and fairplay.
SOUTH ON LEAVE.
They are not dead who sleep on Libyan sands:
Steeling our hands, their souls are south on
leave.
The rainbow round the flicker of file prop,
Grey peeling camouflage and, underwing,
The creeping desert —petrified red sea
Of stone and sand and dust-dried spinifex—
Fill out my little window on the world:
Green shadows like a ladder up a reef
Lying in waves that do not move! —Good lack,
They must be trees! So many miles and miUs
From naught to naught, dead miles ; and all
that breathes — .
Ten thousand feet aloft.
It’s “south on leave”
For these. Hands in their laps, heads bent,
content,
They do not dream, they sleep.
Their comrades dream
By Such another desert, other sea
Of sand red not with rusting years but life
Poured out to stain their crimson monument.
These do not dream, but sleep from strength
to strength:
My little window on the world looks out
On dreams, dreams of those sleepers in the
sand.
Dreams worth the dying for, of free men strong
In freedom, strong to make and take the blow.
They “grow not old” —in death forever young;
They grow not faint —in death forever strong.
“We that are left grow old.” Do we grow faint.
They stay our hearts, they steel our hands and
cheer,
The great souls sleeping who come south on
leave.
N.T. FORCE.
ALLAN W. DAWES.


“If that thing comes in here, I get out!”
“Solitude”: For more years than I can
remember, Seventyfiver’s hat has served
faithfully as head-cover, fire-extinguisher,
carryall, potholder, log- and burrow-
block, kneeling mat, harness polisher and
girth pad. He uses it to flog his pup,
feeds his nag out of it, often drinks from
it and occasionally in the winter even
sleeps in it. No other lid would look
right on the old bloke, and I’d have
wagered money couldn’t prise them apart.
So when I met him returning bare-
headed from a long droving trip I
naturally thought he’d lost it, and I asked
him what happened. “Nuthin’. Bruiser’s
god id subwhere.” He whistled, and a
drooping whelp of misery snuffled for-
ward. “He —atchoo! —started nippin’ the
mob’s heels a coupla days ago—sniff,
sniff —so I had t’ muzzle the silly cow
wid be hat.”
* * * *
“Macann”; I rejoice to state that I
now have my vegetable farm back again.
I lost it in the recent downpour, when
it was washed clean off its 10ft. square
sandstone shelf on a North Sydney hill-
side. The soil is in finer condition than
when it went, my neighbor below, who
kindly let me carry it back up out of her
kitchen, having first sieved it for spuds.
* * * *
“Danyo Bore”: I’m grievously puzzled
by “N.” (B. 21/10/’42), who remarks
that “saltbush and bindi-eye have for
some time been out of fashion for
merinos in this mallee district,” and that
“old Joe” advocates burning-off the scrub
to let the grass grow. When were salt-
bush and bindi-eye ever in fashion in
mallee country, seeing that finding salt-
bush in mallee would be like finding teeth
in a hen, and what sort of merinos ever
dined on bindi-eye? As for burning the
scrub, it can’t be done unless the stuff
is rolled down beforehand. “Old Joe’s”
profanity over a bit of corkscrew and
barley seec j - n t jj e f[ eeces j s overdone.
seeing that if he had any sense he’d shear
J*fore either grass went to seed. If ever
he or N. strikes really burry fleeces
from real saltbush country they’ll both
have something to moan about.
® #
“Zake”: A neighbor whose peach-tree
last year had been invaded with dire
results by aphides was again visited this
Y ear by the pests, but before they could
get in their fell work they were cleaned
U P- pointed out to me the ants that
were crowding up and down the tree, and
rapturously swore that he’d never kill
another ant. But the insect whose indus-
try is always being held up as a model
for humans was getting praise under false
pretences. Far from killing off the
aphides, the ants were “milking” the
parasites of the sweetish fluid they exude.
They do this by tickling them with their
antennae until they laugh or something.
Many species of ants even breed the
aphides in their nests, where they are
kept under luxury conditions. Probably
the cleaner-up of the unconsidered trifles
was the common or garden sparrow;
with him the aphis is soup, hors d’oeuvre
and dessert rolled into one.
* * * *
“Ex-Romaite”: Lex McLennan’s effort
(B. 14/10/’42) on “Roma, Roma, sixty
years ago” might sound romantic to a
suburban reader, but it doesn’t ring true
to a Romaite. Agreed that there were a
few cases of cattle-duffing—even a murder
or two —but to say “roaring Roma” is
laying it on a bit thick; maybe a grunt
or two, but surely never a roar. Those
“passes through the ranges” couldn’t have
been much nearer Roma than a hundred
miles. History doesn’t record that
“danger stalked the hills of Roma” or
that there was a “reign of terror.” For
one thing, Roma hasn’t any hills to be-
come poetic about, and the only terror
ever there was in the minds of two or
three cattle-duffers who, before being
brought to book, ranged over the greater
part of s,-w. Queensland, As for “rich,
red Roma”—well, it may be poetic,
but it would be more accurate than poetic
to say “poor-to-average black Roma”
judging by the bogs I’ve been in there.
But perhaps poetic license covers all.
* * * •
“Norther”; Touching the Maoriland
plant koromiko for dysentery (B.
14/10/’42), S. R, Mitchell, a Melbourne
metallurgist, has come across a Kimber-
ley shrub used by the boongs for the
same purpose. The C.S.I.R. is to
examine it.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: The abo. was no mean
play-actor. His cobba-cobbas (corro-
borees) were mostly plays, and the
cobba-cobba dramatist was not without
honor. A good play might travel half-
way round the continent. Acted at a big
roll-up when tribes gathered from up to
50 miles away, the visitors would be
quick to learn the parts, which they in
turn would display to other tribes at the
extreme margin of their domain. So the
play travelled. The white man and his
ways was a popular theme. Explorers
encountering tribes that had never before
seen a white were often puzzled by the
persistence with which the abos. tried to
get their guns away from them. But the
supposedly unsophisticated black knew
all about that gun and its magical power
of killing at a distance without any visible
missile passing. He had learned it all at
the cobba-cobba. The excellence of billy
tea with plenty of sugar he also knew of ;
and the use of flour for the making of
bread. But the cobba-cobba dramatist
never seemed to be able to interpret the
horse; the sight of a mounted man for
the first time invariably sent a tribe into
flight.
* * * *
“Ned”: Jim Kelly used to say the
Government was pretty smart putting
women in the services. He reckoned it
was only right that at least one in the
family should do his or her bit, and it
was impossible for him, as everyone
knew he had a gammy leg, and, besides,
there was the farm to look after. He
mentioned to Mrs. K. that he would have
no objection if she cared to join the
W.A.A.A.Fs., and intimated that he
wouldn’t mind carrying on on his own
even if it was a bit of a struggle. A
month or so ago I dropped in to see
Jim, and noticed his wife in the kitchen.
“When’s the wife* joining up, Jim?” 1
asked. He was sitting on the verandah
reading the paper as usual. He took his
pipe from his mouth. “Well, Tom, it’s
like this,” he said. “The wife was all
set to go into camp when I found out
they weren’t going to give her an allow-
ance for me, and, do y’ know, it took me
nearly a week to talk her out of it! ”
* * * *
“E.W.H.”: Maggie, an ancient lubra
and the last of her tribe, lives in an old
hut in a small mining town in N.Q. Now
that she is too old to do scrubbing and
washing the townspeople take care that
she wants for nothing in the way of food
and clothing and a comfortable cabin,
and Maggie certainly takes life and all
else for granted. The womenfolk share
the task of visiting her, and one day
recently the schoolmaster’s wife and a
friend paid their usual call with baskets
laden with a variety of food. Maggie
was absent when they called, so they left
the provender on the table. Next day,
after discovering by inquiries who her
visitors were, Maggie called on the
schoolmaster’s wife. “Hey, missis,” began
Maggie plaintively. “Did you leavum
all that tucker longa my place yesterdee?"’
“Yes,” replied her benefactress, somewhat
surprised at the old lubra’s tone ; “but
what’s the matter, Maggie? Is there some-
thing wrong?” “Well,” said Maggie,
“that tucker him good orright, but what
for you no bringum sugar?”
* * * *
“Naturala”: One often reads of the
intense silence of the Australian bush,
Silent it may be in winter, and at night,
but on a summer day the forest fairly
roars with sound. Though one wanders
or rides for miles there it is: the organ-
note-like hum of insect life; blow-
flies, bees, mosquitoes, midges, beetles,
dragonflies and a hundred other kinds
which when in flight are invisible ,to the
human eye. They have work to do, all
of them: the blowflies to turn organic
remains quickly into fertiliser; the bees
to fertilise the flowers and, incidentally,
to gather honey for their own and man’s
consumption; the mosquitoes—well,
perhaps they have a use if we could only
see it, and the midges too. Then the
“Absentee?” „
“No, thanks —’ ad three long beersh on the Way up."
dragonflies keep down the midges and
the raossies. But it’s all life, and the hum
of it is Nature’s music. Some of these
radio novelty-seekers should put it on
the air for the benefit of the cave-
dwellers of the cities.
*** * .
“Bo”; “Yair,” Slim Lucas was saying,
“I’m on the hammer-and-tack this time,
lumpin’ the old Bundaberg rum, an’ I
hit a little up-an’-down called Tunna-
waddy. I’d just upended a pig’s ear and
was standin’ on the rub-a-dub verandah
talkin’ to an ’ickey ’ockey when a big-
an’-bulky comes tearin’ around the
Johnny Horner on one crook deal. There’s
a snifter-lookin’ twist-an’-twirl pullin’
hard on the old bore drains, but she
ain’t makin’ no impression on the bolt-
ing police force, an’ just as she’s aimin
straight for the Fisher’s Ghost the lion
cub hits a camel’s hump on the side o’
the I’ll-be-blowed. The twist-an’ shoots
straight out o’ the big-an’-bulky, an
would’ve landed at me plates o’ meat on’y
j se e the dot-an’-dash cornin’, an’ shove
me boast an’ brag under where I think
the hansom cabby’ll lob. She lands on
it soft, ah’ I catch her on the half-ounce,
The tinniest thing I ever did, for her old
pot-an’-pan it was that owned the rubby.”
“You were set then, I bet, Lucas,” Shorty
Macfarlane said. “Aw, yair, for a post
an ’ pile,” admitted Slim; “but I didn’t
stick it. Had the old pig’s laid on, and
the horse-an’-cart was pretty nice to me,
but the trouble was they was foreign—
carpenter’s bench, I think, on’y bin out
here for a bit, and I couldn’t understand
their wild dingo. I can’t stand,” con-
eluded Slim, “tryin’ to keep up bottle-
an’-cork with anyone who can’t speak
plain English.”
* * * *
“Nipper”: I struck a drover neai
Walcha (N.S.W.) who, alter lighting the
fire, always dipped the match in his biliv
of water. Another cove in the Gloucester
timber country used to spit on the match
after he’d applied it to his pipe and then
shove the defunct stick in the lining of
bis hat. But a cherry-grower out near
the Canoblas (N.S.W.) was the most punc-
tilious After wav i n g the used match
about for at least a minute he’d break
h , and them in his month;
. .K,
nor would he eject them again until they
were chewed pulp.
4t _ . „.
.. p ™P al °ng
mustering pld Joe Cross .
walking out into the 100-acre paddoc
and exercising a couple of kelpies round
five- or six-score ewes. To Dave Regan,
who has a 10,000-acre selection carved
for him from a once-prosperous sheep-
station by a N.S.W. Government, a
muster means a dreary ride over an area
0 f d r ift sand and the gathering of a mob
consisting of ewes, lambs, wethers, hog-
gets, weaners, rams and goats. To old
Bill Whipstick, on his 50-square-mile
block of S.A. malice, a muster means
about a week of patient track-riding.
going out in the morning, picking up
tracks, following them through mallee,
porcupine and hopbush, finding me
sheep, walking them to the yards, and so
on ad lib. till the whole or most or the
mob is mustered. a muster means
a daylight start for four or fire fiorse-
men who have perhaps 2000 sheep to
comb out of 60 or 70 square miles or
sand and mulga. The man nearest the
fence, trotting and cantering, must cover >
wide strip of country and pass any sheep
back to his inside man, who, zigzagging
over his strip, must keep in position
neither ahead of nor too far behind the
outside man. And so the sheep as they
are picked up pass inwards to the centre
man, who keeps up a pmnasUc n P er^ ri ?-
ance compounded of mustering as ne
goes, receiving little mobs of sheep from
the man outside him, convincing t ose
sheep that they must stay in the mob,
and keeping the lot moving m tfie
appointed direction.
TROOP TRAIN.
The shining rails shrink with the cold and rattle
at the joints,
And there’s a grind of steel on steel as wheels
pass over points.
While couplings slacken as they stop and buffers
bump apart,
The siren’s screech is like a dirge that reaches
to the heart.
Fanwise the headlight spreads its glow and
mantles shrub and tree
In garb as white as bridal robe and silver
filigree.
But in the drab and jolting vans, ice-cold and
dimly lit.
Dull khaki sheds no glamor where five hun-
dred heroes sit.
Blood-red, the rear light in the murk blinks like
a living eye,
While onward to an unknown goal the troop
+ rain passes by,
With monster shapes, tarpaulin clad, that rock
and sway and strain,
While song and laughter of the troops ring out
across the plain.
A long train swings around the curve that’s
leading to the west,
Till by a dripping water tank the engine comes
to rest.
The loaded wagons at the end bear unfamiliar
gear
And in the crowded carriages strange-speaking
men appear.
Strong men, alert and confident, from lands
across the seas,
Impatient all to cross a sword with slant-eyed
Japanese
Where their brave mates and our brave mates
are fighting side by side,
And noble ships with gallant crews ride high
upon the tide.
Old Diggers nursing weal and wound or pain
they’ve borne for years,
Look at their badge with wistful eye as each
troop train appears.
And there are lonely wayside homes where
sometimes women sigh
And wonder whether “he’s” aboard the train
that thunders by.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


HTS
LYS
£
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
- ■
v „ * v >
M:
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYS AG HT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Mineral Licks.
“Bungaree”: Most of the complaints
against the restrictions take it for granted
that they affect the supply of licks to
cattle as well as to sheep. Briefly they
state: —•
(1) No mixed licks shall be manufactured,
except salt with copper or cobalt salts.
(This lick is specially suited for coastal dis-
tricts in the southern or western States,
where certain mineral deficiencies are known
to exist.)
(2) No phosphorus salts, whether derived
from minerals or bones, shall be manufac-
tured or sold for consumption by sheep.
(3) Nobody may buy salt for consump-
tion by sheep unless 1 (a) it’s considered
necessary in the opinion of a chief
veterinary officer or ( b ) sheep are being
hand-fed on cereal grains and the salt is to
be used for mixing with a calcium salt
to counteract the calcium deficiency in
the diet. (Here also a permit is required
from a stock inspector.)
Nothing in the regulations forbids the
use of salt, mineral or bone phosphatic
licks for cattle, and there’s nothing to
prevent the use of calcium salts such as
ground limestone for sheep.
It is claimed for cattle licks that it is
more economical to have licks machine-
mixed than hand-mixed on the station.
Nevertheless, it is cheaper to buy the
ingredients singly and to vary the quan-
tities of each according to seasonal and
district requirements. What suits a. prop-
erty in one district doesn’t necessarily
suit others. Greatest benefits from licks
are usually found on properties that have
been neglected, overstocked or eaten out,
whereas a well-improved property may
require very little in the way of supple-
mentary minerals.
Most of the opposition to the regula-
tions could have been avoided had those
responsible pointed out in the first place
that they are intended solely as an effort
to conserve man-power and freight space.
Irrigation and Drainage.
“M.U.R.”: The C.S.I.R. has issued a
bulletin dealing with irrigation, drainage
and reclamation of soils used for vine-
growing in the Murray Valley.
It was feared that soil deterioration
was inevitable with irrigation, but prac-
tically all the area can be kept in pro-
duction if proper measures are taken to
prevent soil wastage. There should be
no more irrigation than is absolutely
necessary, and suitable drainage is im-
portant.
Where simple waterlogging rather than
salt damage is the main problem, cover
crops like tick beans absorb excess water
and improve the soil. For light soils sub-
surface drainage is the only real solution.
Where drainage systems were in-
stalled before the soil was too greatly
damaged, reclamation by underground
tile drains is quick and spectacular. For
heavy soils, surface drainage is necessary.
On the great majority of soils, drainage
has not only improved the land, no matter
how serious the deterioration, but has
proved economically sound for crops of
high productive value. For fodder and
pasture lands, the cost of tile drainage
is usually prohibitive.
Milking Minus Mud.
Wonwron”: Tired of bogging about
most of the year—they average 40 inches
of rain—Best and Carter, of Yarragon
(Gippsland), tried making concrete paths
about their dairy buildings. They reckoned
2 i acres of mud surrounded the outfit,
and adjoining parts were so muddied as
to be useless for grazing. On an un-
improved value of £6O an acre, they
worked it out that the goo covered £l5O
worth of land and was costing them £3O
a year in lost carrying capacity.
They laid down concrete tracks, chains
of them radiating out from the buildings
and yards. Near the yards are parallel
tracks, and drinking troughs are sur-
rounded with concrete. So far there is
about half a mile of tracks, and more
are planned. They found that the cows
readily took to walking on the tracks in
preference to wading through the mud.
There is little mud around the dairy at
any time now. They got extra grass,
saved time, improved working conditions
and reduced herd wastage.
Another pathmaker is Pearce, of War-
ragul. Two years ago he took the place
over with 85 cows which had to struggle
udder-deep through the goo from their
"Tell 'em it's either a Mitsubishi or an eaglehawk actin' strange."
walk-through bails. There was a rec-
tangular “plate” of concrete from the
bails, but the trouble began when the
cows stepped off it. A 22in.-wide con-
crete track outward for three chains gave
a vastly-increased stepping-off area, and
now what was once mud and slush has
been regrassed. It took Pearce and a
neighbor three days to do the job at a
cost of £8 2s. 6d. A sound dirt track
was made first and covered with 2in. of
second-grade sand, and 3in. of concrete
was laid in sections. The mixture was
five parts of good gravelly sand to one
of cement.
L. E. Mahony and E. Crowley, dairy
supervisors, report that one Gaul, of
Darnum, laid the first concrete tracks in
1938. It is seriously claimed that the
herd reached a state of exhaustion
through having to plough through mud
day after day. Gaul laid a quarter of
a mile of concrete tracks to four pad-
docks. It cost £5O. Material was then
slightly cheaper than it is today, and Gaul
and his sons assessed their labor at
Is. 6d. an hour a man.
The mixture was four metal, three
sand, one cement laid from 3in. to 4in.
thick, according to the run of the ground.
tracks about 22in. wide, with wings at
gates and all edges rounded. It solved
the mud problem, though drainage is a
bother in the area.
One reason for the narrow track is to
stop the herd leader from turning to drive
another cow off. The tracks lead to the
cowyard entrance, thence, after milking,
out from the bails back to the tracks
and so to the paddock.
Twin tracks are best through gateways.
Old netting and wire can be used for
reinforcement; where this isn’t possible
the track should be laid in sections. Some
have found that 17in. tracks are satisfac-
tory. Before putting them down close
study of the layout is essential so that
further tracks can be added with little
trouble. In muddy dairy country, the
concrete tracks aren’t a costly experi-
ment; they’re an investment.
Colic.
“Will C„”: Colic is fairly common in
working horses and causes many deaths.
One cause is letting the horse drink a
lot of water when it is hot and sweating ;
another is inability to urinate. If a horse
is seen to be uncomfortable at work, give
him a few minutes’ spell. Working a
horse heavily on a full stomach is an-
other cause. Symptoms are a desire to
roll, restlessness, turning of the head to
the flanks and refusal of food.
Keep a colic drench or two always on
hand. Prepared drenches can be obtained
from chemists. An effective drench con-
sists of loz. meth. tinct. belladonna, 2oz.
meth. aromatic spirits of ammonia and
loz. chlorodyne. Give in a bottle of
water. If caught unawares drench the
horse with a tablespoonful each of
ground ginger and baking soda in a little
warm water. Drench as soon as possible.
Complications, such as “twisted bowel,”
may follow if the horse is allowed to roll
on the ground unchecked.
Horses subject to frequent attacks
should be looked after carefully. Have
their teeth examined. A course of
minerals may be needed to restore tone
to the bowels. Lack of minerals will lead
them to eat rubbish which will cause
stomach or intestinal trouble. Don’t
overwork, and- feed on a light, nourishing
diet. A little linseed oil or thin molasses
with the feed will keep the bowels active.
Canning Beans.
“H.C.”: Canning beans do well on
any soil that’s well drained; granite
loam, red and heavy black soils are all
good, but clayey soil stains them in wet
weather. Sow in spring on the table-
lands and in summer in irrigation dis-
tricts. On high country aim for summer
maturity, but where the crop needs irri-
gation and flowers fall in the heat autumn
is the best time to have them ready.
Plough deeply in winter, leave rough
till spring and then level carefully. Beans
need a finer tilth than wheat or oats.
If you need to use the roller follow up at
once with a good harrowing. By spac-
ing the rows 28in. apart and the beans
24in. apart, 301 b. of seed an acre is
ample. Cultivate inter-row to keep weeds
under; give it the first go when plants
are small and make it deep, but after that
work shallow to avoid root injury.
Beans can be left on the vines till they
are dead ripe. They’ve gone four months
on New England crops without shatter-
ing. As a legume beans are valuable as a
rotation and the straw makes good rough-
age for cattle and sheep. Best canning
beans this season are worth 255, a bushel,
as against 20s. last year.
Hints for the Farm.
“Leongatha”; If mud holds up get-
ting the milk or cream to the roadside
and you’re fairly close, try a trolley line
of 3 x 2 hajdwood rails laid on rough
sleepers 4ft. apart. The rails should be
laid on edge and fixed with 6in. spikes
driven right through into the sleepers.
Treat the rails with creosote. For the
trolley you’ll need a set of flanged wheels
and axles on which to build a timber plat-
form. The gauge of your line will depend
on the wheels you get hold of.
“Haven”: Cows respond well
to pre-natal treatment. Springers
need a paddock to themselves
where they can be undisturbed,
with good feed, lots of water,
shade and protection to keep
them quiet and contented.
“B.”: Flax chaff is good feed
for dairy cattle. Although fairly
high in fibre, protein content is
almost double that of oaten hay
and nearly as good as clover
and lucerne hays. Otherwise its
nourishment value is about the
same as oaten straw. As bulk
feed it’s worth somewhere be-
tween the price of oaten hay and
oaten straw.
“Plane Creek”: On sandy
country find out if it is sand and
not faulty teeth or intestinal
parasites that is keeping your
nag poor. Catch some of
the dung in a clean bucket,
swirl a little water about in
it, then drain off and look
for traces of sand. If sand is
found, make up a powder of
22 p.c. superphosphate Boz.,
slaked lime 30z., Glauber salts
3ioz. and powdered nux vomica
Hoz. Put super, and lime
through a fine sieve, add the salts broken
up fine and the nux vomica,and mix
together. This makes enough for a full
course for one horse. Give three heaped
tablespoonfuls daily either in the feed or
as a paste with molasses or honey.
“Canbelego”: To avoid fire losses put
bagged wheat on firebreaks or on wide
hay tracks, cut across the paddock in
the form of a cross. This year bagged
wheat may have to remain in the pad-
docks for some weeks.
“Oxer”: Don’t use resistant steel for
twitching ; it has no “give” and will twist
off. For the twitch, pass the wire round
the post, shaft, etc., and allow about 4in.
more than the length. Then double that
length, cut the wire, double it and pass
round the object. Push a round steel
rod through the loop and, using the un-
joined ends as a fulcrum, turn steadily.
Trim off the ends to prevent torn cloth-
ing, wool or hair.
“Sailor Bill”; To clear white-ants out
of fruit-trees, expose the roots and satu-
rate them and the near-by soil with
carbon bisulphide. Shovel half the exca-
vated earth back, then sprinkle with the
carbon bisulphide. Replace the remain-
ing soil and give it a good watering. Keep


Position Wanted.
STATION MANAGER.
MARRIED Man, aged 45, one child, exempt
military obligations, seeks position as Manager
Sheep Station. Extensive experience Riverina
and Upper Murray. All branches, especially
wool, fat lambs and pasture improvement;
excellent recommendations from reputable
sources. —Apply, stating salary and conditions,
to A. H. ARTAUD, “Carboona,” Lankey’s
Creek, via Holbrook, N.S.W.
5 EQ|_
EYELOTiOI
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelidi
SOLD EVERYWHERE
A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd- King St.. Sydney
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager. „
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY . HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE. BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
» —TTT
rt JJ
if
W
EGELABRA
MERINOS
H. £. KATER & SON, Warren, N.S.W.
Tel: Warren 10.
You can improve the quality and weight
of your clip by using Egelabra Bams.
One user writes: “We are now getting the
benefit of using Egelabra Bams. The 6-
tooth Ewes have cut 1021 b. and reared a
lamb as well; the Wether Hoggets have cut
over 131 b.”
BAMS now available from sgns. to 13gns.
i
m
Wireless alone can meet the
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units..
INSTANT* CONSTANT* CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN -MADE
RAD LOT RO N
RAD
VALVES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
MBs
*
life
m
r*
m
m
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
W:
I
;?
aiti
T 0
MADE
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
away frojn the trees for a day or two or
you’ll get a headache.
“L.C.”; When tobacco seedlings
don’t make much progress try a little
liquid manure. A small handful of
nitrate of soda to every 4gal. can be
given once or twice a week. Don’t make
the solution any stronger, A weak solu-
tion of fowl manure is even better.
“Gumsucker”: Pigweed poultice for
sore hooves (B. 9/ 9 / ’42) recalls the great
poultice of my youth—marshmallows.
For horses and humans it was the uni-
versal prescription. Marshmallows grew
everywhere. A peck of the leaves
steeped in boiling water, laid on a flannel
cloth and plomped on as hot as one
could bear it shifted the inflammation as
effectively as do most modern remedies.
For a boil, a fester or Barcoo rot, half
a dozen leaves sufficed. The curative
virtues credited the plant were probably
a matter of heat and moisture. Marsh-
mallows are still wild and free, but we
pass them by.
“Lee”: The statement that “a deposit
of lead arsenate sprayed into the calyx
cup will protect the fruit for the whole
of the season” (B. 14/10/’42) suggests
that codlin moth can be licked with one
spraying. Don’t believe it! N.S.W. law
prescribes further applications at intervals
not exceeding 21 days until the crop is
mature. A few other jobs, such as scrap-
ing loose bark and destroying infested
fruit, are obligatory, and bandaging tree
butts is worth while.
Outback Occasions.
No. 59.
MAKING HAY.
That year we had a lot of wheat in and
it was a good season. “We’re goin’ t’
have a lot of hay off the binder tracks,’’
Father said, “an’ I don’t know whether
it wouldn’t be best to make one big stack
or a lot of little ones.”
“Well,” our brother said, “a lot of
little ones are easier t’ build, an’ if y’ have
’em scattered there isn’t so much danger
of fire an’ y’ can use ’em as y’ want ’em.
If y’ have one big stack an’ start cuttin’
into it f’r hay it means y’ have t’ use it
all up or have the stack sort of torn
about.”
“I reckon,” said Father, “we’ll have
one big one ’cause we’re never short of
feed here an’ y’ can sell a big one easy
f’r chaff.”
We could see it was to be one big one.
“Gettin’ a good stack-builder is goin’
t’ be hard,” our brother said later.
“There ain’t many good stack-builders
about these days.”
Our Father snorted. He’d been farm-
ing all his life, he said, and he couldn’t
see why he’d have to get a stack-builder.
Anybody would think, he went on, that
stack-building was a sort of profession,
like bricklaying or being a doctor ; that
a man had to go to a special school to
learn and then be an apprentice for
years. Which, as anyone could see, was
all his eye because the best school was
the practical one, and he’d been growing
hay for thirty-odd years and stacking it,
too.
Our brother admitted it, but said that
building a big stack was different from
building a lot of little' ones. Father
wanted to know what the difference was
and our brother said you had to estimate
the size and there was the thatching and
the eaves and so on. They talked about
it a good bit. I didn’t say anything, be-
cause I’d known Father then about fifteen
years and I could see he was going to
build that stack.
After we’d cut the tracks Father
picked out a bit of ground above the
house and fenced it off, and our brother
and I started carting the hay in. Father
had laid down a lot of dunnage and he
started building on it. He’d worked it
out that a stack 36 by 18 by 10 to the
eaves would hold it.
It went well until Father got the walls
up about eight feet, when our brother
said Father ought to shorten the length
because he was sure he’d run out of hay.
They had a first-class argument, and in
the end Father shortened her six feet. We
carted in some more, and Father began
to pick out the best sheaves for starting
the eaves.
But the north-east corner started first.
It bulged out about two feet and Father
made us get boards and slap it. We’d
slap and go out for more hay and when
we’d get back Father would be slapping
and we’d grab the boards and slap with
him. Our brother made sarcastic remarks
about men who reckoned they could
build stacks and our Father slapped him.
Our brother, who’d begun to shave, said
that was the dead limit and he wasn’t a
kid to be slapped with a bit of wood, and
he went off and sulked. Father got on
the stack and I threw the rest of the load
up and then went up and turned the
sheaves for him.
I slid down into the wagon again and
our brother picked up the reins and spoke
to the horses and they moved forward
and a corner of the frame dug into the
stack and routed out about a dozen
sheaves from under the bulge, whereupon
a couple of tons of hay and Father
spilled into the wagon and over the
horses.
The horses jumped away and our
brother ran with them, and Father and
I and the hay bounced about in the
wagon. When we got the team pulled
up we looked up and there was the whole
north-east corner of the stack spewing
slowly out in a sort of hay slide.
Father said a lot, but you couldn’t have
made sense out of jt. Then he cooled
down and told our brother to unyoke,
and then the three of us pulled the stack
down and Father started to rebuild. But
the hay was dry and slippery by this and
progress was slow and there was still a
lot to do when we knocked off that night.
We went home dog-tired, had tea and fell
into bed. When we fell out again in the
morning there was more language, be-
cause a willy-willy had run across that
stack in the night and scattered it every-
where.
. We gathered it up, but it was no more
good for stack-building, so Father again
reduced the size of the stack and we
threw the blown hay into a heap and
started to get the rest in. It rained for
three days then and we had to wait a
week for it to dry and we got stuck with
the first load. Father sent our brother
for the tractor to pull the wagon out but
the tractor got stuck coming through
the gate. We had to get the tractor out
because we couldn’t get through the gate
with the wagon after we got it out, and
because we couldn’t shift the tractor we
had to cut a couple of panels in the
fence.
Of course, our brother or I or Father
or somebody forgot to close the panel
and the house cows and the loose horses
made straight into the wheat. We went
after them with the dogs and there was a
floundering and threshing in the mud, and
Father almost wept at the way the crop
was knocked about before we got ’em
ou t.
In the end we got going at the hay
again, but it had dried some more and
the sheaves were .hard enough to load on
the wagon without trying to build them
into a stack. Father set his teeth and
stuck to it, using wire to tie it down m
sections, but when another corner siia
out he gave up and we carted it
dumped it any old how and he |pia
extra money for Harris’s cutter to come
and bag it at once.
Our brother said at the finish that we
should have got a good stack-builder and
saved all that trouble, but Father didn t
bite except to remark that it seemed tunny
that of all the addle-headed, bum -
brained galoots about the place his eldest
son should be the champion.


WHIN TASTY FOOD
HAS NO APPEAL TO YOU
“Can’t eat, no appetite.” How often do you
hear that said today? Look round you see and
listen; you’ll be surprised. This state of health is
brought about by the exacting conditions under
which we live and work, plus the short-sightedness
of the individual. He forgets his lack of exercise,
minimum of sunshine and open air, tied down
as he is for the better part of the day in his job.
Still, there is a very simple and inexpensive
remedy in Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. One that
stirs the liver and stimulates the flow of bile,
regulates the digestive organs and helps to restore
that lost appetite.
D* MORSE S
U _ HVKII J H _
Indian Root
Cfor t/ie</tver PILLS
BUY WAR BONDS
mm
Ion?*"*
The law of change In all things goes on . . . if Winter
comes, Spring will follow. So, inevitably, will to-day's
austere way of life give place to to-morrow's more secure
way of living.
INSERTED BY THE MANUFACTURERS OF
mm
FLOOR COVER/NGS
to
Our Service Department
Wants.
In what book does Ella Wheeler Wilcox’s
poem commencing “Let me live in my house
by the side of the road and be a friend to man’
occur, and where is a copy procurable?—33l7.
Words of poem by an Australian entitled
“Two Women,” commencing:
S’he was so pure and sweet that one might look
Into her pure clear eyes and see it all.
—3318.
Information Sought. •
To whom may the Victoria Cross be
awarded ? Can it be won by a civilian ?
The V.C. was instituted in 1856 as a reward
for members of the British Army and Navy,
but the terms of the award were broadened
in 1911 to cover native Indian soldiers and
in 1920 to cover, in addition to members of
the services, members of the nursing services
and “civilians of either sex regularly or tem-
porarily under the orders, direction or super-
vision of the naval, military or air forces of
the Empire.” In 1857, in very special circum-
stances, there were three awards to civilians,
the recipients being members of the Bengal
civil service.
* * * *
(1) Of tobacco consumed in Australia, how
much is grown locally and how much im-
ported? (2) Actual production for each State?
(1) The Commonwealth Statistician gives
the following figures of tobacco used:
Year. Australian. Imported.
Lb. Lb.
1937- .. 4,230,809 15,992,993
1938- .. 4,489,123 16,010,865
1939- * .. 4,730,130 16,521,412
(2) Production of the principal States for
the years 1937-38, 1938-39 and 1939-40 in that
order was; —
N.S.W. Vic. Q’land. W.A. Total.
Lb. Lb. Lb. Lb. Lb.
408,688 2,336,320 2,197,240 788,559 5,859.803
397,600 720,384 2,094,261 766,752 4,046,135
523,488 1,098,160 2,551,000 712,214 4,911,630
* *
Have just read the story “Out of the Night,”
by Jan Valtin. Do you know if the story is
true and was experienced by the author?
There was a lengthy discussion on the sub-
ject in the “Literary Digest.” The author
says he described a personal experience. The
“Digest” disagreed with him.
* * * *
What is minestrone and how is it prepared?
Is it a foreign dish, and, if so, of what nation-
ality ?
Minestrone is the national Italian soup. Dice
three or four potatoes, add equal quantity of
beans (dried), onions, carrots and chopped
celery and boil all in enough water to cover,
adding salt. Add jib. rice or macaroni and boil
a little longer till rice is cooked but not soft.
Just before taking off stove stir in a dessert-
spoonful of oiled butter and same quantity of
grated cheese.
* * * *
Method of (a) tanning, (b) tarring a cord
net ?
(a) It is necessary to have a tank in which
sufficient tannic solution can be made in which
to steep the net to be treated. This tank
should have a false bottom or some such pro-
vision inside to prevent the net coming in con-
tact with the bottom of the tank, to prevent
what is known as pot burning. Use a suffi-
cient quantiy of good tanning wattle bark
(procurable from most net suppliers) to make
a strong dark-colored solution. Black wattle
from southern N.S.W., Vic. and S.A. should
be insisted on. Boil bark to exhaustion, and
steep net in boiling solution for two or three
hours. Then leave in solution to cool off; after
which, dry off. (h) Tarring is obsolete, having
proved a failure.
/ In answer to a question as to tanning with
wattle bark, you did not say how much bark
to use, if green or dry, and how much water.
What is the right practice ?
Bark should be semi-dry. Quantity will be
according to the number of skins to be tanned.
. Strength of the liquor is determined by adding
or reducing water. Usually the bark in the
container is just covered by the water.
* * ♦ •
How to clean windows of a seaside house to
prevent their becoming smeared on the outside
by the sea air?
Windows cleaned with a rag moistened with
, glycerine will remain bright longer ; another
excellent medium is methylated spirits, which
prevents steaminess and streaks due to sea air.
Either of these mediums must be frequently
used but saves labor and time. In each case
effect lasts one to two days.
* * * *
Method of making lino, polish from bees-
wax?
Shred |lb. beeswax into a jar containing
j-pint turpentine; stand jar in hot water and
stir till wax is melted and the mixture creamy
(vapor is inflammable). Use only a smear,
and rub well to polish.
When travelling from Sydney to Perth by
way of Melbourne and by way of Broken Hill
respectively, what changes of railway gauges
are encountered and what is the mileage ?
Sydney to Perth via Melbourne: Sydney-
Albury, 4ft. Bjin.; Albury-Melbourne-Adel-
aide-Pme Junction, sft. 3in.; Pirie Junction-
Kalgoorhe, 4ft. 8-jin.; Kalgoorlie-Perth, 3ft. 6in.
Sydney to Perth via Broken Hill: Sydney-
Broken Hill, 4ft. Bjin.; Broken Hill-Pirie Junc-
tion, 3ft. 6in.; then as via Melbourne. (Broken
Hill to Adelaide entails a break at Terowie.)
Mileages: Sydney-Albury, 400; Albury-Pirie
Junction, 807; Pirie Junction-Kalgoorlie, 1107;
Kalgoorlie-Perth, 380—all figures approximate.
Total, 2695. Sydney-Broken Hill, 698; Broken
Hill-Pine Junction, roughly 230. On approxi-
mate figures, Sydney via Broken Hill to Perth,
2415 miles.
Brief Answers.
J.C.: (1) Three-lettered words are counted,
not one- and two-letter words. Usual procedure
is to count a few lines of the MS. and average
the rest. (2), It is necessary to send claim.
Do so by stating date of publication, page and
nom de plume Stoneham; The ballad
“Murray Moon” was written by the late
Reginald Stoneham and published by Chappell,
Sydney. No trace of “Road to Omeo.” Both
seem to be out of print Metro: Australian
Museum has no record of the meaning of
the word Winnererremy. Probably a de-
scriptive word for a type of swamp or locality.
.. ..W.A.R.: There is no cheaper edition of
Leon Gellert’s Isle of San W.R.: K. C.
McKeown’s Australian Insects is procurable
from the Royal Zoological Society, 28 Martin-
place, Sydney A.H.P.: As to the goat, if
it is not .a branded Angora or other branded
goat and your land is enclosed by a fence you
may shoot it. As to the geese, your only
remedies appear to be to sue for damages for
trespass or apply to the Equity Court for an
injunction to restrain the trespass... .A.T.D.:
Information insufficient. Where a woman who
was immediately before her marriage a British
subject marries an alien she is not by reason
only of her marriage deemed to have ceased to
be a British subject unless by reason of her
marriage she acquired the nationality of her
husband. Where an alien is a subject of a
State at war with his Majesty it is lawful for
his wife, if she was a natural-born British sub-
ject, to make a declaration that she desires
to resume British nationality, and thereupon
the Minister, if he is satisfied that it is de-
sirable that she be permitted to do so, may
grant her a certificate of naturalisation
M.P.: Can find no record on the subject. It
may be taken, however, that the incidents were
characteristic and feasible P. Clayton:
Marking-ink stain is virtually impossible to re-
move from any material. Dry-cleaners say
that any attempt to remove stains would fail,
as the texture and dye do not stand up to
the cleaning preparations. You could knit some
fancy design over the mark if it is not a large
one F.C.: Write to R.S.P.C.A. office,
Martin-place, Sydney, which will forward
directions required F.A.; April 13, 1893.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —
T.R.:
Curtin, go slow ere worse befall,
Else this I swear in verity.
Like skeletons against a wall
We’ll lean and moan “Austerity.”
A.H.8.:
We should have lots of water now
W'ith which to wash our clothes,
And when Dad needs a bath, I’ll vow,
We’ll shower him with the hose.
H.M.: —
0 paradox! that man must fight
For peace; must kill that he might
Live. This does confuse mankind but
Not the moon, who, seeing all, reproves
A mortal world in vain.
.... W.C.: Quite sure that is “the female point
of view”? E.S.: You spoil the last stanza,
which is the best, by “this may seem o’er-
drawn” R.H.: We trust that you are very
young W.G.R.: No harm in wetting his head
in ink, but you might have filtered the cliches.
... .P.T.: “I wrote it in the half-hour before
dinner.” That’s why you made a hash of it.
C.E.G.: Comes near the record for poly-
syllabic rhyming; but that’s about all
J.J.L.: Both Anne and Anna seem consumed
with hate R.E.R.: Well oft our beat....
J.V.C.: Leave stories of soldiering to soldiers.
C.T.: Like it well enough, but it’s not
for us. Try it elsewhere... .S.R., J.A.,
C. and others: Leave battle scenes to those
who’ve seen them L.J.G.: Right enough,
but it’s not a story.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.G.; Approach of Melbourne Cup day
is always heralded by arrival of that hoary jest.
J.C.H.: Sketch of dust-up between two en-
raged heqs won’t help feather your nest
T.M.; Lopsided female and gent, walking on
invisible stilts were escorted to the d00r....
D. : You overdecorate, and your sense of
humor wants oiling P.H.McC.: Barnacle-
encrusted gags and a maze of woozy lines
S.C.V.: Such faint linework won’t reproduce.
Use Indian ink, and spread yourself more
J.S.C.: Sure you didn’t intend them for the
police fingerprint branch? ... .D.8.N.: In the
absence of explanatory joke, we can’t tell
whether she’s saying her prayers, doing physical
jerks or wrestling with her foundations V.L.:
Study shadows; don’t toss ’em in at random.
Bert C.: A crude background, and the
small boy has hockey sticks instead of arms.


i m
•C,:M
■ mmmm
m
mmm
■
i*
ii
cooked your Dinner ?
It’s a shell ... a fury of death and des-
truction, But it used to cook your dinner.
There was a time when that shell would
have been a length of gas pipe. But that
was before September 3rd, 1939.
How did it become a shell?
We go back to 1934, when the plant of
Stewarts and Lloyds first went into produc-
tion. That was at the end of the depression,
when Australia needed, and began to build
thriving new industries.
Soon Stewarts and Lloyds were producing
everything from gas pipes to ship’s boiler
tubes.
So we worked through 1934—’35—’36
’37—’3B and into ’39. So we worked,
through those years when our Empire and
Allies struggled desperately to avert the
disasters of War. Through the years when
Germany and Japan were building the
greatest war machine ever known.
But we saw the inevitable. In 1939 we
changed our production from gas pipes to
shell bodies.
You can’t win a War with gas pipes.
Without subsidy, we installed the plant
necessary for the forging and rough machin-
ing of ammunition -shell bodies.
We evolved" a process of shell-making
which cut out the operation that has always
been so costly and lengthy. We produced
shell bodies in very much the same way as
weldless tubes. We made the inside of the
forging perfect for size, and so smooth that
it did not require boring.
We were ready. And that was in 1939
—before September 3rd.
So it is that shells once cooked your
the form of gas pipes. Gas pipes
into shells. Soon, we hope, shells back into
gas pipes.
And when that day comes, give a thought
to the men who helped to make it possible
. . . the men of Democracy who fired and
made the shells that brought glorious, lasting
peace.
Stewarts ».„■ Lloyds
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.


\ *5, i
>v .%
- : h
vs
sit
...
m
Mmm
*ssss :
★ POWER
TRANSMISSION
ENGINEERS
Ludowici's engineering work-
shop — largest of its kind in
Australia—-produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment.
Since 1858 IFDOWICI’S
have provided Australian Industry
with the finest leather belting.
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only our Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys, Bearings, Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
J. C. LDDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET), SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
RACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging l , painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can bo
relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
Ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and niters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness. .
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that gill make you well find keep you weus A
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co.
Parent’s Figures.
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.)
£ £ £ £
1932.. 340 10 p.e. 3 p.c. = 205,970 1,370 139,682
1933.-241,919 10 „ 4 „ „ 243,626 137,975
1934.. 10 „ 5 „ „ 281,283 6,646 144,621
Unexplained reductions. £37,392 .. 107,229
1935.. 10 p.c. Nil 93,000 27,016 134,245
1936.. 183 10 „ 5 p.c. = 281,283 25,900 160,145
1937.. 410.409 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,595 53,814 213,959
1938.. 414.702 10 ~ 7 „ „ 356,596 58,106 272,065
1939.. 417.650 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 61,054 333,119
1940- 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 93,909 427,028
1941- 10 „ 7 „ „ 356.596 24,773 451,801
1942.. 10 „ 5 ~ ~281,282 94,486 546,287
i Goodwill ( £354,377 in parent’s books) not treated
as an asset herein.
Output of the half-dozen factories —
three each in Melbourne and Sydney—
of this big and efficient organisation keeps
on expanding. That is because the rapid
growth in production of war goods has
more than offset the sharp contraction,
accentuated by defence priorities, etc.,
in ordinary commercial demand. But
defence orders carry narrower profits
than ordinary trade contracts, and rising
costs, including the demands of the tax-
gatherer, have bitten deeply into takings,
and are likely to sink deeper still.
Further, on the raw materials side, 90
p.c. of the world’s crude rubber was
abruptly cut off when Japan occupied
Malaya and the Netherlands East Indies.
And it will be some time yet before
enough of the American synthetic sub-
stitute will be available to fill the gap.
Also the shipping problem increased the
difficulty and cost of getting cotton from
U.S.A., Egypt and India. Zinc oxide, an
activating agent, is now produced locally,
and so are the tar distillates used as soft-
ening ingredients. But sulphur, for vul-
canising, and carbon black, which in-
creases tyre wear, both come from the
U.S.A.
At June 30 last there were fewer civi-
lian vehicles of all sorts on the roads in
Australia than 12 months earlier, as here
shown:
Motor- Commercial Motor-
June 30. cars. Vehicles. cycles.
1936 . . 484,832 180,567 77,467
1937 . . 499,289 214,296 77,912
1938 . . 534,963 241,751 80,114
1939 . . 559,960 260,091 79,225
1940 . . 557,180 263,404 74,455
1941 . . 535,946 264,353 70,882
1942 . . 448,284 252,062 49,432
But defence and essential service con-
tracts compensated. These contracts ac-
counted for about 60 p.c. of sales last
term as against about 12 p.c. three years
earlier, and Dunlop’s now claims to be
working 90 p.c. on war production. With
over 5000 names on the payroll, the effect
of man-power regulations on technical
efficiency and costs has been a problem.
The factory rationalisation scheme —it
aimed at standardising a number of pro-
ducts and eliminating overlapping and
waste-completed about three years back,
has meant much so far as costs are con-
cerned, while association with the Eng-
lish Dunlop co., which took half a
million of the local co.’s ords. at 275.
each in 1927, has been a technical help
too.
Allowing for minor reserve adjust-
ments and unspecified taxation, and set-
ting aside £127,035 (down £1215) for de-
ast terms net earnings were
£375,768. That was only £5601 short of
the previous year’s figure, after subtract-
ing therefrom extra tax of £58,275 not
allowed for. The £375,768 was enough to
pay 10 p.c, on £930,000 of pref. money
and show 7.5 p.c. on the £3,765,655 of
ord. capital, compared with 7.6, 9.5, 8.6,
8.5 and 8.4 p.c. for the five preceding
terms. A couple of points were chipped
off the div., reducing it to 5 p.c.
The board figured combined net earn-
ings of Dunlop and its subsidiaries at
£370,927, or £69,620 short of the
’4l result. That was after providing
£133,054 (down £1382) for depreciation,
but leaves out of the reckoning a net re-
duction of £61,815 in the tax reserve, re-
ducing it to £239,099. Chief of the pups
is Barnet Glass, paid capital £750,000 ;
among other investments Bradford
Cotton, of Melbourne and Sydney, is
prominent.
A bird’s-eye view of the financial struc-
ture of the organisation follows:
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Paid capital— 1939. -1941. 1949
Dunlop interest £4,695,655 £4,695,655 £4,695,655
Outside interest* 222,379 30,833 27,328
Reserves! .. .. 692,281 869,509 901,959
Liabilities. . . . 290,564 541,532 1,149,679
Tax reserve .. 112,270 300,914 239,099
Freeholds, etc. . . 1,216,009 1,048,621 1,039,667
Plant, etc 1,054,565 869,100 804,447*
Stocks . . . . 2,116,460 2,697,994 8.359,112
Debtors .. .. 916,925 1,065,823 939,513
Investments, etc... 6,265 178,095 207,865
Cash, etc. .. 217,977 31,321 65,641
Rationalisation acc. 46,137 __
Goodwill . . . . 630,830 727,217 740,124
Includes share undistributed profits. f Subject to
goodwill and rationalisation account.
A gratifying feature last term, consider-
ing what has happened, was the sharp
growth of £661,118 in the stocks item.
To meet the outlay and reduce the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£370,634) by £50,706, the co. went to
its bankers for an extra £658,853, raising
the overdraft to £779,045. Disregarding
tax reserve, the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£3,422,452, including stocks) was
£9249 less than at the previous balance.
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
i Dividends
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.e. 5 p.c. Reserves.
1932.. 11,106 12,000 28,000 Nil 217,390
1933.. 33,891 12,000 28.000 Nil 211,281
1934.. 70,339 12,000 28,000 20,000 221,620
6-J p.c.
1935.. 77,424 12,000 28,000 25,000 234,044
7i p.c.
1936.. 90,187 12,000 28,000 80,000 )
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. j
8f p.c.
1937.. 101,462 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) ovn cqq
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..j
1938.. 105,211 12,000 28,000 36,000 ) „ 0 .
To staff fund, £5OOO ..
1939.. 106.659 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) Q9Q ™
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. f
10 p.c.*
1940.. 112,331 12,000 28,000 40,000 ) „. Q BQ ,
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. j
H p.c.
1941.. 110,044 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) qqq
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..j ’ wy ’ y ' sB
71 p.c.
1942.. 93,115 12,000 28,000 30,000 ) „„„
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..j rfJ8 ’ yoiS
* Including 11 p.c. centenary bonus.
King Coupon has rolled back the tide
of Sydney retail sales, which had assumed
engulfing proportions after being in con-
tinued flood since the third quarter of
1933. Conditions leading to and imme-
diate affects of clothes-rationing show
up in this dissection of Sydney sales:
Percentage Change on Same Month, 1941.
, —Wearing Apparel—^
Piece- Men’s & Boots &
1942. goods. Women’s. Boys’. Shoes.
March .. +30.1 +41.7 +47.9 +45.2
April .. +56.6 +31.3 +31.3 +46.8
May .. —7.0 —18.6 —13.7 —9.2
June .. —26.9 —31.3 —34.9 —8.9
July .. —18.9 —25.5 —28.5 —25.4
Aim was to ease the strain on external
supply lines and service-pressed local
manufacturers, at the same time creating
a run-off of spending power into the
reservoir of war finance. And in the
latter direction it appears more than co-
incidence that since May the increment in
savings-bank accounts has exceeded that
for the previous 32 months of war.
So, gone is the recent high level of
retail earnings, for costs are unlikely to
be got back in the same proportion to
takings. Though there will be savings, in
some flexible items, it will be difficult
in many because of the recent compli-
cations of retail management. A plethora
of regulations govern rationing, prices,
local as well as overseas buying, employ-
ment, standardisation, deliveries, wrap-
ping, etc., and voluminous Government
returns are required. Price observance
alone has required a staff to itself since
April, when Rule 666 displaced the usual
gross-profit percentage with a fixed
margin per article, irrespective of cost
or turnover, and the staffing problem
grows daily. Shopgirls between 18 and
26 are already being diverted to war
work in Adelaide, and fewer selling chan-
nels may yet be permitted. Meantime,
stock shortages will automatically elimi-
nate many departments, apart from war
organisation of industry.
Customers therefore will have to do
without a lot more of the service con-
cerns like Farmers have been at pains
to provide. The store sits pat on the
turgid George-Market-Pitt streets block.
It was the “abnormally high level” of
taxation —“greatly in excess of the net
profit shown” —that brought last year’s net
result (down £16,929) and ord. div. (7%
p.c.) back to 1936 dimensions. The
£93,115 was nevertheless sufficient to meet
the pref. divs., with a nice 13.2 p.c. for
the £400,000 of ords., against 17.5 p.c.
and 18.5 p.c. in the first two years of
war. Depreciation, though apparently
not skimped, isn’t disclosed.
Broadening of the basis of cash trad-
ing—and clientele —shows up in a con-
traction of £114,610 in credit accounts:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
£ £ £ £
Capital . . 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgage . . 500,000 490,000 480,000 470,000
Creditors*.. 206,902 300,399 311,469 320,341
Freehold,and
plant .. 1,467,511 1,441,523 1,406,829 1,372,860
Stock .. 373,644 473,286 473,980 593,946
Book debts 184,048 223,640 270,091 155,481
Cash and in-
vestments 29,263 26,844 40,557 86,107
* Including contingencies.
The money was useful in adding £120,016
to stocks, and “every effort has been
made to maintain the most satisfactory
assortment.” That should mean much
in the difficult future when replacement
will be restricted practically to necessities.
Australian Knitting Mills (Melb.)
t Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1933*.. 24,538 71 p.c. 5 p.e. 27,750 158,825
Profit on sale of shares, £BBO3 .. .. 167,628
1934 . . 59,445 71 p.e. 71 p.c. 41,312 18,133 185,761
1935 .. 39,894 71 „ 7 „ 38,550 1,344 187,105
1936 .. 28,054 71 „ 7 „ 32,583 182,576
Unexplained addition, £l7OB .. .. 184,284
1937 . . 19,070 71 p.c. 71 p.c. 14,906 4,164 188,448
1938 . . 18,848 71 „ 71 „ 14,906 3,942 192,390
1939 .. 17,656 71 ~ 71 „ 14,906 2,750 195,140'
1940 . . 28,736 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,111 203,251
1941 .. 29,018 10 ~ 10 „ 20,625 8,393 211,644
To staff fund, £2OOO . . . . . , 209,644
1942 .. 28,435 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 7,810 217,454
To staff fund, £2OOO 215,454
* Thirteen months.
Cotton-spinning plant from Britain should
now be ready for shipment; but it will
be another 12 months before new wool-
spinning machinery is available for dis-
patch, reports chairman Gerald Robin-
son. Meantime, shortage of yarn remains
a bottleneck in local textile production,
and a representative committee under
the chairmanship of Clothing Council
head A. J. Burgess has been set •up to
look into the position. Another serious
matter is the high rate of absenteeism
among employees, which has risen as
high as 40 p.c.
Fundamental changes have come over
A.K.M.’s business, which used to
be devoted to full-fashioned hosiery
and fine-knitted woollen and art.-silk
under- and outerwear. All plant capable
of doing so —much of it isn’t —has been
switched to defence work, and that, with
the scarcity of raw materials, has meant
a curtailment of civil output, while styles
have been standardised and drastic
rationing has compulsorily reduced con-
sumption—in the case of hosiery by prob-
ably 60 p.c.—to a level yet to show up
fully. Civilian trade, indeed, will account
for so small a share of current produc-
tion that A.K.M. reckons its turnover
won’t be maintained; much therefore
depends on low-profit service require-
ments, and these will continue to expand.
Considering the pound-for-pound swag
of reserves assisting capital, earnings of
moderate dimensions showed up follow-
ing the Yarra Falls-Austral Silk share
shakeout in 1936 ; then war demands sent
trade up with a rush. The record business
done last year, however, was mainly for
the benefit of the taxgatherer, for whom
£35,000 was tabbed —double the previous
year’s provision, which appears to have
been some £4200 short. Moreover, as
plant which works overtime shortens its
normal life, depreciation (£18,935) was
£4298 heavier, and liberal allowances will
also be needed when the costly new
equipment turns up. These provisions
left £28,435 (down £583) for share-
holders, or 13.7 p.c. on participating
prefs. and ords. combined, compared with
14 p.c., 13.9 p.c. and 8.5 p.c., to go back
three years. So 10 p.c. all round again
went out, £2OOO was marked for staff
benefits and £5BlO added to the big lay-
by—very handy with war-time (company)
tax as it is.
Buildings to house the new spinning
plant, meantime part-let, show up here:
1935. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £550,000 £206,250 £206,250 £206,250
Liabilities . . 22,525* 67,133* 36,11,4 36,081
Tax reserve . . 15,919 30,713
Freeholds . . 109,511 112,840 108,008 139,139
Plant, etc. .. 72,005 102,042 74,530 68,303
Stocks. . . . 143,635 215,491 191,449 143,629
Book debts .. 45,520 42,177 62,102 31,288
Cash, etc. .. 15,998 1,040 47,572 119,873
Shares . . 394,936 198
* Including' tax.
But the main feature is the growth in


Public Notice-
Improvements Relating to the Control of
Compression Ignition Oil Engines.
L. GARDNER & SONS, LIMITED, the pro-
prietors of Letters Patent No. 111,440 for the
above invention, are desirous of disposing of
their rights therein by sale outright or under
license for any State or the whole of the
Commonwealth. Inquiries should be addressed
to H. H. RAYWARD, Patent Attorney, 350
George Street, Sydney.
THE
“BOUL1A”.
810 Dir STOCK SADHIiE
N.S.W.
Freight
on
Saddles
Paid for
Cash irith
Order.
£l5/15/-
(COMPLETE)
Has plenty of
dip in the seat
and the pads are
high. It has the
popular short
panel with
leather facings at
back. Built on a best
“Fouright” Tree. the
materials are first-class
throughout.
Come and inspect our
range of Genuine True-
to-vLabel Wieneke Saddles.
WALIHER it STEVENSOH [R:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDHEY j
DANIEL
CRAWFORD'S
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
Nq friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated In the strictest
confidence
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Z O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
HE
BOS
The Symbol ol
Security !
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
N.S.W OIKKCTOKATK: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Cliainnan); Colin A. Sincla:
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E,, M.L 0.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J. (1. H. Shipway.
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
THE ECHO OF
A HAMMER
BLOW..
Crash! The R.I.L.
drop-hammer stamps
out a vital piece of
anti-tank gun mechan-
ism. Crash! The fin-
ished gun ends the fighting
career of an enemy tank and
brings Victory one notch closer.
Night and day the giant R.I.L.
factories swell the flood of
guns, ammunition and planes
that is steadily overhauling . . .
overwhelming . . . the Axis war
machine. Every man in the vast
army of R.I.L. craftsmen realizes
the importance of his service to
his country and its cause. Every
man has as his objective suprem-
acy for the Empire.
AR
me
RICHARDS
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
fUM c R2
||
1 H
V-;>
Drop-Forging Intricate
Anti-Tank Gun parts
in the R.I.L. Factory
IJWITtO
liquids, following depletion of stocks and
substitution of Government, a cash-on-
the-nail customer, for normal trade turn-
over. The intention was to subdivide the
existing 7s. 6d. shares into 2s. 6d. coun-
ters and issue £68,750 of new capital, one
for three, to pay for the plant on order,
but will this be necessary—at present, at
any rate?
Asian tin cos. and others have received
a windfall from the decision of the
British Government to service Malayan-
issued war loans. The Austral Malay
Tin group alone holds £187,000 stg. worth
of the securities concerned, which are:
F.M.S .$16,000,000 4 2 p.c. 1959
15.000. 3 „ 1956-66
20.000. 3 „ 1952-59
10.000. 3 ~ 1953-60
Straits Settle-
ment . . $30,000,000 3 p.c. 1962-72
25.000. 3 „ 1952-59
10.000. 3 „ 1958-60
Penang .. $4,000,000 5 p.c. 1956-66
8,250,000 4J ~ 1959-69
600,000 4 ~ 1944
(Note. —$1 = 2s. 4d. stg.)
Payment will be made from Malayan
Government assets held in Britain
amounting to £75,000,000, of which
£35,000,000 is free. The Colonial Under-
secretary mentions that these are ex
gratia payments and subject to adjust-
ment should this subsequently prove
necessary. They “will be made to indi-
viduals in British or Allied territory and
to organisations and corporations which
have no establishments in enemy-occu-
pied territory.” Where incorporation was
effected in Malaya, it still remains there,
but Britain has made legal provision for
registered offices to be transferred to
British soil, and has recognised concerns,
such as the Austral Malay companies,
which have done so as “established” out-
side Malaya.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) looked for cost-savings
of 11s. a ton from its enlarged 3800-tons-
monthly treatment plant, in operation for
10 of the 13 months covered by the latest
accounts. Actual economies shown ran
to 10s. 10d., of which 2s. Id. was repre-
sented by the compulsory restriction of
development. On the other hand, it was
not possible to feed the new mill to capa-
city. Indeed, throughput has shrunk about
1000 tons a month since the close of
accounts, and recoveries to 6dwt. Recent
results in digestible form:
Year Treated, Dwt., Costs, Net , Divs.
May, Tons. Ton. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
1940 .. 24,909 7.12 45/8 £27,803 1/6 £18,750
1941 .. 27,072 7.64 '45/11 30,529 2/- 25,000
June,
1942*.. 42,566 6.32 35/1 56,710 2/6 40,625
* 13 months.
Lighter tax provision (£345, against £8058)
helped boost the latest showing. At
254,485 tons, proved and probable ore of
s.B3dwt. value is down 37,080 tons in
volume and .lldwt. in grade; but that
mainly reflects the man-power problem.
“The mine is still in a sound position,
and although ore reserves have decreased
it is not to be taken that the mine has
reached the stage where annual reduc-
tions are to be expected,” the manager
assures. The Hill 50 South leases were
added to the holdings during the year,
and now, on a one-for-three share basis,
a 12 months’ option with right of exten-
sion has been taken over Swan Bitter,
which has a property of some promise
but no cash.
Usually available in April-May, ac-
counts of North Kalgurli for the year to
December have been issued. They show
a surplus of £159,355, compared with
£162,709 for 1940, which was reduced by
taxation (£89,509), depreciation, advance
development, etc., to £55,368. Corre-
sponding net this year isn’t indicated by
the cableman. The year’s distribution is
624 (down 124) p.c., the final being re-
duced from Is. to 9d., less tax, per 2s.
share. Around 12s. 9d. locally, the co.’s
scrip would normally be considered at
bargain prices. War-time earning power
is speculative ; but mine prospects look
better than ever. Shrinkage of net earn-
ings below those of the base year would
bring refunds of some of the tidy sums
contributed in “excess-profits” tax to the
British Treasury.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) has de-
clared a 15 p.c. interim. Last year’s
final distribution was halved to 10 p.c.,
making 30 p.c. (against 40 p.c.) for the
12 months. The apparent attempt to
stabilise the rate at 30 p.c, p.a. may be
frustrated by increased inroads into gold-
mining labor. Though working surpluses
were maintained, net profit for 1941 is
£10,750 lower at £55,121, of which
directors take a hefty £6353 in extras.
* * * *
Low-grade Big Bell (W.A.) slashed its
1941 div. —from 274 p.c. to 24 p.c.


The
MARS 6-in. LATHE
will
INCREASE PRODUCTION EFFICIENCY
BY SAVING YOUR BIGGER LATHE
FOR THE BIGGER WORK
The Mars Six-inch Lathe (standard 4ft, Sin. bed), being
dynamically Balanced (an exclusive feature), will run
at from 2000 to 3000 r.p.m. with sustained accuracy
and freedom from vibration. Its sturdiness eliminates
"chatter."
Anti-friction bearings of the main headstock spindle are provided
with a 4-hour period lubrication. Substantial four-way tool box.
The "Mars" is a delight to handle as all controls fall beautifully to
hand. Gear teeth are generated to ensure sweet running.
Possessing Sturdiness, Precision, and High Production qualities, the
"Mars" has all features required in any shop.
Dynamically Balanced...
Highest Speeds Without Vibration
Send for Full Details and Illustrated Folder to Sole Selling Agents,
all States —
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE. PERTH.
ALSO MADE WITH 6ft. Sin.
LONG UNIVERSAL BED.
- ...
MSPC MACHINE TOOL
Manufactg. Co, Pty. Ltd.
rZ b ::: “an” slZ’l (Formerly Hopson 4 Dutton Pty. Ltd.)
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
AttST
T
H li
RITY
CALLS FOR SELF-DENIAL!
It's more than a duly it's a source ol
personal pride—for every good Australian
to adopt a new way of life for the preserva-
tion of Australia's liberty and the achieve-
ment of victory. Live Austerely—be proud
to deny yourself all non-essentials and
put all your savings into the war effort.
Se Phrnd tbSai/e
AND INVEST IN THE £100,000,000
AUSTERITY LOAN
OR NATIONAL SAYINGS BONDS AND WAR SAYINGS CERTIFICATES
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Australian Finance and the War
Since the war began in September,
1939, the finances and economics of Aus-
India as they affect everybody have
shown many changes. Since Japan
entered the conflict the changes have
entered me conflict me changes nave
been prodigious. Australians have col-
Aided with the realities of man-power
shortages and production difficulties as
opposed to the dreams of financially-
worked miracles, and they have had an
eyeful of the damage done by politi-
cians whn snccialkc in takinc from nne
c ans wflo specialise m taking trom one
class to give to another rather than in-
creasing and improving the common pool
of national output in which all partici-
pate.
War is swallowing so much of the
~ , , t , .
national production pool at present that
most of the financial theorists have
shut up, though Senator Darcey is
occasionally given publicity, mainly be-
cause of his bank credit out-
look in a world that at present is too
grim and real to be appeased by bank
credit or other supposed short-cuts to
parachse. He is like the man who bit
the dog Even Canberra Labor through
trial and error more than anything else,
is becoming alarmed at the effects its
indulgence in bank credit is having on
the efficient conduct ot the war. The
Goyemment s butterfly-chasing financial
policy has been a grave obstruction for
too many vita! months
The Commonwealth Bank has tacitly
rebuked the Government. In its annual
report it* draws attention to the growth
of £B2 million in Treasury-bill accommo-
dation during 1941-42, and adds: “Sur-
plus spending power should be substan-
tially reduced by taxation or saving on
a much larger scale than in 1941-42.” It
not only should be ; it must be if we are
not to see upset the financial and econo-
mic foundations on which our rapidly-
growing war machine relies.
The central bank also speaks of ration-
ing made necessary by “shortage of
goods, scarcity of labor, the necessity to
transfer production from civil to war
purposes and the need to prevent thn>
* ra "® fe , r , beln ® hmdered inflationary
ren s - . . .
However, controls of this [rationing] type
are not sufficient in themselves at a time \
when incomes,, are high through heavy
Government war expenditure. The quantity
of goods available for civilian use must
decline as the proportion of our total pro-
ductive effort directed to war purposes
grows. If this decline did not occur, it
could mean onl y that we were fallmg in
Qur task of mobilising Australia for war.
At a time when money incomes are high,
but the quantity of goods on which these
incomes can be spent is falling, it is essen-
tial that people shall refrain from spending
P art f their incomes. It is therefore the
urgent and vital duty of every member ot
the community to exercise the greatest eco-
nomy in all expenditure, to save and lend
to the Government every penny which can
waste ’ of any kind .
In al the central bank records
(hat * difflcu | ties are affecting
both exports. Under Lend-
Lease Australia is receiving war and
, her lies {rom the U-S . A . witho ut
cash ay^ ent but is rec iprocating with
rever se lend-lekse assistance to U.S. forces
in this count In mu 42 we paid £47
mi l| ion for defence imports and mainten-
ance f our ow „ flgh F ting men abroad>
though h entajled
drawing on our over-
seas reserves to some extent. No loans
were rajsed jn Londo ii ; but Dr. Evatt
arranged for an overdraft there if re-
qUjred this year.
On Dec. 8 licensing of imports from
Empire countries was begun, and on
Jan. 1 further restrictions on non-sterling
commodities was introduced. Britain on
its side is restricting the export of non-
essentials, and the U.S.A. is co-operating ;
on top of this come shipping priorities,
“Jt is now broadly true,” the central bank
observes, “to say that no goods can be
imported into Australia unless they are
either for defence purposes or are re-
garded as essential for the civilian popu-
lation.”
Internally, the man-power position is
such that the defence industries have no
reserves of unemployed to draw on, and
call-ups of men in civilian jobs are now
in full swing, “The financial counter-
part of this task of diverting effort to war
is to ensure that the higher national in-
come is not spent in a way that will
increase the difficulty of the task, that
the costs of financing the war are not
raised unduly, and that the monetary
sacrifices necessarily involved are spread
over the whole community as equitably
as possible.” The bank emphasises that
“taxation and loans should be used to
the fullest possible extent.”
On Nov. 26 the banking regulations
were gazetted. Trading banks were for-
bidden to buy Government securities
without the central bank’s approval, and
had to comply with the policy of the
latter when making business advances.
To check expansion of trading-bank
credit it was made incumbent to transfer
surplus investible funds to the central
bank, and on these interest of \ of one
per cent, is paid. All dealings in land
and shares have been restricted, and
interest rates are rigidly controlled. Build-
ing and lending on mortgage are severely
curtailed.
Wool appraisements in 1941-42 totalled
3.600.000 bales for £5B million, compared
with 3,500,000 bales for £55 million in
the preceding season The appraised
standard price is up 15 p.c. for the cur-
rent clip. Last season’s wheat yield
was over twice that of the preceding year
at 167 million bushels, and was approxi-
mately up to average standard. Sugar
output of 744,000 tons compares with
806.000 tons. The Commonwealth Bank
“has continued to provide large sums
temporarily to finance wheat and other
primary products pending sale. In
accordance with the policy of the Gov-
ernment, the bank has also provided
finance against Government guarantees to
manufacturers, wholesalers and others for
purposes directly connected with the
war.”
Because of the great expansion in the
note issue, which it lends at interest at
ne interest cost to itself, the Common-
wealth Bank earned £1,658,140 from this
section of its functions during the year
to June 30. The figure compares with
£1,461,839 in 1940-41 and £985,991 in
1939-40. The growth in note-issue profits
would have been greater except that in-
terest rates have been moving down since
war began. During the three years to
June, 1942, the note issue grew from
£47.5 million to £102.6 million. In the
middle of October the figure had risen to
over £ll3 million. Close on £lOO million
of this is in the hands of the public—
three times as much as before the war.
Profit on the note issue was transferred
to the Treasury. Other earnings, amount-
ing to £943,046 in the general banking,
savings and rural credits branches, were
transferred to the national debt
sinking fund, £471,523 to reserve funds
and £23,692 to rural credits development
fund. At an earlier period of the bank’s
existence profits such as these were used to
help pay for the transcontinental railway,
The inflating profit on the note issue
at present is not a healthy profit, but the
blame lies with no one but the people
who hoard notes unnecessarily. Instead
of helping the Government with “fighting
money,” by hoarding they are sterilising
money even more than if they simply
banked it. Certainly Government finan-
cial policy up till now has not been
reassuring, but there are signs that a
change in behavior is coming. A change
is overdue.
:
Henry Ford has said, apropos ot
hopes of a “world-wide federation of
nations after the war,” “We must have
a different kind of peace this time,
founded on education and experience,
the only good things that come out of
war. We have got to educate the people
m the ways of peace. We have got to
Set together and learn about each other.”
Forgetting for the time being Mr. Ford’s
hopes in the direction of a “world-wide
federation” and concentrating on coun-
tries within themselves, the motor-car
man said a mouthful in “we have got to
get together and learn about each other.”
Take Australia’s case. At the present
time we have party politicians who de-
pend for their seats in Parliament on
keeping this country divided and be-
wildered. Labor Minister Ward is a
good example of the inciter of class dis-
trust and intolerance. Politicians such
as he are the type with whom co-opera-
tion by rational people is impossible ; he
is not happy unless he is stirring up
trouble and discontent. Then we have
such as “Ernie” Thornton, of the Fed-
crated Ironworkers, boasting that “our
union has deliberately and in a planned
way been involved in more strikes than
other unions in the last few years.” Where
can any country get in the way of im-
proving its social and economic station
while internal strife is deliberately
created? When Australians “get to-
gether” intelligently, each man giving
some consideration to the problems of
the other, we will be on the way to the
solution of many present national diffi-
culties. Most of these difficulties, apart
from those of climate, seasons and geo-
graphy, arise from an absence of experi-
cnee and understanding and a stifling of
self-expression by organisations which
thrive on ignorance and severe “disci-
pline ” We have to wake up to the fact
that with the submersion of the individual
in centralised industries our welfare de-
pends more and more on the intelligence
of our relationships with each other. The
mechanical nature of the age in itself has
a tendency to dazzle and bluff people who
don’t keep their commonsense active.


.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
THAT
O
-
the
TWO BOOKS
WORTH READING
Two special books are available free of charge from Burns Philp Trust Company
Ltd. The first, entitled "The Task That Few Men Want," deals with the Company's
special service in connection with the execution of Wills and the administration
of Estates. The second book, entitled "Hand Over Your Worries," tells how
Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd. can assume responsibility for your personal
business affairs during your lifetime. It has special appeal to those living in
retirement, and to those whose professional activities are of an arduous
character.
These publications will be forwarded immediately on request. Both are of
particular importance in current circumstances.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
y BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B, G.P.O., Sydney.
B.P. 1!»- 4 2
For best performance on
PRODUCER GAS
CHARCOAL
MUST SB VKf
This information a problem inherent in
the operation of charcoal gas producers is
■given as part of Ford Company and Ford
dealer wartime service to owners.
After damp weather, many operators notice a falling off
in performance with Producer Gas equipped vehicles. The
cleaning system, too, requires more attention. The cause
is excess moisture in the charcoal. Steam damps the fire
—clogs the filters. These hints, gained through our ex-
perience, may assist other owners in case of a "rainy day.”
M A
!
SSS
JL
Birrra
factory
-fa Charcoal should be stored in a
warm, dry place, off the ground,
well covered against moisture. Car
owners who keep a bag or two in
reserve should find this easy. The
washhouse is ideal. If possible, dry
out wet charcoal near a fire.
fa If you are on a trip and suspect
wet charcoal, lift hopper lid after
running about 10 miles. As you lift
the lid stand clear as a "pop” will
occur when the unburnt gas ignites.
If charcoal is wet, steam will rise
and drops of will collect on
lid. Leave hopper lid-open for a few
minutes and allow steam to escape
and charcoal to dry out.
fa Top-up more frequently on long
runs when using wet charcoal.
Added charcoal will soon dry out.
If hopper is allowed to burn low and
considerable refuelling needed, excess
steam will be generated.
fa If using wet charcoal, refuel im-
mediately destination is reached,
instead of waiting until journey is to
be resumed. During the stop keep
the hopper lid open slightly. Char-
coal will be dry when you are ready
to move off. This applies especially
when stopping for lunch, to unload,
or when garaging a vehicle at night.
(reff/dofi
Dust clogs the filters and reduces
performance. Remove dust by sift-
ing. A garden sieve or a frame of
fine-mesh wire will do.
fs
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Vic.)
F 217.20.1
The Bulletin has talked about the
danger of inflation ever since war finance
became a major national problem. Prac-
tical evidence of inflation was available
last week. The Commonwealth Statistician
announced that since the outbreak of
war the cost of living in this country had
risen 20.7 p.c., and the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court ordered the basic wage
to be lifted by 3s. a week in Melbourne,
2s. in Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and
Perth, and Is. in Hobart. These higher
wages are based on the increased cost of
living. The average for the six capitals
will now rise to £4 15s. a week (£3 19s.
pre-war), with the Sydney and Melbourne
rates highest at £4 17s. and Brisbane and
Perth lowest at £4 1 Is. Although wages
and living costs have thus risen, one in-
fluencing the other, with war wastage the
principal agent, the shortage of luxuries
and some living requirements has caused
an accumulation of unspent wages, which
has been added to by margins for skill
and overtime, now greater than they ever
were. The result has been a great rush
of deposits to the savings banks and the
hoarding of many millions of pounds in
notes and coin. This accumulation has
only become so noticeable because of
the light taxation levied on the great mass
of consumers, and this light taxing is
the prime cause of inflation. If taxation
were adequate there would be no need
for the excessive use of bank credit and
loans that is now such an obvious danger
to the efficient conduct of the war.
* * * H=
The chairman of the Myer Emporium,
Melbourne, at the first annual meeting of
the co. since it was “declared” under the
Prices Regulations early this year, said
that the £250,000 stated to be the co.’s
excess profit during two years did not
arise from the charging of any extra
profit-loading to the public. It arose
because after the war was in progress
for a short time almost any stock became
good stock, and the usual margin allowed
for bad buying or subsequent price-cut-
ting became profit instead of loss. Of
the £250,000, “nearly half never entered
the profits of the co. in any shape or
form, because it merely represented our
normal rate of discount on an enlarged
stock. This, in conformity with usual
retailing practice, went back to the public
through reduced prices in the form of
bargains and sale events.” Turnover
during the period exceeded £l2 million.
H= * * H=
We hear more commonsense from
some of the lower orders of the church
than we do from higher up. Instead of
criticising the “profit motive” or some-
thing of the sort, the Rev. Gordon King,
of Bourke-street, Sydney, said last week
(“D.T.” report), anent the Austerity cam-
paign :
I’m sick to death of people who haven’t
enough stomach to critcise Government
squandering of public money.
While people continue to give the Gov-
ernment will continue to squander money
by administrative wastage.
But if money is taken from the people—
as would happen if loans were not suffi-
ciently subscribed —there would be a really
first-class rumpus whenever wastage
occurred.
The point is that those who contribute
voluntarily suffer in silence. But if all
income-earners were forced to contribute
to the cost of the war, and not merely
the “investor class,” the number of
people financially interested would be
multiplied, and war waste should be re-
vealed to them in its true light as it is
already recognised by others. But while
thousands of people appear to be actu-
ally making money out of war waste
—wage-earners represent the majority —
those making it will continue to regard
waste with a tolerant eye. Much over-
time payment is waste —the work could
often be done in ordinary hours.
* * ♦ •
Sydney waterside workers have re-
jected the proposed gang system of work-
ing. Successful in other States, the sys-
tem merely amounts to the hatchman
picking his own gang and, very often,
the keeping of them together as a team.
The only difference that the system would
make to the men would be that they’d
work more efficiently.
* * * *
After a total ban on the revision of
Stock Exchange share prices, the
Treasurer has decided that there will in
future be no general revision of trading
limits, but that discriminate revision may
be made in certain circumstances.
He * * *
Queensland estimates that its cotton
crop for the present season will be about
12.000 bales, worth £450,000. A “com-
prehensive programme” for 1942-43 is
hoped to bring 100,000 acres under
cotton, from which a yield of from
25.000 to 30,000 bales is looked for if the
weather is right. Cotton is a vital war
material, and supplies are not abundant.
* H= * *
The manufacture and advertising of
patent medicines is being controlled by
National Security Regulation. Manu-
facturers will have to submit formulas to
the Director-General of Health before
Nov. 14, and useless medicines will be cut
out. In advertising, descriptive matter
must be kept down to 10 words.
H= >K H= H=
The trading banks’ war-time deposits
with the Commonwealth Bank have in-
creased to £46.3 million. They represent
what is described as “surplus investible
funds,” and carry interest at the rate of
15s. per cent. The central bank has de-
scribed this requisitioning of deposits as
being “intended to prevent a primary ex-
pansion of credit being increased by bank-
ing action.” The “primary expansion” is
caused by the Government’s method of
war finance.


THE SERVICE MAN
Waiting in the Solomons.
“Ek Dum”: To some onlookers events
in the Solomons during the past week
may have seemed like an anti-climax.
They could not have had that appearance
to the defenders and their co-operators
in the South Pacific Command Area, the
crump of whose bombs had echoed in-
cessantly back from the hills behind the
Henderson aerodrome at Kukum. There
had been scarcely a night without the
sharp snarl of naval guns, and without
grim evidence of some fresh Jap landing,
some fresh indication of the enemy’s
gathering strength and the tensing of his
muscles for the bear hug with which he
hoped to crush the life out of the Tulagi-
Guadalcanal defences.
There was no sign of despair or weak-
ness on the Allied side. The general
pattern of the Allied counter-measures
was that they were using both fists when
the new Jap encroachment began ; but by
the end of last week they had brought
both feet into play as well.
The fists were the local defences and
the hammering Australian forces thrust-
ing on beyond Templeton’s Crossing in
the Owen Stanleys.
The feet were MacArthur’s Fortresses
and the Mid-Pacific naval and air units,
operating from opposite directions to try
to lock stout knees about the waist of the
enemy effort from the Gilberts to
Bougainville and Rabaul, and crush in
its ribs.
These Fortress expeditions are without
precedent in history. They are not ex-
tensive by European standards, but for
distance flown they beat anything which
Europe has seen in the way of raiding.
From Britain to Genoa and back is about
1400 miles. From the Australian coast
to Rabaul and return is 2000 to
2120 miles. The raids on the Solomons
from Australia are comparable in dis-
tance, if not in size and damage, with
those by the R.A.F. on Turin, Milan and
Genoa in northern Italy.
The first of these attacks was made on
Buin on October 18 at dawn. One flight
came in under flares and smashed at the
aerodrome and the crowded shipping, A
second flight came over weighed down
with bombs up to 10001 b., and was
believed to have hit three cruisers. A
third wave, fighting off the first inter-
ception which had been encountered,
bombed a seaplane tender and a cargo ship.
After an interval of two hours, a fourth
lot of raiders was guided in by columns
of smoke rising from damaged ships. It
set a cargo vessel on fire and left seven
flying-boats badly knocked about, some
of them beyond repair. In all, 22 tons of
bombs were dropped.
That day, while the enemy consolidated
less than 20 miles away from American
positions on Guadalcanal, eight bombers
and 11 “O” fighters were shot down out
of 20 bombers and 20 fighters which
attacked the U.S. airfield, Washington
reported that heavy U.S. warships were
south-east of the Solomons, having
steamed through waters which the enemy
had been presumed to control. #
On Tuesday, October 20, the S.-w.
Pacific Area’s medium bombers were
back at Buin, following the general
bombing of enemy communications
wherever found by U.S. army, navy and
marine aircraft. No interception had to
be faced at Buin —the attack was made
at night—but there was a.-a. fire. The
damage done was believed to be heavy.
While Rabaul was being plastered on
Wednesday, Berlin and Tokyo talked ner-
vously of a great battle which was sup-
posed to be raging in the Solomons. That
there was any large-scale fighting the
U.S, NaVy communiques denied, though
it was admitted that the destroyers
O’Brien and Meredith had been lost.
The same communique summed up
the position clearly:
A large number of enemy ships continues
to be sighted in the Solomons, and small
units have been located and attacked in the
southern islands. There has been little
recent troop activity on Guadalcanal. U.S.
aircraft continue to bomb enemy posi-
tions. On Monday afternoon Grumman
Wildcats, of which one was lost, shot
down two “O” fighters over Guadalcanal.
Late in the afternoon Douglas dive-
bombers damaged one of three destroyers
off the island and shot down an escorting
seaplane. On Monday night an enemy
cruiser was damaged and stopped by a
bomb hit. Two enemy bombers and seven
fighters were shot down during attempted
raids on Kukum area; two U.S. fighters
were lost.
It was announced later that the same
day a minor thrust at the western side
of the U.S. Guadalcanal defences had
been repulsed ; but, except for incessant
air activity and the continued concentra-
tion of enemy shipping, there were no
major movements up to the week-end.
General MacArthur’s ’planes, however,
continued to harass the enemy and whittle
away his naval and mercantile shipping
resources. On October 23 raiders from
Australian soil dropped bombs up to
5001 b. from mast height on shipping at
Rabaul, hitting a cruiser, a destroyer and
eight transport or cargo vessels. And
one 17,000-ton aircraft tender, one of
Japan’s largest mercantile ships of the
Nissan; Mam class, was believed to have
been sunk at dawn on Sunday, having
been hit amidships by a 5001 b. bomb. It
was last seen enveloped in flames and
black smoke, pouring thousands of feet
into the air.
Changes in Command
Much play was made by the press with
command replacements in the s.-w.
Pacific, but most of the critics missed
two important points. One was that
Brigadier Patrick Hurley, a former
Assistant Secretary for War and a trusted
adviser of President Roosevelt, had been
withdrawn from Maoriland, where he
had been acting as Minister and Military
Adviser to the U.S. Command, and sent
to the Middle East on a special mission
for the President; the other, that a suc-
cessful attack on the Gilberts, the joint
between Japanese established base areas
and southern penetration areas, marked
a new departure. It came almost
contemporaneously with the announce-
ment of the supercession of Vice-Admiral
Ghormley by Vice-Admiral Halsey, and
of Vice-Admiral Herbert Leary, of the
Australian Area Command, who goes
to command a “task force,” by Rear-
Admiral Arthur Carpenter (promoted
vice-admiral). The Gilberts operations
resulted in the sinking of two patrol
vessels and the damaging of a destroyer
and a merchantman.
Vice-Admiral Halsey is the U.S. Navy's
expert on this joint area. He it was who
made the successful early raid on the
Marshalls which destroyed or damaged
38 Japanese ships and a number of air-
craft, besides wreaking destruction on
shore installations. He led also at Mid-
way.
The change of command and of
strategy and tactics followed close on
the heels of the visit of Admiral Nimitz,
C.-in-G. in the Pacific, to the battle area.
It may be merely a symptom of his deci-
sion, after personal consideration of the
whole layout of the war in the Pacific,
to make a shift of strategy and replace
mere local defence of the Solomons area
by a more aggressive plan of driving in
between the Japs’ southern penetrations
and their main intermediate bases in the
Mandated Islands, at Truk and elsewhere.
The extension of General MacArthur’s
offensive reconnaissances to the north of
the* Bismarcks —Manus in the Admiral-
ties had a visit last week —lends color
to some such supposition. Changes in
command may therefore mean no more
than the fitting of the right man to the
right area of operation.
Australia’s Own War ./
The battle of the Owen Stanleys pro-
gresses but becomes tougher. The
weather has deteriorated: the rain be-
comes heavier; the six months of wet is
on the verge of setting in. And the
devoted Australian forces are now fight-
ing at the end of a long communication
line, torn up into mixed rock and slough
by the continuous traffic, and climbing
from humid coast to the bitter cold of
6000 feet and down again through the
jungle paths of the even worse mud and
humidity of the northern side of the
range.
There, south of Alola, with Kokoda
so close that a giant could almost reach
out and touch it with his hand, our lads
are fighting fierce and gusty battles with
an enemy who is in prepared positions,
and whose supply lines are across only
60 miles of comparatively flat ground.
But they still push him before them, and
the intrepid R.A.A.F. and U.S. airmen
keep his back lairs as far away as Rabaul
and Salamaua full of bombs and
machine-gun bullets.
Allied mechanised reconnaissance units
are now working as far afield as Lae,
which they raided at the week-end, de-
stroying two bombers on the ground and
damaging two others.
Moresby had one half-hearted air raid
during the week—no damage ; and 12
Jap ’planes in flights of three dropped
sticks totalling about 80 bombs from
1501 b. to 5001 b. at widely-separated points
round Darwin from 20,000 feet. It
was the first attack —if such it could be
called —since August 23, when 16 raiders
out of 39 were shot down
Japan and Siberia
In the North Pacific there were further
raids against Kiska and one by Ameri-
can bombers against objectives in North
China near Peiping.
A peculiar development was the an-
nouncement by Tokyo that four U.S,
airmen who had taken part in General
Doolittle’s raid on Japan had been “pun-
ished for inhuman acts against the civi-
lian population, in accordance with mili-
tary law,” and that further reprisals
would be taken in later cases if “in-
human acts” were committed. Later in
the week the names of three more Ameri-
cans said to be in enemy hands were
mentioned by Tokyo Radio. A spokes-
man afterwards said that punishment had
not been carried out, but was “for the
future.”
On April 19 Washington had denied
that there was a chance that U.S. airmen
had been captured in Japan. Mr. Stimson,
the War Secretary, said that “no raiding
’plane remains in Japan, and no ’plane
was so badly damaged that it could not
reach safety.” General Doolittle, how-
ever, was reported to have told the wife
of a missing member of a crew that
he believed her husband to be in Japanese
hands.
Mr. Stimson last week said that some
U.S. airmen might have been forced down
in enemy territory, and the seven whose
names were first mentioned were actually
missing. One ’plane was interned in
Russia. Several others were involved in
forced landings in China, btit very few
of the airmen were missing.
Tokyo last week mentioned the intern-
ment of U.S. airmen in Siberia, and
quoted an alleged statement by the Rus-
sians that this had been done, without
any request from Tokyo, in accordance
with international law, which would be
applied in the same way to any further
U.S. airmen landing in Siberia.
The approach of winter has now made
any Russo-Japanese campaign in the Far
East virtually impossible, even if either
side desired it. Within a few weeks
Vladivostok and all parts further north
will be frozen-in till April.
General Montgomery Strikes.
“Ek Dum”: Except for one solid Ger-
man thrust on August 30, the Egyptian
land front had until Friday, October 23,
lain quiet since July.
In the meantime Rommel went to
Berlin. Reinforcements and supplies
poured in on both sides —for the enemy
from Italy and Greece; for the Eighth
Army chiefly by the Red Sea route and
over the land route from West Africa,
with another stream of men and material
coming from the south along the Nile.
Bombers tipped their loads on enemy
dumps almost every night. At intervals
Malta was savagely blasted, but it came
up from its punishment with renewed
strength after the arrival of a great
British convoy, which gave it new ’planes,
new ammunition, new munitions of resist-
ance and maintenance in general.
Behind El Alamein the roaring traffic
from Alexandria and the eastward depots
never ceased. ,
The greatest task of generals in the
line must have been to maintain morale
through the blistering, sand-ridden
summer. Here, for once, the Eighth
Army was at an advantage. Its men
had behind them large cities only a few
miles away, shade, relaxation, civilisa-
tion. The wait must have told on the
enemy. Between him and Tripoli,
Catania, Syracuse or Taranto there was
nothing not included in Kipling’s view of
the scene:
a desert stretched and stricken, left and
right, left and right,
Where the piled mirages thicken under white-
hot light.
A skull beneath a sandhill and a viper coiled
inside,
And a red wind out of Libya roaring “Run and
hide!”
Hurricanes and Bostons added a few
lines of their own, British fighter
supremacy robbing the enemy of a con-
sistent view of British preparations and
leaving him to watch the smoke and dust
with “neither rule nor calliper to judge
the matter by.”
After Field-Marshal Smuts’s speech at
Westminster (“our defence phase is now
ended”) it was plain that the storm would
soon burst in Africa.
Last year’s Allied offensive began to
roll on Nov. 18. Wavell’s had begun
three weeks later in 1940. It seemed
that the initial moves must come earlier
this year, especially if the offensive broke
from the Allied side. For the Eighth
Army had 400 miles of leeway to make
up, and the forces involved were far
mightier than before and could be ex-
pected to take longer in gathering
momentum.
The Battle Line
The position was peculiar. The enemy had
been brought up short in a situation which
presented the best defensive area for the
Imperial forces that could be picked. The
last and eastern part of the low line of
eroded 350 ft.-high escarpment hills, Deir
el Quattara, crumbled out into the Quat-
tara depression on his right or southern
flank. The British position lay between
the sea coast and the northern edge of
the depression athwart the road to Alex-
andria, 50 miles or so away.
It had been taken up after a stubborn
retirement. Both sides skidded to a stop
in the dust as Auchinleck’s army propped
and turned at bay when it reached its
reinforcement base at El Alamein.
Though Auchinleck was afterwards de-
prived of his command, history will prob-
ably remember with gratitude the com-
plete success with which he jolted the
elated enemy divisions back on their
haunches. A few lots he chased out of
elevated spots calculated to break the
evenness of the holding line El
Ruweisat Ridge, Tel el Eisa, of
A.I.F. memory, and some others —while
tired German and Italian officers were
licking their lips at the thought of Cairo
and its shade and cool drinks.
Some of the actions were difficult to fol-
low at a distance because of the peculiar
nature of the enemy’s positions. His main
north-south holding line, roughly 35
miles long, ran north and south or there-
abouts from the sea and, for a good deal
of the way, well across the Matruh rail-
way. Near the coast it was subject to
attention from the R.N. and had to
guard against landing parties, besides
keeping one ear cocked for 15in. shells.
Next, the line scrambled over the escarp-
ment hills to the mouldering faces on
the Quattara side, thus forming an in-
verted “L” from the coast to the depres-
sion and westward along it.
There the foe was compelled to guard
against Allied flank attack from the
Fayum road or some other nearer sneak-
point. He did this by swinging his de-
fence line westward. His complete front
therefore was roughly in the shape of
three sides of a box —the coast forming
one side, the Quattara line another, the
third running north and south laterally
along two tracks, forming, on the east,
the main front.
The British front was on the Alex-
andrian side of El Alamein. Towards
the coast there were small hills and dunes
—here the Australians were posted—and
small valleys which made good assembly
points.
Inland, near the angle from which the
enemy’s Quattara line began its west-
ward course, the long, low caterpillar
ridge of El Ruweisat formed an excellent
point of vantage which the enemy must
capture early in any advance, for several
very good reasons.
Between the two lines, when the de-
fences had settled down, was six or seven
miles of skull, viper and swirling sand.
These amenities the industrious gar-
deners on both sides continuously im-
proved, largely by nocturnal cultivation
of a devilish crop of mines, booby traps,
trip-wires, barbed wire, m.-g. and mortar
posts, while bombers and fighters carried
on their sowing over vaster fields which
reach back through blackened and blasted
villages as far as Benghazi itself.
Moves in North Africa
The landing of U.S. troops at Mon-
rovia in the black republic of Liberia and
the presence of many other British and
U.S. troops in Brazzaville (Free French
W. Africa) and the Belgian Congo were
reported. A sudden panicked yell from
Vichy said that reconnaissance had dis-
covered a force of Free French and
others at Lake Chad, 1250 miles from El
Agheila. It was said to be larger and more
powerful than the Eighth Army, though
this is very doubtful. Anyhow, it was on
the flank both of Tunisia and the Ben-
ghazi-El Agheila road. Fevered prepara-
tions by Vichy French for the defence of
Dakar were reported, together with the
rush thither of Admiral Darlan, who
afterwards proceeded to French Mediter-
ranean Africa. Rumors spoke of changes
of command in French Morocco and ot
French defensive conferences including
the whole of North Africa. All this to
divert eyes from what was going on at
Ei Alamein.
The British have an admirable capacity
for distracting attention from themselves
even when they are openly engaged in
preparations for a major operation.
Though numerous sapient critics were
agreed that an attack could not be long


STORES Rupture
Worries!
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
DEPT. 27. 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
I
Mark 0 Location
of YOUR RUPTURE.
THE
lIMITCn iNSURANCE
Umi ELU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” U an
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
Australian Institution.
T. O. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
delayed by one side or the other, most
were engaged in licking their lips over
the possibility that the Allies would
choose some adventure less prosaic than
a frontal assault on Rommel’s divisions —
an attack on Dakar or an invasion of
French Morocco along a 2000-mile-long
desert route or the much-wished-for
Second Front in Northern Europe. On
Saturday afternoon newsboys in some
Sydney localities were yelling “Second
Front opened in Norway” and posters
carried the same fairy tale.
Bombing Prelude
By that time an offensive was well on
the move on the Alamein front; or more
correctly on the Mediterranean fronts in
general. Its prelude had been the blast-
ing of Malta by Axis ’planes, with disas-
trous results to the attackers —over 100
machines lost in a week —and huge
attacks made, by the Lancasters on
Genoa, Turin (headquarters of Fiat) and
Milan (headquarters of Caproni), the
three biggest centres of population in the
Italian North, as well as some other in-
dustrial centres in which attack was most
likely to stir up the Italians in general.
The King and Queen of Italy hurried
to the scene. Their radio was speaking
uncertainly of “light damage” at the time
of the attack in Africa. Their attention
was further turned from the Libyan
border by a second*' and more widespread
version of the earlier blitz. Wellingtons,
Halifaxes, Stirlings and Lancasters estab-
lished a route across the Alps, and, while
the Eighth Army made its first moves
forward in Libya, Genoa, Turin, Savona
and several other places in Piedmont suf-
fered. Italy would have suffered more
had it not been for a change for the
worse in the weather.
On October 22 British heavy bombers
attacked the Maleme aerodrome in Crete,
which the enemy has dedicated to long-
distance bomber and transport bases for
the service of the Egyptian front. They
turned homeward in the light of the fires
which they started to meet the columns
of smoke which had begun to rise from a
vicious blasting of enemy landing
grounds. It seems to have been a noisy
and well-illuminated welcome, what with
dumps exploding at intervals and flames
shooting up to the stars.
The following day was one of clear,
brilliant sunshine, and all through it the
strafe of bases and communications went
on. The enemy’s fighter protection was
as tattered as Mussolini’s reputation, but
the enemy showed signs that he possessed
considerable bomber strength to meet an
emergency, and strong ground defences.
The road strafing was pushed right back
to the Libyan border at Solium. Rome
announcements had a jittery note, though
a communique claimed that 20 British
’planes had been shot down. Cairo re-
ported the destruction of six enemy
machines.
Next day as the chorus of the air
swelled, a correspondent summed up
what was in progress with the remark
that if “air superiority means liberty to
make hundreds of sorties over enemy ter-
ritory without corresponding enemy ac-
tivity over our territory, British superi-
ority is obvious.”
By Friday night there was more noise
in the Western Desert than had ever been
heard there. For hours an air storm had
beaten down on the Axis positions, driv-
ing troops, underground, sweeping traffic
off the roads and making many a landing
ground unusable. The night came over
with a dazzling desert moon.
The Curtain Goes Up
Generals Alexander and Montgomery
were evidently satisfied with their over-
ture. At 10 p.m. they rang up the cur-
tain on the first act of the new grand
opera to the accompaniment of the bass
rolling of naval salvo fire down the coast
at Rommel’s main base at Mersa Matruh.
“Destroy Rommel and his army!” said
General Montgomery in an order of the
day. “Victory should swing our way.”
The general and Arthur Coningham,
the Australian air-marshal who com-
mands the air offensive, called journal-
ists together and quietly emphasised that
the Eighth Army and its supporting air
force had been moulded into a single
entity. A start had been made, the Eighth
Army commander said, with what Field-
Marshal Smuts had called “the offensive”
—a terrific battle in which there was no
doubt of the issue.
Soon no journalist with ears to hear
needed telling. The barrage had begun to
thunder and roll with an intensity which
must have brought back memories of the
Somme to many an old-stager. It was
heard across the desert in urban Egypt,
and shook the environs of Alexandria.
It beat down everything in its path
and moved onward, breaking up mine-
fields, flattening front-line pillboxes and
disorganising the main front behind.
Then it moved again.
Behind the barrage infantry and
sappers crept cautiously forward cleaning
up traps, marking the way. The A.I.F.
in the coast sector carried the first brunt.
Dawn came with British tanks to be
seen hull down in a dust cloud in the
west, and the fighters and heavy bombers,
no longer concerned with distant ob-
jectives, racing ahead of the tide.
Daylight, too, showed the strength of
the drive. In the coastal belt the Aus-
tralians under Morshead pushed on. New
Zealand’s division —the most heavily-
armed and armored force which the
Dominion has had in battle, despite the
scale on which its force was prepared as
a spearhead last year—was there; there
also were South Africans, burning to
avenge the June defeat at Tobruk ; Poles
and Greeks equipped with British and
American arms, and a few U.S. tankmen.
But the bulk of the army was a line of
crack British divisions —the 51st High-
land Division, composed of regiments
some of which date back to Wade’s wall,
the 44 th (Home Counties) and the
glorious 50th (North of England).
The 50th had come fighting out of
Gazala sheer through the victorious Axis
troops last year. It was still fighting and
dogged after 400 miles of retirement
before immensely superior attackers. For
no division in this war have Australian
soldiers a greater respect. In it are regi-
ments whose history goes back into Stuart
times ; the Green Howards, the North-
umberlands (who wear St. George and
the Dragon as their badge), and the Lan-
cashires, who were brigaded with the
Northumberlands in Lyttleton’s force
at Omdurman, and who share with them
a half-century of Egyptian fighting
tradition.
Once the barrage began in earnest
there could be little further surprise for
Rommel, The method of assault was
one which he might expect, since it was
the only one likely to be available, and
the only one which he himself had found
successful in North Africa and his fellow-
generals in the more closely-packed
phases of the Russian war —to force
wedges into the front, thicken them at
the bases and hammer them in till the
whole front split apart. The counter is
to close on the wedges from the sides
and force them out or grow round them
in the rear and bury them.
Success could not be gained easily.
This attack is the first which has been
made by a British Army against prop-
erly organised defence in depth. The
operation is the more difficult because
the limitations of terrain are such that no
assault could succeed which was other
than direct and frontal, being made
against a solid front so short that it can
be intensively and deeply defended.
The thing must be a horn-locking
wrestle of brute force. It must be one
of the biggest battles of the war, and,
unless one side or other quickly gets an
advantage, more fierce and prolonged and
closely knit than almost any single adver-
tised engagement on the Russian front.
And its issue is far more important than
anything which is happening anywhere
else, save in the Solomons.
The British generals must be conscious
that if they lose decisively they lose the
Allied pivot , area, possession of which in
strategic value is second only to that of
Britain itself. With its loss would go
the last of British oil, the last hope of
feeding supplies to the Russians. India
would be left assailed from both sides.
Turkey would become an Axis vassal.
The Long Road Ahead
The offensive progressed under a cloak
of almost complete official silence. The
first Eighth Army communique issued on
October 24 merely said that the Eighth
Army, with strong air support, had
attacked the previous night; that fierce
fighting had developed and was continu-
ing. Berlin and Rome were also equally
reticent, but Rome muttered abstractedly
that “the British had attempted a large-
scale offensive which, if it had succeeded,
would have been the prelude to a general
land, attack against the Axis position at
El Alamein.”
It was next reported from Cairo that
wedges had been successfully driven and
that the main enemy positions had been
reached ahead of schedule. The A.1.F.,
which had borne the main weight of the
initial drive, duplicating Rommel’s own
trick of trying to score the enemy away
from the coast and win main rail and
road, reported a bag of prisoners.
Berlin and Rome admitted that wedges
had been driven, but claimed that they
had been absorbed and the gaps which
they made closed. Rome gave some
indication of the state of affairs in an
admission that for two days before the
avalanche fell on the Axis forces German
transport had been out of action because
of the Eighth Army’s air activities.
Rome later acquired a more hopeful
note:
We repulsed the enemy everywhere, in-
flicting considerable losses, especially on
armored vehicles, of which 47 were de-
stroyed. The battle continues. Powerful
R.A.F. formations supported the Allied
land forces. Axis fighters shot down 16
fighters and a.-a. guns four. We sank an
enemy destroyer in the Mediterranean.
The Germans had nothing to say of
these triumphs for 48 hours. Then they
reported that, though many gaps had
been driven into the defences and fierce
fighting was in progress inside the Axis
lines, the attack had been held at some
points by mines and a.-t. guns.
Any claims regarding decisive events
are for some time likely to be premature.
The Axis forces are estimated at 12
divisions —two German and two Italian
panzer divisions, one German motorised
division and one German and six Italian
infantry divisions, though Italian divi-
sions are reported to be below strength.
Between forces such as are now in-
volved, attacking from well-prepared posi-
tions and defending prepared positions,
decisions are not reached in a matter of
days. They may not be reached even in a
matter of weeks.
It is unlikely that the battle will turn
to its final phase without local reverses.
If there are none in such a contest, the
God of Battles must be very firmly be-
hind the Allied cause.
On Winter's Verge.
“Ek Dum”: The story of Stalingrad
and the Caucasus from four days’ com-
muniques :
Moscow, October 19:
In the operations against Stalingrad the
enemy captured a block of buildings in an
attack which cost him hundreds of men, 14
aeroplanes and 18 tanks. North of the city
Russian artillery destroyed live blockhouses,
one artillery battery and two mortar batteries.
Guns dispersed a tank concentration, and three
attacks were repelled in another sector.
In the Mosdok region the Germans were re-
pelled and about three infantry companies
wiped out. A Russian unit captured about
50 Germans when it broke into enemy trenches.
Geiman version:
Repeated Russian attacks in the Western
Caucasus failed and Russian heights, including
an important mountain, were Captured.
Russian report, October 20:
A fierce attack on a defence point near a
Stalingrad factory was repulsed, the enemy
losing seven tanks and 400 men. A Russian unit
at night destroyed 10 machine-guns and 13 block-
houses and wiped out a company of Germans.
In raids north-west of Stalingrad four guns
and two German companies were wiped out.
In the Mosdok area the Russians in one sector
threw the Germans out of an inhabited locality.
German tale:
“We captured a further block of houses in
the northern suburbs of Stalingrad, where mop-
ping-up on the site of the Red Barricade fac-
tory is still in progress. Close-range fighters
devoted their main attention to the strongly-
fortified Red October works.” Despite un-
favorable weather, pillboxes were captured in
thickly-wooded country on the Tuapse road,
where two German forces north and south of
the road established contact. Russian counter-
attacks in the Terek region failed.
From Moscow, October 21:
A Russian unit in the Stalingrad area re-
pulsed several attacks and wiped out a com-
pany. Russian mortars destroyed two tanks
and three artillery batteries and dispersed an
infantry company. N.-west of Stalingrad Rus-
sian scouts blew up six dugouts and killed 100
Germans. Patrols fired an ammunition dump
inside the German lines. Russian positions in
the Mosdok area were improved after German
attacks had been beaten back. South-east of
Novorossisk six attacks were beaten off and
the enemy cleared from two heights.
German version:
Bad weather limited operations in the Western
Caucasus, but “territory important to the
continuation of the attack” was captured.
Fighting continued at Stalingrad. Russian
relief attacks between the Volga and the Don
were repulsed with high losses before they
reached the German lines; 40 tanks were
destroyed and many prisoners taken. Italian
and Rumanian troops repulsed Russian
attempts to cross the Don and inflicted high
losses.
From Moscow, October 22:
In Stalingrad in all-night fighting 1100 Germans
were killed, five tanks burnt and two trench-
mortar batteries silenced. N.-west of Stalingrad
a Russian unit stormed a trench and wiped out
200 men in hand-to-hand fighting, capturing
four trench mortars, seven machine-guns, a
radio transmitter and an ammunition dump,
and destroying seven pillboxes. In the Mosdok
area 300 Germans were killed. The Black Sea
Fleet sank three auxiliary vessels and a trans-
port.
From Berlin;
In the Western Caucasus, in spite of heavy
rain, we broke into Russian positions in hard
house-to-house fighting and destroyed a Soviet
Guard regiment, taking 1200 prisoners, seven
guns, 27 machine-guns and other war material.
South of the Terek River there was local
fighting. In Stalingrad stubbornly defended
strongpoints were captured. The main weight
of air attacks was concentrated against the
north of the city, while continued enemy
counter-attacks still further north were pul-
verised with the help of the Luftwaffe.
This was all the official news. It was
typical of the days that followed. And it
was consistent with a deduction that two
or three German divisions were mopping
up strongly fortified and defended
residuary positions at Stalingrad, and
that, perhaps, one German division on the
Tuapse road and one on the Terek were
actually engaged in a cautious but very
limited advance, as cover for the real
operations of the moment —the prepara-
tions for wintering. Signs are that it will
be a very early and severe winter.
The fact probably is that there is not
much left of the militarily important parts
of Stalingrad, but that in its 400 square
miles of ruined buildings and factories
there is a lot of mopping up for the Ger-
mans still to do. Evidently they are going
about it section by section, stopping when
the weather is too vile, but not using
heavy forces against local resistance by
forlorn-hope garrisons, whose gallantry is
beyond praise.
At the week-end the Germans claimed
to have completed the capture of the
Red October factory. The Russians
admitted that the enemy obtained a foot-
hold, but said he had been thrown out.
The General Position
Berlin speaks of new Russian move-
ments on a large scale between Rshev
and Lake Ilmen.
Much of this country is terrible swamp
and forest, and any effective offensive is
unlikely there. The Germans may be
abandoning the swamps for the winter,
as they did last year, and may be thus
under the necessity of explaining the
withdrawal.
It is unlikely that there will be any
further large-scale movements on any
Russian front unless the weather im-
proves beyond normal.
General Dietmar, the military spokes-
man in Berlin, declared on Oct. 20 that
the German task in the Caucasus was to
seal the protection of the rich country
between the Don and Kuban rivers, since
without these the Russians could not sur-
vive. He admitted that this would not
be easy, since the Russians were using
many fresh troops.
If will be a dreadful winter for the
Russians ; and having in mind the neces-
sities of other fronts, especially the Pacific,
everything possible will have to be done
to sustain them.
“E.D.”: Almost casual was the an-
nouncement by the First Lord that
since the outbreak of war over 530 Axis
submarines had been sunk or damaged—
French sinkings before June, 1940, and
Russian excepted.
* * ♦
The R.N. is acquiring a satisfactory
lot of new ships. Anson and Howe,
sisters to the 35,000-ton battleship King
George V, and carrying 10 Min. and 16
5.25 in. guns, are in service. So are the
latest Tribal Lightnings —near sisters' of
Australia’s H.M.A.S. Arunta —which
carry their six 4.7’s in turrets, cruiser
fashion, and have eight torpedo tubes
and a speed of 36i knots. It is indica-
tive of the strength of the Royal Navy
that the western and n.-w. coasts of Aus-
tralia are now defended along with India
and the Red Sea entrances by a British
battle fleet which includes Warspite
(30,600 tons, 15in. guns; formerly
Admiral Cunningham’s flagship in the
Mediterranean); Royal Sovereign and
Resolution sister ships to Ramillies
(Ramillies visited Australia and M.L.
earty in the war and convoyed the first
Australian troops to the Middle Eastl-
and the aircraft-carrier Illustrious (23,000
tons), completed in 1940. These ships
and the large complement of cruisers,
destroyers and submarines which must
accompany them are a magnificent
sermon in steel for the ungrateful idiots
who preach that Britain is doing
“nothing.”
* * * ♦
Britain holds 52 Italian generals
prisoner in India.
r V * ♦ •
Uncle Sam is paying Australia a naval
compliment rare even between the closest
Allies. A new cruiser now building at
the Bethlehem yards at Quincy (Mass.)
will be named U.S.S. Canberra.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Caulfield Cup day made but a small
ripple on the surface of the city’s life.
Not that the folk didn’t go to Fleming-
ton. They did, in substantial numbers,
and in spite of austerity, or because of it,
the women looked smart. People are
wearing last year’s and the year before’s
festive clothing, and that wasn’t nearly so
fantastic as race wear used to be years
ago. This year’s new garb was mostly
tailored suits. The perfect weather made
the green lawns of Flemington tempting,
but, strangely enough, the afternoon con-
cert at the Town Hall also drew a huge
crowd.
Taking a real square smack at the
problem of boy and girl, the Blue
Triangle Club at the week-end opened
its doors announcing that it catered par-
ticularly for the man in uniform with a
wife or sweetheart or girl-friend who
hasn’t anywhere to go for a chat and a
bite of food except already-crowded res-
taurants, and the girl in the Forces who
is seen in her hundreds with her man-
chum, also looking as though she wished
someone would invite them in to a bright
little table with a cup of tea thereon.
Club was once a Flinders-lane warehouse,
but its five floors are rejuvenated, and
there are dancing and a band on one,
games on another and all the comforts of
a club to hand. Mrs. Neil McNeil, wife of
the Head of Wesley, Mrs. Hector Greig,
and other Y Emmas have put the
shoulder to the wheel, and a thousand
business girls have promised to do all
the work voluntarily except the manag-
ing, which is in expert professional hands.
The Arts and Crafts exhibition held at
No. 9 Darling-street drew a good crowd.
Interest was stirred by Valerie Correll’s
experiments at producing china from Bal-
larat clay ; and, as the Arters and Grafters
are a well-known crowd and their work
extremely attractive, lots of interested
friends always trot along. Some very
delectable bits of pottery met the eye,
and delicious toys and leatherwork by
convalescent soldiers. Hand-woven tweeds
which were very good and Francis
Bourke’s cotton and linen prints caught
the eye as art-cwm-utility. Very expert
wood flowers overcame artificial flower
prejudice, and were of topical interest in
view of news from London that the latest
war-bride fashion is carrying artificial
posies.
That well-liked medico Lt.-Col. J. B.
Colquhoun gave the blood bank a great
lift at the annual meeting of the Victorian
Society for Crippled Children. He drew
an outline of the life of the Army Medical
Corps in North Africa, showing that,
with the blood bank’s reserves to draw
upon, surgeons were able to save hun-
dreds of wounded who would otherwise
have died within a few days. The blood
bank organisers are able today to point to
a beautiful new hospital on St. Kilda-
road, where the blood-letting is done in
the most up-to-date manner. Crippled
Children’s Society members are now
dealing also with soldier cripples,
they being experienced in this work.
The next job will be to find congenial
work for men whose disability makes it
impossible for them to go back to their
pre-war means of livelihood.
Although party-giving has almost
passed out of our social life, qufte a
few of Keith Officer’s friends have said
“glad to see you again” since he landed
here. He was at Ormond during his
University course, and it was probably
then that he met John Latham, then a
tutor. The Officer clan, although mostly
engaged in sheep-raising, has city ramifi-
cations, and the returned diplomat was
no doubt gratified and amazed to see
how the family name is spreading east,
south, north and west. Having met nearly
all the world’s celebrities, he had much
of interest to tell his local friends. So far
none of the members of the Russian
mission is taking his wife. Mrs. Slater,
wife of the Minister, will stay here
and superintend the education of her
three children, and so will Mrs. Craw-
ord, who has three offspring to look after.
Annual meeting of the Purple Cross
Service gave many a surprise by showing
that Dobbin is still at battle stations in
this war. Neddies up north have been
sent many of the 40 dozen horse-veils
supplied by members of the service dur-
ing the year. Weekly meetings are held,
and all the things a sick horse needs are
either made or supplied ; these include
bandages of various kinds, 2500 of which
have been made during the year, fomen-
tation towels and the like. Halters and
bandages have been supplied also to
animal A.R.P. centres. It is good to know
that the suffering which is so much the
lot of the horse in war is being mitigated
as far as possible by his friends.
Passed over last week Mrs. J. V.
McEacharn (Blanche Jones) after a
sudden heart attack. In the early days
of Melbourne “Sun” she was its social
writer. She had not only a precise
memory for faces and names, but the
eye to see who was “coming along”
socially. Instead of chronicling the same
old crowd all the time, she introduced
new names and faces to the public.. She
made many a social reputation. Her
husband, James V. McEacharn, who pre-
deceased her, was a solicitor and member
of the shipping family of that name.
After her marriage Mrs. McEacharn en-
gaged in charitable work and edited the
Ministering Children’s League’s little
magazine “Sea Breezes.”
The craft of papier-mache making has
made tremendous strides here, and pos-
sible crockery shortage has been avoided
.by the extensive use of papier-mache
dishes. The craft was commenced in a
tentative way more as a means of inter-
esting convalescent soldiers, with the pos-
sibility that it might later on furnish
them with a trade. However, the bowls,
shallow and deep, the trays and the
various pieces of equipment made from
old newspapers (the most usual material)
filled the bill so well at military hospitals
that the organisers of the industry find
it must be kept going full steam ahead
to supply the orders that roll in daily.
Mrs. C. M. Whyte, director of the Red
Cross papier-mache branch, and her
fellow-workers can congratulate them-
selves on a job well started. It may end
in being a biggish industry.
Plans for her wedding on November
7 to Eric Kottmann are keeping Mavis
Trevorrow busy, and the days she isn’t
helping with the blood bank, her war-
time job, are spent in flat-hunting. Broo-
thorn took this picture of her. Daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. John R. Trevorrow, the
bride-to-be was employed by the family
engineering firm till she took up war
duties, which she proposes to continue
after marriage. Wedding will be formal,
with bride in blue marquisette and brides-
maid in faint pink, and will take place in
Littlejohn Memorial Chapel, bridegroom
being an old boy of Scotch College.
Clown, merry-go-round and maypole
will provide the traditional atmosphere
at the Air Force Auxiliaries’ Fun Fair
on December 19 in the grounds of
W.A.A.A.F. House, Toorak. There will
be stalls of Christmas goodies, jams and
general goods, including cuddly toys
made by Mrs. Ikinger and dolls dressed
by auxiliary members. There will be
two Christmas-trees, one for Air Force
children and one for other small visitors,
who it was felt would be disappointed
to see other children getting all the sur-
prises. Air Force men’s kiddies will be
given free tickets for everything, but all
children can have a glorious time at very
small expense to mother, so that the fair
should be a popular way of providing
a Christmas treat. Mrs. John McEwen
and voluntary helpers at W.A.A.A.F.
House are providing Is. lunches and
Devonshire afternoon teas, and also are
selling Christmas cakes.
Sergeant-Pilot Jan Hoogveld and Lieut.
Garfield Olson, the one a member of the
N.E.I. Flying Corps, the other of the U.S.
Army, have both taken Australian wives.
Patricia Joyce, of Balwyn, became Mrs.
Hoogveld at St. Patrick’s, and Shirley
McGregor took her American for better,
for worse, at St. John’s, Toorak. Both
brides wore white satin, which suggests
that the plans for matrimony were laid
before coupons became a major factor
in domestic economy.
From Sydney
The Far East Auxiliary clubrooms in
Casllereagh-street are the favorite meet-
ing-place of women from Malaya and
New Guinea. Every day the girls who
have found jobs in business houses and
banks in the city make their way there
for lunch. This sandwich and coffee
or tea repast (it was that even before the
word austerity became so threadbare) is
prepared by voluntary helpers in the
club’s compact but tiny kitchen. After
lunch there’s time for a gossip and a
smoke, if the makings can be got; or
maybe a glance at the magazines. Inci-
dentally, the clubrooms can always do
with up-to-date magazines. Each day five
of the auxiliary give their time to this
work of making a cheery port of call for
the women so ruthlessly deprived of their
homes.
Last week Lady Wakehurst, who is
president of the auxiliary, invited all the
workers to tea. It was a day when rain
cold as hail fell unceasingly and an un-
kind wind sneered bitterly through every
cranny of the topcoat. Therefore there
was no walking in the gardens and
admiring the roses. There were about 80
guests, among them the Anderson lady
(who is chairman), treasurer Alfred
Davidson and secretary Miss M. Kidd.
The subject of this Norton Trevaire
photograph is not a film star. She is
Jessica Chard, a very active worker of
the younger committee of the Woollahra-
Darling Point Red Cross. Jessica’s en-
gagement was announced on her birthday
a week or so ago. Her affianced is Cap-
tain John Watson, A.1.F., and proposal
and answer were the starry moment in
John’s short leave between service in the
Middle East and his rushing off to an-
other war front. Jessica was a pupil at
Doone, and later of Janet Stephen’s
studio. She was for some time a member
of Bryant’s Playhouse, and made many
appearances in concerts and revues at
army camps and entertainments to aid
war funds. Her parents are the Athel-
stane Chards, of Bellevue Hill. Her
grandfather, John Woods, for many
years represented Stawell in the Vic-
torian Legislature. John’s grandfather,
too, was in politics. He was member for
Bulimba (Q.). Captain Watson is the
elder son of the C. Watsons, of Rose Bay.
The modern grandmother, hair-waved
and streamlined, will be in the spotlight
at the Minerva next Saturday. The man-
agement of the Potts Point theatre will
hand over its preview matinee takings
to the National Shilling Drive, and dur-
ing the afternoon the popular grand-
mother contestants will receive their
prizes and illuminated certificates. These
will be signed by Lady Wakehurst and
presented by the John Butters lady, who
is president of the Y.W.C.A. Over
£13,000 is in hand, and the appeal on
behalf of the service will benefit
from many silver streams still gurgling
in from the country. At the Minerva
on Saturday will be many of the “grans”
from out-of-town. Newcastle candidates
polled remarkably well. The Julius lady
wrested the victory from town and
country with 37,482 votes. Next came
the Alexander Gordon lady with 37,190
supporters. The sum of £7337 was
mopped up by this contest.
A fine display of photographs of the
Owen Stanley Range and a demonstra-
tion of Welfare Officers’ arrangements
for meeting tired and wounded troops
will be one of the exhibits in the Sal-
vation Army display in Anthony Hor-
derns’ Art Gallery. Hamilton Knight,
N. S. Wales Minister for Labor and
Industry,- will open this next Friday at
three o’clock. It will remain open till
November 7. The exhibition features
women’s work done in the home.
The goods, if not required for
war-emergency purposes here, will be
sent to countries devastated by war.
Rugs and quilts, sleeping-bags, toys made
by children and clothing, all made by
self-sacrificing hands to help the stricken
at home and overseas, will be shown.
City Tatt.’s spring meeting the fete
at Graythwaite, Red Cross Convalescent
Home for soldiers of the last war, and
Sydney University Settlement Fete were
among things smiled upon by last Satur-
day’s afternoon sunshine. Lady Wake-
hurst opened the Settlement fair and Wil-
liam Morris Hughes made speech at
Graythwaite. Later he went and had a
word with the patients.
There should be many sheepskins for
Russia as a result of the dance in the
State ballroom on November 7. Russian
music and dancing will provide an atmo-
spheric interlude, and Russian dainties
will be served, hot from the oven. There
will be a choir singing gipsy music and
dressed in gipsy costume. To help the
fund further, programmes with painted
design will be sold. The Russian Medi-
cal Aid and Comforts Fund will benefit.
Annette Kellerman has just emerged
from the throes of composition, and is
now planning a pageant around her new
song “The Lady with the Lamp.” It
doesn’t take three guesses to tell who is
the heroine of that song—words and
music by Annette. The pageant will be
staged in the Town Hall and will turn
the general meeting on November 28
into a night of inspiration. The whole
of the stage will be a sea of color and
movement. And everybody taking part
will be a woman! The color scheme
will be blue. There will be a special
choir of women’s voices and a special
orchestra. The principals of the scena
will shimmer in blue satin against a
background of V.As. and personnel of
the great army of mercy Florence Night-
ingale helped to found in those far-off
days when war was a comparatively
humane business.
There was quite a roll-up of the Navy
to Federation House in Phillip-street
when the Koalas made merry in the
cause of the men of the Navy. The
Koalas are a branch of the Naval War
Auxiliary, and last year they provided
500 hampers for men of the R.A.N.
Nor do these willing workers, many of
whom are business girls, restrict their
good offices to any boundaries on the
atlas. They make warm knitteds for men
in the north seas and lighter-weight com-
forts for men in the tropics. The Koalas,
with great foresight, picked Trafalgar
Day for their sherry party. They netted
two admirals (Rear-Admiral Feakes and
Rear - Admiral Muirhead - Gould) and
Walter McNicoll among their guests.
Lucky-number tickets for a basket of
rationed groceries were rushed, and
made quite a bit of extra money. Presi-
dent of the N.W.A., Mrs. C. J. Pope, and
treasurer Mrs. Clifton Penny were among
those who honored the toast of “Nelson! ”
Up on the third floor of The Bulletin
building C.W.A, members are as busy as
bees in a hive. Here they spin and knit,
do camouflage netting and are trained in
toymaking and suchlike occupational
therapy. The members who make a study
of this, in turn, take their knowledge to
the military hospitals, where they train
convalescent soldiers.
The long sea-boot stockings so greatly
in demand by men in the minesweepers
are here evolved from the fleece —greasy
for preference. In one room spinning-
wheels purr gently as they turn the fleece
to woollen strands. When the wool is
ready eager knitting needles get busy, and
the result is a thigh-high stocking that
helps to daunt the icy blasts of the North
Sea. Scarves, pullovers and rugs, soft,
warm and inviting-looking, are other com-
forts the workers send to the Naval War
Auxiliary. It is a grand partnership,
this of the sheep and the C.W.A.
“Queens” as money-raisers seem to
have had their reign. The Y.W.C.A. had
a grandmother contest to put the whale-
bone into the National Shilling Drive.
Now “Miss Red Cross” is depended on
to bring home the bacon for the Red
Cross December appeal. In short, it
seems to be the day of the good old
middle-class. R.C. executive is rubbing
the hands in anticipation over the thou-
sands this new type of competitor will
lure. Since there are 109 entrants, anything
from ninety to one hundred thousand
pounds is not too high an estimate. The
girl nominated by the small branch has
the same chance of winning as the
nominee of the big branch.
This and many other plans for the day
on December 4 were talked over at the
R.C. meeting last Thursday morning.
It brought a buzz of workers to Somer-
set House. Mrs. Penfold Hyland, look-
ing very proud of the last big collection,
was in uniform, as were many others.
There was loud applause when the chair-
man of the committee passed over the
cheque for £70,000 to Wilfrid Johnson
the popular stalwart of the N.S.W. Red
Cross. Moree’s candidate in the new con-
test, Mrs. Clifford Longworth, has already
polled 60,000 votes. Mrs. Clarne Martin,
of Waverley, comes next with 24,000.


Public Notices.
“EAT HEALTH” the new way. Send postal
note 5/- and secure formula for America’s
famous Makequick Vegetable Sausage. Contains
no meat. Served hot or cold. All kitchen in-
gredients. Sanctioned by Department of De-
velopment and Supply. Quote 41/8891. —A. J.
READING, 131 Elizabeth Street, Redfem,
N. S. Wales.
Personal and Missing Friends.
JOHN HENRY PEARCE, formerly of Poon
Boon, near Stoney Crossing. If the above-
named communicates with MESSIEURS ALAN
GARDEN & GREEN, Solicitors, Swan Hill,
Victoria, he will hear something to his advan-
tage.
WILL J. T. McKINSTRY, whose last known
address was Ettalong Beach, near Woy Woy,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
write to No. 309, Advertising Department,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney?
ESTATE HELEN SETTER, late of Wellington,
New Zealand, Widow, Deceased.—JOHN
SETTER, a son of the abovenamed, is be-
lieved to have left Melbourne about 40 years
ago and to have followed the occupation of a
seaman. He, or anyone who can give any
information as to whether he is alive or dead,
is requested to communicate with the TRUST
OFFICER, THE NEW ZEALAND INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY, LIMITED, P.O. Box 1376,
Wellington, New Zealand. The above informa-
tion is sought for the benefit of the said John
Setter.
ESTATE of WILLIAM SCOTT, late of Wel-
lington (N.Z.), formerly a laborer but latterly
a hairdresser and tobacconist (known in boxing
circles as “Nugget” Scott, and who at one time
worked on the N.S.W. Railways and the
Woronora Dam). Would the next-of-kin or
anybody knowing their whereabouts communi-
cate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES LENNOX CLIFT formerly of
near Cooma recently of Redfern.—TAKE
NOTICE that EUNICE KATHLEEN CLIFT
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 394 of 1942
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
by the Nineteenth day of January next and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from CLAYTON UTZ & COMPANY Solicitors
136 Liverpool Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERNST BERTHOLD LANGBEIN late
of Sydney and Hillston.—TAKE NOTICE
that NELLIE LANGBEIN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1392 of 1942 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards You may enter
an appearance by the 13th January 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from DICK L. McINTYRE Solicitor of 2
O’Connell Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
| § Sporting Notions
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Tranquil Star, best mare racing in Aus-
tralia, increased her winnings to £15,550
when, starting at 15 to 1, she defeated
Heart’s Desire (25 to 1) and El Golea
(33 to 1) in the Caulfield Cup, run at
Flemington last Saturday. Although
several of the runners were squeezed out
at the start honors of the race were with
Tranquil Star, who carried top weight,
8.12, and is now expected to be hard to
defeat in the Melbourne Cup, notwith-
standing an increase to 9.3. A five-year-
old by Gay Lothario from Lone Star, she
cost 600gns. as a yearling, and is trained
by R. Cameron for T, G. Jones, of Mel-
bourne, and R. Cobden, of Sydney.
A. Breasley received a lucky mount on
the winner. He had been engaged for
Tuhitarata, but the latter developed sore-
ness on the eve of the race and was
scratched on the course. Connections of
Tranquil Star were loath to deprive
apprentice K. Smith of the mount, but
it was agreed that Breasley’s experience
would be invaluable in such an important
race, and he was substituted. Smith, who
is apprenticed to the mare’s trainer, was
amply rewarded for watching the race
from the stands.
El Golea’s impressive run after meet-
ing with interference was a shock for
backers, who sent his stablemate Skip-
ton out favorite at 3 to 1. Skipton, who
was forced very wide on the turn, looked
dangerous with less than two furlongs
to go, but was beaten a furlong from
home, and finished fifth behind the pace-
maker, Colonus. Amazed, starting at a
shorter price than his stablemate Tran-
quil Star, came from second-last at the
half-mile to finish sixth. Staying obvi-
ously is his forte, and although he does
not look the part of a good weight-carrier
he may extend Great Britain in the Vic-
toria Derby. Dark Felt would have done
better than eighth had he not cannoned
with Velocity and lost ground at the
start. Velocity was knocked right off
his balance and was among the tail-
enders throughout.
Pickway ran himself into a Derby start
by finishing stoutly to defeat Victory Roll
and Dennis James in the Second Bur-
wood Handicap. He carried only 7.3,
but looks well up to weight, and im-
presses as likely to improve. Pickway,
who is by Piccadilly from Decorum, cost
210gns. as a yearling, and was one of
two purchased in Sydney by “E.
Franks.” The latter decided on his return
to Melbourne to keep only one and sold
Pickway to W. Balloch, who in turn sold
a half-share to his Maoriland racing part-
ner, G. J. Barton. Register, favorite,
made up a lot of ground to finish seventh
after striking a fair amount of trouble.
He is still a maiden, but his trainer
expects him to do better over a distance,
and intends to run him for the Derby.
Mermeran increased her winning
sequence to four by easily defeat-
ing the 2100gns. colt Amana in the
First Burwood Handicap. She is one
of the best three-year-old fillies
seen for some seasons, and it is un-
fortunate for her connections that, be-
cause her dam, an unnamed Windbag
mare, was not returned to the Stud Book
she is ineligible for the Oaks. It would
have been difficult to look beyond Mer-
meran for the probable winner of that
race.
Ben Butler, a St. Magnus colt owned
by his breeder, G. R. Nicholas, made
an impressive d£but in the Gwyn Nur-
sery. Uneasy in the betting, he won as
he liked from Pharisee and Martial Law,
and impresses as certain to develop into
a first-class horse. Maemento, a Solar
Bear filly, who cost only 85gns. as a
yearling, led practically throughout the
Mona Nursery to win decisively from
Stygian and Gay Gown. The former
Sydney horse Cacique justified heavy
backing by defeating Crojick a head in
the Moonga Handicap.
• * * *
City Tattersall’s Club raced for the
benefit of patriotic funds on Saturday,
and in order to avoid the possibility of
loss insured for £2OOO. With the weather
unsettled it was a wise precaution, but
the day was fine, and Randwick rarely
looked better. The attendance was a
little over 39,000, and the tote turnover
£73,273.
* * * *
Backers of Main Topic and It’s Funny
held that those two were particularly
unlucky in the Metropolitan. City Tat-
tersall’s Cup running proved their con-
tention sound. At the home turn Hall
Stand and Angus were leading from
Amberspear, but halfway down the
straight Main Topic appeared to have
the race won. Then It’s Funny (Bartle)
put in his claim, and outstayed the three-
year-old to score by a neck. Moon-
darewa momentarily looked a winning
possibility when he made a dash in the
straight, but had finished his run before
the judge’s box was reached.
Yaralla never really raised the hopes
of his backers. He commenced smartly,
but was then eased. Seventh approach-
ing the turn, he lost ground in the
straight, and seemingly stays very little
better now than when unplaced in the
A.J.C. Derby and St. Leger—lt’s Funny
was fourth in the former and won the
latter. The way Hall Stand hung on to
Angus left the latter without a finishing
run, and Hall Stand also tired. Two’s
Company ran well, as did Beau Frere
and Tidemark, while Evergreen, after
being fourth at the mile, met with a
check a little later, and was well beaten
a long way from home. Dashing Cava-
lier, Mildura, Dewar and Grand Fils
were never in the fighting line, and,
apart from It’s Funny, Katanga was the
only heavily-weighted horse that ran re-
spectably.
Freckles’s rise in weight proved too
much for him in the Flying Handicap.
He and Trimmer raced together from
the start, and the latter had him beaten
before commencing the last furlong.
When Trimmer drew clear he looked like
coming right on, but he failed to stall off
Flying Knight, who, in turn, gave place
to the fast-finishing Soho. As in his
previous race, Soho was some distance
from the leaders at the straight entrance.
Mulley has evidently discovered the way
to get the best out of him. Petruchio’s
fourth gives him a chance of again enter-
ing the winning list, while, though
Romero was fancied, he was outpaced
from the first furlong. The time, 1.10,
equalled Gold Salute’s record for Rand-
wick.
It takes a good horse to win a Novice
Handicap at Randwick with 9.5, but with
that weight Glendower (Bartle) decisively
beat Louano, who, in a field of 27,
started at even money. Gauntlet was
first into the straight, but Glendower was
in charge shortly after commencing the
last furlong, and was not after troubled
to win from Louano, who came from
fifth at the turn. As Louano looked
strung up it is doubtful whether he can
be improved to any extent. Gauntlet’s
third makes him a probable winner in a
race of this class, and Valiant Garde,
Valoroi and Hit Parade are worth keep-
ing in mind. Silver Princess again tired,
and Great Scot was too badly placed
shortly after barrier-rise to enter subse-
quently into calculations.
Highgate was supposed to have a
mortgage on the Two-year-old Stakes, but,
though he was in the lead with Est-
borough (Shean) after turning into the
straight, the later won easily, with Ten-
nessee an indifferent third. Frontier was
fourth, and Kurranulla next. None of
the others showed form likely to cause
them to be in demand when they next
start. Estborough is a good-looking
Queensland-bred colt by Emborough (by
Gainsborough) from Estrellita.
Kiaree, a short-priced favorite for the
Three-year-old Handicap, did not dis-
play any dash, and after Fervent had
done the pace-making, with The Somme
as her nearest attendant, War Effort
(Thompson) Jiad the race won a hun-
dred yards from home. As War Effort
started from an outside position in a
field of 26 it was a good performance,
and he is better than most of Piccadilly’s
stock have shown themselves up to the
present. Modulation, who ran third, is
not far off his best, and Orderly, who
gave promise when he won two races
last season, gave a glimpse of that form.
Display may not be far from a win, and
it is the same with Mon Pere, who fin-
ished fourth after being a long way back
at the half-mile.
Guild Hall (Turner) led at an early
stage of the Club Welter, and though
when Faerie Queen got within a couple
of lengths of him at the turn it was
reckoned she would run him down she
stopped, while Guild Hall went on, win-
ning by five lengths from Merrimba.
Enderby, who is coming on again, was
third, and then Faerie Queen, Tel Asur
and Bragger. After being in the leading
half-dozen at the turn Streamford and
Cryon lost ground in the run home.
Guild Hall was for private sale last
week, but luckily for his owner and
trainer no buyer was forthcoming.
* ♦ ♦ »
Any doubt as to Main Topic being a
really good three-year-old was disposed
of in City Tattersall’s Cup, notwith-
standing his defeat by It’s Funny, who
carried 21b. less than w.f.a. Main Topic
had exactly w.f.a., as had Mildura and
Dewar, while Dashing Cavalier and
Katanga had 11b. and Yaralla 31b. in
excess of it. The last-mentioned five are
good horses, but they had no chance
against Main Topic, apd it is a pity he
will not be included in the Victoria
Derby field. Hall Stand may be faster
than Main Topic, but he is not in the
same class as a stayer. Baroda was some-
what disappointing in his races, and, apart
from Main Topic, Angel gave as much
promise as any of being likely to get the
St. Leger distance next autumn.
* He *
Yaralla did not stay as a three-year-
old, and his effort in City Tattersall’s
Cup did not show that he had improved
in that respect. He won the ten furlongs
Craven Plate very easily, but, though
favorably treated, a bustling eleven in
a handicap did not suit him. Several
horses can be recalled that could win
w.f.a. races up to a mile and a quarter
but were failures at a mile and a half in
handicaps. On Saturday Yaralla looked
quite as well as in either of his races at
the A.I.C. meeting, so his defeat could
not be attributed to there being anything
amiss with his condition.
* * ♦ «
Caulfield Cup running did not throw
much light on the probable result of the
Melbourne Cup. Tranquil Star’s 71b.
penalty may stop her, and the extra half-
mile may not benefit Heart’s Desire. Old
El Golea may not shine as a two-miler,
and he has a pound more than he carried
on Saturday. The scramble for positions
before reaching the first turn placed
some of the runners at a disadvantage.
The fact of Skipton having to go wide
turning into the straight entrance told
against him, and, though his trainer ex-
pects him to be improved when he runs
in the Melbourne Cup, he has 61b. addi-
tional weight. Amazed created a good
impression, and, while most of Excite-
ment’s progeny have shone more at short
than long distances, he promises to be an
exception. If Amazed should fail in the
Victoria Derby he must still be given a
Cup chance with 6.10. Son of Aurous
did not show up, but he had 91b. more
than his Melbourne Cup weight, and is
better suited by two miles than half a mile
less.
* * * *
In riding fees D. Munro did better
than any other jockey who won at Rand-
wick during the recent three days. His
three wins carried a total of £5lBO in
prize-money, which, at the 5 per cent,
provided for by the rules, would mean
£259 for him, and the probabilities are that
his reward did not stop at bare fees.
Shean’s three wins represented £1520, and
a similar number by Bartle £1405.
Thompson’s two wins carried £l7OO. W.
Cook had the unusual experience of three
days without a win.
* * ♦ «
Everyone directly associated with
racing would like more of it, but the
idea of any Labor body or politician in-
fluencing the Prime Minister to that end
must be due to a mistaken idea of their
own importance. It was only the other
day that the representations of a deputa-
tion from Sydney saved racing from a
greater reduction than one Saturday a
month, and it would be absurd to expect
the Prime Minister to make any further
concession at such an early date. “Save
us from our alleged friends” is probably
the prayer of most thinking owners and
trainers concerning some members of
Parliament and others who hope to be.
Too much agitation njight tend to further
restrictions.
* * ♦ *
As Newcastle is the only place reason-
ably close to Sydney at which metro-
politan trainers can race their horses, it
would not be surprising if some divided
their teams, reserving the best for Sydney.
It would mean greater cost for their
patrons, but would give them a better
chance of picking up a race. With a
day’s programme limited to seven races,
and a certainty of the maximum number
allowed running in most, wins are likely
to be much more difficult in Sydney than
at Newcastle, where a fair betting market
and weaker opposition might compen-
sate for the difference in prize-money in
some events.
* * * *
When raced by the late R. Stewart in
Maoriland last season Indian Sign
(Bulandshar-Countersign) won £895 in
stakes. At the sale of the horses in
Stewart’s estate P. Curtis gave 450gns.
for Indian Sign. That buyer did not
have to wait long for a return, as the
horse won him the Wanganui Guineas
and £385 in prize-money last month.
Indian Sign is trained by T. R. George.
* ♦ * ♦
If there is one woman in England
more than another deserving of a return
in racing it is Miss D, Paget. Never
daunted by failure, she continues a good
buyer of yearlings, and at last week's
sales at Newmarket she gave 4800gns.
for a yearling colt by Blue Peter from
Centeno (sister to Harinero). In 1936
Miss Paget paid the highest price ever
recorded at auction for a yearling—
15,000gns. for Colonel Payne (Fairway-
Golden Hair). He won three races of
the total value of £344 and was retired
to the stud last year.
» • » «
The Melbourne police are so energetic
in their pursuit of starting-price book-
makers that up to last week there were
1200 convictions in 1942 against 687 for
the whole of last year, and fines have
increased tremendously. A Melbourne
magistrate was not bidding for popularity
when he recently said he would meet
illegal betting with imprisonment.
Another McLaughlin-Colteaux scrap at
Leichhardt, Sydney, saw Mac get a deci-
sion he didn’t deserve —a draw. There
was little in it, but Colteaux’s cleaner
punching should have brought the award
his way.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY CUP.
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Dark Felt , 1
Spearmain 2
Heart’s Desire 3
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By “ PILOT .”
Novice Handicap: Gauntlet, 1 ;
Hit Parade, 2 ; Valoroi, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes: Star Gold,
1 ; Rillet, 2 ; St. Quentin, 3.
Flying Handicap: Trimmer, 1;
Petruchio, 2; Lagoon, 3.
Cumberland Handicap; Prince,
1 ; Two’s Company, 2; Mer-
rimba, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : War Effort, 1 ; Valiant Garde,
2 ; Guild Hall or Mon Pere, 3.
Parramatta Handicap: Tel Asur,
1 ; Merrimba, 2; St. Elmo or
Opportunist, 3.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDITH ANNE MARTIN late of Wasson
Street Milton.—TAKE NOTICE that WALTER
LESLIE MARTIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2077 of 1941 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards. If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance by the Twelfth
day of January One thousand nine hundred
and forty-three and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS. RYAN
& WATKINS Solicitors Manning Street Kiama.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
—ln Divorce.
TO HAROLD INGGS BARTON JOHNSON
formerly of Port Arthur in Tasmania Labourer.
—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been filed
in this Court endorsed with a notice to you to
appear and answer the charges in the Petition
of ROSE GERTRUDE JOHNSON of Margate
in Tasmania praying for a dissolution of mar-
riage In default of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said petition
proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereof AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purposes aforesaid within Thirty
days after the date of this publication an
appearance must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart. — (1.5.) R. G. BING-
HAM, Principal Registrar. ■
IN THE' SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ROBERT FRANCIS DUFF late of New-
castle New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that OLGA TERESA DUFF has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1685 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards. If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance by the
11th of December 1942 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from J. BIRNIE
JACKSON Solicitor 117 Pitt Street Sydney
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
m
OY APPOINTMENT.
Oft tkt cuildtimtmdA
&(. cl gtml pjOJJL
will kt b-ullt
cl itili gimlet. (u.butjt.
HIS MASTERS VOICE
RADIO
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
R. 19/42
V ———
ill Treatment of Tyres is Sabotage
df
Careless treatment of Tyres, to-day,
is no less than SABOTAGE of a
Vital War Essential.
You can do your bit to help the
Rubber Shortage, NOW, by taking
intelligent care of your tyres and
tubes, and by saving every scrap of
Rubber for Reclaim.
Olympic
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO.
SMOKE-OH!
“Ann Sheridan and Brent agree on divorce.”
— Woman’s paper.
The only thing they could agree on.
“Elephants are nearsighted.”
— “World’s News.”
It’s doubtful, though, if they ever think
they see pink men.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“1 feel that I can step into the future with
both feet firmly planted on the path to success.”
—“Australian Journal.”
Is so, he’ll be stopping still.
*l*
“Clothes-drunken women who have no con-
science.” — “Truth.”
Such a drunk may start the trouble ;
But when bills are homeward-bound
Hubby thinks he’s seeing double,
So it’s HE who reels around.
E.
“Mary was very nice to everyone in the
sewing circle, hoping that they might forgive
her rash conduct, but not one of them relented.”
—Magazine story.
Hard to square the circle, eh?
•Sr A" ❖ 4*
“Minister wants churchgoers better dressed.”
Poor as the church mouse traditionally
is, even it can sport a fur coat.
•Sr *b *b *b
“Some milkmen are taking advantage of the
zoning system to make extra profits by watering
their milk.” — “D.T.”
In such cases the milkmen, not the
milk, should be put in the jug.
v *b *b *b
“What is the best thing to put on top of a
large sponge cake with a novel filling of
stewed apple and tripe?”— Correspondent.
The bin-lid.
•b + *b
“Mickey Rooney has refused to make any
comment on his divorce. His young wife is
in hospital with a sore throat.” —Film gush.
Evidently she did the talking.
•b *b *b *b
“Mystery of man who slept in coffin.”
— “Argus.”
Perhaps he mistook it for a modern
flat.
•b *b *b
“Arthur said he gave his wife plenty of
pocket money, but she was always crying.
That was his reason for leaving her.”
— “D.T.” report.
She sobbed at this, she sobbed at that;
Though good cash he would part out.
She sobbed until he seized his hat —
She simply sobbed her Art out
P. P.
“Lost, Cat, black, white shirt, white spot on
mouth.”
Keep cat, return shirt.
❖ 4*
Gardening Made Easy.
V.
“Hilling-up,” Staking, etc.
Another of those beliefs to which the
amate.ur gardener has long been pinned
by cast-iron tradition is that plants such
as potatoes and beans need to be con-
stantly “hilled up.”
Let us analyse the position. Once,
say, a bean has got a proper go on no
gardener, unless he decided deliberately
to sabotage his own work by biting the
tops off as they appeared, can stop its
growth. He pushes the seeds in the
ground and they come up, and in due
course they will bear. This bearing will
naturally coincide with a phenomenal
glut, when even the desperate efforts of
the middleman to keep the price up will
be foiled. No home gardener ever
gathers a crop when beans are Is. 6d. a
pound in the shops.
The origin of “hilling-up” is, of course,
clear. The plants, never having been
encouraged to toughness, have for cen-
turies come up with spindly shanks, and
at the first high wind they sway around
in their holes like the neck of a thin,
scraggy man does if he is wearing an
18in. collar. To save them being blown
right out of the ground a bank of earth
was put each side of the plant. Genera-
tions of French beans have thus been
mollycoddled.
This can be rectified, and at the same
time the gardener will be freed of a back-
breaking job. The thing is to develop
tough beans. Adopt as your slogan
“Every bean a commando!” The way
to do it is simple.
After setting the seeds in cover the
bed with heavy boards, and at every
opportunity walk over it with your largest
boots on. Instead of traversing several
streets of an evening when the wife orders
you to take the dog for his constitutional,
walk him up and down and across the
bean bed for the stipulated time. After
about a fortnight of this, cautiously lift
one of the boards. If the bean stems,
with the husks of the seeds still clinging
to them, are at ground level and flat on
the top through trying to push up through
the board, put it back and keep the beans
“marking time” for another week or two.
The strength which ordinarily goes into
the leaves must of necessity go into the
only part of the bean there yet is, i.e.,
the stalk. On the boards being removed
the now-sturdy stalks will push through
aggressively, and the plants may be
allowed to grow to fruition without
further impediment. Then, when strong
winds blow, the robust stems will stand
pat in ground which constant treading
over has rendered solid.
The one disadvantage of this method
is that the plants have such a tenacious
grip that they are hard to pull up at the
end of the season. This, however, can
be obviated by sprinkling the dried plants
with kerosene and dropping a lighted
match on the bed.
Stooping to pick the crops of peas and
beans is a bane, but the shrewd gardener
will have dug his slit air-raid trench, not
in the lawn, but around the four sides of
the bed reserved for these crops. He can
then stand up comfortably to pick his
vegetables, and when heavy rains come
he has a ready-made irrigation system at
hand. And, if hot weather immediately
follows, and coincides with the maturing
of his crop, he can don a. pair of trunks
and pick under ideal conditions.
The question of staking up such
straggly crops as peas and tomatoes has
long been a vexed one, but the total
elimination of the stake must come. And
why not? Why drive in a 6ft. stake to
tie up a plant that refuses to come up
more than 12 inches before dying of wilt?
No! Let them take what course they
will along the ground. The foliage of
peas might go mushy and the pods black,
but remember what a beautiful trap it
will be for slugs, which, after all, can’t
be eating off the young lettuce plants
and be under the pea plants at the same
time.
Or can they?
BO.
Badges.
“A British Labor M.P. complains that too
many prominent members of the party, includ-
ing the leader, were educated at exclusive
schools like Eton, Harrow and Winchester.”
Bred to the culture of the nobs,
They first were dinky-di
Patricians, but they scorned the snobs
And spurned the Old School Tie ;
Then, like Mahomet’s coffin, which
Is neither here nor there,
They hovered betwixt poor and rich
Without a badge to wear.
It may be —now they condescend
To represent a lot
Of hoi polloi—that they will end
By flaunting bowyangs — what?
BRIAN BUREAU.
The Spirit of Sacrifice.
I had bought a fishing line, and in the
ensuing homily Maria described it as a
waste of money and therefore “disgrace-
fully unpatriotic.” In vain did I try to
argue that any effort to increase food
supplies was, on the contrary, something
to be commended.
“We women are making all the sacri-
fices,” said Maria grandly. “Look at the
way we are giving up beauty treatment
and hair-dos,” she said. “We are asked to
give up everything, while you men” ——
“Well, your hair” 1 began.
“Well, what if Mrs. Foozle did do it
for me?” said Maria sharply. “She used
to be in a beauty parlor before she
married.”
“Oh, well, of course, if she does it
free”
“Don’t be silly, Aitchem! Of course
we pay her, but it’s not as if we waste
our money on beauty parlors. That s
different. And a woman must have her
hair looking nice if she is to do her war
work properly.
“It’s bad enough for me to have to go
to the comforts committee looking shabby
when that Mrs. Bloggs comes there
flaunting the clothes she rushed to buy
before rationing came in, and which /
could have had if you hadn’t been so
mean. By the way, you’ll have to let me
use some of your ration coupons. I’ve
run out of mine.”
“What about my sjiirt? I’ve only one
old”
“We all have to make sacrifices,” said
Maria loftily ; “and you’ll have to make
yours. Sometimes, Aitchem, I don’t think
you realise there’s a war on! ”
H.M.
Epitaph.
No more from those who shikker
He’ll strive to reap his pelf:
He made illicit liquor
And tried it on himself!
NAT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4,%d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
A.W.L.
The problem of the a.w.l. man has not
yet been tackled in Australia in any sys-
tematic manner. Firstly, because there’s
no system about leave.
In the N.T. and Moresby one day’s
leave a week (a rest day) is granted in
all camps. When they are evacuated
south, troops get two days’ leave for
every month spent in the tropics, making
six days a month in all. Some training
camps give two days’ clear leave a month
— i.e., four days, two of which are for
travel. Others give only two days—you
get home and back within 48 hours. In
base camps the latest edict is four days
every three months, with one day off a
week and one late-leave pass weekly.
Personnel in transit and holding camps,
always near cities, get no weekly leave
but only nightly—to 12 p.m. Every camp
I have heard of has a different ruling,
which seems to depend on the C.O.
Seems to me that to reduce a.w.l. the
authorities should ( a ) grant specific leave
to the uniform all over Australia; ( b )
grant special leave in all cases, to be
deducted from specified general leave;
(c) call a.w.l. simple desertion, disregard-
ing the old rule that a man is not a
deserter until he is 21 days adrift. My
experience is that boys go a.w.l. be-
cause leave is not made consistent with
unused army time. Fellows who have
come in for redrafting would be better
at a show than waiting around discon-
tentedly all day. Revise the leave ques-
tion and the a.w.l. question will solve
itself —with more M.Ps. available for
where they should be most needed. —
Tomsea (A.1.F.),
War-time Uni. Students
“J.J.W.” (B. 7/10/’42) doesn’t seem to
have quite grasped the fundamentals of
the position of University students in
war-time. His chief arguments against
their having their fees paid and their
being granted an allowance for living ex-
penses by the Government are erroneous.
A student in war-time is subjected to
discipline as strict as any essential
worker. If his work is not up to standard
he may be dismissed from the University
immediately (a threat which I know has
been enforced in some instances).
Also, students work on the average a
40-hour week or longer. Perhaps there
are only 25 to 30 hours of lectures,
but in term there is about the same
amount of private study required—par-
ticularly by engineers and scientists, who
have much practical and problem work.
All students must either enter camp or
indulge in vacation work during the
summer vacation also. No, student life
in war-time is not a bed of roses. —
Tonsi (Tas.).
Lot’ries
The Bulletin’s suggestion that lottery
prizes should be taxed (7/10/’42) does
not go far enough. Why can’t the
whole lottery business of the coun-
try be taken over? A tax of 20 p.c.,
not on prizes but on subscriptions,
would give a good rake-off for a start,
and the prize-money, totalling not more
than 50 p.c. of the balance of subscrip-
tions, could be paid in long-term bonds
bearing the current rate of interest. The
remainder would be more than enough to
make up the loss to hospitals formerly
benefiting from the lotteries and to meet
all expenses of the scheme. This plan
would make available for war purposes
£3,000,000 instead ot the £750,000 sug-
gested by The 8., and the many who take
a chance would have the satisfaction of
knowing their little flutter was helping
the war effort. — Jesmond (Vic.).
Money and War
The quotation from Leacock by “Stu-
dent” (B. 7 /10/’42), so true of a consider-
able part of war prosperity, is not the
whole truth. “A bee suddenly deciding
to eat up its store of honey” scarcely
finds a parallel in the position of the
Australian people today. What store of
honey are they consuming?
Again, “It means nothing else than the
rapid and wasteful consumption of com-
modities laboriously saved,” This scarcely
fits what is happening today, for we see
the production of immense stocks of
commodities we didn’t possess before the
war came. Yes, but at the expense of
other commodities, you say. True again,
but not the really vital commodities, the
flow of which goes on.
We may be dipping into our stocks of
accumulated money; yet the great
majority of the people are handling more
money and eijjoying better standards of
living than for years past, and the stocks
of money do not seem to be exhausted.
This is because it is not the amount of
money in existence that creates pros-
perity, but the speed at which it circu-
lates.
Leacock’s statement overlooks one im-
portant point—the organisation of re-
sources, including raw materials, natural
productivity and human energy. Organi-
sation is such a potent factor that, in
spite of the wastage of war, resources
are likely to be increased by the present
struggle. The same organisation, applied
in time of peace, would result in a “peace
prosperity” far eclipsing all “war pros-
perity.”—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
P.O.W. Allotments
The decision of the Commonwealth
Government to stop payment of money
to relatives of men of the A.I.F. who
have become prisoners of war seems to
me most iniquitous.
On the outbreak of hostilities my son
joined the Army and allotted me a guinea
a week. From this I was to pay his in-
“Well, ape, what DID you buy me for our wedding anniversary?”
surance premiums, send him comforts
and bank the remainder against his re-
turn.
Some time ago I heard from the Army
that he was reported missing, and that
the allotment to me would be discon-
tinued. I asked an officer whether the
money thus stopped would be given the
boys when they returned, but he was non-
committal. He said the Government had
not decided yet. I have since received
word that I will be paid lOd. a day.
Stopping pay in the Army generally
means punishment for some wilful
offence, but our boys have committed
none. They are to be pitied—not blamed
—for being prisoners of war. When these
men are liberated many may be broken
in health and spirit, and more than ever
they will need money while they are re-
cuperating and settling down. But we
parents are denied the opportunity of
saving it for them— Prisoner-of-War’s
Mother (Q.).
A Civilian Has a Grouch
I cannot agreewith “Me” (B. 23/9/’42)
as to the disabilities of men in uniform
in comparison with the lot of the civilian.
In our town (a seaport well away from
the combat area) we have a large gar-
rison of fortress engineers. They have
their own canteen, from which they can
buy tobacco, chocolates and other
luxuries of which we civilians have
almost forgotten the taste. In addition,
they have first call on vegetable, fish and
meat supplies, have first-class air-raid
shelters and something with which to
fight the Jap if he does come. As a
power-house shift-engineer I am expected
to stand helplessly by my engines in the
event of a raid (there are no shelters,
anyway) in a place which could reason-
ably be expected to stop the first bomb.
In conclusion, let me add that the pay of
soldiers with similar families compares
very favorably with mine.—C. (W.A.).
Public Spirit
Brisbane is proud of its Lord Mayor,
J. B. Chandler, who is drawing a fourth
of his salary and allowance —£2000.
His family is well represented in the
fighting forces ; four sons have enlisted ;
one has been killed.
Since assuming office Mayor Chandler
has brought order out of chaos by apply-
ing business capacity to a vast business
concern, and has saved the city immense
sums in excess of his salary and allow-
ance. This points to the folly of not
establishing a national Government in
Australia when the crisis arose a year
ago. The times demanded the selection
of men of outstanding ability—even, as in
Britain, of non-politicians—to fill posi-
tions where their special qualifications
would bring about the best results in
government.
Australia’s war effort requires unity of
purpose and united political action to
achieve ultimate victory and win the kind
of peace we are hoping for. It is regret-
table that such a generous and worthy
spirit did not prevail.— Demos (Q.).
A Cheer for Land Girls
Land girls, ahoy! Who said they
couldn’t do harvest work? Down on
the farm stocking are two husky speci-
mens, and they’re standing the sheaves
up as well as they’re standing up to work.
They’re worth watching, believe me ; but
neither Dave nor the hired man has
time for that —they’re too busy upholding
the prestige of the male. And that’s the
point. Presence of women in industry
tends to engender a spirit of rivalry
among the “dominant” sex, which reflects
itself in increased production. Otherwise
it slackens. Ask any Mildura fruit-
grower (where women are employed regu-
larly every season) and he’ll tell you
Aided by land girls, we shall certainly
garner the harvest. They’re 0.K., God
bless ’em!—Two Wars (N.S.W.).
Wages of Dairy Workers
Commerce Minister Scully says that
“when wages for the dairy industry have
been fixed the Prices Department will
investigate the industry to see if price
adjustments are required.” He adds that,
as at least 80 p.c. of labor in the industry
is family labor, the effect of the fixing
of wages will be relatively small and any
increase in butter prices which might
follow should not exceed |d. per pound.
The same old discrimination against
country workers! Why is it always taken
for granted that a dairyman’s family
should be expected to work very much
longer hours than a city bookmaker’s,
butcher’s, baker’s or tailor’s family?
Gunner Bill (Q.).
Veges
All around Melbourne there are thou-
sands of acres, perfect for vegetables, lying
idle or supporting a couple of cows, an
old pensioned-off horse or a handful of
chickens. They are owned for the most
part by elderly people who have never
had the necessity to work them and are
now too feeble to do so. The old people
live in older cottages with a small bit of
their fat acres fenced off for domestic
purposes.
The land referred to is the rich
flats lying along the innumerable creeks
and little rivers which form a network
around the congested city. Turned up
by the plough, watered from the creeks
for practically nothing, and without
manuring, this virgin soil would leap into
production before Mr. Dunstan’s State
Council had finished taking a census or
something. The land has produced prac-
tically nothing since the State was
founded.
• All that would be needed would be an
authority to be given powers to compul-
sorily lease the land and work it or lend
it to people who were ready to do so.
Governmental pumping plants could go
round on lorries with hoses when the
farmer wanted to irrigate his lettuces and
tomatoes. The old people would be bene-
fited by the rents they would draw. So
there would be gain all round. — Bumpkin
(Vic.).
High Price of Seeds
Seedsmen tell us the price of red beet
seed has reached a pound a pound, though
the germination process costs very little.
Tasmanian farmers have generally
agreed to co-operate with the Govern-
ment’s persistent plea for production of
more vegetables, but there is little incen-
tive here to dig for victory. Why should
we be compelled to pay such an
enormous price for seeds? — Tasmaniac
(Tas.).
Reduce the Voting Age
The youth of this and every other
country have been called upon to play a
major part in the prosecution of the war,
not only in factories and offices but in
the armed forces. Young men from 18
are enlisted to fight, and this they have
done, and are doing, with courage. But
they are not entitled to bring any influ-
ence to bear on the government of the
country.
It seems farcical. Mature enough at
18 or 19 to serve in the armed forces
and yet denied the franchise. I suggest
that 18 be the age for the franchise, at
least in the services.* Dragnil Junior
(Q-).
Don’t Destroy Dogs
I don’t think much of “S.O.S.’s” sug-
gestion (B. 7 /10/ ’42) that as part of the
Austerity campaign all breeds of dogs
kept only as pets or for show should be
thinned out. In the first days of this
war there was wholesale killing of dogs
in Britain, not by Government command,
but at the discretion of owners. As a
result the country was overrun with rats
and mice, and further slaughter had to
be prohibited.— Sam (N.S.W.).
Leave Betting to the Tote
Judging by Mr. Curtin’s bitter refer-
ences to the squandering of money and
man-power on racecourses, he is ready
to do something drastic. It lies close
to his hand. Let him delicense every
bookmaker in Australia and retain the
totalisator.
Thus, at the one stroke, he would
please racegoers (excepting the book-
makers, of course) by not denying them
their sport and their flutter and he would
reap a rich harvest of money for war
loans.
That this proposition is readily work-
able is proved in Maoriland, where the
voice of the bookmaker has not been
heard in the land for many years. It is
not on record that the tote has ever been
seen advising the jockey on the favorite
how to look the other way when the bar-
rier goes up.— Ex-Punter (N.S.W.).
Churchill
“First Mate’s” estimate of Mr.
Churchill’s accomplishments (B. 16/9/’42)
is extravagant and not warranted by the
facts. Above all else “First Mate” in-
sists that “Churchill is a soldier.” If the
British Premier can be truly named a
soldier because on divers occasions he
has flirted with the profession of arms,
what should we call the man who
endures to the end?
Let another Englishman—D. B. Wynd-
ham Lewis, of the London “Tatler”—
suggest a reason why, in spite of an
almost unbroken succession of military
miscalculations, Churchill still has —in
England—“the full backing, love and
approval of the common man.” Says
Wyndham Lewis of war-time England:
More sodden with superstition than it
has been since the Renaissance the Race
would attack anybody laying a finger on
its adored medicine men and probably
tear him to pieces. There is a kind of
stupidity against which high heaven itself
fights in vain.
A reflection which should help “W.C.C.”
to bear “First Mate’s” farewell.—J. W. R.
(Tas.).


THE
For Your
LIFE ASSURANCE
The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
Founded 1886
Assets Exceed £35,000,000
Payments to policyholders exceed £43,000,000
