

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 63.—N0. 3267
Wednesday, September 23, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
' JT/V J-A"- ft vVVA .'J .< Lvj. l/ (2ViW«-Ti^SV^
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
THE WYE VALLEY.
kSWoDERN chronicler has declared that from Hereford
A down the Valley of the Wye through Ross and Monmouth
to Chepstow is perhaps the loveliest excursion in England. All
who know “their countryside” in this and other parts of the
old land will agree with him. It is the scenery on the banks
ot the Wye which has gained for it the name of the most
beautiful river in England. Turbid and hurried in itself it
runs through some of the most exquisite landscape in the
island. A small steamer, in normal times, during the summer
months, forged upstream against the “fierce current of. the
Wye,” or readily floated down on the top of it. The Wye
may best be judged from its banks, hence the more practical
plan for the visitor is to proceed from Bristol to Chepstow by
water. It is the extent of the sylvan and other beauties of the
Wye which has made it so celebrated. From its source, near
the summit of PJinlimmon. in Wales, to its union with the
Severn, the Wye is continuously beautiful. Wild and rugged
In the midst of its Welsh hills, no sooner does it reach the
vales of Herefordshire than it becomes singularly lovely, and
♦hence it flaws through MonnKUJJiridEe untJi it iuis itself io
“the lordly Severn,” as that great stream is sometimes
called. Assuming Bristol is the tourists' starling point,
Chepstow, with its tine old castle, for which it is celebrated,
no less than for its fresh salmon, soon attracts attention, and
the next point of note is Wyndcliff, possessing a colossal
vantage point, 700 feet to 800 feet high, from the summit of
which mav be seen portions of seven English and two Welsh
counties. ’ Below this vantage point lies Tintem Abbey,
familiar to every art student, no less than those versed in
ecclesiastical lore. Soon Monmouth is reached, where tidal
influence ceases and the river becomes clear and glittering.
Passing the exquisitely beautiful reaches to New Weir the next
place of note is Ross. Here are to be found in the parish
church the celebrated elms which sprang up through the floor
of the pew once occupied by John Kyrle, Pope’s celebrated
“Man of Ross.’’ Several of the finest of an avenue ol elms,
planted in the churchyard by John Kyrle, being sold by an
avaricious incumbent, from the roots of one of them, which
had pushed their way under the church wall, there sprang up
a couple of remarkable elms. A third made its appearance
some 80 years since. A curious incident 'pPpipW-
taken from the writings of an American avilhqr. The Song
of the Trees, ■’ he wrote, “is a strange addition to _ the readme
of the Anglican Church Service on Sunday morning, for the
birds amongst the brandies join in /responses and hop
about quite free from any fear of consequences. These elms
ecclesiastical” arc held in reverence by the good people ot Boss
Further, they put forth their leaves earlier m the spring
than any other elms in the Valley of the Wye, while not
any of their kind retain foliage so late in the autumn as, those
which mark the spot where the Man of Ross once worshipped
and where the pew is exactly as he left it. What is still more
interesting, as illustrating Addison’s dictum to the effect that
example is better than precept, the men of Ross arc distin-
guished for works of charity. Beyond Ross, Hereford is
passed, w’hence the Wye becomes a babbling rivulet. From
here on, when Wales is entered and Rhayador is “made, the
Valley of the Wye may be said to end. All who have enjoyed
the delights of “walking tours” in England do not require to be
reminded of the “entrancing glories of the Valley of the Wye.


r*
ii*
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without oh Ligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining < how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 142
The Red Page
Poly-poly.
Almost the flood of miles might pond
back from those dunes; then, checked beyond
a warp of the land, stirred seas might flow
almost, and break, and sight not know.
Shake off the fancy: the unmet
horizons that could taunt ypu yet
each under each lift up, invite,
southward and westward to the Bight,
and stage no marching of foam across
shallows in-shelving. Like red moss,
clawing all growth, there seeps bare earth
on through this ragged map of dearth.
It is proud asking that will thrust
where the few footprints fill with dust,
take proof for its only answer, drink
not at some Darling but sky’s brink.
Even so, between here and the rise
labor your harnessed enterprise.
There was a time when it might still
neigh towards nothing from the hill.. .
Wars now and work: the moment’s need
stings, grits the wind. What blown, dry weed
twirls over and over on the sand?
Bring your thought home into your hand.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Six Plays.
“The English are wonderful; but they
deal with the world like a lovable English
spinster who inherits a dozen brothels.”
A typically Shavian observation, both in
its “audacity” and in its gently malicious
criticism of England; and, if Shaw had
happened to say it, it’s a safe bet that he
would have expanded the witticism into
a play. But it was Lajos Biro, a Hun-
garian living in England, who made the
remark in conversation and wrote the
plays Patricia's Seven Houses and School
for Slavery, published in the one vol. by
Faber.
Once the jolly old introduction by jolly
old Maurice Browne has been jolly well
skipped, as it deserves to be. Biro emerges
as a wholly satisfactory recruit to the
ranks of English playwrights. He prob-
ably owes much to Shaw : the elaborately
built-up towers of wit, the mingling of
comedy and political criticism, the cheer-
ful dive into farce for the sake of a laugh,
the mockery of bourgeois morality, the
whole conception and execution of
Patricia’s Seven Houses: but he is a Con-
tinental wit in his own right, a master
craftsman in his own right, and his people
—especially his women —are much more
credible as human beings than Shaw’s.
Biro’s confession that the play is an
expansion of a joke thrown out in con-
versation is an interesting example of
how a work of art may originate: one
chance witticism, one paradox—and the
thing can be elaborated into three acts
of sparkling comedy. Patricia England,
prim, spinsterish but still comparatively
young, arrives in some foreign republic
(which is under the dictatorship of a
gentleman named Caesar) to take over the
seven houses she has inherited under her
father’s will. Once she has learned, with
much reluctance and with growing horror
in the midst of an uproar caused by the
arrival of the American Navy, exactly
what the seven houses are, she determines
to reform the girls and close the establish-
ments.
Before she can do that —the girls them-
selves, the Fleet, the entire populace and,
above all, the gangster-dictator objecting—
she has to have the seamy side of life
forced upon her notice; to learn under-
standing through a love affair; then to
learn patience and great tact in dealing
with the girls she wishes to reform ; and,
finally, she has to learn that all law and
all reformation depend ultimately on
violence —she shoots the dictator.
Take it as an allegory, and it’s an ex-
tremely witty commentary on England’s
gradual, reluctant admission that there
are such things as the German will-to-
war, only to be defeated by violence.
Take it simply as a comedy about Patricia
and her seven houses,'and it’s equally
good. It is broad comedy, but it’s gay.
Biro’s second play, School for Slavery,
is a practical demonstration of the Euro-
pean seaminess treated symbolically in
the other: the theme is the German
conquest of Poland and the refusal of
the Poles to accept national slavery.
Propaganda, of course, but with this
great difference: Biro’s characters, both
Poles and Germans, are credible.
Inevitably, there’s a family of “good”
Germans who are ashamed of what they
are doing to the Poles; inevitably, the
crux of the drama dies in a love affair
between a Polish girl and one of the
“good” Germans; inevitably, though the
Germans are victorious, the play’s final
statement is that Right will triumph. But
“propaganda,” when the characterisation
is as convincing as Biro’s, is only another
name for truth.
What distinguishes this from most other
propaganda plays, and makes it plausible,
is that the “good” German who loves
the Polish girl isn’t portrayed as an angel
and doesn’t become the hero of the
drama; and the Nazi Governor who
orders the whippings, spoliations or exe-
cutions of the Poles isn’t portrayed as
the devil in person. The “good” German
is at first delighted with the success of
the German army; when he finally be-
comes disgusted with machine-gunning
refugees, he has still enough national
pride to admit that the prospect of
further conquest excites him ; and when
his love for Anna brings him to the
moment of irrevocable decision he shoots
himself rather than betray Germany and
go over to the Poles. The Nazi Governor,
committing crime after crime against all
the humanities, does so not in the spirit
of sadism but with regret and a mild
surprise at the “obstinacy” of the Poles:
even in his soul he is a German fanatic,
so Biro kills him off very prettily ; but
he is not some impossible monster out
of melodrama.
Dymphna Cusack’s play is strangely
unsophisticated. A period piece • set at
an inn at Parramatta in 1812, it makes
the familiar mistake of most Australian
historical novelists—reflecting the litera-
ture of its period rather than the people.
The characters boil down to Hero,
Heroine and Villain ; and the plot (though
symbolically an attack on the convict
system) is the familiar elopement of the
romantic novels of the period, Lajos
Biro had the sophistication to make even
his Nazi a credible human being ; but
Dymphna Cusack asks us to believe that
the men and women of 1812 were so dif-
ferent from the men and women of today
that this sort of scene was possible
between them: —
Officer ( swaying backwards and forwards
on his heels, his riding crop swinging with
a click against his riding boots ): Ha! Ha!
So that’s how the fox runs, is it? T had
misgivings this morning, when after being
so sullen these months past you were so
blithe to see me gone. You prefer to
choose with whom you drink, you say?
Then let me remind you, for your memory,
it seems, is short, that your choice was
made these four years past
Alicia: I had no choice.
Officer : Then we shall find a better
word. Your bargain, shall we say? And
I hold a woman to her bargain as I would
hold a man to his promise.
Alicia ( rising and coming to him): You
dare speak of promises to me? You who
swore that I should be free to go when
I should desire —that you would never
hold me against my will?
Officer (laughing): You are slow to
learn, my sweet Alicia, I fear. Has it
taken you four years to learn that I use
a thing, be it man or dog or woman, at
my will —and loose it at my pleasure?
Alicia: Beast
Alicia snatches the riding crop from his
hand and hits him across the face with it
viciously. With a cry of anger and pain
he snatches it from her.
Officer (for a moment it seems that
he will strike her, then he drops the crop
and leans back upon the table, laughing
loudly): Gad, I like your pluck.
Villain and Heroine, they are straight
out of melodrama. Ideals and ideas
differed, conduct differed, the attitude
to the convict differed, but human
nature in 1812 was just what human
nature is today, and if the play-
wright wants to submit a monster of
sadism his character needs to be much
more fully documented and justified than
is the officer in Red Sky at Morning.
Language changes a little with the years ;
clothes change; ideas change ; but the
human soul neVer wears fancy dress in
any period: as, in fact, the author her-
self admits by making Michael, the Irish
rebel convict in love with Alicia, no
period Hero but a credible and interesting
personality.
It’s a curious and significant fact that
in neither of Biro’s plays is the weather
mentioned, but in three of the
plays great stress is laid on it. In Red
Sky at Morning, a further indication
that period melodrama is offered,. the
lovers are drowned in a flooded creek. In
Daybreak, another period piece, set in
Tasmania and also reproving tor
its treatment of the convicts, there s a
fair dinkum Thunderstorm: —
The storm breaks with a fierce gust of
wind and rain. Francis wraps his cloak
about Jeanne. They open the window and
go out into the darkness. The wind blows
the curtains into the room. The lamp is
extinguished. Darkness, a blinding flash
of lightning, thunder, and then silence.
A solemn warning against falling in
love contrary to the wishes of one’s con-
vict-oppressing father in Tasmania in
1870.
In The Touch of Silk there’s justifica-
tion for the weather. It’s partly a drought
play, and you can’t have drought without
weather. Betty Roland has done an odd
thing: Iw writing about a Frenchwoman
she has made her play the most appeal-
ingly and authentically Australian of
the lot.
Jeanne, brought to Australia after the
last war, is the wife of a farmer who’s
having a bad time with sickness, drought
and the mortgagee. Husband neglects
her, everybody misunderstands her, and
there’s a good-lookiqg scamp who sells
silk underclothes : wherefore, with varia-
tions, the eternal triangle. The whole
thing depends on characterisation —and
that is excellent. Jeanne is a creation
to be proud of; both the husband and
the rival are completely human; and
there is a superbly natural, superbly re-
pulsive mother-in-law. When the play
reaches its peak in the murder of the
rival, the characterisation makes the inci-
dent credible and the drama moving. It’s
a pity that once again The Touch of Silk
repeats Lawson’s libel on the Uninhabi-
table Outback, but that’s no criticism of
the play as such.
It would be interesting to know whether
Sumner Locke-Elliott’s Interval was
written before or after “Good-bye to the
Music,” which is currently showing at Syd-
ney Independent Theatre. Both plays deal
with essentially the same theme —the
failure of an artist and his subsequent re-
turn to his art; a musician in the Inde-
pendent show, a playwright in Interval —
and the published play is a mile better
than the other.
There is no weather in Interval; by
comparison with the other Australians,
even with Betty Roland, Locke-Elliott is
easily the nearest to Biro in sophisticated
technique of the theatre. He writes in
the light tradition of modern comedy,
with Noel Coward rather than Shaw as
the guiding star. The result is over-
sophistication ; the literary sincerity of
Shaw or Biro sacrificed for a brittle,
waspish smartness ; real originality aban-
doned for “good theatre” ; plays about
humanity abandoned for plays about
artists (the worst subjects for art); the
Australian scene abandoned for the glitter
of a London background. When Locke-
Elliott finds himself writing—for the en-
trance of an unpopular woman —“Here
comes the drought!” he might as well
admit that he’s Australian: and when he
does that, and when he stops writing
about artists, he may write really good
contemporary comedies. There’s con-
siderable imagination shown in the theme
of Interval —the changes in the lives of
the actors during the long run of a suc-
cessful play; the writing is smart, and
the people are convincing..
Out of the six plays, the one that would
give the best entertainment to Australian
audiences, Biro’s Patricia’s Seven Houses,
has been banned in England by the Lord
Chamberlain. If Shaw had written it, no
one would have dreamed of banning it.
But, as Biro engagingly puts it, there’s
always a disadvantage in being “a dirty-
minded foreigner.”
In the light of these two plays of Biro’s,
one intensely moving, the other uproari-
ously funny, the one that holds up its torch
with the least dimming out of the four
plays put out by Melbourne University
Press—Betty Roland’s The Touch of Silk,
Sumner Locke-Elliott’s Interval, Dymphna
Cusack’s Red Sky at Morning and
Catherine Shepherd’s Daybreak; four
slim vols., nicely made—is Betty Roland's
The Touch of Silk.
Shearwaters: R. M. Lockley (Dent).
Chiefly for birdwatchers. Ex-King Fer-
dinand of Bulgaria, the children of Ber-
trand Russell and Stephen Leacock, one
skylark and innumerable puffins blow into
Lockley’s lonely island of Skokholm;
there is a moment with bandits in
Madeira ; but he rarely raises his eyes
from the burrows where the shearwaters
nest, mate, rear their solitary youngster
and desert it. A prolonged but interest-
ing study at close quarters, followed by an
exploration of the migrations of the birds
and some experiments on their “homing
instinct.” One, taken to Venice, got
home to the island off the coast of Wales
in 14 days; others came safely from
Switzerland: —
We have often wondered at the ability
of the young cuckoo to find its way alone
—for the adults have gone ahead by a
month or two —to winter quarters in Africa.
There is nothing to guide the young cuckoo
to the traditional winter rendezvous, no
more tangible explanation to the human
mind than inherited tendencies, impulses,
instinct. But while the young cuckoo is at
least following this path graven in its brain
by inheritance, the shearwater suddenly
released in the Alps has quite a new situa-
tion to meet. And in its successful return
from this strange situation lies proof of the
shearwater’s amazing homing faculty.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
A fate worse than death threatens
“modern” art in Sydney. “S. M. Herald”
has taken up with it and finds the Con-
temporary Art Society’s fourth annual
hullabaloo at David Jones’s “once again
the most interesting exhibition of the
year.” This show, like all of its kind, has
always flourished on attack; on its
banners of revolution and its ability to
create a sensation. Let it beware.
“Granny” can’t help but make it respect-
able. The rebels are going to find them-
selves, overnight, the stodgy academi-
cians of Hunter-street. What if they
should come to be known as “the Hunter-
street school”?
What one sees at the Contemporary
Show is not daring Australian modernism,
but Australian artists, ignoring their own
fine tradition, floundering in the wake of
European art, and always twenty years
behind it. Though there’s nothing sensa-
tionally “modern” about it, the same
criticism applies to Sumner Locke-Elliott’s
play “Good-bye to the Music,” put on
by Doris Fitton’s Independents. If only
it had been set in Australia, if it had been
a first step towards creating an Australian
dramatic tradition, the indifferent acting
(except by Francis Dillon and Gwen
Plumb) could be discounted ; as could
the hackneyed theme about the failure of
a musician. But a London setting and a
re-hash of a hundred contemporary Lon-
don successes in the Noel Coward tradi-
tion —it’s false; it can never be more
than a good-humored time-killer.
Sydney Royal, which in a series of
revivals has been presenting what
seemed to be the long death-agony of
musicomedy, has come all alive and
kicking with “Let’s Face It.” It’s fresh
from America, it’s topical, it’s funny,
there are no doldrums and everybody—
Joy Youlden, Yvonne Banvard, Lily
Moore, Marie La Varre, Don Nicol, the
specialty dancers, the singers, the ballet
—works as if they really meant it this
time. Don Nicol hit on part of the
reason fui its success when he said at the
end that the co. had been delighted to
be given something new they could get
their teeth into. But there’s more than
that to it: it’s Australian, as well as
American, It’s about Uncle Sam’s army
at home, but Uncle Sam’s army is here,
and for all time the U.S. troops are part
of the Australian tradition. And on top
of that, they’ve worked in a fair sprink-
ling of local gags. So delighted was the
house to hear something Australian that
Ron Beck had only to mention Percy
Spender to get a laugh that shook the
roof.
Noble and necessary though a measure
of austerity may be, people must have
the relaxation of laughter in war-time.
It would be quite reasonable to argue
that every stage show in Sydney at the
moment —the Royal, the Independents,
“Susan and God” at the Minerva and
the “Hillbilly Shindig” at the Tiv. —is a
positive aid to morale. Thanks to Bob
Dyer and the hillbillies, there’s certainly
nothing excessively austere at the Tiv.
“The Shooting of Dan McGrew” (a
gentleman for whom the Tiv, has always
had as much affection as it has for the
“William Tell” overture) is the funniest
sketch for months.
Except necessarily for “Russia
Aflame,” the new talkies are also gay.
Recognising that both for wit and poise
the early-middle-aged celluloid Romeo
has any 22-year-old beaten to a frazzle,
M.-G.-M. cast Melvyn Douglas as
Nickie to play opposite Norma Shearer
in “We Were Dancing” (Sydney St
James). The Noel Coward prescription
for a strong admixture of cynicism suits
Douglas’s style. Similarly in “Bedtime
Story” (Sydney State) Fredric March
throws himself, crow’s-feet and all, into
the job of weaning a stage-weary actress-
wife off the twin ideas of her foolish
fancy and another lover while still trying
to get his play produced. The climax is
riotous. Robert Benchley is a droll
fellow-conspirator.
The sketchiness of its war shots robs
“Russia Aflame” of any claim to impor-
tance as a documentary film. Monoto-
nous curtains of disturbed distant ridges
from shell bursts and four-second flashes
of everything from celebrities and camou-
flaged guns and trains to recruiting depots
don’t constitute drama. Most interesting
parts are glimpses of Russia’s pre-war
agricultural vastness and the part being
played by women.
From Allans, Melbourne, comes a copy
of Peter Dawson’s latest song composi-
tion, “Land o’ Mine,” words by A. E.
Farrell. Needless to say Australia is
referred to, and the ditty is intensely
patriotic. Key C, range D below to D
in stave, and a simple accompaniment.
All the best baritone notes are shown off
beautifully and the song sings itself.
Allans envisage a school career for it.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’
ANTHONY
BRITISH SEAMLESS AXMINSTER
SQUARES, in a full range of smart
new designs and colourings for
Bedroom, Lounge, Dining Room,
etc. At Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes
9ft. x 9ft
10ft. Bin. x 9ft. ...
12ft. x 9ft
12ft. x 10ft. Bin. ...
13ft. Bin. x 10ft. Bin.
PRICES
£l3/15/- to £lB/15/-
£l5/17/6 to £2l/19/6
£lB/12/6 to £25/19/6
£2O/ 5 /-to £33/10/-
£23/15/-to £36/12/6
BRITISH SPOOL AXMINSTER RUGS,
fringed ends, excellent colourings and
patterns in the newest styles. At Anthony
Horderns'.
Sizes Prices
4 ft. 3 in. x 2 ft. Sin 30/6 each
5 ft. 3 in. x 2 ft. 8 in 45/-each
5 ft. 8 in, x 3 ft «.., 55/- each
BRITISH IMPERIAL AXMINSTER CARPET,
by the yard for wall-to-wall, hall, or stairs.
Smart and attractive range of specially
selected patterns in Foliage, Moderne, Per-
sian, or Leaf. At Anthony Horderns'.
27 in. Body. Prices, 23/G, 25/6, 29/6, 34/6 yd.
22i in. Hall. Prices, 21/-, 23/6, and 25/6 yd.
1 27 in. Hall. Prices, 23/6, 25/6, 28/6, 34/6 yd.
36 in. Hall. Prices, 35/6, 38/6 and 45/- yd.
45 in. Hall. Prices 57/6 and 71/6 yd.
54 in. Hall Prices, 55/-, 61/6 and 67/6 yd.
HEAVY QUALITY TONE ON TONE
WILTON CARPET, in a splendid range of
rich colourings suitable for all purposes, in-
cluding Fawn, Rust, Burgundy, Green, Wine
and Mushroom. 27 inches wide. At Anthony
Horderns'. Prices, 18/9, 20/6, 22/6, 25/9 yd.
NEW LIFE FOR YOUR CARPETS!
Anthony Horderns’ are specialists in Carpet
Cleaning. Our Hygienic Process removes
every particle of dirt, leaving Carpets fresh
and bright again, and helping to prolong
their years of usefulness. Remember, it’s the
unseen grime that makes Carpets xvear out
—with every step it is ground in, weakening
and cutting the fibres of the pile. Anthony
Horderns’ modern method of Carpet Clean-
ing achieves far better results than would
be possible by the domestic means ai\ your
disposal. We collect and re-deliver free with-
in the Metropolitan Area, and prices are
very moderate : from 6cl. per square yard for
beating, and from 1)6 per square yard for
shampooing. You can rely on our stan-
dards of thoroughness!
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ famous low prices
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night) Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


S. H. PRIOR PRIZE
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mission of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
The Prize this year (£100) will
be awarded to the author or authors
of the book by an Australian writer
which the trustees consider the most
valuable contribution to Australian
literature published in Australia be-
tween June 6, 1942, and June 6,
1943. (“Australia” and “Austra-
lian” for the purposes of this award
include New Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
SUNDAY AT BILLY ROSEN'S
By BRIAN JAMES.
IT was Sunday afternoon at Billy
Rosen’s in the hot, languid, swooning
heat of January, but the big cellar was
cool —and noisy. The usual Sunday
crowd was there: Billy Rosen’s brother
Bob, Adolf Himmelman and Jim Bower,
Jim Hayes from the Stony Crossing and
the same old crowd from town that made
pilgrimage to Billy’s each Sunday. Abe
Newton was there, too. On chairs, stools,
casks, cellar steps, they sat or perched
or lounged, according to the powers left
them.
Perhaps it was De Bois, the Belgian,
who started it all by making good his
boast that he could drink a bottle of
sherry without drawing breath. He just
put a funnel to his mouth and poured
the sherry in. Gravitation did the rest.
The feat awoke reminiscences. There
was the sanctity of time upon them and
wine added a mellowness and a romance.
Jim Hayes minded when he and his father
felled a big ironbark stick and squared
it for a girder at such a speed that time
was hardly worth mentioning. Long
Larry Finucane recalled his carrying of
two sacks of corn (“four bushels they
was”—Larry defiantly remembered) for
a bet. “I won it, too. Carried them there
two bags for a hundred yards for a quart
of beer.” And so on through feats of
prowess that ranged from dressing a
bullock to skinning a hundred rabbits.
Then old Abe Newton demanded a hear-
ing : “Did you ever hear tell of my swim
in the Oakey River when it was in
flood?”
They all had, of course, for that vague
swim was traditional and legendary. Abe
was little more than a boy at the time,
and he had leapt into the flood to rescue
that “rat of a Macpherson,” and he did,
and the pair of them were dragged out
of the roots of a red gum half a mile
downstream.
Abe was very fuddled, but he concen-
trated on his story with remarkable
clearness: even the added and fictitious
details were convincingly worked into
the narrative. It was Abe’s highlight of
adventure and romance, and the story
stood high in local history. No one,
every motive of loyalty forbade such a
thing, would think of questioning it or
doubting it. But this hot day found Billy
Rosen in one of his queer moods. It may
have been the heat; it may have been
temperament; it may have been the wine,
or it may have been all three. Whatever
it was, Billy sneered at the story.
“Schwimming,” said Billy, “schwim-
ming’s easy enough to talk about, and
what you did forty years ago! What can
you do now ?”
Abe accepted the challenge implied.
He could swim yet—just a little. As far
as that went, he would swim “any little
runt” who made tenth-rate wine. An
acrimonious debate followed on the
quality of Billy’s wine, in the course of
which huge quantities of it were con-
sumed. The upshot was the final emer-
gence of a swimming race, to be held
forthwith, between Billy and Abe.
\ \ /ILLOW Ponds Creek was just below
* “ Billy Rosen’s place. There were not
many willows in it—just enough to give
it a name—but there were she-oaks to
grace its banks, giants of their kind, and
a glory to look on. Some distance up
the creek was the Long Hole, and here
the race was to be held. Billy and Abe
set out before the others were fully aware
of the arrangements. They arrived at
the Long Hole and stripped with unblush-
ing completeness, and came to a vague
understanding that they were to race
to the far end of the hole.
Just what happened then is very vague,
too, and can only be pieced together
from the negatives of Billy Rosen’s ex-
cited account —an account that grew more
excited and contradictory every time
Billy gave it. It is clear enough that
something went wrong with Abe, cramp
perhaps, or a complete, inability to recall
how to swim. Billy remembered quite
distinctly Abe’s words “Hell, Billy! I’m
drowning! ”
Billy got out on the bank to collect
his wits and survey the trouble. Abe was
floundering and bobbing up and down.
It seemed that something should be done.
Billy picked up a long, crooked she-oak
limb, greenish with moss, and forked at
the end. With it he tried to poke Abe
to the other bank. The fork broke, but
Abe grabbed the end of the stick and
clung hard. Billy then tried to pull Abe
in to the near bank, which went down
steeply into deep water. Near the bank
the stick broke off, but Billy grabbed
Abe’s hand.
Abe was long and gaunt, but quite a
weight for all that, and Billy couldn’t
pull him out. By chance he kicked his
pile of clothes and saw his belt. He
grabbed this with one hand and passed it
round Abe’s wrist, and fastened the wrist
on to a big tussock of reedy grass that
grew on the bank. Abe’s head was well
out of water.
With Abe secured, Billy ran back to
the rest of the mob making noisy pro-
gress down the creek bank. The mob
hailed Billy with joyful profanity. They
gathered from Billy, as he wildly ex-
plored his feet for Chinese burrs, that
Abe had funked it; wouldn’t swim or
couldn’t swim, or something like that.
“He’s drowning!” yelled Billy. “F’r
Gawd’s sake, pull him out!”
The mob chuckled knowingly and
went on leisurely. Billy hopped from
burr to burr, and his squeals about
prickles equalled those concerning Abe’s
plight. Both were greeted as high bits of
humor. On arrival at the Long Hole
there was no sign of Abe, only a belt
around a reedy tussock. “He’s fooled
you, Billy!” they said. “He’s-just laugh-
ing at you!”
They all sat down on the water couch
and waited for Abe. Billy gabbled on in
fierce excitement and extracted prickles
from his feet. Someone said “Old Abe’s
a hard case—always up to his tricks!”
Then they called out: “Come on, Abe!
You’ve got him beat this time!”
“We’ll just leave you, Abe, if you don’t
show up! ” someone called. No one
seemed to know where Abe might be
lurking. Then they saw his clothes and
bluchers in a heap. “Cunning old cow,
Abe is; that’s only to fool us!”
But Abe refused to put in an appear-
ance. Billy Rosen picked up the strap
from the tussock and put it on. The
others had convinced him that it was all
one of Abe’s tricks. Everyone decided
to go back to the cellar, and as a joke
they decided they would take Abe’s
clothes along. “We’ll have the laugh on
him there,” they reckoned. Just then
Bert Carr came along the high bank look-
ing for his cows. They told Bert of the
huge joke, but Bert was not so sure it
was a joke at all. He looked into the still,
dark water. “Lord!” he said. “He's
there under the bank!”
In a trice Bert was stripped and in the
water. After several tries he brought
Abe to the surface and dragged him on
to the grass. Abe didn’t look too good
at all.
Jim Hayes, however, thought there was
“a have in it somehow,” and informed
Abe he was able to put “a good ’un
over.” Adolf Himmelman, always a
scientist on great occasions, procured a
long saffron-colored burr spike and in-
jected it with some care between Abe’s
big toe and the next to it. Then Adolf
watched Abe closely for reactions. There
weren’t any. Adolf surveyed the mob
through his thick eyebrows and an-
nounced the conclusions of his experi-
ment: “He is dead!”
There was a deal of excited babble at
that, incredulity vying with the® convic-
tion that Abe was still playing a joke.
Anyway, a tough old character like Abe
just couldn’t die! Not in that fashion!
Look what Abe did in the Oakey River!
Abe dead! Ridiculous!
Adolf was a little hurt. “He is dead !
He said this very calmly, very incisively,
very convincingly.
“Gawd!” someone said, and Billy
Rosen launched again into his excited
narrative and explanation. No one took
much notice. Bert Carr said he’d go for
the doctor and the police.
That as much as anything brought
home the realisation of tragedy. They
all stood round, awed at last, and took
off their hats. Billy Rosen took off his
hat, the rest of his attire at the moment
being a belt and one boot. Then they
tried to render first aid, and did prac-
tically everything but resuscitation. Any-
way, that didn’t matter. Abe was dead.
But fancy old Abe going off like that!
There was a tone of reproach in their
wondering.
They covered Abe with his clothes and
spread a rug they got from Mrs. Carr
over him as well. “Can’t do no harm,”
said old Jim Bower tearfully. Jim was
very much affected, “Abe was a decent
old cow —in spite of everything,” Jim
said it several times as a sort of fitting
epitaph. In its way it made vocal and
articulate the deep feelings of all present.
Adolf preened himself mightily on hav-
ing told them all the time that Abe was
dead.
Then Mrs. Borden arrived on the
scene. Why she should arrive no one
knew. But Mrs. Borden always arrived
on scenes. How she did it no one ever
discovered; perhaps she couldn’t ex-
plain it herself. But when a boiler
burst, or someone fell down a shaft or
had a tree fall on him, or a child fell into
a dam, or a baby was born prematurely,
Mrs. Borden was among the first to
arrive. Sometimes she was there even
before the things happened. Then she
always took charge of circumstance and
things began to move. Now, intuitively,
she knew Abe was dead—no need to go
into that nor into the question of why
he was dead. Abe was dead, and things
had to be done: move Abe to his home ;
break the news to Mrs. Abe (“had they
thought of that?”); send for the clergy-
man.
It was decided, without dissent, that
Mrs. Borden was the right person to
break the news. It was a woman’s task,
and it demanded a delicacy and tact no
man could lay claim to. Mrs. Borden
saw Abe put for transport on the door
from Bert Carr’s dairy, and then she
started off at a surprisingly fast run on
her errand of mercy. But she saved her
breath, too, for the last half-mile. Then
she shrieked ear-splittingly “Abe New-
ton’s dead! Abe Newton’s dead!” Her
piercing screams aroused the neighbors
for,miles around.
The vision of Mrs. Borden’s epic run
will last while ever local memory still
exists. Grey strands of hair streaming
in wild dishevelment, black dress held
round the hips with left hand, right arm
waving in abandoned despair, white petti-
coat with frayed and torn lace border,
one stocking down in dusty rumples
over boot, so the news was broken to
Mrs. Newton, who was not as perturbed
as one might have thought. She’d always
expected “something of that sort,” she
said, “Abe being what he was.” When
the door arrived with Abe on it, Mrs.
Newton was doing her best to revive
Mrs. Borden, who had collapsed under
the strain of shock and violent exertion.
Doctor, police and clergyman arrived
in due course, and the now-revived Mrs,
Borden took charge of them as far as
they would be taken charge of. At least
she did all the answering for Mrs. New-
ton, who was confused at all the excite-
ment and comings and goings. The
doctor said Abe was dead ; the sergeant
wrote a lot in a notebook, but ventured
little of his own opinion ; the clergyman
said words of consolation to Mrs.
Newton as Mrs. Borden patted the “poor
dear” on the shoulder and translated
the consolation into more soothing terms.
Mrs. Newton said, however, it was “just
like Abe!”
CVENTUALLY the coroner held his
'—' inquiry, and rather needlessly an-,
nounced that Abe had bee'n drowned.
He said it was accidental, which seemed
a bit silly, too, as if anyone might think
Abe did it on purpose. In spite of Billy
Rosen’s many and varied accounts the
coroner leaned towards the theory that
Abe was drowned in rescuing Billy
Rosen. How this could be wasn’t over-
clear, but the theory was based not a
little on the old legend of the Oakey
River flood. It was a very satisfying
conclusion, and it gave young Friar, of
the “Western Argus,” a golden oppor-
tunity to expand himself in a two-column
obituary. “Man’s inhumanity to man,”
quoted young Friar, “makes countless
thousands mourn.” From that he glowed
over Abe’s humanity to man.
For a long time after the Sunday ses-
sions at Billy Rosen’s didn’t have much
to say of swimming. But Abe was often
remembered as a “real seed.” Opinion,
too, became firmed and set that Abe was
really a hero, and that he had died in
trying to save Billy. Billy felt there was
something basically unsound in the view,
but Abe was dead, and it was, after all’
perhaps just as well to let it go at that.
February 11, 1788
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
NOTHING but the event of January
26 had ever happened in Australia
before the above date quite so
notable as what took place that
Monday morning under the trees by the
bank of the Tank Stream at the head of
Sydney Cove, when Phillip’s new colony
was only three weeks old. It was then
that the first Court of Criminal Judi-
cature ever assembled in the continent
met for the purpose of trying three
offenders against the peace and security
of this distant outpost of the British
Empire, having been summoned by a
precept issued by the Governor on the
previous day. The original records of
its proceedings are now in the library of
the Supreme Court of N.S.W. at Sydney.
Captain John Hunter, R.N., Lieutenant
Bradley, R.N., of H.M.S. Sirius, Lieu-
tenant Ball, R.N., of H.M.S. Supply, Cap-
tains Shane and Meredith and Lieutenant
Cresswell, of the Royal Marines, had
been called upon to sit with Judge-
Advocate Collins as members of the
Court. It was not a court-martial, but
it would have been difficult for a layman
to detect any essential difference. The
six officers were in full uniform, wearing
their swords, and while the Court was
sitting it was surrounded by a guard
under arms —although any of the public
wishing to be present were allowed to
look on.
As soon as the Court opened, the Act
of Parliament authorising its establish-
ment (27 George III), the commission of
Captain David Collins as Judge-Advocate
and Phillip’s precept were read. The
procedure was that, when the evidence in
each case was complete, the Court was
cleared, and it was then the duty of the
Judge-Advocate Captain Collins was
entirely lacking in legal training— to pro-
pound the law to his colleagues. The
verdict was thereupon considered and
determined by a majority of the votes,
beginning with the youngest member of
the Court and ending with the Judge-
Advocate. The Court was then reopened,
the verdict announced and sentence deli-
vered.
The official report of the first of the
three cases, written in a crabbed and diffi-
cult hand, begins as follows —in the
original document the names of the
accused have all been erased:
“The Act of Parliament for constitut-
ing the Court, His Majesty’s Commission
for the Judge-Advocate and the Gover-
nor’s precept for convening the members
being read, and the Court duly sworn:
“ , a convict, was brought
before the Court, standing charged with
personally abusing Benjamin Cook, drum-
major to the detachment of Marines, and
striking John West, a drummer in the
said detachment, with a cooper’s adze,
thereby putting him in fear of his life,
and for repeatedly abusing the centinel
and other soldiers of the guard whilst in
their custody, on the afternoon of Friday,
the Bth instant.”
Second - Lieutenant Clark, of the
Marines, Drum-Major Cook, Second-
Lieutenant Collins, Drummer West, Mr.
Surveyor Alt—Baron Alt—the sergeant
of the guard, and Private Mitchell, the
“centinel,” all testified strongly against
the prisoner, and after the cross-exami-
nation of the last-named that unfortu-
nate was invited to make his defence. It
mainly consisted of a plea that, having
drunk three-quarters of a bottle of rum
given him by some sailors, he wasn’t
quite himself. He said he was very sorry,
solicited the mercy of the Court and
promised good behavior in future. The
report of this first case concludes:
“This prisoner having ended his de-
fence, the Court proceeded, and”—some-
thing quite illegible—“that he is guilty of
the whole of the charge exhibited against
him —
“And do adjudge him to receive one
hundred and fifty lashes, on his bare
back, with a cat of nine tails.”


Vol. 63.—N0. 3267
Wednesday, September 23, 1942.
The Bulletin
HOPELESS CASES.
“The fourth year of war and you beggars WON’T fall in line!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Wehb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
SKULKING BEHIND THE A.I.F.
Mr. Forde, as Minister for the Army, is
happy to be able to state that “there is
no need to introduce conscription for
overseas service,” there already being a
“very large number of men in the A.I.F.
in Australia” ; indeed “transfers of men
from the militia to the A.I.F, for many
weeks now have been at the rate of 6500
a week.”
The transfers are, of course, made
with Government approval, indeed with
Government encouragement. Mr. Forde
is proud in the comparison that “when
the Government took office, enlistments
in the A.I.F. were not more than a
quarter of the present rate.”
At that time (when the Government
took office) there was none of the “en-
couragement” that has lately been wit-
nessed. Had there been it is quite pos-
sible —certainly it would have been con-
sistent —that members of the political
party to which Mr. Forde belongs would
have objected on the ground that some
proportion of the transfers amounted to
“moral conscription,” the term freely
bandied about when the party was
vehemently opposing, with speech after
speech, and then a block party vote, the
formation of this same A.I.F. that it and
Mr. Forde are now so proud to own.
Reasons for this pride are clear enough.
One, no doubt, springs from this A.l.F.’s
splendid performance overseas, at places
like Bardia, adding yet another chapter
to the grand story of Australian valor in
attack, and at places like Tobruk, adding
both a siege record to history and a peer-
less passage to the less-appreciated but
equally important record of Australian
doggedness in defence. Everybody shares
in the natural pride based on this ground.
In other respects the term “proud to
own,” applied to Messrs. Forde and co.,
has to be taken with a pinch of iron.
Considering the fight put up by the party
in the Federal Parliament against the
formation of this A.I.F. in the first place,
pride of ownership now is superbly
ironical, though not more so than the
singular fact that the control of Aus-
tralia at war should be vested in the
party with such an incomparably bad
defence record.
If Australia were to be invaded and
defeated it would be by overpowering
weight of numbers. Which of Australia’s
political parties in the past most con-
sistently and successfully opposed in-
creasing the country’s population by
means of immigration? With the popu-
lation thus restricted, which party in its
wisdom abolished compulsory national
service in the only short term of'office
it had in the 20 years between wars?
Which party was mainly responsible for
the fact that when war came in 1939 it
found Australia sinfully unprepared,
though under a very different Labor
party it was fairly well prepared in 1914?
The 1939 war having come, which
party opposed both the formation of the
new A.I.F. and the introduction of com-
pulsory service for home defence? When
the new A.I.F. was somewhat surrepti-
tiously brought into being in the form of
a “special defence force of 20,000 for
service at home or abroad,” which party
Strenuously fought in the House against
its being sent overseas? And—oddity of
all oddities, in view of what is going on
now —which party, when compulsory ser-
vice for the defence of Australian terri-
tories was also somewhat surreptitiously
reintroduced, actually sought to have
that service restricted to within the map
boundaries of the Commonwealth, ex-
cluding Papua and New Guinea?
Ironical, most ironical indeed, that the
answer to all these questions is the very
party to which Mr. Forde belongs, which
now controls Australia at war, and which
is now so glad to own the A.1.F.!
It would be in a sorry pickle today
without this same A.1.F., which, as well
as being the force to which not only the
party but the whole of Australia looks
for any great-scale fighting that may have
to be done, is actually what enables the
party to carry on in control. For with-
out the A.I.F. the party as a Govern-
ment —now that Americans, drafted to
fight anywhere, are here as part of Aus-
tralia’s defence scheme —would have
somehow to raise a force for like service
anywhere, or get out. Since it has already
swallowed a lot with office —including
the A.I.F. and, the compulsory militia,
and the transferring from the latter to
the former at the rate, with “encourage-
ment,” of 6500 a week—it would prob-
ably make shift to carry on.
In doing so it would certainly have to
swallow an outsize in whalefuls. Before
either A.I.F. or conscription for home
service had been mentioned the party’s
leader now Australia’s leader took
advance care to say in the Common-
wealth Parliament that there might later
be two major points of difference between
his party and the then Government —con-
scription and an expeditionary force (that
is, an A.1.F.).
Those two issues are, as the Government
knows and as the country knows, issues
upon which the Opposition is pledged, and
we are determined to maintain the views
and the principles for which we have
stood and fought while we have been a
party.— Mr. Curtin, 6/9/’39.
Speaker after speaker of the party fol-
lowed their leader’s lead in opposing the
formation of a new A.I.F. Mr. Black-
burn opposed voluntary recruiting as
being “the first step towards compul-
sion.” Mr. Ward opposed an A.1.F.:
“If we sent one division, before long
there would be a cry for a second divi-
sion.” “We” —the Opposition ; the party
now in power and so glad of the A.I.F.
—wanted “a more definite assurance”
that the Government was not prepared
to raise an expeditionary force (that is,
the A.1.F.).
These were typical of the party’s views
before even the “special force” was
mooted. The party, in fact, had its sus-
picions that a new A.I.F. was likely to
be born under the rose, and was deter-
mined to prevent the birth, legitimate or
otherwise. The new A.I.F. having mean-
while been ushered in as quietly as pos-
sible, the then Prime Minister (Mr. Men-
zies) told the reassembled House in
November that it was proposed to send
the force overseas when opportunity
offered. The then leader of the party
opposed to an A.I.F, (the present Prime
Minister) sought to have an amendment
carried expressing the House’s opposition
“to the dispatch of expeditionary forces.”
Mr. Beasley held that the “only excuse
the Prime Minister has offered [that is,
for the A.I.F.] is that it is necessary for
us to send troops overseas in order to
answer German propaganda.” Mr. Hol-
loway was prepared to “oppose, even to
the point of stretching the law to break-
ing point, any proposal to send Australian
soldiers to fight on foreign battlefields.”
Mr. Forde was with his party in its
opposition to any new A.I.F. Mr. Ward
was heard from again, appealing to
members of the Opposition to “continue
their campaign to prevent this Govern-
ment from shipping young Australians
abroad to foreign battlefields” (that is,
to oppose forming an A.1.F.). “I believe,”
said Mr. Blackburn, “that we should be
disloyal to the people whom we repre-
sent if we gave one moment’s considera-
tion to the policy of raising forces for
service overseas.”
On the question of compulsory service
Mr. Ward (Sept. 20, 1939), apparently
taking over a job that his leader did not
fancy, strenuously contended, on behalf
of the then Opposition (now the Govern-
ment), that compulsory service should be
restricted to “those territories that were
administered by the Commonwealth at
the time the Act was passed, and not to
those territories which have since been
acquired” (meaning, specifically, Papua
and the mandated territory). The Oppo-
sition (now the Government) took “very
strong exception” to the then Govern-
ment (now the Opposition) “arrogating
to itself the power to compel Australian
troops to go out of this country to defend
those particular territories.”
In November, 1939, the then leader
of the party opposing the formation of
an A.I.F. (now Prime Minister) declared
that “there is no justification for com-
pulsory military training” (that is, for
home defence). He said of the then Gov-
ernment that it “affronts the patriotism
of the Australian people by the imposi-
tion of compulsory training.” Mr. Black-
burn supported the leader ®>f the party
with a comment that now has special
significance:
We are impelled to oppose compulsory
military training because we believe
that these young men are being trained, not
that they shall be ready to defend Aus-
tralia, but so that they may be more
readily influenced by recruiting propaganda
to join the Second Australian Imperial
Force.
The party that thus—and in much
more —opposed the formation of the
present A.I.F. is now, being in office and
happy to be there, glad enough to own
this A.1.F., and glad indeed for the exis-
tence of a compulsorily-trained militia
to reinforce it.
On such surface appearances the said
party might seem to have moved a long
way since 1939. Mr. Forde has even
been impelled to issue a stern warning
to “thousands” of army dodgers. He
gave them 10 days in which to enrol,
otherwise, he said, they’d be prosecuted.
If the party had really had a change of
heart, instead of merely some enforced
appearances of a change, there would be
no shrinking mention of any 10-days’
grace; army dodgers would be auto-
matically rounded up and dealt with
immediately their time had passed.
Fundamentally the party’s outlook has
not changed. Except in the field of Labor-
unionism (and Red-controlled unionism)
it still clings to and lauds the “voluntary
system.” It cannot possibly be held
guiltless of responsibility for facts which
are nationally humiliating and danger-
ous: the thousands of army dodgers and
the increased crops of conscientious
objectors, a.w.ls. and deserters. What
else but such crops can be expected when
this party, as the Government, holds
to the miserable dictum that any fight-
ing that needs to be done for Australia’s
survival outside rigidly limited boun-
daries must remain a matter of purely
individual choice?
If the party that is now the Government
had had its way there would be no A.I.F.
nor any compulsorily - trained source
of supply of reinforcements for it.
There would have been all-out reliance
on the “voluntary system.” And if the
party as represented by Mr. Ward (and
Mr. Forde) had had its way even those
thus recruited would be restricted to wait-
ing in Australia for invasion. There
would be no militia fighting in New
Guinea, and there would be no A.I.F.
for home-fronters to skulk behind, brave
in the knowledge that here, without resort
to anything so abhorrent as “conscrip-
tion,” is a force that can quite legally be
sent anywhere.
Will the party which so wholeheartedly
opposed the formation of this present
A.I.F, (reinforced, as it has been, from
another defence body whose formation
the same party also opposed) be now
opposed to its use in helping the Ameri-
cans to beat back the Japs—from near
Australia, and then as far from Australia
as possible? And then afterwards —for
this is a war for survival, and for con-
tinued existence, and for these above all
—afterwards, what will this party have
to say about immigration? An answer
to this question now would be worth
having, particularly in view of the party’s
change of feeling about the A.I.F. Just
at the moment a population ten times as
large, which would mean ten times as
large a militia from which ten times as
large an A.I.F. could now be drawing
ten times as many reinforcements, would
be an excellent barricade to skulk
behind.
For White Australia.
Like a voice from the past was the voice
of Senator Collings, Minister for the
Interior, intimating that his Government
stands for a White Australia.
Chinese war refugees are employed
on public works, and a newspaper men-
tioned that two are serving drinks in
Sydney bars, with the full approbation
of the customers. “These aliens,” the
Minister said, “are only in Australia
under permit” ; and the same applied to
‘.‘other aliens in the country,” race un-
specified. Though all “have to be paid
award wages and to work under award
conditions, no matter what their occu-
pation,” they are not thereby qualifying
for citizenship: “the entry of Chinese
and other aliens will not interfere with
the White Australia policy.”
On the following day Chief Justice
Lathdm referred to White Australia in
an address on his mission to Japan. He
said he had “heard some people say that
without the White Australia policy we
might have avoided this trouble.” With
that view he “fundamentally and en-
tirely” disagreed.
If we had not had a White Australia we
would have had a million or so Japanese in
Australia today. Would that have saved us
from war or helped in the war? The White
Australia policy was right. If it had not
been for the White Australia policy we
should be in a hopeless position today.
It was true that “the Japanese did not
like our White Australia policy,” but in
his work in Japan he had “never found
any difficulty about it, because the
Japanese had a similar policy of their
own,” aimed at Koreans and Chinese.
Though “personally well received and
always treated with courtesy,” he had
found them “very anti-American and
very anti-British,” so anti-British that
the impressions he received on this head
were “painful.” It was his “frequent
experience to read” that we had “gone
soft and rotten” and that “a virile race”
was needed “to control the world.”
Britain was regarded as powerless and
its Empire as “ready for the plucking.”
To the Foreign Minister and other
leading Japanese the Chief Justice ex-
pressed the position and attitude of Aus-
tralia, as a self-governing nation wholly
European by race and civilisation, main-
taining “the most intimate and affec-
tionate ties with Britain,” in the war
without reservation and by its own
choice and “not a candidate for inclusion
in any co-prosperity sphere under the
leadership of Japan” ; on the contrary,
determined and able to defend itself if
its interests as a member of the British
Commonwealth were attacked anywhere.
But he found that the Japanese reckoned
Australia part of Asia; New Zealand
also, “and sometimes Fiji.” And “the
mildest things” he heard about a defeated
Australia was that “there would be
Japanese advisers in all Government de-
partments” and free immigration. “We
would have no rights whatever against
the Japanese.” And that was “the best
that would happen to Australia if we
lost the war.”
If the realists prevailed it would be
something different. My belief is that there
would be no more Australians in Australia.
There would be Australian slaves in Asia.
Australia would be controlled by the
Japanese, and there would never be a ques-
tion of getting it back.
There are Australians still blind tc
or careless of the peril in which Aus-
tralia stands and the obligations which
the struggle for existence as a free white
self-governing nation impose on every
Australian of both sexes on whom the
country has a right to call. To all except
the incorrigibles the deserters, the
slackers, the seditious, the corrupt the
words of the Chief Justice are com-
mended. No man can speak with greater
knowledge or authority of the enemy in
the Pacific and his fell designs. Defeat,
as he says, would be the death of the
Australian nation, and there could be
no resurrection. Stalemate would be a
sentence of death to White Australia, for
whatever length of time the sentence
might be suspended.
The White Australia policy was an in-
spiration to the generation which estab-
lished the Commonwealth. Unfortunately
in process of time it became something
which was taken for granted, and to
which mere lip-service was given.
Organised immigration, an essential part
of it, was neglected by one party and
opposed by the other. So was organised
defence. And Communists arose to preach
that the White Australia policy was an
exploded “bourgeois” superstition, and
that it was the destiny of Australia to
become a Soviet Republic, working in
with similar contrivances in Asia. In
their attitude to the war they changed
violently at the beginning of October,
1939, and again at the end of June, 1941;
but from this part of their propaganda
they have never deviated. And in one
way and another, chiefly by destroying
the faith of young Australians in their
country and its institutions and teaching
them to hate other Australians, it has
done a power of harm.
When Australia was at peace these
Communists were mad for war, not only
with the three Axis Powers but with
Franco’s Spain—a war which would have
alienated Latin America and obliged
the United States to remain neutral. At
the same time they bitterly opposed Aus-
tralian defence preparations, reserving
their most venomous denunciations for
compulsory training, while certifying that
if war broke out in the Pacific bombers
from Asia would wreck Japan’s ports and
cities and submarine torpedoes from the
same quarter wreak havoc among its
shipping. These assurances suddenly
ceased before the Japanese entered upon
the career of conquest which has taken
them from Thailand to Papua and the
Solomons, and have never been renewed.
When Australia was at war wdth Ger-
many Communists clamored for a peace
with the victorious Hitler. After
the lapse of 19 months they suddenly
became belligerent again, though with
strict geographical limits, and they have
presented Australia with a war-cry,
“Fight Fascism!”
A poorer war-cry was never invented.
No war -was ever won merely by con-
tending against something the enemy
believed in, however vile. No negative
or necklace of negatives inspired the
Diggers who stormed the heights of Gal-
lipoli and took Villers-Brettoneux and
Mont St. Quentin. They were fired by
a vision of Australia, the Australia of
Lawson, Paterson and Dennis: White
Australia, land of free men and women—
not capitalists, overseers, cocktailers and
coolies. And so it has been in this war,
and so it must be to the end. We fight
for Australia as a British Commonwealth
under the Crown; fight alongside allies,
equally proud of their race and heritage
of justice and freedom, for all we have
and are and hope to become. That way
victory lies. And when the victory is
won we must have large-minded and far-
sighted reconstruction, immigration and
defence policies designed to preserve this
continent for the white race and make
Australia invincible.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Blarney Hits Back.
Back from New Guinea with a most
lucid and heartening account of the
operations in that wild country, and of
the spirit animating all ranks in the
contest with a cunning enemy who neither
gives nor takes quarter, General Blarney
turned from that inspiriting subject to
hit back at amateur strategists and pro-
fessional squealers;
Australia, you know as well as I do, is
full of people who know what should be
done. With appalling self-confidence they
say that the city-bred Australian is a born
guerrilla fighter. Last month they called
for modern weapons. This month they
demand that the army organisation be
scrapped, and that guerrilla bands be
formed. We will have another new get-
rich-quick method of winning the war
next month.
True as to the recent past and only
too probable as to the immediate future.
But though boys of the knowall breed
are to be found everywhere, Australia’s
worst examples herd in newspaper offices.
From these haunts there has been a
ceaseless outpouring of predictions that
never came to pass, of assurances that
events have made ridiculous (such as that
the Jap would be a pushover) and of
strategical concoctions that, if accepted,
would have brought frightful calamities
on the nation —for example, that the
fate of Australia would be decided in
Java and that the Government ought to
send a “few divisions” there immediately.
And every setback or apparent setback
has been followed by piercing howls of
anguish and depreciation of the generals
alleged to be responsible.
A foreign general can lose a dozen
battles and disappear from his command
without ceasing to be “brilliant.” All the
squealing and invective are reserved for
British and Australian leaders. The only
exception is made in the case of raids
like those on Dieppe and Tobruk, the
tragic facts of which are played down
because they conflict with “the policy
of the paper.” To “the policy of the
paper” they make no difference, and the
flow of mush about “commandos” and
“guerrillas” and the need for a Second
Front in Europe continues undiminished.
These impertinences and imbecilities
have been tolerated too long ; but appar-
ently there is to be no rest for General
Blarney. His just tribute to the men in
New Guinea and his serene statement of
the position there led to his being
attacked by overseas newspapers. “When
the Nazis reached Boulogne,” London
“Star” sneered, “his type assured us that
we had the enemy just where we wanted
him.” If any general was guilty of this
nonsense it wasn’t Blarney. When papers
like the “Star” were writing as if the
Empire were entering upon a romantic
punitive expedition he warned his coun-
try that the war would be terrible —“thef
most terrible the world has ever seen.”
The Falstein Case.
On September 11 A.C.2 Sydney Max
Falstein appeared before a court-martial
on a charge of using insubordinate lan-
guage to a superior officer. It was stated
in evidence that on September 4 Falstein
paraded at the office of the camp
administrative officer, Squadron-Leader
Gorrie, and demanded that the sergeants’
mess should provide beer for an A.C.2
party; “we must have it.”
This being refused, Falstein said; “You
may be legally right now, but I am going
to Canberra next week-end, and you
won’t be right then.” After some more
in this strain, the squadron-leader said:
“Stop. Be silent. That is insubordinate.
Listen to me.” Falstein replied: “I won’t
be silent. You listen to me. Now let
me tell you I have been checking up on
you and you think you are a big noise
on this station. I find that you were
shifted from this station once, and from
influence you had with a member of the
Air Board you got yourself posted back.
You are the most hated man on this
station, and when I go to Canberra I
will have you shifted.”
The court-martial having considered
this and other evidence, and the accused’s
denials, which were tempered by admis-
sions, Falstein was, on September 15,
sentenced to 28 days’ detention in a mili-
tary clink.
It is safe enough to say that had the
offender been some A.C.2 Jones, Smith,
Brown or Robinson nothing would have
been heard of the case. Falstein being
M.H.R. for Watson, the proceedings were
published at length under double-column
headlines. So was the finding, eked out
with howls of complaint from some of
Falstein’s colleagues, notably Senator
Amour; “I consider the sentence vin-
dictive, vicious and outrageous.”
According to the heated Senator, Fal-
stein’s offence was merely “a minor
breach” ; seven days’ c.b. would have
fitted the bill; the sentence was “an
affront to his [Falstein’s] constituents.”
Some supposedly precious time of the
national Parliament was given to more
special pleading. Holding that Falstein
had been “the victim of a political ven-
detta,” Mr. Calwell demanded that he
should be released immediately, and that
Squadron-Leader Gorrie should be court-
martialled. After other members had
made it apparent that they regarded the
fighting forces as some sort of a union,
with politicians running it, the matter
was suddenly dropped just when it was
starting to look politically risky.
Disinterested onlookers might have their
views summed up in the very common
comment that “Maxie asked for it, and
he got it.” On the evidence, accented
by the court-martial, Falstein was guilty
of gross insubordination. If that sort
of thing could be indulged in without
punishment—or with the sort of punish-
ment advocated by Senator Amour—
discipline would vanish at once.
Instead of Falstein’s insubordination
being justified by his being a member of
Parliament, this, if anything, made his
offence all the worse. On any but a
biased reading of the evidence, the con-
duct that got Falstein his 28 days was
the sort of thing that might have been
expected from some flash upstart; cer-
tainly not from a member of Parliament.
If there was any “affront” to Falstein’s
constituents, it was given by his conduct,
not by the sentence.
A Soldier-settlement.
W. L. Payne, president of the Queens-
land Land Court, has been looking
into the affairs of the Atherton soldier-
settlement, on which the State Minister
for Lands sought a rent increase of 42
p.c. It was refused.
Mr. Payne found that “much dis-
appointment, disillusionment and failure
was the lot of the original settlers,” and
summarised the causes:
Blocks too small and rates too steep;
settlers mostly untrained, some unsuit-
able; over-cultivation of land that needed
a rest.
In the beginning the soldiers were
charged a rent of £5 17s. 6d. p.c. on the
u.c.v. and “the value of the clearing.” It
was “beyond productive capacity.” In
1922 rents were reduced to 3 p.c. on the
u.c.v., plus £5 17s. 6d. p.c. on the clear-
ing. Still “far too high.” In 1926 both
charges were reduced to 1 p.c. and made
retrospective to the beginning of settle-
ment and prospective to 31/3/’33, to be
doubled afterwards—2 p.c. on u.c.v. and
2 p.c. on clearing cost.
In 1933 a new factor came in, the
Atherton Shire Council. It had bor-
rowed and spent so royally that the “rates
became substantially higher than Crown
rents,” On a 70-acre block they rose
from £8 in 1920 to about £29 in 1942.
The position has now been reached that
Crown rents, plus rates and bank commit-
ments, have become too heavy a burden.
Annual burden On two blocks, each of 139
acres, is £llB 15s. 7d.; on one of 129 acres,
£137 2s. 9d.; on one of 57 acres,
{Continued on page 8.)
“WHO’S AFRAID OF THE BIG BAD WOLF?”


CRAVENA
are kinder . .
to the throat f
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
£59 16s. sd. Some settlers are in arrears
up to four years... .Existing annual rents
total £2414; the amount in arrears at
19/6/’42 was £4295 Arrears of rates,
£1944. A distressful story, unique, I think,
in Queensland.
What Mr, Payne calls the “saddest
aspect” is that Atherton is no longer a
soldier-settlement. Of the original 178
soldiers, only 49 remain, holding 65
blocks. The rest of the blocks are held
by Australian-born civilians and natural-
ised subjects, three of whom have been
interned. In all, the settlement now sup-
ports only 90 settlers, “as good a type
as any farming district can show.”
The Land Court fixed the rents at 11
p.c. on the u.c.v. and 3 p.c. on the clear-
ing, but it still didn’t hold out much hope
for Atherton unless “all the problems
are solved in the near future.”
Minister Tully, of Sydney, and any-
body else who thinks repatriation is
merely a matter of shoving service men
on the land should examine this Ather-
ton report.
POLITICAL POINTS
For what the distinction may be worth,
Maxie Falstein can claim to be the only
serving M.H.R. who has been sentenced
to “a period of detention.” There was
a Senator who fell on evil days and
served a “stretch,” but his was a civil
case.
According to Ward, Australia is to
have “a new economic order” after the
war. Presumably it will be financed by
means of Commonwealth Bank “credits,”
with Senator Darcey grinding out the
paper. Ward appointing the staffs and
Dedman “rationalising” everything. It
will last one consecutive month.
Dunstan will neither admit nor deny
that he is going after a Federal seat.
Somebody ought to remind him that “it
is regrettable at a time like this, when
unity is so essential, that such a conten-
tious matter should be brought forward.”
It has come out that the matter of
Dunstan and Forgan Smith resigning to
contest Federal seats, was mentioned “in-
formally” at the last meeting of the
Premiers. So rodents do know when the
ship is sinking.
Compulsory unionism was debated in
the House last Thursday on motion
for adjournment, and telling things were
said by Menzies ; but only the fringe of
the subject had been touched when
Fadden asked for further time. It was
refused by Caucus and the alleged Inde-
pendents, Coles and Wilson. The Oppo-
sition should come again by way of/
demanding that the Federated Iron-
workers should be “investigated” by a
select committee.
The knighted Walter Citrine went to
the U.S.A. hoping to bring about what
he called “an Anglo-U.S.A.-Soviet trade-
union alliance.” In this he failed, and
he explained the reasons at the Trade
Union Congress. When he announced
what he had come for the press gave
him beans, and the American Federation
of Labor told him tartly there was no
real trade-unionism in Russia. So back
across the herring pond he went, con-
vinced that “the root of the failure was
America’s traditional hostility to Com-
munists.” Rightly taken, a warning to
Canberra, which can’t afford to ignore
American opinion.
President Roosevelt is seeking authority
from Congress to peg all prices and
wages, “notwithstanding any provision ih
the existing law.” As earnest of his in-
tentions, he has abolished double pay for
Sunday and holiday w'ork, while permit-
ting double pay for a seventh consecu-
tive day of toil. In effect, the U.S.A. has
that abomination to “advanced” Austra-
lian union bosses and civil servants, a
six-day working week.
September 16 was a day memorable in
the history of “S. M. Herald.” On qne
page was a par. to the effect that the
managing director had closed his quarrel
with Curtin and rejoined the Censorship
Advisory Committee; on another was
an unvarnished report of a public attack
on him, his paper and its art criticisms
by a journalist-painter. Said the jour-
nalist-painter :
Under a playboy proprietor and a qumber
of boy friends, the Sydney “Morning
Herald” has set out to belittle all estab-
lished artists of Australia.
Publication of this —and more-will go
down in the annals of journalism as a
unique example of “largeness of mind
and lucidity of temper.”
That R.A.F. commemoration of the
deathless day on which the Luftwaffe,
with 185 aircraft shot down, lost the
Battle of Britain made grand reading.
Air-Marshal Hugh Dowding, the retired
leader of Fighter Command, was there,
and he said “it was the steady drain of
losing four or five aircraft to one that
broke the German attack,” which was
to have paved the way for the invasion
that never came. And the great work
was done by pilots, many of whom were
tired, and their squadrons, because of
heavy losses in France, below strength.
There were compensating advantages:
The R.A.F. entered the battle with tech-
nical superiority in aircraft, and in its
system of plotting and planning was ahead
of any Continental Power, especially in
respect of radio location.
A pity Chamberlain was not spared to
join in the rejoicings. Spitfires, Hurri-
canes, radio location, air crews trained
to the minute and a navy ready for any-
thing—all were works of his time. And
although he could not avert the war that
he hated and dreaded, he took the Empire
into it with clean hands.
Prospects of a Second Front in Western
Europe (“Tell Curtin to Demand it”)
having faded, Reds and their friends and
rivals for the applause of mobs are now
demanding inquiries into the control of
“Mr. Ward intimated that he would welcome the opportunity of sacking Mr. Theodore.
...Mr. Curtin intimated that he had the greatest confidence in Mr. Theodore.”
“Eddie, if you persist in being insubordinate Ell have you transferred to the
Air Force.”
war industries, to the end that they them-
selves may be placed in control. Min-
isters having yielded to the extent of
commissioning their former colleague
Blakeley to “investigate” Australian Iron
and Steel, they were promptly served with
a Demand for the “investigation” of the
Commonwealth Aircraft Corp. If it is
intended to appoint a defeated Labor
politician to conduct this “investigation”
there may be a difficulty in finding one.
Nearly all the defeated Labor politicians
are in Government jobs already.
In Russia it used to be difficult to dis-
tinguish a stationmaster from a general.
In Victoria the Railways Commissioners
have found it necessary to come out for
the new Austerity with an order forbid-
ding colored piping, braid, crowns, V.R.
lettering, chevrons, chin-straps, double-
breasters, waistcoats, buttons on caps and
fancy pockets for the duration. The
department will be able to save at least
one and sixpence in this way.
A.B.C. slipped badly when it declared
that “In a broadcast earlier this evening
General Blarney said Australians were
born guerrilla fighters.” Blarney’s words
were: “Australia is full of people who
have said with appalling self-confidence
that the city-bred Australian is a born
guerrilla fighter.” The A.B.C. reporter
must have been reading too many articles
in the “commando” press.
The Allied Works Council, which is
run by a parcel of newspapermen, with
assistance from a “turf commission
agent” (called “Packer’s Punter”), among
others, is the subject of a Labor
family quarrel. Boss of the outfit is
Theodore, who was appointed by the
P.M. himself. In the House last week
Ward attacked Theodore, Packer and
their paper, and,, broadly hinted that he
would sack Theodore and Packer if he
could. His leader thereupon expressed
the utmost confidence in Theodore. The
scene shifted to the Senate, where Joseph
Silver Collings, who leads for the Gov-
ernment in that Chamber, defended the
Theodore show and all its works. Mov-
ing to the attack, he accused Rosevear,
Labor M.H.R. for Dailey, of having
made “false and irresponsible” statements,
and to two union secretaries he gave the
lie direct. Now a crowd of union secre-
taries is looking for Joseph’s scalp.
Ominous for the U.S. Democrats were
the results of the elections in Maine,
which always polls earlier than other
States. Though traditionally Republi-
can, Maine’s Republican majorities
of recent years have been small;
the Presidential vote two years ago
was 163,928 for Willkie and 154,774
foi Roosevelt. This time Republi-
cans elected a Senator, two Represen-
tatives and a State Governor by roughly
2 to 1 ; and it is 14 years since anything
like that happened.
Before the Blakeley “investigation” of
Australian Iron and Steel was mysteri-
ously suspended, one McHenry, the Iron-
workers’ president, asserted that his union
or whatever it is “could make sugges-
tions which would increase production”
at the Port Kembla works. In the
metropolis on the same day his union or
whatever it is stopped production in a
munitions annexe because, as a sequel
to a threatened boycott of “unfinancial”
unionists, a sturdy fellow refused to
become “financial.” “Not only that,”
screeched Comrade Tannock, of Aid
Russia Committee and Second Front-in-
Europe notoriety, he “insulted a shop
steward and insulted the union.” There
followed a threat that unless a “settle-
ment” was effected “about 2000 men in
two other factories would be called out.”
A “settlement” was effected, the dissi-
dent to become “financial” and to “show
cause to the executive why he should not
be dealt with.” Mob law masquerading
as union law!
As part of the Government’s austerity
effort, Canberra announces the abolition
of the Australian Agricultural Council,
the “A.B.C. Weekly,” deadhead travel-
ling by State politicians, silent ’phones
for bookmakers and—eh? Oh, just
dreaming again.
"Austerity without sincerity” is Joe
Abbott’s description of the Government’s
financial proposals. As good a name as
any for “the voluntary system” in a new
disguise.
N.S.W. servfr" men of the last war
declared against a service men’s party at
their annual conference, but supporters
of the proposal are not discouraged and
will come again. One of them, very
significantly, is Currie, V.C., who is
Labor M.L.A. for Kogarah. If other
branches approve—as no doubt they will
—A.M.F. men who have seen service in
the North are to be admitted to the
League, and conference plumped for an
amendment of the Defence Act to admit
of the A.I.F. and the A.M.F. being
“merged into one fighting force, serving
Australia in any theatre of war.”
While compulsory unionism was under
discussion, Beasley blotted his copybook
by attacking four big Sydney concerns,
making the very unusual charge that they
had “forced their employees to join
unions because award rates were lower.”
He was promptly and categorically con-
tradicted, and he did not return to the
subject. Beasley has been doing a pretty
good job in the Supply Department with-
out opening his mouth too wide, and this
reticence became him. But scratch a
Sydney Labor Minister and you find a
union agitator!
Making his usual weekly attack on
wage-payers. Ward asserted that “the
workers” (meaning trade-unionists) “have
submitted to pegging of wages while
employers have fought every suggestion to
peg profits.” It brought a reply from the
Westralian Employers’ Federation, which
challenged him to justify this assertion
and others; and Ward “squibbed it.”
Perhaps Curtin told him that “pegging
of wages” was a very bad jest in West-
ralia, where the basic wage was raised
by the Labor Government, cynically mis-
applying a National Security regulation,
though an increase had been refused by
the Arbitration Court presided over by
a former Labor member.
With Cooper in Forgan Smith’s place,
Queensland State politicians have entered
upon their year’s legislative “work”
— i.e., a programme of trifles light
as air, which will be completed long
before Christmas. State politicians have
so little to do these days that they should
be ashamed to take the money.


STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night Because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day's work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, pufflness under the eyes and!
lexceas uric acid.
Don’t delay! Negledt is dangerous. Takei
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Theyl
Strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid In ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY BILLS to-day,
HAVE THAT PHOTO
COPIED NOW!
We cannot come to you, but you can
send to us. Send your photos, to us
to be copied. We enlarge, color and
frame. We will be glad to give a
quote on any work and the greatest
care will be taken with your originals;
pack your originals in cardboard.
Our address is :
PROGRESS PHOTOS.
MIDWAY ARCADE,
256 COIXINS STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
do not experiment with imitations,
a b&anoadkk * co. Ud. Birmingham. enq
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Consecrated in 1937, Archbishop Justin
Daniel Simonds, of Hobart • now
Coadjutor-Archbishop to Dr. Mannix —
was the first Australian to become a
Catholic archbishop. That would appear
to have started something, for, whereas
last war-time all Catholic archbishops in
Australia were of Irish birth, recent
choice has been for more Australians.
Dr. Duhig, of Brisbane, and Dr. Mannix,
of Melbourne, are last-war survivals,
both born in Ireland, as was Archbishop
Prendiville, of Perth (since 1935). Arch-
bishop Beovich, of Adelaide, was born
at Carlton (Vic.) and consecrated in
1940; Archbishop Gilroy, of Sydney
(also consecrated in 1940), was born at
Glebe (N.S. W.). Dr. Simonds is a native
of Glen Innes (N.S.W.).
One brother of Melbourne’s Arch-
bishop-elect is Professor of Mathematics
at Queensland University ; another is on
the Inky Way. Dr. Simonds’s education
for his new post includes a distinguished
course at Louvain. He was one of the
first to go there on the bursary left for
the purpose by the Enmore (N.S.W.)
parish priest Archdeacon Furlong, who
had himself studied at the great Belgian
university under Cardinal Mercier. Dr.
Simonds repaid something on account in
the educational line by being, while Arch-
bishop of Hobart, largely re-
sponsible for the raising of
the general school-leaving age
in the Speck. Educated in the
first place at Sydney High and
St. Patrick’s College, Manly
(N.S.W.), he later returned to
St. Patrick’s as Professor of
Sacred Scripture. He was
also rector of St. Columba’s
College in the N.S.W. Blue
Mountains before going to
Hobart.
W. J. Mac Kay having “inti-
mated to the Government
that he desires to return to
his important position as
Commissioner of Police for
N. S. Wales,” the job of
Director-General of Security
has passed to Brigadier W. B.
Simpson. Son of a Sydney
solicitor, the new D.-G. took
to the Bar after serving in
the last war, and built up a
big practice, including a lot of
N.R.M.A. work. In the
present war he had first an
army legal job, then went to
the Middle East in the same
line. Sydney colleagues de-
scribe him as “a forceful
chap, typical Digger type,
downright, and very straight.”
Brigadier Jim Hargest, of
the M.L. forces, reported by
Rome Radio to be a Libyan
prisoner of war, was similarly reported
last December, but bobbed up again
a little later. A 51-year-old South-
land farmer with a flair for politics and
soldiering, he came out of the 1914-18
war a lieut.-col., D. 5.0., M.C. In Sep-
tember, 1939, he was C.O. Third N.Z.
Infantry Brigade, and in Africa com-
manded the Fifth. Politically, he has
been M.P. for Awarua, Joe Ward’s old
seat, since 1935. He’s a Nationalist.
Sholto Black, M.A., installed as head-
master of Haileybury College, Mel-
bourne, adds to the Maoriland peda-
gogues who have got headmasterships in
public schools in Melbourne. Graduat-
ing from Otago University College, in
Dunedin, he first taught at Timaru High
School, joining the Haileybury staff in
1939. His installation, performed by
Rev. S. A. Goddard, Moderator of the
Presbytery of Melbourne South, is said
to be the first case of a church grammar
school head being inducted with a full-
dress religious service in Victoria.
Jim Tyrrell, of Tyrrell’s:
For 54 years Jim (James Robert) Tyrrell has
been selling books and other things in Sydney,
including upwards of 50,000 prints of old Syd-
ney, early Australia, etc. His literary acquaint-
anceships range from R. L. Stevenson (in velvet
jacket and cummerbund), Mark Twain and
other visitors, to practically all well-known
Australian writers: actually he links up Today
with the day when Australian poets, writers
and artists first came into their own. Son of a
Crimean veteran who subsequently sought gold
in N.S.W., he was born in Sydney and started
young with Henry Lloyd, then proprietor of
the N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Next, Angus and
Robertson (then in Market-street) wanted a
boy. This was 1888, the year A. and R. pub-
lished their first book. Young Jim (13) climbed
over a back gate, surprising Angus, who wanted
to know what the boy was doing coming in
that way. Explanation that there were too
many boys at the front door got him the job on
the spot. It consisted in watching the bJbks
displayed out in front to see that nobody
pinched any; 18 years later he was managing
the shop, and decided to hit out on his own.
Shops at various addresses (with an interval at
Adelaide) included turning into a bookshop
the Singer Sewing Machine Co.’s stables in
Castlereagh-street. About then J. F. Archibald
induced him to become a company; J.F.A.
was a director, but so anecdotal at meetings
(“Wonderful storyteller,” says J.T.) that little
business was ever transacted. For 10 years now
the shop has been in George-street, not far
from the Bulletin office. One shop or other
Henry Lawson, Rod Quinn, Ken Slessor and
JIM TYRRELL.
A. G. Stephens each separately celebrated in
verse. Lawson was greatly taken with an old
bell, which he used to tap with his stick and
bend close to, to listen to the tone. He began
his verse: “Hangs a bell in Tyrrell’s shop ”
Slessor noted
Yellow-stained maps from some forgotten book;
Journals of convict days in New South Wales,
And Captain Cook.
Cook relics there now include a chart of the
Western Hemisphere, showing the lines of
Cook’s voyages, embroidered in silk by that
navigator’s wife. There are letters from Tenny-
son to Henry Parkes, original Parkes verse
MSS., and MSS. and special presentation
copies of books of Lawson, Dennis, Low, Phil
May, J. H. M. Abbott and other writers and
artists. Also, the original note dedicating
Lawson’s My Army, “without permission,” to
“Earl Beauchamp, who was too democratic for
nfie country he was sent to govern.” It was
written by Archibald, and Lawson signed it.
Stephens in his verse mentioned “50,000 books”
in Tyrrell’s. Heaven knows how many have
been sold (and bought) since, or how many are
there today.
“S.T.S.”: Jessie Bond, dead in London
at 89, was the last of the old “Savoyards,”
whom I saw constantly when they made
Gilbert and Sullivan a permanent fixture
at the old Opera Comique and finally
at the Savoy; last of the girls, that is,
for Durward Lely may still be living.
Australia saw some of them —Bracy,
Kenningham, Ryley, Alice Barnett,
Marion Hood. Miss Bond’s chief asset
was charm. With only a fair voice she
was always in parts like Pitti-Sing, a
good second to Miss Hood or Leonora
Braham. Her best chance came m
“lolanthe” as the hero’s fairy (and there-
fore youthful) mother.
This year’s Macrossan lectures have
been given in Brisbane by historian
and journalist Malcolm Ellis, of The
Bulletin literary staff for the past 10
years; since 1939 writing this paper s
week-to-week war history and commen-
tary. The two lectures touched, natu-
rally, on early Governor Macquarie;
Ellis’s extensive biographical history,
Macquarie: His Life and Times, was a
recent Prior Prize winner. The first lec-
ture was an account of the formation of
the first Supreme Court in Australia, in
which Macquarie was involved; the
second detailed Macquarie’s life up to
the time he came to Australia. The Mac-
rossan lectures were founded by the
family to commemorate John Murtagh
Macrossan, one of the founders of the
Australian Constitution. Two of his sons
have been Queensland Judges: one of
them, Justice Neal Macrossan, presided
at the second lecture, Deputy-Governor
and former Chief Justice James Blair
having presided at the first. In his Bris-
bane visit Ellis was on old stamping
ground; he’s a Queenslander, born at
Narine, in the south-west, and educated
at Brisbane Grammar.
Like other of these American leaders,
the new chief of the Allied Air Forces
in the South-west Pacific, Major-General
Kenney, is not only young for the size of
his command, but looks a good deal
younger than he is. Maj.-Gen. Kenney is
43. A Nova Scotian, he’s been in army
flying since 1917, His first war experi-
ence was as a long-range reconnaissance
pilot with the French ; then he trans-
ferred to the U.S. Army in France, win-
ning the D.F.C. and Silver Star, A vital,
vigorous chap, he’s been a major-general
since February this year.
Out on the Libyan desert one night
four R.A.F. men encountered a party
of Italians. In other times one of the
fliers, Sgt. Alex. E. O. Barras, might have
tried to sell the Italians space in the Perth
“West Australian” ; till lately he’d been
on the advertising staff of that paper.
But Sgt. Barras wasn’t trying to sell
space; he was trying to put a lot of it
between himself and the enemy. With
the others he was completing a stroll
of 450 miles through enemy-held terri-
tory from a shot-down bomber; his feet
were blistered and bound with rags ; he
and the rest were starved and thirsty.
They fired an “old, rusty rifle” and the
Italians left. Later a British armored
car picked up Barras and co. In addi-
tion to advertising, Barras wrote sporting
articles for the “Western Mail,” himself
being both baseballer and cricketer (in
1939 he scored a first-rate century for
W.A. against the bowling of Victorians
McCormick, Scott and Fleetwood-Smith).
He joined the R.A.F. from West Perth in
1940. Another of the trekkers was Flight-
Sgt. Charles R. Warwick, a Neutral Bay
(Sydney) native, who was on the land
ac Prospect (S.A.) before he enlisted.
Rev. W. L. Harmer, new precentor at
St. David’s, Hobart, is remembered in
outback Queensland, where he was a
St. Paul Brother for five years. A Tam-
worth (N.S.W.) native, he gained his
theological education in Brisbane, and
after the outback service went to Eng-
land and the Liverpool slums. He was
rector of the old O’Connell church, near
Bathurst (N.S.W.), before going to Hobart
as minor canon to the late Dean Rivers.
Rev. Harmer follows Rev. M. J. May
into the job, Rev. May going to Holy
Trinity, Launceston, as rector.
The Singleton family, of Ravenswood,
Maffra (Vic.), has paid heavily in this
war. The eldest son, Lieut. Douglas
Bruce Singleton, was killed in action in
Egypt in July this year ; younger brother
Kenneth, a driver, died of wounds there
a fortnight later. Their sister, Nurse
Irene Singleton, is missing in Malaya ;
she was secretary to Bishop Cranswick
(of Gippsland) before she became a
nurse. The brothers were educated at
Geelong Grammar and distinguished
themselves in athletes. The elder owned
an extensive farm in the Stanhope dis-
trict, the other farmed in N.S.W.
Herman Gordon Warren, one of the
Canberra missing, was an old Geelong
High boy, subsequently well known as
a schoolmaster and athlete. He played
senior cricket with Carlton for two years
and had an outstanding country record
in both cricket and football. He was
teaching science and maths, at Warragul
High School before joining the Navy.
Counihan has here noted down the
main features of Group-Captain Valston
Eldridge Hancock, 0.8. E., another Dun-
GROUP-CAPTAIN HANCOCK.
troon product who has found a high
niche in the Allied councils, as Assistant
Director of Plans to the Allied Air Staff.
His promotion has been rapid. After
four years at the army college he was
transferred to the R.A.A.F. in 1929 and
got his pilot’s certificate a year later. A
staff course at Andover (Eng.); then, in
1935, staff officer to the Chief of the Air
Staff, Director of Works and Buildings
in 1938 and next posted to the command
of No. 1 Bombing and Gunnery School.
He then became Director of Plans to
the R.A.A.F., which paved the way to
his latest appointment.
Into the silence:
John Jacob, of Moorooroo station, in the
Adelaide hills, was a link with S.A.’s absolute
beginnings. His grandfather came from Eng-
land in the Rapid with Col. Light in 1836, and
helped to plan the site of the infant capital.
And his wife was a daughter of Captain
Bagot, another of the pioneers.
In Melbourne, John Mues, gunsmith, crack
shot and, with Collingwood Rifle Club, coach
of hundreds of marksmen. Carrying on the
tradition, his son Charles was one of the three
Victorians in the last Australian team that went
to Canada and Bisley.
In Brisbane, at 86, 6ft. 6in. E. T. Towner,
who changed to Queensland from his native
Tasmania when he was 12, eventually owning
at different times Glenco, Pershore and Water-
loo grazing properties. One son, Major Edgar
Towner, came back with V.C. and M.C. from
the 1914-18 fight.
In England, at 51, Professor H. D. Wright,
a Tasmanian who rose to the position of pro-
fessor of bacteriology at the University of
Liverpool and was city bacteriologist to the
Liverpool corporation. He was at Sydney Uni-
versity from 1930 to 1934.
At 85, at Wellington (M.L.), John Campbell,
Maoriland’s first Government Architect. Born
in Glasgow, he came to M.L. when 25. He
designed the Parliament Buildings, part of the
Post Office and the Customs House, Welling-
ton, the Post Office, Auckland, and the Law
Courts, Dunedin. He was a keen yachtsman.
At 73, at that haven of old sailormen Wil-
liamstown (Vic.), Captain Henry George Trace,
for many years the most eagerly looked-for
master on the Victorian coast —that was when
he commanded the lighthouse supply ship Lady
Loch. Born in Ireland, he windjammered to
Australia, and served with Howard Smith for
a long time. Later he was shipping inspector
at the Port of Melbourne. The family tra-
dition is kept up by a son who commands a
minesweeper.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Wodgil”: For some reason or other,
decorations have been granted very spar-
ingly in this war. After one heroic
episode in 1915 there was an issue of
seven V.Cs. to Australians, but so far
in this war Australians have received only
six V.Cs. for deeds of valor ranging
from the North Sea to Malaya. One
was an Old Digger who kept fighting fit,
and his young companions in glory were
all steady-going chaps. Indeed, the care-
fully cultivated conception of the hero
as an uncouth humorist with two obses-
sions, bayonet-fighting and beer, has
been shattered irretrievably. Gavin
Long has written scathingly of “the
Comic-paper Digger.” Another name
for him is “the ‘Smith’s Weekly’ soldier,”
and it is the almost universal opinion
among returned men that, so far from
being an asset to the army, he is an
offensive nuisance.
w « * *
“G.J.S.”; Few aeroplanes have flown
into a cumulo-nimbus cloud, as did an
R.A.A.F. Sunderland over the Bay of
Biscay recently, and come out in one
piece. The tremendous vertical currents
in these clouds have been known to tear
aircraft of the old wood-and-fabric type
into thousands of pieces, strip the clothes
off the crew and scatter the debris over
a wide area. Cu-nimbs are the clouds in
which hail is formed, and nothing better
illustrates the power of the up-currents.
A hailstone an inch in diameter requires
a current rising 4700 ft. a minute—or
approximately 60 miles an hour —to sup-
port it, and hail is often tossed up and
down through successive layers of cold
air until it reaches egg size. Small
wonder that the Sunderland, with its
great area of iifting surfaces, was flung
4000 ft. upward.
* # * *
“Jachris”; Sydney doesn’t get printed
posters with its newspapers these days,
and newsboys are constrained to rely
on a piece of chalk and a blackboard.
It’s led to some surprising results, par-
ticularly in the spelling of names. And
it has given play to a sense of humor
lacking in the authorised versions of other
days. One chalked-up “poster” managed
this:
Falstein M.H.R.
Sentenced
“Easy Life Gone”
says Curtin.
“Mac Hoots”: Just for one brief
moment I felt a twinge of sympathy for
Maxie Falstein. Sydney “Sun” published
one of those devastating “candid camera”
shots of him, showing our airman with
his head cocked up, nose up, chin up,
apparently the image of conceit. Near
him in the photograph stood two or three
Diggers, eyes modestly turned down. But,
if you looked closely, you cbuld see that
the photograph was taken at the races:
the two modest Diggers were looking at
their racebooks and Maxie was inno-
cently looking up over the track. The
“candid camera,” an insult to human
dignity in any case, has become a diaboli-
cal instrument of propaganda and false
statement, and Maxie should have it
abolished by Act of Parliament.
* * * *
“X.S;”: One chance in a million? A
man absconded twice from bail in Mil-
dura (Vic.) 12 years ago. On a recent
evening a police patrol was visiting a
cafe in Melbourne. As the car drew up
to the kerb one of the patrolmen heard
a passing taxi-driver say “I’ll get rid of
this load and come back.” The voice
conjured up memories. The patrol
went back to Russell-street, picked up
two ancient warrants and, returning to
the cafe, served them on the taxi-driver.
* * * *
“Bo”: To get a message to a party
who is overdue at a rendezvous in a
crowded city area when the one who has
waited has to leave has racked many a
brain, mostly unavailingly. One Sydney
citizen solved it simply, and apparently
cared not a rap if thousands of passers-
by let go a grin at sight of the message,
left on the dark brick wall just outside
the Eddy-avenue entrance to Sydney’s
Central railway station, in foot-high
chalked letters. It read:
MARGE,
GONE TO PLAZA.
(CLICK.)
Had it been “clicked” I’d have known
that the called-away one had been
Marge’s girl friend whose angling had
landed her a suitable masculine fish.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Whenever the prestige
of the Victorian State Legislature reaches
the nadir the lawmakers start to debate
some alleged social problem. Their latest
is the way the quack healer is ruining
the health of the nation. They would
have better grounds for it if they had the
conditions that existed in Melbourne
before 1914. In those days there was a
sort of Saturday-night fair in Bourke-
street, where unofficial healers publicly
vended their nostrums, and there was one
whose stand was always surrounded
by the halt, the lame, the diseased and
the ribald. One evening a man with a
cyst of impressive dimensions on his head
“You mustn't take Mr. Curtin too seriously, dear. You can smile
occasionally.”
pushed his way through the throng to
the edge of the dais. “Up you jump,”
shouted the freelance sawbones, and while
the patient was describing the very obvi-
ous symptoms he snipped the excrescence
off with an enormous pair of scissors, the
only anaesthetic being the strains of a
band which drowned the victim’s pro-
tests. The public life of Melbourne has
become appreciably duller since that sort
of thing was suppressed by Act of Par-
liament.
* * * *
“S.”: I will bet one war-savings certifi-
cate (or, two potatoes) that when Mr.
Curtin said the darning needle is a weapon
of war he forgot that it is also a drug,
And I believe that, because it ignores the
fact that the civilised mind must have
drugs or go haywire, Austerity—the beer
and tobacco part, of it—is bound to fail,
Read the story of mankind in Frazer’s
Golden Bough and you’ll find that every-
where, as soon as primitive man found
he had a mind, he invented a drug to
enable him to bear it. Sleep’s enough
“Greater love hath no man than this. ...!”
compensation for most of the animal
intelligences, but man has had to calm
his overstrained nerves with betel nut,
with kava, with tea, coffee, beer, tobacco,
talkies, detective novels, crossword
puzzles, radio —with every form of drug
from cocaine to knitting. If all those are
necessary to enable us to endure the
burden of consciousness in peace, surely
—psychically and medically—we need
more drugs, not less, to help us get
through a war. If Mr. Curtin persuades
me to smoke the same amount as I did
before the war, forgoing for Austerity
the extra weed I need, I think he has
done very wpll indeed. Gripes, even the
cow is still allowed her cud!
H- * * *
“Arter”: Like most other people who
take some interest in the arts, I find
delight in the little war that has been
raging in Sydney between the superior-to-
Nature “modernists,” whose main cham-
pion is the “Herald,” and the “holders-of-
the-mirror-up-to-Nature” painters, who
have a doughty defender in Howard Ash-
ton, of the “Sun.” The controversy, which
commenced in an atmosphere of Chester-
fieldian politeness, has now become an
affair of broadsword and battle-axe.
Thus Granny on the artists who are rep-
resented in the Royal Art Society’s show
in aid of a patriotic cause:
It is their outlook that is at fault. They
have seen the Australian landscape, and
they have depicted it in various aspects,
but they did this without comprehension.
They have felt neither its drama, its quiet
lyricism, nor its melancholy. Painting, like
all other arts, is a passion. A great rhythm
is required to change nature into art, an
organising genius colored by the painter’s
own reaction and contemplation.
That seems a bit illogical. First “drama”
and “lyricism,” surely forms of art, are
said to be inherent in Nature; then a
“great rhythm” is necessary to change
Nature into art. Jazz-band leaders seem
to hold similar ideas about injecting art
into the works of Chopin and Schubert.
But no matter. Equally vulnerable is
Howard Ashton’s retort, which Granny
(stout old soul!) faithfully reported, per-
sonal attack and all:
“We must regret we have not received
much help from the ‘Herald.’ This morning
we saw quite an indecent thing—an attack
on this exhibition, which is a show for
support, not for criticism. The bad taste
of this morning’s article will disgust a great
number of people.”
An art show is open to criticism no
matter where its profits go. That’s what
art shows are for.
* * He *
“S.T.S.”: Does anyone remember our
postcards of 30 years back? I have just
found one with a heavily-bearded King’s
head. The two persons invited to name
him so far have said “Some foreign mon-
arch” and “Stalin.” It is crude engrav-
ing, anyway ; and as the p.c. was printed
in 1912 I am honestly in doubt as to
whether the monarch is Edward VII or
an Australian artist’s guess at the new-
comer, George V.
* * * *
“Nakh”: I rise to support the proposal
of the Rev. Robertson McCue, sec. of the
Victorian Local Option Alliance, who
wants the alcoholic content of beer, which
he asserts averages 5 to 6 p.c., reduced to
between 3 and 4 p.c. Australian wines
and beers have a reputation for kick
which isn’t shared by the beverages of
Europe. There is a hock in France which
is very light, but pleasant—one can sit
drinking it and yarning all day without
getting under the weather. In France
you seldom see a drunken person. What
most Australians like is the companion-
ship they get in a pub, and few I know
like the feelings they get with extreme
intoxication. If the beer were light they
would get waterlogged before they reached
this dismal apotheosis.
“X.S.”: After his success in the matter
of unemployment it would appear that
crime will have to be added to the
social diseases Dr. Mars has to be called
in to cope with. Vic. Leg, Assembly has
had a report that the daily average prison
population of the State in Victoria in
1941 was 1073, the lowest since 1928,
when it was 1042. Not a very big dif-
ference, but the capital’s population,
largely drifting, has gone up immensely
and there are all sorts of fresh factors
which make for vice, according to moral
crusaders. The reason is not far to seek.
A war gives a potential delinquent a
purpose and an outlet. He can identify
himself with his fellows. A soldier told
me that he found more friendliness and
companionship at Puckapunyal than he
did in his own family circle.
“Lao-dah”: There is a theme for an
Australian playwright in a letter in
Melbourne “Argus”: —-
Stockings are a necessity, not a luxury,
to women. We are not so stupid as to
ask for pure silk stockings, but we are, on
performance only, entitled to be supplied
with decent stockings at reasonable prices.
I am engaged in a No, 1 priority industry,
and the first day 1 cannot purchase stock-
ings to appear decently clad before the
public eye will be the first day I am unable
to report for duty.
The heart-cry of the lady, who would
have no objection to appear-
ing before the public eye in a low-neck
dress at a theatre, is a good example of
how Austerity expresses (or fails to
express) itself in Melbourne.
UNDEMOCRATIC.
“A vindictive, vicious and outrageous sentence.
Refused permission to obtain beer for a party from
the sergeants’ mess, Max ‘went off the handle.’ as
thousands of other men would do in this democratic
country.” —Senator Amour.
A crude injustice and a crying scandal!
Small wonder that it gives his friends a shock,
Such punishment for “going off the handle”
Or “doing”—which is much the same —“one’s
block.”
Think of the strain to which he was subjected,
And, granting that he lost his self-command
And answered back, what else could be ex-
pected
In this enlightened democratic land.
Think of the really bitter provocation
He had! How many of the blokes you know
Could smother down a gust of indignation
At such a harsh and unexpected blow,
How many ukases be handled nicely
With silent acquiescence if they dealt
Punches —well, not below the belt precisely,
But aimed at what you stow inside the belt?
In far totalitarian dominions
A chap would hesitate, however cross,
To voice uncomplimentary opinions
Reflecting on his military boss.
The mildest backchat would be past forgiving,
An attitude that’s hard to understand
By those who have the privilege of living
In this progressive democratic land.
How tamer and how infinitely drearier
Would be a freeman’s lot were he denied
The sacred right of “saucing” a superior
When he regarded it as justified.
Perhaps an injudicious ebullition
Was this, not altogether free from blame,
But, dash it! in a similar position
many of us wouldn’t do the same!
A slight offence, a venial indiscretion,
Only a peccadillo, one may think,
But hardly, teste Amour, a transgression
To be atoned for by a month in clink.
A mild reproof, he seems to be submitting,
A caution with a gentle reprimand,
Would have been punishment a lot more fitting
in this salubrious democratic land.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
AUSTERITY PROBLEMS.
My nearest neighbor racing cuts endorses,
And for his own indulgences compounds
By speaking disrespectfully of horses
And heaping maledictions upon hounds,
What time his optics regularly range
Over the prices on the Stock Exchange.
The chap across the street has never hidden
His view that Hitler’s comb will not be cut
Till beer and wine and spirits are forbidden
And all the pubs and breweries are shut.
Yet, when it comes to lining up for scran,
I’ve never seen a heftier trencherman.
The fag-despiser shows but scant compassion
Or even mild concern for the distress
Of the poor smoker with his war-time ration
Inexorably growing less and less.
"No pangs the merry vegetarian feels
At talk of beefless or of meatless meals.
Ah me! In times like these of stress and crisis
I think conviction will be hard to shake
That quite the most essential sacrifices
Are those which others are required to make;
In short, the pleasures to be first restricted
Should be the ones to which we’ re least addicted.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“D.E.”: These days it is hard to pick
up a newspaper in which the virtues of
commandoes and commando training are
not extolled. I am not altogether con-
vinced that the war can be swiftly won
by teaching soldiers to black their faces
and act tough, but a parcel of Sydney
editors and leader-writers is positive that
this, their latest stunt, is a short cut to
victory, and have combined to effect the
conversion of G.H.Q. One feature* of
their boisterous campaign is puzzling.
They apply the term “commando” not
only to the band of warriors trained as
such, but to the individual warrior. He
is a “commando,” and he belongs to a
“commando” —which seems ridiculous.
In Boer War days we read a lot about
the De Wet commando and the Delarey
commando, but we never called De Wet
or Delarey a commando. Civilians who
set out to teach generals the art of war
might at least make an effort to be
precise.
* * * *
“Tuart”: I see that a certain Dr.
Dawson, of the Shakspeare Library at
Washington, claims to have found Shak-
speare’s signature on “the title-page of a
book on Anglo-Saxon law, printed in
1568 and bought in London for a trifle.”
On the opposite page are the words “Mr.
William Shakspeare lived at No. 1 Little
Crown-street, Westminster, near Dorset
Step, St. James Park” ; but apparently it
is not suggested that they were scrawled
by the Bard: the spelling, unless altered
in transmission over the cables, is much
too modern. Possibly the whole job was
the work of young Ireland, who had a
perverted genius for forging “relics” of
Shakspeare. If genuine, the discovery is
interesting, but much less important than
that of another American scholar who
used to spend his vacations in London
examining old tomes and documents in
the hope of finding something with a
bearing on the Shakspeare mystery. He
it was who established* by proofs irre-
futable, that at one period of his life in
London the divine William lodged with
a French family named Montjoy (name
of a character in “Henry V,” in which
Henry and his Katharine discoursed
in indifferent French) and was a benevo-
lent party to a lawsuit concerning a
Montjoy girl’s marriage settlement. Pre-
viously Shakspeare’s life in London was
a sealed book.
# * # *
“Strict Veg.”: lam worried about this
three-course Austerity meal of Mr.
Dedman’s and the army of inspectors
that will be required to police it. What
is to prevent a chef from putting the in-
gredients of several courses into one?
There is no law that I know which lays
down the constituent elements of an Irish
stew or a Hungarian goulash, and I have
never met a good cook who didn’t have
his own individual opinion about it.
“Morimoto”: “Tomsea” (B. 9/ 9 / ’42)
wants some authority to tell him how to
distinguish between a Chinese and a
Japanese. That is what the Chinese
would have liked to know in the early
days of their conflict with Japan. I saw
the fighting in and around Shanghai in
1914, in which scores of Japanese from
the International Settlement took part.
Out of their European suits or Japanese
costume and in the blue cotton gown of
the Chinese a Jap was quite indistinguish-
able from a Chinaman, even to a China-
man. Yet there is no mistaking the one
from the other in their natural habitat.
The reason is simple. Lots of individual
Chinamen resemble Japs and lots of in-
dividual Japs resemble Chinese, just as
lots of individual Russians, Swedes and
Dane? resemble individual Englishmen
and lots of individual Englishmen
resemble Russians, Swedes and Danes.
We look for a type in another race, but
a type is only a composite of individual
characteristics. Some American soldiers
look like typical Diggers, and some Aus-
tralians look like typical Americans. Yet
in the mass the American is quite dis-
tinctive, and so is the Australian —so
what have you?
♦ * * *
“C. 8.”: “Hamer’s” man-power officer
(B. 9/9/’42) who was dumbfounded by
an actor wasn’t as nonplussed as a Vic-
torian man-power doctor who had a hale
young countryman before him. “Just
say what you can read on that chart?”
said the M.O, “What chart?” asked the
recruitee. “The chart on that wall,” per-
sisted the doctor. “What wall?” asked
the youth blandly. He wasn’t a malin-
gerer either. He was simply abnormally
shortsighted.
* * * »
“A.R.P.”: One of the worst and most
uncomfortable pieces of equipment we
wardens have to juggle with is the
gas mask. The pest comes in two varie-
ties, the “service” and the “civilian duty,”
and it would be hard to say which causes
the more profanity. You can’t go on duty
without the darned thing, and on patrol
it must be worn, either on the chest or
close up under one arm. And for what?
The war is in its fourth year, and there
is no sign of any of the belligerents tak-
ing all the terrible chances of using poison
gas as a weapon against civilian popula-
tions. I realise the manufacturers of
gas masks are on a grand wicket, but it’s
time the Government, preaching auster-
ity, asked itself what good gas masks are,
anyhow. This is written in spleen and
hatred —I’ve just learned our post is to
be inflicted with more masks, that we
have to “service” them once a week and
that, with the warmer weather, there’ll
be more night and week-end patrols,
every one of which will entail wearing an
artificial tumor.
* * * *
“T. McN.”: I’m getting a bit tired of
hearing these Deputy Prices Commis-
sioners and their kidney telling the public
to report cases of overcharging and pro-
mising action. I reported a case in my
suburb, particulars were taken, weeks
went by, and I then got a letter to say
the matter had been “investigated and
adjusted.” In a second case, this time in
the city, in which the offender defied me
and the Prices Commissioner too, I went
through an identical process. I have no
knowledge as to whether the offenders
were punished, but both of them are
carrying on as cheerfully as ever, and I
haven’t the slightest doubt the second
bloke will again defy me and the Prices
“ Shouldn't We have a moat, Pilkington ?”
Commissioner any time the occasion
arises.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: I can’t “for the life of me see
why my particular representative in the
Vic. Leg. Assembly should think that his
services to me deserve a recompense of
£5OO p.a., let alone an increase. He is a
nice, amiable fellow who assiduously
kisses all the babies in his electorate,
visits nursing mothers and inquires after
their welfare, and is always ready to
chat with me in the train, although he
doesn’t know me from Adam. But he
has had no training as a politician; and,
anyhow, what special qualifications has a
politician that differentiate him from his
fellows? I personally wouldn’t go to
him for advice even on domestic prob-
lems, and I haven’t met a single fellow-
elector who would do so. Moreover, my
member doesn’t represent me —he repre-
sents a party I don’t approve of. If any-
body is to pay for his upkeep it should
be the people who voted him into his
position.
» * ♦ •
“V. Cluse”: In Sydney’s Elizabeth-
street is an erstwhile posh motor show-
room which has lost some of its grandeur
owing to the times. Behind its plate-
glass windows the shiny autos still stand,
’tis true, but with less of their original
glory, and farther back than usual from
the gaze of the wistful. In the floor space
right out in front, literally in a place of
honor, stood last week a little vehicle of
beauty. Upholstered in black, with full
tyres and its nickel work shining, it
struck forcibly on the eye. I doubt it is
still there, prams being in demand these
days; but I couldn’t help but think this
had been a better country had the same
money, effort and time been expended
on popularising prams and their contents
as have been spent on cars. What good
are our cars now?
* * ♦ *
“F.S.”: In censoring the play “Tobacco
Road” to such an extent that the pro-
ducers had to call the production off,
Chief Secretary Baddeley, of N.S.W., has
taken a step towards immortality, if he
hasn’t «one far enough yet to give a
word to the language like the late Dr.
Bowdler In 1818 the eminent divine
published a “family” edition of Shak-
speare from which he had excised every-
thing that he thought would be offensive
to the mind of the English young person,
A perusal of the work is instructive and
amusing. It shows that the worthy
doctor was the victim of a conflict of
which he was unconscious. On one page
he cuts out a word, phrase or sentence
which, even from his own viewpoint, is
as innocent as they make ’em. On the
next page he leaves a passage which,
understood in the sense that Shakspeare
meant it, should have horrified him be-
yond expression. There was a good
example of the dangers of Bowdlerising
in a silent picture shown here years ago.
The State censor disapproved of the
relationship between a circus proprietor
and a lady trapeze artist, and to improve
matters turned her into his sister. The
change in the relationship being merely
verbal, the emotions of the actors re-
mained the same and the result was
not edifving
y
_ *
“Coulter : When the new rise in _
bacco prices arrived I determine
make an effort to give up smoking, a ter
30 years of it. I didn t succeed, of course,
but I did manage to cut consumption
down by about two-thirds by adopting
counter-measures to the habit of auto-
matically reaching for the makings after
a meal, on the tram, when someone drops
in and so forth. Beat that almost involun-
tary reach for the smokes and you’ll
reduce your outlay.
* « * *
“J.H.M.A.” remembers some early
N. S. Wales taverns:
The oldest existing hotel in Sydney in its
original building is Petty’s, which has carried
on in the same situation on Church Hill for
more than a century, but it is beaten for lon-
gevity by the Royal at Windsor. The “Sydney
Gazette” of July 29, 1815, records that
“That spacious and commodious new inn at
Windsor, called the Macquarie Arms, was
opened by the Governor on Wednesday, the
26th instant, when his Excellency entertained
at dinner the magistrates and other principal
gentlemen residing at Windsor and in that
neighborhood.” It is locally believed that the
Macquarie Arms was the name first given
to the present Royal. Commissioner Bigge,
when reporting to the House of Commons on
the condition of things on the Hawkesbury
River, expressed surprise that the Principal
Superintendent of Convicts, Richard Fitzgerald,
was practically running the leading hotel in
Windsor and living next door to it. Fitzgerald’s
hotel was leased as a mess for the officers of
the 50th Regiment in 1835, and the present
Royal is next to the cottage where Fitzgerald
lived, so if the Royal is the Macquarie Arms,
as is more than merely likely, it has been a
pub for 127 years.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Melbourne’s claim to be
Australia’s most musical city may be
disputed, but in the opinion of visitors
it has more listeners to the acre than any
other metropolis. A musically-minded
U.S. soldier told me at a Town Hall
concert that he had heard of Mel-
bourne’s fame long before he came here.
He assured me that, since Richard
Crookes gave 13 consecutive packed con-
certs at the Town Hall and crowned his
season with an audience of 12,000 at the
Exhibition, and Lawrence Tibbett fol-
lowed with another dozen, it has been
the dream of every American singer and
instrumentalist to land a Melbourne
season. Such feats in the U.S.A. are
out of the question, Crookes never being
able to risk more than three or four
New York appearances in the one year.
Any American city of a million which
could support as many concerts as Mel-
bourne does would be famous, and it
would need a Toscanini to draw the
crowds that our local conductors, such
as Heinze and Code, seem to be able to
get without trouble. Furthermore, an
American told me that, although he had
been a constant attendant at the Boston
Symphony Orchestra’s concerts, he had
never heard so much new and modern
music as he had since he arrived in Mel-
bourne.
# * * *
“Curtain-raiser”: The fact that Ivan
Menzies was out of and Pauli Fiddian in
the current production of “The Mikado”
in Melbourne wasn’t necessarily a dis-
advantage. Mr. Menzies emphasised the
supreme importance of the Lord High
Executioner and Mr, Fiddian gave the
part less emphasis. The result was that
importance was given to other characters,
notably Pooh-Bah (in the capable hands
of Richard Watson). Popular leading
actors love “fat” and generally try to in-
crease their ration beyond the play-
wright’s intention. This is why astute
producers seldom allow eminent actors
to select their own plays. Muriel Starr
was quite successful so long as her plays
were selected for her. When she became
her own judge she chose a play which
was the most dismal flop in Melbourne's
theatrical history. The bit she obviously
liked was the 20 minutes she spent dying
on a couch after a motor accident in
the third act. The Bulletin’s comment
was that the play would be vastly im-
proved by the transfer of Miss Starr's
sad demise to the first act.
* * * ♦
“Bo”; In days of old when news-
papers required enlightenment on any
save the most abstruse subject they could
always obtain it from a book on the
shelves or a man on the staff. Nowadays
they call in a psychologist. A psycho-
logist will explain at any required length
why a child stammers, why nona-
genarians marry, and why a drunk doesn't
crack his neck when he falls down
40 steps. When a spokesman of
the Rationing Commission an-
nounced that increased supplies of
silk stockings couldn’t be promised
a flapper paper sent an SOS to its
favorite psychologist. The savant,
after deep cerebration, produced the
breath-taking prophecy that the
deprivation would hit middle-aged
dames harder than young gals, be-
cause the legs of the older gals weren’t
so shapely. If I hadn’t been told
that I should have gone on believing
that Mrs. Fiftyspread’s reluctance to
appear stockingless is due either to
a hangover of early-Edwardian
modesty or a fear that the clips hang-
ing from the ends of her corsets
would have nothing to grip on to.
“Craiser”: The fortitude of Marjorie
Lawrence, who did a radio job in
U.S.A. although bedridden with infan-
tile paralysis, reminds me of Melba.
During one of her opera seasons in Mel-
bourne, the diva surprised everybody by
singing magnificently at a rehearsal and
collapsing immediately it was over. It
turned out that somebody had slammed
the door of her car on her fingers as she
was dismounting to enter the theatre.
Without mentioning the mishap to any-
body or even inspecting the damage, she
hastily wrapped her scarf round her
injured digits and sang her way through
without a falter. Then a doctor had to be
sent for.
* * * *
“Cauboy” explains “contemporary”
art:
In reply to “Roy Biv” (B. 9/9/’42) let me
say that to appreciate a “modernist” art show
is quite easy. All you have to do is to throw
yourself into the feelings of the painter, try
to understand his feelings, identify yourself
with his emotions —in short, feel as he was
feeling when he started slapping paint on
canvas. It is no use looking in a “modernist”
picture for impressionistic painting or relation-
ships of color, tone and form, because the
“modernist” is not concerned with these things.
He may paint an emaciated figure standing in a
vast expanse of snow with a coffin beside
him or he may depict a couple of skeleton-
like naked figures and call it “Children of
Athens.” The un-“modern” painter would at
least make the coffin fit the person for whom
it is intended, and his skeletons would have
the number of ribs correctly stated. But the
“modernist” isn’t trying to paint an impres-
sion that can be referred back to an external
object even when he is painting a cup and
saucer. He is endeavoring to paint an idea,
a dream or image. He is concerned not with
physical objects but his introspections. His
“Children of Athens” may be his attempt to
describe the feelings engendered in him by re-
ports of the Nazi occupation and the coffin
may be a symbol for his own blasted hopes.
As he has never seen starving children in Athens,
what he has tried to externalise on his canvas
is his introspection. The report has conjured up
in his mind a certain image, and he attempts
to externalise his image without any concern
for facts. If we can identify ourselves with
the artist’s feelings we can feel quite warm
at a “modernist” exhibition. I feel cold in
front of an un-“modern” picture because the
painter isn’t feeling the feelings he thinks he is
portraying.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bohemian": The country storekeeper
had repeatedly billed Henare for his
account, but without any result. At last
he wrote asking what the Maori intended
to do, adding “Let me know what you
decide and then I will know what to
do.” Henare replied: “Thanks for the
letter. My wahine and I have the big
korero as to whether we should owe
account or pay account. And after the
big korero we come to the decision.
And the decision we come to is that we
decided to owe account. So no more
from yours very gentlemanly, Henare.”
* * * *
“Looby”: Old Bill Frazer snorts dis-
dainfully when the radio comments on
the present ruling that ballet girls must
be over 45. “Well, why shouldn’t they
be over 45?” he asked. “Wimmen get
better at dancin’ as the years go on.”
The company laughed him down on that
point the other night, whereat he tried to
prove his argument. “Well, look at Mum
here” —Mum Frazer is about 13 stone
these days—“she’s close on fifty, but you
ought to see her whackin’ into a fox-
trot at an Auxiliary dance at the School
of Arts Hall. She’s a lot better than she
ever was as a flapper.” Mum blushed
modestly and tried to look light-footed.
Then Dad finished with pride: “Too right
she’s better! She puts her whole energy
into it. Why, you can hear her now for
miles !”
♦ * * *
“Old-timer”; Old Jack was getting on.
There were patches of bare hide on his
rump, his tail was a bit stringy and there
was an ancient and grizzled look about
his muzzle. All the same he was still
one of the best sheep-dogs on the station
and was generally there when the whips
were cracking, though apt to get cranky
and morose towards the end of a hard
day. One daybreak the hands awoke in
the hut and heard a whimpering out on
the verandah. There, in the first of the
sun, sat old Jack. He looked up at the
men, whimpered and shivered from head
to tail. Puzzled, they watched him. He
got up, trotted right round the hut once,
squatted again, turned his rheumy old
eyes across the homestead plain and
peered at something in the distance, then
looked wistfully from man to man and
the whimpering and shivering began
again. They comforted him, but the old
dog went on with the performance until
the hands were saddled up and off to
muster. Ahead of them ambled Jack,
apparently happy again. Two hours later
he was sent in behind a porcupine ridge
after some stragglers and never came
out. He was found there, dead of old
age. Sentimentalists as we were, all
hands agreed that the old boy had wanted
to die in harness, hence his anxiety at the
hut and his pleasure when we got away.
♦ ♦ * *
“Gab”: Old Jack Simpson wrote to
the manager of the Rural Bank in Gum-
buck stating that, as the bank had a lien
over his sheep, he would like it to
defray the cost of two new flock rams,
as the previous two had died in the
drought. A few days later he received
a courteous but firm refusal. Several
months later the manager again wrote,
intimating that Mr. Simpson’s lambing
was chiefly remarkable for its lack of
lambs, and asking for an explanation.
This was more than even Jack’s good
nature could stand, and straightway he
penned the following; “Dear Sir, —Your
letter to hand. If you had any knowledge
of the facts of life you would understand.
—I am, sir, yours etc,, J. Simpson.”
* * * *
“Padflogger”; Rocks, cliffs and moun-
tains on the profile of which one may
with a little imagination trace a fancied
resemblance to man or to animals —
Australia has its full share of them. And
like those of other parts of the world it
is “distance lends enchantment.” But
Albany (W.A.) has one that will not only
stand a close-up view, but is probably
the most vivid in the world —the Dog’s
Head Rock. Photographed from a cer-
tain angle it looks the living image of a
dog’s head of the heavy mastiff type
emerging from the ground.
*■* * *
“Old Camp”: That yarn of “Mat’s
Mate” (B. 19/8/’42) where the store-
keeper, after accepting Mat’s present of
a new hat, fobbed them off with a
calendar —well, I can match it. Big Jack
was licensee of a Bpulder hotel in the
days when Coolgardie was more than a
mere name on the map. Jack had the
heartiest manner, but was never known
“ 'Tain't sportin' to shoot a sittin' duck. Blue. I'll sling this bomb at 'em,
then you can 'ave a go."
to shout. When it seemed to be getting
round to his turn out would come the
dice and “Come on, boys; I’ll shake you
for the drinks.” And it was surprising
how often Jack won. Then came the time
when a brewery traveller presented him
with a ticket for the Coolgardie races,
some 20 miles distant. Jack enjoyed the
meeting, though somewhat parched, for
he had omitted to bring the dice, and he
was too well known to risk going to the
bar for a “woodser.” The day ended
and the crowd started for home;
most of them had come from Kalgoorlie
and Boulder. Jack viewed the homeward
journey without pleasure ; coming down
had been bad enough, but going back
those dog-boxes would be packed doubly
full. But just then Simpson the lawyer
hailed him from his new car. “Hop in
and we’ll be in Boulder in less than an
hour.” Jack enjoyed the ride; was
charmed when, in just on the half-hour,
Simpson landed him right at his hotel
door. “Well, I must say that was some-
thing like a ride; I suppose those blokes
on the train ain’t halfway home yet.
You’ll be dry, like meself, so come on
inside and I’ll shake you for the drinks.”
* * ♦
“Gumsucker”: It had always puzzled
me why drapers and warehousemen were
described as “drygoods merchants.” And
it was only the other day, reading
through some bills of lading dated 1835,
that I solved the mystery. In the days
of the old windjammers just about every
article of commerce travelled packed
either in a barrel or a cask —a very neces-
sary method when the carpenter was
likely to announce “six feet of water in
the hold.” Ale and spirits in bulk were
“wet goods.” What we now term Man-
Chester, packed also in casks, was, of
course, “dry goods.” So the retailer of
them became a drygoods merchant.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Listen, I’m just a city
bloke. A while ago I had to go to a
country district and move about it a fair
bit on a certain job. I found my way
round all right, but what got me was the
number of people who’d stick me up
and ask if this was the road to So-an-so,
or how far was Such-and-such’s place,
or did I know where Whosit’s place was
and so on. Don’t these much-vaunted
locality experts of the bush know their
own districts or were the questions a
sort of excuse for opening up conversa-
tion?
“Zake”: One of the hiking party out
perambulating near Grose Vale (N.S.W.)
interrupted Adam Miller as he was ad-
ministering sustenance to his Tam worths
and asked the way to Bell. Miller pushed
his hat back and quizzed his eyes. “See
that road just to the left o’ that belt o’
timber over there?” he said. “Follow
that to the fork just beyond the culvert
and the left one takes y’ to the main
road. After that y’ can’t go wrom».”
One of them thought it was a long way
and asked wasn’t there a shoner cut.
Adam looked thoughtful for a bit. “Well,
yair, there is, now I come t’ think of it,”
he announced slowly at last. “By that
ridge straight ahead. It ain’t quite such
easy goin’, but I’ve heard it cuts off the
best part o’ two miles. It ain’t used
much.” The party thanked him and
moved off by the shorter route. Adam
pondered a minute or two, and then
opened his mouth to shout after them,
but, thinking it would seem funny, closed
it again and stumped back to the
sties. An hour later he was getting the
mail out of the box near the road when
the party came back, “That ridge ends
in a sheer drop of about 1000 feet!”
complained the party’s spokesman bit-
terly. “Thought you said it was a short
cut! ” Adam chewed this over for a bit,
scratched his head and said: “It’s a
short cut right enough, but I warned y’
it ain’t used much. But y’ can git
through all right. Me grandfather often
told me an escaped convict got down
back in 1816 or thereabouts, so there
must be a track!”
* # a a
“S.C.”: If “Old Bill” (B. 26 /8 / ’42)
really wants to get the strength out of
his tea let hini put a spoonful of soda
in the billy, then he’ll be able to use a
pinch of pekoe where formerly he used
a handful. I’ve had to live on soda-
impregnated swamp water, and I know.
$ * » *
“T.V.”: Have often heard and read
that the constrictors can’t disgorge their
prey because of backward-curving dental
apparatus. But the big carpet-snake we
caught the other day sleeping off his
dinner promptly brought up a full-grown
rabbit.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Sea-snakes will bite, and
are reputedly deadly; but coastal abos.
treat them with contempt. Have watched
abos. shell-gathering in the shallows of
Collier Bay (W.A.). Plenty of sea-snakes
there, whiplike and up to 3ft. long, which
mostly kept at a distance, frightened
at the splashings. But when one did get
in the way young Danny, rising from a
deep dip under, just caught his breath,
then snatched the wriggler behind the
ears and smashed its jaws on the side of
the dinghy. The whole action was so
quick that the snake probably didn’t
know what was happening.
• * * «
“Narrin”: Old Les Johnson has run
sheep for years in a big block of un-
improved mallee country. His two sons
are in khaki, and the old chap has to
work on his own most of the time. When
I came across him the other day he had
600 wethers halfway up a sandhill. There
were three dogs on the job, dashing about
in a fog of “Get away back—come be-
hind —sit down, y’ blanker” ; but, except
for a few who were ringing round the
lead, the sheep were well stuck up in
the thick porcupine and whipstick mallee.
I rode over and heard all about the
“flamin’ rotten sulky blankers” and how
they stuck up in every patch of scrub or
feed they came to. Then, stipulating that
he should keep his dogs behind, I offered
him a hand. Riding into the mob on
the wing I started the lead off and, of
course, away they went. I’ve been think-
ing since that a lot of blokes who for
a lifetime have been loafing behind sheep
while their dogs have driven the mob-
after a fashion —must be finding out
these days how little they know about
handling woollies.
• * ♦ *
“Roy Biv”: “B. A. Ker,” like many
other nature-lovers, tends to overrate the
dexterity and keenness of eye of his
feathered friends. Those tiny insects
which the swallows pick so deftly out of
thin air (B. 2/9/’42) probably look as
large to them as the swallow itself does
to us. R.A.A.F. pilots are expected to
identify aircraft five miles away when
they look about the size of a grain of
wheat. As for his sparrows which used
to fly through a 2£in. hole in the eaves,
pilots have flown at 300 m.p.h. down
streets with feet separating wing edaes
from houses.
* * * *
“Wang”: The family was gathered in
the kitchen one evening when there came
a knock at the door. Dad opened it,
and then ungraciously invited Hungry
Murphy in. “Now,” said Dad rudely
when Murphy had seated himself,
“whatcher wanter beg or borrer this
time?” But the case-hardened Murphy
was quite impervious to such shafts. “Aw,
nothin’,” he said, grinning; “in fact, I’ve
brought back them drag-harrers I bor-
rered last week, an’ that horse-collar an’
tracechains what I got some time back.”
“Gripes!” said Dad in surprise. “Won-
ders’ll never cease. Well, if y’ amt
come over t’ borrer somethin’, what s
brought y* here?” Murphy giggled like
a nervous girl; he was plainly embar-
rassed as he replied “T’ give y’ some-
thin’.” “Give me somethin’?” echoed
Dad suspiciously. “Yes,” said Murphy,
still giggling; “a surprise. I’m gettin
married t’ Mrs. Grogan.” He waited till
the surprised ejaculations of the family
had died down and said “That gets y’,
don’t it?” “It certainly does.” agreed
Dad, eyeing him keenly. “Yes!”
exclaimed Murphy. “So I won’t want
to bother you agen fer anythin’;
the widder’s got plenty of stuff.
Dad eyed the hungry one coldly.
“But what about that son of hers?” he
asked. “Oh, he don’t count,” replied
Murphy unconcernedly. “Anyway, hes
leavin’ the districk; bought a farm at
a place two hundred miles away. But
where the devil he got the money for
it beats me.” “Well, well,” remarked
Dad, a grin beginning to spread over his
face, “y’ve certainly given me a surprise.
Now I’m goin’ t’ give you somethin’.”
Murphy grinned expectantly. “A weddin
present, I s’pose?” he said. ‘ No, replied
Dad bluntly, “a shock. I can tell y’
where young Grogan got the cash t’ buy
that farm with. I bought the widder
Grogan’s place an’ ev’rythin’ on it a
week ago!”
* * * * .
“S.T.S.”: A sporting S.A. venture of
the past in ostrich-farming has just had
its final echo in the presentation to Adel-
aide Museum of a lot of eggs. Half a
century back, when every woman must
have ostrich feathers in the hat and in
■a “boa” round the neck, a farm was run
with some success away north, near Port
Augusta. Later it moved to Noarlunga,
in the hills south of Adelaide. But
fashion ultimately gave the k.o.—for
the time being, at any rate—to this kind
of decoration, and the last of the birds
were sold to a showman.
LINES IN A BUSH HOTEL.
No one had time for telling yarns in the narrow
hah; . ,
I only had his likeness there on the shabby
wall, ... ,
With a screen of long beads clinking in a door-
way in the breeze,
And crested pigeons hooting in the pepperma-
trees.
Eyes that were keen and fearless under a wide,
low brow;
Lips firm, yet prone to laughter; jaw curved
like a Viking’s prow— . .
All spoke to me of his story: of light in a
lonely vale;
Wheel-ruts . . . “Here, lend a shoulder!” . . .
floodwaters, wide and pale . . .
Wild green eyes in the darkness, eyes steadfast,
two by two,
Avid beyond the campfire, and closing in on
you ...
Dappled cattle flowing wavelike across the
plain;
Their trampling and their lowing—but not that
road again!
Always the fresh, the changing, and loyal mates
beside;
Card tables in the lamplight and restive hooves
outside.
A girl who could not hold you; then one
whose fingers spanned
Your wayward heart and turned it in the
hollow of her hand!
Romance and flood and drought-time —those
level eyes met all.
Hard drinker and quick thinker —roughrider on
the wall!
QUEEN c I,AND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


“Kayo”; Tom Bellingham was
wakened before daylight by the prolonged
bellowing of a cow. Subsequently en-
gaged in disentangling its horns from the
wire-netting in Mum’s kitchen garden,
he discovered that a carpet slipper offers
little protection when a foot is stamped
on by a heavy and frenzied milker. Just
after breakfast shouts from Johnny sent
him tearing over to the well. By then
young Bill was going down for the second
time after having fallen through the dry-
rotted timber cover. There was a good
depth of water in, and Tom went straight
down. Rescue operations and resuscita-
tion work took up an anxious half-hour
until Bill, pumped dry, was pronounced
fit to get into more mischief. Later, on
the tractor, the spring connecting with
the accelerator, eaten through by acid
dripping from a too-full battery, snapped,
and before Tom could .get it stopped the
machine wrecked a shed and pulled
down twenty feet of fencing. Then in the
afternoon, when he was looking in the
long grass for the tyre pump that hed
remembered dropping near there, a dis-
turbed brown snake got him on the
hand. Digital mutilation with a razor
blade, application of Condy’s, a rush to
town in the utility and an hour or two
at the doc.’s until pronounced out of
danger completed Tom’s day. Drop-
ping into the pub on the way back for
a much-needed stimulant he was in time
to hear Williams, the softgoods commer-
cial, saying to Bung: “Well, maybe you’re
right, Ted, but you don’t kid me on the
land. I like excitement. Being stuck out
here—it’s too dead!”
* * * *
“M. U. Ray”: I lay in a clump of
sweet water-couch, almost buried in
green, and watched the river. Up the
reach a flock of pfelicans held a regatta,
and over on the sandspit two emus stalked
down for a drink. Below me a big,
black snake rippled slowly across a log
that jutted into the stream, reached the
water, tested it, then flowed into it. Then
for five minutes that snake proceeded to
splash about like a schoolkid, finally
making up the bank, no doubt for a
smoke and a sunbake. I hadn’t the heart
to interfere —the dashed reptile looked so
pleased with everything.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I wonder if any other
language or slanguage can produce so
versatile a word as the Australian “kick.”
Apart from its orthodox sense, the word
is used to describe a minor electric shock
and the recoil of a firearm. A backfire
when a car is being cranked causes a
“kick,” while the engine “kicks over”
when it starts. Should a fence or similar
object be out of alignment it has a “kick”
in it. If a fellow possesses one and six-
pence he has one and a “kick,” and, of
course, he carries it in his “kick.” A
man “kicks off” at a new job. He might
be promoted—that would be a “kick
up”; or he might be dismissed —or
“kicked out.” If he is dissatisfied he’ll
“kick up a fuss” ; if he is contented he
“can’t kick.” He gets a “kick” out of
a drop of liquor with a “kick” in it; but
too much will cause him to “kick over
the traces.” Finally, when he departs
this life he “kicks out,” “kicks off” or
“kicks the bucket.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Me and Mat were
heading up into the Monaro one time
and struck a cove coming down. “Y’
want t’ give that place up on the turn a
miss,” he said ; “ol’ Bitter Bartlett lives
there an’ reckons he’ll shoot any bagmen
he catches on the place.” We parted.
Mat and I pushed on and were about to
pass Bitter’s place when Mat suddenly
stopped. “Look,” he said indignantly,
“no man’s got a right t’ talk about
shootin’ another man just ’cos he’s lookin’
f’r tucker or a job.” And he dropped
his swag and got through 'the fence.
“Here,” I said, “you better look out.”
He went on, so I dropped my swag and
went after him. Up near the house a little
stout cove comes out and eyes us off.
“You Mr. Bartlett?” asks Mat. “I am.”
Mat throws his hat down, takes off his
coat and opens his shirt. “Righto,” he
says, “get y’r gun an’ start shootin’. I’m
a bagman.” The cove looked staggered
and Mat gave him the oil. He laughed
“Don't encourage the cad.”
a bit, but he wasn’t pleased. “Heavens! ”
he said. “Is that the reputation I’ve
got?” Then he thought again. “Aw,
well,” he added, turning to go inside,
“perhaps it’ll save me a lot of bother.”
He vanished and reappeared with a d.-b.
gun. “Get,” he said, “before I count
ten. An’ next time y’ meet anybody tell
’em it’s fair dinkum about me.” Gripes,
you should have seen Mat and me get-
ting down that hillside!
* * * *
“Betcha”: Came on a dingo this
winter with a single-track mind. His
excited barking, followed by periods of
howling, attracted my attention, and I
decided to investigate. There was no
need, in this instance, for caution. The
wild canine had a wombat in a log just
within feeling distance of his nose-tip,
but strain as he might he couldn’t grip
his tightly-curled quarry. After each
frantic attempt, followed by a burst of
excited barking, he’d squat at the end
of the log and howl loud and long
ostensibly to bring help. Usually the
most wary of animals, this warrigal was
so engrossed in his all-in effort that after
watching him for a few minutes I rode
to within a few yards before shooting
him,
* * * *
“Pure Merino”: A hundred years ago
Australia was more woolly than it has
ever been since. In N.S.W. the whole
country was arranged for the conveni-
ence of the woolgrower. Towns were
located as far up coastal rivers as they
were navigable for ships that could carry
"Let's wait until Sunday , Prendergast Then
we can get in for half-price ."
away his wool, ‘'and smaller inland town-
ships grew up at river crossings where
the bullock-drays carrying his bales
camped on their way to the coast, or at
centres that served surrounding sheep
stations. It was natural enough when
the colony had to import all its manu-
factured goods, and with wool as its only
means to pay for them, that it should
make everything as easy as possible for
the sheepman. To such an end even the
provision of home-grown food took a
back place, and people ate South Ameri-
can wheat rather than withdraw land or
labor from the cultivation of the jum-
buck. Wool was king all right; in I«4Z
there were 30 sheep to each inhabitan
of N.S.W. and a little over three-quarters
of an acre of cultivated land. In TOtl
the proportion was 50 sheep and half an
acre of tillage.
“Wotta M”: Henceforth you can
catch brown trout anywhere in Tassie
up to 30/4/’43, but don’t be caught using
nets, bludgeons or Mills grenades. Rain-
bow trout can thumb their noses at
anglers until 1/11/ ’42, after which the
season opens. It was legal to take brown
trout in the Derwent and Huon estuaries
after August 1. All of which doubtless
means much to the trout cranks ; per-
sonally, after three trout expeditions with
confirmed trout maniacs, I’d much rather
buy a tin of herrings in sauce and call it
a day. Still, what with travel restrictions
and shortage of goods. I’ll bet there isn’t
anything like the usual infestation of
Tasmanian lakes and streams this year.
* * * *
“Naturala”: It’s an odd thing that,
although Australia has been the recipient
of almost every kind of pest from other
countries, no one has thought to bring
along the community wasp, that bad-
tempered and sting-equipped insect,
cousin to the bee, that builds its hive of
paper —actual paper, which it obtains
from trees by tearing off minute fibres
of wood, putting them through a process
of mastication which results in pulping,
upon which the paper is moulded into
cells much as the bee does with wax.
Of course we have our own wasps —big
yellow fellows (some call them hornets)
that buzz round hunting for spiders and
other game which they intern still alive
in their multiple cells of dried mud, and
smaller dark wasps that dig holes. In other
parts species of wasps have developed
the community instinct; ours have not
progressed beyond the individual, 3. lack
of co-operation which, if faced with com-
petition, might prove fatal to the species.
% * * *
“Jeff”: When the long, skinny cove
from the city drifted in for a job on the
farm the boss was only too pleased to
take him on, though a bit dubious as to
how he’d stand up to long hours and
hard work. At the evening meal the
new hand had dropped into a chair look-
ing tiled after his first day in the pad-
docks and cowshed. “D’y’ drink tea,
Wally?” the boss’s missus asked. ‘Four
cups with each meal,” came the proud
reply. Alarm spread over Mum s face.
“Four cups!” she gasped. “Y* don’t get
that many here, young man. Tea s
rationed, y’ know.” A grimace showed
on his face. “All right, two cups, then.’
The steaming beverage placed before
him, Wally proceeded to sugar the tea.
“Hey!” the missus roared. “You put
six spoons of sugar in your cup. That’s
too much. Sugar’s rationed.” The new
hand grumbled. “Doctor’s orders, lady.
He ses t’ take plenty of sugar; it gives
energy. Give me four cups an’ I’ll only
put three spoons in each.” The missus
did some slow mental arithmetic.
“Two cups will revive y’, Wally,” she
said not unkindly. Her tea was gulped
down unsweetened.
H! # * *
“P.”: The pack surcingle has many uses.
One is for swinging up the carcass when
a mustering camp kills a sheep. Also it
comes in handy for side-lining a horse
a stirrup-leather makes a good hobble —
or for tethering. When packbags have
to be hung up off the ground the long,
tough leather serves instead of a rope if
no wire is about, and it can be very
handy when shoeing a bad horse on the
road. But most of all the pack surcingle
is used as the indispensable apparatus for
a mustering camp pastime. Two men
kneel, facing each other ; the buckled sur-
cingle is passed over their heads so that
the back of the neck takes the strain.
The idea is to pull your opponent over
by sheer neck-power. Masefield men-
tions a similar game, called “putting on
the strop,” amongst seamen, but in that
case a rope is used.
« H= ♦ *
“Cham”: Possibly the first attempt by an
abo. to imitate the white man’s proclama-
tion method was that of Migo, leader of
a tribe in the Swan River days. Realising
that the white had come to stay and that,
though his lead was poison his bread was
very good, Migo decided to work in with
the conquerors. When the untamed
River Murray tribe looted Shenton’s
flourmill Migo made marks on paper with
pencil, unintelligible to the Superinten-
dent of Natives but terrible to the thieves,
revealing that he knew those who had
stolen the flour. A year later he became
W.A.’s first police tracker, winning fame
by his finding of a boy who had wan-
dered 22 miles from his home at Man-
durah. Returning to the Swan after more
than a year’s roving on the survey ship
Beagle, Migo was expected to be an
exemplar to all aspiring natives, but
almost at landing he learned that his two
wives had been faithless, believing in
their innocence that he would never
return. Discarding the white ducks,
Migo, who by then could speak excellent
English, took to the bush ; within an-
other year he had booked himself for at
least three murders.
« * * *
“Zake”: That -snakes can beat even-
time runners and pursue humans with
ferocity allied to speed has often been
related by bushmen who have done all
their bucolic training in Botanic Gardens ;
but among chaps who earn a crust where
grow the bracken and the mulga the men-
tion of such reptilian attributes raises
naught but the horselaugh. There Joe isn’t
allowed to take the offensive, even if he
wanted to. At sight of anything that
walks upright clad in strides or even
skirt, Joseph develops an intense in-
terest in distant parts. If sighted he
rarely gets there, and a waddy isn’t essen-
tial for his dispatch: a handy gibber or
a boot, a whip or a rolled-up paper have
killed more snakes than sticks. A
hastily doffed belt is best of all,
though this method is not without
its hazards. I once saw a cocky out
from Murrurundi (N.S.W.) pull his
belt off to chase a brown. He got
Joe with a perfect swipe just as his
falling strides tripped him. Luckily
Joe’s broken back prevented his rear-
ing up to give his assassin a fang
dig as that cocky sprawled within a
few feet of his victim. I recommend
this method only to those who wear
pants which don’t fall down at the
slightest provocation.
“Willis”: Dogs are much like men—
some are good, some aren’t so good. 1
was waiting at a children s hospital
when a young mother arrived with
a baby, its small face swathed with
bandages. A pet dog had attacked
the five-months infant when put out in
its pram on the lawn for a little sunshine.
Jealousy, most probably. And it was not
the first case of its kind that had been
treated at that hospital.
UNAWARE.
Broad and fair, and calm and bright,
Vision from this coastal head,
Sleeps the moonlit sea to-night
In its deep and hollow bed.
Like a weary soul at ease
Dreaming dreams with lidded eyes,
Furrowed by no restless breeze
Underneath the moon it lies.
Now, as when that moon was young
And in ages gone arose
Lighting it with gleams far-flung,
Ancient loneliness it knows.
Now, as when its spaces were
Still as unveiled mystery,
Neither ship nor mariner
On its breast is there to see.
At this moment it abides
Calm as it abode of yore
Ere men cleft and sailed its tides,
Soiling them with trade and war.
Who comes here finds quietude
Such as breathed when Time began,
Though its blue waves have been hued
Crimson oftentimes by man.
Thus the salt sea, bright and fair,
Knowing not the salt of tears,
Sleeps in peace, all unaware
Of vain Land Folk and their fears.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery
cloth to grinder discs is
DAVIS
LIQUID GLUE
specially recommended for shearing-shed use.
Obtainable in 40z., Boz., 16oz, and 1-gallon sizes.
Hardware and general scores.
EGELABRA
MERINOS
H. E. KATER & SON, Warren,N.S.W.
Tel: Warren 10.
ŧ
You can improve the quality and weight
of your clip by using Egeiabra Rams.
One user writes; “We are now getting the
benefit of using Egeiabra Rams. The 6-
tooth Ewes have cut 1021 b. and reared a
lamb as well; the Wether Hoggets have cut
over 131 b.”
RAMS now available from sgns. to 12gns.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Mules Operation.
“J.J.H.”: Those sheepmen who have
used the operation are reaping the benefit
now when labor is scarce.
On a Queensland property 6000 two-
tooth maiden ewes were treated by the
Mules method after shearing in October,
1941. A close check and a record of
fly strikes up to May, 1942, were kept.
The sheep were neither jetted nor
crutched. Although conditions were
aggravated by extensive floods in Febru-
ary, 1942, total number of strikes was
tail, 541 ; crutch and tail, 95; crutch, 16.
As the ratio of crutch strikes is usually
about 9 to 1, the figures speak for them-
selves.
On a N.S.W. property a check was
made with treated sheep against un-
treated. The Mules operation has been
done on the property for three years, so
that only the older sheep have not been
done. As a rule, sheep of this age are
less susceptible to strike than young
sheep. A mob of 9000 old ewes (un-
treated) was shorn in August, 1940, and
crutched twice in the period before the
next shearing in August, 1941. The
number of strikes in the twelve months
amounted to 10,800. A mob of 10,000
younger ewes which had been treated and
which were shorn at the same time were
crutched once only during the period.
Total number of strikes was 125, and
15 p.c. of them were tail strikes. It was
estimated that a man could crutch 20
more of these sheep a day than the
untreated sheep.
Percentage of fly strike on the old un-
treated ewes was 138 p.c. On the young
treated ewes it was 1.25 p.c.—figures that
should convince anybody.
Lucerne Hay.
“Bela Bula”: Good lucerne hay carry-
ing about 45 p.c. to 50 p.c. leaf is worth
money any time.
The lucerne has to be handled care-
fully from the time that it is cut until
it is baled. It’ll need to be a lively green,
dry and free of dirt and weeds. Begin
cutting in fine bright weather, soon after
the first blossoms have appeared and
when you can see young shoots at the
bases of the crowns. Overripe lucerne
loses color and weight, leaf and attrac-
tiveness, becomes stringy and unpalatable
to stock.
Start the machine after the dew is gone
and turn the rake in a couple or three
hours after cutting begins. It’s neces-
sary to get all the cut stuff raked into
windrows by nightfall, as the effect of
the night and dew on hay in the swathe
isn’t good. Cocking comes after the
lucerne has wilted awhile in the wind-
rows. High, narrow cocks are better
than low, bulky ones. If there’s rain on
the cocks they’ll have to be turned to
stop mould. Given fine weather, the hay
can be stacked a couple of days after
cutting.
Don’t stack if there’s a sign of mois-
ture in the hay. That means mould or
even fire. Hay looks better in a shed,
but if it must be stacked in the open pick
an elevated spot and provide some sort
of cover or thatch. But baling is best:
it reduces storage space, makes protec-
tion easy and bales are best for trans-
port.
Millet for Fodder.
“B.”: Asa quick grower, millet out-
strips any other crop and sometimes sup-
plies good grazing within six weeks of
planting. Keeping the stock clear of it
till it gets a good grip and grazing it
under right weather conditions mean that
the ratoon crop turns out as it should.
If not needed for green feed millet
makes good hay. Cut when the seed-
heads have formed but before the seeds
develop. Delay in cutting means loss.
Cut too green it may cause scours; cut
too late there’s loss of nutrients, and
the scattered grain causes lots of trouble.
Light sowings of cowpeas with the
millet increase the protein content of
the feed, give a better balance to the
stock food and improve cream returns.
Used with maize or sorghum, millet
makes splendid silage.
Sow any time now, and keep it up
until January or February. Sown broad-
cast and harrowed in, 101 b. to 121 b. of
“Wait till ’e swims over this side of the dam, Ma .”
seed per acre is enough. For hay or
on rich soil make it about 151 b. per acre.
This gives a fine-stemmed crop; a
heavier seeding makes growth too dense,
and there’s no strength in the plants.
One of the best is white panicum,
a quick grower which stools well, reaches
4ft. to 6ft. and has flat stems that make
good bright hay. Japanese millet, though
shorter, is a quicker grower, a heavier
stooler and is best for grazing. Giant
panicum is all right when it strikes fair
weather, but won’t stand bad conditions.
In a good season millet produces 10
to 12 tons of green stuff to the acre.
Keep Them Clean.
“Canbelego”: Keep legropes, bail push-
rods and stools scrupulously clean to
avoid contamination of the milk. Chains
are easier to keep clean than legropes.
Cover the handling end of the bail push-
rod with metal and scrub it regularly.
Keep stools well scrubbed, particularly
the parts gripped by the hand. Make
provision for milkers to wash and dry
hands whenever they need it.
Strain the milk immediately it is drawn
from the cow. If cloth pads are used
in the strainer, destroy them after each
milking, as it is impossible to get them
thoroughly clean. Metal gauze is much
better than cloth.
Build pigsties, stables and cow sheds
with sound material. Keep buildings
thoroughly clean, and allow plenty of
light and sunshine. Groom horses and
cows and wash pigs thoroughly and regu-
larly. Don’t overcrowd stock, especially
calves and pigs. Isolate infected animals.
The Kitchen Garden.
“Plane Creek”: Vegetables grow best
in light rich land, scrub loam or an old
grazing paddock. It should be well
drained and should get the morning sun.
It’s a safe rule to plough deeply. Harrow
properly to remove rubbish and allow
the turned-under stuff time to rot before
planting.
Fertiliser depends on what you intend
to grow. A good all-round garden
manure is superphosphate. Blood and
bone, ammonium sulphate and sulphate
of potash are handy. Use nitrogenous
fertilisers in particular on leaf crops, and
be generous with phosphoric acid and
potash on spuds and tomatoes.
Where possible sow seed in drills and
thin out seedlings later. Allow plenty
of room between plants and rows. White
and swede turnips, kohlrabi, beet and
spinach should go 6in. to 9in. apart;
peas, beans and carrots, 6in. apart; let-
tuce, 6in. to 12in. apart, depending on
the variety; strawberries, 18in. apart;
potatoes, cabbages and cauliflowers, 12in.
to 18in. apart; sweet-potato slips, 6in.
apart.
Swedes must be grown quickly. Soil
needs to be good and moist. Too much
nitrogenous manure will result in over-
size tops and undersized bottoms. Super-
phosphate is good.
Silver beet and spinach grow well during
the spring and summer. They need the
nitrogen and moisture. Twist the leaves
off; don’t cut.
Tomatoes need rich, deeply-ploughed
land that will hold moisture in dry
weather but will not become sodden
in wet weather. Fertilisers rich in
phosphoric acid and potash are best;
nitrogenous fertilisers will grow plenty
of foliage and disappointing crops.
Plant two seedlings at a time and
allow 18in. to 2ft. between plants and
rows. Staking keeps the bushes from
sprawling over the ground and prevents
grubs from infesting the fruit. Grub
infestation is lessened if the tomatoes
are picked when they turn a whitish color.
They are then fully developed and will
ripen well in storage.
Cucumbers are easy to grow and
bear heavily on light and rich soil.
Hills or beds should be 18in. or 2ft.
apart, and three plants per hill are suffi-
cient. If excessive rains are likely, raise
the hills slightly above the surrounding
ground level, but keep them below the
level if the weather mav be dry. The best
cucumbers for market are Early Fortune,
White Spine and Long Green. For insect
pests, spray with lead arsenate or dust
with wood ashes.
A rich, light loam is ideal for
rhubarb, but most soils suit if they are
moist and leavened with old stable or
farmyard manure. Plant the crowns not
over three inches deep in large beds
during autumn and winter. If growing
from seed Crimson Sydney is a fine
variety to sow in winter and spring, but
is not a good perennial, and a fresh lot
should be planted each year.
Shove in a patch of asparagus. The
position must be in full sunlight. Put the
plants 1 Sin. to 2ft. apart; same distance
between rows. Put old plants along
trenches 4in. deep, 12in. across, spreading
out the roots and covering them with a
couple of inches of soil. The best shoots
sprout during September and October.
Don’t cut asparagus until the plants are
three years old and limit the cutting
period to three months. Cut under the
ground with a sharp knife. After cutting,
water with liquid manure or topdress with
horse manure and water it well in. Keep
beds free of weeds, cultivate regularly
and give plenty of water during dry
spells. Asparagus does well near a
stream.
Hints for the Farm.
"Yeno Ham”: Make plans for harvest
now. Repair machinery, order spare
parts, mend and class wheat bags and
get stack sites ready. It is wise to get
orders in for bags, twine and fuel im-
mediately.
“Mullengah”: Best way to treat any
ordinary cut on animals is to cleanse it
first with plenty of clean hot water at
blood heat and then powder
with boracic. Main thing is
to keep the wound clean.
“Goulburn”: Green corn
is dangerous for pigs as it
ferments and causes gas in
the stomach. When the gas
reaches a certain pressure the
pig is unable to vomit and
generally ends with a rupture.
“Plane Creek”: When my
chooks turn away from the
ordinary pollard-bran-water
mash, I add boiled minced
dog’s-meat, table scraps,
vegetable parings and turnip
tops previously stewed in
water, the lot seasoned with
salt and mixed together with
lukewarm water. I spread it
over flat rocks and galvanised-
iron in the run, instead of scattering it
over the earth. I give ’em plenty of
green feed during the day. Silver beet
for preference, but at a pinch they get
vegetable tops of all kinds, fresh, green
chatf or young lucerne. Now and then
I bring home a big white-ant bed and
break it up. Cracked or whole maize or
whole wheat they get in the evening. All
my chooks are better than they were.
“Classer”: G. B. S. Falkiner is distri-
buting a pamphlet describing trials with
artificial insemination at his Haddon Rig
(N.S.W.) merino stud. The station’s
scientist, William Granger, B.V.Sc., has
shown that under stud conditions the
method is as practicable as hand mating,
and that more ewes can be handled.
Results are fair —about 60 wet ewes per
100 inseminations —with possibilities of
improvement. There is no statement as
to how this will fit into breeding plans
on the stud, but a lot of thought is being
given to this aspect. The C.S.I.R. and
Sydney University are interested. Dr.
R. B. Kelley and Dr. R. M. C. Gunn both
consider the method has a future, though
cost is likely to be prohibitive on flock
runs, but insist that its use must be care-
fully planned.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to grow shallots for market? Most
suitable varieties? How many in a bunch, and


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager. - Amra «TTW
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY. HAY, MOREB, TOWNSVILLE.
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON. ___
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW" SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD,
yftobe matt/
imam*
5000 POWELL
GAS PRODUCER UNITS
ON THE JOB’
wm
m>
', ' v 'r v
X-X-KvT-.-
mm
' /r '' - .;>> -< s' '%>'
OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE AND RELIABILITY
This preference for Powell shown by thousands of experienced transport
owners, is a tribute to Powells superior engineering, outstanding
performance and reliability.
Only Powell Gas Producers can give you . . . Government approved models
up to 40 h.p. . . . famous Beresinsky Cleaner that reduces engine wear to
“less than with petrol” ... Como upper-cylinder lubrication system . . .
full range of spare parts and the H. C. Sleigh after-sales services.
Blowers are available for all models.
Insure now against emergency by fitting a Powell Gas Producer.
H. C. SLEIGH
142 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
LA 3701. And also at Melbourne and
Adelaide.
POWELL
GAS PRODUCER UNITS
m
}-rr
pp
i
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. , Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
i iiiat will a dozen bunches bring in the market ?
Av Z r , a u C A w ? ls> ] t dozen bunches?
Well-drained, lightly-manured soil will grow
shallots. Divide the cloves and plant the sec-
tions 6in. apart and lin. deep, and keep the
soil between the rows regularly cultivated and
hilled Seedsmen quote a variety at Is a
S'
application. Generally eight to twelve shallots
(according to size) with their green tops are
tied in one bundle for market, and prices
vary according to the quality (in early Septem-
ber 6s. to 9s. a dozen bunches in Sydney),
Weight varies according to size, averaging from
71b. to 91b. a dozen bunches.
Method of tanning and preparing rabbitskms
for the making of mgs?
Rabbitskins are tanned by rubbing baking
powder thickly on the fresh, wet skins daily till
dried. All rough parts are then rubbed off with
a piece of brick and any membrane removed.
Select thick-furred skins and lay them fur down
on a flat board. Cut each into a correct oblong
from neck to tail, discarding the bellies. Join a
quantity of skins together to the desired length
and breadth of the rug, seeing that the furs tie
right” (run length to length) and top-sew
with a sharp needle, using linen thread and
buttonhole-stitch. Make a lining to match of
any material and sew it to the back of the
completed rug. If you have a hareskin or a
few hareskins you might make a pattern in the
centre of the rug.
* * * *
Method of treating a diseased area in the
T4t° dea'Xt all decayed matter, cuttir.6
well into the apparently healthy wood on all
sides, in order to stop further spread of the
fungus. The cavity is next painted with tar and
filled with concrete.
“Jayem”: Land girls! Three sisters
on a'Glen Innes (N.S.W.) farm pulled
302 bags of corn in five days, a bit over
20 bags each a day, and sewed the bags,
They worked in a light crop of 30 bushels
an acre,
Outback Occasions.
No. 54.
A FISHING TRIP.
We set off one fine Sunday morning
for a day’s fishing. Our mother and
sister and father sat in the front of the
car, and in the back were guns and fish-
ing gear and bait and billycans and
tucker and dogs and our brother and me.
When we got to the bend we had a
bit of a job to straighten me out, but
all hands got out of the car eventually,
including our dogs. Ruff, the red dog,
who was inclined to be bossy and morose
if he couldn’t get his own way, took a
two-inch cod hook and about 30 yards
of line with him when he leapt over the
door, the hook having become stuck in
his rump.
He felt the hook nip as he jumped and
blamed Spiel, our old staghound, and
went to have a bit of him. But the line
caught on the door handle and Ruff let
out a surprised howl and sat down hard
and rubbed his lumbar regions fiercely
on the ground.
Father and our brother grabbed him
and unhooked the hook. Meantime the
other two hounds had bolted down to
the river and hurled themselves into it
with enthusiasm. Ruff wiped his mouth
on Father’s boot and raced to the river
and jumped in, too.
“They’ll frighten all the fish to
Jericho,” howled our brother, and he
raced to the river and couldn’t stop him-
self, and slid down the bank in among
the sporting canines. The dogs vocifer-
ously thanked our brother for coming
to play with them, but soon found out
their mistake, so they left him in the
river and themselves came out and rushed
up the bank to Mother and our sister
and shook water all over them. Gripes,
you’d have thought there was a riot on
or something, the way the women
squealed and the way cur brother roared
as he rushed up dripping from the river
and took to those dogs.
Father and I went on getting the lines
out and the bait ready. We had rabbit
meat and some bardie grubs, and our
brother had a few centipedes which he’d
dropped into boiling water the night be-
fore. He’d made me hold the hurricane
lamp while he hunted the creepy things
under logs and planks about the stables
that night, and I, who was always cursed
with too vivid an imagination for the
bush, had gone to bed and dreamed hor-
ridly all night.
Father didn’t like the centipedes either.
He reckoned it wasn’t fair to the fish.
“A Murray cod,” Father held, “is a
dinkum sort o’ fish. He dodges around
the old river, not givin’ anybody any
, , , T r u uL , i • •’T?.
trouble. He don t howl in the night 01
come up on the bank an eat your crops,
an ’ j neV er heard of a cod that turned
sheep-killer. An’ if y’ hook him with a
tit of dinkum bait, what does he do?
Prance round an jump an try t bite
y’ j n half? No. Y’ just hafta drag him
• , i.- • a like
“ f n , PpP fum m the pan A USD like
that don t deserve t have the life scared
out o’ him with blasted centipedes.”
“That’s all right,” our brother said.
“Centipedes is jolly good bait.”
f, c
Well, we got Mother fixed up in the
shade with the tucker an’ everything, and
we three men went down to fish. The
. went o ff up t h e river looking for
, . ... K c ,
the sort of things dogs look tor when
you take them on a picnic. We had our
lines in, but weren’t expecting much be-
it was too late i n the morning.
rr, 1 ',\ \ c ..
We expected to catch our fish from about
3 p.m. onwards.
While we’re sitting there OUr sister
pomp down
. ’ .. „ , • ,
Oive me a line, sne said,
“Garn, you can t fish, said our brother
and I.
She made a face at US and put it up
“? F f‘ her ' |‘ e al *. a ' ,s * as a . bi ‘ ?° £ ‘
about her, so he got her a line and baited
it and slung it in and gave her the end
to h 0 ](j We boys knew what that little
triumphant look on her face meant, but
we didn’t say anything.
Presently Father got tired of the in-
action and tied his line to a root and
went up to Mother. Our §ister soon
followed him. She wasn’t staying near
us, knowing how we felt, without Father s
presence to aid her. After a bit our
brother said “Feel anything?”
“Not a nibble ”
“F& must be asleep”
“I reckon.” .
Silence, save for the ripple of the river.
Suddenly our brother sat up and peered
along the bank. Then he got up, walked
crouched along the water’s edge so he
couldn’t be seen from the camp, picked
up what he had seen and sneaked back,
It was the square top of a kerosene-tin.
Swiftly and silently, while I kept watch,
he drew in our sister’s line, tied the hook
to the handle in the middle of the flat
bit of tin, then shot it back into the river,
We sat down and picked up our own
lines.
Time passed. The dogs came back,
inspected us, looked puzzled and retreated
to the shade. Then Mother called “Come
on, boys ; lunch is ready.”
Our brother stood up and cried “Will
we pull your line in, Dad?”
Yairs, answered ’
too, called ou • , took our
what we wanted. Our brother tooK our
sister’s line tugged then yelled Hey,
come down here, q • brother
Even the dogs came. O ,
handed the line to our sister and sne
pulled. It tugged back and shot across
on an angle. She screamed and an ■
“Take it easy,” Dad roared, running
her side. He felt the line. Gripes,
a beaut. Must be a twenty-poun e .
Step by step our brother and l oacKeu
U p the bank. Our sister went on pu m § -
That piece of tin put up a better per-
formance than any cod could nave.
plunged, dived, tugged, veered, zoome
but never revealed itself. Even Mother
was screaming now; but the dogs were
backing up the bank with us. very *
tive animals, our dogs. Ihen came me
final haul and the awful, stricken silence.
Slowly our father turned and looked at
us. But we weren t there.


Anti-Tank gun
bases pressed from
CRM CO sheets.
n
for Ranters
WHEN a division of enemy tanks
comes thundering over, and
their guns are blazing from within
their armoured walls, it takes
something good to stop them. As
it happens, we have that “some-
thing" ... in our Anti-Tank Guns
and the gallant men behind them.
CRMCO steel sheets are used for
bases and other parts of Australian
Anti-Tank Guns.
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
THE ARHCO-IYSAGHT ORGANISATION MANUFACTURERS OF STEEL SHEETS
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy, second-hand, Dyke’s Automobile and
Gasoline Engine Encyclopaedia. —33o6.
To buy, new or second-hand, Blaker’s Medal
Without Bar. —3307.
To get in touch with chess players in W.A.
who will play chess by correspondence. —
Cydnus, P.O. Box 21, Narrogin, W.A.
Information Sought.
(1) Is it a fact that all our wool is pro-
cessed in America and then returned to Aus-
tralia? (2) Explain the actual meaning of the
word “processed,” if such is the case?
(1) No. In pre-war days most of it was
sold to British firms for processing in England,
some to Belgium, France, Japan, Italy, and a
small amount to U.S.A. for the same purpose.
Australian mills also bought for processing
here At present, under war conditions. Great
Britain buys the whole of the Australian clip
above local requirements. At the beginning of
the war there was a tremendous increase in
the quantity of wool processed and made into
cloth, blankets, etc., in Australian mills. (2)
It means scouring, carding, spinning, weaving
and the making of wool into cloth.
(1) I propose fitting a substitute fuel unit to
my Ford truck and for a variety of reasons
prefer shale oil to gas. Could I expect as good
performance from the truck with shale oil as
with petrol? (2) Is the heavier fuel detrimental
to the engine in any way ?
(1) Shale distillates are slow-burning and
heavier than petrol fuels and cannot be ex-
pected to give a performance equal to petrol in
an engine designed to run on petrol, and unless
a device is provided to satisfactorily atomise,
vaporise ‘and gasify this shale distillate running
and general performance will be most erratic.
(2) Unless the shale distillate is refined, and this
cannot be done without an expensive plant,
the impurities left in the fuel will set up cor-
rosion in the engine.
As a N.S.W. licensed dealer I buy branded
bottles at l.v. a doz. Can the cos. whose brand is
on these bottles compel me to sell these bottles
to them at less than I paid? Can I charge 2s. a
dozen for branded bottles? If I do not sell
the bottles on demand can the cos. whose brand
is on the bottles get an order from the Court
compelling me to sell? Can the cos. stop me
collecting or handling their bottles?
Branded bottles remain the property of the
firm issuing them. Money paid by it to col-
lectors is only in the nature of a collecting fee
and is a matter of arrangement between them.
The firm can demand the handing over of the
bottles from the collector, and can, if necessary,
enforce the demand by getting an order from a
competent Court. Don’t consider it could get
an order stopping a collector from collecting
its bottles. Know of no N.S.W. statute law
as to price.
¥ * * *
Is there any cure for psoriasis, a skin ail-
ment ? I’ve had it for years and have tried
all sorts of ointments, which give only tem-
porary relief.
Psoriasis is one of the most maddeningly
intractable of skin diseases, the more so as it
is almost certainly hereditary. The eruptions
on the skin frequently disappear almost en-
tirely, only to recur later on. These facts mean
that a “cure” of a permanent kind does not
really exist. However, the first step in all
treatment is the removal of scales. For this,
a simple ointment containing salicylic acid is
often used. In actual treatment, solutions of
coal tar, oil of cade or chrysarobin are fre-
quently employed, but no prescription should
be applied except under medical advice. X-
rays have been used with success by a well-
known Sydney specialist, but this form of
treatment cannot be continued indefinitely. Sun-
bathing, carefully controlled, is also of great
value. As an internal medicine, arsenic, which
has been in use for many years, has acquired
a quite undeserved reputation. Thyroid extract
is often useful, but it is a powerful drug and
its effects must be carefully watched.
# * Jfc J$C
(1) History of the forming of the Red Cross
Society? (2) Famous figures of the Red
Cross? (2)'When was the Red Cross formed
in Australia? (4) Scope of work done by the
International Red Cross ?
(1) At an International Conference in 1864,
26 Governments sent representatives, and the
outcome was the Geneva Convention, which
established principles of Red Cross work
now adopted by 64 nations. (2) Henry Dunant
is recognised as the founder of the Red Cross
Society. He was a Swiss banker who happened
to be close by when the French and Italians,
after a huge battle in 1859, left between them
some 40,000 wounded, dead or dying on the
field with no medical attention. Other
great figures in the early history of the Red
Cross are Florence Nightingale, founder of the
modern British military nursing system, and
Clara Barton, founder of the American Red
Cross during the Civil War in America. (3)
The Australian Red Cross Society came into
being in 1914 as a branch of the British
society, and Lady Helen Munro-Ferguson,
wife of the then Governor-General of Aus-
tralia, was responsible for calling the meeting
of a number of voluntary aid detachments and
organising a central council to direct the organi-
sation. (4) Besides many great avenues of
assistance rendered to participants in war, the
Red Cross Society maintains a service for
Inquiries for Missing and Prisoners of War,
conducts war activities in aid of people affected
by war, and civilian services in times of national
disaster.
* * * ♦
Is it correct to use both “ago” and “since”
in such a sentence as “It is 20 years ago since
he became bankrupt”?
No; “ago since” is wrong. It is a tautology
that is rather common. “If ago is used, and the
event to be dated is given by a clause,” says
Fowler, “it must be by one beginning with
that and not since.” Therefore, using the sen-
tence in question for illustrative purposes, the
right forms are: “He became bankrupt 20
years ago” (no clause); “It is 20 years since
he became bankrupt” (no “ago”); “It was
20 years ago that he became bankrupt.”
* * * *
Recipe for gasket cement (for motor-
car work ) ?
A good workable cement can be made from
shellac dissolved in alcohol (methylated spirits),
a medium-bodied cement being obtained from
four ounces of orange shellac, i-pint of methy-
lated spirits and loz. of gold size. This cement
would be suitable for jointings and manifold
gaskets on the induction side, sump gaskets,
etc., whilst red-lead ground in oil with gold
size would be suitable for water joints and
water connections, core cover plates and the
like.
H= * * *
(1) What horse-power is required to drive a
22-volt generator charging at 15 amps. ? (2)
If two of these generators were coupled together
to charge at about 30 amps, would the batteries
be appreciably harmed?
(1) A 1-h.p. to H-h.p. motor would be ad-
visable. (2) Some batteries will stand a con-
stant charge of 30 amps., but this factor would
have to be investigated carefully before such
a hook-up was attempted. lire latest Ameri-
can practice is to charge at high amperage on
speed-up service, using specially constructed
chargers. In the case of a standard electric
motor capable of only 1440 revs, per minute,
the generator could be rewound to this specifi-
cation, but this would be an expensive alterna-
tive.
* ♦ # *
/Iny information regarding the Dame Eadith
Walker Trust Fund, left to returned soldiers
of the 1914-18 war?
She left a legacy and a share in her resi-
duary estate to the R.S.SJ.L.A. (N.S.W.
Branch).
* * * *
How can cuttings of hibiscus, poinsettia and
azalea be encouraged to strike and best time to
set these out on the N.S.W. North Coast?
Cuttings of hibiscus and poinsettia can be
propagated in sandy loam, poinsettias being first
left in the sun for a few days to force the
sap to seal the ends. Azaleas need a glass
frame or a covering of glass. Best time to
experiment with these cuttings is after the
flowering. Short, stubby pieces of last year’s
growth containing at least two sets of eye-
laterals give best results. Since propagation
is often patchy it is advisable to use plenty of
cuttings to raise sufficient plants where any ex-
tensive scheme is proposed.
* * * *
(1) Are plastic surgery operations commonly
carried out in Australia ? (2) Approximate
fees charged for remoulding a crooked nose?
(1) Yes. (2) Fee is a matter of arrangement,
according to the means of the patient. Main
thing is to consult a specialist, who, if neces-
sary, will perform the operation in a public
hospital.
(1) Symptoms and treatment of tapeworms
in human beings? (2) Is if necessary to have
a doctor to give the treatment ? (3) How
long do tapeworms live?
(1) Often there. are no signs or symptoms
but the passage of segments of the worm in
the faeces, together with vague abdominal dis-
comfort and a voracious appetite. (2) Medical
advice is essential. (3) A tapeworm (of which
there are several varieties) will flourish indefi-
nitely in the upper portion of the alimentary
canal of man and other animals if the head seg-
ment of the parasite is not evacuated. If the
latter remains, it will produce further segments
in a few months. The drug which has a
specific action in the destruction of the worm
is male fern.
Brief Answers.
Aries; To remove grease spots, wash the
walls with hot soapy water, working from top
to bottom with long, even strokes. Use clean
cloths, and repeat washing till all grease is
removed... .8.R.: Hard to determine from so
few lines. Must be comparatively modern, and
not well known J.M.: Pioneer Book Shop,
I Rawson-place, may have something on the
subject M.D.; Write to Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney, for a list... J.McD.: If a widow
is left without adequate provision for her
proper maintenance, the Court, on application
by her, may order that such provision for her
maintenance as it thinks fit shall be made out
of the estate of the deceased husband
M.A.H.: Notify each of the agents in writ-
ing that you withdraw from them the sale
of your property. Also, for added safety
insert a notice to the like effect in your local
newspaper H.D.; Population of West Wya-
long, N.S.W., is 2500; it is in the Shire of
Bland. Water supply is by pipeline from Jugi-
ong (Burrinjuck Scheme), and there is sewerage.
Mixed train arrives Mondays, Wednesdays,
Fridays and Saturdays at 10.35 a.m. Departs
same days 3.25 p.m. Motor train arrives
Mondays and Wednesdays 8.55 p.m., departs
Tuesdays and Thursdays 8.45 a.m A.C.:
(1) It is non-sectarian and non-political. No-
thing to prevent a member of that denomi-
nation from applying for membership. (2)
The officers of a lodge are elected by vote of
the members K.W.: Present Australian £1
notes incorporate a watermark portrait of Cap-
tain Cook. At no time have Australian notes
borne a watermarked portrait of King George
VI. They did for a time bear a watermarked
portrait of Edward VIII, who was Prince of
Wales when the notes in question were first
issued H.F.J.: Either of these rain gauges
would be of correct construction. The im-
portant factor is the diameter of the funnel,
as the measure must be chosen according to
this.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused;
K.S.:
He’s a pal of mine from Gundagai,
He may be awkward and oh so shy.
And the city girls may call him “sap,”
But he’ll put it over any Jap.
H.M.: —
Ancient Phoebus, luminescent, in your wisdom
What think you of man’s brutality?
N.J.M.: Call again, but not with “Destiny’s
Zeal” D.J.O’D.; The Limerick form is
hardly suitable for a patriotic ode 0.Y.:
You haven’t made “Time” eternal M.R.:
Something real there, but it’s overstated....
W.J.W.: Another “1f”!... .N.F.H.: They
sound young... .M.R. (Vic.); Chopped-up
prose G.T.L.: We cried havoc and let
loose the doggerel L.McN.: Glad the girl
escaped the “slimy toad” G.T.; Try it else-
where There’s a long road to travel
before you can hope to become one of “those
wizards of the pen” M.L.: Try it on a
flapper mag.
TO ARTIS HC "(AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.T.8.: Grateful for your four-page advice
on what type of jokes we should publish
N.D.; Seven-foot lady with the Doric column
for a neck passes into the limbo Bill O.:
At least we can compliment you on the letter-
ing inside the neat balloons J.C.D.: Still
puzzling over the joke about the bald abo. s
ancestors being goanna-haters 8.J.V.: A
weird horror of woozy lines and Euclid figures
standing at impossible angles... ,E.P.: Dreadful
mess of a fair idea 8.A.E.; Still lacks bal-
ance and p01i5h....R.L.: Quartet of grimy
sea sketches is homeward bound.. . .N.C.8.:
Those shapeless flappers should be disporting
in waves far from men’s sight P.C.M.: Dull
head studies and a meatless he-she gag.


m
Cr
■ ■ I
m
-r- m
m
■■■ ■
illß
m
m
iillßlfc
Ss>
II
i i
r <” I
■ l s iil .■
4-
1
v :
m
.V
:
■:.'•• V.
m :
m
ih-v-
-tm
Sfc
m -
J
;
i
7
:; :
*
f
i
I
■
Hi
IN
m
im ip
MBH
SI
HH
m
»
■*% *
* J
|Kgfe*j>i liii
..... : ' : V :i '.
%
m
*ix
mm
' ■ ':• ..N
I VI
y l
( .;;■
■
pSj*3L4r9
P r*
...M
w
m
: :
IP
.
m.
0 tanks, no guns, no armoured cars obey the order that issues today, for this is an order to a new
army, in a new front line.
It’s the army of the factories that responds. Men, women, youths, girls, who day in and day out
control the machines in Australia’s industrial plants that supply the essentials of war.
“The front line runs through the factories ” says Britain’s Prime Minister for this is a war of
national industrial strength against national industrial strength. Every man, woman and machine of
the nation is just as surely a weapon of total war as every soldier, gun and tank.
m
Today in the Yarra Falls Mills largest Textile Mills in
the Southern Hemisphere huge quantities of Australian
wools are being converted into fabric for the Empire’s
defence. This company is proud to believe that its organisa-
tion, its plant and equipment, its 1,550 employees are all
playing a great part in the most momentous effort in Australia’s
history. It is especially proud of the great effort displayed
by its personnel.... so apparent in the excellence of the
Yarra Falls materials.
YARRA FALLS
ABBOTSFORD. VICTORIA
MANUFACTURERS OF WORSTED FABRICS AND YARNS
L
T
D


What qualifications
should your trustee
possess?
He should be thoroughly trustworthy, possess
sound business experience and have know-
ledge of the law relating to trusts. He should
be able and willing to undertake the some-
times very heavy and continuous duties
involved. An individual possessing such
qualifications is hard to find. Moreover, he
must eventually age and his powers decline.
Neither is he immune from misfortune, and
he may die long before the trust is completed.
To vest a trusteeship in an individual is to
leave the consequences mainly to chance and
it is a mistaken compliment to ask a friend
or relative so to act.
It is for these reasons that business men well
versed in affairs have for more than 63 years
appointed The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited to manage their estates.
The company’s services are devoted solely to
the care and management of the property of
its clients. Its Directors have wide experi-
ence and proved capacity and the duties
involved are not vested in one individual —
the company’s service “goes on for ever”.
Consult your solicitor or call or write for
further information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
) BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled ) and Reserves and
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E. ;,G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
W. U, Stewart; R. T, Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J, W. Russell French.
Sen. Manager IN. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hu?t
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
Undivided Profits, £959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; P. R. Baker; F W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE. Managing Director. . u v dncT
'Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, y
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Associated Pulp and Paper (Tas.)
Towards
Re-
April, Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.*
£ £ £
Rights, development, etc. .. •• 251.233
Preliminary exes., £11,006.. .. 262,239
1939.. 51,823 Nil 314,062
Added patents, £5007 .. • • 319,069
Profit.
1940.. 31,743 3 p.e.t= 28,500 3,243 315,826
1941.. 132,092 6 „ „ 68,827 63,265 252,561
To stock reserve, £31,150 .. .. 283,711
1942.. 121,631 6 p.c. = 90,300 31,331 252.389
* Excluding “Reserves for depreciation, renewals,
etc., £236,004.” t Ord. shares only.
In its present isolation, Australia can
be thankful that its brown-paper, news-
print and fine-paper ventures, utilising
mainly local hardwoods, had reached an
advanced stage of development when the
war clouds broke. Associated is the fine
writing and printing paper one with mill
and forest lands around Burnie (Tas.).
War has created many difficulties; at
the same time it has given the co. a great
chance to get firmly on its feet, and this
at no expense to the Australian con-
sumer. Price control has operated rigidly,
and there have been no increments in
selling prices for two years at least. Long
ago these were below half what similar
British imports would have cost, even if
obtainable, and margins have moved
further in the co.’s favor since. All of
which gives the management a strong
claim to additional tariff consideration if
the nominal duties at present in force
prove inadequate to meet any subsidised
foreign competition that may develop
later. Right now, of course, the question
of protection doesn’t arise.
With the blessing of the Barrier metal
cos.. Zinc Investments, Electrolytic Zinc
and A.C.I. —with Tasmanian Paper they
own roughly half the capital—the co.
came off the slips in 1936, paying
£250,000 in scrip for rights, etc. Initial
visualised capacity was 15,000 tons p.a.,
and the first lot of commercial produc-
tion left the mill in August, 1938. Out-
put had reached nearly 20,000 tons p.a.
in 1941, and 7 p.c. more last year, when
efficiency improved and there were
savings in the consumption of imported
pulp and other materials. Production
has now reached the capacity of the
present plant, and plans to lift the figure
to 27,500 tons by a new issue of shares
have had to be put in storage owing to
the impracticability of obtaining the
necessary equipment. An excursion into
direct war work in hand at the moment
is the building of a Government annexe
to turn to account surplus chemical pro-
ducts for munitions.
All phases of activities are now pro-
tected. But the management is experienc-
ing some embarrassment in shipping its
finished product and arranging the in-
ternal transport of its raw material, which
is starting to show up in costs. Last
year’s decline of £10,461 in profits, how-
ever, was because of the charge of
£21,300 more for depreciation (£83,050)
and £15,273 more for taxation (£75,894).
On capital, the £121,631 exhibited was 8.1
p.c., against 8.7 p.c., and 6 p.c. again went
out. An increasing percentage of output
is going into Government channels, leav-
ing a diminishing pool for commercial
trade, whose orders are months ahead
of production, despite severe rationing.
Finances have been carefully handled,
and a useful fund of cash for asset re-
placement is accumulating after main-
taining imported supplies well ahead of
normal requirements:
1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £1,200,000 £1,505,000 £1,505,000
Liabilities.. .. 341,826 41,481 57.563
Tax provision .. 1,675 59,807 85,359
Freehold, land, etc.* 100,834 111,488 121,558
Buildings and plant* 971,967 1,009,067 1,048,922
Stores .. . . 61,373 243,279 269,303
Finished stocks .. 52,057 24,996 59,418
Debtors .. . . 26,679 100,643 79,924
Cash, etc 16,529 32,099 97,571
Rights, preliminary
exes., etc. .. 314,062 286,872 276,916
* At cost.
Most of the plant was erected in a period
of rising world prices, but these are far
from excessive compared with present
values, while depreciation last year repre-
sented 7.1 p.c. on the cost of all fixed
assets. In all industry these provisions
now must be liberal if industry is to
provide the maximum employment-giving
power in the reconstruction period, a
point to which tax-framers could give
more attention than they have given.
New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net Toße-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ * £ £ £
1932.. 156,761 10 p.c. =150,000 6,761 1,136,956
1933.. 174,975 10 „ „ 150,000 24,975 1,161,931
From inner reserves, £147,585 .. 1,309,516
1934.. 228,295 12.5 p.c. =187,500 1
To staff pension fund, £20,000 }■ 10,795 1,320,311
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO J
1935.. 232,809 10 p.c. = 150,000 ) 79 Hno , o Q q 19 ft
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO J 72,809 1,393,1^0
1936.. 249,165 10 p.c. = 150,000 99,165 1,492,285
1937.. 288,456 10 „ „ 150,000 138,456 1,630,741
1938.. 321,884 10 „ „ 150,000 171,884 1,802,625
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,792,625
1939.. 260,837 10 p.e. = 150,000 110,837 1,903,462
Assets adjustment, £296,808.. .. 2,200,270
To tax reserve, £40,000 .. .. 2,160,270
War exes, donation, £20,000.. .. 2,140,270
1940.. 346.718 10 p.c. = 150,000 196,718 2,336,988
1941.. 392,346 12i „ „ 187,500 204,846 2,541,834
1942.. 415,877 12£ „ „ 187,500 228,377 2,770,211
The prosperous state of affairs evident
there should be noted along with the fact
that of the million and a half of capital
£1,200,000 has come from genuine re-
serves since 1912. Premium income last
year was the highest in the co.’s 63-year
history, part of the present relative cor-
pulence reflecting the fact that for the
past three years all earnings, etc., have
been taken into account in N.Z.
currency. From Auckland headquarters
the risks are written all over the world.
A fifth of the business is admitted to lie
in Maoriland, and something of the geo-
graphic spread of the other four-fifths is
apparent from this dissection of Govern-
ment and municipal security holdings,
which comprise 59.1 p.c. of the assets:
United Kingdom .. .. .. £957,956
Maoriland and Australia .. . . 1,424,474
Union of South Africa .. .. 73,189
India .. .. .. .. 46,622
United States of America. . . . 368,901
Argentina .. .. . . . . 300,690
So, apart from the direct services it offers
and its subscriptions to war loans, the co.
is also of no mean assistance to the
Dominion’s war economy in the foreign-
exchange field. Business throughout the
whole of East Asia has now gone. Though
a relatively small proportion of the whole,
this and the Commonwealth’s decision
to take to itself a monopoly of marine
war risks on the Australian coast are
among factors which will affect current
earnings.
Despite disturbed conditions overseas
and the fall in car-insurance generally,
war production and purchases of one
kind and another, growth in merchandis-
ing stocks and lengthening payrolls put
another spring of £131,246 in retained
premiums last year. The extent to which
marine risks figure in things isn’t evident,
but they have obviously been no drag,
those in the most dangerous areas having
been apparently reinsured:
Loss Expense
Net Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1910. . £605,509 £391,321 £172,593 64.5 28.5
1925. . 1,072,761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1931. . 1,145,257 740,246 353,439 64.6 30.8
1935. . 1,050,792 596,778 348,938 56.7 33.2
1937. . 1,185,636 705,955 351,903 59.5 29.6
1938. 823,852 363,337 60.5 26.7
1939. 910,489 377.682 64.8 26.8
1940. . 1,763,659 1,105,966 462,809 62.7 26.2
1941. . 1,948,595 1,099,744 570,448 66.5 29.2
1942. . 2,079,841 1,140,948 647,966 54.8 32.1
The loss rate, indeed, was the best for
many a day, though the benefits were
mostly swallowed by the way unpre-
cedented taxation sent exes. up. Still,
the underwriting surplus (£290,927) im-
proved £12,524. Taxes reduced the yield
from interest and rents (£136,573) by
£5919. Taking in unexplained reserve
movements, net earnings from all sources
were left at £415,877 (up £23,531), or
27.6 p.c. on capital, against 26.1 p.c. and
23.1 p.c. for first two war years. The
unchanged I2i p.c. div. therefore called
for no softness of heart.
Policy- and shareholders can see their
protection in this solid form:
1935. 1939. 1941. 1942.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 225,940 369,722 772,193 998,003
Public securi-
ties .. 2,035,631 2,161,573 2,793,221 3,182,043
Mortgages.. 46,250 9,747 5,281
Shares, etc. 239,889 680,274 744,982 757,961
Freeholds .. 446,793 553,661 572,898 596,152
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 465,497 492,929 815,427 839,279
Net tangibles equal to 205 p.c. of the
year’s retained premiums are on view,
or a third more than is usually looked
for from the volume of business being
handled. And considerable inner strength
is known to exist. Securities in Jap-occu-
pied territory worth £70,930 disappeared
last year, being either sold or (more prob-
ably) written off.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serve*.
iqoo" fP- c -= 05,745 6,954 1,100.^85
laid” t ” ” 95,746 9.533 1,110,218
lo. 3 r - ' 6 ” » 143,618 5,005 1,115,223
4 1 5,675 5 ” ” 119.582 25,993 1,141,216
1936.. 165,2*7 6 „ „ 143,618 21,659 1.162,875
Provident and guarantee fund, I
£lO,OOO 1-27,027 1,189,902
1937.. 204,836 7 p.e. = 167,809 J
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 1,164,902
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,154,902
1938.. 201,836 7 p.c. = 168,000 33,836 1,188,738
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO . 1 178 738
1939.. 185,500 7 p.c. = 171,500 14,000 1,’192,’738
From tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 1,217,738
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. ..1,207,738
1940.. 200,154 7 p.c. = 189,000 11,154 1,218,892
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,208,892
1941.. 190,276 64 p.c.= 175,500 14,776 1,223,668
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,213,668
1942.. 186,653 6j| p.c.= 175,500 11,153 1,224,821
T. E. Barr Smith, who had sat at the
head of the board table for the last 20
years—the family connection with the
business dates back to the 1850’s—died
in November last. Five months later his
successor, J. F. Downer, who had sat
at the same table for 26 years, followed
him into the silence. Into the vacant
chair steps J. R. Baker, another identity
associated for many years with Elder,
Smith and Co., a name long since a
household word in South Aus.
Today the sheet-anchor of the Austra-
lian wool trade, and therefore the most
important factor in pastoral economics,
is the British wool-purchase contract,
entered into at the outbreak of hostili-
ties for the duration and 12 months there-
after, The exportable portion, or bulk,
of the clip was bought at 13.43 d. per
pound, or 2.68 d. above the open market
average for the last pre-war season.
Owing to the rise in production
costs, Britain recently agreed to a
15 p.c. lift in the original contract
figure, making the price 15.4 d. pel-
pound for the current season. On the
basis of last season’s production, which
might be exceeded by the current one,
the increase would be worth over
£9,000,000 p.a. to Australian growers.
Furthermore, Britain carries all war
risks, including accumulated stocks, pres-
sure of which has been relieved a little
by American and local mill purchases
for war needs.
Last season Nature was kinder, and the
portion of the Australian clip bought by
Britain returned £2,166,247 more than
for the preceding 12 months:
r Season ■,
1940-41. 1941-42.
Bales appraised .. 3,506,210 3,577,966
Weight in pounds . . 1,044,039,085 1,082,050,804
Appraised value . . £55,251,151 £57,958,392
Excess of contract price
over appraised value - £5,708,698 £5,167,704
British contract value £60,959,849 £63,126,096
The long (six-year) drought in the W.A.
hinterland broke, and satisfactory condi-
tions prevailed throughout inland areas
of S. Aus., north into the Territory
and west to the Barrier and River coun-
try, as well as in western Victoria—
throughout this wide expanse the co.
enjoys solid connections. There was also
brisk inquiry for livestock in country
markets at highly satisfactory prices,
thanks partly to British Jamb and mutton
contracts. But the lift in costs and the man-
power problem bumped up outgoings
and created many difficulties for both
growers and brokers; these are likely
to become more acute, and the proposed
method of Budget finance will exercise
no restraint.
So, although Elder Smith’s gross earn-
ings (£813,774, after writing £34,114 off
premises and plant) improved £47,583,
outgoings (£627,121, including taxa-
tion) gobbled all the increase and
£3623 besides. That left the net result
at 6.9 p.c. on the £2,700,000 of share
capital as against 7, 7.3, 7.5, 8.4 and 8.5
p.c. back to 1937. The div. was kept at
6i p.c., and £lO,OOO was sent to the staff
fund, leaving £1153 to lay by.
Financial movements reflect the satis-
factory season and prompt wool clear-
ances and settlements therefor:
1939. 1941. 1942. _
Deposits, etc. .. £935,509 £759,920 £681,51»
Other liabilities . . 963,501 1,230,602 1,127,60 l
Provident fund, etc. 392,936 454,363 486,064
Freeholds, plant, etc. 750,340 798,699 £9l, 265
Gov. sec. and cash 1,291,455 1,626,719 1,879,-
Advances, etc. . . 3,854,959 3,627,307 3,318,a8
Stock .. .. 245,326 248,121 158,702
Shares other cos. 155,103 162,156 166,*6
When the books closed, Consols, etc.,
amounted to slightly over 20s. in the £ of
outside liabilities, excluding the big provi-
dent fund. The co. is obviously well
equipped to assist clients whenever the
need arises.


The Grim
Task
»T is clear that if we are to come
* out of this war in good shape,
we must have the spirit of the
football team: the effort must be
a united one. Every man’s mind
must be centred on winning.
Every eye must be on the ball.
There is no room for sectional
interests, no room for the
half-hearted, no room for the
“pointer.” Moreover, if this war
is to be brought speedily to a
satisfactory end, every effort must
be bent to a full co-operation
with our Allies in the grim task
that faces us.
It is a whole-hearted co-operation that
accounts for the ability of the A.M.P. to
pay out £8,250,000 to members and their
families last year. It is this sort of co-
operation that enabled the Society to put
£45,000,000 into Commonwealth Loans,
and it is this sort of co-operation that
allows it to add £500,000 to the Loan
every month,
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A sure friend in uncertain times.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., General Manager
and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS )
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown
Sydney.
NATURAL WAY TO HEALTH
If you suffer from constipation, take one
or two NYAL FIGSEN tablets before
retiring. There is no griping pain, no
stomach upsets. In the morning Figsen
acts . . . thoroughly, effectively, yet so
gently and mildly. Except for the pleasant
relief Figsen brings, you would scarcely
know you had taken a laxative. NYAL
FIGSEN is a pleasant-tasting, natural
laxative that is j ust as good for youngsters
as it is for grown-ups. Figsen is sold by
chemists everywhere. 1/3 a tin-
The next best thing tc Nature ~ s
NfaiM'igffsem
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Anvx,
“BILLABONG”
WINDMILLS
HAVE
AUTOMATIC
OILING AND
ENCLOSED
GEARS
THE BASIS FOR
EFFICIENCY IN PUMPING
SHANKS'*
&s
L-THD.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MAKERS OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT FOR OVER 70 YEARS.
Company Report
RICHARDS INDUSTRIES
INCREASE CAPITAL
Expanding War Production
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of Richards Industries Limited, held on the first
of September, 1942, it was decided to increase the capital of the Company to
£600,000 by the creation of 100,000 6 per cent, cumulative preference shares of
£1 each.
The Chairman (Mr. R. S. Thomson) said
that the increase of capital was necessi-
tated by the expansion programme which
it was decided to institute so that the
Federal Government could be supported
in its war effort to the limit of the Com-
pany’s capacity.
Permission has been obtained from the
Federal Treasurer (Mr. Chifley) through
the Capital Issues Board, and arrange-
ments have been completed with members
of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide to
underwrite the whole of the issue.
The meeting was -held after the General
Meeting when the Chairman disclosed to
the shareholders that the past year
had been a record one in the history of
the Company in that the turnover had
exceeded one and a quarter million
pounds. This achievement had been
effected despite the fact that, through
the entry of Japan into the war nine
months ago and the threatened invasion
of Australia, the Company’s activities
had changed entirely by the elimination
of civil production so that the Company
was now operating on a 100 p.c. war
basis.
Further extensions of buildings and plant
are being made to cope with the demand
for increased production. The proposal
to increase the capital was designed to
provide portion of the funds required for
this purpose. Though it was necessary to
extend the operations of the Company
during war-time the Directors have not
lost sight of the part that the Company
should play in the transport and engineer-
ing industries when there is a return to
peace-time conditions.
In his remarks the Chairman said:
“The programme of expansion has in-
cluded provision for social amenities and
better working conditions for employees,
but the Directors deprecate the apparent
trend of present social legislation, which
indicates that the' exigencies of war-time
are being used as a cloak for implement-
ing certain unnecessary social amenities.
Such additions to the burden on industry,
while they can be borne during war-time,
when the Government is the main
customer, will be more than industry can
bear in post-war production, and the fear,
is that the present Government may go
too far in this direction.”
“You will have noted with satisfaction
the decision of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment not to proceed with the proposal
for the limitation of company profits to
4 p.c. on capital. Such a scheme, if pro-
ceeded with, would have been devoid of
equity as between companies, and in
addition would have rendered abortive
any efforts towards efficient organising
and managerial ability.”
The net profit for the year ended 30th
June, 1942, was £48,032/8/10, but the
heavy taxation which was necessary
under existing conditions L a tremendous
drain on the funds of the Company and
reduces by more than half the amount
available to shareholders. The Directors’
recommendation for the payment of a
dividend of 4 p.c. on Preference shares
(making a total of 8 p.c. for the year)
and 4\ p.c. on Ordinary and B Ordinary
shares (making a total of 7 p.c. for the
year) was approved by shareholders.
The retiring Directors, Messrs. W.
Queale, H. H. Pittman and W. D. Fer-
guson, were re-elected for the ensuing
year and Messrs. Neill, Neill and Burgess,
Chartered Accountants (Australia), were
appointed Auditors for that period.
At the conclusion of the meeting a cordial
vote of thanks was accorded the chair-
man, directors, general manager and staff,
and pleasure was expressed at the very
satisfactory results of the year’s operations,
The big factor in the Mt. Morgan cup-
like opencut (Q.) is the overburden, which
rose from 1.58 to 2.09 tons (three-parts
discard) for each ton of sulphide ore
mined in the year to June and alone
added £41,517 to costs, which advanced
in all departments. Small, if any. over-
burden relief can be expected in tne cur-
rent term either, but the total is expected
to come down progressively to nearly
half by 1945, which with metal prices as
they are should produce the long-awaited
expansion in dividends. For ord.-holders
these commenced to flow again last term
with two 4d. distributions (£78,267) —
with the £16,000 pref. charge, paid from
declared earnings £81,457 higher at
£127,314. The net result of operations
in the sulphide mills was an improvement
in both the gold and copper contents of
millings accompanied by slightly better
recoveries, and this and the enhanced
price for the red metal produced the
brighter showing. The co. has lately
spent £78,651 in pepping up copper out-
put ; it now gets £lOO a ton for the first
4000 tons of this short-supplied war
mineral and £lO5 for the balance. In an
honorary capacity for the Common-
wealth it also has the job of reviving
the old Mt. Chalmers gold-copper mine,
where “a maximum weekly production
of ore will be reached within 12 months.”
At Morgan the ore reserve stands at 6£
million tons.
# * * *
“O.B.”: Federal man-power authori-
ties seem determined to white-ant West-
ralian goldmining. Three months ago,
after taking large numbers, they agreed
to leave 4500 men, including 100 key offi-
cials, in the industry. Now they are in-
cluding miners in a call-up of men up
to 40 in class 4. This smash-and-grab
would close mines on which towns such
as Cue, Leonora and Coolgardie de-
pend. Premier Willcock has sent a tele-
gram of protest to Curtin.
» * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) is in the news
again. After British excess-profits tax
had dimmed war-time prospects, the
directors, despite opposition by angry
opponents, induced shareholders to trans-
fer the company’s domicile from London
to Australia and to voluntarily wind up.
Two liquidators, nominees of the board,
were appointed, and arrangements were
made for a local co. with Hal Colebatch
as chairman to take over and carry on
mining operations. The Chancellor of
the Exchequer, however, blocked the
transfer. The two liquidators of the old
co. have now resigned, and B. Manning
—whether he is a nominee of the board
or not is not clear—-has been appointed.
Both Manning and Alfred Sim, on behalf
of a “representative meeting of London
shareholders,” want the old co, restored
to the position existing before liquida-
tion, and Hal Colebatch agrees. He has
convened a meeting of shareholders on
the Australian register in Perth for Sep-
tember 30.
J* * sfc *
Though the interim was maintained at
9d. stg. per share, South Kalgurli (W.A.)
is cutting the final from Is. Bd. to 10|d.
(including bonus Ud.), all subject to U.K.
income tax. Latest full distribution takes
£20,313 from profits of £27,726 (down
£2052). Co. handled about the same
quantity of its own ore, but lighter par-
cels of sljme and tributors’ material.
Reserve Kalgurli ore has kept roughly
two years ahead of the mill of recent
years, grade abqut sidwt, and there
is a second string in the Hainault block,
main hope for the less immediate future.
* * * *
In a can’t-be-helped statement of
accounts for the year ended April, Swan
Bitter (W.A.) shows a loss of £8177.
Creditors are owed £2409; cash in
hand is insignificant. Directors blame
unusual rains and commandeering of
workers by the man-power authorities
for not producing a better showing, and
the Japs for postponement of comple-
tion of a new 1000-1500-tons-a-month
treatment plant. As usual, the manager
has something optimistic to say about the
future. The giving of an option over
the co.’s mine, goods and chattels to Hill
50, N.L., is being referred to shareholders
at Friday’s meeting. Proposed considera-
tion in the event of a deal is one f.-p.
Hill 50 share for every two Swan Bitters,
paid or contributing. The manager says
that to sell out on these terms would be
“merely giving things away.”
» * * *
From a man on the spot at Wilga
(B. 26 /8 / ’42):
Owing to a shortage of man-power at Collie
and to lack of development in recent years,
there is a dearth of coal in Westralia. Some
of these mines are now down in depth, and
water problems, “creeps” and other difficulties
are increasing. Therefore attention has been
directed to the Wilga deposits, which a former
Government Geologist said were an extension
of Collie, as a source of considerable supply.
Wilga Coal Mining and Carbonization, Ltd.,
a local co. with an issued capital of £175,000
and 160 shareholders, holds the pick of the
field. It has spent a substantial sum in pros-
pecting and development, and has asked the
Federal Government for more to bring Wilga
to the producing stage. It appears to have a
good case.
Shareholders of Linden (W.A.) have
decided to leave future policy to the
directors Co last year sold its mine,
sands and plant near WilUna for £3500
cash. It has about £2500 in hand.
* * * *
Progressive returns from Deborah, on
Victoria’s Bendigo field, show reductions
in both tonnage and values. Taking costs
at the January half-year’s 555. a ton,
appearances are that the board will have
a tussle to bring the balance out on the
right side. Revenue from its 4000-share
holding in North Deborah will help,
though this offspring is also now less
profitable than in the past. > Indeed, the
avoidance of losses rather than the earn-
ing of surpluses is the concern of most
mineowners at the moment, and many
investors who bought gold shares to
lighten their tax commitments have suc-
oeeded beyond their expectations.


How to make
Gillette Blades
last longer..
■
m
m
/ J
Soften those morning
whiskers a few minutes
longer with a rich wet
lather and you’ll be delighted to find how much
longer your Gillette Blades will last. That’s the
secret of more pleasant shaving, and economy in
Gillette Blades. And don’t forget to dry your
Gillette Blades with care. Don’t touch the cut-
ting edges pick up the blades by the ends.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
AND SAVE STEEL
Help by sovlng, save by buying Savings Bonds or Certificates.
soften the
beard with
a longer
lather ..
m
% w..
sss
m
EXPRE&*
m
: -
-AiWAKPUASef
Business, Rollery, etc.
Evasion and Intolerance
Why is there so much talk about infla-
tion in Australia at the present time?
Because Australia’s Government is using
inflation to escape responsibilities in
the pursuit of this war. From the very
central controls of the war effort inflation
is being pumped into our living costs and
fighting costs regardless of anything
except the mesmerism of the polling
booths. While following a policy of
economic disaster —and total war is sub-
stantially industrial and 'economic —the
Government talks about “austerity” and
the dangers of inflation. It asks for a
facing-up to realities, but faces up to
none itself. Its “policy” and the talk,
taken together, suggest nothing quite so
much as a mixture of weakness, humbug
and ignorance.
When the Prime Minister comes to the
assistance of his floundering Treasurer,
as he did last week, he is nearly always
noteworthy for his flatulent political
trumpeting. Mr. Curtin was one of those
who spoke largely and ominously about
the “inevitable” character of the 4 p.c.
profits policy, later admitted by his Gov-
ernment to be “administratively impos-
sible,” It was he who orated about the
“capitalist wolf” recently, though later
his Munitions Minister, Makin, spoke up
for B.H.P. because of the unfair and un-
true reports emanating from various
“agencies.” As a politician Mr. Curtin
is the typical old dog for a hard road,
but when put to the test as a war admin-
istrator he is revealed in his own words
—“the Government’s plan to transfer
318,000 men and women from peace to
war activities has to go on even if we
crack.” “Even if we crack”! Make no
mistake about it, “cracking” is about the
only thing assured to us if the Govern-
ment continues on its present way, and
“cracking” may come with the war job
not half done.
There should be no danger of “crack-
ing” in a well-planned and well-adminis-
tered war effort. The whole idea should
be to avoid “cracking”— to take away
from the top-hamper and add to the
stability of the base. Even “austerity”
can be made to benefit the health and
stamina of the individual, at the same
time adding to the national war reserves.
But while defending the indefensible
Chifley Budget last week Mr. Curtin
asked, with all dramatics, whether
he was to allow financial difficul-
ties to stand in the way of getting
troops and munitions to the places where
they were needed for the defence of Aus-
tralia. This is more pure humbug, windy'
word-spinning. There were no financial
difficulties in the way except those of the
Government’s own creation. It took the
men and materials it wanted—as it should
—but quailed at the prospect of taking
the money necessary directly and honestly
from the consuming multitude by taxa-
tion. Instead, it proposes to borrow
£3OO million this year on the security of
nothing more than war waste, and a large,
indefinite portion of the £3OO million is
to be double-barrelled inflation —bank
credit. This is where we can expect the
“cracking” to spring from —from this and
the misuse of man-power. What was
difficult last year is going to be made
doubly hard this year because of false
finance arising out of party favors.
Mr, Curtin frequently says his Govern-
ment takes responsibility for this, that or
the other thing. It is mostly words. Some
of his Ministers seem scarcely to know
what they are about, and “responsibility”
is a term wholly out of place in company
with what they are doing. Last
week the Prime Minister said that “any
system of compulsion that brought a
total of more than £2OO million this finan-
cial year, in addition to direct taxation,
would be regarded as intolerable and
unfair.” Exactly what he means is diffi-
cult to gather, but what is unfair about
compulsion if the money has to be raised?
It is only unfair in his eyes because it
will have to come largely from his own
political supporters. Labor has found
compulsion the ideal method of dealing
with all outside its own class and with
the worker who has the courage of his
convictions and a mind and voice of his
own. Compulsion is not “intolerable”
then ; it is intolerant.
In the matter of the 1941-42 Budget
R. G. Menzies prophesied, like The
Bulletin, that the Government would be
forced to introduce additional taxation
before the year had closed. He was right;
income-tax rates were lifted within the
first three months of office. In respect of
the present Budget Mr. Menzies said that
it was calculated to impair the war effort
of the country, and that it would be
disastrous. He added, in support of a
compulsory-savings scheme,
The Government says it is pledged
against additional income tax. Then if
it puts . post-war credits on one side
the only other method is inflation —the
easiest, the most cowardly and the most un-
just method. There is no better way of
guaranteeing the people freedom from want
than by keeping the economic structure
stable in the post-war period.
Does the Treasurer really believe he is
going to borrow £3OO million from the
public by pure voluntary effort? I make
a conservative prophecy that, whereas in
the last financial year the central bank was
approached for somewhere near £80,000,000,
it will be strange if it is not approached
this year to the tune of £180,000,000.
Mr. Calwell (Lab., Vic.): What is wrong
with that?
Mr. Menzies: The effect of that must be
to set up the system of inflation in Aus-
tralia. Once you set the inflationary move-
ment going it will defy the wit of man
to stop it except by political means that will
not be palatable to the Government. In-
flation will be followed by great depression.
You cannot fill up the stomach of the
people in Australia by a windy diet of
promises.
Menzies is again right. He speaks with
reason among politicians to whom reason
is “intolerable.”
It was Stock Exchange officials who
took up the matter of not revising share-
price limits in the middle of this month.
It was on their advice that the Treasury
took action. Now it is suggested that
there may be no revision on the first
Tuesday in October either. At the present
time the market is steady, with dealings
at a “high” standstill in many leading
stocks, but with activity still possible in
the case of A.C.1., Colonial Sugar,
several breweries and Norths and Souths.
Fears of inflation form part of the basis
for the present interest in industrial
shares, but there is the “rationing” factor
also. In any case it is all a muddle of
the Government’s own making.
* * * *
Minister for Customs Keane has an-
nounced that between January and June
the cost of living in Australia advanced
5 p.c. A very sharp rise. It will go
quickly higher under present Govern-
ment inflation.
* * ¥ *
In the Budget debate Senator Cameron
claimed that “rationalisation had done
more than anything else during the war
to reduce costs of' production.” Where,
oh! where, are those reduced costs of
production?
* * * *
While the post-war-credit scheme now
being strongly advocated by non-Labor
people has many desirable features, it
had better be advocated with precision in
phraseology. It is not enough merely to
refer to the proposal as compulsory
borrowing, for instance, because there
are forms of compulsory borrowing that
are utterly undesirable—Maoriland’s one
and only attempt was an example. Com-
pulsory saving is a better term. But at all
times the underlying idea should be that
of “sweetened taxation” levied on those
who are at present, for political reasons,
escaping substantial direct taxation. Get-
ting at the individually smaller but collec-
tively greater incomes is the principal
idea underlying compulsory saving. And
it is based on the fact that taxation of
these incomes is inadequate, as is clearly
observable in the necessity for so much
rationing.
* * * m
Though profits were down heavily as a
result of the Japanese occupation of New
Britain and parts of New Guinea, and
the div. was cut from 10 p.c. to 5 p.c.,
the sharemarket is offering the top-limit
price of 255. 6d. for W. R. Carpenter
shares. There is a lot of life in this co.
yet. Profit-earning is partly frustrated for
the time being ; that is all. The manage-
ment is experienced and farsighted, and
more able than most to deal with grim
and hard situations.


f
0A
moi
yaohJ*
diode
14i
oidcf
me
w
To-day its work is vital in the wider
national sense.
When peace comes it will resume
its importance in the broadcast radio
world,
☆
HIS MASTERS VOICE"
RADIO
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
LMANISM REVIEWED
By a Medical Psychologist *
[M.D. ( Edin .), M. 8., Ch.B. ( Edin .), D.P.M. (Lond.)]
A QUESTION ANSWERED.
Is a re-creation of the adult human
mind possible? After an investigation of
the Pelman System of Mind-training from
a psychological standpoint I can answer
most emphatically —Yes ! Pelmanism is a
method founded upon modern principles
of psychology, whereby the native intelli-
gence can be exploited to its full value,
and whereby the personality can be re-
vitalised and its social worth increased to
the maximum. Pelmanism capitalises the
mental powers.
A TRAINED MIND IS A PER-
MANENT POSSESSION.
I would like to emphasise at this stage
that Pelmanism is not a mysterious, secret
process, or a magical formula, which has
only to be repeated to endow the mind
with the qualities of genius. It is a system
of mind-training which both directly and
indirectly fosters, guides and controls all
the factors which contribute to the har-
monious working of the mind as a whole.
Once the human mind has been Pelmanised
it will remain so throughout life. The
system is not a key to success, to be used
and thrown away; it is an everlasting key
to mental efficiency and happiness, to be
cherished and zealously guarded.
PELMANISM BREATHES VITALITY
AND VIGOUR.
I have read through the Course, and, as
a psychologist, I am amazed at the in-
* Rcurinted from the December, 1935, issue
of New Health. Edited by Sir W. Arbuth-
not Lane, C.B.
The war has stimulated interest in the
“Science of. Behaviour,” in the impulses that
move human beings: sensations, desires, emo-
tions, cognitions, reasonings, decisions and
volitions, to use Prof. James’s terms. Thus,
the above article has now a special value.—
The Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
genuity with which so much applied psy-
chology is “got across” in such a simple
and interesting maner. The Pelman Sys-
tem treats the mind as a real “live” instru-
ment which is to be exercised. The imagi-
nation is caught from the first page of
the first book and held to the last. The
lessons demand and entice an active co-
operation throughout. The very pages
seem to breathe vitality and vigour.
NO TWO MINDS ALIKE.
The Course is contained in a series of
fifteen books. Attached to each book is a
work and progress sheet, which the student
fills in after the completion of each lesson.
It is by means of these sheets that the fun-
damental personal contact is made with
each student. Pelmanism accepts and
works upon the psychological axiom that
no two human minds are alike, an axiom
too often lost £ight of in the conventional
mass educational method. It is by virtue
of the system of individual tuition that
Pelmanism achieves its remarkable success.
DEVELOPING YOUR POSSIBILITIES.
What does the Pelman system actually
achieve? It is an education in the truest
sense of the word. It requires active co-
operation on the part of the student, but
the enthusiasm which it inspires makes that
co-operation a pleasant and fascinating
task.
Pelmanism makes the very best of your
native mind stuff. It fills in the gap which
a conventional school or university educa-
tion so often leaves. Pelmanism enables
the mind to be used to the highest possible
advantage. It is not a mystic system of
faith and hope; it is founded on sober
psychological principles established by the
method of science.
YOUR LATENT ABILITIES.
Pelmanism develops the latent qualities
of the human mind, and enriches the
mental life to a high degree. To be able
to concentrate; to observe accurately; to
have initiative and directive ability; to be
graced with social charm and tact, with
moral courage and cheerfulness; to be
possessed of a good memory, organising
power and presence of mind —all these
much-desired, positive mind qualities are
possible through the Pelman System of
Mind Training. In business, trade, pro-
fession ; in social or public life, the Pelman
attitude of mind is an asset of great value.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
We shall be glad to send readers a copy
of “THE EFFICIENT MIND,” 76 pages, post
free. You can write us fully, or you can
make just a bare application by using or
copying the form below. Your inquiry will
be regarded as a confidential communication;
we have no outside representatives.
TO THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a, copy
of “THE EFFICIENT MIND.”
Name
Address
What’s going to be the strength of the
mortgage bank? A sop to Wimmera
Wilson to begin with, unless Wilson is
just “strung along” in the usual Canberra
fashion until the idea—or the Govern-
ment —dies a natural death, it has possi-
bilities of considerable evil. All Mr.
Chifley had to say in his Budget speech
was;
The establishment of a Mortgage Bank
has been approved by the Government and
a bill will be brought down at an early
date. It is proposed that the operations of
the Mortgage Bank shall be carried out by
a new department of the Commonwealth
Bank. The Government hopes that the
Mortgage Bank will influence other lend-
ing institutions and mortgagees to reduce
rates of interest on mortgages to primary
producers.
It would seem, from the words of Mr.
Chifley, that nationalisation of all mort-
gages is not the immediate aim of the
bank, seeing that the future existence of
other mortgagees is still acknowledged,
even if not in the light of utmost
approval. But it’s a guinea to a goose-
berry that the Commonwealth Bank is
not too happy about the idea of having
this political plaything left on its door-
steps. Mortgage banks haven’t a cheer-
ful history, on the whole; they often
become waterlogged even without politi-
cal encumbrances, and the note-issue
and general banking departments of the
central bank might find such a thing
awkward to tow. The Commonwealth
Bank has a neat and tidy business
at the present time, and it is very par-
ticular —and inquisitive—about the securi-
ties it accepts, so much so that some
would-be borrowers have preferred to pay
a higher rate of interest at a trading bank.
It doesn’t sound as though Mr. Wilson
will find the answer to his prayers among
bankers who scrutinise securities and ex-
pect to pay their way.
* * * *
From Sydney “Herald”:
Lithgow, Monday.—The Treasurer, Mr.
Chifley, warned the Macquarie A.L.P.
Assembly meeting today of the dangers of
inflation.
Mr. Chifley couldn’t have had a copy of
his own Budget with him.
* * * *
The criticism of Labor’s 1941-42
Budget by R. G. Menzies was one of
the ablest addresses of his career.
Towards -the end of it he said:
As human beings, as humane beings, all
of us must think of the future. The heart
of man must be purged of greed and
cruelty; those are the evils which have
produced this war. The materialist con-
ception of history gave us Communism. I
believe that the materialist conception of
life is, responsible for this war to a greater
degree than any other factor. The true
socialist —I say this in no spirit of con-
troversy —is not the man who dreams of
Government jobs for all, but the man who
thinks land dreams of stern social duty for
all, who asks for a way of life in which
service to the community, not the size
of a man’s bank balance, is the true test of
value, and who does not advocate a slip-
pered and padded progress through a com-
fortable passage of years. The new world
is, after all, a world of real men. I weary
sometimes of talk about the new world
which appears to assume that it will be
a world in which we shall cease to be red-
blooded and real men, and shall become
tame mice, feeding on the communal grain.
Twelve months after it was said it is still
as fresh and vital as ever.
• * • «
In the matter of special depreciation
allowance on assets acquired by private
industry for the express purpose of help-
ing the Government out of its war-time
production difficulties, whatever allow-
ances are made now will be taken into
account for taxation purposes when the
assets are revalued by a board of referees
after the war. That is provided for in
the bill at present before the Federal
House.
* * * *
At present the Commonwealth Income
Tax Act provides that mutual income of
life assurance cos. shall be taxed at ss.
in the £ and non-mutual profits at 6s.
Under the Income Tax Assessment Bill
(No, 2) it is proposed to ascertain the
amount taxable at the concessional rate
by comparing profits divided among
policy-holders with the total profits divided
among policy-holders and shareholders.
A great deal is going to depend on the
word “divided.” If it means actually
distributed, either in the form of rever-
sionary or cash bonuses, life offices,
especially the weaker offices, may be
forced into premature distribution of
actuarial surpluses, with consequent loss
of financial stability.
* * * *
It’s about time the Federal Government
made up its mind about what is to be
done with refugee cargoes dumped in
Australia when Japan became the obvious
recipient if voyages were continued. The
usual red-tape and formalities are re-
ported to be preventing prompt use
of these things in our war effort.
The Division of Import Procurement
should have enough staff to deal with
the matter.
* * * *
Apart from the nationalisation pro-
gramme that was unpopular' in peace-
time but in respect of which the party
has become more enterprising now that
so much can be done by National
Security Regulation, Labor’s big idea
seems to be that where it can
borrow it will borrow. Later on, no
doubt, its “stalwarts” will blackguard
the bondholder. When borrowing is
exhausted Labor will increase taxa-
tion on incomes out of its own class
and storm at the “capitalist” at the same
time ; when this taxation field has been
exploited to the full the next avenue will
be “bank credit,” the weakest and most
inebriated of all financial methods. This
has been the approximate line taken by
Labor during the present war. In addi-
tion to shirking the taxing of lower in-
comes adequately, there has been an orgy
of self-indulgence in the matter of “in-
dustrial conditions.” Hours in the ship-
ping industry have been reduced from
48 to 44 without reference to an Arbitra-
tion Court, and overtime is paid ad lib.
in nearly all industries. This at a time
when service men are on service pay and
the - country is missing them sorely on
the production front. Old-age pensions
have been raised and landlords and gas
cos., etc., bullied. Women workers are
being promised pay equal to men’s, and
all manner of concessions are being made
to the self-interest of unionists. Where
self-interest is set on such a pedestal the
national interest is lost to sight. Lost,
that is, until selfishness breeds its own
disaster.
* * * *
There seems to be something absurdly
wrong with “rationalisation” somewhere.
Now citrus fruits are to be scarce —“be-
cause of the Army,” thought it is only
a matter of weeks since the Prime Minis-
ter stated that Allied forces in Australia
totalled no more than the Australians
who had gone overseas. It is possible
that there has been a particularly light
crop of oranges because of man-power
and similar difficulties; if so, let us
admit that we are approaching that
“cracking” point Mr. Curtin mentioned
some time ago, and try to do something
about it. Properly managed, Australia’s
war effort could be made much bigger
without the risk of “cracking.”
Mr Wurth Director-General of Man-
power, said’last week that Common-
v x ,. , . „
wealth departments and instrumentalities
had lost more than 4000 men to the fight-
ing services. Another 1360 men are to
be released immediately, and when sub-
stitute labor is obtained a further 1800
will go into the army and other forces,
Ormonoid Roofing reports that though
turnover increased 21 P-c. last term the
rate of gross profit fell away because ol
increased costs and “inadequate selling
prices » a common sort of situation at
tbe p rese nt time. Ormonoid’s chairman
has added that divs. can’t be maintained
at 15 p.c. while taxation absorbs 11s. 3d.
of every £ of actual profit.


THE SERVICE MAN
New Guinea War Reviewed.
“Ek Dum”: Returned from New
Guinea, the Commander-in-Chief of the
Allied Land Forces “expressed confi-
dence in the ability of the Allies to hold
Port Moresby.”
This was very wrong of General
Blarney according to “famous” corre-
spondents, flapper-papers and Billy
Hughes. Nobody objects to Russian
commanders being “cheerful optimists,”
but cheerful optimism is not per-
mitted to generals in the service of the
Crown. Yet the indications are that
Blarney is quite impenitent, cheerful
optimism being the rule among Austra-
lian soldiers of all ranks.
The general said that the closer he got
to the front the more confidence he had
found among the troops, from their com-
manders downward. All were certain that
the enemy was not going to get Port
Moresby, and he thought their confidence
well based. So does every Australian
who has seen the troops that are there
and who knows their record. So does
everyone who saw the gallant wounded
come in from Milne Bay, with no
grievance among them save that they are
away for a spell from the opportunity
to scupper more Nipponese, and all con-
scious of what they had helped to achieve
—what their C.-in-C. described as “the
complete defeat of the Japanese” in that
area.
General Blarney described the attempt
by the enemy at the Milne Bay landing,
when combined with the attacks which
began at Kokoda on August 2, as a con-
certed attempt to drive the Allies out of
New Guinea.
He declared that the enemy had large
forces in the Owen Stanley Range, but
that all their large numbers were not in-
volved in the fighting because of supply
difficulties. He personally doubted the
capacity of the enemy to get heavy artil-
lery across the mountains.
So far, the heaviest weapon used by
the enemy in the Owen Stanleys had
been a light mountain gun, because of
the difficulty in locating suitable targets
in tangled jungle terrain. Mortars were
used more effectively on both sides, and
the Japanese were now meeting with the
same kind of supply problems which had
faced the Australians at Kokoda.
The enemy’s only advantage was that,
instead of having to use native porters,
he employed a swarm of Japanese
coollies, inured to heavy loading and to
war, who had been brought with him.
Japanese Methods
These specific assertions by the
C.-in-C. are reassuring. He knows what
heavy artillery looks like, which some of
his critics don’t; and he knows what
ammunition even a 25-pounder consumes.
He also has recent and vivid memories
of the difficulties of getting heavy artil-
lery over the Greek mountains, which
have been traversed by road since the
days of Alexander and by various kinds
of modern military ones since Von der
Goltz. The Owen Stanleys have no
vehicular roads.
He must remember what can be ac-
complished in defence by a few field
guns against a hurrying enemy with only
Stukas and tank-hauled two- or six-
pounders.
Arithmetic being learned best on a
battlefield, the general no doubt also has
a fair idea how many porters it takes to
keep up the ammunition to even one 25-
pounder when it has to be carried 160<
miles or so over passes as high as Kos-
ciusko and through lawyer-vine forest
on which well based stages are not estab-
lished. It takes a good many.
To prove that he has a fair estimate
of the capacity of his enemy. General
Blarney said that they were not fighters
to be taken easily. They resorted to many
ruses and underhand tactics. Nipponese
soldiers lay motionless among heaps of
their own dead, rolling over and using
their tommy-guns when our troops
approached. Small bodies rushed for-
ward and then pretended to run away,
hoping to lead the Australians into
ambush. Or they would fall to the
ground in the undergrowth and open fire
on charging bayonet men, or machine-
gun tree tops to draw fire, opening up
with mortars on Australian positions
which they thus had discovered. No
swamp was too deep or too dirty for
them if it gave a chance of picking off
even one Australian soldier.
The Japanese (the general admitted)
were better equipped for jungle fighting
because they had practised the art for
years ; but he was still confident.
Moresby’s Features
The popular picture of Moresby is that
it is like most of the rest of New
Guinea —a tropical town in the best
tradition surrounded densely by lawyer-
vine scrub.
It is tropical, but rather in the tradi-
tion of northern Australia of the poorer
type than of the luscious Atherton or
Kin Kin scrub country.
It is in a position where it can get
naval support, reinforcements by sea and
air—the latter when there are ’planes to
carry them—in three hours or so from
the nearest points on the Australian
coast.
It was designed for a base before war
opened, and it was intended to station
there the Short Sunderland Squadron
which afterwards had had a glorious
career as part of the British Coastal Com-
mand, war breaking out before it left
for Australia. If Moresby is not now
a fully-defended base embodying the
results of all the painful lessons which
this country has had inflicted on it, the
whole War Council should be sacked in
its shirt.
“Whenever the Japanese have met our
men in open country,” General Blarney
said, “they have been defeated or have
been forced to flee to the cover of the
jungle.”
Around Moresby they will have to
fight in some relatively open country, and
they will have to face defenders with in-
tegral communications, while they them-
selves are fed and munitioned along lines
which would have made Hannibal turn
green, and 150 miles from their continu-
ally battered bases. They will have to
face, without similar weapons, artillery
and the heavy vehicles of modern war-
fare ; and they will have to find some
way to secure naval support, if they wish
to make a real success of the affair.
There are other alternatives, of course.
They might choose another place along
the coast as a preliminary point and take
that. With local command of thesse a
fact overlooked by all the carpers—it
Would be within their power.
But there are only two direct ways to
take Moresby. The first is to bring such
an overwhelming force against it that,
even lightly armed, it or its remnants can
swarm over the fort like an ant colony
over a wounded lizard. The second is
by overpowering simultaneous and com-
bined land, sea and air attacks, ’plapes
and ships replacing land artillery.
Until there are signs that the enemy can
try either of these methods, there is every
room for confidence; and when any
general does not show himself confident
in the face of imminent attack he should
be retired. Complacency is a different
thing. So far, the High Command has
never shown any. It has left complacency
to politicians and press boys.
The Enemy Advances
After the Japs advanced to Efogi, the
first stage of their operations across the
Owen Stanley Range seemed to be marked
by a five-day pause and an ostensible
lull. In reality, it was a tactical hold-up,
while the enemy renewed his strength,
brought forward the necessary additional
supplies for the heavier work ahead of
him, and arranged the placement of his
infiltration groups for the final progress
towards the coast.
By Thursday, he had developed on a
fairly large scale the normal tactics—infil-
tration by co-ordinated groups, with en-
velopment of Australian units as his
objective,
HiS furthest-flung advance up to that
day was to loribaiwa, 12 miles or so
almost due south of Ifogi, which he
reached a week before. The Australians
had been doing some infiltration and en-
velopment on their own account.
The village is the beginning of the
last stage out of the hills for wayfarers
from Kokoda and the Gap; the first
stage of the climb for those coming the
opposite way—a typical native village
reached from Sogeri, where the Moresby
vehicular road begins, or used to begin,
by a narrow and difficult path ; a place
where there are rest and water for
carriers.
There were no details of the fighting
which brought the enemy front posts to
this region. The G.H.Q. communique of
Sept. 17 merely said, with its usual brevity,
that the enemy was “exerting heavy pres-
sure” and that “serious fighting was in
progress.” By next day the fighting was
described as “sporadic.” On Saturday,
General MacArthur’s H.Q. described
only “minor fighting.” On Sunday the
situation was “unchanged—our patrols
active.”
The Air Commander’s Effort
Allied Air Forces are not allowing
grass to grow under their feet. General
Brett has been replaced as Air C.-in-C.
in the South-west Pacific by Major-
General Kenney—another “optimist,”
who, replying energetically to some far-
off critic, said that the Allies were burn-
ing up the enemy’s ’planes on the ground
as fast as he could put them there.
Major-General Kenney told the press
that, because the Japanese could fly
fighters step by step to the New Guinea
area, while there were no stepping-stones
from America to the area, it was neces-
sary for our men to shoot 4 ow n three
enemy ’planes to every one lost to keep
on top. He remarked that the ratio some-
times reached 5 to 1 on the right side.
Zeros had been extolled, but no Allied
pilot would change his Kittyhawk for a
Zero. The Japanese had obtained the
high ceiling and manoeuvrability of the
“O” fighter at the expense of armor and
tank protection. An “O” fighter was no
match for a Kittyhawk in actual combat
and was apt to come down in flames and
pieces after receiving a good burst. As
a result of what had been done to the air
base at Buna, there had been no air in-
terception of Allied machines for five
days.
These statements were borne out by
the communiques, although successes, as
usual, were touched up a little by corre-
spondents.
Buna to Buka
Several raids have torn Buna to pieces
and 50 ’planes or so have been destroyed
there. On Thursday last alone 35,000
rounds of ammunition were fired at the
place by Allied air cannon and machine-
guns.
Stores, dumps and installations burn-
ing fiercely lit up the jungle for 25 miles
away, and 27 landing barges were
knocked to bits.
Nor was this the only centre which
suffered. From Buka to Rabaul, from
Rabaul to Gasmata and on to Lae, the
enemy had as much trouble as the United
Air Forces could give him. The hearten-
ing factor seemed to be that he had little
to give in exchange. But perhaps it was
only “seemed,” He may be harvesting
his machines, realising that the present
battle is in the jungle and that it is a
waste to have good fighters and bombers
struggling over the range, attacking
objectives which they can rarely see and
which‘have magnificent natural shelter.
He will (he may argue) need every
ounce of bomb-carrying capacity for the
attack on Papua’s south coast and other
vital points. He may not care so much
whether he can keep Buna or landing
barges while he has land control of the
north coast.
Landing barges, while useful, are built
to be written off when they have served
their purpose; and jungle troops can
land and establish themselves anywhere
along the north coast provided they are
not caught at it. So ports do not mean
so much as they did.
Various Chances
The most optimistic view of the New
Guinea position is that the enemy is facing
the worst in his front line as he
approaches open country; also the worst
behind as the Allied aerial attack on his
bases grows and his lines lengthen and
his transport coolies tire and have to
carry ever heavier loads over lengthening
distances.
The most pessimistic view is that the
enemy foresaw what is happening and
that his operations are staged—trained
troops advance by infiltration across the
ranges and through the jungle to the
edge of open country ; then pause while
supplies and guns are brought up, after
roads or tracks have been built by her-
culean labor through the mountains, and
large-scale aerodromes established at
Kokoda, only 60 miles airline from
Moresby.
The realistic view is about half and
half. It might presume a plan based on
Japanese experience of Allifd troops and
strength and methods in Malaya and the
Philippines, East Indies and Rabaul. This
plan the Japs might be finding it ex-
tremely difficult to carry out, because they
so far seem to have underestimated the
strength and quality of the Allied sea-
power available ; have not reckoned with
the swiftness with which a strong Allied
air force has been built up, and did not
bargain for the Coral Sea battle or the
results of the operations in the Solomons.
There is some support for this view in
cold fact. If the sea- and air-power avail-
able had been strong enough to by-pass
Moresby and land a military force
directly in Australia, or even the Hebrides
and New Caledonia, this would have
been attempted instead of the hazardous
climb across the Owen Stanley Range.
If a force could have been pushed
along the south coast from Milne Bay
the enemy command would have done it
instead of crossing the ranges.
But this course would have called for
naval and air control of the eastern Coral
Sea.
Safety in Boldness
A conclusion which can be drawn is
that the Japanese have not got these
things— at least thus far —and that,
therefore, their safest bet is the boldest.
They are not making for Moresby so
much because they want to go there —at
present—but because they must, before
its growing strength turns it into an
offensive instead of a defensive base, and
before the Allies consolidate so strongly
in the Solomons that any Japanese who
attempt to cross the Coral Sea or ap-
proach the southern Papuan coast are
likely to find themselves in a vice.
Only time will tell; and there is no-
thing to invalidate the dictum of Major-
General Kenney:
Anyone who thinks we haven’t a first-
class fight on his hands should roll over
and dream on the other side. If there is
anyone who talks of quitting, he needn’t
talk to me; but if talk of licking the
Japanese is optimism, then put me among
the optimists.
In the Solomons.
“Ek D.”: The main worry of some
critics seems to have been produced not
by what is happening in New Guinea but
what is happening in the Solomons.
The N’York. “Herald-Tribune,” which
called the statements of General Blarney,
Rear-Admiral Blandy and Major-General
Kenney “triumphs of the mimeograph
machine,” sneered that “it was unkind
of the Japanese to launch another deter-
mined attempt on Guadalcanal.”
A singularly ill-timed sneer. A day after
it appeared New Yorkers were reading a
graphic account of the “determined
attack on Guadalcanal”:
A moonlight battle in which the Ameri-
can forces trapped and wiped out an entire
Japanese landing force is described by a
United Press correspondent in a dis-
patch from the Marines’ H.Q Tanks
turned the battle into a massacre There
were only two things the Japanese could
do—scramble and run, and be mowed down
by our machine-guns, or lie low hoping
that the tanks would miss them It was
pitiful to watch the Japanese try ,to fight
the tanks Seven hundred and fifty Japs
were wiped out. The American. casualties
were 28 killed and 72 wounded.
The correspondent wrote that in the
early stages the enemy used the same
methods as at Singapore, trying to sneak
behind the U.S. lines and using snipers
and small penetrative groups of infantry,
covering their sorties with heavy and
light m.-g. fire, mortars and grenades.
At first the tactics succeeded —the fight
was so close-locked that it was impossible
to tell friend from foe. There were Japs
behind trees, logs and crawling up
Marine trouser-legs. “There was never
a dull moment.”
If, as was suggested, it was “unkind”
of the enemy to attack again in the
Solomons, the unkindness was mainly to
himself. And now that the Marines
have been in possession of all the Tulagi
area for a month, the dictum of a N.Y.
“Times” correspondent seems reasonable
—that “only a major Japanese expedition
could have a chance to reconquer the
area centring on Tulagi, including the
30 square miles surrounding the aero-
drome at Guadalcanal.”
The Marines
It is a man-sized job for unacclimatised
men to stay in the Solomons in this
season under improvised conditions, amid
tropical rain, mosquitoes, heat, humidity
and fever, without taking into account
the constant necessity to hold off inertia
and put up with regular raiding and snip-
ing. These things the Marines have been
doing, and fighting incessantly into the
bargain. But the worst may be yet to
come.
Nobody knowing the Japanese or the
Orient ever imagined that the Imperial
High Command would leave the situation
where it is.
Chinese sources reported on September
18 that four battleships were on their
way towards the Solomons —and battle-
ships rarely travel without screens of
cruisers and flotillas of destroyers and
aircraft.
Next day a U.S. naval communique
issued in Washington revealed that a


Missing Friend.
TO the advantage of CHRISTOPHER CARL-
SON.—WILL CHRISTOPHER CARLSON,
formerly Horse Buyer and later Traveller,
native of Sunbury, Victoria, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, communicate with McNAB
& McNAB, Solicitors, 422 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBINA ALBERTA MORGAN formerly
of Melbourne in the State of Victoria. —TAKE
NOTICE that GABRIEL ALBERT MORGAN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1214 of
1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause for three years and upwards You may
enter an appearance by the 9th November 1942
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART
Solicitors 197 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
large enemy fleet, including battleships
and cruisers, had been driven off during
the enemy landing which ended so badly
for the landing parties. The fleet was
making a nocturnal progress towards
Guadalcanal and Tulagi from the north-
west when the Fortresses caught it. They
went in through heavy a.-a. fire and, with-
out loss of a machine, drove the fleet
off and possibly hit two battleships.
This is undoubtedly a naval war. If
four battleships actually are being trans-
ferred, it must have an important effect
on the situation in the North Pacific, as
ii *i.
well as the boutti racmc.
From October onwards ships are not
much use in the far .north of the Pacific
-the mouths of the rivers and the ports
near Saghahen are blocked with ice
fer 220 days in the year; Vladivostok
from December to April. The Aleutian
, • .
season in which any operations are pos-
sible is nearly over.
There seems now to be very little
chance of an assault on Russia by Japan
this year unless the Nipponese think they
can make a lightning conquest.
Stalingrad's Agony.
“Ek Dum”: Last week the position at
Stalingrad grew worse. At the begin-
ing of it an iron semicircle of German
armies pinned the devoted troops within
the city against the broad Volga.
The manner in which the locality of
attack shifted from point to point
mechanically and in order showed the
attackers, unfortunately, to be fully in
control of the movements of the battle.
On September 14 they were applying
grim pressure on the northern part of
the city’s suburbs. Next day they hurled
heavy forces at the centre of the defence
perimeter from the Kalach region ; but
so soon as they had drawn Russian
strength to that point they struck in the
south-west. Their objective appeared to
be to keep the Soviet front-line forces in
a constant state of movement, at the same
time gnawing a little further into the
suburbs with each attack.
The procedure, in effect, is that yester-
day’s captures in the north are consoli-
dated and tidied up, today’s proceed in
the centre and tomorrow’s will begin
while the central conquests are being
clinched by organisation, and while fresh
preparations go forward in the north to
launch another attack there the instant
the one in the south achieves its purpose.
On September 15 the south-western
attacks were giving results for the enemy.
The Russians had admitted the loss of
another village at a cost to the Germans
reckoned in Moscow at a battalion and
forty tanks. The enemy High Command
said that the outskirts of the city had
been penetrated through suburbs in
which every house was fortified and
every foot fought for.
Meanwhile schools of dive-bombers
were mercilessly plastering the city with
bombs and harrying rearward lines of
communication across the Volga—the
only communications the defenders still
possessed. Stockholm, 1200 miles or so
away, reported that an attempt by Ger-
man shock troops to cross the Volga had
been frustrated by Russian artillery, with
the loss of half the troops that had made
the attempt and their boats. Vichy, 1900
miles away, declared that the enemy had
control of the western arm of the river.
Towards the end of the week part of
the city was holding out with immense
fortitude, though it was difficult to say
how great a part. The shattering
series of blows at successive points of
the line continued in methodical order,
and the reports from Moscow that the
enemy was entrenched right up to the
edges of the city proper demonstrated
the solidity of his concentrations.
By September 18 the position had
become precarious. The city had been
torn to pieces by shellfire and bombs.
And its communications must have been
in a parlous state, since the main
approaches north and south on the Volga
were under German control and the
Volga crossing from the east under con-
verging fire from two separate direc-
tions ; the landing stages and wharves
also under fire by even the enemy’s
lighter guns round the whole of the
perimeter. It was reported that fresh
Siberian forces had arrived, and that
others were “streaming down” from cen-
tral Russia. They Could stream down
on any scale only by crossing the Volga
much further north and using the routes
on the Asiatic side. The attackers, too,
were being reinforced, largely by air.
The general German operations had
shifted back methodically to the north
and north-west in the section of the line
reaching from Dubovka on the Volga to
Kachalinsk on the Don, following
counter-attacks by the Russians.
In the southern attacks, before this
phase began, shock spearheads had pene-
trated the city itself. According to Red
Army reports these penetrations had
been temporary: in the first, 1500 Ger-
mans were killed and 45 tanks and 21
guns destroyed in street fighting ; in the
second, heavier, the invaders
were driven back with heavy loss.
Paris Radio, in German hands, declared
that this second spate of invasion had
passed through the centre of the city.
The German communique on Sep-
tember 18 read:
Further successes have been achieved at
Stalingrad after bitter fighting in which
there has been the closest army-and-air co-
operation. New Russian attacks against our
Voronezh bridgehead have been repelled
with heavy losses. German tank detach-
ments on the Terek River front, supported
by ’planes, wiped out the bulk of two
enemy battalions and captured 417 guns
after an enveloping attack. We have de-
stroyed 92 Russian guns at Stalingrad
since Tuesday. The Luftwaffe is making
night attacks on airfields in the rear of the
Russians. Russian attacks south of Lake
Ilmen and south of Lake Ladoga broke
down after heavy casualties.
The Russian communique:
The Russians last night repelled tank
and infantry attacks in the n.-e. outskirts
of Stalihgrad and fought the enemy in the
area of Mosdok—on the approaches to
the Grozny oilfields. One Russian artillery
unit north-west of Stalingrad destroyed 12
tanks and wiped out two companies. Two
enemy battalions in another sector of this
front broke through into one street, but
were routed in hand-to-hand engagements
and lost 500 killed and wounded. Our
forces in the Mosdok area made a night
attack and destroyed four tanks and a
company of infantry. Marines south-east
of Novorossisk destroyed three tanks and
wiped out about a company of Germans.
The Russians on the Karelian front made
a surprise attack and forced the Finns to
retreat. The Finns counter-attacked, but
were repelled. They lost about two com-
panies.
The afternoon this was issued a broad-
caster in Moscow announced that fresh
German attacks were in progress north-
west of Stalingrad under cover of mass
air raids which were “reducing the city
to rubble.”
With the command of the air in Ger-
man hands, with the heights south of the
city in German occupation, with enemy
bridgeheads on the Volga actually east
of the river and with enemy troops able
to penetrate the city itself, the loss or
complete destruction of Stalingrad is
unhappily only a matter of time.
There is small comfort to be derived
from the lull in other portions of the
Caucasian front. It points to concentra-
tion of energies on a main objective,
which means that areas in the south have
been drained of lorries and transport
’planes and army-service vehicles for the
Stalingrad attack armies.
And Russian operations in the Lenin-
grad region and the central sector indicate
little more than that the spirit of the Rus-
sian armies has not been impaired. In
spite of repeated attacks at Voronezh, it
is evident that Germany continues to hold
a strong bridgehead across the Don,
otherwise the position further south would
be precarious for the enemy. As for
Rshev, the position points to an ebb and
flow of attack and counter-attack all
along the perimeter, with indecisive
results.
The heart of every Australian must be
with the Russian people in the awful
trials they are undergoing. Short of
squandering the best blood of the British
Commonwealth and countless precious
ships in a useless attack in Western
Europe, everything that can be done for
the Russians, consistently with the neces-
sity for a great effort in the Pacific, in
which the U.S.S.R. is not fighting, should
and will be done.
Tobruk and Dieppe.
“Ek Dum”: With every fresh raid it
becomes more evident, except to Second-
Front clergymen, Communists, news-
papermen and radiomen, how costly it
is in men and ships to land in force on
a hostile coast, and how disastrous a
Second Front would be.
Second-Front’ sentiment was fairly
strong in Canada. It is improbable that
much will survive the official report on
Dieppe, which shows that two-thirds of
the 5000 Canadians engaged did not
return, being killed, wounded or missing.
No doubt with Dieppe in mind, the
general commanding the overseas forces
in Ulster said “The Second-Front talkers
don’t know what the hell they’re talking
about.”
A chance meeting with a German
tanker gave the show away. It resulted
in the Royal Regiment of Toronto having
to go ashore in broad daylight against
defences which were ready. The lads not
only landed into fire, but under fire,
which caught them before they came
ashore. They landed, as did the men of
Gallipoli, but against greater opposition
and on a piece of open shore on which
they must have been as suitably placed for
the defenders as if they were targets on
a rifle range—or more so since the enemy
was able to concentrate his fire from an
arc.
The expedition proved, according to
the report, that the Channel could be
crossed by a force “almost” without the
enemy’s knowledge. It was shown that
tanks could be transported and landed.
But those that were landed had to be
left behind.
Almost any suitably strong attempt to
immobilise Tobruk was justified, seeing
that its object would be to weaken the
whole of Rommel’s supply system for
long enough to be of service, and so
save lives and material in the front line.
But the first essential was that the force
used should be adequate for its purpose ;
otherwise the thing would turn itself
into an enemy operation against our own
precious and all-too-scanty machinery for
cutting off or into his supplies.
The naval and commando attack on
Sept. 13 was made with what the Admir-
alty describes as “light naval forces” and
“small army forces,” backed by bombers
which were able to drop 300 tons of bombs,
according to Rome Radio, while the land-
ing parties were put ashore and “inflicted
damage and casualties before withdraw-
ing.” But losses were admitted. Rome
Radio —for what it was worth —men-
tioned 576 British soldiers taken prisoner
and several hundred killed or wounded.
But the thing cost two valuable Tribal
destroyers, Zulu and Sikh, though most
of the crews were saved.
Rome asserted that a cruiser, four de-
stroyers, several T.Bs. and smaller craft
were sunk, and a light cruiser heavily
damaged.
It takes a lot of damage to make up
for the loss of two of the best destroyers
in the R.N. in a sea war in which success
depends more upon destroyers than
almost on any other craft.
The two ships died in the best tradi-
tion of the R.N. Sikh, on fire and with
shells from land batteries being poured
into her at mile-range after she and her
consort and some other vessels landed
the commandos, which had instantly to
grapple with 1000 Germans in one camp
and a mixed camp of several thousand
Germans and Italians in another.
The decks of the vessels were stacked
with explosives for destructive work, and
they were compelled to push in close so
as to serve the landing parties, which got
ashore about 2 a.m. on a 50-yard stretch
of beach in craft towed by power boats.
At 5 a.m. the shore batteries opened
on the two destroyers. Sikh had her
steering-gear put out of action. Zulu
went to take her in tow under heavy fire
—an unusually difficult operation. Sikh
was being struck by shell after shell. As
Zulu came up she collected part of the
issue, but got a towline to Sikh ; but a
shell cut it and dawn came before an-
other line could be sent.
As the flotilla withdrew, under heavy
bombing, the flashes of Sikh’s guns could
still be seen, though the ship formed the
base of a heavy column of smoke.
Zulu was hit by a bomb in the middle
of the afterdeck. All except a skeleton
personnel were removed to another ship.
And presently Zulu sank in tow.
The Japs in Timor have learned to
their cost that it is one thing to take
an island and another to deal with the
Australians in it. Six months after
hope for them was abandoned the Aus-
sies sent to Timor are still fighting, and,
despite the difficulties of supply and
munitions, they seem more like hunters
than hunted. One of those “commando”-
and “guerrilla”-mad papers calls them
guerrillas. They received the regulation
A.I.F. training.
* * * *
Two batches of Australian wounded
arrived at Australian ports last week,
one lot survivors from H.M.A.S. Can-
berra, the others from Milne Bay. All
were in the usual condition of Australian
wounded —eager to be back in the fray.
* * * *
Army Minister Forde announced last
week that 28,251 Australians, mostly of
the A.1.F., are missing or are prisoners
of war. Of these 7667 were known to
have been captured in Greece and Crete,
and 20,584 were in enemy hands or miss-
ing in other regions, 16,286 of them in
Malaya. Australia’s share of the load of
loss borne by the whole Empire is heavy.
The last time comparative casualties were
issued was in October, when the official
analysis divided the figures for all forms
of casualty as follows: British Army,
100,000; R.N. (including R.A.N.), 22,800;
R. (including R.A.A.F.), 8500;
A.1.F., 13,000 ; India, 7000 ; N.Z., 6000 ;
S. Africa, 600; other African troops,
500. These figures have, for the most
part, almost doubled since; in South
Africa’s case they have been multiplied
by at least 20 —the Union lost particu-
larly heavily in Libya. Britain has seen
just on 50,000 of her civilians killed and
50,000 wounded by bombing raids. And
there is the heavy toll of the gallant
Merchant Navy.
After a week’s fighting of the mildest
description, the Vichy French in Mada-
gascar asked for an armistice. Madagas-
car, it was pointed out by the editor of
the “Nineteenth Century” in a remark-
able article in the June number, is “essen-
tial to the defence of the Indian Ocean,
the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf”;
oddly enough, he followed with unspar-
ing criticism of “the British Govern-
ment’s dealings with the French since
June, 1940.” The armistice terms were
not accepted, and operations went on
* * * *
The Admiralty reports as overdue
H.M. submarine Urge. She had a great
record, having torpedoed and sunk two
Bin.-gun cruisers, a destroyer, two large
transports (one of 23,000 tons), two large
tankers and three supply ships, besides
damaging an armed merchant cruiser.
Her captain, Lieut.-Commander Tomkin-
son, D. 5.0., was the R.N.’s tallest mem-
ber —6ft. Sin.
* * * *
A mid-week Berlin report claimed a
succession of submarine attacks, spread
over four days, on “a convoy from Eng-
land in the middle of the North Atlantic.”
Sinkings alleged were 19 merchantmen
of 122,000 tons, two destroyers and a
corvette ; damage, six other ships: “only
a few escaped.” The enemy makes a prac-
tice of getting in first with such s|ories.
* * * ♦
While the Japanese counter-offensive
in the Solomons was in progress it was
announced at Pearl Harbor that 450 Jap
prisoners had been taken on Tulagi and
Guadalcanal in the previous operations.
They expected to be killed in cold blood,
their whole army having been stuffed with
that notion by its leaders. The report
says the humane treatment they received
“so surprised the captives that many
expressed the desire never to return to
Japan.” This may only mean that return
to Japan would be equivalent to suicide.
The fatalism of the enemy will be diffi-
cult to overcome, but it may not be so diffi-
cult when things go definitely against him.
* * * *
Kiska (Aleutians) had three U.S. air
attacks in four days last week. Results:
Two Jap minesweepers sunk, three large
cargo ships damaged, three submarines
damaged, many supply boats set on fire,
six ’planes destroyed in the air and a
large flying-boat on the water, and 500
Japs killed.
* * * *
After an interval of silence, piecemeal
accounts of the evil wrought in India by
Gandhi’s civil disobedience campaign have
been given. A strike, one of many, para-
lysed production in the iron and steel
works at Jamshedpur, Bihar, claimed —dis-
putably—to be the biggest in the Empire.
Rioters fired and destroyed 53 post
offices, “seriously damaged” 200 and
attacked 300 others, tampering also with
telegraph and telephone lines “at many
places.” They attacked “70 police
stations and other post offices,” de-
stroying 45, and destroyed most of
“85 other buildings attacked.” More
serious still were their efforts to wreck
transport: they damaged 250 railway
stations, tore up tracks, caused at least
24 derailments, burnt many empty pas-
senger cars and wrecked goods wagons.
Most of the sabotage occurred north
of Bihar and in the eastern part of the
United Provinces, and one result was a
setback to war transport, but this has
been “rapidly overcome.” As for riot
casualties, 308 were killed and 153
wounded by the military, 340 killed and
850 wounded by the police, who, with
“other civil officials,” have lost “49 killed
and a very large number injured,” not
including post office and railway em-
ployees. There has been criticism of
the British in American newspapers,
directed principally at the no-surrender
attitude of Mr. Churchill and Mr.
Amery; but then there has never been
a time when British policy in India
received the approbation of the same
newspapers.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The Arts and Crafts Society this year
stepped right into the war picture with
its displays of weaving, leather work,
toys and basketware done by convales-
cent patients at military hospitals. These
are all the outcome of occupational
therapy treatment. Recovering soldiers,
bored with reading and radio, gladly turn
to occupations where hand and brain
combine to create objects of use-
fulness and beauty. Among the crowds
around the exhibits were many men in
khaki, some pointing out to mothers or
wives accompanying them the work of
the “chap in the bed next to mine.” One
lad confided that weaving was the most
popular of these hand crafts, long urged
by science, now admitted by military
hospitals as essential in the quest for
health of the war-weary.
The society, now 30 years old, shows
its pleasant years in the maturity, the
quiet restraint of design and color. Here
are the hand-painted china, the smooth
yet vivid glazes, the cuddly toys (the
platypus among them), the hand-printed
fabrics abloom with all the freshness of
former years. At the doorway of David
Jones’s auditorium Mrs. Darsow, Nance
Mackenzie and secretary Mrs. Ann Out-
law sold programmes, the sixpences
gleaned going to the comfort of prisoners
of war. Of interest was Eirene Mort’s
book on architecture. It has photographs
of barrows on Stonehenge, of the Harbor
Bridge, of the Sphinx and all the Egyp-
tian wonders, plus the beauties of Greece.
It is quite a handy book of reference.
Then, of course, there were the photo-
graphs and the prints of the “Duration”
house. It is listed as “Housing the Muni-
tion Workers.” But they wouldn’t have
to be very large munition workers. If
appetite goes by the size of kitchen, then
they must be delicate pickers indeed, for
the area of that room is 9ft. by 6ft.
Colonel A. M. Mclntosh opened the
show, introduced by president of the
society B. J. Waterhouse.
The Institution for the Deaf and
Dumb and the Blind Children at Dar-
lington was given a helping hand by the
Victory Parade at Prince’s last week.
As indicated, the spotlight was thrown
on the new victory styles for women.
And really if these stand for austerity
then all present will welcome the austere.
Accompanying remarks by Jimmy Bancks
went with a swing. Mayoress Crick,
one of whose daughters helped display
the spring frocks and sports clothes, was
the guest of honor. Jean Giles sold
posies for the cause,* and the wealth ot
flowers that had been donated was
quickly sold at the end of the afternoon
by actress Marjorie Gordon. The 200
little ones trained at the institution are
steadfast war workers. They knit un-
ceasingly and pack comforts for over-
seas.
Thousands of women have already
met Mrs. Miniver in book form. Last
week Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer held a
special screening to introduce this ideal
Englishwoman to a film public. On the
screen Mrs. Miniver proved even more
entrancing than in cold type. The
Minivers are English middle-class, the
class that represents in England today
the sturdiness and independence which
marked the yeomanry in the agricultural
days of old. Mrs. Miniver is a creature
of sensibility wedded to good looks,
and Greer Garson makes her look, in
the film, just the sort of person most
people dreamed, when they read about
her, that she might be.
Glimpses of the Thames washed in
white moonlight, of rural England in bud
and blossom, of chestnut trees, of flower
shows, have nothing of peace about
them in this story. The tempo is set to
bombings, to the wail of sirens, to swift
death from the unsullied sky. But the
Minivers live amid the wreckage sane
and normal lives. They have a courage
that is indomitable (the more so for
being compounded of laughter) and a
faith that is unshakeable. In short, the
Minivers are England. Women will love
the flower show, Mrs. Miniver’s hats,
and wonder with amazed awe where
dowager Lady Belden bought hers.
The shillings just keep rolling along to
the Y.W.C.A. silver mount which will
eventually put a recreation-hut roof over
the heads of all service women. Last
week shilling-givers ate at a cost
of 10s. 6d. a head. Jane Bernays’s
clever organisation had rounded up half
a restaurantful, and, as all cash goes
to the fund, the Y.W.C.A. moneybox
positively clinked with shillings. The
Hon. Henrietta Loder was the guest of
honor, and sat at a table surrounded by
members of the Y.W. three services’
younger set. Gladys Webb was hostess
to this group. Some of the popular
grandmothers were there —the Alexander
Gordon fady among them. Girls as fresh
as the posies they sdld did big business.
Visitors to the Swifts on Saturday
afternoon will see in their undiminished
beauty the old crystal chandeliers that
shed their light on parties held in the
ballroom as long ago as the days when
it was the home of the Lucas Tooths.-
Now, this old Darling Point house is
the home of the E. Resch couple. With
true public spirit they have handed the
ballroom and two other spacious rooms
over to the local C.A.S. The Halse
Rogers lady is supervisor of this rest
centre, and with her usual efficiency has
seen that an information bureau has been
set up. Stores of blankets and mattresses
and emergency rations (though somebody
did say the bottle of brandy always in-
cluded in these had not turned up) have
been gathered and stacked in readiness
against possible disaster. Minister for
Labor and Social Services Hamilton
Knight will declare the Swifts Rest
Centre open on Saturday. After that
there will be a demonstration of fire-
fighting. A personnel of 20, three trained
nurses among them, will staif the centre.
The after-war world will be a better
place for the presence of girls like
Allison Laing. She is one of the
group presented last week at Sydney
University with diplomas in Social
Studies. Each one of the 14 is concerned
with human welfare, and each is em-
barking on a career that will help to
improve the world.
Allison is already a professional
assistant in the Child Welfare Depart-
ment, whose special care is juvenile
delinquents. Determined to become
thoroughly qualified for the career she
has chosen, this clever Sydney girl is
taking night lectures in economics at Syd-
ney University. The Governor’s daughter,
the Hon. Henrietta Loder, was one who
plucked a diploma in Social Studies. She
is an enthusiast, and is a voluntary
worker for the Civilian Aid Service
Information Bureau. Falk made this
photograph of Allison Laing.
Everybody remembers Philip Har-
grave, the prodigy pianist of a few years
ago. Philip is now 21, and is a corporal
in the army. Next Friday night, at a
quarter past eight, there will commence
a concert in the Town Hall. At this
Philip will play the Grieg Concerto with
the Sydney A.B.C. Orchestra, Bernard
Heinze conducting. The concert funds
go to the National Shilling Drive for
the Women of the Services sponsored by
the Y.W.C.A. The audience promises
to be very numerous. Vice-regals will
sparkle. Lady Gowrie, Lord Wakehurst
and Lady Wakehurst will be present.
The wild waves at Manly are saying,
since last Sunday afternoon, “Be austere!
Can’t you save an inch or two on that
bathing suit? Be a Victory girl! ” Mrs.
Phyllis Burke, complete with a military
band and a procession of Manly’s
N.E.S., A.R.P. and other war workers,
proceeded with her Victory chariot from
the wharf, by way of the Corso, and
thus to the bandstand at Manly, last Sun-
day. Of course, there were other impor-
tants in the parade. There were Walter
Marks, ex-M.H.R., and G. Godfrey, of
the A.J.A. Gabriel McDermott sounded
the horn for them. In other words, com-
pered. All spoke of the necessity of
doing without that Australia might have
an impregnable wall of war savings built
about it.
Owing to many of its members being
busied about war work, the Sydney
P.E.N. Club has decided to put up the
shutters for the duration or till the coun-
cil thinks it advisable to throw them wide.
Not that it had a home of its own, but
the hotel where the members met to
dine, and sometimes lo meet overseas
guests, could no long" cater for club
dinners or lunches owing to staff difficul-
ties. London P.E.N., owing, it is to be
supposed, to its much greater size, still
keeps on, or, at any rate, had refused to
let its ink run dry when last heard of.
Still, even in Blitzed London it was prob-
ably easier to snatch hotel meals than it
has been for some time in this crowded
city.
From Melbourne
Red Cross Divisional Headquarters has
been a hive of industry in the last two
weeks getting Christmas parcels for
wounded and sick troops overseas sorted
and packed. Parcels for men in Australia
will come later in the year. The workers
who dealt with the thousands of parcels
were the Red Cross’s permanent volun-
tary helpers, who are engaged the year
round packing and censoring wool gar-
ments (ill-turned heels and the like come
under the ban of the censor). The Red
Cross Waste Products Depot in Elizabeth-
street is calling for a few more volunteers
to wash bottles, with which the depot is
piled high. The cleaned bottles are a
fruitful source of funds, as they are
bought by chemists and factories selling
bottled goods, and it is not such dirty
work as some other kinds of sorting of
waste products.
“Slim the flax way” threatens to be-
come a new slogan. When the Flax Pro-
duction Committee arranged its big-scale
demonstration of flax-working at Burnley
Horticultural School the National Fitness
Campaign management sent along one
of its instructors and gave to the women
and girls assembled, nearly all of whom
were contemplating joining the Women’s
Land Army, an up-to-the-minute account
of how to stoop with benefit to the
figure. The flax workers, according to
this instruction, should come back v/ith
all spare tyres eliminated and figures like
slim young girls. The idea is so appeal-
ingl that already many women have put
down their names for flax work, the way
being made easier for them by the fact
that they can enlist for a period of any-
thing from two to six months. This is a
boon to many women who cannot leave
home “for the duration,” but who could
quite easily do a term at this work of
national importance in their usual annual
holiday time.
The new Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Edward
Campbell, here pictured by Mendelssohn,
has got off on the right foot by inviting
most of those with whom she will work
to come and have a word with her at
her room at the Town Hall. When she
found it impossible to attend the meeting
at which the National Theatre Move-
ment welcomed the Olney lady (who
automatically becomes president-elect of
the women’s committee of the movement
as soon as her husband is called to the
presidency), Mrs. Campbell gratified
all present by her note which said “As I
can’t come to you today, please all come
round to the T.H. on Tuesday and have
a snack at eleven.”
Austerity got a big lift last week when
schools announced their sympathy with
the Victory Fashions drive for simpler
uniforms. Not even the hint of standard
cloth in one color for all schools for girls
upset them. Reason advanced was that
the girls were already austerely inclined,
evidence of their point of view being the
big clothes exchanges run in all leading
schools. One head said that hers was so
big that it was almost a new school de-
partment, and at another the teacher in
charge of it said that she imposed a rule
on all girls leaving school which practi-
cally compelled them to deliver over gar-
ments they were certain they would
never wear again. The sentimental idea
that the old school tunic should become
a family heirloom has died suddenly but
unregretted. By autumn, it is thought, the
clothes exchanges will be busy with undies
as well as tops, and “handing on” will
have become so usual as to cause no
comment.
A.W.A.S. has come into the spotlight
with a scheme for making women of its
service drivers for the army. The girls
now in training won’t stop at learning
to drive brass-hats and red-tabs about
cities. For them the three-ton lorries
and battle buggies, and perhaps later the
battle area up north. They have all come
right on from a good school of driving,
and have settled down to learn everything
about every type of motor-driven vehicle,
which is some job. The unsuitables have
been combed out.
It is high time that girls who neither
sew nor mend should realise that the
boys are acquiring these feminine accom-
plishments. The other night at Air Force
House, while the queue was stationary
before the canteen waiting for it to open,
a lad in blue approached one of the
women in attendance and asked for a
needle. She at once offered to sew on
a button, but was graciously waved
away. He could do it himself —and did,
in most workmanlike manner. Not only
that, but another lad dug in his pocket
and brought out a set of buttons, so
that the first could choose an exact match
to those on his greatcoat.
Patricia Prichard and fiance Lieut.
P. N. S. Whitelaw, A.1.F., are waiting
on leave to arrange a wedding date.
Engagement was announced on his return
from the Middle East, after being through
both Greece and Crete campaigns. The
bride-to-be is the daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. Nigel Prichard (and niece of
Katherine Prichard), and Lieut. Whitelaw
is the eldest son of Major-General and
Mrs. J. S. Whitelaw, as well known in Syd-
ney as in Melbourne. Another engage-
ment is that of Yottie Black and Mar-
garet Moon, which was announced with
suitable celebrations last week. Mar-
garet, who is a Gilsullivan fan, never
misses a revival of the G. and S. produc-
tions, and was a decorative first-nighter
in pre-war days. Her fiance is son of
Mr. and Mrs, G. Black, of Adams-street,
South Yarra.
Melbourne University’s Philosophers
have always been noted for their clan-
nishness and a tendency to dwell apart
from those studying more materialistic
subjects, and now Ann Hurley, daughter
of Air-Vice-Marshal Hurley (in peace-
time one of Melbourne’s best-known sur-
geons), and Cameron Jackson, finals ex-
hibitionist in Philosophy last year, have
continued a study partnership into matri-
mony. Miss Hurley finished up with a
“first,” like her husband, upholding the
tradition of braininess in the Hurley
family. Marriage was celebrated at
Grirawade House chapel. The bride-
groom is a philosophy tutor at the Uni-
versity.
An Austerity wedding fell to the lot
of Noela Adams, one of Toorak’s best-
known girls, who chose the Angel Chapel
at St. John’s instead of the bigger back-
ground of the church, a favorite with
brides who had an eye for the pic-
turesque in pre-war times. Miss Adams
decided against ’maids, and wore a simple
blue frock with a head-covering of branch
orchids. A city florist (one of the few
left) says that toques of real flowers are
being demanded of her every hour of the
day by brides-to-be. The conceit is a
pretty one, and not very costly, for the
base is generally fine net and the flowers
form a wreath or even just a side posy.
Noela Adams also showed the way with
a quiet home reception after she had be-
come Mrs. Neil Shannon. A tiny honey-
moon was all that could be arranged,
as husband is on national work.
One by one members of Melbourne's
Inky Way sisterhood change into khaki
or blue. Latest is Linka Isaacson, who,
with a son flying in raids over Germany
and a young daughter joined up, cannot
resist the temptation to keep in step. As
press work entails plenty of endurance
and quick thinking, Mrs. Isaacson should
not find the life in the service a hardship.
Welcoming Hannah More Frazer is
easy to Victorians who run up against
her at the American Red Cross hospitality
centre, of which she has now taken
charge, Helen Hall having left us for
other fields. Hannah More Frazer holds
an electrical engineer’s degree, and this
qualification has sent many local girls
thoughts to this practical way of helping
the war effort. So far no Melbourne
women seem to have qualifications of
this kind, but from England has come
news of former Victorians who have
qualified to carry out first aid to faulty
electrical apparatus. There is talk ot
forming classes in the subject for women
and girls in this city.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER.
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
mm
ißlilEifllHlfi!
car
inn
::
'Jqm
ye
Ss3
VI
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G. Bulfin
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Rosehill attracted the large attendance
customary nowadays. Two “certainties”
were successful, but as three of the other
five winners were at double figures the
books were ahead of backers on the
day’s- transactions.
After the way Hall Stand cleared out
over the final furlong of seven in the
Hobartville Stakes, there was really no
sound reason for the belief of many
racing men that he would fail at nine
in the Rosehill Guineas. The books were
liberal in laying as much as 6 to 4
against him. It was the Hobartville
Stakes over again. He led from barrier-
rise, and when Cook let him go after
entering the straight he simply ran away
from Baroda and General Smuts, who
were nearest him at the turn. General
Smuts outstayed Baroda for second.
Brueghelier and San Sebastian were
backed, but never threatened danger.
Angel did best of the unplaced lot,
though Commando made a promising
showing.
Gold Salute led Yaralla (McMenamin)
for a couple of furlongs in the Hill
Stakes, but the latter was not in danger
of defeat from the time he drew clear at
the six furlongs. Evergreen was fifth
or sixth at the half-mile, and was giving
Yaralla such a long start that he did well
to get within a length and a quarter of
him. Neither Dewar nor Main Topic
did as well as at Randwick the previous
week, the latter’s showing disappointing
those who had previously credited him
with a particularly good Derby chance.
At the top of the straight it looked as if
he might get third, but his finishing effort
was weak.
Regarded as an Epsom trial, the result
of the Theo Marks Stakes seemingly
disposed of the prospects of some horses
previously fancied for the Randwick race.
Behind Kingsdale, Guild Hall and Soho
at the top of the straight. Grand Fils (E.
Ross) ran through to win, but by only
half a length from Faerie Queen, who
was giving him a long start commenc-
ing the last furlong. Radical, after get-
ting away badly, and being one of the
tail-enders at the half-mile, ran fourth,
while Triad’s third was also a good effort,
Mildura’s complete failure was a shock.
With a clear run throughout he merely
plugged along.
Abspear (R. Parsons) went to the front
from Ron Rico, Angus, Wee Woo and
Beau Frere three furlongs from home in
the Rosehill Spring Handicap, and won
in such good style from Beau Frere that
he probably earned a start in the Metro-
politan, for which, however, his stable-
companion Dewar is in much greater
demand. Half a furlong from home
Yours Truly looked certain to get third,
but he was cut out of that position by
the late-coming Dashing Cavalier, whose
form on a dry track was a great improve-
ment upon that shown by him at Rand-
wick the previous week. Haridelle, who
started favorite, finished a long way
back, but it might be as well to over-
look her failure. 'Losing a lot of ground
through being squeezed out at barrier-
rise she struck further trouble leaving
the straight, and was in a hopeless posi-
tion commencing the last seven furlongs.
Ron Rico found the distance beyond
him, but there is a chance of Mabson
returning to his old form.
Merrimba (Munro) favors Rosehill
more than any other Sydney track, and,
though in the first division of the High-
weight Handicap he was so far back after
going a couple of furlongs that there
seemed little hope for him, he worked
up to eighth at the turn, and then put in
such a good run that he won easily
from Air Link, who looked a winner
when he shot to the front a furlong from
home. An all-the-way win was attempted
with Freckles, but, though he had a use-
ful lead after going three furlongs, he
was then tackled by Cable. They were
leaders into the straight, but had run
themselves out, and finished a long way
from the place-getters.
On form Bona Fide should not have
f £n i at *° \ f° r th® second division
ot the Highweight Handicap, and that
she was at such liberal odds was mainly
due to the fact that she was ridden by
A. Latham, a little-known apprentice.
However, he handled her well, and,
though Bona Fide was only ninth at the
turn, she was with the leaders half a
furlong from home and won by half a
length from Chatham’s Choice, who, after
getting away badly, did not behave kindly
tn running.
Tidemark, favorite for the Encourage
Handicap, lost his chance through swerv-
ing away at barrier-rise, and Barrenjoey
(Duncan) won, outstaying Glendower,
who looked a winner a hundred yards
from home.
* * * *
Velocity, although beaten by Rex Buzz
in the Mentone Cup, was most impres-
sive of the Caulfield Cup horses that
raced on Saturday. He would have won
had the distance been a little farther than
10 furlongs, and, his disappointing track
trials earlier in the week notwithstand-
ing, obviously is as good as when he
won the Caulfield Cup last year. Velo-
city carried 9.5, or 81b. more than his
Cup weight, and is handicapped to meet
Rex Buzz 51b. better over the longer
distance at Flemington. Rex Buzz has
never won beyond 10 furlongs, and at
the time of writing it was indefinite
whether he would be a Caulfield Cup
runner. Lucille, whose 50-to-l third on
Saturday was a good performance, was
not nominated for the more important
Cups.
Skipton’s showing in the Mentone Cup
perturbed his Caulfield Cup backers. He
was a bad last most of the way, and
passed only three tired horses in the
straight. Trainer J. Fryer, however, still
believes the horse will reproduce his
outstanding form of last spring, and will
do better over a longer distance on a
larger track. Skipton pulled up well, and,
as he needs racing, probably will be a
runner at Moonee Valley next Satur-
day. High Road shaped better than in
the Memsie Stakes, despite the fact that
he movfd short on his way to the bar-
rier. Reviving spring hopes for him were
clouded somewhat when the stewards
issued a warning that a repetition of kick-
ing at the barrier might result in his
being banned from racing in the suburban
area.
Brisbane-owned Audacity recorded his
second win from three starts in Mel-
bourne when he defeated White Line and
Emphatic in the first Yarraman Handi-
cap. Being geldings, neither the first
nor third horse is eligible for the Vic-
toria Derby, but White Line finished
strongly enough to enhance her Oaks
prospects. She races in the same interests
as Primavera, winner of the Oaks last
year. Register, short-priced favorite, was
never a possibility, and will need to im-
prove vastly to have a Derby or Cup
chance. Mermeram, a filly by Valiant
Chief from a Windbag mare, justified
her favoritism by defeating Pickway and
Brother Bill in the second division. She
had won on (he same course at her pre-
vious appearance, and is a galloper a bit
above the average.
**oo
While it can scarcely be maintained
that Yaralla “walked in” when he won the
Hill Stakes, his performance as an Epsom
trial was preferable to that of Rimveil,
whose Chelmsford Stakes win was slightly
discounted by the moderate showing
made by Dewar and Main Topic at
Rosehill. Admittedly they met Yaralla
on worse terms, but he completely out-
paced them. It is certain Yaralla will,
if the going is firm, be able to take up
a good position in the first furlong, while
that certainty does not attach to Rimveil
or Evergreen. If it did, Evergreen might
have to be regarded as a more danger-
ous opponent for Yaralla than Rimveil.
Evergreen will meet Yaralla 91b. better
than last Saturday, and is likely to im-
prove more in condition than the latter.
So little excuse is possible for Mildura’s
showing in the Theo Marks Stakes that
it is now hard to stand him. His condi-
tion was good, and his track work during
the previous week was excellent. It will,
however, be only in keeping with the
acknowledged uncertainty of racing if he
runs quite differently at his next start.
Soho, Triad, Kingsdale and Fermanagh
did nothing to improve their Epsom pros-
pects, but the last-mentioned two will
be in better trim when that race is run.
Grand Fils is likely to give a good
account of himself in the Epsom, but
Fasrie Queen gave him too long a start
over the last furlong, and got too close
to him at the finish of the Theo Marks
Stakes to make it • possible to enthuse
greatly over his prospects. Another thing
double-backers have to take into con-
sideration is the possibility of wet weather,
and going on his Tramway Handicap
showing he does not shine on a soft track.
In their morning sprints Gundagai has
been beating him on a dry one.
Freckles stopped a long way from home
in the Highweight Handicap, and, though
he is sure to be in better condition when
the Epsom is run, it is probable that,
like last year, the mile will find him out.
He has 71b. more this time. Merrimba
has always impressed me as being better
at the welter than the ordinary scale,
and, though there was merit in his win at
seven furlongs on Saturday, a faster
beginning may be necessary to enable
him to win the Epsom,
Dashing Cavalier could only get third
in the Rosehill Spring Handicap, but his
showing was the most impressive of any
Metropolitan candidate. He has only 51b.
more than when he won last year, and
it seems as if he is going to be quite as
good as then. Abspear is another that
will be at the top of his form, but on
Randwick running appears to be held
by Shining Night.
We have seen horses win the Rosehill
Guineas in good style and then fail
badly in the Derby. It may be the same
with Hall Stand, but, as I have previ-
ously written, it seems as if his smooth
action gives him a chance of running
almost any distance. He was as tractable
as could be wished on Saturday. He did
not pull, and Cook kept him just as far
in front as he wished until he thought
it time to go on. Then Hall Stand strode
away from his followers, and if any-
thing could have bothered him over an
additional three furlongs appearances
were deceptive. Baroda failed where he
was expected to shine, and, after all, G.
Price may have to depend upon River-
stone as his Derby hope.
General Smuts finished fairly in the
Guineas, but a mile and a half with 8.10
may trouble him. That also applies to
Main Topic, and at the furthest distance
the three-year-olds have yet run Hall
Stand is outstanding. The same has been
said on many previous occasions, but it
would be difficult to contend that this
year the Derby will be contested by a
high-class field of stayers.
* * * *
After Saturday’s racing Yaralla again
joined Rimveil at the top of the Epsom
quotations, and, though some of the books
differed concerning the Metropolitan, the
order of the most fancied horses for both
races was as follows:
EPSOM HANDICAP.
Rimveil, Yaralla.
Grand Fils.
Evergreen.
Gundagai, Mildura.
METROPOLITAN.
Moondarewa.
Shining Night, Dewar, Dashing Cavalier.
Grand Fils, Veiled Threat.
* * * *
At the time of writing racing dates in
Sydney for the remainder of the year
have not been reallocated, but it is fairly
certain the Epsom Handicap will be run
on Oct. 10 and the Metropolitan on
Oct. 17. This will mean the crowding
out of one of the proprietary club meet-
ings at present listed for this year, but
it will be generally admitted that the
premier body is entitled to chief con-
sideration. In Melbourne the V.A.T.C.
may not be affected by the new order of
things, its dates being Oct. 10 and 17, but
the V.R.C. will have to make an altera-
tion. October 31 was to have been Derby
Day, but it is stated by Melbourne papers
that it is now likely the meeting will
commence on Nov. 14, and the Mel-
bourne Cup will be run on Nov. 21. The
Williamstown Cup may be decided on
Nov. 28. As matters now stand the
V.R.C. will lose Oct. 3, Jan, 2, March 6
(Newmarket Handicap), June 5 and July
3 (Grand National Hurdle Race), The
Victorian Chief Secretary meets the chair-
men of Melbourne clubs today to dis-
cuss dates.
* * * *
Increased betting at Sydney race-
courses is in a great measure due to the
fact that so many people are receiving at
least double —some treble—as much in
wages as early in the war. A gamble on
anything appeals to a large section of
Australians, and many who, in the past,
rarely went beyond ss. in one wager
now bet up to £l, The proposed sup-
pression on racecourses of betting on
races in other States will, if adopted,
tend to heavier wagering on local events
at each meeting.
Miscellaneous
Alleged to be the best big boxer to come
out of Queensland since Jerry Jerome,
Ken Petersen (12.0) did not live up to it
against Billy Britt (13.2) at Leichhardt.
Britt finished him in the fifth round, after
having felled him in the second, third
and fourth. Jerome would have whipped
the pair in the same ring.
* * ♦ «
Just under 50,000 went to Carlton for
the V.F. League “grand” final between
Essendon and Richmond. After the first
quarter it was a “Same Old” story, and
all humane people were glad when the
Tigers were finally allowed to get up:
Essendon, 19.18; Richmond, 11.13. The
four final games this year attracted
132,000 onlookers ; last year they were
watched by 263,596.
• * * *
Sydney’s Rugby Union premiership
went to Manly for the third year since
the last war —1922, 1932 and 1942. East’s
record is 1921, 1931 and 1941 ; and East
gave Manly a much harder tussle than
University did on Saturday. Early in
the second half ’Varsity had a 6-3 lead;
then Manly came with a vengeance, scor-
ing a try (its first), a field goal, another
try and another field goal, closing the
slaughter with 22 points to 6. Backs
and forwards shared the honors of a fine
win.
FOR HAWKESBURY.
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Novice Handicap: Kiaree, 1 ;
Tidemark, 2; Ronswalk or Sir
Galahad, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap; Com-
mando, 1 ; Silver Crown, 2 ; Angel,
3.
Andrew Town Quality Handicap:
Gundagai, 1 ; Yaralla, 2; Flying
Knight or Common Sense, 3.
Trial Stakes Handicap: Lambeth,
1 ; Barrenjoey, 2; Wellesley, 3.
Hawkesbury Handicap; Shining
Night, 1 ; Haridelle, 2; Salivant, 3.
Welter Handicap; Easter Time,
1 ; Chatham’s Choice, 2; Air Link
or Silverelda, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Pascoe Handicap: Gold Hazard,
1 ; Nalong, 2 ; Ortolan, 3.
Merri Trial Handicap: Lucille,
1 ; Elegies, 2 ; Fallada, 3.
Lindsay Gordon Steeplechase:
Sarthorn, 1; Springhead, 2 ; Glen-
lonan, 3.
Quality Handicap: Tranquil Star,
1 ; Sun Valley, 2 ; Tuhitarata, 3.
Tullamarine Handicap; True
Flight, 1 ; Sir Locket, 2; Rex Buzz,
3.
Ailsa Handicap; Phoines, 1 ;
Wheat Sheaf, 2; Millais, 3.


FOR AUSTRALIA? Simple living and steady saving
are imperative it Australia is to survive.
We surely know how important it is that our savings should
go into the war effort, not only
the savings we already have,
but all we can accumulate from
day to day.
Every pay day we must set aside
as much as we can possibly
spare—to help our country. The
price of victory will be great—
but the war will be shortened by
every sacrifice we can make,
and make quickly.
Surely we will spend less,
save more and lend more.
FOR YOURSELF?
When victory has been won, and after-
war problems confront you, the savings
you are now making for your country's
sake will provide for your own welfare.
They will help you through the first
difficult years of peace, assist you to
buy and furnish your own home, to
travel, to educate and care for your
children, and acquire the comforts and
conveniences which, until the war is
over, we must forego.
A COMMONWEALTH SAVINGS
BANK PASS BOOK
provides the easy way to save money for investment in
NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
OR THE NEXT WAR LOAN IN ADVANCE
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HARRY CHARLES MAYS of address un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA JESSIE
MAYS has filed a petition for Divorce No.
1352 of 1942 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards.. If you wish to defend you rnay enter
an appearance by the 30th November 194- and
obtain a copy of the petition without chaige
from JOHN W. MILNE Solicitor 350 George
Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GRACE ELIZABETH WATT late of
Potts Point.—TAKE NOTICE that MILTON
CHARLES WATT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1673 of 1940 for divorce from
you on the ground of your alleged adultery
with ROBERT G. BERTRAM. If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance oy
the 9th October 1942 and obtain a copy ot me
amended petition without charge from tm
E. J. FORD & CO. Solicitors 350 George
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registra
in Divorce.
SMOKE-OH!
“Bangor was a man of ideas; one came to
him now. As he toyed with the sausage on
his plate it hit him suddenly.”— “Sun.”
One should be certain that there are
no fierce, savage impulses dormant in a
sausage before toying with it.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“Carson was quite incapable of taking any
action in the matter until he had swallowed
several stiff whiskies.” — Short story.
He waited for the spirit to move him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Splendid pelf-contained flat 8 guineas.”
—Sydney “Herald.”
A man would feel surrounded by
money in a flat like that.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“It is estimated that the average woman in
the U.S.A. listens to 18 radio serials each
week.”— “World’s News:”
She does her housework by instal-
ments.
4* 4* 4>
“The patriotic wife will see that less of the
family income goes on unnecessary things, such
as beer and tobacco.” — Woman’s paper.
Thus she will husband her money.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
Virtuous.
“Altogether he had been sentenced to terms
totalling over a hundred years for offences
including everything but drunkenness. He is a
non-drinker.” — “D.T.”
He forged and robbed, tricked, cheated,
lied.
And bashed up blokes in brutal strife ;
Still, he can make the proud, true boast
That he has led a spotless life.
H. M.
4* 4* 4*
The Victory.
“This is everybody’s fight.”— “Sunday Sun.”
The N.E.S. men were well trained.
They knew the war meant a fight to the
finish, and they took their duties seri-
ously. So, when the “alert” sounded,
they realised the fight was on.
It lasted ten minutes, and a bloody
battle it was. But, just as the “all-
clear” sounded, Charlie Tompkins
emerged triumphant and surveyed the
vanquished men scornfully.
Only one tin helmet among the whole
eight wardens—but he, Tompkins, had
got it!
Yair.
T *ect Approach.
“At on lime hi Russia it was considered a
gre' d !■••>,! a man to propose directly
to - Weekly paper.
jh Du disgrace here, but it’s rare.
Ri : how you said to Edna’s little
bn just ausc you knew he’d repeat
it to her after you’d gone: “Well,
Tommy, how’d you like me as an uncle?
You’ve got a pretty sister.” And one
day when her ma was in the garden you
mentioned casually that her daughter's
domestic ability was a credit to her
mother’s sound training.
Then one day, though you still hadn’t
said a word directly to Edna, you cor-
nered her old man in the garage and said
casually “I make six notes a week. The
boss has promised me another quid
when I get married.” He knew
what you were driving at, but he just
went on pretending to look for a spanner
and let you talk your head off. But at
last he said “Aw, I’ll put in a good word
for you in the right quarter if you like.”
So when at last you nerved yourself
to mention the matter to Edna herself
she said “Oh, this is a surprise!” Then
in the same breath, “Wait till I get the
engagement ring I bought six weeks ago.
It’s in my room. You can give me the
money back any time between now and
Friday.” j,
•J* 4* 4*
“Nor does it seem likely that the Germans
have reached the Volga, as the whole position
is fluid.” — Sydney “Telegraph.”
Unless, of course, the Volga is frozen
over.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“She looked like any other woman in uni-
form, except that she wore no wake-up of any
kind.” — “Sunday Sun.”
No sophisticated look, that is.
Spring Song.
In the spring a young man’s fancy
Grimly turns to thoughts of war,
And Billy, walking with his Nancy,
Talks of cherry-pie no more.
While Nancy (Ded man’s records show )
Has left her mother long ago.
In the spring a maiden’s fancy
Turns unwillingly to rations;
Prospects nowadays are chancy
For arrays of vernal fashions —
Thoughts of plumage mow take wing
To usher in a sterner spring.
P. M. L.
Misleading Term.
“Every woman overlooks a lot of faults in
her husband.” — Woman’s paper.
Take Maria. She overlooks the fact
that I don’t make half the money I should
and that I make a lot more money than
I tell her about; that I lack ambition,
although my abilities are far above those
of other fellows who, by means of “push”
and “go,” are able to give their wives
far more.
She overlooks my failure to make our
fortune by taking her advice and my lack
of backbone in taking her advice when
it proved wrong.
“You ought to know about these things
more than I do, Aitchem,” she says
loftily. “If you knew that what I said
was wrong, you should not have been
so spineless as to have done it.”
However, she overlooks it, as she over-
looks my belonging to such a queer family
and a host of other things.
In fact, she looks over them in detail
at least twice a week, overlooking no-
thing.
H. M.
Strategy.
“Boxers don’t necessarily follow strictly the
advice of trainers or seconds. Some of them
work out their own strategy and tactics.”
—Sporting writer.
“Slugger” Boddyripp slipped out of
his dressing-gown as he stood in his
corner. This was to be the great fight
of his career. If he could beat “Basher”
Beetlebrow he’d have the fistic world at
his feet. As he was flexing his biceps
his second, “Whizzer” Wurple, gave him a
last look to see that the gloves were right.
“Now don’t forget, ‘Slugger,’ ” he said
earnestly, “this bloke’s a stayer and a
fair boxer. Your chances of gettin’ a
decision if it goes the full fifteen ain’t
so hot Try an’ knock him rotten before
he settles down. Toe-to-toe slug»in’—
1 hat’s your lurk ; get inside that long left
of his an give him the works with your
right uppercut, an’ if it connects proper
hell be doin’ a horizontal study of
astronomy.”
“ Ni * on that stuff, ‘Whizzer’!” replied
Slugger. Ive worked out a real snorter
plan o’ me own. I’m goin’ to bamboozle
this bloke with reel scientific strategy.
111 kid him on till he thinks I’m ripe for
a k. 0., and when he jerks back his mitt
to slam it home I’ll suddenly come to
life when his guard’s hangin’ out to dry
an’ spread his conk across his kisser with
a deadener that’ll pack a quart o’ chloro-
form” and as the bell went he shuffled
lightly across to the centre of the ring.
After a few seconds of preliminary
sparring “Slugger’s” trained eye caught
the telegraphed imminence of a long left,
but he deliberately was a split second late
with his raised elbow and caught a
stinger on the right ear. His look
of cleverly-simulated pained surprise
afforded his adversary satisfaction, he
noted. A bit later he unleashed a ter-
rific blow at a spot approximately three
inches n.-n.-w. of the top of “Basher’s”
head. He almost laughed as “Basher”
played a xylophone solo on his exposed
ribs. Before the end of the round
“Slugger” was wearing a perfect imita-
tion of puzzled uncertainty, while
“Basher” was oozing confidence.
“Another couple o’ rounds o’ this
foolin’ll be enough,” whispered “Slugger”
as his second got busy with the towel.
“Don’t take no notice if I lob on me
hammer-an’-tack a few times—l’ll make
it look the dinkum thing, see?”
The second round opened in a fierce
swirl of punches, from which “Slugger”
made a beautiful pretence of staggering.
He had a cut lip, an eye rapidly closing
and his nose had a distinct list to star-
board. After another staggering hit in
the midriff “Slugger” was hanging on,
and his look of deep distress was obvi-
ously tricking “Basher,” whose confidence
was rising to the level that reached the
danger signal.
“Basher,” intoxicated with what he
fondly imagined was his opponent’s dis-
tress, tore in with both hands. “Slugger”
brilliantly missed with a heavy right
counter and followed it up with a left
which he aimed at —and connected with —
his opponent’s glove. As he made a pre-
tence of tripping, a battering-ram left
felled him for eight. The way “Slugger”
groped his way after “Basher” was a bit
of acting worthy of Gary Cooper.
“Basher” thought the bell saved him, but
“Slugger” knew better. If “Basher”
could only guess what was going to
happen to him next round.
While “Whizzer” worked on him with
towel and water-bottle “Slugger” looked
at him with rapidly glazing eyes. “Thish
finish o’ foolin’ roun’,” he said. “Gonna
givem woodener. I’ll jush bend down
pretendin’ flop roun’ an’ shock him cold.
Wash ref. doin’ floatin’ pasht posht?”
As the bell went for the third the com-
pletely-fooled “Basher” leaped vigorously
from his corner, but before he had gone a
yard “Slugger” had sprung up and aimed
a terrific punch at a figure moving mistily
before him. It missed his startled second
by a foot, and as he swung around with
the momentum “Slugger” fell like a sack
of potatoes. As they bore the prone figure
of the champion kidder feet-first into
the dressing-room he opened one eye as
•far as it would go and saidr
“Think I’ll knock him now —lemme
gerratim. Howsh me kiddin’ scheme
goin’, ‘Whizzer’?”
“Boy,” said “Whizzer” feelingly,
“you’ve given the best imitation of a cove
takin’ a stoushin’ that I ever see!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2 id. per line.
Thin Days on the Run
The pastoralist, whatever the size of
his property, has generally been regarded
by city people as leading a life of leisure
while his flocks and herds go about their
business of multiplying and producing
meat and wool. I think it would come
as a surprise to most to know how hard
their lives have been for many years, and
to what a pass the war has brought those
who are trying to keep two very neces-
sary industries going.
With practically all fairly fit men either
enlisted or called up, many properties
are being run by an elderly man (sons
in the army) with the help of another
elderly man or an inexperienced lad, if
he is lucky enough to be able to get
either. These have the care of thousands
of sheep, whose numerous troubles and
afflictions leave their unlucky owners
no peace.
How many know of another women’s
land army that has been working man-
fully for about two years? The mothers,
wives and sisters of men in the fighting
services, who cook and wash and keep a
home somehow and then muster and
work in the yards. In their spare time
they can occupy themselves by putting
patches on father’s pants, where they are
lucky enough to have a man to sew for.
Others, not so lucky, are managing prop-
erties, with perhaps one man to help with
the work.
Shearers still exist, for the authorities
recognise them as most necessary, but
what of drovers? Imagine a man starting
on a long trip with 5000 sheep. Once
he had a cook, a horsetailer and two or
three men to help him drive them. These
are called up, so he continues with re-
inforcements in the shape of his wife
(quite inexperienced) and the owner’s
young daughter. The latter is taken
home to muster there, so Dad and Mum,
both middle-aged, continue their Odyssey
without further help. Bush people are
now accustomed to seeing Mum, with
the younger children, driving the old
buggy with the camping outfit, while
Dad and the elder ones drive the sheep
or cattle.
City folk might ponder on these things
when they complain of the price or
quality of meat or are faced with the
need for making a garment last a little
longer.—M. M. F. (Q.),
This Austerity
Coming from the country after hear-
ing the radio for weeks announcing the
Spartan life that was descending on the
community, I expected to find Sydney
toeing the hard and dreary road. I
was amazed to find it almost impossible
to get a room hotels crowded out.
Week-enders were still packing every
train, while every cafe was being rushed.
On to Newcastle, arriving on a Friday.
It was the nearest thing I could imagine
to Christmas Eve 20 months ago—
crowded shops, long lines of cars parked
in the streets, hotels rushed, people spend-
ing lavishly, money flowing in rivers.
I thought of the place I’d left, dairy-
ing and cattle country miles away from
railway, town, shop or consulting rooms.
There the almost agonising fear was of
some sudden sickness in the family that
might require a trip to the doctor, and
no petrol for the journey. There the
shortage of man-power had driven the
women to the milking yards, cattle-mus-
tering and calf-branding. And all this on
top of all the domestic demands which
are always heavy on the land, in homes
not overcrowded with modern conveni-
ences.
For them no week - end pleasure
resort, no trotting the whole family into
a cafe when war conditions overstrained
the nerves. For them, taxes and more
taxes, mails cut down, trains cut out and
work laid on, dawn to dark, week after
week. But perhaps it’s just as well some-
body knows there’s a war on. —E. M. B.
(N.S.W.).
Troubles of a House-owner
Tell “Macßopus” (B. 2/9/’42) that I
know all about the Fair Rents Court.
In Tasmania the Court interprets its
mandate to mean that rents should be
pegged at what was paid when the regu-
lations were issued. Almost invariably
the Court refuses to allow an increase—
even when the tenant agrees to pay—
unless improvements or additions have
been made to the premises. Painting,
papering, etc., are not considered im-
provements but necessary repairs.
As for evicting a munition worker or
a soldier —the regulations say that the
Court may order a tenant to give up the
premises for a whole string of reasons.
But the Court always seems to give the
tenant the benefit of the doubt. Let
“Macßopus” quote a few instances
where the Court has ordered a munition
worker or a soldier to vacate a house.
One of the most foolish of the regula-
tions makes it impossible for me to em-
ploy a lawyer unless the tenant agrees.
As my legal adviser puts the case, “I
waste my time going along to the Court
to tell the magistrate that I am appear-
ing for the landlord, if the tenant will
agree. The tenant, naturally, will not
agree, and I have to walk out.” The
result of this regulation is that the land-
lord has to obtain the papers from the
Court, fill them in correctly, serve them
on the tenant and then conduct his own
case. I have always understood that the
man who is his swn lawyer has a fool
for a client, so I prefer not to take the
risk of accepting tenants who can obtain
the protection of these regulations,
unless 1 know them personally.
. Like many Acts of Parliament, these
regulations, which are passed to benefit
certain people, are more likely to injure
them. — Wart (Tas.).
“Can anyone tell me what this is?”
Army Education
Two years of army life in N.T. and
close contact there with A.E.S. make me
disagree deeply with “Don 5” (B.
19/8/’42), The real “thinking man of
culture and education,” whether in the
army, in any other service or in civil
life, is master, not slave, of his environ-
ment. If mixing with his fellow-men
rusts a man’s intellect and coarsens his
finer feelings then, obviouisly, he is
neither educated nor cultured. The rich-
est and most fruitful period of any man’s
life is when Fate deals him a hand he
doesn’t like, and he sets his and
“takes it.” That gives him more of cul-
ture and education than any university
can.
As for “Salt” and “Current Affairs,”
the soldiers I’ve lived with do not want
to forget the war —at present. They
want to get on with it and get it over.
They’re keenly interested in all its de-
velopments. They’re chewing over and
discussing ideas for a war-free future.
And A.E.S., by its publications, its lec-
tures and its discussion groups, is stimu-
lating that urge to “argue the toss” on
such worth-while topics—fitting the sol-
dier in the best possible way for post-
war citizenship.— Timothy Tywire (S.A.).
For a Service-men’s Party
Because wars were once fought by
mercenaries on remote battlefields the
notion still prevails that civilians can ask
of those who are put into uniform the old
disproportionate weight of sacrifice. The
very fact that total war demands the call-
ing up of the men who do the fighting
in it will presently knock out that notion
for ever. It necessarily means the calling
up of large numbers of men, and large
numbers of men called into uniform
represent more than a fighting force. They
represent also a very strong force in the
social scheme of things, and, as such,
they are not going to keep on for ever
taking the worst of the deal compared
with the civilian part of the community
which they protect.
The position today is that those in uni-
form have just as much the worst of the
deal as in the days when wars were fought
by men who followed soldiering as a
profession. There is much more to it
than the listed taxation and pay anoma-
lies. General conditions come in strongly.
By citizen army arrangements, men are
called up, separated from their wives and
families, and their whole kind of life and
living are drastically changed.
The citizen army is the only sort pos-
sible in modern total war, but the general
arrangements for it will one day undergo
a vast change. Its members will be on the
same footing as the now favored civilian
part of the community. The idea that
those doing the fighting must have every-
thing the worst of it compared with those
(however engaged) working or loafing on
the civilian front is a survival from an-
other age. —Me. (N.S.W.).
Zoning
The institution of the zone system of
milk and bread distribution may have
been necessary, but I hope it will not
survive the return of peace. Supporters
of the scheme claim that it reduces cost
of distribution, ensuring a lower price.
That in the long run is doubtful, because
zoning eliminates the competition which
has always been the main factor in
reducing prices.
Even if price-reduction does result
from zoning, however, it brings a dis-
advantage which easily outweighs that
benefit. Before the introduction of
zoning five bakers and three milkmen
passed my home. If one did not suit
another could be easily obtained. As a
result, all were keen to give attention.
Now complaints have already been made
about the lack of consideration shown
customers since milk and bread zoning
was introduced. — Lyle (N.S.W.).
Incomplete
A shortage of matches in Melbourne
drew the admission that a Match Co-
ordination Committee was formed about
a month ago. On it are representatives
of the Rationing Commission, the depart-
ments of War Organisation of Industry
and Supply and Development, the Con-
troller of Emergency Supplies, the Divi-
sion of Import Procurement, the Army
Canteen Services and a match-making
co. In time it is hoped to provide rep-
resentation for the Girl Guides, the
U.L.V.A., the Friends of the Soviet and
the Union of Retired Ballet Girls (No-
thing Under 45); but they should try to
be patient. These things can’t be done
at once. —O. T. (N.S.W.).
Sister Kenny
Australians were upset when they
heard that the methods of Sister Kenny,
which were neglected in their own coun-
try, have become standard treatment for
the victims of infantile paralysis in U.S.
The explanation is quite simple. When
Sister Kenny demonstrated her capacity
to cure the children in Victoria, the Gov-
ernment naturally became interested. It
wanted to do the best thing for the health
of the community, but it didn’t know
whether Sister Kenny was a genius or a
quack, and it sought an authority which
would decide the question for it.
Unfortunately the authority it selected
was the official medical body. The
official body wanted to do the best for
the children, but its members had been
trained in a certain conception of what
was right and proper, and could review
Sister Kenny’s achievement only in
terms of what they knew. In those terms
her method appeared not merely ineffec-
tive, but definitely dangerous and harm-
ful, They clamped bandages on their
little patients ; she pulled them off. Could
anything be more menacing to the
children?
Finding she could make no headway
against official opposition. Sister Kenny
went to America (and was in consequence
abused for doing something unpatriotic).
She got a more sympathetic hearing than
she had in Australia. Now that she has
the endorsement of important official
bodies in the States she will carry pres-
tige if she returns to her own country,
and people who formerly thought her a
charlatan or a quack will be tumbling
over one another to assist her.
For most people, including politicians,
authority is represented by official insti-
tutions. Unfortunately, these institutions
are never the real authorities and never
can be. Sister Kenny’s case was a per-
fect demonstration of this fact. Obvi-
ously she was the real authority on infan-
tile paralysis, not the official bodies. —
Pawang (Vic.).
Broadcasting and Local Talent
Most interesting feature of the new
Australian Broadcasting Act is a pro-
vision that the Cqmmission and the
licensee of each commercial station as
far as possible are to give encouragement
to local talent. Not less than 2\ p.c. of
the time occupied by the National Broad-
casting Service and not less than 2\ p.c.
of the time occupied by commercial
stations in broadcasting music must be
devoted to the broadcasting of works of
Australian composers.
That’s a step in the right direction, but
the Act could have gone further and
insisted upon a like percentage of time
being given to Australian writers. Few
people will object to writing talent as
well as musical talent being fostered over
the air, especially as opportunities in the
newspaper and magazine world are now
restricted.
Better still, why not some legislation
to provide for a percentage of the fiction
published in Australia to be the work
of Australians, or else impose heavy taxes
on the use of syndicated stuff from
abroad? By these means Australian
writers can be encouraged. As Dr. John-
son said: “Only a fool \yrites for no-
thing.”—Macaw (N.S.W.).
Grammar
Why this insistence on grammar?
When I was a boy the best gram-
marians were the poorest in com-
position. Dickens, in The Old Curi-
osity Shop and Pickwick, drops into
bad grammar. It was pointed out to
him, but he refused to allow any altera-
tion in succeeding editions. “People who
read my works are not concerned with
my grammar,” he replied.
I remember a sarcastic verse by Henry
Lawson aimed at the highbrows who had
queried his punctuation and grammar.
On-one occasion he was told by a friend
that a Sydney professor of English had
described his (Lawson’s) metre as un-
balanced. “I know nothing about meters.
I was never in the gas business,” com-
mented Henry.
Good grammar does not mean good
writing. Writing is (or should be) an
art. The “Times” classified Henry
George’s Progress and Poverty as one of
the most powerfully written works in the
English language. But George’s printers
had to correct his grammar.—H. Mulvi-
HILL (M.L.).
Small States’ Rights
J. Campbell’s lame attempt (B.
26/8/’42) to blame Federation for cer-
tain of the hardships befalling the smaller
States is based on an erroneous hypo-
thesis.
The centralisation of which he com-
plains was caused not by Federation but
by the piffling jealous fits into which N. S.
Wales and Victoria periodically lapse.
Another point—are the smaller States
really suffering so very much after ail?
Mr. Campbell quotes one instance in the
public service. There are other positions
for which men from these States have
been taken wholesale. Since war broke
out economists have become practically
unknown in Tasmania. The Common-
wealth soon grabbed those it hadn t
already got its hands on.
Abolition of State Parliaments would
tend to do away with these petty jeal-
ousies, although we must remember not
to expect perfection from any system.—
Tonsi (Tas.).
Illusion Exploded
The Communists believe that poverty
is the cause of mankind’s troubles. If
economic conditions were improved
people would automatically make them-
selves better.
Well, there has been an enormous eco-
nomic improvement without Communism
in Australia, and most families now have
more money than they ever knew existed.
The material improvement has synchro-
nised with the biggest alcoholic binge
in the country’s history and the greatest
attempt at repression, especially in Mel-
bourne. Now one half of the com-
munity is fighting the other half about
it. — Nakh (Vic.),


PRODUCTI ON
WAR
I . V :V\ '• !ACa • 'w - ,u - : l>y 'h ■\ ■ ;*• 4*2.• • * -r : --Vs^’*r*s^-*s^#!■-V/v^V'i
For 29 years AW A. has maintained
a reputation for making high grade
wireless apparatus m Australia
AMALGAMATED WIREIfSS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Buy . . . liil
£lO NATIONAL SAYINGS BONDS
and WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
