

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
t/f c Hine -cf%a/ie 7mll£wn^aml Jwuquet
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0, 3251.
Wednesday, June 3, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney,, N.S.W., Australia, for Trahsmi ssion by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE PILGRIM'S INN, GLASTONBURY.
M O spot of England is more famed in history
* and legend, sacred and profane, than the
small mid-Somerset town of Glastonbury. It is
indissolubly associated with the Arthurian
romance, for it was to Glastonbury, that is
Avilon, where King Arthur went after the battle
at Camlan, where he received his mortal wound
Tennyson beautifully referred to in his “setting
out” in the “Idylls of the King.” The religious
traditions of Glastonbury go further back than
those of Canterbury. Here, according to that
noted historian, William of Malmesbury, who
died in 1142, St. Joseph of Arimathea founded
the first British church. He was the uncle of
our Lord. Another legend has it St. Joseph
took the Holy Child with him on this journey.
A further tradition still shows at Glastonbury,
Wyrral, or Weary-all-Hill, on which St. Joseph
and his eleven tired companions rested on their
landing, for Glastonbury was an island in those
days. There grew the famous Holy Thorn, said
to have sprung from the saint's staff which he
planted in the fertile ground, possibly as a token
of taking possession of the “twelve Hides of
land” King Arvigarus granted to him and his
followers. In the meantime, various thorns
budded from it. Certain it is that it is a
Levantine thorn and, in addition to flowering
profusely ip May, blossoms again at Christmas
and nearly always on Christmas Day. Flowers
from it are placed on the altar of the beautiful
church of St. John the Baptist. The thorn is
on the left as one enters the Abbey precincts.
Turning to the right the whole length of the
old Abbey ruins is seen. Standing apar,t from
these are other old ruins, notably those of the
chapel of St. Dunstan, where stood formerly
the Wattle Church, the first erected in Britain,
about the Year of Grace 63. It was under the
shadow of this church, in the Monks’ Cemetery,
King Arthur was buried “between two pyramidal
stones.... hard by the entrance to the Lady
Chapel.” In strictly historical times, Ine, King
of the West Saxons, built a church, in which,
refounded by St. Dunstan, were buried the
Saxon Kings, Edmund, Eadgar and Ejsdmund.
The Abbey was destroyed by fire at the end
of Henry ll’s reign, but rebuilt during the
next century. The last and 60th Abbot, Robert
Whyting, was hanged on St. Michael’s Tor
(hill) by Henry VIII, his body being quartered
and his head fixed on the Abbey gate. A darker
passage does not occur in the annals of the Re-
formation than this murder of an able, high-
spirited man, whose worst offence was that
he defended as best he could from the hand of
the despoiler the property of his charge. The
Pilgrim’s Inn was built in the reign of Henry
VII (1485-1500).


Id
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
S.B. U 2
The Red Page
"THE PEA PICKERS."
Eve Langley’s The Pea Pickers (R.P.
6/ 5/ ’42) is a sport of genius, a book that
can only be written once, a book that
defies a precise classification yet remains,
within the limits of its metier, a com-
plete work of art. It is not a novel, for
it discards the slow development of per-
sonality and its dramatisation by action
and emotion. It is not purely a prose
work, because it puts the image before
its factual presentation. In effect, it is
the work of a poet who needed the looser
articulation of prose for an adventure
in self-expression that also required the
one idiom that poetry cannot encompass
—humor. And humor, with its gusto for
life, is the first virtue of this book.
We breathe a prayer of thanksgiving
for a book about the soil which is not
turgid with peasant gloom. For a book
that does not know that the obscene
world of politics exists, and which derides,
by ignoring, the Leftist howl, of rage at
the monstrous discovery that man must
toil to fill his belly, and that beer is the
only compensation for the tragic doom
of wearing hobnailed boots. Best of all,
a book with real girls in it; Australian
girls, having no relation to English or
American girls, and springing directly from
the life of this country and not from
any bastard compound of alien type-
matter.
The Pea Pickers has a definite theme
which has nothing to do with pea-pick-
ing, though the Australian countryside
and its personalities are used all through
as a vivid, fantastic, recklessly humorous
and betimes violently realistic background.
This theme is the most pressing problem
that woman faces today, for it presents
that limbo which balances her in conflict
between her need for intellectual self-
expression and its creation in art and the
pull of her feminine function, which is
the creation of life.
In “Steve” and “Blue” Eve Langley
opposes the intellectual woman, tor-
mented by the insatiable image of love,
to the purely feminine woman, satisfied
to accept love as a prosaic reality, even
if its finality is merely marriage and a
procession of perambulators. By split-
ting one woman into two Eve Langley
presents this conflict of blood and spirit,
and —well, leaves it at that.
Or seems to. For there is a compli-
cation in the setting forth of this theme
which contradicts its presentation. Steve,
the intellectual, is vividly drawn, a vital
and violent girl, craving inexhaustible
love, suffering the abysmal gloom of
adolescence while giggling ecstatically at
the absurd and fascinating spectacle of
life. I do not think the restless im-
patience of youth for the adventure of
life while living it on a top note of excite-
ment has ever been better done than in
this presentation of Steve, tormented by
the paradox that life is static and mori-
bund and in the same breath a thing of
speed, gusto and exultation.
But Steve, creature of the insatiable
image of love, misses contact with the
simple realities of love in the flesh. While
Blue in the end goes off contentedly
enough to be married, Steve is left sus-
pended on the image of unsatisfied desire.
It is painful to have a woman’s assur-
ance that if woman gives herself to art
she must accept sterility in love. But
how is woman to give herself to art
unless she has lived the full life of her
femininity ,as the only material out of
which art may be created? We know
that this is the supreme quandary that
faces intellectual woman today, and it
is not too much to say that the failure
of European woman to express her femi-
ninity in art while living it to the full in
life has had nearly everything to do with
giving European man over to the brutal
lomosexuality of war.
I am convinced that Eve Langley does
not believe, any more than I do, that
woman can’t complete her feminine func-
tion and express herself freely in art too.
Steve herself confutes this heresy, for all
her presumption of being a sex-frustrated
intellectual. This lively devil of a girl
is no sex-frustrate. How could she have
got all that delight out of the mad spec-
tacle of life if she got nothing but frus-
tration out of love? A book so good,
so vital, so abounding in a headlong
gusto for life cannot take for its theme
the assurance that women who aspire to
be poets mqst accept the Nemesis of
despair in love.
I leave the consideration of this literary
evasion to Eve Langley. To everybody
else there is only one thing to say; Buy
this book and keep it on your book-
shelves. It is a book that will live.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
The Empty Room.
Having learned from Rilke to use
metaphor like a psychical searchlight,
Stephen Spender once pictured a man
who would “stare in himself as though
in an empty room.” It is still the empti-
ness of the psyche that engages his atten-
tion in his latest book of verses, Ruins
and Visions (Faber):
But the voice of one who was young and died
In a great battle, in the light leaves sighed:
“I lay down with a greater doubt:
That it was all wrong from the start:
Victory and defeat both the same,
Hollow masks worn by shame
Over the questions of the heart.
And there was many another name
Dividing the sun’s light like a prism
With the rainbow colors of an ‘ism.’ ■
I lay down dead like a world alone"
In a sky without faith or aim
And nothing to believe in,
Yet an endless empty need to atone.”
Not, even as a condemnation, what
one could call a vigorous statement on
the war. With each new book, it seems
more and more possible that Spender’s
room is indeed an empty one. Not com-
pletely bare, by any means, for he has
written some fine poems; but there is
no stalwart furniture, no fire in the grate.
There is a singer in the room, certainly,
for he wrote “The Express” and “Your
body is stars whose million glitter here.”
There is a visionary, too, for he saw time
“Monstrous with stillness like the Hima-
layan range” and a man’s spirit “Burning
vividly in the centre of a cold sky.” The
sipger and the visionary repeat their
statements in Ruins and Visions.
The singer:
O then my waking dream dared to assume
The audacity of her sleep. Our dreams
Flowed into each other’s arms, like streams.
The visionary:
And across the gulf of time
The cold terrible snow mountains
Saw his naked heart alone
And they knew him
And he knew them.
It is something to bring out of an
“empty room”: the perception of the
room’s emptiness, to begin with; the
lyrical vision of love; the vision of a
cold, stony eternity in the mountains.
Stated often enough, and forcibly enough,
any one of those three conceptions could
amount to major poetry. But Spender
does not state them often enough, nor
forcibly enough. It is only a minor voice
he raises in Ruins and Visions.
Three or four good poems, and the
rest chiefly small lamentations about the
war; not even, if his “Barn” is com-
pared with Edmund Blunden’s, or his
air fighting with Roy Campbell’s, good
verse. It’s writing from a pretty bare
room that can do no more than this with
an air-raid:
But through their gliding light-streams,
An invisible ragged sound
Moves, trailed by two distraught beams.
A thudding falls from remote cones
And pink sequins wink from a shot-silk screen.
And it’s a hollow heart that can take
no interest in victory or defeat —“both
the same hollow masks worn by shame.”
Before the war started, when he wrote
Trial of a Judge, Spender, like others of
the Left, was somewhat more belligerent.
Could Pierre Be Wrong?
With his own eyes, as he told us in
Days of Our Years, Pierre van Paassen
saw the ghost of a black dog on the
stairs. With his own ears he heard, and
was tempted to believe, the story that
the Pope appeared in the trenches in the
last war. Who, then, if he should report
that Goring is, in reality, an enchanted
hippopotamus, would dream of doubting
it?
And when in That Day Alone (Angus
and Robertson) he submits without a
word of evidence, without quoting any
authority to back him up, without in any
way indicating the source of his infor-
mation, one of the most sensational
stories ever written about this war, who
would bother to ask him for details or
for proofs?
“In February, 1934,” I replied, “Adolf
Hitler flew to meet Mussolini. He wanted
to know what the Duce thought of a plan
that had been conceived by Goring.
Goring had thought that France could be
paralysed and knocked out by one surprise
blow. Without a declaration of war, Paris
and other great cities, rail centres and in-
dustrial areas were to be laid under a
blanket of gas, all in a single night.”
“Eh bien ?” questioned Tschann.
“Eh bien, Mussolini, who had been
sworn to secrecy by his friend from Berlin,
immediately telephoned Franklin-Bouillon,
the head of the Military Commission in the
French Chamber, who was stopping at the
Lido-Venice at the time. Franklin-Bouillon
telephoned Pierre Laval, and that’s all.”
And then, again, who could question
such an authority when he declares that
the French entered the war with the de-
liberate intention of losing it? Who, even
if he should have happened to meet an
escapee from France who said he saw
the French soldiers, a rabble in dis-
orderly retreat, cursing at their officers,
would question Pierre on his statement
that the officers, having “abandoned the
troops to their fate,” were not there to
be cursed at? If Somerset Maugham
has declared in Strictly Personal 'that
French sailors said to him
“After all, this isn’t our war. It’s the
war of you rich people,”
who would not rather take Van Paassen’s
assurance that
Discord did not manifest itself in the
French masses.
If Maugham, with every appearance
of truth, declares that a Frenchman,
who was deliberately injuring his health
in the hope of evading military service,
said to him “Patriotism—what bunk!
Patriotism is for the rich,” who would
question Pierre’s statement “It is not true,
either, as has so often been alleged, that
the Communists sabotaged France’s war
effort”?
Or could Pierre possibly be wrong?
If he saw a ghostly black hellhound
on the stairs, then he did see a ghostly
black hellhound ; and if he should report
one day that Goring is an enchanted
hippopotamus, then Goring is an en-
chanted hippopotamus. But on such
plain, factual mundane matters as the
fall of France, it is possible that
such a man as Somerset Maugham,
whom we have known for a long
time, and whose assertion that France
was rotten right through— not only
at the top—is fully supported by evi-
dence, is more reliable than the spiritual
Pierre.
Is it even possible that Pierre is totally
in error in his conception of the last war
and the last peace, of this war and of
the sort of peace that will follow it?
Is it possible that a total ignorance
of the grim facts of history, which show
mankind ceasely in turmoil, is revealed
in such a sentence as “Never in history
has man appeared so hopelessly pathetic
a playball of blind forces as he does at
present?” Does his insistence that both
the last war and this were fought to
establish a “new era” suggest a total
incapacity to grasp the plain fact that
wars are fought by the aggressor for
/rational aggrandisement, by the de-
fenders for national survival?
That Day Alone, partly factual, partly
admittedly imaginative, amounts to a
general survey of the war: much about
Holland, a country on which Pierre
always writes pleasantly; an analysis of
the fall of France; some sentimental
short stories about people in the grip of
war; and, of course, a plea for a new
order. There are, unfortunately, no more
ghostly black dogs.
Practical Navigation (Robertson and
Mullens). The subject treated briefly and
clearly, but quite fully, for the benefit
chiefly of yachtsmen who may need the
knowledge for R.A.N.V.R. purposes and
of airmen. Thomas Gilchrist, Master
Mariner, did the job, and the book is
nicely turned out.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
An exhibition of works from the estate
of the late John Longstaff at Melbourne
Athenaeum is an illustration of the
dangers of an official position. Aus-
tralia’s first artist-knight might be said
to have held an officially unofficial posi-
tion in his later years, and it was in these
years he painted his dullest portraits. It
was in his young days that he painted
his fresh French landscapes. Nobody
looking at these early efforts would have
imagined that the same hand would sub-
sequently paint the long line of women’s
portraits with their faintly sentimental
outlook. There is a sort of gallantry
about them as if the author was trying
to please his sitters rather than himself.
The result is that, young and old, they
all look strangely alike. In his French
and Australian landscapes Longstaff was
trying to please himself.
Vic. Nat. Gallery, the most privileged
gallery in Australia, has had yet another
benefaction, though one which the public
won’t see for a long time. It comprises
one of the most complete collections of
English china in Australia, and there are
probably few anywhere to excel it. The
donor was Mrs. Colin Templeton, of
South Yarra. She has collected since
childhood, and some of her pieces are
now valued at little less than four figures.
They will be packed away in a safe place
for the duration.
Second of a series of exhibitions of
the collected work of Australian artists
at the N. S. Wales National Gallery, Syd-
ney, presents 64 pictures, mostly in oils,
from the brush of Maoriland-born
Roland Wakelin. Mr. Wakelin was a
pioneer among those in Australia who
chose to walk along the new paths in art
opened up by French impressionists, and
he is still the undoubted leader among
those painters in this country who are
similarly inspired. He is represented in
the N. S. Wales and other public gal-
leries. The collection of his works now on
show adequately represents his achieve-
ments in portraiture, still life and interior
studies, but would have been strength-
ened had it been possible to include a
series of landscapes, painted five or six
years ago, which exhibited a Van Gogh-
like talent for expression of movement
and vitality.
Donald Friend, whose pictures are on
show at the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
portrays brown and yellow persons in a
manner which might give rise to a belief
that he has a poor opinion of the colored
races. But a self-portrait in exactly the
same style makes it appear probable that
admiration for the methods of Gauguin
rather than ethnological prejudice is
responsible.
“The Royal Fireworks Music ” which
Handel wrote for George Two on a cer-
tain occasion and which was a success
though the fireworks were a fizzle was the
opening number at Melbourne’s secohd
symphony concert. Violinist Dorcas
Maclean, of Sydney, was the soloist, and
the grave young woman drew a clean
bow through the almost continuous move-
ments of the Bach Concerto No. 2 in E
Major. The “La Mer” of Debussy was
announced as a first performance in
Australia. It was a musician’s attempt
to paint, so to speak, an impressionistic
naval picture, and Bernard Heinze suc-
ceeded in making the sea do everything
except sparkle. Beethoven’s Seventh
concluded the proceedings.
After wandering more or less uneasily
in Johann Strauss’s foreign pastures; the
Gilsullivans are back like a flock of
gazelles on their old stamping-ground at
His Majesty’s, Melbourne, and everything
is going as merry as a marriage bell and
as smoothly as the promises of a poli-
tician. “Gondoliers” was the opening
number; “Pirates,” “lolanthe” and
“Yeomen” were to follow.
In his latest appearances at Melb.
Town Hail pianist Friedman is devoting
himself to the works of what he calls the
romantic composers: Chopin, Schumann,
Liszt, Weber, Mendelssohn and Brahms.
But what a house largely composed of
students likes to gape at is the masterly
Chopin numbers. Friedman could calm
a herd of clothing-shoppers when he
strokes out of the piano the strains of his
favorite composer.
Bette Davis got rounds of applause
from Sydney dailies for her performance
in “The Little Foxes.” Understandable,
because as shows go it’s a good one —
the lady mad, imperious and cruel, and
the rest of her Southern family of fanati-
cal money-makers mad, villainous and
amusing. But in their anxiety to make
the most of Bette Davis’s success in mad,
imperious and cruel roles, the directors
have ruined a good play. The dialogue
and psychological necessity make it
a drama of a frustrated woman who will
stick at nothing to make sure that her
daughter’s life—in compensation—is a
success ; but because Bette Davis has to
be shown as mad, imperious and cruel
all the time, there isn’t one scene in
which she shows any tenderness towards
her daughter. So when she has murdered
her husband and tricked her villainous
brothers all for her daughter, and then
her daughter leaves her flat, there’s no
sense of tragedy at all. The drama just
fizzles; the whole thing becomes point-
less.
By special request, artists in the
current Sydney Tiv. program trie are
nameless. One of them is certainly
not fameless, the lady who wears
a spangle is visibly not frameless,
and the superlatives make sure the
show’s never dameless for more than five
minutes. The comedians are tameless,
and if the bill, related to the general run
of Tiv. evenings, has a certain sameness,
that —the standard being always so high
—is undoubtedly blameless.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —aIways
SEND FOR YOUR A.R.P.
EQUIPMENT NOW!
«►
■•■wss,
&
\\
V \
%\
■ ; .
mm
#:■
M
LAMPSHADES
No. I.—New and improved indestructible Lampshades, all metal, double
purpose, detachable cap for Brownouts. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, each,
1/6. SPECIAL PRICE, each 1/1|
Nos. 2 and 3 (Unillustrated).—Tall Cone-shaped Black Shades. Two
qualities. Prices sd. and 10|d.
VENTILATOR BLACKOUT SCREENS
Ventilator Blackout Screens, attractive and very effective
. . . fitted in a jiffy. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, each, 1/4
UNFILLED SAND MAT
Specially made for bomb disposal . . . already sewn in
rolls for filling with sand. Price, each 2/6
ASBESTOS FIRE BLANKETS
(UNILLUSTRATED)
"Tri-State" Asbestos Fire Blankets, specially
rolled and packed in metal wall container.
Three sizes: 3ft. x 3ft., price, 37/6; 6ft. x
3ft., price, 50/-; 6ft. x 6ft., price. 75/~
SHOVEL AND HOE
Shovel and Hoe, with long
handles, specially made for dis-
posal of incendiaries. Three
types; No. 1. Price, pair, 7/-
No. 2. "Xtingo," special hard-
wood. Price 9/6
No. 3. "Uni," specially built of
selected hardwood. Price, 11/9
THE SENIOR STORE
FIRST AID AND A.R.P. BOOKS
THE FACTS YOU
NEED
'a.r.p. civilian guide
A—A.R.P. Civilian Guide, written espe-
cially for wardens. Gives modern
methods of dealing with bombs and
gases, and how to safeguard property.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price, each, 10|d
FIRST AID TO INJURED
B —First Aid to the Injured. An ad-
vanced Ambulance Handbook by War-
wick and Tunstall. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price, each G/6
FIRST AID IN PICTURES
C —First Aid in Pictures, an invaluable
adjunct to the recognised handbooks on
First Aid. At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
each 1/6
FIRST AID HINTS FOR
HOUSEHOLD USE
First Aid Hints for Household Use.
Written by an N.E.S. expert. Printed
on thick cardboard. Size, x lOins.
Is adaptable to be hung on walls of
factories, in blocks of flats, etc. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, each, 3jd.
ANTISEPTIC SOLYPTOL
Solyptol, a safe antiseptic which is
ideal for surgical and home use. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, per bot., 1/7
.
*JO
(3)
c
FIRE EXTINGUISHER
mt
v
mi
6UBH
IM
Va
•IrfidtMU*
THE
“INSTANTA”
The "Instanta" Fire Extinguisher, in
special metal wall container, filled
with powdered substance thrown by
hand on fire. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, each 15/-
WHS
mmm®.
AUB
METHODS OF PROTECTION
GUMMED MASKING TAPE
"Uni" Gummed Masking Tape for windows, width l-gins., prevents shattering, 200 ft.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price, roll 2/-
ANTI-SHATTER SOLUTION
Anti-Shatter Solution by Dockers, for adhering net or muslin to windows. Half pint
tin. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, tin 1/7
PAINT BRUSHES
Paint, Varnish, and Proofing Brushes, set in rubber. Pure bristles. At Anthony
Horderns'. Prices, each 1/5 and 2/6
OUTLINE WHITE
Outline White, by Taubmans, for motor car outlines, kerbs, fences, and steps. Can
be seen at night, lib. tin. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, tin 1/5
BLACKOUT PAINT
Blackout Paint, by Taubmans, for painting roll-up or detachable .creens. Half pint
tin. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, tin" 1/4
ANTI-BLAST SOLUTION
Anti-Blast Solution by Bergers, is highly effective when used with muslin or net.
Half pint tin. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, tin 2/1
• A.R.P. Equipment —Blue Tables, Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


THE LAST THING ON EARTH!
By ALAN MARSHALL.
THE first thing I noticed was his arms.
His shirt sleeves were rolled up and
from the elbow down his arms were
streaked with dried blood. His
hands spread abruptly from wrists as
thick as the spokes of a dray. They
gripped the barrel of a shotgun. He
moved closer and the light from the cara-
van lamp lit up his face.
He was young—about twenty-five—and
had fair, curly hair. Maybe he was hand-
some, but his nose was squashed and it
lay in the centre of his white face as if
something bloody had been thrown at
him and had stuck there, right above his
swollen mouth. His eyes seemed oddly
clean and new above the battered fea-
tures below them. They were very blue
and looked quietly and intently in at us
sitting round the caravan table.
He made no attempt to come in. He
rested the butt of his gun on the ground
and said: “Any of you see a utility
truck pass the last ten minutes?”
“No,” Jack said.
We were having tea and were squeezed
round the table near the door. Jack was
sitting almost in the doorway ; Tom was
on a kerosene case ; Bill was on one of
the bunks, and I was on a canvas stool
furthest from the door. Olive was stand-
ing before the kerosene-stove frying
bacon.
We had been camped on the Murray
for a week, Olive and I, and the three
sleeper-cutters whose camp was near were
having tea with us. Tom was grey as a
box-tree, and there were lines round his
eyes. He was touching seventy, but he
could still swing a broad axe with the
best of them. Jack was a small, alert
chap with quick eyes, and Bill had a
round, good-humored face.
The stranger leant on the end of his
gun barrel, then glanced behind him
before turning to look at us again.
Jack had leant towards him and was
peering hard at his face. “What’s wrong?”
he asked quickly.
“A Dago came at me with a paling,”
said the man. “He got me before I
could get into him.”
“Gripes!” exclaimed Jack, contemplat-
ing him with interest. He turned to us
to pass on the information. “A Dago
hit him on the snout with a paling, he
says.”
I stood up and rested my hands on
the table. I leant forward so that I could
see round the edge of the cupboard.
Olive, carrying the frying pan, came over
and leant forward with me. I could
hear the bacon sizzling in the pan, “Care-
ful with that fat,” I said.
“Is he hurt?” asked Olive anxiously.
Tom, with both elbows on the table,
was intently gnawing a bacon rind. He
stopped and held it a few inches away
from his mouth. “He’ll get over it,” he
said. He moved to resume his eating,
but suddenly changed his mind and said
to the man: “What are you doing with
that gun, mate?”
“I’m after him,” he said. “He’ll swing
no more palings at me. He’ll be past
here in a minute. I’ll get him.”
“You don’t want to do that,” remarked
Tom, again turning his attention to the
bacon rind.
“You want to put away that gun, boy,”
said Bill, stirring his tea.
“Yes,” I murmured, looking at the
floor and following a train of thought.
“A gun’ll get you nowhere.”
Jack wanted more detail. He had the
pleased alertness of a dog that has pricked
its ears. His white teeth flashed in the
light from the swinging lamp. “You’re
going to do for him, eh? What are you
going to do that for?”
The man had straightened himself and
was looking back into the darkness. It
was a hot night and there was a north
wind blowing. I could hear dry leaves
rustling down the roadway. Sometimes
dust swayed by in whorls of lighter dark-
ness,
“He beat me up,” said the man, still
looking down the road. His head was
thrust forward, peering. His profile was'
limned against darkness.
“Your nose is crook, all right,” de-
clared Jack. He dropped his inspection
and concentrated on the plate before him.
The man took his nose between his
finger and thumb and moved it gently
from side to side.
Bill looked at me and tapped his fore-
finger against his head.
“It’s a fact,” agreed Tom, noticing the
action.
“It looks broke to me,” said Jack,
answering the man’s expression.
“You never want to go after a man
with a gun.” Tom addressed the stranger
paternally.
“I’ll get him,” he replied. “I’m just
waiting for him to pass.”
“Don’t be a fool,” said Tom. “If you
want to get him go after him with a pick-
axe handle.”
“You’ll swing for it,” said Jack.
“What do I care?” said the man con-
temptuously.
“You’ll care, all right,” said Jack.
“You don’t want to do that, lad,” said
Bill.
The man lifted the gun and shifted it
to his other side. The muzzle swung
past Jack.
“Is that gun loaded?” demanded Jack.
“Yes.”
“Give it here,” Jack ordered, holding
out his hand.
The man stepped back, drawing the
gun behind him. “No you don’t.”
“I just want to look at it,” said Jack.
“It’s loaded,” said the man.
“Well, point it somewhere else,” said
Jack. “I got a few things I want to do
tomorrow.” He turned to us in an
aggrieved fashion. “He keeps pointing
the gun at me,” he complained. “Hey,”
he went on, “how do you manage to get
cartridges to shoot Dagoes when we
can’t get them to shoot ducks?”
“I’m going to get him,” said the man,
seeking to convince himself by frequent
declarations.
“Be a man and fight him,” said Tom,
still busy with a bacon rind.
“I could lick him anywhere,” said the
man defiantly. “He came at me with a
paling. You can’t fight a man with a
paling.”
“I’d. fight him with anything,” said
Jack. “Bring him along here and I’ll
fight him for you. Look, I’ll fight him
for you. Where is he?”
“And, by hell, he’d do it, too.” Tom
looked at me and nodded towards Jack.
“He can fight like a threshin’ machine,
that fellow.”
“He’ll be coming along in a minute.
I’ll get him.”
“You’ll get hanged,” said Bill.
“They tell me the worst time is the
morning before you’re hanged,” said
Jack, addressing me.
“It must be bad,” I said.
“It puts a nasty taste in your mouth,”
said Bill,
The man at the door moved restlessly.
He swung the gun to his shoulder and
sighted into the night.
“I don’t like the way he waves that
gun,” said Jack. “I’ve been shot twice
before. Look what you’re doing with
that gun,” he said to the man. “You’ll
be shooting somebody next.”
“He’s late,” muttered the man impa-
tiently. He took a deep breath. “I’ll
blow a hole fair through him.”
“How many cartridges have you got?”
asked Jack.
“Two,” said the man. “I got plenty
at home.”
“Give me one,” said Jack. “I want to
shoot a duck.”
“No.”
“Would you like a cup of nice hot
tea?” asked Olive.
“Yes, have a good cup of tea,” Tom
joined in.
“All right.”
“Sit on the step,” I said to. him.
“Put your gun down first,” said Jack,
whose attitude had changed. He sat
slightly forward with still hands resting
tensely on his knees.
The man lifted the gun so that when
he seated himself the butt would rest on
the step. Jack’s arm shot forward. The
man wrenched the gun backwards, but
Jack’s swift attempt to open the breech
had succeeded and the gun flew open.
A cartridge fell to the ground. The man
dived on it and slipped it back almost
in the one movement. The gun clicked
back into place again. “Don’t do that,”
he said quietly. “I’m going to get him
tonight and no one will stop me.”
“Please yourself,” said Jack, lifting
his knife and fork once more.
“Are you sure he passes here?” asked
Tom.
“He passes here in a truck,” said the
man.
“This is a nice sort of place to camp,”
muttered Bill.
“Listen, do I fry all this two pound of
bacon?” asked Olive, handing the man
a cup of tea. He had rested the gun
against the caravan wall close to where
he sat.
“Toss it all in,” said Bill. “We’ll keep
with you.”
“Have you got any cobbers fighting?”
Tom asked the man.
“Yes, I got a cobber over there.”
“What would he think of you if you
go and shoot a man over here?”
“He’d like it,” said the man. “He’s
shooting Dagoes over there, isn’t he?”
“Ah, yes, but he’s got a permit,” said
Tom. “You’ll only get into trouble
doing it over here. A man never does
any good for himself with a gun.”
“This district must breed ’em tough,”
commented Jack.
The man lowered his gun and said
defensively: “There’s some of the finest
chaps in the world on the Murray.”
“Then think of the Murray,” reasoned
Jack. “You *don’t want the Murray’s
name in the papers, do you?”
“I don’t care.”
“Have you a mother?” asked Tom,
stirring his tea.
“No.”
“A father?”
“Yes.”
“Well, don’t bring his grey hairs in
sorrow to the grave,” quoted Tom.
The man did not hear him. He had
jumped to his feet. He lifted his gun
and stepped quietly into the shadow of
the caravan. The hum of an approach-
ing car grew louder. A turn in the road
swung its headlights like a scythe, cutting
a swathe through the darkness. It
straightened, and the trees before the
caravan door wavered timidly, then stood
bathed in a steady, increasing light.
“This might be the man!” I exclaimed,
rising quickly.
“Don’t worry. He won’t shoot,” re-
marked Tom, undisturbed. “Men that
say they’ll shoot a chap never do. It’s
the chap who says nothing you’ve got
to watch.”
“That’s his way of getting over a belt-
ing,” said Jack.
The purr of the engine was joined by
the sound of rushing air. The car
flashed into the gash of light before our
door, poised on the brink of an explod-
ing darkness, then lurched crazily, skidded
on two wheels and crashed into a clump
of saplings. Their leafy tops swayed
madly, then whipped earthwards.
In the caravan we sat paralysed in a
ringing silence that smelt of a smoking
gun. There came a soft, quick thud-
ding of panicky feet fleeing down the
road. Tom’s held breath burst from
him. “Christ! ”
Jack leapt through the door.
“Shove back this table,” said Bill
rapidly. “Quick. He’s shot him all right.
Let’s out.”
“Take your time,” demanded Tom.
“Take your time, I say.”
“Give me that box,” I said. “Here.
Quick.”
I jumped to the ground after him. We
ran to where the truck stood jammed
between the splintered and bent trunks
of the redgum saplings. Jack was stand-
ing on the step with his head and shoul-
ders thrust through the window of the
cabin. He was straining in a lift. Tom
sprang on to the step beside him. “Can
you manage? Have you got him?”
“How is he?” asked Bill quickly.
“He’s bleeding,” said Jack, “Here,
take his arm. The door’s jammed. Lift
when I say. We’ll get him through the
window. Now lift. Wait a minute.
Have you got him? Now lift.”
“Right,” said Tom. “Together now.”
They raised and drew him through
the window. He was a small man and
his head lolled.
“I’ve been shot,” he gasped. “He got
me. He said he would.”
“Get him into the caravan,” ordered
Tom. “Take his legs, Sam. We’re right,
Bill. Steady now. All togetther.”
“Blood’s pouring out of my shoulder,”
said the man shakily.
“He got you in the arm,” said Tom.
“You’re jake.”
“Lay him on the bed,” said Olive,
jumping into the caravan ahead of us.
We crowded in and laid him on the
bed.
“Now for a scissors,” demanded Tom.
He began cutting the sleeve of the in-
jured man’s coat. “He’ll be all right,”
he said. “He only got part of the
charge.”
“I had an idea something like this
would happen,” I said.
“Well, it’s a surprise to me,” said Tom.
drawing back the split sleeve.
“By hell, it is!” said Bill.
“It’s the last thing on earth I thought’d
happen,” said Tom.
THE WAINGONGORA.
God knows where the wild duck wintered, on
what cold lake
While the mist was still in the raupo she heard
the guns,
Rose, circled and was gone with the lucky ones
To some remoter peace no man could break;
God knows what months of terror or delight
she spent
While our willows were bare and our paddocks
under the frost
And vast over Egmont the snow spread its
glistening tent.
The stream running cold all the way from
mountain to coast;
But spring after spring when the willow put
forth again
Its joy in the yellow buds and the green of the
leaf,
She came again to the same rough nest on the
cliff-
Bound to that place by what most lovely chain!
Held like the tree, held like myself I know,
In the frozen season and most of all in the sweet
To that one place where the torrent of melted
snow
Flashed to her breast and sang on the stones at
her feet.
Bound to that place by what mysterious love!
O shining and winding water, winding in me
And moving towards a song, as in the tree
To bud and leaf the sap’s cool currents move,
Never have I lost, no never at any time
However ice-bound, never in any place
However distant, one eddy’s splash or chime,
One ripple’s flash, one still pool’s darker grace.
Passion and disaster, knowledge of love and
hate,
Battle of mind and body against the world
Where the rivers of men and traffic roared and
swirled,
The lonely rage of the spirit wrestling with
fate:
So much went into the making of a man!
But always under the struggle, oh deep below,
The grey stones stood, and one clear river ran
And into the sea of a life brought down the
snow.
Into the man’s mind, yes, the boy’s unfurls
In rings of water or light where the kingfisher
dives
To eel and crayfish living their shadowy lives
By rocks that waver as the current glides or
swirls;
Or the boy’s mind comes with a sparkle of sun
and the shock
On the swimmer’s limbs, till the body is free
and flowing
And flesh and mind and spirit like the wavering
rock
Are one with the river, going where the water is
going.
How often, too, in fantasy or in dream,
Turned country man, or painter of earth and
cloud,
My days have sung as they passed, far from
the crowd,
Following from sea to snow this restless gteam:
The sombre pools; the light in a sky of willows;
The red weed round the roots where the eddy
is dark
And the dead leaf spins and yellows; the stony
shallows
Where the silver flames of the rapids flicker and
spark;
The shingle bank where the gaunt old crusher
stood
And the big trout hid in the run or leapt and
splashed
When the stoneflies danced and the sunset colors
flashed;
The broken pillars of Chiselhurst’s ancient wood,
The haunted hollows where the sunlight came
to dance
Like a girl in a ruined temple: by twist and
turn,
By reach and run and banks where the mosses
glance,
Mile after mile till the snow lay white on the
fern.
But deeper than this, deeper than boyish play;
Beyond all this, daydream or dream’s delight,
That sombre water burns like stars in my night,
That silver water trembles like wings in my day;
That song of water, like women crying or sing-
ing,
Rings in my depths where still is all sound and
strife;
That living water, chill from the ice, or bringing
All summer’s richness, runs at the roots of my
life.
As if I had built my life like some clamorous
town
Where crowds jostle and voices shout in con-
fusion
And traffic howls —phantoms at war in illu-
sion !
While under it all, the joy and the thunder,
deep down
The hidden river pursues its own calm course:
Known to be there, some river-mist always
known,
But only at the bitterest crisis of rage or re-
morse
Or the flowering of love —listen! Water on
stone.
At the end of a life illusion falls away.
When the city falls, oh then, in that last day,
river,
I shall come back to you as a man to his lover,
As the bird comes back when her wild blood
sets the day
And the first leaf breaks on the willow. Symbol
or truth,
Let the day disclose! But a man’s what his
spirit knows;
And what I have known for truth, now as in
youth,
Is one clear river, coming down cold from the
snows.
N-S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3251.
Wednesday, June 3, 1942.
“FRAMEWORK” IS RIGHT.
“Saying that ‘it is of the greatest importance to keep up the framework of the the League,’ Mr. Curtin announced that his Government had appproved of a
contribution of £34,000 this year.”
“I admit you don’t look too good; but try a spot of this.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
TOJO AND TOGO.
One of the amazing things about this war
is the apparent belief of the Japanese
leaders that they can manoeuvre Aus-
tralia out of it by a mixture of cajolery
and intimidation. Though their mailed-
fist diplomacy has been successful with
Siamese, Burmese and other Oriental
peoples, it is strange that they should
have ever conceived it possible to induce
Australians to turn dog on their partners
in the British Commonwealth and their
other Allies, above all the Americans—
to become, in effect, the pariahs of the
white race —and all to live the shadow of
a national life which could be ended
whenever Tokyo chose to end it. Yet
for months Australians have been plied
with these strange invitations and threats.
An Australian who has made a study
of the Oriental mind is of the opinion
that this queer propaganda is mainly for
Oriental consumption. It is designed, he
thinks, to give an appearance of mag-
nanimity to Japanese pretensions in East
Asia and in the islands north of Aus-
tralia by insinuating that Japan covets
no white man’s country, being intent only
on securing Oriental control, with bene-
volent Japanese direction, of Oriental
lands. He allows that it may make some
impression in the bazaars.
Be that as it may, General Tojo was
at it again last week, speaking at an
extraordinary session of the Diet. “Aus-
tralians,” he said, “must look at the inter-
national situation, consider their geo-
graphical environment and then courage-
ously and speedily decide their most im-
portant step.”
As a result of the battle of the Coral
Sea, the naval forces defending Australia
have disappeared, and there is nothing to
defend Australia against the onslaught of
the Japanese forces.
If Australians were capable of being
frightened by General Tojo’s addresses
to them, the second of the kind in the
Diet, the word “disappeared” could have
no such effect. No euphemism can alter-
the fact that after the fight in the Coral
Sea the Japanese forces did not come on
but went back. In any case, Australians
have looked to the international situation
and considered their geographical en-
vironment and are not dismayed. The
Prime Minister summed up their senti-
ments in a sentence; “In Australia we
play Test matches to a finish.”
But Tokyo would understand better the
measures Mr. Curtin announced contem-
poraneously with the Tokyo warning, by
way of seeing that “this game” is played
out. He issued a call for “318,000 addi-
tional men and women” —269,500 men
and 48,500 women —to meet “Australia’s
new war commitments,” adding that
“188,000 persons must be withdrawn
from their present occupations.” He
asked Parliament to pass the uniform-
income-tax measures to give his Govern-
ment complete control of war finance.
Simultaneously, the Australian general
now in command of the Allied Land
Forces gave an inspiriting progress report.
The splendid rate at which equipment
and supplies are coming forward for the
armed forces is improving the position
daily. The movement of large bodies of
troops has been completed. In prepara-
tion for any possible operation, divisions
and their essential equipment have been
strategically placed throughout Australia.
Very great reinforcements of men and
material have reached Australia from the
United States.
So if “the Japanese forces” attempt in-
vasion in the belief that “the naval forces
defending Australia have disappeared”
they will find Blarney’s men ready and
General MacArthur and his troops still
the men of Bataan. And there will be
no Malays to guide the enemy or Bur-
mese to shoot defenders in the back.
Mr. Togo, the Foreign Secretary, has
been heard from as well as General Tojo,
though, because of the confusion of
names, some of his remarks were attri-
buted to the latter. They were on the
subject of the Molotov-Matsuoka agree-
ment and the sequel.
Relations with Soviet Russia have under-
gone no change since the outbreak of the
war [in the Pacific). Russia has given an
assurance that it is intended that mutual
dealings shall continue to be governed by
the provisions of the Neutrality Pact. When
Japan began to progress towards victory
in the New East Asia liberation-struggle,
there was every evidence that our enemies
were intensifying their pressure on the
Soviet to provide bases from which they
might attack Japan, and also to embroil
Japan with Russia; but so long as Russia
maintains her present friendly relations
there is no chance that any such intrigues
will bear fruit. Japan has no quarrel with
Russia.
These observations, together with the
course of events in Russia, seem to have
already had a chilling effect on supporters
of a Second Front in Europe who are
not Russia-Firsters. The New York
“Times,” so recently hailed as a Second-
Front publication, has pointedly declared
that a “popular impulse cannot be
allowed to stampede responsible strate-
gists into premature action, since even
an amateur knows that a retreat from
Europe would be the worst of all dis-
asters.”
Even if Russian neutrality in the Pacific
were left out of account, with the Ger-
mans claiming victories in the Crimea
and the Ukraine and starting another
campaign in North Africa, and with the
United Nations losing a million tons of
shipping a month —the statement of the
American Admiral Stirling—an effort to
land an army in France or Norway would
be the maddest military venture ever
attempted. Nevertheless the Second-
Fronters are busier than ever in Aus-
tralia. Supporting the petition circulated
by the Russia Aid Committee, “the N. S.
Wales Legal Rights Committee” has
broken out in a rash of newspaper adver-
tisements, beginning with the words
“Britain and America must open a
Second Front in Europe to help our
Soviet Ally crush Hitler this year,” and
alleging, with consummate effrontery,
that in the result “Australia would
be freed from the threat of a Japa-
nese invasion.” This is the concern that
was denounced by the mild Mr. Fadden
in Parliament on the score of its dubious
origins and the questionable company it
keeps.
All Aboard for Dubbo!
“The need for a common unified effort
to sink differences, to realise the stark
realities of this war, should be plain to
the blindest.” Mr. McKnell, the Sydney
Premier, wrote that in one of the weekly
newspaper articles in which he issues
counsels of perfection to all and sundry,
from high strategists to thirsty artisans ;
and having written it he gathered his
retinue about him by way of preparing
for a long journey—one of three.
For Mr. McKnell had arranged to
go to Dubbo “to open the campaign for
the Labor candidate” in the Assembly
by-election. So had 10 of his 14 Min-
isters (Mr. Carlo Camillo Lazzarini was
not among them) and a large proportion
of the rank and file, 18 of whom decided
to make Dubbo their stamping ground
throughout the “campaign.” It was hope-
fully suggested that the Prime Minister
would also take part. The Prime Minis-
ter had other views, but three of his
Ministers agreed to go to Dubbo to
speak for a man who must be against
their Government’s income-tax plan for
which all the N.S.W. Ms.H.R. voted. And
there were secretaries and press agents
and other small fry, and the whole crowd
travelled on the nod, and the McKnell
Assembly stood adjourned for nearly a
month until the “issue” should be de-
cided.
The “issue” is whether, in a House of
90 members, the McKnell party is to
have 54 or 55 and the Country party 12
or 11. It appeals so little to the Dubbo
people, who, like all country communi-
ties, find the war all-important and all-
absorbing, that they are absenting them-
selves from election meetings in unpre-
cedented numbers ; but the few who go
are regaled with food for sardonic fun,
for all the speakers descant ponderously
on their Government’s “war record.” Its
war record!
The Government arrived in the 22nd
month of the German war. Mr. McKnell’s
first job as Premier was to proceed with
his retinue to a meeting of the Loan
Council with a prepared demand for
£18,163,000 “to carry out the policy on
which we were elected” —£12,000,000 for
his Government and the rest for “semi-
Government institutions.” As a conces-
sion to the nation he agreed to reduce the
£12,000,000 to £10,000,000 ; but, contend-
ing, as a friendly newspaper put it, that
“certain features of his social policy
paralleled the war effort,” he refused to
take a penny less. But Mr. Fadden, then
Commonwealth Treasurer, declined to ask
subscribers to war loans to find over
£16,000,000 to meet the first instalment
of a State Government’s election bills,
and, two State Premiers supporting him,
Mr. McKnell’s demand was rejected. He
was told he could have £7,405,000 for all
purposes and no more.
He returned to Sydney a very angry
man. “It is an infamous state of
affairs,” he shouted, “that a couple of
mendicant States should be able to deny
the people of Sydney facilities.” In that
utterance he revealed himself for what,
as a politician, he is. Not nation-minded,
not even country-minded, but parochial
—a Sydney parochialist, trained in a bad
political school, whose last preceptor was
Mr. Lang. His anger persisted. He
threatened that unless the Loan Council
increased the “allocation” to his Gov-
ernment he would stop work on the
Keepit dam, an undertaking “of vital
national importance” employing “about
200 men.” He refused to have anything
to do with uniform income taxation,
and, though the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment was not 11 months old, he de-
manded another Commonwealth election
as “the only way in which Australia can
get strong, vigorous government: I view
with the utmost disquiet possibilities of
any continuance of the existing state of
affairs.”
The gentleman had quietened down
somewhat when he introduced his
Budget, but the “restrictive financial
policy dictatorially imposed by the
Federal Treasurer,” in contempt of “the
legitimate requirements of the State of
New South Wales,” still rankled. “The
best interests of our people have been
flouted,” he howled.
Since Arthur Cocks was Treasurer
nearly all N.S.W. Budgets have been bad,
but for miscalculation and trickiness the
McKnell Budget is in a class of its own.
Its author had promised on the hustings
to abolish the so-called unemployed-
relief and social-service tax, the bulk of
which was collected at the source from
weekly pay, and which returned round
£9,000,000 a year. His way of abolish-
ing it was to add it to income tax —
except in the cases of family men on
£250 and under and single persons on
less than £ls6 —to deprive other tax-
payers of the statutory exemption always
previously granted, and to tax dividends
not only at the source but in the hands
of shareholders, who had always previ-
ously got rebates. These shabby devices
notwithstanding (they were calculated to
extort “an additional £1,000,000”), he
had the face to declare that “people with
means of £ISOO a year” will “pay less
than they are paying now,” and that in
respect of “those with more than £ISOO
a year” the increase “would be negli-
gible.” The assessment papers since
issued are intelligible only as to the
amounts claimed. It is impossible for
anyone to check his tax without paying
another by buying a copy of the McKnell
Act. But thousands of taxpayers bitterly
realise that the McKnell assurances were
worthless and that they have been sold.
This apology for a Treasurer budgeted
for a surplus of £20,100. At the end of
10 months, though expenditure, com-
pared with the corresponding period of
1940-41, was up £2,035,000 (the Rail-
ways Department contrived to spend an-
other three millions), he had a surplus
of £1,200,200. Revenue from all sources
for the full twelvemonth he estimated at
£62,007,700. At the end of April he had
raked in £55,417,000—£4,010,000 more
than for the corresponding period of
1940-41 ; and May-June figures are
always high. Tax-revenue for the 10
months, nearly all income-tax revenue,
was up £1,770,000, There is more in this
than meets the eye. Since unemployment
has ceased and child-endowment and
widows’ pensions have become or are
becoming Commonwealth matters “the
State of New South Wales” does not re-
quire a thumping income-tax revenue —
inflated in part by levies on the multi-
tudes serving the Commonwealth in one
way and another and in part by sheer
extortion —for its limited services, ser-
vices which correspond to those per-
formed by English county councils with-
out income-tax revenue. On the other
hand, the Commonwealth needs every
pound it can raise for the prosecution of
the war. Every pound unnecessarily
taken by State Governments for provin-
cial and parochial expenditure is a pound
taken from the nation in its extremity.
The position is made worse, in more
ways than one, by the fact that there are
nine State income taxes, all imposed with-
out the slightest consideration for the
national Government and its responsibili-
ties or for taxpayers. Because of these
imposts the Commonwealth Treasurer
has been driven to overtax the middle
class and to temper the wind to the
higher group. Last year, in a clause of
the Income Tax Assessment Bill, he tried
to set a limit of 18s. in the £ on
Commonwealth and State taxation of
high incomes, offering a rebate of 2s. in
the £ if the taxes reached, say, 21s. in the £
and asking State Governments to waive Is.
in the £. True to their greedy traditions,
State Governments failed to do so, and
in Mr. McKnell’s State taxpayers have
this year been served with demands for
taxes exceeding 20s. in the £ —up to 235.
in the £ the Taxpayers’ Association
declares.
Having some regard for taxpayers in
general, the Commonwealth Government
has hitherto refrained from taxing what
they have paid to State Governments.
This expedient, in so many respects un-
desirable, will have to be continued if
the uniform-tax plan fails, which means
that the nation will get nothing next
year from the millions dragged by Mr.
McKnell for provincial and parochial
purposes from war payments made by
the Commonwealth and (to no small
extent) from income drawn by N.S.W.
residents from other States —an iniquity
impossible in Britain, Maoriland,
South Africa and Canada. And if
Mr. McKnell and other State Premiers
can work the oracle the uniform-tax plan
will fail. The terrific waste and worry
imposed on taxpayers by the existence of
10 income taxes are of no consequence to
Mr. McKnell. The revelation that uni-
form taxation would mean the release of
1000 men, mostly of military age, from tax-
ation departments and relieve taxpayers
of £250,000 p.a. in departmental salaries
alone leaves Mr. McKnell cold. He is
concerned only with State “rights,” by
which he means the keeping of his Gov-
ernment and “Parliament” and the army
of Government employees surrounding
them in their jobs. Dubbo can see for
itself how useless those jobs are.
“The Government’s war effort”! What
a war effort has been that of the expen-
sive N.S.W. Mines Department under
Mr. Badly’s administration! At a time
when increased coal production had be-
come of vital importance to the imperilled
nation, when the enemy had captured
two of the countries from which Aus-
tralia drew liquid fuel supplies and
was threatening sea communications
with the others, Mr. Badly began
taking men two years younger than
General MacArthur out of the coal-
mines by paying them pensions, and he
paid a lot of the pensions without Parlia-
mentary authority. He went on pulling
pensioners out of the coalmines until
the number had reached 1600. In the
process there were strikes because men
eligible for pensions wanted to go on
hewing coal and younger men refused
to work with them ; and presently the
Commonwealth Coal • Commissioner
broke in on the crazy proceedings with a
statement that there had been a serious
decline in output. An attempt had then
to be made to get pensioners back into
the mines ; but strikes go on, and if
Mr. Badly and his expensive department
have made any efforts at settlement and
prevention their exertions haven’t been
worth twopence.
A soldier-preference measure is sup-
posed to be still on the N.S.W. Statute
Book. How much respect for it the
McKnell Government has was shown
when the McKnell Government, at the
instance of Mr. Abram Landa, inter-
vened to secure the unnecessary life
appointments of two young strangers to
the Sydney University Law School re-
gardless of the claims of two Australians
on service abroad and of the protests of
the President of the Legislative Council
(himself head of the Law School for
many years), a former Attorney-General
and two Supreme Court Justices, all of
whom resigned from the Senate. The
number of Law School students has since
dropped from 210 to 70. In the same spirit
Mr. McKnell approved of the Anzac Day
ceremonies being cancelled, on the ground
that the congregation of large bodies
of people was undesirable “at a time like
this,” and thereupon, as Minister control-
ling the Police Department (his name can
still be seen on printed offers of rewards
for the apprehension of criminals), gave
his sanction to a vulgar May Day pro-
cession and to a Sydney Domain demon-
stration attended by 25,000 persons. Some
of the processionists and demonstrators
were Communists, and others were
equally notorious for sullen opposition to
“the imperialist war” when they .chose
to regard it as an “imperialist war.”
These administrative performances
are characteristic of McKnell rule. In
respect of Sunday shows for troops and
drinks for munition workers, Mr. Mc-
Knell has exhibited all the “woolliness”
and “indecision” which, in one of his
fatuous newspaper articles, he imputed
to the men directing United Nations
strategy, with the implied suggestion that
he and Mr. Curtin could do ever so much
better. On neither question, simple as
both are, has the McKnell Government,
after many weeks, been able to make up
what flatterers are pleased to call its
mind. And with control in Mr. McKnell’s
weak hands, the lower branch of the
Legislature has gone back to its worst
traditions of political larrikinism. Almost
every week some Labor member or other
makes a foul attack on a private citizen
or private citizens from behind the stone
wall of privilege. After a recent out-
break of the kind the last Speaker


said: “Parliamentary privilege does not
give anyone a right to traduce without
evidence qj to dishonor without justifi-
cation. If the practice continues we shall
be cutting our own throats.”
Because so many Dubbo people are
away on war service, and so many others
are obviously fed up with State politics,
the candidate championed by the platoon
of Labor politicians on self-granted leave
from their “war effort” may get in. A
poor poll in a borderline electorate gener-
ally works out that way. If it does in
this case the cry will be heard round the
continent that a representative country
electorate has rejected uniform taxation,
declared for State Parliaments, Govern-
ments, Governors and the rest and
approved of everything the McKnells
have done—in the latest instance, the
closing of their legislative shop for three
full weeks to concentrate on grabbing a
55th seat when (as the Labor P.M. said)
“invasion is a menace capable hourly of
becoming an actuality.” And Dubbo will
find it difficult to live the ignominy down.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Congratulations!
Having supported the principle of one
income tax for Australia when it had no
other friends, The Bulletin congratu-
lates the Curtin Government on having
got it accepted in the House by an over-
whelming majority. Two Queensland
Labor members, Mr. Riordan and Mr.
Conelan, were influenced by the State
party bosses into voicing an uneasy
opposition in debatq, but they voted
for the three measures at every stage.
So did 12 Opposition members, “led”
by Mr. Fadden after he had expressed
a number of objections—they looked
pretty thin after Mr. Spooner and Mr.
Spender had spoken. Mr. Menzies and
Mr. Cameron were also among the critics.
Indeed, the Opposition was almost wholly
Victorian and South Australian, but it
was in a hopeless minority, the voting
being 41 for uniform income taxation
and 11 against.
It warmed the cockles of The Bulle-
tin’s heart to read the remarks of the
Prime Minister and the Treasurer. “This
is a war measure,” Mr. Curtin said. “By
no other process could Parliament com-
mand the resources of the nation for the
purpose of war; there is only one war
and one defence for the people.” He
described the State company taxes as “a
maddening maze.” And Mr. Chifley con-
demned “the narrow parochial outlook”
expressed in the name of State rights.
Today the States are receiving easy
money, and we have had no evidence that
they have curbed their expenditure. We
have found the States holding out their
hands all the time to get as much loan
money as they can, despite the ever-increas-
ing Commonwealth expenditure for the
defence of Australia.
Mr. Prowse (C.P.), in a very effective
contribution to the debate, had said that,
though the Westralian State politicians
were against uniform income taxation,
he had found 90 per cent, of the people
among whom he moved in favor of it.
This point was emphasised by the
Treasurer: —
These bills are welcomed by the Aus-
tralian people because they will conserve
man-power, save expense in tax-collecting
and eliminate the perplexities to which Aus-
tralians are now subject in compiling tax
returns.
He and his leader spoke like members
of the old Labor party which did such
lasting work for Australia in the first 15
years of the Commonwealth. It remains
for the Senate to atone for serious faults
by exhibiting in this matter the same
national spirit.
Make It Simple!
Because of the algebraic formulas
adopted and —in N. S. Wales this year—
because assessment papers are as clear as
mud, it is next to impossible for people
to check the income taxes demanded of
them unless they are accountants or
trained agents. It will be a pity if an
incomprehensible formula is incorporated
in the uniform-tax regulations.
The English, who know all there is to
know about income tax, dispense with
these mysteries. They fix a standard rate of
income tax and set out a list of deductible
allowances and rebates, together with
rates of surtax on incomes exceeding
£2OOO. It is all so simple that any person
of ordinary intelligence whose income
varies little can work out what he will
have to pay and frame his domestic
budget accordingly, for the standard rate
is almost invariably announced in the
first month of the financial year. Should
he be entitled to a rebate he can get it
from “the inspector of taxes in the
locality where he resides” {“Daily Mail"
Year-Book).
In Australia the tax business has always
been excessively centralised. This is one
of the thousand things that have con-
tributed to the bloating of city popula-
tions which has increased the difficulties
of national defence.
Washington's Example.
Though Australian papers have said no-
thing about it, the release of Earl
Browder, the American Communist
leader, after he had served 14 months
of a four-years’ term, aroused nation-
wide protests, especially from returned
service men. The order was issued by
the President on the ground that four
years was a very severe sentence for a
passport fraud —as it was. That it was
no concession to the American Commu-
nist party has been shown by the action
taken in the case of Harry Bridges, the
Australian-born leader of the Pacific
Longshoremen’s Union.
Bridges, it has been claimed by Aus-
tralian as well as American Communists,
has supported the American war effort
since December 7. This may be true, and
the chances are he has done a great deal
more than Australian Communists, who
—stridently when it was safe and surrepti-
tiously when it became risky—opposed
“the imperialist war” in various ways
when they chose to regard it as an “im-
perialist war.” All the same, Mr. Biddle,
the U.S. Attorney-General, has directed
that Bridges should be deported to Aus-
tralia, at the Government’s expense, on
the ground that he was a member of the
Communist party, and that the Commu-
nist party advocated the overthrow of
American institutions by force.
A very good example to the Australian
Government. That Government, like the
Government of the United States, is
charged with the duty of defending Aus-
tralia against internal as well as foreign
enemies, whatever patriotic pose internal
enemies may assume when it is expedient.
Bridges has the right of appeal to the
Court, and will no doubt exercise it. So
he may not be back in time to take part
in the funeral orgies (“obsequies, you
idiot!”) of the Second Front movement
“to save Australia.”
From Boss to Office Boy.
Mr. Heffron, the Sydney Minister for
N.E.S., is going to make everybody,
“from managing director to office boy,”
do 48 hours a month when “compulsory
A.R.P. is introduced.” He “indicated” that
the 48 hours would probably be served
in four days. Volunteer wardens view
the proposition with disfavor.
Mr. H. followed up with a statement
that he had power to order citizens to do
duty as roof-spotters in the city area at
night, though whether the spectacle of
an elderly managing director doing a
freeze high on some roof some frosty
night amused him or not isn’t stated.
Before he comes out with plans about
what he will make people do, Mr. Hef-
fron ought to examine the top-end of
the existing N.E.S. Few wardens will
agree that its organisation is anything
like satisfactory. Most of them complain
savagely about it. There seems to be no
uniformity about the manning of posts
—some do 24 hours, some 10 hours, some
less than that; some man with one, two
or three wardens —and there have been
complaints about inability to obtain
telephones and other things. Fur-
ther, no warden is quite clear as to his
full responsibility in the matters of lights
and casualties.
But in one way Mr. Heffron’s N.E.S.
headquarters can give all others 10 on
and a beating. That is in the issuing of
orders, counter-orders, instructions,
amended instructions, pamphlets, book-
lets and magazines. If the anti-aircraft
defences could hurl the tons of paper
used by N.E.S. into the sky no raider
would be able to get through it.
Mr. Heffron is one of the McKnell
Ministers booked for the infestation of
Dubbo. To cheer the simple dwellers
along the Macquarie he should tell them
all about his A.R.P.
CHARGE OF THE BLIGHT BRIGADE.


Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Aus-
tralasia, weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.;
6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s. (Ex-*
change must be added to Country and
inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas
(British Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 16s.; 3 months, 8s. To
members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any Address Overseas
(Foreign): 12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6
months, £1 2s.; 3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, and all places within
the British Empire. \ \d. per copy. To
all other places, 2\d.
Divorce Notice.
TO PETER CROMBIE formerly of Forrest
Street Palmyra in the State of Western
Australia but present address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia citing you to appear and answer the
petition of KATHLEEN CROMBIE of Capel
in the State of Western Australia Married
Woman praying for a dissolution of marriage
In default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said petition proved
and pronounce sentence in respect thereto
For the purpose aforesaid you are within 30
days after the date of this publication to attend
in person or by your solicitor at the Supreme
Court Perth in the said State and there enter
an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
(L.S.) G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar.
HARDWICK, SLATTERY & GIBSON, of
Victoria House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
POLITICAL POINTS
“The right remedy for having seven
taxing authorities,” said Curtin last
October, “is to substitute one taxing
authority.” “Give us the practical
remedy!” replied Fadden, then P.M. and
Treasurer. Curtin and Chifley applied
it last week in the shape of uniform
income taxation, and in the House there
were 41 for and only 11 against. Fadden,
though not at all enthusiastic, voted with
the majority. No stronger blow has
been struck at provincial arrogance this
century.
The Queensland Labor revolt against
uniform income taxation was a poor old
thing. Conelan and Riordan spoke
against the measures but voted for them.
Forgan Smith thundered against them
from a fence so distant that only faint
rumbles reached Canberra. Then some-
body recalled that Foghorn had himself
supported uniform income taxation some
years ago, and then even the faint
rumbles were no longer heard.
McCall (U.A.P., Martin) was missing
when the uniform income-tax divisions
were taken. He had the excuse this
time that he is on the Rationing Com-
mittee, but it was his previous habit to
make himself scarce when contentious
matters possibly involving the loss of
electoral support came up. Next year, if
not sooner, McCall and Martin will be
parties to a long farewell.
Every day last week —that means five
days—there were more stoppages in
N.S.W. coalmines. For a lot of the
time there were conferences at Canberra
—conferences of union bosses and mine-
owners, and of mineowners, union bosses
and Cabinet Ministers. In the result a
very long “peace code” was arrived at.
On Monday 1200 miners were idle, but it
was hopefully explained that the new
peace code “would not function for a
few days.”
From the N.S.W. “Hansard,” May 15,
p. 3630:
Special Adjournment.
Motion [by Mr. McKell] agreed to:
That, unless otherwise ordered, this
House, at its rising this day, do adjourn
till Tuesday, 9th June.
The Special Adjournment was to enable
Ministers and members to take part in
the Dubbo by-election, which is to deter-
mine whether McKnell Labor will have
54 or 55 of the 90 members. To McKnell
Labor, Bruxner said, with a flash of his
old form, this by-election is “as important
as the Battle of the Coral Sea.”
Dunstan wants Werribee (Vic.) beef
sent to the boiling-down works, although
experts pronounce it pure and whole-
some. Other experts, equally authori-
tative, say that since zoning eliminated
competition Melbourne’s milk has
deteriorated. One-third of the tuber-
culosis amongst human beings is traced
to tuberculosis in cows. Dunstan, though
very vocal about the beef, has nothing to
say about the milk.
Asserting that it is “of the greatest
importance to keep up the framework of
the League and not lose the accumulated
experience of 20 years of international
co-operation and administration,” the
Australian Government is to pay £34,000
towards its upkeep this year. When last
heard of, the League staff was scattered,
but no doubt somebody can be found to
accept the easy money.
N.S.W. State Labor members, froth-
ing at the mouth because the Leg. Coun-
cil objected to the principle of compen-
sation for persons hurt going to and from
work, are talking about an abolition
referendum. They’re not game to give
the people a chance like that, nor a
chance at a referendum for abolishing
the whole box and dice of State politics.
If Premier Dunstan, of Victoria, is still
thinking of going to law over the
uniform-tax proposals, he should consider
the words of Dr. Frank Louat, president
of the Constitutional Association, in an
address to the A.N.A.:
Strange faces are making their appear-
ance at Canberra. Federal members are
being taken aside and whispered to. What
arguments are being put to them we can
only imagine; but we can be sure that
they are not arguments inspired by the
national outlook of Australians.... [The
uniform-tax plan] has artistic simplicity,
and the Constitution has nothing to say
against it.
But probably Mr. Dunstan decries
“bringing up such a contentious matter
at a time when,” etc.
When his Dubbo by-election engage-
ments permit, McKnell hurls threats of
extermination at the Leg. Council, which
knocked the free-insurance clause out of
his Workers’ Compensation Act. He
alleged that free insurance was part of
his election “mandate.” “S. M. Herald”
tartly reminded him that abolition of the
“Ma bawbees hae all gone tae Cur-r-rtin;
Ma bawbees nae mair Ah shall see;
Ma bawbees hae all gone tae Cur-r-rtin —
Hech! bring back ma bawbees tae me!”
wages tax was a much more important
part of his election mandate, and that he
has continued it under another name.
Granny promised support to the Curtin
Government, and is making a desperate
attempt to live up to the promise, though
sorely tried at times. She relishes the
opportunity of clawing at McKnell.
London “Times” on the struggle in the
Donetz region:
The objective is to deprive the enemy of
the bases from which he might set out to
conquer the Caucasus. Foremost among
these are Kharkov and Dnepropetrovsk.
This is the significance of Marshal Timo-
shenko’s drive in the Donetz basin. The
movement is designed to leave Kharkov
isolated in a salient to the north, and holds
out hopes of a further advance towards
the elbow of the Dnieper.
And that’s just about it; but the fore-
going was published in a leader on
February 3.
The party truce in Britain is in danger,
as to by-elections anyway. It was put
to the vote at the annual Labor confer-
ence, and though members of the party
executive, as well as Labor Ministers,
were all for continuance, they mustered
only 1,275,000 card votes in the ballot, the
antis being representative of 1,209,000.
One of the grievances voiced was that in
the absence of accredited Labor candi-
dates, Independents were winning seats
on stolen programmes.
With his curious passion for doing
things the wrong way round, Dedman
has banned the making of the few
picture-frames that artists must have and
allowed the making of the small frames,
useless to the artist, that are sold by the
dozen in the big stores. If he had wanted
to save labor or material, he should have
prohibited the making of frames under
10 inches by 12; by prohibiting them
over 10-by-12 he has saved nothing worth
saving and hit the artist hard.
The Union of Militant Union Secre-
taries ought to put a ban or something
on Alured Kelly, retiring president of
Victorian Chamber of Manufactures.
Kelly actually urged employers to get
closer to unionists so that each might
see the other’s viewpoint and achieve
“real collaboration.” A man like that
would do militant union secretaries out
of a job.
Victoria’s Dunstan has given notice of
his intention to assemble his “Parlia-
ment.” The Government, of course, in-
tends “to avoid contentious legislation
and to deal with war matters in which the
State is co-operating with the Common-
wealth.” The preference given to Wren’s
course over Flemington (to say nothing of
Caulfield, Williamstown, Moonee Valley,
Epsom and Mentone) is a very conten-
tious matter, but Dunstan’s Government
is to “reallocate” something or other.
Thorby is trying to win Dubbo, N. S.
Wales, as a non-party radio speaker. This
approach to an electorate has succeeded
in Britain —notably in the case of Ver-
non Bartlett —but not, so far, in Australia,
though “The Watchman” nearly brought
it off in Flinders in September, 1941.
Somehow, the stubborn Thorby doesn't
seem to have the right appeal ; but you
can never tell until the numbers go up.
British Labor has no illusions about
the difference between the Russian fight-
ing for his native land and the local
Commo. Asked to remove the ban on
Labor co-operation with Communists it
rejected the motion by a card vote—
-1,899,000 to 132,000. And if the Rus-
sian fighting for his own land could get a
good look at British and Australian
Lmmos, he'd endorse the vote.
Canberra gives a great amount of time
fought to pensioners It never has
an Y t° spare for thrifty old people who
provide their own pensions. If uniform
income taxation goes through the Gov-
eminent might well adopt a clause
in t h e British Act under which the
innnmf* nf qbpH tnvnnvprs tnvprl at
co ™ e 0l J ige “ taXp f ye ' ’ S taxed at
the earned rate up to £5OO, a smaller
concessi °n bein S grated when it exceeds
Zz
no small degree to thrifty old people who
saved money for investment out of in-
comes too small for the requirements of
the thriftless, the State Government taxes
these old people at twice the rates imposed
on people with the same amounts of
“earned” income—bookmakers, perhaps,
.. Ti McKnell has accepted the
.. challenge .. trom the Ns w” Upper
jj ouse and j s C alling for a “showdown.”
McKnelrs Government, McKnell says,
wiu not accept this .. sp ’ des of undeir i>:
cratic dictation.” It’s to be hoped he’ll
wear his magenta trunks when he goes
into action.
short statement on the initial re-
qUirements of an invasion of the Conti-
nent 5 which so intrigues that fluent
[ aW y er sir Stafford Cripps;
Every soldier means that so much shipping
tonnage that has to be provided, not only
to take him to the Continent, but to bring
hi ™ *»ck, ia ca f his be . in .s wounded,
and all the time to take provisions, ammu-
nition, stores. Those vessels have to have
other vessels to carry out coal, and those
colliers have to be supplemented by other
colliers to take the place of those removed
from the normal trade, and the coalmines
themselves necessitate more miners or
miners working beyond the hours of
fatigue to bring forth the extra coal.
The writer was Lord Fisher, Admiral of
the Fleet. What a pity the great old man
isn’t alive today to tell the Second-
Fronters what he thinks of them!
From the N.S.W. “Taxpayers’ Bulle-
tin”: —
If a soldier dies on active service, the
Commonwealth will, in certain circum-
stances, collect more death duties from his
estate than will be collected from a
civilian’s estate of the same amount.
And the “T. 8.” gives examples, one of
which shows that, while nothing is pay-
able on £5OOO, an estate valued at £5OOl
has to find £99 to £132, according to
whether it passes to deceased’s family or
to others. During the last war the Com-
monwealth and State Governments,
recognising that it was wrong to profit by
the sacrifices of young patriots from
whose estates, had things taken their
normal course, they could not expect to
collect death duties for many years, gave
unconditional exemptions in these cases,
and the “T. 8.” rightly argues that it
should be the same this time.
From “Spasebo”:
Touching the estimate of Rupert Lockwood,
of the Friends of the Soviet, that 40 to 50
trains loaded with troops, moving from the
Urals to the Far East, would transport 800,000
troops in 10 days (B. 13/5/’42). Trains in
Siberia burn wood, and mountainous stacks of
timber are to be seen at every station. It is
collected in the summer from the vast forests.
But there are thousands of miles of steppe
which grow grass and wildflowers in the
summer and are all snow in winter. The popu-
lation is 12 million, largely nomad Tartars.
If the Soviet could achieve this feat of trans-
port in the depth of winter, when most of the
inhabitants are hibernating in underground
dugouts, conditions have not only changed there
but the fairies must have taken over the service
since I crossed the country.
From a “John o’ London’s Weekly”
review of Lord Birdwood’s book Khaki
and Gown :
He was robbed at the last minute of
the honor and delight at becoming
Governor-General. The King wished it, the
Australians would have welcomed it. But
the appointment had fallen vacant just
when the pressure for a native-born
Governor was at its height. In place of
Lord Birdwood the Commonwealth had the
satisfaction of seeing as the King’s represen-
tative a successful native Jewish lawyer.
Isaac Isaacs was something more than
that, and there is no slighting reference
to him in the Birdwood book. Birdie
was passed over because the Government
had skittled the citizen army based on
compulsory training and retrenched
the permanent staff, while it kept the
Defence Department clerks on at full
pay. He would have been an awkward
man to have round the place while this
was going on, and while returned soldiers
were having a rotten time.
British Labor was a party to the post-
war credits plan introduced last year as
a feature of the income tax. Adapted to
Australian conditions, it would be an
admirable accompaniment of uniform in-
come taxation. Among its solid merits
are that claims to refunds do not cease
with death and cannot be “bought, sold
or assigned.”
“A.R.P.”: Out our way we had a nice
little Wardens’ Post, established in a
garage, 24 wardens and about 14
first-aid associates. There came to it the
first issue of a monthly magazine called
“Action.” Of 68 pages, illustrated, popu-
lar size, well printed, it is distributed free
to wardens. A fair estimate of compila-
tion and printing would be £3OO an
issue. We flipped the pages over and
came on a full-page picture of two
glamor girls and the caption:
WARIFYING THE AMERICAN GIRL.
Before U.S.A.’s first war-shot sounded,
cautious-minded New York has its A.R.P.
organisation, and girls were included in.
Apart from this murder of our language,
some of us are inclined to adopt
the notorious statement of a Hollywood
motion-picture czar and ask to be “in-
cluded out.” Hang it, we’ve got to find
money for taxes as well as A.R.P.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
CENTRAL WOOL COMMITTEE
NATIONAL SECURITY (WOOL) REGULATIONS
In accordance with the provisions of Regulation 19 of the National
Security (Wool) Regulations, it is hereby notified that all persons
owning or controlling or having possession of any unappraised
wool within the Commonwealth are required to submit such wool
for appraisement in the store or stores of an approved Wool Selling
Broker on or before the 15th day of June, 1942.
N. W. YEO, Executive Member.
Melbourne, 22nd May, 1942,
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch;
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Arthur Waite, of S.A., is the new presi-
l nt of the Motor Manufacturers and
Traders’ Society in England. His wife
s one of the two daughters of Lord
Austin, who formerly held the same posi-
tion (L ad y Austin, whom Melbourne
knew as Helen Dron, died last week).
Waite is also now a colonel, like his
brother, W. C. N. Waite, in Adelaide.
New president of the Australian News-
paper Proprietors’ Association is Rupert
Albert Geary Henderson. Sydney-born,
Henderson has been on the staff of
“S M. Herald” since boyhood, climbing
from a cadet —in 1915 —to g.m. in 1934.
He is rising 47.
This is Brigadier-General R. Royce,
Senior Air Staff Officer of the Allied Air
Forces in the South-west Pacific Area.
He is the man whom MacArthur sent on
BRIG.-GEN. R. ROYCE.
April 11 from an Australian air base to
give the Japs in the Philippines a head-
ache, and who not only carried out his
mission with a loss of one machine, but
returned with 24 officers of special value
because of their particular knowledge of
Japanese methods of air fighting. Royce
was born at Marquette, Michigan, in
1890, and educated mainly in U.S. mili-
tary academies and air-training colleges.
In Mexico with Pershing, he took the
first American flying squadron to France
in the last war. After that he was on
the General Staff in Washington, went as
an attache to London, took part in the
Alaskan flight of 1934, and obtained his
first inkling of Japanese technique in
1939 as an observer with the Chinese Air
Force. Married with one child —Lieut.
R. Scott Royce, now with the U.S. Air
Force in India.
Anyone who wants to know what
Frank Clune was doing at any particular
time has only to turn up one of his books
and see that he has been Sky High to
Shanghai, Rolling Down the Lachlan,
Roaming Round the Darling and so forth.
So dune’s latest globe-trottings are
recorded plainly enough in the title of
his thirteenth book, now in preparation
~-Tobruk to Turkey. Clune went to the
Middle East about six months ago as
honorary commissioner for the Austra-
han Comforts Fund and intends to ex-
plain in his book where and how com-
forts reach the Diggers. He wandered
as far around the Mediterranean as pos-
sible-—Tobruk, Gaza, Beersheba, Syria,
Gallipoli, etc. —and gazed on Australian
graves practically everywhere he went.
Sydney-born, he will be 48 this year.
Westralia’s Upper House has always
been strong in newspapermen, notably
lohn Winthrop Hackett (“West Austra-
lian”), Arthur Lovekin (“Daily News”),
J. M. Drew (Geraldton “Express”), H, P.
Colebatch (Northam “Advertiser”) and
Hon. J. W. Kirwan (Kalgoorlie “Miner”).
Kirwan is President and Colebatch, for-
merly leader (and Premier for a time), is
once more a member. Now Victor
Courtney, managing editor of the Perth
‘Sunday Times,” with which he has been
associated for 30 years or so, is seeking
to maintain the tradition by nominating
as a Nationalist, with party endorse-
ment, for the Met.-Suburban seat empty
since the death of J. M. Macfarlane.
Courtney has been twice abroad and has
become one of the proprietors of the
paper on which he started as a cadet. If
he can speak as well as he writes he
will do,
A 91-years’ record was established by
the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce
when it elected George Daniel Healy
president for the fourth year in succes-
sion. Two previous presidents, Robert
Read and A. J. Boyd, enjoyed five years’
tenure of the office but they were not
consecutive. Healy is superintendent for
Australasia of the Bank of ’Asia. He
was prominent in the deliberations over
the Premiers’ Plan and the £556,000,000
Conversion Loan during the depression.
P. T. Byrnes (U.C.P.) has become a
Victorian M.L.C. (North-west) without a
contest. He is a councillor of Woorinen
shire and a dried-fruit grower with a fol-
lowing among wheatgrowers and irriga-
tionists in the Swan Hill area. He is an
old A.I.F. man and his son is serving
somewhere with the new A.I.F.
Latest evacuee to arrive in Melbourne
by air from the Philippines is Peter
Drakeford, brother of the Air Minister.
He was developing a hemp and coconut
plantation in Mindanao when he heard
of the Pearl Harbor business. There were
43 Japanese men and women working on
his plantation and he arranged for their
internment. Then he tried to get to
Davao for war work, but the rush of the
Jap invasion blocked him, so he retired
to the hills behind his property, watched
it being taken over by a Japanese unit
under the direction of one of his own
tenants and then decided to make a break
of it with his houseboy and a Filipino
family. After an adventurous trek across
the island he got away by ’plane and
arrived in Darwin one hour ahead of a
squadron of Japanese raiders. Drakeford
spent 36 years of his life in China and
the Philippines. His American wife and
two daughters are in California.
Melbourne resumed acquaintance with
an old-young favorite when pianist Philip
Hargrave was billed with Anthony
Ferrara, the operatic tenor of the U.S.
army, at a Town Hall concert. It is 10
years since, an infant prodigy from Adel-
aide, Phil took Melbourne by storm at the
King’s clad in an Eton jacket and short
pants. It was predicted that he would
become another Backhaus. Hargrave had
his own ideas, however, and forsook
music for the law. Now he is a stalwart
young man of 20, with an A.I.F. cor-
poral’s stripes.
Captain Charles Alfred Melbourne
Derham, M.C., who succeeds Alured
Kelly as president of the Victorian
Chamber of Manufactures, has an almost
hereditary title to the position—his father
was president 1897-1902. Captain Derham
is a director of Swallow and Ariell, a
member of the board of Alfred Hospital
and is on the council of his old school,
Melbourne Grammar.
Maorilanders, like Australians, have a
habit of popping up in the most unlikely
places. One has now been found on the
staff of Brigadier-General Hurley, U.S.
Minister to M.L. —Colonel John H. Nan-
kivell, rating Gl, status military attache.
He was born in Christchurch, and is a
descendant of Robert Nankivell, surveyor
for the New Zealand Company, who
landed at Petone in 1840. John H.’s
family went to the U.S, when he was a
boy. He joined the U.S. Army as a pri-
vate, and saw service in the Philippines
and in Mexico prior to 1917. In France
he was major in command of a battalion
drawn from Colorado, and that State
conferred on him its Distinguished Ser-
vice Medal. A son is a second lieutenant
in the U.S.A.A.C.
A. W. Skidmore (“Skid”), assistant
secretary of the Sydney R.A.S., has been
appointed chairman of the advisory coun-
cil set up to administer the Women’s
Land Army scheme. Skidmore’s a good
man for the job—he has had a pretty
close look at rural N. S. Wales as the
society’s representative on judging tours
of R.A.S. competitions in the sheep,
wheat and dairy country. An English-
man, he put in several years in the Fed-
erated Malay States and N.E.1., some-
time as a King’s Messenger, and had
charge of the cargoes of interned ships
in those parts in 1914-18. He joined the
R.A.S. in 1922, since when his has been
one of the three guiding hands of its
destinies.
The N. S. Wales Police Boys’ Club,
which has done such excellent work in
the last five years for lads in industrial
areas, is getting a fine reward —over 500
former members are fighting for their
country. One, Lieut. H. W. Nichols,
has been awarded the M.C. for bravery
at Tobruk. With six men he went out
over the western perimeter to capture
an enemy ration truck and bring back a
prisoner ; the truck didn’t turn up, but on
the return journey the patrol captured an
enemy post containing three m.-gs. and
three mortars. Another post opened fire
on them, and Nichols, taking one man
armed with a tommy-gun, wiped that
out too. Nichols is 21 and belongs to
the Leichhardt division of the club.
The highest appointment in the reshuf-
fling of R.A.A.F. posts has gone to Air
Vice-Marshal George Jones, who steps
into Sir Charles Burnett’s job as Chief
of Air Staff. Born at Rush worth (Vic.)
and educated there he went straight from
that village abroad with the first A.1.F.,
serving on Gallipoli at 18, in Palestine
with the Light Horse and in France in
the Australian Flying Corps. On the for-
AIR VICE-MARSHAL JONES.
mation of the R.A.A.F. in 1921, Jones
became a flying officer ; since then he has
been C. 0., Point Cook, Director of Train-
ing and Director of Personnel Ser-
vices. From ’39 to ’4O he was Assistant
Chief of the Air Staff, and Acting Air
Commodore in 1941. He thinks flying,
lives flying and makes flying his recrea-
tion.
News comes from London that a Civil
List pension has been conferred on
Maoriland artist Frances Hodgkins.
She was born in Dunedin, and received
her early training from her father, W. M.
Hodgkins, and G. Fieri Nerli. She has
lived in England since 1901, has exhibited
at the Royal Academy and Paris Salon,
and is represented in Maoriland and
Australian galleries, as well as in the
Tate Gallery, London.
Frith’s victim. Captain W. B. Bolton,
of the 18th Armored Car Regiment, prob-
ably found the artist’s attack on him to
be the least dangerous of the adventures
he has experienced in the last couple of
CAPT. W. B. BOLTON.
years. Bolton went to England early in
the war, turned up in the Middle East
and was in the thick of things in Greece ;
then the Germans nabbed him on Crete
and took him back to Greece. Two
attempts to escaped failed, but the third
time was lucky—Bolton crawled a fair
stretch on his stomach, hacked through
about six feet of barbed wire and then
bolted for 100 yards or more. After
that he lived for six weeks as a Greek
civilian—he found them friendly, brave
and pro-British—and even went to pic-
ture shows and on sight-seeing expedi-
tions before making his escape. From
Horsham (Vic.), Bolton was a stock and
station agent in peace-time, and had six
years in the militia before the war.
Into the silence:
Owen Esmond Friend, dead in Sydney at 61,
could not have had a more appropriate name
—he had, possibly, more friends than anyone
else in Sydney. Businessman and pastoralist,
Friend was a director of a dozen or so com-
panies, and until 1934 president of the Royal
Australian Historical Society.
Tom Barr-Smith, who died a few months ago,
was warmly remembered at the annual meeting
of Elder’s Trustee Company in Adelaide, which
is a sideline of the Elder, Smith concern. He
was a nephew of the original Elder and a
son of Smith; was one of the original directors
of the Trustee Company in 1910, and became
their last survivor; succeeded Peter Waite as
chairman 20 years ago; gave £5OOO towards
establishing a pension fund for the staff; and
has now left £5OOO to be used similarly for the
rapidly-growing female staff. His son and
namesake was elected to the board, as also was
Ronald Angas, a member of another great
pastoral clan in S.A.
In Melbourne, Cecil Francis Parsons, Tas-
manian pastoralist and keen fighter for the man
on the land. President of the Speck’s R.A.S.
since 1939, Parsons, with secretary L. N. Mur-
doch, personally supervised the big job of re-
modelling the society’s showground. He was
at the foundation meeting of the Tasmanian
Farmers, Stockowners and Orchardists’ Associ-
ation in 1908, was its president for 10 years
and treasurer when the end came. President
of the Graziers’ Federal Council of Australia
in 1935-36.
Died in the Sudan after a motor accident,
Dr. John Golding Myers, a Maorilander who
attained eminence in science. A graduate of
Victoria College, Wellington, he went to Har-
vard in 1925, and while in America carried
out investigations on behalf of the English
Department of Agriculture. When he arrived in
England he was appointed to the Imperial
Bureau of Entomology. Later he joined the
entomological station at Farnham Royal, Kent.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Oliver Filter”; I see that the N. S.
Wales Chief Secretary detailed a coroner
or somebody to investigate the drawing
of the “Dream Home” art union because
of the curious occurrence of consecutive
numbers in the list of prizewinners. Ver-
dict: “No blame attachable to anyone.”
In my reading of the list of prizewinners
1 found one group of seven consecutive
numbers, one group of six, two of five,
four of four, eight of three and 23 of
two. Now a mathematician acquaintance
tells me that if two prizes were to be
drawn from only ten tickets the odds
against two consecutive numbers turning
up would be 4.4 to 1. So what must the
odds be against drawing seven consecu-
tive numbers in 383 prizes out of nearly
two million tickets? Personally, I don t
give two hoots about the thing, but
I’m a little sorry for the newspaper which
donated the “Dream Home ’ to the Red
Cross and went to no end of expense to
advertise it. Every woman I’ve met in
the last few months has been certain that
she was going to win it, and what they
now are saying about the “Dream Home”
and its sponsor is no man’s business.
❖ sfc ijc He
“Warraguller”: There was some joy riding
around Sale (Vic.) one night last week,
no fewer than five cars and a truck being
“borrowed.” Reports of the affair don't
suggest what the vehicles were used for,
but a couple of detectives chased one car
to Maffra, and were on its tail when two
youths suddenly plunged from it into
the scrub. After a footrace, they were
caught. It then came out that they’d got
to Sale in a car owned by a brigadier-
general and “borrowed” from outside a
drill hall at Warragul. A lands inspector
at Bairnsdale was another victim ; he got
the chassis back after the body was burnt.
All cars and the truck were recovered.
It must be something in the Gippsland
air.
* * * #
“Fanny Featherbrane”; Really I got
such a thrill when I read in the
paper that you’d be allowed to swap
clothes rationing coupons with other
members of the family I thought
at first I’d have to make do on my own
and that would have been dreadful I
couldn't have managed it because I’ve
got to get a thick tweed skirt to go with
my new sports jumper and I simply must
have a coat and skirt I couldn’t get
around in the thing I bought last season
and I believe a coat and skirt eats up
your coupons and then there’s the in-
between-season frock and a pair of
wedgies in that dinky rust color and a
new beanie I know Dad bought a suit
just after the war started so he won t
want another for a few years he’ll only
need a shirt and a couple of singlets and
some socks and I can have the rest of
his and Mum says she’s going to unpick
that old grey serge ensemble of hers and
turn it and she says slie can get another
season out of that old ballibuntal I gave
her, so it looks as if I’ll collect some
Lorn her too goody no one else in the
lamily seems any good for coupons so
I’m going to word Dad to see if Grand-
ma can come and live with us she only
goes out every Pancake Day and doesn’t
need many clothes it’ll be a bit of a
struggle, but 1 simply must manage on
what I can get I suppose
* * * *
“Seed o’ the Hay”: 1 see where the
Sydney crowd running the Lord Mayor's
Fund is asking Mr. Curtin to do some-
thing about £150,000 alleged to be
“frozen” in country towns. The boss
of the Sydney fund is howling
that the £150,000 is needed, sneer-
ingly remarking that it is being held
for bursaries for “unborn sons” of
soldiers, welcome-home funds and the
provision of invalid chairs for incapaci-
tated local service men. Mr. Curtin
should ignore these city chaps. We
country blokes reckon we’ve a right to
do what we like with our own money,
and if we choose to keep it in trust for
the help of soldiers and their dependants
after the war it’s because we haven’t for-
gotten what happened to a lot of our
fellows after the last war. Anyhow, seeing
“I hope the air raids don't come here—just think how nervous and
frightened our little children would be."
that Sydney is chock-full of munition
workers and others, all pulling down big
screws, we reckon that city is capable of
supporting its own Lord Mayor’s Fund
without trying to get at the money our
overtaxed and underpopulated districts
have put away for the future.
*** . *
“Clooter”; As one whose natural teeth
have long since vanished from human
ken, I can’t help being interested in the
discovery at Smithton (Tas.) of a fang
which E. O. G. Smith, director of Laun-
ceston’s Queen Victoria Museum, declares
is at least 30,000 years old. It belonged
to the thylacoleo, a possum that ram-
paged round Tassie on moonlit nights in
the Pleistocene age. The thing was as
big as a lion and had a pouch. The
discovery reminds me of a somewhat sar-
donic Orkney Islander with whom I hob-
nobbed in my salad days. A geologist, he
was invited to address a private school in
the subbubs, and took me along. His
accent was such that every pupil in that
class noted in his little book that the
glacial period was known as the “plas-
ticine” age.
%
“Oxmead”: A cable mentions that St.
Peter’s School, York, was severely dam-
aged in a “reprisal” raid, and calls it the
oldest public school in England; Guy
Fawkes, it asserts, was educated there.
This is the first I ever heard of the latter
claim, which is hardly likely to be con-
tested ; but the former one seems fairly
well grounded. Out of 140 English public
schools listed in Whitaker, some of which
go back to the 12th century, St. Peter’s
is the only one to which no foundation
date is assigned, its beginnings apparently
having been lost in the mists of antiquity.
It seems a fair inference that York was
something of an educational centre before
Oxford or Cambridge was heard of;
the oldest college at either of these is
University (Oxon), which dates officially
from 1249, although a sturdy tradition
carries it back to the reign of King
Alfred.
♦ ' ♦ * *
“X.S.”: More precedents have been
broken over the arrest of an American
soldier in connection with the murder
of three women in the blackout in Mel-
bourne than in any previous crime in
Victorian history. When he was brought
to the city watchhouse no charge was
laid and no entry was made in the
charge-book. American soldiers with
rifles guarded his cell and only high-
ranking American officers could approach
him without being challenged. The State
law demands an inquest on every death
where a medical certificate is not given,
unless the coroner considers it unneces-
sary. In this case, inasmuch as the
prisoner will be tried by American mar-
tial law, the coroner, after opening the
inquiry and hearing evidence of identifica-
tion, will, it is expected, adjourn proceed-
ings pending the decision of the military
court. No charge is to be laid until the
soldier is arraigned before a military
court, and the trial will be expedited in
the army way, though, of course, suffi-
cient time will be allowed to permit of all
relevant evidence being taken. In the
circumstances newspaper exploitation of
the case has been considerably restricted,
but a description of the prisoner has been
vouchsafed. He is said to be 24 years
old, sft. lOin. in height, powerfully built,
fair-haired, round plump face and what
looks like a broken nose, and of mixed
Polish and Russian stock.
* * * *
“Faber”; First-class Private Hegarty,
of the U.S. Army, had been in the Philip-
pines for three months on a diet whose
staple was goat’s milk and horseflesh.
He felt ready for some good wholesome
Australian food. A city milk bar turned
his thoughts to fresh, rich, creamy dairy
milk, so he hopped in and ordered a
glass. “It’s good milk, is it, miss?” he
asked the girl who brought him the class.
“Aw, yes, it’s dinkum milk,” assured the
Aussie lass. Hegarty put down the glass
in disgust. “No good to me,” he said ;
“I want cow’s milk.”
* * * *
“La Guerre”; I give way to no one in
my admiration of the young women
assisting the war effort, but applauding
newspapers should show a little more
discrimination than they sometimes do.
For instance, the lighter-minded of my
two morning newspapers devotes 52 sq.
in. to a photo, of two girls “shatter-
proofing” windows. That girls have
no objection to being seen in public in
trousers I have known for many years ;
that they can climb ladders comes to me
as no blinding revelation. What mildly
peeves me is that the newspaper illustra-
tion shows the two ladders being steadied
by two large able-bodied men. Also
present at the ceremony was a newspaper
photographer (ask me not how I deduce
this), so it seems that the saving in labor-
power attained by this exploit isn’t any-
thing to cheer about. In fact, the ser-
vices of two young women and one man
(the photographer) could have been
saved by letting the two ladder-steadying
men do the whole job.
* * * *
“Avon”: Wellington (M.L.) has been
passing through feelings first of indigna-
tion, secondly of amusement, thirdly of
genuine concern as the result of a recent
E.P.S. fiasco* Mayor Hislop had every-
thing mapped out for a full-scale dress
rehearsal, with a programme of “106
official incidents” (as a newspaper
quaintly puts it); the alarm to sound
at 8.8 on a weekday evening. The
first “official incident” apparently was
the falling of bombs on one of the
western suburbs. Of course, every mem-
ber of the E.P.S. knew the exact time of
starting. But, alas! The alarm was
sounded at 6.39, and the result was
what the “Dominion” calls “conster-
nation which developed into utter con-
fusion.” Running of trams and trains
was interfered with, and E.P.S. workers
were “torn from their dinner-tables,”
though fully 50 p.c. of them lived in
remote suburbs, outside the scope of
E.P.S. alarms. The Mayor was furious,
talked of “gross incompetence or mali-
cious interference” and swore “never
again will I rely on the National Service
Department”—its officers had charge of
the alarm arrangements. Next day Bob
Semple, Minister of N.S., poured oil on
troubled waters. The whole thing, he
said, was due to the misunderstanding
of a telegraphic alarm from another
centre. “But,” Bob wound up, “it must
be appreciated that an emergency may
occur without any warning.” After which
there were many furrowed brows in
E.P.S. circles.
* * * *
“Clooter”: All these newspaper de-
scriptions of guerrilla tactics are making
me nervous. My Sunday paper had a
double-page of the stuff, quoted from a
book by one Yank Levy, described as a
successful guerrilla in Spain, where the
guerrillas weren’t successful. A few
samples:
A hammer-blow between a man’s
shoulder blades will paralyse him. If you
do have to take him from the front, place
the sole of your left foot on the arch of
his right foot, tear open his tunic or great-
coat, drop tunic and braces to lock his
arms, drop his trousers to lock his feet.
Wire-cutters and fish lines are handy for
strangling.
There are instructions how to knife a
man from front or rear, how to slash
tyres, immobilise motor engines, stop
bike or motor-cycle riders, how to search
the victim thoroughly—the whole a fine
lesson in the art of assault and robbery
which I fully expect some of our crimi-
nals and larrikins to put into practice.
Personally, after reading it. I’m keeping
well away from anyone in the brown-
out ; I don’t want a hammer-blow be-
tween the shoulder-blades. Governments
concerned with the safety of their tax-
payers oughtn’t to allow this sort of
propaganda to be published.
THE MODERN CHASE.
“Granted that every girl’s ambition is to marry,
it still remains a hard, often heartbreaking, trial
of ‘first catch your man.’ ”
—Extract from woman’s ■ letter to “S.M.II.”
It makes you rub your eyes, such artless candor.
It knocks all chivalry’s conceptions loose.
D’you think it’s solemn fact or baseless slander
That, in the human race, the modern use
Is for the goose to stalk the wary gander.
Not for the gander to pursue the goose?
Save for the cynical, it’s hard to credit;
And yet the fact remains—a woman’s said it.
“First catch your hare,” some cookery-book
advises,
If you would turn it into toothsome scran.
An axiom that no one criticises.
An obviously necessary plan.
The lady’s counsel to her sex likewise is,
Whate’er the cost, you’ve got to “catch your
man,”
Essentially a precedent condition
To realising “every girl’s ambition.”
Must man, then, be incontinently shunted
In courtship from his immemorial place?
There’s many a, beau I know will be affronted
To be assured it really is the case
That he, the hunter erst, is now the hunted,
The whilom chaser now the beast of chase,
Pursued by those who’ll break their hearts to
catch him
And altarwards relentlessly dispatch him.
If she be right, my son, the trials and troubles
Of that frail animal you yet may share
Who streaks across the meadows and the
stubbles,
Untimely hustled from his grassy lair,
And “cranks and crosses with a thousand
doubles”
In vain, old Shakspeare’s dew-bedabbled
hare,
And find your chance of dodging would-be
marriers
One with poor Wat’s of shaking off the
harriers!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE POTENTATES.
“The Federal Government is taking a step long
overdue in introducing uniform taxation. The poten-
tates, men of small vision in positions of State author-
ity, are taking thought together how they can
strangle the reform at its birth.”
— Dr. Fraud Louat to the A.N.A.
These potentates—the hide of them! —who have
the term applied to them.
These small tin gods who kid themselves
they’re spokesmen for their States,
These three-a-penny entities, these parish-pump
identities.
Are fairly foaming at the mouth, poor, pur-
blind potentates!
They fear their kudos stripped from them,
their privileges ripped from them;
The threatened check to splashing up the
boodle all dismays.
For each, one senses readily, has studied long
and steadily
The part in influencing votes that fixing
taxes plays.
They’re up in arms, the pack of them, the
motive at the back of them
Uniting politicians usually Poles diverse.
That bitter dread engendering by prospects of
surrendering
The handling of the revenue, the power of
the purse.
Strange bedfellows are some of them, so
strange one deems it rum of them
To find they’re one and all of them in full
accord for once,
Determinedly endeavoring to obviate the severing
Of Premiers from what they’ve come to
think their lawful bunce.
Of outworn views inheritors they meet like
dark conspirators;
To deal the common foe a blow each one
his turn awaits,
These Tooley-street calamities in new-discovered
amities,
These swollenheaded blusterers, soi-disant
potentates!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“You attend to this recruit, Northover — I'm busy!"
“Hamfat”: “Advance, Australia Fair”
had a rival as a national air once ; but
in spite of the efforts of the godfathers
„nrl onHmnthprc nf tbp infant Common-
and godmothers ot the infant common
wealth to foist their made-to-order Aus-
tralia, Hail!” upon the citizenry the thing
quickly faded out of memory. Good job,
too. I heard what was intended to be
'by a”massed'dioir
the Sydney Cricket Ground as part of
unanimously dropped, “Australia Ale!”,
intended to be inspiring, sounded more
like an advertisement for beer than any-
thin .
S ** * *
“Kiwi”: M.L. is to have its “Churchill
Auctions,” sales in the four centres of
rare books, MSS., prints and antiques ;
proceeds to patriotic funds. Inspiration
for this undertaking came from a book
presented to Fraser by Churchill when
M.L.’s P.M. was in London last year. The
book is All the Kings of This Isle, by
Sir Winston Churchill, father of the first
Duke of Marlborough, and bears the
date 1675. This book, which will be
auctioned by radio, is to form the corner-
stone of the sales project. Contributions
from overseas are invited and many rare
books are already in hand. Pat Lawlor
is the hon. organiser, and the sales will
be held at the end of the year.
* * * *
“Faber”: The rush of panic-buying
has made heavy calls on the resource and
sagacity of those who want to be in the
front ranks. At the height of the battle
round the counters of a Melbourne store
a woman screamed and fell senseless.
Shop assistants, trained in first-aid, rushed
to the spot and the crowd was held back
to give the victim air. Then, as the space
cleared, the patient sprang to her feet,
grabbed a milliner’s work of art from
the stand, threw 25 bob on the counter
and bolted for the door.
* * * *
“Hamer”; Carlyle remarked “He who
possesses sixpence is master of the world
—to the extent of sixpence.” The world
has seemed to me to be a less friendly
place since the nimble sprat lost its magic
magic that could produce a bottle
of beer, a drink in the private bar, a pint
in a tankard in the public, a good meal
at a pie-cart, a cup of tea and pie at less
mobile eateries—a multitude of benefits
whose onetime cheapness has passed into
the limbo of forgotten things. The change
struck me forcibly when, at large in
Sydney at midnight, I entered one of the
few remaining all-night pie-and-coffee
stands. The prices were on the wall, all
much over the sixpence of old and with a
splitting ot pence over some items. The
kUler was a once-beloved item marked
at “Is. lid., plus sales tax Id.” I hur-
riedly went forth. There is more geniality
in the cold, starlit sky than in a pie-joint
where sales tax is calculated and pennies
are split into vulgar fractions.
p ** * *
“Camsa”: It had to happen, with so
many men in munitions who had never
done such work in their lives. In an
Adelaide factory the foreman in one of
the shops sent a boy over to the store
with a requisition for a wheelbarrow,
Presently the boy comes back wheeling
the wheelbarrow on another wheelbarrow
he had borrowed from the store. Fore-
man dumbfounded, asks him what the
devil he thinks he’s doing. Boy (indig-
nantly): “Y’ didn’t expect me to carry
it, did y’?”
“Craiser”: A pathetic cry in Mel-
bourne “Argus”:
My husband, not so young, is a munitions
worker who does not reach home until
1045 four nights ea ch week. Surely he is
due for the com fort of warm clothing after
the cold tram journey, yet in order to get
him two pairs of winter pyjamas 1 have had
to visit townjhree mornings, at a cost of
> have been making a hasty calculation
of
s P ent annually in this country on tnese
garments. It is unnecessary to point out
that pyjamas don t keep the body warm
—bedclothes do. Pyjamas militate against
warmth, insofar as they interfere with
the circulation. The quaint custom arose
when men gave up going to bed in their
clothes and their boots, with their battle-
axes under their pillows, and, disliking
sudden breaks with the past, devised a
simple substitute garment, complete with
bedcap. Nobody now wears the long,
candle-snuffer cap with the tassel on the
top. There is no better justification for
pyjamas. Therefore I suggest to Mr. Ded-
man a ban on pyjamas in the interests ot
the war effort. It won t touch me I don t
wear them.
* * . * * „
4 Ad. : Thought it was my wife was
the cheerful defence of a man in an
Adelaide court who had, m the severe
local blackout, struck a woman and taken
away from her a pram with her two
children. “As soon as I found out I
apologised.” Three pounds and costs,
* * * *
“Steamship”: “Crossjack” states (B.
6/ 5 / ’42) that the Union Flag did not
come into being until 1801, and that
previously the flag flown at the staff in
a ship’s bow was known as the Union
Jack. This is incorrect. Any flag worn
at the jackstaff in a ship’s bow is known
as a jack ; consequently the Union Flag
(the correct name), when worn there, is
known as the Union Jack. It is not
correct to refer to this flag as the Union
Jack when worn elsewhere. It is the
Union Flag.
**. * *
“C.R. ’: When Justice Gavan Duffy
told a witness in the Criminal Court in
Melbourne that his evidence was inter-
larded so much with slang as to be unm-
telligible, and bade him repeat what he had
said in the King s English, this is what
’Sonah got: “The man said: Break it
down; the old sheilah downstairs will
hear us and I’ll get a blue.’ ” The wit-
ness knew no other language,
* m
Blv • ... rter .. 4 “^
would think it ndtculous if someone sug-
gested draping Sydney Harbor Bridge
with a veneer of concrete or stone to
make it look like a magnified Roman
bridge. , Wh s'> < he "- ex P ecl an a . r< * ltcc
o cut down the floor-space and boost
‘ he ™ st , of a steel-framed office building
by hanging Gothic mouldings or Conn-
thian pilasters on its fa?ade in imitation
of Cologne Cathedral or a Renaissance
palace? A. dislikes egg-boxes per-
forated with square slots” only because
he isn’t used to them. Some of Beet-
hoven’s music was thought queer once.
So were Van Gogh’s paintings. And the
motor-car that was the last word in
1905 excites only mirth now. Architects
—who admire the work of former mas-
ters even more, perhaps, than “A.” does
—would be the last to wish the monu-
ments to their greatness to disappear, but
if all old buildings were replaced by good
modern work the next generation, scan-
ning the illustrations in an architectural-
history book, would think the old struc-
tures as odd as “A.” now thinks his “egg-
boxes ”
* * * *
“F.S.”: “Alma-road” (B. 20/5/’42)
objects to the suggestion that the next
Melbourne Cup trophy should be a
painting of the winner instead of a golden
goblet. What objection could there be if
the picture was a good one? The impli-
cation that pictures of horses with mani-
kins on their backs must be bad
ones is a prejudice, not a judg-
ment. When they are bad it is
because the “artists” commis-
sioned to paint them were bad
painters. Velasquez painted Philip
the Fourth on horseback, and the
result was magnificent.
» * * *
“Yair?”: Bill, at the corner-shop, tells
this indignantly to anybody with a minute
to spare. Mrs. X, from the next street,
was “a bad payer.” In came her
ten-year-old son with a list of groceries
which would have added up to about
thirty bob. “Yair, and where’s the
money?” Bill inquired grimly. “Oh,
Mum says t’ tell you she’ll pay sure
thing on Friday,” said the kid so earnestly
that Bill paused. “You’re sure it’ll be
Friday?” he asked, very doubtful. And
the kid cried excitedly: “Too right. She’ll
’ave t’ pay you Friday ’cause that’s the
day we’re all goin’t’ Melbourne t’ live!”
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: The Digger in
the Bulletin joke (B. 20/5/’42) who told
the army dentist that it would cost him a
quid to see his teeth, since he’d pawned
them, must have had unusual luck. Uncle
will on no condition lend money on teeth
or spectacles. That litter of old false
teeth and glasses seen in some pawnshop
windows is the leavings of dead men.
Uncle buys dead people’s effects as a job
lot and puts everything into stock. But,
however expensive a set of teeth is, no
Uncle would lend even two bob on them,
save in one case —that of a regular cus-
tomer absolutely certain to redeem the
pledge.
* * * *
“Lie Lee”: “Bo” (B. 29 / 4/’42)
awakens a memory when he mentions the
three natives of the Midlands (Eng.) who
sipped from one pint of beer. In Kemp-
sey (N. S. Wales) lived two characters
known as Hoppy Joe and Jimmy Sugar,
father and son, both fishermen. Hoppy
Joe walked with a limp and Jimmy Sugar
always carried a sugarbag over his shoul-
der. One hot day an acquaintance
hurried me into the Commercial Hotel to
watch these two have a drink. While we
toyed with a Maitland shandy each,
“Our quota will only allow us to sell you one shoe , madam!"
Hoppy Joe put twopence on the counter
and Jimmy Sugar also slammed down
two browns. The barmaid served a glass,
Hoppy Joe carefully drank down to his
thumbnail, which marked the halfway,
and Jimmy Sugar finished it. Then out
they went. Their regular habit, my friend
told me.
* * « *
“C.Q.”: An Arbitration Court debate
as to what weight a woman in industry
should be required to lift in comparison
with a man has been going on in Mel-
bourne. The view that Australian women
are less capable of heavy labor than men
is not based on fact but is an attitude due
to Australian methods of education.
There are plenty of countries where there
is no such discrimination, and I have yet
to learn that in those countries people
are less happy than Australians. The
normal attitude in Australia is that when
a man marries his wife has to become an
encumbrance. A friend of mine married
a great strong woman just as physically
capable of work as he is. It has never
entered his head that she might milk a
cow, keep pigs or fowls, plough a field
and plant potatoes or do anything what-
ever but sit around at home after she has
packed her one child off to school and
listen to the radio or bore herself with
the latest novel. When I suggested that
they might get a little property so that
she could farm when he was at his office,
he said: “She couldn’t do it. She’s a
woman.” “A mare is as strong as a
horse,” I remarked. “Why wouldn't a
woman be as strong as a man?” He was
horrified.
Jj! * * *
“Simpleton”: Rather belatedly, let me
add a postscript to the rhyming squabbles
in recent Bulletins. Let contenders
ponder over this titbit (clipped from
“John o’ London’s Weekly,” 9/12/’3B),
and then don’t wonder why it isn’t easy
to rhyme in English:
When the English tongue we speak
Why is break not rhymed with freak?
Will you tell me why it’s true
We say sew but likewise few?
And the maker of a verse
Cannot match his horse with worse?
Think of hose and dose and lose,
And of goose and yet of choose.
Think of comb and tomb and bomb,
Doll and roll and home and some.
And a lot more in similar strain. Now
worry out this tangle:
If I am quick I am fast; if I am tied I
am fast; if I spend too freely I am fast;
if I don’t eat I fast.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Manufacturers of cosmetics
may fix “standards of feminine beauty,”
as “Zake” maintains (B. 15/4/”42). The
causes of fashions go deeper than this,
however. There would have been no
demand for Van Gogh sunflower yellow
if Van Gogh had not painted a certain
picture. Van Gogh didn’t start the
fashion: he stated a truth about sun-
flowers which nobody had seen before
him. Nobody knows who made the color
a fashion, but there is no more evidence
for believing that the costumiers com-
mercialised the color than for believing
that they merely fulfilled a demand that
had been created. Businessmen in Mel-
bourne started to wear open-necked
colored shirts and trousers of one color
with coats of another after the knuts
of Footscray had been indulging these
sartorial fancies for a generation. No
doubt the manufacturers cashed in on
it, but Footscray, more cosmopolitan and
less ridden by convention than Toorak,
initiated the revolution. If cosmetics
become unobtainable, I see no reason
why unlacquered fingernails and un-
rouged cheeks and lips might not
come in again. When there was no
patriotic reason for it the fashion might
be continued and entirely different
reasons given for it. Nobody ever gives
himself or herself conscious reasons tor
following a fashion.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Dan had a bit of a kipsy
down on the creek —a neat, well-swept
little joint; Dan himself was generally
as neat and well-swept, a good worker
and a bloke who took his pleasures
quietly and was suspected of having a
sockful of cash somewhere. You’d never
catch Dan handing over a cheque to a
publican; when he came back from a
shearing run he’d take his cheque to the
local parson, draw a quid or two against
it and settle down for a gentle little
bender. Then the rest of the cheque
would see him through to the next job,
with maybe a Fit over for the sock. Came
the time when Dan, pressing wool out
Oxley way, was yarded and branded by
a plump little woman cooking at the
homestead. He came back to the kipsy,
cleaned it up, then went up to the parson.
Handing in his cheque he said, “Look,
mister, I want y’ t’ splice me an’ me
fyoncee. She’ll be ’ere nex’ week. I
ain’t bin through it before an’ don’t
know nothin’ about the expenses, but” —
passing over the cheque—“she’s a fair
cheque, an’ y’ can go y’r hardest till she’s
cut out!”
Sp * * *
“S.T.S.”: It is too late now to do any-
thing but grin, but our own use of the
word “bushman” (B- 6/5/’42) is going
to cause trouble every time the world
outside comes across it. Capetown nearly
had a fit in 1900 when we offered, and
sent, a Bushman’s Contingent, the word
there meaning a particularly poor class
of black. Even in Jennifer, a new and
really good novel about Australia by the
Englishwoman Janet Whitney, the term
is consistently used for “aborigine.”
“Nor’-west”; The stingray is just as
plentiful today in places around the Aus-
tralian coast as it was in Botany Bay in
Captain Cook’s day. All up the W.A.
west coast there are plenty, though the
champion place seems to be Napier
Broome Bay. Here are square miles of
water seldom running to deeper than 6ft.,
with countless acres of weedy bottom,
shelly bottom—every kind of bottom that
every different kind of fish loves. Besides
the numberless varieties of fish there are
shrimps, crabs, crayfish, all the primest
food for the ’ray, any number of which
weigh up to scwt. and more. Some of
these swirl tails 9ft. in length, and with a
sting seldom shorter than eight inches.
Some have two stings, one well up to-
wards the root of the tail, the other about
a foot further down. Easy to catch, such
Tays, for they are very simple creatures.
Like great slabs of animated rubber they
glide about the shallows, flapping their
huge side wings like strange undersea
birds. It’s almost impossible to miss them
with a spear, though to be effective the
shot must go for the spine, which is soft
and easily pierced. Missing the spine
.brings about a struggle, since the ’ray is
powerful and puts up a strong resistance.
Once went with a beachcomber who in-
side a couple of hours speared a boatful.
Had an order for the stings as curios.
The carcasses, dumped on the beach,
made a banquet for a tribe of abos.
% $ * *
“The 0.D.”: This “Sur Cingle” (B.
27/5/’42) is a most amazing bloke. De-
crying the practice of using a saddle for
a pillow, which isn’t widely—er—prac-
tised, he alleges that it would “spread the
waist, weaken the gullet and endanger
the leather on kneepads and cantle” of
the saddle. By cripes, they must have
heavy heads out where “Sur Cingle” does
his cingling!
“Dajarra”: I’ll back “Sur Cingle”
against “Rom Ney.” I’ve done sheep work
in outback Queensland where the horse
paddock is probably as big as “R.N.’s”
whole station. Maggoty sheep have to be
caught in the paddock, as yards may be
from 30 to 40 miles away, and the blow-
flies would remain active during the trek.
Dogs simply couldn’t be used. If the
kangaroo ticks didn’t kill them, lack of
water and heat would. Usual method is
“Please don't lend THIS book to anybody until I've read it!”
just as “Sur angle” describes, with dip
in bottle on kneepads and pair of shears
hanging to saddle.
* * # *
“Murlonga”: I’ve seen Bradman bat-
ting, but for combined perfection of
timing and grace of action you’ve got to
go to the old gin pulling a goanna out
of a hollow log. The lady takes no risks
of “edging one into slips.” With perfect
co-ordination of eye and muscle, she
brings the body round and cracks the
go.’s skull on another log or stone. If
that operation could only be filmed it
would knock the faked Hollywood stuff
cold.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Ideas on what consti-
tutes the ideal camp site vary greatly
among the outbackers I kick around with.
Old Tom always craved for a white-sand
clearing among native pine; a warm,
sunny spot clustered round with gnarled
and twisted goblin-trees, sleek, shiny
Christmas bush and the smell of resin
over all. Springer Bill wanted a “camp
in the willers” on a Murray reach, the
green river before, a parklike box flat
behind. Old Barney liked tableland coun-
try, “where a bloke c’d see f’r miles”:
a vast desert of purple and brown empti
ness with blue hills in the unpeopled dis-
tance. “Texas” Jack swore by the warm
friendliness of the purple-shadowed red
sandhills. Stan always declared for the
green wilderness of sunny glades and
secret nooks where the hopbush grows
on white sand. Old Lance always had
a feeling for the clustering, haunted and
lonely ti-tree. Winneke Bill had once
camped in a clearing lost in cassia scrub,
and he always wanted to try it again.
Me? Well, I like ’em all.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was a good job and
Mat didn’t want to leave it, but the cocky
had three daughters ranging in age from
about two-tooth to full-mouth, and they
seemed to be having a competition as
to which of them could land him. He'd
be working up the paddock when one
would pop out from the brush and start
making up to him, to be followed by one
or both of the others. They hung round
him at night in the house, and if he went
for a walk all three would form a sort of
escort round him. In the town on Satur-
days it was terrible; the only place he
was safe was in the pub bar—and they’d
wait outside. He was on the point of
rolling his bluey and snatching it one
night when he got a brain-wave. Next
day he kept scratching himself till the
boss noticed it. “It’s that flamin’ erisco-
botus,” said Mat. “Sort of mange that
spreads all over y’. Breaks out every
few months. No, it ain’t catchin’, it’s
hereditary. Handed down from parents
t’ children. Me ol’ man was nilly mad
with it.” After that Mat had only to
scratch himself when a female of the
district heaved in sight and she’d shy
off like a skittish ewe from a dried snake-
skin.
* * * *
“Bally Red”; So cattle from the open
plains are afraid of timber when first
introduced to it (B. 27/5/’42)! I don’t
believe it. Up on the Bogongs (Vic.) we
received 230 head from the country about
Hay (N.S.W.), where trees are scarcer
than hen’s teeth. They took one look at
the big scrub and bolted into its depths.
It took a day, four and a half tons of
profanity, four men, four horses and
three blue dogs to get them together
again. Like all cattle, they knew that
timber is the bullock’s refuge.
* * * *
“Solitude”; Thought I knew how a
stockwhip worked till I saw Billy Lane use
one out on an East Gippsland plain. Billy
was droving a wild mob of mountain-
breds, and had roped in an offsider of
75 winters as tough as they make ’em.
There was one bullock in the bunch
giving a bit of trouble, and when the
beast broke for the sixth time Billy left
the mob to the old bloke, and smoked
off across the plain in a willy-willy of
exploding leather. His 9ft. thong bit
home twice with each stride. He carved
his name on the rump, slashed a map of
the war zone on the ribs, and snicked
some smart filigree work on the brisket.
The red-and-black diamond pattern he
planned for the belly was almost com-
plete when the exhausted beast took
refuge among the mob. As it raced in,
the old bloke took his pipe from his
mouth and pointed at it. “That thing’s
lookin’ f’r trouble,” he volunteered,
“breakin’ like that. If it does it once
more. I’ll jus’ give it a proper flamin’
lashin’.”
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: “J. Rilston’s” “stunted
black oaks” (B. 29/4/’42) remind me that
“stunted” seems a favorite adjective for
any tree that grows outside the coastal
area, and is usually misapplied. Noticed
it in the nipper’s essay book the other day
and asked the reason. “Teacher reckons
it’s a good word to describe the mallee,
dad,” was the explanation. Well, it may
be, but not in our district, where the
sprawly stuff, though low, is remarkably
healthy. And that reminds me of another
school that can’t think of mallee without
dragging in “dark,” “forbidding,” “deso-
late” or “monotonous.” The old malice
is a joy to the eye—and that goes for
other despised weeds like the tobacco
bushes of the watercourses.
H= * * *
“Sou’-west”; I agree with “The 0.D.”
(B. 22/4/’42) regarding the unpalatable-
ness of shag,*)r, to be polite, cormorant.
One needs only to get on the lee side of
a sandbank on which a few hundred are
roosting; the smell is stifling. But men
have eaten shag. One time when a skip-
per and I were stormbound on Garden
Island, only a few miles out from Fre-
mantle, we were glad of a feed of just
such poultry. Boiled in the ship’s bucket
with driftwood for a fire, with a howling
southerly blowing, rain pouring and no
other shelter than a hole in a sandbank,
that shag tasted pretty good. We
gathered them in the pounding surf. Nor
did we closely question the manner of
their death. But one sniff of their habi-
tat since has been sufficient to put me off
any kind of bird meat for weeks. As for
crane, my memories of the long-legged
bird call back to Victoria’s hungry
’nineties. Possibly the very rankness of
that poultry’s black flesh was a change
from the insipid whiteness of the ever-
lasting rabbit. Stewed crane, with onions,
carrots, turnip, plenty of parsley and a
bit of celery and a clove—well, my
memory is that it wasn’t too bad.
H*
“Sur Cingle”: “K.1.N.” (B. 13/5/’42)
might feel more at ease if he talked of
the port and starboard sides of his horses
—he apparently gets “near” and “off”
mixed. When I get on something tight I
start low down, go up the near side, over
and into the saddle. To get my leg over
the back of anything but a “sliding-seat”
I lift it high enough to clear a quartpot
on the off side, but I’d stand a big chance
of hitting the tin if it were in the place
of the saddle bag on the near side. As
for strapping a quart tight to the lining,
my latest catalogues quote stock saddles
at around fifteen quid. I’d hate to see the
panelling of such an investment chafed
through by the rubbing of an iron bird-
scarer, and still less to find bruises and
holes in the edge of the tightly-stretched
cantle-leather.
* * *
“Norther”: If this war keeps on keep-
ing Australia isolated from hitherto easy
supplies of things which it could well
have produced itself, it may yet prove
a blessing in wolf’s clothing. A lot of
Australians are satisfied that tea and
tobacco should have been growing here
long since in sufficient quantity to supply
our needs, and in Queensland now they’re
beginning to cast speculative eyes on the
rubber vine ( Cryptostegia grandiflora ) and
the cotton bush (Asclepias fruiticosa ).
The late Randolph Bedford held that the
rubber vine yielded cotton and a latex
comparable with rubber, and that it grew
about seven times faster than a rubber
tree. And, since it has grown well in
the country round Charters Towers, there
seems no reason why it shouldn’t grow
in what is erroneously called the “Dead
Heart.” Anyhow, Minister Bulcock is
looking into the rubber vine’s possibilities.
# ❖ *
“Bo”: That bushfire which beat the
telegram through Maoriland ti-tree (B.
20/5/’42) was: a tired affair. For real
bushfire speed one must go to the Never-
Never country towards the end of the
“dry.” I recall an occasion when I was
overlanding a mob of prime emus from
Dustianrutty to Ruddelire. On the fourth
day out, jogging along at an easy 50
m.p.h. through dry speargrass country,
I heard an ominous crackling sound.
Bushfire! Too late to turn back, and an-
other 70 miles of tinder-dry speargrass
to traverse before I could reach the
sanctuary of a gibber plain! There was
only one thing to do. Stepping on the
accelerator of my supercharged Bugatti,
I tore around to the front of the mob.
Locking the wheel and keeping the
accelerator down to the floor by means
of a long pole, I climbed into the back
seat and made a noise like a bright gold
nugget, which, as all outback prospectors
know, is irresistible to the emu. The
fowls duly stepped up the pace, and
even at 90 m.p.h. the bushfire was closely
gaining. Happening to glance up about
20 minutes later I saw clouds rapidly
gathering ahead, and a few minutes after-
wards the shrieking “cockeye bob” hit
us from the front. I was just getting back
into the front seat, thinking all would be
well unless the wind blew the birds back
into the bushfire, when I found that the
fire was even beating that 110-m.p.h.
blow. Thinking of the 40gal. drum of
petrol strapped to the back axle I gave
the old Bugatti the works, and an hour
or so later, with the mob’s beaks a few
feet off the rear mudguards, I emerged
at last into grassless country. It was a
close thing. The rear bird’s tail feathers
were just then catching alight!
MIDNIGHT MUSIC.
Lone-camped beside a salt lagoon
That rippled silverly,
To me there came beneath the moon
A vagrant fantasy.
’Neath oak and ti-tree grouped anigh
Gleamed pools of filtered light,
While, drowsed with radiance from the sky,
The sea swooned in the night.
As there I watched wave-crests, aflame
With moonfire, shoreward range.
It seemed to me the sea became
An organ, vast and strange.
It seemed to me, all suddenly,
As lone I listened there,
An organ pouring harmony
Upon the midnight air.
For, like some solemn strain that flows
Through columned aisle and arch,
From out its secret deeps there rose
A mighty martial march.
A mighty march, an organ call
Sublime, intense, profound,
That seemed to shake the soul of all
That slumbered with its sound.
The soul of all! for to my mind
All things that sleeping were
Awoke, as though a herald wind
Had set the night astir.
Then heard I bugles with the beat
Of many war-drums blent;
Heard, too, the tramp, tramp, tramp of fee?
Throughout our continent.
Feet moving bush and city through,
Green countrysides and parched,
I heard, and knew to dare and do
A marshalled nation marched.
And then, anon, while still shone on
The moon serene, remote,
The magic music ceased upon
A clarion Triumph note.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Wang”: It was the new hand’s first
meal at the farm, and in wonderment he
was gazing at the dexterous way in which
Dave opposite was manipulating knife
and fork like a well-regulated bit of
machinery. Each implement in turn was
loaded with food and transferred to
Dave’s mouth. The time of departure
from the plate and arrival of the empty-
ing point of each never varied by a
fraction of a second. From this homely
example of the poetry of motion Dave,
looking up, paused for a space and
glared across at the hand. “Whatcher
screwin’ at a man like that f’r?” he
asked. “I was wonderin’, that was all,”
replied the other evasively. “Won-
derin’!” echoed Dave. “What about?”
“Well,” said the hand, looking uncom-
fortable, “I was wonderin’ what would
happen if somethin’ put y’ outa y’r
stride, so t’ speak. Say a fly got buzzin’
under y’r nose just as y’ was shovin’ y’r
knife and fork up to y’r mouth.” Dave
snorted derisively. “I ain’t worryin’ about
flies,” he said. “If they ain’t slick enough
t’ get outa the way in time that’s their
bad luck!”
* * * *
“Old Camp”: “Zake” (B. 22/4/’42)
may be right, but I met at least one bloke
who lived up to his name. It was in the
town pub, and he had just whanged out
a tough about half his weight again. “I’m
Ned the Snag,” he announced without
undue modesty. The Snag ran about
list., was a bricklayer by trade and
looked like a London “Punch” rustic. I
next noticed Ned having an argument with
the local copper. “You’ve ordered me off
the footpath ; you’ve ordered me off the
street; next thing you’ll order me off
"Why be so glum about your call-up? It's years since you've had
a holiday."
the planet.” It took three coppers
finally to lumber Ned. In the morn-
ing before the Warden he brought 30
days. The next time I noticed him he
was in the Salvarmy ring, bearing with
due humility the jeers of a onetime asso-
ciate in sin. But not for long *, after the
captain had pleaded with the jeering one
a couple of times to desist, Ned side-
stepped from the ring. The captain then
thoughtfully struck up a hymn, tambour-
ines jingled—and hardly anyone heard
the thud as the onetime associate hit the
ground. After that Ned felt so confident
of his ability to resist the Drink that he
took to selling “War Crys” around the
pubs of a Saturday night. It became a
favorite joke for the barman to fill a pot
and offer it to Ned gratis. This was done
once too often. It took four coppers to
quell the riot and lumber Ned. After he
had finished his 30 days they warned him
out of town,
* * * *
“Narrin”: “What’s the stallion out in
Tin Hut paddock?” asked the new hand
as he gingerly lowered himself on to his
bunk. “What stallion?” queried old Bill.
“There ain’t no buck out there.” “Too
right there is,” the chum asserted. “Saw
him t’day. There was a grey mare with
a foal, an’ this stallion —big, high-steppin’,
bald-faced bay bloke —was dancin’ all
round ’em when I came near an’ snortin’
like hell.” “Aw, that’s a geldin’,” said
Mick. “Old pensioner—Oodriadatta we
call ’im. He alwiz picks up with any
mare that’s got a foal. Thinks foals are
blanky marvellous.” The new hand
looked thoughtful; and in the silence no
one laughed.
He * * *
“Faber”: When the egg shortage be-
came acute Miss Puffendike, the spinster
from next door, went into the poultry
business. At any rate, she set a clutch
of eggs under a broody Black Orpington,
When Mrs. Orpington had completed the
job and produced a family of scurrying
yellow Orplets, Miss Puffendike was all
solicitude. A couple of days later she
appealed to me, as a man of the world
and the proprietor of a couple of
bantams, for advice. “The dear chicks
aren’t doing at all well, Mr. Faber,” she
said. “What do you imagine may be
wrong?” “What are you feeding ’em
on?” I asked her. Miss Puffendike
blushed faintly. “Feed them?” she stam-
mered. “Do I have to feed them yet?
They’re with their mother, aren’t they?”
* * * *
“Bill Round”: It was Sam Dyson who
found it when wheeling the ashes from
the boiler to the ash-heap. Considering
it opportune to test its moral effect on
his workmates, he mentioned the fact
to the foreman and posted a notice
“Found, a small sum of money on the
premises. Owner may have same by
describing amount accurately.” The
claims of amounts from five shillings to
a fiver came in so fast it looked like a
snowstorm. After a few days Sam in-
formed the mob that, as nobody had sub-
mitted a claim coinciding with the
amount, he would hold out the offer until
payday. When it arrived at the end of
the month Sam said the position was still
the same, but, having no desire to profit
personally by another’s misfortune, he
suggested that the mob make up the
difference in providing drinks for all
hands. This was agreed to and Sam com-
plimented on his generosity. Then he
produced—-the threepenny bit.
* * * *
“Sedent”: I agree with “Naturala” (B.
27/5/’42) that some animals possess
powers of communication which can be
duplicated in human experience only by
the use of all the elaborate and expensive
paraphernalia of radio. Some day we’ll
be able to find the physical basis of these
powers, and will doubtless be astonished
to learn how simply and directly Natuie
millions of years ago anticipated the
human scientific discoveries of this cen-
tury. Has anyone noticed how, with
every access of speed and efficiency an
the application of the very latest resu ts
of aerodynamic research, aeroplanes
grow more like birds? It was, I be icve,
some time after ’planes were first used
for military purposes that the best pattern
for flying in formation was found to be
the V used by all gregarious migratory
birds. Likewise the fastest swimming fish
have shown, ever since there were fish,
the lines on which nowadays we build all
fast ships, surface or submarine. Nature
is no mug when it comes to applied
science. In fact, she’s the best teacher of
the subject.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: A discarded motor tyre
can be a great asset in “the hands of an
invintive raoind.” Split around the cir-
cumference it makes two circular troughs
“ Ain't my identity card turned up yet?"
that hold an astonishing amount of pig-
or fowl-feed. I’ve seen it tied to the
end of a tether-rope, where it serves as
a “drag” or can be dropped over a stump,
making a swivel that prevents the rope
winding up as the animal grazes. The
kids hang it by a rope from a branch,
Roman-ring fashion, and claim that it
provides more thrills than an ordinary
swing. Mum utilises it as a border
around her pet geranium. The inner
tube holds up thousands of pairs of pater-
nal pants, both in the guise of extremely
comfortable home-made braces and per
medium of ingeniously woven belts.
You’ll see it threaded on the loose girth
when the movement of the shafts has
caused a rub. Many a country kid has
learnt to swim on a partly inflated tube ,
while the feathered population has been
considerably reduced by shanghais de-
rived from the same source. Bricklayers
use the rubber to make hand cots or
protectors. And Mum stuffs a section
with old socks, tacks a piece of wood in
each end and has the softest kneeling-
pad known to domestic science.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The Dutch warship which
escaped by camouflaging herself as a
tropical island was following an ancient
precedent. In the days of Rajah Brooke
the Illanun pirates who manipulated
three-decker canoes with several banks of
oars propelled by slave rowers they
carried brass cannon and as many as 700
warriors—used to do the same thing when
stalking a slowly moving or becalmed
British merchantman or even a frigate.
The effectiveness of the camouflage was
due to the fact that floating islands are
frequent in those seas and are produced
much like icebergs by the breaking away
of points of land by floods in the rivers,
which in Borneo are enormous. The in-
terlocking roots of the dense tropical
growth keep the island with its bird and
animal population intact for long periods.
Early European voyagers noted the fact
and brought back stories of islands which
moved of their own violition and from
which came sounds of sweet music.
* * * *
“Aratta”: Coming on Dave and the
hand working on a line of fencing, Dad
railed at both. “Hi, you!” he bellowed
at Dave, busy ramming around a post.
“Put a bit more weight into them
strokes! And you, too” —this to the
hand, a quiet, industrious chap—“bend
y’r back a bit an’ put more ginger inter y’r
work.” The hand straightened himself,
glared fixedly at Dad, took a deep
breath and said in slow, measured tones,
“I am no man’s slave. Ev’ry born
inter this world has the right t’ ”
“Hi! Wait a minit, young feller,” broke
in Dad. “The rights an’ priv’leges of the
worker, who has on’y his labor t sell,
continued the hand, taking another
breath, “cannot be filched from him by
any” At the end of a minute Dad,
bewildered, walked towards the house,
The hand grinned after him. Sterns
t’ have floored the ole chap, ne
commented. “Floored him! ejacuiateo
Dave, eyeing the hand in admiration,
“Y’ fair spiflicated him. Lumme, Joe,
I didn’t know y’ could talk along them
lines.” “I didn’t know I could meselt,
said Joe, grinning. “Wasnt a bad effort,
was it? I picked it up outa a book I
found, an’ spent a solid fortmght memor-
isin’ it. But if the ole boy s t / ,
another couple of seconds he d have haci
me beat. I’d just reached the end of it.
approached for Sam Bolder to ask
wat^o'Se
lam SSSSS
round his collar. Any fool knows that.
snapped Dad without lifting his head,
‘‘Wouldn’t be surprised if it don’t ram ;
too ’ot to last,” floundered Sam, feeling
himself slipping,
you, shufflm and smffin on your cnaii
like an old hen?” roared the old chap
throwing down his paper. Why don t y
tell me something I don t know! By
enpes I will! shouted Sanu stung to
action. “You don t know I m ere to tel
y I wan to marry Mary! Damn an
Nasty! roared.old Chafcer’thumpmg
the table with his fist Whyd idnit y
say so in the first place? Why, Y had me
a ll on pins an’ needles thmkm you was
crawlin’ round t’ borrow that new stump-
jump plough of mine!
* S ome Wokes’re dead
funny,” confided Jimmy-the-whaler.
“Flash car pulled up be me camp y ® s ‘
tiddy. A coot got out. Are you the fisher-
man?' 'e says. I admits it He wants t
know if I have any lobsters. Wc ,
showed him the dozen
he wanted more, so I invited him t come
with me over t’ me best pot. I rowed mi
over m the pram an starts pullm it up.
It was in a good possy an I had a. three-
pound bream, properly ripe m f r bait
But as it come into the boat with lobsters
flappin’ an’ clickin’ m * turns
sorta green. No, I don t think 111 have
any,’ he says. ‘Would you mind rowm
me back?’ Fve wondered since he
was sorta river-sick or just plain barmy.
* * . * *.
“B. A. Ker”: ‘ Gom to work one
mornin’,” said Joe, “I crossed the clearm
where Noble’s place was burnt out. rass-
in’ the old well, I heard a dog howhn ,
took a peep in and there was a miserable-
lookin’ mong standm’m ab out six inches
of water, ten feet down. I couldn t let
the dog stop there and starve ; but after
wasting a quarter of an bom, tr> n t
snare mm with a fencin wire, while n
turned
I realised that my on y . , .
get in the well, too. The gettm
easy—a shprail poke But
and wired fast at the top
the climbm out! After gett ™ y
up and shppm back the wi gg
dawg about the top.
to poke his front of
StSSttade
me lose me grip and scramb ed to safety
while I sat in
waggm tail. And to ‘show his gratitua
the cow goes an scoffs me luneb betore
I could get out!
THE ROAD TO MUSWELLBROOK.
Down the long road to Muswellbrook three
score of years ago,
Over the leagues of range and plain like dust-
wrapped tides allow,
With wild white faces travel-stained or foreheads
red as flame,
A thousand mobs a thousand strong, the
Queensland cattle came.
Down the long road to Muswellbrook—past run
and country town . ,
Where a mile wide the roving herds had cropped
the grasses down, , ,
And cloven hoofs bit deep, and where the
groves on either side
Were studded with the ashes where a thousand
campfires died.
Oh, there were nights along the road, the road
’ to Muswellbrook,
When lightning flickered and the earth to hell-
born thunder shook,
And saddle-weary, red-eyed men rode through
from dusk to dawn
Facing such horrors of the night as only storms
can spawn;
And there were graves along this road that
led to Muswellbrook,
The resting places of brave hearts who in-the
darkness took
The slender chance, the hope forlorn, the only
way there was
To stem the living tide of beef with cruel white
horns a-toss.
Down the long years to Muswellbrook! But
who recalls today
The saga of the Border Road, the great old
cattle way?
Forever in Australia’s dreams ride tall men,
lean and brown;
Over the leagues of range and plain the Queens-
land mobs come down!
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


MINERALS ESSENTIAL.
Tri-cal: Minerals are meet important in the process
of the conversion of the feeding stuffs of farm
animals to food for man. An adequate supply of
calcium and phosphorus is essential, and as a source
of these minerals I strongly recommend Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour with its guaranteed minimum of 70%
tricalcic phosphate. Since you mentioned concen-
trating on dairying and pig-raising, I came across an
English authority discussing the subject of conver-
sion of feeding stuffs to food for man. It stated
that the production of milk is much more efficient
than that of meat. In conversion of energy and pro-
tein dairy herds producing milk, milk veal and cow
beef are roughly twice as efficient as beef herds pro-
ducing prime fat beef, and 40% more efficient in fat
production. Dairy-farming and pig-keeping were
indicated where farming was intensive and maximum
economy in feed conversion desired. There’s support
for your views!
Get those folders about Tri-cal-os for Dairy Stock
and Pigs—and other particulars from
e-
W
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney ; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O.
Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F. Adelaide: G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Old Farmer.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
advances made on grazing properties, on stock, and on
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS
Aren Am OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
_ CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER
who will quote you price for the original
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Feeding Lambs.
“H.C.”: Mother’s milk and short fresh
grass are out and away the best feed for
young lambs. But when pastures are
scarce, hay, green lucerne for preference,
and a mixture of five parts of wheat,
corn or barley, two of oats, two of bran
and one of linseed keep the lambs grow-
ing at an even rate. In Britain they sup-
plement good pasture with concentrates.
This doesn’t pay in Australia, though
grain can be added when there’s too
much fibre in the natural food.
In districts where there’s no guarantee
of sufficient pasture it’s safer to choose
breeds which have a greater growth im-
pulse, are larger and mature slowly.
These types stand up better to temporary
checks, and the lambs are more easily
fattened later. In all cases where fat
lambs are to be sold off their mothers
growth must be forced. Maximum feed-
ing then produces muscle before over-
development of bone growth, and meat
to bone proportion is high.
Sheep intended for young mutton, wool
or breeding purposes need not be early-
maturing, They require only sufficient
food to develop ordinary frame-growth.
But there must be mother’s milk.
In pre-natal feeding, succulent fodder
is important, since it maintains general
health and ensures milk production.
When there’s no green-paddock feed,
silage proves almost invaluable, but should
not be fed as the full ration. Generally,
oats are the best grain for in-lamb or
lactating ewes, and should form part of
the ration. Peas, when not expensive,
make good additions to the oats when
the roughage is non-leguminous.
Botulism in Cattle.
“Huxave”: Heaviest losses are usually
in the Mallee and drier areas. The dis-
ease affects groups of muscles, and vic-
tims are unable to swallow or rise after
lying down ; obstinate constipation is an-
other symptom.
Basic cause is lack of phosphorus.
Where pastures don’t get heavy dressings
of phosphate, or feed has dried off in
hot months, phosphorus content is low
and cattle take to bark, bones or carrion
to satisfy the craving for the mineral.
The animals frequently swallow a poison
secreted by a germ—Parabotulinus—
which causes the paralysis.
A vaccine, Botulinus toxoid, prepared
by the Commonwealth Serum Labora-
tories, has proven successful in W.A.
Vaccination is usually done in summer.
A hypodermic syringe is used, the best
place being behind the shoulder. Three
to four weeks must be allowed for maxi-
mum immunity to develop. The injec-
tion causes first a swelling, then a firm
nodular lump which disappears after a
time. One dose gives immunity for 12
months.
Cost depends on numbers ; the larger
the number the lower the cost. Serum
for five cattle costs Is. 9d., for 100 15s.
With or without the vaccine phosphatic
licks should supply the mineral deficiency.
These can be, made up of (1) dicalcic
phosphate 401b., common salt 601b.; (2)
equal parts of sterilised sweet bonemeal
and common salt; (3) equal parts of
superphosphate and common salt. A
little molasses makes any of them more
palatable.
Young cows, about the time of the
first and second calf, milking cows and
cows heavy in calf demand phosphorus
far more than older cows. On small
holdings where animals are watered at
troughs, six drams of phosphoric acid
added to every 10 gallons of water and
supplemented by a ration of chaff and
bran does good.
Beating Black Oats.
“Near Quandi”: It was a 220-acre pad-
dock we’d rented to an uncle. There were
a few black oats we warned him about,
and he gave them the usual treatment—
well-worked fallow to make ’em germi-
nate, a flogging with sheep and a final
scarifying to wipe the residue out before
sowing.
Uncle was a saving sort of bloke, and
he bought a job lot of seed from the
other side of Temora. We didn’t know
about that till the crop was turning color.
A positive forest of white-awned oats
stood up in it. We offered uncle a fair
“Got un all shatterproof now, boay."
price for the crop, so we could burn it,
but he wasn’t having any.
When the wheat was ready for strip-
ping the oats had fallen. Uncle said he
had a plan. It was to burn the stubble
and plough deep. That way, he said, you
turned the oats in too deep for them to
grow and they rotted under the ground.
That year the paddock lay fallow and
the sheep polished off the few oats that
showed. Next year it grew a reasonably
clean crop of wheat. Uncle stripped it
and pridefully pulled out of wheat-
growing.
We took two wheat crops off the pad-
dock in the following four years and the
oats got thicker and thicker. There was
no other conclusion but that the oats had
lain deep under the ground, had not
rotted, and with following workings had
been brought near enough to the top to
germinate. We threw it out for three
years and flogged the self-sown wheat and
oats with sheep, then tried another wheat
crop. Black oats were worse than ever.
We gritted our teeth, stripped the crop,
burnt the stubble, ploughed with a mould-
board shallow-set, broke it down with a
cultivator and gave it a super, dressing.
As fast as young oats appeared we
hopped in with a disc and chopped ’em
up. Next year we fallowed again, and
this time spent money on a sulphate of
ammonia dressing. Up came the oats and
in went the disc.
The third year we did no manuring but
kept the disc going, somewhat reluctantly,
since the paddock was getting loose and
throwing off a lot of dust. The fourth
year it grew barley-grass and native clover
and we grinned. The fifth year it grew
wheat and the oats were few enough to
be counted.
We never worked out the cost, but any
relative with saving ideas about job lots
of wheat shouldn’t try renting pad-
docks from us.
Lime in the Soil.
“Bill Jones”: Don’t imagine that
exposure to sun and frost will sweeten
sour soil. Sourness is due to lack of lime
in the original soil or loss of lime through
leaching and by plant action. In other
respects, of course, turning soil up to
sun and frost does improve it.
Lime does a lot of jobs in the soil, but
chiefly reduces sourness, properly known
as acidity. Also it aerates the soil, helps
drainage, makes cultivation easier and
feeds plants. Without lime the bacteria
that concentrate the nitrogen content into
absorptive form for the plants can’t
function.
Lime can be added to soil in hydrated
or slaked form, by ground limestone or
carbonate of lime and through the vari-
ous grades of dolomitic or magnesian
limestones. The soil should be turned
over and reduced to a fine tilth, the lime
spread evenly and then worked in the
top several inches deep. To judge the
amount necessary, you’ll have to judge
the amount of acidity, know something
of the soil texture, the humus content
and what you mean to grow.
As a guide give from 11b. to 1.331 b.
a square yard of ground limestone for
heavy stuff ; double that for clayey loam
and clay. Sandy loams and lighter stuff
shouldn’t need more than about half
the quantity. But don’t forget that lime
leaches more rapidly from light than
from heavy soil, consequently light soils
are more likely to become sour than heavy
soils. Lime is being lost all the time
under gardening or irrigation, owing to
the waterings.
After the first liming, which should err
on the heavy side, it is best to add a little
each season. The condition of the crops,
whether fruit, vegetables or cereals,
should give a reasonably good idea of
the quantity needed in the subsequent
dressings.
For Irrigators.
“Ex-C.G.”: A note of warning
sounded by the Victorian Rivers and
Water Supply Commission ought not to
be missed, especially by those people in
irrigation districts who seem to think
that water can be squandered recklessly.
It points out that if ever a big popula-
tion comes to stay in Australia much
greater care will have to be taken of the
water.
The Commission touches non-commit-
tally on the Snowy River project, hints
that Hume Dam may be enlarged from
1,250,000 acre-feet to 2,000,000 acre-feet
and Eiidon to more than 900,000 acre-
feet, and says that in the Goulburn valley
alone there are applications for an addi-
tional 50,000 acre-feet of water rights.
It also mentions that barrages have been
built across the Murray mouth to keep
the sea water back, and that in 1939 and
1940 no Murray water flowed into the
sea.
The capital cost of water supply in
Victoria is somewhere about £28,000,000.
Few realise that only 50 p.c. of the water
that leaves the storages reaches the land.
The rest is lost in evaporation, seepage
and leakage from channels. Northern
Victoria loses five acre-feet a year through
evaporation, and cumbungie weed
accounts for the equivalent of another
eight acre-feet.
Much land above “full-supply level”
has been put under crops that need irri-
gation ; thus channels have to carry more
water than they were meant to carry,
which means added expense and delay
in getting water to people lower down.
Henceforth the Commission will not
supply water to new lands above the
“full-supply level.” Watering of the high
levels, together with weed growth in
farm channels, many of which are too
small, has delayed run in some districts,
causing heavy loss of production and in-
creased cost of maintenance.
A lot of land has deteriorated through
overflow from channels, generally
through dirty channels and too strong
a head. Too strong a head is the result
of failure to estimate needs properly, and
dirty channels come from pure laziness.
The Commission will now refuse to
supply water if channels are not in proper
condition. Overflow in drainage chan-
nels is excessive and floodings cause use-
less weeds to flourish.
Waste water is a dead loss.
Water Blister of Pineapples.
“Mackay”: Old suckers, fruit, tops
and leaves left around the sheds cause
the spores of the fungus to develop
rapidly. Other causes are fruit injuries,
sunburn or growth cracks, picking fruit
in wet weather following a dry period
and time taken in transport to market.
A precautionary measure is to dust
the stem ends of the pines with a mix-
ture of one part of benzoic acid and
four parts of kaolin. Sheds need regular
disinfecting with formalin, two parts to
five of water. In good weather the fruit
should be packed on headlands to reduce
handling. Use of bags in picking leads
to fruit bruises. Sunburned or bruised
fruit should be cut out of southern con-
signments and sent to factories. Pack-
ing while wet and delays in transport
breed the fungus. Second-hand cases sus-
pected of being contaminated should be
sprayed with a 2 p.c. formalin solution.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: Don’t neglect cattle
poisoned by eating paspalum affected
with ergot. Results may be fatal. Segre-
gate them as far as possible. Give laxa-
tive drenches. Chief signs of ergot
poisoning are suspension of milk pro-
duction, excitability, trembling and
twitching of the body muscles.
“Canbelego”; If corn has been allowed
to dry before cutting it can still be made


Wireless alone can meet the |
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT ★ CONSTANT ★ CERTAIN
1
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRON
RADIO VALVES
STANDARD TO ARMY TRANSMITTERS & RECEIVERSj
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
BILLABONG
HAND, POWER
AND
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
m
DESIGNED TO
MEET THE
STATION OWNER’S
and
Farmer’s Requirements
SEND TO THE MAKERS FOR ALL
PARTICULARS
JOHN DANKS&son
Pty. Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Mm
rW
111
m
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/“
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date
Telephone: 8W1531
Dining Room—All Meals a la Carle.
(7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney.
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
r. r C. McKAY. Manager.
into fair silage. Sprinkle it with wat
as it goes into the silo. A dry crop wi
absorb a large amount of water, but don
wet it too much.
“B.”: Boil potatoes for pigs. They
can make up to 50 p.c. of the ration.
Four pounds of boiled potatoes replace
11b. of grain in food value, but they re
low in protein, and skim-milk or meat-
meal should be added.
“Plane Creek”: No pig-farmer should
lack a patch of Jerusalem artichokes.
Plant ’em now at the rate of 4cwt. to
the acre in good, well-ploughed land,
though they’ll do well in poor land. Dig
and store in sacks when the tops begin to
die. If you’d like another crop without
going to any trouble leave some tubers
in the ground.
“B.”: If white-ants get into the fruit-
trees open one of the galleries, and after
blowing lead arsenate down the hole
seal it again. A small amount of the
poison will exterminate the whole nest.
“Ninety-nine”: Canker of the ear is a
troublesome complaint of dogs. The ear
should be swabbed out once daily with
a cleansing solution, like peroxide of
hydrogen, 10 p.c. in warm water, or a
solution of lysol, permanganate of
potash, etc. Dry thoroughly and apply
some astringent agent, such as boracic
acid, five parts, and tannic acid, two parts,
or boracic and powdered alum. It is a
good plan to change the dressing, there-
fore the boracic should be mixed with
tannic acid, sulphur, powdered alum,
slaked lime, etc. Sometimes after drying
a little iodine paint in the ear does good,
and in a little while can be followed up
with a dry dressing. It is as well to
bandage or place a hood on the head,
“5.8.”: Lettuce needs very rich soil,
plenty of water and a moderate climate.
In hot districts it is grown from April
to July, but in cool districts it will grow
throughout the year if plenty of water
is provided. The soil should be well
prepared to a depth of 12in. and plenty,
of well-rotted stable manure incorporated
with it. Light sandy soil is best. Sow in
drills 12in. apart and thin out to lOin
between plants. Though there are good
small varieties, best market-garden kinds
are Neapolitan and American Summer,
both large.
“Ninety-nine”: Cannibalism in
chickens shows when the chicks display
a craving for blood by picking at one
another. Insufficient salt in the ration,
overcrowding, too little hopper or trough
accommodation and too close confine-
ment are common causes. An excess of
concentrates in the ration may encourage
the craving. On the other hand, a defi-
ciency of minerals and mineral salts,
such as those contained in bonemeal,
shell grit, green feed and milk and milk
products, may be a contributing factor.
In battery brooders, cannibalism is some-
times brought about by lack of fresh air.
Remove any chicks that show signs of
being attacked. The parts can be
painted with Stockholm tar. If an ounce
of salt is being added to 51b. of mash,
an increase to loz. to 41b. will have bene-
ficial results. Only three-quarters of these
amounts should be used with a dry mash.
Whenever possible, the youngsters should
be given access to a grass run. Failing
this, a few pieces of grass kept in the
brooders will work an improvement.
Outback Occasions.
No. 38.
OUR PIONEER.
He came from England, a slim, fair
youth clad in perfectly-fitting riding gear
and with a feather in his hat. We met
him at the train, and Jimmy the Guard,
who knew our father well, grinned at
us and said “By cripes, y’ve got something
outa the box there. I bin yarnin’ t
him on the way up.”
“I’m completely fagged,” said our
acquisition, eyeing the train with dis-
taste. “I’ve never travelled in such a
contrivance —never, by gum!” We had
been put on the defensive by his get-up
and general air of superiority. We’d
expected him to condemn the landscape
or ourselves or the weather. But when
he picked on that typical Australian rail-
way we had a fellow-feeling for him,
having endured the blasted thing our
selves at different times.
He was pretty quiet on the way home.
The way Father drives a car you have
to be quiet; if you once let your teeth
unclench you’re likely to scream or get
your tongue bitten in two. When we got
to the house he staggered out of the car
and sat on one of the verandah chairs.
Mother came out to welcome him, but
when she saw him she had to go inside
and straighten her face again, because
Mother wouldn’t willingly hurt anyone’s
feelings. Then she brought out some tea.
He told us he was from London. All
his life, he said, he had wanted to get
out to some far-flung outpost of Empire
and become a pioneer of British settle-
ment. We gathered he’d been reading
Dr. Gordon Stables and Kipling and the
Young Settlers in Canada. His father,
it appeared, had plenty of money and
was a bit of a hard-doer (we gathered this
latter from the innocent prattle of our
pioneer), and had agreed to Ken having
a shot at some outpost or other, the
more far-flung the better. But when they
came to study maps and journals they
found that a few spots in Africa and Aus-
tralia were about the only places left where
a bit of Empire-building could be done,
and Ken had chosen Australia because
his father had said that a country where
six or seven million people could pay
seven Governors and 600 or 700 politi-
cians must be full of opportunities. Be-
sides, so Ken’s father had said, he might
get bitten by tsetse flies or mambas or
elephants or something in Africa.
Naturally, we called him “The
Pioneer.” He was 20. We began to
knock the rough edges off him at once.
I must say he took it all pretty well,
especially the jokes our brother used to
play. Our brother was the sort of bloke
who, if he suspected any leg to have the
slightest tendency to stretch, would at
once begin stretching it.
We got into the habit, whenever Ken
•an into trouble, or suffered some slight
injury, was overtired or apt to complain
about things in general, of remarking
“Never mind, oF feller, think of the
pioneers an’ what they had to put up
with.” “Yes,” he’d say, and smile and
forget his woes and go and write a glow-
ing letter home to his father.
Our brother got a great chance the
time Father sent us and Ken out to the
grazing lease to pick up and burn-off the
fallen timber. He said to us one night
“You fellers can get out t’ the log pad-
dock an’ do some emu-bobbin’; it’ll take
y’ about a fortnight. Load up the cart
with gear an’ tucker an’ leave in the
morning.”
“Emu-bobbing?” echoed our pioneer,
with interest. “By Jove, I’ve seen some
of those big birds about, but I didn t
know they had any domestic value.” His
face fell a foot when we explained.
It was 28 miles out, and on the third
day after we got there it rained. Real
flood rain that lasted five days and made
the roads impassable. We sat in the
dripping tent and played cards or talked,
and, of course, ate up our tucker. It
began to get on Ken’s nerves, but our
brother slapped him on the back and
said heartily “Never mind, oF boy, think
of the pioneers.”
We planted some of the tucker —Ken
ate like a horse —and our brother reck-
oned we should see the job through. Our
home was the nearest place to the camp.
After the rain cleared we started on the
emu-bobbing again, but, though we
knocked over a few rabbits and pigeons,
the tucker soon ran down till we were
living mostly on potato stew. We noticed
that Kenneth had become very quiet and
was less appreciative of our brother s
jokes.
One morning, after we’d sat round the
miserable fire and filled ourselves with
dry bread and black tea, it started to
mizzle rain again. We were in a pretty
filthy state, not having had a chance to
wash a shirt, and none of us was too
cheerful. Still, our brother reckoned
another day would finish the picking
up and we could come back and burn
later. Ken munched thoughtfully at the
dry bread and seemed quieter than ever.
Our brother looked at him and then at
me and closed one eye significantly.
We got out on to the job and worked
like shearers. About four o’clock that
afternoon we threw the last stick on the
last heap and wandered back to the tent,
We were completely eaten out, and Ken
began to growl as we caught the horses
and got ready ior the thiee-hour drive
home through the cold and drizzly
evening.
“What a ruddy life!” Ken moaned,
climbing into the cart.
Our brother slapped him hard on the
back. “Cheer up,” he said; “think of
the pioneers.”
Ken looked at him. I’ve never seen
loathing like that in anyone’s eye. Then
he buttoned his coat up carefully, pulled
his hat down over his eyes, clenched his
fists and roared “To hell with the ruddy.
pioneers! They must have been the big-
gst e sort of thing . Xo
he]l with the pioneers j Just because they
were siUy e^ough to endure it> r m
damned if I am. And, what’s more,
j we u WO n’t! You can put
t^at j n y our pipe and
W ell smoke it, you silly
j”
Our brother stood up in the cart and
said solemnly “By cripes, he’s come
good! ” Then we drove happily home.


Charge
your
engine
with...
Hi
AND GUARD AGAINST WEAR
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Australia)
VACUUM
M 212
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and gefl
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 milea
of kidney tubes and Alters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of acid
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
Aness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of Intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and Alters.
Don’t delay 1 Ask your chemist or store!
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS .. *
used successfully the world over by
of people. They give quick relief and will
help to Aush out the 15 MILES of kidney
tubes. GET DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY!
PILLS at youg chemist eg store..
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy copy of History of Albury— 3270.
Information Sought.
Brief biography of Major C. R. Attlee, M.P. ?
Born in 1883 and educated at Haileybury Col-
lege and University College, Oxford, he has been
Labor member in the Commons for the Lime-
house Division since 1922. He was called to
the Bar of the Inner Temple in 1905, and was
tutor and lecturer in social science at the
on School of Economics from 1913 to
*923- except for the years 1914-19, during
which he served with the South Lancashire
Regiment and Tank Corps at Gallipoli and in
Mesopotamia and France. He retired from the
army as major. He was Mayor of Stepney in
1919 and 1920 and an alderman from 1919-27.
u 1922-24 he was Parliamentary Secretary to
the Leader of the Opposition, became Under-
secretary of State for War in 1924, Chancellor
pf the Duchy of Lancaster in 1930-31, P.M.G.
Deputy Leader of the Labor party in
the Commons in the same year, Leader of the
Opposition from 1935-40, Lord Privy Seal May,
1940, and Secretary for the Dominions since
February this year.
* * * *
Particulars of tobacco-growing in the Union
of S. Africa?
It’s an old-established industry, although until
about three decades ago most of the tobacco-
growers used all their own leaf to make roll
tobacco on the farms by simply subjecting it
to a process of fermentation. This “Boer”
tobacco was used for smoking, chewing and
for making snuff. In the last 20 years, how-
ever, the class of tobacco produced has under-
gone many and considerable changes. Many
variations occur in types of leaf from different
localities because aroma, character and quality
of the tobacco leaf are almost entirely dependent
on the soil and climate of the area in which it
is produced. The main tobacco-growing locali-
ties are the Magaliesberg areas (Rustenburg,
Brits, Marico, Pretoria, Waterberg and Krugers-
dorp), the Potgietersrust area, the Vaal River
area (Vredefort and Potchefstroom), the Piet
Retief and Barbeton areas, the Kat River, Gam-
toos River and Oudtshoorn areas, and the
Turkish tobacco area of the western Cape Pro-
vince. In the Turkish tobacco area the crop
is grown under natural rainfall —in winter with
scarcely any rain in summer—but in other areas
crops depend on summer rains and irrigation;
most are grown entirely under irrigation.
During the last 10 years, to meet with increas-
ing demands, much attention has been given to
flue-cured leaf, and there are now 2000 flue
barns with a production of over 8,000,0001 b. in
the country. The Union’s total yield of tobacco
(European production) for 1938-39 was
22,773,5221 b.
* * * *
What is the text of Disraeli’s retort to O’Con-
nell in defence of Jews? Where and when
made ?
In the House of Commons in 1835, replying
to a taunt by Daniel O’Connell, Irish patriot
and orator, Disraeli said: “Yes, I am a Jew,
and when the ancestors of the right honorable
gentleman were brutal savages in an unknown
island mine were priests in the temple of
Solomon.”
* * * *
(1) How should I treat a sandy area in a
Sydney coastal district to make it suitable for
growing vegetables and red roses? (2) Suit-
able plants?
(1) Divide the area into beds not more than
6ft. wide (to assist ease of cultivation) and
border each with strong timber or concrete
slabs (expensive, but best in the end). Sandy
areas break down badly and spread over path-
ways unless the edges are held up. The borders
also stop waste during watering, and will enable
you to get full value from the width of the bed.
Where there is a solid or rocky foundation
the addition of cow manure and humus is suffi-
cient; but in very sandy areas soil replacement
must be resorted to. In such case remove the
sand to a depth of at least 24in. and pack in a
layer of newspapers, hessian, leaves, sticks,
tins, rags and rubbish —anything, in fact, that
will stop moisture from carrying away quickly
and thus rob the roots of nourishment; then fill
in loads of heavy soil. Where possible use horse
manure containing plenty of straw and rotted
cow manure. This treatment will be necessary
at least every two years: rapid soakage during
watering will indicate when the layer has
rotted away. (2) All kinds of vegetables can
be grown in these treated areas, but let the first
year’s experience decide future plantings. Red
roses suitable are Etoile de Hollande, General
Macarthur, Radiance, Laurent Carle and
Warrior —all of which are stocked by Sydney
nurseries.
* * * *
(1) When did the South African War begin
and end ? (2) In the 1914-18 war, when did
the U.S.A. declare war on Germany? (3)
Where was the Armistice signed in 1918? (4)
When and where was poison-gas first used in
the 1914-18 war?
(1) Began October 11, 1899; ended May 31,
1902. (2) February 3, 1917. (3) In Marshal
Foch’s railway coach, near Rethondes, in the
Forest of Compiegne, France, November 11,
1918. (4) It was first used (by Germany) in the
second battle of Ypres, April 22-28, 1915.
* * * *
Among the world’s largest fish caught by
rod and reel, what records were made in Aus-
tralasian waters?
Pacific black marlin, 9761 b., caught Bay of
Islands, M.L., 1926; tiger shark, 13821 b., caught
Sydney Heads, 1939; maneater shark, 13341 b.,
caught Port Lincoln, S.A., 1939; thresher shark,
9221 b., caught Bay of Islands, M.L., 1937; mako
shark, 7981 b., caught Bay of Islands, M.L.,
1931; yellowtail, 881 b., caught Bermagui,
N.S.W., 1938.
* * * *
Method of cleaning a marble statue?
Mix pumice powder and vinegar to a thin
cream. Brush statue down to remove all dust,
then wash all over with the mixture. Leave
overnight, then wash thoroughly. When dry
rub with whiting on a chamois leather.
* * * *
Recipe for ice-cream made in a refrigerator ?
This one has been recommended as quick,
cheap, easy and tasty. Warm two cups of fresh
milk to blood-heat and add rennet as if making
junket; just as the mixture is setting add |-cup
of sugar and beat well with egg-beater (don’t
add sugar to milk before heating or it will
not set). Stir in one cup of cream, add one
teaspoon of vanilla, pour into refrigerator tray
and freeze. To get a smoother texture whip
the cream lightly at first and stir ice-cream every
20 minutes.
* * * *
Method of making pot-pourri?
Gather (on calm days) flower petals or leaves
of roses, lavender, thyme, catmint, sweet ver-
bena, stocks, etc., and spread on paper in sunny,
airy room. Turn the petals frequently, and
when dry place in alternate layers in a jar until
nearly full, sprinkling each layer with common
salt. Stand the jar in a dry place for two
weeks, stirring contents well each day. Then
remove the contents to another jar with a well-
fitting lid and add one ounce of crushed cloves
and allspice, some cinnamon sticks and a nut-
meg. Cover and leave for three weeks. Finally,
sprinkle over all a few drops of vanilla, orange-
flower water and eau de Cologne, shake and
close. Open jar in any room for 30 minutes
each day.
* * * *
(1) How many times did Fred Kay and
Tommy Uren meet in the ring? (2) How did
their contests result? (3) Where are Kay and
Uren now? (4) Which is the elder of the two,
and where and when were they born ?
(1) Eight times. (2) Uren won five, two on
knockouts, and Kay three, on points. (3) Both
are still living in Sydney. (4) Kay—born at
North Fitzroy (Vic.) on June 27, 1890 —is
three years older than Uren, born at Leich-
hardt (N.S.W.) on July 13, 1893.
* * * *
In what Rugby Union matches did Blair
Swannell play for Great Britain v. Australia,
and later for Australia v. Maoriland and Queens-
land?
Swannell played for Great Britain v. Australia
at Brisbane, July 22, 1899; at Sydney, August
12, 1899; at Sydney, July 2, 1904; at Bris-
bane, July 23, 1904; at Sydney, July 30, 1904.
For Australia v. Maoriland at Dunedin, Sep-
tember 2, 1905. For N.S.W. v Maoriland at
Sydney, July 8 and July 15, 1905. For N.S.W.
v. Queensland in 1905 and 1906. He also
refereed N.S.W. v. Queensland in two matches
in 1912, and one each in 1913 and 1914.
Swannell, one of the finest of forwards, was
killed in the 1914-18 war.
Brief Answers.
F.E.C.: There are a number of de-scaling
compounds obtainable from firms dealing in
engineer’s supplies. Method used is probably
the best available... .W.R.D.: The Duke of
Aosta surrendered with 7000 men in Abyssinia
on May 20, 1941... .L.T.: Means “the voice
of the people is the voice of God” G.J.T.:
The correct name of “George Sand” was
Armandine Lucile Aurore Dupin, Baroness
Dudevant... .B.T.P.: The Methuen Treaty was
a treaty of commerce concluded between Great
Britain and Portugal by Paul Methuen, British
Ambassador at Lisbon, in 1703. The connec-
tion is that the treaty provided for the impor-
tation, at reduced rates, of port wine into
Britain and so helped to build up the popu-
larity of the drink... .T.G.N.: There are many
methods; two simple ways of achieving the
effect would be to use a diffusion disc over the
lens of the camera or over the lens of the en-
larger. Write to Kodaks, Sydney R.F.G.:
Imagine karri would be the best timber for the
job if you can get it.... F.F.: Generally taken
to mean a small State established or preserved
between two greater States to prevent clashes
between them... .B.L.P.: The Treaty of Locarno
was concluded on November 16, 1925, between
Britain, Italy, France, Germany and Belgium,
the last three undertaking to maintain their
mutual frontiers and to abstain from the use
of force against each other N.T.: The
Armistice between Germany and France was
signed on June 22, 1940, in the same railway
dining car in the Forest of Compiegne, France,
where Germany had surrendered to the Allies
22 years before G.R.F.: Central America
includes British Honduras (8867 sq. miles),
Costa Rica (23,000), Guatemala (45,452), Hon-
duras (46,300), Nicaragua (51,700) Panama
(32,280), El Salvador (13,176). South America
includes Argentina (1,112,743), Bolivia (506,467),
Brazil (3,300,000), British Guiana (90,000),
Chile (285,160), Colombia (440,846), Dutch
Guiana (54,300), Ecuador (175,855), Falkland
Islands (4600), French Guiana (34,740), Para-
guay (161,000), Peru (482,275), Uruguay (72,153),
Venezuela (393,976) H.L.: Exports from
Papua in 1938-39 were beche-de-mer worth £2506,
coffee beans £6911, copra £57,999, desiccated
coconut £48,140, gold £152,103, pearls £15, rubber
£114,949, trochus shell £9200, other exports
£98,335... .R.F.B.: At June 30, 1933, there
were 1,941,050 children under 16 years in
Australia. Of that number 94 p.c. had both
parents living, 3.6 p.c. were witho'ut father
living, 2.1 p.c. without mother and 0.3 p.c.
bereft of both... .W.T.G.: Area of cotton har-
vested in Queensland since 1929: 1929, 15,003
acres; 1930, 22,652; 1931, 22,452; 1932, 29,995;
1933, 68,203; 1934, 43,397; 1935, 54,947; 1936,
62,200; 1937, 52,692; 1938, 66,460... .R.F.P.:
The first trading establishment made by the
British in the Madras Presidency was at Pedda-
pali (now Nizampatam) in 1611 and. then at
Masulipatam. In 1639 the English were per-
mitted to make a settlement at the place which
is now Madras; and Fort St. George was
founded. By 1801 the whole of the country
from the Northern Circars to Cape Comorin
(with the exception of certain French and
Danish settlements) had been brought under
British rule. The Presidency was constituted
an autonomous Province on April 1, 1937.


Missing Friends.
JAMES K. MACDONALD (or MACDON-
NELL), last heard of in London, England, in
1922. Believed to have been a native of Syd-
ney and to be a son of Isaac and Annie {nee
Mainey, of New Zealand) McDonald and to
have a sister named Hilda and brother named
Sidney (at one time practised dentistry in Syd-
ney). Any information will be appreciated by
“Inquirer,” Box 508 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
TO JOHN LESLIE ROWLEY formerly of
Autumn Street Geelong West in the State of
Victoria Driver but now of parts unknown.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife CLARA EDNA
ROWLEY has instituted proceedings against
you for Divorce on the ground of desertion
Unless you enter an appearance in the Deputy
Prothonotary’s Office Supreme Court Geelong
on or before the Nth day of June 1942 the
case may proceed in your absence and a decree
for dissolution of marriage may be granted and
you may be ordered to pay costs. —PHILIP R.
FRASER Yarra Street Geelong Solicitor for
Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALLAN BRUCE FITZSIMMONS late of
Wattle Flat New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that LORNA MURIEL FITZ-
SIMMONS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2049 of 1941 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance before the 12th August 1942
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from PRITCHARD MARSLAND & CO.
Solicitors 12 O’Connell Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Instire with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
, , . XJn
fighting forces have
every vehicle they need
THE complete productive capacities of Australian automotive
plants are being used day and night in the service of the
nation. That we know is the wish of every member of the great
Australian motoring public and every member o± the
Australian automotive manufacturing, distributing and service
organisations.
In the meantime, operators can assist by “carrying-on with
existing vehicles, replacing only when absolutely necessary and
then strictly those used for essential purposes and in vital war
industries.
★ ★ ★ ★ *
These vehicles are naturally requiring more regular servicing to
cope with heavier wartime loads and longer hours of over work.
If vou are operating our vehicles nobody will render you more
willing and effective help in keeping them on the road than your
local Ford dealer. He has special equipment, trained mechanics
and a personal interest in you.
In some cases, however, his ability to render quick service is
now handicapped. Many expert mechanics have enlisted to care
for Army and Air Force transport. Next lime yon plan a service
check-up you will thus help by phoning in advance. He can
then reserve the time of his remaining mechanics to give the full
satisfaction he aims to render.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
GEELONG . . . SYDNEY . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
.:0
m
&
10 for ll d 20 for 110
Also in Fifties
Far greater
smoking enjagment
CRAVENA
%>! *>*
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE T H ROAJT^
m
2817
■
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the
No liability is undertaken re cowfri6«/Joiw
voluntarily submitted; and no Mb. Will oe
returned unless stamps accompany. Mo-
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
D.K.8.:
Don’t you know that, as you’re feeding,
Men are longing for relief
From the aching void proceeding
After days of bully beef?
M.F.:
“Please to have some sense,” said the cwkroach.
“Let us have no more pretence, said the cockioach.
“We could come across in waves,
Make you live like beasts in caves.
And you’d make such splendid slaves 1 said the
cockroach.
“Well, you come across and get us,” said the kan-
“YoitU °be sorry that you met us,” said the kan-
garoo.
“Why not stop and take a look
At your pal, the other crook . ,
Who tried to take Tobruk ?’ said the kangaroo.
M.A.F.: Undistinguished All
lightweights... .Y.C.: It has point but not
drama... .E.L.: Not quite... .Slapdash: klap-
dash... .M.M.: As before, it’s round about the
mark, but fails to hit it S.K.C.; W e A>
there’s always something pleasant about a pee.
O.P.; It’s willing, but it’s rough, brother.
H.A.C.; Don’t doubt that it sings well ;
print’s another horse... .W.P.: “Stand we fast,
no feeble quivers.” We do, we do; but the
pome doesn’t... .D.H.R.: It walks on heavy
feet W.M.C.: Surely, even at that pitch ot
emotion, a sentence should somewhere come to
a full-stop... .M.R.D.: “Oh, woman, woman,
woman!” One at a time, please... .K.L..
Even in the best of causes, you cannot rhyme
“Goring” with “herring” E.C.D.: the
Prince of Beggars” couldn’t find our purse-
strings .... J.W.; We’re a little doubtful ot
miracles....A.F.B.: Subject’s been worked out.
...K.8.N.: Like our war-stuff factual....
PS • Feeble . J.E.P.: Still no increase on the
six bob... .E.A.H.: No dream lovers here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.L.R.: At least you got the eyebrows reason-
ably right.. ..F.S.R.: “I hereby guarantee this
has not been published anywhere”; we hereby
guarantee it never will be published anywhere.
Bert C.: You are baffled by a beer bottle,
and yet you hope to become an artist....
M.M.; The wax dolls in process of melting
aren’t saying anything very funny... .L.8.P.:
You’re corralled all your characters in a trac-
tion of the space available; spread yourself,
man! .... J.G.: If a willy-willy is causing the
stockmen to lean to port so much, the placid
tree belies it D.L.C.: Try standing in the
position you have allotted the fireman and see
if you don’t fall on your face M.8.F.:
The office cat was shown the object alleged to
be a rat, but evinced no interest... .A.J.M.;
You must have grown very tired when you got
as far as the dog... .P.H.C.; Dry point is not
your forte L.L.: As soon as we saw he
was talking to the parish priest we guessed wnat
the gag was... .M.S.T.: The outlines are jagged
and the quip deplorable... .J.B. I.: Is it meant
for a caricature of Dedman, or did you stall
to draw a punching ball and lose interest. ....
Bert C.: You do more scratches to the men
than an abo.’s dog does to the minute....
B S H.: You drew it from memory, eh? burely
you’ve seen a cow since 1885! ... .Florence M.:
You’d better blow your whistle, Flo.; you re
lost in an artistic fog H.G.J.: Yol > re
born to break a blockmaker’s heart.. . .K.W.:
Balance your figures better and there’s hope lor
you D.S.D.: If you must do a pair ot
toasting forks, why hang them on the shoulders
of a navvy? ... .S.M.L.: Gag lacks snap; draw-
ing merits neither the bouquet nor the brick-
bat.


What qualifications
should your trustee
possess?
He should be thoroughly trustworthy, possess
sound business experience and have know-
ledge of the law relating to trusts. He should
be able and willing to undertake the some-
times very heavy and continuous duties
involved. An individual possessing such
qualifications is hard to find. Moreover, he
must eventually age and his powers decline.
Neither is he immune from misfortune, and
he may die long before the trust is completed.
To vest a trusteeship in an individual is to
leave the consequences mainly to chance and
it is a mistaken compliment to ask a friend
or relative so to act.
It is for these reasons that business men well
versed in affairs have for more than 63 years
appointed The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited to manage their estates.
The company’s services are devoted solely to
the care and management of the property of
its clients. Its Directors have wide experi-
ence and proved capacity and the duties
involved are not vested in one individual—
the company’s service “goes on for ever”.
Consult your solicitor or call or write for
further information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, 11958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
The Federal Mutual Insurance Comoany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors; THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines); 87361. Branches in All States. 139 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Selfridges (Australasia), Ltd.
Net Towards
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1935. . 352 Nil 352 6,688
Added intangibles, £3343 .. .. 10,031
1936.. 5,623 Nil 5623 4,408
Reserves.
Share reserve. £27,250 .. .. 22,842
Net addition intangibles, £6480 .. 16,362
1937.. 10,887 6 p.c. = 8904 1 Ila , n -
Written off intangibles, £660 J 17,785
Share premiums, £23,750 .. .. 41,535
Net addition share reserve, £13,750.. 55,285
Added intangibles, £2544 .. .. 52,741
1938.. 21,773 4 p.c. = 7455 23,513
Added intangibles, £342 .. .. 23,171
1939.. 20,981 Nil 2,190
Deficit.
Share reserve deducted asset, £41,000 38,810
Profit.
1940.. 18,728 Nil 18,728 20,082
1941.. 25,309 5 p.c. = 14,249 11,060 9,022
Reserves.
Net taxation written back, £13,326 .. 4,304
1942.. 50,766 6 p.c. = 17,100 33,666 37,970
Results Since the new control took the
reins no doubt influenced shareholders in
rejecting Archer Whitford’s candidature
for the board and returning A. W. Lam-
bell, the retiring director, with a seven-
to-one majority. A motion by Mr. Whit-
ford, who claims (with his family) to
be the largest shareholder, that the direc-
torate be increased from four to five
was also defeated. The rehabilita-
tion by the present control and g.m.
Phillips has been assisted by the war-
time expansion of spending power among
those classes that particularly go into
the variety chains. War, unfortunately,
will now prevent shareholders further
benefiting in the fruits of that progress.
Sections of the business are now directly
affected by overdue Government ration-
ing of clothing, and others indirectly by
the physical impossibility of stocking the
shelves with the normal variety of mer-
chandise. And, of course, there is com-
pulsory limitation of earnings to an arbi-
trary percentage on capital still in the
offing which will fall particularly harshly
on youngsters like Selfridges which
haven’t been able to accumulate much
for a rainy day.
Restrictions on unessential enterprise
have prevented the forging of new links
in the chain, which now numbers 19 —
16 operated by the N.S.W. parent, one
by the Westralian subsidiary and two by
a M.L. co. Like the parent, both off-
shoots are now on a profitable footing.
From net earnings of 7.2 p.c. on capital
the Westralian co. has hopped in to de-
clare a 5 p.c. div. since the close of
accounts —the money might have been
better retained to substantiate some of
the capital at present represented by
intangibles, a legacy of the old manage-
ment. The Maoriland associate, labor-
ing under a proportionately higher swag
of paper assets, is also hoping to break its
duck soon. It has been hampered by trans-
Tasman taxation which absorbed £B2Bo'
of last term’s trading surplus (£11,844).
As for the parent’s trading, the year
saw further expansion of turnover,
though not to the extent indicated by
profits, this year shown before provision
for taxes, for which £12,500 was charged
in 1941. Instead, £13,326 net has been
written back from tax reserve, and future
bills will be charged against p. and 1. as
they come in, as with the Woolworths
organisation. This because the major
portion of profits for the year just closed
will be assessed at taxation rates applic-
able to the fiscal year ending this month,
which rendered it virtually impossible to
make a reliable forecast of the amount
required owing to increasing rates and
the retrospective incidence of certain
taxes. The higher div. of 6 p.c. leaves
£33,666 available for the purpose, and,
as most of it will probably be needed, it
gives reserves a largely nominal com-
plexion. Depreciation charged was
£15,736 (up £2348).
Within the limits of finances—-new
bank accommodation isn’t available for
this end these days—the stock position
has been protected as far as possible:
1935. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £56,067 £284,397 £284,974 £285,000
Sundry creditors 26,252* 76,355* 96,071* 95,554
Freehold .. 18,801 19,365 19,370
Leaseholds . . 8,969 53,118 43,926 40,551
Plant, etc. . . 21,441 83,736 99,655 94,736
Stock .. .. 38,789 87,593 141,136 199,123
Debtors, etc. .. 5,724 7,949 5,335 4,930
Cash . . . . 708 2,424 2,585 2,645
Shares subsidiaries 109,320 74,270 74,270
M Deluding- taxation, etc.
The asset moved up £57,989 to its greatest
bulk yet. Shareholdings (face value
£136,450, £21,180 being uncalled) appear
less a paper reserve of £41,000 in respect
of free promoting shares, bringing book
values roughly into line with their net
tangible backing.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Let To lie— Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1932*. 56,695 6 J p.c. = 46,875 9,820 96,230
1933.. 52,188 6J „ „ 46,875 5,313 101,543
1934.. 38,058 5 „ „ 37,500 558 102,101
1935.. 37,158 5 „ ~ 37,500 101,759
1936.. 42,754 5 „ „ 37,500 5,254 107,013
1987.. 68,088 5.8 „ „ 43,750 14,338 121,351
1938.. 65,145 6| „ „ 46,875 1
To staff fund, £5OOO . . j 13.270 134,621
1939.. 51,233 6i p.c. - 46,875 4,358 138,979
1940.. 49,352 61 ~ „ 46,875 2,477 141,456
1941.. 38,971 5 „ ~ 37,500 1,471 142,927
1942.. 45,661 5 „ „ 87,500 8,161 151,088
*l3 months.
The year turned out better than it
promised, notwithstanding cessation of
Solomon and Gilbert Islands trading owing
to enemy and Government action, losses
through which were chalked up against
earnings and inner reserves in undisclosed
proportions. Though vegetable oils, par-
ticularly that of the coconut, play a big
part in the production of foods, paints,
lubricants, explosives, soaps and leather,
Britain had more convenient sources of
supply than the South Seas, and the term
opened with copra production drastically
curtailed and heavy stock accumulations
at Island centres. Both shipping and the
market for the commodity improved as
the year wore on, however, and, follow-
ing the shortage that developed conse-
quent on Jap domination of 75 p.c. of
world-producing areas, more tonnage
became available in the Pacific and
Britain contracted to lift the entire Fijian
crop at the highly satisfactory figure of
£lB a ton, f.o.b. Suva.
The other big factors in the Fijian
economy are gold, sugar and, latterly,
expenditure on Island defence, which
brought satisfactory earnings from mer-
chandising, despite official control of
imports, commodity prices and exchange.
In all, an improvement of £16,181 in
this Suva-registered co.’s gross earnings
from all sources is exhibited;
Gross Gross
Jan., Profit. Exes. Jan., Profit. Exes.
1932 £169,182 £112,487 1939 £184,269 £133,036
1934 147,700 109,642 1940 191,683 142,331
1936 153,393 110,639 1941 164,226 125,255
1938 203,465 138,320 1942 180,407 134,746
The expansion in exes, was entirely the
outcome of the visible provision for bad-
debt losses, which went up from £10,980
to £28,403. Depreciation was unchanged
at £17,024, leaving the declared net result
£6690 higher at 6 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 5.1 p.c. and 6.5 p.c. for the
two years before. The unchanged 5 p.c.
div. made the decade’s average 5.6 p.c.
—a figure that needs to be considered
along with the solid-looking but unobtru-
sive muscle-building that has been going
on ever since the business was segregated
from that of its big parent in 1920.
Over the past five years alone no less
than £206,000 has been visibly written
off one way and another before arriving
at the profits shown.
The recent change in the outlook for
copra was apparently anticipated when
Philippines fighting flared up ;
1936. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 30,724 55,708 57,180 119,222
Properties, 1 f
shipping, etc. [ 554,179'] 384,546 357,280 215,679
Investments J [ 258,096 281,433 211,421
Stocks etc. .. 158,898 98,803 91,496 390,504
Book debts . . 175,498 163,221 159,104 121,666
Cash . . . . 36,662 67,498 79,544 99,790
The increment in merchandise, produce
and consignments, etc., was just short of
£300,000, financed mainly by the sale of
investments and proceeds from disposal
of some of the small inter-island craft
not at present required, which accounts
for much of the contraction in fixed
assets. Whatever lies ahead, investment
returns should continue a handy stabilis-
ing source of revenue.
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries
Electricity Meter and Subsidiaries.
Net , Divs. Towards De-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, fleit.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 81,626 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 25,014 1 o o Q ,
Preliminary exes., etc., £2717 1 rf ’° 94 1 4,241
1937 Shar 6 e M e 3 x 6 es.! 43,246
1938.. 75,212 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 34,273 40,939 2,307
Reserves.
1939.. 74,557 6 „ 7i „ 41,341 33,216 30,909
VVestinghouse, Rosebery and Electrical
Engineering Pty. become subsidiaries;
deducting £57,527 accumulated losses,
etc., net addition reserves, £23,426 54,335
1940.. 68,660 6 p.c. 74 p.c. 52,411 16,249 70,584
1941.. 49,163 6 „ 6J „ 45,931 3,232 73,816
Features since the public came in in
1936 have been rapid expansion of the
undertaking and the change in owner-
ship from chiefly English—technical
affiliations were unaffected —to predomi-
nantly Australian, both private and com-
mercial. The co. formed as late as 1934
to fuse in the one control the activities
of Electricity Meter and the Manufac-
turing and New System Telephones, of
Sydney. The ailing Westinghouse busi-
ness, with its valuable American associa-
tions, was taken over on favorable terms
in 1940, and there are another half-dozen
smaller subsidiary and associated cos.
turning out and distributing the products
of the million-pound organisation.
Failure of recent earnings to keep step
with this development reflects the impact
of war, which has replaced the normal
production schedule with a long list of
munitions that reflect further credit on
Australian industrial organisation, engi-
neering skill and precision workmanship.
That transition is now practically com-
plete, and the “next accounts will reveal
a real war-time balance-sheet, reflecting
the financial position of an organisation
devoted almost entirely to war produc-
tion” —hint of further adverse effect on
profits forewarned 12 months ago.
Because of the big increase in output,
however, those for the latest period were
only £6020 lighter on trading account.
Main cause of the recession of
£19,497 in net earnings was the demands
of the taxgatherer (£74,724, up £13,477).
The £49,163 was enough to meet the
pref. charge on the parent’s £lOO,OOO
6 p.c. issue and then show 6.7 p.c. on
its ord. capital, as against 9.8 p.c. in 1940.
So 3d. a share was clipped off the div.,
reducing the rate to 6 \ p.c. Taking into
account £lOB,OOO paid for goodwill— not
treated as an asset herein—reduction to
5 p.c. is indicated by any statutory limi-
tation of earning power to, say, 4 p.c.
on shareholders’ funds.
Manufacturing strength has been
assisted by conservative disposition of
earnings, £128,500 of which has been
ploughed back into the business over the
past half-dozen years:
E.M.A.I.L. and Subsidiaries,
1938. 1939. 1946. 1941.
E.M. capital.. £571,218 £571,218 £738,902 £738,902
Outside interests* 11,684 12,987 15,174 13,928
Creditors! .. 113,201 144,786 284,835 276,627
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 173,512 185,652 825,130 295,864
Stocks . . 246,089 231,364 471,898 448,606
Debtors, etc.. . 224,868 268,167 331,979 361,601
Cash, etc. . . 77,599 110,007 26,898 37,132
* Including' proportion reserves. + Including tax
provision, etc,
Unseen allowances probably haven’t
been overlooked either. Depreciation
doesn’t have to be disclosed under slip-
shod N.S.W. holding-co. law, but there
was a reduction of £29,266 in all fixed
assets last year, indicating, in the absence
of sales, that present abnormal wear and
tear isn’t passing unnoticed.
Northcote Brick Co.. Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 3,181 If p.c. = 2,500 681 40,715
1934.. 8,846 5 „ „ 7,500 1346 42,061
1935. . 14,398 8f „ „ 13,125 1273 43,334
1936.. 9,375 6i „ „ 9,375 43,334
1937.. 9,591 6i „ „ 9,375 216 43,550
1938.. 15,861 8f ~ „ 13,125 2736 46,286
1939.. 11,532 7f „ ~ 11,250 282 46,568
Depreciation reserve disappears, £10,000.. 36,568
1940.. 13,156 74 p.c. = 11,250 1906 38,474
1941.. 11,211 74 „ „ 11,250 38,435
Loss.
1942.. 3,779 If „ „ 2,500 32,156
The about-turn in earnings mainly re-
flects the man-power situation and the
costs-inflation of war, which apparently
made certain contracts, unprofitable.
Government control reduced the value
of building permits in Greater Melbourne
to only three-fifths of the level of the
previous year, too, although the manage-
ment has demonstrated its ability in the
past to produce reasonable profits with
building activity only half as brisk as
last year, as this and the first table bear
testimony ■
Year to
Mar. 31, Value. Index.
1929. . £8,196,377 100
1932.; 1,429,431 17
1934.; 3,896,064 48
1930.. 6,984,180 85
1937.; 7,310,673 89
Year to
Mar. 31, Value. Index.
1938. . £8,451,216 103
1939..' 8,572,486 105
1940. 8,560,888 104
1941. 10,212,118 125
1942. 6,857,035 84
In the first half of the year results were
good enough to justify a If p.c. dividend.
For this and Melbourne’s other 13 or so
brickmakers things went absolutely phut
in the second half as a result of tighten-
ing restrictions which brought the value
of private building permits in March as
low as £Bl,OOO, or less than a million p.a.
Since banning of home-building within
25 miles of Elizabeth-street G.P.0., about
the only demand left the co. has been
that for which Government and A.R.P.
bodies don’t require concrete ; the “essen-
tial” construction now permitted where


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
s
3 3
m
jfe.*.
¥
yes:."Tk^‘
Kad everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR, family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
. AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD. A
Head Office; 371-373 Queen St.. Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
at PROUIIS
MAGNIFICENT 15-PIECE
“Aynsley” Coffee Set
for only 49/6
ii
mm
mm
m
1
M 1
p
This lovely Coffee Set is in the highest quality English
China—"Aynsley" fine China. Each of the 15 fashion-
ably shaped pieces is adorned with a yellow rose design
in autumn tonings on a rich ivory ground.
The price ... the value ... the quality all say one
thing—this is an opportunity not to be missed !
■■■twins
PTY,
LTD.
Jewellers :: Watchmakers :: Silversmiths
CORNER OF KING AND PITT STREETS, SYDNEY
YOUNGHUSBAND LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS.
26th May, 1942.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The audited Statement of Accounts for the
year ending 31st March, 1942, together with
the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports, have been
printed and sent to Shareholders. I accordingly
propose that they be taken as read, and will
later move their adoption.
On the occasion of this, the 53rd Annual
Meeting, we find our Empire still engaged
in the greatest war in history, the prosecution
of which has made its repercussions felt
throughout every section of the community.
This is as it must be, for it is imperative that
we emerge victorious, whatever the cost, and
this must overshadow all other, considerations.
That there must be considerable dislocation
of industry goes without saying—the major
problem of Government is to get the maxi-
mum effort of the community into the war
machine, whilst disrupting industry to the least
possible extent.
It is with the greatest regret that I report
the death of our late Director, Mr. John For-
dyce. Mr. Fordyce was a Director of this
Company for the past fourteen years, and his
wide experience proved of great value to the
Board. He was held in the highest esteem by
all sections of the community, and we mourn
the loss of a loyal friend and valuable col-
league.
Turning to our Company’s activities during
the past year, I have again to report that we
have experienced in the northern areas of
Victoria and in Riverina a severe drought,
which has shown its effect upon our nett earn-
ing capacity, though it is satisfactory that under
the circumstances our total volume of business
has been well maintained. Whilst our turn-
over in stock has been reduced our Wool Sales
total 103,913 bales, as compared with 111,281
bales for the previous year, our carry-forward
this year being 8902 bales as against 5471 for
the previous year.
As compared with last year’s figures, our
nett profit has been considerably reduced by
increased expenditure on items over which your
Directors have no control, viz.:
Increased taxation £5,000
Arbitration Board Awards neces-
sitating increased payments for
the year of .. .. • • 5,000
Pay Roll Tax 2,000
A total of approximately .. £12,000
The total amount of taxation —£22,000 —as pro-
vided for in the Balance Sheet, together with
Pay Roll Tax, shows that the Company is pay-
ing approximately 4 per cent, in taxation on
the subscribed capital. This may be looked
upon as part of our contribution to the war
effort, but it must not be overlooked by those
in authority that the dividend available is only
equal on total Shareholders’ funds to 3 per
cent. Any proposals for further burdens of
taxation on Pastoral Companies must have
regard to such results as are shown by our
Company.
INCREASED WOOL PRICE.
It is gratifying to learn that an increase of
15 per cent, on the original purchase price has
been agreed upon with the British Government.
As you know, our Wool has been purchased
for the duration of the war and one year
thereafter.
Increased costs have justified the represen-
tations made by the Australian Government,
and Wool Growers will appreciate the ready
response of the British Government.
The price for the coming season will be,
therefore, 15.45 d. per lb.
BRANCHES. —Since last Report we have
taken over the business of Mr. N. C. Bott at
St. James and Devenish, and also of Green,
Manning and Co. at Yarrawonga. Whilst in
these districts the past season has been one
of low rainfall, the Directors feel that these
branches situated in good districts with a nor-
mal rainfall of about twenty inches should
prove valuable additions to the Company’s
connections.
I have to report the appointment to the
Board of Directors of Mr. Roy Matthews, of
“Eurolie,” Hay, New South Wales. Mr.
Matthews brings with him a lifelong experience
of pastoral matters in Riverina, and your
Directors are confident that he will afford valu-
able assistance in the direction of the Com-
pany’s affairs.
STAFF.—I would like to express our thanks
to the Staff for the manner in which they have
helped us to overcome all difficulties during
the year. Problems are continually arising
through war-time dislocation, but with the will-
ing and efficient co-operation we always receive
from our Staff we have managed to carry
through the year’s work satisfactorily.
We have 36 per cent, of our permanent Staff
away on active service. I regret to advise that
Sergeant Pilot Scott and Lieutenant Quinlan
are reported missing. L/Bdr. Robertson and
L/Bdr. Wrigglesworth and Gunner Chadwick
are Prisoners of War in Italy, and Gunner
Grace is a Prisoner of War in Germany.
In conclusion, I have to advise that your
Directors recommend the payment of a final
dividend of H per cent., making a total of 44
per cent, for the year.
I append a short Statement by our Senior
Wool Valuer, Mr. Geo. Ramsden, in reference
to the appraisement of the past year’s Clip.
I will now formally move the adoption of
the Report and Balance Sheet, and will ask
some Shareholder to second the motion, when
the matter will be open for discussion.
hardship is demonstrated won’t help
much.
The efficient Northcote works are on
the north side of the Yarra ; an interest
is also held in the trade on the other side
of the river through ownership of roughly
a third of the capital of concerns at
Blackburn, Auburn and Oakleigh, from
which most of the profits have lately
come. After three years at 685., another
ss. a thousand was tacked on to the price
of standard bricks in October: but price-
increases aren’t much use unless goods
can be sold, and from its own manu-
facturing a profit of £4271 in 1941
turned into a loss of £5328 for this
Northcote co., after charging a nominal
£6B depreciation. Returns from invest-
ments, which include £17,880 of Consols,
slipped from £6940 to £1548, too, leaving
the net balance £3780 on the wrong side,
a backward step of £14,990. No final
was paid.
Finances withstood the loss and pay-
ment of the interim div. without great
impairment to their health:
1936. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . 2,205 6,747 7,778 12,355
Freeholds . . 90,021 87,426 86,174 86,187
Plant etc . . 36,951 31,590 31,734 31,671
Stocks . . 1.888 5,105 3,751 4,321
Book debts . . 4,055 12,861 10,432 9,505
Shares othercos. 41,821 44,321 44,696 44,946
Cash, etc. . . 24,552 21,419 26,926 17,880
While the position remains as it is, fur-
ther losses appear impossible to avoid.
As an alternative to intermittent working,
a more economic war-time expedient
might be a plan of voluntary rationalisa-
tion whereby production is concentrated
into the most efficient yards, the profits
or losses being spread proportionately
over the whole industry. There appear
no great technical snags. In Sydney, be-
cause of surplus capacity, 20 or fewer
works normally produce for a total of
38.
The Second Liberty Loan
Australia’s second great war loan since
Japan entered the war is open for sub-
scription. The sum of £35,000,000 is
asked for, and more will be appreciated.
The need is urgent. Interest rates, etc.,
are unchanged. The people as a whole
will be looked to for major support for
this loan. The investor class has very
little surplus income these days, but where
it can help, then help it should.
The newly-unearthed bauxite deposits
in the Ouse region of the Speck are
reckoned by the Mines Department to
contain 2,000,000 tons, and to have the
advantage of a low silica content, one ol
the bugbears of some mainland occur-
rences. There have been other finds at
Campbell Town and St. Leonards. Pre-
liminary prospecting on asbestos deposits
near Strahan is also reported to have
given satisfactory results, and Golden
Sovereign, having turned from gold at
Bendigo, will shortly commence to aug-
ment Tas. tin production. It is in tin that
the Island State appears to have most
immediate prospects of making up Aus-
tralia’s deficiency in war minerals. At
Renison Bell, between Rosebery and
Zeehan, occur the largest pyritic tin
deposits in the Commonwealth, estimated
contents at least 2,500,000 tons, averaging
0.7 p.c. metal. In small-scale working
Lemprieres have already shown that the
metallurgical problem can be overcome,
cheap opencut mining is possible and
water and electric power prevail. Other
extensive occurrences are the Blue Tier
stanniferous granite areas on the east
coast, from which a concentrate yield of
31b.-41b. a long ton is indicated. Together,
it is estimated, these two areas alone
could exceed Australia’s pre-war produc-
tion of the white metal. But capitalisa-
tion would represent fairly big money,
which, with the post-war price of the
metal a gamble, isn’t likely to be forth-
coming from private sources if mining
profits are limited to 4 p.c plus 20 p.c.
of excess earnings. Direct Government
action appears called for, tin (with rub-
ber) being possibly one of the Allies’ most
urgent requirements at the moment. A
lot of goldfields plant should be
utilisable.
* * * *
Boring has been commenced on the
deep lead, Herberton (N.Q.), in an effort
to step-up local tin production. This
buried lead extends for miles south of
the township. It has produced often
good but spasmodic returns of tin oxide,
but has never been backed by strong
capital. The heavy water settled many
a promising show, but with tin so
scarce and the price at its peak a power-
operated drainage scheme could produce
a revolutionary change in production.
Annual output from the lodes around the
township is now negligible. The key to
their downward extension in depth has
never been found, though an ingenious
solution was recently propounded by a
Victorian geologist. That they do per-
severe in depth is probable ; the Vulcan,
in the neighboring Irvinebank field, went
down as a pipe to over 1000 ft.
* # * *
Black Jack, Charters Towers (N.Q.), is
still on high-grade ore, but is feeling the
shortage of man-power now. A big body
of stone up to 4ft. wide, nicely sprinkled
with mineral with values estimated to be
over 30dwt, is being stoped on Nos. 3
and 4 south levels. A recent fortnight’s
output was 160 tons for 1630 z. smelted
gold and 12 tons of concentrates of a
value of £lOOO, gross value of the ore
being around £lO per ton. Black Jack is
the mainstay of the Towers field, and the
main shoot appears to be following a
well-defined intersection with promise of
continuing in depth, though it pinches
and makes again.
% * *
D. B. Markham, lately spokesman for
Paringa (W.A.) as a result of the illness
of chairman C. S. Beale, mentions record
millings and gold production in his latest
broadcast. In addition to the satisfactory
results of the past year, the future has
been improved by discovery of the rich-
est run of ore yet found in the Paringa
mine—if, of course, the Federal Govern-
ment allows Westralian goldmining to
go on. Ample supplies of developed ore
are in hand, and indications point to the
value of reserves increasing. Policy,
according to Markham, is to conserve
and accumulate cash funds for future
requirements and distribute as much as
it can. War has inevitably deferred ex-
tension of the plant.
* * * *
Westralian odds and ends:
Wiluna’s year ended on March 31, and, de-
spite the extraction of half a million or more
tons during the 12 months, the “near-exhaus-
tion” mine of four years ago is still a year or
two ahead of the mill at the present rate of
output. Last month 44,000 tons (about the
average throughput) was treated. Revenue,
including proceeds from antimonial ore, was
£A56,734. Deducting working costs and ex-
penditure on development and exploration, a
surplus of £14,832 was left. Co. put £250,000
into the last Commonwealth Liberty loan —an
example no other London-controlled Westralian
goldmining co., so far as can be ascertained;
appears to have followed.
Triton is putting down a drillhole to prospect
an area l-J miles north from its main shaft.
Last report stated that the bore had advanced
to 863 ft. in country rock.
Shortage of man-power has severely handi-
capped some and is crippling other goldmining
ventures on the Westralian fields, especially
at the smaller centres. Womenfolk are said
to be helping on the brace and assisting in
other ways to carry on at some prospecting
shows.


“SERVANT
PROBLEM”
ended
£
/-
r *
><
-xT
><
■ mg*m
AuA
with on
Staff problems solve themselves when
cooking equipment is modern, in-
stantly available, easily cleaned and
designed for cool operation with a
minimum of attention.
These ideal service conditions are in-
herent in the AGA Cooker, which
operates on the scientific, efficient heat-
storage principle, burning continu-
ously; cooking fast or slow as you
wish; heavily insulated; and finished
with a sparkling, easily-cleaned,
vitreous-enamelled surface.
You yourself will find the AGA a de-
light to use . . . delicious meals just
cook themselves.
Fuel cost? . . , here is another tre-
mendous AGA advantage! Fuel bills
are almost incredibly low. Take the
AGA Model C (illustrated), for in-
stance, for city and country homes.
It is guaranteed not to consume more
than 3/10/- worth of fuel in a whole
year, with coke at 35/- a ton in the
city. (Freight increases price of fuel
in country, but annual consumption is
so low that amazing economy is pos-
sible anywhere in Australia.) The
AGA Cooker is made in Great Britain.
Over 40,000 are in use in the British
Empire.
AGA Cookers are guaranteed against
faulty material and workmanship for
a period of ten (10) years.
It would be a pleasure to show you
an AGA Cooker, or, if you cannot call,
to send you illustrated AGA Catalogue
R 6 on request.
f
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Inc. in N./j.) Established 1852.
45 King Street, Sydney.
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
And at Wellington, N.Z.
South Australian Agents :
Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Western Australian Agents :
Mai loch Bros., Ltd., Perth.
Queensland Agents :
Queensland Primary Producers Co-opera-
tive Assoc., Ltd., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents :
A. G. Webster & Sons, Hobart,
BRANDAEJERA
m
m
cr
6C.V
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BEAMDAOK* * 00. Ud. BXKMEHQHAM. ENO
?SSS CE WAIST
The GOVERNA BELT will reduce
your waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will be
Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of bulge
and strain gone . . . OR NO
COST! Write for full illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL i
OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
I
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Another Army Asked For
Announcing that 318,000 additional men
and women will be needed for the armed
forces and for munitions and other essen-
tial works by December, Prime Minister
Curtin said that “provision for the utmost
efficiency in the use of labor resources,
and particularly of skilled workers, by
the armed forces, war-production de-
partments and industry generally” would
be “rigidly applied.” The idea of the
present party Government at Canberra
“rigidly applying” anything that has to
do with efficiency, cost-reduction, in-
creased output per head or a worldly
appreciation of the task in hand is too
much for the imagination of most people
who have suffered the misfortune of
having a shot of red-tape fired across
their bows. “Rigid application” of effi-
ciency methods is to come from the Gov-
ernment which proposes to destroy the
profit (and production) motive in private
industry by limiting earnings rigidly to
4 p.c. on capital employed—this rather
than spread taxation fairly and rationally
over all classes so that reduced (but not
fixed) incomes would be an incentive to
greater output, which is the wanted thing.
Reports are coming to hand that over-
time working in some war factories under
direct or indirect Government control is
an excuse for spinning out work and
increasing pay. New and enthusiastic
workers entering these places find them-
selves slowed down to the tempo of the
others. One newcomer in a munitions
factory says his biggest problem is to
spread four hours’ work over a 12-hour
day. Red-tape encourages this sort of
thing, and Ministerial lack of capacity to
deal with such problems perpetuates it.
In Australia’s war effort there are such
efficient institutions as 8.H.P., C.S.R. and
many others, and there are such men as
Essington Lewis, Harry Brown and L. J.
Hartnett. And there are industries and
workmen toiling at the highest pressure and
paying huge taxes. But it was the present
Government which, by National Secu-
rity Regulation, introduced the 44-hour
week to the shipping industry at a time
when transport facilities are taxed to their
utmost. It has persisted in paying penalty
rates for overtime when the necessity for
working overtime has arisen from the
fact that thousands of men are risking
their lives in the fighting services, where
they are urgently needed. A Minister
of the Government —and man-power is
his portfolio—is all for equal pay for
women and men, and he is a champion of
compulsory unionism even though not in
ignorance of the fact that where labor is
highly unionised in the Commonwealth
it is most productive of strikes and stop-
pages.
To many people the fact that thousands
of workmen are taken from other jobs to
disappear into the smoke of “Govern-
ment employment” is disquieting. They
know the capacity of the Government as
an employer, and they know the Gov-
ernment’s predilection for converting as
many voters as possible into trade union-
ists, civil servants or pensioners. They
also remember Wirraways and other
things, not always the product of
the present Government but, neverthe-
less, produced to Government specifica-
tions. And they know how regardless
of national economics large and im-
portant Government departments have
been—Taxation Departments.
Female labor is valuable when there
is a shortage of male labor, but it needs
to be used intelligently, not politically.
In some of the heavier engineering works
men find that time is wasted trying to co-
operate with raw female assistants. When
men are still almost exclusively used as
tram and bus conductors it seems odd
that women should be put into railway
workshops and the like.
Except for fundamental shortcomings
of the entire Government war effort,
some of the decisions announced by the
Prime Minister will be welcomed by all
those laboring earnestly to do a good
war job. Repairs are to be given prece-
dence over new work—a decision already
overdue;—
The repair and maintenance of existing
ships required for immediate servicing will
take precedence over all constructional
work now in progress, and the construc-
tion of new ships will not be commenced,
even if already approved, without being re-
examined by the departmental committee
from the man-power viewpoint.
The maintenance of combat aircraft will
take precedence over new production, irre-
spective of whether the production projects
are long-range or short-range. The Gov-
ernment has already given effect to this
policy.
All export production will be reviewed,
as there is no justification for retaining man-
power in the production of products that
are not required for war or other essential
purposes, either by Australia or her Allies.
The essence of all the foregoing is that
the war is primarily a present one.
Though the future is unquestionably im-
portant, the present is more so. Damaged
equipment can be more speedily rehabili-
tated than new stuff provided, and
Rommel in North Africa showed the
Allies a thing or two in recovering
knocked-out tanks. “For the present at
the expense of the future” is the basic
idea behind the cutting-out of unneces-
sary exports. Unless such exports are
urgently required by the Allies it isn't
much use in the present conflict to build
up overseas credits that will be of value
only when the war is over.
But the sudden concern of the Gov-
ernment for seizing the present hour as
a matter of crucial necessity will be
taken seriously only if its other behavior
is on all fours. Though it must be given
credit for its stand on the matter of one
taxing authority, increase of the base of
old-age and other pensions is entirely
out of keeping with what is now asked
for, and the diffidence about taxing the
great consuming masses is unrealistic
even if politically convenient. Another
thing that springs to mind is the fact that
in cases where a huge, new organisation
is not operating smoothly the temptation
to reach out after thousands of new men
may be entirely one of expedience and
inability to cope with the real problem.
A redundance of man-power, especially
where the underlying basis of production
has not been soundly established, is liable
to create more difficulties instead of re-
ducing them.
The Australian note issue still records
expansion. On May 25 it had mounted
to £98.4 million, compared with £92.4
million on March 30 and £65.8 million
in May, 1941. It has risen from £62.4
million at the end of January, 1941. Most
of the increase in the issue has gone out
into the hands of the public. The latest
figure relating to the split-up of the issue
is not available, but on May 4 the
public held £81.2 million and the banks
£15.7 million. On January 27, 1941, the
respective figures were £49.6 million and
£12.8 million. Before the war the public
held £33 million of notes, on the aver-
age, and the banks’ holding was around
present levels. There is a great deal of
note-hoarding going on now, as well
as expansion in the people’s pocket-
money—a feature of all big wars. Ex-
pansion in the note issue has resulted in
a big growth in the Commonwealth
Bank’s profits. It has the privilege of
creating all new paper currency, and
notes are first of all put into circulation
by loans to other banks or the people.
The central bank receives interest on
these loans, but has to pay none, hence
the tidy profit which accrues. Profit on
the war-time note issue is approaching
£1,500,000 a year.
* * t- *
J. M. Keynes, the most-publicised
economist in the world, director of the
Bank of England and sponsor of the plan
of post-war credits now being availed of
for war-finance purposes in Britain, says
that “this time it will take us three years
to recover from the effects of the war,
and during this period we must submit
willingly to discipline—progressively less
severe than in war-time, but perhaps
more difficult to bear in peace-time.”
He added that after three years we might
expect a higher degree of prosperity and
health than ever before, but only if we
used our brains as never before. It all
makes good sense, especially the part
about the complexities of a return to
peace-time life. In the Commonwealth the
great difficulty will be to persuade those
wage-earners who are now contributing
comparatively little to the war effort that
the war was not financed by some sleight-
of-hand trick and that the peace can be
handled in the same way. It is those very
people who will have the hardest going
in the post-war period and who will kick
up the biggest clamor. “Escape” litera-
ture and all that kind of stuff will be
available as dope in various forms. The
spoiled children of the war will find paid
champions ready to take their part and
delay the return to commonsense and
reality.
* * !'!
The surplus spending power which
wage-earners are now receiving as a re-
sult of increased earnings and restricted
means of buying may be of national
value if saved until after the war. Ration-
ing of many things may force the people
to save, and the delayed force of these
savings may help to avert a depression
when the stimulus of war finishes. On
the other hand there are drawbacks. To
begin with, the light taxation of the great
consuming masses amounts to inflation,
seeing that only with the help of these
people can war waste be paid for out of
income. That this inflation is not more
apparent now is largely because of the
restrictions placed on spending and in-
vestment. The payment for war largely
out of loans and bank credit rather than
out of taxation is eventually going to be
fully reflected in living and production
costs, and even if the reflection is de-
ferred until after the war it will be in-
convenient when it arrives. It will put
us at a trading disadvantage with other
countries (such as Canada) where the
“pay-as-you-go” policy has been more
generally used.
❖ ❖
Equal pay for men and women is be-
ing championed by limelighter Ward.
In most men’s jobs women are inferior
workers, and the idea of equal pay is
without merit in war-time, when there
is work for everyone and the problem is
to keep costs down. When there are un-
employed equal pay might get men jobs
in preference to women, and that is the
usual basis of the demand.
$ * * *
It was announced in Canberra last
week that the basic pay of adult women
workers, originally 60 p.c. of the male
rate, has risen to 62.5 p.c. as a result
of cost-of-living adjustments. Women
doing work formerly done by men were
paid full male rates.
* * * *
“Rationalisation” continues hand in
hand with rationing in Australia. In
some form or other these things have
had to come, but Australia is feeling the
pinch particularly. It is directly menaced
by the Japanese, and the drain on its
man-power and resources is especially
great. Cigarettes and other such things
made from an imported base are growing
still more scarce, and many kinds of
sweets are hard to get. With razor blades
almost unobtainable, this is hitting par-
ticularly hard the kiosk seller of smokes
and lollies. Confectionery and chemist-
shop sundries are to be rationalised very
drastically later on, we are told. A dif-
ficulty of the present time in Sydney is
that of getting shoes repaired. Apparently
a combination of circumstances is oper-
ating here—call-up of bootmakers and a
determination on the part of citizens to
get more wear out of their footwear now
that leather is scarce. Shoe polish is
almost unobtainable in many parts. It
all helps to create a “pleasure-to-get-in
the-army” complex.
* * j|!
From Butterworth (Sydney) comes War
Damage Legislation, by M. C. Tennison
Woods, barrister-at-law, a volume of 112
pages, of which 12 represent an index—
always one of the handiest features (to
the layman) of such a work. The regu-
lations are given in full, plus a commen-
tary and such rulings as were given up
to date of publication. In an appendix
are summaries of the War Injuries Com-
pensation Regulations and Civil Defence
Volunteers’ Compensation Regs. The lot
for 12s. 6d.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARGARET HANNAH STRACHAN
late of Annandale. —TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM WALTER STRACHAN has hied
a Petition for Divorce No. 845 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
on or before the 19th of August 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MADDOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE
Solicitors 38 Martin Place Sydney. — (1.5.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID HENRY THOMPSON late of
Ryde New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
CHRISTINA BEATRICE THOMPSON has
liled a Petition for Divorce No. 899 of 1942
on the ground of desertion without just cause
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance on or
before the 21st August 1942 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from HAROLD
MUNRO Solicitor 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce,
BRONCHIAL
COUCH ■!
Just a Few Sips and—
Like a Flash Relief!
Get to-day at any chemist or store
a bottle of BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL
Mixture (triple acting)—take a couple
of sips and sleep sound all night long
—your irritating cough or bronchitis
is under control. Buckley’s is by far
the largest-selling cough medicine in
all blizzardly cold Canada—one little
sip and your cough is quieted. Use 2
or 3 days and you’ll hear no more from
that tough old hang-on cough that
nothing seemed to help.
Studdetfi
CANADIOL
MIXTURE
A SINGLE SIP PROVES IT
QUICK RELIEF
THIS NATURAL WAY
Here’s how you can get prompt, pleasant
relief from constipation. To-night, before
going to bed, take one or two NYAL
FIGSEN tablets, Figsen is easy and
pleasant to take; no stomach upsets, no
griping pain. In the morning Figsen acts
mildly, thoroughly and effectively.
Figsen is so gentle and natural that, only
for the pleasant relief it brings, you would
scarcely know you had taken a laxative.
Figsen is sold by chemists everywhere—
l/3i a tin. The next best thing to. Nature,
NyaEFigsen
THE GENTLE LRXRTIVE
s
u
m
m
■ J '■
■
■ mm
\
\s
• ••■■..
' O
The coins you hove in hand are the seeds of Victory.
Sow them wisely... sow them all in the Second
Liberty Loan, and weTI reap a bumper crop of vital
war equipment.
The Second Liberty Loan closes not later than 23rd
June, 1942. Applications may be lodged with any
Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
Subscriptions may be paid in full or by instalments.
ND
LIBERTY
L 8
Coupons and Banks
It has been announced that books of
ration tickets will be issued on June 13
and 14, and that they will contain 268
coupons. These will include tea coupons
and coupons for other items that may
possibly be rationed. The banks will
collect clothing coupons from the re-
tailers after they have been tendered by
customers. But beyond this very little
is known of the scheme. In Britain,
after some months of perseverance with
facilities offered by the post office, it was
decided to hand over most of the
clothing-rationing work to the banks
from the middle of June. The scheme
was announced as follows:
The traders wilt open “coupon” accounts
at their banks, the retailers will bank their
coupon takings, and from then on the
transfer of coupons from retailer to whole-
saler, wholesaler to manufacturer, and so
on will be done by using coupon transfer
vouchers. These, which can be for any
number of coupons, will be made out by
the traders and deducted from their
coupon balance at the bank. The banks
will send the original loose coupons back
to the Board of Trade for pulping, and
wholesalers and others will be saved the
work of counting them. Overdrafts on the
coupon accounts will not be allowed.
In obtaining a voucher for replenishment
of stocks, etc., the retailer has to get the
bank’s certification that he has the requi-
site coupons to his credit, as no overdraft
of coupons will be allowed. The banks
will accept the coupons only in official
envelopes, accompanied by a credit slip.
The bank doesn’t count the coupons ;
the envelopes are accepted as being cor-
rect until checked by the Board of Trade.
An allowance of 2 p.c. in coupons is
granted to compensate for losses. By
means of coupon vouchers a great variety
of transfers may be made —from branches
to head office, and so on —and repeated
counting of single coupons is overcome.
Mr. Dedman, the man who “ration-
alised” the banks, has conferred another
blessing on them. They are to “give all
help to the Government in bulk handling
of ration coupons when rationing begins
on June 15.” H. C. Coombs, Director
of Rationing, says that, though “the banks
are beset by man-power difficulties, they
have promised to assist the Commission
free.” Traders would take the coupons
in bulk to the banks, where they would
he exchanged for vouchers issued by the
Commission. At the annual meeting of
the National Bank knight James Elder
said, with reference to the compulsory
co-operation with the Commonwealth
Bank brought about by N.S. Regulations:
Although regrets may be felt at the
Government’s decision to legally define the
national obligations of the trading banks,
in total war complete unity of action is
just as important on the home front as
in the fighting forces. This cardinal prin-
ciple requires a centralisation of authority
and the surrender of individual rights to
a degree that would not be tolerated by
a democratic community in happier times.
It was in this spirit that the trading banks,
much as they would have preferred
endorsement of their voluntary otter,
accepted without complaint the legislative
controls imposed for the duration of the
war, thus emphasising their determination
to co-operate to the full with the Govern-
ment and the central bank in promoting
the national interests.
The last year has provided further evi-
dence of the banking system’s ready
acceptance of war-time responsibilities,
and has proved once again its ability to
develop and apply the varied techniques
of monetary control demanded by chang-
ing circumstances. This, no less than its
stability and efficiency, earns that high
degree of national confidence which the
system enjoys.
The banks, like many another tried and
trusted privately-developed institution,
have given sound and flexible war-time
assistance to the nation in that complex
system of social and economic organisa-
tion known as finance. Like our
Wavells and our Cunninghams, Aus-
tralian bankers are experts in the jobs to
which they are devoted.
* * * *
Although the price of wool was main-
tained during the term, and is now to
be raised 15 p.c., Goldsbrough, Mort
has paid a lower div. —5 p.c., compared
with 7 p.c. —for its last financial year. In
addition to its broking business, the co.
has station properties in N. S. Wales and
Queensland.
* * * *
The office of W. R. Carpenter and Co.,
Island traders with headquarters in Syd-
ney, has lately been considering the ques-
tion of a div., the interim usually declared
in March not having come to light owing
to the Japanese occupation of Rabaul
and the New Guinea goldfields ports.
The sharemarket is also pondering over
the matter, some of the more optimistic
supporters taking hope from the fact
that Burns Philp paid its usual 10 p.c.
div. without much more than a blink,
reserves being visibly drawn on only
lightly. But the Carpenter co. is in less
fortunate shape. It had the major por-
tion of its activities concentrated in the
New Guinea area, though a few years
ago it dug in in the Fiji portion of the
Pacific by buying control of Brown and
Joske, and it has shipping, air-transport,
manufacturing and insurance interests as
well. It has suffered severely by the shat-
tering of trading connections with New
Guinea, and no doubt the div. policy for
the time being will be based to a large
extent on what other income is likely to
be, and on what provision is thought to
be necessary for war losses over and
above Government cover. The shares
are being nibbled at around par.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
For the first admitted attack on
southern Australia, the enemy apparently
selected Sydney on a Sunday night, after
a day of the best visibility which the coast
had seen for months. Thousands of people
had gone to the Heads and the harbor
mouth that day—May 31.
At night there was a burst of gunfire
and explosions. In later hours, more
followed.
At 2 p.m. on June 1, Allied H.Q. issued
the following communique:—
In an attempted submarine raid on
Sydney three enemy midget submarines
are believed to have been destroyed, one
by gunfire and two by depth charges.
The enemy attack was completely unsuc-
cessful and damage was confined to one
small harbor vessel of no military value.
Japanese midget submarines are short-
range craft—4lft. long, beam sft., carry-
ing only two men and with a range which
is said to be limited to 200 miles or less.
They carry two torpedoes and 3001 b. of
h.e., and are electrically propelled.
They are supposed to be specially suit-
able for penetrating harbor defences, and
they must operate from a mother ship or
near-by base.
At Pearl Harbor three of them were
used, and all came to grief without doing
damage.
On the night before the Pearl Harbor
attack, a net was down, but it was opened
at 4.58 a.m., a couple of hours before
the raid, to allow two minesweepers to
enter, so that it was possible that the
craft had come in with them and had
been unnoticed.
The raid, 1800 miles from the nearest
enemy base, was a rude shock and a
warning against complacency. In so con-
fined a space as Sydney even a rowing-
boat armed with a torpedo might cause
heavy loss of life and property.
“Ek Dum”: Relatively little is hap-
pening in the South Pacific war area in
the way of actual fighting, but it need
not be thought that this means a slacken-
ing of enemy effort or even of encroach-
ment.
Attacks on the Solomons by Allied
bombers, for instance, brought out the
scarcely realised fact that Tulagi is now
a Japanese base. A little over 1200 miles
from Central Queensland ports, it has
been in enemy hands a month.
The Japanese have a new policy in
defence against Allied raids. Raids are
met by clouds of “O” fighters of a new
type, which strive not merely to drive off
attackers, but to follow them 50 to 100
miles back toward their bases.
The Japanese also have altered their
raiding policy, and New Guinea bases
now know night attacks. On May 25
and 26, Kawanisi flying-boats passed
over Moresby in the moonlight, but were
picked up by a.-a. fire and made off with-
out causing any damage.
During the daytime a patrol met 16
“O” fighters and shot down three.
On May 27 15 “O” fighters made the
50th daylight raid on Moresby. They
had a warm reception when they
attempted to bomb the aerodrome —six
shot down and six damaged. This was
followed by the third successive night
attack, but without result.
Lae was attacked on Thursday. All
varieties of bombs were used from
demolition to small incendiary, but the
feature was the fierce attack by Japanese
fighters. Well-armed bombers seem to be
a match for them, though it is reported
that their speed is well over 300 m.p.h.
and that they can make much faster and
more sustained power-dives than the
older type.
One of them fell into the sea, an-
other made a forced landing and two
others appeared to be winged. One of
the Allied bombers was last seen crash-
ing into the sea and afire. A satisfying
glow was observed from the scattered
facilities round Lae, and Lae itself is
now reported to be an abomination of
desolation in which not one original
building has been left standing.
An attack on Rabaul was made in
brilliant moonlight on Wednesday night.
Three large fires were started round the
aerodrome, and three aircraft were shot
down. All the Allied bombers got home.
“O” fighters were back at Moresby on
Thursday—2o this time. Two enemy
and two Allied aircraft were shot down
before the scrap was over, and several
of the enemy left for the ranges limping.
Week-end raids included an installation-
smashing attack on Dilli, from which all
machines returned —“a moonlit excur-
sion,” one pilot said —the bombing of
the wharf area of Rabaul at night—two
large fires were started —and a battle with
18 “O” fighters on Friday night off Hood
Bay (N.G.). Here five Japanese ’planes
were destroyed and three damaged. One
Allied ’plane was lost.
Tulagi was attacked on Friday night
by a force which started fires which could
be seen for 80 miles. And the aircraft
guns of Gavutu and Tanamboga were
silenced under a full moon.
General Blarney, after inspection of
the disposition of Australian troops dur-
ing the week, said that the internal troop
arrangements, the rate at which equip-
ment was arriving and the great rein-
forcements which had come from
America filled him with the greatest con-
fidence.
There is no doubt that grim prepara-
tions are in train for future operations
against this country. Those who heard
Tojo’s speech broadcast from Tokyo and
Shanghai last week could have no ques-
tion in their minds on that point.
And alarms are becoming more fre-
quent in the south. Sydney had several
alerts during the week, but they came
to nothing.
Rommel Begins to Roll.
“Ek Dum”: The second Libyan cam-
paign began on Nov. 20, when the Maori-
landers cut the wire along Mussolini’s
rabbit fence. It rocked into Bir El Gubbi,
into Sidi Resegh and out again, and into
the gap torn in the Axis pudding-cloth
by the Tobruk garrison. By January 13
Solium had fallen; three days later the
miserable defenders of Halfaya, spat
upon for 70-odd hours by the Imperial
Air Forces, walked out with their thumbs
(and four fingers) well up and their tails
down, while Indians, Royal Dragoons
and Maorilanders (till they were pulled
out after El Gazala) chased a wary
armored foe across the Jebel Akdar, off
the Mammarican Plateau and —for the
second time —out of Derna, Barce and
Benghazi and down to the corner of the
Sirte Gulf. There the enemy took what
seemed a headlong dive into the El
Agheila wadi.
In this safe retreat he paused for a few
days, too closely entrenched to be
attacked. Then he emerged from his lair.
His armored forces tore their way through
the highlands of Cyrenaica, while British
and South Africans and Indians, weary
with being on the offensive without due
time for consolidation and rest and re-
inforcement of men and materials, fell
back, leaving the locking-stud between
desert and coastland, Mekili, with Ben-
ghazi and all the ports and aerodromes
around the coast to Derna wadi, in
enemy hands.
By February 14 the best that could be
reported from Cairo —apart from heavy
and continuous aerial attacks —was that
British cavalry were still able to patrol
south of Tmimi and “towards Mekili.”
Thenceforward, reports dealt only with
small-column operations. The campaign
had ended much earlier than in the pre-
vious year, when it had flared up as the
A.I.F. and N.Z.E.F. main strength de-
parted for Greece and left a handful to
watch over the spoils. Instead of early
April—Tobruk had been virtually im-
prisoned by April 9 previously—it was
only mid-February.
The experts turned their eyes to
Russia. Rommel had become a field-
marshal, It was pointed out in these
pages that this was an ominous sign. No
German field-marshal had so far held
command of anything less than an army
group, like the three main ones of Von
Leeb, Von Bock, and Von Rundstedt on
the Russian front. Rommel was pro-
moted partly perhaps out of thanks for
not having been licked right back to
Tripoli, and partly because Berlin now
realised that it must use much bigger and
heavier forces and raise the commander’s
rank accordingly to give him authority
over senior commanders.
Few critics had any glowing words for
the gallant little army of Ritchie, which
had forced back formations twice its
size and better equipped and compelled
the German High Command to regard
Libya as a major theatre. If Rommel
had driven back Ritchie’s men and
made his way to Suez, the out-
come would have been dire. The
whole Middle and Near East would
have been stripped of British protection.
British warships would have been driven
out of the Mediterranean. The Japanese
Fleet, or as large a portion of it as neces-
sary, might be in the Mediterranean or
the Atlantic. The Axis would command
the Dardanelles. It would control the
labor and resources of North Africa.
Syria would have become untenable. By
this time a way would have been paved
for attack on Russia in the rear. Turkey
would have become a ham sandwich.
The important key positions in Libya
—Halfaya-Sollum and the desert line
south of it, Tobruk and the adjacent and
inland controls to the eastern escarp-
ments and to the Trig Capuzzo (road) and
its offshoots —all saw Rommel tumbled
out and kept out. Kept out during valu-
able months which would have decided
the campaign for him and seen him in
Cairo if he had been able to take Malta
and send over the reinforcements and
supplies of which the R.N. and the
Imperial Air Force regularly pounded
large fractions.
History may reasonably rate the last
Libyan campaign far higher than un-
grateful propagandists do today.
At last Rommel has begun to fight
again. Why, at such a time, is important.
Even far away round the Mediter-
ranean Aleppo goes to sleep at noon. Bag-
dad retires behind its walls to escape from
a temperature in the hundreds at midday.
In Libya, five degrees further south, it
is hotter, with more sand, more wind,
less shade east of the Derna wadi than
in Syria. There are also more and dif-
ferent kinds of pests in a landscape
ploughed up by two years of armament
scuffle.
Possibly Mussolini —the Fascist party
was purged the other day —badly needs
a victory to keep his cocks’ feathers from
waving homeward from the Ukraine
front and trying to give an all-British tea-
party in Tripoli or Rhodes. The failure
of the German Imperial force to con-
quer Malta must have shaken Italian
faith in the future.
Perhaps the visit of shrewd old Smuts
had given Rommel an inkling that the
mad British might be about to spring a
third surprise on their adversaries.
Perhaps the withdrawal of the weight of
Hitler’s effort against Malta and its con-
centration against other objectives have in
Rommel’s opinion left the Eighth British
Army not only well ahead from day to
day in the race for men and equipment,
but also gaining advantage with every
hour. Rommel may have felt it called
for a sound gamble now, in preference
to putting something on an outside chance
in a few months’ time. Or German
military morale may be at the bottom of
it all. The enemy did not find tank war-
fare in the desert through the last long
summer either salubrious or good for the
German temperament. There may be
an attempt to get the agony over quickly,
before the sun and sand eat into the souls
of the new Afrikakorps.
By May 25 there were grimly playful
signs of new moves. The R.A.F. had
considerable fun among the duststorms
round Martuba, where the forward land-
ing ground of the enemy stands on the
western edge of the great Derna wadi, in
which the Mekili-Benghazi road runs from
Derna and the sea. Across the Bomba
depression from the east, the western ex ■
tremities of the three plateaux backing
on to Jebel el Akbar ranges rise. Round
or over them run the roads dividing east
from west along .the coastal strip.
Here the British advances poured west-
ward on Jan. 25-28 last year, bound
from Tobruk for Benghazi and beyond ;
over here remnants poured back in April
to share in the glory of Tobruk.
Some of the advance early this year
was made this way.
Across the curious triple ridges, like a
crocodile’s open mouth with a tongue
showing, west of Gazala, the front had
been stabilised in February ; there it was
still on May 25.
The advance had the now-familiar pre-
liminaries. Erom May 25 aerial activity
along both coastal and desert fronts in-
creased. Rommel, a man who moves
swiftly, does not use code in his orders.
In a battle his portable wireless set be-
comes part of him and he is in personal
command of all operations. There is
never any time to lose when he is about.
On May 26 reconnaissances discov-
ered several columns of the enemy, well
stiffened by tanks, moving eastward. By
nightfall some o.ps. had fallen into
enemy hands. The sun went down with-
out the foe having tried the edge of the
main British defence.
In the evening, in sweltering desert
ratholes, both sides were able to listen
to Rome’s dramatic tale of deadly work
in the skies above Cyrenaica and of the
resounding smacking which had been
administered to the Allied posterior, and
particularly Tobruk, by the gallant Regia
Aeronautica. Members of the R.A.F.
were able to hear the exciting story on
their way to Messina, where —again by
the sound of the obliging Rome Radio —
their arrival created almost as much panic
as a good earthquake.
Early on May 27 all doubts about the
marshal’s intentions were resolved. The
sun came up on Libya at its worst. The
details were somewhat obscured by the
usual flying screen of desert tastefully
diluted with the leavings of ’plane ex-
hausts, bomb bursts and propellants of
various orders.
When the muddle of the landscape had
been sorted out the identity of the visi-
tors was clear. The 25th and 15th Pan-
zer Divisions and the 50th German light
armored division were represented with
the Italian Arriete armored division,
which has only about six more of its
catlike lives left. Rolling behind these
came the Trenta, Bologna and Pavian
motorised infantry divisions.
In all, two heavy and two armored
divisions (one heavy, but Italian) and
45,000 motorised infantry. The van was
approaching a crossroad at Bir Hakaim
about 30 miles south of Gazala.
Here it is very rough country, already
bloody ground along the borders of the
Jebel el Akbar, but the advantages of
the approach are obvious. From
the region of the crossroads the attack-
ing force might divide, one party going
by the inland route, securing the desert
route south of the escarpment to cover
a direct advance to the border, as well
as to Tobruk via Bir el Gubbi and El
Adem ; another using the Trig Capuzzo
to El Adem and the centre of the Tobruk
perimeter; a third making north to
the coastal road, mopping up Gazala and
its valuable aerodrome and catching
Tobruk, thence on the west of its outer
perimeter.
The disadvantage of the move from the
attackers’ viewpoint is that the country is
very dry. In the Libyan summer tank
battling is more than a thirsty business.
But, save in the initial operational days,
the disabilities count both ways. Any-
how, it all depended on how far the
weight of armor would allow the enemy
to smash through.
First contacts of the two old
enemies were achieved by the Stukas,
whose operations on the British rear
Rome Radio had so well anticipated.
The attack, meant to disorganise com-
munications, was simultaneous with a
blast against frontal defences.
Then the Panzers threw themselves
against Bir Hakaim, while the tempera-
ture hopped over the hundred mark
under a bronze sky. They, like the
Stukas, met more than heat. Here, for
the first time, were arrayed against them
the tropical Spitfire cannon-armed sBs
and a neat variety of other deadly acro-
bats.
On the ground British tank crews
labored toast-hot with good effect. Rom-
hel’s first onslaught went reeling back.
On May 31 Cairo reported that the
battle had reached its climax and that
the situation was not unfavorable to
British arms.
It had then been swirling round the
Bir el Hakaim area and particularly
round a pivotal junction in that region
known as Knightsbridge, south of
Akroma and 30 miles s.-w. of Tobruk.
Most of the fighting is taking place
within British-held areas, but enemy
columns on May 30 and 31 were being
subjected to fierce counter-slashes from
British tanks. They were closely backed
up by the R.A.F. and the S’African A.F.,
which are doing magnificent work blast-
ing communication columns.
Losses on both sides must be heavy.
Information at the week-end was indefi-
nite and conflicting. But it seemed that
the crisis must come within 48 hours at
most unless strong reserves are available
to start a virtually new battle, which is
unlikely. On June 1 the tide showed
strong signs of flowing in the British
favor, though the battle was far from
over.


After Kharkov.
“Ek Dum”: Though invincible opti-
mists continued to do most of the report-
ing, the only encouraging feature of the
spring campaign thus far is the tenacity
shown by the Russians, and for that
people were fully prepared by their stub-
born efforts in the winter campaign.
On May 8 the Germans struck at the
Kerch Peninsula. In that operation they
claim to have taken 170,000 prisoners,
and assert that 60,000 Russian dead were
found lying in the defences, also that a
large number perished in the strait in
attempting to escape. The Russians say
they moved across the strait in good
order with troops and equipment.
The battle was probably not nearly the
disaster reported by the enemy, but be-
yond question it was a defeat. It would
be unthinkable that the Russians would
abandon control of the entrance to the
Azov Sea and of a back-door entrance
to the Caucasus actually within 300 miles
of a large section of the Russian oil
supply except under the direst kind of
compulsion.
The Kharkov battle began on May 12.
Timoshenko, it was said, had brought
up forces numbering millions to move
forward across the Donetz and take
Kharkov, The stroke was made on a
50-mile front, and with such swiftness
that the Germans had not had time to
destroy the bridges behind them as they
retired—a circumstance which should
have filled every military critic with sus-
picion.
Less than a week after the beginning
of the battle, it was taken for granted
by newspapers that the important
Byelgorod rail junction north of Khar-
kov was in Russian hands, and Timo-
shenko was supposed to have pushed
into the inner defence lines of Kharkov
within 10 miles of its centre. The
rail between Kharkov and the Crimea
had been cut or was about to be cut.
Krasnograd was about to be taken. The
original 50-mile front had deepened to
100 miles.
An Australian staff correspondent in
London cabled that Timoshenko had
caught Von Bock napping. The Moscow
correspondent of the “Times” considered
that “the whole of the Donetz Basin and
the eastern Ukraine” was “threatened by
Timoshenko’s advance” and that, though
the Germans had “switched ’planes from
other fronts,” Russian mastery of the air
was still decisive. Sober Russian admis-
sions of strong attacks north and south
in positions which suggested enveloping
tactics, or at best a severe danger to the
Soviet flanks, caused wishful thinkers no
worry.
On May 28 the atmosphere was no less
enthusiastically hopeful, although the
enemy had declared four days before
that he had surrounded three Russian
armies and was “annihilating” them;
that he had 165,000 prisoners and that
final victory had been achieved over the
Soviet armies in the direction of Loso-
vaya. The Russians admitted that pos-
sibly 30,000 of their men were encircled
in the southern sector.
A May 29 newspaper summary:
Timoshenko’s surprise thrust at Kharkov
has now developed into a series of major
battles along a 200-mile curve covering the
city. Von Bock’s reckless expenditure of
men and material has failed to take the
initiative from the Russians, and two new
Russian counter-blows are now in full
blast to relieve encircled pockets in the
bend of the Donetz. North of Kharkov
the Russians are reported to have advanced
20 miles, cutting the vital railway link with
Byelgorod. The second thrust is across
the Donetz in the Isyum-Barvenkova sector.
There was no room for satisfaction in
all this. It was evident that the Russians
were no longer in the suburbs of Khar-
kov. They had, in the southern sector,
either been driven back over all the
ground they were supposed to be cover-
ing in an overwhelming rush or sur-
rounded on that ground. And if they
were in retreat they were certainly not
retreating to a status quo ante position
in view of what their losses must be.
The arrival of Hitler on the front was
hailed as a bad sign for the enemy. It
was suggested that he had come to
retrieve a disastrous situation. He re-
mained only a day or so and returned to
Berlin at the week-end. Meanwhile, his
High Command issued its first “special”
full-dress communique since the battles
of October and early November.
This asserted that the armies of Von
Bock, assisted by the armored forces of
Von Kleist and Schwebler aud the Luft-
waffe under Von Lehr and Fluchtweil,
had during 18 days turned the Russian
offensive on the Kharkov front into “one
of the biggest German victories of the
war,” of “incalculable” value to German
arms. With the German forces were a
Rumanian army corps and units of the
Hungarian, Italian and Slovak forces.
The enemy High Command claimed
to have wiped out the 6th, 9th and 57th
Russian armies and the following for-
mations included in them:
Infantry divisions (18) —the 14th, 41st,
47th, 99th, 103rd, 115th, 116th, 248th,
253rd, 266th, 270th, 317th, 337th, 341st,
349th, 351st, 393rd and 411th, as well as
parts of the 23rd, 303rd and 345th.
Cavalry divisions (7) —26th, 28th, 38th,
49th, 62nd, 64th and 70th, and parts of
the 44th and 70th mechanised cavalry
divisions.
Tank brigades (11) —6th, 7th, 36th, 37th,
48th, 67th, 131st, 197th, 198th, 199th and
parts of 15th, 38th, 64th and 121st brigades.
It was added that 240,000 prisoners
had been taken, with 1249 tanks, 2026
pieces of artillery and 538 ’planes and a
large quantity of general booty.
According to the German version, the
early retreats from the Donetz were de-
signed to lead a few more of Timo-
shenko’s men into Axis clutches. Then
on May 17 —the Russians admitted the
counter-attacks —Von Bock struck on the
north of Kharkov and from the Isyum-
Barvenkova line, and the two doors of
his trap slid together behind the Rus-
sians. The usual wedges were then driven
into the Russian formations, and the Rus-
sian armies (Berlin declared) disintegrated
so that they could not act as a mass.
Heavy German artillery and the Luft-
waffe, using heavy bombers and bomber
fighters, did the rest,
Moscow’s account was that Timo-
shenko’s objective had not been to
take Kharkov —“the actual capture of
the city was not included in the
plan” but to forestall an offen-
sive against the Caucasus for which
the Germans were known to have mus-
tered 30 divisions in the Rostov region.
In this Timoshenko had been successful,
and with the battle approaching its end
the Germans had lost 90,000 killed, 540
tanks, 1511 guns anji 200 ’planes. The Red
Army losses were 5000 killed and 70,000
missing, together with 300 tanks, 832
guns and 124 ’planes.
The German command try to repre-
sent the Kharkov operations as a big suc-
cess for themselves, giving out fantastic
figures of prisoners captured and equipment
destroyed. The only reply that can be made
to this fabrication is that after a few more
such German “victories” the German Army
will be bled white.
Timoshenko’s actual Order of the
Day, issued on May 12, read:
I order our troops to launch a deter-
mined offensive against our worst enemy,
the German Fascist Army. I order them
to annihilate the enemy’s man-power,
destroy his war materials and hoist the
glorious banner of the victorious Soviets
over liberated towns and villages. On our
fighting, comrades, depends whether our
country will be free and independent or
whether we will be slaves. We have
entered a new period of the war for the
liberation of Soviet territory.
To this Moscow Radio’s official broad-
cast added: —
The Russian Army is preparing to ad-
vance against the second defence line and
Kharkov itself. Marshal Timoshenko’s
offensive is not merely a diversion with
the aim of distracting the Germans from
the Crimea.
Timoshenko and his men are game;
but the lesson of these dreadful battles
for Australians is that Australia cannot
be saved on the steppes of Russia.
Claims and counter-claims came from
other parts of the long line. On the
central front, according to the German
story, surrounded Russian units were
being “annihilated” and traffic over
Lake Ladoga was being increasingly
bombed by the Luftwaffe. In boast-
ful vein Berhn added: “The world
will hear much more of what is hap-
pening on these fronts shortly; the
events will be momentous.” The Rus-
sians officially reported on May 30, how-
ever, that they had wrested the initiative
from the enemy on the Kalinin front.
The Germans declared that they had
bombed Gorki (Nijni-Novgorod), which,
formerly the centre of the world’s fur
trade, is now a vast inland port whence
the Volga oil and grain traffic debouches
into the Oka, a great waterway of cen-
tral Russia, to be transported into the
Moscow region. It is also the great
centre of tank, machinery, aeroplane and
munitions manufacture.
As for attacks on convoys for Russia
via the Murmansk route, the enemy
alleged that 18 ships, totalling 130,000 tons,
had been destroyed and that the rem-
nants were being disposed of between
Iceland and North Cape. Admiralty
policy in these matters is to let enemy
reporters go their hardest until it is in
full possession of the facts. No Admi-
ralty account had come to hand when
this page went to the printer.
First Thousand-Machine Raid.
“Ek Dum”; If the Nazis harbored the
notion that their barbarous “reprisal”
raids on lovely cities like Bath and York
would save them from the R.A.F. they
have been violently undeceived. On
Saturday night Cologne and neighboring
places were attacked by more than 1000
bombers. It was the 107th attack on
Cologne. Forty-four British machines
were lost—the Germans claimed only 37,
which was unique for them.
The machines came in at the rate of
one per six seconds, and the whole opera-
tion was packed into 90 minutes. The
weight of bombs was 3000 tons—nearly
three tons per machine. Results of the
damage done will not be known for some
time, but it must have been enormous.
The organisation used explains why
Governments are chary of bombing on
a scale which calls for thousands of
machines and why that type of attrition
must be used sparingly. For such a
force there are needed 18,000 pilots and
machine crews, working from 120 aero-
dromes, with ground staffs of 400,000.
To keep it up for a few days irrespective
ot weather would call for twice the whole
plant and man-power; to maintain it
daily would mean the use of astronomi-
cal numbers of machines and men.
Apart from Cologne, the Only lirst-
class raid during the week was on the
outskirts of Paris, where the Gnome-
Rhone aircraft engine factory and other
f i ;+ i om/ j
objectives connected With the air and
road transport were dusted over. There
were the usual fighter sweeps, and eight
enemv shins were hit in convov off the
enemy snips were nit in convuy on me
Fnesians on May 29.
The Germans claimed to have bombed
Grimsby and Great Yarmouth. The
Air Ministry said that 50 enemy bombers
operated over Britain on May 29, but
fewer than half penetrated beyond the
coast and seven were shot down.
Postscript to Burma.
“Ek Bum”: In their reports on the
Burma campaign, the British and Ameri-
can leaders showed themselves and their
nations at their best, as their conduct of
their operations had done. Each had
come in unbeaten after a good job, done
with inadequate forces and equipment.
Lieut.-General Stilwell (59), long and
grizzled, had commanded the Chinese.
They numbered only a few thousand and
had no air force of their own, being
backed by very gallant American volun-
teers who had been working unceasingly
since January under some of the world’s
worst conditions.
How Lieut.-General Stilwell came to
be separated from them it was easy to
guess —such a man would only leave
when he had no army left. In any case,
he trailed off through the tangle of the
Upper Chindwin country on foot with
104 doctors, nurses, U.S. officers and
some others, after floating down the river
for a couple of days on rafts.
The country is some of the wildest
and wettest in the Indian zone. Every-
thing there is outsize in the river zones —
the trees make the Californian weep for
sequoia, the tangled vines would make a
wandering New Guinea boy think of his
home. The spiders are as big as saucers ;
the leeches fall in showers. In the space
not thus occupied Nature has inserted big
creeks, rough mountains, king cobras
which grow into double-figure lengths
and will chase human beings, wild
elephants, tigers, kraits and head-hunters.
The most civilised of the lot were the
head-hunters, who gave the wayfarers
beer. If it was like some of the beer
which is sold round those parts, the
giving was possibly associated with their
fascinating profession.
British airmen located the general’s party
en route and tried to feed them. They
did it in that part of the hill country
where the inhabitants leap out of the
jungle like grasshoppers every time a tin
of bully beef flashes through the air.
But nothing could discourage the general
and his suite.
After having been lost and found by
a British mounted search party, General
Stillwell arrived in India at the head of
his column. He remarked cheerfully:
The United Nations got a hell of a beat-
ing. We were run out of Burma —it is
humiliating as hell.
But he did not sound like a man who
had been thrown out of anywhere or
who was much humiliated:
We ought to find out what caused the
defeat and retake Burma. The Chinese,
properly led, are good soldiers. The
Japanese are not supermen, but when they
number 40,000 to 50,000 well-trained and
well-equipped troops they could not be de-
feated by a ragtag, bobtail army. _ It
would be nice to Irave some American
troops. The Japanese air superiority hurt
us most. They used to send 40 to 50
’planes over daily. We had not even an
a.-a. gun.
General Stilwell flew to New Delhi to
confer with General Wavell, C.-in-C. His
remarks, of course, did not in any way
refer to the conduct of the British troops
with whom he had been acting in co-
operation, but not integrally, except on
one or two occasions.
Lieut.-General Alexander, his task
performed, relinquished his command
and left his army to be rested, re-
equipped and reincorporated in the de-
fence forces of India. In a modest fare-
well to his men, he said their job had
been carried out with little or no air sup-
port. It had been to delay the Japanese
so that Indian defences could be rein-
forced and organised. This, he said, had
been most gallantly and successfully
accomplished.
For the early monsoon rains had begun
to fall, flooding the roads, turning jungle
into swamp, blocking traffic all along the
eastern side of the Brahmaputra and
western side of the Chindwin Valley.
This was what Alexander had fought for.
It could not have been hoped that his
force, faced with overwhelming strength,
with a tiny broken Chinese army to guard
its flank, could save the day.
General Wavell summed up that cam-
paign for all parties. Withdrawal, he
said, had not been defeat. It had been
made because it was impossible to com-
plete the supply route before the mon-
soon.
....The army was not beaten. It is,
on the contrary, in very good shape. In-
deed, four-fifths of the troops in Burma
came back. They put up an outstandingly
good fight, unrelieved and unassisted, and
saved India from what might have been
a very dangerous situation —an attack be-
fore India was prepared to meet it. The
Sittang River battle decided the fate of
Burma. The other engagements were only
rearguard actions. We shall fight the battle
of Burma again, but the other way.
This is the first time in this or any war
that a British and American general have
with full responsibility mutually operated
a campaign. No worse season, terrain
or circumstances could have been chosen
for the experiment—especially since it
had to be carried out under a command-
in-chief preoccupied with a tremendous
task which might breed overeagerness in
tired men. The accord and good humor
and the lack of acrimony or even of any
apparent justification for them are as
unique in the history of jointly conducted
wars as the nature of the little war itself.
It is a splendid omen for future co-
operation and a nice compliment to the
calibre of the sorely-tried officers and
men involved.
The Japanese for the next three months
may certainly count themselves the
owners of that part of Burma above
flood mark. They have, at the worst pos ■
sible time, the task of dealing with ruined
cities and disturbed and hungry popu-
lations, some rebellious against them as
well as others, and weaned from poli-
tical thoughts by the elements. As in
India, unless conditions fail to take the
course which the weather just now sug-
gests, the enemy’s role for the next three
months will be mainly that of Kipling’s
Paget, M.P., and every other stranger
in his first season or so in that region:
Dysentery touched him in June, after the chota
bursat —
Lowered his portly person—made him yearn
to depart.
He won’t get much comfort either
from the thought that the sheet of water
pouring steadily down along the Assam
skyline—in some cases they speak of the
“drought” when the registration is only
300 inches for the year — is only the chota
bursat, the “little rain” ; the big one is
to come.
The Japanese last week took Ken-hoa,
the capital of Chekiang Province, and
Lanchi, another city, as well as strategical
points on the Hankow-Canton railway.
The importance of the operations, how-
ever, is overrated ; the main gain is in
security for the enemy against the use
of Chekiang ’dromes by the Allies.
♦ * * •
Mexico is at war against the Axis.
This will materially increase oil supplies
and give the Allies fresh bases from
which to attack the submarine menace
in the West Indies.
* * * *
Batches of Australian airmen from
battle stations in Britain, Russia and the
Middle East have returned home. Among
them are Group-Captain Macauley, who
organised the breathlessly-daring attacks
on the Jap landings at Palembang in
Sumatra; Group-Captains A. L. Walters
and P. J. Heffernan (Far Eastern Com-
mand) ; Wing-Commander C. D. Candy,
from the U.K.; Wing-Commander T.
Turnow, lately O/C the senior Australian
Hudson patrol squadron in the Atlantic ;
Wing-Commanders W. N. Gibson,
R. Fleming, C. W. Pearce, D.F.C., W. H.
Garing, D.F.C., and several squadron-
leaders whose names are known from
one end of the Imperial Air Forces to
the other. They are nearly all men who
have fought right through.
* * * *
On May 28 it was reported that six
more ships had been sunk by submarines
otf the American Atlantic coast —four in
the Caribbean. The U.S. destroyer
Blakeley was twice attacked within
three days at sea in the West Indies,
but sank one adversary in the pack which
attacked her. A U.S. ’plane sank another
off the coast of Brazil. Uncle Sam has
now appointed a rear-admiral to com-
mand anti-sub. operations in the Mexican
Gulf.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Many music-lovers who had seen
young Philip Hargrave as a small boy in
a sailor suit and very large round collar
seated at a giant grand piano for his
recitals some years ago got a big thrill
out of the playing of Corporal Philip
Hargrave at his concert on Thursday
with Corporal Anthony Ferrara, of the
U.S. Army. Like Yehudi Menuhin, Philip
decided to grow up and do it thoroughly,
so he studied general subjects and was a
university student in Adelaide when he
entered the army. He is a broad-
shouldered young man now, with a pur-
poseful way with him, and the two stripes
look just right on his sleeve.
At the concert there was a big sprinkling
of service men and women who obviously
had come, not only for the music or to
help the Comforts and Red Cross funds,
but also to support brothers in arms.
The brothers in arms, however, were
equal to the occasion, musically speaking,
and then some. The Town Hall authori-
ties had done the stage with a new decor,
much nicer than the rows of weary aspis-
distras and ferns which used to outline
the stage. Now it’s a garden terrace, with
the sequin curtains at the back giving
the effect of a green glint of waterfall.
Once upon a time there was a very
useful member of society known as
“mother’s help.” She wasn’t a servant
in the accepted sense, and she did things
about the place that made mother’s life
better worth living. She reappeared a
time back in the guise of the Grey Sisters,
who are a religious organisation, and
who, as part of their religious profession,
will take upon themselves the work of
any home in which mother is temporarily
laid aside. But they do not sleep in, hav-
ing their own House. Then the Australian
Women’s National League took up the
idea, and its housekeepers, who will fill
a vacant home place in an emergency, do
a splendid job.
Now the Y.W.C.A. has got the
notion, and has an emergency house-
keeper, Miss Moore, who has wide
training, including St. John’s Certificate.
Her special sphere is the home in which
a sick mother is convalescing. So good
is the result of her work that the asso-
ciation hopes to enlist the services of
more women with kind hearts and good
housekeeping ideas for this work. It is
the ideal other side to almoner work,
for what’s the good of telling struggling
folk what should have been done for
them if no help is given to get it done?
Annalee Jacoby, otherwise Mrs. Mel-
ville Jacoby, the young American news-
paper correspondent who was so tragi-
cally widowed after a few months of
marriage when the ’plane crashed with
Brigadier George and her husband, Mel-
ville Jacoby, correspondent of “Time,”
has undertaken to finish the book Mel-
ville Jacoby was writing. She has worked
hard at it, and now feels that the task
is almost done. The book should sell
well, for the story of Bataan and the
tragic struggle in the Philippines has not
yet been fully told, Mrs. Jacoby stayed
on in a Melbourne hotel, and the self-
discipline which a journalist soon acquires
enabled her to put all other considera-
tions behind her while she carried the
narrative her husband had begun to its
conclusion. She will probably see the
book through the rest of its adventures
till its publication in America, but the
homecoming will be a sad one for her.
A reminder that, though only one Aus-
tralian baronetcy was actually created,
there have been sundry baronets in our
State’s history was given when Section
Officer Elizabeth O’Loghlen announced
her engagement to Trooper O’Leary,
author of Spikenard and Bayonet. Miss
O’Loghlen descends on the male side
from Baronet Bryan O’Loghlen, a former
Victorian Premier who held a very
ancient Irish title and could trace descent
from the real old Irish kings. He was a
doughty warrior and struck many a
shrewd blow at his political foes. Eliza-
beth, who is at Adelaide, got a few hours’
leave to come over and receive congratu-
lations of friends. Trooper Shawn Hamil-
ton O’Leary, to give him his full
euphonious name, has made a good be-
ginning with his first book, and should
be equal to singing the songs of Australia
for his own generation as his Celtic
ancestors did for Old Ireland. Talking
of baronetcies, as the Bective family will
probably prefer to live in England, the
third holder of the Clarke baronetcy,
elder son of the Countess of Bective by her
former marriage to Rupert Clarke, will not
be likely to see much of his native land.
The quiet, scholarly Susie J. Williams,
who passed on last week, was an example
of the fact that the wind bloweth where
it listeth as far as brains and literary
taste are concerned. Susie Williams was
the daughter of a country-town store-
keeper who undoubtedly had a shrewd
head. But no one could say why his
daughter should have loved Latin and
Greek and won the classical tripos at
Cambridge after a successful academic
career at Melbourne University. It
apparently just happens that Australia
should give so many classical scholars,
including Gilbert Murray, to the Empire.
Some of Miss Williams’s life was spent
in Sydney at the head of the University
Women’s College, and her last gracious
act was to take the principalship of the
new Women’s University College here as
an honorary job, just to give it a start
off. She began her classics at the Castle-
maine Grammar School, of which at the
time Major-General James McCay was
headmaster, jointly with his mother, Mrs.
Boyd McCay. General McCay was him-
self a fine classics scholar, as well as a
notable lawyer.
St. Catherine’s Old Girls are the latest
to shoulder the job of providing that
wholesome entertainment for the troops
that such a large majority of them really
want, and don’t get, when away from
their homes. Plan was to take over the
banquet hall of the Victoria Palace one
Sunday night in each month, but after the
success of the first evening last Sunday
it was decided to extend it to the after-
noon as well. This is particularly for
sailors who often have leave in the after-
noon but must get back early.
Treasurer Kathleen Lascelles, here pic-
tured by Dickinson-Monteath, is very
bucked with the way the Old Girls
rolled up to help (those missed
by circulars are invited to rally
round) and the obviously sincere grati-
tude of the troops. “No good saying
we like you people ; we just love you,”
said one. Enthusiasm was deserved, for
good measure was provided on Sunday
night. In addition to dancing, music was
provided by singers, instrumental soloists
and the University orchestra, and Dick
Bentley was on hand with vaudeville fun.
Add to this a really good supper, and
there is a recipe for a great success with
the troops. Mrs. Colin Mackay is presi-
dent and Margaret Dewez is secretary of
St. Catherine’s Old Girls.
It’s the thing nowadays to be a patron
of the Arts. Never an Art-show open-
ing or a pianoforte recital without a
gathering of the literary and other lions.
At Friedman’s Saturday night recital,
when the saturnine countenance of Ignaz
became almost benign over some lovely
Chopin preludes, all the fellow-musicians
were in the audience, and in the front
row Edward Goll, perhaps the greatest
pianist we have ever had here as a resi-
dent, was sitting almost next to Noel
Monks, who was taking a few hours’
rest from his war correspondent’s job.
Near by were several high-ups of the
Navy and, of course, a regular galaxy
of Americans. Goll at each concert of
the season has gone through the same
ritual of solemnly stalking round to the
backstage at the interval to tell his old
friend that he’s making a good fist of it.
At least that is what the casual onlooker
would expect he was about to say from
his beaming smile as he passed.
This week will see the second of the
pretty Gordon Chirnside daughters, June
to wit, marrying and saying good-bye to
Carranballac, the station home of the
family at Skipton. When elder sister
Judith married Reschid Bey, son of
Chewfik Bey and the late Madame
Chewfik Bey, who was born a Winter-
Irving, June was chief bridesmaid. Mrs.
Gordon Chirnside was one of the pret-
tiest girls of Melbourne when she mar-
ried Gordon, and has retained her good
looks as well as her charming manner,
which latter was used with good effect
when she startled Toorak by taking a job
as hostess at the new Hotel Australia.
Nowadays Mrs. Chirnside spends prac-
tically all her time at Skipton, and the
local Red Cross centre regards her as
one of its strongest supports. June’s
husband-to-be is Sergeant Rogers, son
of the Mount Widderin Rogerses and a
near neighbor of Carranballac. It will
be a town wedding—at Christ Church,
South Yarra.
From Sydney
There was a great flutter at half-past
three last Monday at 155 Elizabeth-strcet.
That is the address of the American
Centre, and the opening was a very
bright affair. Here U.S. services men will
find reminders of home—doughnuts, hot
dogs and one of those circular lunch
counters surrounded with high stools.
But the real touch of kin will be in the
sound of American voices, among the
helpers as well as among the guests. The
Centre is attractively and comfortably
furnished. Over 300 were at the opening.
The Stars and Stripes and the Ameri-
can Eagle on the windows facing Eliza-
beth-street will be a sure guide to the
soldier. The whole atmosphere is that of a
jolly club. There are pressing rooms as well
as showers, so that a lad can emerge his
sprucest to keep a date with the girl
friend. Reading, writing, rest, refresh-
ment and recreation are all provided for.
Speakers at the opening were Premier
McKell, America’s Consul-General Ely
Palmer, R. Hauslaib and Frank Martin.
Mrs. A. C. Aubry, Mrs. Wilson Flake
and Mrs. Applegate were notables at the
party. The Centre will be open daily
from ten in the morning till about ten-
thirty in the evening. The American
Society, the American Circle and the
Australian-American Movement will see
that in the rooms all things work together
for good. A canteen run by the U.S.A.
Army will stock such things as razor
blades and cigarettes.
Pretty Mary Hewit, who wedded Lieu-
tenant James Essington Lewis, A.1.F.,
at St. Peter’s College chapel, Adelaide,
gave up an office job in Newcastle to
take on nursing at R.P.A., Sydney. Be-
fore he joined the A.I.F. Mary’s brother
was with the 8.H.P., of which her hus-
band’s father is chief general manager
as well as carrying on the job of Director-
General of Munitions.
St. Andrew’s hut for men of the forces
is stretching bit by bit over the Cathedral
grounds. Last week still another exten-
sion was opened. Major-General Few-
trell made the speech when the new
lounge-room (which will serve as read-
ing-, writing- and rest-room) opened its
doors. More than 60 men at the same
time can enjoy these peaceful pursuits.
The room’s furnishings of deep easy-
chairs and sofas, upholstered in deep
brown and cream, are in themselves an
invitation for the leisure hour. The
lounge is still another bit of good work
put in by C.E.N.E.F. Here hot drinks
and suppers will be served to soldiers
after the principal dining-room is closed.
The memory of H.M.A.S. Sydney is
still green. Tonight a group of singing
girls from the studio of Thelma Houston
(Mrs. Roland Foster) will pour out the
liquid soprano, the bell-like contralto in
aid of the Sydney fund. Audrey Ainsley,
pictured here, will be the evening's
dramatic soprano. The popular little
History House in Young-street, near
the Quay, is the hall chosen. After the
programme, in which the violin of Daisy
Richards will discourse subtly and sweetly
and Charlotte Mills will be the accom-
panist, there are to be coffee and conver-
sation. The entertainment is timed to
start at 7.45 and to close at half-past nine.
The early hours are a concession to the
brownout. The Halse Rogers lady is to-
night’s guest of honor.
Tt wouldn’t be surprising if this war
goes down in history with the sub-title
of the “Massacre of the Moth” or the
“Slaughter of the Silverfish.” The hand
of every man, woman and child in the
Commonwealth is now against those
pests. Who can afford harborage for even
one small moth in a clothes ration that
maybe will allow one silk-and-wool vest
every eight months? There are going to
be some queer explanations for non-
appearance at work or battle station on
the day the one little vest has to go into
the tub.
It is said that a woman will be allowed
six aprons a year —keeping up the home
front, no doubt. Anyway, until June 15
the Government has handed an unfail-
ing topic of conversation to the women
of the Commonwealth. The opening
gambit of almost every dialogue between
two of the species is: “Here’s rationing
almost in, and I have simply no clothes.”
Rationing or no rationing, there’ll be
no cold legs among the children looked
after by the Junior Red Crossers. Moun-
tains of warm bloomers were displayed
at the yearly exhibition of the J.R.C.
Cosy pyjamas, beautifully, made, were
also present in staggering numbers. In
addition, there were knitted frocks and
jackets that a young princess might wear.
These, of course, had all been made by
members of the J.R.C. for the sick or
needy children of members or ex-mem-
bers of the fighting forces. No fewer
than 2000 garments are on view in David
Jones’s men’s store. The Junior Red
Crossers, their white veils crinkling with
excitement, rushed hither and thither,
freely admiring one another’s handi-
work. This band of untiring small
girls has sent 14,000 gifts, including 1500
knitted rugs, to children overseas. In
addition 10,000 gifts have been sent to
soldiers. Star turn of the exhibition is
a rug made from dishwashers knitted
together with bright wools and lined with
felt.
The hall of Christ Church St. Laurence
may show a dark and lowering front
to the passer-by on the night of Wednes-
day, June 17, but within it will coruscate
with lights and ring with laughter. Mrs.
Ben Edye, Lilian Frost, Bort Fahy and
other committee members of the enter-
tainment club are out to make this second
anniversary a braw, bricht nicht for
everybody. Every Wednesday night
boys of the fighting forces have a
friendly night of dancing and games,
topped off with supper. Everything is
provided, even to partners, for the dance.
Stanley Clarkson is going to sing at next
week’s birthday. Mrs. Ely Palmer and
Mr. Gruszka are among the invited.
In a month more than 2000 travellers,
a little bewildered by unexpected experi-
ences, a little lonely, a little afraid of
the first step into the city’s bustle, are
cared for by the Travellers’ Aid Society.
Lately many who seek the T.A.S. doors
on assembly platform, Central, are
soldiers or soldiers’ dependants. That
is why organiser Margaret Allen and the
committee feel the time has come for
Sydney to have a hostel. Much more
could then be done for the comfort of
the young or the inexperienced traveller.
Melbourne has one of these wayfarers’
inns. It seems to be equipped for every
occasion, even wedding receptions. It
can, too, at a pinch, supply the wedding veil.
If a sudden mishap prevents some-
one from going to the train to meet sister
and three children, just arrived from
foreign parts and total strangers to Syd-
ney, the thing to do is to ring the T.A.S.,
describe the party, and Margaret Allen
or her assistants will meet them, put them
in a taxi and have them delivered with
not a fragment chipped off. Children
can be relayed from one end of the coun-
try to the other by means of this essen-
tial social service. Women cling to it,
children love it and even sturdy men do
not despise its aid. Patroness Lady Wake-
hurst made a bright suggestion the other
day when she spoke of the T.A.S. activi-
ties being extended to providing women
escorts for girls who had to work late
these brownout nights. Friday’s sale of
buttons was to help the good work.
Mary K. Woods found three parties of
celebration tucked into last week, which
was her birthday week. At first Mary
K. was against any festivity, owing to
war and her C.U.S.A. work. But mother
decided to give a lunch for ten of Mary s
girl friends at Prince’s. Then she was
the guest of honor at two dinner-dances.
That would have been a fairly good bag
for any pre-war belle.
The group of untiring workers for the
Sydney Industrial Blind Institution plans
a big night at Prince’s, Headed by Mrs.
Roy Buckland and named the White Ball
Committee as a result of the success of
the White Ball of former years, the com-
pany invites well-wishers to dine and
dance at Prince’s at eight-thirty on June
9. The cards are £1 Is. each, and J. C.
Bendrodt is giving dinner, restaurant and
music.


SPORTING NOTIONS
Indignity and Cheery Jack enhanced
their Grand National chances by sound
performances at Moonee Valley on Sat-
urday. Indignity, runner-up to Methuen
in the G.N. Hurdle last year, carried
11.13 to success in heavy going for the
Federal Hurdle, and Cheery Jack’s third,
even though a poor third, to Gusher in the
Mt. Alexander Handicap furthered a
belief that he has at last recovered from
the effects of his doping on G.N. Steeple
day last year.
L. Meenan, whose remarkable record
of 21 j wins from 50 mounts has been a
feature of this season’s racing, was seen
at his best on Indignity. Latter attempted
to lead all the way, but looked beaten
when Browser, with 291 b. less in the
saddle, passed him on the turn. Meenan,
however, has the will to win, and never
gives up. He brought all his amazing
vigor to bear on Indignity, who raised
another effort and wore Browser down to
beat him a neck. Indignity was not
favorite, and the crowd was not “talking
through its pocket” when it gave Meenan
one of the finest and most spontaneous
ovations witnessed for some time. Later
in the day the stewards reported they had
suspended Meenan for one month as a
sequel to their adjourned inquiry into
the fall of Allanius at the Valley a week
earlier. The enforced spell is likely to
be costly to Meenan, who, however, will
be back for the National meeting.
Revelling in the heavy ground, Gusher
ran right away from the pacemaker,
Colonus, and Cheery Jack at the finish of
the Mt. Alexander Handicap. She started
only slightly less fancied than Saul, who,
however, did not appreciate the track
conditions under his steadier of 9.4, and
was never a possibility. Saul, a fancied
candidate for the G.N. Hurdle, may have
his first race over hurdles at Flemington
on June 20. According to his trainer
he is a natural jumper, and lack of race
experience would not prejudice his
National chance. A. G. Silk, owner of
Cheery Jack, expressed satisfaction with
his gelding’s performance, but at the
time of writing it had not been decided
whether he would run over hurdles or
on the flat at Flemington next Saturday.
Isambard, early G.N. Hurdle favorite,
made no showing in the Mt. Alexander
Handicap, but he needed the race.
Tente, a lightweight engaged in the
G.N. Steeple, won the Commonwealth
Steeple in rather attractive style from
Gold Glare and Ardent Youth. The
field was moderate, but Tente jumped
well, showed pace and stamina, and,
having raced only three times since
November, 1940, may continue to im-
prove. Winterset, favorite for the G.N.
Steeple, raced out of his class in the first
Empire Highweight, but he will be a
better proposition if started for the Hope-
toun Steeple at Flemington next Satur-
day.
Naval Revue, neglected at 20 to 1,
upset calculations by defeating Denis and
the consistent but unlucky Contact in
the Keilor Handicap. He finished too
well for Denis to give his apprentice
rider, D. McDonald, his first win. Naval
Revue is a three-year-old gelding by
Drake from Bright Comedy, and races in
the same interests as Sir Romeo. Recep-
tion, favorite, was beaten on the turn,
and Aurie’s Star just missed a place after
turning for home with a slight lead.
Jenny Law, a Law Maker filly who
cost 140gns. as a yearling, ran right away
from Modern and Good Intentions in
the Piccaninny Nursery. Drum Net, a
Midstream-Ranier colt, recorded a good
performance to defeat Nebulous and
Dashing Viscount in the Mia Mia Nur-
sery. Drum Net cost 600gns. as a year-
ling, but was resold several months ago
for 65gns. His trainer, S. Murphy, and
rider, V. Hartney, completed a double
with Reg in the first Empire Highweight.
» * V *
Ascot (Sydney) was packed last week,
and when that course and Rosehill clash
on Saturday next it will be a relief for
patrons of each to be able to get about
in comfort. Ascot is not big enough for
unopposed Saturday crowds.
McMenamin won the two principal
races of the afternoon in almost similar
fashion. He shot Jazbeau to the front
in the Flying Handicap immediately the
barrier rose, and had the race won from
the first furlong, the minor places going
to St. Elmo and Silverelda. Guild Hall
was almost on terms with Silverelda,
and he should have beaten her for third.
Kama was fifth, tiring after reaching the
straight, and she is evidently not as good
in a race as on the training track. Mus-
tapha, who headed the remainder, may
return to the winning list before long.
Soon after the start of the Rosebery
Handicap McMenamin had Chatham’s
Choice in the lead. At the straight
entrance His Lordship was alongside
Chatham’s Choice, but the latter shook
him off and was then equal to stalling off
Happy Lass, who put in a good run.
Fearless was disappointing. Always in
a handy position, his finishing effort was
weak. Rhythmic, who headed the re-
mainder, was some distance back, and
Kestrel made a poor showing.
Backed for the Encourage Stakes as
if he could not lose, Pall Mall led to the
turn. Then Druce settled him, but was
no match for Beau Timide (W. Cook)
when the latter put in his claim. Renew
ran well, and Windbrook showed signs
of a return to form. Dyne was not
sighted, failing to run nearly as well as
at her previous appearance. Beau
Timide is a three-year-old brother to
Beaucaire, being by Beau Pere from
Timid.
Half Way (McMenamin) was as good
a thing for the first division of the Trial
Stakes as his price suggested. Fort Leon
and Aurify each had a turn in front in
the first five furlongs, but from the time
Half Way led into the straight from Glen
dower and King of the Mist the result
was not in doubt. The last-named is a
Peter Pan three-year-old.
In the second division of the Trial
Stakes Before Dark (A. Knox) gave M.
McCarten his first win as a trainer. Can-
vasser and Peruke (after getting away
badly) were the early leaders, but Before
Dark was a winner half a furlong from
home. Kuttabul, in running second,
proved he was not a back number, and
Widden, who was nearest the place-
getters, will do better over a longer dis-
tance. Before Dark is by Blixten.
Two-year-old Easy Mark (Coutts) fin-
ished too strongly for her opponents in
the Fourteen-two Handicap. Vanity Fair,
who was a hot favorite, was in a good
position at the turn, but as she lost
ground in the run to the winning-post
she is evidently not so good as pre-
viously supposed. Shop Girl lasted
longer than Te Rama, beating her for
second money.
Skerries tried to win the first division
of the Welter Mile all the way, but
Brethren was with him at the turn. Both
tired, and halfway down the straight
Buzzal and Bona Fide were fighting it
out. The latter weakened, and Buzzal
went on to win from Many Ways and
Hieron. An extra furlong or two would
have helped Hieron, and his next win is
likely to be at a middle distance. Over-
joyed, though well backed, never threat-
ened danger. McMenamin rode Buzzal.
Beau Son (D. Munro) won the second
division of the Welter by a head from
Connette, who gave him a long start from
the top of the straight. Lord Seremond
was a moderate third. Aranui and
Sobersides were prominent at different
stages, while Christopher Milne, after
being one of the leading division for six
furlongs, tired badly in the straight.
Beau Son is trained by McCarten, who
generously admitted that Jamieson left
him several horses in first-class condition.
Still, if any of McCarten’s patrons are
men inclined to be at all exacting, two
wins in an afternoon should put him in
good standing with them for some time
to come.
* * * *
Hurdlers have not been altogether
neglected in Sydney this season, the prize-
money distribution of each club being as
follows: A.J.C., four races, £1350;
Warwick Farm, five, £1060; Moorefield,
three, one a jumpers’ flat, £550 ; Tatter-
sail’s, two, £5OO ; Rosehill, three, £457 ;
Canterbury Park, two, £350; Victoria
Park, three, £300; Rosebery, two
jumpers’ flat races, £240; Kensington,
two jumpers’ flat races, £225.
The season has not produced anything
out of the common, and Mag Mort
appears Sydney’s best. A few years ago
hurdle races were often credited with
being “one-goer” affairs, but that opinion
is rarely expressed nowadays. Of the 21
hurdle races six were won by absolute
favorites, and in two others the winner
and another runner shared favoritism.
Three of the five jumpers’ flat races were
won by favorites. Glaucus won two
hurdle races and a jumpers’ flat, and
Punarua and The Winger two hurdle
races each.
v * * *
Sydney nominations for the Doomben
Newmarket and Cup were not so numer-
ous as warranted by the liberal prize-
money, and it is possible the idea of
racing on the small Albion Park track
did not appeal to some owners. The fact
of Beaulivre being an entrant will be
appreciated by northern owners and
trainers. It gives the handicapper a top-
weight and will keep other horses lower
in the weights than would otherwise have
been the case.
* * * *
J. A. Mayo, owner and trainer of
many winners, died last week at the age
of 81. He was a good judge, and made
few mistakes when he fancied any of
his horses. Among his important win-
ners were The Fortune Hunter (Sydney
and Tatt.’s Cups), Sequence (Epsom),
Blue Book (dead-heat with Aborigine for
Caulfield Cup), Rosemead and Marlee
(each a Tatt.’s Cup). There was never a
more sensational win than that of
Sequence in the Epsom. Carrying top-
weight, 9.4, he was favorite at 5 to 1 in
a field of 28. Ridden by F. Kuhn, he ran
away from his opponents after reaching
the turn, his win being officially returned
as ten lengths, and it looked more. His
time was 1.38 f, the previous best for the
race being 1.39*.
* # * *
The sales in Sydney on June 12 will
give a fair idea of the extent of the de-
mand for bloodstock, whether yearlings
or brood mares. Some breeders make no
secret of the fact that they purpose re-
ducing their scale of operations, and with
everything so unsettled they cannot be
blamed for taking that step. As I re-
cently opined would be the case some
owners have already dropped out, and,
if others do not absolutely follow their
example, they will be very lightly repre-
sented next season. It is said there are
still owners who race for sport, That
may be, but most conduct their racing
on business lines and are prepared to cut
their losses when they see the possibility
of profit is negligible.
The owner of Kindergarten says he
could have sold that horse to an Ameri-
can last year for £15,000. He had other
offers for Kindergarten, but that was the
highest. If the war does not interfere
Kindergarten may race in Australia next
spring. There will not be so many w.f.a.
races as in past years, but they will be
more numerous than in Maoriland.
* * * •
In Adelaide last week the South Aus-
tralian Premier stated that there was no
probability of the ban on racing in that
State being removed. A member of the
deputation that waited on him suggested
that racing in the metropolitan area
should be permitted on Saturday after-
noons, and that betting premises within
a radius of 20 miles of the G.P.O. should
be closed. It was pointed out that illegal
betting on Victorian races was greatly in-
creasing. In one town where there were
munition works there were 23 book-
makers operating, instead of the two
original licensed men. It would seem that
in Adelaide, as well as Sydney, some
munition workers are making more
money than at any previous time in their
lives, and are playing it up.
* * * *
Amendments to the National Security
Regulations published last week disposed
of any possibility of the Melbourne Cup
being run on the first Tuesday in Novem-
ber or the Metropolitan on Eight-hour
Day. The latest provision definitely pro-
hibits organised sport on holidays within
fifty miles of any establishment doing
war work of any kind. This will permit
of holiday racing at some country towns,
but in the principal cities many holiday-
makers will have to be satisfied with
pubs and pictures. The V.R.C. did not
expect to race on the customary Tuesday,
and its justifiable kick was against Ascot
(Melbourne) being given a greater num-
ber of days.
If: * * *
Indignity is evidently quite as good as
when he ran second in last year’s V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdles, and with only-
an extra 41b. has at least as good a
chance this year. On figures there would
not appear to be much between him and
Browser, whom he beat a head at
Mooney Valley and will meet 21b. better,
but the going was heavy on Saturday,
and Indignity’s drop from 11.13 to
11.3 may mean much more in his
favor than Browser’s drop from 9.12 to
9.4. St. David, Bluebeard and Boisterous
were among those well beaten by
Indignity, and it is not certain that they
will make greater improvement than he
during the coming month.
Popular choice Isambard is definitely
a Flemington horse, but he will have to
show something in the next three weeks
to indicate that he will be in readiness
for his stiff task, while there is no doubt
on that score concerning Indignity. Saul’s
effort in the Mt. Alexander Handicap at
Moonee Valley suggested that he was
going off, but Cheery Jack’s third in that
race pointed to his having overcome his
past troubles, and he reads like playing a
prominent part in the decision of either
the Hurdles or Steeplechase. He has 51b.
more than when he won the Hurdles two
years ago. Nevertheless, for a good first
leg of the double it seems difficult to
improve upon Indignity.
Miscellaneous
All the scientific boxing in the world
is of no avail when a knockout punch
reaches the scientist’s chin. This was
proved when Bobby Clarke (list.) fought
Tommy Colteaux (11.51) for what was
billed as the Australian middleweight
championship at Leichhardt. Sydney’s
wildest swinger, Colteaux attacked almost
continuously, but the well-balanced
Clarke’s straight punches connected
before Tommy’s ill-directed blows got
anywhere. Perfectly timed rights knocked
Colteaux to his knees, and halfway
through the ropes, in the second round,
and Clarke had gained a good lead on
points when, in the ninth, long left
swings had him as weak as water. Even
then his straight punches retained the
lead for him. But in the 13th Colteaux
lifted a terrific right up from the floor.
It took Clarke fair on the chin and
floored him for the count.
» * * *
The business of handing out hidings
was continued in Melbourne football on
Saturday, even Melbourne itself, which
had taken three, turning dog and belting
Hawthorn by 16.15 to 8.17. Richmond
“Tigers,” roaring on their unbeaten way,
chewed St. Kilda up, 25.13-11.17 ; North
Melbourne’s shooting boots prevailed
over “Sowth’s,” 12.8-8.17; Carlton,
13.13, put Fitzroy through the hoops,
9.14; and Essendon walloped Colling-
wood, 20.16-13.9. Footscray had the bye
Undefeated Essendon and Richmond
have yet to meet.
* * * *
University, the only unbeaten Sydney
Rugby Union side, gave Gordon a lesson
in football and mathematics, 50-3 (11
tries to none). East and Manly was an
almost incessant struggle among the for-
wards ; a penalty goal a few minutes be-
fore time gave East the victory—three-mV.
That pushed Manly back to third place ;
East, West (17-3 v. St. George) and
Parramatta (23-3 v. North) dispute the
second. Randwick and Drummoyne
mixed so much footbrawl with their
game that four players were sent off;
’Wick won 13-3.
(Conducted by "PILOT")
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before Acceptances .)
By Our Melbourne Representative.
York Hurdle: Cheery Jack, 1 ;
Isambard, 2 ; International, 3.
Rothsay Handicap: Burberry, 1 ;
Balcrest, 2 ; Nalong, 3.
Hopetoun Steeplechase: Winter-
set, 1 ; Brightello, 2 ; Great Treat, 3.
Royal Handicap: Law Student,
1 ; Tuhitarata, 2 ; Aurie’s Star, 3.
Sandringham Handicap: Rua, 1 ;
Similar, 2 ; Centenary, 3.
Buckingham Handicap: Lugano,
1 ; Reg, 2 ; Trustee, 3.
FOR HAWKESBURY.
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Hurdle Race: Kinmar, 1; Blackie
Miller, 2 ; Mag Mort, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Boor Chief,
1 ; Temerity, 2 ; Battle King, 3.
Flying Handicap: Trimmer, 1 ;
Astrid, 2 ; Radical, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Qui Va La,
1 ; Mutineer, 2 ; Winnie or Tyran-
nus, 3.
Hawkesbury Handicap; Speeder,
1; Fearless Fox, 2; Two’s Com-
pany, 3.
FOR ROSEBERY
(At Ascot).
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Maiden Handicap: Whitefoot,
1 ; Cape Hero, 2 ; Royal Laddie, 3.
Fourteen-two Handicap; Shop
Girl, 1 ; Te Rama, 2 ; Easy Mark, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap; Guild
Hall, 1 ; Chrisman, 2 ; Cradle Song,
3.
Rosebery Handicap: Buzzal, 1
Hieron, 2 ; Happy Lass, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Kim bell, 1 ; Henchman, 2 ;
St. Elmo, 3.
Trial Stakes: Widden, 1 ; Re-
sponse, 2 ; Druce, 3.


A 1 puendly
tyiaJitUui tyosicei. and alt
(Axt%o
Sv
m
Here is the way to obtain longer life for your
Gillette Blades.
Protect the hard, electrically tempered cutting edges of
Gillette Blades in this simple way. Unwrap the blade
carefully. Never handle the cutting edge pick up the
blade at the ends. After use, rinse in clean water and dry
gently on a smooth towel. Do this and you will get more
shaves from every Gillette Blade you buy.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
dsf
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
, Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
CAIRNS, WILLIAM, last heard of about 45
years ago, when he visited his parents’ home
in Fitzroy, and (if alive) would now be aged
68 years, or his children should communicate
with NATIONAL TRUSTEES CO., of 95
Queen Street, Melbourne, to hear something of
advantage.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR LESLIE GEORGE CRAW-
FORD late of Marrickville. —TAKE NOTICE
that MONA CRAWFORD has filed a petition
for Divorce No. 530 of 1942 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance on or before the
22nd of August 1942 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from DETTMANN
AUSTIN & MACLEAN Solicitors of 28 Marlin
Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM FLETCHER late of Darling-
hurst New South Wales Australia. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE MARY FLETCHER
has filed a petition for Divorce No. 698 ot
1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend the suit you may enter an appear-
ance on or before the thirtieth day of Sep-
tember One thousand nine hundred and forty
two and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from J. K. DIXON Solicitor 115 Pitt
Street Sydney New South Wales Australia.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
ds
WiAN MfN AND IVOMtN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
831 (JLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
cm
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
SMOKE-OH!
“The fool position, like that of practically all
other industries, is closely associated with that
of man-power.” —“Primary Producer” ( W.A. ).
We’ll say it is!
-I* *1- v -I-
-“No horses are allowed in the House [of
Commons], in order to avoid confusion.”
— “Beachcomber,” in London “Express.”
With the party hacks?
-T- * * *
“Even a husband has some good points.”
— Woman’s paper.
But it’s generally the wife who works
them.
<%• 4*
“One of his surrealistic paintings is supposed
to represent a fish, though what sort of a fish it
would be impossible to say.” —Art critic.
Perhaps a ga-garfish?
4* *h
Viewpoint.
“I might have faults,” said Sylvia
vehemently, “but at least I haven’t taken
part in this clothes-buying panic. I’m
just going to let rationing take its course
and not going to worry about it. I feel
that’s my duty. And as for those who
are trying to buy up everything, I think
the Government ought to gaol them.
Fining them is too good for such people.”
Having said which, Sylvia spread her-
self out gracefully on the verdant sward
of the Sunkist Nudist Enclosure.
Nat.
4* 4* 4* •i 1
“The beautiful girl remained silent.”
—Short story.
A real dumb belle.
❖ 4* 4* 4*
“Lord Arnold, urging less beer consumption,
said it would release more barley for the feed-
ing of pigs.”— “Sun” cable.
Despite what his Lordship avers
On the subject of liquor v. meat,
It’s odds that the public prefers
To have hogsheads in lieu of their feet.
Me.
* * * *
The Feminine Gardener.
“Some women have a natural flair for
gardening.”— Woman’s paper.
They cultivate acquaintances amongst
men with the determination to marry one
of them ; having done so, they dig into
his bank account, prune his expenses,
weed out his friends and rake him fore
and aft if he comes home late. If he
inclines to grow exuberant his wife cuts
him back severely ; in fact, she restricts
all his blooming inclinations, and sees
that he is not embraced by any clinging
vines. She deals severely with any
rambling habits. And if he kicks over
the traces she just hoes into him.
H. M.
,r, -i- .j.
“Wanda walked over to the mantelpiece to
hide the tears that choked her.” —Short story.
Serves her right for howling with her
mouth open.
4- 4* '!* -h
A movie star marries on the same prin-
ciple as a movie-theatre manager hires
his programmes: that is, even while she’s
getting all she can out of the current
feature she’s looking around for next
week’s attraction.
•J*
Original.
“Method : Butter toast, and make sandwiches
with lettuce, spread cheese, chopped gherkin
and seasonings. Cut into triangles and arrange
be free of dandrutf.” —“New Idea.”
Hare soup you may imbibe,
But ever , pray, eschew
The dandruff gently sprinkled
In sandwiches or stew.
Mrs. P.
-Y -I- -I*
“Stop smoking for ss.” — Advt.
Cheaper than starting smoking, any-
how.
•h 4*
“One well-known Hollywood star got the
huff when, after completing a full-length film,
she was cast to appear in shorts.” —Film mag.
Perhaps they weren’t short enough.
•J*
“The missing man, who is 55 years of age,
is a civil servant.”
Anxiety was first aroused, it is believed,
when it was found that his office chair
had not been slept in.
The Eternal Secret.
“Many women are annoyed because their
civilian identity cards reveal their ages.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Poor Woman! What a fate is hers,
For there to every ribald eye
The candid anno Domini
Is penned in naked characters;
And though the cosmetician's hoaxing
May help the fading beauty queen
To look (by candlelight ) nineteen.
Cold figures are immune to coaxing.
This grim disclosure is an ill
Which Time the Healer will not heal,
And yet perhaps a stout appeal,
A frenzied supplication, will...
Besieged by thirty-nineish beauties.
Some chivalrous official might
Consent to authorise a slight
Extension of the censor’s duties.
P. M. L.
An Australian Fable in Slang.
(With apologies to George Ade for hitch-
ing his Moniker up with Such a Bunch.)
Once upon a time there was a Mis-
managing Director of a Provincial Hot-
Air Factory. The sooks with Bulging
Foreheads who stick their right index
fingers in Tomes and puff hard on Ologies
to keep them alight will spill the good
oil that the term Mismanaging Director
is synonymous with Leader, but if you
want to bust your sides laughing at that
Hoary Jest nick outside and do it. And
if you want the Straight Griffin about
the Joke go and chat any Militant Union
Secretary.
Now this Particular —some say Not-
So-Particular —Hot-Air Factory was run
on Very Queer Lines. It was Mucked
About With by ninety employees who
were all directors on Fabulous Screws.
The Factory was owned by a couple of
million Mug Shareholders who Didn’t
Give a Damn how it was Run. They
would have liked to empty out all the
directors and give the White Ants a
decent burl, but they were just too tired
—they Didn’t Give a Damn. When
the Factory Cooks presented the Loss
Account and the Unbalance Sheet every
year the tired Mug Shareholders would
Go a Bit Lousy at the Deader Loss than
last year and then Dive In Their Kicks.
When a Shrewd-Head Director was
due for retirement at the end of his three
years on the Board he would, before
Offering Himself For Re-election, start
to Mag, and he’d keep on Magging until
the papers Took Him Up. Then he’d Hop
Everyone Out, threaten to Tear the Guts
out of some other Director, get off his
Bike properly and play Merry Hell with
Reputation. When he’d be rewarded with
Half a Column with Scare Headlines his
risible muscles would Work Overtime.
Occasionally an Unbalance Sheet Cook,
Very Slick at the Culinary Game, would
announce to the Mismanaging Director
that a Small Surplus Could Be Expected ;
immediately one set of Directors would
tell them all in Solemn Conclave that the
Time Was Ripe to Raise the Screws of
the whole ninety. This would be the cue
for the Other Set of Directors to De-
nounce it as a Despicable Trick on the
Mug Shareholders, and they would tell
the Papers loudly how Crook they had
gone about it and for the Papers Never
To Forget It. And nobody ever accounted
it Peculiar that the Dissenting Directors
never demanded an Extraordinary Meet-
ing of Mug Shareholders to discuss the
matter. And next time the Factory Ghost
Walked the whole ninety Directors would
Shove Out their Mitts for the Extra
Whack, and though their hands never
Shook they themselves did with Hearty
Laughter. The next Loss Account when
presented would be found to be in Debit
More Than Ever.
One day a Yike broke out in a Far
Distant Town. Said the Mismanaging
Director to his Henchmen: “We may as
well close the Factory down for a few
weeks, boys—we haven’t had a Decent
Holiday for a week or two, and we can
kid the Mugs that this will be part of
our Wore Effort—aren’t we all wore out
trying to keep out of the road of the
Directors of the Bigger Factory? And
the Mugs won’t know we’ve gone, any-
way—they wouldn’t wake up if a tool-
shed fell on ’em! Forward to your
Battle Stations!”
And in the Far Distant Town where
the Yike was going on there hissed a
Dirge like a whipping westerly when the
Tidings were brought to the Locals ; and
it sounded like “The Deadheads are
coming, all blah, all blah.” But some
Shareholders who weren’t quite so Mug-
gish or Bored with the Asinine Antics of
the Hot-Air Merchants said: “I see that
Bunch of Alicks are galloping around the
Mulga trying to seem Intelligent.” To
which others replied: “ That must be a
Helluva Effort, even if it ain’t a Wore
Effort.”
And after the Yike in the Far Distant
Town that they had Poked Their Bibs
In was over, the Mismanaging Director
said to his Henchmen: “Well, boys, that
was a Strenuous bit of a Wore Effort.
I feel like a rest myself—let’s go Back
to Work. We can close the Factory up
again in a few weeks and think up an
excuse for another and longer Wore
Effort—they tell me the Blackfish and
Bream will be on shortly.”
It was a Peculiar Thing that the greater
the output of Hot Air from the Factory
the more bored the Mug Shareholders
became. And when most of the Direc-
tors took a Ten-Weeks Holiday so that
the Mismanaging Director and his Hench-
men would get a more Open Go in
Getting In The Road of the directors
of the Bigger Factory the Mug Share-
holders shrugged their shoulders and
said that at least they couldn’t Muck
Things About at the Factory now that
the Factory was temporarily closed.
As Time Went On the Mismanaging
Director, forgetting that Things Had
Happened during an absence on a Wore
Effort, demanded that the Mug Share-
holders dive into their kicks to make up
Another Big Loss, but the M.Ss. said:
“You hop to hell on stilts ; you can’t
make us Cough Up Now, see!” And
they gave him the horselaugh.
Then, greatly depressed, the Misman-
aging Director and his Fellow Urgers
spent more and more time taking Cheap
Trips to Far Distant Towns, poking their
bibs into Yikes. Then one day they re-
turned to the Factory from a High-
Pressure Hot-Air Sales Tour to find that
the gates were barred and a notice up to
say they’d been Emptied Out and to
Mizzle Off and Pole on Someone Else
for a crust. And, putting their long ears
to the walls, they caught the unmistak-
able sound of White Ants chewing into
a White Elephant. And they knew their
Name Was Mud.
Moral: When you are on a good
wicket don’t cruel it.
Bo.


THE OTHER FEOLLOW'S MIND
Commonsense Approach
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
After a glance through the evening
gress reports of the war on all, fronts and
le N. S. Wales coalfields, I indulged in
a little thinking—and I still don’t get it!
My best cobber gave up a good job in
January, 1940, and enlisted in the A.I.F.
He returned after getting a liberal share
of all that was going at Bardia, and won’t
be much good for anything again. Many
had the same experience. My brothers
gave up what are highly-paid jobs in
the Old Country and joined the ranks.
Thousands of others did the same.
Very good reasons prevented me from
going past the home forces until it was
too late to go further, but my wife is
now making do with a third of her
former income and putting up with it.
Now I read that the coalminers realise
the position, but “feel that the sacrifice
must not be all on one side” ! — Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
Second Front
Unfortunately the men who take the
ships to sea and into perilous ports and
harbors have no way of expressing their
views to bishops, deans, canons and writ-
ing boys who demand a Second Front
in Europe at which they will not be
present. But the men who build the
ships can say what they please, and the
president of their Federation of Ship-
building and Engineering Unions has
spoken out loud and bold:
We cannot go on appealing to our mem-
bers to toil and sweat and continue to
see their work wasted. Our executive is
prepared to urge the workers to produce
to the maximum, but we won’t stand for
any more Cretes, Hong Kongs or Singa-
pores.
Then be said that the people responsible
for the Cretes, Hong Kongs and Singa-
pores, “by neglecting to see that our men
were fully equipped,” should “get the
same punishment as the workman who
is imprisoned for being absent from work
or guilty of anything holding up produc-
tion.” They should be sacked at least.
In this war, though not in previous wars,
they have been kept in their jobs or
promoted.—D. E. (N.S.W.).
As in the 1914-18 war, when plenty of
“spare colonels” were about —the title
was an A.I.F. sobriquet for slick workers
who could talk others into doing all the
dirty work —so this time there seems to
be an oversupply of the same gentry.
Our present batch is of civilian breed,
and they haunt the Domain, making
speeches and passing resolutions about
starting a “second front” in Europe.
Can’t these second-front hotheads see
that if England embarked now on this
mad escapade and threw herself wide
open to a “king hit” the game would be
as good as over? Don’t they see that
England is the bulwark of defence and
aggression—when the time is ripe? And
that if England went the heart of every
Allied nation would be sickened into
compromise?— Pay Jay (N.S.W.).
Soldier Settlement
I have never read a defence of the
principle of soldier settlement from a
soldier settler himself, but I do submit
that those who have been through the
mill and are still there have a much
clearer conception of the possibilities and
worth of s.s. and know better than most
the reasons for its previous failure.
There were three main outstanding
reasons for failure: (1) Incompetency in
high places and maladministration, (2)
misfits in the way of settlers themselves,
and (3) violent fluctuations and lack of
any stability in markets for farm produce.
There is no good in beating about the
bush in the case of reason (1); officials
from the top down simply did not know
their stuff.
The second reason seems to be a
psychological problem and the one that
presents the greatest difficulties. Many
who might have been described as the
ideal type for land settlement failed, the
reason in most cases being, in my opinion,
neglect of the elementary laws of finance
or economics, call it what you like.
The third reason needs no amplifica-
tion —it is past history—but in those
years of fluctuating prices which cul-
minated in the depression many hard-
headed men on the land, with years of
experience and financial backing behind
them, faced disaster. If prices can be
controlled and pegged in time of war
there seems no reason why some stability
cannot be maintained in the years of re-
construction immediately after it.
In the inevitable task which must be
undertaken to populate this country, some
reform in land ownership and settlement
must be an essential part of it.— -Soldier
Settler (Vic,).
War-risk Insurance
A form circulated by N. S. Wales
municipalities on the subject of insur-
ance of fixed property against war risks
invites ratepayers to set a value on build-
ings and other property “as now,” it
being explained that it is the intention,
not to enable the insurer to replace de-
stroyed property with new buildings,
machinery or whatever, but to pay com-
pensation based on second-hand value at
the time of insuring. The rate of
premium is fixed at 4s. per £lOO: —a
“500-to-l-against” bet.
Might it not be as well to make a
complete job of this type of war-risk
insurance by raising the premium to
cover a risk of complete replacement of
property destroyed, together with com-
pensation for loss of the use of the
destroyed property while, replacement is
being effected? This war-risk business is
not a normal insurance proposition. No
matter what the prospects of gain (by
getting a new replacement for an old
“Quick! I've taken prussic acid by mistake.”
“Sorry, sir; We've sold our quota of emetics .”
possession), the insurer cannot do any-
thing to bring about enemy action.
If there is not to be complete replace-
ment, irrespective of cost, what will be
the position if extensive war damage is
incurred? Building costs, owing to exces-
sive demand on materials and labor, will
soar, and the amount paid as compensa-
tion may quite conceivably leave the
owner a heavier loser than the insuring
authority. Middle- and lower-class
owner-occupiers of dwelling-houses will
undoubtedly suffer great misfortune from
war damage if insurance is to be on the
very timorous scale proposed. Bark
Hut (N.S.W.).
Uniform Taxation
Is it not misleading to use the term
“uniform taxation” for a scheme which
applies only to income taxation? Unfor-
tunately, the States have other means of
raising revenue, and in 1940-41 obtained
£l4 million from land tax, stamp duties,
probate duties and the like. The yield
from these can be greatly expanded, and
many other fields of taxation are avail-
able, as only customs and excise duties
are, by the Constitution, reserved for the
Commonwealth alone. Even now the
McKeil Government threatens a land
tax “to break up big estates.”
The States have shown, by their stub-
born hostility to the present income tax
proposals, that their “sovereign (?) rights”
mean more to them than a reform which
is urgently demanded by the people and
will materially ease the problem of war
finance. It would be foolish, therefore,
to hope they will voluntarily abstain from
imposing new forms of taxation if their
extravagant “needs” require it. Really
uniform taxation will not be securely
established until all taxing powers are
taken from the States. The people have
the will; let the lawyers find the way.—
C.R.A. (N.S.W.).
Food Production
If it is necessary for us to have a
Director-General of Munitions Produc-
tion and a commander-in-chief of the
fighting services, it is just as necessary to
have someone in sole charge of the im-
portant matter of food production, which
has been marked by muddling and in-
decision since war began.
At present several Federal departments,
the Australian Agricultural Council, State
departments and a multitude of boards
and commissions are meddling with food
production. No one seems to have com-
plete responsibility, and no one seems
to know where he is, the producer least
of all.
It is a job for a big man with plenty
of vision and organising ability, and he
should be given powers as great as those
held by Essington Lewis and General
MacArthur. He should, first of all, assess
the food needs of the Allied forces we
have to supply, the needs of the civil
population and possible exports. That
would give him an idea of minimum
requirements. Then should be added a
percentage to make up for a bad season,
a greater influx of troops and the possi-
bility of greater shipping space for
exports.
Armed with such estimates, he would
have a fair knowledge of how much of
this and that will be needed three, six
and twelve months ahead. He would
know the areas best suited for produc-
ing various crops and stocks, the avail-
able machinery and the man-power now
engaged in the work. Knowing all that,
he could tell the Government what he
wanted in the way of seed, breeding
stock, additional areas, machinery and
man-power. And he should be able to
get what he demanded. Sam Square
(N.S.W.).
“Public Finance”
Queensland’s Premier Forgan Smith
has made a wonderful gesture. The Gov-
ernment has decided to cut motor vehicle
registration fees by a fourth from July 1.
Motor vehicle registration fees for
1940-41 amounted to £900,147, and of
this £250,000 was transferred to consoli-
dated revenue fund as a loan, so that
Forgan Smith has returned to car-owners
only the equivalent of the special tax
imposed on them by his legislation.
For nine years this tax has been im-
posed and maintained, and to June 30,
1941, 2i million pounds went into con-
solidated revenue fund from motor
vehicle registrations and renewals —as a
loan. And consolidated revenue fund’s
record during those nine years was a
deficit of £4,439,846!
Apparently an Act of Parliament can
make “loan money” a contribution to
consolidated revenue fund and no
awkward questions or results ensue. —
P. McC. (Q.).
Real-estate Regulations
Estate agents generally throughout
Australia have been condemned, re-
prieved and finally amused by Prime
Minister Curtin’s efforts to hamstring
Australia’s biggest avenue of investment
Original regulations were dictatorial and
savored of the very forces against which
we are fighting ; amended regulations be-
came a farce, and to save face Govern-
ment confused the issue and left estate
agents struggling in a mass of red-tape.
Where a property has been registered
in the owner’s name for longer than 12
months consent to sell is not necessary.
A certified copy of the contract, a de-
claration by the vendor and a valuation
by an approved valuer have to be sent to
the Sub-Treasurer to comply with the
regulations. The valuation form sup-
plied by the Government is a ridiculous
questionnaire repeating information sup-
plied on the vendor’s declaration and
contains a statement of the purchase
price. For a fair valuation this infor-
mation should not be available to the
appraiser, and his estimate of the value
should be based on his experience, irre-
spective of any guide supplied by the
vendor.
The regulation is a farce, but if the
Government will persist in enforcing it
then it should only be necessary for the
agent who effects the sale to be called
upon to make a statutory declaration
confirming that the sale price of the
property is not higher than 10 p.c. more
than a fair valuation as at February,
1939. — Inko (S.A.).
Sugar-coated
I went to a newsreel theatre last week
and one of the items of interest was an
interview with a United States broad-
caster now in Australia.
He was very outspoken, and what he
said was sound commonsense. There
was dead silence in the theatre while he
spoke about the need for observing black-
outs and when he told how people in
Germany who showed lights were be-
headed. “I have seen it done,” he said,
“with an axe.” Then he told how in
other countries people who showed
torches in a blackout were summarily
shot, and any lighted windows fired at.
The audience was impressed.
He was asked by his interviewer if he
thought there was a possibility of our
principal cities being bombed. He replied
that the danger was imminent, and voiced
the opinion that large crowds should not
congregate in city streets, and that many
housewives should do their shopping in
their home suburbs. He said “One 5001 b.
bomb dropped in Martin-place would kill
everyone there.”
His words seem to have sunk in all
right, as I looked round the partially-
darkened theatre and saw everyone sit-
ting quietly, apparently digesting the
words of wisdom they had just heard,
and then, in a fraction of a second, there
flashed on to the screen a picture of
Donald Duck quacking loudly. The ten-
sion was broken and everyone roared
with laughter. In that laughter was a
sound of relief —relief at getting away
again from the realities of war.— Joey
(S.A.).
“Take Care!”
It is not only Government departments
in the carrying business that delight in
bullying the public (B. 22/4/’42).
The N. S. Wales Taxation Department is
a champion at it. Like the common
carriers who assume superiority to com-
mon law as soon as they get behind a
Governmental shield, the Taxation De-
partment assumes superiority to commer-
cial law,
“Take care of this certificate” is
printed on the N.S.W. unemployment-
relief-tax receipt. Duplicate will not
be issued,” Similarly the certificate of
exemption from compulsory deduction
from salary or wages, issued when a tax-
payer has paid up the last brass farthing
of his taxes, bears the warning “In no
circumstances will a duplicate of this
certificate be issued.” I have an idea that
any competent court of jurisdiction
would, if the right affidavits were before
it, order the Commissioner to issue a new
receipt to replace one lost, stolen or
strayed, and would do so with astonish-
ing rapidity, not to say acerbity. But the
chaps who frame taxation regulations
know very well that the average taxpayer
can’t afford to invoke the courts to defend
his obvious legal rights against the State
itself.— Taxee (N.S.W.).
Wasted Paper
While newsprint rationing has com-
pelled editors to eliminate or shorten
well-appreciated features, many columns
of the daily press are still being wasted by
the unnecessary length of certain adver-
tisements.
The following statement, for example,
occurs repeatedly in “Positions Vacant” :
Applications will not be considered from
any person who is engaged in the produc-
tion, repair or overhaul of munitions of
war, war equipment or war supplies, unless
such person is not employed in his usual
trade or occupation.
I counted six insertions of this routine
notice in one column alone. Yet if the
vacancies to which it applied were
marked with an asterisk, it would need
to be printed only once daily.
Considerable space, too, is wasted by
public bodies with plenty of other
people’s money to spend. Councils, for
instance, average 20-30 lines even for
minor posts. A choice example was 40
lines for a “Female Clerical Assistant.” —
Arc (N.S.W.).


II
® m
IvS
$3 If
iWj ICt
ag*
A
SI YEARS
jpiry
1 WILLOW
AND
>0&.
t?
AR lEII LTD.
MAKERS OF BISCUITS * PLUM PUDDINGS
CAKES * VITOGEN ♦ ICE CREAM
9
W‘
m
vj
%v>
$
<.; v.y (../,/ ;V !
mSSStM
