

PURPLE
jf tfhtHtme -cf-KMe meilcumeUmulJmiqftd
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63. —No. 3236.
Wednesday, February 18, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HADDON HALL.
|\l O residence in England possesses a more marked weird association with the mys r f Der t y shire Sir Walter Scott in “Pevril of the Peak” familiarised
' reposing in the sombre gravity of decay amid the.wooded [ME of the -Peak; eno aged on that now-forgotten book “The Mysteries of Udolpho,
Haddon Hall to untold millions. It is said Mrs. Radchffe o P been through Haddcm Hall and have some acquaintance with “Udolpho ’ wdl recall
so popular with our great-grandparents. All visitors to England whc' r p om E behind the tapestry, that hidden doorway, leading by a steep flight of
suggestive scenes from the book m some parts of the C Pf" a)1 ‘ “ S o placed and guarded as to suggest the idea of a dungeon above ground, as
steps into the Great Court. In the north-west tower there is tat sma r * -P in its erim realitv for the building as it stands is one of the most
the bolts and bars are on the outside. At every step the past rises before th t found B ations wer e’ laid before the days of the Norman Conquest Its
perfect specimens of baronial residences intact. Hadd °n H a js of high antiq jn fhe occupation of the Dukes of Rutland at the early part of the
architectural variations may be traced to the varying epochs fhey display. a nd open house "for 12 days at Christmas. Some parts of the old
eighteenth century, and the first duke, created by Queen Anne, kept 140 st ;n recalls the times when barons and retainers dined at the same table
structure tell the tale of Haddon Hall with great vividness. The Banqueting underground portion are beer and wine cellars, immense kitchens and
and when men sat above or below the salt in accordance with tne.r rank In the. the same story-an immense household,
fireplaces, huge chopping-blocks and a massive wooden table hollowec put into b . y doped with Sir John Manners, her father having refused his
STough Vat.'of living •***£«£>*£*£ ,£ Sa f rHa,fSa t e H SS™ » the Ru.land family. The gardens, which
SSTurac. considerable four .errabca, and are much estecnred lor .heir beauty.


StorM Writing
W 1 V> at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write' for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “bulletin.”
My Same
My Address
S.B. 242
ROOM ONLY” DAILY TARIFFS
Singles -5/ - to 101 -
Douhles - 9j- to 21 /-
Suites, Family Rooms, Full Catering
Services
S. D. HORNE - MANAGER
YP
THE
VICTORIA
PAI A C £
MOST POPI/14V ¥/OT£l
Next Town Hall - Little Collins Street
The Red Page
That Bad Bird Leichhardt!
Alec Chisholm’s Strange New World
< Angus and Robertson) is one long
moral condemnation of the explorer
Leichhardt. Since there was undoubtedly
a had side to Leichhardt’s character, and
since he survived the expedition from Bris-
bane to Port Essington more by good luck
than good management, it’s not surpris-
ing that a “debunking” should have been
attempted: but it’s more than surprising
it’s astonishing—that Mr. Chisholm’s
premises and conclusions, when both are
demonstrably overstated, sometimes fan-
tastically so, should have been accepted
without question by the reviewers in
nearly all the dailies.
Strange New World is the result of a
remarkable discovery made by Mr.
Chisholm in England; the diary of John
Gilbert, naturalist with Leichhardt on the
Port Essington journey, found after 90
years. Instead of publishing the diary (a
Commonwealth Fund guarantee should
surely have been forthcoming for so valu-
able a document) Mr. Chisholm submits
extracts from it, extracts from Leich-
hardt’s own journals and from that of
the convict Phillips, with a full running
commentary, the whole thing designed as
a devastating attack on the leader of the
expedition.
Merely the tone of the book, which is
that of the Crown Prosecutor rather than
the Judge, is enough almost to destroy
the attack at its roots. “Leichhardt,” says
Mr. Chisholm, forgetting that even Nero
or Dr. Crippen is splendid material for
the historian, “is not a refreshing sub-
ject for contemplation”!
Supposing that the innumerable moral
swear-words Mr. Chisholm hurls at
Leichhardt on his way through the
strange new world are all —if one
wants to hold him up as a Horrible
Example to the Boy Scouts justi-
fiable ; supposing, therefore, that Leich-
hardt was guilty of “bombast” (page 75);
“unhealthy prattle about death” and not
writing to his mother (page 80); “eccen-
tric appearance not calculated to inspire
confidence” (page 92); “a mental wave
of a marshal’s baton” and a strikingly
“warped perspective” (page 99); “an-
other flourish” (page 100); “exceedingly
bad judgment” (page 106); honoring
recent benefactors in place-names before
older friends (page 123); carrying super-
fluous swords (page 130 and elsewhere);
being at his “rare” best (page 157);
“childlike forgetfulness” (page 170); “in-
competence, ignorance and carelessness”
which “really saved the party” (page
173); naming a river after a man
who had given the expedition a
bullock —“surely more than a fair re-
compense a large river in exchange
for a fat bullock!” (page 181);
“general clumsiness” and making an “in-
glorious fist” of a quarrel with a native
(page 187) ; “pathetic egotism” and “a
curious yearning to express his fantastic
personality in various phases of leader-
ship” (page 204); failing to name the
mountains at the head of the Isaac and
not awarding Sir George Gipps “at least
a nice little creek!” (page 209); “childish
satisfaction” at the outcome of a quarrel
between the two natives in his party and
“a pathetic eagerness to turn the trivial
episode to his own advantage—a gallant
leader!” (page 235); “self-pity,” “self-
hypnosis” and “self-righteousness” (pages
238 and 239); stating in his book that he
had named the Lynd River on May 23,
whereas in fact he had named it on June
9 —“ that statement is grossly misleading”
(page 251); “thoughtlessness and ingrati-
tude” in not naming a river after the
chief of his early benefactors until a late
stage in his jourriey (page 277); blaming
his horse —“not himself”—for stepping
on his face when he fell asleep with the
bridle in his hand (page 283); eating high
meat, native dog, flying-foxes (page 284
and elsewhere); having the “quaint idea
of showing his peaceful intentions by
tying an iron ring to the aboriginal boy’s
neck" (page 287); “self-centred whining”
(page 295)...
Supposing he was indeed such an
Awful Example that Mr. Chisholm was
forced to go to “a recent book on crimi-
nology”—criminology ! —for an adequate
analysis of his character:
The constitutional psychopath has a
certain quality of inaccessibility, a com-
plete lack of insight or self-understanding
and an enormous sense of self-love or
self-evaluation. He is often attractive,
smooth, pleasant, plausible and polished.
He “works” his friends for all they are
worth. He is incapable of any real loyalty
or devotion to cither persons or principles.
....He can concentrate if he wants to, is
better at abstract reasoning than inter-
pretation, lacks judgment and has no sense
of planning....
Supposing every count in the indict-
ment were true, then all it suggests is
what a magnificent character Leichhardt
would make for Ernestine Hill’s next
novel, or Eleanor Dark’s! Balance his
unquestionable courage and willpower
and his admitted charm against every
fault that can be discovered or invented
about him, add the stupendous adventure
of his exploration from Brisbane to Port
Essington and the haunting mystery of
his disappearance into the Never Never
—and what a novel he would make!
But how much of Mr. Chisholm’s
relentless “debunking” of Leichhardt is
really reliable?
The great majority of the attacks, it
is surely obvious from the examples
quoted, must be dismissed as trivial or
even ridiculous. It was fantastic to go to
criminology for a jargon to taint Leich-
hardt’s name for ever; fantastic to
say that the man who endured un-
told hardships and sufferings to blaze the
track from Brisbane to the Gulf was
“not a refreshing subject for contem-
plation” ; fantastic to make every occa-
sion when Leichhardt bestoWed a place-
name an excuse for bitter sarcasm ; fan-
tastic to stigmatise as “grossly mislead-
ing” a trivial error about the date on
which he named a river.
Mr. Chisholm has contrived to make
almost every word and every act of the
explorer, however trivial or however
innocent, sound discreditable. Leich-
hardt’s restlessness and inability to earn
his own living in his youth, his evasion
of military service in Germany, his drift-
ing to Australia and his taking up ex-
ploration as a career, all of which could
be interpreted as signs of a kind of
genius, a young man’s search for his des-
tiny, are all unfavorably presented. When
Leichhardt, having a few days previously
been lost in the bush, writes in his diary
“I wish I could sufficiently describe the
loveliness of the morning,” Mr. Chis-
holm comments:
Leichhardt, it would seem, had already
forgiven the bush its harsh treatment of
him a few days previously. He had a
childlike facility for forgetfulness.
Surely Leichhardt’s forgiveness of the
bush could just as well be interpreted as
strength of character. What did Mr.
Chisholm want him to do? Curse it?
Then the “debunker” would have
swooped at him for “self-centred whin-
ing,” “self-pity” or something.
From Mr. Chisholm’s point of view
Leichhardt can do no right. When he
fails to scatter his own name about the
landscape, as a “pathetic egotist” might
reasonably be expected to do, he “seems
to have shrunk from doing so” ; when
he writes a friendly note to his “good
companions” he is “at his rare best”:
“shrunk,” “rare” —there’s a sting every
time.
What comment other than “fantastic”
can one make on Mr. Chisholm’s view-
point when Leichhardt, having battled
all the way to the Gulf, having been
lost and having several times nearly
perished from thirst, having suffered
tortures from lumbago and having
at one stage nearly lost his reason from
the hardships he had endured, is not
allowed to call his horse an “impatient
brute” when it tramps on his face while
he’s asleep without the sarcasm that he
should have blamed himself!
Some of the incidents in which Mr.
Chisholm seems to have a genuine case
against him still seem trivial. As the
historian does finally admit, it’s natural
for petty quarrels to break out when
men are seeing too much of each other’s
company on an exploring trip.
Mr. Chisholm makes much of the in-
cident when one of the aboriginals with
the expedition knocked two of Leich-
hardt’s teeth out in a quarrel and Leich-
hardt failed to knock him down in return.
There may have been 20 good reasons
for Leichhardt’s “poor fist” ; there may
have been none: but surely it can’t be
argued that the man who fought from
Brisbane to Port Essington was a coward ;
so, once again, what on earth does it
matter?
A few of (he genuine cases do matter.
It’s extremely odd that Leichhardt, when
reporting Gilbert's death, didn’t record
that the wild blacks attacked the camp
because the two natives of the expedition
had assaulted their women.
Yet even here Mr. Chisholm seems too
eager to rush to a verdict unfavorable to
Leichhardt. His assumption is that
Leichhardt concealed the facts because
he felt that his inability to control his
natives would have brought discredit on
him. That is quite possible. But is it
certain that Leichhardt knew the reason
for the attack on the camp?
It is just possible that he didn’t. He
must certainly have had suspicions, for
the other members of the party had
their doubts about the two blackfellows.
But the only evidence that Leichhardt
knew for certain that the wild blacks had
been provoked is the diary of Phillips,
the convict with the expedition, and
Phillips (who disliked Leichhardt and
whom Mr. Chisholm himself convicts
elsewhere of deliberate exaggeration to
discredit his leader) made the astonish-
ing declaration that the two abos. had
“both been concerned in a criminal
assault on the persons of three black
women, and also wounding an old black-
fellow on the night before the fatal
attack.” Mr. Chisholm has no comment
to offer on the very odd allegation that
the two men criminally assaulted three
women, nor on the contradiction of
Phillips implied in the much more
probable report from John Macgillivray,
naturalist of the Rattlesnake, four years
after the event:
Long afterwards, the undoubted cause ot
this apparently unaccountable attack trans-
pired, in the acknowledgment, while intoxi-
cated, by one of the persons concerned,
that a gross outrage had been committed
upon an aboriginal woman a day or two
previously by the two blacks belonging to
the expedition.
This report, Mr. Chisholm admits, would
exonerate Leichhardt from a charge of
suppression ; the truth came out “long
afterwards.” Mr. Chisholm then proceeds
to convict him of suppression on the obvi-
ously hostile and exaggerated account of
Phillips.
Leichhardt did, however, certainly sup-
press his suspicions. Also it seems cer-
tain that when he led his second expedi-
tion, his head having been turned by the
welcome Sydney gave him on his return
from the first, he would not accept sound
advice from his men and grasped more
than his share of rations. He may well
have been a poor leader. He may have
been unscrupulous in money matters. He
may have been a tenth as bad as he is
made out to be ; but he remains a fas-
cinating human character and a heroic
figure in Australian history. He is not
“debunked” but made the more inter-
esting by this extraordinary attack.
Mr. Chisholm, rightly, says that this
is an unfortunate time to attack a man
who, though an Australian enthusiast in
his lifetime and an Australian hero today,
was of German origin;
Debunking is at best an unpleasant
process, and in such a period as the present,
when the British Empire is at war with
Germany, there may be a temptation to
suppose that a writer’s judgment on such a
subject is warped by national prejudice.
That being so, it would have been all
the better if the numerous derogatory
references to Leichhardt as “the Ger-
man” had been altered to something less
likely to taint his name, a-nd if such
“jokes” as this had not appeared ;
A really “difficult” German name would
scarcely have served in any of those in-
stances [the Australian places named after
Leichhardt]. Try to visualise, say, “Stuelp-
nagel” as the name of an electorate! And
it is not easy to imagine bushmen toying
with such a name as "Schicklgrubcr” even
on a dingo board!
If “national prejudice” is not to come
into the work ; if Leichhardt, that is, is
accepted as an Australian, why drag
Hitler in?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Anyone harboring doubts aFout flesh
anblood theatre surviving talkies, radio
and other upstarts should look in nn
Sydney Tivoli. The way they’re haulina
ein in (here with revue-c«m-vaudeville
indicates ample of the right vitamins to
keep the ghost walking indefinitely
Mam attraction in the current show-
“ Laughter Express”— is the affable
George Wallace, a topnotch natural
funnyman if ever one trod the boards
Though Tiv. audiences might hotly
deny it as an aspersion on the local lad
Wallace shares resemblances with Robey.’
when the other funny Geo. was at his
top. Robey, like the pathetic Little Tich.
made the mistake of coming here too late
in his day, and audiences treated him
rough. At his best he was first-class. In
the latest of his books of reminiscences
— Cock-a-doodle-doo (Dent)—C. B. Coch-
ran lists Robey among the great come-
dians. He mentions him also as “an all-
round man, a painter in water-colors and
oils, an almost first-rate cricketer and
footballer, a student of Egyptology and
a violin-maker.” Kreisler once played
at an Albert Hall concert on a violin
made by Robey.
Melb. Tiv. has gone all artistic, its
“Artists and Models” including 20 of
the most beautiful models in Australia,
who pinch the limelight from the Tiv.
lovelies. Perhaps inspired by ex-Prime
Minister R. G. Menzies appearing as a
radio uncle, or by the Pitt-street (Sydney)
church which in foot letters has billed
Mr. Ivan Menzies (straight from Gil-
sullivan) talking on moral rearmament,
Melb. Tiv. subpoenaed ex-National Gal-
lery director J. S. MacDonald to guide its
hesitating footsteps up the slopes of Par-
nassus.
The highest flight of Melbourne Tiv.’s
evening packed with semi-nudity and
other studio equipment is the story of
a famous painting based on a celebrated
poem, which Sadie Gale delivers in a
highly dramatic manner. The story is
of the unfaithful wife caught in flagrante
delicto by her outraged husband, how
he fights a duel with her lover, proves
conclusively that his marksmanship is
poorer than his rival’s, and. dying, leaves
the wife with no option but to take the
veil. The culminating episode is the un-
happy wife, stripped to the buff to show
that she has renounced the world and
the flesh, kneeling at the altar. Philip
Calderon, R.A., immortalised this
moment in a well-known picture, and it
was this picture in colored reproduction
that Mr. MacDonald was asked to copy
in the material supplied by the Tivoli
management, said material including
Marjorie Lou, Dolly Mack and the lime-
light operators. Mr. MacDonald has done
his job to the complete satisfaction of
the public and the detriment of the
“House Full” notice, which is being worn
to tatters.
The Kirsova Australian ballet season
at Melbourne Majesty’s is a revelation of
how quickly people can be made to pick
up a new convention. It was amazing
to find that, in a few years, a single per-
son had been able to whip 30 or 40
young Australian men and women into a
shape that to the average observer is
indistinguishable from the Russian article.
It might come to an Australian Govern-
ment establishing a national academy and
the premiere ballerina becoming the toast
of the nation.
Latest “Show of Fives” (pictures priced
at £5 55.) at Macquarie Galleries, Syd-
ney, drew a contribution apiece from 40
painters, exhibits ranging from pictures
the average bloke strolling in off the
street would find good, to the works of
“moderns” giving the effect of making
jokes in languages of their own invention.
Adelaide Society of Arts Gallery lately
opened a batch of photos, from Russia,
sponsored by the Australian Soviet
Friendship League, proceeds to Russian
comforts and Australian Red Cross. The
wife of Premier Play ford opened the
sho\y ; frequent lectures or Slav music ;
photos, varying from Lenin and Tara-
sova portraits to battleships, parachutists
and groups of children.
Film eruptions include “Our Wife,” at
Sydney State —light domestic froth about
Melvyn Douglas’s attempts to be rid of
one wife and take unto himself another
(Ruth Hussey)—and “Hot Spot,” at Syd-
ney Plaza, a good mystery thriller lifted
right out of the rut by the acting of
Laird Cregar, a 20-stone mountain whose
histrionic ability, on this showing, is
well in proportion to his bulk.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —The Guide to Commercial Ethics.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Make the World Your Stage
With a "UNI" Dual Wave Radio
★ OVERSEAS STATIONS DIRECT
★ UNUSUAL CABINET BEAUTY
Events are moving with incredible rapidity . . . every hour of the day and
night news of some vital happening perhaps some important decision
that may affect you personally —is flashed across the world, from the
battlefield and from the places where statesmen gather. You cannot afford
to be without the means of listening direct to these great nerve centres of
the world, for it is necessary to keep up-to-date with the march of events if
you would be well prepared in time. Only a Dual Wave Radio can give
you last-minute information!
m
5-VALVE CONSOLE
STRAIGHT LINE FREQUENCY
£2l'lo'-
Every latest improvement distin-
guishes this "Uni" 5-Valve Console
Radio —12-inch dynamic speaker,
straight line frequency spaced dial,
A.V.C., and many other technically
important details. For tone and per-
formance this set is unexcelled, and
is our best value at the price.
At Anthony Horderns', for £2l/10/-
(Deposit 44/-, balance in easy
monthly payments)
"Uni" 5-Valve
Dual Wave Console
£l7'i7-
The "Uni,” a handsome Console Dual-
Wave Radio, equipped with the latest
type valves, and with an 8-in. speaker
for clarity of reproduction. Has clear
edgelit square dial for precise tuning-
in. Sturdily built throughout.
At Anthony Horderns', price, £l7/17/-
(Deposit 36/-, balance in easy monthly
payments)
m.
;%■
**:■
9
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.O., Sydney
i
:
l
m
..
lii
■
A QUALITY SET
5-VALVE DUAL WAVE
£2410'-
Splendid performance is invariably
yours with this "Uni" 5-Valve Dual-
Wave Console Radio, equipped with
12-in. speaker, A.V.C., etc. The beauti-
ful cabinet has a square, large, easy-
to-read edgelit dial.
At Anthony Horderns', price, £24/10/-
(Deposit £2/10/-, balance in easy
monthly payments)
it That Second Set
SMALL AND COMPACT FOR
BEDROOM OR KITCHEN
■
■
wm
111 l
mi
J O -y. ..
m
1
"UNI" 4-VALVE
DUAL WAVE MANTEL
£l3'i3’-
Handy size Electric Mantel Radio, splen-
did tones, gets London direct.
At Anthony Horderns', price .. £l3/13/-
(Deposit 28/-, balance in easy monthly
payments)
• Radio —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.


THREE SKETCHES BY A. C. HEADLEY
SITTING IN THE STALLS
SITTING in the stalls he watched her
with the queer kind of amazement
that refuses to believe what it sees.
He was trying to think back to the
first time he had seen her on the stage.
She had been almost plump then and
now she was almost thin. The way she
had been seemed to stick in his mind
and come creeping forward to cloud his
eyes. It was hard to fit her into this new
personality. There was something hard
about her now, and there were lines in
her face. In that instant he felt im-
mensely sorry for her.
SHE had been his girl then, and
although she had talked about going
on with her dancing and singing u was
somewhere away in a future that thought
did not seem able to reach. It was suffi-
cient that they knew they were going to
get married when he managed to get
enough money together.
And then had come Donnie. It was at
the school where Kitty was learning to
dance. Most nights he went along to be
with her, and by the time the night was
over his head was full of the tap-tap of
dancing feet. It made him tired, and when
he came home he did not feel like taking
out his textbooks and studying. Then
one night Donnie had come to the school
and stood there talking to Miss Rosalind
and watching the girls go through their
exercises. Almost at once he had taken
a dislike to him. There was something
too smart and clever about him. Miss
Rosalind introduced them. It seemed that
Donnie did a dancing act in one of the
city shows. She told him about Donnie’s
shows. She told him about Donnie’s
partner being sick, and how he was look-
ing for someone to take her place. “He
thinks he might take one of my girls,”
said Miss Rosalind, “and who do you
think it is?”
The way she said it there was no ques-
tion. He went sick in the stomach at
the thought of it. Kitty. Kitty, who was
breaking her neck for just such a chance.
It was that dim and distant future being
thrust forward and made real. He
looked at Donnie and was conscious of
the swift smart of jealousy. “She’ll be
pleased,” he said.
They called her over and told her
about it. Sitting in the stalls he remem-
bered how her eyes had been bright
almost as though she wanted to cry.
T' HAT was the night he had asked Kitty
1 to marry him. They had walked
home together, and from her hand on
his arm he could feel the excitement of
her. The one thought in his mind was
the fear of losing her. They had stood
at the gate, and she had gone on telling
him what a wonderful opportunity it was.
All the time he was thinking of the
sleekly handsome Donnie and of a girl
dancing with him in the bright lights of
the stage. And then he had asked her to
marry him.
She had looked at him for a long
time without speaking. He had the feel-
ing that she was trying to detach herself
from the other excitement of the night.
It wasn’t going to make any difference
to them, she said; it was a job and that
was all. She tried to tell him that it was
just the same as getting a job anywhere.
J T was just a job and things were going
1 to be the same as they had always
been. But it hadn’t happened that way.
The turn with Donnie had been successful.
They were booked for another show, and
then there was a trip to Melbourne. After
that there was more of Donnie. Then
had come the time when she had told
him that she was going to marry Donnie.
There had been no need for her to tell
him. He had known it for a long time.
The funny part about it was that he had
taken it so badly.
It wasn’t long after that he heard
about her wedding. That was the
beginning of that mystery of “hearing”
about her. He “heard” about the baby ;
he heard” that it had died ; he “heard”
about Donnie leaving her. He was
always hearing things—about the divorce
and the hard times. But somehow there
did not seem to be any reality in the
knowledge ; it was something dim and
distant.
Sitting in the stalls he cleared the
blurred vision that was the memory of
all that from his eyes. He watched as
she whirled herself into a wild spin
before she finished her dance, and sud-
denly there was a great pity in his heart.
She was breathing hard, and he could
almost hear the sound of it above the
music. There was applause, and she
bowed her way back to the chair on the
stage. There was someone else already
coming forward to take up the perform-
ance, but he had no eyes for the new-
comer. He was watching Kitty. Now
that attention had been taken away from
her, the fixed smile had gone from her
face and she was fighting to regain her
breath. He could almost sense the pain
of those swift gasps. In that moment
he wanted to get up and shout and tell
them to take her from the stage. But
he just sat and watched, and the pity of
it began to mount in his heart.
His eyes drifted down and he read the
names in the programme. There was
hers right at the top—Kitty Benson.
Beneath it were the names of others in
order. He remembered them all—“ The
Veterans of Vaudeville, the Stars or
Yesterday.” Again the immense sense
of pity came to him. It was wrong,
inhuman. He tried to think back to that
old Kitty, but all his mind could see was
the woman with lines in her face gasping
for breath.
CT HE was old and tired. All those years
out of life were pressing hard on
her. Sitting on the chair on the stage
the struggle for her breathing was still
going on. The swift stabs of pain were
spearing into her heart and her throat
was dry for the grasp of air. But she
was happy, happy! Her mind was
bubbling with the thought of it, and
there was no connection with the pain
of her body. She was back again, and
there were people out there watching and
listening to her dancing and singing. She
didn’t think back to the years of eking
out an existence. This was the future.
FOLLOW FORM
AND-
SINCE the first race, Spadger Bourke
had been working on the stranger
and now, for the first time in that
three-quarters of an hour, he had
the feeling that success was likely to
reward his efforts. His victim had
travelled in succession through the
several stages from point-blank suspicion
to a slightly uncertain faith in Spadger’s
integrity.
“Charlie,” said Spadger, with the
warmth and confidence of an age-old
friend, “I always say you can tell an
’onest man at a glance.” He waved his
hand. “I s’pose,” he said, “that’s wot
attracted you to me an’ the same applies
to me. I could see in ’alf a tick you was
the right kind an’ I was real sorry when
I saw y’ tear up y’r ticket after the first
race. I wish I’d met you sooner an’ then
you’d ’a’ still ’ad that dough to shove on
the certainty I got for the third.”
“I was thinkin’ of backing Katwan in
the third,” said the stranger. “I’ve been
studyin’ its form.”
Spadger leaned closer. “Charlie,” he
said, “I useter foller form meself once
an’ it taught me a lesson. Form don’t
mean nothin’. What counts is knowin’
a few jockeys an’ a few trainers. The
on’y time form’s any good it in a form
reversal when you’re in the know. Foller
form an’ go broke; it’s a well-known
phrase.” Screwing up his eye he studied
his companion. “Now in this race I got
one that ain’t got any form to speak of,
but he’ll be a mile in front of your form
’orse at the finish. I tell y’ ’e’s a world
certainty,” He paused again. “ ’Ow
much money you got?”
Charlie began to shift uneasily from
one foot to the other. “I s’pose I’ve
got about twenty quid,” he said finally.
Spadger grinned, “Good,” he said.
“After this race you oughter be worth a
coupla ’undred. This thing I’ve got
oughter start tens at least, an’ I’ve got
a brother-in-law wot’s a bookmaker who
is always willin’ to give any friend of
mine something over the odds. We’ll go
and see ’im an’ you can shove it on for
y’rself.”
Charlie was regarding him more than
a little doubtfully. Spadger watched him
and could feel the doubt beginning to
creep back into his heart. “Charlie,” he
said, “I’m ashamed of you. I can see wot
you’re thinkin’. You’re thinkin’ that I’m
one of them there racecourse urgers.”
Charlie blinked. “Nunno,” he said
quickly, startled at the truth of Spadger’s
statement. “I was just thinkin’ I oughter
put somethin’ on Katwan. I’ve been
studyin’ its form an’ it’s trained here.”
„ *Foller form,” said Spadger patiently,
’an’ go broke, an’ I’m sorry I misjudged
you.” He paused. “Anyway,” he said,
you oughter know I ain’t no urger when
I tell y’ that I don’t want to ’andle your
money, an’ I don’t want nothin’ out of
it when the ’orse wins. It’s enough for
me to see you win. It always makes me
’appy to do people good.”
Before this barrage Charlie wavered
and was lost. “Orright,” he said, “what’s
its name?”
Spadger looked carefully to each side
and then bent over and whispered: “The
Phantom.”
Charlie searched through his form
guide. “It ain’t got a decent form,” he
commented.
Foller form,” said Spadger briefly,
“an’ go broke.”
In a couple of minutes they were stand-
ing in front of Spadger’s bookmaking
brother-in-law. On the way through the
ring they heard The Phantom being called
at tens. Spadger edged nearer to the
bookmaker. “Me friend,” he said, “wants
twenty quid on The Phantom. Wot’s
the price to him being a friend of mine?”
The bookmaker wiped his face. “A
friend of yours can have twelves.”
“Give ’im y’r money an’ get y’r ticket,”
said Spadger.
For a moment Charlie hesitated. “That
thing I picked out, Katwan,” he said, “it’s
got the form.”
“Foller form,” said Spadger sagely,
“an’ go broke.”
'T'BN minutes later Spadger turned the
1 corner of the stand alone. On his
face was a satisfied smile. The race was
over, and in the excitement of the horses
thundering down the straight he had man-
aged to slip away from his companion.
It was just as well, he realised, as his
eyes took in the numbers of the placed
horses. Katwan had won right enough,
but The Phantom hadn’t even run a place.
Spadger rubbed his hands together and
headed into the ring to come to a halt
before the bookmaker who had taken
Charlie’s bet. “I come for me cut,” he
said.
The odds-caller turned to his clerk.
“Give’s a tenner, Jim,” he said. A
moment later he was counting the money
into Spadger’s palm.
“It’s a great gag,” said Spadger pleas-
antly. “He wanted to back the winner
but I steered ’im orf it. I told ’im you
was me brother-in-law.”
• • • • • *
A N hour later Spadger’s head emerged
TA from a form paper. For the better
part of that hour the yellow sheet
had occupied his whole attention, but
now everything was settled. He ran
over the points in his mind. Shifty Lady
had run a good fifth at her last perform-
ance, finishing on over seven furlongs.
Today’s race was a mile, and she was
fourteen pounds better off. On top of
that she was trained on the track and
had done four in fifty in a gallop. There
wasn’t a doubt about it; she had the
form. With a start Spadger realised that
it was getting close to race-time. In an
instant he was heading for the betting
ring. Once again he approached his
pseudo brother-in-law. “Wot price Shifty
Lady?” he asked.
The bookmaker looked at him.
“Listen,” he said, “you don’t want to
waste your dough. I got the drum about
one in this. The Gunner. It’ll walk it
in. They been runnin’ it dead fer
months.”
Spadger blinked. “And ’ere’s me,” he
said, “workin’ out the form of Shifty
Lady!”
“Foller form,” said the bookmaker,
“and go broke ; and listen, Spadger, put
your bet on with Sammy Cohen, will y’?
I’d like to see ’im pay out a bit of
dough.”
“Sure,” said Spadger.
Obediently Spadger placed his bet with
Sammy Cohen, and from there went
down to watch the race. Five minutes
later he was tearing up his ticket and
watching Shifty Lady’s number go up
in the box. The Gunner had run no-
where.
“Foller form,” he said bitterly, “an’ go
broke.”
• •••••
| T was after the last race and the book-
* makers were moving in ones and twos
towards the gates. Spadger’s “brother-in-
law” joined one of them and they moved
along together.
“Sammy,” said Spadger’s “brother-in-
law,” “you owe me a fiver. I sent a
cove over with a tenner for The Gunner.”
Sammy grinned and passed the fiver.
“It’s a great gag,” said Spadger’s
“brother-in-law.” “It’s easy dough,”
“Sure,” said Sammy; “money for no-
thin’.”
FUNERAL BIT
IT was almost a ritual. Every morning
the old woman would sit in the patch
of sunlight on the front verandah
gently rocking from side to side on
her chair and asking for the “funTal bit.”
She was old, tremendously old. The skin
on her face was like shrivelled yellow
leather, and her mouth seemed to be
hiding away in the folds. When at last
they gave her the page with the funeral
notices she would give a satisfied sort of
purr and her half-blind eyes would move
eagerly down the columns.
But this morning something was differ-
ent. They were later than ever with the
paper. Strange things, too, were going
on around the house. There seemed to
be a lot of people, and everything seemed
to be muffled and silent. For a moment
she tried to think about it, but there were
other thoughts groping in her mind and
she touched the edge of one of them.
“Why don’t somebody bring me the
fun’ral bit?” she said.
There was the sound of voices close to
her. There seemed to be someone cry-
ing. That was a thought, full and static.
It hung suspended in her mind. Then
suddenly it was gone, and the edge of
that other thought was back. She knew
then what she wanted, and in a plaintive
voice she asked for the funeral bit.
Then they all seemed to be gone,
and her mind was a queer jumble
of thoughts, thoughts without reason,
pictures that hung suspended in her
mind. She had a feeling that they
meant something to her, but she couldn’t
think what. A moment later they were
gone, and there were people near her
again. Someone was speaking and the
sound of the voice filled her with a vague
sense of irritation.
“It’s Charlie, Gran. I’ve come back
to see y’.”
She opened her eyes and blinked
into the savage light of the sun. She
looked at the man standing in front of
her without curiosity. His presence
was like something happening halfway
through a splendid dream. But there
was something else. She wrinkled her
brow and tried to think about it. It was
hard, tremendously hard, to bring back
that little edging of thought, but she had
it at last.
“I ain’t seen the funTal bit,” she said.
“Gran,” he said, “it’s ipe—Charlie.
You remember ; Charlie.”
“I ain’t seen the funTal bit,” she re-
peated. “Why don’t someone give me
the fun’ral bit?”
The man was gone then and she wasn’t
sure whether it wasn’t just another of
those pictures in her mind. She wept
back to rocking herself gently from side
to side. There was something missing,
but now she couldn’t think what it was.
1N the house there was the heavy scent
1 of flowers and a woman was crying.
Around her women in black dresses were
trying to comfort her. Men in their best
suits stood around and looked uncomfort-
able. They were thinking of getting to
the hotel. It was funny how a glass of
beer could wash the taste of death out
of your mouth. They talked in low
voices and tried not to mention the sub-
ject of Jimmy dying. “Gran was askin’
for the funeral bit,” Charlie said. “She
doesn’t know anything about Jimmy.
They don’t want her to see it because
they reckon the shock might be too
much.”
“He always was her favorite,” said one
of the others.
D ERCHED on the end of the veran-
* dah the boy watched his great-grand-
mother rocking to and fro on the old
chair. He thought for a moment that
she had gone to sleep. It was funny
thinking of someone being asleep and
rocking on a chair at the same time.
Then suddenly the wrinkled lids over
her eyes propped open. “The fun’ral bit,”
she said. “I want the funTal bit. Tell
Jimmy to bring the funTal bit.”
The boy looked at her. He wanted to
tell her the exciting thing about his father
being dead. He wasn’t quite sure what
being dead actually was except that it
was exciting and the house was filled
with people who wanted to give him
money to buy lollies. He looked at his
great-grandmother speculatively.
“Me farver’s dead,” he said, “an’
there’s wreaths ’n’ everythin’.”
For a brief moment the rocking
stopped. She tried to grope around the
thought with her mind, but that other
edging of thought was back again.
“Tell Jimmy t’ bring me the funTal
bit,” she said, and, closing her eyes, she
went back to her rocking in the sun.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3236.
Wednesday, February 18, 1942.
WHO TELL YOU BRING DAMN’ BIGGER ONE?


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 2.52 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
LOST SINGAPORE.
‘O Varus, Varus, give me back my legions!”
Cry of a Roman Emperor after a frontier dis-
aster.
“It is the old story,” wrote lan Pitched,
the Australian war correspondent, of
“the strung and suffering line” of British
imperial troops on Singapore Island—
“the old case” of an unequal struggle
against “huge numbers” of enemy sol-
diers and of bombers who, “though our
fighters made a gallant effort,” were “at
it all day.” “I hear the same cry that
was heard on the plains of Greece and
the coasts of Crete,” said Major-General
Bennett when “some Hurricane aircraft”
were “still operating gallantly.” After
the Hurricanes had been overwhelmed,
doomed soldiers could be seen taking
shelter in ditches, with “Japanese
bombers strafing them at their leisure.”
In another scene of the dreadful drama
an American correspondent saw “relay
after relay of Japanese ’planes circling
and then going into murderous dives on
our soldiers, who fight back in a hell
over which there is no screen of fighters.”
And he saw heroes go up in “two Wilde-
beestes —obsolete 100-miles-an-hour bi-
planes—fly low over the Japanese posi-
tions and then unload their bombs with
a resounding crash,”
It makes me ashamed to be sitting here,
with my heart beating faster than their old
motors, when I think of the chance those
lads have of getting back.
“An old story” indeed, written in blood
and tears —in Poland, Norway, the Low
Countries, France, Greece, Crete and
Malaya, and with the same grim features
and stark evidence of unlearned lessons
in every chapter since the first. In
Norway German air superiority was such
that many poor Tommies were bombed
to death before they could land, and two
fighter squadrons which tried to impro-
vise an aerodrome on a frozen lake were
annihilated in an afternoon. In Greece
two British divisions and the Anzacs had
to fight five armored divisions, plus an
air force with “complete mastery.”
We got down to a very small number
of Hurricanes, and it was pitiful to see the
young British pilots going up, knowing that
if they were successful the first day their
chances fbr the second day were much less,
and that they would be more than lucky
if they lived through the third day. In the
final stages we had no ’planes at all. The
only things we had to fight the Germans
with at that time were Bren guns and some
small arms.—General Blarney.
In Crete the Anzacs, all that were left
of them, were “literally blown out of
the island by an air attack which flesh
and blood could not withstand.” That
was said by Mr. Fraser at Cairo, address-
ing his Maorilanders. “We must and
shall see,” the Prime Minister added,
“that next time you go into battle you
will have adequate air support and
ground equipment.” On the evidence of
the second campaign in Libya, he was
as good as his word. Though the Maori-
landers suffered severely in the tough
fighting with Rommel’s army, it was not
through any lack of equipment on the
ground or in the air. But the possibility
of their having had to contend with
superior numbers is at least sug-
gested by Mr. Churchill’s recent state-
ment that Generals Auchinleck and
Ritchie have never been able to pit more
than 48,000 men against “forces doubly
strong,” though they may have contrived
at times to be stronger at a given point—
which, as Napoleon said, and Mr.
Churchill has never learned, is the main
thing in war. Anyway, Mr. Fraser should
see that the assurance he doubtless re-
ceived holds good for future operations,
especially as there is reason to fear that
the forces in Libya were weakened just
when the enemy was receiving consider-
able reinforcements.
What assurance, if any, did the Aus-
tralian authorities ask for and receive?
Of the Government in which he was
Minister of the Army, Mr. Spender said
on July 2 that it “has taken second place
to no one in its determination to do all
in its power to assure that our troops are
fully equipped.”
No Government could have, by cablegram
and by direct representation, done more
than this Government has done to ensure
the attainment of that objective.... In the
cablegrams which were sent it was made
abundantly clear that we insisted with the
British Government on the obligation to
have our troops fully equipped when they
went into action.
Mr. Spender was replying to Mr.
Beasley, who had made some very
trenchant remarks on the subject of
equipment in Greece and Crete and had
declared that “the British Prime Minister
must be held partly responsible.” He
quoted an English writer’s comments on
Mr. Churchill:
Churchill is Argus, with his eyes on every-
thing He is an octopus with his hands on
everything. His War Cabinet doesn’t for-
mulate policy; it merely implements the
policy Churchill formulates. The War
Cabinet, instead of being a dynamo and
drive of ideas, becomes a rubber stamp.
Mr. Beasley is now No. 3 in a Govern-
ment which has made it very plain that
it shares the English writer’s sentiments.
It came into office two months before
Japan entered the war, and there is no
reason to doubt that it represented
in the strongest terms that the A.I.F.
should not be employed anywhere with-
out adequate equipment, in what Mr.
Beasley called the “common meaning”
of the term. Its representations went for
nothing in Malaya, but when devastating
superiority in numbers and equipment
had prevailed in the peninsula it must
have been told something which gratified
it immensely. At all events, its Mr.
Forde gave the defenders of Singapore on
February 4 “a binding promise of our
utmost support with all possible speed,”
such a measure of assistance as
will go, not as a few consignments from
a shrinking store, but as a stream which
will swell to a flood, and a flood which
will grow to an overwhelming torrent.”
In style, significance and sequel, worthy
of Mr. Churchill himself.
No torrent, flood or stream reached
those brave men in their extremity. For
them there was nothing left but to hold
out as long as they could and exact the
full price in blood from the exultant
enemy, hoping against hope that the
officers and men of the Royal Navy and
the Merchant Navy who shared their
agony would bring off another miracle
of evacuation. And how grandly they
went about their grim work! How in-
spiring it must have been to souls and
bodies tried almost beyond endurance to
know that Singapore itself was staunch,
that the Lion City had proved worthy
of its name and fame! How splendid
it was to read in cities yet untouched by
war that on the fifth day of the assault
the Singapore “Free Press” came out as
usual with a single sheet bearing one
headline: “Singapore Must Stand! It
Shall Stand.” That is the spirit that
wins wars ; the spirit that will win this
war in the Pacific, though perils accumu-
late and other calamities may have to be
endured.
But one blazing truth emerges from
the dark story of preventable disaster
and suffering. Mr. Churchill may be the
world’s greatest spellbinder, but he has
proved himself the world’s worst
campaign-planner. The direction of
strategy and the disposition of forces,
weapons and munitions must, once and
for all, be taken from his guilty and in-
capable hands. From the time he sent
two raw battalions of the Royal Naval
Division to Antwerp to beat the German
Army and tried to clinch the business
with “a famous harangue” (Lord Esher),
all his military adventures have exhibited
the same marks and brands —imperfect
information, gross miscalculation, insuffi-
cient preparation, unreasoning optimism
and reliance on words to do the work of
weapons. No empire could survive Mr.
Churchill’s methods of making war if it
let him play at being a military dictator
to the finish.
Judged on its record in Empire matters,
the Churchill Government is the greatest
calamity that Britain has had in the line
of Governments since the Administration
of Lord North.
Lord North quitted office before the
loss of the American colonies was accepted.
Mr. Churchill may survive the loss of
Singapore and the twin shock of the
German battleships’ sweep through the
Channel, but he will have to drop some
of his colleagues. One who will never
be missed is Lord Moyne, the Guinness-
stout peer, who, when Prince of Wales
and Repulse had been lost for lack of the
aircraft protection which the Germans
gave their battleships making the Channel
passage, and when the outnumbered
British imperial army was being punished
by the almost-unresisted Japanese
bombers, came out with blither worthy
of Bubb Doddington and Lord George
Germaine: “The vastness of the aid
we have given Russia will be known
some day.” With equal imbecility this
Secretary for the Colonies (!) offered his
cackling sympathy to the people for
whom he should have striven —when
Moulmein and Martaban had gone and
Singapore was about to fall! Bitterly must
the lost army and people of Malaya and
Singapore Island have resented these im-
pertinences, and bitterly must they be
brooding on Lord Beaverbrook’s com-
placent statement, made when Singa-
pore and its garrison were doomed, that
Britain had in 1941 sent to ‘‘Allies,
Dommions and troops serving overseas
..} aircraft, knowing, as they did, how
pitifully few of the 9721 reached their
own possessions. And Lord Beaverbrook,
who tries so hard to talk like Mr.
Churchill, said more:-
British tanks played a very big part in
the defence of Moscow. All Britain’s proto-
col obligations [to Russia], with the excep-
tion of one tank, have been fulfilled. This
credit we are entitled to take after the sacri-
fices we have made.
We have a very great deal more to do.
We must send to Russia strictly under the
terms of the protocol immensely increased
shipments of tanks and aircraft. The Minis-
tries of Supply and Aircraft Production are
preparing for that additional strain on their
resources.
If knowledge of mundane things reaches
the great spirits of the glorious past,
what must the two Pitts, Clive, Wolfe,
Raffles and Captain Cook think of the
Government that remembered-—and still
remembers Russia and forgot the
Empire!
Cripps Broadcasts.
Back from Russia, Sir Stafford Cripps
has been telling the inhabitants of John
Bull’s home island just how little he
thinks of them. He refused a high
Government post, preferring the role of
public critic. He might be useful in such
a role; he is certain to get plenty of
limelight.
In Sir Stafford’s view, the contrast
between the Russians and those dumb
blocks the British is enough to make
angels weep. Even the weather in
Britain apparently doesn’t know there’s
a war on: “You have had cold this
winter, but not Russia’s 30 or 40 degrees
below zero.” Sir Stafford should divert
the Gulf Stream.
As for what the peoples of the two
countries have been going through:
You have known the horrors of pro-
longed air raids, but have not experienced
the brutalities and violence of the Nazi in-
vaders. Many of you are members of the
Home Guard, but you have not yet had
to become guerrillas, certain to die a death
by torture if captured. You work long
hours and your food rations are less than
in peace-time, but you have not been
starved, stripped of your clothing and_
forced to work like slaves building roads'
and fortifications to defeat your own
countrymen. Those sufferings are at present
going on in Russia.
True; but there’s an answer. The
answer is the R.A.F. and the Royal Navy.
But for the dogged, splendid, unpubli-
cised work of the Navy from the begin-
ning the war would have been over by
now —the British end of it, that is ; the
Jap end of it would have started sooner,
and, instead of Australians fighting
heroically with British, Indians and others
in the hopeless defence of Singapore, they
would be fighting on Australian soil for
their very existence.
There might be some excuse for over-
looking the part of the silent arm —the
untold story of the heroism of its men,
going on with their job as a matter of
course, with little rest, and in conditions
that those who overlook them could not
even imagine. The R.A.F.’s magnificent
defence of Britain could not thus be kept
hidden. It was done there in the public
view—terrific battles against odds in the
skies over Britain ; equal to anything in
the most glorious chapters of British
history.
These, with some help from the seas
that serve Britain as a moat, provide the
answer to Sir Stafford’s problem in con-
trasts. It is quite certain that if the
R.A.F. had failed to exceed even the
highest expectations of it Britain would
long ago have been invaded, and would
have suffered all Sir Stafford reports the
unfortunate Russian people as suffering.
At that time the Russians were not in the
war, and would not have been in it.
There is not the slightest evidence that
Sir Stafford would dare to put forward
in a court of law to support any assump-
tion that if the R.A.F. had failed and
Britain had been invaded Russia would
have struck at Germany in Britain’s
defence.
Invaded, the Russians have fought
as stubbornly as they fought Swedish
Charles and Napoleon. They probably
never at any time had any doubts about
the beastliness of the Nazi beast in war.
They probably knew that their turn would
come. When it did come they were at
first forced back and back, until the
noisiest of those who give their first
loyalty to Russia and what’s left (if any)
to their own country were silent with
despair. But the Russians —inspired by
appeals based not on Communistic but
on nationalistic grounds ; the defence of
themselves, their people and their homes,
in their homeland—took a heavy toll of
the advancing invaders, and, when the
impetus of the onslaught eased and
winter came, struck back fiercely.
They have put up a grand fight. The
immensity of the struggle, the huge
masses of troops and arms used in it,
indicates what Hitler could have done
elsewhere if he had not attacked Russia.
Unfortunately, it isn’t over yet. Sir
Stafford spoke ominously of spring pos-
sibilities, urging the British to redouble
their efforts to supply Russia ; holding
out the hope that, if this can be done,
the Germans might.be beaten “this year.”
In that he echoed warnings against over-
wishful thinking that had recently come
from the highest authorities in America
and from Russia itself. That Russia will
be supplied with everything Britain can
give it needs no stating. What other
country in the world but Britain would
have supplied an ally with 1000 ’planes
and the rest at the expense of the safety
of its own possessions and Dominions?
In the circumstances—with the story
of comparatively ill-equipped troops try-
ing heroically to stem the Jap drive down
on to Singapore known to everybody—it
seems a bit thick not to acknowledge that,
in regard to helping Russia, Britain has
been generous to a fault. Some would
say to a default.
It seems presumptuous, too, to lecture
the British people as Sir Stafford chose
to do. The British are not now suffering
what the unfortunate invaded Russians
have been suffering because the British
have not been invaded. They have not
been invaded because the magnificent
continuous work of the Navy and the
spectacular heroism of the R.A.F. pre-
vented it. But it’s curious impertinence,
as well as being absurd, to imply—per a
string of legalistic innuendoes —that if
the British were placed in the position of
the Russians they would fail their tradi-
tions. The R.A.F. told the Germans
very dearly—if it meant nothing to
others—what they could expect from the
British people as a whole if they’d been
rash enough to risk an invasion.
Other parts of Sir Stafford’s lecturing
—where he was not belting a hobbyhorse
with exaggerated comparisons— suggested
that he should have value as a freelance
critic.
We are still too much cluttered up with
old conceptions, party politics and peace-
time organisations, and also with the idea
that we must run the war according to a set
of rules which preserve a rigid balance be-
tween competing interests. We are too
gentlemanly in our treatment of offenders
against the totality of our war effort. We
have not yet attained a total effort because
many are still thinking of what their posi-
tion is likely to be after the war.
If that is true of Britain, how much
more so is it of Australia. It is practi-
cally an echo of what Mr. Menzies said
when he returned from Britain, and what
General Blarney said when he returned
from the Middle East. They were
shocked by the party politics, the carni-
val spirit and all the rest that was typical
of the Australian scene even in the worst
week that the Empire has ever known. On
the morning last week that news of the
Jap landing on Singapore was published,
news was also published that seven coal-
mines on the northern fields and five on
the southern were idle in N. S. Wales.
Because the Federal Government —still
“board-minded” —had delegated its war-
control authority to the provincial “Gov-
ernments,” with the implied proviso that
there must on no account be compulsion,
N.E.S. was still a confusion of amateur-
ism and hysterics.
In other respects the Australian scene
remained what the returning Mr. Men-
zies and General Blarney found it. This
is no fault of Australians at large. Neither
British nor Russians could be more will-
ing to do whatever may be asked of
them. It is a matter of firm and realistic
direction, on a total-war basis. This Aus-
tralians at large have not received even
yet, though the Government has issued
a peck of regulations which like the
unenforced regulations that were to have
put down strikes —go too far in some
directions and not far enough in others,
meaning conscription and control of
taxes.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Intelligence" and Propa-
ganda.
The Japanese war lords have been well
served by their myriads of spies, who
have ranged over the Pacific in all sorts
of disguises. All the same, British
Intelligence did things as remarkable in
other days without the aid of myriads
of spies. Even in the last war it beat
the Germans at their own game. Ger-
man spies sneaking into Britain were
soon rounded up and hanged. The inter-
ception of the Zimmerman dispatch,
which virtually brought the United States
into the war, was a British achievement.
In more distant wars British secret
agents brought off coups which pro-
foundly affected the course of events.
One furnished Canning with the secret
articles of the Treaty of Tilsit, thus
enabling that wideawake statesman to
take measures for the seizure of the
Danish fleet before Napoleon could grab
it. The press itself sometimes received
secret information which Ministers with
vision turned to good account. A Lon-
don editor gave Disraeli the tip which
resulted in the purchase of the Canal
shares.
In the last few years there have been
more foreign correspondents at large than
at any previous period of history ; yet,
as Sisley Huddleston, a journalist of the
old school, put it in an article written
after the collapse of France, “England
(and he might have made it the Empire)
“has been fed on a mess of illusions and
of lies.”
The fanaticism of partisan propaganda
seized the press. Editors and journalists
have been given their heads and have lost
them I think it is one of the reasons
—perhaps the principal reason —why we are
at war and why we have hitherto conducted
it so badly The roots of the evil, the
keeping of the public in ignorance about
fundamental things, the pandering to mass
passions, the creation of “ideologies, the
manufacture of “personalities,” lie in the
general acceptance of the morality and
the desirability of what is called propa-
ganda There is no more straight writing
or straight news; there is only propaganda.
Hence “newspapers have been consis-
tently wrong about the war. ’ And so
have Ministers, especially the Minister
whom all the newspapers conspired to
boom, and whom they still hesitate to
criticise, although the results of his appal-
ling blunders have been felt throughout
the democratic world. “Ministers,'’
Huddleston wrote, “have been extraordi-
narily lavish of the ‘frantic boast and
foolish word.’ They seem to imagine
that bombastic language, gross exaggera-
tion, excessive confidence and conceal-
ment of unpleasant facts, together with
vague and vain gestures and unprepared
expeditions, will somehow do the trick.”
Huddleston’s words are as apt today
as when they were written. Rightly
taken, they explain why journalism has
fallen down on its job. But how explain
the failure of British Intelligence? Per-
haps this failure is more apparent than
real. Perhaps British diplomacy has come
to rely more on newspapers for its in-
formation than on its own observers, or
it may be that the observers, or many
of them, have found the übiquitous cor-
respondent something more than a credu-
lous nuisance. Diplomacy itself has
fallen from its high estate. The diplo-
matic service has had no successes in
this war, though it had them in the last.
There is a vast amount of sneering at
“the Old School Tie.” It comes, for the
most part, from the “fly-flats” who told
us that faction-ridden France was united
hy a sacred determination to crush Ger-
many, who never even suspected the
existence of Quislings in Norway, and
w ho dismissed Japan as a clumsy bluffer,
short of every requisite, especially oil,
and with an exhausted army and a push-
over” air force. They and their kind
are £ ar m ore to blame for what has come
to p ass than the Old School Tie. Sur-
v j ya j Q £ t he Old School Tie would matter
nothing if with it there had survived the
Qj d p ore jg n policy, the Old Diplomacy
an( j the Old Journalism, which told the
truth and shamed the devil.
Who Rules?
A week or so ago an Arbitration Court
Judge, exasperated by the attitude of a
Moulders’ Union, demanded to know
who ruled Australia. In respect of coal,
the N. S. Wales coalminers have a right
to the doubtful honor that is almost as
watertight as a Torrens title to land.
True, there is in Canberra a Common-
wealth Government, complete with a
Prime Minister, a War Cabinet, an ordi-
nary Cabinet, Ministers and lesser lights,
not forgetting a War Advisory Council.
That this Government at Canberra be-
lieves it has the right to govern the coun-
try goes without saying. It expresses
that belief in constantly issuing orders,
proclamations and regulations which, it.
says, must be obeyed on pain of drastic
penalties. But in respect of coal its
writs don’t run in Old King Coal s
domain.
At the beginning of the year it issued
appeals to striking coalies to get back to
work. The coalies ignored them. Then
Mr. Curtin delivered a “24-hour ulti-
matum.” That was ignored. Then came
a parcel of regulations: miners who re-
fused to work would have their military
exemptions cancelled and be liable, along
with mineowners held guilty of causing
stoppages, to fines of £lOO or six months
gaol, or both—-more if convicted on in-
dictment. They, too, were ignored.
Strikes went on. Presently three of Mr.
Curtin’s Ministers were found attending
a conference asked for or ordered by the
Miners’ Federation. And strikes went on.
Meantime, the Pacific war situation
rushed from bad to worse. With the
final assault on Singapore itself, the Can-
berra “Government” issued new regula-
tions “pegging” wages, profits, invest-
ments and so forth and making absen-
teeism in industry” illegal!
The Miners’ Federation thereupon sent
a “large delegation’ to Canberra de-
mand repeal of the penalties provided
for absence of work in Mr. Curtins
earlier regulations, increased safety in
mines during air raids, transportation for
miners, the elimination of bogus unions
and provision of equipment and muni-
tions for armed detachments on the coal-
fields.
The “delegation” was met by Messrs.
Curtin, Evatt, Beasley, James, Ward, Laz-
zarini and Watkins. Next day Australians
were told that the Miners’ Federation had
issued an “urgent appeal” for ‘ resump-
tion” at all idle pits except one, that the
Government would discuss with the mine-
owners the matters it had dis-
cussed with the miners, that it had dis-
closed to us” the gravity of the inter-
national situation, that we felt conn-
dent of “considerable improvements m
the relations” between Government,
owners and miners, and that no further
stoppages would take place at least while
our proposals are under consideration.
There was nothing about the right to
form private armies on the coalfields.
More could be said, but enough has
been said to make it clear that the coal-
miners are far ahead on points in the
claim as to who rules Australia at least
in respect of coal.
UNOFFICIAL DELEGATE.
"With N.S.W. coalmines still held up by strikes last week Miners' Federation officials attebded a cibferebce ti urge on
the Gevernment 'repeal of penalties for absence from work,' increased safety in mincs during air raids,' and 'provision of
equipment and munitions for minefields.'"
"Y es, Dig., we know— but wait your turn!”
Australia.
We have been daring in our dreams
Of freedom, which none know
In lands where every nation schemes
Another’s overthrow ;
But now we stand at turning ways;
Our sheltered years have gone :
Red roads of war before us blaze
Which we must travel on.
Here, at the turning of the ways,
Fate could no craven find
Though none in front a flag would raise
And none would stand behind.
Our steadfast faith and each strong hand
And heart would be our aid;
And love of this our lonely land
Would keep us unafraid.
Onward with kinsmen brave who are
Free men like us we’ll go .. ■
Dead men shall sleep ’neath sun and star,
And doleful trumpets blow.
And sad hearts mourn and women weep.
Yet never foe shall stand
As victor where our mountains keep
Their watch o’er sea and land.
March on, Australia, while the hills
Rejoice and in the skies
The banner of the strong, that thrills.
In every free wind flies.
No man shall rob us of our dreams,
Nor slavery shall bring
To us whose light of freedom gleams,
A proud and burning thing.
n.s.w.
WILL LAWSON.


>:
V:--:
im
FULL OF LIFE
YOUR children, too, will be full of life
if you keep them free from constipation.
When they are constipated, give them
NYAL FIGSEN, the gentle, natural
laxative. Children love to chew Figsen.
It’s kind to sensitive tummies. It’s
so dependable and thorough. Its action
is so easy and comfortable—no nausea,
no pain. NYAL FIGSEN tablets are
good for grown-ups too. Figsen is one
of the 168 dependable NYAL FAMILY
MEDICINES. Sold by Chemists every-
where. 1/3 i a tin.
The next best thing id Nature . . .
Nyal Figsen
FOR CONSTIPRTIOH
THAT
zm.
V
HMD OVER YOUR WORRY
The business of this Company is not only to relieve its clients of worry concerning
the future administration of their estates, but—if desired —to undertake for them
the efficient conduct of their personal business during lifetime. Thus, those living in
retirement, or those whose professional duties are all-absorbing, can hand over to
the Company the supervision of investments and property, the preparation of income
tax returns, collection of rents, payment of rates and taxes, etc., with consequent
relief of mind, and positive assurance of competent, conscientious administration.
Full details of this seiVice are contained in a special brochure entitled " Hand Over
£%jr W; -v" which will be forwarded free on request.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 7901 Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
No. 161
“TUMBA”
CATTLE DROVER POLEY
★
for
Saddlery
Catalogue
—FREE!
£9/16/9
(Complete)
This is a
moderately-
priced saddle
o f splendid
quality. The
seat is of hog-
skin, and the
flaps of good
kip.
TVS.H''. freight on
saddles paid for
cash with order.
WALTHER * STEVEMSOM I??:
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
Should it be Churchill, G.C.M.G.
(Greece, Crete, Malaya, Gallipoli), or
Churchill, G.C.S.I. (Greece, Crete, Singa-
pore Island)? Or both?
“Singapore Falls. Three N.S.W. South
Coast Mines Idle. About 1500 Miners
Involved.” That’s how it appeared on
Monday—3o days after gazettal of the
regulations making workstoppers liable
to heavy fines, imprisonment, impress-
ment as soldiers and expulsion from the
union!
Control of interest rates and “transfers
of labor,” pegging of wages, profits and
“prices of all goods and services,” and
prohibition of “absenteeism in industry,”
speculation in commodities and “the sale
or investment of capital” were announced
by Curtin last week. But he didn’t say
a word about control of taxes to prevent
State Government extortion and the vast
waste incident to unnecessary returns and
assessments, or about calling up persons
not in the fighting or ancillary services
for national emergency work,
Maoriland Labor has made enrolment
in an Emergency Reserve Corps obliga-
tory on all men betv/een the ages of 18
and 65 inclusive, other than men already
enlisted to fight or serve and chronic
invalids. Throughout the war Maoriland
Labor has been months ahead of Austra-
lian Labor, though there are still Maori-
landers who complain that it is not doing
enough.
When Singapore was at its last gasp
only one of Australia’s seven Parliaments
was in session, and that one was the two-
Chamber infliction in the State which has
never had 250,000 people. And that
grim Wednesday was declared a holiday
so that members might go to a Hobart
race meeting.
Playford has been holding forth in
Adelaide on “the muddle and delay
caused by the multitude of boards and
commissioners”:
In South Australia there are six different
Commonwealth authorities dealing with
one matter, and not infrequently at variance
with one another. We had co-ordinating
authorities to co-ordinate the work of the
various departments; now we have to have
a co-ordinating authority to control the
co-ordinators.
All true, no doubt, and all a result of
having seven Parliaments and seven Gov-
ernments, all bred to the business of
passing the buck.
Every few days the police are called to
the girls’ reformatory at Parramatta to
restore order among the inmates. Said
inmates were advised by Uncle Clive
Evatt, the State Minister of Education, to
be “individualists, live your own lives” ;
and “individualists” have given the ddvice
a riotous application. Pelted with abuse
and crockery, dodging fragments of glass
from smashed windows and retrieving
“individualists” from strong posts on
fences and roofs, the cops have done
their duty nobly, but they dread the
thought of Uncle’s going to the institu-
tion and making another uplift speech.
Our wandering politicians are still wan-
dering. One party turned up in Kal-
goorlie (W.A.) last week “to take
evidence.” They were then to go to
Perth, return to Adelaide and “sit” in
Melbourne. Subject of investigation,
“social security”!
About 150 Victorian apple and pear
growers defied the Apple and Pear Board
by taking their fruit direct to the market
and selling it to retailers. Early apples
were snapped up at Bs. to 10s. a case for
eating and 6s. for cookers. The revo-
lutionaries allege that their action gave
consumers cheaper fruit because the A.
and P.B. immediately dropped its price
to retailers. The Assistant Commerce
Minister declared they were defying the
laws of the Commonwealth and
threatened punishment. He should make
sure whether the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment or the board made the apple and
pear laws.
Last November the N.S.W. Commis-
sioner of Police, returning in the sma’
hours from a lino.-laying expedition,
chased a Government bus to a standstill,
hauled the driver and the conductor to a
depot and there accused them of being
drunk. The driver was charged with
“having driven a bus in a manner dan-
gerous to the public” and, largely on the
“In this grave situation which engages all our thoughts, I demand, I insist
on—another vote of confidence!”
Commissioner’s evidence, was convicted,
ordered to pay £6 10s. in fines and costs
and deprived of his license for a year.
He appealed, and last week Judge Stud-
dert, “without proceeding to conviction,”
reduced the penalty to a bond of good
behavior, saying he was “satisfied that
the Police Commissioner was wrong in
his opinion” that the man “was drunk.”
Which seems to call for an apology from
the Commissioner to the busman.
Moved to admit that the National
Register, which his noisy friends urged
everybody to boycott, had “served many
useful purposes,” Ward is out with an-
other and even more elaborate one
under which every person over 16 will,
have to carry one or more of “several”
cards. Persons under 16 needn’t be
jealous. They are being “considered.”
Having joined the R.A.A.F., Hollway
offered his resignation as leader of Vic.’s
U.A.P. and the State Parliamentary
Opposition. It was unanimously refused
and Everard, M.L.A. for Evelyn, was
appointed Acting-Leader. Hollway is not
taking his £350 p.a. as Opposition Leader,
regarding his Air Force pay as sufficient
reward for his services. It is expected in
some quarters that remaining members
of the two superfluous State Houses will
now follow his example.
The man whom “S. M. Herald” sent
to Moscow meets the chairman of its
Regional Soviet:
Holding a position equal to a State Gov-
ernment, M. Tarasov and his council con-
trol the destinies of a population of more
than 9,000,000... .He received us in an
impressive office in which he labors each
day from 10 a.m. until 2 a.m. next day.
Nothing like the leader of a State
Government!
Religious bodies in Sydney have set
aside next Sunday as a day of prayer
for rain. At the week-end Queensland
and Westralia had torrents of it; in
Queensland human lives were lost as well
as cattle, sheep, crops and sugarcane. It
is not on record that either State prayed
for rain.
India, now a thornier question than
ever, was the subject of “a full and
frank” debate in the Lords. Wedgwood,
the new Labor peer, said he was “afraid
India may become a second Ireland.” To
Lord Faringdon, “Mr. Churchill’s record
in relation to India is one of the greatest
difficulties in the way of a settlement.”
For Mr. Churchill, the Duke of Devon-
shire said that the Government’s difficulty
was in finding the makings of an Indian
Government;
We have therefore invited Indian leaders
of all shades of opinion to formulate some
scheme.
So the Australian politician hasn’t a
monopoly of that sort of thing or the
jargon in which it is expressed.
Dr. L. J. Savige, the American who
was called to Australia to report on the
Yarra Dam proposal, , has nothing but
praise for the Melbourne P.W.D. man
Kelso’s plans and investigations. Proper
use of the available water supply from
the catchment area would provide
30,000,000,000 gallons, a figure to make
Sydneysiders gasp. But the cost will be
m the region of £2,000,000; and even if
labor was available, which it isn’t,
Premier Dunstan is expected regretfully
to postpone this loan commitment to
happier times.
Victoria’s Dunstan told newspapermen
before the Loan Council meeting that
“there are so much uncertainty, apparent
duplication and conflict of powers that
a chaotic position could easily develop in
an emergency.” He was referring specifi-
cally to State control of A.R.P., but his
words aptly describe Australia under the
multiple-government system.
Mr. McKell, of Sydney, winning the
war in the local paper:
I have said before, and I repeat, that we
can no longer regard our situation other
than realistically.
Mr, McKell should be full of realism.
He is just back from the Loan Council
with £7,530,000, has refused to lower
motor taxation, though the Federal Gov-
ernment wants cars kept on the roads, and
has just issued income-tax assessments
that have had a serious effect on the
mental balance of his—er—subjects.
The Sydney Premier, in his weekly
newspaper article, remarks that “had it
not been for the tenderness with which
certain influential sections have been
treated, we would undoubtedly be in a
much better position to wage an all-in
war.” Surely he wasn’t referring to State
Premiers who juggle with income and
wages taxes or those responsible for
strikes?
Though Sydney’s No-Water Board re-
jected State Government plans for increas-
ing Sydney’s water supply, the State
Government is going on with the plans.
Which suggests that the No-Water Board
is a totally unnecessary nuisance. Still,
a Mr. F. J. Henry claims that the Gov-
ernment cannot sack the No-Water
Board, which, if true, suggests another
answer to the Arbitration Judge who
wanted to know who ruled Australia.
“The public is still awaiting from the
State Government a clear statement of
its evacuation policy,” snorted Granny
“Herald.”
Unless it makes up its mind quickly and
tells the public in plain terms, it runs the
risk of precipitating a disastrous evacuee
muddle.
“Unless it makes up its mind”! It’s not
fair of Granny to expect impossibilities.
Sir lan Hamilton, quoted for the last
time:
By denouncing the Anglo-Japanese Treaty
we have entrusted the safety of Australia
to —we really don’t quite know to whom or
to what. So long as the treaty held, she
and New Zealand knew exactly where they
were. Now —where are they? The chief
tangible results of our broken treaty appear
to be feverish activity at naval bases
commanding the Pacific; the frontiers of
the “peace-zone” are being fortified and
made into starting-points—for what? For
where? For El Dorado? For Hell Dorado?
It was written in 1923.
Protesting against the adjournment of
the State “Parliament” so that members
could go to the Hobart Cup, Baker,
Opposition leader, declared that “it was
incompatible with the public example
which should be set by Parliament in the
present emergency.” But when did a
State Parliament ever set a good public
example, emergency or not?
“Bumpk”; The Government at Mel-
bourne is said to be seeking sites for
munition-workers’ homes. If it is really
interested in its own policy of subordi-
nating all unessential activities to the
war effort, it won’t need to look far. In
one Melbourne suburb there are three
racecourses, with a dogracing joint and
a board cycle track adjacent.


- n
ggpHHpH
»*» »»**' a3f «Sfe
*&
SRSSaiKg^
WORLD FAMOUS SHIPS
including the “Queen Elizabeth,” 85,000 tons (illustrated);
“Queen Mary,” 81,250 tons; “Mauretania,” 35,000 tons, use
Exide batteries for essential equipment. You, too, can depend
on Exide for your car, radio or home lighting plant.
df
d
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
PERSONAL ITEMS
Federal Parliament has one member in
the battle line of the Far East—Sergeant
A. M. Blain, of the N.T., who enlisted
early in the war. A seventh-generation
Australian, in his early forties, he for
years braved every surveying job in Ter-
ritory outlands which nobody else wanted
to tackle, after having served his 19th to
23rd years in the firing line of France —
Pozi&res with the 22nd Battalion, and
twice wounded. After seven years in the
House he has fewer enemies than any
man in politics, despite his readiness to
speak his mind, sometimes in language
which earns the admiration of seasoned
Light Horse brigadiers. The last The
Bulletin saw of him was a gleaming
black eye under a fearsome tin hat, a
large rifle with a long bayonet waved
indignantly out of the back of a G.S.
wagon wharfward-bound, and a voice as
of Boanerges conveying an assurance that,
if this paper failed to give the some-
thing Government crimson Hades about
the indescribable shelters it hadn’t built
at Darwin, there would be another de-
claration of war on his return.
Met at an R.A.A.F. h.q. in Sydney, a
squadron-leader profanely whipping the
cat because, after about a year in Malaya,
he’d been dragged back, and so missed
the show there. Bad luck. .. .Another
squadron-leader, tickled pink because, as
a ground officer in Libya, he’d been put
into the air again, and so had been able
to risk his neck as a fighter pilot through
two Libyan campaigns. Good luck. ...
On these typical service definitions of the
word. Captain J. A. Collins, R.A.N.,
had hard luck to be put into an im-
portant shore job at Singapore after his
great work with the Sydney in the Medi-
terranean and elsewhere, and so was not
with his old ship when she went into her
last engagement. He’d no doubt class
it as good luck that he’ll now be risking
his life in actions afloat again, with (at
43) the man-size job of Commodore com-
manding the British naval forces under
the Allied South-west Pacific Command
—first Australian in the R.A.N. to go
higher than captain.
As well as being first of the A.I.F. to
win the V.C. against the Japs, Lieut.-Col.
C. G. W. Anderson is the first South
African member of the A.I.F. to win the
decoration. Four last-war A.I.F. winners
of the V.C. were born in England, four
in Maoriland, two in Ireland, one in
Wales and one in Denmark. Of the
Australian-born winners, Victoria topped
the list with 18, though Tasmania, 10, led
in proportion to population ; N. S. Wales
had 12 ; Westralia, South Australia and
Queensland, four each. Lieutenants just
beat privates for top place —18 to 17.
Lieut.-Col. Anderson, who came from
S’Africa five or six years back and has
been a grazier near the old south-west
N.S.W. township of Crowther, holds
higher rank than any previous A.I.F.
winner of the V.C. held at the time of
winning the decoration. Cut off by the
Japs, he did a wonderful job leading his
small band of men in fighting their way
back.
In his job as Hoyts’ managing director
Ernest Turnbull will direct no fewer than
120 haunts of the film fan —the largest
circuit in Australia. A special talent for
reconciling conflicting viewpoints peace-
fully and jokily stood to him when he
was for seven years president of the Vic-
torian Returned Soldiers’ League, at a
time when the young league was weather-
ing fairly severe storms. He was in the
Commonwealth Publicity Department
when he first smelt celluloid, and what
he’d done in setting the R.S. League on
its feet he then started to do for British
films, as a Gaumont British managing
director convincing film fans that Holly-
wood wasn’t the only place that could
produce good pictures. Since the war
began he has been working hard with the
Federal Government to get some of Aus-
tralia’s military doings on the screens of
the Commonwealth.
Harold Gatty has been so long mixed
up with U.S. aviation that Americans are
inclined to class him with the gum-tree as
a national product. The Campbell Town
(Tas.) lad who put a girdle round the
earth in eight days with Wiley Post has
been senior air navigation engineer to
the U.S. Army Air Corps (1931), a pilot
and Australasian rep. for Pan-American
Airways (1935) and one of the most-read
writers on the technical side of air naviga-
tion in Uncle Sam’s country. Now he is
serving with the U.S. Army Air Force
in the Dutch islands, for which he should
have special feeling—he married a Dutch
girl. St. Virgil’s College, Hobart, and the
R.A.N. College trained him.
Sighted in Sydney in the fighting rig
made familiar by General Blarney on his
JEFFREY, D.S.O., D.F.C.
“carnival”-debunking visit, Squadron-
Leader Peter Jeffrey, D. 5.0., D.F.C.,
back from Libya to lend a hand with
Australia’s air defence. As Frith indi-
cates, he looks tough as hardwood of his
native Tenterfield (N.S.W.), with the
quick, smallish head generally worn by
good ring fighters. Heading abroad as
a Sig. officer with the Australian fighter
squadron in July, 1940, he took charge
of the squadron just a year ago, and
gathered his decorations in quick order.
In the extra-mobile desert warfare of the
Libyan campaigns six weeks on one aero-
drome was a record. In one part of
the scrapping they flew off for their fight-
ing from seven different aerodromes in
six days. At Benina the squadron’s pilots
sat up from midnight to dawn, deter-
mined, if at all possible, to save
their ’planes—many damaged in bagging
14 Junkers dive-bombers in the previous
day’s fighting—then all got safely away.
Jeffrey is the cool chap who, in a fierce
air battle over El Gubbi, landed and
rescued an outsize Australian sergeant-
pilot who had been shot down. To
squeeze in he had to sit on the big chap's
knees and somehow fly the single-seater
fighter from that perch.
“Feng-Shui’s” pal the Sultan:
My old acquaintance Sultan Ibrahim of
Johore has decided to stay with his people, and
has gone up in my estimation in consequence.
He was very low in the estimation of the
British in his young days, when he spent the
revenue from opium dens and gambling farms
on Singapore racecourse, wore diamonds in his
teeth and was excluded from the Singapore
Club. He came to Australia, diamonds and
all, attended a Melbourne Cup, was fawned
over by the local snobocracy, and went back
full of glory until it was discovered by a
Singapore Customs official that he had brought
back two Australian typists. Later he espoused
two European wives in succession. Then, having
sowed his wild oats, he took a sudden turn
towards statesmanship and turned Johore into
a model State. He helped to contribute a battle-
ship to the British Navy. But nothing has im-
pressed me so much as his deciding to stay with
his people, on the principle, no doubt, that,
having shared happinesses with them, he ought
to share their sufferings.
Sydney gets a good schoolmaster from
S.A. in Brother Albertus, who moves
from being head of Sacred Heart College,
Glenelg, to take charge of Marist
Brothers’ College, Randwick. Brother
Maurus, who takes charge of Glenelg,
learned his job at Hunter’s Hill and
Darlinghurst, and lately has been head
of Marist Brothers’ colleges at Hamilton
(Vic.) and Broken Hill,
If F. G. Barnes, onetime of Warwick
(Q.) and now back in Melbourne from
Blighty, ever met Hitler, he’d probably
shout him a schooner, if Hitler would
come at one. It was Adolf’s most-
advertised “secret” weapon which gave
Barnes the sort of opportunity that comes
only once in a lifetime to an inventor,
Magnetic bombs were dropped in the
Thames Estuary and newspapers got the
jitters. Barnes remembered a discovery
of an obscure scientist called Gauss in
the ’eighties, and within six days was up
at the British Patents Office with a pro-
posal to place electric cables round ships,
which nullified the German apparatus,
As a result its only victim was an in-
cautious skipper who thought he was out
of danger when he entered port and
switched off the current. Barnes is an
engineer who lived at Scoresby (Vic.)
until the Hitler eruption, when he trekked
to London with a gun invention. His
brain is still bursting with fresh gadgets
in case Hitler thinks of a new one.
Turned 106, Mrs. Mary Anne Crowe,
of Hobart, claimed to be the Speck s
oldest inhabitant. Essex-born, she landed
from the S.S. Pathan more than half a
century ago. . Seven of her eleven off-
spring are living, and her grand-, great-
grand- and great-great-grandchildren
form no small proportion of the Apple
Isle s population.
Some of the inhabitants of New Guinea
have strange and varied ventures to tell,
One of Carpenter’s Lockheed passenger
’planes flew to Moresby from Rabaul
with a pack of six barking fighters on
his tail spitting bullets. Fortunately they
were Jap naval breed with big feet, and
could not catch the Lockheed. Moreover,
Blackman, a New Guinea Airways pilot,
after a thrilling experience in a slit trench
at Lae, was carried to Wau, where he
found a 15-year-old Fox Moth. When
new she was capable of 75 m.p.h. In this
oid bus Blackman and Bernard Parer
crossed the ranges to Papua’s south coast
in fine style, skirted along it westward—
their maximum range was 180 miles—to
Daru, flew the Strait to Horn Island, near
Cape York, and then down to Towns-
ville. They made 12 stops. The job
took a fortnight
The name of Don Cameron seems to
be a passport to public affairs. Latest
of the tribe to get into a responsible posi-
tion is the Deputy Director-General of
Man-power in Victoria, here depicted. He
has often been mistaken for the Minister
for Aircraft Production, and vice verse—
on facial as well as nomenclatory resem-
Another DON CAMERON.
blance. Their careers have been widely
different. While the Senator was fighting
conscription in Perth as the first step up
the Labor hierarchy and the blessed port-
folio, the other Don was working his
way up the Victorian Railways golden
ladder ; he has been chairman of its Staff
Board for many years. While his name-
sake was studying Karl Marx, he was
visiting the U.S.A., Canada and the Old
Dart studying industrial conditions at
first-hand. Born at Beaufort (Vic.), the
Railways Don makes a hobby of youth
welfare ; he led the movement to give
technical training to youths affected by
the depression. His elder son, Flight-
Lieut. D. A. Cameron, is just back from
active service with the Australian Suther-
land Squadron (Eng.); his younger son
graduated from Duntroon last year.
Melbourne newsmen, hunting among
returned A.I.F, men for copy, thought
they’d struck a mine of it in Corporal
de Teliga, but the ex-Pole, who has been
Australian since 1926, speaking several
languages, wearing many decorations,
entitled to more letters after his name
than are in it, ex-Cambridge, ex-British
major, would have made an oyster look
like a chatterbox. As near as can be
gathered from the deep silence in his
vicinity, the Corp. has 13 decorations
won in 20 years of soldiering with Brit-
ish, French, Polish and Australian armies,
is a scientist and anthropologist, lecturer
at Sydney University, member of scien-
tific expeditions, fencing and chess champ.,
author and ex-count. Discovered in Tel
Aviv by a wandering professor, he was
offered a university post, but turned it
down because he wants to “account for
a few Japs.”
There couldn’t be a better pick for the
job of distinguishing between a Heath
Robinson contraption and the real thing
than knight George Julius, of the newly
organised Inventions Board. When book-
makers are out of hearing, he confesses
to being the author of the tote ; even
when he plays he makes model electric
railways, complete in every detail, an
amazing example of his skill in this line
lately drawing crowds to the Myer Em-
porium, Melbourne, and raking in thou-
sands for the Red Cross. By a rare freak
of poetic justice the tote’s inventor is
the son of a Maoriland archbishop, who
was himself no mean hand at contriving
gadgets. S’George was born at Norwich
(Eng.), but it was Melbourne Grammar
and the N.Z. Uni. that tried to teach him
mathematics. Engineering with West-
ralian Railways (1906) and then con-
sultant in Sydney helped him amass the
extraordinarily comprehensive knowledge
of Australian conditions that made him
natural head of the National Research
Council, from which stemmed the
C.5.1.R., of which he is chairman.
Posted missing in Libya, promising
Bulletin story-writer Fred Dennis, son
of F. W. (Dick) Dennis, of Dubbo
(N.S.W.). He was among the first 50
Australians trained under the Empire
scheme to reach England. A sergeant-
pilot of the R.A.A.F., he was piloting
an R.A.F. Blenheim prior to being re-
ported missing.
Into the silence:
In S.A., at 90, Mrs. Kennedy, last sur-
vivor of the family of a settler who was there
in 1836, actually before the province legally
existed. A brother of hers was the famous
Edinburgh Prof. Hudson Beare; a niece is
Daisy Kennedy, the Adelaide violinist, widow of
English poet John Drinkwater.
Passed over, full of years, a great Maoriland
chess-player, Oscar Balk, of the Dunedin firm
of Wilson, Balk and Co. English-born, he
lived for many ‘years in Yokohama before he
arrived in M.L. in 1894. He was a foundation
member and for some years champion of the
Yokohama Chess Club. Later he was champion
of the Otago Chess Club and several times
runner-up in M.L. championships.
In his late thirties, somewhere in Malaya,
Sgt. Keith Thornton Horsley, Queensland Rugby
Union rep., for many years sporting editor of
Brisbane “Telegraph” and noted for his fair
comments on sport there and over the radio.
His mother, when Miss Alice Nicklin, was one
of the only two women saved from, the wreck
of the Quetta on the N.Q. coast 52 years ago.
Two of his three brothers are away on active
service.
At Lome (Vic.), at 98, Rev. Dr. Charles
Strong, founder of the Australian Church, the
first conventicle of which was a magnificent
affair in Flinders-street, erected by wealthy
admirers. When, in the ’eighties, he was turned
out of the Presbyterian clergy, citizens at a
remarkable Town Hall meeting handed him a
cheque for £3OOO. Deserted by wealthy
admirers, he moved to a smaller building in
Russell-street, where he held the spiritual fort
without remuneration for 50 years, maintaining
throughout his indifference to money. An
admirer’s will once left him £250, which he
promptly forwarded to Dr. Maloney’s fund for
supplying milk for schoolchildren. Born in a
Scots manse, he came to Scots Church, Mel-
bourne, in 1875. At 90 he was still walking
10 miles a day and editing and publishing his
own theological journal.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Wodgil”; Thirty years or more ago a
burly chap from the North of England
who showed on the music halls as “Datas,
the Memory Man,” presented his act in
Perth. While there he chummed up with
“Dryblower” Murphy, of the “Sunday
Times,” and figured in a “Dryblower”
yarn to the effect that, returning to his
pub after his most outstanding memory-
man performance, he couldn’t remember
the number of his room. It was pure in-
vention, but Datas, a good showman and
a convivial fellow, was so far from object-
ing that he bought his detractor a drink.
The yarn outlived his vogue on the halls,
and long afterwards a variant appeared in
the “Western Mail,” being attributed not
to the almost-forgotten Datas, but to a
Melbourne man named Copeland, alias
“Argus,” who has toured many countries
with what he calls a “telepathic act.”
Another version, giving the “Western
Mail” as authority, appeared in the
Melbourne “Argus” ; hence “Argus” v.
“Argus” in the first Civil Court at Mel-
bourne. The telepathic “Argus” claimed
that the newspaper of that name had
libelled him, and sought damages for
“the injury to my reputation.” He lost
his case.
* * * *
“Clooter”: I have a rooted objection
to being left confused even about minor
details by the newspapers. Take the U.S.
Army air field in Hawaii bombed by the
Japs. I’ve read of it variously as Hick-
man, Hicknan, Hickam and Hickham.
Now a sentry has shot another soldier on
a Sydney beach. Sydney “Sunday Sun”
named the unfortunate fellow (he
has since died) Plumber, Monday
“Sun” made him Plumb, so did the
“D.T.” and “5.M.H.,” but Melbourne
“Herald” still stood for Plumber. Then,
coming in with a final burst, Sydney
“Daily Mirror” dubbed him Pumb. It
just shows what reporters, sub-editors,
proofreaders and comps, can do with a
word.
* * * *
“Bo”: A few years ago my highly
respectable neighbor Blanks was socked
for 40,000 gallons excess water. A keen
gardener, he used his hose moderately,
and before that year had been invariably
well under his 70,000-gallon annual
allowance. He couldn’t possibly
have used the excess quantity, he
argued, without avail. He could
have paid to have his meter tested,
but experience of friends warned
him not to fall for that joke. So he
paid up, cursing in his bowels. Then
came restrictions, severe and still
severer. And that was when Blanks
pulled the long, dusty hose from the
garage, put his entire back garden
down in vegetables and set his
sprinkler going. When cabbages
were two bob a head and spinach
Is. 2d. a bunch, he was picking
luscious greens. He kept that up till
he’d used the excess he had paid
for. Then his horticultural activity
ceased. His hose is again collecting
cobwebs in the garage, his vegetable
patch lies scorched and bare, and he
never runs more than four inches of
water in a bath.
“S.T.S.”; Jack Abbott, in finding fault
(B. 31 /12/’4l) with “S. M. Herald” for
debiting the Hawkesbury as an old-time
hanging place, might have queried also
the alleged “hole in the ceiling from
which the condemned were said to have
taken the final plunge.” As I read his-
tory, there was no plunge—with its in-
stantaneous broken neck —till about the
eighteen-sixties. Previously, the cart, or
whatever else was supporting the victim,
was just withdrawn, leaving him to kick
and strangle at leisure and in full view
of a curious crowd. The plunge or “long
drop” is merciful —and modern.
* * * *
“Zake”: Nobody can deny, after the
Philippines, Wake Island and the exploits
of volunteer airmen over Burma, that
the Americans show no signs of national
decadence. But they do allow their
womenfolk a lot of latitude. The Presi-
dent’s lady is a power in the land in her
own right; a skirted secretary holds a
key Cabinet post. Two women columnists
have a profound effect on the opinions
of millions. Now dancers are asserting
themselves. Mayris Chaney goes to a
high post under the aegis of the Office of
Civilian Defence, and fan-dancer Sally
Rand has offered her services to the same
authority, stating she is “willing to take
“Don'tcha know smokin' ain't allowed on a tanker?"
£7OOO p.a.,” and would graciously change
the name of her terpsichorean effort to
“The Nude Deal.” But the lady is not
wholly mercenary. “If the Budget
couldn’t stand it,” she is willing to give
her services for nothing. Decision un-
known, but at least it got as far as a
House of Reps.’ debate.
“C.H.S.”; When a creator of one of
the adventure strips popular in American
papers killed off his heroine, “thousands
of readers registered their sentiments
with ’phone calls, telegrams, letters and
even flowers.” Some labelled the artist
as a murderer, others as a horrible
creature, and New York “News” gave its
whole letter department in one issue to
“angry and tearful protests.” That was
before Japan broke loose and it recalls
the stampede over the “Invasion from
Mars” broadcast. All the same, I’d be
willing to bet that at least one of the
thousands referred to expressed himself
with a fervent “Thank Heaven!”
* * * *
“Visitor”: A recent reference to “the
survey for Melbourne’s Shrine, where
“If it'd be any 'elp I could let y' 'ave a coupla dozen rabbit-traps."
the ray of sunshine falls through the roof
on the Rock of Remembrance at the
eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the
eleventh month every year,” has set me
wondering once more. Does it? Has
the calculation worked out perfectly in
practice? When you examine the spot
the idea seems, to any unscientific mind,
like something out of a Rider Haggard
novel. An eclipse can be foretold, one
knows. But to have the sun in the exact
place, for that crevice every year at the
exact time seems too much. Will some-
one who really knows be candid about it?
* sjc * «
“Oxmead”: The two lines from Robert
Montgomery which Macaulay regarded
as “the worst similitude in the world”
(B. 11/2/’42) should run:
The soul, aspiring, pants its source to mount,;
As streams meander level with their fount.
The substitution of “level with” for
“slowly to” may seem trivial, unless you
recall that Macaulay based his denuncia-
tion on the fact that (1) no stream can
possibly meander level with its fount and
(2) no two motions can be less alike than
that of meandering level and mounting
upwards. It would probably be hard to
obtain a copy of Montgomery’s poems
nowadays, but the castigation of the un-
fortunate bard will be read as long as
Macaulay is read. How much it stung
the recipient may be gathered from a
passage in the essayist’s diary, written 25
years after the review was published:
“Montgomery has written to ask that he
may be taken out of the pillory. Never,
with my consent. He is the silliest scrib-
bler of my time, and the fact that his
book sells among a certain
class is a reason for keeping
my protest on record.” One
suspects that a review like
Macaulay’s would have boosted
the sale of any book. There
is a delightful allusion to the
matter in Philip Guedalla’s
Palmerston, where, among the
minor events of the year 1830,
it is recorded that “Mr. Mac-
aulay suggested to his editor that an
article on Mr. Montgomery might
brighten the ‘Edinburgh’!”
* * * *
“Hamfat”: One of the fights pro-
moted by the late Hugh D. Mclntosh
was that which resulted in Bill Lang, by
defeating Squires, becoming Australian
champion. “S. M. Herald’s” Gerald
Marr-Thompson, happening to come in
with a review of a musical show, was
asked as a favor to “do” a Lang inter-
view. Bill, most obliging of bruisers,
gave Gerald the full gory details of the
smashes and bashes that had won him
the fight. Closing with a juicy descrip-
tion of the knockout, he asked “What
yer think of that?” “It sounds very un-
pleasant,” gasped the horrified musical
critic.
* * * *
“Picker”: According to a N’Yoik
“Times” writer:
The word “guerrilla” now appearing so
frequently in the news is so generally mis-
pronounced that I, believe it opportune to
point out that the correct pronunciation is
ge-ri-lya, not gorilla.
This should lead to an interesting debate
between the shades of Noah Webster and
the original compilers of the Oxford
English Dictionary, both or all of whom
agree that it should be rendered phoneti-
cally as it looks, “gerrilla.” Still, since
the “Times” writer owns to the fine old
Anglo-Saxon name of Renato Crisi, who
am I to doubt him or his “geerileya”?
* * * *
“El V.”: It is no wonder the mad
British defeat the attempts of Fascist
and Communist alike to understand them
and send the hopeful anarchist broken-
hearted away. While the Eighth Army
was smashing the Libyan border fence
Churchill rose in the Commons to
“commit an irregularity” and congratulate
Captain Fitzroy, the Speaker, on being
the first of his line to celebrate his golden
wedding in office. No less a rebel than
the I.L.P.’s terrible Jimmy Maxton pro-
vided the wit and the national senti-
ment. He had (he said)
noticed the Speaker’s physical infirmities
during his 13 years of office —the blindness
that afflicted him, his deafness and that dis-
tressing mental aberration when the mind
suffered a blackout (laughter)... .Capt.
Fitzroy had seen the death of a Monarch,
the abdication of a Monarch, the Corona-
tion of a Monarch [the capitals belong to
the “Times”], the declaration of a great
war, the chamber in which they were
accustomed to meet destroyed practically
about his ears, the chair in which he sat
smashed to matchwood. The chamber of
stone and lime vanished, but under his
guidance and direction the living flesh and
blood, the sentient-thinking House of Com-
mons, continued its daily tasks with no
break in continuity.
Old Will Thorne, who began work
as a barber’s boy of six in 1863 and who
had risen to move the Speaker’s last re-
election, joked that on that occasion he
had told his nominee that “I would have
to take him by the hand and lead him to
the chair, but that it would be easy, since 1
myself had led four women up the aisle.”
It would be hard to imagine amenities of
that sort passing in the Reichstag or the
Supreme Soviet.
NO SUCH HANDICAP HERE.
“The new Wafd Government in Egypt is being
seriously handicapped by its own popularity, the
Premier’s time having been occupied for four days in
receiving congratulatory deputations from farmers,
bakers, butchers, students and even shoeblacks.’’
— Cable.
How many a worried chief of State
Who struggles here to pull his weight
Must envy Nahaz Pasha’s fate
And pensively reflect awhile
In what a far superior style
They manage things beside the Nile.
The deputations that he knows —•
And that too well—are only those
Who seek his ear to voice their woes,
To growl their plaints and wring their hands
Or take uncompromising stands
And make importunate demands.
How vastly diff’rent the routine
Where tombs of Pharaohs dot the scene
And fields are tilled by fellaheen.
There crowds, of high and low degree,
Push to acclaim with shouts of glee
A new political O.C.
Into his room by packs they whiz,
Their one intent, their only biz.
To tell him what a trump he is
And passionately to declare
What deep content, what rapture rare,
They feel to see him sitting there.
Such hero-worship has mayhap
Some aspects of a handicap
For any really busy chap.
But who, among our little mob
Of rulers, wouldn’t feel a throb
At handling Nahaz Pasha’s job?
N.S.W.
IFORD.
HOMELY.
“Lady, English, wishes meet homely gent.”
— “S-M.H.” view mat. ad.
An apt and admirable illustration
Of how the real meaning of a word,
At least its popular signification,
Depends entirely upon where it’s heard,
An axiom enunciated in
A recent issue of The Bulletin.
Homely! You mustn’t think the lady’s urge is
For someone with uncomely features cursed,
The sort of figure that in print emerges •
When with some sitter Frith has done his
worst.
Ah. no. Her unexacting mating-call
Doesn’t connote that sort of thing at all.
She's English, and there’s nothing stipulated
For, in the suitor who may be preferred,
Save to be thoroughly domesticated,
What you might designate a homing bird,
A plain, blunt man, as Roman Antony
Was —or rhetorically claimed to be.
No dame would dare to phrase her amorous
cooing
In terms like this in Uncle Sam’s domains,
Or there’d assuredly be nothing doing
In the responses of potential swains.
What Yank, however lonely, wouldn’t resent
Being appealed to as a “homely gent.”?
Well, age-old Saxon words may take an alien
Complexion in these newer lands, I guess.
And I’ve a dark suspicion the Australian
Verbal equivalent for “homeliness,”
When it’s applied to woman or to man,
Is one with that of Cousin Jonathan.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“ D'you Want the Eyeties to think it's a bloody oasis ?”
“Spokeshave”: War changes have been
gradual enough in Melbourne for people
scarcely to notice the difference, but the
other day there was a little incident, illus-
tative of the trend, that couldn’t be over-
looked. Scene was the front of one of
the leading Collins-street banking houses,
Once packed two-deep with Rolls-Royces
and Packards, the kerb stretched un-
tenanted and deserted. Down the majestic
steps which well-lined magnates used to
descend patting their pockets while
chauffeurs obsequiously waited, skipped
a ragged, barefooted boy, counting a roll
of notes. He paused on the bottom step,
lit a cigarette, cast a lordly look around
him and, picking up a scooter leaning
against a Corinthian column, departed.
• • •
“Hamer”; It looks like a return to
days of 40 years and more ago to see
some Sydney city firms in these days of
A.R.P. putting up the shutters at night
and taking them down in the morning,
The shutter-shifting was the first job to
which shop-boys were introduced in the
old days. The story is told of a present-
day captain of industry that, staggering
into a shop under the weight of a shutter
he had just removed from the window
front, he was confronted by the aston-
ished head of the firm, who demanded to
know who he was. The youngster
replied that he was the new boy. “But
I have only just hung out a sign that I
wanted a new boy,” said the boss. “Yes,
sir; I brought that in first, when I de-
cided to take the job,” said the boy, un-
perturbed. That lad was bound to get
on—and did. Incidentally, the shop
fronts that are now being screened once
more are a testimony to the honesty of
the modern generation. In other days
the shopkeeper who left his windows un-
, G . c .- nn .~ n „ a tho
shuttered, even though someone liom
shop lived overhead, would consider that
he deserved to be robbed.
* * * *
“CO.”: Amongst the aliens who pre-
, j - , , „ f ,• fmo „, • ,t,p
sented themselves lor enlistment 1 _
armed forces at the Town Hall, Met-
bourne was a German-speaking Jew.
When he stripped for examination a large
gunshot wound on his body arrested the
doctors’ attention. “Where did you get
that?” asked a medico. “At Mouquet
Farm, fighting the Australians,” he re-
plied, adding that he hoped that if any
further wounds came his way they would
be acquired fighting alongside the soldiers
of his adopted country.
* * 1= *
“Si Anu”: “Persistent shelling from
both sides heralded the anniversary of
the foundation of Singapore 153 years
ago,” reports my Melbourne daily. Actu-
ally Singapore was ceded to the British
East India Co. 123 years ago by the
Johore princes. Raffles met them on an
uninhabited island, and there is some
reason to doubt whether the princeling
who represented himself the owner was
the right one. However, he signed, part
of the agreement being that he should be
permitted to build a palace on the island
and live there with his harem. His Court
became a dive for all the roystering
Malay bloods about the place, and eventu-
ally he had to be transferred to the main-
land. The British settlers found a few
fishermen on the island and nothing to
indicate that it had ever been important,
but it figured in Javanese history as far
back as the fourteenth century. It was
the centre of a Malay kingdom and a
depot for Chinese and Arab trade which
must have been considerable, since the
Javanese thought it worth while to send
an armada to invade it in 1377. As was
the way with invaders in those days,
they left the place a desert.
. . • • *
“Si Anu”: On my first visit to Singa-
pore among the first things I noticed
were opium dens, open to the street,
brightly lighted and with none of the
sinister concomitants I had seen asso-
ciated with them in the pictures. I
entered one and found it as decorous and
as dull as a Potts Point or East Malvern
tea party. When the S’pore authorities
found that opium suppression was as
idle a dream as preventing drinking after
six o’clock in Australia, they decided to
regulate it. Confirmed addicts were
registered and allowed to have their in-
dulgence under strict supervision. In
parts of China rickshaw coolies and other
hard workers roll up first thing in the
morning at the chemists’ shops for their
whiff of the drug and sometimes a mild
injection of some other narcotic. It
appears to stimulate rather than depress
them, much in the same way that a
couple of pots stimulate the Australian
workman,
* * * *
“D.E.”: You read it after every bomb-
ing raid in which all the loss and damage
were inflicted on the enemy—read it in
every official bulletin and every news-
paper:
All our aircraft returned safely,
And I maintain that it should be “all
G ur aircraft returned safe.” It would be
correct if they returned in a safe manner,
bu t how often does that happen? Many
D f them return perilously, with parts of
their machines hit, tanks leaking,
members of the crew wounded ; some-
times they even have to descend in hos-
tile territory and take off again. A rose
smells “sweet,” nof “sweetly” ; and air-
craft return, not “safely,” but “safe.”
* * * *
“George”: My evening newspaper m-
forms me of a remarkable occurrence:
while German and Rumanian staff
officers in a captured Russian building
were discussing Plans for an attack on
Soviet positions m the Ukraine a Rumanian
officer sprang from his chair and tried to
tear down from the wall a huge portrait
of Stalin, gazing inscrutably down on the
conference. As soon as he touched the
portrait the whole building was blown up
and everybody in it was killed. The retir-
jn g R USS i an s, guessing that Axis officers
would be offended by a portrait of Stalin
and would try to remove it, had cunningly
connected the frame to a bomb hidden in
e wa .
The yarn reminds me of the one about
the man who, sleeping during a church
sermon, dreamed he was about to be
hanged. Just as the trap was to be released
the sermon ended and his wife, to wake
him, tapped him on the neck. The shock
killed him. A lovely story, but as the
man died in his sleep how was his dream
revealed? If “the whole building was
blown up and everybody in it was killed'’
w ho told how it occurred?
** * „
Spasebo ; Roy G. Biv (B. 4/-/ 4-)
is right; “Ipoh” can be pronounced
in 42 different ways, according to
the ruleless rules of English spell-
ing. But Malay is written m the
Arabic character and for British pm-
poses has been Romanised m a per-
fectly logical order. The 8.8. C. an-
nouncers could easily have got the
key from any Engl.sh-Malay primer and
they would have then found that Malay
is a simple, euphonious language wh-ch
is spelt as it is pronounced as I said,
It is the same with all other Asiatic
tongues which have a different alphabet
from ours, and, unless our geniuses of
the radio realise this, contusion will
become worse confounded when the
Dutch East Indies begin to come moi
into the news. Javanese and Malay ha
been Romanised by the Dutch m an
equally logical way, but Dutch spelling,
while perfectly consistent with itself,
gives different values to vowels andl con-
sonants from English spelling Unfortu-
nately, the maps spell em both ways.
*** * , ,
“Cauboy”: I have often wondered why
the baker, the insurance agent, the time-
payment, collector* the commercial
traveller or the butcher was always the
third party in those triangular relation-
ships portrayed by Mo and his con-
freres in the sort of vaudeville sketch
that ends in a blackout. An explana-
tion is provided by a najive com-
munique issued by the milk distributors
of Melbourne, who, in resisting the sug-
gestion that carters should make their
deliveries in the daylight, objected that
their employees Would waste their time
in conversation with customers. But if
Mo knows his onions it is only
attractive housewives who interest the
butcher and the baker. It might very
well be argued that the milk-oh who
delivered his goods in the daytime would
speed-up his rounds to an incredible
degree in order to give himself more
time at the particular backdoor where
his sallies of wit, his profound discourses
on art, poetry, science, philosophy and
the future world plan would find the
most sympathetic audience waiting.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide mother has
been in court for kidnapping her own
child, who was, on a separation, legally
adopted by the father’s parents. The
mother was allowed to take the child out,
but on one occasion over a year ago did
not return, and the grandfather stated that
he had travelled “thousands of miles” in
the search. A rather sympathetic Court
said finally that the child had been in
surroundings not good for it meanwhile,
that the legal guardians had suffered
greatly, and that, anyway, the law must
be obeyed. Three months’ imprisonment
and a bond for “good behavior” for two
years,
* * * »
“Pipe’s R.”; It’s a toss-up which falls
the readier, a credulous woman or a
credulous reporter. Witness the report
in a Sydney morning paper of an inter-
view with a woman evacuee from Rabaul
who declared that the first enemy bombs
on that town were filled with razor
blades, bottle-tops, nails and scrap iron.
She seemed to place the blame equally
between a steward on an inter-island
boat, who she said had sold thousands
of bottle-tops to the Japs, and Mr. Men-
zies, because “a male evacuee has a piece
of iron from one of the bombs with the
words ‘Thank you, Mr. Menzies,’
scratched on it.” I might have accepted
the steward theory, but I simply refuse to
believe that a Jap—girl perhaps—stuffing
scrap into a bomb in an armament fac-
tory would know or care where the iron
came from and be sufficiently apt in Eng-
lish to scratch that message on it. If
the message had been alleged as “super-
cilious gratefulness by humble bornb-
filler-upper to honorable Menzies-san” it
might have passed muster.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”; “A.J.W.” (B.
28/1/’42) doesn’t do full justice to his
vaunted number seven. What about the
seven bells knocked out of the loser in
fo’c’sle fights all over the seven seas? Or
the seven ages of man, the seven sleepers
of Ephesus and the Seven Pillars of
Wisdom? There are the Pleiades, too,
to which the lad compared his girl friend’s
eyes, thereby raising her to the seventh
heaven of delight until the hated rival
told her that there were seven them
and one very dim. Surely “A.J.W.” must
have heard the fable of the seven-league
boots and learned “We Are Seven” at
school? Has he never visited classic
Seven Dials in London? Or struggled
with the subtlety of the verse about the
seven-wived man coming from St. Ives in
company with 49 sacks, 343 cats and
2401 kits, all borne by his devoted
harem? And does he not know of Aus-
tralia’s seven Parliaments?
* * » *
“Blue P.”: I rise in wrath to condemn
these Australian writers who persist in
making Australians put an “s” on
their verbs, as in a Bulletin story of
11/2/’42, when a character is made to say
“I think you thinks more of that goat
than you thinks of your lawful wedded
wife.” Few Australians are guilty of
such a lapse in ordinary speech. Those
who are seem to have picked it up from
reading or listening to English comedians
and writers who wish to indicate illiteracy.
“Lawful wedded wife” is also suspect. An
Australian woman would be more likely to
put it, “I reckon you think more of that
goat than what you do of me.” Before
the author gets excited, let me lay that
the sample is purely a sample ; plenty of
others are as culpable, not excluding the
A.B.C. and its so-called Australian
characters who ejaculate “Lumme!” or
“Stroike me pink!”
* * * *
“X.S.”: A Melbourne Court has estab-
lished a precedent for blackouts. An
aborigine appeared before Judge Foster
charged with robbery and assault in the
Exhibition Gardens. Accused asserted
that there were two other Binghis with
him and that they did the assaulting,
while he stood by admonishing them to
restrain their primitive instincts. De-
fending counsel delivered himself of the
opinion that in the prevailing murk of
night-time Melbourne no threatened in-
dividual could distinguish one dusky face
from another. After contemplating the
coal-black visage in the dock for a few
minutes, the jury brought in a verdict
' of “not guilty.”
“ Darling, wouldn't a feed of fish an chips go grand?


ABORIGINALITIES
“D.McM.”: Dan the Bite, dusty and
“stony," dumped his swag beneath a tree
a few hundred yards from Brady’s pub
ready to sell his soul for a drink. Dan,
knowing that Brady was the implacable
enemy of busted bagmen, was sadly de-
ciding to bypass Brady when his beady
eyes spotted something in the far-off sky
that stirred his nimble wits. A minuie
later he landed in the bar, and his mani-
fest excitement caught Brady off his
guard. “Look at ’em!” roared Dan,
rushing back to the door and pointing
to some black pinpoints high up and
headed towards them. “Japs! In no
time they’ll be rainin’ death an’ destruc-
tion on y’! ” Joe Chalker, the district’s
authority on anything, rushed outside,
took one look and let out a yell. “My
gawd, ’e’s right! Them’s Jap bombers!”
Brady, a man of action, lifted the flap
of his small cellar and hollered for his
family. As Brady, family and customers
landed in a heap on the cellar floor, Dan
shot home the bolt on top and went into
action. That night a very satisfied Dan
camped beneath a bridge miles from
Brady and gave thanks to the black
swans that had been heading for the
coast.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: I’ll admit that man hasn’t
always imitated nature in his inventions
(B. 4/1/’42), bat I won’t have it that he
has always gone one better. In compar-
ing the horse and locomotive, “Bughouse”
forgets to mention that on a basis of
work done for fuel consumed the horse
is a far more efficient machine. And that
applies to most natural machines. But
to take the rest of “B.’s” examples, a
steamship does resemble an aquatic
animal both in shape and in steering and
propulsion, while, surely, the wings, body
and tail of a ’plane are a direct pinch
from the birds.
* * * *
“Arbeep”: The boys on the job were
arguing about a brickie who was sup-
posed to be able to pick up four bricks
with one hand. At blow-up one quiet
bloke reckoned he’d have a go at it for a
few bob, and he was soon set. A good bit
of small money was wagered, and Pop was
a heavy backer. The brickie selected four
bricks and laid them on edge in the shape
of a four-pointed star. Then his hand
spread over the bricks at the junction
point, got its grip and he lifted the bricks
as one for a couple of feet off the ground,
held them and dropped them. “You must
have seen him at it before,” somebody
said as Pop counted his winnings. “No,”
said Pop ; “but I heard him say there
was 16 in his family, and 1 knew from
my own dozen that he’d have to be
pretty good on the grab.”
« * * *
“Zake”: The ducks inhabiting the lake
were blackish-brown with some white
and buff markings, and by the assiduity
with which they put up the “no-trespass”
sign when others of the duck tribe
sought to encroach I guessed what they
were. When some were sighted giving
the youngsters a free ride I was certain.
So it was that when a cove with a 12-bore
came along and started potting away at
them my compassion went out, not to
the ducks but to the super-optimist who
hoped to beat those smartest of divers
which had upended themselves and were
on their way mudwards before the gun-
flash had stopped flashing. Anyway, if
he had got one of the musk ducks, what
the Hades would have been their use to
the shooter? Canvas soaked in turps
would be a palatable titbit by compari-
son with Beralla, the bird that wears the
dark-green bib under his chin.
* * * ♦
“K.”: Ever since I was a kid, and in
various parts of the Ma State, the fall of
overdue rain has invariably been accom-
panied by an exultant “Send her down,
Hughie!” from bucolics within my hear-
ing, and it has long been accepted for
city usage. 1 have heard Queenslanders
and Cabbage Gardeners use the expres-
sion, but not other Commonwealth
dwellers. Whence originated the phrase?
Have heard various versions, the most
likely-sounding being from a Riverina
man, who is willing to take his adjec-
tival oath that it started with one Huie,
a station manager from out Narrandera
way who was addicted to meteorological
prognostications, not without success.
Any others?
"Poor ole Winnie—ran into a Wall in a blackout."
“Bo”: Mitchell, a mild little man with
views on nothing, ten kids and a wife
who devoted what spare time she had
from trying to keep the unruly brood
in order to telling her spouse what she
thought of him and his immediate and
distant antecedents, had a small selection
out from Warialda on the Gwydir. To
him, as he sat in the sulky shed one morn-
ing whittling a stick and gazing morosely
at the bottom of the paddock where the
drought had converted his dam into a
bed of cracked mud, came the inevitable
book salesman. The latter dragged out
of his satchel the encyclopaedia in two
volumes (“not only the most useful thing
the man on the land could ever have
but a handsome ornament as well”), and
proceeded to turn up pages marked with
strips of paper and quote a few well-
chosen examples, from putting down
bores to the love-life of the eighth Tudor.
Throughout the harangue Mitchell con-
“Now forget all about raids and have a good night's rest"
tinued to whittle away the stick and view
the contiguous landscape with a hopeless
eye. He was still adamant after half an
hour’s high-pressure salesmanship, but
the tome-pedlar despaired not of seeing
the space above the dotted line duly
filled. “Just to think”—thus he battered
away at the fortress of Mitchell’s mad-
dening placidity—“that the whole sum
of human knowledge is encased within
these volumes—and all for the ridicu-
lously low sum of six guineas.” “All
human knowledge in them two books?”
asked Mitchell. “Well,” hedged the other,
“practically speaking. Now I’m sure
that your wife would derive great pleasure
and use from them.” “Listen, mister,”
said Mitchell, roused at last, “y’ admit
that that encyclopaeda thing don t quite
cover all human knowledge. Well,
said the salesman, perhaps there may
V. ot « touched on -
Righto, said Mitchell, now you go up
to the house see the missus— she ll
tell y the rest o the things that am t
there an you ve got my permission to use
em in it.
•** * _
“Towser”: Years ago, before Einstein
and Planck had complicated the study
of physics and Freud and Jong had given
new labels to mental processes, a much-
loved-term was "natural magnetism.” It
was used loosely and variously and usu-
ally involved faulty analogy but I, for
one, still cherish it because it holds the
b'd 3 ? an explanation of many things
hat Science hasnt yet had time to attend
between bov atdoT Ev/r watch” ™
work? Put a boy af'leisure Tnd a dog
on no particular errand at opposite end!
of a mile of street and they’ll drift to-
gather as inevitably as an apple yields to
the force of gravity when its stem breaks.
Nobody has ever investigated this attrac-
tion, because it is so familiar, so natural,
so much to be expected. But there is no
such feeling between boys and cats. Of
course, some boys are cruel to dogs,
But what proportion? I put it at .01
per cent
p ‘ # 9 9
<tT - • » .
Fernie : Youanmi (B. 4/2/ 4*.) sub-
scribes to a widespread delusion when e
talks about beer that was especially
potent because it had been jolted about
on a long journey over rough roads. I
know something about chemical analysis
and quite a lot about booze (after 40
years of tasting it) and I have yet to
meet any liquor that owes its powers of
intoxication to anything but alcoholic
content. What happens to a head the
morning after may be affected very con-
siderably by the care or otherwise with
which the drink was brewed or distilled
and the ingredients employed. But the
into the gash. By this time, what with
rate at which one gets drunk depends on
alcoholic content. I’ve not yet struck an
ale or beer that went over 10 p.c. abso-
lute alcohol—Australasian brews are well
under that, and if “Y.” struck an over-
whelmingly potent beer it must have
been laced with spirits.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Bill, a great snapper-up
of unconsidered trifles, clipped a recipe
for horse liniment from a farm paper,
bought the ingredients and mixed them!
He bottled the result and stored it on the
hut shelf. Then one day Duffy came
galloping into the hut holding one arm
and declaring that a tiger-snake had got
him. Bill scarified the wound, but I
couldn’t find the Condy’s and we hastily
tried tobacco ash after Bill had sucked
the gash. Duffy, a great believer in
Condy’s, got the wind up, and Bill sud-
denly thought of his horse liniment, got
a bottle and swabbed a fair dose of it
being held down, hacked about and
sucked at, Duffy was as white as a sheet
and looked like going off into a coma.
Bill gave me a harried look, muttered
“We gotter keep the cow awake” and
poured a shot of the liniment down
Duffy’s throat. Duffy went rigid, then
heaved the pair of us off and bolted out-
side, yelling. We took after him, but
were unable to head him off till Bill got
a brain-wave and yelled “Whoa! ” Duffy
propped, snorted, did a curvette or two
and then —s’help me —he trotted back to
us whinnying. After that, except for a
slight tendency to turn to the right when
anybody said “Gee,” he was the same old
Duffy.
* * *
“Snowy”: Recent mention of the
hollow back-log recalls that the homes
had to be made to take them. On
Monaro, that coldest part of N.S.W., the
old slab homes had fireplaces which
were really one end of the living-room
slightly sloped in, with seats along each
side, composed of wide slabs on a stone
ledge. There were no cold corners in
those rooms* and when the family pig
was killed the bacon was smoked up the
huge semicircular chimney. It is still the
most favored architecture in those parts.
* * * ¥
“Mrs. P.”: “Haddington” (B. 14/1 /’42)
has his ideas about color in horses, but
I doubt if he has studied the subject with
such seriousness as professionals like our-
selves. We have sold a great number of
mounts this year, a fact attributed
to the psychological approach, our latest
thing in business. The sweet woman, in
our experience, just can’t resist a darling
horse whose color is listed as Jonquil
Petal, Sunwheat Gold or Midnight
Witchery ; while her sporty sister finds
National Travel Tan or South Sea Spice
just marv. The smart type invariably
falls for Pepper ’n’ Salt or Palette. But
our trump card for more difficult fanciers
hinges on the old, old charm of mystery
—Week-end, the bright strawberry roans,
go down like beer in a heat-wave, and, as
for Tobruk Special, a flea-bitten grey, we
have ads. in all papers in hopes of
securing the number our clients are now
waiting for in order of precedence.
* * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry was humping
his knot, and with cash nil and tucker
dwindling he decided to make an appeal
for a meal. He knocked at the back
door of a cottage, and a pleasant-faced
woman came out. When Harry informed
her of his pressing need her expression
changed as she asked “How would you
like a nice chop?” “That all depends,”
said the long ’un, who didn’t like that
change of expression. “Is it lamb, pork
or wood?”
SPILT INK.
“War-drift of population and shortage of paper
nave forced some country papers to close down.”
Our editor has left us—he was comp, and
printer, too —
His shaky, worn old lino, gathers dust.
He’ll set up no more leaders on “The Needs of
Bangaloo,”
Nor warn us that the wheat is taking rust.
No wedding now will be described as “Hymen’s
holy rites,”
No death “a grievous loss we ill can bear.”
Should tyrants menace freedom or departments
local rights,
No more his flatbed thunders “Let Them
Dare! ”
The children, on the way from school, will view
the silent place,
Remembering how once they watched him
there
Printing dodgers for some local “fete” in Chelt.
or Roman face
On the platen that so often made him swear.
He used to give two columns when we brought
a trophy home;
Recorded how we lived and how we died;
Sometimes he’d print our efforts at a story or
a “pome,”
Or gently stick a pin into our pride.
He called the sheet the “Bangaloo and Murga
Creek Gazette.”
It came out every Friday, wet or shine.
And if he sometimes missed a smoke when
dues could not be met,
He chewed a match and wrote that things
were fine.
He gave himself a brief good-bye ere closing
down the press.
And, thanking us, he left without a fuss;
But in our rough, back-country way we knew
of his distress,
And knew, too, what his going meant to us.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Butcher-bird”: Old Ted’s not a good
fisherman, but the way he hauled in a
70-pound groper on a whiting line down
Cape Naturaliste way left us thinking.
Over a billy of tea he explained his
strategy, “Yair, I always take a drop
of wine with me. Breaks the monotony
when things are slow —and, anyhow, I
like it. I’m fishin’ with a No. 4 gut and
usin’ worms for baits—bonzer long blokes
I get underneath the seaweed on the high-
tide banks. I hadn’t got a nibble in an
hour, an’ I’m gettin’ sick o’ waitin’ when
I suddenly thinks o’ dippin’ a whole
worm in the port an’ shovin’ it on. I
slings it out on to the sandbank an’
nothin’ happens for a minute. Then I
see me line tearin’ round the boat in a
half-circle makin’ for a reef out in deep
water. Then there’s a tremendous pull
on me line, an’ I starts haulin’ in. It’s
a big feller, an’ he ain’t fightin ! I pull
him in dead careful, and as Joe slips the
net under him I can see why. That
worm had made a lasso of himself and
had the groper tight around the gills so
he couldn’t breathe. Drownded, he was!”
“Dip”: Funniest animals I’ve ever seen
under the influence (B. 14/1 / ’42) were
pigs. Gave them about five gallons of
home brew that wasn’t fit for human
consumption and they hogged it down
with apparent relish. About 10 minutes
later they were belching and finding diffi-
culty in standing ; 20 minutes later they
were bleary-eyed and sitting on their
rumps with heads flopping ; half an hour
later they were deep in drunken slumber.
And, from the bad-tempered fighting
they turned on a few hours later, I’d say
they all suffered from painful hangovers.
# * *
“Dig.”: One of the cruellest methods
of ridding a station of brumbies is still
practised in some parts of Queensland.
The brumbies are mustered and driven
into a yard which has a crush built into
one corner. The crush has a gate lead-
ing to the open paddock, and on each
side of this gate two men take up posi-
tions with meataxes or similar weapons.
As the unfortunate animals pass through
the gate as they make for the open pad-
dock their throats are slashed and, terri-
fied, they run till they drop or crash into
a tree or fence. It’s ghastly slaughter.
a: * » *
“B. A. Ker”: I’ve often wondered
why the cat hasn’t followed the example
of other imported animals and become
a pest. Although puss isn’t as prolific a
breeder as bunny she is no birth-control
addict —as any “official kitten-drowner”
will agree—and certainly her yearly
output is infinitely greater than the
vixen’s. The cat has fewer natural
enemies than the rabbit, is hardy, a for-
midable fighter and as cunning a hunter
as the fox. Yet despite the number of cats
that were turned loose during the mice
plague, not to mention the countless
thousands that have “gone bush” on their
own accord, the feline tribe is not nearly
as plentiful in the bush as might be ex-
pected ; and it will never become a pest.
* * * *
“0.T.”: “I’m humpin’ the knot west o’
the Gumbowies, in South Oss,” said
Dinny the Drifter, “an’ one cold night I
hits a humpy half-hid in a gully. There’s
a old bloke an’ his missus there, an’ he
invites me t’ stay the night. We has tea
an’ then, round a roarin’ fire, the ol’
bloke tells a yarn. I listen but don’t
say anythin’, bein’ a bit sleepy with
tucker an’ the warmth of the fire. He
tells another, then asks me if I know
any yarns. I’m sleepier still, an’ tell him
I ain’t much good at ’em. He says he’s
sorry, ’cos he finds a good yarn always
brightens up his missus. Then he tells
another an’ asks me if I can’t think up
one. Be this time I’m about dead to the
world, but he goes on yarnin’ an’ askin’
me f’r yarns an’ talkin’ far into the night.
In the end I makes a doss be the fire, and
the couple go off t’ bed. Just on dawn
I wakes up, bearin’ screams, an’ sees the
woman racin’ out the door with him after
her wavin’ an axe. I’m outa that doss
an’ runnin’ before me feet hits the floor.
In the moonlight I see her racin’ down
the gully an’ him after her. I tears after
’em, ignorin’ burrs an’ sticks cuttin’ me
bare feet, passes him an’ goes after her.
I’m past her an’ well on me way t’ North
Queensland when I wakes up properly,
so turns, grabs her, shoves her down
behind a log and drops beside her. Up
gallops his murderin’ nibs, sits on the log
an’ pants. ‘Gripes,’ he gasps, ‘what a
run! Well, young feller, nex’ time some-
body asks y’ f’r a yarn tell ’em this one ;
Come on, we’ll go back an’ the missus’ll
get us a cup o’ tea. I bet that brightened
her up.’ I ain’t bin near South Oss since.
* * * *
“Taylor Ville”: The gin witnessed by
“Ah Me” using a 20ft. net of mesh (B.
21 /1 / ’42) may have been trying to catch
sardines, but I doubt it. It was more
likely she was flinging a mosquito net
over one of the hordes of water-skating
Barrier mossies which Binghi habitually
ensnares, plucks, spits on their own pro-
boscises and roasts over a fire of tourist
literature,
* * * *
“Colbun”: More uses, is it, for the
term “roller” (B. 28/l/’42)7 Well, there’s
a handsome insectivorous bird known as
a roller from its rolling, swinging flight
in pursuit of tucker. Also that instru-
ment of suburban torture which heartless
wives force their downtrodden mates to
drag about the lawn on hot days. A
religious sect in America —it sent some
missionaries to Australia in the ’nineties
—was known as the Holy Rollers on
account of a blithesome habit of revolving
along the floor while experiencing the
ecstasies of prayer. Surfers wait for a
good roller —a long swelling wave—to
make their best shoots. A printer’s roller
is indispensable for spreading the ink
smoothly over the type in a hand press,
"He always WAS a Jonah.”
“I thought I'd NEVER get out.”
and rollers of all sizes and descriptions
are parts of many machines for lessen-
ing friction, smoothing, flattening, crush-
ing, wringing or rolling up flexible
materials. And in the American dice-
game —Aussies are to become better
acquainted with it —the lad who propels
the dice is known as the “roller.”
!f. * * *
“Dickie Beech”: “The O.D.’s” failure
to shoot fish under water (B. 28 /1 / ’42)
was due to refraction, not ricocheting.
Light rays are bent when they pass from
air into water or vice versa, and the fish
is always nearer to the shooter than it
seems. Aiming a few inches this side of
the scaly target will soon show the knack
of it. A bullet from a high-power rifle
or even a shot-charge from a 12-bore will
stun any moderate-sized fish near to
impact on water even if it misses—it is
one of the easiest ways of getting bait,
“The 0.D.” hasn’t handled too many
rifles if he doesn’t know that the sights
do not line on the mark when shooting
vertically downward. As for shooting
sharks from a boat, I’ve got dozens with
the old Lee Enfield which we carry for
just such purposes. For anything not
more than 3ft. under water one bullet
high up in the after part of a gill-plate
makes a certainty of the sea lawyer, but
you’ve got to understand the refraction-
allowance trick. As for subs, and ’planes,
my paper today has a Ministry of Infor-
mation photo, and description of a Ü-
boat which was forced to the surface by a
bomb from a Lockheed Hudson and kept
there until a naval vessel arrived.
* * * *
“B. 4”: I found another use for the
forked stick, subject of an Aboliar sym-
posium. My job as a nipper was to
round up the station hacks on an old
plug named The Drum. No amount of
kicks or thumps could alter the rhythm
he set himself. A cut with the whip for
being late stimulated my thinkery, so I
built a pair of spurs from two forked
sticks well pointed and fastened to my
mundowies with greenhide. A few prods
from these and old Tin Ribs, with ears
back, tore down on the feeding prads,
which raced to the yards in consternation.
Following them, I passed an old ’roo
which was staring at the galloping mokes
and took after him. As I raced him
through the timber and past the yards
the boss, now saddled up, took after me.
By this time The Drum was punctured,
and I much the same as I escaped on
foot through a fence. The aftermath of
that put me off forked sticks for life.
* * * *
“Yours etc.”: Accused, who had
camped on the outskirts of the town for
years, was charged with having broken a
shop window, resisted arrest and used
obscene, etc. “What came over you?”
asked the magistrate kindly. “You are
usually a quiet man.” “I’m sorry, your
Worship,” accused answered. “I got
drunk on plink.” “Plink?” repeated the
p.m. “I’ve heard of plonk. I understand
it is a substitute for wine.” “That’s
right, your Worship,” accused agreed;
“and plink is a substitute for plonk.”
* * * *
“N.”: Tell “J. Rilston” (B. 21/1/ ’42)
that there is a considerable difference
between a 30ft. boat and a small dinghy,
especially when the former is a deep-sea
job and the latter a river craft which
spends most of its time half out of the
water on a bank. Blue’s dinghy, too,
was caulked with putty in winter, and
the planks naturally shrank in the hotter
weather. If “J.R.” would like to try her
out I’ll willingly row while he bails. His
assertion that carvel-built jobs are “un-
surpassed” as sailers diverges widely
from a discussion of Murray River
rowing-boats, but, in my experience, the
clench-built small boat is more stable,
more resistant to bumps and squeezes,
and a whole lot easier and quicker to
overhaul singlehanded than the slick-
sided craft.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: Sandy Jack shuffled into
the head station just when old Dan was
leaving, and he was put on boundary-
riding at Dan’s old camp, Variety Well.
Despite his itching feet the departing one
had fond memories of the old hut, and
he gave Sandy detailed instructions for
the handling of the Lister engine, the
colonial oven, the weak rail in the horse-
yard and especially the feeding and
care of Joe, the obese goanna that always
shared the hut. “Reel character, ’e is,”
he confided. “Y’oughter see ’im when
’e gets a bone too big t’ swaller. Rares
up agin a post an’ bangs on the wood
t’ drive the bone down ’is neck.” Next
morning Sandy, after putting away half
a dozen chops and without even stopping
to wash his greasy hands, began to rum-
mage the boxes of old gear stowed under
the telephone. He hauled out rusty tools
and odds and ends, and finally a couple
of sticks of dynamite left over from a
blasting job. He handled these with in-
terest for a while, then put them down,
spat at Joe>and went outside. When he
came back he heard a thudding noise
under the table. Investigating, he found
the goanna, a stick of mutton-fat impreg-
nated dynamite halfway down its neck,
hammering away with a will at the table
leg to get the rest down. Sandy went
across the verandah in one jump, grabbed
a bridle and headed down the horse-
paddock. He hit the homestead for
dinner, and declared his desire to have
tea in the township. The present occupant
of Variety Hut hasn’t seen Joe, but there
are no conspicuous gaps in the landscape.
“Prop”: Clever Hayes and self were
all set for a long dry stage on the far-
west coast of S.A. when the bottom fell
out of the waterbag. Clever did some
fancy tracking that eventually brought
us to a fine Bft. carpet snake. We caught
it alive and lugged it back to the soak.
Then, while I held the tail, Clever levered
open its jaws and emptied our saltbag
down its neck. After that we took the
thing to the water, where, naturally, it
drank itself into the shape of an o.s.
Zeppelin. Then we let it go, and took
turns chasing it round a claypan for half
an hour. It was a hot day, and Joe soon
had such a sweat up that we reckoned
he’d got rid of most of the salt. We
gave him another drink while he was hot,
picked up our drums and started. That
serpent kept us in water for two days.
The stuff was a bit brackish, but you
can’t have everything; and, anyway, a
snake being cold-blooded, the drink was
cooler than it would’ve been in a water-
bag.
EARTH CRY.
Now with this alien shadow reaching stark
Across the bine Pacific, with the threat
Of horrors that would turn our sunshine daric,
Of terrors that have never touched us yet,
Against the wailing wall of doubt I ciy
“No, no, it cannot be, this land is mine;
The singing fields, the wooded hills, the sky
Blue as a mountain lake—these tendrils twine
About .my being, as the wild blue-vine „
Clings to the bracken where scrub creatures he.
I turn and face the hills, and instantly
Their quiet folds me, and their calm eyes look
Into my heart. Their slow tongues speak to me
Saying, “For centuries our might has shook
To God’s own thunder. We are old in strife.
Fire blackened us; but rain has made us green.
A thousand thousand times the bitter knife
Of frost has thrust at us; drought made us
lean;
Wind wrought with us, and tempest tore me
breath
From our dark lips. Behold us, for we stand
Unconquered yet in this unconquered land,
Fearing no foe in life, nor fearing death!”
Thus speak the hills and, having spoken, pass
To their old silence; but I know their words
Will ripple on for ever in the grass;
And drip in wisdom from the tongues of birds.
I kneel and thrust my fingers in the earth,
Scooping the brown bush mould up, till 1 hold
It in my hands, a miser with her gold,
Cherishing it above all other worth.
It lies within my palms like silk, and now
I glimpse a seed among it, a frail link
In the great plan of bole and leaf and bough—
A tree in embryo, living, and I think
“This is the soil I sprang from. This is me!”
And since all flesh is grass how glad am I
To know what forest sweetness is my sheath.
Bush-born, bush-bred, I have loved faithfully
This land of mine; but I was just a child
Lying among the harebells and the heath
Until I heard the distant clamoring cry
Of foes without, and my heart beats high and
wild!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


LYSAGHTS
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
r
:* Vi.
m*
f r
Wmm
aM
■
m
m
W'
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office; 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING.
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Rearing Calves.
Huxave”; If possible the calf should
get its mother’s first milk. After the fifth
day it can be fed warm fresh milk till
about two weeks old. A calf of 401b
weight should get 81b. of milk a day;
evef y ,101b- of weight above that add
21K of milk. Feed at regular intervals.
The milk temperature should be from
95 to 100 deg. F. Milk containing 3.5
per cent, of butterfat needs no dilution.
Above that of water should be
added for every additional 5 per cent, of
fat. Milk too rich in butterfat is too
rich in proteins and sugars.
After the first fortnight the calf can
have substitutes for fresh milk. Lessen
the milk gradually. Third week, 91b.
of milk and 5|lb. of substitute a day ;
fourth week, 61b. of milk and 111b. of
substitute (by this time the calf can nibble
grass); fifth week, 31b. milk and up to
Ibylb. substitutes; sixth to 25th week,
substitutes should average about 221b'
All these quantities should be divided into
morning and evening feeds.
The most common substitute is skim-
milk. Gruels are satisfactory if fed in
conjunction with new milk, skim-milk
or fresh cheese whey. One pound of
any of the following concentrates mixed
with one gallon (101b.) of water makes a
good gruel mixture: Pollard ; equal parts
of pollard and skim-milk powder ; equal
parts of pollard and linseed meal and a
cup of limewater for each calf; three
parts pollard, three parts dried whey and
two parts meatmeal. The pollard gruel
should be given only when cheese whey
or fresh skim-milk is available. When
there is no green feed the substitutes
should be fed with 10 per cent, of new or
freshly-skimmed milk. Where there is
ample greenstuff put the calves on to it
and cut out the gruels.
In Queensland a mixture fed after the
eighth week consists of 331b. of linseed
meal and 651b. of cereal meal. One-half
° u e . Cereal is bran and Toward and the
?it? er oats > barley or maize. About
■jib. of salt and 21b. of sterilised bone-
meal are added 21b. of this a day, plus
some skim-milk and good pasture, makes
a balanced feed.
Salt Poisoning.
• Brien’s Luck”: A couple of the
pigs became dopey, went into a sort of
stupor and took to standing with their
heads shoved against a gate or wandering
about like a bushman loose in the city.
Then their muscles started twitching, they
lapsed into a coma and died. It looked
like poison. We went over their tucker,
took a close look at the grazing, but
everything seemed all right. A post-
mortem showed no definite changes in
the organs.
By elimination we arrived at the whey
from the cheese factory, made some in-
quiries and found that we’d got some
that was excessively salty. Other in-
quiries led to the conclusion that the pigs
had died from salt-poisoning. D. Mar-
shall, a Maoriland livestock expert,
pointed out that salt in excess or in too
great a concentration could do the trick.
Pigs, calves, sheep and poultry could be
affected.
In a test the pigs at first rejected the
salty whey, but came at it readily enough
when hungry. Somebody recalled a case
of pigs suffering the same symptoms after
drinking rainwater which had accumu-
lated in a concrete trough containing salt
ilex. Amount of salt necessary to poison
and conditions that may cause it are hard
to get at.
, M. a r r^ a ;i anc * Udy, the chief chemist of
t e M.L. Co-op. Dairy Co., fed increasing
amounts of salt to three pigs for five
weeks to test the matter. It was added
to whey and given every second day. At
! flna | Jf, ed thc Pigs weighed 851 b.,
i 591 b., and were fed among them
lib. of salt in 10 gallons of whey. The
pigs retained their health. Then the
smallest pig was given Boz. of salt in
lour gallons of whey, analysis showing
1.5 p.c. of salt. The pig didn’t drink
tor some hours. In the next two days
it became dull, was down on the third
day, in a coma and with muscle-twitch-
"Go on, Ma —wipe the grin orf ’ is face."
mg, was destroyed and examined and
showed slight gastritis.
From this it seems evident that a salt
concentration of over 1 p.c. is dangerous,
though in an American case pigs suffering
a form of dysentery were given a 2 p.c.
salt mixture in buttermilk with good
results, salt-poisoning occurring in only
one pig of the 20 herds treated.
in 1939 there were Maoriland
cases of lost calves through salt-poison-
ing from overconsumption of lick. Symp-
toms were poverty and scouring, and a
good number of all those affected re-
covered. Several cases of salt-poisoning
in poultry are quoted by Clough (“Veter-
inary Record,” 14/12/’29) from excess
salt in the mash. He gives the danger
dose as about |oz. of salt to a 41b. hen,
and mentions poisoning of cattle when
their water contained 1.6 p.c. of salt.
Potato-seed Treatment.
“Huxave”; Hot formalin and acid cor-
rosive sublimate are both recommended
by Queensland Department of Agricul-
ture for treating seed potatoes, which
should be washed, not cut, before treat-
ing.
Mix one pint of commercial formalin
(40 p.c, formaldehyde) with 15gal, of
water. Heat to 125 deg. Keep a small
fire under the tank so that the solution
is at the right temperature when needed.
No more than a 5 p.c. variation in heat
is allowed. Seed should be dipped in
this for 2£min. On removing drain ex-
cess solution back into the tank. Cover
the potatoes for an hour to keep in the
fumes. Dry before planting.
For the acid corrosive sublimate, ilb.
of corrosive sublimate and Ulb. of hydro-
chloric acid (spirits of salts) are mixed
with 124-gal. of water. As this corrodes
metal use a wooden or painted container.
See that the corrosive sublimate is
thoroughly dissolved. Immerse the tubers
and spread to dry thoroughly. A wooden
crate is better than bags. The solution
loses its strength after about 10 succes-
sive dippings and a fresh lot will then be
necessary.
The corrosive sublimate should be
applied to seed immediately before plant-
ing, otherwise germination may be
delayed. Sublimate is deadly poison to
stock and humans. Unless hands are
greased before immersion in the solution
the poison content may irritate them.
The treatments are effective only in
healthy soil. It’s waste of time treating
seed to be planted in soil which has pro-
duced diseased crops.
Mite Pests.
‘E. Mahrio”: Tomato mite and red
spider are infesting tomato and bean
crops in N.S.W., says W. L. Morgan, en-
tomologist of the Department of Agricul-
ture. Dry weather suits both.
Red spider is mainly a coastal curse.
Look for a fine white speckling of bean
leaves which will dry and fall from the
plants. The mites will be on the under-
sides of the leaves and can barely be seen
as red, slow-moving atoms. Dust with
sulphur. There is no need to get it under
the leaves, as the fumes will do the trick.
For small bean plots a cheesecloth bag
for hand sprinkling will do. If a dust-gun
is being used on a commercial crop, mix
one part of hydrated lime to two parts
of sulphur to make the dust fly and
spread.
The tomato mite is everywhere, and
any tomato crop not treated may be re-
garded as infested. You can’t see it with
the naked eye, but a smooth, shining,
brown appearance of stems and under-
sides of leaves is evidence. Spray with
lime-sulphur at a pint to gallons of
water—for small beds a half-cup to 2\
gallons of water. Spray upwards to get
at the undersides of the plants. Any mite
not hit with spray goes on its way. Give
the second spray a week after the first;
then spray every three or four weeks.
You can dust with sulphur in the same
way as for red spider control in beans,
but you take a big chance of the sulphur
scorching foliage and fruit. Sulphur dust-
ing should be used only as a preventive ;
once the plant is infested lime-sulphur
spray is the thing. It won’t hurt plant 01
fruit when used in the proportions given
A Wire Gate.
R.N. : It can be made quickly and
costs little, stock won’t try pushing it
open and if hung properly it will stand
up well to ordinary use. The size is a
matter for yourself, but you’ll need a
horizontal top bar of 3 x 1, three up-
rights of 3 x 2 and one —to carry the
hinges of 4x 2, a diagonal stay of 3 x
2 and two short diagonals of 4 x 1. Use
barbed, not plain, wire.
Square up the outer and hinge uprights
with the top bar and fasten them ; then
put in the two inner uprights. Next run
the long stay from the outer top corner
to the inner (hinge) bottom corner.
The two short diagonals go in from
the bottom outer corner to where
the long stay meets the next upright
and from the hinge top corner down
to where the long stay meets the next
upright on that side. Thus two rough
yees face each other on the outer and
inner panels of the gate, while the centre
panel has only the portion of the long
stay running across it.
Space five lengths of barbed wire across
the gate from below the top bar to
within 6in. or Sin. of the ground. Since
the gate is thoroughly stayed, these wires
can be strained tight.
Complete, the gate is very
light, and ordinary fencing
wire can be used for hinges.
Bore two fin. holes through
the broad width of the hinge
upright and at opposite
points in the fence post.
Double two pieces of wire
about 18in. long, put their
ends together and push the
four ends through the hole
in the upright, bending
them down and stapling
them. This leaves a loop
of double wire on the post
side of the upright. Now
two similar pieces of wire
are run through the loop,
doubled and their ends
shoved through the gatepost,
drawn tight and stapled.
This is done at top and
bottom of the gate, and the
interlocked loops make firm
and free-swinging hinges.
Hints for the Farm.
“B. W. Owhane”: In Maoriland sub.
clover is always used in seed mixtures
for pastures on sandy country, the rate
being about 21b. an acre. White clover
is also recommended, despite that sub.
will generally dominate the pasture in
the first year or two, because on the
damp parts of a sandy flat the white
clover will make good at once and it
will gradually increase on the other parts
as the pasture ages.
“Canbelego”; Metallic flavors in cream
are caused by acid action on untinned
patches in metal utensils. Don’t scrub
cans and buckets with abrasive soaps.
Well water with a metallic taste will cause
the taint if used to flush the separator.
Use separated milk for flushing. Don’t
send two gallons of cream to the factory
in a 10-gallon can, as the splashing about
can cause the taint.
“B.”: Tilling bare, loose soil increases
evaporation and destroys, the general con-
dition if done too often. Moisture below
evaporation depth is often lost to weeds;
control the weeds and save the moisture.
In soils liable to deep cracking block the
larger openings and find a way to stop
the cracking.
“Ex-Vic.”; If a calf gets ringworm re-
peated dressing with tincture of iodine
brings quick results. Bad cases should
have the skin washed with a warm soapy
solution containing 2oz. of washing soda
to a pint of water. Hard scabs can be
{Continued on page 16.)


m
m*.
HI
m
m
mm
m
m
WmMMimmim
m
11
li
r
a
5
mfc
/
f
M
*BOMBSIGHT
Instrument constructed for the purpose of
accurately bombing moving and stationary targets
from various altitudes and at various air speeds
with all types of aerial bombs.
*35,000 engineering hours were expended in the
tooling up to make possible the production of the
411 separate parts comprising the Bombsight.
From this tooling a continuous flow of parts is as-
sured to our manufacturing departments for
assembly of a substantial daily delivery to the
Fighting Forces.
i
O.c. 15-S


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
advances made on grazing properties, on stock, and on
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE MANAGER: A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES’, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
PROVIDES THE SAME COMFORT AND SAFETY AS CITY SEWERAGE
WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
Besides TYPHOID, DY'SENTERY and serious diseases, many minor affections
such as SEPTIC CUTS, SORE EYES, CHIEFS and COEDS can be traced to
unhygienic closets.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPEETE SEEF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSEEF AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CEOSET PAN.
All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and runs off into the soil.
It eliminates closet pans and saves sanitary rates.
IT PREVENTS THE SPREAD OF THE BLOWFLY PEST.
There is no emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
NO SMEEES. NO FEIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health and is fully guaranteed. Over 1700 in use.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Ply. Ltd. XXnT SIDNM
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.b. SYDNEY, including 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 30/- war surcharge; crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
Obtainable direct from its or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
C
Cupte** 1
a
m
<p
G v ,
\V\
8
O'
■ss.
sm
m i ■
$
W
©
m
m
m :
It may H
cost a
little
more but
it's WELL
worth it/
Gordon’s
Gin
in Ijnuhm, fnqlmuL
'iiii
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
LTD. Q LONDON, ENGLAND *Jhe UttyeU yin dtitiUM in the woild
A Book that
will save your
family money
The new taxes are probably giving you
grave concern. This book is about
the last taxes your Estate will have
to pay, and how to make provision for
paying them. Reading it should en-
able you to save your family money-
Send for a free copy.
USE THIS COUPON
To the A.M.P. Society.
You might send me a free copy of
"Money to Pay Your Death Duties.”
Name
Address
A.M.P.
Society
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager and Actuary.
HEAD OFFICE :
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth, Hobart and Canberra,
A.O.T.
District Offices throughout all States.
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and' vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES & CO..
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different */'
100 Australians, all different
40 Pacific Islands, all different • V’
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., «
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
softened with oil. A lotion of 4oz. of
copper sulphate in a pint of water is use-
lul. Isolate infected calves and take care
not to catch the infection yourself.
“Prince and K.”: Horses’ eyes need
constant attention in hot, dry seasons.
Fine dust irritates lids, causes inflamma-
tion and brings the flies round in swarms.
A little neglect and the nag is running at
the eyes ; maybe a scum forms and sight
is dimmed or the horse becomes irri-
table. Horses running free can protect
themselves; it’s the working horse that
needs its eyes washed with clean water
and rag once a day and whose winkers
should be watched for dust-cakes and
tiny burr seeds.
‘
■ Punc h ’: Keep the farm tidy—yes,
lidy. Stock losses through their eating
short pieces of wire, old tins, nails, screws,
staples, etc., aren’t as uncommon as you
might think. One of the worst menaces
is wire from baled hay. It isn’t hard to
cultivate a habit of putting this waste in
safe places. Every machine should
c frry a small box for it, and there can be
otb f r b ° xes h A andy about tbe homestead
a " d . sheds * A P ar * f^ m the stock > bit f
, wire cause a , lot of human injury and
dama 8 e to machinery and a good horse
? an he ruined through a rusty nail stick-
otd an od board,
tID r ,„ „ ~ . “ ,
u B ; C : stood in the
Hopetoun (Vic.) wheat and fallow con-
*ests L thls year - 11 was first and second
ln tbe open sectlon ’ first m the aggregate
section, equal second with Ghurka in the
soldier-settlers’ section. The Bencubbin
crop that won the aggregate was declared
Mallee champion and earned for its
grower, C. E. Carra, a £5O prize from the
Victorian R.A.S.
“Goulburn”: The smaller quantity of
grease in the clip and the liner quality
in drought-time don’t necessarily result
in increased yield of wool. Lack of
normal “body” in the fibre causes waste
in manufacture and may cause a clip to
be appraised in a lower type. Sheep are
bred to grow a class of wool suitable to
the country on which they are pastured.
On good feed they may yield a well-
grown 60-64’s. In a dry spell it may be-
come a doubtful 64-70’s. And there is
always dust in drought.
Outback Occasions.
No. 23.
Our Cousin.
Our cousin was about 18 when she
came up to stay with us. We hadn’t
seen her since she was about nine. Some-
how our brother and our sister and I
never thought about her being sort of
grown up, and when Father came out
from town and a young woman with
swish hair and a tan color and red finger-
nails, and dressed in a pretty dress, with
silk stockings and high-heeled shoes, got
out of the car we didn’t know which way
to look. Our brother’s eyes nearly stuck
out of his head, and he went red and
shuffled in the dust when our mother
said, “This is Jean; your cousin Jean.
Aren’t you going to kiss her?” We
weren’t used to kissing cousins of that
kind, at least our brother wasn’t, and he
was nearly 20.
Mother took her inside and our sister
went with them. Our brother and I sort
of hung around the verandah and thought
of our boots and the sores we’d got on
our hands from carting wood that week
and a lot of other things. Then we saw
our father come out of his room and go
to the stables wearing a clean shirt and
his best gabardine pants, and his new
elastic-sided tan riding boots, which he
only wore when going to the stock sales
in town. We looked at him and at each
other and felt that nobody owned us.
Presently our sister and Jean came
out and we nearly fell down, because
Jean was wearing a pair of short blue
pants and a sweater, with sandals on her
feet that showed she had red toenails.
Our brother and I must have looked like
what we felt, because Jean gave us a
sort of shy look and giggled a bit and
said, “Gosh, haven’t you seen a girl in
shorts before?”
We had, but only on the pictures and
in newspapers and sometimes at a dis-
tance down at the swimming hole in the
town, but we’d never had one running
about our place. She and our sister
went over to the stables, and our mother
came out and looked at us and looked at
the two girls and then looked sort of
funny, as though she wanted to put a
wing over us or something. Then our
mother laughed a little bit and said
wouldn’t we like to change our clothes.
So we changed our clothes and then
sat around, not knowing what to do.
And we never said a word to each other.
Well, after a while it was better, and
Jean asked us a lot of questions about the
farm and told us a lot of things about
the city. We thought she was a good
sport, except that every now and again
she’d ask us if we’d seen some picture
or other and say “I adore Bark Cable.
You should have seen him in ‘Bombay
Night’ ” or something, and we’d be dumb
because we liked pictures all right, but
neither our brother nor I ever got worked
up over Bark Cable or anybody. We
used to reckon we’d like to see him hump-
ing three-bushel bags of wheat or hay-
digging with the sun 100 in the water-
bag, and Jean would open her blue eyes
and look puzzled.
About 24 hours after she arrived half
the young blokes in the district started
calling at our place. Some of the silly
cows would want to know if we had the
right time or the way to Two Wells or
if there was a sale at O’Brien’s next
month—as if they didn’t know. It had
me puzzled for a bit, till our brother met
Tommy Andrews down at the gate one
afternoon and Tommy said something
and they both started fighting. Our
brother got a black eye out of it, and
Tommy went home pretty well marked.
Our brother threatened to kill me if I
said anything, and he sat at tea that
night and glowered and wouldn’t speak.
There was a dance down at the Long
Bridge, and we all went. You ought to
have seen the get-up of Jean. Every eye
in the hall was on her, and we sat there
and were very important because a lot of
the fellows kept coming up and talking
to us about things as though we knew
everything and they couldn’t sleep unless
they had our opinion. Then some of the
old people started coming up and inviting
us to go and see them. By crikey, we
were the most popular family in the dis-
trict that night.
After that you’d have thought our
place was a mail-change or something,
the way sulkies and cars and horsemen
kept coming and going. The blokes
used to try to get Jean to go with them
on her own, but she wouldn’t budge
without our sister. Our dogs enjoyed it
as much as anybody else, because nearly
every bloke brought his dogs and all the
dogs would hop into each other and fight
all over the place.
One day old Dinny Thorne was at our
place and said to our father, “When you
sendin’ that young lady home? I ain’t
seen any o’ my four boys ’cept when
they’re in bed an’ nobody can get any
work done on the farms round here.”
“You haven’t got that on your own,”
said Father. “Have you got any idea o’
the hundreds of gallons of tea and the
tons of sandwiches and cake that’s been
eaten here in the last fortnight? Why.
my missus is practickally out on her feet
and I’ve cut more wood for the fire than
ever before. You orter talk! She ain’t
stayin’ with you.”
“Strike me,” said old Dinny, and went
home.
So did Jean, a couple of days later.
And no sooner was she gone than all the
girls round our way come out with red
fingernails and started catching the Satur-
day train over to Quarrien Junction
where there was a ladies’ barber. Our
sister had just turned 16, and there was a
terrible row when she came to light with
red fingernails. Father seemed to think
the end of the world had come. Then
Mother said something about letting
youth have its fling and she knew her
children were sensible and Father ought
to —well, anyway, Father looked more
than ever as though he thought the end
of the world had come.


u
1
11
lUI
H
C. D. MACLURCAN: Managing Oil
?&f j , t
UUJ uli.r
Stay at the Wentworth, and enjoy the REAL hospitality for which
this hotel is famed. The Wentworth is close to business and social
centres yet free from traffic noises. Modern appointments include
new bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff during Christmas, Easter or any other
season.
STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
THE ELECTROLYTIC SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 8637 -
/
a.
&
C^Zc/
9S*.
(m
Wy.'lvOrijWw
(S*-
w
a
Open
cheque account now with the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy H. G. Wells’s Outline of History.—
3239.
To buy The Spiritual Exercises of St.
Ignatius. —Answer, with price, to Box 482d,
G.P.O., Adelaide.
To buy, second-hand, Herbert Spencer s
First Principles. —3242.
Words of recitation in which each verse
finishes with the line “I s’pose yer never heard
what won the ’urdle?” —3236.
Information Sought.
What is the size of the oyster-fishing business
in Australia? How does it compare with the
Australian fishing industry generally?
Latest statistics are for 1938-39, when there
were 754 boats engaged and 850 men employed
in obtaining 89,145cwt. of oysters, gross value
of which was £132,201. In the same year there
were 5462 boats engaged and 9081 men em-
ployed in obtaining 612,735cwt. of fish, gross
value of which was £1,385,281. Gross value of
lobsters caught in the same year was £134,866.
* * * *
(1) Why is the 200 in. reflector at Mt. Palomar
( US.A .) observatory made of glass? Couldn’t
it be more easily made of steel? (2) Is the
surface of the mirror to be silvered or alumi-
nised ?
(1) Two good reasons for choosing glass
(Pyrex) are, firstly, its rigidity, and, secondly,
the fact that it expands and contracts very
little with changes in temperature, and there-
fore does not alter the optical surface of the
mirror. (2) Aluminised.
* * * *
What was the “forgery” committed by Bis-
marck to ensure the Franco-Prussian War of
1870 ? .. ...
Bismarck had persuaded Prince Leopold ot
Hohenzollern to accept an offer of the Spanish
throne. When the acceptance became known, the
French Government objected. Bismarck was away,
but under his instructions the Prussian Foreign
Office denied any knowledge or responsibility
(necessary because of the bad impression that
would have been caused had Germany fought
France merely in support of the Prince’s candi-
dature) ; and the King departed from Bismarck s
policy of reserve by receiving Benedetti, the
French Ambassador, at Ems. As it happened,
the French altered and extended their demands.
They asked for a letter of apology, and
Benedetti personally asked the King to promise
that the Prince’s candidature would not be re-
sumed. Bismarck “doctored” the telegram in
which this information and the King’s refusal
were conveyed, making it appear that the request
and refusal had both been in a more abrupt
form than had really been the case.
* * * *
(1) What chance has a man without experi-
ence of getting a fob on an overseas freighter?
(2) If not on an overseas ship, what chance on
an inter-State vessel?
(1) Not much, and if he were to obtain a
berth he would be discharged in the U.K.
without any obligation on the part of the master
to re-engage him there, and without liability
on the owner for the man’s repatriation. He
would, if he should become stranded there,
have to shift for himself. (2) He would have
to join one of the marine unions, but inex-
perience would hamper him greatly. He would
have to approach the Stewards’ Union, the
Cooks’ Union or the Seamen’s Union, all in
Sydney, if he wished to ship inter-State from
that port. Chances are pretty poor. They
would be brighter in one of the transports, as
large numbers of first-trippers are taken on to
assist in the galley or as cleaners in the engine-
room department.
How many Government employees are there
in Australia and by what Governments are
they ■employed ?
Permanent full-time employees: Common-
wealth 57,779, N. S. Wales 77,516, Victoria
59 363, Queensland 34,132, S.A. 15,834, West-
ralia 15,375, Tasmania 4406. Permanent part-
time employees: Commonwealth 118,, M. »•
Wales 435, Victoria 766, Queensland 281, o.a.
782, Westralia 193, Tasmania nine. Temporary
full-time employees: Commonwealth 26,*5/,
N. S. Wales 30,568, Victoria 20,461, Queensland
3686, S.A. 5995, Westralia 6004, Tasmania
1263’ Temporary part-time employees: Com-
monwealth 10,424, N. S. Wales 8886, Victoria
1933, Queensland 448, S.A. 4405, Westralia
4746, Tasmania 892. Total, 388,857. Figures
are as at June 30, 1939.
♦ *
(1) Treatment for an orange-tree which fails
to set fruit ? (2) Would grafting help ? (3)
Any books on grafting? (4) Where can I get
further information?
(1) Failure is probably the result of weakness,
which may be due to a number of causes. Most
likely remedy is to induce a more thrifty con-
dition in the tree by applying an increased
amount of nitrogen in early spring, and by en-
suring that the tree is supplied with sufficient
but not excess, moisture. (2) Unlikely. (3)
A leaflet on the subject is available on apphca-
tion from the N. S. Wales Department of Agn-
culture. (4) From N. S. Wales Department
of Agriculture.
Information Supplied.
L.A.B.; I don’t know whether or not C. J.
Dennis’s “Austral- -aise” was ever set
to music (B. 28/1/’42), but I was staying at
Toolangi (Victoria) at Christmas, 1912, and
had many yarns with C.J. He told me that
when he was thinking about writing the lines
the only suitable tune he could think of was
that of “Onward, Christian Soldiers.” And the
lines will run to that tune.
Brief Answers.
A.C.: Darwin evacuees now in N. S. Wales
should apply for financial assistance to the
Under-Secretary, Department of Labor and
Industry and Social Services, Sydney....
C.G.W.: The N. S. Wales Department of Agri-
culture suggests that the insects are more
probably spider mite than starling lice. Spray
the lawn with lime sulphur (one gallon to 50
gallons of water)... .R.M.: (1) The issue of a
passport is a matter for the M.L. authorities.
(2) If you pass the necessary R.A.A.F. exami-
nations in Australia you would be placed on
the reserve list and would await your turn lor
a call-up. (3) It seems that your best plan
is to wait for a call-up in R.N.Z.A..F. (4)
Suggest you explain your financial position and
reasons for it to the officer-in-charge of the
recruiting depot at which you enlisted
T.R.; There are about 295 qualified health in-
spectors in the employ of N. S. Wales Govern-
ment and local government bodies and several
with the military forces. An inspector must
hold a Health Inspector’s Certificate issued
by the Royal Sanitary Institute, the Sydney
Technical College or other recognised examina-
tion authority. Further particulars have been
posted P.O’R.: Cut up one cake of Sun-
light soap and melt over a stove in one quart
of water; then cut up and add 41b. paraffin
wax and 41b. beeswax. Stir well. Take mixture
off stove, stand it away from flame in a vessel
of boiling water (vapor is inflammable) and stir
in one pint of turpentine. Beat well and store
in tins—mixture will fill three 21b. treacle tins
—with lids. Use sparingly on floor or lino, and
polish well A.W.B.; First rub the cards
with fuller’s earth or powdered magnesia, then
press with a fairly hot iron to restore original
thickness. Give a final sprinkle with talc
powder and wipe each with a clean linen cloth.
A.H.: Difficult to estimate the cost of
mining without knowing size and nature of
deposit—much depends on the arrangement of
the ore, whether in the form of a lode or
occurring as a bed or sheet at the surface.
If the latter condition applies and a reasonable
output is attained it may be possible to land
the ore on rail at a cost of 10s.-15s. a ton.
B.H.P. and Australian Iron and Steel are the
only buyers of iron ore in Australia, and prices
are matters for private agreement with them,
R.C.: Method of treating warts in cattle is
explained in a N. S. Wales Department of
Agriculture pamphlet, “Diseases of the Udder in
Dairy Cows.” A copy has been posted to you.
. .JP.: Birth certificate is not essential if
any other documentary evidence regarding date
of birth can be furnished. The local manager
of the Commonwealth Savings Bank could
advise you regarding transmission of fee for
certificate from Somerset House. Fee, includ-
ing exchange, is about 7s N.J.: If, as is
likely, the fleas come from cats and dogs, you
should treat the animals with derris powder or
other suitable insecticide. The places they fre-
quent should be sprayed with a carbolic sheep-
dip A.J.L.: No, the Scullin Government did
not guarantee 4s. a bushel... .W.D.H.: Further
books on the setting and sharpening of edged
tools include the Cincinnati Milling Machine
Co.’s Treatise on Milling and Milling Machinery,
obtainable from the Country Circulation De-
partment of the N. S. Wales Public Library,
and Grinding, Lapping and Honing, by Edgar
T. Westbury, published by Marchall, 3s. 3d.
. ...L.8.A.: Get in touch with the C.O. at
the R.A.A.F. recruiting depot at which you
made your application 0.L.G.: See lire
British Army, by Lt.-Commander Talbot Bootn,
and The Romance of Regimental Marches, by
Walter Wood, both available at Sydney Public
Library... .A.F.: No taxes should be deducted
from £1 10s. a week plus keep... .KC B.:
Commercial travelling is not covered by any
Commonwealth Arbitration Court award Per-
haps the Department of Labor, Melbourne,
could help you... .Branded: Branded bottles
remain the property of the firm issuing them.
Money paid by it to collectors is only m the
nature of a collection fee and is a matter o
arrangement between them The firm can de-
mand the handing over of the bottles from me
collector and can, if necessary, enforce tie
demand by getting an order from a competent
Court. Doubtful if it could get an or cr
stopping a collector from collecting bo te .
Know of no such law as to price... .X.Y.Z/..
Orders and decorations go to officers, medals
to n.c.os. and other ranks. The M.C. also
may be awarded to a warrant officer, both in
the air force and the army.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
F.C.;
Join up, with the speed of a hart!
Just he brave and courageous of heart.
Join up, go straight, Itke the shaft of a dart.
G.M.: No sympathy for 8i11... .V.C.8.:
Send it to a daily F.U.H.: “The almost
silent swirling of the spittoon, the simmering
of the automatic steriliser” —they’re unpleasant
memories... .D.J.S.: Keep trying... ;E.C.:
It’s a gloomy picture G.A.8.: Scarcely
raises a titter... .A.W.R.; Futile... >T.J.: Bil-
chester’s a long way away J.S.R.: The
obvious happened to it. . . .E.F.: Might interest
Muckrake the Magician... .E.8.R.: Much too
slight J.P.: “What do you require?” is not
Shakspeare’s English but the grocer’s 8.E.:
Don’t use cliches such as “virgin shores’ ....
J.C.8.: “Nor yet e’en cottar’s smoky spiral
marks his lowly home.” If poetry must use
an archaic language’ why not give us scpmething
in Anglo-Saxon for a change from the eighteenth
century? N.F.: Elementary W.M.8.:
When you curse, it makes sense; but when
you versify you tie yourself up in knots
L.W.: Try it on the bloke L.L.: Pearls
don’t eat the lotus... .P.M.: That “It vyas
good” tag, derived from Hemingway, is being
worked to death... .W.S.: No deal on that
horse R.L.: Say it in prose 8.M.;
You’ve a long way to g 0... .C.M.: Send it to
him W.C.P.: Small child with jammy hands
and damp nose has been foully smothered in
the w.p.b W.M.F.; Nearly... .G.A.P.:
It’s hard to say why, but doggy verses nearly
always give us rabies. .. .A.E.M.: Hurricane
had little effect C.W.E.; “Futility” is
futile W.D.M.: A flood of words H.A.^
Can’t do anything with the “incorrigible King ’
or that most atrocious pun.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
B.McD.: You’ve got Dad’s beard on skew-
whiff, and the gent, whose height makes the
cow look as close to the ground as a dachshund
isn’t explained D.C.: Drawings show few
vices and fewer virtues... .J.N.8.; Is Jane stand-
ing up to her knees in a wheat crop or has she
suffered a double amputation? L.G.M.: You
call him a “tramp,” he carries a suitcase, and
the farmer wears a coat and leggings! Shouldn’t
the setting be Hertfordshire instead of Tumbud-
gerie? Bert C.: You’ve modelled your
beach flapper’s legs on the corkscrew.


I
» u
m
i.
:-y[.^-''
m ®ii
tm <-
3S
i :■: ; Ttt', *, .-* 111 ■ I m ' ' " j ' ' ’■
. .
iIT 'H'IOII era FPT r»*vr»M Sfrwfl
2
0
M
Correct belt tension, the all important factoi
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up . • .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. •. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE
lIMITCn iNSURANCE
UNI I tU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A C. DAWSON, T. 0. REYNOLDS,
fien. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Brisbane Permanent Building
Dividends and To Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividend Tax. serves. Reserves.
1931. 36,383 7 p.c. = 28,000 1
Contingency reserve, £3OOO f !3b,060
Q’iand Deposit Bank absorbed on share-
for-share basis; reserves written off.
Loss on Govt, stocks, £17,300 .. 119,255
1932.. 30,083 5 p.c. = 27,359 2,724 121,979
1833.. 35,890 4 „ „ 27,042 1 r R 5 , 7
Contingency reserve, £3OOO ) ’° 4B 147,8-/
Surplus on sale property, £16,250.. 144,077
From tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 154,077
1934.. 38,799 4 p.c. = 27,304 11,495 165,572
Unexplained reduction, £5713 . . 159,859
1935.. 48,079 41 p.c. = 30,717 17,362 177,221
1936.. 48,998 5 „ „ 34,457 14,541 191,762
1937.. 51,916 5 „ „ 37,345 14,571 206,383
1938.. 54,823 5 „ „ 37,500 17,323 223,656
To contingencies, £7500 .. .. 216,156
1939.. 52,426 5 p.c. = 37,500 14,926 231,082
1940.. 52,732 5 „ „ 37,500 15,232 246,314
1941.. 45,746 5 „ ~ 37,500 8,246 254,560
This is the Brisbane Permanent Building
and Banking Co., Ltd. Originally incor-
porated in 1874, it was the first building
society to set up as such in Queensland.
The business still consists mostly of loans
to owner-occupiers, with a dash of general
banking business for flavor. In the early
but troubled days of the last decade it
swallowed the Queensland Deposit Bank
and then part of the assets of the sus-
pended Federal as well. Divs., which
averaged a shade under 10 p.c. for seven
years to the close of accounts in 1930,
dropped to 4 p.c. three years later ; an-
other point was added for the last half
of the 1935 term, since when the rate has
remained steady at 5 p.c.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, there was further expan-
sion of home- and other-building activity
in and around Brisbane. But the Per-
manent, which had put out an extra
£273,443 on building society terms for the
preceding 12 months, considered that
present war-time buoyancy was largely
artificial —a sound view where long-term
contracts are concerned—and reduced
its advances by £54,574. This was
accompanied by a contraction of £11,807
in deposits:
1935. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital £682,600 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Deposits & other
liabilities.. 1,541,940 1,505,279 1,423,6-60 1,411,863
Premises, etc. 62,260 50,862 50,572 51,243
Advances .. 1,755,147 1,793,895 1,814,211 1,759,637
Public securi-
ties and cash 634,846 686,810 602,324 657,549
When the books closed, cash (£543,549,
up £57,800) and Government securities
(£114,000, down £2575) were together
equal to 46.6 p.c. of liabilities to the
public as against 42.3 p.c. a year earlier.
Also, the co. was holding only 28s. Id.
of the public’s money for every pound of
its own, compared with 325. Id. at the
end of Aug., 1937. It is a strong position,
but with rising costs and low interest rates
it means narrow profit margins.
The shrinkage in the year’s gross earn-
ings (£130,303) was £5214. Including an
extra £6OOO set aside for the taxgatherer
(£28,000, equal to 3.7 p.c. on capital),
exes. (£84,557) were only £1772 heavier,
which means that a tight rein was kept
on controllable outgoings. The net re-
sult (down £6986) was 6.1 p.c. on capital
as against 7,7, 7.3, 6.9, 7.1 and 7.1 p.c.
back to 1935. The div. was kept at 5 p.c.
As for the current term, much will, of
course, depend upon developments in the
war with Japan. The immediate outlook
suggests restricted business, following
gazettal of Government regulations con-
trolling lending and borrowing as well as
the outlay on new building operations
and renovations. Also, taxation and costs
will take a bigger bite out of earnings.
Members will, the chairman says, have
to be satisfied with results not quite so
remunerative as they have been accus-
tomed to.
The market prices the shares at 175.,
at which price the yield would be 5.9 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible
backing is 265. lOd.
Producers’ Co-op. Distributing Society
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 718 Nil 1,014
Profit.
1932.. 7,116 2-1 p.c. = 5,200 1,916 2,930
Added goodwill, £650 .. .. 2,280
1933.. 12,571 3 p.c. = 6,120 6,451 8,731
1934. . 23,150 3i „ ~ 7,130 7 g m 17
Bonuses to clients. £7233 ) 8,/ °‘
1935.. 23,862 4 p.c. = 8,148 7 lf)fi „
Bonuses to clients, £12,608 )
Unexplained addition, £4029 .. 24,653
1936.. 30,539 4 p.c. = 8,089 7 „ o Q o 9S n , fi
Bonuses to clients, £19,057 f 3,393 28,046
1937. . 40,741 4 p.c. = 8,144 7 vjv 40 793
Bonuses, to clients, £17,850 ( ’ ’
1938.. 47,655 4 p.c. = 8,320 \ .-equ
Bonuses to clients, £23,814 ) ld ’ J8,d14
1939.. 25,793 4 p.c. - 8,810 16,983 75,297
Unexplained addition, £15,418 .. 90,715
1940.. 29,077 4 p.c. = 8,861 20,216 110,931
1941.. 15,363 4 „ „ 8,900 6,463 117,39 4
This is one of a network of co-op. sell-
ing organisations through which dairy
and other farm produce finds its way to
both local and British markets. The
aim has been to sell in the best market,
to keep handling and other charges as
low as possible, and to settle accounts
promptly. In this way the co-op. con-
cerns have done good work for the
farmer. After satisfying local needs, the
big export surplus of farm produce passes
to Australian Producers’ Wholesale
Co-op. Federation, which consigns to
two associated London cos., Overseas
Farmers’ Co-op. Federations and Empire
Dairies, which attend to distribution,
which is now under Government control,
in Britain.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the P.D.S. handled less
butter, chaff, potatoes and fresh and dried
fruits but more bacon, cheese, honey,
eggs, canned fruit, jam and live poultry.
Turnover improved by £27,858;
, Exes. p.c. of—,
Commis- Coin-
Turnover. sion, etc. Exes. Turnover, mission.
1926. .5,031,249 206,145 183,225 £3/12/10 88.8 p.c.
1928. .4,750,000 201,692 186,258 £3/18/5 92.3 „
1930.-4,825,978 198,339 195,907 £4/1/2 98.7 „
1932. 174,464 167,348 £4/6/- 95.9 „
1933. 171,194 158,623 £4/3/5 92.6 „
1934. 178,177 155,677 £4/0/3 87.3 „
1935. .4,041,691 182,636 158,774 £3/18/6 86.9 „
1936. 207,005 176,466 £4/5/6 85.2 ~
1937. .4.605,814 230,795 190,054 £4/2/6 82.3 „
1938. .5,716,562 261,617 213,962 £3/14/10 81.8 „
1939. .6,565,035 277,068 251,275 £3/16/7 90.7 „
1940. .6,759,794 318,630 1 289,564 £4/5/4 90.8 „
1941. .6,787,652 355,412 340,049 £5/0/2 95.6 ~
The sharp rise in costs hit both the
farmer and the co. Including rebates to
consignors totalling £21,161 (down
£2539), exes, made off with an extra
14s. lOd. p.c. of turnover and gobbled a
further 4.8 p.c. of commissions. So,
despite a growth of £36,782 in commis-
sions, etc., the net amount available for
shareholders was £13,714 lighter at
£15,363, equal to 6.9 p.c. on capital as
against. 13.1, 11.7, 15.7 and 12.7 p.c. back
to 1937. The div. was kept at 4 pc. The
rebate to consignors already referred to
is to be distributed in f.-p. pound shares,
money being wanted in the business. The
disadvantage of this method of payment
is that it has a sting in its tail for later
years.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1935. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £203,715 £220,258 £221,520 £222,509
Share suspense 227
Overdraft .. 2,339 96,827 120,218 85,914
Other liabilities 220,864 303,542 368,433 450,159
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 62,014 96,033 119,411 122,309
Plant.. .. 30,515 40,859 57,007 56,460
Shares other cos. 26,690' 28,721 44,141 44,144
Stocks . . 72,345 155,791 216,892 247,326
Book debts . . 259,604 354,299 367,461 367,161
Cash .. .. 17,129 29,257 25,050 47,478
Last term £34,304 was lopped off the
overdraft, stocks increased by £30,434
and cash by £22,428. The growth of
£81,726 in other liabilities was largely
on account of the amount due to con-
signors (£212,210), This amount was
equal to less than a fortnight’s turnover,
while the amount owing by trade debtors
amounted to less than three weeks’ turn-
over, which is as it should be. Exclud-
ing shares in other cos., more or less
liquids exceeded all outside liabilities by
£125,892 (up £5240) when the books
closed.
As for the current term, Britain has
agreed to take 57,000 tons of Australian
choicest butter and 40,000 tons of cheese,
as against 100,000 tons of butter (first
and second grades combined) and 20,000
tons of cheese for the preceding year. The
price for choicest butter remains unaltered
at 1375. 2\d. per hundredweight, of which
4s. 9d. is to be withheld to meet special
exes, connected with war-time handling
of the product. To encourage change-
over from butter to cheese manufacture,
the British contract price for cheese has
been lifted from 765. 6jd. to 83s. 9d. per
hundredweight. Manufacture of second-
grade and pastry-quality butters is now
controlled through the Dairy Produce
Control Committee. While seasonal con-
ditions threaten to cause shrinkage in
farmers’ gross takings, rising costs
promise to further reduce the net return.
Hume Steel, Ltd.
- Dividends ——,
Net Pref. Towards
Sept., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit-
£ £ £
1931.. 977 Nil Nil 977 59,939
1932.. 2,535 Nil Nil 2,535 57,404
1933.. 7,787 5,567* Nil 2,220 55,184
1934.. 12,682 6,124 Nil 6,558 48,626
71 p.c,
1935.. 13,400 6,531 Nil 1 « rIQ ln7
New share issue exes., £350 )
1936.. 8,704 7,500 Nil 1,204 40,903
1937.. 40,312 7,500 Nil 32,8X2 8,091
Reserves.
1938.. 41,703 7,500, Nil 34,203 26,112
21 p.c.
1939.. 32,984 10,312 6,250 16,422 42,534
Goodwill written off, £60,476 .. 103,010
1940.. 29,810 11,250 6.250 12,310 115,320
Cost asbestos, deposit (£14,524),
now treated as asset .. .. 129,844
1941.. 61,240 f 11,250 49,990 179,834
*llet by issue of fuily-paid B prefs.
f Subject to provision for taxation.
Not much notice need be taken in the
apparent leap of £31,430 in last year’s
profit, which was written without anv
allowance being made for taxation I
such, whereas £31,000 was set aside W
the purpose in the previous term There
has been, therefore, little change in the
before tax earnings of the business.
Owing to difficulty in estimating cur
rent tax requirements, the board decided
that, after meeting pref. necessities the
balance of the year’s trading profit should
be carried forward. Also, money was
wanted in the business, so the ords were
passed by. They got 2\ p.c. for each of
the two preceding years—their first taste
since the co. was formed in 1923, when
the parent co. (Hume Pipe) and ’w R
Hume were handed 165,000 and 85,000
f.-p. ords. respectively for rights. The
public put up the cash—£94,433 of pref
money at the start and a further £50,000
in 1939, while 5567 pref. shares were
issued in payment of the 1933 div., mak-
ing total pref. capital £150,000, now
carrying 1\ p.c. cumulative.
The co. turns out concrete-lined steel
pipes from plates fabricated by 8.H.P.,
and its chief source of income is public
expenditure on water-supply schemes, etc.
Until about five years ago it was doubt-
ful whether the business would return
anything to the vendors of the rights.
However, processing improvements
greatly reduced costs, giving the co. a
better hold on the market to the benefit
of earnings.
Last term started with about a million
pounds’ worth of work in the order-book.
Chief contract was the MorganAVhyalla
scheme, for supply of water to B.H.P.'s
big new works at Whyalla ; another was
for more pipes to augment the supply of
water to the Newcastle steelworks, and
extension of the hydro-electric scheme in
Tasmania helped turnover, too. The
Maoriland asbestos deposit, in which the
co. holds a half interest with Hume Pipe,
is opening up “satisfactorily” and pro-
duction has begun on a small scale.
The financial position improved:
,1935. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £350,000 £350,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 70,476 184,888 263,929 244,825
Freehold and
leasehold .. 15,500 17,979 20,368 32,760
Plant . . . . 102,305 143,055 119,066 124,373
Stocks ■ . . 32,091 69,569 92,910 86,712
Contracts . . 39,064 52,409 105,219 78,062
Book debts ... 87,101. 90,72 4 1 43,4 13 1 71,655
Cash and de-
posits .. 15,817 36,423 42,032 68,606
Shares in other
cos. . . 174,528 194,528 268,117 268,117
* Including tax provision.
Though work done on contracts in hand
was £27,157 less than at the previous
balance, the co. still has 103 miles of pipe
to make in S. Aus., and a factory has
been set up at Port Pirie for the purpose.
Book debts and cash, etc., increased by
£28,242 and £26,574 respectively. Shares
in other cos. include 75,000 f.-p. £1
5 p.c. cum. par. prefs. (on which 1\ p.c.
has been paid for the last two years) in
Hume Pipe (Far East), which used to
turn out steel pipes in Malaya and China.
To what extent, if any, this Far East co.’s
Singapore factory has been used for de-
fence purposes the “Wild Cat” doesn't
know; but its Hong Kong and China
business has gone—for the time being, at
any rate. The balance of shareholdings
consists largely of scrip in the Steel Pipe
and Lining Co., to which Hume Steel
sold its foreign rights, from which the
co. has never received anything worth


INVENTORS. —Have vou an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and 'Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated Dy
A W. DYTE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * « *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Mining Notice.
TO MINING MEN and others who are visiting Aus-
tralia and are unable to get back to their homes
on account of present war conditions.
FOR SALE OR OPTION, a Gold Mine situated on
Cape River Gold Field, 8 miles from PENTLAND,
Nth. Queensland. Telluride has been found at two
points 65ft. apart carrying good specimen gold.
Would he willing to supply particulars to persons
or companies interested in the search for TELLU-
RIDE ORE in the sulphide country.
Owner unable to continue sinking No. 3 shaft,
which is 132 ft. vertical.
The winze started 65ft. from No. 3 shaft south
had specimens of gold carrying TELLUKIDE and
shows gold in some of the stone and is only down 4ft.
The owner is unable to further finance the sinking
of the shaft.
For further particulars and persons interested,
apply
C. F. FISHER,
Gill Street, next Railway Gates,
Charters Towers.
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
offers all facilities for the transaction of every class
of Banking business. Since 1834 >-> over a century
ago i—i the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
has maintained the confidence of its depositors and
the community alike.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
m
tv-.-m
■II
m
aofiHi no
w HEN you have loads like these to haul big mileages
day after day, you can’t afford to have any fuel worries . . .
you must have the best and most efficient Producer Gas
Unit that money can buy. That is the experience of many
large operators who are “carrying-on” at half the fuel cost
with Powell Units. And that’s why so many fleet owners
are standardising on Powell.
POWELL HIGHLIGHTS—Heavy duty construction through-
out . . . famous Beresinsky cleaner, reducing engine wear to
“less than with petrol” . . . recommended by the Ford! Motor
Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd. . . . approved by the Government.
;POWELL
PRODUCER GAS TRUCK UNITS
240 MILES
A DAY WITH
13 TON LOADS
Dear Sir,
It is six months since I
fitted the first of three Powell
Gas Producer Units to my
timber trucks carting timber
from Le Roy, 120 miles to
Melbourne daily. The usual
run is 240 miles per day.
pulling loads up to 13 tons.
I have found Powell most
efficient and satisfactory in
every respect, and have no
hesitation in recommending
them for heavy duty trans-
port work.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) J. G. ASHTON .
Manufactured by
H. C SLEIGH
Sydney. Melbourne, Adel-
aide. Sold and Serviced by
Powell Dealers throughout
Australia.
E 1865
10 for ll d •20 for 110
Also in Fifties
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
-jtuij
d
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE
THROATS
roentioning. When the books closed,
iriore or less liquids exceeded outside
liabilities by £160,210 (up £40,565).
At 21s. the prefs. return 7.2 p.c. The
net tangible cover is 775. 4d. The ords.
are not listed.
Morning Star, at Wood’s Point, Max-
well Consolidated (Daylesford) and
Maude and Yellow Girl (Glen Wills)
were the only sizable Victorian mines to
hoist better gold figures in 1941, and
the State’s output is substantially down.
Bigger throughput assisted in each of the
cases cited. Elsewhere, the difficulty was
to get sufficient hands to keep the mill-
heads dropping, and a general fall in
values didn’t help. Though output
(16,4000 z.) fell 20 p.c., Victoria Dredg-
ing? of Castlemaine, was again able to
show allcomers a clean pair of heels.
In second place, 25000 z. away, North
Deborah kept Bendigo prominent on the
mineral map, despite the blow to the
field’s midriff occasioned by the falling-
away of such recent stalwarts as Central
Nell and Deborah. With its 7dwt. grade,
that consistent Chewton producer Wattle
Gully still has no near rival for third
possie except, perhaps, Morning Star.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) has had to put
a caretaker on its £85,000 (stg.) Croesus
block treatment plant because of the
labor position underground. Some de-
velopment, however, will continue in
order to supplement the 204,000 tons of
s.sdwt. ore last reported measured up
here. After paying for development,
Croesus Prop, earned £32,000 Aust. on
working account for the year to Decem-
ber, but dividends shouldn’t be affected
to the extent that monthly loss of 5000
tons of pay-ore here might of itself indi-
cate, for most of the mine’s earnings
appear to have been going to the British
Treasury in the form of “excess” profits
tax. Altogether, North Kal. shows an
operating surplus of £200,000 Aust. for
the term just closed, when 133,800 tons
of North Kal. and half that quantity of
Croesus ore yielded bullion worth £554,000.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated has had its
ups and downs. At one time boomed by
Adelaide as the best of the smaller gold-
mines in the West and likely to become
bigger, the shares soared to between a
pound and thirty shillings. Then some-
thing happened to the shoot and the
market went down, down, down. Some
sixpenny and several threepenny divi-
dends have followed, but the highest bid
over a long period has never reached ss.
Now, owing to shortage of miners forc-
ing reduction in output, it is under 2s.
For the year ended August, Paringa
(W.A.) on Feb. 28 pays a final dividend
of 7+ pc. sterling on its shilling shares
(worth about 4s. Aust. per hundred
shares), the same as distributed some
months ago and making J 5 P-C- f °r th £
year, less tax. A series of rich develop-
ments lately gave the scrip a little flutter
in London.
* * * *
Westralia’s 1941 gold dividends totalled
£830,000, against £1,180,500 for 1940.
This year’s January yield at 75,480 line
ounces was 20,0000 z. down on January,
1941. Shortage of labor was mainly
responsible. To date Westralia has pro
duced over £252,000,000 Australian
worth of gold,
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Twenty Years’ Subscriber: The opinion of our
Westralian man is not so favorable as that
recently expressed by a Perth firm of share-
holders. The field hasn’t a reputation for living
at depth... .E.L.G.: The trees are growiag,
apparently satisfactorily, but profits are nowhere
in sight. Let payments hang fire in the hope
that forfeiture will not take place until pros-
pects become clearer A.G.; Because of their
reserve accumulations, proposed Federal profit-
restrictions shouldn’t prevent bank and insur-
ance offices or the trustee mentioned from main-
taining a satisfactory rate of diy. on capital.
Not enamored of public utilities in these days
of spreading controls.


FORCING THE NATION'S FUTUNE
in the Glow of Steel Furnaces
Australian industries are being geared for a much
greater war effort, as. well as for the maintenance of
essential services and community undertakings. Banking
is inseparably associated with the vast industrial
expansion of the war period. By the provision of its
specialised banking services, the National Bank has
assisted and is always ready to help toward the
establishment and conduct of enterprises necessary to
the Nation in these times of war.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
Branches throughout Australia
S/16/42
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should he expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
( Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIKECTOKATE; Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.u.,
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
The Symbol of
Security!
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Action or Inertia?
Australians who have never been on
strike, who have never asked for over-
time in war-time, and who have willing-
ingly paid terrific taxation for war pur-
poses have lately been sorely puzzled by
developments at Canberra. Revolution-
ary financial and economic measures have
been announced which should not be
necessary. In Canada a bigger war effort
has been achieved without anything like
the same “nationalisation” or interfer-
ence with private initiative. ■ And though
taxation has rightly been used more
extensively than in Australia, its inci-
dence has not been nearly so lopsided
or clumsy. Only Federal tax is now
levied in Canada. In Australia, though
desperate measures are being taken against
industry, State taxation authorities re-
main an incomprehensible obstacle to a
full war effort.
No one should doubt the need for a
100 p.c. war effort in Australia. And
a 100 p.c. effort calls for the submersion
of all class distinction and for equality
of sacrifice. It calls also for realism in
outlooks; for intelligence as well as
energy. One obstacle to intelligent co-
operation at the present time has been
the education in the past of thousands
of Labor adherents along fallacious poli-
tical lines. They have been taught that
the boss and his associates—bankers and
the like—alone stood in the way of vastly
improved living standards. There are
bad bosses as well as good, but Aus-
tralia in its present straits can largely
thank wage-payers and industrial experts
that its growing war output is a fact and
not merely an idea.
Canberra Labor, which has shown a
cocksure ignorance of the facts sur-
rounding Australia’s position in the war
right from the time it assumed office,
was particularly far out in its ideas as
regards financing the war effort. Long
accustomed to catching the voters’ ears
with promises of favors and/or threats
about what it would do to the banks and
the bosses if it got into power, it is find-
in § it difficult to think in other terms
even in the grave situation in which
this countr Y now finds itself. The Gov-
ernment’s recent financial figures show a
war expenditure far above Budget esti-
mates, and they reveal that “bank credit”
—“easy” but dangerous finance—is being
used to an enormous extent m order to
provide the means of payment which the
Government was dfraid to take from the
People in equitable proportions in the
f° rm of taxation. The prevailing con-
fusion has been added to by the measures
forecast under the National Security
Regulations last week,
“Nationalisation” is the keynote of
these new regulations. They provide for
further restrictions on the sale of stocks
and shares, the pegging of prices, the
limitation of profits (exclusive of taxa-
tion) to 4 p.c. on capital and reserves,
control of interest rates, pegging of wages,
control of man-power and power to put
areas under military control. The man-
power provisions, especially in regard to
strikes, are much more vague than those
applying to profits.
The Government makes its policy
clear-cut in two of the foregoing items—
the pegging of wages and the reduction
of most company profits. Sauce for the
goose is not sauce for the gander. Wages,
even if pegged, will still be subject to
movements in the cost of living. And
Arbitration Courts will have discretion-
ary powers in addition. But in the case
of employers there is no such thing as
pegging returns even at pre-war levels ;
the majority of well-managed companies
will be deprived of a large proportion
of their income, and their shareholders,
large and small fathers, mothers,
widows and dependants—will be brought
down to a 4 p.c. basis, and that not guar-
anteed as in the case of Government
securities.
The plan may be pleasing to E. J.
Ward, Minister for Labor. Mr. Ward
is a direct political descendant of J. T.
Lang, the Premier of N. S. Wales whose
removal at the request of Governor Game
brought recovery and order to the State
even under the Premiership of such a
politician as B. S. B. Stevens, The plan,
indeed, falls in with a number of Mr.
Ward’s ideas; he is a great one for
nationalisation of industry, having once
run a cut-price bakery himself in a Syd-
ney suburb. Still, there are people who
believe that Mr. Ward is more noisy than
intelligent as a politician. His chief boast
during his short period in the war-time
Ministry has been in connection with the
“social advantages” obtained for Labor.
What will happen to Mr. Ward when
there are no more “social advantages”
to be gained for Labor it is impossible
for mere mortals to conceive.
Though it has “soaked the rich,” if rich
there be, Canberra has shied off taxing the
mass of voters as far as possible. It has
been forced to revise its original Budget
on this account, but its placing of the war
burden is still obviously off balance. The
“big companies” are picked for the most
inequitably heavy contributions, and,
although they have been taxed and
retaxed (in addition to shareholders’
taxes). Labor is still not finished with
them. And yet, how do these cos., big
and little, figure in the economic pic-
ture generally? In comparison with wage-
earners receiving under £8 a week, com-
pany incomes are a small item. In a
year in which the incomes of people
earning under £8 a week totalled over
£5OO million, company incomes through-
out the Commonwealth were under £lOO
million. The total national income was
about £9OO million.
Apart from failure to deal with strikers,
failure to face the taxation issue fairly
and squarely has been responsible for
most of the trouble in which Canberra
finds itself. It is the root of all the prob-
lems arising from unrestricted competi-
tive spending. We can’t increase our war
output without taking effort and materials
from the people. It is little excuse to
say that Labor’s predecessors were not
perfect in this respect. Labor has not
placed the burden of war’s cost where
that burden must inevitably fall; it has
tried to pass the buck to the “capitalist”
minority who in no circumstances can
pay the proportion of the outlay allotted
to them. Even where they appear to pay,
materials wanted for war are being re-
moved from the wage-earner’s reach ; as
the principal consumer of what is wanted
for war purposes he can’t escape. Waste-
ful expenditure, the use of unfairly-spread
taxation and excessive use of bank credit
will not maintain living standards and
speed the war effort at the same time.
These methods simply exploit the thrifty,
delude the voting majority and bring
inflation and confusion in their train.
As was pointed out here last week, the
Government has been making great use
of central bank credit to finance the
growing cost of war —sortie will say it is
unnecessarily costly. Its war expenditure
to Jan. 31 has been £147.5 million —at
the rate of £250 million a year com-
pared with a Budget estimate of £221.5
million. The increase may in the end be
offset by greater taxation revenue than
first aimed at, but in the meantime nearly
£59 million of bank credit has been used
so far this financial year. The use of
bank credit to finance war waste is next
only to note-printing in its inflationary
effects.
It is proposed now to peg prices to
prevent inflation. The proposal to peg
wages, however, seems to apply only to
the base of awards, since rising living
costs will still be allowed for. (In
Maoriland cost-of-living increases have
lately been refused.) But even if prices
can be successfully pegged for the time
being, the effects of billowing bank
credit on costs and prices can only be
deferred, not prevented. New money or
credit put into circulation —it all passes
into the hands of employers, workers,
soldiers and “producers” —with no solider
backing than war waste must cause other
money to depreciate when money can
again be freely exchanged for goods.
Ii would be much more logical to
finance war waste with old money
taken from the people in the form of
taxation. There is no delusion about
taxation ; properly applied, it is the most
scientific and equitable of all levies. And
war expenditure is a levy. There is no
profit in it; it is a loss of capital.
The pegging of private profits at 4 p.c.
on capital and reserves may not help sup-
port for Government loans. It is almost
a certainty that if company investments
had not been bludgeoned by Govern-
ments to the extent they have they
would be priced on the market to give a
much lower yield than at present, and
Consols would have competitive (as well
as patriotic) attractions. Shocks to the
investment market have never aided the
flotation of new capital of any kind.
Pegging of profits rigidly will mean
that the danger of waste and inefficiency
will increase. The waste attending cost-
plus contracts should have been a lesson
in this regard. And the pegging of prices
won’t prevent it. No country in the
world has made the mistake of destroy-
ing initiative, as is now proposed by
Canberra. It was a Labor member
named Benson who pointed out the
danger of a 100 p.c. excess-profits tax in
Britain. And that was only an excess-
profits tax.
Canberra’s regulations will add to
inertia rather than increase production.
The non-productive army of civil ser-
vants, who are already getting in the road
of each other, will be swollen, and
waste of man-power and money in-
creased. The willing horse has been
already flogged too much in order to
“set an example” in getting indus-
trial larrikins to do their simple duty
to Australia. No good will be done by
bludgeoning the horse into a state of
stupefaction. It is the larrikins who
require dealing with, together with waste-
ful and obstructive State Governments
and taxation levies that are excessive on
the one hand and too light on the other.
When the new regulations “prohibiting
the sale or investment of capital” were
announced last week, many stockbrokers
or their chief assistants made preparation
to pack up their traps and find a job
somewhere in Canberra’s “new order.”
Much uncertainty existed at the first call
on ’Change on Wednesday, but before
noon Treasurer Chifley was located, and
he advised the continuation of business
until further notice. Brokers as a whole
are looking towards a period where their
activities will be confined to dealings in
consolidated loans, possibly augmented
by permitted sales of other securities
where investors are unable to meet in-
come and other taxes without selling in-
vestments. They are denied access to
bank accommodation for the purpose of
paying taxes.
* * * *
After the first depressing effects of last
week’s economic blanket had worn off,
Stock Exchange dealings went on calmly
even if fatalistically. Then came a rush
of selling in anticipation of a share-
dealing ban; people with overdrafts and
tax commitments were prominent. The
drop in the Sydney share index to 101.09
brought it just below the lowest level
touched at the time of France’s collapse,
but some market leaders were still above
the lowest levels of recent weeks. B.H.P.
and Colonial Sugar were cases in point,
though A.C.I. was down. Bank shares
sold at the best prices for months owing
to their large reserves and moderate divs.
—they should not be affected by the
4.-p.c.-on-funds limit placed on profits.
High-div.-payers like Woolworths, G. J.
Coles and Tooth were marked down more
heavily than most other stocks, and W.
H. Soul, the chain-chemist co., slipped
noticeably. Concerns with overseas in-
terests, such as Placer Development,
showed a hardening trend, as they
shouldn’t suffer under the 4-p.c. edict
Barrier mines were fairly steady. The
Canberra proposals in their entirety
adversely affected the market for Com-
monwealth bonds, and slowed down the
flow of applications to the new war loan.
# * * *
Adelaide Steamship Co. has declared
an unchanged interim at the rate of 6 p.c.
p.a. The co. now charters almost its
entire fleet to the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, though it has investments as
well, largely in the coal industry.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO DOROTHY MURIEL HOWARD late ot
Blaxland.—TAKE NOTICE that CYRIL
HOWARD has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying tor a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds ot de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court on
or before the Fifth day of May 1942 and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitionei
will proceed and the. suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding A copy ot
the petition filed herein may be had on appnca-
tion to the undersigned free of charge. DA iED
this Tenth day of February, 1942.— f- R.
TRACEY & CO., Solicitors for the Petitioner,
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar. -
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
TO HAROLD STUART WHITBOURNE of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that TERESA
OLIVE WHITBOURNE of 12 Nott Street East
Malvern in the State of Victoria Married
Woman has instituted proceedings for divorce
against you HAROLD STUART WHIT-
BOURNE her husband on the grounds ot de-
sertion AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
if you desire to defend this cause you must enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office in
the Supreme Court of Victoria in Melbourne
within twenty-one .days from the publication ot
this notice namely 12th day of March 1942 ana
file an answer within Thirty-one days from the
publication of this notice namely 23rd day or
March 1942 and in default of your so doing the
case may proceed in your absence and you jnay
be ordered to pay the costs. —DAVIS, COOKE
& CUSSEN of 422 Collins Street Melbourne
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
YOU GAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
Bui You Musi First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that therd
is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
In your body passes through these tubes to ba
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons,
[Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or scanty passages with
smarting and burning also show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN S
BACKACHE kidney BILLS to-day.
IT MEANS MUCH TO
AUSTRALIA
AND
UelV
cau
Ov- lAer
f rt
tyre
of
{oot
ibTo eV
an 1
Car
rtv
itAug
Every
•vrtrg
c otvs eT
obta^
by
v\va s
•day
to
ileage
io» e ?
tor
ivrtrg
ttv
QtJIC&
ctW
id
sa
8 r
•ao
[L AV
8 1
Ulfll 46
you
jpiu
Every -r>our KC ‘^
A * urjace I
-els
toHe
Every
• i-
quic l
■nr
\0
•aUvV; -.- ;;
lib
«ni sl ° P
tviy
slo
WE DARE NOT FAIL
LIBERTY BONDS
Olympic
TYRES
PRODUCTION
Mi
i
a
ITU
At the outbreak of war,
General Motors-Holden’s
Ltd. placed its resources and manufacturing facili-
ties unreservedly at the disposal of the Nation. And
in 30 months of war great changes have occurred in
the products of the G.M.H. Australian factories.
Specialised vehicles for each fighting service . . •
Ambulances . . . Aero engines . . . Anti-tank guns
. . . Howitzer-guns . . . bridging pontoons and boats
. . . aircraft parts . . . shells . . . bombs . . . and
much other war material.
The rapid change-over to war production in our
factories has shown the tremendous part played by
the men in those factories. As the Prime Minister
(Mr. Curtin) said in a recent review of this work,
“Australian craftsmen since the onset of war have
worked production miracles. Skill, sweat and adap-
tability have been given without stint by our men
and women until no problem appears too over-
powering for our designers, technicians and workers
to meet.”
m
Huge quantities of vehicles in a wide diversity of types are required
by the modern mechanised army. Here are some supplied by
This mobile surgical van and field operating theatre is one of the
ambulance units supplied bv G.M.H. to the R.A.A.F,
Bridging Pontoons in service. G.M.H. factories are building bridg-
ing pontoons and boats, special assault boats and folding dinghies.
Assembling the Gypsy Major Aero engine
—production was achieved in 7 months.
Turning barrels for the 2-pounder Anti-Tank Gun
at a G.M.H, factory.
m
m
■
Production of this Australian 2-pounder Anti-Tank Gun
achieved in 9 months by 3,000 men in 50 engineering firms.
G.M.H. production includes shells
and anti-submarine bombs.
Aircraft parts manufactured by G.M.H. include wings,
tail assemblies, fuel tanks and many other components.
C763.
The £35,000,000 war loan opened yes-
terday. If not filled before, it will remain
open until March 10. A quick response,
however, especially from wage-earners,
would be a matter for national appre-
ciation in view of the growing nearness
of the war to the Commonwealth and
our greater dependence on ourselves for
Australia’s existence. The loan, as usual,
is in two issues—a short-term issue carry-
ing 24 p.c. and a longer-term bearing
p.c. It is free of State income tax
in the hands of recipients.
s * * *
War expenditure in Australia for the
seven months to January 31 was £147.5
million, up £24.3 million in the last month
of the period. Of the total, £116.2 million
came from loans and £31.3 million from
revenue. The Budget counted on £137.1
million of loan money and £84.4 million
of revenue to finance a war outlay of
£221.5 million. An extra £2O million
should come in from new taxes, and Cus-
toms revenue may be £5 million above
estimates. But extensive use of bank
credit is being made to finance expendi-
ture at the present time. The increase
in the Commonwealth Bank’s holding of
“Government and other securities” be-
tween June 30 and Feb. 2 was £46.7 mil-
lion —weekly averages—while between
June and Dec. the addition to the trad-
ing banks’ holdings was something like
£l2 million —this is calculated on monthly
averages. Though only approximate, and
with one lot a month behind the other,
these figures are indicative of the wide
demands being made by the Government
on the banking system for assistance.
* * * * .
Sydney wharfies who went without their
holiday last week “in the national in-
terests” offered their services at two-and-
a-half times their ordinary rates of pay ;
in other words, at Bs. 6|d. an hour.
Mr. Ward is going to inquire into the
behavior of shipowners who declined to
accept the wharfies’ gesture.
« * * •
Profiteering in Australia, except for
those who elude the Taxation Commis-
sioner, is confined chiefly to overtime
workers who get “penalty” rates. Some
of them are making a welter of it
waterside workers in particular. Mr.
Ward is a champion of these workers.
His latest is an intention “to ask
Cabinet to amend the Regulations to
take away from employers the right
of dismissal for misconduct.” The day
on which this was reported in the press
it was also announced that “any attempt
at evacuation of Australian and other
troops from Sm|apore wiU probabb
result m their annihilation. #
analysis of Sydney opinion on Can-
b economic regulations
effect that, whatever purpose
™ iStoded to serve, they
W ese^ted an unjustified attack
initiative and confidence. It is only
. Australians have been straining
A " s noise of battle overseas,
C s to stray from
and th J r own business,
that the country has been allowed to drift
into its present state. #
* * , rv»mmittee
The Copper and Bauxite ™ w
has satisfied itself that amjple
deposits of bauxite exist m A
Only two States failed to givede
sired indications. The Commonwea
bauxite resources justify * e es^
ment on a large scale of an aluminium
industry”, Mr -Beasley says .ha. owmg
to the sum anty of the deposits any
process developed to treat the bauxite i
one State would probably be smtable
for treating deposits of other States.
* * . A , , * t i n .
It has been dccided that rn
surances taken out after January 19 wii
be subject to a 25 p.c. premium cut m the
case of private cars and 12* p c. m the
instance of commercia . -
vehicles. Nothing of a similar character
has yet been heard of m respect of car
registration fees from any State except
South Aus. That particular State is ex
emplary for its concession in respect,
also for its attitude towards one ftixat
authority and its willingness to meet tn
Commonwealth in the matter of works
expenditure during the war.
* * * *
It is estimated that about halt me
dried-fruit crop this year will be lost
owing to shortage of man-power and
other causes. Other rural industries are
affected. The probable loss oh dried
fruit is at present put at £1,500,000.


THE SERVICE MAN
Singapore Fights—and Falls.
“Ek Dum”: The Japanese proceeded
to the savaging of Singapore with a swift-
ness and fury as unexpected as anything
that has happened in the war in the
Pacific, Pearl Harbor excepted.
They gave the weary troops who
marched into the island in the sweltering
dawn of January 31 only a week to rest
and prepare. The weight and ferocity
with which they struck, in the face of
fortress artillery, advertised the magni-
tude of the preparations which they had
made in the rear and the immense en-
durance of the small Empire forces which
had succeeded in holding them up in the
long battle down the peninsula and in
escaping annihilation at their hands.
As usual, the defenders were at a great
disadvantage. They had to cover about
140 miles of coastline, of which 60 miles
face north across the narrow strait. Their
positions, including that of the naval
base, were all on comparatively low
ground, dominated from the hills beyond
Johore Bahru, across the Causeway.
Even assuming that only the country
along the strait had had to be manned,
it would have called for seven or eight
divisions at least, properly backed by
tanks and air support. Even this pre-
caution would have provided only 1500
men to the mile along an exceedingly
difficult front, including reserves.
As it was, the whole coast had to be
covered, and the only thing in which
the enemy was weak was in heavy
artillery. He could choose his point
of assault. He had tanks, machine-
guns and flamethrowers —horrible German
instruments, at the use of which civilised
peoples like the British have always
baulked —and he seems to have made up
in quantity of artillery what he lacked in
weight. And, after a day or two of
desperate daring on the part of the few
British imperial airmen available, he had
complete mastery of the air. His tech-
nique was based on German methods.
On Sunday afternoon, Feb. 8, a heavy
rainstorm swept Singapore. The ground
is always moist and the undergrowth
dank, and heavy rain reduces the soil of
the plantations and scrub on the west of
the island to a slough of mud wherever
any traffic passes over it. Almost imme-
diately afterwards, while the Queens-
landers, Westralians and N. S. Welshmen,
who were holding the mangrove swamps
of the far west and the oozy fringes of
the Johore Strait round to the Causeway,
were floundering in the wet, and the mist
which always follows rain in that per-
petually steamy climate was destroying
visibility, a heavy bombardment started
from the mainland.
Its first burst lasted for an hour. Then
it went on after a short slackening.
Major-General Gordon Bennett was re-
ported to have said that it was the
heaviest shelling he had ever heard.
Night fell, but the barrage continued
with growing strength. It reached its
thickest about eight o’clock. Some guns
were directed at specific objects. They
knocked out several key searchlights, de-
priving the defenders of their eyes, A
serious matter. When it grows dark in
Singapore it is the velvet darkness of
the tropics which blends the steady green
of the landscape into something which
seems almost suffocating and solid. There
was no hope of moonlight till 1 a.m., and
even then it would be little good. The
smokeclouds from burning oil tanks
would take care of the moon.
West of the Causeway was the area
where attack had been most expected,
since approach from that direction would
avoid the naval base and give the best
chance of quickly securing a bridgehead
on the road to Singapore city and of
holding it while the Causeway itself was
repaired or the gaps in it bridged.
About the strongest British post was,
therefore, at the Kranji River estuary
and to the west of it. This was mainly
left untouched by the enemy artillery,
but either flank was pounded incessantly
by way of preparation for the landing.
The landing came. Though our own
guns and light weapons churned the
channel into foam, the enemy drifted
over like locusts, dying heedlessly, push-
ing on with brutal disregard for every
consideration of humanity. They came
huddled in steel landing-boats, in the
bottoms of which bodies lay soaked in
blood; on rafts, in small boats, swim-
ming—in parts it is possible to wade
through a great part of the channel. The
bullets sent up sparks as they glanced
off the steel sides of the landing-boats.
The guns roared on both sides of the
strait, half-drowned by the whine of air-
craft and distant muffled explosions of
heavy shells.
Still weary from their long fight down
through Johore and half-stunned by the
incessant drumming fire, our men
crouched in the mud. The attacks were
mainly on the flanks. They came with
such deadly suddenness that forward
troops soon found themselves isolated.
Westralians, Queenslanders and N. S.
Welshmen fell back gradually into a line,
methodically rescuing their guns and
equipment. In the early morning after
moonrise, the onslaughts were incessant
and bloody. The day was saved when
Indian reinforcements were rushed in
to back the A.I.F.
At dawn on Monday the island was
filled with smoke. The bombers, which
had not been able to operate in the dark-
ness, began again. The island’s few fighter
’planes went up against solid hordes in
the air. Their gallantry was of no avail
against vastly superior numbers.
All day the stream of little yellow
figures pushed its way across the bloody
stream, often arriving as mere human
pulp. But at each essay there were a
few more to fight ashore, a few more
A.I.F. men brought to the limit of ex-
haustion by the orgy of killing.
By the afternoon of Feb. 9 the position
was “very serious.” More reinforce-
ments had been thrown in by the A.I.F.
The enemy appeared to have repaired or
bridged the gaps in the Causeway, He
claimed to have made landings on the
north-eastern side of the island.
Next day, Tuesday, the steady tide
of Japanese poured in ; the steady flow
of twisted bodies drifted down the Tam-
broh passage to the sea. Columns of
smoke rose from burning oil tanks, hiding
the sky. Singapore itself, six or seven
miles from the nearest fighting, did its
best to keep a brave face and implement
the British motto of “Business as usual.”
Shops were open. Malays and Chinese
went about their work on the canals.
The bombers skirted the fringes of the
city. It was surmised that the confident
enemy believed he could take it intact.
On Wednesday Tokyo’s most imagi-
native Munchausen described the horrors
which had fallen on the defenders. Tokyo
Imperial Headquarters reported:
Japanese forces stormed the city proper
on Wednesday morning and are engaged m
fierce hand-to-hand fighting with the British
troops in the city.
Tokyo Radio claimed that the race-
course, which with the golf links lies at
the foot of Bukit Timah, the 500 ft. south
central hill which forms the highest
point of the island, also had been occu-
pied and turned into a rest camp.
The only official news came from a
London spokesman, who said that
counter-attacks were being launched
toward the line between the rivers
Kranji and Jurong, along the north-west
of the island. Major-General Gordon
Bennett cabled that the A.I.F. was fight-
ing “heroically and stubbornly.”
Nevertheless, there were signs that
doubts were felt about the garrison hold-
ing out. The much-enduring Singapore
Radio, which continued to function
sturdily outside the worst bombing hours,
though every moment it must have been
a temptation to the enemy, stated on
Wednesday night that ships were in the
roads ready to take off garrison and
equipment should Singapore fall. And
the British United Press correspondent
radioed that the outcome of the battle
could only be a matter of hours.
The last official news to come out of
the island on Wednesday went over the
air at midnight—to the effect that the
enemy had been pushing forward with
tank and bomber and fighter support.
Troops covering the western sector had
been forced further back. The general
commanding had ignored a note dropped
from an aeroplane demanding uncondi-
tional surrender.
Early morning on Thursday was lit by
a line of fresh and horrible bonfires in
the north and still raucous with the end-
less staccato of machine-gun fire and
the echoes of artillery rolling back from
the Johore hills.
Feb. 13 dawned on uncertainty which
grew greater as the day went on. The
Japanese said that the commercial harbor,
the railway station and western suburbs
of the city were burning. But an asser-
tion made the previous day that the
main body of the Japanese troops had
entered Singapore, without meeting
British units, was discounted by another
assertion that they had begun a general
offensive that day against the troops in
the city and that fierce fighting was in
progress.
The enemy declared that he had started
an attack at dawn from the direction of
Bukit Timah to crush resistance round
the water reservoirs and that he was
in control of Singapore’s main fortifica-
tions. Twenty-five merchantmen, he
said, had been bombed as they waited pre-
pared to leave Singapore with its defenders,
10 ships being hit and two set on fire.
But the whole city, the Keppel
Harbor, all the wharfage of moment, the
civil aerodrome, the water supply and
aerodrome accommodation and barracks
of Tanglin were in British hands, covered
by a defence line far stronger in terrain
than that along the low and squidgy
shores of the strait.
A note of frustration now began to be
heard in Japanese reports. It was an-
nounced that the Royal Navy, now that
the fighting line had been brought to a
point easily under cover of its long-range
guns, had begun to take a hand. And it
came out that Changi, the air base on
the most north-easterly point of the
island, and apparently isolated from the
rest, was still hanging out.
On Friday Tokyo issued a new ver-
sion of its entry into Singapore. It now
appeared that the great influx which was
supposed to have sent the Rising Sun
flag to the masthead in Raffles Square
itself had merely been a daring infiltra-
tion of small forces to test the strength
of the defences.
From then onwards the news, when
there was any, was confused. At 5 p.m.
on Feb. 14 the Malayan Broadcasting
Co. said that a battle had raged all day.
The Imperial troops had counter-
attacked ; at one point had even estab-
lished a new line after intense artillery
bombardment had driven the invaders
back. The reservoirs were still in British
hands, the Causeway still under British fire.
An official communique earlier re-
ported developments of new Jap attacks
along the western road at Paya Lebar.
The enemy’s artillery, too, was moving
up, and he was mercilessly shelling the
town regardless of the thousands of inno-
cent civilians penned up in it.
The communique summed up:
Our troops, British, Australian, Indian
and Malay, are disputing every attempt to
advance further towards the heart of Singa-
pore town. Civil defences are making every
effort to deal with damage and with civil
casualties caused by hostile shelling and
bombing.
Silence fell after this, but the earlier
report of the sinking of a 20,000-ton liner
by dive-bombers and the rescue of 1334
out of 1500 troops by an Australian war-
ship seven miles off Singapore suggested
that the garrison was being removed.
Up to 3 a.m. on Monday there had
been a silence of several hours re-
garding the fate of the island, but before
that time it had been announced that
Mr. Churchill would broadcast at 9 p.m.,
British summer time —7 a.m. Sydney
time. He said:
I speak to you under the shadow of a
heavy and far-reaching defeat. It is a
British and Imperial defeat. Singapore has
fallen.
On the evening of the previous day
at 5.30 four officers under a white
flag, headed by Major Wilde (Tokyo
Radio declared), had arrived with the
offer, remained negotiating for If hours
and returned to the British lines, after
having arranged 8.30 p.m. (Sydney time)
as the hour for a meeting of Lieutenant-
General Percival and General Yamashita.
Terms of unconditional surrender were
signed and hostilities ceased at 1 a.m.
Sydney time. Tokyo said that the British
troops were surrounded in the middle of
the island and that the surrender came
after the capture of the reservoirs. Seletar
aerodrome had been captured at noon
and Changi had fallen.
As for the fate of the garrison, Berlin
on Monday morning quoted “Asahi
Shimbun” as declaring that 30 ships, all
over 1000 tons, and a 10,000-ton cruiser
were anchored in Singapore Roads on
Friday night and had gone by Saturday
morning. The report declared that the
greater part of the Australian and British
troops had been got away.
The Domei newsagency referred to
“1000 armed British soldiers” being in
control of the city till the Japs took over,
and to ragged Tommies and Anzacs,
“stumbling from fatigue,” having “their
first real rest for six weeks.”
How many Australians were on the
island? Perhaps 12,000 or 13,000. Their
losses and those of their brave com-
panions will not be known till precise
statements are issued by the authorities.
“Singapore is our Dunkirk!” said Mr.
Curtin on Monday.
It is a disaster of the first magnitude,
worse if there is anything in the report
that in holding the island Britain also
lost between Feb. 10 and 14 a sub-
marine, a cruiser, two gunboats and eight
transports, including a 30,000-tonner—
presumably the 20,000-ton ship on which
most of the troops were saved—as well
as a cruiser (Dutch), a British destroyer
and two special British vessels in other
areas.
But it is not irremediable. Singapore
is a small corner of the territories which
the Axis has to subdue.
The Enemy Drives.
“Ek Dum”: The future will probably
interpret the fall of Singapore in a dif-
ferent way from the present. It marks
the last stage in the Japs’ drive south-
ward -which could be accomplished
mainly by land.
They are, in that adventure, tasting in
a very small way some of the difficulties
which the British have had to face in
Libya and further abroad. The all-too-
ready critics of an overworked British
Navy never appear to reflect that Britain
has had, apart from feeding 45,000,000
people, to conduct a war, in which her
own main ally collapsed at the first blow,
against well-prepared foes with three
times her white strength who had the
resources of all Europe at their disposal
and years of preparation behind. She
has had as well to police the sea routes
of the whole world.
On Feb. 13 the N.E.I. naval spokes-
man gave the first authoritative details
of the origins of each of the separate
strokes of the Japanese southward drives.
Some were already known —the two into
Malaya and Burma from Thailand. The
spokesman opined that from Singapore
the Malayan drive would extend down
Sumatra to the oil of Palembang and the
tin of Banka and then to Java. He was
correct.
The drive to British N. Borneo came
from Indo-China and Hainan Island ; it
extended to Dutch Borneo. Its ultimate
reach was towards Banka and Palem-
bang to join with a drive from the .north
of Sumatra via Malaya.
The Philippine attack probably came
from Japan itself, and the extension on
both sides of Macassar Strait was a con-
tinuation of it. The Japanese Navy took
Tarakan and Balik Papan (Borneo), and
was blasted in the battle of Macassar
Strait. The spokesman said that, in spite
of Allied successes against it, this ten-
tacle might still be strong enough to
invade Java. The attempt, however,
might not be made unless Javanese air
bases could be destroyed.
This force, which suffered so heavily
in Macassar Strait at the hands of Allied
bombers, divided. One part moved to the
Bornean coast and was reported to have
taken Banjermassin, Borneo’s biggest
town ; the other went to Macassar in the
Celebes.
A sixth tentacle, also probably from
Japan proper, via the Celebes, took the
Minahassa and Kendari regions in the
Celebes. Kendari was nominated by the
Dutch Navy as the most likely base for
operations against Macassar and Timor.
Macassar was occupied, after the Dutch
had set fire to harbor facilities, following
four landings in the vicinity.
A seventh force is poised and appar-
ently intended for attack on Ternate and
Halmahera Island. These islands have
been raided more than once.
The eighth force in use is that which
has operated in New Guinea and came
from the Carolines.
The ninth is the main Japanese Navy,
whose job, the Dutch Navy man says, is
“to get into the Indian Ocean and block-
ade the west coast of Java, which it will
probably be able to do through the Straits
of Malacca if Singapore falls.”
Raiding of ’dromes in Java, Sumatra
and elsewhere, with special attention to
tin-producing Banka, which lies just off
Palembang oilfield, had been general up
to this point.
Sumatra and Java Attacked
Of the alternatives for major offensives
which presented themselves after the fall
of Singapore, the most obvious was the
extension of the Singapore drive into
Sumatra, since it offered the opportunity
both of securing the control of Malacca
Strait to let the Japanese Navy through
and of robbing the Allies of the last of
their oil supplies in the west Pacific and
Indian Ocean, save for small quantities
up the Irrawaddy. Palembang, which is
only 30 miles from the coast in Soutn
Sumatra, produces 4,500,000 tons of oil
per annum. The next nearest supply is
in the Persian Gulf, over 4000 miles
away. t _ ,
The Dutch evidently expect that Palem-
bang will go, as will Malacca Strait, since
on Saturday, when parachute troops were
dropped from 100 aeroplanes, they imme-
diately began the destruction of the field
—“the greatest voluntary destruction of


utilities in history, ranking above the de-
struction of the Dnieperstroy Dam.”
The sea invasion which followed the
parachute dropping took place at three
points. Almost all the parachutists were
killed, though Tokyo claimed that they
had captured the airfield and important
military positions.
The landings from the sea were heavy
and secured footholds. Further air attacks
were made on the air mail base at Medan
in the north of the island.
A few hours after the Palembang land-
ing, Tokyo announced that a full-scale
invasion of Java had begun. Allied
forces, which include detachments of
the A.1.F., were reported at the week-
end to be piling up. Java must be held
for Australia’s sake. Its capture would
drive the Allied defenders from their
headquarters, close the Timor Sea and
Torres Strait to British shipping, and give
the Japanese Navy within a short time
the range of the north and western Aus-
tralian coasts.
Java taken, two alternatives would at
once present themselves to the enemy for
the next major operations. The first
would be a direct attack on Burma on
a grand scale; the second, an immediate
attack on Australia or the Anzac screen
islands.
It has been suggested that the Japs
may offer the Dutch a separate peace.
Acceptance would mean the end of the
Dutch colonies.
Burma
Japanese advance forces on the Salween
are 130 miles from Rangoon and from
the beginning not only of the rail which
joins the Burma Road, but of the Irra-
waddy water route to Bhamo, by which
arms and war necessities go in large quan-
tities to China. Capture of Rangoon
would give a handy port for naval block-
ade of Calcutta; an aircraft base from
which to harass the Indian east coast
cities and traffic and dislocate Indian rail-
way traffic along the east.
Conquest of Burma by Japan would
be disastrous to Chiang Kai-shek —unless
Russia were willing to help him. And
there seems little chance that the Soviet
attitude will change.
With the Chinese out of the way,
Japanese forces could pour laterally into
Burma from China, take control of the
Irrawaddy up to Mandalay and beyond.
They could establish air bases to harry
Calcutta (650 miles by air line from their
Paan front) and prepare for the invasion
of India, perhaps at the moment that an
assault by the Germans on the Middle
East threatened the rest of the oil supplies
of the Indian Ocean region and the
western Indian border.
On the other hand —as has been
pointed out on this page before —the
Burma Road is an Achilles heel of
Japan.
Martaban Gone
Early last week official denial was given
to a Japanese claim to have established
bridgeheads on the west bank of the
Salween north from Martaban.
Next day it was admitted that the
enemy certainly was across the river at
the Martaban railhead, which he had
captured. In heavy fighting 27 miles
further north, however, during which
British troops were severely dive-bombed
and machine-gunned from the air, the
Japanese were driven back ; and further
north still, on the Thai border, Chinese
troops had their first skirmish on
Burmese soil —with Thais.
At the week-end the Japanese crossed
the Salween at Paan, and a fight was in
progress on Sunday night between that
point and Thaton to the west. The
bridgehead has been established with sub-
stantial strength.
In short, the situation in Burma is
rather bad.
Australia’s Chances
If Java is taken, or even Sumatra,
attack on Australia becomes possible any
day.
This would be very different from
attacking Malaya by land. It is some-
thing which will call for a much vaster
organisation than has yet been dreamt
of by the enemy. Here there is no con-
venient peninsula with abundant food of
the kind to which the invaders are accus-
tomed. There is no population in Aus-
tralia so physically like that Japanese
soldiers can pass for locals merely by
changing out of uniform. There are no
thousands of island fishermen along the
coast who can be pressed into service or
whose boats can be stolen for coastwise
carriage and transport.
Assault on the far north calls for the
use of a force sufficiently strong to main-
tain itself in arms and food and fuel for
a long time against large mobile or naval
and air formations.
An attempt on a sufficient scale would
involve heavy use of mercantile marine,
dumping of very large fuel and trans-
port depot supplies, and assurance that
Torres Strait and Timor approaches
could be kept closed and oil and supply
lines northward open.
A force making southward from the
Australian north coast would have to
travel 1000 miles at the shortest —that is,
on the east —before reaching settlement.
The journey would be through country in
most of which there is not enough food
anywhere to keep a battalion going, once
livestock are removed. And all this country
at a pinch is fireable, and the prevailing
wind after next month is from the south.
Capital attack on the east coast would
call for direct assurance of an open com-
munication line for shipping all the way
to Tokyo Bay. That would be necessary
even if bases were first established on
some island or islands off the Australian
coast. It would entail the cutting of
communications with Uncle Sam across
the Pacific communications which, an
American correspondent was allowed to
say last week, subsequent to the arrival
of U.S. warships in Maoriland, have been
established.
An attack might be made on the west.
This in some ways would have most
attractions once control of the Indies
were established,
A combination of plans is not impos-
sible. But whatever the nature of any
aggression against Australia, Japan must
stake everything on it. This is no loosely
held native State with a few thousand
whites among millions of alien workers,
and no comprehensive industrial and
armament organisation. Because of dis-
tance and the physical superiority of
race, its 7,000,000 whites have an im-
mense advantage over ill-disposed visitors
from distant climes.
It has another advantage, apart from
the help which is coming across the
Pacific —mobility of internal movement.
There are enough motor vehicles in Aus-
tralia to lift the whole of the adult popu-
lation at one and the same time, and
Japan’s large-scale motor transport has
yet to be tested over long distances.
At the same time Australia is the
depot which Japan has most to fear, and
it has resources such as wool which would
complete the enemy’s war economy. His
plans may envisage, not an attempt at
conquest, but an attempt to administer
half a dozen devastating blows at indus-
trial centres, large-scale destruction of
food sources and water supply, firing of
grasslands and wrecking of harbors and
coastal railways by half a dozen expedi-
tions acting simultaneously.
Even failure of raids on a scale neces-
sary to do that kind of damage would
cost so heavily as to make the planners
of them pause.
The A.I.F. in Amboina
Amboina, 580 miles from Darwin,
had a small garrison, mainly Amboinese,
who are good fighters, with a strong
leaven of Dutch and gunners of the
A.I.F. with a 6in. battery.
The enemy has succeeded in driving
the garrison into the hills, but has
not heard the last of it. The Diggers
on Feb. 1, when the Japanese began to
shell the port, seem to have sunk a
cruiser and a destroyer. Next day an-
other enemy cruiser blew up in a mine-
field in the harbor entrance. The follow-
ing morning a terrific explosion adver-
tised the end of a submarine which had
taken the wrong turning; and it was
followed to the bottom on Feb. 5 by still
another cruiser, which disappeared in a
few seconds. It had hit several mines
almost simultaneously.
The Australians and their Indies mates
fought like devils after the 18-mile deep
Amboina Bay had been penetrated, and
the R.A.A.F. did its best, but weight of
numbers and the flow of shipping to
allow a choice of points decided the fight.
Amboina saw the work of a century
and more committed to the flames rather
than it should fall into an invader’s
hands.
The Enemy Pays Dearly
The Malayan and Chinese campaigns
show by contrast how economical and
effective large-scale operations on or near
the Asian mainland can be.
Though the enemy controls most of
Borneo oilfields and was reported over
the week-end to have Banjermassin, the
largest town on the island, he looks
round on a spectacle of general ruin and
destruction which he may not be able to
repair before he has to face offensive
war. He controls Amboina and Wake
and the Bismarcks, since he made a new
landing on New Britain at Gasmata, but
in each of these he is out on a limb.
So far, as the price of far-flung adven-
turing, he seems to have lost a sixth
of his battleship strength, 11 cruisers and
a dozen or so destroyers sunk or dam-
aged, ditto a few submarines and at least
500,000 tons of mercantile shipping.
Marshalls and Philippines
The Marshall Island raid at the begin-
ning of the month proved how thoroughly
Japan’s s.-e. approaches are under threat.
The enemy losses included one of the
Nippon Tush Kaisha’s 17,000-ton Ya-
mata Manx class liners converted into an
aircraft-carrier, a light cruiser, a de-
stroyer, two submarines, 11 auxiliary
ships and 38 ’planes. Merchant shipping
sunk exceeded 100,000 tons, and about
60,000 mercantile tons was believed to
have been damaged. U.S. losses were 11
’planes and some personnel.
The U.S. command has been criticised
for not landing troops in force on the
Marshalls. They would merely have been
a liability and an extra drain on Allied
sea-carriage. There are several other
places where every 1000 troops from
Uncle Sam would be worth more than a
division in the Marshalls. Concentration
is the essence of strategy in a war which
the enemy essays to make widespread.
In the Indies Japan is moving towards
its objectives. But it will find major
operations rather unsafe south of the
Philippines, unless Luzon is firmly in
Japanese hands, General MacArthur com-
pletely conquered and the situation estab-
lished so far as to prevent the possibility
of reconquest.
It would upset the whole balance of
Japan’s war if MacArthur were rein-
forced and Americans established in
strength, with Manila Bay restored as a
base or even as a harbor, and strong air
and sea forces operating from it. Mean-
while rearrangements of Japanese forces,
their reinforcement and access of heavy
artillery presaged the heaviest attacks yet
sustained by MacArthur and his men.
In New Guinea Waters
The Japs’ operations round New Guinea
have been mainly in the nature of recon-
naissances. On the Dutch south-west
they bombed Fak Fak. On New Britain
they made a new landing at Gasmata, a
station on the south coast, which gives
them a jumping-off point less than 300
miles from Port Moresby. The R.A.A.F.
gave shipping at Gasmata a heavy ham-
mering, though the extent of the damage
is not clear.
The enemy next ranged as far afield
as Samarai once more, and a single
flying-boat dropped a bomb or two at
Tulagi, in the Solomons.
The official reports of the attacks on
Lae, the New Guinea capital, were re-
leased during the week.
The Administrator was so seriously ill
at the time that he had to be carried
away—he reached Sydney, Sixty ’planes
first machine-gunned the town and tore
it up with cannon, then savagely bombed
the streets and set all the hangars and
buildings round the aerodrome ablaze
within 45 minutes. Meanwhile, anything
of use to the enemy was being destroyed,
including the valuable collection of maps
in the House Mark. There must have
been a very sorrowful Pat Holmes abroad
that day!
From Salamaua, across the bay, 130
inhabitants, including the one remaining
nurse, the only woman in the party —
Sister Stock —were evactuated on Jan. 24,
three days after bombers had appeared,
heralded by fighters which skimmed the
pretty peninsula roof-high. The escapees
made their way through thigh-deep, croc.-
infested swamps and foetid jungle to a
prepared camp on the mainland. They
carried the sick and wounded with them.
From Butu, able-bodied men travelled
across the ranges to Wau, but the re-
mainder, 31, including the sick, took the
cliff goat-tracks along the coast to
Lakonau. With the help of the natives
they arrived.
An ominous calm, broken by the occa-
sional roar of reconnaissance ’planes,
hangs over New Guinea and Papua, in
both of which military control has been
established and the Government handed
over to military commanders.
On the Eve in Libya.
“Ek Dum”: Libya has se®n an
ominous pause, enlivened by some mutual
clawings at important objectives, such as
the edge positions along the Cyrenaican
plateau. . .
There has been considerable air activity
at times, culminating towards the week-
end in a series of attacks which ranged
down the coast and over the plateau
through the German-Italian defence to
Tripoli. In one 18 R.A.F. and R.A.A.F.
Kittyhawks brought down 20 enemy air-
craft (five of them Messerschmitts) with-
out loss. .
The lull, however, is not a respite. The
roads behind the German lines are
known to be chocked with troops and
armored vehicles and supply convoys,
and the Eighth Army command is work-
ing overtime to build up an organisation
to match the great effort which Von
Rommel certainly has in train.
In Russia.
“Ek Dum” : At the beginning of the
week the enemy asserted that retirement
was ended in Russia, the furthest-west
winter positions having been reached. On
the same day Berlin Radio spoke of a
fierce counter-attack which was supposed
to have recaptured the western suburbs
of Mojaisk.
Moscow did not mention Mojaisk, but
it declared on Feb. 9 that the Germans
were retreating north of Rshev. Here
the Russians were “pushing relentlessly
towards the Latvian border.”
Next it was stated that Maklacha, 120
miles north-west of Bryansk, had been
captured, and that, at some unnamed
point, the Russians had penetrated into
White Russia —but this, a 8.8. C. an-
nouncement, was not officially confirmed.
8.8. C. also reported the raising of the
Leningrad siege, with Russian reinforce-
ments pouring into the freed city. There
was no mention of what must have hap-
pened to very large German forces which
stretched 25 miles west of the capital and
to Schlusselburg, which was powerfully
held. They must have been cut off if
the Leningrad defences were breached.
After an interval of 24 hours Tass
agency said that the break-through had
been achieved 11 days before, and joined
with “Red Star” in a statement that the
penetration had been made by cavalry.
Again there was no official announce-
ment from Moscow, but if it is true it
is most important. Only weakness could
induce Hitler to open a gap to a city
round which, he said, he would keep an
iron ring at all costs.
In the south further advances towards
Poltava and the Dnieper were an-
nounced ; also the capture of the railway
town of Krasnograd, 70 miles south-west
of Kharkov.
On Feb. 12, following the announce-
ment that the retirement had ended, the
German High Command issued a map
showing the positions of their lines. It
did not correspond with the Russian
statement of the position, though the dif-
ferences were not very material, save as
affected by unconfirmed statements.
Escape from Brest.
“Nobby II” : The escape of the Scharn-
horst and Gneisenau (26,500 tons) and
of the Prince Eugen (10,000 tons) from
Brest or some other adjacent French
port and their passage up the Channel
and through the North Sea to the shelter
of Heligoland have roused every amateur
naval tactician to fury.
The ships were not sighted until three
hours after they had left port; but visi-
bility on the sea was only from three to
five miles, and intermittent at that. No
doubt the vessels hugged the coast.
They then passed through Dover Strait,
again under the shelter of the heavy bat-
teries of Calais and Gris Nez, and finally
disappeared after a long chase by British
aircraft and light ships into the North
Sea fret. There were no British capital
ships in the area.
The fugitives were escorted by an enor-
mous crowd of fighters and bombers,
and apparently carried extra special a.-a.
protection.
They were constantly attacked by
British squadrons from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.
One hit was scored by Swordfish torpedo
bombers on one of the two big ships, and
a motor-torpedo vessel’s captain reported
that he believed he also had made a hit.
A small German ship was broken in two
by a bomb and another was wrecked and
left in flames. The final passage of the
strait was made under a thunderous artil-
lery duel from both sides of the Channel.
The Australian Spitfire squadron and
Australians and Maorilanders in the
Beaufort bombers took a prominent part
in the attacks. Squadron-Leader Cliff,
with the Beauforts, declared that after his
attack on one of the big ships she seemed
to slow down and to be listing and
smoking. The top of the cockpit of a
Beaufort was blown off and she had to
throw herself all over the sky to escape a
murderous fire.
Squadron-Leader Truscott, leader of the
Australian Spitfires, went down with the
former leader of the squadron S.-L.
Finucane—to attack what they thought
was a transport. They found it was a
destroyer, but they raked it from low
level with machine-guns and cannon and
left it smoking and with guns silent.
Britain paid dearly for the fight, though
in the battle over 200 bombers protected
by 300 fighters were used. The R.A.F.’s
losses were 20 bombers, 16 fighters and
six Swordfish torpedo-bombers. The
enemy lost at least 16 ’planes.
The Germans claimed to have sunk a
British destroyer, set fire to another and
brought down 43 ’planes, against losses of
seven of their own ’planes and a patrol
boat, with some damage to a destroyer.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Color and bustle, lots of fun, with here
and there an undertone of sadness, are in
the make-up of “Thumbs Up.” The Lon-
don-made revue, after entertaining Mel-
bourne for nine or ten weeks, crackled
along happily enough at the Royal on
Saturday. A packed house laughed at
Clem Dawe and Don Nicol, admired the
ballet of sylphs dancing so delicately and
blithely against a background of lake on
which floated a pair of swans that obvi-
ously never heard of a slimming cure.
From a woman’s point of view “Silver-
Wings” should be the most popular song,
though the number which introduced a
ballet of girls in long white and red
frocks, their heads glittering in cello-
phane, was a good runner-up.
Glitter was all on the stage. Frocking
in the audience was nine-to-sixish. Mrs.
Fred Dennett, of Melbourne, in suave
black lace, was admired. Another Mel-
bournite was Mrs. A. Scott, Mrs. George
Edwards stepped out in the blackout night
all in white.
The Liquor Trade of N.S.W. was duly
thanked, and it is only fair to say, even
now, that the drinks were all that money
could buy, though no one had to buy
them. They and the supper were free at
the gay and friendly party held in David
Jones’s auditorium last Sunday night. The
show was named “The Stars Come Out,”
and Dick Bentley, Jack Lumsdaine, Jack
Davey, Edwin Styles, Charmaine Ross
and Dutch pianist Ralph Waterman gave
a scintillating entertainment. Cartoonist
Jimmy Bancks put humor into his com-
mentary.
What with one thing and another one
and all felt the show was well worth the
guinea gate-money. The cause, too, was
one dear to Sydney’s heart; it was to
help the fighting forces in the Nether-
lands East Indies. The wife of Nether-
lands Consul-General Elink Schuurman
and Mrs. Neil McEacharn organised the
money-raiser.
Money for the Free French cause was
garnered at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Cau, of Neutral Bay, last Saturday after-
noon. In the long, glass-fronted lounge
overlooking Wycombe-road, friends of
Free France listened in between intervals
of bright chatter to a programme of sing-
ing, of violin and piano numbers. Mrs.
Ivy Moore, A. Wilcox and Aubrey
Halloran made speeches. Pretty French
girls served tea and switched from
French to English with the ease of a bi-
lingual dictionary.
Those who wish to know what Daisy
Snowflake’s secret was, who wish to be
fluent and varied in converse (there’s a
treatise on that in smooth calf-binding),
who would like to renew acquaintance with
Maria Edgeworth’s moral and popular
tales or bow for the first time to a gal-
lery of ladies and gentlemen of the
’eighties and ’nineties, held in the red-
plush covers of an album that for some
undiscovered reason is named the King
Lear, should visit Mrs. Bert McDonald
at her stall in the Municipal Markets.
It is called a stall, but it is really a
shop with a storeroom behind it. For
two years Mrs. McDonald has given her
time by day and her thoughts by night
to this labor of love. The stall is run
for the Mayor’s Patriotic and War Fund,
and it has now poured over £9OOO into
that treasury. How many comforts have
the soldier lads enjoyed as the result of
this storehouse, where flame Doulton,
Sheffield plate, hanging scales and tennis
racquets kept company with worn cloth-
ing, an old rosewood chair, a tall crystal
epergne, willow-pattern meat-servers,
radios and some old cane chairs!
All is fish that comes to the net of Mrs.
McDonald and her roster of helpers. For
two years the stocks of the stall have
been supplied by friends and by the
public. Country as well as city people
have sent many family treasures. Last
Thursday a girl from Maroubra walked
in with a Doulton blue-flowered, gold-
flecked set for a washstand. The water-con-
tainer (it is not a jug) stands on a holder
and tilts when the gold-and-blue handle
is drawn, pouring the water gently into
the basin. That was a prize, and was
expected to bring big money at the
Friday china and antique sale. Every
day customers are four and five deep
at the counter. But on Friday trade
swells up and sweeps over to a big stall
in the Markets pn the opposite side of
the street. Those who have anything
they don’t want (short of ’flu or an erring
husband) should ring MA 5868.
On the anniversary of Lincoln’s birth-
day the Australia-American Movement
spread a lunch in his honor at the Went-
worth. Consul-General Ely Palmer was
the guest speaker, and as he told of the
great liberator the listener caught some-
thing of the vision of free earth and free
hearts, as sacred a fire to Lincoln as ever
the burning bush was to Moses. The
ballroom of the Wentworth was filled
with Australians and Americans —300 of
them, listening with avid ears.
There were no great trappings of
bunting, no ornate flower compositions.
Everything was as simple as Lincoln him-
self. Premier McKell was there, and
Senator Ashley, representing the Prime
Minister. Sydney’s Mayor Crick and
H. C. Steiner were others at the top table.
For some reason the official table was
given over to the males. There was a
sort of subsidiary official table, presided
over by the Halse Rogers lady, who is
president of the woman’s section of the
society. Here sat Mrs. Ely Palmer.
Greece’s bright-faced Mrs. Vrisakis,
whose Consul-General husband was
among the notables, Mrs. Charles Brown,
Mrs. David Roper, Mrs. E. K. White
and others in the movement. Naval and
military notables were thick in the com-
pany.
This is Margaret Fagan, one of the
pretty deb. daughters of the Reg Fagans,
of Sunny Ridge station, Mandurama.
Margaret is busy with war work these
days, and is one of Cowra’s earnest
V. Falk photograph.
Died last week-end, Mrs. Mattel, a
woman of many friendships. As Mrs.
Mary Foster, she was one of Westralia’s
well-known workers for worthy causes.
She took an active interest in politics, was
associated with the foundation of the
Country party in the West, and later did
good work for the party in this State.
She also helped to establish scholarships
for soldiers’ children. Some years ago
she came to live in N.S.W., where she
married Dr. Mattei, who predeceased her.
That first-rate sportsgirl Gwen Stark,
who as far back as March, 1941, was
made assistant section officer of the
W. comes back from Mel-
bourne, where she has been stationed, to
carry on in her own State. Flight-Officer
Gwen, who looks very trig and alert in
her uniform, is to be officer-in-charge of
the N.S.W. training centre for the
W.A.A.A.F. which will soon get under
way in Robertson. Before war work
called her, Flight-Officer Stark was
assistant commandant of the Australian
Women’s Flying Club. She is a cham-
pion golfer and a first-grade tennis and
hockey player.
Today the Society of Women Writers
will have for its first lunch guest of the year
the Director of the National Gallery, Will
Ashton. Will has promised an informal
talk on his art experiences in the U.S.A.
He will describe the magnificent art re-
positories of America with their wealth
of old masters and moderns who, when
they are dead long enough, hope to be-
come old masters too. Another guest
of interest will be Mrs. J. McEacharn,
formerly a Melbourne journalist. The
Pickwick Club is the lunching-place, and
at the same address a meeting of the com-
mittee is timed for a quarter-past twelve.
The committee of the Free French-
Australian League of Help, Malcolm
Building, Malcolm-lane, Sydney, reminds
all whose interest lies in the French cause
that the organisation is still pursuing its
aims to relieve the needy on a scale even
larger than in the past. Together with
the Association of the Friends of the Free
French, it is assisting a great number of
organisations, civilian as well as mili-
tary, in London, sending shipments of
clothing for troops in the Middle East,
and comforts for the sick of the Free
French services.
From Melbourne
A new and thoroughly practical scheme
is being put into force this week by the
Knit Bees, who have been on the job
since war broke out and have several
thousands of garments for the war’s vic-
tims already to their credit. Now that
the threat comes nearer, the K.Bs. are
collaborating with the Salvation Army
by stocking the new depot the Army has
established for relieving possible war and
bombed-out victims here. The plan is
to start with the making of 100 outfits
for men, a similar number for women
and lots for children. The K.Bs. have
already found that evacuees from the
East, having to leave at short notice and
with only a small suitcase each, land here
in need of just such things as they are
making. Mrs. Norman Richards, of
Hawthorn, is president, and Mrs. Nor-
man Robinson secretary, and the com-
mittee includes that 100 per cent, war-
worker Mrs. John McCahon.
Toorak House, offered to the
W.A.A.A.Fs. as a rest-home for con-
valescents and girls whose own homes are
in other States and therefore inaccessible
for week-end leave, is another of those
old Toorak mansions which have found
new usefulness in war-time. Flete, the
Latham home, which once belonged to an-
other Judge, Hartley Williams, has been
a splendid hostel for girls in the services.
These houses, with a spaciousness that
made pre-war owners groan at the amount
of upkeep they required, have the requi-
site window and floor space for many
airy dormitories. It is calculated that
50 girls could be put into Toorak House.
If ghosts walk, then the ghost of the
early Governor who lived in Toorak
House, Sir Charles Hotham, who found
himself unpopular over his treatment of
Eureka prisoners, will find night life
exciting if he takes a stroll down the cedar
stairs to the accompaniment of hearty
laughter of the women of the Air Force.
Pictured here is Marjory, daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. E. W. Sutcliffe, of More-
land, who has just announced her en-
gagement to Dr. lan McConchie, who
made medical history when he last year
carried off all three finals exhibitions in
medicine and surgery, something not
done for a quarter of a century. He is
now at Melbourne Hospital getting prac-
tical experience, with a hope of active
service later. Marjory is one of Mel-
bourne’s women dental students, and it is
a University romance. Marjory is deter-
mined to finish her course and to prac-
tise afterwards, so she is trying to adjust
the distractions of an engagement in
February with exams, in April. The Sut-
cliffe family is large and energetic. One
sister is already a dentist, another has
studied pharmacy and a third is in the
Middle East nursing the A.I.F.
A new cross-section of life is being
viewed by many of Melbourne’s erst-
while leaders of organisations. Once
Mrs. Reg Reynolds found in the Centen-
ary Club and in knitting for the troops a
satisfactory way of passing the time.
Now, if she is seen out at all, it is not in
Coll ins-street but in the tram going off
to work. She knows all about day and
night shifts, and has a cheery view of
both. She has found the factories not
stuffy places full of noise and flying dust,
but peaceful, air-conditioned and spot-
lessly clean. Round her at work are
the best comrades in the world, women
and girls who speed the task that brings
victory nearer. And Mrs. Reynolds is
just one. There are dozens of them in
every branch of production, finding in
their work a thrill they would have been
the first to deny there could be in such
toil. One of Toorak’s most exclusive
(pre-war vintage) matrons, when she pre-
sented herself for munition work, was
asked her name. Elizabeth, etc., she said,
and the foreman assured her earnestly
“We’ll call you Liz.” And now she’s
Liz, and proud of it.
In Anne Dreyer, who pioneers the job
of liaison officer between problem babies
and nurses of the baby health centres,
Victoria has found someone to meet a
long-felt want. How many young things
have discovered early in the hunt that
Mother’s attention will be riveted on
them if they scream loudly or refuse to
eat it would be hard to guess; but their
day is about to be cut short, and they
will be found out. One authority who
has watched the very young at their antics
places three weeks as the earliest at
which a youngster consciously “plays up”
and feels its power over the stricken
grown-ups. Many four-year-olds have
been found starving themselves to give
Granny the jitters, and as for telling tall
tales and describing things not seen as
though they had occurred, there are bat-
talions of the young who thus extend the
parental leg, so nurses at the centres
say. Now Anne Dreyer, who has had
ample kindergarten training, will whisper
into Nurse’s ear what the young villain
is up to, and she will stand by mothers
of Victoria while the young are gently
but firmly dealt with, and problems laid
to rest.
The new field officer of the Nursery
Kindergarten Extension Board, Miss G. E.
Pendred, has a niche which is curiously
like the one Miss Dreyer fills ; but in her
case the task will be to scatter the results
of research and news of kindergarten
method as practised at Lady Cowrie
child centre over an area large and un-
defined. Students, mothers, general public,
will all, it is hoped, come to her clinic
at Lady Gowrie centre, and be shown by
her how the centre works out puzzles in
management of young life. Many of
those interested in early education have
said that now that Lady Gowrie centre
was functioning they might as well know
what it gathers in the way of answers to
education questions. If anyone on the
committee of a kindergarten strikes an
outsized brow-wrinkling puzzle she
should hie to Miss Pendred. She knows
all the answers.
Fashions change, and what caused a
throne to totter in the ’thirties is despised
even by bargain-hunters in the ’forties.
Thus a boxer hat which was put on by
the handsome auctioneer to emphasise its
charm was not sold at the Waste Depot’s
sale in Lonsdale-street, and not a bid
encouraged the salesman, who pleaded
“Now, gents, start her at sixpence.”
“Pack it up and send it to Amanullah,”
suggested a woman helper at the Aus-
tralian Comforts Fund Waste Depot, but,
postage being what it is, this course
seemed excessively expensive. So the old
boxer was put on a table of knitting
needles and old bottles and bits of chain
and odds and ends, and was carried off
by the purchaser of this mixed lot. The
Waste Depot has to move out of its
premises, and is now looking for a spot
somewhere near Spencer-street, because
most of its stuff comes from the country.
It has made quite a good sum for the
Comforts Fund, so its continued existence
is hoped for. Anyone who lends it an
office will be given the freedom of Mel-
bourne city—in other words, let off rates
and taxes for the office.
The pleasure of revisiting their old
home and seeing its venerable walls the
centre of a new life was afforded Mrs.
H. B. Shaw and Mrs. Alan Taylor,
daughters of knight William McPherson,
last week. They were honored guests at
Invergowrie, Hawthorn, their old home,
which is now a Homecraft Hostel for
secondary schoolgirls. Unlike so many
old homes which have been pulled down
to make room for flats, Invergowrie is
kept as it was in the McPherson days,
with extensions to house the students, who
number more than one hundred. There
are many relics of the original owners,
among them a plaque of the well-loved
woman whose name is perpetuated in the
Emily McPherson College of Domestic
Economy and a case of fine glass which
she handed to the hostel after its students
had cooked a dinner for a party she gave.
This present enables students to set out
a table completely in their tests of table-
laying. Among this year’s students is a
golden-haired girl who is a granddaughter
of the McPhersons and daughter of Mrs.
Shaw.
When once cleverness breaks out in a
family there’s no saying what form it
will take next. That is borne out by
what is happening in the Fraillon family-
Father, Mederic Fraillon, whose ’cello
makes such delicious music when he plays
in string quartets and quintets in this
city, is brother of Guillaume, whose
double bass is the joy of the big orches-
tra. Now Mederic’s daughter Celeste,
whose name suggests sea nymphs, has
brought the family ability to aid her in
her swimming exploits. Though only in
her thirteenth year, Celeste already is
considered in swimming circles to have
a big future, and with Kath True was
honored in being selected to back up
Judy Joy Davies in the inter-State swim-
ming contest.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT") SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "PILOT")
High Title rehabilitated himself as per-
haps Australia’s fastest horse over a short
course by a brilliant win in the Oak-
leigh Plate, run at Flemington on Satur-
day. His decisive defeat of Phoines and
Tea Cake, however, brought hoots from
all parts of the course.
Demonstrators could not reconcile
High Title’s form with his failure in the
William Reid Stakes at Moonee Valley
three weeks earlier. He started favorite
for the latter race, but, after setting up
a long lead early, showed no fight when
tackled on the turn, and finished sixth.
On Saturday, starting at 8 to 1, his amaz-
ing speed enabled him to cross from an
outside barrier position to the rails about
three furlongs from home, and he wound
up with 2} lengths to spare. High Title’s
trainer, F. Hoysted, declaring that the
demonstration was unwarranted, ex-
plained that the colt runs better up the
straight than in races round a turn.
Results bear out this contention, as five
of High Title’s six wins have been re-
corded up the Newmarket track.
High Title created an Oakleigh Plate
weight-carrying record for a three-year-
old, and, even with his penalty, is not
out of the Newmarket, in which he will
again be ridden by Badger. A chestnut
by Duke John from Paper Flower, he
has now won £4135 in stakes, and is a
bargain at his yearling cost of 250gns.
Phoines did well enough in second place
to indicate that he has a chance of im-
proving on his second in last year’s New-
market. He drops lib. from his Oak-
leigh Plate weights, whereas Tea Cake
goes up 51b. Freckles (fourth) had the
distinction of leading High Title for the
first furlong.
Many onlookers near the finishing-line
disagreed with the judge’s decision for
High Caste by half a head from Prima-
vera in the St. George Stakes. High
Caste, 2-to-l-on favorite, tailed the field
most of the way in a muddling-run race,
but, switched to the outside on the turn,
looked like having a clever win when he
was level with Primavera (centre) and
Tranquil Star about half a furlong from
home. He was in front a few yards from
the post, but Primavera raised another
effort and looked as if she had beaten or
at least dead-heated with him. The finish
was so close, however, that only the judge
could tell which had won. High Caste
increased his earnings to £35,642^.
Primavera’s form was impressive, and
her connections expect her to extend
Skipton in the V.R.C. St. Leger. Even
if the St. Leger be beyond Primavera, she
looks to have a first-class chance in the
Australian Cup. Tranquil Star, who de-
feated High Caste in the St. George
Stakes last year, battled on gamely for
third money, and merit was added to her
performance because she was forced into
the role of pacemaker. She has a lot of
pace for a mare whose best form has
been shown over distances, and a good
showing in the Futurity Stakes probably
will ensure a Newmarket start for her.
Gold Salute knocked up towards the
finish.
• ••■••*
Defeat of the hitherto unbeaten
Hesione by Chatfield in the first division
of the Federal Stakes was a knockout
blow for backers. Hesione started at 3
to 1 on, but she could never get away
from Legality, and was beaten when the
latter’s stable-mate Chatfield joined them
in the lead about a furlong from home.
Chatfield won going away by three-
quarters of a length, and the margin
could have been greater had his rider
wished.
Chatfield’s success was a triumph for
handicapper Clem Hill, who had been
criticised for allegedly having “thrown”
Hesione in with 9.5. Hill pointed out to
his critics that the filly had not beaten
strong fields, and stressed Chatfield as
one good colt she had never met. Chat-
field, who is trained by L. Robertson,
has started only five times for three wins
and an unlucky third, and has repaid his
owners, A. and J. B. Sharp and J. E.
Taylor, the 1200gns. they paid for his
dam, Amour Propre. Latter raced for
two seasons without success. Breasley,
who rode Chatfield on Saturday, will
pilot him again in the Sires’ Produce and
Ascot Vale Stakes,
East End showed herself to be Vic-
toria’s best two-year-old filly by a de-
cisive win from Burberry and Baroda
in the second Federal Stakes division.
She has raced only three times for two
wins and a fourth, and further improve-
ment is probable. On Saturday, how-
ever, she received 81b. from Baroda, and
the latter’s form emphasised the Sires’
Produce chance of his stable-mate River-
ton. Riverton conceded Baroda 51b. and
defeated him by 6\ lengths into third
place in the December Stakes at Rand-
wick.
Waiting tactics adopted by many of
the riders contributed to Brave Lady’s
runaway win from Saint Warden and
Velocity in the Bond Handicap. She
was out from 12 to 15 lengths between
the five and four furlongs, and ran home
the winner by five lengths. Brave Lady,
who is a half-sister to the dual Derby
winner Nuffield, is not engaged in the
Australian Cup, and, with the possible
exception of Velocity, her success did not
say a great deal for the Cup candidates
which finished behind her.
* i> *
Only for the day being showery Vic-
toria Park would have had an excep-
tional attendance on Saturday. Even as
it was it was excellent. Ten races made
a rather tiring programme.
The most impressive win of the after-
noon was that of Merrimba in the Vic-
toria Park Handicap. He finished
strongly to beat Beaucaire and Abspear,
though the latter did well to get a place
after being last three furlongs from
home. When he runs in a mile and a
quarter race the books will have him on
their side. He is now in E. Hush’s suc-
cessful stable, and cost his owner, who
races as “R. Parade,” 800gns. Mer-
rimba’s win was his fifth this season, for
prize-money totalling £935.
Tuhitarata had not raced since last
October, but that did not prevent his
winning the first division of the Flying
Handicap, in which he and Metallic had
the finish to themselves, and he outstayed
the latter. John Halifax, though third,
never looked like winning. Skerries was
fourth, while Midnight Blue and Social
Notes may be worth remembering.
Queensland gelding Romero (by Pen-
theus), having his first Sydney run, won
the second division of the Flying. He
was behind Stainless, Insignia, Postman
and Cradle Song entering the straight,
but he scored from Insignia in the last
few strides, and will win again,
* * * *
Melbourne yearling sales may give a
fair idea as to what breeders can expect
in Sydney. It ( is practically certain some
buyers of the past will, because of finan-
cial reasons, be almost forced to drop
out. It is to be hoped their places
will be taken by some of those business
and social lights who, though they could
afford to race a horse or two, have yet
to get beyond pestering owners and
trainers for information.
* * * *
Aurie’s Star was the last winner of the
Oakleigh Plate and Newmarket in the
same year, but he carried only a pound
more in the latter than in the former.
Last year Zonda won the Oakleigh Plate
with 7.13, but 8.8 proved too much
for her in the Newmarket, and she was
beaten by All Veil and Phoines, who were
unplaced in the Oakleigh. Regular
Bachelor won the Caulfield Futurity and
Newmarket in 1936, and High Caste,
after winning last season’s Futurity
Stakes with 10.6, was fourth in the New-
market with 10.2. One of the greatest
shocks received by backers in connection
with the Newmarket was when Top
Gallant, after winning the Futurity Stakes
by four or five lengths with 10.2, was
backed down to 6 to 4 for the Fleming-
ton sprint, in which he again had 10.2.
So far from winning, he was not one of
the first 10, Heroic winning with 9.8,
It would be unfair to strike out six-
furlong welters at Sydney meetings, but
to keep entries within bounds it seems
as if it will be necessary to make accep-
tors liable for a sweepstakes. Naturally
that idea will not appeal to some owners,
but one result would be to reduce the
number of horses trained in public.
* * * *
In racing procedure Australia owes a
lot to England, but it is about time we
dropped the custom of making entries for
Derbies and St. Legers from 16 to nearly
20 months before they are run. Now
that fixed amounts are given for those
races, and owners do not gain in the way
of forfeits and sweepstakes, nor are they
ante-post betting races, little can be urged
in favor of continuance of the present
practice. Nominations would, of course,
be fewer if they were made later, and the
revenue they return the A.J.C. and V.R.C.
would be less, but these are not proprie-
tary clubs, striving for every penny of
profit.
We may not have much to learn from
America in the conduct of racing, but
there entries for some important three-
year-old races do not close until three
months before they are run, and they lose
nothing in interest thereby. For instance,
the Kentucky Derby is decided in May,
and nominations close in February. Last
year they totalled 112, the added money
being $75,000 (about £22,800).
Nor are geldings barred from the Ken-
tucky Derby, and a year ago Staretor,
one of that division, ran second. In
the way of importation of high-priced
stallions Americans have done a lot to
improve their bloodstock, but the ruling
racing bodies of that country are evi-
dently still of opinion that it is better
geldings should be given the chance of
winning some good three-year-old races
than there should be certain annual in-
crease in the ranks of mediocre stallions
consequent on breeders being practically
forced to send up their yearlings for sale
as entires.
* * * *
It always strikes me that handicappers
who go into print to forecast the probable
result of their own handicaps are some-
what indiscreet. If after the declaration
of weights some horse shows outstanding
form, its selection as a winner of a big
race can be understood, but if it has done
nothing to emphasise its chance the
handicapper lays himself open to the
allegation that, all along, he must have
had an idea that he treated it too
leniently. If his win and place selections
fail to do any good his judgment is con-
demned. Either way he is on a kick to
nothing. It would be difficult to imagine
the A.J.C. handicapper being caught in
this fashion, but seemingly some Vic-
torian handicappers are not so reticent.
* * * *
Over 200 yearlings were catalogued
for the annual sales at Wellington (Maori-
land). Of these 153 were offered and 137
sold at the satisfactory average of 186gns.
The principal buyer was W. S. Goosman,
a newcomer. He gave 1050gns. for De-
faulter’s half-brother by Bulandshar (a
patron of a Sydney stable was runner-
up), 900gns. for the Foxbridge-Astarth
colt, 600gns. for the Foxbridge-Eager
Rose filly, 480gns. for the Theio-
Queen’s Salute colt and 310gns. for the
Lang Bian-Romarin colt. N.S.W.
breeders are hopeful that a buyer of the
Goosman class comes to light at the
Sydney sales.
» * * *
There was never much likelihood of
some of Sydney’s minor race clubs co-
operating to the extent of having one
secretary, but, if it could have been
arranged, the result of a vote by owners
and trainers as to the one whose effi-
ciency and tact best fitted him for such a
position would have been interesting.
* * * *
A jockey has gone into print to attri-
bute nearly all trouble in races to inex-
perienced apprentices. No doubt a great
deal of it is, but when it comes to tricks
of the trade a green apprentice does not
know enough to squeeze up runners on
the inside in the manner of some older
jockeys, use an elbow or leg in a tight
finish so as to hamper a rival, or let his
own mount lie upon that of another so
that its chance may be minimised. Older
jockeys do not go out of their way to
consider an apprentice, especially if he
is on a runner that stands in the way of
their own success ; and when a young-
ster is squeezed back, and as a result
interferes with horses behind him, he is
more likely to be blamed than the older
hand who was really responsible for the
trouble. Pointing on the part of some
jockeys is occasionally a greater danger
than the efforts of inexperienced appren-
tices.
* * * ♦
Bond Handicap running did not bring
to light many Australian Cup possibilities.
As Velocity was backed and finished
third he is evidently well forward in
condition, but he carried only his Aus-
tralian Cup weight, and notwithstanding
he won the Caulfield Cup his subsequent
effort in the Melbourne Cup did not point
to him as a great stayer. Still, as he is
only four years old, improvement in that
respect is possible. Maikai and Saul both
finished a long way back, and they have
not much time in which to make marked
improvement. Elanage was last, so his
effort did not enhance his Cup prospects,
and Renown and Togo also ran below
expectations.
Of Cup candidates that started in other
races Primavera did best, and she has
21b. less than weight-for-age, against
Skipton’s 71b. in excess of it. As Skip-
ton won the Melbourne Cup with w.f.a.
be now appears to have bright prospects
in a field that will not be high-class, but
if Primavera should put up a fair race
against him in the St. Leger there may
be little difference between their starting
prices for the Cup.
* * * *
Oakleigh Plate form discounted the
Newmarket chances of several horses,
and High Title won so decisively that,
even if he should get the full penalty of
101 b., he will still be one of the fancied
division. The extra poundage mentioned
would send him up to 9.4, which would
be 51b. more than he carried in the Oak-
leigh. At that he would again be meet-
ing Tea Cake on the same terms, and
Phoines 61b. and Freckles 111 b. worse.
Freckles hung on so well at the finish of
the Oakleigh that he may still be a pos-
sibility, as may Kelos, but the form of
All Veil, Beaulivre, Reception and Zonda
did not tend to optimism on the part of
those who have commenced Newmarket
and Cup doubles with them. They can
take some comfort from the fact that
All Veil and PhoineS, after running un-
placed in last year’s Oakleigh, were first
and second respectively in the New-
market.
Of the Newmarket candidates that did
not run in the Oakleigh Burrabil is one
that must be seriously considered. A
slightly longer distance might be more
to his liking, but in the C. F. Orr Stakes
at Moonee Valley he raced with such
dash that he was in charge before reach-
ing the home turn. Burrabil has done
well down the straight six, one of his
last season’s wins being the Lawn Handi-
cap, in which he had 8.13. Futurity
Stakes running will give a good idea of
how his Newmarket chance compares
with that of High Caste.
* * * *
It was in response to military orders
that Santa Anita was closed and the rich
prizes at that track lost to owners. As
Hollywood Park and Del Mar have been
taken over by the military, and Bay
Meadows was ordered not to make plans
for the spring, it is practically certain
racing will be a dead letter in California
this year.
Titles among the little men change
hands too fast these days to amount to
much, but for what it’s worth Harry
Cohen (8.5|) took the bantam title from
George Smedley (8.5) in a brisk Leich-
hardt Stadium engagement. For four
rounds it was bright scrapping, but
Geo. took so much under the ribs in
the fifth that he dropped in the next
round, fought to a blackout. Cohen
showed good promise in his amateur
title days a few years back, but has been
patchy. *
# * * *
The war began while the 1939 Aus-
tralian Rugby Union team was in Eng-
land. The tour was abandoned and the
team —except for the Queenslander cap-
tain V W. Wilson—came home. Wilson
won the D.S.C. in the R.N.V.R. Now
the team’s second “hooker,” Victorian
A. M. Barr, who’s been flying with the
RA A F. in Libya, has been awarded
the D.F.C
FOR CAULFIELD.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances .)
By Our Melbourne Representative.
St. Clair Trial: Clare County, 1 ;
Similar, 2; Miss Rebecca, 3.
Alma Stakes: Riverton, 1 ; Chat-
field, 2 ; East End, 3.
Woodcliff Handicap: Togo, 1 ;
Velocity, 2 ; England’s Glory, 3.
Futurity Stakes: High Caste, 1 ;
Tranquil Star, 2 ; Beaulivre, 3.
Stanley Steeplechase: Southern
Night, 1 ; Highland March, 2;
Windjammer, 3.
Hawksburn Handicap: High
Title, 1; Phoines, 2; Chatasan, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Angus, 1 ; Panned, 2; Ad-
dition, 3.
Juvenile Handicap (colts and geld-
ings) : San Sebastian, 1 ; Strood, 2 ;
Peachbloom Beauty, 3.
Juvenile Handicap (fillies): Lady
Hamilton, 1 ; Clionda, 2 ; Lettie Lee,
3.
St. George Handicap: Mortine,
1 ; Arahura, 2 ; Insignia, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Jymjon, 1 ;
Beau Frere, 2; Mischief, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap: Old
Sport, 1 ; Good Company, 2 ; Cable
or Milanja, 3.


Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors-— \V. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; F. E. Loxton, Esq. ;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ; E. E. D. White, Esq. ; H. C. Morrow, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all sreneral banking business.
Are "Worn Om" Spark Plugs
making you car
slow and noisy?
%
B
I /o>
S II
IP
CONTAINS SILLMENT —
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Incomplete combustion
due to faulty spark plugs
results in carbon deposits,
noisy “carbon knocks”
and general all around
poor performance. New
Champion Spark Plugs
provide complete com-
bustion and give you
the best in speed,
power and smooth
motoring. They
will pay for
themselves in
fuel savings.
Factories,
Feltham, Eng.
Windsor, Can.
Toledo, USA.
4
KKZ\
m*.
m
mMm
'M
Sillment seals Champions
against troublesome leak-
age, at the shoulder and
past the center electrode,
common to ordinary
spark plugs. This pat-
ented feature corrects
rough, uneven and waste-
ful engine operation
caused by leaky, over-
heated spark plugs.
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
ii
hi
min l
ini
Iff!
ill
i
fill
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“We play games mainly for the fun.”
— Woman’s paper.
Except bridge—that’s played for the
arguments and post-mortems.
•F 4. q.
“If your silver articles are exposed to the
air they will very likely tarnish.”
— Woman’s paper.
If the silver articles happen to be coins
of the realm and the wife is about they
will very likely vanish.
•I* »F *F *F
“To give your umbrella new life.”
— Woman’s paper.
Give it a good airing by taking it to
a restaurant. Leave it in the invigorating
company of younger umbrellas. Take
one of these others (select with care) and
you’ll find your umbrella as good as new
when you get it home.
•F *F *F *F
“As she read the letter, the girl in uniform
smiled faintly.”— Magazine story.
A WAN smile?
•I* -I' -I- *F
“Sylvia felt completely broken up, but with
a great effort she forced back the rising tears.”
— Woman’s paper.
Further water restrictions.
•F *F *F *F
“Described by the police as an impostor with
many convictions for begging, he was sentenced
to three months.” — Court item.
They put him out of alms way.
*]• -I* -> T*
“Unlike Mussolini, Hitler dislikes horses, and
never rides.” — Sydney paper.
Perhaps it is because in Germany only
the horses are game to say neigh to him.
•F *F *F *F
“It was in this quiet retreat among the hills
that he began passionately to woo old Manson’s
daughter.”— Excerpt from novel.
Though in a retreat, he was making
advances.
Caledonian Tragedy.
“Favorite quarrel among geologists is whether
or not the continents are still drifting. One
school holds that Greenland and Scotland are
60 feet farther apart every year.”— “Digest.”
This drift was responsible for the tragic
death of Angus MacUsquebaugh, owner
and master of the Maggie M. He was
up Iceland way after cod when a furious
south-easterly stove in the wheelhouse,
whipped away the whitewash brush he
wore in front of his kilts, and drove him
to shelter in Greenland. Weary weeks
passed before he was able to get his
boat repaired and bring her home to the
little harbor he had left nearly six months
before. His wife and children were wait-
ing with radiant faces on the little stone
quay to welcome him back. Eagerly he
leapt ashore to greet them —and was
drowned in 16 feet of water. He hadn t
made allowance for Scotland having
moved 30 feet farther away in his
absence.
•F .t. q. .j.
“Only thoroughly trained men should be
allowed to practise psychoanalysis.”
—Radio speaker.
It’s such a complex business.
.T, ,T. -J< *F
“So many girls have taken up war work that
dressmakers are almost impossible to obtain.’
—Woman’s paper.
Their job is practically cutting out.
•F *F »F *F
“A policeman at Parkersburg, Virginia,
appeared at the local court to answer a self-
issued summons for a traffic breach.”
— “World’s News.”
Remembering he had lit a cigarette
while summonsing himself, he also
charged himself with attempting to bribe
an officer.
•F *F <F *F
“While on military leaf the club’s ex-president
gave members a humorous address on his ex-
periences in two branches of the army.”
—Suburban paper.
He seemed to be a bit of a bird.
•F *F *F *s*
“ ‘Doesn’t news travel quickly in these
sparsely populated suburbs,’ complained Aunt
Lucy. ‘Why, the Grahams bought a new car,
and in no time it was all over the place.’ ”
-—Short story.
That would be Mrs. Graham learning
to drive it.
•I* *F *F *F
The Method'.
“Those in charge of production must
immediately iron out bottlenecks.”
—War commentator.
Best way to iron out a bottleneck is to
place the bottle gently but firmly in «a
secure position. It is not necessary to
damp it down first. Owing to the vessel’s
curvature, it is advisable to use a circular
iron.
Begin with a rotatory movement
towards the point of least resistance,
endeavoring not to spoil the label. Even
if this fails to make any impression on
the bottle, continue persevering until you
give up hope.
You may then use the iron to knock
the stopper off the bottle. Drink the
contents.
‘ T. W. N.
❖ *f- 4*
“Joan was bewildered. Uncle Arthur sus-
pected ! Dear old Arthur, fat, jovial and
everybody’s friend. It was impossible even to
think that he would stoop to anything low.”
—Serial story.
Even if he could.
"Y eh; takes erbout five ton o’ the flamin' stuff to make
a ’ undredweight.”
Truth Will Out.
“Are you happily married?” — Woman’s paper.
I’m a very lucky fellow, so my mood is
very mellow as I give a happy bellow of
delight. I’ve a wife who is a treasure.
To devour her food’s a pleasure, and she
never thinks of leisure, day or night.
She is loving, true and happy and she’s
never short or snappy. I’m a very lucky
chappie, that I vow . . .
(Ah, she’s gone to the verandah? Now
to safety I’ll not pander! Well, old chap,
I’ll speak with candor ... she’s a cow!)
Elm.
*F A V
“A halfpenny to wrap your bread.”
‘Sunday Sun.”
Fair enough, provided it’s wrapped
round a slice of ham.
•I- 'l* *l* *l*
“The suite offered includes a roomy gent’s
loughboy.”— Radio advt.
Any reduction for a nine-stone buyer?
Still With Us.
“The Kelly Gang Rides Again.”
—Sydney paper.
No longer do they draw a bead on cops
in mountain ranges,
For modern ways on Ned and co. have
wrought some wondrous changes.
In one thing, though, they’re still the
same across the. span of years :
The thud of hoof beats still makes magic
music for their ears.
Ned Kelly and his gang still ride, but
not on grass-fed horses —
They ride the dead ’uns that you back
on our suburban courses!
DON MCMACKIN.
Doubtful Case.
I can shee all the party are shmirking
at me,
For they think I’m ash blithered ash
blithered can be;
But the joke ish on them, for, with acting
tha’sh great,
I am only pretending to be in that shtate.
And I’m going to show —hie ! —to prove
ish a sham.
I’m not nearly ash shot ash we reckon
you am !
T. W. NATHAN.
A Matter of Tactics.
“Dr. Edith Summerskill, M.P., stated that the
members of the W.A.A.F. were ‘furious’ be-
cause they had been issued with black undernl
wear. ‘How can a man deal with a complaint
like that?’ she asked.”
“Women are irrational and hard to
please.” That one pithy sentence epito-
mises the collective knowledge that man
has been able to gather about the mys-
terious sex ever since Adam got the pip
because of Eve’s insistence on an apple
diet. Although no man may truly claim
to be womanwise, long experience may
at least vouchsafe him enough nous to
ensure that if he falls he will at least pick
the softest spot available.
Armored with this philosophy and a
certain natural hard-boiledness, it was
not without some confidence that I l em
myself from the army when the newiv
formed W.H.A.C.K.Os. requested the
services of a military man to start them
off on the right foot. I wasn’t any more
certain than the girls what they were
there for ; they all wore giggle-suits and
were impatiently awaiting final decision
as to their uniforms. That was where I
P u t my services at their unrestricted dis-
posal.
I was sitting in my office the first morn
| n g when Lance-Commodore Alice cam
in . she was a 26-20-29 ash blonde, sft. 2in.
and just a nice weight to handle.
She sought my advice as to whether
dusty-pink or Nile-green swami pantettes
would be better for the troops. After
about an hour’s discussion I found that
somehow or other she was sitting on my
knee! Unfortunately there came a knock
t / 1C cioor ’ fP I postponed until 8 pm,
that evenm § the discussion as to whether
the beige milanese slips should have opera
tQ p S
My next visitor was Major Daphne;
she came in to thrash out the problem
Q f corsets. I contended that the girls
would look better without them. In
the course of this discussion I found it
necessary to put
my arm around
her waist to test
whether whalebone-
anchwhatnot would
reduce smartness
when right-turning,
etc. In the end I
gave my decision.
“We shall have the
stick-on type,” I
said.
“You mean wrap-
ons, don’t you?”
she replied
roguishly.
She agreed to let
me know the desir-
able proportion of
whalebone to what-
not, and I fixed
9 p.m. that evening
for the further dis-
cussion.
One of the most
enthusiastic officers,
I found, was Cap-
tain Gladys. Red-
haired, she was a bundle of delectable
curves walking in No. 2 shoes. She won-
dered if Elfland Blush nail lacquer might
not be rather insipid, especially as the regu-
lation lipstick was Firebucket Red. I
had to postpone a demonstration whether
the lipstick was really kissproof until that
night, as just then Lt. Maisie came in to
see about the hair-do. Her own was
brownette with a lovely natural wave.
After a delightful talk I arranged a fuller
discussion on hair-do—her own —later.
That I was kept busy was due in a
large measure to a determination to see
that the dress, accessories and make-up
of the W.H.A.C.K.Os. lacked nothing in
glamor consistent with utility.
As time went on, though, I found it
increasingly necessary to consult W.O.
Ethel, Sergeant Patricia, Brevet-Corporal
Sadie, Lance-Ensign Valda, Acting-
Private Brenda and a host of others on
a wide variety of subjects, and this in
turn necessitated greatly increased after-
hours work. It might have still been all
right had I kept a diary of appointments,
shut, like an idiot, I got careless, and one
night I turned up under the tree behind
the canteen to find Captain Gladys, Ser-
geant Pat and Lance-Ensign Valda all
waiting for me.
Things were becoming intolerable.
Next morning I decreed that swami pan-
tettes and beige opera-top slips wouldn t
stand up to campaigning, and that the
regulation issue would be heavy red
Turkey twill bloomers and vests of plain
unbleached calico, cut with a plain circu-
lar neck and elbow-length sleeves.
The next day I was back in the army
and safety.
BO.


TTie'^ulldz^L
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Aus-
tralasia, weekly: 12 months, £1 45.;
6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s. (Ex-
change must be added to Country and
inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas
(British Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 165.; 3 months, Bs. To
MEMBERS OF THE SERVICES ABROAD:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any Address Overseas
(Foreign): 12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6
months, £1 25.; 3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua,
Fiji, New Hebrides and other places
within the British Empire, Hd. per copy.
United Kingdom, 2)d. per copy. To all
other places, 4jd.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
per line; all others per line.
Doctors and Teachers
“R.H.” (B. 28 /1 / ’42) displays an un-
justified prejudice. Young doctors who
have completed university and hospital
training to the satisfaction of the exam-
iners are quite competent to deal with
the everyday cases in any practice. The
“difficult case” crops up anywhere and
baffles even experienced men at times,
but there are few places so remote that
another opinion can’t be obtained in a
few hours or a few minutes if there is
a telephone handy.
But the young man’s chief asset is en-
thusiasm—an emotion generally defunct
in the elderly practitioner who gravitates
to the bush—and he studies the latest
methods of the leaders of his profession
with the intention of being with them
some day. The old hand has generally
lapsed into routine methods and doesn’t
bother overmuch with newfangled ideas.
It is the same with teachers. I know
young men who spend hours preparing
lessons to make them interesting to, say,
20 pupils. I also know men with 20
years’ experience who give their class of
today exactly the same stuff they gayc
their classes 10 years ago, and will still
be giving to the class of 10 years hence.
Perhaps the child acquires just as much
education in both cases, but there is
always the chance that the enthusiastic
beginner is a topnotcher. The middle-
aged plodder definitely is not.
As for the Daves and Sarahs of the
bush school, don’t imagine they are all
mugs because they may be slow to
express an opinion and speak with a
drawl when they do. “R.H.” would be
surprised to know in what obscure gullies
some of our leading citizens made their
first pothooks.—H. O. L. (N.S.W.).
“Aid to Russia”
It is difficult to understand The Bulle-
tin’s attitude towards Aid to Russia.
I am not a Communist or a Parlor
Pink, neither have I any special admira-
tion for Russia or the Russian way of
life ; but as one who spent four years
in the First A.I.F. 1 cannot close my eyes
to the fact that the Russians are, at least,
keeping several million German soldiers
occupied.
Suppose Britain had refused all aid to
Russia. It is quite possible that the Ger-
mans would have succeeded in their
attack and Russia may have collapsed—as
France did.
In that event millions of German
troops would have been released for
use against the British Empire—possibly
attacking through Iran and India to join
up with the Japanese. In which case the
equipment refused to Russia would be of
little use to Australia.
As I see it the war is one gigantic whole.
On any battlefield the troops in one spot
must hold on against odds while others
attack and make a bid for victory.
If it is our lot to bear the burden for
a season let us do so with courage and
dignity—having faith that the leaders
of Britain and America will not leave us
unsupported longer than is absolutely
necessary.—A. P. D. (Vic.).
Compelled to choose between a sport-
ing chance for the forces in Malaya and
the defe'nce of Soviet Russia, Mr.
Churchill, the Empire man, the Conserva-
tive leader, the arch-foe of Russian Com-
munism, says, in effect, that he plumped
for Soviet Russia.
This clever answer assured the support
of Reds, Pink clerics and international
financiers everywhere, but it is the end
of Mr. Churchill as an Empire man, as
a statesman and as a trustee of the fate
of British, Dominion and Indian troops.
—J. W. R. (Tasmania).
I liked the nerve of M. Shvernik, leader
of the Russian trade-union delegation
to Britain, when, setting Russian methods
as a standard, he charged British indus-
try with several defects —considerable un-
used reserves, insufficient use of equip-
ment, inadequate introduction of women
and apathy towai'ds the proposals of the
workers.
He may be right, but fancy set-
ting Russian methods as a standard after
British industry had supplied the Rus-
sians with much-needed equipment when
they asked for it. A few weeks after
the Nazis set to work the cry went out
from Russia for British materiel aid.
And then “Tank Week,” when British
industry put a shoulder to the industrial
wheel which the vast, efficient Soviet in-
dustries had already supposedly turned
And Mr. Churchill admitted that but
for those supplies to Russia Australians
and other Imperial troops would have
had something like enough equipment in
Malaya!— George (N.S.W.).
I doubt if any more illuminating article
has appeared in the Australian press than
the one by Mr. Harry Hopkins on his
visit to Mr. Stalin (B. 31/12/’4l). Surely
the statement about Stalin’s request for
’planes, tanks and guns is the answer
to any shortage there might have been
in Malaya. It will probably not be made
known for a long while, if ever,
just how far these goods delivered
to schedule by Britain and America
actually helped to turn the scale
against the Hun. One of Mr. Churchill’s
many great actions was his instant offer
of all possible help to Russia immediately
“Want any spies ?”
following Germany’s onslaught. It prob-
ably did more than anything else to re-
move the suspicions that have existed
between Russia and the Empire for too
many years.—C. R. V. (N.S.W.).
Women First
I saw in the paper where Northern
Command announced that:
Because of the shortage of doctors, the
new groups recently called upon to register
for military service are unlikely to be called
up in Queensland for some time.
In the same issue were the reports:
One hundred and twenty are wanted in
the first call-up in Queensland for the
Women’s Army Service. The medical ex-
aminations will begin at 9 a.m. tomorrow
and will be completed the following day.
And;
A big batch of women were enlisted yes-
terday in the W.A.A.A.F. as clerks (general
and store), mess-women, office orderlies
and transport drivers. They will leave for
W.A.A.A.F. training centres in the South.
Doctors to examine women clerks,
women orderlies, women drivers and
mess-women ; but not to examine soldiers
for the fighting forces! With all due
respect to the fine type of girl volun-
teering for the women’s services and the
spirit which has brought them forward,
it does seem topsy-turvy.—W. K. D. (Q.).
“They Seek Him Here”. . .
Somewhere in the midst of '‘Canberra
squalling” the voice of W. M. Hughes
was heard condemning “Quislings” in
Australia for alleged anti-British propa-
ganda. Within a day or so Billy told the
press that his outburst had “caused the
complete collapse of the propaganda and
the melting of the propagandists into thin
air,” though “he emphasised that he had
no one in particular in mind when he
made his attack.” Billy must think he’s
the Scarlet Pimpernel.—O. T. (N.S.W.).
Enemy Alien Voters
Although war needs seem to have put
a 1943 census out of the question, many
thinking Queenslanders consider that im-
mediate official action should be taken
to ascertain the numbers of enemy-born
persons in the coastal area from Port
Douglas (N.Q.) southward to Lismore
(N.S.W.). By no other means can an
effective estimate be obtained concerning
the number of native-born Italians and
Germans at liberty in the part of Eastern
Australia which is now nearest to enemy-
occupied territory and most open to
enemy action from without or within.
Commonwealth Year - Book figures
show a sharp rise in Italian immigration
in immediate pre-war years over previ-
ous years back to 1933, the last census
year. In 1937 Italian admissions totalled
2623, and in 1938 3291. German admis-
sions during the same years also rose
steeply to 986 and 2295 respectively,
several times those of the preceding four
years. These were the years in which
the Hitler power became most firmly
stabilised and during which he was put-
ting the wind up Mussolini for future
advantage to himself.
Immigrants gravitate naturally to their
already-established compatriots, and the
large majority of Italians are in Queens-
land, together with a substantial propor-
tion of Germans. At a fair estimate the
number of Italian-born Queensland resi-
dents must be not far short of 15,000.
They were supposed to have been dis-
armed when Mussolini dealt his stab in
the Allied back. Certainly a quantity of
more or less obsolete firearms and am-
munition was taken from them, but those
who understand the position on the spot
regard the affair as a bad joke so far as
any really effective disarmament is con-
cerned, The recent appeal by three Stale
members for N.Q. electorates to Army
Minister Forde to permit the arming of
N.Q. Australians is a significant feature.
Their electorates contain a larger pro-
portion of Italians than any other part
of Australia.
The action showed political pluck on
their part, for the Italian vote is an out-
standing factor in many parts of the
North: some rolls contain more than
50 p.c. of Italian names. Its political
importance is clearly indicated by the
special supplement still printed in Italian
for issue with the Queensland “Worker,”
that bible of all good A.W.U. supporters.
Official notices are also printed in Italian,
a further proof of the large number of
enemy-born residents —and voters —who
haven’t taken the trouble to learn to read
English.
Doubtless, many of them are loyal to
the country which has given them free-
dom and money which they could not
possibly enjoy in Fascist Italy. But, as
an elementary measure of self-protection,
we should at least ascertain the numbers
and distribution of potential fifth colum-
nists in the most threatened part of our
country. We should also deprive them
immediately of the power and influence
conferred by possession of the franchise,
at any rate for the duration of the war.
—Dungeness (Q.).
Functional Representation
Functional representation (B. 21/1/ ’42)
would end the present political party
system all right, but it would introduce a
multiple party system, each consisting of
kindred trades or interests. To carry
any measure such groups would have to
form temporary coalitions with other
groups. These coalitions would be un-
stable, and would necessarily rest upon
compromises and sacrifices of principle.
Thus logrolling and intrigue behind the
scenes would be intensified. There would
be more, not less, scope for the activities
of pressure groups, despite the fact that
the groups would be composed of mem-
bers and not outsiders. Would such a
Parliament really be likely to attract a
better type of man into public life?
But the greatest objection to functional
representation springs from the emphasis
which it places upon the occupation
rather than the person. The complete
man is more than the boilermaker,
butcher, clerk or even philanthropist. The
business of getting a living should not be
confused with the whole of life. But
functional representation regards politics
primarily as a means of advancing eco-
nomic interests. True, Parliaments are
now more and more concerned with eco-
nomic problems, but, as our present plight
shows, this has led to a dangerous neglect
of wider national problems, such as
defence.
Party strife is bad enough, but what
could be more revolting than a national
Chamber given over to the clash of com-
peting industrial groups for the largest
slice of the cake? — Arc (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Unionism
Attempting to justify compulsory
unionism, which he intends to introduce
in N. S. Wales, Minister for Labor Knight
likened unionists to shareholders —a com-
pany’s profits go to shareholders alone,
he said ; why, then, should non-unionists
share in the “profits” won by union
activity?
Whatever you may think of this as an
analogy, it is as good an argument for
conscription as could be found. Won’t
every Australian share in the “profits” of
winning the war? Why, then, should any-
one be able to dodge the effort and
sacrifices necessary for victory?— Arc
(N.S.W).
Price of Butter
Those who wonder why dairy-farmers
are seeking a rise in the price of butter
should ponder on these facts. Almost 50
years ago butter produced on the N.S.
Wales North Coast was sold for Is. to
Is. 3d. a pound. In those days 255. to
30s. a week was a good wage for most
workers, and goods were much cheaper.
Heavy working boots, for instance, cost
4s. 6d. a pair. Today, however, with the
basic wage at £4 11s. a week, and all
prices up in proportion, farmers get
approximately the same prices for their
butter as were paid almost half a century
ago.
In a country where the whole price
structure is artificial, the price of butter
has been kept down. The dairy-farmer
gets a raw deal because consumers greatly
outnumber butter producers and must be
studied by those whose tenure of office
depends on votes. —Cow Time (N.S.W.).
“Office Closed”
An Arbitration Court Judge ruled that
any country office of a trading bank on
which cheques were drawn must be re-
garded as a branch and the officer in
charge paid the minimum managerial
salary and all the usual allowances.
Evidence was taken from the appellant
union and the banks, but the people most
vitally concerned, the customers of these
offices, were not consulted. Result is
that a number of villages in N. S. Wales
are now without banking facilities. Two
I know well, Kangaroo Valley and Bur-
rawang. At neither place was there suffi-
cient business to cover the expenses of
a full branch, nor is there ever likely
to be. But there was enough to pay the
salary of a young man who looked after
the business under the control of a near-
by branch.
The local folk got the convenience of
an office open daily, the lad in charge
useful experience and quite a decent
salary and everybody was happy. Now
both offices are closed. Local farmers
and business folk can toddle off to Nowra
or Moss Vale or do their banking by
post. And Burrawang and Kangaroo
Valley are only two cases among many.
—Sandpatch (N.S.W.).


L
w
Vi®
■'fm
a
9t
X
v\
1
RADIO
Answers the Nations Call
The manufacturing resources and
facilities of Amalgamated Wireless, as
well as the Company’s
Research &
are to-day
Engineering Laboratories
engaged in work oi a national character.
advancing Australia's war cflort.
ARE MAOVrACTVKERS Of
t r c c APPARATUS
WIRELESS Ar r (
FOR
the nave
the areie
the aih force
government DEPTS.
PUBLIC UTILITIES
Cl VIE AVIATION
SHIF OWNERS
AIREINES
AMALGAMATE# WIRELESS (km) LIB.
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL
WIRELESS
ORGANISATION
