

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin," Vol. 63.—N0. 3271
Wednesday, October '21^.1942
*ELce«A
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Suppelts
PLYMOUTH SOUND.
'J'O the Anglo-Saxons, if not all English-speaking
peoples, few towns in the world are surrounded
by such ‘ hallowed and ennobling associations 35 as
Plymouth, the “Pride of Devon.” Most Australian
travellers are familiar with it as a port of call “going
or coming. ’ Plymouth, a great naval and commercial
station, had its hours of agony during the second
world war. It lived them through, manifesting the
unconquerable spirit of Drake and Howard in Armada
days, and of the Pilgrim Fathers, the Mayflower stone
indicating the spot where these fighters for freedom of
conscience sailed, in a tiny craft of 180 tons, for the
then unknown world. To many it may come as a
surprise to learn that Plymouth owes its inception to
the fostering care of the Abbot and monks of the
Benedictine Priory at Plymplon, four and a half miles
away. Its true expansion is possibly attributed to the
splendid shelter afforded by the depth of the Sound,
its direct projection into the land and the continuous
height of the surrounding hills, which completely
shelter these waters. So early as 1346 Plymouth was
an important naval station. It was at the period of
the threatened Armada invasion Plymouth came out
in “thorough force.” In the Civil War Plymouth
declared for the Parliamentarians. To Plymouth came
Napoleon in 1815, a prisoner, in H.M.S, Bellerophon,
upon the gangway of which “the great little Corporal 5 ’
would frequently appear to bow to the excited people
when boats from the shore crowded around the war-
ship. Towards the middle of the last century Plymouth
was an important port of departure for settlers bound
to Australia, Admiral Sir John Hawkins, who corn-
manded the rear of the fleet which defeated the
Armada, was born here, as was also the great artist
Samuel Front In late years, for obvious reasons,
Plymouth has assumed an added Imperial importance.


Learn
TrecVflice
Journalism
at HOMF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’’
My Name ..
My Address
A Poet's Prayer .
Slowly Dawn strips the fibrous husk from night;
Dusty with stars and withered by old moons
It falls, and in her cradling hands the bright
Kernel glows gold as sun on summer noons.
That blue-roan bull, the mountain, stands
supreme
Among his craggy herd; his granite horns
Are tipped with rose, his smoking nostrils steam
With crawling mists. A thousand million morns
His harsh stone eyes have kindled to the glow;
Or glared from frozen sockets blind with snow.
High on a ledge an eagle spreads his wings,
Not yet to plunge in headlong glorious sweep
Above the granite herds, while ice-wind sings
Among his pinions; but to let sun seep
And thaw his royal thews, as he stands there,
A living lectern poised in silver air.
The flat-topped firs are glasses brimmed with
black .
Sharp stilly wine. Who drinks their vintage dark?
God Thunder, leaning with his grim mouth slack
With sudden thirst? The stallion Midnight, stark
From the fury of his gallop? Or does brown
Wallaroo Dusk come swiftly leaping down
Old trails of after-glow to dip his slim
Beautiful head above one curving brim?
Not here, O God, not here let horror come.
The bayonet of the river halves the hill.
Leaf boomerangs are held by every gum.
The sabres of the sags flash and are still.
Last night I dreamed the birds fled from this land.
I watched them go: the wild swans, thousands
strong,
Drove dark spears in the blue; a purple band
Of swallows arched the heavens; and a throng
Of martins and grey thrushes gravely flew,
Wing-tip to wing-tip. Cuckoo and black jay,
Sparrow and finch, parrot and cockatoo,
Blackbird and magpie, all, all went away.
I watched them go till lonely I was left
In a land forlorn, of singing birds bereft;
And in my dream 1 wept. Not here, O God,
Where now in deep grass sheltered by a clod
The shy quail nests and thistle-finches sing,
Gay as canaries in the cage of spring;
Not here, where small brown larks like larvae lie
Under the wind-blown petals of the sky.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.
The Commonwealth Fund.
In T. Inglis Moore’s Six Australian
Poets, recently reviewed here, appears
the statement;
To help, practically and genuinely, the
producers of ideas, truth, beauty and the
finest thoughts of the finest minds has
been simply undreamt of in Australia until
the last few years, when, the Common-
wealth Literary Fund has given most valu-
able encouragement to our writers.
Mr. Moore is possibly warmed by the
fact that the Commonwealth Fund, by
backing his book of criticism, gave valu-
able encouragement to T. Inglis Moore;
and the notion that the Fund has been
of value to Australian poetry may even
be shared by the Fellowship of Writers,
imagining that because the Fund has been
established it is automatically useful.
The Bulletin supported the Fellowship
in its campaign; the results have been
extremely disappointing.
Two worth-while books of criticism,
Inglis Moore’s and Vance Palmer’s col-
lection of A. G. Stephens’s Red Page
and “Bookfellow” writings, have been
published with the Fund’s support. Criti-
cism is not creative writing (and creative
writing should have first claim on the
Fund’s sympathy) but these books were
worth doing.
In the creative field, the Fund has sub-
sidised two, and possibly, more, worth-
while works of prose fiction: Frank
Dalby Davison’s The Woman at the Mill
and Ernestine Hill’s My Love Must Wait.
The four Australian plays recently re-
viewed here had also had the Fund’s
backing.
In poetry, it has sp far given no assis-
tance whatever to any active Australian
writer.
These are the books of poetry backed
by the Fund to date: Professor Moll’s
Cut from Mulga; Bernard O’Dowd’s
Collected Poems; Poems of Lesbia Har-
ford, edited by Nettie Palmer ; Frederick
Macartney’s Preferences (selected poems).
Not one of these writers can qualify
as an active force in contemporary Aus-
tralian writing. Professor Moll has lived
in America since he was 16, writes in the
American manner of Robert Frost;
amounting to a pleasant gesture from a
tourist, his verses were worth publishing,
but not worth publishing by, in effect,
the Commonwealth of Australia. O’Dowd
was certainly worth publishing by the
nation: but he has not been an active,
producing force for twenty years. Lesbia
Harford has been dead many years ; her
verses are slight, dated, and would best
have been published by private subscrip-
tion among her friends. The poems
selected for Preferences date back for
many years: Macartney has a genuine
talent, but it would be difficult to establish
that he is active in the sense that Robert
D. Fitz Gerald, Kenneth Slessor, Brian
Vrepont and a dozen others (including
some of the A.I.F. poets) are active.
What’s noticeable about the list of pub-
lished poetry is its haphazardness; a
visitor’s bouquet; collected poems of an
Australian classic ; a tribute to a minor
poetess ; selected lyrics belonging to the
Hugh McCrae and “Vision” period of
Australian writing.
Nor can one avoid noticing this fact;
Bernard O’Dowd— address, Melbourne ;
Nettie Palmer, editor of Lesbia Har-
ford’s verses address * Melbourne ;
Frederick Macartney address, Mel-
bourne ; and the publication of all these
books was presumably recommended by
the late Furnley Maurice— address, Mel-
bourne. The Bulletin is not interested
in the politics of Melbourne versus Syd-
ney ; nor is there any suggestion that
Furnley Maurice consciously gave pref-
erence to Victorian writers; but it is
more than suggested—it is surely demon-
strated—that the Fund has never had any
guiding principle nor settled policy in
the publication of either verse or prose.
The Fund’s answer to this might be
that no other writers have invited its
assistance. That is not the case.
The Red Page publicly suggested to
one active Australian poet and one
active short-story writer that they
approach the Fund. Both took its advice,
and both were turned down. Angus and
Robertson then published Gavin Casey’s
short stories without the Fund’s assis-
tance ; and The Bulletin awarded it the
£lOO Prior Memorial Prize for 1942.
The Fund has been singularly unre-
sponsive to suggestions that would help
the practising writer. The Red Page sug-
gested two years ago that it should pub-
lish annual anthologies of Australian
short stories and verse. The Fund ignored
the suggestion. Angus and Robertson
took it up, and both Coast to Coast and
Australian Poetry 1941, intended purely
as a gesture of encouragement to practis-
ing writers, proved popular successes.
The short stories ran into two editions
and the verse sales were something of a
record for serious poetry in Australia.
In the light of those experiences and
in the absence of any statement of policy
by the Fund, the Red Page could not take
the responsibility of advising any other
practising Australian writers to ask for
this Government assistance that is theirs
by right. Instead, it invites the Fund’s
Advisory Board to state here by whom
and with what policy books are recom-
mended for publication.
It is quite obvious what that policy
should be. First and foremost, to aid
the practising, creative Australian writer
secondly, to assist the publication of
works of national importance, outside
the creative field —criticism, history, bio-
graphy, documentary; thirdly, to reprint
the worth-while literature of the past.
The Fund can do an immense service to
Australian poetry if it does three things;
(1) hold itself ready at any time to assist
the publication of a new book by a con-
temporary writer; (2) publish a series of
selections or collections of verses by
active writers, on the lines of the Faber
“Sesame” books; (3) republish• the clas-
sics, including the balladists, in a uniform
edition corresponding to the Oxford
books of English poetry. Of the six poets
Inglis Moore attempted to establish as
classics, only two —McCrae and O’Dowd
—are readily available in collected
editions, and the McCrae vol. is incom-
plete.
The Red Page
Recording a Coincidence.
Normally when I devour the “World’s
News,” published by Sydney Associated
Newspapers, Ltd., it is less for the literary
contents than for the nostalgic charm of
the advertisements, recalling the days
when the Fleet-street Penny Dreadfuls
first opened my eyes to the wonders and
terrors of the world:
Drink Craving Conquered. “It is almost
unbelievable. My husband has not touched
a drink since he had a course of . He
says he will never touch it again,” writes
a grateful woman.
How to stop smoking for five shillings ;
marvellous free booklet telling us what
we should do to gain good health or
happy motherhood ; Tricks, Jokes, Magic
Novelties, Hard to Get Books, Nudism,
Art, Wrestling, Boxing, Jiu-Jitsu, Haight
Increase, K.O. Blows, Yogi Secrets, For-
mulas, Stamps ; Nerves ; Rheumatism ;
Backache ; Corns ; and, of course;
Lonesome? Win Yourself a Wife, Hus-
band or Sweetheart through my Corre-
spondence Club. I have made Thousands
happy. Why not you? T v
But what made me happiest in the issue
of 22/8/’42 was a short story, “The
Corpse Conveyor,” labelled as written
by T. O’Neill-Lane.
“Shave me? Never! I’d sooner be
dead! And that’s the way I’ll have to be
before anyone does! ”
Such a wild outburst from “staid Alan
Knowles, ‘Times’ correspondent in Paris,”
amazed (as well it might) the narrator of
Mr. T. O’Neill-Lane’s story. The nar-
rator had seen Alan in various parts of
Europe in the past 10 years, and he’d
always struck him as a particularly
hard-headed Scot. But at the mention of
shaving he showed himself a particularly
soft-stomached Scot:
As he spoke he went violently red, and
then a greenish sort of pallor spread over
his face as if he were about to be ill.
What horror related to shaving could
have brought a greenish pallor to the
cheeks of a hard-headed Scot? Had a
mad barber once cut his head off?
It is a strange story that staid Alan
Knowles now unfolds to the narrator.
Hal Jones (“of the ‘Telegraph’ ”) had
died in Berlin and Knowles, as his best
friend, volunteered to send the body back
to Jones’s wife in England. Figure to
yourself the annoyance of Alan Knowles
when he was told that he would have to
accompany Hal on the train journey;
figure to yourself the horror of Alan
when he learned that he would actually
have to travel in the van with Hal’s cold
cadaver.
The railway people had done their best
to make me as comfortable as possible.
There was a stretcher ready for me. There
was no light in the van as I climbed in, but
I could make out the bed. I was dead-
tired, so I pulled my shoes off, fell onto
the stretcher, drew the clothes over me and
fell asleep immediately.
What did staid Alan Knowles see in
that van of horror? A ghost? A snake?
A devil? Hitler?
Came the dawn. Staid Alan Knowles
awoke:
The first thing I saw when I opened
my eyes was a small hunchback sitting on
a cot at the other end of the van. Near
him was a coffin.
Everybody has read Axel Munthe’s
The Story of San Michele. Sydney
“World’s News,” comparatively speaking,
is known only to a favored few. To the
still more privileged few who have read
both, it is an interesting coincidence that
both in Munthe’s chapter entiled “The
Corpse Conductor” and in T. O’Neill-
Lane’s story entitled “The Corpse Con-
veyor” the professional corpse-com-
panion, met in the one case by Munthe
himself (when he was travelling by train
with the body of a patient), and in the
other by staid Alan Knowles, is a hunch-
back.
There are no statistics available as to
the number of hunchbacks engaged in
the profession of corpse-conveying in
Germany, but, as staid Alan Knowles’s
and Munthe’s differ considerably in
appearance, there must be at least two.
Munthe’s hunchback is described:
A little hunchback with restless eyes and
a face ravaged with smallpox.
But the object seen by staid Alan
Knowles was considerably more sensa-
tional :
His head was almost completely bald,
in strange contrast to the face, that was
mainly covered with the long, beautifully
silky hair that has never known the clip
of the scissors or the bite of the razor.
Coincidence returns, however, in the
development of the two stories. After
staid Alan Knowles has had a chat with
the silky-haired hunchback, it is revealed
that the hard-headed Scot is in need of
a shave, and the hunchback obliges.
Munthe, too, is shaved by his hunch-
back :
I have never been better shaved in my
life and I told him so with my compliments
when the train began to move again.
“There is nothing like travelling in
foreign countries,” said I, as I washed the
soap off my face. “Every day one learns
something new and interesting. The Latin
and the Anglo-Saxon races invariably adopt
the sitting-up position for being shaved;
in Germany you are made to lie flat on
your back. It is all a matter of taste.”
“It is a matter of habit,” explained the
Leichenbegleiter. “You cannot make a
corpse sit up. You are the first living man
I have ever shaved.”
It is just that revelation, it transpires,
that had put staid Alan Knowles off shav-
ing for life. The conclusion to T. O’Neill-
Lane’s story reads: —
“Thanks a lot,” I told him. “I might
mention that I’ve never had a cleaner
shave in the whole of my travels —and I’ve
been around.”
“That’s the most extraordinary thing I’ve
ever heard,” he said. “Because, you see,
you’re the first live man I’ve ever shaved
in my life.”
MACHOOTS.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” which
makes the weekly contribution to Aus-
tralian culture of reviewing one (1) im-
ported detective novel, threw back its
head and howled “Austerity” when high
prices were bid for various objects of
art, including a Gruner oil of the Harbor,
at a Sydney auction. A shrill yelping in
the evening indicated that the “Sun” had
scented copy, and various N. S. Wales
politicians joined the chorus with noises
stern and mournful. Evading the real
point, but nonetheless successfully hush-
ing the outcry, “S. M. Herald” reported
the following morning that the 280-guinea
bid for the Gruner had not been accepted.
It’s greatly to Mr. Curtin’s credit that
not once in his Austerity speeches has he
attacked art or literature. The P.M. is
aware, if the “D.T.” isn’t, that this wax'
is being fought to preserve rather than to
destroy the graces and virtues of our civili-
sation : high, if not chief, among which are
the practice and appreciation *)f the arts.
The modernists at the Spring Exhibi-
tion of the Victorian Society of Artists
now luxuriate in an odd corner. The
picture-lover can speculate as to where
the female spooks in G. A. Harrison’s
“Whither?” are off to and why Marjorie
Woolcock sees the Australian landscape
in terms of a children’s Noah’s Ark.
Among the traditional blooms, James
Quinn’s portrait of Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh
looks a good likeness, and C. Salis Lloyd,
in “Tales of Two Wars,” makes a sub-
ject out of an old soldier wearing a
Digger’s hat and contemplating a Pickel-
haube. Esther Paterson has painted a
careful portrait of her husband, Lieut.-
Commander Gill, who looks ten years
younger since he joined the Navy. Jeff
Smart’s “Cactus” is a vivid splash of color.
Hans Heysen has an unexpected dis-
play of black-and-white at Adelaide
National Gallery. Pen-and-ink over
pencil is a favorite, and with ink-wash he
even gets a touch of color, as also, just
once, with “sanguine chalk.” In these
he deals with farm scenes, largely on his
own farm; gums, horses and some
turkeys as nearly sublime as a turkey
can be. There is one glimpse of the sea,
unusual for Heysen. For his recent
favorite study, the mountains of Cen-
tralia, he mostly uses charcoal; ink over
it gives the picture of Centralia stern and
wild.
The late Chief Justice Murray’s be-
quest to Adelaide National Gallery in-
cludes a portrait painting of Admiral
Pulteney Malcolm, who got Hindmarsh
appointed as first Governor of S.A., and
who 20 years earlier had the job of see-
ing that Napoleon did not escape from
St. Helena, His names are remembered in’
an Adelaide street and a Westralian cape.
The gallery has bought a Lord Howe Island
cloud-study by John Moore, and a clever
but dingy street in Paris by Eric Wilson.
Bringing to light one excellent actor
who took the two roles of the First
Tempter and leader of the Knights, Syd-
ney Morality Players made a gallant
attempt at staging Eliot’s Murder in the
Cathedral; but, because of the unreality
of the chorus and the thin formalism of
the murder scene, it’s a play that’s best
left to the radio. Modern radio,
like the stage that was acceptable
to the Greeks, gets its effects from
the spoken word; the modern stage
demands naturalistic scenery and miming.
Because they can’t mime, Shakspeare’s
clowns would sound foolish on the air;
because it isn’t seen, Eliot’s chorus, which
always looks a bit foolish on the stage,
is impressive over the radio.
Both Milton’s Samson Agonistes and
Louis MacNeice’s translation of the
Agamemnon of /Eschylus, the next two
of the A.B.C.’s series of verse dramas,
might have been expressly designed for
radio. And in each the language is direct;
the Agamemnon because it’s a fresh
translation by one of the best of con-
temporary poets; Samson Agonistes
because, a blind man and unsuccessful
in his domestic affairs, Milton put his
whole heart and his most vigorous rancor
into the mouth of the blind Samson who
had been betrayed by Delilah.
A chance visit to a revival of the film
“Lost Horizon” in Sydney was truly
a visit to lost horizons. A British
diplomat, an expert on the Far East,
states his policy on being recalled to
become Foreign Secretary:
“First I’d disband the Army, then I’d
sink all my battleships, then when the army
of an aggressor came along I’d say Lome
in, gentlemen. What can we do for you.
And then [there’s a pause of confident
emphasis here] the soldiers would stop
to think. They’d see there was nothing to
be gained by senselessly inflicting on our
country the horrors of war. Theyd go
It E was In 1936 that Australia swallowed
without a murmur that genial boloney.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’
“Truth in Advertising”
‘THE SENIOR STORE’
119th Year of Service
m
m
m
■Vf
STUART ENGLISH CUT
CRYSTAL WATER SET, 7
pieces (2-pint Jug and 6
Georgian shape Glasses),
attractive cut star design. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price,
set £4/13/6
ppp
« I
JOHNSON'S ENGLISH UTILITY SET, 41
pieces, "Beryl'' pattern, a smart Green
and Fawn Scroll Decoration with Fawn
Rope Effect on edge, Cream finish. Set
comprises 6 each Dinner, Dessert, and
Bread and Butter Plates, 6 Soup Coupes,
6 Cups and Saucers (12 pieces), 1 Covered
Scollop (2 pieces), 1 Sauce Jug, 1 Slop
Bowl, and 1 Meat Dish, inches. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, set .. £5/10/-
sf
;
Lsr i
ENGLISH CROWN
DEVON VASES, Off-
white finish, with gold
edge and handles,
inches high. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, 19/6
HEAVILY CUT
CRYSTAL VASES, 5*
inches high. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, 10/9
6|- inches high. Price,
each 13/9
■ ■
p
■ \fi, ..
m i
mis
I:
■
i
I Yaks
mm
ii
m
s v/y-fv-r rr
14 "3
' i
48" wide Heavyweight all-
over design COTTON
WEAVE for Curtains, Loose
Covers, and Cushions, in
colours of Rust and Fawn,
Brown and Fawn, Green and
Fawn, and Rose and Fawn.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
yard 9/11
(NO COUPONS)
Ready-Made Shadow Tissue
CURTAIN SETS, comprising
2 Curtains and Centre Val-
ance attached, 6ft. Gin. drop,
in colours of Blue, Orange
and Green. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, set, 19/6
(NO COUPONS)
Marquisette Frilled Crossover
CURTAIN SETS, frilled two
sides and base, com-
plete with tiebacks, in Cream
shade only, 6ft. 6in. drop.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
set 18/6
(NO COUPONS)
40" wide Art Silk CURTAIN
NET, new novelty designs,
shades of Rose and Gold,
Blue and Gold, Green and
Gold, and Lemon and Gold.
; At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
yard 5/6
(NO COUPONS)
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0,, Sydney


OUT OF THE
PAST
The Lovely Twain
J.H .M. ABBOTT.
THE story of pioneer bushranging, as
practised in what used to be New
Holland and Van Diemen’s Land,
contains few legends of more callous
bloodthirstiness than those relating to two
bright lads who ravaged and harried and
looted in the outskirts of the young Port
Phillip settlement just over a hundred
years ago.
About the time when young Queen
Victoria came to the throne, and when
the new colony named after her was in
its earliest infancy, the thinly-settled
country between Sydney and Melbourne
was the more or less happy hunting
ground of several bands of escaped
prisoners who preyed upon the free
settlers and the blacks. When they were
caught they usually received a very short
shrift, but it wasn’t so very easy to catch
them, and for a while a veritable reign
of terror existed.
Early in 1837 nine or ten prisoners in
assigned service to various squatters of
the neighborhood absconded from their
employment in the Yass district. Of
these a young man named Dignum and
two others, who were subsequently joined
by a youth going by the name of Comer-
ford, embarked on a bushranging career.
Before long they were joined by others,
and presently the gang had nine active
members. Dignum was the acknowledged
leader and Comerford his second in
command.
Comerford is described as “fair and
tall,” with a personal appearance not un-
prepossessing, but Dignum was a hard-
faced, evil-looking blackguard. They left
the Yass district and made their way south
towards the settlement on Port Phillip.
For some time they terrorised the coun-
tryside round Melbourne, until they made
it too hot to hold them, when they
decided to clear out to South Australia
with the hope that they might lose their
identities amongst the free inhabitants of
the newly-established colony.
For a time they made steady progress
westward, but when they entered the
Mount Alexander district food began to
run short, and they quarrelled amongst
themselves as to the route they should
take. This sort of thing wasn’t any use
to the hard-boiled Mr. Dignum, and he
made up his mind that, if his associates
were disinclined to obey him, it was time
he got rid of them. He wasn’t a gentle-
man who favored half-measures, and the
plan he decided on was altogether remark-
able in its whole-souled ruthlessness.
They were equipped with such arms
and resources as they had been able to
loot from the settlements through which
they had passed, and when they camped
at the end of the day’s march they built
themselves gunyahs of leafy boughs, lit
a big fire in the midst and lay on the
ground in a circle with their feet towards
it and their loaded muskets by their sides.
On the night he reached his decision
Dignum was the last to turn in, and before
he lay down in his place he contrived to
put three of the firearms and an axe
where he could easily lay hands on them
in the dark. The simple plan he had in
view was to wait until his companions
were all asleep, when he would murder
them at his convenience, and resume the
march with what rations remained.
Young Comerford, luckily for himself,
wasn’t sleeping well that night, and when
Dignum stealthily rose out of his blanket
he got up, too, and asked the leader what
the matter might be. Dignum took him
into his confidence, and, after a short
conference, the lovely pair decided to
follow up Mr, Dignum’s original idea.
Four of their victims died in their
blankets without a kick, but the three
others, although horribly wounded, made
efforts to escape. Not a single one of
them did so, however. When daylight
came the two murderers made a huge
fire of logs, upon which the bodies of
their mates were piled, and while they
were burning the two consulted as to their
future movements. It was decided to aban-
don the plan of making for Adelaide, and
they turned back towards Melbourne.
Not far from the little township on the
Yarra they obtained employment from
a prosperous landholder, and worked on
his run for some time. Tiring of the job,
however, they cleared out and found an-
other in a distant part of the district.
But they’d signed an agreement with
their last boss, and it wasn’t long before
he came after them with a warrant and
had them arrested. Whilst on their way
in, custody to Melbourne, however, they
contrived to slip their handcuffs and got
away into the bush with a couple of
muskets stolen from their escort.
There followed a brief interlude of
thieving and looting in the surrounding
districts, till the chase at last became so
hot that the two young outlaws decided on
another effort to get to South Australia.
But that careful soul Mr. Dignum, hav-
ing arrived at an opinion that he would
be better off alone, one day tried to shoot
his companion from behind. His aim
was bad and the thoroughly scared
Comerford made his escape. He got to
Melbourne, gave himself up to the police,
and told them sufficient of Dignum’s
probable movements as to give them a
very good chance of laying him by the
heels. Which they did.
\X/ HEN they first heard the story from
Comerford the police could hardly
bring themselves to believe his account
of the Mount Alexander massacre, but
eventually he was accepted as Queen’s
evidence. There was no Court in Mel-
bourne before which the two could be
brought to trial, so with a strong escort
they were sent by sea to Sydney. There
it was decided to test the truth of Comer-
ford’s story by sending him back to the
scene of the atrocious butchery.
A military sergeant named Tomkins
was given command of a party consist-
ing of two soldiers and two constables,
who were to take him out to the Mount
Alexander district. When at last they
reached there it was to realise the fearful
truth of the tale. Human skulls, bones
and fragments of clothing, partly con-
sumed by fire, confirmed it.
On the return journey Comerford com-
plained of the hardship of marching
weary miles in the heat of summer with
his wrists in handcuffs, so Tomkins had
them removed during the daytime and
carefully replaced when they camped in
the evening. At the end of the second day
it was found that the supply of tea and
sugar had been left behind at their last
camp, so the two soldiers went back to get
it. They were so long away, however, that
the others came to the conclusion they’d
got bushed, and a constable was sent, to
find them, leaving the sergeant and one
policeman in charge of the prisoner.
The three of them sat down to eat
their supper, and Sergeant Tomkins took
off Comerford’s handcuffs. Presently the
constable finished his meal and strolled
off to a bit of rising ground to see if the
missing men were yet in sight. And then
the unfortunate Tomkins did an eminently
foolish thing that was to cost him his
life. He got up, rested his musket against
a tree and went to get some water. When
he turned he found young Mr. Comer-
ford covering him with the musket.
“Now, by Gawd, I’m a free man,” cried
out the prisoner. “I don’t want to hurt
you, sergeant, but stand away or I’ll blow
your brains out. Blast ye, no man shall
stop me from getting away.”
“Oh, don’t be a damn’ fool,” the ser-
geant answered. “Put the gun down.”
“That’s all right,” responded Comer-
ford. “But you keep off and let me go,
or by Gawd I’ll plug ye!”
The sergeant made a rush and Comer-
ford fi re d, shooting him through the
chest -(he explosion brought the con-
stable mnni back t 0 c t 0 fi d
t j•„ „ , ,
dying and Comerford gone,
some weeks the escapee remained
at ar £ e ’ all sorts of efforts were
made by the police to recapture him. At
length, almost starving, he bailed up the
men’s hut on a cattle station, and ordered
breakfast, threatening to shoot the first
man who moved against him. With the
musket between his knees he was pres-
ently enjoying a meal of damper, corned
beef and tea. When he had finished he
asked for a smoke, and one of the five
me n m the hut filled a pipe for him, but
while he was lighting it the man caught
bim a crack on the jaw with his fist, when
tbe rest of them rushed and overpowered
him. He was tied up, put in a dray and
carted off to Melbourne,
The charming lad was sent up to Syd-
ney, duly tried for the murder of Ser-
geant Tomkins and died at the end of a
rope on Gallows Hill. Unfortunately,
sufficient evidence could not be got to
convict the worthy Dignum of any of
his capital crimes, so he was sent to Nor-
folk Island for life.
And that is the finish of the story of the
lovely twain, except for “Kangaroo Jack,”
the assigned servant who had plugged
Comerford on the jaw. A grateful country
presented, him with a free pardon and £5O.
JIMMY ELASTICSIDE AND THE BUNYIP
By J. A. WRIGHT.
ONCE upon a time there was an old
swaggie named Jimmy Elasticside.
He was so old that his beard
spread out all over his chest; but
though it should have been white it was
stained a beautiful mahogany with the
tobacco Jimmy chewed and the tea he
spilt down it. For, as all swaggies used
to do, Jimmy lived entirely upon panni-
kins of thick black tea half-full of sugar
and great rank brown slabs of the
strongest tobacco. He lived as happy as
the years were long, plodding through
the dust of the roads of the West, his toes
coming further and further out of his
boots, his bluey getting dustier, his beard
getting longer. Once a year or so he
stayed awhile with his old mate Albert
Borewater, who had a farm near Tuck-
abel and sixteen young Borewaters to do
the work, and who was fond of a pipe
and a yarn with anyone who passed by,
but particularly of a yam with Jimmy
Elasticside, who knew all the gossip from
Parkes to the Queensland border. Such
was the life of Jimmy Elasticside, and a
good life it was.
But one day Jimmy took a look round
the country, which was in that part as
flat as the back of your hand and not so
hairy, and he decided he wanted a change
of scene, for the landscape in the West is
all very nice no doubt, but whew you
have walked over a couple of thousand
miles of it and noticed no change in the
surroundings apart from an occasional
old boot or a rusty tin, you begin to
hanker after a tree, or maybe a hill or
a river or some of the usual trimmings
of a view. So Jimmy decided to vary
his normal routine, and went off climbing
the Warrumbungles for a change, though
his friends in the blacks’ camps had often
warned him about the prevalence in those
perpendicular hills of bunyips of a vin-
dictive nature and a hair-trigger temper.
Jimmy Elasticside could never after-
wards remember just what happened in
the Warrumbungles. “Suffice it to say,”
he would remark, “that in some way or
other I evidently waked the possum in
one of the bunyips by whose creek I
camped one night.” With a terrible yell
the bunyip materialised, and, waving his
gnarled and knotted hands, he laid a spell
upon Jimmy Elasticside to the effect that
he should sleep for the next ten years,
thus effectually preventing him from dis-
turbing the haunts of bunyips in the
Warrumbungles. This suited Jimmy well
enough, and, making no protest, he rigged
himself a stringybark wurlie and retired
into it to follow the bunyip’s directions.
T T was exactly ten years and a day after-
A wards that Jimmy Elasticside might
have been seen descending the perpendic-
ular slopes of the Warrumbungles in the
direction of Tuckabel. Though his beard
now reached his knees and had lost much
of its rich coloring, he looked otherwise
still very much like Jimmy Elasticside,
and like the hundreds of other swaggies
who had used to wander so happily along
the roads of the West. But as he walked
it seemed to him that he attracted more
attention than was customary; for he
was pursued by mobs of incredulous
wallabies, kangaroos and wombats, and
a flock of impertinent galahs flew con-
tinually around him.
About ten miles from the township of
Tuckabel Jimmy turned down the well-
remembered track that led to Moretea,
where lived old Albert Borewater with
his numerous offspring. As he went he
smacked his lips in anticipation of the
banquet that undoubtedly lay ahead and
the yarns with Albert, while Tom and Alf
and Bill and Jim and Dick and Ginge and
Merv and Joe and Else and Rose and Ive
and Marj and Dot and Bell and Nell and
Ann did all the work the farm required.
It was not until he was almost at the
door of the farm that Jimmy began to
wonder. Things were as quiet as a dead
cow. The fence round the garden was
held together with bits of twine. There
was a rakish air about the farm, and in
the garden beds flourished nothing but
roly-polies and Paterson’s Curse.
From the direction of the cowsheds a
figure appeared, staggering under a yoke
of milk buckets, and as Jimmy looked at
it he wondered whether to believe his
eyes. Accordingly he closed one and
looked at it with the other, then closed
that and tried the first. There could be
no longer any doubt. It was his leisured
friend Albert Borewater, and he was
working for the first time in Jimmy’s
experience.
Stepping forward, Jimmy accosted him.
“Albert,” he said, “what is this I see?
Where is all the nippers?”
Albert Borewater dropped his milk
buckets with a crash, overturning one or
two, and stood careless in the resulting
flood. “I see awrong,” he decided after
a moment’s thought, and, waving a peevish
hand at Jimmy Elasticside as at a trouble-
some phantom, he picked up the buckets
again and hobbled on.
Jimmy followed bewildered. “Albert,”
he pleaded, “don’t you remember your
old friend Jimmy, who’s just dropping in
to have a yarn and borrer a bit of tea
and sugar and a plug of tobacco or so?”
This time Albert dropped his buckets
to such purpose that one and all they
overturned. “Tea! ”he cried, like a woman
wailing for her demon lover. “Sugai!
Tobacco!” He stared searchingly at
Jimmy for some time. “Yes,” he
observed at last. “You’re right. Jimmy
Elasticside it is; I recollect the cut of
your pants. But I ain’t seen you, or
anything like you, this many a year.
Not since you went up the Warrum-
bungles ten years ago.”
“I been undet a spell,” explained
Jimmy. “Bunyip up in them ranges.
Chancy things, bunyips. I been asleep
for ten years.”
“Ah,” said Albert in relief. “I never
thought to see you again, Jimmy. I
thought the Man-power Officer had got
you long ago.”
“Magistrates I know,” said Jimmy,
stroking his beard, “and local police and
warrants for vagrancy, trespassing and
no-visible-means-of-subsistence I know,
and bunyips I know too well, but man-
power officers is a new matter to me.
But tell me first of all where are Tom
and Alf and Bill and Jim and Dick and
Ginge and Merv and Joe and Else and
Rose and Ive and Marj and Dot and Bell
and Nell and Ann that you are carrying
them milk buckets?”
“One and all,” said Albert proudly,
“they are defending the realm. One and
all, they are in uniforms, excepting only
Ann, who was turned down by the Army
on account of flat feet and being slightly
bandy, and she is down in the irrigation
area growing cotton to make cotton-wool
to use for padding the shoulders of
brigadiers’ tunics. But I forget. You
know nothing of all this. Come inside
and I will go into the whole matter.”
HALF an hour later the door of More-
tea burst open to emit Jimmy Elastic-
side, who grabbed his swag and hoisted
it to his shoulder with an anguished cry,
“Half a pound of tea a fortnight!
Pound of sugar a week! It ain’t enough
for a decent breakfast; and no tobacco.
Don’t you hang on to me. I’m off to
the Warrumbungles here and now, to
find that bunyip again. This ain’t no
world for Jimmy Elasticside.”
“Jimmy,” said Albert, “don’t desert
an old pal. I could walk into Tuckabel
and report you to the Man-power Officer
and you’d never reach the Warrum-
bungles. Don’t you realise you’re the
only swaggie left in Australia? You stick
out like a sore thumb. Stay here with
me, Jimmy. Stay and give us a hand to
bail up the cows and look after the sheep
and the ploughing. Think of your coun-
try’s need. You can have half my sugar
ration if you’ll just give us a hand with
the lucerne.”
Slowly the swag slipped from the
shoulder of Jimmy Elasticside, “Albert,”
he said, “never did I think that I would
have to set my hand to work. Never has
my pride allowed it. But for the sake of
old days, for the country’s good, as much
as for half your sugar ration, I’ll do it.”
FOR a time thereafter, as Jimmy bailed
up Fancy and Bess, cut lucerne or
bent in an unaccustomed manner over
a sheep to* be eyewoolled, he often thought
longingly of the track up the Warrum-
bungles and the blessed oblivion to be
found there, and then, one mail day,
when looking through last month’s news-
papers, he descried the photograph of a
battalion on the march somewhere over-
seas. At the head of the battalion strutted,
with an odious smirk, a well-remembered
form, the bunyip of the Warrumbungles.
The captiop underneath said merely:
“Tha famous Daisy-cutter Battalion, with
its gallant mascot, who has lately been
awarded the Mascot’s Medal for out-
standing service in the field.” Jimmy
Elasticside’s dream was finally dissipated.
He turned to his work cutting up cabbage
leaves for tobacco.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63 —No. 3271
Wednesday, October 21, 1942.
PROJECTED PARTING ON THE SHORE.
“Synchronously with reports of increasing friction between the Nazis and the Italians, the Roosevelt Government has removed all Italians
in the U.S.A. from the category of enemy aliens.”
“Hey, Benito, vot’s der beeg idea?”
“I’m off-a da Philadadelphia in da mom’.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 'George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
AUSTERITY, IS IT?
Australia began the last war with 10
Commonwealth Ministers, of whom three
were without portfolios, the others being
called Ministers of State. It was pro-
vided in 1915 that “the number of Min-
isters of State shall exceed seven, but
shall not exceed nine,” and the salary
pool was fixed at £15,300. Ministers did
not then draw Parliamentary salaries.
During the ensuing war years there were
rarely more than 11 Ministers, “honor-
aries” included, and for long periods 10
had to do the work, Mr. Hughes being
abroad. The member’s salary was then
£6OO p.a. It is now £lOOO p.a.
At the beginning of the present war
there were 16 Ministers, of whom five
were “assistants,” the number of Min-
isters of State having been stepped up
by legislation to 11. Two months before
Mr. Menzies resigned, the number of
Ministers, all brands, was increased to
19 and the salary pool from £18,600 to
£21,251, to which there was added in
each case the member’s salary of £lOOO
p.a. (a provision made in 1920, though
the full £lOOO was not added till 1938),
plus the special £l5OO p.a. for the Prime
Minister granted in Mr. Lyons’s time.
Labor members acidly remarked (and the
taunt has been heard since from
the same quarter) that some of the
19 had nothing to do; but when their
party’s turn came it availed itself of the
Menzies precedent to keep the number at
19. Each of the 19 Labor Ministers has
his own retinue; and it would be an ex-
cessive compliment to the executive ability
of some of the gentlemen to offer them
personal direction of an ice-cream cart.
Counting in Mr. Blackburn, though he
is temporarily out of favor with the
party organisation in Victoria, there are
36 Labor members in the House and 17
in the Senate, two of whom, the Presi-
dent and the Chairman of Committees,
are out of the hurly-burly. If an un-
pleasant situation arose in Caucus, the
Ministers and the members “assisting”
them could outvote the rest —provided,
of course, they all hung together. There
are 12 Labor members “assisting Minis-
ters,” and Mr. Wilson, the Independent,
makes a thirteenth. Four of them assist
Mr. Ward, who is assisted also by a
bunch of defeated Labor members, of
whom a Mr. Garden (“Yours for the
Revolution”) is the bright particular star.
Mr. Garden is designated “Liaison Officer
between the Unions and the Govern-
ment,” and some day, perhaps, the tax-
payer will wake up and find that a
Department of Liaison Officers between
the Unions and the Government has been
planted on him.
Here also a precedent can be found,
if necessary. When Mr. Arthur Blakeley
joined the procession of defeated Labor
members in 1932, it was decided that
something had to be done for him. After
deep thought, he was put on the strength
as Inspector of Awards. Now there are
Inspectors of Awards all over the place,
and Mr. Blakeley has graduated from
Chief Inspector to Conciliation Com-
missioner, in which capacity he is placed
at the service of any hectoring union
secretary or mob of union secretaries
who demand “investigations” designed
to bring war industries under their con-
trol.
The 12 Labor members “assisting
Ministers” are not wholly occupied as
such. Seven of them are on joint Parlia-
mentary Committees and an eighth is on
a commission. At the end of September
there were three commissions and eight
Joint Parliamentary Committees (five of
these were created by the Menzies Gov-
ernment in one of its infatuated
moments), though more may have been
added since, and there was a Controller
of Footwear and Leather —also a Labor
member. Some of the committeemen
were on two or more committees;
JSenator Lamp was on Public Works,
Repatriation and War Expenditure,
Allowing for these duplications, 29
Labor members who failed of election to
the Ministry are doing something or
other for the 19 Ministers, though it
would flatter the talents of some to place
them in plenary control of a peanut-
roaster. That’s 48 out of 50, excluding
the two Senators otherwise provided for
and A.C.2 Falstein, now back in Air
Force circulation after a temporary
embarrassment. Marvellous!
And the 29 Labor members who
failed of election to the Ministry and
the two Independents who vote for it
(Mr. Coles is chairman of two commis-
sions) are entitled, as well as the 19
Ministers, to travelling expenses on con-
ditions set out in answer to questions
asked in the House by “that fellow
Cameron.” To those “assisting Ministers”
“no fees are paid,” but “travelling
expenses at the rate of £2 2s. per day, on
an hourly basis, are allowed to honor-
able members when absent from their
homes on such business, except in Can-
berra on days when Parliament is sitting.”
In addition, car or special travelling
facilities are provided, and payment is
made of any out-of-pocket expenses un-
avoidably incurred by members in their
home town... .When transport provided in-
cludes subsistence, quarter-rates only are
paid.
Under the same conditions, Mr. Coles is
entitled to draw £2 12s. 6d. a day as chair-
man of the War Damage Commission and
the same as chairman of the Rationing
Commission. The chairman of each of
the joint Parliamentary Committees,
except Public Works, may put in for
£2 10s. a day, and members of the Com-
mittees and Commissions and the Con-
troller of Footwear and Leather for
£2 2s. a day apiece. For the gentlemen
on the Public Works Committee attend-
ance fees are provided as well as travel-
ling expenses ; the fees are £2 a sitting
for the chairman and £1 10s. apiece for
members, and the travelling expenses £1
per day per gentleman.
With the Allied Works Council in exist-
ence and spending at the rate of
£3,500,000 a month, the retention of this
Public Works Committee looks the sor-
riest of jokes, but this does not seem to
have occurred to the authors of the
Austerity programme. In a competition
for the “perks” championship it would
be possible for Senator Lamp to make
£6 14s. in a day, going all out. And
Senator Lamp’s exertions leave him time
for muddy attacks, the latest being one
on British rule in India, delivered when
Gandhi’s “The-British-Must-Go” cam-
paign was in full blast and the Japanese
were in position on the eastern frontier.
Referring only to the members “assist-
ing Ministers,” Mr. Cameron asked
“What petrol ration does each of them
receive.” The reply was “So far as it
has been practicable to ascertain, no
petrol ration has been issued to any of
the members enumerated in respect of
the duties performed by them,” and this
applied also to the Controller, Commis-
sioners and Committeemen. “So far as
it has been practicable to ascertain” is
not nearly good enough ; but there was
no lack of explicitness in the answer to
an equally pertinent question touching
income tax. This stated that the fees
paid to the chairman and members of
the Public Works Committee are “sub-
ject to income tax,” and travelling ex-
penses are in all cases “assessable
income.” But a deduction not exceed-
ing the amount of the travelling allow-
ance is allowed for travelling expenses
actually incurred.
And so the game goes on. Taxpayers
who are not in the favored circle would
scarcely call it a pretty game. They
v/ould rather expect an Austerity Gov-
ernment, especially as-it is launching a
£100,000,000 loan, to reduce the number
of Ministers (and retinues) to at most 15,
to abolish the Public Works Committee,
to stop paying travelling expenses to
private members, whose gold passes will
take them anywhere, meanwhile cutting
its own to the bone, and to round
off a good job by putting State members
on half-pay. Taxpayers might say
bitterly that almost any of them and any
member of the fighting services would
change places with any private member,
whose income tax on his £lOOO a year
leaves him a clear £750, and forgo all
fees and travelling expenses. But tax-
payers haven’t got over the feeling
that they were robbed in cold blood,
under legal forms, by the multitude of
taxing authorities now reduced to one —
for this the Austerity Government de-
serves credit —so in these matters they
may be prejudiced.
Mr. Curtin's Apology.
It was at least a refreshing change to
hear Mr. Curtin lately admitting that,
“in common with Labor men through-
out the world,” he had to “share the re-
sponsibility for not having prepared for
war.” They had believed that “the days
of settling international arguments by
force were gone”; they had believed in
“butter before guns.”
That is one way of putting it. Another
is that, in common with many more,
“they” had believed in a sentimental
romanticism with no basis in history and
no relationship to current actualities.
Typical of the abundant other quarters
where this fantasy was also accepted, the
non-Labor Granny “Herald” completed,
on the day Mr. Curtin tendered his
apology, a superb somersault to which
the old lady had been working up for
months. This staunchest of supporters
of the sentimental romanticism which
took the shape of the League of Nations
abroad and defencelessness at home now
favors the fusing of the A.I.F. and
A.M.F. into one “national army” for ser-
vice where it may be required—that is,
though Granny baulks at the word, con-
scription.
Among them, the whole hotchpotch of
romanticists certainly succeeded in put-
ting “butter before guns.” They put
Olympic swimming pools, dead-end rail-
ways, dud “works” and anything else
they could think of before guns. Guns
they put nowhere. But, whereas with the
bulk of them the extent of their sinning
c °uld not be more than a matter of
omission, Mr. Curtin’s party had, and
took, the opportunity for a sin of com-
mission. The rest sentimentalised but did
nothing ; Mr. Curtin’s party acted. That
is where his apology skipped a whole
chapter, and where Mr. Beasley’s sup-
porting utterance—that the Labor party
had been “giving a lead for 25 years”—
became ridiculous.
In the past 20-odd years the party held
office for only two years, prior to Mr.
Curtin’s advent. In those two years—in
fact, within only about that number of
months of attaining office—it was re-
sponsible for the very worst act of bad
statesmanship to be found anywhere in
the annals of Australian government.
Not content with its belief in a false
romanticism handsomely admitted by
Mr. Curtin —it went further and put its
belief into force by suspending compul-
sory national service. It knew that com-
pulsory training of men for war was the
order in Japan and elsewhere; that Aus-
tralia, even with its limited available
young men being trained, would be
poorly defended, and without this would
be wide open and defenceless. And it
acted.
The result can be read in post-1929
issues of the Commonwealth Year-Book,
in the serial chapter ironically entitled
“Defence.” There the tragic tale is told
in phases. The first phase was the
welding into one army of the forces
hitherto run by the States, giving Aus-
tralia in 1901 a military strength of
28,886. The next phase was the intro-
duction in 1911 of universal training.
Brought in on the advice of Kitchener,
the Act made the principle of universal
liability to training law for the first time
in any English-speaking community. In
the third phase, beginning soon after the
war, the war organisation evolved by the
A.I.F. was applied to peace conditions,
with a minimum permanent personnel.
The fifth was the fatal phase, the
fourth seeing only a comparatively minor
change. Under the short-lived Scullin
Labor Government, the fifth phase saw
compulsory training abandoned, and the
whole defence establishment practically
wrecked. From that moment Defence in
Australia became a grim joke. Despite
the increase meanwhile in population by
excess of immigration over emigration
—no thanks to the Labor party, which
fought this even more strenuously than it
fought Defence —the training strength of
Australia’s military forces was down
more than 20,000 within a year; in 1930
it stood at 27,454 ; less than it had been
in 1901. Under this new dispensation
the training period was 16 days per
annum, only eight days of it continuous
training.
If only it stopped there in the past,
that for which Mr. Curtin apologised
could be viewed now with relief —tem-
pered with thoughts of a present bitter-
tasting direct outcome; those questions
recently asked at Canberra, and not satis-
factorily answered, concerning 18-year-
old lads, many of whom must have been
called up by Mr. Curtin’s Government,
fighting in Papua. In the party’s senti-
mental adherence to certain aspects of
the “voluntary system”—in the name of
which it jettisoned universal training—
there is only too strong circumstantial
evidence that there has been no real
change of heart; that, on the contrary,
Mr. Curtin’s apology is not to be taken
as a promise for further ahead than the
expedient present, and only in part even
now.
With the Parliament at Canberra
working up a referendum towards acquir-
ing greater powers than it has, some
assurance on the future of Australian
defence would greatly help the cause.
Canberra’s record in this —and particu-
larly the Curtin party’s—is not one to
inspire confidence. What guarantee is
offered that henceforth Australia’s
defence shall be beyond the reach of such
another temporary bunch of disastrous
meddlers as the Scullin Labor Govern-
ment of 1929-30? A watertight guaran-
tee on this just now would make almost
a certain winner of a referendum cause
that is in some danger of being dished.
Directly it would have nothing to do
with the referendum, except in the one
aid that the cause needs —the inspiring of
general confidence in the Canberra
House,
So far from anything like this being
in evidence, there are strong signs that
that same shabby past for which Mr.
Curtin apologised walks on with the
party. After all wars there is violent re-
action against wars ; the more trying the
war the more violent the reaction. When
that comes, who could trust any of this
following not to swing with it? Who
can accept that those very beliefs for
which Mr, Curtin apologised will not
then be revived, stronger than ever? This
is the sort of history that can be depended
on with certainty to repeat itself. Mr.
Curtin should have added to his apology:
“We admit as well that the action of
our party in 1929 amounted to criminal
folly for which Australians —some Aus-
tralians especially—are now paying a
bitter price. We tell you positively that
you will never again be fed any such
substitute of sentimental romance. As
earnest of our pledge, we will legislate so
that Australia’s defence will never again
at any time be at the mercy of reckless
fools.”
Now is the time for such an act of
statesmanship. Under the present menace
the issue stands out clear and stark, as
it will not do when peace returns, and
with it a fresh crop of cranks and char-
latans heightening the confusion. With
the issue thus cleared, action now to
place Defence for ever beyond the reach
of temporary politicians and untouchable
except by the people themselves would be
as politically expedient as it would be
statesmanlike. As well, it would give
the country at large a new confidence in
and respect for Canberra, where many
have little, or none.
PLAIN ENGLISH
While the Battle Rages.
While the Americans were fighting
heroically to retain their foothold in the
Solomons, the loss of which would
gravely increase the danger to Australia,
Dr. Evatt announced, with “deep grati-
fication,” that there had been consum-
mated another of the things on which he
set his heart —in this case an agreement
for an exchange of Ministers with the
U.S.S.R. The Australian to go to
Moscow is Mr, Slater, an esteemed Vic-
torian Labor politician, who has been
Speaker for two years ; the Russian to
come to Canberra is M. Vlasov, of the
People’s Commissariat for Foreign
Affairs.
To our Attorney-General “the exchange
of Ministers will signalise a special
friendship between two Pacific countries.”
It is fitting that this announcement
should be made at a time when the valor,
endurance and self-sacrifice of the soldiers
and people of Russia are once again the
admiration of the world.
Agreed as to the valor, endurance and
self-sacrifice; and the exchange of
Ministers can be justified on the score
of its application to the war in Europe.
But while the situation that has existed
since December 7 remains it Can apply
only to that war. For though Austra-
lians were assured in a thousand articles
and speeches that an Anglo-Russian
agreement would mean that the Russians
in Siberia would fall on “the Japanese
butchers” (dozens of such expressions
were used) with clouds of aircraft and
swarms of submarines the moment the
Japanese butchers started trouble in the
Pacific, their Government is not at war
in that ocean. On the contrary, it has a
neutrality agreement with the Japanese,
a complement of fisheries and oil agree-
ments, still in force. This is a simple
statement of facts.
A flank attack from Siberia, so stri-
dently promised by Communists and
fellow-travellers, might have stopped
the Japs in their tracks 10 months
ago. They might have been halted
in Thailand, in which case the bloody
story of the land, sea and air cam-
paigns in Malaya, Burma, the Dutch
East Indies, the Australian territories and
the Solomons and the encompassing seas
might not have been written, nor would
Australia have been threatened for eight
months with the horror of Asiatic in-
vasion. The signal has never been given.
This central fact must be remembered
by the Australian Government. It has
not been and cannot be overlooked
by the Government of the United States,
whose sons, in a situation increasingly
perilous, are hanging on to their
Guadacanal beachheads, and thereby


contributing nobly to the defence of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, in spite of cruel
losses and sufferings which they have
shared with our R.A.N.
In circles addicted to wishful thinking
it is stated that when the Ministers reach
their respective posts the Australian Gov-
ernment will send a military mission to
Russia and remove the ban on the Com-
munist party and its publications. Con-
sidering that the Russians are using
British and American machines, and
that, except in that one respect, the fight-
ing in their country of snows and thaws
and huge forces does not even remotely
resemble the fighting in tropical parts
of the Pacific, the first proposal is silly.
The other, considering the Communist
record of sullen opposition to and
stealthy intrigue against the war that was
“imperialist” for 20 months, is out-
rageous.
"Child Welfare."
Apropos of Sydney’s “central roar”:
Kingsley Fairbridge, of honored memory,
was attacked by a Westralian Labor politician
on the score of having caned an unruly boy
in his original Farm School. He replied that
chastisement in such cases was necessary to
maintain discipline, and without discipline no
farm school or reformatory or anything of the
kind could be run by him or anyone else.
By his antics as Minister controlling the
N.S.W. Child Welfare Department, Mr. C.
Evatt destroyed discipline in the Gosford Farm
Home and the Parramatta Industrial School,
with consequences which are notorious. Escap-
ing has become the principal recreation of
a lot of the inmates, and because of minia-
ture riots at Parramatta and robberies at Gos-
ford the institutions are voted public nuisances
by the scandalised neighborhoods.
A “Sunday Sun” man who had visited
both “at the invitation of Mr. Evatt” wrote
on October 4 that there had been “at least 160
abscondings this year” from Gosford (number
of inmates, 157) and 27 from Parramatta in
September. There were more last week from
both places—“at least” two lots from each.
After one of the Gosford experiences “the
offices of Jusfrute, Ltd., four miles from the
home, were broken into, and an attempt was
made to smash the lock of the safe with a
brick.” In the second Parramatta affair, nine
girls broke away and, by way of stilling the
tumult, others were taken by the police to Syd-
ney. “The language and the noise made” were
described by residents as “the worst for several
months”; the girls were “completely out of
hand.”
This outbreak followed an Assembly debate
on a motion by Opposition-leader Mair that
Mr. Evatt’s administration “is (a) not in the
best interests of the inmates; ( b ) subversive of
discipline; (c) against the public interest.” Mr.
Mair tabled statutory declarations made by Mr.
W. J. Peake, sometime superintendent at Parra-
matta ; the Rev. Edward Walker, Rector of
All Saints’, and Mrs. Slinn, a Department of
Education welfare officer. Under cover of privi-
lege, the Minister accused these persons of
being parties to a conspiracy against him, refer-
ring to Mr. Peake as “a liar,” to Mr. Walker
as “some low person disguised as a minister of
religion” (also an advocate of “flogging”) and
to the lady as a lecturer to the girls on sex and
venereal disease, an allegation also made—it
has been explicitly denied —by the member for
Granville, a political mudslinger named Lamb.
“This Mr. Walker.,. .this Anglican minister,”
the Minister bellowed, “put into his affidavit an
alleged speech by me which is a concoction that
appeared in the Sydney Bulletin”;
When this false report appeared in The
Bulletin the Director of Child Welfare,
knowing that a lying report is not in the
best interests of the home, wrote to that
journal and said that the report was a lie.
But The Bulletin neither corrected its
report nor published the Director’s letter.
No such letter ever came to The Bulletin.
This paper has had no communication whatever
from Mr. Evatt since he became a Minister or
from any member of his staff. If he really
believes that a letter was written he should try
to probe the mystery of its disappearance. At
the same time he might inquire why The Bulle-
tin was denied a copy of the speech containing
the allegation about the “letter” and all the
others —it had been neatly extracted from the
“Hansard” that reached this office.
Following its custom when disgraceful attacks
on private citizens are made from the Parlia-
mentary funkhole, the Labor party rallied to
the Minister. Mr. Mair asked for a royal
commission. A retired stipendiary magistrate,
sitting for a day, could decide who has been
lying.
Knockers.
A Russian who’d been in Australia about
24 hours cafne out with a sweeping con-
demnation of the denizens of this
benighted country. They drank too
much: “the ingredients required for
alcohol” were “more urgently required
for food.” On the other hand, “Russians
had too much on their minds to think
of getting drunk.”
Having given the visitor a good spin
with this sort of slander, the peahen press
for some reason or other dropped
him, but quickly found another. This
was a visitor from China, “adviser” to
that country’s “National Government
Board of Information.” He compared
“Australians’ attitude to the war with
the stubborn heroism of the Chinese.”
Australians should “try to live up to the
Chinese example of bravery and endur-
ance, which has never been excelled in
human history.”
An Australian who used to play cricket
joined in the chorus. “It was a disgrace
to Australia, after Mr. Curtin’s austerity
appeal, to see 74,000 people at the races
on Saturday afternoon.” He made the
point that “racing people speak of
morale, but those with sons and husbands
overseas do not need racing to maintain
their morale,” Also, “The nation should
forget every game which takes man-
power and money from the war effort.”
Do Australians really deserve these
“austerity” slanders? Are the slanders
based on fact? Is it true that Russians
have given up vodka? Is it true that the
Chinese example of bravery and endur-
ance has never been excelled in history,
including that of the A.I.F. on Gallipoli
and in France? And if it’s true that
74.000 (including 9000-odd service men)
at Rand wick after a fortnight without
racing is a “disgrace,” what’s true of
75.000 (including the Kings of Greece
and Norway, seven British Cabinet Min-
isters and Russian Ambassador M.
Maisky) present on the same day to wit-
ness a Soccer match at Wembley?
Surely it’s time all this slandering of
Australians ceased.
Little Drops of Water.
While i; was being thoroughly saturated
last week, Sydney opened its daily news-
papers and found that, despite sodden
streets, flooded gutters and washed-out
gardens—and washing days—the continu-
ous performance of its most remarkable
institution was still operating at full blast.
In bold black type the people were
warned of a water shortage and threat-
ened with all sorts of penalties if they
dared to bathe in more than four inches
of water, wash their dogs, cars or boots,
hose the lawn, irrigate the aspidistra and
so forth.
If money were water the No-water
Board would be in its element. In the
last decade it has thrown Cataract Dams
of cash about, for what result isn’t
exactly clear, unless it was to condition
the city people to do without water.
Once the State Government —yes, the
State Government —had to rescue it from
financial chaos—with loan money, of
course—it having, among other things,
played up a million‘or so on a pressure
tunnel which refused to play. It
celebrated its escape from bankruptcy
by squandering another million or
so on an air-conditioned palace that
would turn Hollywood green with
envy. Then it entered on the spending
of another million or so by way of an
advertising campaign threatening people
not to use the element it is supposed to
supply.
The No-water Board gets the finance
for its performances partly by borrowing
and partly by forcing property-owners to
pay rates for water they haven’t had,
and to pay hire for meters that
haven’t registered. During the years of
deprivation the rates in many cases have
gone up. Water and municipal rates are
based on calculations made by the
Valuer-General’s department, and that
concern has the weird notion that the
value of suburban land in war-time has
increased.
In its latest rash of advertisements the
No-water Board began by pronouncing
it “essential that there should be a
reawakening of water consciousness,”
and took 26 inches of close type for the
reawakening. This, to a city being
drenched from the skies, and which
cannot remember when it was permitted
to use all the water it wanted and had
paid for in advance! Undoubtedly the
world’s most unique institution.
THE DIFFERENCE.
"Blnkes drivin’ their own trucks for the Allied Works Council sire gettin’ ninety quid a week; an’ I’m drivin’ this for six bob a day."
" Yes; but you don’t OWN the flamin’ truck.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
FREDERICK HENRY ASHTON, otherwise
known as WEAVER, late of Ranelagh, in Tas-
mania, kindly communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Hobart.
ESTATE of WILLIAM SCOTT, late of Wel-
lington (N.Z.), formerly a laborer but latterly
a hairdresser and tobacconist (known in boxing
circles as “Nugget” Scott, and who at one time
worked on the N.S.W. Railways and the
Woronora Dam). Would the next-of-kin or
anybody knowing their whereabouts communi-
cate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand?
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; P, R. Baker; F, W. Duesbury ; Sydney Sampson.
R. A, MANZIE, Managing Director.
’Phone (three lines); 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BRANDALER3
PENS
a
at
01
teed
guars
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKAHOA6KS * CO, Ud, BIBMLHQHAIt. ENO
POLITICAL POINTS
Invited to put another lone outvoted
wage-payer on the Women’s Employment
Board—the first of the litter —the Cham-
bers of Commerce and Manufactures
drily refused. “Subversive nothing
better than Fifth Column with a top-hat
on,” barked Ward in a paper which is
trying to keep swedt with him.
All accounts agree that many Austra-
lians wounded in the fighting round
Kokoda and neighboring parts owe their
lives to the devotion of natives. A fact
that has not been stressed, though it
should be, is that in New Guinea
as well as Papua these natives have
grown up under Australian rule.
True gentlemen of the tropics, they
have richly repaid to the nation what its
servants have done for their people over
many years in pursuance of a policy
which, though not free from mistakes,
has been consistently just and merciful.
Modest William Slater, who is to go
from the Speaker’s chair in the Victorian
Assembly to Moscow as Australian Min-
ister, must have been astonished at the
impression he made on previously silent
observers at home and abroad. Dr. Evatt
led off with the assurance that “Mr. Slater
is a very distinguished Australian,” and
went on to laud his “liberal and progres-
sive views, his broad culture and his quiet
and attractive personality.” A London
“Evening Standard” “diarist” gave Curtin
credit for “choosing the Australian poli-
tician most closely resembling Sir Staf-
ford Cripps,” adding that Cripps No. 2
is “thoughtful, earnest, mild” and
(lame conclusion!) “interested in debate.”
No doubt Slater would prefer a simple
certificate from some of his old com-
panions, such as “he was a Digger, and
he’ll do!”
Curtin and Forde were baited into
having a crack at “armchair strategists.”
Each was effective in his way, events in
New Guinea having made the squealing
brotherhood look ridiculous, but not so
effective as President Roosevelt, who has
also been bothered by the breed. He
called them “typewriter strategists, who
expound their views in the press and the
radio without much information about
the facts or the problems of military
operations.” Then he quoted “one of the
greatest American soldiers”:
Robert E. Lee once remarked on the
tragic fact that in the war of his day all the
best generals apparently were working on
newspapers instead of in the army.
The President dosed the subject with the
dry statement that “we will continue to
leave our plans to our military leaders.”
It having been stated that a Queens-
lander driving a truck, his own, for the
Allied Works Council collected £l5l for
a fortnight, an A.W.C. boss volunteered
the information that “some owner-drivers
are earning as much as £lBO a fortnight.”
He maintained that petrol, maintenance,
spare parts, insurance, registration and
the like bring their net earnings down to
£l2 a week. Perhaps; perhaps not. The
gentleman did not state what men in
uniform get for driving trucks from Cairo
to El Alamein or from Moresby inland.
Brisbane’s Lord Mayor Chandler is
entitled to draw £2OOO a year, half being
called salary and half allowance. Last
year he did not collect his salary. This
year he is dispensing with the salary and
half the allowance. That would never
do at Canberra.
The notion that politics is a profession
has become so firmly established that
when a member dies or retires it seems
to be taken for granted, at least by some
people, that the job should remain in the
family. As a rule, the claim is made
for a son, but sometimes the widow offers
her services, and in one case it was a
father. In two current instances the
aspirant is a son, and one is the heir of
an Independent who was a member for
quite 15 months. His election, it seems,
is needed to preserve the grand old prin-
ciples of Independence, whatever they
may be.
Melbourne “Age” has curtly noted for
the severalth time that “Mr. Hughes
refrains from calling a meeting of the
U.A.P.” It insists that “a majority of
members of the party would welcome”
Billy’s “resignation,” but “are not pre-
pared to take steps to remove him,”
nor is Billy prepared to take a single
step to remove himself. Billy’s motto
is “Youth must be served.”
McKell sat in frozen silence when his
Minister of Education, Evatt, was
tackled on the score of his administra-
tion —if that is the word —of the Child
Welfare Department, and when Evatt
replied with mud. The silence did not
become the Sydney Premier. In between
he had been too voluble at Curtin’s
Town Hall meeting:
In the last war the “Wait and See”
Asquith gave way to the dynamic Lloyd
George. In this war the complacent
Chamberlain made way for the fighting
Churchill, and in Australia the complacent
and indifferent Menzies and Fadden Gov-
ernments made way for John Curtin.
“Complacent and indifferent” —insulting
alike to the living and the dead. After
all, Menzies and Fadden did revive the
A.1.F., and they did call up men for the
defence of Australia and the territories.
McKell’s crowd opposed the revival of
“William Winter, the broadcaster, says Americans are wondering why there is no
mention of Australian troops in the Solomons, and suggests that explanations are in order.”
“You see, it’s like this, er — er — er — er — er — er — er — er — er — er — er”-
the A.I.F. and tried to get the defence of
the territories limited to a handful of
volunteers. And it is still opposed to
called-up men being sent beyond the
territories.
The Erskineville (Sydney) Municipal
Council completed its fortnightly meet-
ing in two minutes last week. If it isn’t
careful it’ll be reported by some union
secretary or other for speeding up on the
job.
A Sydney businessman has come out
with a statement that the Indian Gov-
ernment’s attitude towards applications
fon import licenses by Australian manu-
facturers must result in “complete loss
of trade and goodwill.” “The whole
story,” he adds, “is one of muddle and
confusion.” Forward, Mr. Roy Gollan,
Australian Trade Commissioner in India,
and forward ex-Sahib Stevens!
Queensland “Courier-Mail” sees the
truth of it;
Mr. Slater will probably find that Com-
munism as practised by the Russians in
war is very different from the sort of thing
that some so-called friends of Russia want
to propagate in Australia. Those whose
continuing purpose is the complete sub-
version of Australia’s social and economic
order are the worst friends the Russian
people now have in this country.
It was inevitable that the local Com-
munist should attain that doubtful dis-
tinction.
Barnes, the M.L.A. for Bundaberg
(Q.), is a veritable wonder-worker —
according to Barnes;
“I, John Francis Barnes, forced Caucus
to extend the liquor hours in Queens-
land Everything I said in my speech on
the Budget last year has either come
true or is coming true I am doing a
bigger job than any member of the fighting
force or any member in this Chamber....
I could foresee 12 months ago that we
should have a new Premier. Former ex-
Premier McCormack pulled me up and
said ‘Barnes, come here. I said to Forgan
he had better resign; if he does not,
Barnes will force him to resign.’ ”
I happened to know how Coles was voting
when Coles himself did not know. Arty
Fadden said to me ‘You know how
Wilson is voting. How is he voting?’
I said ‘Arty, I have never betrayed a
trust.’ 1 changed the Federal Govern-
ment. Following the pressure that I
brought to bear, Curtin and Forde took
over the Government.”
Then the wonder-worker broke into a
gross attack on the Police Commissioner
and Minister Hanlon and, refusing to
withdraw, was suspended for 14 days
without pay.
Judge O’Mara’s functions, as Com-
monwealth Arbitration Judge have in
some mysterious manner been expanded.
In a case wherein it was stated that a
union—the Moulders’ —had refused to
let a young fellow do a fair day’s work —
an accusation heard throughout Aus-
tralia —his Honor remarked that “It is
time we found out which prevails—Com-
monwealth law or union law.” So far
in every instance which has come to
light union— i.e., mob —law has prevailed.
Two days in the life of the Federated
Ironworkers’ Union or Red racket:
Comrade Thornton says penalties should be
imposed for absenteeism, “because we have to
win the war to safeguard unionism.”
A strike of 1000 female ironworkers is
threatened unless an award of the Women’s
Employment Board is put into effect.
Comrade McPhillips asks Judge O’Mara in
the Arbitration Court to force 15 men to join
the union. His Honor invites argument on the
Court’s power to do so. He is next told that
certain of the 15 will be regarded as staff and
the others have “agreed” to join.
The “union” asks Judge O’Mara for an order
dismissing a man from a job because he
allegedly refused to pay union dues and arrears,
thereby “precipitating a disturbance” —i.e., a
strike —and called a union delegate names.
The man pleads that he paid dues and arrears
as soon as family sickness permitted, and
that, though he didn’t use the language,
he apologised to a mass meeting “for the sake
of industrial peace.” Case adjourned after
a judicial comment: “The union’s attitude is
that everyone on a job must join it, and then
it refuses membership to a man who has become
financial.”
And that’s compulsory unionism—and
Wardism.
By way of assisting “the State war
effort” or something, the N.S.W. A.L.P.
executive Demanded more racing and
more beer. This was too much for even
the mild P.M. Demand refused.
The latest on a controversial subject:
A.M.F. must not be used when referring to
militia, which should be referred to as C.M.F.
A.M.F., meaning Australian Military Forces,
stands for all military forces. So A.I.F. is
part of A.M.F.; and so is C.M.F.; and V.D.C.
is part of C.M.F., which is part of A.M.F.
C.M.F. means Citizen Military Forces, not
Commonwealth Military Forces. That’s how it
is according to F.M.F., who as M. for A.M.F.
is presumably also M. for A.I.F. and
C.M.F., which includes V.D.C. To arrive at the
right answer you have to allow for the three-
mile limit.
Liquid Fuel Control Board officers
stationed at points outside Melbourne
theoretically out of reach of motorists
with basic petrol rations stopped 1500
Sunday tourists and booked 200. Though
it may not prosecute in all these cases
growers who can’t get sufficient petrol to
work their farms and take their produce
to market are wondering why somebody
didn’t become inquisitive sooner.
This habit of promising Australians all
sorts of nice things if only they’ll throw
their weight into the war effort should
be stopped. Australia and the Australian
ways are threatened with extinction ; once
Australians are made to realise that
they’ll fight and work hard enough. But
it can’t be done by pandering to one-half
of the population and slugging the other
half.
Marco Polo lived too soon. All he
could describe to fifteenth-century Europe
on his return from his travels were the
customs, laws and general conduct of the
Oriental peoples. Imagine what he could
have told Europe had he spent the last
12 months in Canberra!
Already privileged beyond their fel-
lows everywhere else, the N.S.W. coal-
miners are to have ten days off at Christ-
mas. Holidays in other industries are
restricted to Christmas Day, Boxing Day
(a Saturday—always an idle day on the
N.S.W. coalmines) and December 28,
but N.S.W. coalminers will knock off on
Thursday, December 24, and will return
on Monday, January 4 —if it suits them.
Their general secretary, a Mr. Grant,
thinks “the prospect of the holiday grant”
will “reduce absenteeism.” Possibly
soldiers and airmen in New Guinea and
the officers and men of the R.A.N. will
be charmed to hear it, though there is no
such prospect for them.
The Government at Melbourne is in
difficulties over accommodation for
mental patients, for, although the number
of cases has not increased since the war
began, extensions to existing buildings
and new ones have bad to be neglected.
Why not use the structure in Spring-
street? Proceedings have been mad
enough there for a long time.
According to a Second-Front paper
published in Australia, “the Government
may send a military mission to Russia
to study guerrilla tactics.” London “Tri-
bune,” started or financed by Sir Stafford
Cripps, already holds copyright for the
proposal that Timoshenko should be put
at the head of the Anglo-American Army
which is to invade Europe.
America has one (1) Department of
Agriculture; and these are among its
works: •
It issues the world’s greatest avalanche of
printed bulletins of fact and exhorta-
tions. .. .talks on 380 radio stations daily
.. . co-operates in sending agricultural in-
structors into every corner of the
Union ... regulates meat-packers and stock-
yards and agricultural commodity ex-
changes ... licenses dealers ... supervises
slaughtering for food ... enforces Milk,
Insecticide, Naval Stores, Virus-Serum-
Toxin, plant and animal quarantine and
other agricultural Acts ... runs 173,000,000
acres of forests ... insurance and loan sys-
tems on crops ... buys surpluses and dis-
tributes them to the needy ... conducts
great soil, water and fodder conservation
schemes ... lends money to farm tenants
to help them become owners.
It does more, but that’s enough to
show what a single national authority
can do.
In Australia there are enough Acts, regu-
lations, boards, departments, commissions
and committees to swamp agriculture,
and they have pretty nearly done so.
Mr. Curtin and his Cabinet can go on
setting up more of them until they are
black in the face without improving
matters. The only good thing that can be
said for the present confusion is that
it is breaking down resistance to
a national Department of Agriculture.


Public Notice.
TRADE-MARK “CELLOPHANE.”
NOTICE is hereby given that British
Cellophane Limited, of Bath Road,
Bridgwater, Somerset, England, Manufac-
turer, is the registered owner in the
Commonwealth of Australia of the fol-
lowing trade-mark,
“CELLOPHANE,”
which is registered under No. 40461 in
Class 50(3) in respect of Cellulose sheets
made from pulp and all products and
articles manufactured from the said
sheets.
The application of the word “CELLO-
PHANE” to goods of the above-
mentioned class means that such goods
are the goods of British Cellophane
Limited.
DANIEL
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders' Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
One of the most interesting addresses
to which The Bulletin goes these days
is to the Digger who wears the A.I.F.
number QXI. It might have been
thought that that special handle would
have been collared by a general or a
colonel at least, but its owner’s rank is
plain gunner—Gnr. John Archer. He’s
abroad with an anti-tank regiment. Who
and where are NXI, VXI and the rest
of the other State’s “No. 1” Diggers?
There are no bishops oh the staff of
“S. M. Herald,” but Gavin Long brings
in at least such aura of dignity as belongs
to a bishop’s son. Not that there’s any-
thing unduly episcopalian about a jour-
nalistic career that took him, on the
“Herald’s” behalf, to France with the
B.E.F. ; through the first Libyan cam-
paign with the A.I.F. ; to Greece and
Crete and then to Darwin and Moresby.
Long’s quiet and reserved manner, giving
an impression of strength and caution of
GAVIN LONG.
mind, is typical of Hunter-street jour-
nalism : the exact opposite of the tough-
guy reporters of Hollywood romance.
Gavin Long is convinced that the Japs’
“face-saving” passion has been consider-
ably overrated: throughout the China war
they have never hesitated to retreat when
the holding of territory was difficult or
useless or when their troops were needed
elsewhere. Talking to an Austrian soldier
and a Prussian airman captured by the
New Zealanders in Greece, he found the
Austrian a human being but the Prussian
irreconcilable, almost incapable of admit-
ting—contrary to the textbook —that his
’plane had been brought down by rifle fire.
Of the A.1.F., Long says that there’s none
of the “disillusion” that became fashion-
able about ten years after the last war:
they’re full of pride and full of fight.
When “Bifly” Was Peeved:
Reported from London that a doctor at
Brighton had performed a dangerous opera-
tion, removing from a naval officer’s thigh a
live Messerschmitt cannon shell which was liable
to explode at any moment. As the shell was
“five inches long” and was revealed by X-ray,
it suggests that the officer must have a pretty
hefty thigh. Heftier, at any rate, than either
belonging to “Billy” Hughes, who about a month
hence can celebrate the 25th anniversary of the
Warwick Egg. Report runs that after that his-
toric event “Billy” was furious. One of his
retinue came out with something like “Oh, I
wouldn’t take it so seriously, Mr. Hughes”;
then, having a brainwave, “Do you know what
I’d do, Mr. Hughes? I’d capitalise on it.”
“Capitalise on it!” roared “Billy.” “What
d’you mean, capitalise on it?” “Well, next time
you speak,” said the helpful jokester, “you
should arrange to have a crack shot shoot you
in the fleshy part of the leg. Very strong
publicity.” “Crack shot!” shouted “Billy.”
“It’d take the best blankety shot in the country
to hit me in the fleshy part of the leg! Pub-
licity be hanged!”
“Bylong”: Another Australian-born
baronet (B. 16/9/’42) was Sir Cecil
John Read, the 11th baronet of the line,
who lately passed on at Randwick
(N.S.W.). His father was Sir William
Vero Read, once a traffic manager, and
his grandfather Sir John Read, once
governor of Darlinghurst gaol. His
mother was of pioneer stock, a daughter
of William Tindale, of Hornsey wood
House, Penrith. The late baronet prac-
tised as a solicitor in Castlereagh-street
for 39 years. He never assumed the
title, and, apart from his relatives and
closest friends, few people knew of it.
Seventy-five and going strong, Henry
Ernest Fuller has completed 50 years as
secretary of the S.A. Society of Arts.
Adelaide-born and educated at Prince
Alfred’s College, he has designed many
of S.A.’s country institutes. He was the
last president of the Public Library,
Museum and Art Gallery of S.A., which
the legislative axe split into its com-
ponent parts in 1940.
Exit Marie Tempest:
Marie Tempest, who has had her final cur-
tain in London, spent part of the Great War
period in Australia. In 1921 a Bulletin critic
wrote that “having found Sydney only spas-
modically interested in modern English comedy”
she and Graham Browne (her third husband)
had “unexpectedly curtailed their season and
gone on their travels.” The critic thought it a
pity; it showed that the film attack that was
presently to wipe legit, practically out of exist-
ence as popular entertainment was already
gaining momentum. Eventually to be billed in
the theatre Who’s Who as “the leading come-
dienne of the English stage,” Marie Tempest
first appeared at London Comedy in 1885. By the
end of the century she had made a name in musi-
cal shows; she then turned from these to
comedy, and thereafter stuck to it. While in Syd-
ney she was greatly taken with an item in the
Capt. Eedy collection of Oriental art (a sale
that made the one all the fuss was recently
about look very small). A figure of Pu-tai
Ho-shang (God of Contentment) of the Ch’ein
Lung period (Ch’ein was an Oriental poet with
the tidy output of 300 vols.), the item was
bought on Marie Tempest’s behalf for £35
(very cheap at that figure). The star, how-
ever, then regretted that she couldn’t possibly
take it, though, despite the thin time at the old
Cri. and her own open-handedness, she could
hardly have been broke. At any rate, when,
back in London in 1934, she was given a testi-
monial matinee at Drury Lane in celebration
of her golden jubilee on the stage, and the
show brought in £5OOO, she handed the lot over
to endow a ward at St. George’s Hospital for
the benefit of actors and actresses.
“Nunc Dimittis”: When Judge Cur-
lewis retired from the Bench in 1939 I
went over to his Mosman home one
evening to interview him for a Sydney
newspaper. The last question I put to
him (he was extraordinarily patient
under cross-examination) was: “Suppose
you could live life over again, would you
choose again to be a lawyer, and a Judge?
In fact, have you really enjoyed it?”
“Yes,” he replied without hesitation. “I
have really enjoyed being a Judge, and,
what’s more important, I feel I’ve done
my duty. I would choose the same life
again.” I wonder how many of us could
say as much as that —at the end of it
all?
Now confirmed in the job of Queens-
land’s Director of Native Affairs, in
which he’d been acting for the past 18
months, Cornelius O’Leary has been
through a sound apprenticeship for the
post. From 1931 he was Inspector and
Deputy Chief Protector of Aboriginals,
and before that held a like job of pro-
tector at Thursday Island, where he was
also shipping master and pearl-fishing
inspector. Earlier he was in turn with
the Agricultural Bank and Lands, Labor
and Marine departments.
The war has worked changes in Mel-
bourne’s art community. Dozens who
would be studying in Paris are dispersed
in the fighting services, and at least two
Travelling Scholarship winners haven’t
been able to leave the country. After
painting the Libyan desert water-colorist
Harold Herbert is back at his old job of
criticising for the “Argus”; William
Dargie, official artist, is said to be some-
where in New Guinea ; Murray Griffin,
appointed official artist in Malaya, got
there just in time to be captured, and is
reported to be a p.o.w. in Singapore.
A. J. Lindsay, a promising young Vic-
torian painter, intending to make a short
excursion to “the East,” had a look at
Japan, but liked China better. He landed
a job with a luggage firm in Hong Kong,
and became a prisoner of war. He has a
Chinese study in the current show of
the Victorian Artists’ Society.
A sprinkling of churchmen can be
found scattered through the Australian
forces in other than chaplain jobs. One
of them is Pte. P. O. Brookes, formerly
of the Anglican Home Mission in
Queensland. Being 42, he was barred
from a chaplaincy, so he resigned his
license and enlisted. Before joining up
he was for three years at St. Luke’s, Char-
lotte-street, Brisbane; earlier he d
preached on the Downs and had been
rector at Beenleigh.
Though he’s a full-fledged archdeacon
most people know the lately-retired editor
of “Grit” as Canon Hammond. The
little paper has gone into all sorts of
queer corners in Australia —one copy was
found nailed 30ft. up a gum-tree above
the great 1917 flood on the Murray
—in the 36 years the Canon has
been editing it. A mighty battler
against booze and social evils, he was
always a benevolent one, and thou-
sands of human wrecks and poverty-
stricken families have good cause to bless
him. He reckons he and Stanley Mel-
bourne Bruce began life from the same
mark —both captained Melbourne Gram-
mar School —but he twinkles with the
notion that his trade in “dry goods” is
better than that of Bruce. He’s been
away once, to Washington (U.S.A.) to a
temperance conference, but most of his
time has been spent in running his
“hotels,” the Hammondville settlement,
“Grit” and the private slogan machine
he keeps up at St. Barnabas Church in
Sydney’s George-street. Since he gave
up playing football for Essendon (Vic.)
he never had time for politics or hobbies.
At 30, Lieut.-Col. Ernest Walter Weate,
lately back from service overseas, must
be one of the youngest holding his rank
in Australia. Beginning his military
career with the 46th Batt. (Vic.) in 1929,
he was a captain when the war started,
and was in the first batch of troops to
leave Victoria. A crack rifle shot, he saw
service abroad in various parts of the
LIEUT.-COL. WEATE.
Middle East, including Syria, and was
for a while with his unit at Ceylon. He’s
now Deputy Adjutant and Quartermaster
in South Aus. Line of Communication.
In some families music is like another
language that all speak and pick up as
easily as they learn English—instance the
Bradley family, of Melbourne, every
member of which is a musician. Its Des-
mond was vocalising scales at seven
months and playing at three years. At
seven he was lately called on to provide the
whole programme for the Conservatorium
Past and Present Students’ Association
monthly concert. This is unique in the
musical history of Melbourne, and prob-
ably of Australia. The youngster is a son
of violinist Reginald Bradley and Mrs.
Bradley, the pianist, who plays profes-
sionally as Eunice Garland.
Exceedingly long and exceedingly lean
and with a cheerful grin, Group-Captain
L. V. Lachal has flown his frame over
a vast quantity of land and ocean since
GROUP-CAPTAIN LACHAL.
he joined the R.A.A.F. in 1926, after
leaving Xavier College, Melbourne. Just
before Hitler erupted he was command-
ing a squadron in Westralia and was
selected to lead the delivery flight of the
first Sunderland flying-boats from Britain.
The delivery never happened; Lachal
and his fellow-pilots were left in Eng-
land to man the vessels. Thus he became
the first C.O. of No. 10 Sunderland
Squadron. On his return to Australia in
1941 he was appointed senior air staff
officer at Southern Area headquarters,
then C.O. of service training schools in
Queensland and N.S.W. His latest job
is R.A.A.F. Director of Postings, which
makes him responsible for selecting men
for jobs, transfers, etc. He was C.O. of
the flying Australians who formed part
of the Coronation Contingent,
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 74, Judge Thomson, whose
kindly wit and gentle treatment of witnesses
made it a pleasure to sit under him in District
Courts throughout the State. In one case out
west a witness was missing. “A man named
Gulliver, your Honor,” said the solicitor.
“Ha,” said his Honor, “a traveller, I presume.”
Graduating to the Law through Sydney
Grammar and University, to the Bench from
a leading Common Law practice. Judge Thomson
sat on the City Council coal contracts inquiry
and was the Royal Commissioner in the C. J.
Goode case. He had been president of N.S.W.
Bowling and Rowing Associations and Mosman
Musical Society, and also did much for the
Royal North Shore Hospital.
Salvationist Brigadier A. S. Taylour, in recent
years prisons chaplain in N. S. Wales. In
that post, said Chief Stipendiary Magistrate
Reed, Brigadier Taylour had “given wonder-
ful Christian service.” A clergyman in Vic-
toria before he joined the Salvation Army,
he was with the Light Horse in Egypt in the
last war, later was a missionary in India and
Ceylon, and subsequently held Salvation Army
posts in Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland.
In Melbourne, at 58, Richard Penrose Frank-
lin, former classics master at “Shore” (Sydney),
and from 1915 to 1936 head at its Victorian
counterpart, Melbourne C. of E. Grammar.
He was an artillery lieut. in the 1914-18 war.
In Hobart, at 76, Donald Fraser, one of
the Speck’s best-known engineers and surveyors.
Some of his best work was done on water
schemes connected with mining, and for a
while he managed the Briseis tinmining con-
cern at Derby. A Ballarat (Vic.) native, he was
a topnotch cyclist in his early days.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Wodgil”: One thing I have learned
from reports of Wendell Willkie’s visit
to Russia—Stalin is quite a short man.
In a portrait taken at Moscow which
must have gone round the world, Willkie
towers over his host, though far from a
giant himself. Apparently Stalin is no
taller, though he looks heavier, than Hitler
or Chiang, and Musso. (“II Douche” to
returned Diggers) is an undersized man
with the middle-age spread. Nor is
Churchill a tall man. It was the same
in the last war: King George, Lloyd
George, Foch, Briand, Poincare, the
Czar, the Kaiser and Victor Emanuel
were below the average height. The
moral is anything you please,
W * * *
“Tuart”: My Young Digger from
North Africa, who returned with details,
is still wearing what remains of the uni-
form in which he made the Greek cam-
paign. So are some of the shipboard
companions, all Diggers, he has met
since he came back, and they are very
hitter about it, especially as their coupon
issue for six months is restricted to 25,
whereas officers get three times the num-
ber. Militiamen are to have summer
drill tunics ; for returned A.I.F. men not
attached to their own units there are
khaki drill slacks and shirts —Dcd-
manesque, no doubt; but they look awful
and must feel awful, particularly when
the climate turns dog on the wearers.
Even aliens called up for civilian work
have uniforms fairly well cut. Speak-
ing generally, soldiers of the A.I.F.
are not nearly so well turned out as they
were in the last war. In cut and quality
of materials, their uniforms are not to
be compared with those of the Ameri-
cans. Witffithe growth of woollen manu-
factures, comparatively small in 1914, this
is one of the things which should have
been done, not worse but better. But
after compulsory military training was
knocked on the head in 1929, the greatest
mistake Australian politicians have ever
made, almost everything military was
allowed to go to pot.
“Bohemian”: The death in MX. of
the widow of the Hon. William James
Mudie Larnach recalls the fact that her
husband gave Otago a landmark —Lar-
nach Castle. Its owner, a politician of
provincial days who later represented
Tuapeka in the national Parliament,
spent close on £250,000 on it. Oak,
mahogany, walnut and other timbers
were imported from England ; craftsmen
as well. The grand staircase was a mass
of carving—indeed, the whole interior
of the castle was lavishly decorated.
After Larnach’s death the place was put
up at auction, but no one would give the
reserve price. It was tried as a health
resort and was a financial failure. It has
changed hands more than once in later
years, always at a lower price.
» * # *
“Yair”: The rationing principle is
spreading. The more temperamental of
Sydney’s evening newspapers on 9/10/’42
ran a cartoon which showed a large lady
fishing, the gag being “I’m using only half
a prawn: the fish must get used to this
austerity.” On 10/10/’42 the paper ran
a cartoon showing two men fishing from
boats, one saying to the other “I’m using
only half a prawn; the fish must get
used to this austerity.”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”; A packed mass of damp
humanity filled our Sydney-bound tram
the other morning, and more squeezed in
as the car travelled under dripping skies.
I’d begun to think the conductor had
been washed away or squashed or
something when a sweet soprano
trilled into my Tight ear the words
“Fares, please,” By performing a
contortion which seriously endangered
my spinal column I managed to gaze on
the phenomenon. A lovely young face
with merry brown eyes looked at me
from under a peaked cap and a tiny hand
sought my fare. I paid, and she wriggled
sinuously into the mass, her slight form
passing through crevices no male ticketeer
could have penetrated, the only sign of
her passing being the faint and musical
“Fares, please.” I got a closer look after
the tram emptied its load in the city. She
couldn’t have been more than 22, wore a
divided skirt, a uniform coat and a
harried smile, but the face was still lovely.
I foresee a few of the old bucks out our
way taking tram joyrides if this sort of
thing is to go on.
* * * «
“B. U. Cranbrook”: This is the tale
of a coup d'etat that wasn’t. A somewhat
dilapidated house in our suburb was put
up for sale. It hung fire, then finally
passed to a buyer at a lower price than
the original upset. He talked largely of
doing it up, and workmen were seen sur-
veying the place. There was a buzz of
talk about building restrictions and so
forth and the buyer (one of the Chosen)
promptly got busy. Men set to work
with cement and paint and timber, pipes
and gear appeared, a hot-water sys-
tem went in, doors and windows were
altered and the whole place was almost
rebuilt and refitted. Then the man with
the nose got in touch with Canberra ask-
ing permission to do the work on the
ground that he intended to make a home
"Had any military training?"
“No, sir; hut it's in the family. Sister's in the Awas and Mother's in
the Waaafs."
of the place. “That’th the vay t’ get
thingth done,” he said. But Canberra
isn’t so easy these days and the smile
hath vanished. Veekth and veekth have
gone and still the permit hasn’t appeared,
and there the lovely houthe standth and
nobody can live in it till Canberra gives
the word. Oi! Oi! it’th terrible.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The mention (B. 23 /9 / ’42) of
newsboys’ personal versions of the news
they have to sell recalls joyful memories
of the London of the ’eighties, when this
trick was rampant, running to sheer in-
vention, and much enjoyed by the public,
“Capture of the Salvation Army by the
Turks” w r as a good effort. But the most
effective relied on topical interest of the
moment, Lefroy, the “railway carriage
murderer,” had been lost, and hunted,
and found, and tried, and hanged ; and
just as the sensation was beginning to die
down a really imaginative newsboy
started it again with “Resurrection of
Lefroy!”
“Never mind what Mr. Wurth says. I'm director of man-power here."
“Matros”: When is someone going to
protest against the theory that romance
fled the seas with the passing of the sail-
ing ship? Admittedly the old wind-
jammers had their points in a fair breeze,
but surely there is more romance in
steering a 20-knot steamship than mono-
tonously tending sheets and braces, for
ever boxing yards to catch a thimbleful
of wind in a calm. As for beauty, some
of the latest motorships are as pretty
as any tea clipper that ever swung a sky-
sail. The new American-built Empire-
class freighters are equalled only in love-
liness by modern oil-tankers. And even
the saltiest diehard shellback had to
admit that a little Danish-built motorship
seen in Australia some while ago was as
graceful an example of marine architec-
ture as could be found anywhere.
* * * *
“Observer”: The newspapers have at
last discovered Gremlins. The depreda-
tions of these weird beings in R.A.A.F.
circles were recently reported in Bris-
bane. A pilot witness says that Gremlins
are “smaller than hobgoblins, but much
cunninger.” They put ice on wings,
pinch navigation instruments and rattle
control wires. This reminds me of my
pal Paddy’s sad experience. Paddy was
fond of whisky and bathrooms. When
water came to our town he had an
elaborate bathroom built in his house,
After a while he discovered that two of
the “little folk” lived in his bathroom,
One, who resided in the bath waste pipe,
was a Glumph, a fat goblin with a long
tail. The other, who lived in the basin
waste pipe, was a Slurch, thin and sour,
and also with a long tail. One day
Paddy disappeared, and we all reckoned
he must have grabbed a Glumph’s tail
and been dragged through the plughole.
And just last Tuesday when I was lying
in a cold bath at the pub with some ice
on my head, the plug came out. Some-
thing dragged my foot over the hole and
darned near pulled the sole off. I saw a
Glumph grinning at me as I leaped and
grabbed the towel rail. Which leads to
my point that there ought to be a
Federal department for the Control of
Gremlins, Glumphs and Slurches, with a
Minister, a director, four deputy-
directors, 20 secretaries and 98 typists—
nor r c TVim W f>’ri Sp enfp
the D.C.G.G.S. Then we d be sat .
“C.R.”: Melbourne churches have long
since succumbed to the modern fashion,
and girls in slacks can attend the morn-
ing service without trepidation. But two
girls thus arrayed who tried to enter the
Shrine of Remembrance were challenged,
to their surprise and indignation. Shrine
officials explain that the challenger was
acting under regulations, the order hav-
ing been issued at the time when the first
girl who wore slacks in Collins-street
caused a sensation that almost stopped
the traffic.
* * * *
“Bo”: When all hope seemed dead
and a long dry summer loomed, J. Pluvius
did the handsome thing by drought-
ridden Sydney, and soon water by the
thousands of millions of gallons was
pouring into Sydney’s dams—enough to
ensure at least three years’ supply.
Whereupon the Water Board president
arose and trumpeted triumphantly: “Syd-
ney’s water problem is solving itself!”
That remark should •go down in civic
history. No ratepayer in his right senses,
residing in a city that has had over 150
years’ experience of drought dangers,
would dream that the board had done or
was ever likely to do anything to assist
Providence in the matter. Admittedly
the latest drought has been a particu-
larly stubborn one, but there are things
that make the harried taxpayer, who
didn’t have his rates cut when he was re-
stricted in the use of the water, give a
painful grin. For instance, on Tuesday,
40 hours after the rain started, when
Blind Freddie could have seen that it
was set in, and when citizens were slosh-
ing round ankle-deep in water, the board
published large display ads. in the after-
noon dailies warning citizens against
daring to water their gardens. And even
now board members are reluctant to
admit that all their cherished restrictions
ought to be lifted.
* * * ♦
“H.E.R.”: “Strict Veg.” (B. 30/9/’42),
claiming Cook as an uninstructed lay-
man, avers that nqbody would expect a
ship’s captain to be an authority on diet.
But on a detailed account of his second
voyage being read to the Royal Society
that learned body presented Lieut. Cook
with the Copley Gold Medal for “addi-
tions he made to hygienic science and the
welfare of seafarers.” Surely the R.S.
rather than the seamen on Cook’s ship
was the eighteenth-century counterpart
of the University Institute of Dietitians.
* * * #
“A.R.P,”; I wish somebody would
make up Minister Hefifron’s mind about
this lighting business. A few weeks ago
we wardens were being urged to patrol
the streets and talk to householders about
their lights and to report cases .of
motorists travelling at night without the
regulation masks. A few weeks ago, too,
Mr. Heffroq was threatening people with
all sorts of penalties for brownout
breaches and N.S.W. magistrates were
handing out savage fines to offenders.
Now Mr. Heffron has come out flat with a
denunciation of the brownout and when
this was being written was reported as
battling with the Federal authority for a
lifting of the lighting restrictions. If we
stay in it long enough this N.E.S. business
will have some of us wardens nervous
wrecks.
* * * *
THE SHOWER.
The colors on the canvas merge and run.
The white reflection of the cliff is blurred,
A wet road, in a random gleam of sun,
Pierces the gloomy landscape like a sword.
These are but surfaces; why dwell upon them?
Or write disturbing verses all about them.
The bubble’s bounds are surfaces; who spun
them? ... t
And what would bubbledom be like without
them?
m.l. Arnold Wall.
THE GHOST OF GILBEY HALL.
No castles old with crumbling walls
My Darlinghurst can boast;
No towers grey and grim to lure
The traveller to our coast.
But, ah! There is a block of flats
In which there walks a ghost!
Old Mrs. Green in Flat Eighteen,
While strictly sober, swore
She saw it gliding down the stairs
And o’er the polished floor,
Till finally it vanished in
Through Miss La Reevy’s door!
Yet Miss La Reevy stayed within
And uttered not a scream;
And, when informed, her eyes lit up
With a malicious gleam;
She sneered that Mrs. Green had had
An alcoholic dream.
Soon after, Miss La Reevy left —■
A curious thing, I ween;
For some declare she disappeared.
Moreover, Mrs. Green
Avers that, strangely, ever since
The ghost has not been seen!
N.S.W.
T. W. N.


“Spokeshave”: Having been hit by the
bottle shortage where he least liked it,
a Melbourne businessman decided to
brew his own beer. Getting an illicit
formula, he followed it exactly and pro-
duced an experimental dozen which he
left well-corked on the kitchen table. He
had gone upstairs to bed feeling that a
good deed had been well done, when he
heard an explosion. Rushing downtsairs
he saw one of his precious bottles foun-
taining like Rotorua, while the corks of
the others were noticeably struggling
against their bonds. There was only one
thing to be done, and he did it. A couple
of hours later he staggered up to bed.
“What’s the matter, darling?” asked his
wife from her bedroom. “Are you sick or
something?” “’Sthis Austerity, m’dear,”
he muttered. “Mr. Curtinstolusnuzzin-
muzbewasted.”
* * * *
“Konk”: We live and learn. The
young V.D.C. instructor, fresh from
a training school, was teaching us
demolition duties. After demonstrations
with bombs and a “Bangalore Tor-
pedo,” he decided to try a home-made
mortar. This consisted of a piece of pipe
blocked at one end, a charge of gelig-
nite and a projectile. The fuse was lit
and the gelignite dropped down the pipe,
followed by the projectile. Fortunately
the instructor had a bit of doubt about
the experiment, and we were ordered to
take cover. The gelignite blew the bottom
half of the “mortar” to smithereens,
and steel fragments flew in all directions.
It was, in effect, just another “Banga-
lore.” What the instructor did not realise,
of course, was that gelignite detonates
and does not burn, as is the case with
propulsive charges. If a detonating
charge is used for propulsive purposes in
any weapon, either small arms or artil-
lery, the results are disastrous,
* * * *
“D.E.”; The war is expected to cost
£440,000,000 this year, but nobody can
deny that we are getting a lot for the
money. Never before were we grim old
taxpayers privileged to feast our eyes on
legions of ladies in 57 varieties of uniforms
or to indulge in enchanting calculations
as to what proportion of the taxes Mr.
Chifley is extracting from us goes to pay
for the 57 varieties and accessories, and
for commissariat, shelter, drill, wages and
all other appurtenances of female service.
Apropos there was a charming sym-
posium in the Sydney “Sun,” which, if
the war lasts long enough, will see that
all the girls get their pictures in the paper.
Parties to it were Major Eleanor
(A.W.A.S.) and Section-Officer Joyce
(W.A.A.A.F.), and “both agreed that
becoming make-up was Most Important”,
Major Eleanor: We impress on the girls
that their make-up must be the kind that
goes with the uniform. We like our girls
to be well-dressed.
Section-Officer Joyce: A light natural
make-up is the W.A.A.A.F. rule. The
average service woman makes up better
than civilian women.
Major Eleanor: Lipstick should be
orange, to tone with the khaki uniform.
Section-Officer Joyce: Color is left to
the W.A.A.A.Fs.’ good taste. They use
raspberry shades with their blues, orange
tonings with summer drabs.
Major Eleanor: Fair girls need a light
powder, brunettes a darker shade.
Section-Officer Joyce: Not too much
powder. Color is left to the girls’ good
taste.
Major Eleanor: Rouge can be used, if
necessary. Amount and shade depend on
the individual.
Section-Officer Joyce: Rouge can be used
if applied skilfully.
And when the war is over that, I sup-
pose, is how we’ll have won it.
» * * m
“Spokeshave”: In confusing Epstein
with Einstein (B. 7/10/’42) that daily
paper fell into a common error. It was
even made by a Toorak matron concern-
ing a small nude by the sculptor which
was the proud possession of her hus-
band. “Would you like to see our Ein-
stein?” said the lady to an artist-guest
at dinner. “She means Epstein,” whis-
pered the artist to his puzzled next-door
neighbor. “Understandable mistake,” I
suppose,” said his friend. “After all,
they are both concerned with incompre-
hensible figures.”
* * * s*
“Yair”: Dad’s usual post-prandial atti-
tude was carpet-slipper-encased feet up
on the table as he went through the day-
before’s paper down to the ads. For
years he had resisted the family’s urge
to go to the pictures, but when Aunt
Sarah came up on a visit from town and
the urgings were renewed he couldn’t
very well refuse. At the ticket-office
Mum asked “Where do you like to get,
Dad—down towards the front or at the
back?” “Aw, it don’t matter at all where
you put me. I can sleep anywhere,” he
replied.
* * * *
“Nakh”: “Bob Punter” (B. 7/10/’42)
accuses me of swelling the wowser
chorus because I said that one seldom
sees a drunk in France. But can he deny
that one seldom sees in France the pig-
trough method of absorbing liquor which
is accepted in Australia? If he ever saw
hundreds of Frenchmen being thrown out
of pubs in Paris at six o’clock to vomit
in the gutter he saw a France I didn’t.
What I saw was miles of leafy boulevards
lined on each side with open cafes, chairs
and tables on the pavements, and the
citoyens and citoyennes sitting and sip-
ping in the long evenings in public.
Nobody was reeling or fighting. Has
“8.P.” seen anything like that in Aus-
tralia? What would be most likely to
give Australians the good conscience and
the moderation about liquor the French
have—the French or the Australian
method? And what gives the Australian
wowser most of his ammunition?
* * * ♦
“Bumpkin”; As one of them myself,
I get a hearty laugh out of the current
delusion that fortunes are being made by
vegetable-growers. My next-door neigh-
bor works in a defence job; so does his
wife ; and his two sons and daughters
are doing something in munitions. There
must be at least £2O per week coming in
to that family. My wife and I and two sons
work 16 hours a day, including Satur-
days and Sundays, and if we make £5 a
week we are lucky. We maintain a fair
standard of living by keeping cows,
chickens, a couple of pigs and an
orchard, and we like our interesting, if
precarious, occupation. But it makes
us laugh when we read in the papers
that we have become profiteering pluto-
crats because some middleman gets Is.
6d. from a mug for a lettuce.
“Take one more step an I'll show you a bit of jungle-fighting!
“Avon”: The little township of Fairlie,
in Maoriland, lies where the Canterbury
Plains reach their western boundary and
the rugged Mackenzie Country begins.
There’s a splendid vista of the tall alps at
Fairlie, and in midwinter there’s ski-ing
and skating on frozen ponds. The people
up there are a bit remote from the hurly-
burly of towns ; character develops un-
pruned, and men think thoughts of their
own. That is why I am -not very sur-
prised that a Campaign for Christian
Order should be originated by the
Anglican padre there (Canterbury is as
solidly Anglican as the English town from
which it gets its name —it was a C. of E.
settlement). It’s an organisation of
farmers mostly, and at its first meeting
it passed a resolution which breaks en-
tirely new ground. Condensed it asks
all thinking people to consider how the
very health of pastures, crops, vegetables,
fruit, animals and humans is suffering be-
cause of the abuse of the soil urges
clergy and ministers everywhere to realise
that this is firstly a moral and religious
matter, and only secondly technical or
scientific requests the Government, stock
and station companies and all electors to
think of the farmer as a trustee who must
be assured the means to feed and husband
his land for the benefit of posterity.
As the ancients didn’t say, something
new is always coming out of Maoriland.
S * * *
“C. 8.”; Every year approximately on
the same day and at the same hour a
middle-aged man walks into the office of
the Melbourne Town Hall and hands to
the clerk an envelope containing a £lOO
note for the Lord Mayor’s Fund. He
has been doing this for 10 years and has
sometimes exceeded the £lOO, so that his
donations are more than £lOOO. Nobody
has identified him. There was once an
ill-advised plot to waylay and thank the
stranger and reward him with the pub-
licity he is obviously seeking to avoid,
but the plan was adroitly sidestepped.
* * * *
“L. de R.”: A Melbourne citizen who
takes the “Dig-for-Victory” slogan very
seriously went in to his tailor’s for a pair
of working trousers. “They’ll do me,”
he said, indicating a pair of stout blue
dungarees. “Oh, no, sir, they wouldn’t
do,” said the shopman, “These would
be better for pottering about in,” The
1 amateur vegetable grower gasped. “Let
me tell you,” he snorted, “that I have
ploughed, harrowed, scarified and planted
11 acres. If that’s pottering, I’m a
potter.”
* * * *
“Yair”: “Ear Punisher’s” old man
who thought he had to use up his coupons
(B. 7/10/ ’42) reminds me of the many
folk I know who buy more tea and sugar
now than they did before rationing.
“Can’t waste the coupons,” they say.
To them the coupons aren’t a restric-
tion ; they’re a challenge.
* sk * *
“Pawang”: An Australian medico
went to London to qualify for a fellow-
ship. In the course of his examination
he was told to go into a room and per-
form a certain operation. He did it to
his own complete satisfaction, and was
subsequently astounded to learn that he
had failed and that the main cause of
his failure was that particular operation.
Going up before the board he expressed
his feelings in no uncertain terms. “Per-
haps I didn’t use the method you approve
of,” he asked them. “Oh, yes, you did,”
replied the chairman. “It’s in all our
textbooks but you did it very badly.”
“That seems strange,” remarked the
doctor, allowing his anger to change to
amusement. “Why?” asked the chair-
man. “Well, you see, I invented the
method.”
* * * *
“R. Volt”: A.B.C. has been castigated
for using the ponderous term “Eastern
Australian Daylight Saving Time” instead
of “Eastern Summer Time,” but points
out that the latter is unsatisfactory be-
cause of the two hours’ difference between
the eastern States and W.A. I wonder
if there are still people in the Sunshine
State who are still unaware of this dis-
parity. In my youth a telegraphist
in Perth, I used to be secretly amused
at the spectacle of pavement bookies on
St. George’s-terrace on Saturday after-
noons conducting extensive operations
with the general public concerning races
in the eastern States which had already
been run.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Melbourne may have a
reputation with American virtuosi from
the concertgoing viewpoint (B. 23/9/’42),
but those who know the economics of
the situation are not so pleased with it.
There are 3000 regular goers in Mel-
bourne. The composition of this mass
changes, but year by year the figure
never varies, and if 1000 more seats were
added to the Town Hall accommodation
they would remain empty. Of this 3000,
100 go to every concert, whether by local
or visiting performers. Two hundred
more may or may not go, according to
the programme. The rest of the musi-
cally-minded army are the unconscious
slaves of publicity and propaganda. They
will flock to hear a Thomas Beecham one
year and a Sargent the next, and can
even be whipped up to listen to an
indigenous conductor if he is directing
something allegedly “for the first time in
Australia.” The million citizens of Mel-
bourne, minus the 3000, never go to con-
certs.
* * *
“Jachris”: I found a surprising
number of well-nourished and smartly-
dressed women decked out with hammer-
and-sickle emblems among the audience
for the first showing in Sydney of
“Professor Mamlock.” In theme “the
first full-length Russian film drama to
arrive in Australia” adds little to the long
list of Hollywood’s anti-Nazi films. But
there are other things. One large section
could very easily be clipped out and run
alone under the title “Hints for Under-
ground Organisations.” It is briefly and
clearly explained how to arrange a simple
gadget on the top of large buildings, so
that pamphlets may be distributed on the
breeze over city streets without need for
anybody being near to set them off, and
a method of passing messages—you bor-
row a match—is shown. Then there’s
a lot about the obtaining of newsprint
with which to publish forbidden “news”-
sheets of the type of Sydney’s “Wharfie.”
* * * *
“Raw Meat”; Riverstone (N.S.W.),
known nowadays for its meatworks, was
originally the name of a grant of 2500
acres made by Macquarie to Lieut.-Col.
Maurice O’Connell on the eve of his
marriage to Mrs. Mary Putland, the
widowed daughter of Bligh.
Macquarie came to regret his
liberality to the C.O. of his
old regiment. Mrs. O’Con-
nell couldn’t forgive and for-
get, and “had it in” for all
her neighbors who had been
in any way concerned in the
deposition of her father. The
Governor finally recom-
mended O’Connell’s removal,
together with the 73rd Regi
ment, on the ground that the
C. 0., who was also Lieu-
tenant-Governor, was influ-
enced by his wife’s personal
dislikes, and that their
absence from the colony
would do much to abolish
party strife. The old grant
adjoined the Copenhagen
estate, which belonged to the
widow of Governor King.
» *
“Lex”: “Ear Punisher’s”
reference (B. 30/9/’42) to
that ancient mayoral custom
in Melbourne recalls a privi-
lege attached to the office of
“Mayor of Sydney” (as the
Act termed him). With the
establishment of Stipendiary
Magistrates’ Districts in
N.S.W., Justices of the Peace
were debarred from adjudi-
cating in summary matters in
those districts, except where
the J.P. had been specially
appointed to deal with
drunks. The only exceptions
were Js.P. who were Stipendiary Magis-
trates or, in the Metropolitan Dis-
trict, the “Mayor of Sydney.” There
was no question of proceeding in all pomp
to the court upon assuming office, and in
fact it is many years since any Lud
Mayor exercised his privilege in Sydney
of adjudicating upon the Bench. The
privilege was such an empty one that it
was taken away in 1940.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: A well-known Mel-
bourne pianist who heartily dislikes being
asked to pay for his coffee with a per-
formance (though he has been known to
volunteer if left alone) was invited by a
Toorak matron to a party. He was con-
templating with interest the grand piano
after dinner when his hostess sailed up.
“Oh, Mr. Octave,” she said, “would you
play us a concerto?” “Certainly,
madam,” replied the musician ; “where is
your orchestra?”
* * * *
“L. de R.”: Ex-Senator Elliott has sug-
gested that, in view of the high expendi-
ture and low attendance, the National
Gallery art school in Melbourne should
be closed for the duration —he saw only
one student in the school when he visited
it the previous day and enrolments
number only 53, It is claimed for the
Melbourne school that it produced most
of Australia’s leading artists. It didn’t.
The best artist who ever went there won
the travelling scholarship, but at his
farewell banquet he said: “I know
nothing of art: I hope to learn some-
thing about it in Europe.” When he
returned the gallery regarded his pictures
as incomprehensible daubs, and it was not
till 20 years after, when he had gained
general recognition elsewhere, that it
bought any of his pictures.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo” : The two swaggies approached
the long, gaunt individual draped over
the road sliprails. Dark clouds were
massing in the south and the first few
drops of rain were spattering here and
there. Like Villon, they requested a lodg-
ing for the night. The l.g.i, stared into the
bare distance for a minute and without
looking at them said in a dreary mono-
tone “Youse can doss in the feed shed
over there pervided y’ don’t smoke,” and
continued to gaze into emptiness. A
minute later one of the drum-humpers
rushed out, white of face, and up to the
elongated one. “Hey!” he gasped.
“There’s an old bloke’s hanged himself
from a rafter. Bill’s just cut him down! ”
The other continued his visual inventory
of the horizon for afiother minute or so,
shifted a straw from one side of his
mouth to the other, and then drawled in
the same flat monotone, “That’ll be the
wife’s ole man. He said he was go in’ to,
an’ I bet him half a nicker he wasn’t
game to.” For a further half-minute
he continued to view the flat, dusty
landscape; then a great light seemed to
dawn on him and he turned to the
swaggie. “By cripes! ”he drawled again.
“Whaddayer know about that! I’ve just
thought—it’s the on’y bet I ever lorst that
I ain’t had to cough up for!”
■s * * *
“Zake”; When Peter came back to
the homestead and announced there was
a bees’ nest in the Moreton Bay fig in
Tucker’s hill paddock Dave laughed.
“You’re seeing things, Pete,” he said.
“ You’ve never seen a hollow Moreton
Bay, I’ll bet.” But Dave was wrong ;
and the way the Moreton Bay came to
be “hollow” was that a seed, probably
carried by a bird, had taken root on the
top of a dead, hollow stringybark. The
roots had gradually grown down until
they had reached the earth, sustenance
for the vine—a young Moreton Bay fig,
or even an old one for that matter, is
no more than that—being provided by
the host until the descent was complete.
* * *
“The 0.D.”: Dunno about goanna oil
(B. 14/10/’42), but I’m here to testify
to the curative properties of a goanna
ointment that used to be sold about 20
years ago. In S.A., working nightshifts
on stock trains at a northern junction,
I got some sort of a skin affliction which
put a big raw sore behind one ear. It
used to drip pus, and I had to get about
strapped up in bandages. The local
doctor prescribed, without result; a
neighboring doctor also failed. Both be-
lieved it arose from a combination of
blood and bowel disorders. Tried the
well-known unguents, without avail. Then
a drover on a cattle train handed me a
tin with goanna ointment and told me
to lay it on thick. Two days later the
thing was drying up ; within a week it
had disappeared.
* * * «
“Wogonga”: That kookaburra which
was so greatly admired for his ability
to land and swipe in the same instant (B.
14/10/’42) wouldn’t shine against the
sandworms on the Australian east coast.
The things run to six feet long, and you
can bring their heads out of the sand
with the right bait, but it takes a trained
catcher to grab ’em. Once let the worm
feel your fingers and he’s gone. A mate,
disgusted with failure, tried more violent
means. While T worked the bait he
stood with a sharpened garden spade and
drove it hard the moment the worm
showed up. He wasn’t in the race, nor
would Jacky be if he tried it.
X
“Mat’s Mate”; Several of us were
camped just outside Pinnaroo (S.A.)
waiting for the harvest, and Lou the
Lumper took the opportunity to put in
a bit of good work for the revolutionary
cause he espoused. Day and night for
over a week we listened to his fulmina-
tions till we were fed up to the back
teeth. Lou was a bit careless in matters
hygienic, the weather was hot and Mat
broke under the strain at last. “And so
there’ll be the social revolution,” Lou
was declaiming, “The glorious social
revolution which must come sooner or
later, and” “Don’t worry y’rself
Lou,” snapped Mat, getting up; “it’s
blanky well here. We bin a pretty soci-
able mob, but I’ve had enough. I’m re-
voltin’ again you an’ y’r effloovium.” We
left. It took Lou three days to find out
what effloovium meant. He was so
offended that he left for Victoria at once.
* * * *
“Solitude”; Seated on the top rail,
Jim and I were bewailing our losses in
the dry spell of five years back, each in
turn recalling more crushing disasters,
when the old bloke butted into the con-
“Lend me some of your kids, Joe—the man-power bloke is
coming to see me today.”
versation, “Yair, she was a snorter right
enough! Lorst over a hundred quid’s
worth o’ cattle meself in that drought.”
“You? Go on!” I challenged. “Why,
you had only three poddy calves that
I culled out! And colored mongrels
at that! ” “Calves! I tell y’ them beasts
was over twelve months old! Gripes,
they’d have had calves theirselves the
next year. An’, allowin’ for ’em to have
had one each year since, that would've
made fifteen of ’em be now. Then these
last coupla years their first season’s
heifers would’ve had one each, an’ this
year their second heifers would, too. An’,
let me tell y’, with the price fats is now
I could’ve poked off most o’ them twenty-
four head an’ made a real decent pile.
Yair, if only I’d ’ad any luck at all.”
* * * »
“Nor’-west”; Human hide is tough,
and it takes a trained surgical hand and
nerve, equipped with the proper instru-
ment, to do a job such as cutting out
the punctures of a snakebite. But it is
possible, though not easy, to sink a sharp
razor blade well in by simple pressure,
though cold-bloodedly to carve into your
own flesh takes nerve. Sucking is only
partly effective. Once saw a good save
made with a beer-bottle filled with near-
boiling water, emptied, and then clamped
on to the slashed punctures. That
brought the blood out. When the vacuum
got too strong a crack on the bottom of
the bottle brought it off. Another one
was then put on ; and between the two
the poison was almost completely drained
out. This was a bite on the side of the
hand. On some broader spot a wider-
mouthed bottle might have been used
with even more rapid results.
- T -pv t> ” , , ~
J^ alces
weapons (B. 23/9/ 42) might suffice for
decrepit or somnolent serpents, I con-
tend that most of the tribe of Joe have
been dispatched per waddy. What bush-
whacker has not recollections of the
trantic search for a stick, with frequent
squmts at the rascal with the flickering
tongue? _ I rate the shotgun first for
difficult jobs. Ordinarily my fancy is a
hefty swish delivered with a yard-long
piece of fencing wire which I carry
hooked on behind my belt. Another
nipper, dogs and self spent pleasant Sun-
day afternoons rounding up and flogging
Joe on the town common with a thong
of fencing wire fastened to our dad’s
bullock-whip handles. The length of
wire is just as effective when you are
grown up.
* * * *
Murlonga”; The agent drove up to
have a look at a mob of bullocks brought
in from a W.Q. station. He asked
one of the black “boys” who was in
charge. Was there no white man about?
i is in charge,” the abo. replied,
“An’ the nearest thing to a white man
in the camp’s the piebald horse!”
“n* /t » r? * , • T ,
, • P cspfl®, the claim that bees
can t hear, 111 still grab a tin and run
after a swarm rattling it (B. 14/10/’42).
On our Murray holding we have
five hives, every one of them got by rush-
ing under a passing swarm with a tin.
And, talking of grasshoppers, in the ’34
plague, when they came in clouds, they
were kept off lawns and precious gardens
by banging tins. I believe it’s not so much
hearing as a response to vibration.
Propalong”: An old mate of mine, a
brother of Charlie Greig, the buckjump
rider worked as a youngster on that
Port Augusta ostrich farm (B. 23/9/ 42).
On his first day he was given a forked
pole as a means of defence against the
lords of the feathered harem. Being a
stranger to the birds he was soon charged
by an old bull. The sight of a galvan-
ised feather mattress descending on him
at top speed was rather unnerving to
the lad, but he thrust the pole out and.
by 3, fluke, connected the fork with the
gravel-snatcher’s neck. After they’d put
something on the bruise where the butt
end of the pole had been driven at 40
m.p.h. against his ribs he was given a
lesson in the correct way to sidestep and,
at the same time, to shove the bird away.
* * * * ,
I'd rhat dm B? “Betcha’s”
(B. 23/9/ 42) was as wide awake as a
college full of cats compared with the fox
that came scorching over a sandhill and
put a bend in a goanna ten yards in
front of my horse’s nose. The go.’s sane-
tuary was a hole not five yards away, but
he couldn’t make it. Reynard tired the
spotted chap at last, and that was where
I intervened. But my horse, the best
camp horse on the run, saw some real
turning for the first time in his life, and,
realising it was impossible to compete
with the standard set, never followed a
beast again
* ‘ * . * *
“Pine Creek”: Wasps, is it? In the
Suttor country (Q.) they build com-
munity camps on the undercurved side of
limbs. These communal homes of the
small yellow-and-black stinging Hymen-
optera measure up to three feet long by
about a foot wide. The wasps chew
wood, which they mix with saliva to
form the cells in which the young are
hung upside down, so that the workers
(undeveloped females) can feed them.
When a nipper I bashed one of these
huge nests with a nulla, just as all hands
were disrobing for a swim. The conse-
quent rush to dive in, some still hobbled
with half-shed trousers, beat any mob of
scrubbers.
* * * «
“Scuta”: Ever caught a platypus?
Take my tip and don’t! Or if, like me,
you get one on a bunch of worms meant
for fish, handle him with strong leather
gloves. Don’t be deceived by his inno-
cent Donald Duck appearance. He cer-
tainly won’t bite, but by all that’s holy
he can scratch, especially if you lay him
on his back. He has spurs like a bronco :
buster, one on each heel, which when
elevated can administer a very nasty dig.
That wouldn’t be so bad ; but each spur
is connected with a poison gland on the
principle of a snake’s fang. He may not
draw blood, but you’ll soon know you’ve
been hit by the swelling and pain in your
arm and the enlarged glands. You’ll
be lucky if you get any sleep that night,
and if you do you’ll dream of old Nick
and his three-pronged fork. Next time I
hook one I’m cutting the line.
* * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”; All credit to those air-
men who can fly a ’plane at 300 m.p.h.
between houses (B. 23/9/’42), but the
feat is hardly comparable with the ac-
complishment of my sparrow that flew
upwards through a hole a couple of
inches smaller than his tip-to-tip measure-
ment. Nor can man ever hope to com-
pete with birds in aerobatics.
No ’plane could execute
two right-angle turns, first
left, then right, within three
lengths of itself while flying
at lightning speed; but I’ve
seen swallows do it. I’ve
also seen a swallow swoop
up from skimming the
ground, meet his mate in
midair and touch bills —
obviously transferring a
delicacy. Then, again, most
birds can hover more per-
fectly than any gyroscope.
One of the most difficult
feats I’ve seen a bird per-
form was a piece of clown-
ing by a willie-wagtail.
Standing facing a terrific
wind the little comedian
took off vertically, allowed
himself to be swept back-
wards a yard or so at an
altitude of two feet, then
skimmed the ground to
complete the circuit and
return to the initial position
for another go. Could an
aviator do that? As for
the claim that an airman
can identify a ’plane five
miles distant, it might be
remembered that from a
height of hundreds of feet
a hawk can detect a mouse
moving in the grass.
* ♦ *
“Si Anu”: The protective
devices of birds, beasts
and plants in the tropics
could be studied with advantage to the
military camoufleurs of this war. I can’t
speak of New Guinea, but I have tramped
through miles of Javan and Bornean
jungles. One day I was petrified to see a
huge sow, followed by a litter of ten,
debouch from the bush on one side and
leisurely cross the jungle track to dis-
appear in the other. It was the only sign
of wild life I ever saw apart from the
übiquitous monkey, who is too nimble
to need protection, and the flying-fox,
who is too disgusting.
* * * *
“T. Teagle”: If “Scuta” (B. 2/9/’42)
could find the exact reason why he just
failed to grab that frog held in the mouth
of a tiger-snake he would be able to
solve the mystery of a lot of what are
called physical reflexes. For instance,
working in a foundry, with molten metal
at times splashing, I never once received
a burn on the eye, though often on the
lids. Fast as the splash travelled the lids
were quicker closing. Again, a person
who has learned to ride a bicycle or to
roller-skate never forgets the knack.
Once had a job carrying planks between
machines in a timber mill. With spilt
oil and the friction of sawdust and shav-
ings the hardwood floor was as slippery
as a dance pavilion. Newcomers always
slipped and fell. But after a while the
rear foot acquired the knack of braking
a potential spill and one could almost
run. That was 20 years ago. Today when
I slip op the wet concrete of city streets
that rear foot still remembers the knack
and acts instantly to stop the spill.
THE ROADS.
Last night when stars were darkened
And cheerless winds blew strong
I dreamt and, dreaming, hearkened
An army’s marching song.
A song it seemed of voices
That chorused long and loud,
Wherein, as in war-bugles,
I sensed a challenge proud.
“For what she is and has been,
And what she yet shall be,
From bush and town we muster
To keep Australia free.
Who seek to shame, and chain her,
Not lightly shall they fare
On her Wheel Roads and her Keel Roads
And her Wing Roads of the air.”
As to that song I hearkened
With strangely dreaming mind,
No more the stars seemed darkened
And stilled seemed every wind.
Home-love and love of Freedom,
How dear are they, how meet
For valor death-defying
And music pure and sweet!
“For what she is and has been
And what she yet shall be,
To serve her and to save her
We march undauntedly.
For her with hearts unquailing
Red doings shall we dare
On her Wheel Roads and her Keel Roads
And her Wing Roads of the Air.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Old Camp”: Visiting the city after
neavy labor on the Trans-line railway,
Big Bourke, was determined that no
spieler would get his wad. Disdaining
trouser pockets, which can be easily
picked or cut out with a razor blade
in a crowded bar, he buttoned his
wallet tight in the inside pocket of
his new coat. But the urgers noticed
with trained eyes that tightly-buttoned
coat, so one of them, a burly bullet-
head, reached over and seized the foam-
ing pot the barman was in the act of
serving to Bourke. To this injury was
added the insult of dashing the dregs in
B.’s face. “Call yourself an Irishman!”
was the accompanying sneer. Within
two seconds Bourke had divested himself
of coat and was into it. After a few
swipes Bullet-head bolted like the cur he
was. Elated, congratulation-laden. Big
Bourke ordered the pot-juggler to fill ’em
up all round, and felt for his wad. The
old, old tale!
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Mr. Forde says that shorts
and shirts with abbreviated sleeves don’t
protect men sufficiently from disease-
carrying insect bites and scratches likely
to be infected, so long drill trousers and
long-sleeved shirts are to be de rigueur
for soldiers. The boy’s-pants fashion came
into vogue in Singapore after the last
war, and I could never understand why.
Planters and officials in the outposts who
had to walk long distances in the jungle
strongly objected, but eventually suc-
cumbed, although all their experience was
against it. I personally found the best
protection against the mosquito and
other menaces of the tropics was a neck-
to-ankle outfit. The dive-bombers then
concentrated on the dark socks I wore. I
discovered that, for some reason or other,
their blitz could be almost completely
countered by substituting white socks.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Bushmen’s strange hob-
bies (B. 14/10/’42)? Old Jimmy, who
lived in the hut on Moonlight, 40 miles
from the nearest mailcoach dust, got
wrapped up in draughts. On one end of
his table the board always lay open with
the men on it in various stages of action.
He’d play both ends and wrestle with
himself for weeks before a game ended,
often in a draw. In his more liverish
moments he was apt to rise suddenly,
sweep board and men to the floor and
go cursefully forth into the bluebush,
upbraiding himself for wasting time on
a thing that meant nothing, anyhow.
Then, perhaps two or three miles from
the hut-, a sudden still expression would
cross his leathery face; he’d pause,
ponder, grab a bit of stick and draw a
rough draughtboard on the sand, place
bits of pebble and stick for men and start
all over again. It got so bad in the end
that in the middle of a muster he’d be
likely to turn his horse and canter home,
having suddenly thought of a move. Then
some visiting expert offered to play any
six men at once and Jimmy was in it.
The expert wiped the floor with ’em.
Said James: “That’ll do me. A game in
which one can beat six ain’t a game ;
it’s a swindle.” He took to woodcarving.
* * * *
“8.A.”: When I worked in Queensland
white-ant country the site of the cook’s
tent was always determined by the posi-
tion of a suitable mound. The babbler
soon had a hole big enough to admit a
large baking dish cut in the side of the
nest, about a foot from ground level, and
a smaller one on top to act as a flue ;
then he gauged a hole in the honey-
combed material and started a fire in it.
The material soon burnt out, leaving the
clay shell intact, and when it had cooled
down the shell would be floored with
tamped clay. When the oven was re-
quired for use it was filled with wood,
to which a match was applied. When it
burned down the batch of bread or joint
was put in and the holes were closed with
covers of sheet-iron, kerosene-tin or
sheets of freshly-stripped green bark. The
poisoner reckoned it was better than any
camp-oven.
“ Wouldn't it make a man spit blood!"
“Dil Dab”: Most ducklings at two
days old have forgotten more about
swimming than “Pat Ater” (B. 30/9/’42)
ever knew. If he likes to put them in an
enclosure, minus Mrs. Duck, with his
“tub of cooler” easily accessible he will
soon see that they can and will swim,
and voluntarily at that. Admittedly duck-
lings will not stand ducking by force, as
their down gets wet quickly when sub-
merged.
« * * *
“Padflogger”: Unless there were only
does available in his district, I’m afraid
old Barney, the station’s leather car-
penter, was wasting his time and thread
“sewing a ’roo-hide purse” (B. 9/9/’42).
I’ve seen a few Too-hide purses
without a stitch in them other than the
turned-over hem around the bottleneck
that took the drawstring. Tobacco
pouches the same, when the original
owner had been a boomer.
* * * *
“N.”: Saltbush and bindi-eye have for
some time been out of fashion as a first
course for merinos in this mallee district;
old Joe especially has been an advocate
of “burnin’ orf the flamin’ scrub an’
lettin’ the grass come up.” This has been
a bumper season, and old Joe’s place is
waving with spear- and barley-grass. The
old chap has been shearing, and
the profanity emitted by a bloke who for
years has been wont to worship every
new clump of grass that appeared on the
place is a complete, condensed but un-
suitable-for-correspondence coursb on
all that a sheepman should know when
handling burry—very burry—fleeces.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Twelve months ago Reg
Greenham, an employee at the Mel-
bourne abattoir, left for Malaya and is
now posted missing. His black-and-tan
pointer Pluto still follows the routine of
“It’s a problem to get girls now!"
turning up at the job on schedule, walk-
ing into the lunch-room on time and
leaving it as if he were pursuing some
punctual shadow. To date he has not
missed a day.
* * * *
“Loo”: “The tea a man makes these
days o’ rationin’,” complained Long
Murray, “is so weak it won’t €ven cling
to the sides o’ the billy. When we were
navvyin’ near Captain’s Flat we made
real tea —used to have to break down the
cold leftover stuff to write with, it was
that black!” The Sawnoff looked at
Murray with contempt. “Listen, Long-
’un,” he said evenly. “When I was drov-
in’ out in western Queensland in the old
days we useter get a steer to test the tea
for strength.” “Garn! You don’t tell
me y6u got an animal to drink tea,”
scoffed Murray. “Drink the stuffy be
damned!” pursued The Sawnoff. “We
useter put his hoof in the billy. If there
wasn’t a hole left in it when we pulled
the hoof out we’d know it wasn’t strong
enough!”
* * * •
“Pinjarrah”; In the bush of south-
west W.A. I saw what might be
called a natural graft (B. 2/9/’42). It
was marginal forest where, on the edge
of a limestone plain, jarrah gave way to
white-gum. A gale had brought a white-
gum down so that one of its limbs caught
in the fork of a jarrah. In the course of
years the few roots that still nourished
the white-gum burnt or decayed and the
tree died —all except the limb that was
caught in the fork of the jarrah. This
kept its distinctive bark and leaves. The
fork of the jarrah encircled it, the living
limb of the white-gum being obviously
nourished by the sap of the host.
* * * *
“Macann”: When “Banjo” Paterson
wrote The Animals Noah Forgot for
The Bulletin to publish in 1933 he did
an injustice by implying that the best of
Australians were not present on the
watery occasion. My authority is the
Rev. John Brown’s Self-interpreting
Family Bible, published 1872, when
“Banjo” was running about as an eight-
year-old. One of the 600 steel engrav-
ing illustrations in the huge tome (it
weighs 161 b.) has a number of ’roos
present, though were “Banjo” here he
might escape the indictment by pointing
out that they’re watching the rest go in,
and later vamoosed to Australia—which
the Biblical authors themselves forgot.
* * * *
“Tom’s Lagoon”; Saying that “sell-
ing the Lachlan at ninepence a
nip” was good business, a prose-
cutor got five publicans fined. It
set all the old-time river folk think-
ing of the big flood back in the ’nineties
when Carrawobbitty Jones was found be-
tween Gooloogong and Forbes dipping
a pannikin in the flood, tasting it and
sitting back with a disappointed expres-
sion. He’d been at it for hours, and
refused to disclose his reasons until late
afternoon, when a mounted trooper began
to question Carrawobbitty’s sanity. “Mad
be blithered! ” snorted C. “They tell me
the flood got into the cellar at the Goo-
loogong pub an’ I bin waitin’ f’r the
taste t’ get here.”
* * * *
“Nipper”; All the freak likenesses to
human beings aren’t confined to out-
croppings of rock and mountain sil-
houettes (B. 30/9/’42). Sculptured by
a bushfire, a bluegum in the New
England Range out from Tingha (N.S.W.)
took on a vivid likeness of an
orator, open mouth and head drawn
back, with two waving arms to complete
the picture of fiery declamation.
* * * *
“P.P.S.”: They blew up a bike tube
and placed it in the newchum’s bunk in
such a position that it would leap when
the nap was thrown back. That night
everybody was in the hut, but the new-
chum seemed reluctant to go to bed.
Thinking to give him a lead. Long Tom
went to his own bunk and turned back
the nap. Something heaved, and Tom
looked forbiddingly at the mob.
“Thought y’d switch it on t’ me, eh?”
he roared. He reached in, grabbed and
threw the thing among them, adding
“Gripes, y’ can’t scare me with y’r tyres.”
Then that mob broke from the hut and
the 4ft. brown snake on the floor, and
Tom sat weakly down on his bunk and
had to be restored by the newchum.
“Louden”: I watched a flock of white
cockatoos flying to its roosting-place
in a bend of the Murrumbidgee. As the
leaders passed a lone dead tree in the
clearing two hawks that until then had
seemed part of the topmost limb darted
at the flock and cut out one of its
number. Screeching blue murder, the
victim rose swiftly and tried to keep
above the enemy, but before his males
had reached their objective poor cocky
was grassed. Such happenings to the
cockatoos in those parts must be rare,
for the excited flock talked and screeched
far into the night.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Recent reference to old
bush terms such as “flashing your
Dover” reminds me. A pub in a West
Coast (MX.) town had been taken over
by an Englishman and his wife, new arri-
vals. An old cattle steamer, the Wallaby,
was a regular trader to the port, and the
crew were great spenders. Into the town
blew Billy the Bent, straight off the track,
broke and thirsty. Refused a pint on
“credit,” he came back with “Gripes,
missus, don’t be hard on a bloke on the
wallaby!” Remembering how the Wal-
laby’s crew had spent up handsomely
the night before, Mrs. Bung replied “Oh,
well, that makes aIL the difference.”
Pumping Billy a “dreadnought,” she
tossed him two florins, saying “You’ll
pay me, of course, when you have
njoney.” “Of course!” the astounded
Billy managed to gasp before upending
the foamer and beating it while his luck
was*in.
* * * *
“Wandelegoratta”: Big Bill was
working for a Wimmera wheatgrower
whose younger daughter took a shine to
him. Bill may or may not have observed
that she found lots of reasons for hang-
ing about in his locality, but he gave no
sign. Then it was conveyed to him by
the charmer that the hospital ball was
about due and there was a partner ready
and willing to accompany him. He sat
as pat as a bloke dealt a full house
straight. She tried coyness; it bounced
off him. Aloofness merely brought a
happy expression to his dial. She strutted
and preened before him in a new dress ;
Bill rolled a cigarette, said something
about it looking like rain and retired to
his hut. She brought his crib up the pad-
dock and talked about the ball. Bill
chewed thoughtfully and said nothing. In
the end, one evening by the tank stand,
she fell back on her sex’s last stratagem
—tears. Bill surveyed her briefly, then
said “Look, you’ve made a fair go at
gettin’ me t’ take y’ to that ball. But I
ain’t, see, ’cos wimmen an’ dancin’ ain’t
in my line. Now, stop bawlin’! ” A little
later Bill’s boss, looking troubled, called
upon Bill to explain, saying his daughter
had come in crying and saying she’d
been insulted. Bill spoke briefly and to
the point. When he started work next
morning it was for an extra 10s. a week
—“humbug money,” he called it.
* * * *
“E.M.N,”: “Health-producing vitamins
in y’r food,” read Joe. “Well, I’ve had
ants and maggots in me tucker, but these
here vitamins are somethin’ new.”
CORVETTE.
Strung out along the storm-girt way,
The sea-borne flock goes by,
With shepherd cruiser, grim and grey,
Whose sheep-dog swift am I.
Alert throughout the long suspense,
I listen for his call.
His whistle —just a whisper tense—
Comes hissing through the squall.
From van to rear, through day and night.
I ring the flock about;
For stricken hull or straggler’s plight,
I keep intent lookout.
The sheep-walks of the ocean wide
Take many a devious twist;
For dingoes prey, and perils hide
In each enshrouding mist.
But dark or light, by life or death,
I guard each precious hold;
Through calm and storm and hell’s own
breath,
I bring my sheep to fold.
R.A.A.
G. A. BAILY.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery
cloth to grinder discs is
DAVIS
LIQUID GL UE
specially recommended for shearing-shed use.
Obtainable in 4oz. f Boz., 16oz. and 1-gallon sizes.
Hardware and general stores.
\d> K
%
e
fg
You can improve the quality and weight
of your clip by using Egelabra Kams,
One user writes: “We are now getting the
benefit of using Egelabra Rams. » The 6-
tooth Ewes have cut 1021 b. and reared a
lamb as well; the Wether Hoggets have cut
over 131 b.”
RAMS now available from sgns. to 13gns.
EGELABRA
MERINOS
H. £. KATER & SON, Warren, N.S. W.
Tel: Warren 10.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Pulpy Kidney.
“Hux”: Sometimes sheep are smitten
so suddenly that the first signs are car-
casses distended with gas. In lesser onsets
the sheep walk unsteadily, and from time
to time knuckle over or go down on the
knees. Champing the jaw, a discharge
of frothy saliva and diarrhoea are other
symptoms. Lambs may take fits. After
death the carcass decomposes rapidly and
the kidneys quickly change into a pulpy
mass of red tissue.
Only practical check is to inoculate
the flock with alum-precipitated vaccine.
Correct dose for both sheep and lambs is
5 c.c. One injection is usually enough.
After 14 days the sheep develop an im-
munity strong enough to see them over a
season. If prospects look bad, .give a
further injection of 5 c.c. after four
weeks. Lambs should be inoculated at
marking. To make ewes immune, inocu-
late with 5 c.c. of the vaccine at mating
and follow up with 10 c.c. 10 to 14 days
before lambing. The lamb then gets its
immunity through the colostrum. For
injection, hold the head slightly away
from you and press the ear down on the
head, remove a small amount of wool
from well below the base of the ear,
along the top line of the neck, and inject
the needle. Inoculation costs just over
id. per dose.
A way to forestall the disease is to
shift the sheep from paddock to paddock
at frequent intervals, transfer them to
scrub country or supplement the grazing
with dry feed.
War-time Subdivision.
“8.N.G.”: Subdivision of small sheep
properties is necessary to get the most
from every acre. The present shortage
of wire and netting may be got over by
drawing from existing fences.
On a place of just over 1900 acres, a
permanent running creek enters at the
n.-e. corner and leaves near the s.-w.
corner. It provides one boundary for
nine of the 11 paddocks, the main and
subdivision boundaries being of the regu-
lation sheep-proof five wires and a barb.
It was necessary to subdivide three
lucerne paddocks between the creek and
the eastern boundary to make eight pad-
docks, so as to carry more sheep and
store more fodder.
That needed 675 chains of wire. The
second wire from the top right round
the boundary (160 by 120 chains) and
from the five subdivisions beyond the
creek was pulled out. This gave 697
chains of wire, enough for the lucerne
subdivisions, though it meant a lot of
cutting and joining and thfere were some
awkward problems to get over.
The gap in the fences looked bad and
there was trouble with strays in the lane
alongside the lucerne, so the robbed fences
were rebored and the top wire dropped
two inches. That served on all fences
except the one along the lane—somehow
the strays got to know that fence was
weak—so two 'extra droppers were put
into each panel, and there was no more
trouble. Before trying this scheme, make
the calculations carefully.
Inheritance of Defects.
“Bungaree”: While a successive breed-
ing line of perfect rams and ewes will
generally result in high-class progeny
cases are not infrequent of rams faultless
in appearance whose progeny are dis-
appointing and, conversely, of ordinary-
looking rams which get fine stock.
Many breeders believe that jaw weak-
nesses in rams are not passed on to the
progeny. Animals with this malforma-
tion are unable to feed properly on
natural pastures and, unless handfed, are
hard to rear. The C.S.I.R. mated a
merino ram with merino ewes, and the
resultant rams had normal jaw forma-
tion. The ram was then mated with his
own daughters, and the drop contained
lambs showing typical undershot jaw. The
sheep were further inbred by using a
ram of the first mating with ewes from
“What do you think of me tank traps?"
that mating, and again the malformation
cropped up..
This shows that physical faults inherited
by a ram, which may not be apparent to
the eye, are nevertheless being bred into
the flock. Under paddock mating the
first crop of lambs may be normal, but
subsequent matings will bring out in-
herent weaknesses, and by that time it
may be too late. There should be a
progeny testing of a new ram before he
is put into general use, and the advisa-
bility of using sires from proven studs
is apparent. The real danger lies in the
time that elapses before the hidden faults
show up. By then the entire flock may
be affected.
Holding the Mallee.
“Watch ’Em”: All very well to talk
now about stopping the beginning of
drift (B. 7/10/’42). Most of it began
20 years and more ago. Not many men
are starting new blocks or new wheat
paddocks in the mallee today. The Hans-
low competitions to discover best means
of controlling drift are doing good work,
but they came almost too late.
Over 20 years ago we cleared a long
hill at the back of our place, knocking
down and burning off the hopbush and
low mallee because it was necessary to
get a crop in as quickly as possible, and
that hill had the best slope for it. It’s
still necessary to get crops today; few
mallee farmers are in the position to give
up wheat altogether and depend on sheep
for a living. We were enticed out of
the Wimmera by offers of cheap land, ad-
vances for improvements and so forth.
Wheat was a good price, and our part
of the mallee (south of Walpeup), freshly
cleared virgin soil, was eager to grow
anything. We were told of the import-
ance of fallow above a firm seedbed and
the need to keep weeds down; nobody
mentioned sheep. Within five seasons the
hopbush hill was disappearing in every
north wind. Some of it piled up against
our road fence and spilled over the road ;
the rest went further south.
Our big flat, which covered about 200
acres between the foot of the slope and
the road, had hardly any scrub on it, and
we left what there was for shade. The
soil was light-grey stuff, and when we
first put the plough in it turned up beau-
tifully. While it was lying fallow in our
sixth year there was a heavy January
rain, and the flat was a shallow lake for
days afterwards. It was the first time
anvbodv ever remembered water lying on
that flat. Working it deep in the eighth
year we used to hear the shares screech-
ing, and noticed a lot of limestone being
turned up. By that time we had sheep,
and we threw the flat right out for a
sheep paddock. But it was too late. It
kept on blowing, and within 12 years
was simply a stony flat with a light cover
of dust. It wouldn’t feed 50 sheep,
though we took over 3000 bags of wheat
off it in the first three years.
We know now what led to our erosion,
but it took us a long time to learn it.
Now we have to learn, not only how to
stop further erosion, but also how to
restore some of the ruined acres. That
means holding them for years until suffi-
cient soil can be built up to make a
reasonably good pasture —it’s certain
they’ll never be cropped again—and that
seems a long road to people who’ve
already given half a lifetime to the
mallee.
It may never come back to what it was
when we first came into it, but it can
be saved and it can be made productive.
But it needs something like the concen-
trated fury with which the U.S.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture tackled its dustbowl
to bring the realisation closer. For all
the good work of the State R. and W.S.
Commission and kindred bodies, the
mallee will keep on drifting to ruin until
it is made a national matter.
Pasture Planning.
“H.C.”: The Waite Institute has decided
that out of 600 pasture varieties only about
a dozen are suitable for South Australia.
Trials showed that on soils of fairly high
fertility and firm texture, under a rainfall
of about 25in., clover and perennial rye
are hard to beat. On limestone soil, burr
or barrel clover, black medic or lucerne
is better than subterranean clover. A
mixture of 51b. clover, 11b. per. rye and
21b. Phalaris tuberosa per acre does well
on prepared limestone if sown to a depth
of |in. to |in., with a bag of super, per
acre. On higher land of lower rainfall
cut the rye out, halve the Phalaris, pre-
pare the soil well and you should get
good pasture.
Phalaris won’t thrive on dirty ground,
but sown in autumn on well-prepared
spring fallow it is at its best. In damp
gullies or where there’s summer moisture
strawberry clover and Kikuyu keep going
all the year. Don’t plant Kikuyu in a
paddock wanted later on for crops.
The root systems of perennial grasses
put it all over annuals. Even in the first
year Phalaris goes down about 4ft. 6in.,
and when it’s after moisture will go 12ft.
Roots of per. rye measure 3ft. 6in.
Kikuyu, paspalum and Palestine straw-
berry clover go down a 1 fair distance.
Lucerne beats ’em all. Thus they get
moisture that’s out of reach of other
plants and bring minerals and nutrients
to the surface.
Sow 11b. per acre of a certified variety
rather than bushels of seed of doubtful
parentage. Planting Phalaris about 18in.
apart and filling the spaces with rye grass
and some clover make a thick swathe.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bundalinga”: To get early suckers
breed from crossbred ewes bom in
March-April. They will take the ram
at the correct time to drop March-April
lambs. Old ewes can be fattened and
sold after the lambs are weaned while
spring feed is still available.
“Canbelego”: Make more use of grain
sorghums. They are drought-resistant,
cheap to grow and harvest, and can be
fed to all stock. Feeding value of the
grain is within 10 p.c. of that of maize,
and sorghum will grow when maize will
fail. Short-growing types are hardiest,
and can be harvested with an ordinary
header.
“L.C.”: To the ordinary feed of heavy
milker springers add a few pounds of
concentrates, such as two parts of ground
oats, two parts of bran and one part of
linseed-meal. Bran is needed when the
season is dry. Bran mashes and lucerne
or clover is the best diet for two or three
days after calving. A good lick helps
digestion.
“Mullengah”; Pigs drinking from stag-
nant pools or wallows risk danger of
serious disease. In winter pigs sometimes
fail to drink sufficient water because it
is too cold. Comfortable drinking tem-
perature in cold weather is about 50deg.
Fahr., and any trouble to provide water
at that heat is well repaid.
“Goulburn”: If a scouring horse gets
good feed and water and has sound teeth,
look for tiny red worms in the droppings.
If they’re there drench with a pint of
raw linseed oil containing three table-
spoonfuls of turpentine well shaken up.
Repeat in a fortnight.
“The Swede”: October is too late for
sowing onions in N. S. Wales, but leeks
are a good substitute and can be sown
now. Crystal Apple cucumbers go well
in salads also and can be sown around
Sydney during October, as can Imperial
847 and Imperial 44 lettuce and Rapid
Red or Early Wonder beetroot. French
beans, beetroot, carrot, lettuce, parsnips,
silver beet, tomatoes and peppers can be


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
MACMILLAN BOOKS
DRAGON SEED
By Pearl S. Buck
The spirit of China at war is symbolised in
this novel. It has the quality and spirit of
“The Good Earth,” and is the story of a people
strong in their determination to carry on the
fight to the end. The scene is the region of
Nanking, and the book deals entirely with
Chinese characters in the period just before and
since the Japanese invasion.
Price 11/6; posted 12/-*
THE LAST ENEMY
By Richard Hillary
A book which not only provides a very vivid
story of war service in the R.A.F., but gives
a clear picture of how the pilot is affected
mentally and spiritually by his adventures.
Starting at Oxford before the war, the author
takes us through the Battle of Britain and
his six months in hospital to the final dramatic
climax of a blitz on London. By turn humorous
and tragic, the book is an essentially human
document.
Richard Hillary was born in Sydney in 1919,
but has lived most of his life in England.
Price 10/6; posted 11/-.
RANDOM HARVEST
By James Hilton
The author of “Lost Horizon” and “Mr. Chips”
at his best. Fourth printing of Australian
edition now in the press.
Price 8/6; posted 9/-.
These books may be obtained from booksellers;
wholesale only from
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD,,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON, W.C.2.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY. HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
BILLABONG
HAND, POWER
AND
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
dg
DESIGNED TO
MEET THE
STATION OWNER’S
and
Farmer’s Requirements
SEND TO THE MAKERS' FOR ALL
PARTICULARS
JOHN DANKS&son
Ply. Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
m
3 V
EOT
mlm
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot aod Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. ———— Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
sown anywhere in the State this month.
Cabbages and peas on the tablelands, with
early potatoes. Melons in all districts,
and cucumbers, marrows and pumpkins
in parts where frost danger is passed.
“Plane Creek”: Where the spring isn’t
too hot peas may be planted in a good
light loam, well drained. They like steady
moisture and surface sprinklings of horse-
manure or meatworks fertiliser. Grow
’em along a netting fence, or cut some
No. 8 plain wire into 4ft. 6in. lengths and
bend into rings or hoops like rabbitskin
frames. Place the hoops along the
drills, one leg to each side of the drill,
and run a cord along each side halfway
up and another along the top. Where
staking is out of the question earth up
the young plants and encourage them to
support each other. Greenfeast, Daisy
and Yorkshire Hero are worth a trial.
“Doody”: Chaff- and cement-bags can
be used for shed-building. Open them
out, stretch very tightly over the frame-
work and nail down with |in. clout tacks.
Then make a mixture of water, Hgal.;
cement, 121 b. ; lime, 521 b.; salt, 11b.;
alum, £lb. Put salt and lime together
through a fine sieve to mix materials and
get rid of lumps. Add the water and
then the cement, stirring while adding,
and finally the alum. Wet the stretched
bags with water and apply the mixture
without delay, first on the outside and
then on the inside, using a fairly stiff
brush. Before the mixture sets, but after
the initial wetness disappears, apply a
second coat to the outside. When this
sets, the bags will be hard and stiff like
plaster board. Subsequent coatings make
a stronger board.
“Jordan Avon”: “Not more than three
men and three dogs necessary to dip
sheep” (B. 16 /9 / ’42)! I put 700 through
a home-made shower dip in three hours
with only two dogs to help. The dip’s
been in use nine years, has dipped about
3000 a year and I’ve not lost more than
one or two sheep. Capacity of the pen
is about 60 head, and the original cost,
including the pump, was about £2O; I
used a lot of cast-off material.
“Litch”: P. H. Wake, of Holmlee, Gil-
gandra (N.S.W.), got 402 lambs from 300
Border Leicester ewes, a lambing per-
centage of 134. Anybody beat it? .
“B. E. Lubula”: There’ll be a certain
quantity of baling wire for this season’s
hay. Get the order into the supplier
now, as he has to order from the distri-
butor, and at the same time send a dupli-
cate of the order to the Director of
Supply. Axes have also been released for
genuine needs.
“Myrrhee”: Banyule Tiddlewinks 26th,
a four-year-old Jersey cow owned by
Banyule Stud, Wangaratta, created a
record in this year’s Victorian standard
herd test with 9351 b. of butterfat in 273
days. The previous best for a junior
four-year-old was 7381 b.
“Mullengah”: Iceland has 700,000
sheep, and from the milk the natives
make butter, cheese and skyrt, a concoc-
tion of their own. Reindeer, which have
a lactation of seven to eight months a
year, are milked three times a day.
Cheese and butter are made from the
milk, which is also mixed With herbs and
berries, frozen and stored. I was im-
pelled to look this up after a visit to
Blayney (N.S.W.), where nothing but a
reindeer could stand the cold.
Outback Occasions.
No. 58.
Pasture Improvement.
Father came home from the Agricul-
tural Bureau meeting full of the idea,
though we boys didn’t know he had it
until next morning, when he sat at break-
fast and stared thoughtfully out of the
kitchen window.
“There’s your porridge, dear,” said our
mother.
“Clover,” answered .Father,
“What, dear?”
“Subterranean, mixed with perennial
rye an’ p’raps some cocksfoot, or Wim-
mera rye for the higher land.”
Our brother and I looked at each
other. Mother looked at Father and
then walked to him and put her hand
gently on his shoulder and said “Eat your
porridge, dear.”
“Eh?” said Father, startled ; then he
gave a silly sort of grin and picked up
his spoon.
“What were you thinking of?” Mother
asked as he got on with his breakfast.
“Well, there was one of them depart-
ment blokes there last night talkin’ about
P.I. He reckoned we ought t’ try it, if
only on a few acres for a beginnin’. We
could give it a go in the Little Paddock.”
The Little Paddock was a 40-acre patch
below the house, a sort of corner piece
in which we ran the house cows, the
working horses, the dogs, chooks, cats
and other insects that hung round our
place. It was heavily timbered with dead
box and gum, having been rung many
years before, with a few green shelter
trees.
Father said that, according to the de-
partment bloke, we could turn that pad-
dock into an improved pasture, get
meadow hay from it and fatten lambs
or vealers there. But we’d have to get
the timber off, and since firewood was a
good price and we boys hadn’t much to
do we could start on it at once. That
was the worst of Father’s ideas, they
generally meant a lot of hard work for
us boys.
Well, we tore into that timber with
axe and crosscut and stacked it in a
corner near the house. Father said we
wouldn’t bother about grubbing the
stumps, just burn out what we could and
leave the rest, since it was only to be a
grazing paddock, and we’d cut for hay
with a mower which could go round
the stumps.
After we’d carted off the timber and
emu-bobbed the rubbish, we tore the pad-
dock up with a mouldboard, harrowed it,
rolled it and left it. The chooks had a
great time, but the house cows and the
rest of them showed distress. They’d
come to regard that 40 acres as a sort
of home —one old cat, who’d lived in a
hollow gum for years, mourned round
the place with a lost air for weeks.
By the following autumn there was a
good cover of grass on the paddock, and
Father sheeped it off, then worked it up
with the scarifier, and we boys sowed the
pasture.
Then the fun began. Father had
strainecf up the fence and fixed the gates
but he couldn’t keep the chooks out. He
swore they were scratching up his seed
and threatened to shoot them, and
Mother said if he did he could go egg-
less and cakeless. She wasn’t going to
buy eggs in the town at the prices they
charged. This meant that we boys had
to keep shooing the blessed chooks out
of that paddock until Father finally gave
in and spent money on netting to build
a chook yard. Winter merged into early
spring.
One bright August morning I got up
and went outside. The sun was bright
but there were a few wisps of fog about,
and over in the 40 acres I saw a man
crawling about on his hands and knees.
I rushed inside and got our brother. He
looked at the crawling figure, and rushed
and got the shotgun and yelled to Father.
Father didn’t come, but Mother did, and
she stood on the verandah a long time
watching the man crawling about, and
then she said in a weary sort of tone “IPs
only your father. He’s looking for his
pasture.”
Marvelling, we went to him. “See if
you can see any,” he said.
Our brother and I crawled around in
the wet grass, peering closely at the
ground. Every time we found a plant
that looked different we’d call Father,
and he’d come and look closely at it.
He’d turn it over and concentrate, and
then say “No, it’s just another blasted
weed.”
From then on, if you happened to
come to our place, you’d find Father
or one of us boys or both of us or all
three crawling around in that 40 acres.
It got that way that neighbors used to
stand up in their saddles riding past to
see us, and often two or three would
hang their horses up at the road fence
and come across and watch us and pass
silly remarks. Some of them would be
honestly interested, and to them we'd
explain and show them patches of clover
and rye that we had marked and talk
learnedly about P. 1., for by this time we
boys had so much of it from Father
that we could turn on a speech about
it at any moment, like a politician and
often with as little excuse and as little
knowledge.
The sceptics and the mockers wed
treat with disdain. Once they started
being funny we’d rise with supreme
dignity and walk calmly to the house
and turn old Beezer loose. Beezer
was a cattle-dog with an ineradicable dis-
like for visitors. He wouldn’t bite ’em,
but he’d rush up with a bloodthirsty grin
on his dial and the visitors would walk
backwards to the road and get on their
horses and ride away, muttering things
about pasture cranks and their blasted
tripehounds.
Well, it all turned out well in the end.
Our 40-acre pasture did well, and the
department bloke arranged a field day,
and our Father was the envy and admira-
tion of the district, and our mother and
sister had a royal time dispensing tea and
cakes to the mob, and we boys sat around
with lofty looks, while our dogs strutted
importantly among the visiting dogs and
threw earth over their backs and made
gestures and generally saw that nobody
stole an acre or so of ground, old Beezer
lying morosely on the chain with an evil
glint in his eye.


DlttTON
SOLID TOOTH
CIRCULAR SAWS
fat* (Voati.
For full information, see your dealer or write to —
HENRY DISSTON & SONS,
Pty. Ltd.
78 Vine St., Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W.
BOX 47, CHIPPENDALE P.O.
CUTTING COSTS
Disston Experience in the manufacture
of QUALITY Saws, Disston Research in
metallurgy, Disston Engineering and
Disston Steel, give you the saws that
help you REDUCE COSTS.
Regardless of the kind of wood you cut
or how you cut it—Disston can provide
a better saw to help you REDUCE
COSTS, make a better product, make
more profits.
Disston Saws have been developed and
improved to meet modern needs.
Disston Solid Tooth Circular Saws range
in diameters from 4 to 78 inches.
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF UACKACHES
[This OM Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It Is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
3 pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds of
Waste matter.
If your kidneys don't work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffin ess under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
is wrong with the kidneys or bladder. _
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS I. . •
Used successfully the world over by millions
of people suffering with backache and other
kidney disorders. They give quick relief and
Will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes. So he sure you get DOAN a SAUv*'
A£HE KIDNEY DILLS.
Our Service Department
Wants.
Position wanted as working manager or
similar, cattle station, by married man, 32,
exempt; life exp. breeding, fattening, buying,
etc.; some years as manager; refs. Reply
“Cattle,” P.O. Box 3288PP, Sydney.
To buy, new or second-hand, any standard
book on lino cuts, engraving and printing.—
3315.
To buy new or serviceable second-hand bath-
heater of the immerser type .-^3316.
Information Sought.
(1) What benefits does a member of the A.I.F.
0 married) receive over a member of the A.M.F.
in ordinary military service ? (2) When dis-
charged or repatriated ? (3) In the case of death
on active service ? (4) Is it possible for a
member of the A.M.F. to transfer to the A.I.F.
without his wife’s consent ? Is there a military
riding on this point?
(1) The only difference is that a member of
the A.I.F. when overseas is not obliged to pay
income tax on his military pay. (2) A member
of the A.I.F. is entitled to repatriation benefits
and so far a member of the A.M.F. is not. (3)
If a member of the A.I.F. is killed in action
his dependants are entitled to pension; if a
member of the A.M.F. is killed in action his
dependants are so far entitled only to compen-
sation. Both (2) and (3) are under considera-
tion by the Government and may be altered.
(4) Yes. The military authorities will not with-
hold the transfer on account of a wife’s objec-
tion.
(1) What members of the present War Cabinet
have seen active service ? (2) What other
Ministers ?
(1) Mr. Dedman (War Organisation of Indus-
try), 1914-18. (2) Mr. Lawson (Transport) and
Senator Cameron (Aircraft Production), in the
Boer War.
* * * *
(1) Who first conceived the idea of building
the Suez Canal? (2) Who controls the canal?
(1) The earliest Egyptians and medieval
Venetian merchants toyed with the idea, and
the Egyptians actually did join the Red Sea to
the Nile by a series of navigable canals, but
these the sands soon filled up. Napoleon
dreamed of a canal that would enable him to
wrest India from the English, and had a survey
made. Ferdinand de Lesseps, French Vice-
Consul in Egypt, finally put the project through,
backed by Napoleon HI. (2) The British Gov-
ernment is the largest stockholder in the Suez
Canal Cos., but it does not control the canal,
and Frenchmen, in 1939, were in the majority
on the board of directors.
* * * *
Can Australia build up an export trade with
Asiatic countries after the war? As exports
must be paid for by imports, it would appear
difficult for a country of 7,000,0Q0 population
to buy enough from (say) China to balance her
trade. How is this balance achieved where
imports are greatly in excess of exports ?
Countries don’t have to balance their trade
with each other exactly. Australia has always
bought more from the U.S.A. than she has sold
to that nation. When the trade with all
countries is totalled it tends to balance. So it
is with China.
* * * *
Population of the 20 largest cities of Europe,
including the British Isles?
London 8,655,000, Paris 4,933,855, Berlin
4,332,242, Moscow 4,137,018, Leningrad
3,191,304, Vienna 1,918,462, Hamburg 1,682,220,
Budapest 1,585,678, Barcelona 1,399,000, Rome
1,348,700, Warsaw 1,265,700, Milan 1,219,240,
Madrid 1,194,000, Glasgow 1,126,000, Birming-
ham 1,029,700, Naples 925,325, Istanbul 883,599,
Prague 848,823, Kiev 846,293, Copenhagen
843,168. These are pre-war figures taken from
The World Almanac.
Recipe for Scotch pancake?
Take one cup of flour, two tablespoons fine
oatmeal, two cups milk, two eggs, one table-
spoon lard (or dessertspoon butter), castor
sugar. Make batter with milk, flour, meal and
eggs, beating well as milk is added slowly, and
leave for an hour or more. Put batter into
jug,' melt fat in pan (just enough to cover
bottom of pan), pour in a little batter and cook.
When brown, toss and turn. Serve with lemon-
juice or sugar.
* * * *
Is there any confirmation of the story of
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s famous leap at the
Blue Lake, Mt. Gambler, S.A. ? What made
him attempt the feat?
There are various stories concerning Gordon’s
leap. His companion or companions at the time
the leap was made, his reason for making it,
even the name of the horse he rode, vary in the
different accounts. John Cameron, who was
born at Penola station near by in 1850, and
was in his teens at the time of the leap, made
a statement which appeared in the Melbourne
“Sun” on February 29, 1924. He says that,
at a club meeting in the hotel parlor following
a day’s hunting with the local hounds, members
were discussing bygone hunting exploits, and
at length Gordon offered to bet anyone in the
room £IOO that they would not follow him on
the following day. Bob Learmonth at once
took up the wager. Learmonth was the owner
of Ettrick station in the western district, and
also owner and rider of Ingleside, then one
of the finest steeplechasers in Australia. He
had won the steeplechase at Flemington on
November 5, 1865. Gordon’s horse was
Modesty, a splendid little mare and a sterling
jumper that had been taught many tricks by
Gordon. They went out the following day and
Gordon finally led the way towards the southern
and steep portion of the Blue Lake, suddenly
wheeled Modesty around and put her to the
fence. Learmonth, as he saw him, exclaimed
“Good God, man, you’re mad!” Modesty
jumped the four-foot fence and then stood still
in her tracks with only a yard to spare. It
was a trick she had been taught, but this in
no way detracted from the feat. To get back
Gordon led her three or four panels further on
where the space was just a little wider and
there was room for a couple of strides. Then
she jumped back again. Learmonth did not
follow. Another account is that a party of
horsemen, of whom Gordon was one, was
returning from a hunt, Gordon, as was his
wont, riding some distance behind. One, look-
ing back, saw the road clear. Then Gordon
was seen sitting on his horse near the edge ot
the precipice, and though none saw the leap
tney knew it had been accomplished.
* * * ,
Where was the first recorded horserace for
a stake run in Australia?
. R |gular horseracing in Australia was started
m Sydney by officers of the 73rd regiment.
hey obtained use of the northern portion of
the land now known as Hyde Park, and
iatigue parties from the regiment formed the
track which was laid out from Market-street
to St. James s-road, thence past St. Mary’s to
Park-street. Here on October 15, 17 and 19,
1810, were held the races for stakes. For the
opening event the stake was a plate of 50
guineas, given by subscribers to the Sydney
racecourse.
* * * *
What is the origin of and the reason for the
wearing of the star emblem on the shoulder-
straps of officers, commonly known as the
pip ?
It is a replica of the Star of the Knight Grand
Cross of the Military Division of the Order of
•icon l, ltS P resent f° rrn it came into being
in 1880. Before that year it existed in much
the same forms with various exceptions. The
base of the design is a square star of 20
straight rays—three at the top and bottom,
three at each side, and two more between
each of the threes. On the square is borne
a Cross Pattee (this is a cross in which the
arms, narrow at the centre, grow wider). On
the centre of the cross within a wreath of
laurel leaves without berries is a circlet edged
and inscribed “Tria juncta in uno” (Three
joined into one). Inside the motto are three
devices often mistaken for acorns. These are
the Albert Crowns, and the badge should
always be worn with the two crowns in line
above the third. The relationship between the
motto “Three joined into one” and the Albert
Crowns is not clear, but Lt.-Col. A. E. Burgess,
who proffers the history of the emblem in the
military journal “Salt,” is of the opinion that
this represents the union of the three countries,
England, Scotland and Wales. The reason for
the wearing of the “pips” is that the replica
of the Order of the Bath was adopted as the
badge of an officer as set out in Regulations.
* * * *
(1) Can a man marry his deceased wife’s
sister s daughter ? (2) Any legal objections ?
(3) Are the marriage laws in this respect the
same in all the States ?
(1) It is within the prohibited degrees of con-
sanguinity. (2) In N.S.W. such a marriage can
be declared void during the lifetime of the
parties. (3) The law is the same in all the
States except South Australia, where such a
marriage is legal, and Westralia, where it is
void from the beginning.
Brief Answers.
V.1.D.: In the case of two wives the D.F.O.
would decide the degree of dependency on
information disclosed and make a decision
accordingly. He is the authority A.G.W.:
The Imperial Policy Group has no agencies.
Its “Review” can be obtained only by writing
direct (with 245. sterling) to Review of World
Affairs, 11 London, S.W.I
V.L.: Impossible to give an opinion on the de-
scription. Suggest sending magneto to Bowring
and Stubbs, 31 a’Beckett-street, Melbourne,
if car or truck is engaged on defence work or
essential service, such as primary producing.
Otherwise most firms in Melbourne are not
permitted to handle it. If not engaged in
essential service, get in touch with W. Smith,
Little Latrobe-street, Melbourne Sawyer
Bill: Purpose of this department is to supply
facts, not to offer political opinions... .Victor
Chester; So far as available records go the two
ladies never met or corresponded W.J.L.:
A copy of ‘the Commonwealth of Australia
Constitution Act 1900 should be obtainable from
the Government Printer, Canberra, F.C.T.
Should, not cost more than a few shillings
Hads: (1) He can be sued and judgment obtained,
but execution cannot be levied without the
consent of the Court. (2) The article is and
always was the property of the original pur-
chaser. (3) Yes... .Meander; There were two
full regiments of Light Horse in action in
France from early 1916 until end of the war.
These were made up of 13th L.H., two squad-
rons of 4th L.H. and Ist Squadron of Otago
Mtd. Rifles (N.Z.), forming the 22nd Corps
Troops. Both regiments retained their horses
throughout, and carried out numerous mounted
duties —generally by squadrons —and on occa-
sions used Hotchkiss guns with the infantry.
Few opportunities occurred- for concerted action
as regiments, but much Work was performed
in dispatch riding, road control, and, when open
warfare occurred as in the later Somme battles,
reconnaissance and drawfire stunts.


mm
Water
Australia's life blood
Arteries of water! These are the pressing
need of Australia if it is to achieve its right-
ful place among the peoples of the world.
It must conserve its water supply for its
people and provide bountiful irrigation for
millions of thirsty acres. With modern Cater-
pillar Diesel and Waugh & Josephson Earth-
Moving Equipment, building a large dam or
a pipeline across country or providing an
irrigation scheme. . . once the work of years
... is now possible in months.
In constructing vital water supply schemes
Caterpillar Tractors, wielding big, brutish
bulldozers, clear away trees, stumps and rocks
and remove millions of yards of earth to build
the dams. Multi-scooped ditchers powered by
Caterpillar Diesel Engines, cut the trench for
the pipeline. Then the tractors, with winches
and sidebooms, swing the pipe into position
for welding, cradle it for doping and wrap-
ping, lower it, cover it. . . backfill the trench.
In water conservation and irrigation,
essential tasks that go towards building
of a nation, Caterpillar Diesel Tractors
Earth-Moving Equipment have cut
what could be achieved by
.without wasting time or
as in a hundred other
the pride and prosperity
and Waugh & Josephson
costs to a fraction of
older methods... and
manpower.
iil
,
Biiiii
®iimi
wSHiliSi
CATERPILLAR
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH-
MOVING EQUIPMENT **
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters. Sydney. 'Phone: LA3321; Marquis St., Gunnedah.
Phone: Gunnedah 326. Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge
St., South Grafton; Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie. 'Phone; Port Macquarie
81; Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. Phone: J 1456; Rankin Street, Innisfail. ‘Phone: Inmsfail 475
Sili
I
Si
CT.5-33-42
&
3*
*4*
More and more people are smoksng
CRAVGNA
every day
quality always tells!
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
3D14
SPECIALLY
PR EV ENT SORE THROATS
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. Mo.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —
J.A.G.: —
“Imagine they’re potatoes!” blares a statement from
the press,
Suggesting we should mix some parsley with a
boiling mess
Of macaroni. Wholewheat for the roughage does
yon good.
There’s nothing better for your ills than little flakes
of wood.
... .H.L.: Keep at it... .P.P.: Only the faintest
glimmer of poetry in “Spring Cleaning” and
not a spark in the “Ash-tray”... .S.J.M.: To
take only one phrase of it, “sustenance won
is crude jargon and a clumsy inversion....
A.M.: Picture of Adolf in hell is a heavenly
thought but a helluva poem J.A.L.: The
end’s feeble... .P.M.C.; Send housewife,
kiddies, chickens, lambs, duster, broom, hubby,
etc., to a woman’s paper A.D.: “Potential
completely ruins its potentialities... .P.O’D.:
The only touch of originality in that string ot
platitudes is the attempt to rhyme “once” and
“months” M.M.: If you want us to read
about someone sucking the sacred honey, don t
write it so that at first glance it
“rucked the racted honey”... .8.R.C.: “The
Storm”’ blew itself 0ut....D.8.: Rough
G.G.: Send stamps if you want the stuff re-
turned ... .H.M.C.: There’s no need to be quite
as austere as all that M.A.: It might be
sound argument, but it’s not a story S.L.R. :
“The quality of this may surprise you.” It
did, unpleasantly... .W.J.G.; That drought
story arrived on a day when we had to sit m
the office with our feet in a mustard bath to
cure the ’flu we’d caught paddling to work the
week before... .8.F.: Flapper fodder, and
lacking vitamins even as that... .T.R.: A
30,000-word story that “may find a corner m
your journal.” Have you never heard of paper
rationing? ... .E.C.: Bilge... .C.T.S.: Dull and
depressing.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.J.L.; Gag is a clumsy heavyweight, draw-
ing the frailest of lightweights... .P.L.: Over
the years that drunk has been paying fares
for that crayfish he must have bought a couple
of trams 8.T.H.: The month’s wildest bit
of wash-slinging... .C.J.: Is it an enlarged
procession caterpillar or a debilitated croco-
dile?... .G.S.P.; You send in a sketch in in-
delible pencil of something remotely resembling
a male biped biting something that remotely
resembles a canine,. label it “News” and want
us to buy it!... .Bert C.: It’s a far, far better
thing you do than you have ever done before,
but it’s still 90 p.c. below publication standard.
....Horace: At least you might remove some
of the blood from the butcher’s wrapping-
paper, Horace, before committing that weird
system of scratches to it.
“If inflation comes.... it will come be-
cause the purchasing power of the whole
country, flowing out chiefly in the form
of higher wages, has increased out of all
proportion to the volume of goods and
services available.... And if inflation
comes it will be the workers whose high
wages will buy less and less the higher
they go.” The New York “Times” said
it. Curtin and Chifley should ponder it.
» * * *
Sharing the perils of the war, as Mr.
Curtin urged Australia to do, is only
right and proper. All the same, there
seems to be no reason why Australia
should be the only Allied nation with
the peril of the Premiers.
V * * *
Captain Frederick French, whose last
trip to Sydney just before the war started
was in the P. and O. Co.’s Stratheden, is
now Sir Frederick in recognition of his
war services. As commodore of food
convoys he has made so many trips
that he is estimated to have covered
100,000 miles in that capacity, with re-
markably small losses. Two brothers
have received honors within the last six
months, one posthumously.
* * * *
“First Fleet” on early-day rationing:
In the hungry times on Port Jackson which
the first White Australians had to endure, one
of the hardest jobs Governor Phillip and his
officers encountered was to impress upon the
convicts camped by Sydney Cove that their
weekly ration had to last for seven days. A
good many of them, especially when the allow-
ance was reduced to its starvation minimum,
managed to get through all their provisions in
three or four days, and for the rest of the
week could only provide for themselves by
stealing from their companions or by appealing
to their charity. David Collins tells a story in
his New South Wales of one of them who
made his week’s dole of flour (81b.) into 18
cakes, which he wolfed at one sitting. “He
was soon after taken speechless and senseless
and died the following day at the hospital.”
Captain Trench says: “If a lucky man who
had knocked down a dinner with his gun, or
caught a fish by angling from the rocks, in-
vited a neighbor to dine with him the invitation
always ran ‘bring your own bread. ” Even at
Government House guests were expected to do
as much as this.
« * * r ’
Westralia, with about a sixth of
the population of N. S. Wales, raised
£292,700 last year for hospitals by means
of a small income tax, and is to receive
£275,000 or so from the Commonwealth
as a set-off. Kelly, the N.S.W. Minister
of Health, had the face to declare that
uniform income taxation would make it
impossible for his Government to find
£269,000 for hospitals “every year,” and
that his estimates for the current year
had been cut to £112,000. McKell hastily
explained that Kelly must have been
misreported.


fan you
rely upon
an individual ?
A Trustee should administer your Estate to
the greatest advantage of your beneficiaries,
a task needing business wisdom, constant
devotion of time to the duties involved over
a considerable period, and sound technical
knowledge. He must be completely trust-
worthy. Should you find a friend possessing
all these qualifications and appoint him
Trustee—he may die before completing his
duties—age may sap his wisdom—misfortune
may befall him.
But should you nominate The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited,
these circumstances cannot arise. Consti-
tuted under Act of Parliament, and answer-
able to the Courts, it is absolutely trustworthy.
It devotes its whole time and energy to the
administration of Trusts. It has the necessary
knowledge of the technicalities relating to
Trusts, is controlled by Directors of proved
capacity, and , . . the Company “goes on
for ever”.
Charges are moderate. For details write or
call upon;
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
* Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
- Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French,
r Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes
and Agency Company Ltd .
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£> £> £,£,£,
’36 194,702 10ip.c.= 135,760 58,942 223,808
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 277,808
’37 218,179 14,207 10 p.c.= 143,200 60,772 338,580
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 392,580
’3B 240,055 55,477 10 p.c.= 159,000 25,578 418,158
Patent rights, £2821 415,337
Development exes., £19,152 . . .. 396,185
’39 238,025 60,000 10.1 p.c.=162,000 16,025 412,210
’4O 273,925 60,000 10.7 „ „ 172,000 41,925 454,135
’4l 242,105 60,000 9.4 „ „ 208,000 428,240
’42 243,554 60,000 7.3 „ „ 162,000 21,554 449,794
Certainly the return to the ords. is less
than it was. But there is satisfaction
for shareholders in that the £2,028,000 of
share and premium money put up during
the five years to the close of accounts
in 1941 has enabled the co. to make sub-
stantial and important contributions to
the war effort, as well as render Aus-
tralia’s post-war position practically
secure so far as kraft and paper-board
are concerned.
In exchange for its own scrip, the co.
took over the working assets of Austra-
lasian Paper and Pulp (Melb.) and Cum-
berland Board Mills (Syd.) in 1926. After
nearly 10 years of research, it decided
to manufacture from Australian timbers
much of the pulp previously imported.
So land was acquired and a mill erected
for the purpose at Maryvale (Vic,), and
fast-running machines were set up along-
side to turn out 30,000 tons of high-grade
wrapping papers, container board, corru-
gated papers, etc. It was to meet outlay
here and provide additions and replace-
ments at the Melbourne, Fairfield and
Bradford (Vic.) and Botany (N.S.W.)
plants that shareholders put up the money
referred to.
Before all the new equipment could
get into full swing war broke out. This
shut off imports of long-fibre pulp from
Finland and Scandinavia, set costs on the
up-grade and progressively increased the
demands of the taxgatherer ; but it also
gave the co. practically total protection
in the expanding local market and created
new demands for service requirements,
including manufacture of special sub-
stances for explosives. Thus the call
for the co.’s products has run ahead of
production, despite the fact that paper
and board output expanded from 89,000
tons in 1939 to 128,776 tons last term,
when the increase was 3175 tons. The
co. annually requires over 70,000 tons
of waste-paper or suitable substitutes,
and, although a lot of straw is being
used, it isn’t getting them, owing to news-
print rationing and straw shortage. Such
long-fibre pulp as is still required from
abroad about 30,000 tons p.a.—has
been secured until June, 1943, under
Lend-Lease from North America, delivery
being subject, of course, to shipping space
and possibly enemy action.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, more than 70 p.c. of
total output was used for making muni-
tions and war equipment and for pack-
ing military supplies ; the balance helped
to meet essential business and consumer
needs. A Government annexe at Mary-
vale increased mill capacity there by 5000
tons of pulp p.a, and all local produc-
tion to some 45,000 tons; and substi-
tutes for many imported lines were pro-
vided under arrangement with the Divi-
sion of Import Procurement. At Botany
more board could have been produced
had the straw been available. There
was an increase in selling prices, but the
Prices Commissioner’s margins aren’t
enough to cover present high landed cost
of imported pulps and enable the holding
cos. to pay the 8 p.c. they used to. A.P.
and P. owns 77.6 p.c. and Cumberland
22.4 p.c. of the working co.’s ords., the
prefs. representing the public’s direct in-
terest.
After allowing an extra £11,624 for
depreciation (£246,554, equal to 8.8 p.c.
of book value of fixed assets at June 30),
gross earnings (£598,995) were £3565
lighter. Exes. (£355,441, including un-
specified taxation—£2oo,677 in 1941) were
pulled back £5014. The net result (up
£1449) was enough to pay the pref. div,
and show 8.3 p.c. on ord. capital. The
div. was lowered from 9.4 p.c. to 7.3 p.c.,
which represents little more than 6 p.c.
on the holding cos.’ ord. capital, and
their own ord. distribution has been re-
duced to the same even percentage.
Finances, in improved shape, reflect the
expanded activities:
Paid capital— 1935. 1941. 1942.
Pref £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Ord 1,600,000 2,200,000 2,200,000
Mortgages.. .. 16,319 16,290
Loans, etc. .. 33,937 152,984 109,673
Other creditors .. 119,199 427,717 628,947
Tax reserve, etc. .'. 113,197 200,000 200,000
Freeholds and plant 1,708,127 2,943,973 2,785,020
Shares other cos... 23,242 23,242 23,240
Stock . . . . 990,950 1,002,012 1,178,743
Book debts .. 368,314 544,305 670,492
Cash, etc 302,302 45,727 58,208
To carry an extra £176,731 of stocks,
add £126,187 to debtors’ balances and
repay £43,311 of depositors’ money, the
co. leant upon its bankers and others for
an additional £201,230. Leaving share-
holdings and the tax provision out of
the reckoning, the year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,152,533) was £157,509.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re— Re—
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £>£>£>
1932. 62,242 8 p.c. = 50,000 ) 1Q 10Q
Provident fund, £2OOO ) 10,242 100,371
1933.. 71,575 8 p.c. = 50,000 ), a ~, Q .„
Provident fund. £3OOO t 18,575 118,946
1934.. 69,255 8 p.c. = 50,000 K
Provident fund. £2500 t 16,755 135,701
1935. . 83,539 8 p.c. = 57,115 ) 23 g 24 159 625
Provident fund. £2500 i Zd,a24 109,02!>
1936.. 93,739 8 p.c. = 67,416 ) m 004 183 449
Provident fund, £2500 ( 23,824 ™ ’
1937. . 134,118 10 p.c. = 104,167 )97 451 910 900
Provident fund. £2500 f ’ *
1938.. 102,555 8 p.c. = 90,101 \ 9 954 220,854
Provident fund, £2500 J
1939. . 140,669 10 p.c. = 125,000 1.0 1 M 934 023
Provident fund, £2500 ( 1 ’ ’
1940. . 133,307 8 p.c. = 113,115 ),, o^-1715
Provident fund. £2500 J 17,692 25 ’
1941.. 138,683 8 p.c. = 120,000 tin too 9R7 o qs
Provident fund, £2500 V 16,183 267 > 898
1942. . 113,360 7$ p.c.= 112,500 (
Provident fund, £2500 j ' SOC,,ZJB
Like all other traders, the breweries have
been caught up in the steadily widening
network of Government war-time con-
trols. Competition in the trade used to
take the form of buying up hotel free-
holds, thus widening and anchoring turn-
over. But limitation of capital expendi-
ture on property purchases, building and
additions and extensions has called a
halt to development in this direction.
Although the plan for direct limitation
of dividends to 4 p.c. on shareholders’
funds has been abandoned, prices are
still controlled, indirectly limiting trading
profits because of higher outgoings. And
the recent restriction of beer production to
two-thirds of the Jan.-Feb. level will cut
out any saving which might have shown
up in unit costs through expansion of
production.
Lifts in excise are passed on to the
hotelkeeper and then over the counter to
the public, mainly by way of reduction
in the size of containers. What hand-
some contributors the breweries are to
public revenue can be judged from the
fact that excise on beer, Is. 9d. per gallon
pre-war, was stepped up to 2s. in Sept.,
1939, 2s. 9d. Nov., .1940, 3s. Sept., 1941,
and now 4s. 7d. Another factor which
won’t assist brewery earnings through the
hotel section of the business is austerity
restrictions on the number of courses and
prices for meals. Stretching the nation’s
supply of labor by man-power regulations
has added to the difficulties, too.
Between them this co. and Queensland
Brewery used to supply most of the beer
consumed in the northern State, where
there has lately been a marked increase
in demand, owing to special causes. No
hint is given as to the extent to which the
co. shares in the canteen business. The
slip of £25,323 in net earnings was due
mainly to provision of an extra £lB,OOO
for taxation (£llB,OOO, or £7140 more than
was earned for shareholders), and partly
to increased operating costs. The £113,360
of profit shown was a wink over 7.5 p.c.
on capital as against 9.2, 9.4, 11.2, 9.1
(a strike year), 12.7 and 11,1 p.c. back to
1936. Half a point was chipped off the
div., reducing it to 7\ p.c., the final being
at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a. The allowance
for depreciation was £12,603 ; and it’s
safe to wager a keg or two that this
wasn’t the only provision of its kind.
Furniture and plant in hotels (these figure
in the accounts at over a million and a
half) have a book value of only £2717.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1935. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid £ £ £ £
capital . . 781,250 1,600,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities*.. 251,984 316,898 355,372 883,948
Tax reserve 30,000 106,000 100,000 118,000
Brewery, ■ware-
houses, etc. 329,732 471,720 486,931 505,199
Hotels .. 774,170 1,523,471 1,525,879 1,526,466
Stocks .. 74,244 122,764 126,605 117,972
Debtors .. 64,710 95,159 107,888 110,544
Cash, etc. .. 13,715. 32,237 38,467 63,025
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
Last term secured creditors (£220,797)
increased by £7268 and unsecured and
contingency provisions (£163,151) by
£21,308. On the breweries £18,268 more
was spent than was written off, and cash,
etc., was strengthened by £24,558. When
the books closed the debt visibly ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £92,407, an
increase of £9995 over the twelvemonth.
Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
I Dividends N
T , T P ref - To Re- Re-
July, Loss. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 9,040 Nil Nil _ 23 795
1933.. 3.316 Nil Nil _ 20 479
1934.. 2,395 Nil Nil i 8 !o84
1935.. 3,161 Nil Nil 14 923
Profit. ’
1936.. 3,527 Nil Nil 1
Written off stock, £12,299..$ 6 > 151
16 p.c.
1937.. 10,908 8,000 Nil 2908 9,059
20 p.c.
1938.. 14.001.10,000 Nil 4001 13,060
1939. 10,000 Nil 2319 15,379
1940. 10,000 2J p.c. = 5,000 1384 16,763
8 p.c.
1941. .18,951 4,000 6 p.c. = 12,000 2951 19,714
( Pref. Ord.
8 p.c. 6J p.c. 7 p.c.
1942.. 21.491 4,000 1487 14,000 2004 21,718
Retailers generally enjoyed steadily-
expanding turnover for nearly a decade
to the end of April, when sales became
subject to a quota restriction followed
by clothes-rationing. For some time
before buying had developed into a
scramble, owing to the ill-kept secret of
the step proposed.
The spring in Mutual Store’s gross
earnings (£185,842) was £30,754. Including
£5OOO more for the taxgatherer (£15,000)
and £7597 (up £1615) for depreciation,
exes. (£164,351) took £28,214 of the in-
crease. That left the net result £2540
better at £21,491, the best for 15 years.
It was enough to pay pref. divs. and
show 8 p.c. on the £200,000 of ord. capi-
tal as against 7.5, 6.2, 4.1 and 5 p.c. for
the four preceding years. A point was
added to the div., making it a rather
liberal 7 p.c.—a quick step-up since the
nine years’ drought broke in 1940.
But that doesn’t mean all that it might.
Clothes-rationing has bitten deeply into
turnovers, as this table, showing percent-
age movements in Sydney retail sales
from the same months of the previous
year, indicates:
r —Wearing Apparel—^
Piece- Men’s & Boots &
1942. goods. Women’s. Boys’. Shoes.
March .. +30.1 +41.7 +47.9 +45.2
April .. +56.6 +31.3 +31.3 +46.8
May .. , —7.0 —18.6 —13.7 —9.2
June . . —26.9 —31.3 —34.9 —8.9
July . . —18.9 —25.5 —28.5 —25.4
And Sydney’s experience probably doesn’t
overstate the trend in Melbourne. The
problem will be to get costs back pro-
portionately to the drop in turnover.
Chief savings will come from reduction
of staffs and advertising and replacement
of men by women ; but many items of
overhead will remain more or less fixed.
The Government might, therefore, be
disappointed in its anticipations of the
tax yield from co. profits.
By rationing clothes the Government
has sought to put everybody on an equal
footing quantitatively and at the same
time divert essential materials, money
and man-power to the real business in
hand —a spread of the Adelaide decision
to switch female retail staff between 18
and 26 to war industry can be expected.
Although clothing prices are not directly
fixed, they are subject to indirect control
by the Prices Commissioner ; while wages
have increased, workers will be able
to buy little more than half the annual
quantity of clothes they used to. So
there should be a fresh reservoir for the
Government to tap in the savings thus
brought about. The scheme promises to
work without undue hardship except in
extreme cases, though some of the sar-
torial frills will be cut off life.
During the year £25,000 of fresh 61
p.c. pref. money was gathered and used
to lighten the floating debt:
1936. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £275,000
Liabilities .. 183,352 208,521 246,107 191,772
Tax reserve .. 2,046 10,000 15,000
Property .. 250,675 250,675 250,675 250,675
Plant, etc. . . 45,350 48,600 52,000 50,500
Stock . . . . 100,303 132,629 170,625 168,047
Book debts .. 42,975 53,221 67,623 52,334
Cash .. .. 200 821 900 1,421
When the books closed more or less
liquids exceeded liabilities by £30,030, an
improvement of £36,989 during the 12
months.
V/ilcox, Mofflin, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 1,447 Nil 1,447 18,396
Reserves.
1933.. 24,504 Nil 24,504 6,108
1934.. 39,276 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 19,276 25,384
1935.. 30,128 6.8 „ „ 15,000 15,128 40,512
1936. . 35,680 9.1 „ „ 20,000 15,680 *56.192
Contingency reserve, £13,500 .. •. 60,692
1937.. 45,385 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 25,385 95,077
Loss.
1938.. 91,391 Nil 3 > 6Bb
Profit. _ ...
1939.. 4,120 Nil 4.120 7.806
1940.. 33,552 13.6 p.c. = 30,000 3,552 11,358
1941.. 45,510 13.6 „ „ 30,000 15,510 26,868
1942.. 28,434 9.1 „ „ 20,000 8,434 35,302
A run of very reasonable returns cul-
minated in a loss of £91,391 in 1938.
That is typical of the speculative charac-
ter of the business. An even more out-
size deficiency (£164,575) had showed up
eight years previously, and £lBO,OOO or
capital went overboard to cover it and
other intangibles. Looking back over a
period of 14 years, revenue surpluses or
£301,536 have been earned and £291,781
lost, while the only balm to shareholders
for pajt-disappearance of their capita


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Adyt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Adyt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Ply. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
In the Investment Market,
there’s nothing more attractive than a
LIFE POLICY!
Over a term of years, you will find Life Assurance the most attractive
and dependable investment. It provides constant and sure protection
for your dependants; it guarantees financial security later in life and
it never fails in its purpose .
Write or telephone for detailed particulars and premium rates.
""NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION <fk ASIA LTD
{lnc. in Vic.)
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 1869.
The National Mutual has no shareholders—policyholders alone share its profits.
Branch Offices and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Commonwealth Bank of HustraMa
BALANCE-SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1942.
LIABILITIES.
£ S. d.
Capital Account 4,000,000 0 0
Keserve Fund 3,447,167 0 10
Rural Credits Department—
Capital Account 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 386,127 18 7
Development Fund 35,046 5 0
Deposits, Accrued Interest and Rebate .. 129,949,516 5 6
Special War-time Deposits by Banks .. 36,885,900 0 0
Bills Payable and Other Liabilities .... 14,894,173 3 10
£191,597,930 13 9
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits per Contra .... 1,593,057 16 11
Total General Bank and Rural Credits
Departments 193,190,988 10 8
Note Issue Department 111,950,542 1 2
£305,141,530 11 10
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances .... 5,128,339 15 4
Australian Notes 3,755,637 10 0
Money at Short Call In London 33,773,941 13 4
Investments—
British, Colonial and Government
Securities 11,432,624 7 10
Commonwealth Government Securl- .
ties (Including Treasury Bills) .. 91,418,830 14 3
Bills Receivable in London and Remit-
tances In Transit 9,921,676 18 9
Bills Discounted, Loa%s and Advances to
Customers and Other Assets 35,523,895 2 9
Bank Premises 642,984 11 6
£191,597,930 13 9
Liabilities of Customers and Others on
Letters of Credit per Contra 1,593,057 16 11
Total General Bank and Rural Credits
Departments 193,190,988 10 8
Note Issue Department 111,950,542 1 2
£305,141,530 11 10
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS.FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1942. Or.
£ s. d.
General Bank Department—
To Reserve Fund 263,453 9 11
„ National Debt Sinking Fund .... 263,453 9 XI
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund 23,692 6 6
„ Development Fund 23,692 6 6
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury 1,658,140 11 10
£2,232,432 4 8
e a. d.
By Profits for Tear ended 30th June,
1942, from —
General Bank Department 526,906 19 10
Rural Credits Department 47,384 13 0
Note Issue Department 1,658,140 11 10
£2,232,432 4 8
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from
Statements furnished by the several Offices of the Bank,
Is true and correct.
(Sgd.) E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
(Sgd.) GEO. V. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
(Sgd.) H. X. ARMIXAGB,
Governor.
Sydney. 30th September, 1942,
Note Issue Department.
BALANCE-SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1942.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Notes In Circulation 102,606,368 0 0
Reserve for Notes not Presented 47,058 10 0
Special Reserve —Premium on Gold Sold 7,754,954 10 4
Other Liabilities 1,542,161 0 10
£111,950,542 1 2
ġ
Correct.
(Sgd.) BERTRAND LATHAM,
Secretary, Note Issue Department.
•;Sgd.) GEO. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of th« Board.
(Sgd.) H. T. ABMITAGB,
Governor.
Sydney, 30th September, 1942,
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Bustralia
BALANCE-SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1942.
LIABILITIES.
£ S. d.
Reserve Fund 3,278,046 16 5
Depositors' Balances 164,619,569 0 10
Contingency A/c. an(jl Other (Liabilities 8,062,599 12 0
£175,960,215 9 3
ASSETS.
Coin, Cash Balances and Money at
Short Call
Australian Notes
Government Securities
Securities of Municipalities and Other
Public Authorities
Other Assets
Bank Premises
£ s. d.
17,528,026 13 10
368,107 0 0
121,989,608 19 1
32,072,915 2 3
3,348,589 9 2
652,968 4 11
£175,960,215 9 3
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1942. Cr.
£ s. d.
To National Debt Sinking Fund 184,377 4 3
„ Savings Bank Reserve Fund 184,377 4 3
£368,754 8 6
By Profit for Tear ended 30th June,
1942, after provision for payments
' amounting to £240,531/12/10 due
to State Authorities under Savings
Bank Amalgamation Agreements .. 368,754 8 8
£368,754 8 6
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from
Statements furnished by the several Offices of the Bank,
is true and correct.
(Sgd.) E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
(Sgd.) GEO. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
1
For and on behalf of the Board.
(Sgd.) H. T. AKMITAGB,
Governor.
Sydney, 30th September, 1942.
Certificates as to the correctness of these accounts have been given by the Auditor-General for the Commonwealth
(Mr. R. Abercrombie).
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
has been an average 5 p.c. rate of div.
on the remainder.
The up-and-down character of results
arises because the co. normally buys
wool, hides, furred skins, etc., largely
on its own account and sells them over-
seas. Among other things, this means
carrying heavy and the time lag
leaves earnings open to a wide range of
influences. At the moment, things are on
a more or less stable basis, the Govern-
ment being ultimate purchaser of most
of the commodities handled at fixed
prices. But, though many of the risks
have been eliminated, so have the plums
which might otherwise have been antici-
pated with local sources unable to meet
our own and Britain’s requirements, as
well as those of the U.S.A. (a large buyer
of rabbit- and hareskins), which have
been almost insatiable since the Con-
tinental supply line was snapped.
The rural man-power position is now
affecting the volume of skins coming to
market, but Wilcox Mofflin’s gross profits
showed “little variation” in its lates’
term; it is on the doorstep of higher tax
and wage bills, insurance and A.R.P. ex-
penditure that the decline of £17,076 in
net earnings is laid. The £28,434 shown
was 12.9 p.c. on capital, compared with
20.7, 15.2 and 1.8 p.c. for the three years
before, and the div. was cut from Is. 6d.
to Is. per 11s. share. That left £8434
for visible reserves, which aren’t much
of a balance-wheel.
Expansion of £25,755 in fixed assets
presumably had something to do with
the extra £69,423 of stock being carried:
1937. 19'38 1941, 1942.
Paid capital. . £220,000 £220,000 £220,000 £220,000
Overdraft . . 119,462 162,088 202,207 217,430
Creditors . . 101,974 62,953 121,467 108,993
Fixed assets . . 175,294 183,812 161,403 187,158
Stocks . . 215,926 171,879 234,169 303,592
Book debts . . 150,849 78,630 178,218 82,694
Cash . . . . 1,592 1,555 1,665 1,384
Shares other cos. 12,851 12,851 25,087 26,898
Finance for both was found by net col-
lections of £95,524 from debtors. No im-
pression was made on the co.’s own debt,
equal to 255. 7d. for every pound of
shareholders’ money at stake—a top-
heavy financial structure.
Hal Colebatch, summarised, at Great
Boulder’s recent Perth meeting:
Success of the present management is shown
by the gold yield of 54,0000 z. in 1934 reaching
72,0000 z. in 1937 and 104,0000 z. in 1939. In
1937 profit on actual mining amounted to
£91,000; in 1939, £281,000. Profits having
been distributed before there was any thought
of an excess-profits tax, the co. found
itself with insufficient to meet a claim of
£137,000. This inequitable tax was paid by
borrowing £lOO,OOO from the bank, since re-
paid. Present position is that all tax
assessments received have been paid, and, of a
British one for £52,000 sterling, £24,940 has
been met and the balance will be liquidated
within six months. The British Act provides
for a refund of past excess-profits tax where
profits fall below those of the base year (1937).
Because of man-power shortage, existing profits
are £5OOO to £6OOO a month, so the co.
is now entitled to refunds from the British
Treasury under this head, and these will
more than cover the amount outstanding. At
Dec. 31, 1941, ore reserves amounted to
2,512,035 tons, value s.3dwt. These have since
been reduced by 100,000 tons, illustrating the
necessity for careful management by men who
understand the mine and are anxious that it
should be maintained so as to permit of maxi-
mum employment and production when war
is over. This couldn’t be achieved by a
liquidator who hadn’t any interest in the mine
or the State. Only objection the liquidator
had to surrendering the property to share-
holders appeared to be that he had been unable
to secure agreement between two groups of
shareholders. What that had to do with the
liquidator is difficult to understand. The dis-
affected group the liquidator seemed anxious
to conciliate endeavored to secure representa-
tion on the board, but was defeated by a large
majority.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.M.: Lady Shenton is still in existen.ee,
but dormant. Accounts should soon be avail-
able. .. .Prospector: If bona fide and not just
evading military call-up, no.


\kA'
n
I*-
KNOW THESE FAMOUS
BUILDING
LYSAGHT’S
ORB
BRAND
GALVANIZED IRON
Equal in strength, durability
and quality to the familiar pre-
war sheet, although the well-
known "spangle" finish is miss-
ing. Suitable for water catch-
ment.
LYSAGHT’S
ZiNCANNEAL
A zinc protective coating makes
Zincanneal particularly useful
wherever excessive corrosion
can be expected. Eminently
suitable for all working up pur-
poses and catchment of water.
Note: Any orders for the above two qualities are
subject to Departmental approval, which
will only be granted for water catchment
and storage, and for other purposes where
the use of such sheets is essential.
LYSAGHT’S A lead-coated sheet of great
amh strength that has proved its
IlliUDXi suitability for all general roof-
TtT'O \llT_r'ATrn ing and walling purposes.
' S' NOT suitable for water catch-
BUILDING SHEETS ment.
LYSAGHT’S
CORRUGATED
BLACK IRON
An uncoated all-purpose corru-
gated sheet for roofing and
’walling that offers maximum
strength, rigidity and value.
Suitable paints are available
from the trade for use with
Black Iron.
All sheets, though obviously in
short supply during the war, are made
in all gauges, both corrugated and
plain, to the limit of manufacture.
Ci
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
J
SYDNEY— MELBOURNE BRISBANE —ADELAIDE PERTH
STATE
mm®
*
r
I
VI»
■
r^ts
EXPRESS
mm
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Craze to Drag Down
Insurance cos. are disliked and dis-
trusted by quite a number of people. In
fact, they are a common target for the
trade-union agitator and sometimes for
persons who thrive on the accident
racket. It is not difficult to convince
some people who have been bumped
by a car that they have suffered “severe
nervous shock” and that the shock may
be worth a few hundreds or a thousand
to them. And anti-insurance-co. propa-
ganda is apt to have its effect on verdicts.
Indeed the attitude of jurymen towards
insurance cos. has become so marked
that it is an unwritten law that
the ultimate liability of the co. where a
person is being nominally sued must not
be disclosed during the course of the
action. But the practice of motorists in
taking out third-party cover has become
so general that k can almost be assumed
that an insurance co. is the ultimate
“mark.” It is understandable therefore
that with many offices motor-car business
is as much loss as profit.
In N. S. Wales during the year 1940-
41, in fact, though insurance cos. col-
lected a million and a quarter pounds
from motor-car owners in premiums,
they paid out all but twopence of every
pound collected in claims and expenses
of running the business. Claims apart
from expenses took 13s. 7d. of every £.
The reward the insurance cos. got out of
the year’s operations was nothing like
what the risk warranted.
In the case of workers’ compensation
we have more poor-mouth stuff on the
part of the propagandists. Again the in-
surance cos. were socked, paying out
19s. 2d. altogether for every £ received.
In this case the employer paid the
premium and the employee received the
money.
As regards fire insurance the position
is more in favor of the companies. For
every £ they took from householders, etc.,
to protect them against loss they paid
out 15s 6d. in claims and expenses. But
the cover here cost the public only 6s. Bd.
in the £lOO, and what the offices made
represented more in their pockets than it
did out of policy-holders’. Of course,
there are good and bad years so far as fire
underwriting is concerned. In 1941 con-
ditions were favorable. But in 1939 the
offices paid out over 18s. in the £, and
there is always the possibility of a general
conflagration in one of the cities that will
make past fires look insignificant. That
is why it is necessary from the policy-
holders’ point of view that an office should
make profits. Unless it is able to build
up reserves out of profits it could not
pay out the excessive claims of the really
bad years. And what a property-owner
pays a little extra for—-a few shillings in
the hundred pounds—is absolute security.
He pays for it and he gets it.
Marine insurance is a tricky thing,
and very often it takes years for
claims to be finalised where the circum-
stances of loss are not entirely clear
or where the rights of various parties in-
terested in one ship are difficult to ascer-
tain. Thus it is that insurance offices
allow themselves a wider-than-usual mar-
gin of protection on marine risks, and in
1941 N. S. Wales cos. paid out the com-
paratively low figure of 13s. 3d. in the
£ in respect of marine business. At the
same time the actual losses were higher
than with fire insurance ; it was economi-
cal management that made the margin in
favor of the companies bigger than in
other departments.
Most marine war-risk insurance in
Australia at present is a monopoly of
the Government, trading through the
brokers as the Marine War Risks Insur-
ance Board.
Recently an argument was heard over
war-time marine insurance. Explaining
why an imported article was dearer than
before the war, a retailer told the cus-
tomer that, among other things, the cost
of insurance had risen considerably as
a result of enemy activities at sea. The
customer couldn’t see that he was not
being robbed “just to pay the big insur-
ance companies, which were profiteering
out of the war.” He regarded insurance
cos. as useless parasites. He didn’t
realise that if there were no war-risk
insurance offering at the present time at
least two very disconcerting things might
have happened. In the first case the over-
seas manufacturer might have refused
absolutely to dispatch goods by the peril-
ous routes to Australia, the risk being
too great, and in the second shipments
that were made and which got through
would have to be “loaded” with the cost
of shipments that failed to make port.
Thus all sorts of erratic prices might re-
sult —multiples of the original price where
losses in a particular class of thing were
particularly heavy. As it is, with a
properly administered insurance system,
losses are spread over all classes of goods
at an even rate of premium, and the carry-
ing on of trade at uniform prices for the
same type of article is possible, whereas
otherwise there would be confusion and
dislocation in all importing activities.
Whether rates of premiums for dif-
ferent classes of insurance should be
higher or lower is certainly open tb
debate. It is the same with any service
or commodity. But there is no doubt
about the desirability of insurance. It is
not compulsory for the private individual
to insure his house, yet there was £712
million of cover, for which £2.3 million
was paid, taken out by householders and
others for protection against fire loss in
N.S.W. in 1941.
Insurance is an essential, compli-
cated service, and it is to the ad-
vantage of the public that it be handled
by experts. In some Australian States the
Government has set up in competition
with the private offices, but the latter still
carry on successfully. Most old-estab-
lished insurance concerns pay substantial
dividends to their shareholders, arousing
the envy of critics, but analysis of their
figures usually shows that much of their
profit comes from income from the in-
vestment of earnings retained in the
offices during the earlier years of their
lives. That is where the big head-office
buildings mainly come from. These
buildings are often held out by political
agitators as evidence of excessive profit-
making. Actually they are the invest-
ment of reserves held against the con-
tingency of exceptional losses, and they
are mostly let at rentals that help build
up the general strength of the office.
Shareholders rarely benefit extensively
from theii investment until the security
of policy-holders has been well estab-
lished.
There is a craze at the present time to
drag down institutions that have given
good service in the past on the ground
that private interests are benefiting from
them as well as the general public. Often
as not it isn’t what people imagine they
are losing that worries them ; it is what
someone else appears to be getting. Envy
rather than injury is the basis of their
grouch. This craze is suggestive of
nothing so much as that these institutions
are in advance of the commonsense edu-
cation of the critics.
In B. 9/9/’42 it was stated;
A feature of the Prime Minister’s atti-
tude towards the respective war-time sacri-
fices of “the classes” is a tight-lipped re-
fusal to say one word in praise or recog-
nition of the high tax paid on incomes
above £l5OO a year... .“Capitalists” can
“live on their fat”; they are “profiteers”
notwithstanding price-control and excess-
profits tax; but no one in the present Gov-
ernment will do them the justice of coming
forward and simply explaining the relative
contributions of the various income classes
and leaving the people to judge for them-
selves.
The Prime Minister made amends last
week. At the Labor rally in Sydney
Town Hall he said;
Think of the absentees in the factories,
the hullabaloo because the pubs are shut
and someone is making a profit!
It is not the first time profits were made,
no doubt some of them excessive; but I
put it to you, if you are going to have
a policeman for every unfair transaction
it would not be possible to carry on the
whole social order. There are profits
being made, but these are less than at any c
period in Australia’s history.
The Bulletin puts this on record with
the greatest of pleasure, indicating as it
does a withdrawal from the “Capitalist
wolf and Labor lamb” stuff and an
acknowledgment that Capital and Labor
are both representative of Australia, and
that both have to get into this war job
on a co-operative and mutual-sacrifice
basis for the salvation of Australia as
a nation.


ABOUT FACE
| T is never a mistake to face facts.
“ We Australians have been a waste-
ful people: Australia has been a land
of waste. We have liked to think her
a land of plenty, a land of unlimited
resources, a land in which we could be
prodigal, but now we must “about face.”
Our capacity to meet the demands of
war is not enough unless we save in a
hundred ways. There must be no waste
of any kind: rubber, metals, paper, man-
power or money.
We must save tyres so that our motorised
army may expand. We must save aluminium
for ’planes. We must save scrap steel for the
shipbuilders. We must save paper. We must
save time and labour, for our task is urgent
and the need is great. We must save money,
too, for the War Loans, and to pay our taxes.
The price of war is destruction and waste.
We can pay that price only by sacrificing and
saving as never before in our lives.
The members of the A.M.P. Society have so
saved for Life Assurance that the Society is
able to put £500,000 a month in the War Loans.
Thus do members help in protecting the
Nation while they protect their families.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A swre friend in uncertain times.
Principal Bqprd:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.0., Hubert Fairfax,
Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq., Dr. S. A. Smith,
Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
O. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOEDIER —34th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—22nd May, '42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOEDIER —14th May, ’43; “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK-7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOEDIER—I7th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the, Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAE STUDENT—9th May, ’43:
“1 find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —18th May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part.... I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years.... 1 have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOEDIER —Ist May, ’42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in Eondon.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction
for over 34 years.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In conse-
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it a*s required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
woman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 50,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.’’
Name
Address
151
War expenditure by the Common-
wealth during the first quarter of 1942-
43 is already in excess of the Budget rate
of £449 million a year. At £ll3 million
for the three months it represents £452
million a year, or £1,250,000 a day. Only
ill million of the quarter’s expenditure
was met from revenue. Treasury-bill
finance looked after £55.5 million and
other loans £36.5 million. At June 30
the Commonwealth Bank held £91.4
million of Commonwealth Government
paper. The figure has since risen to over
£l4O million.
* * * *
Munitions Minister Makin has an-
nounced that capital expenditure on Gov-
ernment munitions factories has increased
from £34 million since October, 1941, to
£59 million. Six Government factories
and 75 annexes have grown to 22 fac-
tories and 143 annexes making munitions.
Employees have increased from 37,800
to 67,900. Oufput in most types of muni-
tions has multiplied several times.
♦ * * *
Prices Commissioner Copland has said
that, although there has been some little
underhand black-marketing in the manu-
facture and distribution of clothing, there
is no profiteering in Australia. He
added: “I say this deliberately. We have
cracked some of these people very hard.
The only leniency shown them has been
by a magistrate occasionally.” Coming
from Copland, who has never shown any
partiality for the interests of manufac-
turers or distributors, it should be good
enough for the most rabid and red-eyed
union agitator. But no. The agitator
will continue to kid trade-unionists that
they are being badly done by even where
they are getting more money (after pay-
ing taxes) than they did before the war,
notwithstanding that war is taking nearly
half the national income.
He H* ♦ *
After making a welter of confiscation
at unfair prices, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has fixed maximum prices at
which second-hand motor vehicles may
be sold. At four years the price drops
to 55 p.c. of cost when new, irrespective
of make, except that 55 p.c. is the maxi-
mum, and apparently lower prices may
be paid. Lower prices, however, aren’t
likely in the present state of the used-
car market, which already has its “black”
aspects. Something which the Govern-
ment does not appear to have taken into
account when fixing these maximum
prices is that many cars of the 1938
model have done no more than 15,000
miles owing to war conditions, and that
in any case money has depreciated by
more than 20 p.c. in the period. Then
there is the fact that shortage of new
cars has removed much of the “deglamor-
isation” that influenced the price of
second-hand vehicles when imports were
free. Conditions certainly aren’t such
as to justify the fixing of prices on a pre-
war basis, even if the desire to check a
boom in used-car prices is quite legiti-
mate.
« "t ♦ •
The Commonwealth Government has
taken powers to itself to acquire shares
in any company engaged in war work
and which finds its operations restricted
because of inadequate capital. Already
a 51 p.c. interest has been taken in one
Sydney concern, and the Government
will have a majority on the board. It
is said that the Government is quite
willing to resell its interest to the original
shareholders whenever they are able to
make the financial arrangements neces-
sary.
« ♦ ♦ *
The Commonwealth has at last moved
in the matter of refugee cargoes (B.
23/9/’42). It is going to market 21
brands of imported cigarettes at prices
fixed by Professor Copland. It is high
time something was done with more im-
portant cargoes dumped in Australia
when Japan blitzed Malaya and the
Dutch Indies.
* * ♦ *
Announcement that another 5000 men
are required from the goldmining indus-
try has sent a chill through the West,
which has already seen Commonwealth
inroads into the 4500 men it was agreed
to leave it with in June. Except in
special circumstances, the industry is
already practically at a standstill else-
where.
* * * He
In spite of an output described as
“satisfactory,” J. and A. Brown and
Abermain Seaham Collieries showed a
profit down £47,375 at £94,990 for the
year to June 30 last. Like other cos., the
coal co. was apparently caught by the
increased company taxation that Labor’s
Budget brought after the close of the
last accounts, and in addition to provision
for tax for the year just closed there was
under-provision for the preceding term
to be met. The div. has been cut from
1\ p.c, to 5 p.c. In spite of the setback
in the figures the co.’s scrip is in demand
at 145., with no sellers in sight. Immedi-
ate yield is 7 p.c.
* * * *
It is reported that though “several dele-
gates at the Melbourne Trades Hall
Council meeting opposed the A.C.T.U.
decision to seek an increase in the basic
wage to £5 a week, plus 6s. war loading,
its action was finally endorsed by a com-
fortable majority.” Some delegates
claimed that “in view of the high cost of
commodities, for which a maximum price
should be fixed, the A.C.T.U. should
have made a much higher demand.” The
Prime Minister has since indirectly re-
buked the one-eyed selfishness of such as
the inter-State A.C.T.U. executive. It
may be remembered that it was the
A.C.T.U. which at its conference on Sept.
15, 1930, “called upon the Federal and
State Labor Governments to repudiate
the decision reached at the Premiers’
Conference,” and demanded that “steps
be taken immediately to amend the finan-
cial agreement and dissolve the Loan
Council.” It was the Premiers’ Plan and
the financial agreement that eventually
did much to restore order out of chaos in
the dismal days of the depression which
was “worse than the Great War,”
* * * *
In building up emergency stores of
food in Australia care should be taken
to see that the job is done rationally. In
the matter of freezing commodities
regarded as essential, it has been shown
in the past that fear in regard to the job
he holds has often been the motive in
prompting some official to issue a freez-
ing order, sometimes with the result that
unnecessary difficulty in relation to that
commodity is created among the people
who are being “helped.” The same sort
of thing can happen with the storage of
food, etc. In view of the shortage of
several items of foodstuffs and the man-
power involved in keeping up even
present supplies it is essential that emer-
gency stores be supervised by a unified
and capable authority. Where politicians
and officials have £449 million to spend
in a year on “war” they are liable to let
the matter go to their heads. Australia
doesn’t want the position to arise where
food stored is food wasted. Yet it some-
times looks as though there may be a
terrific surplus of stores of all kinds,
some of them entirely forgotten, when
the war finishes.
During the Budget debate in Canberra
Harrison, said “I believe that
rationing was designed to prevent the
spending of surplus income on non-
essential things.” Mr, Dedman inter-
jected “Not at all.” Mr. Harrison then
asked “Then why was it introduced?”
Mr. Dedman: “Because of the shortage
of materials.” Mr. Harrison; “The
Minister knows that the primary pur-
pose of rationing is to divert men and
money from non-essential industries to
war work. The Prime Minister himself
has said so.” Mr. Dedman: “That is
not true.” Which is all indicative of the
straw-splitting pinheadedness of Mr. Ded-
man, Whatever the declared purpose of
rationing, it is something that follows
rationalisation ; and a large portion of
Mr. Dedman’s time is devoted to
rationalisation, which represents the de-
liberate creation of shortages on behalf
of civilians so that the fighting services
may get the quota of labor and materials
allocated to them by the Budget. And
that bears out what Mr. Harrison implied.
Perhaps Mr. Dedman’s “first-class mind”
will not descend to the level of finding out
what his department is really supposed
to be doing. “The banks” are his pet
subject.
♦ * * ♦
It is clear to many members of the
Opposition that existing rates of direct
taxation on the lower (but enormous-in-
aggregate) incomes are far too light in
view of the huge cost of war to this
country. They realise that the best thing
in the long run for these people and the
rest of the community would be to impose
a pay-as-you-go policy on them; apart
from future benefits it would make
present rationing ever so much easier, and
would, in fact, represent the obvious, sen-
sible thing to do. There must be members
of the Labor party who realise this fact
also but who, for fear of retaliation at
the polls from their supporters, are afraid
to pursue the financial policy necessary
to a decent war effort. It is obviously
the time for both parties to decide, as a
war measure, that nothing but a pay-as-
you-go financial policy will be offered to
the electors by either. One of the things
most essential to Australia’s salvation in
this struggle is proper use of our money
and man-power. Both are being degraded
to the level of political playthings by the
present Government.


THE SERVICE MAN
For Guadalcanal —and Aus-
tralia.
Stalin would not want to wear himself
out against Germany while Britain and the
U.S.A. took it easy and grew strong
Only Britain and U.S.A. could disabuse
him of such thoughts —by fighting the
Nazis as hard as he was fighting them.
“Ek Dum”: It was published in a
Sunday paper in Sydney on October 18.
On that day officers and men of the
Allied fighting forces, particularly the gal-
lant U.S. Marines, were going through
another ordeal on Guadalcanal, 1100
miles from the North Queensland coast.
Ten weeks before an Australian war-
ship had led the fleet of Allied transports
and the Marines into the calm water
between 25-mile-long Florida and 100-
mile-long Guadalcanal. The Marines
broke ashore at Tulagi, and rushed the
little adjacent islands of Makambo (B.P.
headquarters), Tanambogo and Gavutu
(Lever Bros.’ H.Q.), hard by under the
shadow of Florida, robbing the enemy
of his dumps and flying-boat bases.
On August 9 the naval force had suf-
fered a heavy night attack which cost
Australia the flagship Canberra, and cost
the United States three cruisers of about
equal fighting power, Astoria, Vincennes
and Quincy, with many officers and men.
The cruisers nevertheless had done their
job, which was to save the transports.
They saved the transports.
Next, patrols crossed the Sealark
Channel to Tsimboko, on Guadalcanal,
about 40 miles from the areas in which
the enemy had established airfields, be-
tween Port Cruz and Tassafarong at
Kukum. This is alluvial ground, poured
out along bisecting rivers from the curv-
ing ranges. It penetrates deeply into the
island, but beyond it, particularly in the
south-east, the island becomes a turgid
mass of deep ravines and volcanic peaks,
of which the highest, Popamanisiu, soars
8000 feet into the sky.
It was a bold and perilous adventure
to skirt the foothills of these mountains
and take the aerodrome area in the rear.
The Marines did it. They destroyed
most of the Jap stores and a battery of
artillery. A month later they were
solidly entrenched on the fields, with
Japanese forces threaded through all the
mountain valleys in their rear, in a
menacing arc.
In mid-September a three-day attack
had to be beaten off, with heavy loss. On
September 26 the Leathernecks had to
face another. For them it was success-
ful ; the intruders were fought along the
Matanikau River, and left dead in dread-
ful heaps as a lesson in U.S. strength,
skill and courage.
All through the 10 weeks there has
been constant swooping aqd counter-
swooping of fleets at sea.
Substantial Japanese naval forces were
seen. It was known that a mighty enemy
naval fleet was in the area between
Rabaul and the Solomons. U.S.
bombers pursued squadrons and flotillas
to lairs in the North Solomons and the
Shortlands, just west of the Bougainville
passage. General MacArthur’s bombers
crossed the wide stretch of sea from
Australian and New Guinea bases and
plastered the North Solomons and
Rabaul day after day and night after
night, this though they had urgent tasks
in New Guinea and Papua to attend to
and the defence of Australian coastal
cities on their hands.
On October 12, consequent upon the
daring raids on the Shortlands, 300 miles
from Guadalcanal, and the devastating
bombing of Rabaul (B. 14/10/’42), what
time enemy reinforcements were being
landed ceaselessly on the southern side
of Guadalcanal under cover of night,
Paris Radio suddenly reported that Allied
naval ships and the Japanese again were
fighting a heavy battle near the Solomons.
The same night Mr. Curtin told a
rally in Sydney: “In the Solomons the
struggle is raging.” The reports showed
its piecemeal desperateness.
Nimitz on Morale
Vice-Admiral Chester Nimitz, the U.S.
C.-in-C. in the Pacific, himself visited the
Solomons to assess the needs of the area
for himself.
On Oct. 14 the news of his visit was
issued, together with his pronouncement
that he had found “everybody in the
Solomons cheerful, morale high and all
working from early morning till late at
night to improve their positions.”
The Japanese now realise that in oppos-
ing U.S. forces, principally Marines, they
are opposing people as tough as themselves.
We are just as well equipped and as well
trained in jungle-fighting as the Japanese.
The continued sinking of Japanese
cargo vessels is obviously affecting their
supply problem. It is just as far from
Guadalcanal to Pearl Harbor as it is from
Pearl Harbor to Guadalcanal. It would
be overoptimistic to say that Japanese
shipping has been strained, but we know
the enemy is losing a lot of ships.
The naval communiques and an-
nouncements from General MacArthur’s
H.Q. helped to show the wide ambit of
the defence and the greatness of the de-
fenders’ task. After the dropping of 100
tons of bombs on Rabaul during the
previous week-end, it was reported that
on Oct. 13 Allied Hudsons had plastered
and brought to a standstill a 10,000-ton
converted merchantman with 12 “O”
fighters on her deck.
Battle, Pursuit and Raid
The same night a U.S. Navy commu-
nique spoke of the success of the enemy
in increasing the number of his troops
on Guadalcanal by night landings from
cruisers, destroyers and small transports,
despite air attempts on the convoys. It
was reported, however, that a small task
force of U.S. cruisers and destroyers
had had better luck. It engaged enemy
cruisers, destroyers and transports at mid-
night on Oct. 11-12 near Savo, a small
island which lies off the n.-w. tip of
Guadalcanal in Sealark Channel, 10 miles
from the larger island at Cape Esperance
and 20 or so from the U.S. aerodrome.
A 20-minute engagement with gun and
torpedo saw the enemy making off, minus
a heavy cruiser of the powerful Takao
or Nachi class —both about 10,000 tons
with 10 Sin. guns—four destroyers and a
5000-ton transport. The U.S. forces lost
a destroyer,
’Planes picked up the retreating enemy
squadron next afternoon off New
Georgia. One of two cruisers was hit
by a torpedo, and several bombs fell
close enough to do damage. The vessel
was left inert in the water, while a com-
panion made off helter-skelter.
The same day Washington officially
issued news of an earlier air action
on Oct. 9, when Marines’ squadrons
attacked two light enemy cruisers and
four destroyers north of New Georgia.
One cruiser, directly hit, was down by
the bow when last in sight. Three Jap
seaplanes were shot down. The second
cruiser was damaged. ’Planes had been
strafed on an enemy base on Santa
Ysabel.
On Oct. 11 four waves of Jap bombers
—35, with a fighter escort of 30 machines
—had attempted to wreck the Henderson
airfield plant at Kukum, but eight bombers
and four “O” fighters were shot down,
the rest of the attackers being compelled
to jettison their load away from hangars
and runways. Only two U.S. fighters
were lost.
Flying Fortresses retaliated next morn-
ing by bombing Buka, in the North Solo-
mons, where fires were started and 10
bombers and fighters were damaged on
the ground. At Buin, on Bougainville,
one cargo ship was hit and set on fire,
another was damaged and six Jap fighters
were shot down. Enemy naval and mer-
cantile ships were sprayed south of New
Georgia. But in the afternoon there were
two more attacks on the Marines’ air-
field, losses being three enemy bombers
and an American fighter.
One comforting feat was achieved
before sundown that day—the landing of
U.S. reinforcements from auxiliary ves-
sels which, though bombed by the enemy,
suffered no damage.
The new arrivals had only a few hours
to settle in before —on the night of Oct.
13 —an enemy naval squadron, believed
to include battleships, cruisers and de-
stroyers, began a heavy bombardment of
U.S. positions, seemingly to create a
diversion while further landings of Nip-
ponese troops took place a few miles
away near Cape Esperance, where the
invasion attempt had been beaten off the
previous night.
Next afternoon a wave of 25 bombers
appeared and dropped their bombs before
the fighters could get up. But a second
wave of 15 bombers and four fighters
lost nine machines. One U.S. ’plane is
missing. The Fortresses earlier had paid
a second visit to Rekata, on Santa Ysabel,
and damaged nine ’planes on the beach.
Dive-bombers and fighters had made two
attacks on an enemy troop convoy.
Minor damage was reported and one
U.S. ’plane shot down.
That night the Henderson airfield was
shelled again from the sea. U.S. motor-
boats attacked and probably hit a cruiser.
Early on Thursday morning a battle-
ship, cruisers and destroyers and trans-
ports were sighted near Savo and began to
land troops near Cape Esperance, Bombs
were dropped on the transports. Direct
hits were scored on one, two others were
set on fire, the battleship was damaged
and a Jap fighter was shot down. But
the troops, or some of them, seem to
have got ashore, and Kukum suffered its
usual strafe in the afternoon, when three
enemy bombers and five fighters were
destroyed.
By this time it was discovered that
more fresh landings had been made on
the southern side of the island. The
U.S.A. reported that a large group of
enemy ships had been seen in the Buin-
Faisi area, off the Shortlands. There
were ominous signs that a major assault
was coming.
The devoted Marines and the harassed
and never-resting naval squadrons were
preparing to meet it with the usual gal-
lantry. The only Allied agency which
seemed to be downhearted was that same
miserable carping section of the press
which howled for a scapegoat when a
few Japanese futilely crossed the Owen
Stanleys.
On Friday morning U.S. aircraft
made an intrepid onslaught on the newly-
landed Nipponese on the n.-w. of the
island. Then they switched to attack two
more transports coming down by New
Georgia and halfway to the Shortlands,
shepherded by destroyers.
One transport was set on fire by direct
hits and the other was believed to have
been damaged by near misses.
By this time the enemy had estab-
lished himself in strong force so close to
Kukum that he was able to shell the
U.S. positions with land artillery.
In one raid on Oct- 17 the Kukum
defenders shot down all of 14 Jap
bombers and two of their eight fighter
escorts. Another bomber was destroyed
in the afternoon. Our allies lost only
one machine in the two affairs.
There is no doubt about the gravity
of the position. The enemy up to Oct. 14
had lost in the Solomons one heavy
cruiser, six destroyers and a transport.
Two destroyers: and one transport were
estimated to be “probably lost.” The
list of damaged ships held two aircraft
cruisers, one battleship, three heavy
cruisers, 12 light cruisers, six destroyers,
three ’plane tenders, four transports, two
cargo ships and four miscellaneous vessels
—4B ships in all, plus about 300 ’planes.
Nevertheless, the enemy has been able
to send on the present mission the equiva-
lent of a powerful battle fleet.
Mr. Walter Nash, the Maoriland High
Commissioner, said in Boston that “the
Pacific situation is most critical.”
Far more than a fight for Guadalcanal
is involved. Once the enemy is estab-
lished there on a heavy scale the danger
to New Caledonia, to the Australian
coast, to Fiji and Maoriland and to the
whole of our communication lines with
America will be in peril.
The gallant Marines and the air and
sea units, fighting night and day, are as
directly battling for Australian homes
at the moment as it they were fighting
on Australian beaches.
At the time of writing there was no
cause for despair. Uncle Sam, on whom
the main air and naval responsibility
rests for the moment, has a very long
sleeve and a surprising habit of pro-
ducing the right kind of weapons out of
it in sufficient strength at the right
moment.
Following the bombardment of an
Allied air base on Espiritu Santo, 600
miles s.-e. of Guadalcanal, it was an-
nounced by the U.S. War Secretary that
substantial U.S. Army Forces were now
in the New Hebrides, Maoriland, New
Caledonia and Fiji. ’ They are under the
command of Major-General Millard
Harmon. He has his H.Q. in Maori-
land, but uses New Caledonia as his
operating base.
In the Owen Stanleys
By October 15 Mr. Curtin was able to
say that the Federal Advisory War Coun-
cil was “very, very satisfied with the exist-
ing state of affairs in New Guinea”;
The Council accepts this Situation as
being due to the splendid leadership and
fighting qualities of the troops. I want
the militia and the A.I.F. to know that the
War Council and the country realise that
they have proved themselves as troops of
the first quality.
No empty compliment. The A.I.F. had
mostly been seasoned in fighting in
which the heaviest actions in New Guinea
thus far would have been regarded as
modest patrol actions. The conditions
in New Guinea, however, were enough
to try any fresh troops, and the militia
stood up well and gallantly to them.
After the fast, nerve-racking advance
across the Owen Stanley Range, the first
contacts with the enemy were made when
he was found on the jump-down near
Templeton’s Crossing, dug in, seemingly,
as a rearguard. The Japs had mortars
but no artillery, and clung to their
trenches like limpets when they were
disturbed at their morning rice. Strong
flanking attacks pinched them out of
their frontal positions, and fighting was
continuing after four days at the week-
end as the foe moved backward to what
seemed to be main positions in the
Kokoda area along the foothills.
It now looks as if his move across the
ranges was designed to screen off the
Kokoda area while he arranged a pre-
pared forward line there, above flood
level, against the coming of the wet
season.
The Allied air forces, including Doug-
las Havocs (A2o’s), a version of the
Boston light bombers, flown by R.A.A.F.
men, continually blasted the enemy’s land
communications and bases throughout
the week, and enemy units on the Mam-
bare River en route to Salamaua.
Rabaul’s two ’dromes were heavily
bombed on the night of October 13, as
was Buka. Australians were in the
crews. Dilli also had annoying visits
froth R.A.A.F. machines.
In the North Pacific
Operations in the North Pacific are
doing a great deal to weaken the Japanese
hold on the Aleutians and to make the
defence of Alaska reasonably strong. The
1590-mile road across western Canada
to Fairbanks (Alaska), connecting by rail
to Anchorage, the northern defence base,
will be trafficably surfaced by December
1, three months ahead of schedule.
Enemy installations and ships were
bombed in Kiska harbor on October 8,
9 and 10. Fires were started ashore and
considerable damage was done. The
attacks were made from the Andreanov
Islands, where occupation is being ex-
tended, and where an airfield for heavy
and medium bombers had been built in
12 days. Two destroyers were hit in
one attack, and a cargo ship fired and
probably sunk. So far the enemy has
had at least 42 ships sunk or damaged
off Kiska.
U.S. submarines operating in the Far
East have reported the sinking of a heavy
cruiser, two cargo ships, a small tanker
and a trawler, and the damaging of a
medium-sized cargo boat (probably
sunk) and one large and one medium-
sized tanker. The submarines’ total bag
since war began is placed at 79 ships
sunk, 20 probably sunk and 24 damaged.
Three U.S. Cruisers Lost.
Over two months after the event the
U.S. Navy announced the loss on August
9 of the heavy cruisers Astoria, Vin-
cennes and Quincy in the same surprise
attack which sank H.M.A.S. Canberra.
The Quincy and Vincennes com-
prised the Quincy class, 9400 tons,
107,000 h.p., nine Sin. and eight Sin, guns,
built 1935-37. Astoria was the name
ship of a class of six, 9950 tons, nine
Sin. guns. Her Sin. guns were par-
ticularly long-barrelled and long-ranged
(55ca1.) for a pre-war ship, and
the Japs are said to have followed
U.S. fashion in this respect. She was
built at Puget Sound in 1933-34. In
1939 she carried the ashes of Hirosi Saito,
Japanese Ambassador, to Japan from the
United States, The normal complement
of each ship was 620, Most of the per-
sonnel were saved. The U.S.N. also lost
two destroyers and four transports.
The communique revealed that
H.M.A.S. Canberra was attacked s.-e. of
Savo, close to the scene of the present
fighting, and the other ships north-east
of Savo.
In Russia.
“Ek Dum”: News from Moscow last
week sounded like the conversation at a
Mad Hatters’ party. One correspondent
one day told the world that the Germans
were using 1000 ’planes against Stalin-
grad, A few days afterwards the world
was told that the whole German air force
had been turned against one block of
buildings, and that the attackers were
waiting for the fires to die down.
The next report on which correspon-
dents generally agreed was that there was
a lull at Stalingrad, consequent upon the
defeat of Hitler’s plans. It was more
likely due to the fact that the place was
a smouldering mass of ruins and that
there had to be pauses to consolidate


Missing Friend.
SEEKING JENNIE BARR, daughter of
Elizabeth Biggerstaff Barr, who died Boulder
City', Kalgoorlie, 1904. Communicate with
T. J. PURCELL, Solicitor, 66 King Street,
Sydney, New South Wales.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT HARMER formerly of Temora.
-TAKE NOTICE that ADA HARMER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1398 ot 1942
on the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards. If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
oy the 31st of December 1942 and obtain a
cony of the petition without charge from
JOHN BARNETT GREAVES Solicitor 92
Pitt Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
and clear up. The German communiqud
of Oct. 16 said that enemy forces had been
destroyed south of Novorossisk and that
in the direction of Tuapse, the last strong-
hold of the Russian Fleet north of
Batoum, German troops had stormed
new and important positions on the
heights. One “semi-official” German re-
port said that the suburbs of Tuapse had
been entered and were being fought for,
but the official statement on October 19
was that there was still 17 miles to go.
The country hereabouts has very rough
going, and before an advance can be
made along the coast the enemy must
capture the western slopes of the Cauca-
sian Range or have the Red Army con-
tinually on his flapk.
From the Stalingrad region Germans
reported that a panzer division at the
northern end had broken through to the
Volga on a two-mile front. Infantry and
tank formations, it was asserted, took the
northern part of the city and captured
the tractor works named after Dzerzhin-
sky ; then the Red October and Red Bar-
ricade armament works. Berlin declared
on Oct. 19 that the attackers now held
“everything of value in the Stalingrad
area.”
Moscow said on Oct. 17 that “there was
fighting last night in areas of Stalingrad
and Mosdok and there were no changes
elsewhere.” The Red Army claimed to
have beaten off the enemy five times in
one sector of Stalingrad, destroying five
tanks. In another sector two attacks
were beaten off and 30 tanks destroyed;
in another, numerically superior enemy
tanks and infantry after hard fighting
pressed back Russian forces, which
evacuated some streets in the workers’
settlement. North of Stalingrad (the com-
munique said) Timoshenko’s forces ad-
vanced somewhat and occupied more
advantageous positions.
One correspondent described this ad-
vance as “sensational” ; and swore that
the relief armies could now “see Stalin-
grad and not with very strong glasses
either.”
Before the week-end it was reported
that the battle for Stalingrad had reached
its height. This is the umpteenth time
this climax has been proclaimed.
A “Red Star” article published on Oct.
16 stated that the Germans were main-
taining superiority in men and machines
and had overwhelming superiority in
the air.
The fact seems to be that two or three
divisions on each side, armored and
otherwise, were battling for the ruins of
those parts of the city not already in
German hands and for a few square miles
in the burning suburbs. Unfortunately the
relief armies from the north and south
have made no useful progress in the last
fortnight. If the Russians cannot con-
sider Stalingrad a major objective and
cannot spare men to defend it on a large
scale, it is a poor outlook for the city.
They have country and communica-
tions across the Volga in which they
can freely and quickly move troops. If
they have control of the river and the
railway north of the city, it gives them
a vast advantage; and they should have
adjacent dumps in Astrakhan and to
the north within anything from 100 to
250 miles on which they can draw for
supplies on a large scale.
The Germans have their nearest main
dump 450 miles away across battle-torn
country at Kharkov. The main German
basic supply point is at Breslau, nearly
1400 miles away.
In the week-end, after the Moscow an-
nouncement that more than 80 German
tanks had been destroyed and 2000 Ger-
mans killed in 24 hours, the fate of the
remnants of the town seemed to be
sealed. For a long time the battle had,
in effect, been no more than a large-
scale mopping-up operation in which the
Russians had fought for every inch until
they were wiped out or until fire and high
explosive from the bombers made their
position untenable.
The Germans were pressing on in the
southern Caucasus and appeared on Oct.
17 to have driven a wedge into the Rus-
sian defences. In that sector Marshal
List, whom the A.I.F. faced in Greece,
is in command. He is the German High
Command’s expert in mountain warfare.
On other fronts in the east there was
quiet, but signs of an awakening at
Leningrad. If Hitler intends to attempt
to take that city he is leaving the assault
very late. Last year he began to with-
draw his air forces from the area in the
first week in November. He might, how-
ever, try to do what he did with Rostov
last year—take the city on the very edge
of winter, ruin its defences and destroy
or take away its supplies, and then with-
draw a dozen miles or so, leaving the
Russians to feed the suffering population
during the wintei.
A Second-Front Review.
“Ek Dum”: Moscow continues to pour
out propaganda calling for a second front
in Western Europe. Berlin professes to
eager for one. Just before the week-
end it said that an attack was expected
on the coast of Normandy, and that
barges were assembling for the attempt
in ports along the English side of the
Channel.
It is natural that the Russians should
fight for every ounce of assistance they
can get. Russia comes first and last with
them. But Britons should view the matter
in the light of British interests first.
The enemy in 43 weeks’ actual offen-
sive campaigning has taken captive
900,000 square miles of Russia—equal to
the total areas of Spain (194,000 sq. m.),
France (212,000 sq. m.), Germany, Aus-
tria and Czechoslovakia (264,000 sq. m.),
Italy (131,000 sq. m.) and the U.K.
(89,000 sq. m.).
The area which he has occupied, on
an average, is five times as densely popu-
lated as Victoria and holds 90,000,000-
odd people.
The Russians declare that all the pro-
ductive armament resources of this area
were packed across the Volga in time and
are now producing again ; so that all that
js needed is the gaining of a little time
through action on a western front. Then
the Red Army, drawing its supplies from
safe spots 1000 to 1500 miles behind
the present lines, will be soon ready to
achieve victory.
Nobody has hesitated to tell the truth
about the deficiencies and mistakes of
Britain, France, Poland, Yugoslavia,
Greece and even our best friend and most
consistent helper the United States.
The grim fact is that, even before the
Russians lost to the enemy nearly 50
per cent, of their population, at least 50
per cent, of their developed natural re-
sources and considerably more than half
the area which produces their food re-
sources, their productive capacity and
individual output and efficiency were far
below that in any Anglo-Saxon country.
In March, 1939, Stalin said in his
report to the annual meeting of the Com-
munist party:
Where do we lag? We are still lagging
economically, that is, as regards the
volume of our industrial output per head.
The output of pig-iron in the U.S.S.R. in
1938 was 87 kilograms per head, and in
Britain 145 kg. In 1938 the output per
head of steel in the U.S.S.R. was 107 kg.
per head, in Britain 226 kg.; of electricity,
620 kilowatt hours in Britain and 233
k.w.h. in the U.S.S.R.
Ambassador Davies, a friend of Russia
and an admirer of many Russian
methods, reported officially at the end
of 1937, after visiting many of the
largest heavy-industry plants in the
Soviet Union: —
Their difficulties which arise are not
those of organisation. They concern rather
the lack of technical skill among workers
generally and the low productive capacity
of Soviet labor, which in turn is due to
various causes, such as lack of training and
low living standards and possibly also poli-
tical disaffection, sabotage and the plots
of wreckers.
Russian technicians (he said) publicly
reported that at that time the produc-
tivity of Russian labor, while constantly
getting better, had reached only 40 per
cent, of the American,
Davies added, referring to the indi-
vidual concern making tractors: “I
should say on the whole that it looked
to me as though they were working upon
that basis of efficiency. In performance
the plant did not compare with its work-
ing construction, planning and facilities.”
The removal and reconstitution of
industry on a scale to beat Germany can
be ruled out. The rolling stock to re-
move even one tank factory covering
446 acres —a comparatively small one —
and 37,000 workers, and the personnel
needed to feed and clothe them and
warm them through a Siberian winter in
which the rivers are completely frozen
for from five months in the Caspian
region to seven months in the north, is a
herculean task.
Leningrad last winter lost 1,000,000
people. Moscow’s population has fallen
from just over 4,000,000 to 3,000,000,
but this cannot have given relative re-
lief. The calling away of rural workers
from their occupations, the loss of tens
of millions of acres of Black Earth, the
destruction oTback-area crops by military
transport must have had serious effects
in a country which has depended for
cultivation on an army of 500,000
tractors. With a 25 p.c. increase in popu-
lation since 1913 and a great increase in
town living standards owing to industrial-
isation, the U.S.S.R. had increased its
grain output in 1938-39 only 11 per cent,
since 1913, and had only the same number
of cattle, half the horses and two-thirds of
the sheep of the last Czarist days. The
cutting of the Volga and of the oil supply
will have a serious effect on tractor
farming.
Armageddon is only climbing to its
crest; when it reaches it there will be
no ground for talk about British and
American loafing. For from the Anglo-
Saxon peoples, both in Europe and the
Pacific, Hitler and Tojo must receive
their quietus.
The theory that if Russia is lost all is
lost is silly. Nobody but Communists
talked about all being lost even in 1940.
Very largely, thanks to the time
gained by the Russian resistance, we are
all immeasurably better off than in 1940,
and the U.S.S.R. itself will, in the end,
find that this meansi the difference between
victory and defeat for the Axis.
Apart from the gain of the British
Commonwealth in resources and allies,
the last year has given time for the
development of weaknesses within the
Axis camp itself. Italy particularly is
suffering (B. 30/9/’42), and every com-
bination of men for an aggressive pur-
pose—team, gun crew, alliance —is only
as strong as its weakest member.
No Rugby captain out after a premier-
ship on which his life depended would
regard his selection committee with
favor if it saddled him with Benito Mus-
solini as a permanent half-back.
Significant Movements.
“Ek Dum”: They have taken place
somewhat in the following order:
Field-Marshal Rommel makes a bee-
line for Berlin, leaving his command when
both sides are heavily arrayed and patrol
activity and bombing are lively.
Mr. Myron Taylor, Mr. Roosevelt's
envoy to the Vatican, leaves for home
via England and is allowed to pass
through Italian territory, though Italy is
at war with Uncle Sam.
German radio devotes unwonted space
to the prowess of the Italians and
Rumanians. No Berlin broadcast is
complete without reference to Italian
super-gallantry in Russia. As for the
Rumanians, General Antonescu is soon to
visit Commander-in-Chief Hitler, who is
about to appoint him commander-in-
chief of a section of the Russian front —
that is, baby-holder in an immobilised
sector for the winter.
The reason for the sudden admiration
of Italy is not clear; but after Mr.
Taylor disappears into the blue 600,000
Italians are suddenly excluded by the
U.S.A. from the enemy-alien list —“as
a matter of grand strategy,” the Attorney-
General says. Cynics may connect
the manoeuvre, without precedent in
this war, with a deep regard for
the Italian vote in the Congres-
sional elections, due on Nov. 3. But
the Italian vote can have nothing to do
with an ungrateful asperity which seems
to have afflicted Italian Radio announce-
ments in dealing with German affairs or
with a tour of Italy by Herr Himmler.
Rumors leak out that Hitler has
thoughts of occupying Croatia and ad-
jacent parts of old Yugoslavia, and even
a strip on the other side of the Adriatic—"
Italy. It is said that Croat leaders are
under German guard “for their own pro-
tection.” Then Berne correspondents
begin to prepare the world for another
epoch-making meeting of Adolf and
Benito at the Brenner Pass. They usually
meet before an offensive of some sort,
or at the beginning or end of a cam-
paign.
At this stage a heavy blitz is started on
Malta, An organisation of Spitfires which
the unbeatable Maltese have named “The
Luftwaffe Disposal Squad” shoots down
114 enemy ’planes in seven days.
Land-patrol and air fighting wakes up
in Egypt, for Rommel has returned. About
the same time Field-Marshal Smuts
arrives in London. Several enemy small
ships are announced to have been sunk
by Allied submarines in the Mediter-
ranean, The Italians say that one ship
carried 400 British prisoners, of whom
261 were saved.
It is officially admitted at Washington
that the Americans have established a
considerable base in Eritrea,
Paris Radio —German-controlled —an-
nounces on Oct. 16:
All information available to us points
to the fact that the United Nations are
on the eve of opening a Second Front
in Africa. The immense riches of the
Belgian Congo are at stake and also our
North African Colonial Empire.
Spaniards mention that Allied fleets
are off West Africa. U.S. troops arrive
in S. Africa and in Liberia, bringing them
within 600 miles of Dakar.
On Oct. 19 there are further reports
of German-Italian dissension and of the
supposed intention of Hitler to take over
Fiume and Trieste.
From the other side of the world it is
announced that General Auchinleck has
arrived at New Delhi, and that General
Wavell has been inspecting the Burma
front. Vichy asserts that a French air
commander at Dakar has been lost in
combat —presumably with the British.
The Germans will naturally do all they
can to sprag the British action which is
due any time on the Burmese front if the
Japanese are not able to make the first
move. It would be a bad setback to the
Axis cause if the Japanese were thrown
back in Burma. It would alter the whole
outlook in southern Asia.
Each side, from Gibraltar eastward, is
now playing for advantage in the open-
ing gambits of the winter war, which
mght well decide the fate of the Medi-
terranean and open the way for the
decisive phases of the whole conflict.
Out of a party of 50, 33 Australians
and four natives arrived in safety after
44 days in the Owen Stanley jungles. As
they were helped off the rafts which
carried them over the last eight-hour sec-
tion of their journey, complete with the
arms and ammunition which they had
not abandoned, a correspondent saw
them; —■
Sunken eyes looked at us from bearded
faces as the men, in tattered uniforms,
painfully shifted from sitting positions,
rising to reach for outstretched hands....
They seemed dazed as they wearily climbed
the bank. The crowd parted for them
Men who had not been yet in a fight looked
in awe at those who had. /
It is a pity a few Sydney wharfies were
not present to view the arrival. But as
it was raining they probably would have
been indoors.
* * * ♦
The air battle on Guadalcanal on Sept.
28 will probably go down to history as
a record. Out of 25 attacking bombers
23 were brought down. And 32 escort-
ing “O” fighters watched the fight from
afar and did not come down until it was
nearly over. Their loss was one machine.
« * * *
The highlight of the R.A.F.’s week of
operations was a big daylight raid
on Le Creusot, H.Q. of Schneiders, about
170 miles south of Paris, which was
majestically carried out at dusk on Oct.
18 by a large force of Lancasters. There
was no fighter escort —a Lancaster can
take care of itself —and only one machine
went missing. The Air Ministry described
results as highly satisfactory. Otherwise
there was the usual run of raids —one
medium one on Cologne. The Germans
made sharp raids on three n,-e. British
towns, as well as on the s.-w. coast. Ger-
man Radio claimed to have “got” a num-
ber of landing barges on the River Dart
near the Royal Naval College, but their
feat which seemed to stand out in that
region was the machine-gunning of a
school playground at low level. Four
children were taken to hospital,
* * * *
In 10 September raids over Germany
and enemy-occupied territory nearly 5000
tons of bombs were dropped by Allied
airmen. Forty Axis vessels were sunk
or damaged in all theatres, and there
were several successful attacks on flak
ships and U- and E-boats.
* * * ♦
Still another big convoy guarded by the
R.N. and R.A.F. and U.S.A.F. has
arrived in Britain. Though dogged for
four days by U-boats, it was not attacked.
* * * *
The German High Command has
begun to issue what it calls a full list
of the Allied ships sunk in recent months,
four or five at a time. Two of the ships
claimed to have been sent to the bottom
recently were the Orient Co.’s new
Orcades (23,456 tons), a familiar sight
in Sydney Harbor before the war, and
the Canadian Pacific liner Duchess of
Atholl (20,119 tons). Orcades was
alleged to have been holed off Cape-
town and the Duchess of Atholl between
Freetown and the Cape. On Oct. 13
Berlin boasted that in four days 18 ships
of 143,000 tons had been destroyed be-
tween Capetown and Newfoundland.
“Grossly exaggerated,” records the
Admiralty.
* * * *
It is reported that Japanese main lines
in Burma are disposed along the Irra-
waddy and the Chindwin. After Wavell’s
visit to the front, there was intensified
reconnaissance on both sides. U.S. air
forces raided Lashio at the Burmese end
of the Burma Road. They started big
fires there.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Two thousand five hundred young
women swinging through the streets with
soldierly step made parade in Sydney
on Saturday morning. After a week of
rain the morning had a clean look and
a sweet air, all in keeping with this stead-
fast army. Each woman in the march
knew that the job she is doing releases
a man for the more active defence of
Australia. Here were army nurses
(Matron Croll led the march); here were
A.W.A.S., V.As., W.A.A.A.Fs.
There were bands, there was confetti,
there were thousands of citizens lining
the ways. Some of the onlookers were
soldiers who cheered heartily. Lady
Gowrie, in her uniform as Colonel-in-
Chief of the A.W.A.S., took the salute
at the Town Hall. She drove to the salut-
ing base in a camouflaged army car
driven by Driver Joyce Burke, of the
A.W.A.S. Captain Millicent Aspinall, of
the A.W.A.S., was the vice-regal lady’s
aide-de-camp. Very trig in her uniform
as State Commandant of V.A. detach-
ments was Lady Wakehurst. With her
was Assistant State Controller Dr. Frances
McKay. The Army and Air Ministers
and Lieut.-Col. Sybil Irving, Controller
of the A.W.A.S., were notables viewing
the march. In the Town Hall group were
alert army nurses and a cloud of im-
portants (male and female) in uniform.
Mayor Stanley Crick and his smiling
Mayoress entertained the official guests
at morning tea.
One of the marvels of the Royal Sydney
Golf Club fete for the Red Cross was the
catering. The ready reckoner calculated
there were over 2000 people there, and
all were able to obtain sustenance. There
was food over and above, too, for those
who stayed on in the evening to dance.
Not that this was very prolonged. Half-
past seven was closing-up time, owing to
the dance being on the balconies. The
Children’s Comer garnered over £5O.
Mrs. Chick Bouvet, selling tickets for the
Punch and Judy show and the pony rides,
was practically mobbed. The lucky dips
earned £lOO, and Rose Merivale’s sweet
stall closed with £5O in the till. Mrs. Roy
Buckland was one of the day’s busiest.
Mrs. C. Rundle, Mrs. B. V. Stacy,
Mrs. Andrews, Miss Green and a group
of men members arranged the afternoon.
Lady Wakehurst was an afternoon visi-
tor and carried back to Government
House an armful of lilac, just about per-
fect, which came from the Fairfax home
at Leura. The Mervyn Finlays sent a
great clutch of orchids. Over £l5OO was
the afternoon’s rake-off.
Button-sellers last Friday had no diffi-
culty selling their colorful badges for
the Merchant Navy. In this war all men
who go to sea have a warm place in the
hearts of their fellows. So in one day
no less than £12,000 was raised for the
men who venture life and limb sailing
the seaways (and very tortuous they often
are) that the Empire may exchange its
wares. This collection was a little
sister of the King George Fund for Sea-
men, but the money will be used in Aus-
tralia alone to cheer the lot of or assist
cases of distress among overseas and Aus-
tralian seamen. Mrs. G. Armstrong organ-
ised the day. Oscar O’Brien dropped
£lOOO into the bojf;; so did Frank Albert.
The liquor trade gave £5OO. The torn
flag of the gallant Macdhui, sunk by
enemy bombing off Port Moresby, drew
the admiring glance of thousands to the
C.W.A. stall near the Australia,
Sydney got into step with Melbourne
last week .and introduced women tram
conductors" to the travelling public. To
begin with the little company numbers
27, but soon it is expected that more
and more wfearers of the trig blue uni-
form will murmur, contralto-dulcet or
soprano-sweet; “Fares, please!” Minister
for Transport O’Sullivan is pleased with
the aptitude shown by the bright, up-
standing young women. They range from
late teens to late twenties, and brunette
and blonde show a shining tress or two
under the cap of office. Already there
are individual angles at which the head-
piece is tilted. Corridor trams on the
King-street run were first to welcome
the fair ticket-issuers. They are a nice-
looking lot of girls, many of them the
wives of former tram men now on war
service.
There was great scurrying to and fro
last week among the committee of the
Lunch-Time Music Club. They were
arranging for a concert grand of vast size
and dignity for the appearance of Dr.
Bainton, director of the Con. At this
week’s concert Dr. Bainton came back
as a concert pianist after seven years’
abstinence, playing works of his favorite,
Bach. Though not appearing in public as
a pianist, the interval has not been exactly
years that the locust has eaten, as the
continuous good work of the Conser-
vatorium testifies, and his own musicianly
conducting at orchestral concerts. The
various music clubs, too, have benefited
from Dr. Bainton’s lectures. His talks
on Bach have been particularly illumi-
nating.
If the world were not in such a state
of upheaval more than half the countries
of it would grieve with Mrs. Curlewis
over the passing of her husband and the
fact that son Adrian is reported missing
in Malaya. As Ethel Turner, author of
that inspired bit of youth romance Seven
Little Australians, Mrs. Curlewis holds
a unique place. Probably no Australian
book has been translated into more lan-
guages. Mrs. Curlewis, whose home is
at Mosman, has as many sympathisers'
as there are types of people in Sydney,
for she is loved not only for the joy her
pen has given but for her unvarying kind-
ness of heart.
With life’s final curtain falling on
Marie Tempest, the stage has lost one
of its most polished comedy actresses.
It is told of her that she sometimes
spent a whole rehearsal doing one bit of
business over and over till she was satis-
fied with it. Theatregoers of 20 years
ago recall her Sydney sojourn when with
husband Graham Browne she put on such
charmful pieces as “Tea for Three,”
During the seasons here they made
a great friend of Sydney Ure Smith,
whose etchings of old Sydney they
greatly admired. Through him they met
at their own request the Lindsays,
Blamire Young, Hey sen and John
Moore. They gave John a commission
to paint a set of scenery for them, which
they took on tour in South Africa. On
Marie’s return to London she made her
home in Avenue-road. This had, in the
way of old London houses, a garden
stretching behind it. Here she and
Graham would entertain guests to lunch,
spread in the shade of a magnificent
willow. The house had been decorated
under her meticulous direction. Its fur-
niture showed the Chinese influence ; its
pictures and books (Marie was a pas-
sionate bpoklover) had been collected
with love and discrimination.
One of the newest recruits to the
A.B.C. Symphony Orchestra is Mary
Ludlow. She is also a member of the
students’ orchestra at the Conservatorium.
This attractive ash-blonde girl is an
equally talented player of the violin and
the piano. For the piano Frank Hut-
chens is her teacher; Floreilt Hoogstoel
guides her violin studies. Mary showed
her versatility at a recent Lunch-Time
Music Club concert when she was solo
pianist and violinist. She has given reci-
tals over the air, and is popular with
radio listeners. Photograph from Norton
Trevaire.
Harold Rabling, now resident director
in New York for the Vacuum Oil Co.,
and widely known in Sydney, Newcastle
and Melbourne, recently handed daughter
Margaret Frances in matrimony to Floyd
Mallory Shumway, of Riversdale, N.Y.
The Reformed Church, Bronxville, N.Y.,
was the scene of the ceremony. Nancy
Rollins was maid of honor. Other pretty
attendants were Marjorie Fayen, Eliza-
beth Fowler, Dorothy Hudson and Mar-
jorie Pack. Wilmot D. Griffith, of Rye,
N.Y., was best man. Among the ushers
was one at least with a link with Aus-
tralia. He was Morris Jonas, of Wash-
ington and Melbourne. The bride, who
spent some of her early schooldays in
Australia, graduated from the Riversdale
Country School for Girls, and later went
to Skidmore College, Bridegroom is a
graduate of Yale. Mr. Rabling is
treasurer of the Anzac Division of the
British War Relief Society, •
From Melbourne
As the war proceeds some aspects of
its effects show a silver lining. At City
Free Kindergarten’s annual meeting the
report of the principal showed that
mothers in the city’s most depressing dis-
tricts were making use of enhanced
war-time earnings to make little children
more healthy and to clothe them better.
The mothers were trotting their young-
sters off to the dentist, and were asking
for health-giving food recipes. Another
little sign of the times was the report of
the Tweddle Hospital people that in the
last year they have been consulted 466
times by telephone, and have been able
to give mothers instructions by ’phone on
baby ailments.
A record of civic-mindedness through
the generations can be claimed by the
Gordon family, elder daughter Ann of
which is here pictured. Great-grand-
mother Mrs. William Hammill was one
of those stout-hearted women who, in the
Melbourne of the ’sixties, kept alive the
British traditions of pleasant, intelligent
living. Her Melbourne-made frocks, one
of which was worn to a Government
House ball of the era, have been care-
fully guarded by her descendants and
often worn by Ann and her sister Fairlie
in the interests of charity. This year,
because both Ann and sister Fairlie are
full-time war workers, Mrs. D. Gordon,
their mother, and some friends have worn
the gowns at the Early Melbourne Exhi-
bition (in aid of the hospitals) at the
Velasquez Galleries. Ann Gordon tried
for a while to combine working at Army
H.Q. with Red Cross transport driving,
but found the former a full-time effort.
Fairlie still is a Red Cross transport
driver, but has a month’s leave to go to
the country home of the family for the
shearing.
The gift of a wristlet watch in the
popular white gold, with neat black band
for the wrist, was made to ex-May or
Beaurepaire’s lady in the room which
was hers when she was Lady Mayoress,
and which now has as its chatelaine Mrs.
Edward Campbell. The gift came, with
goodwill, from wives of City Councillors.
At the same time the wives of officers
of the council made her a present of a
handsome handbag. Now that her term
of office is over the last two years’ work
and the strain on nerves will be atoned
for by a short rest somewhere, probably in
the country, for the Beaurepaire lady was
a Ballarat girl and is happy either in the
country or in a country town.
To meet Mrs. Horace Calder, presi-
dent of Harbor Lights Guild, these days
is to be reminded that Christmas hampers
for the men who sail the seas are now
under way. Should a reader feel inclined
to help (and Bulletin readers were most
generous to the last appeal) ss. is the
price of each hamper, and the address of
anyone who sends this amount to Mrs.
Calder, c/o Victorian Mission to Sea-
men, Flinders-street extension, Mel-
bourne, will be included in the hamper
purchased by means of it. The distribu-
tion of the hampers will begin a fort-
night before Christmas, and continue for
a fortnight after. In each are chocolate
and cake and a pudding, and probably a
toothbrush and -paste. Mrs. Calder says
that the Mission to Seamen can still deal
with plenty of books, digests and such-
like literature for the seamen, who, how-
ever, draw the line (easy to guess it) at
novels written by women, which most
of them can’t abide.
University women students won’t have
to work overtime reading travel folders
to find out where to spend their
Christmas vacation. It is pretty certain
that most, if not all, of them will be
retting and turning flax or picking fruit
for the long vacation, or working in hos-
pitals, whose staffs are sadly depleted.
Those who have already tried the country
life, especially in the fruit districts, say
that after the first six days it’s a delight-
ful experience, but that those first days
take a little standing up to. Anyhow,
the student body has already been put
through its paces in A.R.P. and first-aid
and other physical activities of war-time,
and should be in better trim than the
pickers of last year, many of whom went
straight from the office and typewriter
to the grapevine and its fruits and from
a cool 70deg. in the shade to llldeg.
in the shade and no shade available.
Engagement of the week is that of
Pamela, daughter of the R. W. Finchams,
to Squadron-Leader Bruce F. Rose,
D.F.C., one of Australia’s foremost fight-
ing airmen. Pamela, who is just out of
her teens, is a war-time worker —an
assistant chemist. The Fincham family
is well known in the world of sport.
Sister Sue, now Mrs. Welsh, is a golfer,
and Pamela has been a good horsewoman
for years. Squadron-Leader Rose is the
second son of Mr. and Mrs. A. Rose,
Lower Heidelberg-road, Ivanhoe.
The Early Melbourne Exhibition was
so full of good things that the hours
passed too quickly, and visitors had to
leave with a lot still unseen. Set
among the relics of great-grandma’s day,
the reticule which Mrs. F. J. Cato’s
mother wore to her wedding at Lincoln
Cathedral took the eye —cream-padded
silk worked in colors. Amusing was the
crocheted cap which an ancestress of
Mrs. Agnes Fairbairn put on when she
became engaged to prevent her attracting
the attention of other men. It looked like
a milkcover and certainly would de-
glamorise any girl. Fans and a lace
shawl brought to Australia in 1878 had
historic interest, and Priscilla Ann (a doll
dressed in flowered silk, more than 100
years old) and a tobacco jar associated
with Nelson’s Victory shed the romantic
light of other days around them. Some
delicious coffee cups lent by Mrs. Ger-
trude Kumm made connoisseurs sigh.
The mother-of-pearl cardcases and other
vLiting paraphernalia of Victorian days
were also represented.
Children’s orchestral concerts were
given last week in three big suburban
centres, Coburg, Malvern and South Mel-
bourne, and on the great day children
travelled by train, tram, bus and on foot
to reach the civic hall. They seem to
have enjoyed themselves greatly, too,
though in the 2000-odd who are packed
into the town halls for these occasions
there are as yet not any discovered
geniuses and A.B.fc. seems to give the
concerts without any attempt to follow
them up by finding out whether the
children just like the outing or really get
to grips with the music. It has been sug-
gested that an essay on the concerts
would show something, but perhaps only
if the writers were good with the pen.
Perhaps better would be the formation
of school orchestras, and competition
between them at regular intervals, the
orchestra seemingly being the medium
through which children best express the
music that is in them. An orchestral
item which had. the big success last week
was a trumpet solo ; another hot favorite
was the “Post-horn Galop,” with a real
old-time post-horn played by trumpeter
John Robertson.
That versatile woman artist Mrs. Isabel
Tweddle created a lot of interest at the
Women Artists’ exhibition with her pic-
ture of Ivy Ball. It is a big canvas, but
was completed in a few hours. The sub-
ject, one of the best-known music-lovers
in Melbourne, has done much service to
the art she loves, principally through the
encouragement of chamber music. The
frock worn by the sitter in the portrait
was worn by her first at a pageant of
Seventy Years Ago, connected with the
establishment and opening of St. John’s,
Toorak. Mrs. Tweddle had called her
portrait “Mid Victorian.”
Even the Firm sat up and took notice
when the applications for first-night seats
for “Maid of the Mountains” began to
roll in. By Thursday there wasn’t a seat
to be had, and people were going round
asking each other could they swap just
one, and mostly they couldn’t think of
it. Gladys Moncrieff is, of course, a
tower of strength to any such enterprise,
but the revival of an operetta of so long
ago would seem to be a bit of a gamble.
However, the talk of the town for days
has been how Miss Moncrieff has reduced
and how wonderful she looks, and how
splendid Max Oldaker is in the lovers
part. Miss Moncrieff recalls that Mr.
Oldaker is the sixth man with whom
she has acted in this piece. Her A.I.F.
friends recently promoted her to be hon.
colonel of a pioneer battalion.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY MATILDA WISBY and
ALLAN WILSON both late of 394 Riley Street
Surry Hills.—TAKE NOTICE that ARNOLD
JOSEPH PATRICK WISBY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1749 of 1941 on the
ground of your adultery with one another and
on the hearing of the suit it is the intention of
the said ARNOLD JOSEPH PATRICK WISBY
to ask the Court to exercise its discretion under
Section 19 Subsection 2 (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance by the 6th November
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from H. T. MACREADY & ERIC
JONES Solicitors 133 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JAMES MARTIN late of Redfern. —
TAKE NOTICE that MARY AGNES
MARTIN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1590 of 1942 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance by 7th of December 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from R. F. DUDLEY Solicitor 9 Martin Place
Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
TO GEORGE SELTH COPPIN formerly of
180 Lennox Street Richmond. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife MARY COPPIN has instituted
proceedings against you for divorce on the
ground of desertion. Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office Law
Courts William Street Melbourne in the State
of Victoria within twenty-one days from the
date of publication of this advertisement the
said suit will proceed in your absence and a
decree for dissolution of marriage may be
granted and you may be ordered to pay costs.
If you intend to defend this suit you must also
file an answer in the said office within fourteen
days of appearance.—MACPHEßSON AND
KELLEY, of 340 Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. Solicitors for Petitioner.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Everything favored the second day of
the A.J.C. meeting, but the attendance,
inclusive of 6000 service men, dropped
to 47,800, against 69,480 on the corre-
sponding day last year, and the tote turn-
over was £86,115, against £90,864. The
track, though a little on the soft side in
parts, was in surprisingly good order
after the heavy rain earlier in the week.
Grand Fils (E. Ross) had not done an
orthodox distance preparation, and his
recent racing prior to Saturday was in
short races, but he won the Metropolitan
in the manner of a genuine stayer. Angus
attempted to lead practically all the way.
Half a furlong from home he gave place
to Goose Boy, who in the last couple of
strides was beaten by Grand Fils. Always
in a fair position, the winner got a good
run on the rails in the straight. Grand
Fils is by Beau Pere from Timid, by
Kildare II from Ardesia, by Spearmint.
As a yearling he cost 1500gns., and T.
Murray has trained him for all his wins.
Of the fancied horses It’s Funny
(fourth) and Evergreen (sixth) made the
best showing. The latter looked a place-
getter entering the straight, but weak-
ened over the last furlong. Apart from
a check or two not much excuse was
possible for Main Topic, who was in a
handy position throughout, but failed in
the run down the straight. In finishing
fifth Abspear did much better than his
stable companion Dewar. Some other
solidly-backed horses in Moondarewa,
Veiled Threat, Shining Night and
Katanga, never really flattered their sup-
porters. Early in the day 8 to 1 the
field was on offer, but Main Topic wound
up at 9to 2. The time was 2.45*, against
Dashing Cavalier’s record for the race of
2.41*.
In the Craven Plate Yaralla (McMena-
min) disposed of the idea that a hard
track was absolutely necessary for him
to be seen at his best. He and Hall
Stand raced together to the turn, where
Rimveil was a little over two lengths
away. In the straight Yaralla left Hall
Stand, and won very easily from Rim-
veil. Hall Stand’s third, in conjunction
with Main Topic’s Metropolitan failure,
merely upheld the idea that this season’s
N.S.W. three-year-olds are not out of
the ordinary. Baroda was a Craven
Plate runner, but, though he looked par-
ticularly well, was outclassed.
In appearance Moorland (Freedman)
did not compare favorably with some of
the other Breeders’ Plate runners, but as
a galloper he outclassed the lot. The
Beacon, Star Gold, New Pentheus and
Van Eyck were the early leaders, but
though Star Gold (by J. R, Smith) was
in charge commencing the last furlong
Moorland then settled him decisively.
Bangster’s brother. New Pentheus, a
90gns. yearling, beat the others, of whom
Highgate (by Piccadilly), St. Quentin
(by The Buzzard) and The Swell (by
Silver Standard) probable improvers.
The winner, who cost 210gns. as a year-
ling, is trained by D. Lewis. He is by
Felcrag (Felstead-Florence Dombey, by
Captain Cuttle) from Bower Belle, by
Bernard from Forest Charm, by Bar-
dolph.
Ajixa (Shean) worn the Gimcrack
Stakes almost from barrier-rise. Urgent
Rate, Hecuba (sister to Hesione) and
Rillett were her nearest followers at the
top of the straight, but she did not give
them a look-in in the run home. Behind
the place - getters, Susquehanna and
Craglia did best over the final furlong,
and may be among this season’s early
winners. The time was the same as that
recorded by Moorland in the Breeders’
Plate, and it would appear as if the fillies
are quite up to the standard of the colts.
Ajixa, who is raced on lease and was
bred by A. W. Thompson, is by Brueghel
from Volume (Valais-Pamphlet, by Lin-
acre). Second and third are by the same
sire.
Trimmer, displaying all his old pace,
led into the straight from Lagoon, Flying
Knight and Guild Hill in the Shorts, but
though Flying Knight’s chance appeared
a winning one a furlong from home he
was outstayed by Soho (Mulley) and
Tidemark. The fact of not being freely
used in the early part enabled Soho to
finish better than in most of his recent
races, but Tidemark’s showing was suffi-
ciently good to make him worth follow-
ing even in the best company. My
Friend’s fourth should at least make him
a welter possibility in the near future,
and Lagoon, although probably a little
too new to justify the support accorded
him, retains the pace he showed last
season.
Grand Prodige’s weight stopped him
in the Clibborn Stakes. He led until
inside the last furlong and then could
not stall off Angel (O’Sullivan), who ran
well in the Derby. Kiaree was third, with-
out ever being dangerous, and the other
runners were well beaten. Angel, who
is in the same ownership as Yaralla, is by
Double Remove from Virgin Wing, by
Magpie from Cymbala. Virgin Wing’s
dam, Cymbala, is a half-sister to Angelina,
dam of Apelle, winner of the Italian
Derby and good races in England. Angel
cost 800gns. as a yearling.
Rylstone made a good bid for the Final
Handicap, but, though after making the
running from barrier-rise and shaking off
Tanda at the turn he looked like seeing it
out, Prince had his measure nearly a hun-
dred yards from home. Pinero struggled
into third place, followed by Opportunist,
whose turn for a win should not be long
in coming. Bragger, who was strongly
supported, struck a little bad luck, but
could not have won even if he had
escaped it. Dundalk tired after being
third at the turn, and Thrax did not do
as well as at his previous start.
The performance of most note at Caul-
field was that of Great Britain in the
Caulfield Guineas. He had no difficulty
in beating a big field, and there is little
likelihood of any of his Saturday’s oppo-
nents turning the tables on him in the
Victoria Derby, though his trainer, Freed-
man, does not underrate Amazed.
Amazed (who finished strongly) and
Chatfield ran well, though without being
able to trouble the winner. Leahero is
seemingly not as good as previously sup-
posed, but Register ran fairly. He dis-
played a lot of dash in running up second
at the turn, but then weakened.
Tranquil Star, with a pound more than
her Caulfield Cup weight, won the Caul-
field Stakes, and only that she has not
shown herself as good in handicaps as
in w.f.a. races her performance would
have caused her price to shorten more
for the Cup. The minor places went
to Tuhitarata and True Flight. A protest
on behalf of True Flight against the first
two resulted in Tuhitarata losing second
money, but Tranquil Star remained in
first place. David Innis, who ran fourth,
also met with interference, and with his
comparatively light weight is still a Caul-
field Cup possibility. In that race True
Flight will meet Tranquil Star 91b. better.
The win was not popular owing to Tran-
quil Star missing a place in the Mel-
bourne Stakes the previous week when
favorite. The distance was short for
Velocity, who is likely to do better in
the Cup.
Portfolio, with 71b. less than his Caul-
field Cup weight, won the first division
of the Herbert Power Handicap by a
neck from Rex Buzz, who carried 7ib.
more than he will have to put up next
Saturday. Wilson in running a close third
showed signs of a return to form, but
he carried considerably less than he will
have to put up in either Cup. Quixotic
did not act up to the belief that his Caul-
field Cup chance was nearly as good as
that of his stable companion David Innis.'
Colonus. with his Caulfield Cup weight,
ran away with the second division of the
Herbert Power Handicap, but his time
was a quarter-second slower than that of
Portfolio. The favorite, Hestia, ran much
below expectations, failing in the straight,
and Lugano’s form did not suggest Caul-
field Cup honors.
Son of Aurous, in third place, was
several lengths behind Colonus in the
second division of the Herbert Power
Handicap, but, as he finished strongly,
he did sufficently well to cause him to
enter again into Melbourne Cup calcula-
tions. He has 7.3 against the 6.10 he
carried when second to Skipton (7.7).
The latter has 9.2 this year.
Simmering (by Hellespont) won the
Debutante Stakes in the fast time of 47*
for the half-mile. She was giving Stra-
zeele a long start commencing the final
furlong, and some of the latter’s backers
were of opinion that her rider could
have made a little more use of her after
she settled Maemanto. Some backers got
fluke bets of 100 to 3 about Simmering,
but she started at 7to 1. Strazeele was
an 11-to-8 favorite, and, though beaten,
ran up to her reputation for pace.
Crojick, at 33 to 1 (57 to 1 on the
tote), concluded a glorious day for the
books. He had 8.6, his Cantala Stakes
weight, but he can be rehandicapped for
that race. It was by only a neck he
defeated Rex Felt, and Hero, one of the
S. division, was third. Distinction,
from J. Holt’s stable, was a pronounced
favorite, but he is a long way short of
the standard of his half-brother Talking.
* * * *
Great Britain’s owner did not err in
refusing 4000gns. for him a few days
prior to the Caulfield Guineas. Costing
850gns. as a yearling, Great Britain is
now a long way ahead of that amount
and still has the Victoria Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup within his reach. He is a
great advertisement for imported Enfield,
who is by Winalo’t (son of Son-in-law)
from Firecrest, byPhalaris. Belgian Star,
dam of Great Britain, is by Great Star
from Belgian Myth, by Hainault from
Valkyr,
* * * *
It is not unusual for some Victorian
handicappers to go into print with their
selections for important races, and if C. H.
Davis has implicit faith in his own figures
he cannot well go beyond David Innis
for the Caulfield Cup. In his weights
for the Stand Handicap, run at the recent
V.R.C. meeting, he gave Velocity 9.8,
David Innis and Skipton 9.1 each and
True Flight 9.0. Their Caulfield Cup
weights are: Velocity 8.11, Skipton 8.10,
True Flight 8.8 and David Innis 7.11.
Skipton won the Stand Handicap, in
which David Innis did not start. How-
ever, even as a result of that win, it seems
doubtful whether the V.R.C. handicapper
would now rate Skipton more than 71b.
superior to David Innis against the 131 b.
separating them in the Caulfield Cup.
* * * *
It is much the same everywhere. Dis-
cussing apprentices an American critic
delivered himself as follows in the
“Thoroughbred Record”:
Take a boy 17 or 18 years old, whose
earnings in any other field would of a
necessity be limited by his education, or lack
of it, by his physical stature, and possibly by
his background. Put that boy on a few horses
that carry him home and see what hap-
pens. His earnings leap to fantastic sums,
he is cheered by the public, acclaimed by
the press, followed and flattered by syco-
phants and undesirables eager to help him
spend his money. Is it any wonder that
some of these boys lose their heads and
succumb to the lure of the bright lights?
♦ * * *
Soldiers are admitted to A.J.C. meet-
ings at Randwick absolutely free of
charge, and can please themselves
whether they choose the paddock, leger
or flat. The presence of thousands of
soldiers at the spring meeting proved
that racing gave them much greater re-
laxation than hanging about the streets
or witnessing inter-district cricket
matches, and even opponents of racing
can scarcely contend that the war effort
was adversely affected.
» * • •
Some men training horses in the Syd-
ney area are in for a lean time during
the coming year. No. 1 and No. 2
trainers and those with permits total
about 240, and as there will not be more
than 280 races run at Sydney meetings
many will have to make ends meet with-
out wins. Their principal hope would
appear to rest on the selection of win-
ners from teams other than their own.
* « * ♦
Kensington has finished as a race-
course. Its lease expires next month, and
there will not be a renewal. Kensing-
ton’s first meeting was on Thursday,
June 15, 1893, with G. B. Rowley as sec-
retary, E. A. Wilson as handicapper and
T. Watson as starter. Prize-money for
six races totalled £250, the Kensington
Handicap (14.2) of £BO being the only
one exceeding £35. The Opening and
Kensington Handicaps were won by
Zulander, ridden by T. Woodgate.
Genuine ponies were then numerous, and
the 13.2 and 13.3 races respectively
attracted 16 and 20 runners.
* * * *
At the sale of untried two-year-olds
in Sydney last week the highest price
realised was 320gns. for the half-brother,
by St. Magnus (imp.), to Skipton. As a
yearling this colt was sold in Melbourne
last March for 180gns., and at 200gns.
was passed on to another buyer. He is
now one of C. H. McLoughlin’s team
at Randwick. A half-sister, by Hall
Mark, to The Marne made 200gns., and
a Beau Pere-Ashpan gelding was sold
for 260gns., subject to the owner’s
approval. A brother to Silmond (Veil-
mond-Silver Cloud) realised 210gns., and,
though many youngsters were sold
cheaply, sufficient reached* the three-
figures mark to suggest that the autumn
yearling sales will not be really disap-
pointing, even if few lots reach the
lOOOgns. mark.
* * *
In the past the publication of entries
used to help owners and trainers in mak-
ing their arrangements for coming meet-
ings. Now that procedure is barred.
While it inconveniences owners and
trainers it is doubtful whether such a
piffling attempt to assist in reducing
general interest in racing will achieve
anything.
* * * *
Some of the prices realised by tried
racehorses at last week’s sales in Sydney
were surprisingly low, and it is to be
hoped their buyers fare better than those
ex-owners who have been paying from
£2 10s. to £3 a week in training fees.
Until the position changes it will be little
use going on with horses that do not pos-
sess a reasonable chance of winning at
Randwick. At suburban meetings run-
ners in other than restricted races will
also have to be quite up to that standard,
and even in the restricted classes wins
are going to be more difficult than in the
past.
* * * *
Adelaide has reached the limit in the
way of the enforcement of anti-gaming
regulations. On Saturday last the police
took the name of a man because he had
a Melbourne paper containing racing in-
formation. It is probable he will be
prosecuted. As all the Melbourne dailies
contain weights and acceptances at the
end of the week, they will have to ex-
purge such news from some of their
editions if they wish to retain their Adel-
aide circulation. In the crusade against
racing there is a deal of absurdity.
* % * *
Steve Donoghue was asked by tele-
gram to appear on that great old stayer
Brown Jack at a war charity horse show
and gymkhana held at Leicester in
August. He replied: “Sure I will ride
him at your show if I can get into my
boots and breeches.” He succeeded in
doing so, and a London writer says it
was wonderful he did not burst them
with pride at the reception he received.
Another dreary welterweight show at
Leichhardt (Sydney)! Hockey Bennell, the
“champion,” was one of the performers
and Bill Fadden the other. After 12
rounds Fadden was declared the winner
of such boxing as there was. Had it been
billed as a dancing competition, Bennell
would have got the verdict.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Novice Handicap: Brumaire, 1;
Louano, 2 ; Great Scot, 3.
Flying Handicap: Trimmer, 1;
Romero, 2; Lagoon or Freckles, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes: Star Gold,
1 ; Highgate, 2 ; Hecuba, 3.
City TattersaU’s Cup; Evergreen,
1 ; Angus, 2; Abspear, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Brue-
ghelier, 1; Orderly, 2; Com-
mando, 3.
Club Welter: Easter Time, 1 ;
Glendower, 2 ; Streamford, 3.
CAULFIELD CUP
David Innis 1
Skipton 2
True Flight or Velocity 3


<*
&
it
1
it
til
0®
it.
• WtCWi
GIN PILLS
Just a short while ago Rheu-
matism and Joint Pains pre-
vented her from walking any
distance. But now she’s happy
and .cheerful again, going
about her War Effort with a
smile, and able to walk miles.
.. . Gin Pills brought about
this change in her health!
The agonies of Rheumatism, Joint Pains, Backache, are all brought
about by Kidney Weakness. Weak Kidneys fail to filter impurities from
the blood streams . . . poisons choke the system . , . collect in the joints . . .
trouble begins. You must get your Kidneys working normally again, and
Gin Pills can do this for you quickly, safely, economically.
Gin Pills act directly on the Kidneys—they strengthen them, then
help to dissolve those sharp, crystal-like deposits, so that your Kidneys
can filter them away. Thus the cause of your Rheumatism is soon
eliminated . . . your aches and pains disappear . . . you are treading the
pathway of health once more. Gin Pills contain no harmful ingredients,
and their composition is such that they cannot help but do yougood.
Don't delay—begin now with
a course of Dr. Sheldon's Gin
Pills — they’ll do you worlds of
good. 27 Pills lj9; 60 Pills 2\9.
Dr. SHELDON'S
GIN PILLS^
.me "on my feet"
again
@aa3 posa
IIMiM SL:I.J9LjM
ART FOR PROFIT AND PLEASURE
WHEN these abnormal times are behind us, where will you stand
financially? Commercial Art offers you a fascinating career and
future security, for industry and advertising are dependent on tne
work of the trained Artist. You can begin learning now ~f J our
home and in your own time—to draw posters, cartoons,
illustrations! Develop that flair for sketching under the highly-
specialised tuition of experienced Commercial Artiste. When you
learn from Australia’s Foremost School of you leam
from leaders of the profession, and every step of your progress is
guided by an expert.
ĝ
IXfRITE today, enclosing 41d. for postage, for
” our profusely illustrated book, which includes
“Art Ability Tests.” This hook may prove tne
gateway to your success. It contains wnaßie
information about Commercial Art, a scient m
Questionnaire and special Test Drawings, cop.
these drawings and we will give you an exp
criticism of your art ability—free! cost or
obligation if you mention “The Bulletin.
80 Swanston Sr. Melbourne
SMOKE-OH!
“The ideal diet.” — Woman’s paper.
As much as you can eat of everything
you can get.
•b 4’
“Claiming that his wife was subject to violent
fits of temper during which she threw things
at him, he showed several scars on his face.”
—Divorce item.
Tirade marks.
“The shell of an ostrich egg has a capacity
of about three pints.”— “World's News.”
Well, that’s one egg you can’t get “as
full as” these days.
*s* *s*
Strategic Defence.
“Charged with exceeding the speed limit, the
driver pleaded that he was racing to meet his
girl-friend.”— “Daily Mirror.”
Of course, he had to pay up. If he
had used his brains like my friend
Clarence things might have been other-
wise.
Clarence reversed the excuse. With
face contorted by emotion, he explained
to the magistrate, “I was racing to get
away from my girl-friend. She’s one
of those hard-faced blondes with a de-
termined expression, and she wanted to
marry me!”
The Beak’s eyes softened and a look
of understanding suffused his features.
For two seconds he deliberated, then he
dismissed the case.
You see, Clarence knew that the old
boy had married one of those hard-faced
blondes.
N.
“Priorities for Wives.” — “D.T.”
That'll cramp the office-blonde’s acti-
vities.
+ 4* 4>
“O husband, dear” my good wife sighed,
“To all your needs I’ll cater.
Save one —and ’tis no fault of mine —
You’ll get no roast pointer.”
M.B.
•J* 4* 4*
Black Tea.
“Some people are the limit,” said the
wife virtuously. “That new woman next
door told me today that she had seven
pounds of tea put away. Someone, ought
to report a woman like that.”
“Don’t worry. They will, if she goes
barking it all round the place like that,”
I said shortly from behind the paper.
“Oh! Ido hope not,” cried the missus.
“She’s asked me to drop in to afternoon
tea any time.”
R. A. J.
❖ 4* ❖
“Myra screamed with terror as the subject
of her conversation suddenly entered the door
and seized her by the throat.”
—Magazine story.
A gripping subject?
•b
Forecast.
“Is it possible for a man to predict a
woman’s conduct?” — Woman's paper.
Certainly. Suppose a woman arrives
at a crisis in which she must choose be-
tween two alternatives, A and B. To
forecast her choice, consider the whole
circumstances, study the woman herself,
her psychology, her medical history, her
habits, etc. Review her reactions to
similar predicaments in the past. Psycho-
analyse her. Finally you will find the
weight of logic pointing to one or other
of the alternatives.
If you are rationally convinced that
she will select A, then you are safe in
assuming that her choice will be B, or
vice versa.
T. W. N.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Delays are dangerous, but the traffic
cop’s worse if you ignore his stop signal.
“A farmer in Indiana says he cleared his
bam of rats by keeping his radio on 24 hours
a day.”— “World’s News.”
Perhaps they thought the noise was
made by a sinking ship.
•b
‘lt is definite there will be no division or
ballet, but, if necessary, the club will eliminate
horsed which are considered out of place in a
Caulfield Cup field.” — “Sunday Sun:”
Perhaps the ban on the ballet is due to
none of the horses being over 45.
For sale, cheap, automatic potato-
peeler and -sheer. Owner has no further
use for it.
*b *b *b *b
Gardening Made Easy.
IV.
Putting Out Seeds.
Having judiciously employed the
aggressive potato to pulverise your
ground, you have now to inter those
seeds which can be set out direct.
Take carrot seed, for instance. Open-
ing the packet you will find seed of a
size averaging about four to a pin’s head.
The so-called experts favor making a
light drill, into which the seed should be
“sprinkled evenly.” The idea is that
when the youthful carrots start to put on
condition they can be thinned out, leav-
ing the sturdiest with sufficient room to
mature without jostling each other.
A wasteful method! Moreover, the
“sprinkle evenly” is a glib invention of
the devil. Unless the gardener has long
tapering fingers, he will, on grabbing as
many seeds as he can between thumb and
forefinger and gyrating the digits as he
moves along the drill, find that about 17
seeds will fall in one plop together. Two
feet further along one lousy seed will
fall, and after about another 18 inches
about two dozen will go in a heap.
Should the ground be wet his attempt to
separate one microscopic seed from the
bunch will be difficult enough, but not
so difficult as trying to get it off his finger
and poke it into a vacant position.
No. The scientific and simple method
is best. Get on your hands and knees
along the bed and measure how far you
can reach with your head both ways.
Say it is, overall, 4ft. Allowing for
growth (always err on the side of
optimism) lin. between carrots, there
will be room for four dozen seeds. Count
out 48 and throw them into your mouth.
Then take a good sniff of pepper. As
you feel the resultant sneeze approaching
put your face immediately over the left
end of the measured distance, and as it
comes properly move your face in a
long, sweeping movement, legato, to the
extreme right end. Done correctly, this
method makes for fast, accurate plant-
ing. Care must be taken, though, to see
that only one sneeze is given in the one
place, otherwise the second sneeze will
blow all the seeds out again, probably
into your own eyes.
Equally effective is what I call my Dog
Track system. The term is self-
explanatory.
For such small seed as carrot or par-
snip, set shallow and close together, use
a miniature Pom. or Peke. Hold the dog
on one side of the bed that is to be
sown and get the wife to sing out from
the opposite side “Now, Tootles, you
mustn’t run across the bed, dear! ” After
he has torn straight across the bed he
can be collared, shifted a foot further
along, and the process repeated. Shortly
the whole bed will be paw-marked with
mathematical precision. All that remains
to do then is to bet the kids id. a hole
that they can’t accurately eye-drop a
seed into it. It might cost you a few
bob, but better to spend it that way—
and keep the money in the family—than
bust it on liniment for your own back.
For bigger seeds requiring greater space
and deeper planting, naturally a bigger
dog is needed —fox-terriers for peas,
Airedales for beans, etc. For the North
Queensland man who wishes to plant
whole coconuts there is always an
elephant to be borrowed from the zoo.
Putting beans out in sandy soil can
be done only by those with an eye like
a crow, for on putting one seed in and
taking your eye off it to get another out
of the packet the sand trickles down and
fills up the hole where you pushed the
last bean in. Through peering to find
out where you left off, at the end of two
rows your eyes will be sticking out like
hatpegs.
In heavy wet loam it’s worse. You
poke the first bean in and bring out
several fingerfuls of mud. You dive into
the packet to get another seed out and
eight more beans come with it. By the
time you’ve done half a row there is
more mud in the packet than beans, and
thereafter grabbing one is about as easy
as trying to pick up a thrippeny bit while
wearing boxing-gloves.
Overcoming of these difficulties is
simple. Just slit open a lib. packet of
seed, tip them out in a heap on the bed
and throw a bucket of earth over them.
They will all come up in a matted mass
—except those that die in the fight. This
will save a lot of walking when gather-
ing the crop.
And when strong winds blow they’ll
support each other better than drunks.
80.
Speculation.
Whene’er I see a large white cockatoo
Reverse its head and bite between its
wings,
I fondly muse, if only we could do
This clever act, then we, ’mid other
things.
Instead of biting others on the back
Could bite our own backs with accom-
plished ease.
Still, seeing that we can’t attain the
knack.
Let us not worry. (Beer and lemon,
please.)
T. W. NATHAN.
As Worn.
“A smart hat can be made out of almost
anything.”— Woman’s paper.
Take something borrowed, something
blue,
And anything that you may find,
Six inches off the stovepipe flue,
A tassel off the kitchen blind.
Then dig up, say, an old clock face,
A blackout shade, a rooster’s feather,
An old tea cosy and the ace
Of spades, and stitch the lot together,
Now set your model o’er one eye,
A flippant aspect to impart.
And, if dogs howl and horses shy,
That hat, my sweet, is ultra-smart!
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
‘The Enemy Listens”
I can’t understand Australian post-
office regulations.
I’m in the Merchant Navy. I arrived
in an Australian port from overseas and
wanted to send a telegram to a capital
city to let my people know I was
O.K. I was asked by the young clerk
behind the counter for the ship’s name
(address on back of form). I replied that
the name of the agents was sufficient in
all other ports in Aussie. He was
adamant; and before he would accept the
message I was forced to shout the ship’s
name across the counter. The place was
crowded at the time, and all around the
walls were placards saying “Don’t Talk —
the Enemy Listens.”
Furthermore, the clerk would not give
me a reduction in rates. He said I wasn’t
in the fighting forces. Maybe so. But
days later an ex-Digger behind the
counter gave me the reduction without
my asking.— Silent Service (At Sea).
The Decent and the Not So Decent
Austerity is only equitable when every-
one is living austerely, not when the
“decent chaps” are carrying the load of
the “not so decent” as well as their own.
Most of the voluntary patriotic work
is done and money given by the decent
man and his family. They keep their
homes and towns in order, their vege-
table plots going and their spirits up,
thus carrying a mental and moral burden
as well as a physical and financial one.
The not-so-decent chap is still getting
petrol to carry him to golf or the
races, or perhaps to some black market,
while his brother, the farmer, milks
cows and tills the soil and has not
enough petrol even to go to town at
night to see a picture or visit a friend.
Not encouraging to the decent chap.
Austerity, yes! But with equality.—
M. C. B. (N.S.W.).
Ass-terity
For three weeks past I’ve been a
patient in a military hospital which, I have
heard, cost the Government £2,000,000 ;
and I’ve been watching, from the ward
window, the business of terracing and
working into conventional garden shape
all the spare pieces of land which sur-
round the hospital buildings.
Now I realise that all this spare land is
destined for the growth of grass, and
possibly flowers, but certainly not of
green vegetables and fruit, which we
rarely see in the hospital wards. There
are acres of flat roofs on top of these
hospital buildings which would also pro-
vide valuable space for vegetable gar-
dening, but these are not even allowed
to provide space for hospital patients to
sit about on.
As part of the Austerity campaign (no
doubt) all the patients here are, more or
less rigorously, confined to the wards.
No one can obtain leave out of this hos-
pital until he has been inside a month,
when he is allowed out for one half-day.
I have never seen a patient exercising
himself in the hospital grounds. The
only exercise they get is in cleaning and
polishing the parquet floors of the wards
—and other embellishments which are
part of the unnecessary equipment of
this £2,000,000 hospital.— Quiet, Please
(N.S.W.).
Money and Politics
Federal Ministers have cut down
racing, and, they threaten to ration
numerous other things on which the un-
thinking public spends its money, instead
of putting it into war loans.
If this Austerity move is to make any
deeply-felt appeal it must be explained
why our Government is wasting so much
effort by giving money to people by legis-
lation and regulation and then begging
it back from them. — George Washing-
ton (Tas.).
Justice for the Diggers
Post-war reconstruction is already a
subject for discussion, and as a major
part of that reconstruction we must
apply ourselves to the task of rehabili-
tating the soldiers into civil life, not as
war-torn pariahs, but rather as conquer-
ing heroes, for whom nothing in the land
they fought for and preserved is too
good.
We failed the returned soldiers after
World War No. 1. It will be to our
national shame if we are guilty of the
same breach of trust when the present
war ends. Already there are suggestions
of the formation of a returned soldiers’
political party, but such a step should
not be necessary. Everything the returned
soldiers could obtain by political means
should be forthcoming willingly and
spontaneously from the Australian
people.
Let us resolve now to give to the
returned soldiers every benefit we can
extend to them, not as an act of grace or
magnanimity, but as a matter of common
justice and fairness. — Gyx (N.S.W.).
Post-war Defence
The article “Fighters and Workers”
(B. 30/9/’42) will appeal to most think-
ing Australians. “Post-war reconstruc-
tion” giving both fighters and workers
a fair deal is certainly going to be a
tough job for somebody when we get out
of the present mess.
It would appear, however, that the aim
is to get everyone back to civil jobs.
Although it has no doubt already been
thought of, no mention is ever made of
the necessity for establishing a well-
trained, well-equipped standing army, a
good air force and a strong navy in any
post-war reconstruction scheme.
An adequate force to protect Australia
would absorb many thousands of our
"No, don't tell him. We'll just go up and surprise him!"
fittest warriors, and would also provide
an honorable livelihood for many young
Australians yet unborn.
Assuming that the Japs are defeated,
are they likely to take it lying down?
They are far more likely to set about
preparing for another crack at us, and
may not waste much time about it either.
Surely we will not be caught napping
again.—J. H. W. (S.A.).
Cover for A.R.P. Men
In N. S. Wales, while there has been
lavish expenditure on less-important
things, little has been done to provide
wardens with raid shelters on their
patrols, and only now has their position
in the matter of compensation for injury,
death or incapacitation been clarified.
Out our way we’ve been told that unless
a warden reports to his post and signs the
logbook he will have little chance of
obtaining compensation for an injury.
Yet a man could easily be knocked on
the way to the post or on the way home
after signing off. Even in practice alerts
wardens take risks in blacked-out streets
of breaking limbs on kerbs, barging into
electric poles or being run down by
vehicles.
Sundry attempts to get a ruling on
the matter from N.E.S. headquarters,
from sundry men of law and others
got us nowhere. Our post’s point of view
is that once a warden has been accepted
as such he is a warden for 24 hours of
every day. If in some distant suburb
during a raid he is required to report
to the nearest warden centre for duty,
and should he suffer injury on A.R.P.
work of any kind, he should be provided
for.
Hence the N.S.W. announcement that
A.R.P. men are to be covered “from the
time they left home for duty until they
returned” stiii leaves much to he desired.
Hang it, an ordinary civilian is covered
against his own clumsiness at his ordi-
nary job!—A. R. P. (N.S.W.).
Fuel or Food?
After long months of controversy the
Federal Government has approved of a
power-alcohol-from-wheat project. The
plant will cost about £500,000, and it
will not be working for two years, per-
haps more. The war may be over by
then, and European people will be call-
ing for wheat. We should be able to send
it to them, but instead we shall be con-
verting millions of bushels into motor
spirit.
In any case it would be advisable to
spend more money on protecting our
wheat against weevils, etc., and storing
it in weather- and pest-proof silos.
Donna Quixote (S.A.).
Occupation of Church Schools
Under the plea of war requirements
the Commonwealth Government has
taken possession of many denominational
schools in Queensland. One of these,
though it was next door to a large civilian
hospital, was selected as headquarters for
a military unit that would certainly be a
legitimate object for enemy bombing.
Another school was taken for a military
hospital, although it adjoined an impor-
tant aerodrome.
In no case that I know of has ade-
quate compensation been made for the
occupation. Loss of pupils because of
the action of the Government, loss of
teaching and boarding facilities, loss of
playing fields and other amenities are,
according to Government legal repre-
sentatives, not to be taken into account
when assessing compensation. In some
instances the compensation offered was
paltry.
There is a Court of Appeal for those
who are dissatisfied with the arrangements
made by the Commonwealth authorities,
but a recent enactment gave the Minis-
ter power to override the decision of
the Court.
Whatever arguments the military
authorities may put forward in justifica-
tion of their disruption of secondary edu-
cation, they certainly cannot justify the
destruction wrought in the properties
taken over by them. Trees, plants,
shrubs and ferns have been allowed to
die for lack of water. Gates are off their
hinges, fences are broken down and
straying animals wander at will, destroying
any natural beauties that survived the
military neglect. Furnishings originally
taken for military use and later found
unnecessary or unsuitable have been
dumped in a heap exposed to the weather
and left to rot.— Queenslander (Q.).
Churchill
Apparently all “First Mate” (B.
16/9/ ’42) can find to place on Churchill’s
credit side is the quite small Altmark in-
cident. I’ll grant him another, the resolu-
tion shown in smashing the French Navy
after Dunkirk.
But here’s the other side: The
loss of Royal Oak in Scapa Flow,
official ineptitude having failed to
provide adequate anti-submarine de-
fence —Churchill was First Lord of
the Admiralty at the time; “This
cursed corridor now is closed for ever”
speech when Hitler seized Norway—the
corridor now is a nest for submarines
that threaten the life of Britain; that
footling affair of Dakar; Greece, where
a totally inadequate army was sent to
certain defeat, a defeat that meant the
throwing away of Libyan conquests
won largely by Australians ; Crete, which
needs no further qualification ; the
loss of Prince of Wales and Repulse,
sent out without efficient air protection ;
and Dieppe. All of which cost —how
many thousand lives? —W. C. C. (W.A.).
Compulsory Unionism
In stating the case for compulsory
unionism “A.C.” (B. 30/9/’42) says there
should be no more objection to compul-
sory unionism than to compulsory mili-
tary service. In this instance he is out of
step with the union bosses. They approve
of the former but object strongly to the
latter. Where is their consistency?
Apparently “A.C.” needs reminding
that key unions today have been
captured by agitators. He disapproves
of mass meetings and mob control, but
they will continue as long as the left-
wingers are in the saddle. Some present-
day union leaders have no faith in arbi-
tration and incite the men to ignore it.
They harp on the “class struggle” and in-
tensify antagonism.
Compulsory unionism would transform
union officials into pettifoggers and
pocket dictators. In any event coercion
of minorities is opposed to the spirit of
democracy. - I have worked under exact-
ing employers, but I prefer them to the
union boss. Democratic control will re-
turn to trade-unions only when the black-
coated brigade are booted out. —A. Daly
(S.A.).
Victorian Education Methods
“Has the system of education changed
much ? ” asks “Lord Luvus” (B.
10/9/’42), after a useless school life lang
syne, and finding his office-boy, crammed
with school passes, nightly reading only
the “Herald,” because “there is nothing
to study.” My social experience during
50 years with 14-year-old nippers of the
poor, in dead-end jobs, was that they
read only the sporting papers.
Of course the system has changed since
“L.L.” signed off. In Victoria the Pea-
cock-Tate combination revolutionised
things. In 1931-32, the depth of the de-
pression, Director Mcßae and a Union
teacher committee cleared away a pile
of rubbish, the Cabinet stipulation always
being “Do as you like, reform as you
please ; but the cost must be nil ” Now
Victorian teachers know something of
modern methods, but large classes, lack
of equipment and the exodus of pupils at
14 hamper their efforts, and the children
suffer. Let “L.L.” question senior
secondary boys in any State on social
topics, and he will discover the new
outlook; but the masses never reach
those classes, because they are pushed
out.
“L.L.’s” fierce indignation is refresh-
ing, but what is to be done to wake up
John Citizen, who generally doesn’t give
a damn, to the sadness of the procession
of inept State Ministers of Education
and to the vain attempts of the six Educa-
tion Departments to obtain cash for their
essential work?
To get a Brave New World a start
must be made with the juveniles, who
will make up the world of the future.
This can be done only by the Federal
Government.
Isn’t it worth while to stir things up,
and that at once? Fifty organisations,
just before the war, formed a federation
to look after the best interests of young
Australians. In Victoria efforts have
slowed down because of the world
struggle. Leave it till the Peace, and
there must be hasty work. Much must
be done; and a start should be made
now. — B. T. Pearse (Vic.).
Realistic Broadcasts
I listen to the programmes broadcast by
the combined commercial radio stations
every Sunday evening at 9.15 and find
them good entertainment. But the full
propaganda value is not driven home to
the listening public. It is just another
bit of play-acting. The listener has be-
come so accustomed to the radio voices
that he knows them immediately.
One hears so-called “technicians,”
“aeroplane mechanics,” male and female
“munition workers” putting over their
stuff. How the “men at the front are
depending on them to get the ’planes,
guns, bullets to them on time,” and
“they must not fall down on their job.”
And all the while one recognises these
“experts” as radio pussonalities. Thus
the whole thing flops. It becomes
hollow and meaningless, not because
the actors participating are no good,
but because they are too good. Their
highly-trained radio voices give the
whole business a false note. It is the
same as if an Oxford graduate tried to
impersonate an Australian bullock-driver.
Would it not be better to get some
war workers to make these records? —'
Listener Inner (N.S.W.).


RODUCTION
for
WAR
For 29 years A.WA. has maintained
a reputation for making high grade
wireless apparatus in Australia
i||.:.lyAipA AAA A*A -v• '■, v ; !\ g. A •
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Buy ...
£lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
and WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
