

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 63.—N0. 3274
Wednesday, November 11, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office* Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
TINTERN ABBEY.
■THE River Wye, as most visitors to England are
1 aware, among its superlatively beautiful and
notable attributes includes on its banks the loveliest
ruined abbey in the country and possibly in the world
—Tintern, founded by the Cistercian order in 1131.
The abbey has been described as a “dream in stone,”
to which might be added a dream set in some of the
most entrancing scenery to be found within the
confines of the Old Country. The late Prince Consort,
whose knowledge of art has never been questioned,
declared Tintern to be the finest ruin in Europe, ergo,
the world. Those who have been privileged to visit
Tintern Abbey are conscious of its magic and com-
pelling beauty and understand how poets have sung
its glories and painters endeavored to portray some of
its charms on canvas, while eminent architects from
most countries have ever professed astonishment at
the serene and perfect relation of all its parts one to
another. Many of these professional men took
careful measurements and made profound calculations,
but apparently with little success, for there is no modern
Gothic which, even faintly, reminds one of “incom-
parable Tintern.” Here Barry came for suggestions
when building the Houses of Parliament at West-
minster. A distinguished architect wrote: “Of all
great Gothic ruins Tintern perhaps least of all will
yield the secrets of its perfect harmony to the hurried
student. Where all is so beautiful, it were weak to
point out especial features; but amongst the wealth
of Gothic art here portrayed the visitor will do well
not to forget the noble west window, where the greater
part of its exquisite tracery is still to be seen. Tintern
is not only admirable when studied as a whole, its
details are of the most beautiful character and
thoroughly compensate minute inspection.” Tintern
being founded by the Cistercians, a few words respect-
ing that venerable and distinguished monastic order,
“created” by Abbot Robert in 1098 at Coteaux
(Cistercium), near Dijon, France. The order followed
the rule of St. Benedict, and, being free from episcopal
control, formed an ecclesiastical republic. St. Bernard
of Clairvaux almost refounded the order. The saint
was a great hymn-writer, some of his productions
being still universally known and admired, among the
most popular being those commencing “Jesu, the
very thought of Thee,” “Jesu, Thou joy of loving
hearts” and “Jesus, King most wonderful.” Inci-
dentally, it might be stated the famous Trappist order
is an offshoot of the Cistercian.


Stori! Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Phase send, without alligation, your Kew Free
booklet, et’pla in mg how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney •‘Bulletin. '
My Same
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
Virginia Woolf's Criticism,
So we see Shelley through our particular
pair of spectacles—a shrill, charming,
angular boy; a champion riding out against
the forces of superstition and brutality with
heroic courage; at the same time blind,
inconsiderate, obtuse to other persons’ feel-
ings.
That is Virginia Woolf’s summing-up
on Shelley in her© posthumous volume
of essays The Death of the Moth
(Hogarth Press ; Moore’s Bookshop).
Here is a note on Gibbon:
Seen through Maria’s eyes Gibbon- —she
called him sometimes “Gib,”, sometimes
‘le grand Gibbon,” sometimes’ “the His-
torian”—looked different from Gibbon
seen by himself. In 1792 she was a girl of
21 ; he was a man of 55. To her he was
often an object of ridicule; he was so
fat: such a figure of fun “waddling across
the room whenever she [Madame da Silva]
appeared, and sitting by her and looking
at her, till his round eyes rui> down with
water” ; rather testy, too, an old bachelor
who lived like clockwork....
And again:
To his Aunt Kitty, Gibbon had been
ever since he was a babe a source of acute
anxiety—he was so weakly; and of intense
pride—he was such a prodigy.
Here are extracts from her “Letter to
a Young Poet”;
Write, then, now that you are young,
nonsense by the ream. Be silly, be senti-
mental, imitate Shelley, imitate Samuel
Smiles; give the rein to every impulse....
So long as you and you and you, vener-
able and ancient representatives of Sappho,
Shakspeare and Shelley, are aged precisely
23 and propose—O enviable lot! —to spend
the next 50 years of your lives in writing
poetry, 1 refuse to think the art is dead.
There is a vast difference in spirit be-
tween such observations and the portrait
of Tennyson which Virginia Woolf quotes
from Henry James’s letters:
I sat next but one to the Bard and heard
most of his talk, which was all about port
wine and tobacco; he seemed to know
much about them, and can drink a whole
bottle of port at a sitting with no incom-
modity. He is very swarthy and scraggv,
and strikes one at first as much less hand
some than his photographs: but gradually
you see that it’s a face of genius. He
had I know not what simplicity, speaks
with a strange rustic accent
The effect of Henry James’s portrait is
to humanise the poet; to make the point,
as Virginia Woolf puts it, that “Tennyson
was not Tennysonian.” But the effect
of her own portrait of Shelley, of her
choice of a girl’s-eye view of Gibbon and
of the tone of her advice to the young
writer is not to humanise her subjects
but (if there’s such a word) to infantilise
them.
That is the great fault of Virginia
Woolf’s criticism: she mothers the
writers; she dresses them as babies and
either spanks or pets them. Shelley, the
“shrill, charming, angular boy,” was
surely, at 29 (if not, as T. S. Eliot
described himself at 28, “an ageing
eagle”), a shrill, charming, angular man.
Meeting Gibbon in the flesh, one
would not have laughed at the writer
who, in the pride of enduring achieve-
ment, could say:
Yet, upon the whole, the History of the
Decline and Fall seems to have struck
root, both at home and abroad, and may,
perhaps, a hundred years hence still con-
tinue to be abused.
Or, if one had laughed at the man’s
vanity or sympathised with his ill-health,
one wouldn’t, unless born his niece or
his aunt, have laughed or fretted in the
precise way that they did.
Virginia Woolf is by no means the
only writer who has fallen into this trap
when writing about figures of the past.
Maoriland s Robin Hyde spoilt a superb
theme when throughout Check to Your
King she referred to the Baron de JTiierry,
who proclaimed himself king of New
Zealand, as “Our Charles.” Nor are
women the only offenders: Frank dune
nearly reduced his Last of the Explorers
to a book for boys by writing-down
Donald Mackay to “Donald.” Both
Ernestine Hill in My Love Must Wait
and Eleanor Dark in Timeless Land
showed a disposition to treat their heroes
as small boys. But the past is neither a
joke for the present to laugh at nor a
small boy for the present to mother.
Beneath the trappings of the period men
lived, thought and died as men live, think
and die today. It is as false for Virginia
Woolf to write about Shelley as a “boy”
as it would be to discuss Louis MacNeice
as a boy; as limited to see Gibbon
through his aunt's eyes as it would be to
see Lytton Strachey in such a way.
When she deals with contemporary
figures, Henry James and George MoOre,
Virginia Woolf is more the critic than
the aunt and consequently so much the
more readable. Her study of Lytton
Strachey's Queen Victoria and Elizabeth
and Essex becomes a most interesting
analysis of the whole art of biography:
And thus we come to the conclusion that,
the biographer is a craftsman, not an
artist; and his work is not a work of art,
but something betwixt and between. Yet
on that lower level, the work of the bio-
grapher is invaluable; we cannot thank
him sufficiently for what he does. For
we are incapable of living wholly in the
intense world of the imagination. The
imagination is a faculty that soon tires
and needs rest and refreshment. But for
a tired imagination the proper food is not
inferior poetry or minor fiction —indeed
they blunt and debauch it—but sober
fact, that “authentic information” from
which, as Lytton Strachey has shown us,
good biography is made.
Only the infantilising tendency of the
other essays (and, perhaps, a little too
much airy phrase-making as a substitute
for the essentials of criticism: quotation
and forthright opinion) deprive them of
a similar force and clarity. The tone
of the “Letter to a Young Poet” would
repel anyone except a schoolgirl, yet the
advice—to return to life by way of the
poetic drama—is eminently sound.
In the essays as a whole, there is little
writing that has the fire, the daring or
the faults of Virginia Woolf’s novels.
The title piece and three others —the most
recent in date—are imaginative and, like
her last novel (Between the Acts), show
her obsessed by images of death. There
are broadcasting and newspaper articles
of no great quality ; and there are the
criticisms of Henry James, George
Moore, Strachey and E. M. Forster,
which, though lacking the passion with
which Katherine Mansfield wrote of Tol-
stoy and Chekhov, are thorough, balanced
and illuminating
Cezanne Speaking.
From the literary point of view, the
most interesting notes and comments in
Cezanne: Letters (Bruno Cassirer) are
not in Cezanne’s letters to Zola, which
make the bulk of the book, but in the
group of letters from Zola to Cezanne.
Zola, “speaking of the artist in general”
and recognising that, because it comes
as a torrent, great literature must always
have its rough patches:
Like you, I say that the artist should
not retouch his work. And so I am
entirely of your opinion: work conscien-
tiously, do the best you can, file it into
shape a little so as better to adjust the
parts to form a proper whole, then
abandon your work to. its good or bad
fortune.
What’s astonishing about Cezanne’s
letters, as a whole, is their emptiness.
The painter was, as his translator says,
no literary man —“a poor writer who
found considerable difficulty in express-
ing himself” —but, allowing for that, one
would have expected more color of per-
sonality, more signs of artistic depth to
emerge. Apparently, until late in his
life when he began to analyse what he
had done and to expound it to young
admirers, Cezanne thought only with his
brushes.
In his early letters, typically student
compositions in their impulsiveness and
grandiloquence as in their airing of Eng-
lish and Latin tags and their tendency
to burst into bad verse, the artist insists
over and over again on his “stupidity”
—“Dear boy, I have now bored you suf-
ficiently ; permit me to terminate this
stupid epistle.” The letters of the middle
period are, in the main, scrappy appeals
to Zola for money. At page 224, he
begins to talk like an artist: “I despise
all living painters except Monet and
Renoir, and I wist to achieve success
through work.”
From then on, he is interesting: break-
ing out into colossal angers, or speaking
up for his art:
Nature for us men is more depth than
surface, whence the need of introducing
into our light vibrations, represented by reds
and yellows, a sufficient amount of blue to
give the impression of air. You have the
understanding of what must be done and
you will soon turn your back on the
Gauging and the Van Goghs
Beware of the literary spirit, which so
often causes painting to deviate from its
true path—the concrete study of nature—
to lose itself all too long in intangible
speculations
Literature expresses itself by abstrac-
tions, whereas painting, by means of draw-
ing and color, gives concrete shape to sen-
sations and perceptions. One is neither too
scrupulous, nor too sincere, nor too sub-
missive to nature, but one is more or less
master of one’s model and, above all, of
the means of expression. Get to the heart
of what is before you and continue to
express yourself as logically as possible
The Louvre is the book in which w©
learn to read. Vve must not. no.,ever,
be satisfied with retaining the beautiful
formulas of our illustrious predecessors.
Let us go forth to study beautiful nature,
let us try to free our minds from them,
let us strive to express ourselves according
to our personal temperaments. Time and
reflection, moreover, modify little by little
our vision, and at last comprehension
comes to u 5....
I cannot attain the intensity that is .-un-
folded before my senses. I have not the
magnificent richness of color that animates
nature. Here on the edge of the river, fhe
motifs are very plentiful, the same sub
ject seen from a different angle gives a
subject for study of the highest interest
and so varied that I think I could be
occupied for months without changing my
place, simply bending a little more to the
right or left.
Because it’s presented in a spirit of
hero-worship, restrained to the point of
evasiveness in the vital footnotes, the
book gives a poor picture of Cezanne as
a personality. Why did Zola, Cezanne’s
friend from their university days, turn
on him in the end and satirise him, in
the character of Lantier in VCEuvre, as
“a brilliant but incomplete artist, con-
fused, impotent, mad, a failure”? John
Rewald, who has edited the letters,
hardly discusses the point.
There’s this letter, typical of the half-
dozen or so in which Cezanne picks a
quarrel:
Monsieur, the rather discourteous
manner with which you take the liberty of
entering my room is not calculated to
please me. In the future please see that
you are announced.
To which Rewald’s footnote is:
This is what had happened. Cezanne
had asked Louis Le Bail to call him every
day at three o’clock after his nap; the
latter, taking him at his word, and find-
ing Cezanne asleep, entered the latter’s
room after having knocked several times to
wake him.
Rewald has given the bare facts; but
comment or further information is called
for if the letters are to amount to a por-
trait of the artist as a man.
Again, there should surely have been
some comment on Cezanne’s money
problem as it affected his life and his
art—not only his relations with Zola,
but his dependence on his father:
Hortense’s father wrote to his daughter
in Paris under the title Mme Cezanne.
My landlord hastened to send this letter
to Jas de Bouffan. My father opened it
and read it. You can imagine the result.
I denied vehemently
When he wrote that letter to Zola, show-
ing that his father could still open his
letters and that he was terrified that the
old banker might discover the truth
about his mistress, Cezanne was 39.
For the Freelance .
Every beginner who wishes to sell
articles, stories and verse to Australian
papers (including The Bulletin) or to
submit books to Australian publishers
should read Stanley Brogden’s The Aus-
tralian Freelance (Bread and Cheese
Club, Melbourne). It’s not one of those
appalling treatises that teach you how to
be a genius in ten minutes; it’s com-
pletely practical, eminently sensible, easy
to follow and pleasantly written: one
Of the best things of its kind this Page
has seen.
Most of the rules are, of course,
elementary and obvious ; but this office’s
w.p.b. is crammed with the offerings of
writers who don’t know the elementary
and can’t see the obvious.
Nowhere is Mr. Brogden wiser than
when he makes his first rule: Buy a copy
of the paper and see what the editor
wants. He is careful to qualify his state-
ment that writers should adapt their style
to the general style of the paper they’re
writing for; and it’s basically sound
advice. But, as far as The Bulletin is
concerned, he might have added the
warning not to try to write “Bulletinese.”
There’s no such animal. If there’s a simi-
larity in tone in Bulletin pages it’s only
because The Bulletin publishes
written naturally and, when possible,
humorously.
“Use a typewriter; don't send dirty
MSS.; don't make errors of fact”. . .
there are dozens of such tips, all obvious,
but all vital and all too often ignored.
Mr. Brogden also reviews the available
markets. They’ve shrunk these days ;
but, even so, the book’s worth buying to
store for the time when the wicked cease
from troubling and newsprint is rationed
no more.
Meet New Zealand: Handbook for
U.S. visitors, published by Whitcombe
and Tombs. Tells ’em everything they
need to know from whether or not a
weta bites to why they can’t get a drink
after six and what exactly is the constitu-
tional significance of Dominionhood. The
colloquial, friendly style couldn’t be
better. A similar publication should be
useful in Australia,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
When Clytemnestra is foully murder-
ing her husband in the bath, the chorus
ot old men in the “Agamemnon” of
TEschylus, instead of rushing to the
rescue, conduct an absurd debate as to
what is the proper course of action for
elderly gentlemen in such circumstances.
By which, AEschylus surely meant to
make the not untopical comment that,
while the best of the nation's manhood
was away at the Trojan war, Greece was
ruled by a pack of futile dodderers:
thereby introducing into a tragic scene
a touch of satire and comedy such as
Shakspeare, centuries later, brought into
“Macbeth” with the drunken porter. That
the A.B.C. performance of Louis Mac-
Neice’s translation didn’t come up to ex-
pectations was partly due to the fact that
the old men weren’t made funny. And.
unfortunately, Agamemnon, while being
murdered, became funny in a way that
wasn’t intended. When he cried out in
a hollow voice “Oh, I am struck a mortal
blow,” and then feebly announced that
the missus had stabbed him a second
time, all the drama was lost in uncon-
scious humor.
iEschylus wrote the “Agamemnon”
for the Greek stage; MacNeice wrote
the translation for a Group Theatre. Since
radio production is an entirely different
matter, the A.B.C. would have been justi-
fied in altering the text; and a slight
alteration would have made a vast im-
provement. MacNeice’s imitation of the
remote and ponderous humor of T. S.
Eliot could have been, as it were, under-
lined a little to show that it was humor ;
and if, instead of saying “Oh, I am struck
a mortal blow,” Agamemnon had merely
groaned—or even if someone else had
been given the line “Oh, he is struck
a mortal blow”-—the death scene would
have had dramatic instead of merely
literary interest. A too refaned “Watch-
man” marred the opening of the broad-
cast ; but the vigor, clarity and fine
characterisation of Clytemnestra, Cas-
sandra and—in his brief appearance —
Agamemnon did much to redeem the
occasion.
In “The Time of Your Life,” the play
which, of his three recently reviewed here,
comes nearest % to being a play, William
Saroyan has a man who, throughout the
action, does nothing but play a poker-
machine. He represents man’s last des-
perate challenge to a mechanical civili-
sation, and in the moment when he at
last beats the machine (and then, ob-
sessed, begins the struggle all over again)
Saroyan achieves a bit of good comedy
and an amusing social comment. Maybe
Saroyan borrowed the idea from Elmer
Rice’s “See Naples and Die,” in which
(without making any social comment,
except perhaps on chess-players) two
fanatics brood over their chessboard for
the full three acts while the other guests
at the pre-war Italian resort make love,
quarrel, plot elopements and abductions
and hurl at each other the spirited wise-
cracks of America. By comparison with
AEschylus, who wrote about war and the
soul of man, Elmer Rice is infinitely re-
mote from life, but “See Naples and Die"
at Sydney Minerva makes excellent light
relief: very much like—especially in its
satire of tourists—a Noel Coward
comedy, but without Coward’s frequent
sordiness. Marjorie Gordon, John Carl-
son and Sydney Wheeler are outstanding
among a good team of actors.
The Yankee wisecrack should have had
another airing in Dashiell Hammett's
“The Maltese Falcon” (reduced to cel-
luloid at Sydney Plaza), but the author of
“The Thin Man” series seems to have
been too busy grappling with the com-
plexities of his plot to bother much about
humor this time. After its tortuous open-
ing, it turns out a fair mystery, with Hum-
phrey Bogart even tougher as a detective
than he has been in any of his gangster
roles. Among other talkies, “Eagle
Squadron” (State) offers yet another pilot
avenging the death of his pal. Hollywood
is doing a good job in stressing the heroic
in these air-war films, but the director
needn’t have had Robert Stack wander-
ing through the pilot’s role with a per-
manent scowl and a lip like a motherless
foal.
Under its third conductor in three
successive concerts, Sydney A.B.C.
Orchestra, with a well-trained choir and
baritone Harold Williams, put on a
moving and impressive performance ol
Deljus’s “Sea-Drift.” Prof. Heinze, of
Melbourne, who wielded the baton,
seemed genuinely inspired and conveyed
his enthusiasm to players and singers.
A noteworthy afternoon began with
Schubert’s “Unfinished,” unique amongst
symphonies in that it contains three im-
mortal tunes that anyone can whistle,


ANTHONY HORDERNS'
"Truth in Advertising"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
119th Year of Service
m
ry
rr
“ N
ry
r:
m.
y\
w y
i /\y\ .
\w
U-
y,\
Jk V>l
K/) X i/AV
?■. ,// ,1
z'v
y
cr~\ %
y/^yy
r
Wi
c
y
\z
■&
VA
t
z l^
\ J /
VlfiFr
am.
r .
in-
-4
■ii_/
■=*
'
m
AUSTRALIAN ARMY
OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
TAILORED
TO MEASURE
Military Uniforms cut and made by
Anthony Horderns' are correct in
detail, perfect in fitting, and flawless
in tailoring.
You will get standard quality materials
and a quick, efficient service.
Khaki Drill Uniforms. Price, from £4/10/-
Lightweight All Wool Tropical Hopsac £6/19/6
All Wool Officers Twist. Price £7/19/6
All Wool Worsted Barathea. Price £9/10/-
English Barathea. Price £l2/12/-
Have your Uniform dry-
cleaned and pressed
you will be surprised at
its improved appearance.
The charge is 4/6. Dry-
cleaning is Coupon-free.
Officers' Uniforms are Coupon-free
X Military Tailoring—Ground Floor, George Street.
BUY AUSTERITY
LOAN BONDS AND
SPEED VICTORY WITH
YOUR MONEY
NTHONY
FAMOUS
LOW PRICES
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


The Bulletin
SPRING VISIT
By MARGARET TRIST.
1 1 I ’M against it,” said my grandfather,
but he put on his cap and, despite
{ the early summer warmth, struggled
into his topcoat. “Heat’s always
deceiving this time of the year,” he said.
“It’s not as hot as it seems to be.”
Aunt Bridie covered her neat gingham
with an Assam-silk dustcoat, placed a
large straw hat on her head, skewered
it into position with a hatpin and tied
the ends of the white silk veil securely
under her chin.
“Are we expected?” demanded Grand-
father.
Aunt Bridie gently placed dampened
tissue round an offering of pink ivy
geraniums and asparagus ferns. “We’re
always welcome,” she said. “Then
there’s a blouse pattern I have for the
girls.” She put brown paper round the
stiff little bouquet.
She looked at the kitchen stove to see
that the fire was safe, closed the windows
securely, shooed Grandfather and me
outside, and followed us. She locked the
front door and hid the key in a pot-
plant on the verandah. “No one would
think to look there,” she said.
From the shade of the pepperina
Roger looked at us morosely, irritated by
his blinkers and the restriction of the
sulky shafts. Earlier Aunt Bridie had
brought him from the paddock behind the
cottage and I had helped her with the
harnessing. Roger did not care about
being harnessed. He had grown old and
fat, and preferred his paddock with its
covering of young clover and the
wooden feed box with its hay. He
looked at Aunt Bridie, but Aunt Bridie
averted her eyes and set about getting
Grandfather into the sulky.
“Heave-ho,” said Grandfather, and he
heaved and we pushed. For a long time
it looked as if nothing at afl was going
to happen, but at last a more determined
effort sent him aloft. Swearing under his
breath he settled himself in his seat. I
got in from the other side, and Aunt
Bridie clambered in after me. She took
the reins and tugged them gently. “Now,
Roger,” she said sternly.
We waited. He did not move.
“Tan him,” urged Grandfather.
“Roger, please,” Aunt Bridie said
equably.
Roger switched his tail and ambled
forward through the dust. “You see,”
said Aunt Bridie. “It’s just that he needs
handling.”
Crushed between them I inhaled the
mingled perfume of Grandfather’s pep-
permints and Aunt Bridie’s eau-de-
Cologne.
NCE on the roadway Roger settled to
an easy trot. Dust rose from under
his hooves. His sleek fat hindquarters glis-
tened in the sunlight. We clattered over
a small white bridge spanning a narrow
creek in which barefooted children
armed with jam-tins fished for crays.
They stared at us incuriously as we
passed. We turned into the main street.
Aunt Bridie sat erect clasping the reins
regally, and steered her turnout through
the throng of cars and incautious pedes-
trians.
The town was crowded. Dust rose
thickly in the direction of the stockyards.
Grandfather peered among the passers-
by for his friends. “Hi, Harry,” he
called excitedly. “Bridget, my girl, pull
into the gutter.”
Aunt Bridie pretended not to hear.
Grandfather sighed and settled back in
his seat. “It’s the young people’s day,”
he muttered. “But some time there’s
some as will remember how they treated
their poor old father. There’s some as
will remember how they made him pass
his friends in the street. There’s not
many of his friends left, neither. Die
off like flies, they do. Still he has to
pass in the street the few that’s left.
Oh, well! It can’t be helped, no doubt.
It can’t be helped.”
“I’m taking you to see your friend,
aren’t I?” demanded Aunt Bridie.
“I’m against it,” said my grandfather ;
“we aren’t invited.”
“We are. We’re invited any time.”
“I don’t hold with midweek gallivant-
ing.”
“Neither do I, most times, but this
spring weather’s too good to waste.”
“Spring weather!” exclaimed Grand-
father. “Seems more like midsummer
to me.”
“Indeed! It’s not the weather. It’s that
coat you’re muffled in.”
“I’ll be needing it when the evening
comes,”, Grandfather replied sulkily.
The railway gates were closed. Roger
shifted uneasily from hoof to hoof and
switched his tail nervously. On one side
of the roadway there was a hotel.
Grandfather watched the men clustered
under the awning. The half-doors swung
as customers went in and out. Aunt
Bridie watched determinedly the other
side of the street. Here there was a
photographer’s display. Plump, naked
babies, white-clad brides and young
soldiers were equally besprinkled with
dust and flyspots.
A rail motor went through. The gates
opened. Aunt Bridie gave Roger his
head and he made contentedly for the
open country. Here there was a breeze
blowing, and the sun shone warmly on
the flat land and the clover and the
young grass and the dandelions and the
bluebells and the fettler’s pumpkins
sprawling, the flowers yellow like home-
made butter, beside the silver rails.
A SMALL house came up out of the
plain, a wooden structure with a cor-
rugated iron roof and haphazard rooms
outjutting. Pieces of canvas and bagging
fluttered. Renovations carried out with
flattened kerosene - tins and packing-
cases showed mercilessly in the sunlight.
Roger, unbidden, stopped at the gate.
The house suddenly swarmed with life.
An elderly woman wrapped her apron
about her head and came down the stairs.
A younger woman, tall, skinny, dressed
in pink with little blue bows and a blue
belt, looked through the door, called
delightedly and followed her. Children,
dogs and fowls came from every direc-
tion. Turkeys hurried with wings out-
spread.
i A bright red spot showed on each of
Aunt Bridie’s cheeks. “We’re not stop-
ping, Mrs. MacMahon,” she called, get-
ting down. “We’ve dropped in for half
an hour, that’s all.”
“Of course you’re stopping. And it’s
just the right time. The kettle’s on the
boil this minute.”
“Let me down,” roared Grandfather.
“Here, give me a hand, Bridget, my girl.”
Aunt Bridie and Mrs. MacMahon Went
round to him. The girl in pink started
to loosen Roger’s harness. Another girl,
in a pale yellow frock with green trim-
mings, had come from the house.
“How’s your old man?” demanded
Grandfather as he found the ground once
more under his feet.
Mrs. MacMahon shook her head.
“He’s in his bed. He’s not sick, but he
don’t seem to take no interest. The
winter had him all but settled. Maybe
with the warm weather”
“These plains are cruel of winter,”
said my grandfather.
“But they’re sweet in spring,” said
Aunt Bridie. “Oh, I nearly forgot”
The young women had taken Roger
from the sulky, and a boy had come to
take him away. They had pushed the
sulky into the shade of a tree and lowered
the shafts to the ground. Aunt Bridie
went across for the bouquet and the
pattern.
“For me,” said Mrs. MacMahon. She
took the proffered flowers. “You always
were a thoughtful one, Bridie. And a
blouse pattern for the girls. Now 1
won’t get any good out of them to-
morrow. They’ll have to make it up
right away. You know what dreadful
girls they are for clothes. Always snip-
ping and stitching and studying the
fashions. They take a pride, they do.
Here, Milly, you take Mr. Flynn’s arm
one side and I’ll take it the other.”
We started up the stairs, a small female
band, with my grandfather swearing,
snorting, stumbling in our midst. Every-
one pretended not to hear the swearing.
Aunt Bridie talked quickly to cover it.
A bellow came from inside the house.
Milly clasped her hands excitedly. “There,
Mr. Flynn,” she cried, “you’ve done
Father good already. He sounds almost
like he used to.”
Grandfather, his stick tapping on the
bare boards, went in the direction of
the bellow.
The living-room was bare and clean.
I sat by myself on a cloth-covered sofa.
Mrs. MacMahon bustled out to the
kitchen to prepare tea. The two Miss
MacMahons, Milly and Flora, sat with
Aunt Bridie at a small table. They must
have been very nearly as old as Aunt
Bridie, but they giggled like schoolgirls,
and their frocks were made on girlish
lines. They sat now delightedly poring
over the pieces of pattern, working them
out like a jigsaw puzzle. Aunt Bridie
advised and helped them. Her eyes were
wistful. To have no hope in spring-
time was a sorry business. The
Miss MacMahons still had hope,
despite their years and despite the
scragginess of their bodies under the
pastel-shaded silks. And with hope all
things can happen. Perhaps some day
the lean men of the hills would come
down. From here, through the open
window, you could see the hills lying low
and jacaranda-colored against the clean,
springtime sky.
Mrs. MacMahon came in brandishing
a tablecloth heavy with crochet.
“Oh, please, Mrs. MacMahon,” begged
Aunt Bridie, “don’t go to any bother lor
us ”
Mrs. MacMahon’s answer was lost in
a roar from Mr. MacMahon’s bedroom.
Two voices rose simultaneously. Curses,
swear words, hurled insults stiffened the
air. Something crashed as if it had been
thrown. Mrs. MacMahon dropped the
tablecloth and tottered to a chair. She
covered her head with her apron and
sobbed.
“It’s months since he’s gone on like
that,” she said. “It’s been terrible with-
out a grown man round the place. Don t
mind us, Bridie, dear. These are tears of
joy we’re shedding. Milly and Flea,
your father is better.”
The voices rose more shrilly on the
afternoon air.
THE TIDE OR THE SUN
By “BUNGAREE BOATMAN.”
(The writer has seen service with the R.N.V.R. in English coastal waters.
Earlier in the year he wrote to The Bulletin of the seagoing motor-boats
that do so much of the Navy’s patrol work these days. This tells of
further experience in those craft.)
t lOW water is at Nought Four
I Three Nought. It will begin to
I get light about Nought Seven One
Five,” the First Lieutenant braced
himself on the sloping floor of the
narrow, dimly-lit chartroom of his
Majesty’s motor gunboat —— and
summed up the situation as a simple
equation of time. It was merely a ques-
tion of tide against daylight. If the tide
rose first the ship’s company would stand
an even chance of returning to harbor ;
if the daylight broke first the ship’s com-
pany would be either scuppered or would
see the night as prisoners of war.
HM.M.G.B. had returned to
• harbor at 0730 hrs. that morning
after a night patrol in search of
The members of her crew were looking
forward to getting their heads down dur-
mg the afternoon. There was a certain
amount of routine work to be done—
refuelling and clearing her guns, and
perhaps a bit of a rub where the North
Sea spume and spray had dried in white
blotches on her dirty grey topsides. But
that should not take long, and there
would be time for rest afterwards. Then
as she drew alongside the fuelling jetty
an officer came aboard to see the C.O.
There was nothing remarkable about
~ , , , u + +u
that-naval ofheers are legion about the
base-but m five minutes time the C O s
face had lengthened considerably and he
called the First Lieutenant to one side and
said We sail at seventeen hundred to-
night on Operation Boloney. We’ll need
extra fuel, and anything that might be of
assistance to the enemy if captured must
be landed.”
The First had no illusions about the
next six hours, or for that matter the
next twenty-six. He just buckled in to
get done the hundred and one things
that must be done before they sailed.
AT ISOOhrs. No. buoy was abeam
and the M.G.B. altered course for
the enemy coast to carry out what their
lordships in the Admiralty pleased to
call “Operation Boloney”: the mess
deck had various epithets more suitable,
A course had been calculated by Opera-
tions, by the C.O. and by the First, who
had had the cheek to check up in case
the shore wallahs had given the overland
route.
“You drive her over, No. 1, while I
get my head down for a spell,” said the
qq.
■ . , •,
The First crouched in the flying bridge
, rnf •
over the engine telegraphs. The coxswain
. 6 u 11 -,i u-™ -t-i
was at the wheel alongside him. The
wind was blowing about force three on
he starboard quarter, which meant that
the boat yawed fifteen degrees each side
of her course—not a pleasant state ot
affairs when there were several hours of
it ahead. The chances of arriving at
Position X or even close to Position X
were not good
For some hours H.M.M.G.B.
roared through the water, veering about
like a motherless foal. The First had a
nasty time of it, but at, length dead
reckoning showed they were close to the
enemy coast.
“Slow ahead, cox! Give the C.O. a
shake, lookout,” and then “All hands on
deck and for hell’s sake don’t make any
noise.”
The wind had slackened off to force
two. There was no moon, and in the
darkness it was almost impossible to tell
where the sea stopped and the sky began.
The crew moved about their appointed
tasks, talking only in whispers. There
came suddenly the sickening thump
known only to men of the sea—the
M.G.B. had touched bottom.
The telegraphs clanged faintly in the
bowels of the ship ; engines were stopped,
The C.O. said “I’ll try coming astern.
Get the leadline over and feel if she
moves.”
It was possible only to use one-tenth
of the power without making a noise,
The leadline remained obstinately ver-
tical.
“No jog, sir,” said the First Lieutenant,
“Get the dinghy away, No. 1, take the
leadline out and find out what you can.
The dinghy was lowered and the cox-
swam took the oars, rowing quietly,
Within a cable there was a depth of 2ft.
6m. and the boat drew over 6ft. The
First climbed wearily into the chartroom.
“Low water is at Nought Four Three
Nought,” he said. “We might get off
before daylight.”
-p HERE was lent t 0 be done . Bilges
[ wefe J al[ fresh water
waj pump * d over the side and five tons of
dead weight was distributed so that the
draug ht was evened up. Afterwards the
qq. made arrangements for abandoning
s hip and blowing her up in case she failed
to get off. Then there was nothing but
to wait and endeavor not to think,
At 0430 hrs. the little wardroom was a
depressing sight. The wardrobe door had
swung inboard ; also the uniforms be-
longing to the Captain and First Lieu-
tenant - seemed to be appealing o
be worn if the ship was abandoned,
s|o slo P w i y , the list righted.
B 064 § hrs the m.G.B. had assumed
eyen kee j
< Try her on the silent cen tresaid
be qq All hands were on deck ready
to haul away on the warp? w hich was
led from f or ’ ard to a ft outboard of
everything so that the coil would be
thrown clear of the screws in case it
came off.
There was no jog, not even a shudder,
“Try careening her, No. 1.”
“All hands amidships on the port side,”
the First stood on the meat hatch amid-
ships. “Stand by! Right over.” He
motioned across, and the crew charged
over to starboard. The First watched
the tip of the mast as it snaked its way
pa st a few stars. “Back,” his arms con-
ducted the movements of the crew to the
rhythm of the ship’s roll. Still there was
no jog.
The dawn was beginning to break now
and a few houses and some trees were
appearing through the morning haze. Five
minutes more and it would be too late.
“Start up everything and stand by,
the C.O. called, loudly now. It was the
order the chief engineer had been wait-
ing for. There came a roar that shat-
“ s : : T , ,•« : n
tered the quiet. It was like an open in-
fnr
vitation to every gun and searchlight tor
=L„• . i;f _
clanged down below and
shuddered, and slowly the
ho me, then tautened
vv “ u
an l < L s 1 b °PP e * . „, OTr • - r « Q „.- d
The way out is the way in, sir, said
• q switch ed the lever to “full
astern.” Up went the throttles slowly.
The screec h down below was terrific.
y top , side tbe crew watched anxiously,
sl q wl / the m G B. began to make way
stern fi rst into the enemy coast. The
anchor warp was pa id out for’ard, and
back went tbe crew to their job of
careening,
By 0715 hrs. the boat was alive,
“Stop engines. Half ahead, starboard;
Hard a port,” and slowly the coastline
disappeared in the morning haze,
, .
I ATE that afternoon a tired but jubi-
' —* lant little ship secured alongside the
sister ships in her home port. At some
future date the knew he would
incur their lordships’ displeasure tor
jeopardising one of H.M. ships. But
neither he nor the rest of the crew cared
about that. They had all tried and had
battled through.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3274.
Wednesday, November 11, 1942.
FORWARD TO VICTORY.


The Bulletin
M of * Aii* at
44 Australian Newspaper
ustralia for the White Man
, Directors:
r> u Pri . or E : Web b
. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
w
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place-. 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
WATCH AMERICA!
During the last week or two Australians
have heard a great deal from Dr. Evalt
and other Labor gentlemen on the sub-
ject of Soviet Russia.
The Attorney-General had previously
complained that powerful quarters in
the United States were a prey to “deadly
fallacies” about the war in the Pacific.
It did not occur to him to mention that
Soviet Russia had taken no part in that
war, though singularly well placed for
active participation and possessed of far
greater forces than have ever been at
the disposal of the southern Dominions,
or to remind “Australian” Communists
of their countless assurances that said
forces would swing into action the
moment Japan opened fire, provided an
Anglo-Russian alliance was in being. His
enthusiasm for Soviet Russia knew no
bounds, and the infection spread to the
A.B.C. and its “Weekly.” That publi-
cation (loss, when last reckoned, £7OO a
week) glorified the Russian revolution in
a large part of its issue for the week in
which Armistice Day fell, without giving
a line to the Armistice, crown of the
victory that saved the Russians.
In extolling Soviet Russia Dr. Evatt
dwelt on “the patriotism of the people,”
going on to affirm that “the spirit of
patriotism in the Soviet people seems to
be ennobled by a deep consciousness of
national solidarity.” There is no arguing
against that. But two days after the words
were uttered the author announced the
appointment to the Moscow Legation of
“Australians” whose “consciousness of
national solidarity” is so faint that they
chose to expatriate themselves when it
was within their power to do something
for and in Australia during its extreme
peril.
One is Mr. John Fisher, “at present
in Russia doing journalistic work and
broadcasting for A.8.C.” Mr. John
Fisher has been named Press Attache. For
whom Mr. John Fisher is “doing journal-
istic work” the Attorney-General did not
state, but before the Communist
“Tribune” was put under a ban, which
doesn’t prevent its being published, Mr.
John Fisher “was doing journalistic
work” for that sheet. In the issue of
October 20, 1939, he had an article in
which he asserted that the war was bogus,
inasmuch as the Allies were deliberately
refusing to “drop a few bombs on the
key munition works in Germany,” though
that “would in the long run help to bust
the arms racket, which has long been
centred in London,” and “would even
perhaps help to stop the war.” The daily
papers, for their part, “quietly boost
Fascist rule wherever possible,” and
“Messrs. Chamberlain and Daladier do
not want Hitler to be swept away if it
means a democratic people’s Govern-
ment in Germany.” The headlines were
“Not a Funny War, but a Phoney One,
by John Fisher” ; the concluding words
were “the velvet glove for Hitler, but
the mailed fist for Hitler’s enemies among
the militant working class: that is why
it is such a phoney war.” Such was Mr.
John Fisher’s attitude until Russia was
forced into belligerency ; and he was a
non-starter before he got a passport
somehow. Yet he is to be part of the
Australian outfit at Moscow!
So is Mrs. John Fisher —as Clerical
Officer. Like her husband, Mrs. John
Fisher is a recent arrival in Russia.
According to her own account, published
in the “Women’s Weekly,” she travelled
“as a member of the crew of a Russian
tramp steamer which not long ago was
in an Australian port.” Reading between
the lines, the Russian tramp steamer
didn’t have to be blacked out or any-
thing like that, and Mrs. John Fisher is
“sure there are thousands of Australian
girls who would give their ears for the
same opportunity of seeing the world.”
This may be true of a few Communist
girls, but many thousands of other Aus-
tralian girls are neglecting such oppor-
tunities in order to help their country
in the services, munition factories, army
hospitals and the like ; and the nurses
and V.A.Ds. who go abroad with seamen,
airmen and soldiers are content to take
their chance in ships which are blacked
out and. are not spared as “neutral”
by enemies equipped with murderous
bombs and torpedoes and other fiendish
weapons of destruction. And there is
a Miss Saxby, “a distinguished graduate
of Sydney University, who has resided
in Moscow for the last eight years.”
Miss Saxby goes on the strength as
Archivist.
Also in the entourage are a Professor
of History, who “feels that the Austra-
lian Government played a considerable
part in bringing about the Anglo-Soviet
pact” (concerned only with the war
against “Hitlerite Germany” and not sub-
mitted to the Australian Parliament),
and a gentleman “experienced in Aus-
tralian industrial unionism,” who is ex-
pected “to prove a valuable link in fos-
tering the spirit of co-operation with the
Russian workers.” This gentleman’s age,
occupation and political sympathies have
not been given, though the political sym-
pathies may be taken for granted ; but
interesting details of the professor’s career
have been published. He, it seems, is 36
years of age, has been “active in the de-
fence of” —er —“civil liberties,” “took a
strong stand in upholding the”—er—
“rights of the Republican Government of
Spain against Fascism” and “sought to
educate the public to the necessity for
help to China.” In short, a fighter from
the ground up.
The professor and the industrial union-
ist may be left out of this argument,
together with the head of the mission and
two of his assistants with Washington
experience whose qualifications are not
questioned. But in appointing the
Fishers and the lady who has de-
nationalised herself for eight years
the Government has established a very
bad precedent, and one which is not at
all likely to be followed by the Govern-
ments of Britain, Canada, New Zealand,
South Africa and the United States. To
put a Communist whose war record is
worse than a blank on the staff of an
Australian Legation is an insult to the
nation which he has abandoned. It
cannot have been done in ignorance
of the fellow and his history. It seems
rather to have been intended as a step
towards the removal of the ban on
the “Australian” Communist party.
Before the Government moves in this
direction it should give serious study to
reports of the American election cam-
paign and ponder deeply on the results.
The central fact is that the party to
which Australia owes all the American
help it has received, in every shape and
form, since Japan came into the war has
been materially weakened in the Senate
and has lost control of the House of
Representatives, its apparent majority in
• that House being composed of Demo-
crats who are against the New Deal. The
Administration party was defeated in the
President’s own State of New York, in
Pennsylvania, in the Middle West and in
the Pacific States of California, Washing-
ton and Oregon. In New York Mr.
Dewey was elected Governor by a tremen-
dous majority, and in the result he will
almost certainly be the next Republican
candidate for President. Almost every-
where, except in the ever-loyal South, the
popular vote swung heavily against the
Democrats. In the main it may have
been influenced by discontent with the
conduct of the war, but other factors
were clearly in evidence, among them
dissatisfaction with the Administration’s
farm policies (there is a counterpart in
our dairying industry), indignation at
war-time striking and loafing and disgust
with the arrogance of trade-union bosses
and the insolence of Communists.
It is significant that before all the
votes had been counted there were
demands in Congress for the repeal of
the Wagner Act, which has placed trade-
union bosses in a privileged position, and
for “the removal of Communists from
key positions.”
One of the counts in the indictment
against the New Deal was that, like the
Wards and Dedmans in this country, it
was availing itself of the war to push its
economic and industrial theories instead
of concentrating on the struggle for
existence. Another was that it had an
active Left Wing which, though em-
ployment of Communists in the U.S.
Government service is barred, did not
scruple to place many Communists on
the Government payrolls. . Led by
Browder, of passport-fraud notoriety,
Communists threw their weight about
during the election campaign, calling
upon their supporters and sympathisers
to back the Government, as their con-
geners are doing in Australia. The
Administration found this patronage so
embarrassing that Mrs. Roosevelt, Attor-
ney-General Biddle and Mr. Elmer Davis
bluntly repudiated the Corns, and their
cause. Mr. Davis, the Brendan Bracken
of the United States, declared that, to
him, a Communist was a person who
called the war a fight for British imperial-
ism up to June 22, 1941, and demanded
American participation against the Nazi
aggressor on June 24. “A convincing
test,” commented Westbrook Peglec, in
the Scrips-Howard chain, “even though
it is impossible to prove membership by
any record, because the party burnt its
rolls.” He added pithily:
I see no reason why a private employer
should be required by law to employ an
enemy of the country whom the Govern-
ment thus identifies as such.
In another article Mr. Pegler denied an
assertion that he had stated in his column
that “all labor unions are full of crooks
and are all run from Russia.”
The constant contention has been that
the A.F.L. division of the union movement
is infested with crooks... .The C. 1.0. has
some crooks, but is less devilled by them
than by Communists. No New Dealer
needs to be told which unions of the C. 1.0.
are dominated by Communists. They
include the union of transport workers,
the West Coast cargo-handlers, one of the
big unions of sailors, wire and wire-
less telegraphists, the office and profes-
sional workers’ union and the Newspaper
Guild.
Other influential writers joined Mr.
Pegler in tackling Communists, trade-
union bosses, war strikers and go-slow
artists. Much was made of the fact that,
with the rubber-tyre situation critical
in the extreme, output in the factories,
still on a six-hour day, was no higher
than before Pearl Harbor, because “the
union will not permit production faster
than the rate set by the slowest man.”
The American Federation of Teachers
was praised for having refused to re-
admit the Teachers’ Union and the
College Teachers’ Union of New York
“because of practices inimical to democ-
racy”—/.<?., Communist practices. And the
discomfiture of the Communist “New
Masses,” which denounced Robert Crom-
well, a noted First World War veteran,
as a member of “the Washington Clive-
den Set,” and crawled into court with
an apology and an offer of damages
when sued, was hailed with delight.
Many of the Republican Congressmen
—notably Mr. Hamilton Fish, who was
re-elected as a New York Representative
in spite of the opposition of Mr. Roose-
velt and Mr. Willkie—were isolationists
before Pearl Harbor. Mr. Dewey him-
self was accused of having isolationist
leanings. This will not affect United
States war policy, for the Republicans
are a patriotic party with honorable
traditions whose pledges, repeated by
Mr. Dewey and Mr. Hoover, are express
and unquestionable, though its bearing
on United States peace policy is another
matter. The important fact for Aus-
tralia is that the composition of Con-
gress has been radically changed, and a
Congress so changed is likely to be in-
creasingly watchful and critical, taking
the whole world for its province. This
means, in view of Australia’s relations
with the United States, that the Austra-
lian Government will have to be exceed-
ingly careful. Recent transports notwith-
standing, it cannot possibly influence Rus-
sian opinion, but it cannot afford to
ignore American opinion.
This Lucky Land.
Australia —touch wood, preferably with
a rifle-barrel attached to it! —must be
rated the luckiest land in the world ... so
far.
Brought up under the protection of
the British Navy, it went through one
world war without its home front getting
a scratch. Still under that protection—
now plus Uncle Sam’s strong arm —it has
been in this other world war since 1939
without—compared with other countries
—more than slight experience of direct
contact with war.
There is a lot of painful truth in
the grim comment of returned men —
especially returned airmen—that a few
bombs round about would make a differ-
ence. The vicarious experience got
through reading cables and listening-in
is evidently no real substitute ; otherwise
there would hardly be peed for the cur-
rent wordy barrage aimed at preventing
home-fronters from mistaking sheer in-
comparable luck for normal desert and
dropping off into sounder sleep.
The wordy barrage gets a bit monoto-
nous and is not a little depressing ; but
this can be said of it —that it is the great
good luck of this land to have it in lieu
of worse. Other lands have none of this
luck. What could—and yet might—hap-
pen to Australia has happened and is
daily and nightly happening to them.
Their home fronts are battlefields.
British, Germans, Italians, French and
others know the frightful actuality of
war as well in many of their cities as if
they had been in the front line. In Aus-
tralia last week “Luftwaffe Returns”
made one day’s cable headline ; it meant
more to the British. It meant that the
German air force had been back, swoop-
ing down on Canterbury, to catch the
people on a market day in one of the
biggest daylight raids for two years.
The streets were thronged with people
going home in the dusk, when sirens
sounded. The raiders dived low and bombs
came crashing down, destroying shops and
houses, before many people were able to
reach their shelters. The working-class dis-
trict suffered most severely.
Mrs. Roosevelt, who was in Canterbury
at the time, was reported as “deeply con-
cerned that the cathedral city had been
again attacked.” Only a month or so
earlier London “Fortnightly” also carried
a protest (typically English): “Why
should it have been deemed necessary to
send a thousand aeroplanes to bomb
Cologne, one of the most beautiful cities
in Germany?” The answer —as for Can-
terbury—has to be that this is the shape
of war that has been steadily emerging
and increasingly enlarging. If Australia
grasped it and its possibilities, political
leaders would not be stumping the land
talking people awake. Words would be
fewer and more direct. There would be
acts instead, and leaders would seem more
like statesmen and less like gramophones.
A few days before the Canterbury raid
cables reported what happened in Genoa
when the R.A.F. raided it and other
Italian centres. Many thousands, rush-
ing for a shelter, became jammed at the
entrance;
Then bombs began to fa 11... .and crowds
used their fists to get to the shelter. Women
and children were trampled on. Troops
... .tried to disentangle the mob, but only
heightened the confusion.
The full story of this and other raids
will not be known till the war is over,
but enough of it comes through to waken
the last dreaming sleeper, if anything
short of bombs could do so. With this
aid and a little effort the state of places
like Sydney after raiding such as many
German cities have undergone might be
imagined. In one of the recent attacks
on Diisseldorf “flares and the fires which
sprang up did the work of the moon.”
The city was soon “a furnace,” into which
rained down “40001 b. and other heavy
high-explosive bombs.” “Streets, build-
ings, the Rhine—everything stood out”
in the glare. Bombing crews said:
As we came away the fires grew and
grew. The glow in the sky spread and
overtook us.
The effect of even one 40001 b. bomb
takes some imagining, and the official re-
port said there was “a great weight” of
these, as well as “more than 100,000 in-
cendiary bombs.” There was mention of
bombs of up to 80001 b. All this in one
raid, which laid waste 370 acres of the
city. Other German cities —including
Bremen, Germany’s second port and sub-
marine-building base —have each had up
to 100 raids. In each of many of these
raids more than 500 tons has been
dropped ; the Germans have only twice
dropped more than that weight of bombs
on Britain in a night, each time on
London. The damage London suffered
is a fair measure of what has been hap-
pening to German cities through the
European summer. Instance Cologne, a
fifth of the size of London ; the R.A.F.
dropped 1000 tons of bombs on Cologne
in 90 minutes.
In the less lucky lands where all this
is daily and nightly going on as the
normal course of the war, words need be
few ; and there is now an ominous note
of bitterness in them. The 8.8. C., broad-
casting to countries of occupied Europe,
described the Diisseldorf raid as their
“vengeance” for Warsaw, Rotterdam,
Belgrade, Lidice and other desecrated
places. In return, Goring declared that the
Luftwaffe had been tied up in Russia, but
he was resolved “to retaliate” for all the
R.A.F. bombings. Ribbentrop supple-
mented the threat:
Every single bomb, every home destroyed,
every dead person, makes the Germans
more determined to make the British pay.
Every bomb is counted. The time will
come when we will deal finally with this
“British aircraft-carrier off Europe.”
So mild a man as Lord Halifax has
reported on the prevailing British mood.
“Everybody is stirred by the news of the
big bombing attacks on Germany.” With
this mood engendered by mutual bomb-
ing on both sides, what has already hap-
pened is probably mere surface scratch-
ing to what is to come. It has necessarily
taken the U.S.A. a long time to get any-
where near aircraft and other produc-
tion, but this is being achieved. With its
full aid, Britain —holder of the fort so
far—will no doubt be able to realise the
forecast of the U.A. Air Force commander
in Europe, Brigadier-General Eaker, that
“there is hardly a corner of Germany that
will not be reached.” American ’plane-
designer and -manufacturer Glenn Martin
has given added details of the shape of
things to come;
An armada of huge bombers and car-
riers is under way. Their increased ranges
and speeds will rapidly shrink the world’s
map.
A squadron of them “could devastate
Tokyo in one trip.” In 12 months’
time, according to the C. 1.0. president.


Philip Murray, America will be defi-
nitely turning out 90,000 ’planes a
year. Britain’s own production is
such that last year, as well as supply-
ing the R.A.F. to carry on the war
over Europe, it shipped no fewer than
10,000 British-made ’planes through South
African ports alone to various theatres
of war.
This is the favorable side of the pic-
ture —it needs to be qualified with the
certainty that the Axis countries among
them are also turning out greater and
greater numbers of ’planes on a bigger
and bigger scale. Even if Australia’s
extraordinary luck holds to the extent
that its troops fighting in the north, its
protective screen of ’planes up there and
the U.S. Navy in the Pacific among them
hold off actual invasion, there may still
be actual experience of the growing and
spreading shape of total war if all this
goes on long enough. The world is
shrinking fast. It is only a matter of
time and no part of it —however fortu-
nate hitherto —will be any longer out of
bombing range.
There wo did be no need then for any
barrage of words to belt up “austerity”
and keep the born-drowsy awake. There
would be no need now, if the actuality of
war as the less lucky lands know it was
more than only dimly realised in the land
whose luck has been nothing short of
marvellous.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Ancient Armistice.
With another world war raging, Armis-
tice Day this year loses all its point in
one respect, but gains in another.
When it first happened it was cele-
brated for bringing relief to people who,
after four years of the struggle, had be-
come tired of war and had despaired of
ever seeing peace again. It had the
added advantage for the Allied side of
also bringing victory.
In that respect, today’s anniversary is
merely a standing-place for wishful hop-
ing—that the present war may be little
longer than the last and that it will have
an even more conclusive and satisfactory
ending (as in the Pacific it must have if
Australia and New Zealand are to con-
tinue as free democracies).
At other anniversaries varied feelings
predominated. Over a long stretch of
years the Day was confidently accepted
by countless people as symbolical of the
last of war for all time. This remark-
able fancy was so widespread that
countries which should have known
better —and, as events have demonstrated,
needed to have known better —allowed
ordinary elementary defence precautions
to go by the board. Australia was a
striking example.
Leading newspapers which now make
a virtue of their interest in defence pro-
pagated the notion that war had been
wiped for ever. They boosted the pre-
posterous pretensions of the League of
Nations and its offshoot Unions. Books
which, purporting to do the world the
service of condemning war, belittled and
ridiculed the fighting soldiers’ part were
boomed in reviews and read by nearly
everybody. Thousands sincerely be-
lieved that this tawdry output would
alone put an end to war, and anyone
venturing to question the belief was
dubbed militarist or coward.
A Labor Government —which included
members of the present war Government
—suspended compulsory training, thereby
wrecking Australia’s defence establish-
ment. It was succeeded by a non-Labor
crowd which carried election after elec-
tion on the specific promise that it would
not revive universal training. It also
stood for the League of Nations, and
helped to foster the belief that the
chatter-house at Geneva was the tomb of
Mars.
Today’s anniversary could be an occa-
sion for swearing good-bye to all that.
It could be the occasion for insisting
that this country’s defence should be es-
tablished for all time in a position beyond
the reach of any temporary bunch of
seat-warming politicians swayed by tem-
porary public hallucination.
That is perhaps too much to hope for.
Still, this year’s anniversary has the dif-
ference from many others in the past that
it is held as an occasion for rightly
evaluating the nature and worth of the
sacrifice of those who fought and died
in 1914-18, as others are now fighting
and dying, for the same general cause —
the right of countries like Australia to
continue in free existence.
Great Days.
Ably led, and combining grandly for a
grand object, British imperial forces,
with valued help from Americans and
Europeans, have smashed the invaders of
Egypt. As the unwounded survivors who
escaped staggered back across the
frontier, United States forces, transported
in British ships and protected by the
Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force,
landed in French North Africa with the
assurance that “a considerable number”
of British divisions would follow.
At the same time it was announced in
the South Pacific that the Americans on
Guadalcanal were taking the offensive,
and that all Papua, except the Buna-
Gona area —and that was in danger—
was under United Nations control. Also
that American infantry had been ferried
to New Guinea by air from a mainland
base 1000 miles away —an achievement
which, taking everything into considera-
tion, surpassed that of the Germans who,
on May 20-21, 1941, carried 5000 troops
from Greece to Crete.
Stirring events, in all conscience, and
they show that we have first-class com-
manders and organisers. An American
writer gives “General MacArthur’s big
bombers” the credit for having “forced
the withdrawal of the Japanese Navy
from the Coral Sea battle, after it had
taken a heavy drubbing.” The part
played by Americans and Australians in
New Guinea and the Solomons has been
underrated, especially by Sydney poli-
ticians and pressmen, who squealed so
much when the Japs landed at Buna and
advanced painfully beyond Kokoda. It
is now abundantly evident that Generals
MacArthur and Blarney knew what they
were about.
As for the victory in Egypt, Mr.
Churchill can fairly claim that the
changes in command have been justified.
Justified also has been his resistance and
that of President Roosevelt to foreign
pressure and Communist clamor, igno-
rantly supported by sentimentalists, for
a Second Front in France. The wav to
Germany is not through heavily indus-
trialised France, making of that country,
always a vast fortress, another vast grave-
yard—and for being spared this horror
the French nation will, sooner or later,
be grateful—but through Italy and (as
Ludendorff confessed after the last war)
through what was the Austrian empire.
Commonwealth Control.
There is talk now of a Federal Director-
ate of Agriculture, with Mr. Bulcock,
the Queensland Minister for Agriculture,
as its boss. Doubtless Mr. Bulcock could
administer such a directorate as well as
any other Labor politician, but neither
he nor his directorate will be able to
achieve anything unless the whole gamut
of agricultural production and the mar-
keting thereof is brought under Common-
wealth authority.
This country needs a single Department
of Agriculture. It should not only con-
trol production and marketing, but also
assume charge of agricultural education,
land settlement, national water conserva-
tion, forests, erosion control, pest con-
trol, animal breeding and husbandry and
everything else connected with the land.
Within the State Departments of Agri-
culture are the men to do the job, and
given half a chance they’d rush it with
their ears back. Most of them are en-
thusiasts, and most of them have long
bewailed the dreadful effects of. State
Government —which is mostly Big-city
Government —on agriculture.
Until the Commonwealth recognises that
control of the industries of the soil is a
national matter calling for national
vision and planning, languishing land
industries will continue to languish. Until
it does, nothing permanent will be
achieved, though Canberra set up twenty
directorates.
A Theodore Transaction.
One of Mr. Theodore’s chickens came
home to roost in the last financial year,
having by that time become a feather-
less old fowl.
When Premier of Queensland, Mr.
Theodore borrowed $12,000,000 in
New York. Great was his exultation and
flowery his description of the benefits
that would descend on Queenslanders. In
point of fact. New York drove a hard
bargain, demanding not only interest at
7 p.c. p.a. but a sinking fund ; and with
the depreciation of Australian currency
the annual burden became terrific. It
would have been more terrific but for
the Commonwealth. In the terms of
the Financial Agreement the Common-
wealth established a national sinking
fund, to which it made an annual con-
tribution, and set up the National Debt
Commission, which bought Theodore-
loan bonds from time to time.
The Theodore loan . matured on
October 1, 1941. The original amount
borrowed was reckoned at £2,465,838,
and of this £1,366,382 remained for re-
demption. Bonds with a face value of
$1,082,000 were held in Australia, and
the holders agreed to accept Australian
securities amounting to £334,260 at 3i
p.c. The National Debt Commission
came to light with £440,599 in cash,
£149,219 being for exchange ; and £6166
was provided from sinking-fund cash held
in New York. For the rest, the Com-
monwealth Bank agreed to lend
£1,280,000 at 3} p.c.
In the melancholy words of the State
Auditor-General, “the total debt in re-
spect of the 7 p.c. loan has thus been
extinguished, but there remains a debt
in Australia of £1,614,260, bearing in-
terest at 3\ p.c. p.a. and repayable in
1956.” Annual interest on the loan
outstanding at date of redemption was
£95,646. Annual saving in interest
through this redemption will be £43,183 ;
with exchange added at current rates,
a total of £92,164.
That, of course, is only part of the
story of this experiment in Theodore
finance. The Auditor-General, worthy
man, ought to be asked to tell the full
story, showing in particular how much
was paid in interest and exchange from
flotation to maturity. The information
would furnish material for a brisk
debate, and the matter is immeasurably
more important than 95 p.c. of the stuff
with which the Queensland “Parliament”
now concerns itself, in common with
all the other State “Parliaments.”
PUTTING ’EM UP.
“I’ll raise these fellows. Bring me another hundred million, Chif.!”


When a Man makes his Will
XXfHEN a man makes his Will, it is necessary for him to appoint an Executor
to administer the Will. In the old days few men had the experience
and wisdom to make good executors. The testator (the man who made the
Will) might appoint his best friend, and the friend turn out to be a man
of poor judgment in money matters, or irresponsible, or in had health, or
even a scamp.
Today, the wise man avoids that risk. He appoints Perpetual Trustee
Company, Limited. The Company has a vast experience in the administration
of Estates of varying sizes and kinds. It never becomes too old for sound
judgment, and it never absconds.
Write for a copy of a booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee,” that deals with
this problem in a frank and straightforward way, and shows what the
■ Company’s service costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon,
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Curcton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £00,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: O. E. Ccwdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative; H, A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
WHEN HAIR GROWS THIN!
For bald patches, alopecia patches, dandruff, itching
and dryness of the scalp, falling hair, use McMahon’s
Hair Restorer, proven effective even in cases of bald-
ness, and equally good for men. women and children,
it restores the scalp to a healthy condition. Easy
and pleasant to use.
McMAHON'S HAIR RESTORER
PRICE ; 5/-
Obtainable from Chemists, Hairdressers and Stores. If you
cannot get it locally post 5/6,to.the wholesale distributors:
GRAIG & AITKEN PTY., LTD.,
651 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Trade Inquiries Invited.
POLITICAL POINTS
One of the casualties at the U.S. elec-
tion was the prophetic soul of George
Gallup, of the Polls. Writing in August,
the oracle predicted that the Democrats
would gain eight seats in the House,
giving them 274 out of 435. They lost 45.
Though debts in other States dropped
a bit last year, Queensland’s moved up
£1,102,000 to £131,489,600. Interest
came to £4,990,000. When Labor took
office in 1915—and except for a couple of
depression years it has been in office
ever since—the debt was £57,000,000 and
the interest bill £2,197,000. In those days
Labor was intent on socialising every-
thing with funds borrowed from the
capitalist—obliging in this particular but
loathsome as a general rule. Something
went wrong.
A “King O’Malley” Laborite named
Barnes has been sent to the Brisbane
“Parliament” by Cairns, which a “Forgan
Smith” Laborite had represented for
many years, and ex-Premier McCormack
before him. The Parliament already re-
joiced in an “Andrew Fisher” Laborite,
also named Barnes. “Forgan Smith”
Laborites can’t understand it.
Commerce Minister Scully brought a
storm about his ears when he said
apples could be bought for a penny each.
In reply he produced a sworn staftement
by an Apple and Pear Board inspector
that he had bought apples at that price
at five near-suburban shops and one city
stall. Shown the apples, a “D.T.” re-
porter asked Scully “Don’t you think
they’re just about the size of marbles?”
Scully didn’t reply. Perhaps he’s never
seen a marble.
While Dr. Evatt was extolling Soviet
Russia in a Sydney hall and commending
the Australian mission to that country,
“suitcases belonging to Dr. and Mrs.
Evatt were stolen from the Minister’s
car.” Very annoying, though it might
be held to conform to the principle of
“equal division of unequal earnings.” A
goldfields “comrade” who once burst into
a mine office with a revolver and rifled
the safe tried to convince the jury—in-
effectually—that it was a case of “propa-
ganda by deed.”
A Society for Protecting the Memory
of Lincoln is needed in this country. At
Canberra especially Father Abraham
is periodically alleged to have said
(time and place never mentioned) that
war-time Governments don’t need war
loans or taxes, finance being merelv a
matter of juggling with “credits.” This
stuff has appeared in the Commonwealth
“Hansard” and Bob Greig, M.L.A. for
Drummoyne, got a “quotation” as silly
in the Sydney publication of that name:
Abe Lincoln, when delivering his Second
Inaugural address at Washington, said “in
time of peace the people have power to
mould their own Constitution; in time of
Revolution the rights of the people destroy
Constitutions.
He said nothing of the sort. The words
“Constitution” and “Revolution” were
not uttered at the Second Inaugural. As
a man who has done a fair amount of
reading and writing, Bob should have
known better.
Bishop O’Collins, of Ballarat, criti-
cising the Apple and Pear Board, re-
marked that it would not be long before
“this Garden of Eden” completely lacked
apples. Well, thrips have come along
again and are expected to reduce the fruit
crop to 2j p.c. of the normal output. So
Victoria won’t need the board now.
The anniversary of the Russian revolu-
tion, celebrated with gusto, by Corns, and
fellow-travellers in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, was also the anniversary of the
gallant fight of the Jervis Bay against
hopeless odds. A grand episode in the
history of our race, it occurred when
Corns, were denouncing the war and Aus-
tralia’s part in it.
From a “Time” (September 14) review
of the book in which two journalists of
repute revealed war secrets, with White
House sanction;
Cordial though Stalin has been in the
Kremlin to United Nations bigwigs, it was
for a visiting Japanese official that he
bothered to go down to the Moscow rail-
way station to say good-bye and talk
earnestly about “all Asiatics together.”
The Japanese official was Matsuoka. He
was taking back to Tokyo the neutrality
agreement, which was promptly ratified
in both capitals and is still in force.
Gentle old Slater, leaving for Russia;
“For the purposes of a mighty post-war
plan in relation to Australian trade with
Russia, etc., etc.” Yes, we’ll sell ’em our
kangaroo hops and netting-fence white-
wash ; and in return, no doubt, they’ll
send us shiploads of droshkis and a
special breed of mink to cross with our
rabbits.
“Mr. Dedman Scrooge has banned Christmas advertising, the words ‘Yuletide’ and
‘festive season’ and the employment of Santa Claus in shops.”
“ It’s nae use waitin’ for Father-r-r Chr-r-istmas, ye ken. Ah’ve r-r-rationalised
him.”
Sydney “D.T.” has odd notions of
B American politics. In a Congressional
election headline it attributed the Repub-
lican gains to Willkie’s Followers, and
had another reference to “the Republi-
cans led by Mr. Wendell Willkie.” Willkie
is not the Republican leader. Party
zealots question whether he is even a
Republican. Writing in the N.Y. “Sun”
before the mission to Moscow, one
George E. Sokolsky took “this hegiva”
as signifying that “Wendell Willkie knows
that he does not belong.”
Now he has at last become conscious of
the inexorable truth that....he has lost
his following. In the pre-primary negotia-
tions he was for all purposes practically
eliminated from the Republican party. He
tried to stop Dewey, as the President tried
to stop Bennett, and he was similarly told
to get off.
Another columnist, David Lawrence,
ended an anti-Willkie blast of cynicism
with the gibe that “the team of Willkie
and Roosevelt is working together, even
in the midst of a noxious political cam-
paign—and that’s something.”
Graphic accounts of the armored divi-
sion’s exercises in the remote bush and
the privations stoically endured by all
hands (“there was no leave” and “hotels
were strictly out of bounds”) were un-
expectedly followed by the announce-
ment that Lieut. Frank Packer is not
returning to the division. He would
prefer to return, Mr. Theodore says, but
“I asked Mr. Curtin to direct that Lieut.
Packer’s services be retained with the
Allied Works Council as Director of Per-
sonnel,” and Mr. Curtin issued the direc-
tive. Perhaps Peter Cruise will now go
into the armored division.
Churchill’s speech to 3000 delegates
from the coalmines must have been one
of his greatest. Anyway the president
of the Mineworkers’ Association testifies
that “I have never seen so many miners
wiping their eyes,” and “not a single ques-
tion was asked—amazing for a gathering
of miners.” Amazing it is. Menzies must
have been reminded of his own attempt
to win the N.S.W. coalies with eloquence.
He still shudders when he thinks of the
expletives that interrupted his oration.
Saying that “fines running into hun-
dreds of pounds have been imposed by
me and other magistrates” without effect,
a Sydney S.M. handed a six months’ sen-
tence to a wharfie from Pyrmont who
had been found with 36 yards of silk
material wrapped round his body and
five yards tied round his leg. “Hundreds
of pounds,” and 14 charges were heard in
one day. With a few remarks about
“these men” going straight back to the
wharves after paying their fine, the magis-
trate concluded, evidently astonished at
his own temerity.
In N.S.W. Labor circles it doesn’t seem
to be thought that the A.-A.-A.-A. Senate
coup can be brought off again. Ashley,
the P.M.G., hasn’t to go up for nomina-
tion this year, but Amour, Armstrong
and Arthur have, and they are facing
brisk opposition from Ds, Gs, Ts and at
least one W. And there is also
Alderman Dan Minogue, who arrived in
1917, and was soon movijng among the
elect. Indeed his success warrants a re-
print of the merry old New York jingle,
slightly altered;
There came down the gangway an exile from
Erin,
Full of hope, though the dew on his fore-
head was chill.
Ere the vessel that brought him had passed
out of bearin’
He was Alderman Dan, inthrojuicin’ a bill.
Alderman Dan is voted a good chance.
Eighty ladies and gentlemen, the
gentlemen mostly trade-union secretaries
and organisers, nominated for 16 Labor
seats in the N.S.W. Leg. Council. This
may be accounted stern fidelity to the
Cause, for the job carries no pay (though
free transport in two Dominions is pro-
vided), and the House as at present con-
stituted is doomed —at least McKell says
it is. Most of those willing to accept
martyrdom will have to possess their souls
in patience, for a tenant of one of the
16 seats —Jim Tyrrell, one of the fading
band of Langsters—is dead, and his suc-
cessor will have to be chosen first.
Asked at Canberra whether he would
publish Justice Lowe’s account of the
Feb. 19 raid on Darwin, Curtin said he
wouldn’t, “the corrective action taken
by the Commonwealth departments
concerned” being sufficient. Names
of departments and nature of “correc-
tive action” not mentioned. The
Americans have told part of the story,
their Office of War Information having
revealed that eight out of ten Kitty-
hawks they had at Darwin that day
were shot down, “mostly because of lack
of warning,” and, on the face of it, that
leaves our Government something to
answer. It should be candid with the
nation, no matter whose withers are
wrung.
From “A.B.C. Programmes,” as set out
in the “A.B.C. Weekly”:
Nov. 6: Russian Commentary, b>; John Fisher,
Australian Journalist in Moscow. Talk
by Jean Devanney: “Moscow, on Nov. 7.”
Nov. 7: “Twenty-five Years,” a Dramatic
Chronicle of Soviet Russia, by George Far-
well. Nine, “etc,” characters; time, one
hour. Russian Commentary by John
Fisher. Talk, by Dr. Maurice Laseron,
“25th Anniversary of the Soviet Revolu-
tion.”
Nov. 8: News Commentary from Moscow (re-
peated). Talk by D. P. Fomenko: “What
is New in the Arts in New Russia.”
Nov. 11 : News Commentary from Moscow
(repeated). News and Commentary, pre-
pared by Dr. Emmery Bares [from Hun-
gary].
Armistice Day? Well, there was a line
about a concert.
A gaol like that at Hobart (Tas.) from
which prisoners left and returned at will,
from which two inmates sallied forth to
utter forged cheques, into which a
prisoner’s girl-friend went to “keep him
alive to the world,” in which large
sums of money and keys were found
hidden, which had a s.-p. bookie betting
in cash, correspondence between a male
and a female prisoner and a lifer driving
the gaol lorry about.the city every day
couldn’t exist in fiction, the movies or
comic opera. It could only exist under
an Australian State Labor Government,
the State Labor theory being that
criminals are “more sinned against than
sinning,” victims of a nefarious capitalism.
Pinching a key to which only care-
takers and young people training for the
services had had access, some Communist
ruffian hoisted a Nazi flag on The Bul-
letin’s head office for a minute or two
on Revolution Day. The Communist
ruffian or any other, Communist ruffian
is welcome to the emblem of a fractured
friendship on proof of ownership. It
was no doubt bought in the hope of cele-
brating victory in the war that was
“imperialist” to Communist ruffians
between the middle of September, 1939,
and the third week of June, 1941.
Repair of damage done by “individual-
ists” at the Parramatta Industrial School
(Minister, Mr. C. Evatt) must be making
a hole in McKell’s 1942-43 surplus. The
latest seems to have been staged as a
welcome to the new superintendent,
W. B. Simms, from the Gosford Boys’
Home, whose record of “abscondences”
is even worse than Parramatta’s. “S. M.
Herald” noted wearily that “the staff
telephone was broken and fires were
started in the rooms.” If form is fol-
lowed, the privileges of “Parliament” will
be availed of to brand the late super-
intendent, an Anglican clergyman, a
lady and The Bulletin as liars.
A sort of stultified Socialism has the
current Australian Labor Government
bogged to the hocks. It set out to employ
all true-blue unionists on war work at
high wages and higher overtime, em-
ployed more and more people in a multi-
tude of departments, boards and commis-
sions and began handing out subsidies to
distressed small farmers. Heavy taxation
of middle- and upper-class incomes and
appeals to the same classes to lend what
money they had left were expected to
find the cash for all this. Now the Labor
Government has got to take from Peter
to pay Paul. The next six months will
be most interesting ones in the develop-
ment of Socialistic finance.


wmm
mm
m
m
mms
-"•A
6XBI-42
“This Will be a Darning Needle Year”
—says the Prime Minister.
A stitch in time saves nine. An occasional call on your Exide Dealer will keep your
battery up to the mark. When replacement is needed remember , . .
BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan,
PERSONAL ITEMS
Melbourne actor - manager - producer
Beresford Fowler has collaborated with
a local lady in writing a play which re-
quired the O.K. of Winston Churchill,
who makes an appearance as a young
man in a Boer War council scene, though
the play itself circles round the life of
Sir Hector MacDonald. Britain’s P.M.
found time to read the play and make a
couple of minor alterations. It recalls
the occasion when H. G. Wells wrote
such a devastating attack on G. B. Shaw
that his editor thought it wise to send it
around to Shaw first for, perusal. The
playwright returned it promptly with the
comment “I have carefully read Mr.
Wells’s article and corrected some of the
punctuation.”
The huge job of running the vast 113th
A.G.H. at Concord (N.S.W.) sits well on
the shoulders of Lieut.-Colonel “Bill”
Wood, whose experience as a Light Horse
M.O. in Palestine and as P.M.O. at
LIEUT.-COL "BILL" WOOD.
A.G.H., Suez, in the last war gave him
the foundation on which his present out-
size hospital task rests. The 113th
A.G.H. has to be seen to be believed —
as a hint of its size it is quite capable
of running itself should all outside help
fail —and a tour of it leaves a visitor
somewhat breathless, literally as well as
figuratively. The 0.C., who misses no
chances of improving the place, main-
tains an almost constant correspondence
with military and Government depart-
ments in search of anything from garden
seeds to mobile operating theatres. He
got his medical degree at Aberdeen Uni-
versity and collected a couple of others
in London and Vienna.
George V. Sidman, new president of
the N.S.W. Country Press Association,
still has his first fortnight’s screw, earned
46 years ago when he started as a
printer’s devil on the Camden “News”
at 2s. 6d. a week. A determined sort of
youth, he used to travel to Sydney two
nights a week to attend night classes at
the Tech., and, as the returning train
stopped at Campbelltown, he had to walk
eight or ten miles home. After a bit he
was able to buy a bike and pedal it.
His father owned the paper, and young
George became a partner soon after serv-
ing his time. There was ink in his blood,
his grandfather having come to Aus-
tralia from news work in England and
France to become manager of the “Even-
ing News” group for the Bennett family.
Young Sidman stuck to Camden and
nursed the growing local paper, going
back to the Tech, for more instruction
when the first lino, machine arrived. Now
he finds time for executive work on
numerous local organisations.
Indifferent health having caused Lukin,
J., to take a spell that may lead to retire-
ment, Judge T. S. Clyne, of Melbourne,
has taken over as Federal Judge in Bank-
ruptcy. A distinguished product of Mel-
bourne University, Judge Clyne went on
to the County Court Bench in 1939. He
turns in the job of chairman of the
Federal Shipping Control Board. The
relinquished Shipping Board chairman-
ship has gone to Frank Bridgman, of
Sydney, till recently g.m. of the Adel-
aide Steamship Co.
A caricature’s mixed reception;
When Frith did his recent caricature model
of F. R. Lee (the man who went within an
ace of ditching John Curtin in Fremantle)) those
who had seen the victim reckoned the finished
job one of the artist’s best. Members of the
victim’s family had varied views. One rated it
“absurd and silly,” “nothing like” him, and
so on. To this member it destroyed a highly-
favorable impression dating back a fair way.
Another member of the family reckoned it made
him look positively “cherubic and charming,”
in contrast to a previous view of him as just
ordinary. First reaction of Latham Withall
(of Canberra) was “a likeness of Lloyd George,”
whereas Gordon Jones (Sydney) said it was
“the image of Churchill” (without the cigar).
It reminded another of Hore Belisha, and yet
another of Kingsley Wood. The P.M.’s view
of it isn’t known, but, remembering, he’d
perhaps think it reminded him painfully of a
nightmare.
There’s sound reason for Jim Gerald’s
rank of colonel. He enlisted in the ordi-
nary way as a private ; then it was put
to him that his right line would be organ-
ising entertainment for the Diggers. He
accepted, on condition that he was given
a rank that would enable him to get
what he needed to carry out
that job without the delays in-
evitable if he had to make
begging applications to people
higher up. The only rank that
would free him from such red-
tape restrictions being colonel,
that’s what he got. The family
name is Fitzgerald—Jim is a
son of S. A. Fitzgerald, an
actor who was known through-
out Australia in the drama’s
palmy days. A brother took
the stage name of Lance Vane,
and Jim lately got back in
time from abroad to attend
his funeral. Yet another
brother took the stage name
of Max Clifton. All three
brothers served in the 1914-18 war.
Successor to the late Ellis Davies as
Director of Mechanical Equipment and
Materials Supply in Allied Works, A. C.
Fleetwood is a Melbourne Uni. product
who has been mixed up in Federal en-
gineering construction for two decades
and had a big hand in helping Canberra
to raise its cloud-capped spires. When
Hitler erupted he became a defence liaison
officer in Melbourne and later Senior
Civil Engineer of Allied Works, since
when he has been busy strengthening the
northern battlements at Darwin, Moresby
and other places. He’s 44.
In Melbourne there’s a tablecloth which
reads like a historical record of music
for the last three decades. Trotted out
at innumerable dinners, it was signed by
composers, virtuosi, singers and conduc-
tors in cafes as far apart as New York
and Moscow, its owner subsequently
making it a permanent record by stitch-
ing over the writing. The 157 signatures
include Elgar, Tschaikowsky, Coward,
Grieg and Grainger; Beecham, Sar-
gent, Henry Wood and Stanwood;
Melba, Brownlee, Marjorie Lawrence,
Ada Crossley, Flagstad, Horace Stevens,
Austral, Dal Monte, Caruso, Chaliapin,
Dawson, Crooks, Galli Curci, Tauber
ancl Clara Butt; Zimbalist, Menuhin,
Spivakovski, Ysaye and Heifetz;
Paderewski, Backhaus, Hambourg and
Schnabel; and, among other famous
teachers, Marches! (who was Melba’s).
The sole radio name is Harry Dearth.
Owner is Mrs. Nigel Brock, wife of the
S.A. impresario, now Amenities Officer
for Aircraft Production in Melbourne.
By “great gallantry and undaunted de-
votion to duty” Lieut. John Stuart
Mould, R.A.N.V.R., has added the
George Cross to the George Medal he
won a little time back. He is a son of
Sydney architect S. M. Mould, who
hailed originally from Tyneside, and his
mother is a sister of Tot Robinson, the
former English Rugby Union three-
quarter. Before he went over to lend
J. Bull a hand on the spot, Lieut. Mould
was a partner in the architect firm with
his father, designer of, among other Syd-
ney landmarks, the Astor flats building
in Macquarie-street
A Maoriland novelist;
William Satchell turned up in M.L. in 1886
looking for better health, and quite evidently
he found it —he was 84 when he lately passed
on at Auckland. He was one of his adopted
country’s best novelists, if not —with his The
Greenstone Door —the very best. Born in Grey’s
Inn, London, he was for a while at Harrow,
but was mostly educated at St. John’s Col-
lege, Hurstpierpoint. In M.L. he at first took
to farming in the North, but later settled in
Auckland, doing journalistic and clerical work
and the like. He began as author in 1902
with The Land of the Lost, a tale of the gum-
fields, followed by The Toll of the Bush and
The Elixir of Life. Published in 1914, The
Greenstone Door was to some extent hampered
by war, but it took a place permanently in M.L.
literature, and has been reprinted half a dozen
times, on the last occasion at the request of
one of the author’s keenest admirers, Governor
Bledisloe. Though a somewhat mechanical writer
and inclined to explain too much, Satchell had
a keen sense of observation, with vision and
depth of thought.
In being elected president of the
Queensland Congregational Union, Rev.
H. S. Capern stepped into a post his father
occupied 21 years ago. It’s the first time
a father and son have had the job. Rev.
Capern’s phiz is best known round
Goodna, Goombungee and North Ips-
wich, in which spots he’s been a min-
ister. Sydney-born, he has spent most of
his time in Queensland.
Back in 1914-18 it was alleged against
the Gippsland hills that they disgorged
a whiskered chap who, when informed
there was a war on, muttered “Gripes,
ain’t they caught Cronje yet?” Aua
Island, nor’-west of New Guinea, has
now brought forth Kenneth Drum-
mond Looks, manager of a coco-
nut plantation. He got his stores every
six months, and when no ship turned up
last April he concluded that Rabaul had
erupted again or Easter was late or he’d
just been forgotten. He battled along
on fish, eggs, taro, flying foxes, bananas,
etc., until his tobacco ran out. Then he
tried pawpaw and tea leaves, and was in
such a state that when a small boat hove-
to about the end of June he hurled him-
self into it and demanded to be taken
to the nearest kiosk at once. It was then
he heard for the first time that air and
sea battles had been going on all round
for over six months. He’d been 21 years
on the islands, and until then thought
nothing could surprise him.
Professor Raymond Maxwell Craw-
ford, councillor to Minister Slater, Aus-
tralian envoy to the U.S.S.R., is a some-
what rare appointment, being neither
PROF. MAX CRAWFORD.
lawyer nor professional diplomat, but a
scholar. He is 8.A., Syd., 8.A., Oxon,
and M.A. by special grace of Melbourne
University. Born at Grenfell (N.S.W.)
and educated at Sydney High, Sydney
University and Balliol, Oxford, he was
a schoolmaster for five years and then
became lecturer in history at Sydney Uni-
versity. In 1937 he was given a similar
portfolio in Melbourne. He is the author
of Study of History, Synoptic View and
ether publications, and has taken excur-
sions into painting, having been a pupil
of Archibald Colquhoun.
When Melbourne Salvationist Col.
Wilfred Saunders was a member of the
territorial staff band half a century back
a young fellow-bandsman was George L.
Carpenter, present international head of
the S.A. in London, with the Salvation
rank of general. All told, Col. Saunders
has been doing S.A. work for 54 years,
almost all of it in Melbourne, with a
short break in Maoriland. Just retired
from the post of finance sec. in Victorian
headquarters, he is a son of the Edward
Saunders who took a leading part in
pushing the S. Army along in South
Australia.
South Aus., as recently noted, exports
fire-fighters to the Speck and other
States. In turn the Speck exports to
Director of National Fitness.
South Aus. physical fitness experts,
both the present director of that sort of
thing, Thomas Ivan Thompson, and his
predecessor, B. F. Apps, hailing from the
Apple Isle. Thompson is still in his early
twenties.
Into the silence:
At Castlemaine (Vic.) Dr. James Livingstone
Thompson (73), last of the old Thompson engi-
neering company. Member of the Victorian
Charities Board and 30 years local hospital
president, his best monument is the new £40,000
Castlemaine Community Hospital.
In Sydney, Thomas James Tyrrell, M.L.C.,
who in 1917 took on the secretaryship of the
Municipal Employees’ Union and raised its
members’ list from 100 to 13,000. Without
excessive publicity, he carried a Jot of weight
in Labor affairs for quarter of a century.
One of Maoriland’s centenarians, Henry
Edward Bennett, has passed on at Otaki, at
102. Hailing originally from the same
Channel Islands village as Lily Langtry, he
went to school with her, and remembered the
famous-beauty-to-be as a very ordinary-looking
youngster. He leaves four generations of
descendants, eight of the grandsons being in
the fighting forces.
At 79, in Melbourne, E. A. Vidler, poet, pub-
lisher and author. He was a young clerk in
Cassell’s, London, when one day at lunch-
time the head of the firm handed him a tat-
tered exercise book in which the cuttings of a
serial called “The Sea Cook” had been pasted,
and asked him to read it and pass an opinion.
He became just as absorbed in what subse-
quently appeared as Treasure Island, by R. L.
Stevenson, as millions of children and adults
have since. W. E. 'Henley taught the young
Vidler to be a writer. Later he came to Gee-
long, where he edited and owned the local
“Evening News” and the “Tatler Weekly,”
wrote books on Australian fauna and poetised
between times. He was director of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Arts and literature and
edited the Adam Lindsay Gordon Memorial
Volume.
In Adelaide, at 71, Jules Langdon, M.L.A.
for Thebarton since 1938. After speaking in
the House for about an hour he collapsed, and
died four days later.
Died of wounds, at 29, Ross Moyle, former
S.A. inter-State cricketer, who went abroad
with the Second A.I.F. in 1940 and saw service
in Egypt, Libya and Syria.
At Hastings (M.L.), at 87, Thomas Butler
Bax, who, 30 years back, when endurance tests
were the rage, once swung clubs for 148 hours.
In Melbourne, at 62, Rupert Granville Kiddle,
one of the best-known pastoralists on the
eastern half of Australia, from Carabost (Vic.),
which used to be his father’s property, and
Steam Plains, Deniliquin (N-S.W.), to Burenda,
Charleville (Q.), Burenda being owned by the
West Queensland Pastoral Co., of which he
was a director. Melbourne solicitor J. Beacham
Kiddle is a brother.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
* Jji * *
“Frosty”: With the little sigh one
gives when one hears of the death of an
old acquaintance not seen for years, 1
heard of the demise of the New York
“Police Gazette.” In the great days of
Richard K. Fox, it had a following
throughout Australasia. Printed on pale-
pink paper, about the same shade as Lon-
don’s “Pink ’Un” (more politely “Sport-
ing Times”), it had, in the earliest days of
my acquaintance with it, a strong fistic
flavor, and its cover always bore a pic-
ture of a hero of the ring, such as
Slavin or Mitchell or the great John L.,
shaping up, or of a heroine of the halls.
Its reports of boxing were supplemented
with narratives of historic encounters.
Latterly the emphasis seems to have been
laid on glamorous gals. The Post Office
objected, and, as one commentator put
it, the journal, “not having much money
and being unable to put up much of a
fight,” just caved in and went under,
though it wasn’t any more wicked than
younger competitors.
* * * *
“Norther”; I see by the papers that
the plot, scheme, plan, dream or night-
mare of settling Jews in the Kimberleys
has been revived, this time in Melbourne
University. A manifesto by the com-
mittee insists, among otker things, that
“ Please, Sergeant , may I be excused ?”
this benighted country will need cultural
enrichment after the war, and seems to
assume that the rush to the Promised
Land will include “many men and women
of character and talent.” It sounds a bit
funny to us poor blighters up here on
the Ord River, and we’re wondering what
sort of culture they’ll bring us. We’re
hardly likely to ride a couple of hundred
miles at the week-end to discuss European
politics, and our interest in the sort of
culture Europe exports is scanty. Some-
how or another I persist in believing that
Australia is slowly but surely developing
her own culture
♦ * * *
“Macann”: Now I know that jokes
about plumbers aren’t jokes at all —
they’re sad statements of fact. Calling
for the rent, the agent was shown a
break-up in our top-flat bathroom floor.
While I was away at work the plumber
got in, heaved the bath out on to the
front verandah, “fixed” the floor and left,
taking the key with him to ensure that
the place wouldn’t be used till the cement
dried. I left for town at an unprecedented
hour next morning.
* •’ * *
“S.T.S.”: There is an amusing and
harmless mixture of lottery and learning
going on now On the radio. A week will
be allowed to send in the answer to some
such problem as “Who was Queen Vic-
toria’s father?” or “Who is the funny
fat man in Shakspeare’s plays?” Those
who happen not to know just inquire
at the Public Library; and then every-
one takes the odds of 10 bob, or what-
ever it is, to a postage stamp about being
“the first correct answer opened” at an
appointed day and hour.
* * # *
“F.W.” adds to a par. in B. 21/10/’42
some details of Australia’s first race-
course :
The 73rd Regiment arrived at Sydney in 1810
and camped on the rising ground near the
south-eastern corner of the modern Hyde Park.
Within nine months the course was formed,
in the virgin bush lying northerly of this camp,
by subscription amongst officers of the regi-
ment and local sportsmen. The grandstand
and winning-post were located at what is now
the eastern end of Market-street; thence the
course curved near Queen’s-square, followed
College-street to the Grammar School, curved
round south of the Anzac Memorial to the
top of Bathurst-street and thence to the straight,
beginning at the corner of Park and Elizabeth
streets. From Park-street to the neighborhood
of Dailey’s statue and from near the Anzac
Memorial to Bathurst-street the course was
levelled. When first formed, it was a mile and
a quarter, but later was reduced to a mile and
six yards. Races were held on it from 1810 to
1821, when the increase of population forced
the removal of racing to the course at Rose
Bay. The principal race on each day of annual
three-day meetings was decided by the best of
three two-mile heats.
* » * *
“S. Claus”: Usually at this time of
year men of my profession begin to stir
themselves. The reindeer have to be
mustered and drafted into teams, bells
and harnish polished and sled parts seen
to. A slimming course is also necessary
to reduce girth to a point where descent
of chimneys is easy.
Usually, too, we get
our pictures in the daily
and weekly prints, and
every paper, from the
“Bonnie Rock - Lake
Brown - Mukinbudin
Leader” to the London
“Times,” carries adver-
tisements and editorial
matter calling attention
to our beneficent activi-
ties. It was our duty
to see that the tin
trumpet squawked and
the wail of the dying
balloon was loud in the
land; to us mothers
owed it that sticky off-
spring dragged them
round the great and
small toyshops; and be-
cause of us fathers had
to pay for that shop-
ping. We scattered our
cheery smiles and
waved our false whis-
kers and sweated in our
red flannelette cloaks,
and were pawed and
mauled and prayed to
and cursed in shrill,
childish trebles. Ah,
dear, dead days! Now
we’ve been called up by
the man-power officer,
and the reindeer have
been canned for the
fighting forces and the
sled-runners broken up
for munitions. Nobody
shouts us beers, the
Prime Minister turns a
stern face against spending, demand-
ing leading, and there is no place
for men like us. So if your kids
want to know where I am on December
25 tell ’em Fm with the Civil Construe-
tion Corps boiling plum duffs somewhere
north of the Alice.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; The policeman who
stopped and questioned a citizen just for
having visibly in his possession a Mel-
bourne paper—which, of course, had rac-
ing acceptances in it—-has been judged
to have gone a bit too far, even for this
city. Questions were asked about the
incident in the press and in Parliament,
and the Crown Solicitor has given a
formal “opinion” that the citizen com-
mitted no offence.
“Perdooce your identity card. For all I know you might be 'Itler or
Mussolini .”
“D.E.”: From a book written by
Admiral of the Fleet Lord Chatfield,
whose authority cannot be questioned:
In the early part of the last war the
Admiralty [then under Churchill’s control]
supplied shells so defective that they burst
into fragments. There was also a shortage
of reserve shells, and it came out that “a
large number of shells accepted by the
Ordnance Section had never passed a test.”
At a luncheon party aboard H.M.S.
Lion, Chatfield [Captain then] got it from
a Swedish naval officer that the Germans
regarded our shells as “laughable,” whereas
British ships had been blown up by a single
German shell penetrating the magazine.
With Beatty’s consent Chatfield drafted
an urgent letter to the Admiralty, which
replied that it would “take a year to pro-
duce even a percentage of the new shells
required.” For the Fleet that was a very
anxious twelvemonth. Beatty, for his part,
wrote a letter, to be opened only if he
were killed in action, which told the truth
about the shells so that the blame for a
lost action would be placed where it
belonged.
Nothing like that has come out during
the present war. If anything like that
had come out the whole world of Reds
and Pinks would be down on Chamber-
lain, the nefarious Appeaser—though he
never tried to appease Hitler and the
Japs.
V ❖ ❖
“Spokeshave”: The Curtin Austerity
era has done one thing. It has produced
a new class of diners-out in Melbourne.
People who in the old sybarite days never
dreamt of entertaining a friend at the
leading hotels and restaurants now say to
visiting strangers “Come along and dipe
with me at X’s.” They get all the kudos
and it costs them only five bob.
fc * * *
“S.T.S.”: The Bulletin (21/10/’42)
rightly allows to S.A. the credit of being
the only Australian State which makes
lawful a marriage with a deceased wife’s
niece. Let me add that this is an en-
tirely sensible bit of legislation. If a
man is to be allowed to marry his de-
ceased wife’s sister —and the world has
long made up its mind about that, though
the bishops’ vote for many years kept
the House of Lords from allowing it —
how can one possibly object to his marry-
ing a relative further away? Simply, it
never occurred to Ms.P. as a marriage
likely to be asked for, even though, in
the old days of big families, aunt and
niece would often be much the same age.
Now, in S.A. it went in with the Deceased
Wife’s Sister Act from the start; and I
am able to say why. My father was in
the S.A. Parliament at the time, about
1870; and he liked to tell in after years
how, when the D.W.S. Bill was going
through, someone in the smoking-room
of the House said of a popular col-
league, a widower, “I fancy Blank would
like to marry his late wife’s niece. Why
shouldn’t we give him the chance?” And
(with a mere half-dozen extra words in
the clause) they did ; he took the chance
promptly, and the statute became known
familiarly as the “Blank Relief Act.” To
this day, nobody has thought of legalis-
ing the d.w. aunt—yet I have known
that marriage happen, too.
* .. * * ,
. . Yair : Bllls Wlfe , never regarded a
shirt button as something which could
be sewn back on. When a button came
off either Bill found a safety-pin or got
a new shirt. But Bill has been turning
up lately with his clothes neatly mended,
“Your wife must have reformed,” they
told him. “Aw, not exactly,” said Bill,
“Well, she seems to be taking Austerity
seriously,” they persisted. “She’s saving
money, eh?” “No such luck,” growled
Bill. “She has to keep my clothes
mended so she can use my coupons,”
“Hamfat”: Rumor that Sydney’s
Theatre Royal is going to be a pitcher
palace (denied by the Royal’s owners)
sends the memory back. The original
Theatre Royal was in Pitt-street, where
McCathie’s now is. The name was
moved to the Castlereagh-street address
in 1855, and the theatre there had to be
rebuilt once after a fire in which many
members of the audience were injured.
The first full-dress production in Sydney
racvie history, “Intolei ance,” was shown
at this theatre, so it has had previous
cinema experience. It was Wilson Bar-
rett’s, Julius Knight’s and Bland Holt’s
usual headquarters in Sydney ; and the
Broughs used it, too. Amongst my mem-
ories of the place is of the occasion when
the routine, with “The Sign of the Cross”
to commence a revival, was upset by
the sudden illness of Julius Knight. Harry
Plimmer was pushed into the clothes of
Marcus Superbus, and Varna, who was
producer and stage-manager, had to play
Nero. Varna was so bustled that he
forgot to train the supers, properly. So
for once the Christians heard the super-
lions hailing the approach of their meal
with three hearty British cheers.
AFTER THE WAR.
After the war! Glib tongues are guaranteeing
It’s to be handed us upon a plate.
The bright new world that’s coming into being
On some —as yet—quite undetermined date.
They picture us, with amiable persistence,
Enjoying things we never knew before
And finding a new relish in existence
After the war.
After the war! One gathers the deduction
From what loquacious politicians say
That various systems needing reconstruction
Will be the subject of it right away.
In comfort and content we’ll bask complacent,
And the Utopia of Thomas More
Will sure be here —or anyhow adjacent—
After the war.
After the war, one hears the firm persuasion,
The pitfalls into which we shoved our feet,
The blunders made upon the last occasion,
We’ll be a lot too canny to repeat.
There’ll be good times ahead, it isn’t doubted,
And generally halcyon days in store
(Excepting for the enemies we’ve outed)
After the war.
After the war, with all its dire afflictions,
We’ll sleep o’ nights in safety and at ease
According to these roseate predictions,
These plentifully-sugared prophecies.
So mote it be! But is it more effective
Than putting, so to speak, the cart before
The horse, this laying out of an objective
After the war!
After the war —well, there’ll be time for letting
A lot of new ideas have a spin.
Meanwhile there seems a danger of forgetting
The vital point that there’s a war to win.
Not till we’re well upon the way to winning
Will it be wise, I venture, to explore
Experiments that we may be beginning
After the war.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
A SURFEIT OF GLAMOR.
“The eternal glamor of the Hollywood face tends
to pall; maybe for that reason a heroine who is
frankly and severely plain scores a hit in one of the
newest films” (B. 4/Tl/’42).
We’ve been sated with beauty that thrills and
enthrals
On Hollywood films till mere loveliness palls,
And the figures and faces in such that excel,
Tt seems to be hinted, are losing their spell.
Ihose glamorous blondes who would attitudes
strike
To set you a-musing what Helen was like,
Or if Cleopatra, the jewel and gem
Of Egypt, was ever a patch upon them,
Can claim no monopoly, now we admit,
In the quality vaguely referred to as It.
So a palate may tire and a stomach rebel
At the tucker that’s served by some maitre
d’hote}.
The oysters, the turtle, the game and the things
Thought worthy for banquets to gourmets and
kings.
And ode’s fancy may stray to some homelier
fare
Less spicy and saucy than anything there,
A cut from the joint with some spuds and a
roll
Or a liberal helping of toad-in-the-hole.
And a similar fancy it’s easy to fix
On the feelings of fellows who feed on the
flicks.
So cheer up, you damsels who yearn to be
queens
In Hollywood dramas and stars on the screens!
Although you would stand at long odds with
the books
In contests where prizes are given for looks,
Here’s something of comfort to ponder upon:
Mere comeliness isn’t a sine qua non.
The role of a heroine you yet may enact
With eclat (assuming, that is, you can act)
And the aim of your cherished ambition attain
Though you’re frankly, severely and patently
plain.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Exile”: I remember many years ago,
when I lived in a colder clime, a much
travelled man said to me, when Sydney
was mentioned, “Yes, a beautiful city—
if it wasn’t for the flies.” And he fell into
a sort of retrospective melancholy and
would not further elucidate, remarking
only that the subject was one he could
not adequately deal with. Now, at the
beginning of an umptieth summer season
on the shores of Port Jackson, I know
what he meant. And I, too, lack the
“Dedman style. Like it?”
words to describe in any satisfying way
the sticky, maddening, senseless persist-
ence of the accursed insect. Greater
writers than I have baulked at such a
task. The author of Exodus permits
himself only to refer to a “grievous swarm
of flies,” by reason of which “the land
was corrupted,” when describing this
plague of Egypt. I think King David
or whoever wrote the Psalms, could have
made a good job of denouncing the Syd-
ney fly. Unfortunately he lived in an-
other city.
* * * *
“Tuart”: The C.-in-C.’s repudiation of
Presidential ambitions must have pleased
a nice young American officer I met at
lunch. Mentioning the “MacArthur for
President” campaign, he said he was
agamst it on several grounds, one being
that soldiers hadn’t made good Presi-
dents; True of Grant, no doubt, and of
Andrew Jackson and Zachary Taylor
perhaps though Taylor was not long in
the White House—but as a general propo-
sition I thought it too sweeping. Hayes,
Garfield, Arthur, Benjamin Harrison and
McKinley, who followed Grant, though
Cleveland came between Arthur and
Harrison and between Harrison and
McKinley were all Civil War veterans,
and each had solid merits. But all the
soldier-Presidents, except Washington
* W j°* Csn C<^ me mt ° argument)
anc * Andrew Jackson, were younger than
our MacArthur He is 62 the same age
as Jackson when the fiery Andrew
became President, and by no possibility
could he take the oath of office till he
was just on 65. #
“S.T.S.”: S.A.’has been celebrating the
seventieth anniversary of cable connec-
tion with London, which involved erect-
ing a wire overland, Adelaide to Darwin.
It was a terrific job in those days, with
the far-north natives attacking the
workers or just pulling down the line to
get the insulators for making spearheads.
The line was completed, largely under
Charles Todd’s leadership, in August,
1872, but by that time the cable connec-
tion with Java had broken down, so that
London didn’t get into touch with the
southern capitals until late in October.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: A more than ordinarily
sheltered life must have been led by the
Maoriland Judge, hearing a pillage case,
who asked a wharf-lumper witness if
guano was ever stolen. A smile per-
meated the Court when the witness re-
plied very firmly in the negative.
* * * *
“Hamer”: There has been at least one
“man of letters” listed on N. S. Wales
electoral rolls (B. 28/10/’42). His name
w’as John Sutherland, and he flourished
in the days when every newspaper ran
a correspondence column in which any-
body who cared to write was given an
open slather. Sutherland rarely let a
couple of days pass without having a
word or a hundred words to say about
something. He claimed to have written
thousands of letters, and when someone
jestingly suggested that he could well
call himself a “man of letters” he adopted
the idea seriously, enrolling himself elec-
torally in that category. He put the
same description on his nomination form
when the idea struck him to stand for
Parliament. He withdrew before the
nominations closed, scared of the pros-
pect of having to make speeches. He
died 15 years ago.
“T.T.”: Add to the notable deeds of
Archdeacon Hammond (B. 28/10/’42)
the foundation of “Grit” on a capital of
£lO. That must be about the pluckiest
flotation in the history of Australian
journalism.
* * * r
“Avoca”: It is understandable that
“abscondence” does not appear in any
dictionary to which “Oxmead” has access
(B. 4/11/ ’42). It is an unfamiliar, little-
used word, and would hardly be included
in any of the dictionaries that answer
needs and serve the purposes of most
households. But it is to be found in
Webster’s New International Dictionary
and even in the two-volume Shorter
/ Oxford. True, the S.O. deals in detail
on i y w j t h the verb “abscond,” and con-
tents itself with the bare mention of
“ahscondence” and other derivatives,
because, presumably, their meanings are
inherent in themselves. The Webster
t om e, however, gives a separate listing to
“abscondence,” making a finish with the
com ment “Rare.” And rare it certainly
j s Like “Oxmead,” I’ve never struck
- t before in a newspaper nor heard it in
speec b
'* * ■ * *
“Wingella”: “Oxmead” (B. 28/10/’42)
says be can’t recall any biographical
re f erence t 0 Thomas Moore’s diminutive
S { a { Ure There’s just this clue: Moore
wro j- e muc h of his work under the pen*
name of “ Th omas Little.”
* * * *
* “ K .”: If people could see the im-
portant part waste paper plays in the
defence of their country there might be
a change of heart amongst those who
now care l es sly toss cartons, wrapping
P a P^ r » *N WS sheets, etc., in dust bins to
ost re Y er ‘ Petsistent and skilful
Propaganda however, is starting to have
bespits, and the Waste Paper Salvage
Campaign bins, placed at strategic points
in clt Y and suburbs, are helping to ham-
mer home the message Quarter-wits
occasionally drop a lighted match to
watch what is now a vital product go up
m the air, but generally the contents are
collected intact. Occasionally, too, the
term waste paper is given a wide mter-
pretation. From one Rose Bay (Sydney)
bin came a dog kennel. A few days later
-the same bin disgorged a dog collar. The
girl sorters at the paper mill to which
they went expect the dog to arrive in the
next consignment,
* * * *
“Looby”: At “a certain” Government
lottery office, no matter what day, no
matter what happens, someone always
chirps brightly “It might be luck! ”<Orop
some of your money at the change win-
dow and whoever picks it up will say
“Throwing your money around, eh? It
might be luck.” Make a mistake on your
application form and have to rewrite it.
“Don’t worry; it might be luck.” Same
when you miss a step and nearly crack
your neck. I’m going to drop money, tear
up forms, lose my place in the queue, fall
on the steps, bump my head and not
once will I say the much-overdone phrase.
You never know ; by not saying it, well —
it might be luck.
* * * *
“Cock Robert”: A new form of
advertising his wares has been adopted
by a King’s Cross newsvendor. Where
others are content merely to chalk a
headline or two up—the wording dic-
tated from the newspaper office —this
seller localises the poster and peps it up.
Thus, on one board: “Taxi Drivers Want
Is. 6d, More. What More Will They
Want?” On another board: “Combing
Parks and Bars for Idlers. They’ll Get
Plenty.”
* * *
“Bohemian”: Death of the aged
Maori chief Winini recalls an episode of
Mark Twain’s visit to M.L. Mark had
dined with Winini and his tribe, and
declared that he enjoyed the meal, cooked
Maori fashion. He reciprocated by
asking the chief and his wife to dinner,
and got the landlord of his hotel to pre-
pare an extensive menu, not forgetting
the waipiro. A Maori assistant in the
kitchen wrote it out in his native lan-
guage and sent it to the chief. The meal
was set in a private parlor. Mark noticed
that Mrs. Winini had brought with her a
large Maori kit, and as each course was
tabled she took a piece of it and put it in
the bag. At the end of the meal the lady
topped off her swag with beer, wine and
ginger beer, a bottle of each. Then
Winini explained. He had shown the
menu to Maori friends. They had pro-
nounced the American pakeha a great
liar —nobody could afford such a dinner.
So he had instructed his wahine to collect
samples that the scoffers might be con-
founded. Telling the story, Mark said
he hoped his fame as a host would go
down for all time in the traditions of the
dusky race.
* * * #
“Wazza”: A Victorian medico inadver-
tently signed his own name in the column
reserved for “Cause of death.” The
coroner, a man of dry humor, returned
the death certificate with a short note;
“Probably true; but don’t you think you
had better mention the disease, too?”
“Zake”: Sydney’s trams, which permit
entering or alighting on the wrong side
(B. 28/10/’42) —though it is a moot point
whether any Court would recognise a
Commissioner’s claim that there is a
wrong side, there being no barrier to
inhibit passengers —were used as a thrill-
ing sport in my juvenile days ; a sport
that the motor-car has killed. My earliest
experience of alighting on the wrong
side was painful. Homing from school
one day soon after the trams started in
our suburb, I was perched precariously
on the rear end of the footboard with no
penny for a fare. The guard, a nark,
waited until the tram was doing a good
speed and then came at me with a rush.
Cut off from the sanctuary of a compart-
ment, I took to the road, but still hung
on to the stanchion with one hand. When
“If I could find someone to look after Fido-I'd do some war work!”
he made a grab at that hand I let go.
My legs, going like pistons, took me
along at the same speed as the tram for
some yards; then I spreadeagled in the
dust at about 20 knots. Next day my
issue of gravelrash was admiringly
accounted a far greater attraction than
Stinker Dugdale’s gumboil, and my real
training in tram-scaling began. Entry
into the select circles of our “mob” was
contingent on ability to join a tram—
either side—when the “dreadnoughts”—
the “O” type, still in operation—were
doing top speed ; the ne plus ultra was
the hop-off backwards. If done with
skill you landed on your toes and re-
tained the perpendicular. The “wrong”
side we never accounted a real danger.
But hard-headed kids never went for the
rear part of the front car, for if you
missed you fell between the cars.
* * * *
“Ponder”: Despite the fact that several
permanent officials are being paid sub-
stantial salaries by the seven Govern-
mental authorities of Australia to censor
books, films, stage entertainments and
radio performances ; despite also the fact
that 99.99 p.c. of Australia’s population
wouldn’t even say “tut” if all these offi-
cials knocked off work tomorrow and
went fishing or joined the A.1.F., there
has arisen (and this in the fourth year
of a war that involves the vigorous
defence of this Commonwealth) a Good
Film and Radio Vigilance League. Its
function seems to be to snoop. It special-
ises in the discovery of indecent and dis-
gusting jokes in radio comedy “sessions,”
and with the aid of chemical analysis
or a spectroscope has apparently found
some trace of dirt even in the field
watched over by Mr. Cleary and the
other grave and reverend ladies and
gentlemen of the A.B.C. But did it reap
the reward of its unremitting vigilance?
Nay. “An A-class station practically
told us to mind our own business, ’ the
league’s secretary told a scandalised
reporter. “Naturally we were incensed
and took the matter up with the P.M.G.’s
Department and then the Broadcasting
Commission.” These authorities should
have told the G.F.R.V.L. to go and dis-
band itself, for their officers are paid
to carry out exactly those functions the
G.F.R.V.L. wishes to assume, and this
is no time to put two men on one job.
* * * *
“The Rustic”: An acute shortage of
silver currency existed in a small cut-
back Queensland town. Then somebody
started a rumor that the Government in-
tended to mint a new “Austerity” issue
of two-bob pieces, and that after a cer-
tain date all the old-type florins would
be valueless. For the next few days,
most of the deposits at the town’s only
bank were brought in bags instead of
rolls. Florins are again circulating plenti-
fully, and the bank manager’s cryptic
smile hasn’t come off.
* * * *
“Ologist”; Ever heard of a “resump-
tive ‘that’ ”? It is a second and super-
fluous “that” introduced into a sentence,
and is so called by the authors of The
King's English (the brothers H. W. and
F. G. Fowler), who state that “The trick
of taking breath in .the middle of a sen-
tence by means of a resumptive that. ...
should be avoided.” The living brother
(H. W.) calls the “trick” a definite gram-
matical blunder. It’s a fairly common
blunder, too. Here’s a recent example
of it from a correspondent’s letter in a
Sydney morning paper:
It was pointed out to them [American
isolationists] that on account of the huge
seaboard area of America that it would be
difficult to defend America if the Japanese.
selected some weak spot
If the writers of such sentences as that
would insert a comma after the first
“that” and another comma after the in-
tervening phrase or clause it might be-
come obvious to them that the first “that”
connected up with the word immediately
following the phrase or clause enclosed
by the commas, and therefore no second
“that” was required. More involved sen-
tences should be reconstructed to avoid
the error.


ABORIGINALITIES
“T.V.”: Last week the old man
brought home a white Leghorn rooster
which, despite his proud assertion that
the bird was “a real thoroughbred,”
earned the name of Hitler. In two days,
besides proving a real Mr. Gradgrind to
his harem, he stoushed poor old Tops,
the black Leghorn who formerly ruled
the roost, blitzed the cat, commandoed
the missus and guerrilla’d the ducks.
Then, when even the sparrows weren’t
game to come into the yard, he felt the
desire for fresh fields to infiltrate. We
saw him striding down the garden fence,
glaring at the tomtits in the orange-
trees, pecking contemptuously at an
occasional beetle, stalking up every emi-
nence to survey those far horizons which
he intended to conquer, but always pur-
posefully keeping to his predetermined
line. And then, like a torpedo, came the
magpie from the lucerne patch. With a
whoop he descended on Der FUhrer.
Taken by surprise, the rooster went down.
But he made the mistake of getting up
again into an atmosphere thick with
black and white feathers. The magpie
got him down three times in 40 seconds,
and Hitler obviously thought he was
attacked from all points of the compass
by a million pied devils. Finally he broke
loose and fled shrieking for home, with
Maggie on his wheel. He reached the
fowlyard dishevelled, shrinking and
cowed ; and Tops, who is no fool, was
the reception committee. Now the old
man is talking of what he’ll do to the
bloke who sold him Hitler—“ The flamin’
bird hasn’t even got guts enough t’ stick
up f’r himself.”
* « ♦ *
“Narrin”: A. H. Chisholm in Bird
Wonders of Australia says it is a
common bush belief that magpies rarely
if ever attack girls but have long memo-
ries in respect of boys. There’s a mis-
take somewhere. The magpie is very
careful of his hide: for instance, the
same birds who this year have chivvied
the local schoolkids have fought shy of
me. Another pair never attacked me,
nor the missus when she was with me, but
when she walked alone they invariably
went into action. We tried an experi-
ment one day. Both of us sat down
near the nest and waited. Pa Magpie
flew up into a mallee close handy, took
a good look at me and stayed there.
Then I walked off and hid behind a
stump. Maggie swooped on the missus.
I returned and he flew back to his tree.
We repeated that performance about five
times before the pied pirate woke up.
« * ft ft •
“B. A. Ker”: That dog which turns
up daily at the former workplace of its
missing-soldier master (B. 21/10/’42) is
by no means a unique case. Two hos-
pitals in N.S.W. have noted regular
daily visits from dogs long after their
masters had passed on. Faithfulness is,
of course, the original motive, but I sub-
mit that, after a time, force of habit is
the principal factor, just as a horse owned
by a country carrier of my acquaintance
always strolled down to the railway
goods yard on Sunday mornings “to see
if any trucks were in.” The best example
of canine memory I’ve seen is displayed
by Ugly, 12-year-old companion to the
caretaker of Bungan Castle —a historic
showplace and museum near Newport
(N.S.W.). Three years ago the dog’s
mother died ; but his master has only to
say “Where is Tiger?” and Ugly leaps
to his feet in great excitement with eyes
darting and tail wagging. The dog re-
members where his mother was buried in
the bush near by, and will never pass the
spot without scratching at the earth and
whining.
# * * *
“G.G.2”: I’m all with the fellow who
says salt licks can’t be mixed by hand
or with a shovel. When I was a young-
ster the old manager of the station used
to punish us jackeroos for faults during
the week by making us mix salt licks on
Sunday. He came his thud, though, when
he tried to include molasses to make the
licks tasty. As well try to mix glue
and sawdust as attempt to put molasses
and salt together by hand. We added
water to the molasses, on his instructions,
to make it easier. It fermented. The
smell of the treacle was the big idea
behind the mixture. Any animal which
would face that new odor didn’t want
salt.
"He wont talk to us any more about a Second Front."
“Tracechain”; The one thing these
alleged witnesses of fights between the
snake and goanna invariably fail to
record is how the snake gets his fangs
free again. The go. is a fine piece of
armor-plating, proof against even a .22
from the angle ; also he is heavier than
Joe and slicker off the mark from a stand-
ing start, so that unless the go. obligingly
backs and fills when the snake strikes he
can drag the ophidian where he pleases.
Have often watched a flock of kookas
launch a blitz on a go., and beyond lift-
ing him perhaps a foot or so do little
damage. Now and again a lucky stab on
the bingy causes a casualty, but 20 years’
observation leads me to tire opinion that
Jacky, like kids shying at street lights,
doesn’t really expect results, though it is
marvellous fun.
“B. 4”: Although “Old-timer” (B.
16/9/’42) might not understand by what
mysterious alchemy goanna weed is
transmuted into a lifesaver and tonic in
the go.’s reptilian economy, that does
not warrant dogmatic assertions that the
effect of the salad is not antidotal. Bush-
men who have had front seats at select
spars know that the fighting monitor has
recourse to the medicine-chest in between
rounds, and charges back to the ring
full of fight and fury. One old myall
reckoned “Good feller weed that one!
Helpit goanna killit snake ; but snake he
no eatem goanna.” “You eatem, Moki?”
I asked. “No fear, boss,” he answered.
“One time I bin killit goanna, cookit,
and gibbit longa gins and dogs. That
one bin die all about camp. More better
wait; goanna him right byme-bye.”
“M.U.R.”: Old Mrs. O’Leary’s
goannas (B. 4/11/ ’42) must have been
drought-stricken if they could get through
a Hin. mesh netting. Our gos.’ snouts
wouldn’t fit through a mesh that small.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We’d had a spell of windy
weather, and Seventyfiver was complain-
ing of a tree that was down across the
gateway into the hill paddock. I was
suggesting burning or perhaps sawing
W'hen the old bloke interrupted with a
lusty bang on his thigh. “Why, no ; the
thing ain’t very big,” he crowed, “ ’cos
there’s nuthin’ but scrub an’ saplin’s left
in that paddick. So I’ll just git the team
an’ haul it off. Ha, wouldn’t’ve thought
o’ that, would y’, eh?” Still chuckling
over his brainwave, he collected his team
and disappeared over the rise. Less than
an hour later he was back. “What,
haven’t shifted it already, have you?” I
asked. “’Course I ain’t!” he snapped.
“Can’t even get t’ the thing. There’s a
blasted little wattle down across the track
an’ the damned horses wouldn’t step over,
an’ I couldn’t get ’em round the end
neither. Blast ’em, there weren’t nuthin’
for it but t’ tie ’em up an’ walk all the
way back for a flamin’ axe!”
* * * *
“Theo D. Lite”: While stretching
things is desirable to focus attention,
“Old-timer” (B. 28/10/’42) has placed
the speed of Murray water in the Spit-
fire class. It suggests rather a partially
deflated barrage balloon dragging a length
of payed cable in a dead calm. The
Murray, with a fall of three inches to
the mile, or one in 20,000, has a flat-out
speed of two feet per second, or 1.3
m.p.h.—roughly \\ knots. If local water-
falls are barred, the fastest large body
of water is the Snowy River, where in
the record flood of 1934, when the dis-
charge was 500,000 cubic feet per second
(250,000,000,000 gallons a day, or seven
years’ supply to Sydney), the speed rose
to 22ft. per second at McKellar’s Bridge,
or 15 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Duddo”: Doddy came back to the
camp from the town with a cut lip, a
swollen nose and one eye in a sling. “Bet
y’ got a good excuse f’r that dial,” said
his mate. Doddy grinned painfully, “if
I’d had one when Big Mick caught me
sittin’ out with his tabby at the dance I
wouldn’t have this dial,” he said.
* * * *
“Wogonga”: Where has “Old Chap”
seen kookas “dragging out the unwilling
earthworms from sloppy ground” (B.
4/11/ ’42)? Earthworms don’t inhabit
that sort of ground and kookas are not
digging birds. But they’ll let plough or
spade do the unearthing and then take
their fill.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The bank inspector, new
to the Mallee, was putting the local man-
ager through it about some doubtful
accounts. Into the office burst bid Mac.
He wore a week’s growth and a dirty
shirt and pants, and he’d been up eft
Schneider’s wine shade. He’d not thought
of calling at the ban!:; till the wine got
to work but now —“Hey!” he roared,
shaking dust and cocky-chaff out of his
whiskers with his vehemence. “If I get
any more of your ruddy demands I’ll
take you an’ y’r flamin’ bank apart. Y’re
just a lot of blasted moneygrubbers. You
better look out!” He flung out and
away, muttering. A week later, crest-
fallen and properly clothed, bathed and
shaved, he called on the manager to
apologise. But the manager wouldn't
hear of it, insisted on buying drinks and
generally made much of Mac. To this
day Mac doesn’t know that his wild
entry scared that inspector, who ever
afterwards handled all Mallee managers
gently, convinced that Mallee cockles
were likely to become homicidal towards
them at any minute.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: How oddly short Aus-
tralia is of a mineral common in many
other lands—the flint. In my travels I
have picked up hundreds of stones of
all varieties and tried them with a bit of
steel for a spark, but never a flash have
I struck. The nearest was when, as a
kid, I used to rub two rounded cobbles
of quartz together at night and get a sort
of flash ; but I could never manage to
get any tinder alight. Flint is usually
associated with chalk in deposits. Over-
landers across the top of the Bight have
recorded that flints were to be found there
in semi-chalkish beds. If so, anyone able
to bring in a few camel-loads would do
a roaring trade around places like King’s
Cross, where lighting the gas with a
scantily-tipped splinter of easily broken
and highly fire-resistant wood has become
a major problem.
* * * •
“Sea Foodster”: Of all of
the sea the one with the most finished
table-manners is the crab. Given a small
fish—say a pencil-sized garfish—the crab
will nip off sections of about a quarter
of an inch with the scissors part of its
claw, then take the morsel with the nipper
points and pass it to the mouth as daintily
as a human using a knife and fork.
» * * *
“Swanlo”; I have often wished that
fish were as cannibalistic as “Scuta” (B.
7/10/’42) avers. Certainly many species
will accept one of their own kind as a
bait, but I have always found that, given
the choice, they prefer a
different flesh. Was fish-
ing for whiting along the
south-west W.A. coast.
All that was necessary
was one whiting as a
starter and you could
keep on cutting up the
small fry until literally
you had caught thou-
sands. Then someone
came along with skinned
prawn. Now if anyone
within 100 yards is using
prawn you may fish all
day with whiting and go
hungry. Lacking skinned
prawn, whiting prefer
mullet to the flesh of
their own kind. The
same with tailer; they
will take their own flesh,
but prefer mullet, es-
pecially if fresh. And
I’ve found it so right
down the list. Some, in-
deed, absolutely refuse to
accept their own kind,
the most notable being
the common estuary cat-
fish or cobbler. Another
is the salmon trout ot
Westralian waters. It
will take a spinner or a
trailed bait just as the
tailer does, but the trailed snack mustn’t
be salmon trout.
* * * *
“Naturala”: As writer of that plea for
the always-hated, ever-bashed Joe Blake,
I am very willing to admit to “Ophir”
(B. 7/10/’42) that members of the python
family, which includes the carpet-snake,
do make birds the main feature of their
diet. But I think most bush people,
knowing them non-harmful to man,
leave them alone. I had in mind the
poison-gland tribe, whose way is ever
beset with tribulation. My error arose
in that I early was taught to classify all
the constrictor species as serpents, the
others as snakes, the whole genera as
limbless reptiles.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Old Locks and McAndrew
the storekeeper were friends for years,
but Mac no longer closes the store
when Locks drives into town and the
Locks woolshed is no longer haunted
on Saturday nights by the spirit
of the Highlan’s and the shufflin’ of
cards. The reason came out the other
day. “Mac?” snorted Locks. “Why, I
goes in to get one o’ them Crimea shirts
I always wear, an’ he trots out a blasted
thing with one open pocket, short sleeves
an’ half the tail lopped orf. A man’s not
a damned kangaroo: he’s got t’ have
pockets t’ carry his t’bacca an’ matches
—when he can get ’em —an’ if the flamin’
pockets haven’t got flaps on ’em how
can he stop things failin’ out every time
he bends down? On a hot day the thing’d
work its way clean out o’ y’r strides and
get up between y’r shoulder blades, and
did y’ ever try catchin’ lambs when the
bindi-eyes was bad with y’r sleeves rolled
up? Him an’ his new shirts!”
RAINDROPS ON THE TIN.
I've learnt to suffer tramcars and the roar of
passing trains,
To sleep through banshee-wailings of the tom-
cats in the lanes;
I've lost my fear of traffic, I can “take” the
factory’s din,
But 1 yearn for tileless houses where the rain
drums on the tin!
1 miss a cosy kitchen with the back log
glowing red,
A steady patter echoed from the rafters
overhead;
The songs we roared together, and the yarns
we used to spin,
To the spirit-soothing music of the raindrops
on the tin.
The gurgle in the downpipes and the bubble
in the tanks;
The deep and constant chorus of the bullfrogs
giving thanks,
When Dad sees waving grasses and the stock
no longer thin,
And hears the stripper purring in the raindrops
on the tin.
The kid in smug contentment as he sits and
pokes a log,
His head leaned on the woodbox and his feet
crossed on the dog;
His homework still unstarted; on his face a
covert grin—
“No school,-no school tomorrow!” sing the
raindrops on the tin.
The pictures in the embers, and the patterns
on the wall
As logs flare up or crumble and the shadows
rise and fall.
When Mum calls Father “Jackie” and he shyly
calls her “Win,”
And we know they’re sharing memories of
raindrops on the tin.
The blissful relaxation in a single stretcher bed.
With a rattle on the windows and a rumble
overhead;
The drowsy, warm contentment that spreads
slowly from within
To the lullaby of Paradise—the raindrops on
the tin!
N.S.W.
B. A. KER


"An' I tell you it's NOT a reserved occupation."
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We had money, a
sulky, a desire to travel north but no
horse. Dick the Dasher arrived at the
camp with one in tow. It was, according
to Dick, the best sulky horse ever foaled,
had no vices, travelled all day, docile and
so on. Mat looked it over, listening to
Dick. Then he said “Y’ put up a good
tale, Dasher, but me an’ my mate is after
a horse. This here is a flaming paragon.”
Dick became indignant. “Fat lot you
know about breedin’. He’s out of a half
Suffolk Punch mare by a Tarcutta blood
stallion they never raced because he had
a bumblefoot. How can he be a —a —
paladin or whatever y’ called him?” We
left it at that.
# * * »
“M. U. Ray”: Ducklings being taught
to swim (B. 11/4/ ’42)! Our Muscovy
brought out a clutch in a hollow easily
10ft. above a lagoon. When the duck-
lings were large enough she pushed ’em
out of the hollow; they fell into the
water, she joined them and the troop
proudly swam ashore.
* * * *
Noel T. Learmonth: Re Gordon’s
leap (B. 21/10/’42). This was given me
in 1923 as the true account by the late
E. B. Learmonth, my uncle and a brother
of Bob. Lindsay Gordon, Billy Trainor
and Bob Learmonth were riding along
the Blue Lake road in hunting dress on
the way to a “meet.” Bob said to Lind-
say: “Do something today to justify the
colors.” The poet immediately put his
horse at the fence protecting traffic from
the lake precipice and landed safely on
the narrow space. Conditions on the
spot today are completely changed—
roads, banks, fences, etc., all altered—
so no comparison can be drawn between
a jump in 1865 and any projected one
now.
* * *
“Wippegong”: Around Canberra,
where the trend in architecture, horticul-
ture and politics has been to ape the Old
World, there is still hope for the native
m the way the birds have kept their terri-
tory Australian. A few goldfinches
twitter among the hawthorns, a few spar-
rows squabble in the gutters, but magpies
dominate the avian domains and less
assertive local fowl accept the lead and
refuse to be misled by plots of foreign
design. Rufous whistlers sing beside the
shopping centre, wood swallows build
loyally in the redgums still dappling
the city, and a pair of bronzewing pigeons
rise with a clatter from the road beside
Parliament House. But the feathered
family best represented are the larks.
Biggest of his tribe, the brown song-lark
sails over the flats, fawn pinions catching
the sun as, with wings poised high, he
flings his rich, short song to the wind.
Near the river he gives way to the rufous
song-lark of lighter build and more deli-
cate color, and with a more fluent and
sweeter voice than his brown brother.
. , , c I 7 P , ,
The midget of the clan, the Horsefield
bush lark, has most to say—so often the
way of midgets. Circling wide, he climbs
above the crop, his well-measured
cadences, polished bars, rich, rolling
trills and clean-clipped staccato notes
combining into wonderful song. None
°f the others approaches him as a song-
ster or a climber ; he is a mere whirring
speck when the wings fold and he drops
jj ke a stone. All three are skylarks
worthy of the name, yet all like to take
a spell singing from a post—and seem
to reserve certain notes for this plat-
form ■ but it is pot surprising that in
suc h company the family’s plain Jane —
8 1 oundlark to you—should get an attack
red f c , t . ed _S] ory and 8° chirruping
about fully 30ft. above the deck. Yet
the English skylark, so common over
metropolitan race- and golf-courses, is
not here.
» Avon » ; ' The notion that the cuckoo
is a harbinger of spring has been familiar
in Eng iand for quite a while. Indeed,
the earliest chora i composition known
to musical history j a P glee or round
ascr jb e d to John of Farnsete, a monk of
the Abb of Read ing, scored in 1226 or
thereabouts . It opens up with Sumer
j s j cuni en in, Ihude sing cuc-cu ; groweth
sed and bloweth med \ nd spr j n | th the
wode nu,” the general trend of which is
ar -/i 10 , 118 ! 1 eP i n § be archaic,
Maonland, too, looks to cuc-cu to an-
nounce-the turn of the season, and cor-
res P on dents each September eagerly
) vr . l l te to n^ ws P a P er s (just as English
record the first lark or the first
n l B j? tin ? a w h £ n they fiist hear the song
shining cuckoo. This year Wellmg-
ton Province beat Auckland Province by
eight hours, though Auckland is 300 miles
nearer the Equator. This is regarded as
a distinct feather in the capital’s cap,
**. * •
‘Pluvms”: Being possibly the only
person who knows how and why the
gr £a t drought of coastal N. S. Wales
broke I hasten to tell the story. I was
chatting to my suburban neighbor Smith-
J° ne s a few weeks ago, and commiserat-
h>B w hh him on the sereness of his
garden, when he remarked, in his whim-
sical way, “I think I’ll have to mow my
lawn.” The idea of mowing that browned
and threadbare patch seemed silly, and
I sa ih so > but he explained that whenever
he did mow his lawn it always rained
within 24 hours. He got the clue to the
reason in a hymn in the Anglican A.
and M. collection, in the lines
Thirsting as for dews of even,
As the new-mown grass for rain.
And he declared that his grass never
thirsted in vain. So just for a joke he
got out his mowing machine and managed
to chip a few withered stalks off the
surface of his grass patch. And that
very evening came a rainstorm, and
before the gauge stopped registering 12
inches had fallen. I may add that Smith-
Jones hates mowing lawns,
* * * ♦
“S.T.S.”: The National Gallery of
Adelaide has an unusual accession in
models—probably authentic—of the Geo-
graphe, 24 guns, in which Baudin
explored the south coast of Australia
(and encountered Flinders at Encounter
Bay, outside the Murray mouth); the
little brig Rapid, 162 tons, in which Light
surveyed the S.A. coast before fixing on
Adelaide and its port; and the clumsy
Buffalo, 580 tons, much honored in the
State’s history as having brought Hind-
marsh—an over-five-months’ voyage—to
found S.A. in 1836. The late Sidney
Wilcox, a pastoralist, spent some years
in getting together plans and sketches.
and the modelling has been done by
Lionel Rogers, of Hobart. There seems
to be no plan existing of the Geographe,
but just before the second German War
began the French Government supplied
plans of a man-of-war which it thought
must be nearly identical. Flinders’s In-
vestigator is to be added to make the his-
torical set complete.
tl . *„ ,„* ~ *, T
.. Ar f v , : My 7 ord ’ said 81ll u Ju PP’
you kids are lucky. Down in the city
they cant get a potato, and firewoods
as scarce as diamonds ; and yet you turn
up your noses at fresh vegetables. You
can thank your stars you live in the
country. I wouldn t live in the city if
you was to pay me. Bill stopped speak-
mg as a commotion sounded in the yard
To the barking of dogs, the mailcar pulled
up and Bills brother from the city
climbed out and shook himself like a
do “; T>ee These outback roads. I
don t know how you stand enj. He
shook hands all around. “And now,”
he said, “can 1 have a hot bath? I’m
that dusty 1 wouldn’t like to come into
the kitchen before I have a scrub.” Bill
swallowed hard. “Sorry, Joe. We’re
short of water. Haven’t enough for a
bath.” Joe stared. Then: “Oh, well,”
he said, “a shower will do. A hot
shower.” Again Bill gulped. “Got no
shower either, and if we had it wouldn’t
be hot.” Joe was again surprised. “No
bath-heater even? Of course, I didn’t
expect a hot-water service.” Mrs. Jupp
carae to the rescue. “The kettle’s boiling,
Joe. You can take a dipper of hot water
and have a sponge.” Joe took the dipper
and moved off. Ten minutes later he was
ready to eat. “I’m sbrry, Joe,” said Mrs.
Jupp, “but there’s no rheat. The heat
turned it, and the milk’s gone off, too.
You’ll have to drink black tea.” Joe
was plainly disturbed. “Something gone
wrong with the refrigerator?” he asked.
Bill grinned sheepishly. “We don’t have
such luxuries here,” he said. Joe shook
t • nvo„ ’ I,- . torc ,
his head. You poor blighters! Gee,
I can thank my stars I live in the city,
I wouldn’t live in the bush for all the
tea in China.”
* * * *
“Jayem”: The flashly-dressed fellow
in the bar was loudly proclaiming that
the district’s cockies were years behind
the times. They wanted stirring up or
they would never get anywhere. Long
Harry listened keenly and waited
patiently for a chance to get a word in.
When his opportunity came he inquired
what occupation the stranger followed.
“Oh, I work with my head,” said the city
bioke. “Well,” drawled the long ’un,
“vou an’ the flamin’ woodpecker have
got a lot in common!”
* * * •
“Zake”: The full-blooded abo. usually
hangs on to his hair longer than his
white brother, though bald abos. are no
rarity. Close singeing was, of course,
practised widely, and this once led to the
false impression that Binghi, despite total
lack of head covering, had the scalp
weakness of the white. But in the fifties
of last century a tribe of hairless abos.,
driven probably by hunger, descended on
the east coast from the interior and
settled in the Port Jackson area, where
they were the object of wonder by the
whites and the admiration of the local
nigs., among whom they intermarried.
The then Crown Lands Commissioner
and the Governor of the day investigated
and testified to the fact that they were
naturally completely hairless.
* * * *
“Beamish”: Standing at the mailbox
reading the two-day-old daily 1 was sur-
prised by an old bagman who had been
lying in the shade of a near-by gum.
Obviously he had been waiting for some-
one to come for the mail. “G’day, mate.
Mind if I have a look at your paper?”
: handed it t 0 him and he turned im .
mediately to the lottery results. He
q U j ck i y sca nned through the numbers,
then handed the back with a loser ’ s
si h “ No luck . Thanks, mate,” he said,
» Ah well there are thousands like you,”
j said in weak encouragement. “Oh, I
didlft have a ticket,” he replied. “1 was
just lookin , the resu]ts to see if me
old reg i me ntal number got a prize. It
won tbe bve thousand about six months
ago j always look it up; gives me an
; n t Pr pst ”
# # *
tt ~ „ ... ~ ttcl _ , „
Dewey . After reading S.G. s
f ornful crack at the use of the banged
kero.-tin to bring down a swarm of bees
' 4 jr’ looked up the fourth
book of Virgil s Georgies Says the
? nclel ' t b ? rd ln Blvln*8 lvln * m %'i cUon f £or
br, "®’"S down a swarm: They always
s f $ lhe u fresh walel ’S and the shadowy
B lades - Here you must spread the proper
balms and perfumes, start a jangling, beat
y°nr cymbals, they will settle on the per-
£umed P la f es " the >' Wll l ,f nt f r lnto ! h J
bives you have prepared. In a period
" hen was the universal sweetener
« ou ' d J?f n f“ ral *° , ex P ect he study
1C habits of the bee lo be.a keen one.
Im . Y' 1 .! 1 Vlrgy and the banged
cym a 8 " * * t
™
~ A ’ ‘ were camped under the
Murray bridge at Wahgunyah, and the
m “ Y h tfK ,? oogee . s ' rag a " d ™ kesb ‘ f ‘
sandals was discoursing on hardship. If.
yd bin with me an me mate wen our
3 , , . f , , t
f, 2 ™ 6 , 1 , 8 cl , earecl ort a ” lett . us a f a Y °uj
‘ ell-an -gone m the spinnertex, y d
know wot hardship an sufferm reely
means. There wus water m the soak,
so we hangs on hopin’ them oonts
w °uld turn up. Our grub soon give out,
but our dawg caught a young emu wot
done us fer three days ; then we killed a
ten-foot carpet snake an’ et him. After
that we couldn’t ketch anythink, so we
killed our dawg an’ et him, too. Four
days later I killed me mate an’ et him.
Tie wus a stringy runt of a cove, dry
an ’ tough, an’ tastin’ horrible of nico-
tine, but he kep me alive till the stinkers *
wandered back to the soak and saved
me.” Noting the expression of incredu-
lity and disgust on the faces of the other
knot-pushers, a little bloke who was busy
putting a patch on his dungarees with a
bagging needle and twine cut in. “Look
here, mates,” he explained. “Lemme tell
y’ that everythin’ he’s bin tellin’ y’ is
plain gawspel truth.” “How in hell do
you know if he’s tellin’ the truth or not?”
demanded one of the mob. “Well, y’
see,” retorted the little man quietly, “I
happen t’ be the bloke wot he et!”
“I left home in such a hurry , Emmie , I didn't have time to wash up."
THE EXPANDING UNIVERSE.
A rift is in the cosmic lute!
The creaking constellations shoot
Asunder, none know how or why;
Mad moons like rockets thunder by—
Whole galaxies are taking flight.
Exploding outwards through the night.
Pursued by ardent spectroscopes,
Each spiral blushes and elopes;
The neighbor stars have shaken hands
And left, like lemmings, for new lands;
All space is an expanding flower,
Burst by "some blind disruptive power.
I think sometimes that there must be
. Fierce wars beyond infinity,
And that our universe is just
A flame of detonated dust,
A moment’s ragged splendor, from
Some crater where was dropped a bomb.
S.A.
JACK HOLLOWAY.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
rfiS
Him
ii
Si
imgmimimi
Sr
-o
%
vX'
u
W. G. Bulfin
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) ..THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at St. Johns ooiiege
an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and textbooks not exceeding £5O per annum. . ,
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the Will of t e a e
Murphy, of Como. , . t 0
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to cnae ..
study Agricultural Science, and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation a
Sydney, or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may lie.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than the 11th 'J™ 1 * 1 "’.
in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, and no 1 particulars
February, 1943, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and
may be obtained from:— «»ir>rr\\
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Working Sheep in Summer.
“R. Ney”: If a large paddock has to
be mustered the easiest method is to run
up a scrub 1 , netting or bag yard at the
tank or troughing and collect the jum-
mies as they come to water: They can
be held there all night and headed for
the main yards with the dawn, leaving
someone at the water to collect the strag-
glers. It takes a day or two but saves
the wear and tear on men, horses, sheep
and dogs.
If drafting is necessary and the yards
are dusty, water them if possible. A
100-gallon tank on a cart and a bit of
hose will lay a lot of dust. If water’s
too precious, try to make the drafting
fit in with calm weather. We start as
soon as we can see in hot weather, then
knock off about 10 a.m. and begin again
about 4 p.m. If there’s any shaly gravel
on the place, a few loads of it spread over
the yards will cut the dust down. Spread
it thick in the most-used parts. One very
dusty October we got over the problem
by drafting in the shed —a few hurdles
and a pen gate did the trick.
Remarkable distances can be covered
with weak sheep if they’re started at
dawn and let drift along at their own
pace till it gets hot and they begin to
look for camps. In open country where
. sti inging-out doesn’t matter, the leaders
can be giveh a mile break on the tail.
As soon as the leaders camp the tail will
close in on them without bustling Hold
off till the afternoon starts to cool, and
then you can move ’em on again, but
make your night camp with the leaders
about an hour early to give the tail time
to amble in.
The cool of the morning and evening
is the time to work sheep in hot
weather, and a lot can be done on bright
moonlit nights. Bustling in the heat of
the day knocks up all hands and lowers
condition quicker than anything.
Grub-damaged Pastures.
“Panmure”: Victorian pastures, par-
ticularly in the Western District, have
suffered from grubs almost since the first
settlement. Last winter the damage was
worse than it had ever been. The south
wetter parts of the north-east copped
*out, but the alarm in some districts is a
bit overdone.
Two grubs are responsible, the “under-
ground grass grub,” about 2\m. long,
dark green. It usually goes for old, dry,
long grass and can be spotted by the
absence of green undergrowth in patches.
Silk-lined tunnels up to 16in. deep can
be found in the patches. The cockchafer,
a caterpillar nearly an inch long,
with a dark-brown or black head and a
dirty-grey body, is the other. From it
comes the little black-brown beetle so
common in January. In Warrnambooi
in January, 1941, nearly five drayloads
of these beetles were carted away from
one street corner.
The cockchafer leaves the pasture
practically bare. R. L. Twentyman,
agrostologist, and T. M. Pestcott, ento-
mologist, say that patches up to 80 acres
have been ruined by them, and paddocks
of up to 1000 acres have been seriously
denuded of grass.
Subterranean clover suffers badly, and
the stronger the previous clover crop the
heavier the attack. Generally, the grubs
thrive in sandy, friable, well-drained
loams, in red volcanic soils and on stony
rises. There are about eight types of
cockchafer, but Aphodius howitti Hope
is the most common and most destruc-
tive. They can be found in a suspected
area by digging with a spade. They
begin feeding after the first autumn rains
and keep it up until about the end of
August. Where sub. clover is grown
with Wimmera rye, water grass, hair
grass, sterile brome or non-vigorous
perennial rye the damage is usually
heavy. Phalaris, Danthonia, Microlcena
and strong perennial rye usually with-
stand attack.
Control is made hard because the grubs
are well established before the damage
becomes apparent. The belief that heavy
rain and flooding will settle them is
wrong, though ground kept under water
24 hours will generally be cleared of
“Are you sure you used fresh eggs in this cake, Ma?”
grubs. If it can be done, ploughing and
resowing are best, and timing and type
of crop count. Oats and wheat appear
able to stand up to the grubs, but work-
ing of the ground will depend on time
of sowing. The later the sowing the less
working is necessary.
Burnt areas at Lake Bolac were freed
of grubs; in other places pastures left
long seemed to beat the cockchafers,
though it wouldn’t stop the “underground
grub.” Work is proceeding on a system
of control, and until something definite
comes from it it seems a good idea to
go in for Phalaris tuberosa on affected or
suspected areas. Ploughing is a definite
check, but heavy topdressing and heavy
grazing lead to damage. Badly-damaged
paddocks should be cultivated and sown
with oats and sufficient perennial rye seed
to get the pasture going again.
The Coming Harvest.
“Ben Cubbin”: It will have to go into
store, and the first thing is to cut down
weevil risk by keeping out immature or
unevenly ripened grain or wet grain or
that containing chaff, straw or black oats.
Dirty harvesting machines encourage
weevils, and so do dirty bags. One care-
less farmer can infect a whole silo bin.
If it becomes necessary to hold wheat
on the farm pick a spot not previously
used for a stack and lay down clean dun-
nage. Flooring boards are best. The
lower bags must be kept off the ground.
Protect the top with a proper roof and
the sides with hessian hung at least two
feet away from the sides.
Silo authorities in N.S.W. expect a lot
of trouble from lack of transport and
labor. Two shed spaces or stacking sites
are to be available at every silo station
to handle excess flow of wheat and to
take care of premium wheats and rejects.
Growers who find the • silo receiver
jammed with wagons can unload f.a.q.
wheat into these sites. It won’t be pos-
sible to make bulk trucks available at
non-silo stations, and growers using them
should make other arrangements.
A New Barley.
“Long Haulm”: Research, a new malt-
ing barley produced at Werribee Farm
(Vic.), has outyielded established varieties
with a grain of splendid malting type and
is recommended for sowing in central
and north-east Victoria and Gippsland.
It is a Prior x Plumage Archer off-
spring, has the large, broad, erect head
of the latter and belongs to the Gold-
thorpe type of two-rowed malters. It is
an early mid-season variety, maturing
two or three weeks ahead of Plumage
Archer and about a week later than Prior.
A heavy stooler, its ear is about 16 p.c.
bigger than that of Prior, it will stand up
to rough weather and hasn’t the weak
straw of Plumage Archer. Research also
withstands caterpillars and is less liable
to harvest damage. It carries a thin-
skinned medium grain and has an in-
herent malting quality.
Over a five-year test average yields
were Research, 30.7 bushells an acre;
Prior, 24.9 ; Plumage Archer, 26.3. It
doesn’t quite measure up to Prior in the
Mallee, where dry weather and a sudden
summer shortens the ripening period.
Whey for Calves.
“Hux”; Calves to be whey-fed should
leave the mother 24 hours after birth.
First week, feed the mother’s milk three
times daily; start with one quart and
work up to two at each meal. In the
second week the youngsters can be put
on whole milk at the rate of one to one
and a half gallons daily.. Whey can
gradually replace whole milk in the third
week. On the first day, allow 41b. of
whey instead of milk at each feed, then
increase the whey every few days. Whole
milk should be out of the ration by the
fourth week. Substitutes for the fat and
protein in the whole milk should begin
in the third week. In place of the butter-
fat, fine grain meal, maize, oats, barley,
grain sorghums, etc., will fill the bill, while
linseed-oil meal or meatmeal will make
up for the protein.
Teach the calves with the maizemeai.
A few ounces in the bottom of the feed-
ing dish after the milk will get them used
to it. The cereal should be built up to
4oz. per day in the first week. Feed a
mixture of grains and increase the quan-
tity every few days till they’re getting
about 21b.
Protein meal can be introduced the
same way. If linseed-oil meal is used,
mix it first to a smooth paste with water,
add more water and boil for 10 to 20
minutes before feeding. Start with a
small quantity, and increase up to Boz.
to each gallon of whey fed.
When meatmeal only is used, begin
with loz. in the third week, double in
the fourth, and increase to 3-4 oz. daily
in the fifth, 6-7 oz. in sixth and Boz. in
the eighth week. It’s then time to change
over from whey to water and increase
both the concentrates until 3-41 b. is
being fed daily and the calves are getting
fresh pasture or good legume hay. Sup-
plements can be discontinued any time
after this. All these food measure-
ments are for average calves. Sup-
plements for those under or over size
should be reduced or increased accord-
ingly.
Keep utensils, sheds and yards scrupu-
lously clean. See that milk and whey
are fed at blood-heat and that there’s
no overfeeding. A calf paddock, lots of
pure drinking water, shade in summer
and shelter in winter are necessary.
Market Pigs.
“L. Cove”: To get top prices for pigs
watch five points: type, rations that will
speed up growth, housing, marketing
weight and bruise-free arrival at markets.
Type is more important than breed.
First-class baconers often come from
two different purebreds. Type can be
further improved by mating females of
the cross back to a purebred sire of one
of the first breeds. Animals that make
the highest prices are long-bodied and
evenly proportioned with well-fitted
hams, minus fat. Body length should
control weight; short types must be sold
as lightweights. Fat pigs represent a
double loss: waste in uncontrolled feed
and market price.
A well-balanced ration with a good
protein content builds up muscle and
lean meat. Best sources are skimmed
or separated milk, meat or fish meals,
plus good green feed. Minerals help
quick growth. There isn’t much protein
in cereals.
The cost of bad housing is high. The
pigs need more feed to generate right
body heat, and need it over a longer
period to bacon weight. These pigs cut
a sorry figure at markets —rough and
dirty skins, hair long and bloom missing.
Keep the skin healthy with the usual oil
treatment and clean straw in the pens.
A weighing machine to check pro-
gress is advised by W. S. McAuliffe, S.A.
Department of Agriculture pig expert.
Pigs are weighed before they’re sent to
market. Dressed weight is ascertained,
and price per pound can then be used as
a check on costs and profit. Pigs travel
better on an empty stomach. If feeding
is necessary before starting, give them
something solid. They should be well
watered before and during the journey.
Being non-sweaters, body temperature is
controlled by the water consumed. Lots
of water prevents lots of deaths on hot
summer journeys.
Hints for the Farm.
“Ben C”: If you’re using horses in
the header this year watch their eyes.
Dust and flies and sweat may irritate
them, and you’ll have nags bunting and
rubbing at each other in the team. Keep
a bucket of fresh, clean water and a clean
cloth handy, and every now and then
wash round their eyes. They’ll appreciate
it, even if you are using fly veils on the
winkers.
“N.J.K,”: There may be a lot of city
blokes working in the wheat this yeai


5
E
HP
S
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H^^A^Ros^^Co^t^^td^JKir^S^Sydr^ev^
A dog in
good work-
ing condi-
tion is an
asset, espe-
cially to-daj when
labor is scarce. It
pays to watch his
health. If his coat
is dull, loose or
ragged, if he is
listless or oC his
food, start him now]
on a course of BARKO Condition Powders, which
are a combination of valuable, nourishing and
restorative ingredients. BARKO Condition
Powders are recommended for Cattle-dogs, Sheep-
dogs and Watchdogs.
u
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
No. 146.
KEMP STYLE
SADDLE.
(COMPLETE)
£7/18/6
★
This is a n
i n e x p e n sive
Saddle of the
style
with pads set
high up for
security t o
rider. It has
kip seat and
pads, lengthy flaps
and short panel with leather
down sides.
N.S.W. Freight on Saddles Paid
for Cash with Order.
WALTHER*. STEVEHSOM CTJ:
395 CEOBCE ST. SYPHEY
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager lor Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
Company
(INCORPORATED IN
ENGLAND IN 1863)
Limited
Wireless alone ca n meet th e
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT ★ CONSTANT ★ CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN- MADE
9
RADIOTRON
AJLILGAMATED WAKELESS (A/SIA), JLXJD.,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ACSXKALIAN GENERAL ELiECTKIC PBOPBIEXAKV., EXl>.,
S 3 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd,
RADIO VALVES
SPECIAL NOTICE.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Is not just a modified closet pan but a complete self-contained sanitary system
in Itself. All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and automatically
runs off and is absorbed in the soil. No water supply required.
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH AND IS FULLY GUARANTEED.
Many other chemical systems have come and gone during past years, but the
sturdiness, efficiency and longevity of the Hygeia Dissolvenator are beyond dispute.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
No emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 135% Sales Tax.
Plus 35/- war surcharge. ’Crating (if necessary) 10/9 extra.
WRITE OR TELEPHONE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty..Ltd Telephone 81053.
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
CKAVENA..<*»
toftofaub SHUxmJ
**** I
m.
E 186«
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
A
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE
THROATS
and they’re not usually fire-conscious.
Give the hands a talking-to about fire,
and allow 10 minutes smoke-oh now and
again in a cleared space.
“Goulburn”: For good cereal silage
cut when the seed is firm but not hard
and bottom flag is turning yellow. Put
into silo as soon as possible after cutting
and pack tightly to exclude air and con-
trol fermentation. Always pack the
material flat. If silage is inclined to be
sappy, feed about 5 p.c. of chaff and 1
p.c. of bran with it.
“Hux”: Treat tick-attacked dogs like
children. Keep them warm night and day
and don’t force feed. Milk is no good, as
the stomach is already paralysed and
sour. But a little weak brandy and
water (1 to 4) slakes thirst, keeps strength
up and steadies heartbeats. This year
there won’t be any serum. All vaccine
is reserved for the services. Watch for
ticks. Feel the dog over every day and
rub the top of the fur with kerosene
every day as a safeguard. If you find a
tick, apply kerosene or iodine, and a few
minutes later cut the tick off close to the
skin surface. The bit left in hasn’t any
kick left in it.
“Doody”: Don’t let calves suck each
other after they’ve had skim-milk. This
can cause distorted udders, malformed
teats and early lactation. It can be
stopped by keeping the poddies away from
one another until the taste of milk has
dissipated, or feed them with crushed
grain or other meal immediately they
have finished the milk.
Outback Occasions.
No. 61.
A BREAK IN THE MONOTONY.
It began out on the back boundary,
where Father and 1 were putting in a
couple of dummy posts and straining up
the wires. I threw the file down ; it fell
on the crowbar and snapped in two. I
looked hastily at Father and he looked
back and growled “Y* careless hound ;
I’ll break y’r neck.” He stepped forward
to do it and came down with his whole
weight on the new long-handled shovel,
breaking the handle and knocking a lump
of skin off his shin.
We carried on with the fence till our
mother came up with the morning tea.
She said that our brother, who was scari-
fying, was in a bother, the horses having
jumped from a jew-lizard and broken the
big swinglebar. The calves had broken
into the milkhouse and upset the cream,
and one of the dogs, she was sure, had
broken out with the mange.
“Gripes,” said Father, in an awed voice.
He drank his tea quietly and thought-
fully, and then said “Look, we’ll all have
t’ be mighty careful t’day. It’s one o’
them days when y’ break things, see?
They happen t’ anybody, an’ y’ can see
already what’s happened.”
There are days like that. Sometimes it
will be that the horses have a madness
and won’t work, but jib and pigroot and v
squeal and tangle everybody up. Then
there’s the day when you can’t get any-
thing started and the day when every-
body is in a bad temper and the day
when things become mislaid. Of course,
there are good days, too, when everything
flows along smoothly ; the cows are quiet,
all the blowflies gone to New Zealand,
your father full of jokes and people send
you money you never expected to get.
It seemed pretty obvious that we were in
for a day of breakages.
Ir became more obvious at lunch, when
our sister, reaching for the sugar, knocked
the sauce-bottle over and it smashed
Mother’s most cherished butterdish —the
one she got in a penny-dip at a church
bazaar the time she was having her
twelfth birthday and had a new blue
ribbon. She used to handle that butter-
dish, and her eyes would go dreamy,
and she’d murmur about all the people
she knew and wonder what became of
them and then tell you where most of
them were and how many children they
had. She’d turn the butterdish over and
over and laugh richly to herself and give
Father a sly look and talk about the
boys she knew. Yes, she treasured that
butterdish, and when the sauce bottle
smashed it she gathered up the pieces and
looked at them through tears. In the
•town you could buy those same butter-
dishes for A\d. each at the cheapjack store.
Well, that wasn’t the end. Our sister
broke a plate washing up after lunch,
and I broke an axe-handle in a nasty
old yellow-jack log that had lain on our
woodheap for months. “Y’ ought t’ have
had more sense,” Father moaned, “than
t’ tackle it on a day like this.” I bound
the handle with wire and stuck to pine
after that.
About three o’clock that afternoon the
weather broke and we had to get inside.
The rain fell down in bucketfuls, and
there was a gale that got under a loose
sheet on the chaffshed and took half the
i oof oft. Our brother and I had to
get out in the pouring rain and cover
the chaff as best we could with bags and
boards, and our brother slipped on the
bags and grabbed at me and both of us
dived into about a foot of slush. We got
up and went inside and changed, and our
mother said it was heartbreaking that
every time she turned-to and cleaned out
the house duststorm or rain came and
great, clumping, clumsy yokels had to go
and smother themselves with mud and
then tramp through the place like bullocks.
It was still raining when we went to
bed, and beyond a cup there had been
no more breakages. There is no more
soporific sound than the roar of rain on
an iron roof when your stomach is full
and your bunk dry and warm, and our
brother and I were soon asleep.
Some time after midnight Father, in
oilskins and with a hurricane lamp, came
in and woke us and said the dam in the
creek had broken and the water was
flooding the lucerne and we’d have to
get out and see if we could stop it. We
crawled forth and clad ourselves in oil-
skins and went forth into the night, slosh-
ing through the mud and water up to the
dam. There was no chance of mending
it, so we dropped down the slope a bit
and started to cut a ditch to turn the
water round the lucerne down into a
grass paddock. It kept on raining and we
kept on digging, and after a while Father
came sloshing up from the lucerne and
said he thought it would do, the drop
that was running down there now
wouldn’t gouge, but we’d probably have
to drain the lucerne in the morning,
Just as we got back we found Mother
and our sister baling out the kitchen. The
spouting had broken away above the
door and a stream was falling into the
kitchen. We made a bank of old bags
and things to keep the water out, and
then Mother lit the fire and made tea.
We sat there drinking the tea and talk-
ing, and we noticed the rain had stopped,
and Father said “Well, thank heavens!
And that ought t’ be the end of the
breakages, too.”
Our brother got up and went to the
door and looked out He came back
with a grave expression and said “No,
the breaking isn’t finished. Out there”
he pointed dramatically to door
“out there the dawn is breaking.” Then
he rushed madly from the room.


Is Bill a better ea
Australian than YOU?
f-
&
/
SS
SL
'he*/*.
TCb
cctA r
<x
I
*&s u ££
r
-^5
z£c
-^9
INVEST ALL YOU GAN IN THE £100,000,000
AUSTERITY LMN
All about the
Austerity Loan
Bond* are £lO each and in mul-
tiples of £lO. Two kinds of
Bonds are available:—
1. 2i% Interest a year-
redeemable 1941
2. 31% interest a year-
redeemable 1958
You can Buy Bond* by instal-
ment*, too, by paying 10% down
and the remainder in 3 or 9
month*
Interest starts from the date of
lodgment. Bonds are realizable
in case of need. Buy Bonds
from any Bank, Savings Bank,
Stockbroker or Money Order
Post Office.
LOAN CLOSES DEC. 15th, 1942.
Australian Consolidated 31%
Conversion
Holders of Australian 31% In-
scribed Stock or Bonds maturing
Dec. 15th, 1942, are invited to
convert them into Austerity Bonds
or Stock.
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy acting editions of Lady Precious
Stream, by S. I. Hsiung, and The Chinese
Lantern, by L. Housman. —3321.
Information Sought.
What are the six largest shearings on record ?
Very difficult to say. The largest shearings
occurred prior to the advent of shearing
machinery, and no authentic records appear
to have been kept. It is also difficult to ascer-
tain whether numbers given comprise sheep
shorn at one shearing or on the same property at
more than one shearing during the year. Several
properties also carried out shearings at out-
stations, and while in some cases they were
included in the station total in other cases
they were shown separately. The six largest
shearings almost certainly would fall some-
where in the following list of stations, but no
figures are available: Wellshot, Q.; Kooba,
N.S.W.; Tinnenburra, Q.; Milo, Q.; Toorale,
N.S.W.; Dunlop, N.S.W.; Big Burrawang,
N.S.W.; Saltern Creek, Q.; Isis Downs,
Q.; Goonoo Goonoo, N.S.W.; Quantambone,
N.S.W.; Midkin, N.S.W.; Angledool, N.S.W.;
Dungalear, N.S.W.; Netley, N.S.W. The largest
shearing at Kooba, N.S.W., was 210,000 sheep.
* * * ♦
Are paralysis agitans and Parkinson’s disease
the same thing, and is there any cure or relief
for either?
Paralysis agitans and Parkinson’s disease are
alternative names for the same condition. It
is sometimes called “shaking palsy.” There is
no cure, since the disease tends to progress,
running a complete course in from 10 to 15
years. As to treatment, the drugs stramonium
and hyocine are valuable in lessening the stiff-
ness characteristic of the disease, but have very
little influence on the tremor. This may be
lessened, however, if the patient exercises his
powers of voluntary control two or three times
daily for five minutes at a time. Slow passive
movements of the joints are also useful in
many cases. Alcohol and stimulants generally
are to be avoided. Warm (not hot) baths have
an appreciably soothing effect. Frqsh air is
beneficial, and exercise suited to thd patient’s
powers, or a motor drive, assists greatly in
lessening discomfort, at any rate for a time.
* ♦ ' ♦ *
In an application by a tenant to N. S. Wales
Fair Rents Court for a reduction of rent, where
the Court grants a reduction, should not the
magistrate state the grounds of his decision ?
No. The Court is not required to give
reasons.
* * * *
Is a beneficiary under a will entitled to de-
mand how funds of the estate are invested?
If realisation is unduly prolonged, can an ex-
planation be demanded?
The executor’s accounts are open to In-
spection by a beneficiary either where the
executor keeps them or at the Probate Office.
If an executor fails to perform his duties, a
suit may be brought to remove him and appoint
someone else in his place.
* * * *
(1) Is a red nose hereditary? (2) Has food
anything to do with it?
(1) No. Though it is often called “grog
blossom,” this is an unjustifiable title, since
many sufferers from the condition are total
abstainers. It is due to a reflex dilata-
tion of the small, sensitive blood-vessels on the
skin of the nose in response to stomach or
pelvis irritation or to local troubles in the nose
or mouth. (2) The patient can do a great deal
to lessen the redness by avoiding hot drinks
and foods, spiced or peppery articles of diet
and alcoholic beverages.
» * * *
Method of making and applying french
polish ?
Dissolve 6oz. shellac in one pint methylated
spirits; thin or thicken by adding spirits or
shellac respectively. The orange or reddish-
brown shellac produces the brown polish; the
white or bleached shellac the “white” french
polish. Polish is applied with a pad of cotton-
wool. Experience and elbowgrease are the
main ingredients in the process.
* * * *
(1) Method of cooking and serving cobs of
sweet corn ? (2) Are Country Gentleman and
Golden Bantam best for the table?
To cook corn on the cob, remove husks and
threads, place into boiling water (or half milk
and water) and boil 10 to 20 minutes. May be
eaten from the cobs, buttering well and eating
with the fingers, or by cutting from cobs and
eating with butter and salt, reheating after
cutting. (2) Both are excellent.
* * * *
Method of adding color to waterproofing of
raincoats, car hood dressing or gas containers ?
Take half-gallon boiled or double boiled
(either) linseed oil, flb. vegetable black (dry
powder), terebene, one part to twenty parts of
linseed oil. Hang away from dust or flying grit
to dry.
* * * *
(1) Did Les Darcy take part in £IOOO tourna-
ment at Newtown Olympia Stadium ? (2)
Where and when did Darcy die?
(1) No. (2) At Memphis, Tenn., on May 24,
1917.
* * * *
(1) Where and when was James J. Corbett
born? (2) What was his profession before
becoming a boxer? (3) From whom did he win
the world’s heavyweight championship? (4)
To whom did he lose it? (5) Is Corbett still
alive ?
(1) San Francisco, September 1, 1866. (2)
Bank clerk. (3) John L. Sullivan (21-rounds
knockout), at New Orleans on September" 7,
1892. (4) Bob Fitzsimmons (14-rounds knock-
out), at Carson City, Nev., on March 17, 1897.
(5) He died last year.
Brief Answers.
W.MacA.: Very difficult to say with certainty
what the exact cause of the trouble is, but it
is most likely due to your work as a tele-
graphist, which is a frequent cause of the con-
dition. Judging by your handwriting, however,
the disability would not appear to be very dis-
abling. .. .S.A.F.: You would probably have
been saved a good deal of anxiety and dis-
comfort if you had undergone operation
immediately after consulting that eminent phy-
sician. Since his day the principle of operating
as soon as the condition is diagnosed has be-
come firmly established M.S.: Women are
not employed in the Military Intelligence De-
partment save as clerks. These are drawn from
the Australian Women’s Army Service. Appli-
cations should be made to Headquarters,
A.W.A.S., Victoria Barracks, Sydney, or any
other area office K.W.G.H.: The facts
given in this column are correct. Edward VII
was successfully operated on for appendicitis
in 1902; he did not die of perityphlitis in 1910,
but of heart failure complicated by severe bron-
chitis or bronchopneumonia.. . .E.G.; Apply to
secretary, Demobilised Soldiers’ Association,
Room 8, 17 Castlereagh-street, Sydney
D.G.: Wholesale distributors have sold out,
and so have most city stores. There will be
no replacements till after the war D.F.Y.:
Presuming you mean green French beans,
Epicure or Canadian Wonder keep well. For
cultivation consult any guide or weekly notes;
beans require good, well-drained soil, but can
be grown under almost any conditions. Choose
tender young beans and put whole into dry,
wide-mouthed jars or bottles. Fill with brine
made by mixing one cup salt in one gallon
water, bring to boil, reduce to simmer and
leave for two hours, keeping water up to neck
of jars, Cork while hot and seal with wax
A.F.D.: Submit inquiry direct to the Customs
Department, Customs House, Circular Quay,
Sydney, giving full details... .J.M.A.: Con-
suit a patent attorney now H.W.M.: Last
card in crib, making 15 scores three... .E.G.:
Inquire at American Consulate, Brisbane.
Approximate pre-war fares from Sydney to
San Francisco were £IOO first class, £75 second.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
O. :
And then we have the Egg Board—now, at last,
We have a lucky stroke:
A smooth white surface ready for the paint.
But when we start to drive a nail
We reach the hidden yolk,
The fumes of which prostrate us in a faint.
Vinah:
To fight in Australia I ventured wide sea,
Leaving behind me loved Lilly Eilly;
Her hair like ripe corn, starry eyes flecked.
Beautiful, graceful, loyal Lilly Eilly.
There is no rival for joy equals me—
My great wish is. granted ; how luck finds a key !
Can I believe it, this great ecstasy?
A nurse to grand Queensland comes Lilly Eilly.
R.H.M.: Pleasant, but without any particu-
lar point... .G.W.: Thistledown... .A.L.H.:
Too many before you have said the same
thing... .J.J.M.: But what have you added to
Longfellow? ... .F.A.L.; The entire Australian
population does not spend all its time getting
drunk at parties and turning off the war news.
. ...S.W.: If you wish to write poetry, don’t
use jargon such as “may yet materially assist.”
J.E.H.: As you say, “Quite a number
terminate who try Ambition’s test” A.W.:
Primrose smacks somewhat of “Beachcomber’s”
Prodnose... .8.A.: Tell him to write much and
read much M.O’H.: Round about line
seven Mabel becomes slipshod... .R.M.P.:
Slight.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P. : Lady has two Devonshire sausages
i'oi arms, and her legs don’t reach the ground.
... .M.C.N.: Can’t tell whether it’s a close-up
of a very mature Stilton cheese or a ship with
a weird porthole arrangement R.S.D.:
Abos., we know, have spreading noses, but we
doubt they extend to their ears.... Bert C.:
Comic-paper seconds have been tendering
that sarcastic advice to battered pugs
in ring corners since the days when fistic
gents wore side-levers... .8.L.P.: Linework
could be bolder, and your foreshortening is
weak... .C.P.: Judging by the figure in the
foreground, the jockey in the middle distance
is about 18ft. high and goes about 40 stone
FJ.: The baby has a face like a wharf-
laborer’s... .E.0.N.: It’s a very supple hound
which when galloping can put its front paws
behind the tip of its outstretched tail and its
hind paws several feet in front of its nose....
G.N.L.: The angler, his dog and the fish he is
pulling in are wearing exactly the same ex-
pression P.G.: Humor creaks at every joint.
. ...5.8.T.: On seeing that hospital sketch we
could have done with the chloroform instead
of the patient.
As well as supplying war
equipment to his Allies, Uncle Sam is
working up a nice little business on the
side that he may stick to later. He’s
producing most of the flower and vege-
table seeds previously supplied by Den-
mark, France, Germany, Holland and
Italy. As one example: to South
America, which previously got all its
onion seed from Europe, Uncle Sam is
supplying enough seed to grow the entire
continent’s requirements of the tearful
veg. Russia is taking vast quantities of
beet, cabbage, carrot, cauliflower, radish
and spinach seed. Hitherto there has
been no great market in Sydney, but with
the No-water Board cancelling its cus-
tomary summer drought and consequent
restrictions, Uncle should no longer be
able to fill the district’s requirements by
air mail.


SI
's
,
established 1808 In Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The ’Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS. S SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY li. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
T HAT*
ni e
EXECUTORS WHO NEVER DIE
Do you realise that when you appoint an individual as your executor or trustee
he may not outlive his trust? The result can be anything but an advantage to your
estate. The responsibility which you were prepared to entrust to your friend may
pass into the hands of someone in whom you would not have the same faith. In any
event, the costs of a new appointment are a charge against your estate. The obvious
thing is to appoint an executor who never dies. Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd., is
a permanent institution under experienced and capable direction. It has also the
advantage of all the accumulation of knowledge possessed by its directors and
executives of finance, taxation, and investment. If you would like to have details
of the service which it offers write for a booklet which gives you all the necessary
information.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMP AN Y LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE : B 7901 Box 543 B, 5.P.0., Sydney.
••** < * f m
r. *
lww&sX M « £&
m
:. v
m
S)
•*&*£
J
I
m
m
m
mM
m
»**•<*
"wUfr
m*m
mm
m
V: i
m
»
m
fei*S
m
ROADS
to insure Australia's future
The whole future of Australia depends upon good roads
. . . strategic roads, built in record time, for the transport
of troops and supplies across a vast continent. Roads are
vital, too, for the future prosperity of Australia . . . and to
bring our great hinterland closer to rail and dock . . . closer
to world markets.
These roads are being built at a vast saving of time, money
and manpower with Caterpillar Diesel Tractors and Waugh
& Josephson Earth-Moving Equipment. The work of years
is being changed into the work of months. Hard slugging,
monotonous toil is being taken from the backs of workers
and placed upon big, brutish machines... where it belongs.
We thank our loyal users of Caterpillar Tractors and Waugh
& Josephson Earth-Moving Equipment, who have sacrificed
their own needs to give right of way to our Victory effort.
. CT-6-33-42
m
m
CATERPILLAR T>/esu
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.
Unwin's Bridge Road, St, Peters, Sydney - Phone: LA 3321
Marquis Street, Gunnedah - 'Phone: Gunnedah 326
Service Enaineers• Mr J A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge Street, South Grafton; Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie—
'Phone; Port Macquarie 81; Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid Street, Wagga—'Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne Street,
South Brisbane—'Phone: J 1456; Rankin Street, Inmsfail— Phone: Inmsfail 475.
m
#
A MIXED GRILL.
McKell protests that the unifying of
income tax wrecked a plan on which he
had set his heart, which was to reduce
his own impost. This recalls the case of
a long-dead sporting print, which came
out one week with the assurance that in
its next issue it would give its dwindling
band of readers a stone certainty at a
long price. The next week came and
went without a word about the stone cer-
tainty ; but in the following issue the
paper explained that unforeseen circum-
stances had prevented it from naming
it—Barnacle, at 15 to 1. The funeral
took place a few months later.
* * * H=
“Uramao”: All sorts of things are
being showered on Pat Lawlors recently-
launched Churchill Auctions in M.L. In
a recent haul were six Papal bulls, dating
from Innocent X (1644) to Pius VI
(1774), a Van Diemen’s Land convict
record written on parchment and the
manuscript of several of Jessie Mackay’s
poems.
* * * *
“Sarah Sands”: Victorian Railway
Commissioners are changing the name
of North Brunswick to Anstey, to com-
memorate the services of Frank Anstey,
M.H.R. for" the district after being its
M.L.A. The Australian landscape is lit-
tered with unfortunate towns, hamlets,
sidings and suburbs that acquired their
titles by the same means, and where the
origin of the name hasn’t been forgotten
it is apt to excite a sort of sardonic mirth
in the visitor. Anstey himself would
probably have fought the idea tooth and
nail, plumping for a good Australian
name like Wickiwoomera or something ;
still, he may rest easier in the knowledge
that -ton, -town, -ville or -borough hasn’t
been tacked on in the American tradi-
tion.
# # * £
“Gyx”: Yet another British institu-
tion has gone west —literally. The
Encyclopedia Britannica, universally
recognised final court of reference, has
crossed the Atlantic and, though retain-
ing its title, attained American citizen-
ship. Sears, Roebuck and Co., the mail-
order people, are now proprietors of the
publication. The Britannica did not
originate in England. Scottish enthu-
siasts launched it on its learned way
nearly 200 years ago.
* * * *
“F.S.”: As far as I know no Govern-
ment in this war has declared pictorial
art to be an exempt occupation ; but a
French Government once did. It de-
cided that the artist was too valuable
to the Republic to have his time wasted
in barracks as a peace-time soldier, so a
committee was appointed to grant exemp-
tions. It turned out that while many duds
had been exempted many talented men
had been conscripted. When it was dis-
covered that great artists like Manet,
Monet, Cezanne and Gauguin had all
done their military service and that
second-raters had been exempted the
scheme was given up. The reason was
that exemption authorities were always
drawn from the official art bodies such
as the Beaux Arts, and they naturally
selected the smart young men who had
won the Prix de Rome and other art
scholarships or had been accepted by the
salons and whose work was liked. Un-
fortunately, they are never the geniuses.
“Bundalinga”: Fat Jack, after a good
run as a starting-price bookie, was caught
at last and fined a tenner. Dad and
Mum were discussing it at the dinner
table, when small daughter chimed in
with “What did you say he was fined for,
Daddy?” “Oh, nothing you’d under-
stand, dear,” her mother said quickly.
“I heard Daddy say he was fined for
5.p.,” said the insistent lassie, “and I
know what it means —selling potatoes.”
* * *
In a Perth “austerity” speech Curtin
urged people to go in for “austerity
meals.” Under the scores of boards now
controlling commodities, with mutton
dear, vegetables and fruit at shocking
prices, fish beyond buying and poultry a
dream, the average Australian household
eats “austerity” meals every day.


- -
i
o;
■ -■«;
m
jngU
m
'g?°Si saCS
tQ m*«
THE exacting demands of industry for uninterrupted
' plant operation calls for the highest degree of quality
in Power Transmission Equipment, and in most plants to-day
you’ll find the name ‘Ludowici’ on all or most of the equip-
ment used for transmitting power to machines.
Whether your power transmission problem is large or small,
Ludowici technicians, with their specialised knowledge and
experience, backed by the finest quality equipment will
solve it for you.
So to ensure greater operating efficiency call for Ludowici
Power Transmission equipment and service.
We specialise in the production of:
LEATHER BELTING . PIVOT DRIVES • TORQUE
DRIVES . V-BELT DRIVES . GEARS . PULLEYS
BEARINGS • SHAFTING . HANGERS • COUPLINGS
CLUTCHES.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY —2O- 26 QUEEN'S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
DON'T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, * generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
remedy right from the start, be-
cause at such times a single tin
has often effected a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing. That is
why it is equally successful in over-
coming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get
DOAN’S*
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re— Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1933.. 72,659 6 p.c. = 72,000 659 632,254
1934.. 84,426 6£ „ „ 78,000 6,426 638,680
1935.. 92,751 74 „ 90,000 2,751 641,431
1936.. 108,819 8 „ „ 96,000 12,819 654,250
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 754,250
1937^J 2 ?’ 13 . 6 /rnno = 112,453 I 2.683 756,933
Staff fund, £5OOO .. -.I
Share premiums, £70,000 .. .. 826,933
1938.-151,973 9 p.c. = 131,905 t
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. I 15,068 842.001
Share premiums, £89,051 .. .. 931,052
1939.. 152,287 9 p.c. = 144,327 1 2,960 934,012
Staff fund, £5OOO . . . . J
1940.. 170,213 9 p.c. 155,843 ( 9,370 943,382
Staff fund, £5OOO . . . . j
1941.. 135,208 9 p.c. = 155,925 922,605
1942.. 143,649 8 „ ~ 138,600 5,049 927,714
The pound a head more which New
South Welshmen spent on alcoholic
refreshment in 1941 found its way mostly
into the Commonwealth Treasury. There
was little increase in liquor consumption,
as these statistics, which exclude service
canteens, demonstrate:
, —Expenditure— N Consumption,
Year Per Head Gallons Per Head
Ended Total, Popu- ( -f' \
Dec. 31, £’ooo. lation. Beer. Spirits. Wine.
1932.. 10,380 £4 0 6 6.99 .24 .49
1934.. 11,490 4 7 7 8.22 .27 .J>9
1936.. 13,320 4 19 10 9.83 .29 .62
1938.. 15,870 516 8 12.59 .31 .60
1939.. 16,620 6 011 12.87 .32 ,60
1940.. 18,230 611 6 13.67 .32 .64
1941.. 20,970 711 5 13.75 .30 .74
With beer duty alone up from 3s. to 4s.
7d. a gallon (it was Is. 9d. pre-war),
roughly the same may be spent in 1942.
But less will be consumed, because teer
and spirits deliveries to hotels, etc., since
March have been restricted to two-thirds
of thirsty Jan.-Feb. levels. Service can-
teens, which N.S.W. brewers have found
a fluctuating business, don’t come within
the general rationing scheme. In 1941,
too, 9,767,000 gallons of beer left Aus-
tralia for Middle East and other desti-
nations, but Tooheys was excluded from
much of this business —a discrimination,
among other matters, that elicited mor-
dant comment from the recent Federal
commission of inquiry into operations of
the canteen service
The network of controls in which
brewers and other traders have been
caught up is steadily widening. Apart
from rationing, which automatically gave
a leg-up to unit costs, chief of these has
been Government control of the capital
market, which has limited expenditure on
new building and property purchases,
etc., the chief form competition used to
take. Also, the hotel section of the busi-
ness has been hit by restrictions on the
courses and prices of meals and trading
hours. Moreover, staffing problems grow
apace, and the suggestion that pubs be
“rationalised” as a further contribution
to the man-power drive has been heard.
Within the framework of these and simi-
lar war-time expedients the lot of all
traders grows increasingly difficult and
their control over costs more remote.
So far Tooheys has carried most of its
increased outgoings itself, excise being
the only one passed on in accordance
with Government policy. But the co. can
no longer continue to be the Aunt Sally,
declares chairman Sheldon. P. and 1.
figures have stepped along this way:
Gross 1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
earnings. £780,887 £935,661 £1,113,926 £1,232,538
Exes. . . 628,914 772,647 978,718 1,088,889
Profit
claimed . £151,973 £163,014 £135,208 £143,649
Precise movement in trade isn’t clear,
gross being shown before deduction of
excise, which accounts for much of tlje
lift in exes. After adjusting the 1941
showing for £21,152 of taxation under-
provided, last year’s rise in net earnings
was exhibited only by cutting visible
depreciation from £47,873 to £36,709.
The £143,649 (up £8441) of profit was
8.3 p.c. on capital, and a point was chipped
off the 9 p.c. shareholders have had for
five years. Whether the rate will stay
at 8 p.c. will depend partly on taxation
and partly on how far the Prices Com-
missioner co-operates in meeting advanc-
ing costs.
Much of the capital outlay since the
outbreak of war has been on rebuilding
and equipping large sections of the
brewery:
1934. 1940. 1941. 1942.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 1,200,000 1,732,500 1,732,500 1,732,500
Sundry
creditors!. 245,933 563,469 669,142 727,503
Loans* .. 325,773 795,301 799,651 809,643
Brewery,
hotels, etc. 1,891,053 3,339,178 3,435,604 3.492,611
Stocks . . 77,354 101,876 122,090 141,378
Book debts 437,784 623,858 617,128 581,847
Cash, etc.. . 7,146 13,491 9,039 11,613
Shares in
other cos. 39,050 39,212 39,212 39,212
* Advances by subsidiaries, f Including taxation, etc.
The programme is now complete, and
“sufficient to meet the co.’s requirements
for some time to come.” Net fixed-
asset outlay of £57,007 last year was
financed by outsiders, the debt, including
tax provision, rising £68,353. Not taking
account of the tax deductions thereon
allowable in its own figures, the assistance
the co. gets from its finance offshoot is
now costing it over 9 p.c., or half as
much again as it used to.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson, Ltd.
/ Dividends \
, Prefs. Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
1932.. 48,919 11,222 1820 5 p.c. = 14,281 132,939
Added goodwill, etc., £Bl6 . . • • 132,123
1933.. 44,096 10,463 1697 64 p.e.= 18,565 145,494
Intangibles disappear, £3292 .. 148,786
1934.. 56,836 13,500 2141 9 p.c. = 25,705 164,276
1935.. 76,170 13,500 2190 10 „ ~ 28,562 196,195
To contingency reserve, £5OOO .. 191.195
1936.. 89,907 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 222,569
To contingency reserve, £6OOO .. 216,569
1937.. 93,240 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 251,276
Added intangibles, £1443 . . . . 249,833
1938.. 94,432 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 285,732
Added intangibles, £37 . . . . 285,695
1939.. 94,951 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 322,113
Added intangibles, £4150 .. .. 317,963
1940.. 92,580 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 352,010
Intangibles disappear, £751 .. .. 351,261
1941.. 84,002 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 378,230
1942.. 69,175 13,500 2190 15 „ ~ 42,843 388,872
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October, 1931.
As usual, the report has no comment
to make on operations, and the accounts
themselves are cast to tell as little as they
need. That little, however, shows a highly
satisfactory state of affairs. And the posi-
tion might prove more attractive still if
exact earning power and asset backing
behind the quarter-million investment in
a string of distributing and manufactur-
ing subsidiaries were known. One showed
a loss last year ; but Australian Crown
Seals, Champion’s Vinegar (Aust.) and
the rest are a prosperous bunch on the
whole, and can be expected to have in-
herited their parent’s conservatism.
Connections have been built up over
a period of 65 years. Originally a cork
merchant, the Australasia-wide organisa-
tion now deals in a wide range of basic
products and equipment for brewers,
bakers, bottlers, restaurateurs, hotel-
keepers, butchers, cordial-makers, etc.
Outside Sydney, Brisbane and Auckland
(M.L.) the co. isn’t known by its own
name: business in Vic., S. Aus. and the
Speck is done as Harrison, San Miguel,
while in the West F. A. Henriques is the
trading body. So well is the trade secured
that even in the troubleful early ’thirties
net earnings available to the ords. never
came below 9.7 p.c.; and the business
rests on much sounder and broader
foundations these days, despite the heap
of competition attracted meantime.
Efforts of the London subsidiary
formed four years back in association
with Stevenson and Howell haven’t been
able to prevent the importing side of
things being hit by war, and cork and tin-
plate are as scarce for seals as demand
is high. Refrigerators and other equip-
ment have gone off civilian production
lines, too ; still, with defence requirements
as they are there shouldn’t have been
any standing time at the engineering
shops on that score. These and other
things like costs apart, taxation more
than 'anything else appears responsible
for the war-time reduction of £25,776 in
net earnings, £14,827 of the slip occur-
ring in the term just closed. The £69,175
of profit was nevertheless enough to pay
the pref. divs. and show 18.7 p.c. on the
£285,620 of ord. capital, against 23.9 p.c.
and 26.9 p.c. for the two preceding fat
periods. Actually, 15 p.c. was paid and
£10,642 ploughed in. Depreciation
charged in the parent’s accounts was
£10,179, and that was in addition to
whatever the pups chalked up.
These finances help explain the little
worry shareholders give to their invest-
ment :
1935. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. £457,520 £457,520 £457,520 £457,520
Sundry creditors 44,909 127,290* 179,441* 171,542*
Freeholds . . 209,083 254,940 287,451 295,014
Plant, etc. . . 34,463 44,720 42,137 43,694
Shares subsid. 1 S 251,357 250,569 250,242
Loans subsid. j 224 ’ 01f) * 29,140 28,829 34,592
Stocks . . 82,231 122,670 139,021 119,428
Book debts. . 57,082 70,630 105,650 122,059
Mortgage . . 51,130 ■ —•—
Cash,- etc. . . 94,13-0 169,873 197,942 189,312
* Includes provision for taxes, staff benefits and
contingencies.
The continued growth in freeholds indi-
cates the business is not stopping still,
however it may be restrained in some
directions. Apart from subsidiaries, the
object of most members’ curiosity is the
precise composition of the omnibus
“creditors” item.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
, —Dividends— N
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary, serves. Reserves.!
£ £/ £/ £ £
1932.. 38,668 36,090 Nil 2,668 3,140
1933.. 57,496 52,000 Nil 5,496 8,636
8* p.c.
1934.. 50,472 36,000 6,710 7,762 16,398
1935.. 47,615 36.000 6,710 4,905 21,303
1936.. 50,109 36,000 6,710 7,399 28,702
1937.. 48,658 36,000 6,710 5,948 34,650
1938.. 60,304 30,000 6,710 17,594 52,244
124 p.c.
1939. . 69,207 36,000 10,066 23,141 75,385
Divs. from subsidiaries, £15,172 .. 90,557
Capital reserve, £72,153 . . . . 162,710
1940.. 80,989 36,000 10,066 34.923 197,633
1941.. 70,189' 36,000 10,066 24,123 221,756
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 211,756
1942.. 80,612 36,000 10,066 34,546 246,302
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 236,302
! Excluding- depreciation reserve.
It was an arduous and creditable task
extricating the business from the morass
in which over £300,000 of capital disap-
peared from view in the raid-’twenties.
The job took over a decade. By 1938
the plant had been thoroughly modern-
ised and brought abreast of competitors,
and the board felt itself justified in halv-
ing the heavy depreciation allowances
with which it had financed the work and
showing shareholders a wider margin for
their div. Hence the sudden jump in
profits, which have been further assisted
by huge war demands. These, however,
carry a sting in their tail by the rapid
deterioration caused to plant, a feature
of immediate and future concern to
thoughtful managements generally, and to
which tax collectors might show more
consideration in the interests of postwvar
employment.
So thoroughgoing was the reconstruc-
tion that when war broke out the co. was
immediately able to double its output of
worsted yarns alone, large quantities of
which were exported. The difficulty now
is to keep up with local requirements,
and more spinning plant was put in last
term, when all sections, including the
Kyneton and new Woodend knitting
auxiliaries, worked to the limit permitted
by available labor and absenteeism. The
result was another “large increase” in
turnover, the volume of knitwear produc-
tion being assisted by standardisation of
patterns and styles.
But most of the output was on defence
account, and, irrespective of quality, the
tendency is for these orders to be placed
at a meagre margin of profit and, in some
cases, at a dead loss. Adjusting 1941
figures for £19,612 by which the tax pro-
vision fell short, last year’s harder work
produced net earnings £10,423 greater.
It all came from economies in manage-
ment, etc., gross earnings being actually
£7250 lighter. Deducting the div. on
pref. capital—there is £400,000 of it —
the £80,612 of profit left 55.4 p.c. for the
ords., against 42.4, 55.8, 41.2, 30.2 and
15 p.c. back to the change in depreciation
policy. They are rates which need to be
considered along with the capital cut
mentioned. Ord. div. stayed at a con-
servative p.c., and advantage was
taken of high tax rates to give the new
staff fund a healthy help along.
Judging from the size of stocks, the
management beat the recent rise in the
price of wool:
1932. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £480,527 £480,527 £480,527 £480,527
Liabilities .. 41,248 *33,838 *205,379 *199,446
Deprec. reserve t ! 58,939 76,981
Freeholds . . 89,161 81,596 120,884 142,891
Plant. . . . 176,275 114,124 204,604 226,173
Stocks . . 215,483 341,805 464,364 475,149
Book debts, etc. 99',279 118,462 226,426 189,109
* Includes tax reserve. t Deducted from asset.
A depreciation reserve of £76,981 is held
against the book value of fixed assets,
which were written up to a figure


Meetings.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
THE FIFTY-FIFTH ORDINARY
GENERAL MEETING
of Shareholders will be held at the Company’s
Office,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
on Tuesday, 17th November, 1942, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS:
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet to 30th September, 1942.
To elect three Directors. Mr. Frank Nelson
Yarwood, Mr. Alfred Edward Bond and Mr.
John Ewing (who was appointed to fill the
vacancy caused by the death of Mr. Owen
Esmond Friend) retire in accordance with the
Articles of Association, but are eligible and
offer themselves for re-election.
To appoint Auditors and fix their remuneration.
Messrs. Robert W. Nelson and Co., Chartered
Accountants (Aust.), the retiring Auditors, are
eligible for re-appointment, and offer themselves
accordingly.
To consider any other business of which due
notice has been given.
By Order of the Board,
E. V. T. WHITTLE,
4th November, 1942. Manager.
\.ast lonqer
AOGGET
SHOE POLISH
Don’t dab cne brush into the
polish, draw it lightly over the
top and give your shoes that
last brisk rub with a soft cloth.
TW
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE..
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability.,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
Security
Economy
Service
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
3 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Brad don, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L,C.; James Kidd; A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J.
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, 0.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
DANIEL
CRAWFORD'S
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
Gluing Ceaseless Service!
I
f
HI
<f:S
RICHARDS
INDUSTRIES
J■ .**
All round the
clock relays of
mcHARDsj Richards' work-
ers . . . men and women
. . . keep the throbbing
machines alive, active, and
productive. In harmony
with the ceaseless devotion
of the fighting forces,
there is no pause in the
efforts of R.I.L. workers
. . . no faltering in their
grim determination to pro-
vide the sure weapons that
will make Australia's
defence impregnable . . .
and, when the time comes
. . . Australia's attack
irresistible.
■ MITE
J
i
m
lIP*
more in keeping with actual values and
earning power in 1939. Additions since
(at cost) include £43,576 for the new
spinning plant and mill buildings last
year. The money came from debt collec-
tions, the more or less liquid surplus
(£464,812) shrinking £20,599 in the
process.
Ready Mixed Concrete, Ltd., Sydney,
shows a profit of £5417 for the year (the
third) to June 30 last after providing
£5905 for depreciation. The figure is
subject to taxation. The directors have
decided to pay off pref. arrears and cur-
rent div., calling for £1316, and to hand
the ords. their first 5 p.c., requiring £llll.
After meeting the previous year’s taxes
there is £2540 carried forward to look
after the tax bill for 1941-42. The co
mixes concrete on behalf of contractors,
the largest of which at present is the
Commonwealth Government, and delivers
it on the job by means of special trucks
equipped with rotating containers. A
separate plant has been built to do a
large, special Government job in Sydney,
and none of the profit from this was in-
cluded in last year’s figures. Paid capital
is £30,528, all but £7500 (in 8 p.c. cum.
prefs.) being ord. money. Plant and
motor vehicles figure at £34,875, on which
last year’s depreciation allowance repre-
sents 17 p.c. There is £5946 of intangibles
in the accounts, and liabilities total
£40,696. As earnings advance, as seems
likely in present circumstances, these
items as well as dividends will require
attention.
* * * *
Hill 50 Gold (W.A.) held its annual
rally in Perth the other day. Chairman
A. E. Weston told shareholders with pleas-
ure that all-in costs were down 10s. lOd.
a ton on last year’s total and now aver-
aged 355. Id. a ton. This reduction, he
said, had been achieved in spite of in-
creased cost of most stores, the advent
of a payroll tax, and high sales tax. He
added that the price of fuel oil had risen
in the past 15 months from 178 s. 6d. a
ton to 2365. 6d. a ton. Co. used a fair
quantity of it. Shareholders confirmed
payment of five dividends distributed since
the previous annual roll-up and the taking
of an option by the directors over the
Swan Bitter mine at Mt. Magnet. They
also fixed the directors’ aggregate re-
muneration at £750 and the managing
director’s fee at £5OO for the current year.
Then, with a feeling of work well per-
formed, they drank each other’s health.
The rally was held in a pub.
♦ * * *
Paringa Mining and Exploration, Ltd.,
recently issued an interim report in Lon-
don stating (1) that estimated operating
profit from production for 10 months
ended June 30, 1942, was £62,414 Aust. ;
(2) that the latest estimate of ore reserves
in its Kalgoorlie mine at 370,645 long
tons of 5.35dwt. average grade is equal
to about four years’ supply at the present
rate of ouput; (3) that the ore-shoot has
so far been driven upon 248 ft. in high-
grade stuff, and in places has been ex-
posed for a width of 25ft.; (4) that 3223
tons crushed from this level had an aver-
age grade of 29.83dwt., and (5) that the
shoot is being developed between No. 4
and No. 8 levels, and when further
opened up would assure a substantial
tonnage of ore in this portion of the
mine.
* * * *
Among Westralian gold-producing
centres (there are about a couple of dozen
at present) Kalgoorlie is a giant. For
years past it has been, and is still, turn-
ing out from 60 to 70 per cent, of total
production. In October its contribution,
according to Mint returns, was 76,3700 z.
out of 120,5180 z. Wiluna with 72750 z.
and Cue with 67060 z. were nearest to it.
* * * *
Accounts of Moonlight Wiluna for
1941, in Australian currency, disclose a
profit of £35,378. Out of this a 5 p.c.
dividend has been paid since the close of
the year, £1428 written off excess develop-
ment and £15,064 reserved for taxation,
leaving £4241 to carry forward. Working
costs at 325. 11.8 d. a ton are up to 2s.
6.8 d. compared with the previous year.
Co. mines at Wiluna.


• CIVIL CONSTRUCTION CORPS
USE PRE-FABRICATED MASONITE
HUTS ON BIG PROJECTS
Masonite helps to give a large measure of comfort
to the C.C.C. the civilian “Army behind the
Army”—who, throughout Australia, are engaged
on vital and urgent defence projects. Living and
mess huts, stores, benches, mess-tables, desk tops,
and innumerable other buildings and furnishings
pay silent
tribute to the
adaptability
of Masonite.
m
ill
Manufactured by Masonite
Corporation (Aust.) Limited from Wood Fibre
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD . . . PRESOWOOt
TEMPRTILE . . . QUARTRBOARD DE-LUXE
DISTRIBUTORS
THE- COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
SVDNEV . • • MELBOURNE . , . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE .
PERTH
MA 69-42
m
i
tm
m®.
m
>t -'- v ' •*/
ms-mm
«&•*
X* :« »
t-. -.; ■-
.<> •>:>. •:■
mmm
mm
mii»
•V)h Z i
mmm
Wsa
mm
••■■■'■■
< /jr 5 sjif* $ |
wsl
ii
Kn' ' - w i
THE WORLDS QUALITY OIL
M 211
Business,Rollery.Etc.
Peace Will Bring Problems
The Labor party in peace-time had
ideas on defence that were a great im-
pediment to the proper defence of Aus-
tralia. Some of its ideas are still an
obstruction to the efficient conduct of the
w’ar. And though the conflict is not yet
over it is opportune to consider whether
the party is not equally shortsighted in
regard to its post-war preparations or
lack of them. Labor’s financial policy
has nearly always been of a spendthrift,
improvident kind, without regard for
consequences. It is guided by impulses
and expediency, by emotionalism and
fancy, rather than by reason and experi-
ence.
It is certain that if the war ends with
Australia halfway on the road to a vague
socialistic state by reason of political use
of war-emergency legislation there will
be a period of time-wasting in which,
under peace-time conditions, the “new
socialistic order” will be contested. It
is foolish for any person to assume, how-
ever radical he may be, that what is will-
ingly suffered during war-time in the way
of restriction of the liberty of the Aus-
tralian, as a citizen or as a businessman,
will be suffered in times of peace. The
Empire cause is avowedly one for the
democratic way of life, with improve-
ments where possible, and not one for the
submersion of the right of self-expres-
sion under half-baked “socialisation.’
Self-expression is something that
applies to domestic life, work and poli-
tics as well as to thought, speech and art.
And it has been this right of self-expres-
sion, limited only by a necessary regard
for the interests of the people as a whole,
that has been the greatest single factor
in the establishment of British and
American ascendency in the civilised
world. The fertility of enterprise and
invention has a great influence on trade,
employment and living standards.
Where political interference, spite, envy
and the cocksureness of ignorance enter
into Government policy it inevitably re-
sults in sand getting into the national
gearbox. It should hardly be necessary
to say that harmony between a Govern-
ment and all industry, combined with
experience, skill and an honest day s
work, will produce better standards of
life for all than a policy of economic
experimentalism, strikes, agitation and
obstruction of effort.
At the present time the Commonwealth
is a member of a united group of nations
which have one immediate aim—the
defeat of the Powers called the Axis. A
great proportion of the man-power and
material resources of the Allies is de-
voted to the common object, and it is
the wish of the majority of the people
in Allied countries that it be so. With
this spirit in their hearts the job of gov-
erning the people should be one of no
great difficulty. We see in Australia the
situation of no unemployment, a great
demand for war materials and no lack
of money ; these conditions arise from the
voluntary and compulsory enlistment of
hundreds of thousands of men in the
fighting services, the need to equip and
supply those men, and the sacrifice of
living standards by many on the home
front. That there is full employment
now is not necessarily any indication of
good government, or that because money
is being found for war it can just as
easily be found for peace-time purposes,
Every pound that is being spent on this
war represents a sacrifice by the indi-
vidual. The spirit of the people has risen
to the occasion. When the war is over
expenditure by Governments will still
entail contributions by the people, and it
remains to be seen whether they will will-
ingly contribute to a re-employment and
rehabilitation fund that may be necessary
if our affairs are not conducted pru-
dently now
We have'heard a lot of talk about the
“four freedoms” and the “new order.”
But let no one believe that the world is
going to be made a vastly better place
simply by arrangement or rearrangement
by national Governments individually or
together. After the war there will still be
all the age-old problems of life and living,
and international trade difficulties will not
be extinct. Even if the world attempted
to return to the “ideal” system of Free-
trade, with open markets and ingress to
raw materials by all countries, there must
be enormous dislocation and confusion
in every country s industries before the
change became complete Industries
exposed to Freetrade would resent dying
even where uneconomic.
Redistribution of wealth or incomes
within Australia would possibly be a
“new order,” but, like the New Deal, it
would probably be more harmful than
beneficial to the person it appeared to
benefit. There are few very high in-
comes in Australia, and to spend much
time with the idea of taking from the
“rich” to give to the “poor” wouldn’t
get us far. While it is entirely reason-
able—and highly desirable from the
national point of view—that every useful
person, whether he be employer or
employee, get an equitable share of the
fruits of a country’s production, we must
not let envy mislead us into the belief
that every person who appears to have
“made money” has done us an injury,
Very frequently money is “made” by
someone doing a job better and cheaper
than someone else and at the same time
giving more employment.
Because of its financial endeavors to
defer the burden of war—taxation—by
excessive use of bank credit and borrow-
ing, the Federal Government is directly
encouraging the inflation of costs and
prices. If artificial controls prevent the
full development of inflation now, post-
war removal of controls will let it have
its head. We shall at that stage be faced
with all the difficulties that the return
to peace-time trade must bring, and the
appearance of bloated inflation at a time
when the recovery of our export trade
will be vital is going to be anything but
happy.
All those petty, childish things we now
see going on in Australia —the strikes
foi trifling excuses, the loafing during
ordinary working hours so that overtime
may be “earned,” the demands by some
union leaders for extras when sacrifices
are obviously in order —are going to have
their influence during post-war recovery.
The money that has been wasted will be
an obstruction, especially where it was
borrowed money. The cunning lies of
ti oublemakers spread around to create
strife between the boss and his men will
be kept alive, and there will be talk of
profiteering where no such thing existed.
All the old trade-union parasites of the
agitator type will be there trumping-up
charges against employers and overlook-
ing real problems that deserve attention.
The real problems will be avoided be-
cause their solution would put agitators
out of a job.
For the purposes of our post-war wel-
fare the worst thing that could happen
to Australia now would be for our brains
to become scrambled by the idea that we
are to be far better off simply by taking
things from each other when the pressure
of fighting is over. We shall need all
our wit and character when the “new
order” smacks into us. Peace will have
its problems no less confused than war.
Since it became almost impossible to
build a house in Australia by reason of
the National Security Regulations, fires
in dwellings and other buildings are far
fewer than they used to be, insurance
cos. report.
* * * *
Angus and Robertson, the book pub-
lishers and booksellers, are still ex-
tremely successful in their business
activities. Net profit for the year
to June 30 was £14,135, compared
with £13,445 in the preceding period,
and the latest figure was arrived
at after providing £19,000 for taxation,
whereas in the previous year only £6OOO
was set aside for this purpose. Ordinary
div. remains at 12} p.c. One reason for
the co.’s maintenance of net profits has
been the increased demand for locally-
published books now that importation
is so difficult. A. and R.’s publications
include reprints of popular overseas fic-
tion, and this development is growing in
scope It remains to be seen how the
paper shortage is going to affect opera-
tions in the current year. Paper is be-
coming a very scarce commodity, and
newspaper quotas are being cut to a small
fraction of what they used to be. Pos-
sibly the position in regard to book paper
is better than that of newsprint. It is
of a different kind to that used for most
commercial purposes.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY, LIMITED.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. ' 86371.
3
mm* mem
: : $
I
til
fi III! 1111 k± .LA
y
sfm
m
&
m.
«
c
D «fl
%
-AW
S
\r
S
a-
U
9.0
(flO
U
rTTTTTTTTTf'f-'rTTTT'yTT'Ylf'rTf'rf g i i' I ft t ITTTTITTI HIHI
cigarette
Much newspaper space has been de-
voted lately to discussing the profit
motive, all arising out of a statement by
the Archbishop of Canterbury. This
statement seems to have been vague and
woolly enough to have needed “clarifica-
tion” by Australia’s Bishop Batty, who
says Dr. Temple did not condemn the
profit motive in itself, but that “it must
not be allowed to enjoy predominance.”
And with that almost anyone will agree
—public interest must always be pre-
dominant. But in most cases in indus-
try the profit motive is in the public
interest. Even in war-time profits, with
excess and ordinary profits heavily taxed
the same as other incomes, are an in-
ducement to efficiency just as victory is
an inducement to fight. Some things
have been phenomenally profitable, and
oil is one of them. But many other in-
dustries have had more money sunk into
them than ever came out of them. This
is popularly believed of goldmining, and
if it isn’t strictly true it is very near it.
Most privately-run public utilities, such
as gas cos., take very little from the
people by way of profit, and if gas ever
becomes superseded as a fuel the enor-
mous outlay in plant and mains will in
many cases mean actual loss to share-
holders even if past income is taken into
account. There is little appreciation of
the value of organisation among the
numskulls and narks who are frequently
found £,s passengers in the world of in-
dustry. Organisation, enterprise, inven-
tion and judgment are just as necessary
in the modern world as labor, and their
only monetary reward can be profit, not
wages. Often there is no reward except
the feeling of having tried.
* * * *
Savings-bank deposits at the end of
September were £295.4 million, up £5.4
million for the month. The swollen
nature of these deposits arises from the
inflated wages being paid to a million
or more Australians and the fact that
there is so little on which money may be
legitimately spent. This picture of a
people growing richer while the nation
glows poorer through the wastage caused
by war is a dangerous economic illusion,
and it needs correction by more universal
operation of income tax. The “lower”
incomes are the source of danger-.
H* Jfc sfc
Cellulose Australia, Ltd., which had
the blessing of the State Government and
its financial backing, set up a mill at
Snuggery, near Millicent, S.A., just after
war began to pulp thinnings from the
State pine forests. It has been making
a cheap type of pulp board at unprofit-
able prices, and extension of the plant
has been delayed and made costly by
the difficulty of getting the necessary
machinery. South Aus. Government is
coming to the co.’s further assistance to
the tune of £lOO,OOO and an arrangement
with debenture-holders to abstain from
charging interest for five years and for
a further five years if no genuine profits
come along. Increased prices are being
allowed, and the co. is to be permitted
to make the more profitable type of
Manila board.
S£ sk *
Australian Motorists’ Petrol Co. showed
a net profit of £18,700 for the year to
June 30, which compares with £36,654
the previous term. In the latest term
£16,043 is allowed for taxation and
£21,038 for depreciation, against £14,534
and £22,720. Ord. div. is 5 p.c. (7 p.c. last
year), calling for £16,620, and pref. 6 p.c.
(£2067). Trading in the second half of
the year was unprofitable because of the
time lag between the arrival of expensive
cargoes and the granting of an increase
in the price to cover higher landed cost.
Control of the co. is vested in a small
number of deferred shareholders, who
are entitled to a quarter of any residue
of profits after the prefs. have been
attended to and 7 p.c. paid on the ords.
and deferreds. So far the ords. have
never had more than 7 p.c. The co. was
formed in March, 1936.
» * * *
The Federal debt owing to the Com-
monwealth Bank stood at £146 million
last week. It is mostly “bank credit”—
Treasury bills discounted at a low rate
of interest, but, nevertheless, debt. In
particular it represents the issue of
additional money among the people
where Government policy should be to
take it away by means of taxation. Over
the past year the Government debt owing
to the Commonwealth Bank alone has
increased £BO million. This money has
been used to pay for war expenditure,
passing to the people, who, unable to
spend much of it by reason of material
rather than financial shortages, have been
hoarding it in notes and coin and put-
ting in into the savings banks. In addi-
tion a proportion has gone into taxation
and war loans, but not nearly enough. So
long as the loan response is inadequate
there will be the possibility of further in-
flation through bank credit, or, if the
Government at last does the right thing,
an increase in taxation on the lower in-
comes or the introduction of post-war
credits.
* * * *
Tableland Tin, operating at Return
Creek, near Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), is to
receive £45,000 from the underwriters
as a result of the foundering of No. 1
dredge, the co. to retain the salvage.
During the operating period of the year
to June 30 the co. treated 768,000 c.y.
for 172 tons of tin concentrate. Net
surplus for the term was £10,264. Paid
capital is £319,652 (£233,652 ord. money,
£6OOO in shilling deferreds and £BO,OOO
of 8 p.c. cum. par. prefs.), and the debt
now exceeds £103,000, but there is the
payment from the insurance co. to come.
No. 2 dredge is not yet completed be-
cause of war-time difficulties, but opera-
tions are expected to commence by the
end of this year. The co. owns an excel-
lent piece of dredging ground, but has
suffered seemingly endless financial and
dredge difficulties.
* * * *
A large section of the Australian people
has been shifted from a peace camp to
a war camp. It is the general idea that
those in the war camp are doing the job
obviously necessary and that those left
in so-called peace-time employment are
performing a task equally vital, other-
wise they wouldn’t be left where they are.
But in the process of shifting thousands
of people from one camp to another a
third camp has come into being. This is
an “administrative” camp, tangled up in
red-tape, that is supposed to supervise
the relationship between the two working
camps. Many Government departmental
officers come into this third category,
and their numbers are being swollen every
day. The inflation of their ranks is
encouraged by the fact that department
heads and sub-heads get paid on a basis
that has relation to the number of their
staff. The more of this “administrative”
type there are the fewer productive and
fighting men and their women assistants
there can be. Inflation of the civil service
represents a burden on the already-
strained war-time productive capacity
of the nation. The “service” at present
is full of incoherent nests that never seem
to tie up with each other properly. And
the whole outfit is obscured behind politi-
cal camouflage.
* * * *
When Winston Churchill in 1940 said
he could make no immediate promises
to the British people of anything more
than blood, toil, sweat and tears he did
a masterly job. He prepared the way
for clearing the decks for grim
and total war by establishing in the
people’s minds a bedrock on which any
turn for the better in the war
would represent a relief. In Aus-
tralia the Labor Government, desperate
though our position has sometimes
appeared since Japan entered the war,
has been at all times reluctant to put
the real issue to the people. It has dilly-
dallied with such things as “social
security,” mortgage banks and theoretical
economic plans, and has evaded the job
of taxing the consuming (and voting)
majority in proportion to what war waste
is costing the nation. As a result the war
effort has been hindered, and the inevit-
able hardships that a conflict of the
present kind entails are now falling on
us with an effect that is aggravated be-
cause of the political delay in preparing
the nation for them. What a ridiculous
thing, for instance, for the Prime Min-
ister last financial year to have promised
that there would be no increases in direct
taxation this year! This solicitude for
the pockets of those who are earning
more money than ever before is un-
natural and out of place.
sfs * # ift
At present there is a surplus of spend-
ing power in the hands of the people
and a deficiency of things on which
they may spend it. This arises from
the fact that the people get paid for
doing war work and aren’t taxed
for the full cost of war, but the
war work they do isn’t available in
the shape of things they can buy. After
the war, when war work is done with,
people, including returned soldiers, will
get back to the job of making things
for civilian use. Their incomes then will
be much more like the volume of things
they can spend their money on. But there
will remain at their disposal the saved-up
money they couldn’t spend during the
war. Once released in full, these savings
can hardly help but inflate prices, and it
doesn’t make much difference whether
they are invested or directly spent. They
will have the same inflationary effect.


THE SERVICE MAN
"Absolute Victory."
“Ek Dum”: The second phase of the
battle for North Africa opened as
October merged into November. As in
the first phase, General Montgomery had
not only the initiative in attack, but was
able to dictate the seat of battle and its
general procedure.
The Germans were pinned down to
methods of fighting which they have
always in this war sought to avoid.
The enemy was forced to stand and
slug. His mobility was no use to him,
save for potential suicide in advance or
for running away.
The same method was followed as in
the first advance —a paralysing land
and air barrage blotting everything which
it reached out of existence and cover-
ing the moving up of sappers and main
infantry forces, with the tanks in the
role of cavalry to consolidate the victory.
The barrage seems to have been as
heavy as most in the big battles of last
war. It was not restricted to the standard
six hours of 1918 ; it rolled on and on
through the night. But the enemy was
not backward in replying. For hours
on end the horizons, east and west, were
sheets of flame and everything was sub-
ordinated to the endless thunder of the
guns and the never-ceasing squeal and
scream of shells overhead.
The A.I.F.’s Stern Success
On the coastal sector the first success
was the A.I.F.’s break-through to the sea,
cutting off a substantial part of the enemy
opposed to our men. Throughout the
preceding week the Ninth Division had
been in the middle of some of the heavi-
est and bloodiest struggles. It made four
separate advances after the first open-
ing of the battle ; up to November 4 it
had repulsed 26 major counter-attacks.
Lieut.-General Morshead described the
fighting as “the hardest I have ever known
either in this war or the last.”
Our men did everything asked of them.
They made four major attacks and beat
off counter-attacks which were continuous.
The general described how one brigade,
composed of Westralian, South Austra-
lian and Victorian battalions, repulsed a
savage assault made from all sides from
noon one day till 2.30 a.m. the next by
units from the German 90th Light
Armored Division and the 164th Divi-
sion, and how the brigade saw its
attackers wilt before its stubbornness.
The net result of the Australian opera-
tions and those of the Scottish division
next door was that the slice of the enemy
front remained cut off. Presently it was
carved up, and its prison contents poured
rearward in shuffling columns. This sector
formed the axis on which General Mont-
gomery’s drive began to swing from a
point of main pressure further south.
The next and decisive fighting came in
the application of this pressure.
The Akakir Break-through
The core of the German positions,
about 15 miles from the starting point of
the Eighth Army’s advance, was a road
running south-west through a terrain
which went up in three steps from the
sea.
Near Sidi Abu el-Rahman, a little vil-
lage a mile or two from the coast, whose
white mosque is a prominent landmark,
there is a stretch of 10 or 12 miles of
eastward plain before the escarpment rise
is reached. This peters out 20 miles or
so further south in a narrow fringe of
much higher country, some of it up to
300 metres towards the west, along the
edges of the Quattara Depression.
Part of this road running from east
of Sidi Abu el-Rahman at the Mediter-
ranean end was dominated in its lower
levels by abrupt, stark hills rising citadel-
like out of the desert. By Monday night,
Nov. 2, the crucial point of the battle
came about ten miles south of the village,
which lies seven or eight miles n.-w. of
Tel el Eisa at a point where the railway
makes a westerly bend towards El Daba.
Here one of these little hills lies west
of the road —Akakir.
The divisions in this sector were some
of the stern British veterans, the most
experienced in German methods of
mobile fighting in the army. Backed by
everything in the way of fire-power which
the Eighth Army could throw in, they
captured the Akakir height and forced a
bulge into the Axis defences at a point
where the enemy could least stand it,
since here, of all the front, the country
was about the most advantageous for
tank manoeuvre.
Rommel retaliated by throwing a wall
of tanks north-to-south to hold the front
of the bulge, and sank his teeth into the
sides in a vicious attempt to crack its
flanks. He was biting on some of the
world’s best tooth-breaking material. His
teeth and jaws gave. Gone at once was
all chance of holding back the avalanche.
His southern half-line facing Britons,
Maorilanders, Indians, Poles, Greeks
and French bellied out to the east
behind the westward surge of the
fighting. From well northward of
El Himeimat, scene of the last German
offensive attempt on August 30, down
to the edge of the depression, there could
be no resistance. The Italians there
must get out as best they could and
quickly before they were pinned against
the Quattara edge by British tanks well
to the west of them.
Into the Akakir break-through went the
Eighth Army’s tanks, given the chance
for which they had waited tensely for
days. North of their drive the Axis posi-
tion was almost as bad as in the south,
save that here was the main road and
rail feeding back to aerodrome and
dumps. The whole boxlike position of
the defence was now shattered as if a
giant had crushed off the north-eastern
corner and stove in the centre with his
heel. One attempt had been made on
Monday by Axis tanks to relieve the
pocket which had been trapped by the
A.I.F. along the coast, but sappers had
quickly closed the gap with a minefield
and a hedge of anti-tank defences. The
German coastal island was soon in pro-
cess of mopping up, the A.I.F. using
every weapon it could lay its hands
on and sealing off avenues of possible
escape as soon as they materialised.
The Akakir bulge had turned the re-
maining sectors of the north between the
Australian slice and the break-through
into a bag into which the head of the
German front was dangerously plugged
and in which it was being mauled as by
ten thousand wild cats. There was no
question of mere withdrawal to any
adjacent positions. The momentum of
the central British drive was too great
to allow of it without danger to the
enemy of becoming cut off.
Rommel Begins to Run
The only line of action open for Rom-
mel was to attempt to drag his centre
completely clear of the Eighth Army’s
grip and abandon the rest to its fate.
In view of the initiative and mobility
of the British formations, their vast
ascendancy in air-power, their capa-
city to strike at his rear and their tremen-
dous and quickly-acquired momentum
and his own losses of mechanised trans-
port and mobile troops and disorganisa-
tion of his supply dumps, this could not
be accomplished in a few miles.
The gap which had been driven in the
Akakir region had widened to 10,000
yards and the southern edges were badly
eroded by succeeding attacks by British
and Indian units on the night of Nov. 3.
From this region the line sloped eastward
—sheer backward from the direction of
the advance along a mile or two of eager
Greeks, then for another mile or two
along the Free French line. The depth
of the bag of enemy in the south, along
the fringes of the Quattara Depression,
seemed momentarily to be nine or ten
miles, but the facts are not fully clear.
Retreat for the enemy along the
central-gap front was more difficult by
reason of the width of front which sud-
denly had to be packed into bottleneck
communications and of the increasing
narrowness of the coastal belt behind.
In moving west, the high and rugged
edges of the escarpment along the Quat-
tara Depression closed in on the sea.
There is a wide and difficult plateau of
700-900 ft. country inland, dropping down
to 300 ft. The sea-level area, which is
20 to 25 miles wide in the El Alamein
region, becomes only five to ten miles
wide near Mersa Matruh and beyond.
At Matruh there is a real coastal bottle-
neck through which main road and rail
pass. The road is almost waterless. The
blinding summer desert heat of midday
gives way to the bone-freezing desert cold
of early morning. These climatic varia-
tions are calculated to have a deadly
effect on men exhausted by desperate
fighting and continuously under bombing
and machine-gun fire from the air.
By Wednesday night, Nov. 4, the
second phase of the 12-day battle —the
breaking-up of the enemy front —seemed
to be complete. The enemy was pouring
back along the main coastal road, his
vehicles five or six abreast, the desert
full of his scattered and battle-weary
infantry, his whole path of retirement
beaconed by blazing lorries, wrecked
’planes, exploding dumps.
In the rear, large fires suggested that
he was destroying accumulated supplies
for 50 or 60 miles behind his original
front lines, and the R.N. and R.A.F.
were cleaning up his reinforcements as
far afield as Benghazi by land and
Maleme, in Crete, by sea. The R.N. was
able at any point it wished to bombard
his main retreat line from the sea.
General-Colonel von Stumme, men-
tioned by Berlin as Rommel’s deputy
during his recent visit to the Reich, was
dead. General-Colonel von Thoma,
G.O.C. of the Afrikakorps, was, as Berlin
admitted, in British hands, along with a
number of senior German and Italian
officers.
Over 200 enemy tanks had been
wrecked and about 300 guns either de-
stroyed or captured. Over 9000 prisoners
were on their way to captivity. Thou-
sands more were being counted.
The naval and air forces reported
50,000 tons of fresh Axis shipping carry-
ing supplies to the African coast as sunk,
apart from the damage done to facilities
at Benghazi and Tobruk against which
British and American bombers operated.
Whatever it might do in defence, wher-
ever it might succeed in coming to rest,
if at all, Rommel’s Army of Egypt had
ceased on the night of Nov. 4 to be a
striking force. It seemed that it would
be lucky if it could achieve some sort of
defence until reinforcements could reach
it. It appeared to be threatened in the
rear of its southern flank by desert forces
from Lake Chad, 1400 miles south of the
Gulf of Sirte.
These against the rear of a strong
armored army might be a minor factor ;
but awaiting a retiring army, robbed of
its power to lash out, it might represent
the axe, even if it were weak in itself.
In the present circumstances, 1400
miles is not impossibly far. S’African
units penetrated into Abyssinia as far as
that, against the light resistance of the
Italians, in next to no time.
Berlin’s Versions
The first enemy reactions were peculiar.
Rome at once admitted heavy losses in
such a way as to advertise the fact that
it knew the extent of the disaster.
Berlin for the first time in history was
completely subdued. After days of noisy
boasting, its broadcast to America and
s.-east Asia at 1 p.m. Central European
time on Nov. 5 was historic in that it did
not mention Egypt. By Friday Berlin
Radio had its story ready.
Rommel, it appeared, had retired
according to plan to “previously pre-
pared defence positions.” He had accom-
plished this movement “without any
serious casualties or loss of materials,”
The retreat had been made in perfect
order and had not begun until the firing
of the “last cartridge.” Then General
von Thoma threw forward a heavy tank
screen, behind which the Afrikakorps
and its accompanying divisions saun-
tered coolly westward. A German bat-
talion stayed behind to check pursuit.
Only when the victorious Axis host was
safe in its new fortifications did this
gallant unit turn round and “fight its
way out.” The whole operation had been
“one of Marshal Rommel’s sweeping out-
flanking movements which are his master-
pieces and which the British are unable
to imitate.”
The net results of the operation had
been that, on his own initiative, the
German commander had moved back,
according to schedule, “a few kilometres,”
in the process causing “devastating
losses” to British arms, which were still
facing “firmly established defences”
manned by “Axis armies which have com-
plete freedom of movement all along the
desert front as heretofore.”
No reason was given for the retirement
except that it was “strategic.”
However, on Friday the German High
Command issued a sober statement
which confirmed British reports of the
battle up to the final phase. It spoke of
bitter fighting and of the Australians’ suc-
cess in puncturing the Axis ranks and
their “reckless assaults” in an attempt to
widen the breach, which (it declared) was
relieved by counter-attacks in a battle
lasting several hours.
It mentioned panzer counter-attacks on
November 1 and the repelling of bitter
assaults by the British, who pushed their
drive with great courage and tenacity.
On November 2 it admitted another
Eighth Army advance, despite heavy
losses in men and material.
In the next hours of fighting the
British were declared to have had 90
tanks destroyed and to have lost several
hundred prisoners.
On November 4, it was alleged, the
main armored and other forces were com-
pletely interlocked ; and in order to allow
the Luftwaffe, which controlled the air
and which had shot down 40 British
’planes in two days, to use its superiority,
the Axis land forces withdrew to already
prepared fortified positions some little
distance.
Guy Fawkes Day
The next version of this ordered retire-
ment came from General Montgomery
on Guy Fawkes Day, after entertaining
General von Thoma at dinner and dis-
cussing the battle with him, and learning
from him that the Axis position was
critical.
“Absolute victory is ours,” he said.
“The Boche in North Africa is com-
pletely finished. Our armor is now
operating in the enemy’s rear areas. Some
portions of the enemy are struggling to
get away, but those still facing us in the
south will be put in the bag. The enemy
is smashed. I never expected such a
complete victory.”
For two nights, he said, the coastal
road had been blocked with Axis traffic
in lines four deep, trying to move to the
west. He concluded:
I am going to the front now to get on
with the job of driving Rommel clean out
of Africa. He cannot get away. Only a
small part of the enemy on the northern
front has a chance to escape.
Friday’s Cairo communique continued
the good news. The pursuit was con-
tinuing. The Eighth Army’s armor was
in contact with the enemy rear a full
35 miles back from the starting point of
the main break-through.
The picture seemed to be of a central
spate of enemy forces rushing down the
road from the bulge created in the de-
cisive fighting, with the remains of the
African Wehrmacht north and south still
streaming behind like the torn ends of
a sheet. These laggard forces were those
whom General Montgomery proposed to
put in the bag. The ones in the south
were completely isolated, it seemed, and
without transport to get away.
Cairo announced the taking of another
4000 prisoners, bringing the total to
13,000 up to Thursday evening. Tanks
destroyed had increased to 350. Fuel
supplies in enemy forward areas seemed
to be disorganised. The R.N. was pound-
ing the retreating troops from the sea
as they approached the narrow coastal
strip towards Mersa Matruh, and every
few hours brought news of the capture
of fresh senior commanders. Besides
General von Thoma, of the Afrika-
korps, General Francisco Scott, of the
Italian Trentino Division, and his C. 0.5.,
General Sommermann, G.O.C. of the 90th
Light Division, and General von Pritte-
witz, of the 15th Armored Division, were
all in British hands. The bulk of the main
German High Command was destroyed
or torn from its men by November 5.
A black Guy Fawkes Day for Rommel.
On Friday, Italian communiques ad-
mitted that British armored forces had
reached the area between Fuka and Mersa
Matruh, which meant an advance of 50
to 70 miles in two days. All that remained
to be seen at that stage was whether
Rommel could establish himself in the
box defences of Mersa Matruh, which
are limited in scope but fairly strong.
The likelihood seemed small.
It was certainly unlikely that he would
be able to prevent British tank cavalry
from breaking round his rear; equally
unlikely that he would be able to get sup-
plies, since a swarm of submarines, de-
stroyers and small boats appeared to be
tearing up his sea supply lines —six more
ships reported sunk in Friday’s official
statements. It was announced that no
tanker had been able to reach the enemy
for six weeks and that the “milk run”
regularity of the air forces had almost
completely sealed all enemy supply ports
in East Libya and Egypt, beside tearing
the Cretan base at Maleme.
By November 9 the rout of Rommel’s
army of Egypt was complete. Mersa
Matruh, its main forward base, was in
British possession. The six Italian divi-
sions which had been left behind when the
central bulge was driven into the German
front and the main enemy armored
forces were driven westward before it
were no more.
Even before their surrender or destruc-
tion was complete nearly 30,000 prisoners
had been counted; 500 tanks and nearly
1000 guns were reckoned as captured or
destroyed. Hussars and Maorilanders
were racing for the Libyan border to
make it impossible for the last remnants
of the Germans and Italians to estab-
lish themselves in the Halfaya defences
or beyond on the Tobruk line.
All along the flank of the harried
retreat, the air forces gave the miserably
defeated Axis troops no rest day or night.
Armored patrols continually broke into
the straggling columns, which thinned


out as the vast hundred-mile-long tangle
of burning and mangled vehicles piled
up along the main route.
As vehicles were destroyed, literally
by the hundred, all lagging enemy
forces found themselves much in the
position of Napoleon’s luckless men after
his horses had died in the bitter cold,
robbing him of nearly all his transport,
almost 130 years ago to the day.
In the rear of the retreat were bunches
of exhausted Axis soldiers staggering
through the after-reek of battle in the
blinding heat or the bitter night cold,
begging for water.
The scale of the battle was revealed
only after it was over. In it were used
the most concentrated forces flung into
actual battle in-any theatre of the war..
Even on the most intense Moscow fronts
at the height of last year’s fighting, Ger-
man forces had consisted generally of
no more than two armored divisions, a
couple of mechanised divisions and per-
haps two infantry divisions on a 50-mile
front; the Russians, of up to seven or
eight divisions of infantry, supported by
four or five tank brigades.
On the 30-35-mile Alamein front the
British had over ten divisions; three
armored divisions, the 44th (Home Coun-
ties) division, the 51st (Highland) Divi-
sion—in it the Black Watch, who first
fought in Egypt 141 years ago, Argylls,
Seaforths and Cameron Highlanders
—the 50th (Northumbrian), veterans of
Gazala, the 9th A.1.F., the Ist S. African,
the 4th Indian, Free French, Greeks and
Poles and a few U.S. specialists, plus the
Royal Navy. South Africans and Maori-
landers shared in the compliments ex-
pressed in cablegrams by Mr. Churchill.
Rommell had four armored, five motor-
ised and three other divisions.
Here again Germany’s Achilles heel
was obvious, as it was in Russia —the in-
ability to deal with massed infantry
attack when close-quarters fighting was
forced upon its commanders.
The whole German army has been
trained for mechanised warfare ; for the
brutal and decisive blow against an ill-
prepared or outflanked enemy ; for the
fight of machine against man.
The King’s message to the troops on
Nov. 5 remarked that the Eighth Army
had struck a blow “the importance of
which could not be exaggerated.”
True, beyond question. Hitler has at
least 280 divisions of his own at his dis-
posal, plus perhaps 100 owned by his
allies.
With winter closing off the chances of
offensives on the Russian front, he
is not above striking at Turkey to
open the Dardanelles and enable him to
bring Italian shipping into the Black Sea
so that he may start a winter or early-
spring campaign through the Tiflis Valley
—an offensive against Syria over the
Anti-Taurus would be almost impos-
sible till April.
He is also not above driving into Spain
or into Occupied France so as to gain
Mediterranean ports and French ship-
ping with a view to attacking Gibraltar,
closing the Europe Strait and then carry-
ing the war into Africa on a larger
scale. Time, however, is against him in
that undertaking; so is the scale of
sea and air transport arrangements.
In any case, all prophecy is pure guess-
work save in one aspect. Any Isaiah is
safe in staking his elastic-sides on the
fact that somebody will soon be called
on to move a Sal-volatile Corps south-
ward through the Brenner Pass into Italy.
Bold Allied Strokes.
“Ek Dum”: The entry into the war of
the United States, Mexico and Brazil
altered the whole strategic situation in
the Atlantic, It gave the Allies bases,
only 2000 to 3000 miles from West
Africa, from which supplies could be
taken by a comparatively safe route to
Mediterranean fronts, unless the Ger-
mans were able to use Dakar and Casa-
blanca as submarine bases.
This route and the concomitant African
land route would be wide open if French
Africa collapsed into. Allied hands ; and
if it did many other things would
happen.
The Allies would have ports directly
opposite Unoccupied France and Italy.
Marseilles, only 420 miles from Algiers,
and Toulon would have to be defended
by German effort. Unoccupied France
might have to be occupied by the Nazis
and held down. And if the Eighth Army
could get to Tripoli the whole of Africa
would be under United Nations control.
Dakar and Casablanca, instead of poten-
tial menaces to trade routes, would be-
come invaluable depots and anti-
submarine bases. Allied shipping would
have shore-based shelter all the way
from Gibraltar to Port Said along a
route 8000 miles shorter than the one
round the Cape. The value of every
ship serving India or the Middle East or
Russia from Britain or Atlantic America
would acquire four times its existing ton-
nage value, apart from swiftness of opera-
tion.
From Cape Bon, north-east Tunis, the
United Nations could strike at Sicily,
which is only 70 miles away, and the
other end of Sicily is only 260 miles or
so from Tripoli, which is 280 miles from
Malta. Sardinia might also be tackled,
and then French Corsica ; over the strait
dividing these islands anybody could
throw a pound of spaghetti. And with
Corsica in Allied hands the whole of
Italy’s industrial centres in the Milan-
Turin-Genoa triangle would be within
fighter range. Munich would be about
320 miles away, the Riviera distant only
100 miles or so. The whole of the Tyr-
rhenian Sea would be under continual
menace.
“Shadows Before”
In the middle of September the “U.S.
Army and Navy Journal” wrote:
We have given our approval to the
British seizure of all of Madagascar. We
have sent troops to French Equatorial
Africa, whence they will aid the Free French
in resisting any Axis attack There is
also the matter of Dakar, and events may
compel us to co-operate with the British
in seizing that base. The significance of the
presence of United States troops in Africa
is fully appreciated by Berlin and Rome,
for it is proof that we will not hesitate to
take any strategic area which would be
dangerous to our safety.
One peculiar incident affecting the
African position had happened some time
before. General Giraud, captured in
May, 1940, had escaped from Germany.
After seeing Petain at Vichy he passed
on to Africa, presumably because there
the Germans would have difficulty
in getting at him. He was the one
French general of high standing who had
not been compelled to become a party
to the armistice terms.
Just before General Montgomery’s for-
ward drive Darlan flew to Dakar and
thence to Rabat, the French Moroccan
capital on the Atlantic coast, for a con-
ference with Governors and military and
naval commanders..
On Nov, 5 Berlin Radio announced
that a powerful concentration of British
warships had been sighted at Gibraltar.
That day, as Rommel’s shattered armies
fled. Admiral Liitzow, broadcasting from
Berlin, said that Casablanca had be-
come a greater danger spot than Dakar ;
that the British Government was leaving
Gambia to the Americans so that thence
they would attack French Morocco, and
that the arrival of U.S. contingents in
Liberia foreshadowed a large-scale in-
vasion of French Africa. From the
Gambia base the U.S. troops would in-
vade French Morocco and Algeria and
then, if they could, invade Europe from
the south. Within 48 hours this admiral
began to be justified as a prophet.
Uncle Sam Arrives
It was officially announced that, with
the co-operation of the Royal Navy and
the R.A.F., scores of thousands of Ameri-
can troops—l4o,ooo, one report said—*
had, under the supervision of Lieut.-
,General Dwight Eisenhower, C.-in-C.
U.S. troops in Europe, been landed
on numerous points in Morocco
and Algeria. Simultaneously the White
House announced that the crossings had
been determined upon “in order to fore-
stall the invasion of Africa by Germany
and Italy, which, if successful, would con-
stitute a direct threat to America,” and
that they would “in the immediate
future” be “reinforced by a considerable
number of divisions of the British Army.”
This would provide “an effective second
front for the assistance of our gallant
allies in Russia.”
The French were informed that the
Allies sought no territory and had no
intention of interfering with the friendly
French authorities in Africa. The Gov-
ernment of France and the French people
v/ere asked to assist the American ex-
pedition, which would develop into a
major effort by the Allied nations, de-
signed, among other things, to liberate
France.
Marshal Petain replied that he had
read the President’s announcement with
amazement and grief:
The pretext you have invoked nothing
can justify. You ascribe to your enemies
an intention which has never been trans-
lated into action. We have always declared
we would defend our Empire if attacked.
You knew we would defend it against any
aggressor. France and her honor are
at stake. We are being attacked. We
shall defend ourselves. That is the order
I am giving.
The two main landing areas in the
Mediterranean were around Algiers and
Oran. In each case, air forces were put
ashore under cover of an R.A.F. um-
brella, to take aerodromes, make recon-
naissance and prepare the basis for estab-
lishment.
Then troops were landed, covered by a
ring of ships providing a barrage and
with air support overhead. The third
stage was the landing of tanks. Each of
the landing forces inside the Mediter-
ranean was under the command of a
major-general.
Vichy spoke of a De Gaullist insur-
rection in Morocco and of landings at
Casablanca—bombed, it declared —and an-
other near Mehedia, a few miles north of
Rabat. From Algiers came a broadcast
in the name of General Giraud saying
that the general was at his “action
station,” and the French people should
trust him. Vichy at first said the general
was in France ; then abruptly dropped
the story.
On Saturday and Sunday Genoa was
twice heavily attacked by the R.A.F.
along with the industrial outskirts of
Milan, Savona and Cagliari.
On Sunday night Algiers, capital of
the most important French dependency
in N. Africa, surrendered after brief
resistance. An excellent augury for the
future of a dashing enterprise.
Over the Channel coast a heavy offen-
sive action by British aircraft was in pro-
gress and the coasts on both sides of the
Channel were shaking with gunfire and
the crump of bombs.
It will be some time before operations
in French Africa can reach the scale of
those in Egypt. The Eighth Army at the
week-end was still more than 1000 miles
from Tripoli. Hitler, speaking at the Beer
Hall in Munich, boasted that he would
counter-attack on “all fronts” and that
Germany would be in the desert last.
In N.G. and the Pacific.
“Ek Dum”: The New Guinea cam-
paign has almost reached its drenched
conclusion. On November 2, while the
Ninth Division was breaking up Rom-
mel’s pocket along the Mediterranean
coast, Australian forces were putting the
finishing touches to a remarkable droving
feat in New Guinea by entering unresisted
into Kokoda. For a five weeks’ march,
unassisted by mechanical transport, it is
doubtful if the performance has ever been
bettered in such country.
There was no pause. The units went
on down the Buna track towards Oivi,
nine miles away. After six days, during
which there had been no defence, Jap-
anese were discovered dug in in some
strength on a spur commanding the
muddy track. Then resistance was strong,
but was quickly swept aside. Despite
machine-gun nests, the advance ploughed
on through the mud along the much-
bombed route to Oivi.
Meanwhile, enemy rear communica-
tions were repeatedly plastered, especially
the landing stages in the Buna region and
Lae and Salamaua, which had special
attention.
By Friday, the S.-w. Pacific Command
reported that forward elements were in
contact with the enemy near Oivi and
advancing slowly. The struggle for the
village was taking place on the slopes of
a hill in front of it.
Week-end South-west Pacific commu-
niques contained a pleasant surprise.
It turned out that on Oct. 22 forces
from Milne Bay had made two landings
on Goodenough Island, most northerly
of the D’Entrecasteux, 50 miles off the
eastern tip of New Guinea, which Ihe
Japanese had occupied on August 26 in
conjunction with their attempt to take
Milne Bay.
Hard fighting on Oct. 23 and 24 had
driven the enemy to other islands, whence
they were taken oft by warships on Oct.
27. Several hundred Japanese were on
the islands.
Meanwhile large numbers of tropically-
equipped U.S. troops had been ferried
1000 miles from the Australian coast by
air. to New Guinea without loss, mishap
or even enemy interference. They began
to leave Australia about the end of
September.
The men were not told where they were
going or., for a time, where they had arrived.
They were armed to the teeth for tropic
warfare against both man and under-
growth, and loaded down with equipment
to make them self-dependent in mountain
and jungle.
They penetrated northern and central
Papua without resistance, some crossing
the mountains to the east of the main
Owen Stanley track and thus appearing
on the right flank of the Australian
Owen Stanley column between Buna-
Guna and Milne Bay. They had met
with no resistance anywhere.
All Papua, save the Buna-Gona bridge-
head area and the road thence to beyond
the Kumusi River, is under the control
of the Allied forces. The Japanese, how-
ever, still hold the Salamaua-Lae-Finsch-
haven area, how strongly is not known.
Though the enemy rearguards were
still resisting bitterly in a surrounded
position near Oivi on Nov, 8, the days
of Papuan glory were obviously over for
Tojo’s “missionaries of the East Asia
Co-Prosperity Sphere.”
The Marines Hold On
The war in the Solomons remains at
an intermediate stage. The Japs on
Guadalcanal were reinforced again after
the Stewart Islands naval battle, under
cover of strong enemy naval units, sup-
posed to be drawn from a central fleet
of four battleships, three aircraft-carriers
and attendant vessels to match, including
six cruisers and 16 destroyers.
It can be taken for granted that not
only the Japs have been reinforced, and,
despite attacks on both sides of the Hen-
derson airfield area, the Marines have
been strong enough to hold their own,
and even on Nov. 3 to make some small
gains to the westward when 20 machine-
guns were captured in fighting beyond
the Malimbia River and six miles west
of the Henderson field. About 350 of
the enemy were killed. Sporadic fighting
by patrols was “continuing at the week-
end. To the week-end 5188 Japs had
been killed in the Solomons, and during
October 369 enemy ’planes were brought
down. On Nov. 7 U.S. naval units and
’planes badly damaged and possibly sank
a cruiser and a destroyer.
Perhaps the enemy is awaiting events
in Asia before he commits himself to
any further activity. From Tokyo broad-
casts he appears obsessed with the idea
that British rule has almost completely
crumbled in India, and he may be
tempted into a major offensive against
that country.
At the week-end Akyab reported that
Japanese forces had advanced into the
no-man’s-land along the Indian border in
the Akyab region.
A major attack on India would prob-
ably delay any attempt at a major attack
on the South Seas. At the same time, to
plunge into attack on the South Seas
at the risk of the loss of a large section
of the fleet might produce difficulties if
General Wavell were tempted to launch
a substantial offensive.
Russia and Winter Hunger.
“Ek Dum”: Reports from Russia have
minimised the effects of German drives
along the Caucasus. The main enemy
aims seem to have been the sealing of all
routes across the high but narrow range,
as a preliminary to an assault on Grozny
and a push towards the Caspian.
After capturing Nalchik, the German
drive swept on along the north Caucasian
foothills to Alagir, 20 miles from the key
town of Orjonikidze, which is 54 miles
s.-w. of Grozny and on the main road
or loop rail from the Black Sea,
The reasons for the looping of the rail
system here are the presence of large
metal developments adjacent to the
Grozny oil supply—Alagir is the head-
quarters of big plants—and the fact that
to this region the main road from Tiflis
and the Baku-Batoum pipeline comes in
from the south.
The enemy claimed to have reached
this Georgian road and to control it. If
this is true, the Russian armies along the
north face of the Caucasus, unless they
can restore the situation, have no remain-
ing route of communication with Georgia
and the outside world to the south, save
along the Caspian coast from Baku to
Mackach Kala.
The main roads over the range from
Armavir to Tuapse, from Nevinomissk
to Sukhum, and the Ossetian road from
Nalchik to Kutais are all closed or domi-
nated already.
The fighting near Tuapse, on the Black
Sea, is wrapped in the mysterious con-
fusion which envelops all fixed-positions
fighting in Russia. As for Stalingrad,
the noble defence continues, with bands
of Germans and Russians playing a major
game of raid and counter-raid among
the ruins.
To see the winter through Russia will
need all the help it is possible to render.
Said Mr. Averill Harriman, President
Roosevelt’s representative, in a speech on
September 9:
In Moscow last winter there were times
when the only food available was black
bread In late winter some of our lard
arrived and was distributed to the people.
... .The lard was not wasted for cooking—
they now had something to spread on
their bread.
The position thus revealed has been
worsened by the loss of the Kuban and
Don grain fields. Russia has no developed
meat supply, and Stalin placed the grain
output for the three years ended 1938,
which included one record year, at an
average of 2,000,000,000 bushels per
annum, which means only of grain
per day per head of population.
Two-thirds of the acreage which pro-
duced this quantity is now in enemy
hands. Russia this winter will fight not
only Hitler but hunger. Last winter
Leningrad alone lost a million inhabi-
tants.
There has been no major German
offensive north of Kharkov for a full
year. The operations carried out in
other regions may have been cruelly
planned to starve the Russians into sub-
mission.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The Silver Door Auxiliary members,
who put themselves on the map and their
Door well into the public mind as the
spot to which to bring that waste silver
paper by the bright publicity stunt of
painting the door of 376 Flinders-lane
silver, have done a continuous job sort-
ing and collecting the stuff since war
started. Now that silver paper is dis-
appearing even quicker-than the choco-
lates it used to wrap itself round, they
are stressing former sidelines as money-
makers. Cakes and vegetables have
raised £72 already this year, and the
members are now extending themselves
to an all-afternoon sale of no-coupon
clothes —a certain fund-raiser these times.
Clothes are made from scraps collected
from warehouses and private sources and
made up with real artistry into the most
delicious patchwork affairs, just what
Melbourne’s more exclusive shops are
doing as an extra chic note in their beach
and sports things. The Rationing Com-
mission has given its blessing ; actually
it’s a jolly good way of using up bits
that wouldn’t be used at all otherwise.
The sale will take place on December 4.
Every woman has her little day, but for
Mrs. Cedric Bright Sunday must have
been a day and a half, for to her fell the
delicious honor of being Liberty in the
American tableau at the musical pageant
produced for the Grand Lodge Choir of
Victoria at the Regent Theatre. Mrs.
Cedric, Jane Harper that was, might with
equal success have posed at a Greek fes-
tival as a goddess of ancient myth, and
she looked magnificent as Liberty. Lorna
Forbes, with her background of Shak-
spearean stagecraft, stepped into the role
of Britannia as to the manner born. A
lovely American tableau, “Spirit of ’76,”
owed its appeal largely to the stagecraft
and knowledge of Mrs. Gerald Bacon, of
the United States Women’s Auxiliary
Corps, which helped with all the show.
In these days many old friends are to
be met wearing new feathers. As an
instance, Lieut. N. Allen, doing a hearty
job of work with the V.A.D., turns out
to be Nyree Allen, only daughter of the
chaplain of Geelong Grammar, Rev.
Hollis Allen. Captain Parry, again, is
the widow of Dr. John Parry, who died
just after graduation. The V.A.D. camp
is a great idea for the girls, for they feel
they are pulling their weight with the
other women of the services.
Seldom have the women’s services
turned out in such strength as they did
for the Town Hall performance of “Lady
Precious Stream.” Chief W.A.A.A.F.
Claire Stevenson was there with one of
her able officers, Greta, daughter of
Squadron-Leader and Mrs. Eric Harri-
son. The night was a good one, too,
for the auxiliaries. Mrs. J. V. Fairbairn,
president of Air Force House, was sell-
ing flowers and looking austerely beauti-
ful in a black full-length tailored suit
with bandsman trimming down the front
of the jacket, a la Duchess of Windsor.
The Gengoult Smiths, who don’t come
out much since hubby took on military
service, were there, he in khaki, of
course. There was an imposing array of
Wangs. The Chinese Consul Wang and
his wife, who was a committeewoman
for the show, had the lieut.-colonel of
the same name and the captain (naval),
also Wang, with them. As the play was
all about Priminister Wang and his
family they must have felt very much at
home.
Now that going to Sydney almost in-
volves having a purpose of national sig-
nificance, those who go there are felt to
need extra farewelling. So the Fighting
French said “good-bye and good luck”
at the Lyceum Club to Andre Brenac
and Louis Duplatre, on the eve of their
down-dropping on Sydney, with the same
emphasis as they would in other times
have laid on the farewells to those set-
ting out for the other side of the globe.
Professor A. R. Chisholm and his charm-
ing wife did the handshaking for the
party.
In spite of the vegetables which now
flourish in every suburban garden there
has seldom been a better season for
flowers. At the duet recital given by
Etta Bernard and Desmond Worthington,
flowers in as great array as would usually
be seen at a theatrical first night were
handed up to the popular contralto, and
even Desmond wasn’t overlooked, as men
mostly are. The recital took place at the
British Music Society’s pleasant room,
’ Desmond, who has been with the
'-'es, showed that he could sing
customed artistry. One of
as by Max Oldaker, but Max
sy being the bold, bad brigand
Baldesarre to come along and hear the
tenor sing his composition. The con-
tralto, too, with anxieties about a hus-
band on the Egyptian front as a flying
man, still managed to wear her cheery
little smile, and three gardenias on her
hair seemed to say “thumbs up.”
There’s been a loud buzz of post-war
planning this last week. Dr. Dale, City
Health Officer, at a meeting which the
Brotherhood of St. Laurence asked him to
address, said, apropos of clubs for boys
and girls, that in the post-war world, if
well built, there would be no need for
such. Opportunity clubs and others
existed because the present world had
not efficiently provided for its boys and
girls, but he hoped to see schools with
club centres at them, and all the games
and books and the rest of a boy’s or
girl’s world on the spot. There are so
many plans for young people in the
post-war period that if some of them
don’t subside it will be a terribly busy
era to live in, and a boy won’t get half
a chance to stop washing behind the
ears for a day or so, and shin up trees
and take time off to sit on the wharf
and fish, as his father used to do when
a boy at school.
Sybil Willey, here pictured by Broo-
thorn, holds the Melba scholarship at
Melbourne Conservatorium, and has
done her native State, Queensland, great
credit since she came io Melbourne to
study singing and the accompanying arts.
She has been heard often in concerts,
and is now ready to venture a recital.
Red Cross will benefit, and the spot chosen
is the Assembly Hall, one of Melbourne’s
cosiest auditoriums, on the 23rd. Old
Italian songs, lieder and modern Eng-
lish lyrics will make up most of the pro-
gramme. This recital marks the end of
Miss Willey’s three-years’ course, but
after a holiday at home in Brisbane she
hopes to be able to return to continue
her studies.
After the “Distant Point” premiere
at the Union Theatre, all the cast, with
friends and well-wishers, repaired to the
charming home of the levers Bourkes in
Moonga-road, there to sup and drink tc
the continued success of Doha Ribush’s
work as producer. Dr. John Dale and
Vance Palmer were among those who
handed out compliments to the clever
Russian, who wasn’t to be beguiled, how-
ever, into admitting that anything but
hard work could bring success in enter-
prises of this kind. Mrs. levers Bourke
dispensed hospitality, looking very lovely
with a dashing bright scarlet jacket over
her white frock. Nearly everyone present
had watched the production from its
infant stages to full-dress rehearsals.
Saturday’s A.B.C. orchestral concert
was definitely a woman’s affair. Women
predominated in the audience, perhaps
because the men had been stirred by Red
Cross appeals to go out and chop wood,
and both Elise Steele, leading the
orchestra, and Jeanne Gautier, solo
violinist, were welcomed with resound-
ing handclaps. A slight falling off in the
attendance may have been a tribute to
the afternoon sunshine. As Percy Code
was conducting, Professor Bernard Heinze
might have been expected to take a holi-
day, but there he was, with Mrs. Heinze,
in the balcony seats listening with par-
ticular earnestness to Mile Gautier.
Edwin Styles, who has rapidly become
one of our first-line entertainers, what
with playing tunes on spoons at military
hospitals in his spare time and spinning
yarns that delight the boys just con-
valescent enough to get into their dress-
ing-gowns and attend musicales in their
common-rooms, was in high good humor
on Saturday night for the Melbourne
premiere of “Rebecca,” when both he
and Myra Morton got a big welcome.
Mr. Styles says he is getting quite cal-
lous as to the number and variety of
parts he is called upon to take, and told
his audience that he felt he could soon
face being cast as Ophelia. The new
arrivals in the “Rebecca” cast are being
welcomed to Melbourne in a small sherry
“do” between performances today.
From Sydney
Priminister John Curtin’s daughter
Elsie was married last week in Perth. She
is now Mrs. Joseph William (Bill) Cole.
Blue was the bride’s color scheme ; her
only bridesmaid, Nell Greaney, wore
green. Bride’s brother, Corporal John
Curtin, of the R.A.A.F., was best man.
Wedding guests were restricted to the
Curtin and Cole family circles.
Once more “Carmen” is packing them
in at the Con. Isolde Hill is the lady
who lures officer, soldier, brigand and
toreador alike. In burning heat, in dusky
eve, they seek the gipsy encampment in
search of the girl who can sing a love
song with a rose between her lips. There
is one amazing characteristic of all the
lovers. No matter how far they climbed,
how dusty or dusky the rugged path, they
all arrived at the rendezvous with shining
and unblemished footwear. But Carmen
seems to be a girl of a one-track mind.
She never exclaims “How clean your
shoes are!” No, very grammatically and
melodiously she remarks “Is it thou?”
and the equally correct reply is “It is I.”
Isolde Hill and Reg. Willoughby sing-
ing “Over the hill and through the glade”
were perhaps at their most effective. Sid-
ney de Vries’s Escamillo was a dashing
blade. Lily Kolos was the wandering girl
Micaela. Mrs. Hugh Ward in the audi-
ence recalled having heard the crystal
voice of Melba in the part, and Jack
Griffith spoke of an unforgettable night
at the Metropolitan when Geraldine
Farrar was Carmen.
Margaret Sinclair, who arrived in
Sydney by way of Shanghai, is the
pretty Frasquita of the current pro-
duction of “Carmen” at the Con. Mar-
garet gives broadcasts under the banner
of the A.B.C. She has given recitals at
various clubs, is a favorite at camp con-
certs and is just now engaged in propa-
ganda films for Cinesound. This is the
first time this pleasing singer has
appeared in grand ooera, though she has
played lead in several opexcuas. miaa
Mulligan is the “Carmen” producer, and
Amie Kingston reproduces the city square
of Seville, the tavern and the smugglers’
cave in her clever scenery.
If any attended the austerity cooking
display in the Town Hall last Friday hop-
ing to learn 25 tasty ways of serving
bread and water, disappointment was
theirs. The dinners cooked by gas and
electricity on the Town Hall stage were
thrifty but not austere, unless to those
whose way of living is more sybaritic
than that of at least one in the front
rows. Each meal consisted of three good
and nutritious courses. They were thrifty
in that they used up such things as out-
side cabbage and lettuce leaves and pea-
pods. The soul that revolts at throwing
away empty pea-pods can make green
soup with them, plus a mutton shank,
a carrot, an onion and a few more in-
gredients. That is thrift, but austerity
would cut out the soup and let the family
make shift with the rest of the dinner:
mutton cutlets, green peas, baked par-
snips and tomatoes (something like Is.
Bd. a pound they were a week or so ago)
and a spiced apple roll. Still, thrift is
an old-fashioned word. Austere is the
one in the headlines. The Girl in the Flat
Opposite has solved the problem. Her
terse comment is “Eat raw!” One cake,
incidentally, could lay claim to the title
of austere. It was made without eggs,
butter or milk.
Professor Priestley, of the biochemistry
department of Sydney University, spoke
to the crowded rows of women. He sug-
gested substitutes for foodstuffs that are
now getting scarce. Scotties will smile
with delight over the professor’s absolute
faith in oatmeal. A radio man’s recipe
for a sponge cake is worth repeating,
“sponge the eggs from Mrs. Jones, the
milk from Mrs. Brown and the butter
from Mrs. Smith.” Fitting in with the
general scheme was the song “I’ve Got
Sixpence.”
Sydney was interested in the visit of
Mrs. W. Slater, wife of Australia’s first
Minister to Russia. He has a sheepskin-
lined coat, and that should make him
think very highly of the Australian jum-
buck indeed when the Soviet war-time capi-
tal puts on its cold spell. Mrs. Slater and
the young family will remain in their
Victorian home. While her husband was
being entertained by the Australian
Natives’ Association at the Carlton, Mrs.
Slater was guest at a tea party at Prince's
over which Mrs. H. V. Evatt presided.
Last week the N.S.W. institution for
the Deaf, Dumb and the Blind had its
eighty-first annual meeting, the forty-first
at which Harold Earlam, the superinten-
dent, had been present. Another long-
service friend of the institution is Arthur
Love, for 29 years hon. sec. For the same
number of years man of law Aubrey
Halloran has been on the board as presi-
dent or holder of other office. These
and many other steadfast workers met
in Farmer’s annexe to review the last
year’s activities and plan for the future.
The educational value of the work of
the institution was proved by the guest
speaker, D. B. Hunter, M.L.A. Mr.
Hunter is one of its ex-pupils, and is
the blind and eloquent member for
Croydon.
There was discussion about the old
premises at Darlington, which early this
year were taken over for national pur-
poses. Generally, opinion seemed to be
that the change was all for the good. A
day school for blind children has been
established at Strathfield, a junior school
for deaf children will soon be opened at
Pymble, and for the further-out child a
complete system of correspondence les-
sons is now in force. Teachers at certain
periods visit the small pupils in their
homes. It was suggested that when the
war is over an establishment away from
the city, set in some sylvan spot, should
be founded to benefit the health of these
handicapped small citizens.
In Quentin Reynolds’s Only the Stars
Are Neutral, there are two passages of
particular interest to Sydney women. He
is talking about Kuibyshev, war-time
capital of Soviet Russia. He tells of
the nursery kindergarten on its main
street where working women left their
children in the early morning and col-
lected them again at the end of the day’s
work. Skilled supervisors and teachers
were in charge. That is doing the same
work as the Sydney Day Nurseries. Also
on the main street (and this was when
bombs were falling thick as a hail-
storm on Moscow), there were a
dozen manicure and hairdressing estab-
lishments. They were busy until mid-
night. Sometimes there was a line of
a hundred women waiting their turn for
manicures and hair-dos. The latter, in
view of departmental discussion a few
weeks ago about whether or not to do
away with facials and wavings, must
cause the sigh of envy to tear the breast
of many an Australian belle.
Just about to enter into wedlock when
this Letter went to press were Dr. (now
Flight-Lieut.) William Redmond Dalton
and pretty Rose Bay girl Cecile O’Rior-
dan. Flight-Lieut. Dalton’s father was
Dick Dalton, who used to produce ama-
teur theatrical shows that are still remem-
bered in Orange and the surround-
ing districts. Mrs. Dick Dalton now
makes her home fifty-fifty in Sydney
and Orange. Another medico bride-
groom who is a native of Orange is
Neville Howse. His wedding with Joan
Rodda is now two or three weeks old,
and he has been appointed resident medi-
cal at the Bathurst Hospital. Neville is
a son of Dr. C. B. Howse, of Orange,
and is named after his V.C. uncle. Mother
is one of the Bowman clan.
Kenn Brodziak, now a sergeant-
observer, sends greetings to Sydney
friends. Kenn, who spent a good many of
his week-ends sampling the Pacific as a
surfing playground, seems to have had a
dip in many an ocean since, and his letter
hvmns the praises of both Mediterranean
and Atlantic. He is now serving with
the R.A.A.F. abroad, having arrived
wherever he is by way of Canada and
England. At the time of writing he was
about to produce a show specially written
for his squadron. It was a revue, “Crazy
with the Heat,” and in it, as in the New
York success “Hellzapoppin,” anything
can happen, and does. Kenn has also
found a publisher for his almost-com-
pleted book, No Tears to Shed.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED HOCKING late of Balmain and
Broken HiII.—TAKE NOTICE that ROSE
MAY HOCKING has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1770 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance by the sth of Febru-
ary 1943 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from W. C. BEERWORTH
Solicitor 233 Argent Street Broken Hill or his
Agent J. H. PEOPLES Solicitor 79 Elizabeth
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROLAND WILSON (known as Jim Wilson)
late of Portland Miner.—TAKE NOTICE that
SARAH WILSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2313 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance by the 31st of De-
cember 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MADDOCKS COHEN
& MAGUIRE Solicitors 38 Martin Place Syd-
ney— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE HORACE THOMAS VINCENT
HUDSON late of Paddington Laborer.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARY CHARLOTTE JOSEPH-
INE HUDSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2332 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance by the 27th of January 1943
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MADDOCKS COHEN &
MAGUIRE Solicitors 38 Martin Place Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TO JOSEPH THOMAS McHUGH formerly of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that LILY Mc-
HUGH has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1639 of 1942 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance by sth January 1943 and obtain
copy petition from M. B. BYLES & CO.
Solicitors 3 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANNIE NANCY LALL (also known as
Annie Nancy Parkinson) late of Brisbane
Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that STACEY
LALL (also known as FREDERICK ERNEST
PARKINSON) has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2142 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards You may enter an appearance
before the Third day of February 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solicitors 2
York Street Sydney.— (l.s.) .C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Notwithstanding he will be without
Badger’s services, and some backers are
disrating him because of his Cox Plate
failure, Great Britain is selected by our
Melbourne correspondent to win the Vic-
toria Derby next Saturday. He says his Cox
Plate prospects were settled at barrier-
rise, and his rider wisely did not knock
him about when it became apparent he
had no chance of being in the money.
Actually, his Derby chance is almost as
bright now as after his defeat of Amazed
in the Caulfield Guineas. Recent brilliant
track work has proved his fitness, he is
well up to Derby weight, and his trainer,
H. Freedman, who has won Derbies with
Lucrative and Laureate, has confidence in
his stamina.
While Great Britain has yet to be tried
over If mile, Amazed came from almost
last to finish sixth in the Caulfield Cup,
run at that distance. Possibly he would
have beaten Great Britain in the Guineas
had the distance been much farther than
a mile, but latter was disadvantaged by
the extreme outside barrier position, and
had to be “used up” at both ends of the
race. Only a game colt would have won
as he did, and he has an advantage in
size over Amazed. Amazed, however, is
deceptive. He is not impressive-looking
when saddled, but, according to his
trainer, R. Cameron, cannot be faulted in
his box. Cameron contends that the
Derby weight, 8.10, will not beat him.
Leahero recovered some of his waning
popularity after his third to Tranquil Star
and Pandect in the Cox Plate. He com-
bined speed with gameness, and his
trainer expects him to stay. Grain
Trader, who has done a solid preparation,
has firmed considerably since his promis-
ing fifth in the Cox Plate, and H. Morris,
who rode Great Britain in that race, is
keen on his own Derby mount, Pickway.
Chatfield ran on fairly in third place in
the Guineas, but will need to improve to
reverse positions with Great Britain and
Amazed.
Easy track tasks allotted Skipton during
the fortnight following his Caulfield Cup
failure disturbed his Melbourne Cup
backers. J. Fryer is not disturbed. He
considers Skipton a natural stayer who
does not need a lot of hard track work,
and that he himself is the best judge of
how he should be trained. Fryer has
already rained the winners of two Mel-
bourne Cups, and expresses himself satis-
fied with Skipton’s progress. This should
satisfy supporters of Skipton, who will
complete his public preparation with
a race over If mile in handicap company
next Saturday. Incidentally, he will need
to run well to retain his market position,
as opinions are divided whether he is as
good as he was this time last year.
Pandect has thrived since his second
to Tranquil Star in the Cox Plate, and
is pressing Skipton for Cup favoritism.
The longer distance and longer stretches
at Flemington will suit him, and indica-
tions are that he is about to reproduce
the form that enabled him to win the
A.J.C. Derby and finish third to Lucra-
tive in the Sydney Cup. Apart from Skip-
ton and Pandect, no Cup horse is more
popular at the moment than eight-year-
old Son of Aurous, runner-up to Skipton
last year. Keep judges were impressed
by his Moonee Valley Cup performance,
and, although his doubtful leg is being
hosed for about an hour daily as a pre-
cautionary measure, there is no need for
alarm in that respect. It survived a
strenuous campaign last spring, and his
connections consider the gelding as good
as ever.
Nine-year-old Maikai, who is to make
his fourth attempt on the Melbourne
Cup, probably will retire from racing
at the conclusion of the spring car-
nival. He is fit and one of the
few proved stayers in the race;
but, although his trainer is not without
hopes of success, it might be expecting
too much of Maikai to improve on his
Melbourne Cup seconds in 1939 and
1940. With 13 wins and £14,315 in prize-
money, he is one of the largest stake-
winners in training.
» * * *
Racing at all Sydney debenture and
present proprietary meetings is likely to
be more costly than in the past. De-
prived of acceptance fees there is little
likelihood of increased prize-money, and
in making its entrance fee £1 against 10s.
in the past Rosehill Club has given the
other clubs a lead which some may not
be slow to follow. It will now cost
owners £4 to race at Rosehill for £3OO,
instead of £3, and, though the sweepstakes
will give winning owners nice odds to a
small sum, those who rarely supply a
winner will not appreciate the change,
It is probable though that some owners
who are looking for good reasons to get
out will add the latest development to
the number,
* * * *
During the past three months Sydney
has had several cases of reversal of form.
Horses have won one Saturday and run
nowhere the next, or vice versa. In fact,
on occasions owners and trainers must
have felt inclined to hoot their own
horses. Many racegoers are prone to
think the worst when a horse runs better
or worse one week than another, but the
same thing happens on the training
tracks. A horse will gallop in great style
one morning, and then later in the week
gives his trainer cause for anxiety by
shaping like a dud. Another thing over-
looked by many racegoers is the differ-
ence luck in running makes to a result,
and this often contributes greatly to
seeming marked reversal of form,
* * * *
There is nothing like trying, but there
must be many optimists among Sydney’s
owners and trainers if they thought that
ab entrance fees paid to the V.A.T.C. and
Moonee Valley R.C. were likely to be
refunded because of lack of transport.
Individual cases might have been con-
sidered—Williamstown R.C. is adopting
that procedure—but some time before the
Caulfield Cup was run the V.A.T.C. was
probably aware that, even if transport
had been available, there was little likeli-
hood of many Sydney horses nominated
for that race being competitors.
* * * *
As a rule the Victoria Derby winner
again beats the three-year-olds in the
Cup, but there have been some marked
exceptions. Lord Nolan was one. He
was such a poor third in Alawa’s Derby
that even with 6.10 he did not appear to
have much hope of turning the tables on
Alawa (7.7) in the Cup. The latter, a
2-to-l favorite, ran fifth, and Lord Nolan
(16 to 1) won by a half-head from Tul-
keroo. Richmond Main won the Derby
from Artilleryman in 1919, but positions
were reversed in the Cup. Artilleryman
finished in remarkable fashion in the Cup,
fairly bolting away from his opponents
after entering the straight, and, in putting
up 3.24|, knocked a second and a quarter
oft Night Watch’s previous record for
the race.
The best for a three-year-old is now
Peter Pan’s 3.231, and the record for the
race is Wotan’s 3.21 j. Carbine’s record
for the race in 1890 was 3.28 J. Acrasia
equalled that time in 1904, and Blue Spec
cut it down to the following year.
* * * «
In totalisator bets at Sydney meetings
the average is much higher than a little
while ago. That is only to be expected
as a result of increased earnings, largely
associated with war work. At the recent
Rosehill meeting the average per head
for an attendance of 16,000 was about
£2, whereas on last Sydney Cup day at
the same track an attendance of slightly
over 18,900 averaged about £1 12s. 6d.
On Doncaster day, at the same meeting,
with 25,928 present, the average was only
£1 3s. The low average that day was
in a measure accounted for by there
being small fields for the St. Leger and
Autumn Stakes, and the betting on those
races was comparatively light. On Cup
day runners for the All-Aged Plate and
Champagne Stakes were also few, six in
each.
* * * *
King George finished at the head of
this season’s winning list of owners in
England, his horses earning £10,600. At
the beginning of September he was only
a few pounds ahead of Lord Derby, but
then his filly Sun Chariot won the St.
Leger, making the position certain. That
filly previously won the One Thousand
and Oaks. The English Jockey Club
handicapper, A. Fawcett, had reason to
be pleased with this season’s three-year-
old results. When he weighted 130 two-
year-olds for the Free Handicap Sweep-
stakes at the conclusion of last season’s
racing, he put Sun Chariot on top, her
weight being 9.7. Then came Big Game
9.6, Watling Street 9.4, Mah Iran 9.3
and Hyperides and Ujiji 9.1; Watling
Street (by Fairway) won the Derby and
Big Game (by Bahram) the One Thou-
sand, while Hyperides and Ujiji also
showed excellent form. Sun Chariot (by
Hyperion) must be a remarkably good
filly. It was reckoned she lost at least
a dozen lengths in the Oaks as a result of
suddenly darting to the left soon after
the start, and, on top of that, ran wide
entering the straight.
While Sun Chariot is the btst staying
three-year-old in England, her stable
companion Big Game is credited with
being outstanding up to a mile and a
quarter.
* * * *
The Williamstown handicapper is seem-
ingly among those who do not rate Skip-
ton’s Melbourne Cup chance superior to
that of Tranquil Star. The latter has to
concede Skipton lib. in the Melbourne
Cup, but in the Williamstown Cup
(weights for which were issued last week)
she is 51b. above him. Excuse was pos-
sible for Skipton in the Caulfield Cup,
but, unless the longer distance greatly
helps, Tranquil Star is one of the number
sure to make it a hard race for him. Of
the three-year-olds Great Britain (7.9) is
rated best of those engaged in the Wil-
liamstown Cup, but, as that colt is giving
Chatfield and Leahero only 31b., Amazed
4ib. and Home James 51b., the handi-
capper evidently does not believe that
anything stands out for the Derby. The
Williamstown,. Cup has served as a con-
solation stake for many horses beaten in
the Melbourne Cup, and it may therefore
be worth noting that Pandect has 2!b.
less in the former than in the latter.
* * * *
Amazed was reported to have been
backed for the Derby and Melbourne
Cup last week, but it has again appeared
in print that, even if he wins the Derby,
there is doubt as to his being a Cup
runner. That may be correct, but it
would be surprising if, after showing
himself the best of his age, he was taken
out of the Cup. It is too valuable a
race for any owner to turn down if he
has a fair chance of winning it. Even
if Amazed should fail in the Derby, but
run a fair second or third, his drop to
6.10 would entitle him to a Cup start.
* * * *
Second and third moneys in clubs’
programmes have been increased since
the return to sweepstakes. All owners
may not be inclined to agree with the
move, but, as sweepstakes will consider-
ably increase first money, a majority will
approve of it. An extra £2O or £lO for
a minor placing will be useful in paying
expenses.
The added money for the December
Stakes, Villiers Stakes and Summer Cup
is the same as last season, but one cannot
help wondering whether the A.J.C. will
be able to keep up to that standard in
all its principal races during the coming
year. The return to sweepstakes means
a loss to the club of many thousands in
entrance and acceptance fees. In the
circumstances increased prize-money
appears out of the question, and the most
owners can hope for is that there is no-
thing approaching a marked decrease.
Some recent races have not been worth
the prize-money attached to them, and
it would not greatly surprise if next year
the Derby, for one, carried lass than
£5OOO. However, forfeits and sweep-
stakes will still make it a most desirable
prize for the owner of the winner.
It may be contended that possible in-
creased attendances will compensate the
A.J.C. to some extent for loss of entrance
and acceptance fees, but that is doubtful,
taking a line through the patronage
accorded the recent spring meeting. In
1941 the attendance on Epsom day was
74,488, and Metrop. day 69,484, making
a total of 143,972. On the recent occa-
sion the total for the corresponding days
was 107,761. Soldiers, who are admitted
fiee to Randwick, are not computed
in the total for either year. Next
year the present proprietary clubs will
piesumably be run on the same lines
as Canterbury and Rosehill, and, with the
loss of acceptance fees reducing their
revenue, stakes at their meetings are un-
likely to be on the up-grade. With less
than 280 races to be decided in Sydney
in the year, and no provincial meetings,
the clubs will get more entries than they
desire without going out of their way in
respect of prize-money. Pessimism is a
poor thing, but it would be difficult to
say that the outlook for owners and
trainers during the coming year is at all
bright.
* * * *
Foalings at some of N.S.W.’s principal
studs point to there being no lack of year-
lings at the 1944 Sydney sales, and if the
war has finished by then it is probable
there will be a good market. The New-
market sales in August showed that in
England there is every confidence as to
the bree ding and racing outlook. An
j r j sb bu y erj j McGrath, gave 4600gns.
anc j 4300gns. respectively for Dancing
jj ]Tle and Eastern Echo, four-year-old
mares b Colombo, and 2700gns. for a
yearling filly by ‘ the same sire. The
b j abes |- p r j ce paid for a yearling was
50 00gns. for a filly by Nearco from
Singapore ’ s sister. Three-year-old-fillies
in Perfect Peace (by Colombo) and
Feberion (by Hyperion) were respectively
sold for 560 0gns. and 4200gns. Reverting
to NS W st * ds the im ° orted stallion,
Titan (Hyperion-Priscilla), who had his
season in Australia last year, must
b snecia]lv <, lirp fna) „p tte f. |r n t o
J 5 ® a w Hr !, u t( ?- gett Up
foals by him were reported
*’* * *
Sydney-trained Hesione, All Love and
Broadcaster won the last three Mari-
byrnong Plates, but N.S.W. will not be
ed this year owing to transport
d ' ffld “ l,les ' 11 ,s “"fortunate it should
a | " ome ™ art y °“ n B s ‘™ have
™?f‘Lf V. Among the Melbourne
“ l * s Bohemian.-Phansee, Sen Butler
It,™ , aP ?' V< 7 “H, ’
15 ‘!> e ° utsta " d l"B %.
£°“£‘t ffru'. n °
H ?
“ ‘rU"” „ Y Ma f e . mant ° a " d
ed them *° be
g y pp ■
Another Walker-Rivers brawl which
ought to have been staged in a bar-room
°" ’? Ur ? d , a J
p-L ’ dooring Walker in the sixth,
hil H s for hitting him
3fe d ° w ”’ ,J he referee then discreetly
S a " d ,he p “ ss co " U .” ued brawling
SIX P°hcemen dragged them apart.
VICTORIA DERBY.
By “PILOT.”
Amazed 1
Leahero 2
Great Britain 3
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Great Britain 1
Amazed 2
Leahero 3
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Trial Stakes: Glendower, 1 ;
Tidemark, 2 ; Gauntlet or Kiaree, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes: Tennessee
or Susquehanna (same stable), 1 ;
Kurranulla, 2 ; Urgent Rate, 3.
Flying Handicap: Petruchio, 1 ;
Fermanagh, 2; Overbold, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Amber-
spear, 1 ; Gundagai, 2 ; Warbird, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Cadger, 1 ;
Irish Sea, 2 ; Air Link, 3.
Campsie Handicap; Haridelle, 1 ;
Haripur, 2 ; Kimbell, 3.


* vt*riw*
r ooPS
s f
p
w
—>ss.
sit
conserved bV
A cft ssa. cook®®
How to economise in food .. . and how to conserve the health and
nutritional values in every meal prepared. .. An AGA Cooker will
help you to solve those war-time problems, and save amazingly in
fuel too.
The AGA Cooker operates on the scientific heat-storage principle,
retaining delicate flavours and nourishing juices in meat and vege-
tables, and reducing meat shrinkage to a minimum. The AGA ovens
are so capacious that complete meals, in substantial quantities, maj
be cooked in one economical operation.
The AGA Cooker burns continuously, cooks fast or slow as you wish.
Fuel bills are almost unbelievably low. For instance. Model Cs,
for city and country homes, is guaranteed not to use more than
£4/7/6 worth of fuel in a whole year, with coke at 35/- a ton, in
the city. (Freight increases price of fuel in country, but annual
consumption is so low that amazing economy is possible anywhere
in Australia.)
AGA Cookers are heavily insulated, and finished with a sparkling,
easily-cleaned vitreous-enamelled surface. An AGA equipped kitchen
stays cool in summer and comfortably warm in winter.
Made in Great Britain. Over 40,000 in use in the British Empire.
Guaranteed against faulty material and workmanship for ten (10) years.
Call for demonstration, or write for illustrated AGA Catalogue 1411.
(.ftfebU TVAD1 HA»K)
JfieOfUjuid HudSbrca
COOKER
iaif i« • ■ ir»y»
LEVIN & CO.. LTD.
45 King Street, Sydney.
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents:
Colton, Farmer & Preston Ltd., Adelaide.
Western Australian Agents:
Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth.
Queensland Agents:
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-operative
Assoc., Ltd., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents:
A. G. Webster & Sons, Hobart.
BEHIND THE WHEELS OF WAR
( -— -"TfJPPP??**
iSfC d
, ••«-"«Ks;- - -■* _, „
■*.• it & **<•'» W M
m * ** Ml ** M* * * K t M , ■; .
* M /jv f « ™ m
.. /»
63^
g
PI
m
P£
'Y/*
Food and clothing for the Fighting Forces, the Industrial Army and
the civilians, all of whom are doing their share to win the war The
Land Army has a vast job to do—huge areas of cereals to grow and
harvest—fruit trees to be oil sprayed to ensure sound fruit—to provide
sheep and cattle for meat —sugar and vegetables for bodily health and
strength—wool to be shorn and woven into cloth for clothing, etc etc
Behind all this is machinery of every description—tractors,
harvesters, wheels, pistons and moving parts—all to be lubricated,
special Oils are needed right throughout.
Shell plays a vital part in providing these essentia! Lubricants
that keep the wheels of primary production forever turning
YOU CAN BE SURE OF
SIELLt""OIL
It's diag-fiec
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated In £ngjgg^j££S2£.
SMOKE-OH!
4* 4* 4*
“Guns do not grow.” — “Sun.”
Well, what do they want munition
plants for?
4- *l* *l* 4*
“By some mischance a member of the ser-
vices got lipstick on his summer uniform.”
. — Woman’s paper.
More likely a chance miss.
•p 4* 4* 4*
“She soon wearied of her marriage with Ed
and threw herself into a round of dizzy
pleasures which ended in a madcap elopement.”
—Magazine story.
So, she went off her Ed.
►l* -I* 'l* 4*
“Even now there are people who believe that
some human beings can turn themselves into
animals.” — ‘‘World's News.”
Well, some people certainly make goats
of themselves.
4’ 4* 4- '!*
“If you are married you probably will not
commit suicide, drink yourself to death or get
killed in an accident.” — “World’s News.”
But you might have nagging pains all
the time.
4* 4* 4*
“£lO Alimony a Week for Wife of Dentist.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
A painful extraction.
4* 4* 4* P
“Crayfish are selling for 12s. each in Mel-
bourne.” — News item.
No wonder their faces are red!
•J*
In days of old the cry went forth
“My kingdom for a horse”;
But in these days of racing cuts
The cry is for a course.
Ox
Up-to-date Version.
Mary had a little lamb.
And in her boasting way
Thought “What a patriot I am!
It was the beefless day.
H.M.
* * * *
King Hit.
“Peers of the Piano.”— Radio “session.”
Some peers attack the ivory keys with
willingness if not with ease. And though
their playing mightn’t please they’re never
downed. But our young Herb, though
he’s no peer, is even greater, that is clear.
When he belts our piano here he’s
promptly crowned.
Yair.
•I* 4* 4*
We’ve just heard of an optimist who,
when the doctor told him his indigestion
was caused by eating his wife’s burnt
toast, put in a claim under his fire-insur-
ance policy.
4* -I- -I- *
Gardening Made Easy.
VII.
Dealing with Pests.
Apart from the wife’s old man, who
keeps telling you how he used to grow
81b. cabbages down at Bidgeebillabong
and never needed artificial growth-
boosters, either, the gardener’s worst pests
are either insect or fungoid.
Of the insects, one of the worst is the
thrip. This pest can easily be recognised
by its habit of jumping forwards instead
of backwards from one leaf to another,
due to its being naturally weak in the
near-side hock. Also it is a dull greyish-
black under the microscope ; this renders
it easily distinguishable from the sweet-
pea mite, which is a dull blackish-grey,
and never jumps, but throws itself smartly
from stem to stem. This caution on the
part of the mite makes it harder to snare
than the thrip, but, with intelligence and
perseverance, both can be routed.
Now it is well known that the thrip is
allergic to tobacco. A Fellow of the
Horticultural Society—a very old Fellow
—has recorded that in ’62, when they
had bigger, better and more intelligent
thrips than they do now, it was sufficient
for him merely to tie a photo, of a
tobacco plantation to each of his rose-
bushes and the thrips would disappear
overnight. Nowadays the thrips don t
seem to understand, so more drastic
measures must be adopted.
The textbook experts advise you to
“dip and sponge the plants with an in-
fusion of tobacco.” Now to dip thor-
oughly a whole rosebush you’d have to
have a 400-gallon tank, with the top cut
out, full, and in these days of tobacco-
rationing this might be difficult. Also
think of the job of tearing up a climbing
Blackboy, the canes of which reach 30
feet along the fence and getting some-
thing to dip that in! Anyway, you’d be
lacerated before you got a fraction into
the tanks.
You could, of course, spongs the
thrip itself while it was sponging on
the plant. But, remember, it is reason-
able to suppose that the thrip, on seeing
you approaching with a sponge and a
bucket of tobacco juice, would imme-
diately hide around the other side of the
leaf. To have to sponge both sides of
the leaves, and then briskly rub the whole
plant down afterwards to prevent dieback
or pneumonia, is too much like hard work.
Why not do it simply and in comfort?
Get hold of the first rosebush in the
bed, give it a good tug, and when it
comes up knock all the earth carefully
from around the roots so as not to dis-
turb the thrips, which might otherwise
hop off and make for another bush. Then,
holding it perfectly upright, take the plant
inside and put it on the turntable of the
gramophone, with the worst jazz record
you’ve got already in place. Wind up
and switch on.
Now take a comfortable seat alongside
the gramophone, fill your pipe and start
puffing the smoke up under the leaves, for
that is the thrip’s favorite habitat. The
insects, dazed by the music and them-
selves going round and round, and too
frightened to drop off and get mixed up
in the awful din beneath them, will
quickly fall victims to nicotine poisoning.
None can escape, as the continual rota-
tion will bring them all within the scope
of the fumes.
Should the thrips only turn a bilious
yellow and still hang on, you will know
the cheap tobacco you are smoking isn’t
strong enough. You can get the neces-
sary lethal qualities by putting a few
scraps of old rubber in your pipe.
If you are a tobacco-chewer you can
practise your marksmanship, and per-
haps pick up a few bob in side bets with
the wife, by seeing how many thrips you
can drown in one shot. You might even
acquire that uncanny accuracy enjoyed by
movie sheriffs of Mid-West mining towns
who can annihilate flies on the wing at
45 feet.
Whichever method you adopt, be sure
to sprinkle sufficient earth back over
the roots when you replace the rosebush
in the hole, for it is best to keep the sun
off the tender root-fibres. Do each bush
in turn ; by the time you’ve finished the
last one a new generation of thrips will be
starting on the first one. But that is life.
Bo.
Miracle.
No longer miracles occur,
I used to think. But I must change
My views at once without demur :
Strange things still happen, mighty
strange !
I sat with lovely Jess and gazed
Upon the waters by the park,
When suddenly I felt amazed —
She passed a sensible remark !
T. W. NATHAN.
Exempt.
“Idle girls first in call-up.”
—‘‘Sunday Telegraph.”
Hardworking is Miss Superfine. A
strenuous day we here outline. She
struggles up at half-past nine, then off
to town she goes. She gets her curls
screwed in a bunch, and meets a languid
friend for lunch. And o’er the table
they will hunch, discussing clothes and
shows. A manicure and then a stroll;
some shopping or some bridge takes toll
of many hours ; and soon her sole desire
is for “some rest.” She drives off home
to dinner. Then she’ll bathe and change
her clothes again and see a theatre till
ten ; and, after, dance with zest. By
2 a.m. she’s home in bed. A weary day,
when all is said. “An idle girl?” Oh,
no! Instead, she’ll very sweetly chime:
“I’m never idle. Why, each day just
seems to me to fly away. I’m very busy,
I must say . . . I’m talking all the time.”
LOOBY.
Outrage.
I’ve just about had enough of that chap
in the flat downstairs! I mean the one
who beats his wife. He’s the lowest and
most despicable beast that I’ve ever come
in contact with.
I’m sure there’ll be a bust-up between
us. I’ve felt like spreadeaghng him ever
since lasi Saturday night, when he black-
ened both her eyes, busted her nose and
then cannicked her over the head with a
bottle of beer. She had to get twenty-
seven stitches.
Yes, he broke the bottle to fragments.
And here’s me can’t get one for love
or money!
T. W. N.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Regulations and the Merchant Navy
“Silent .Service” (B. 21 /10 / ’42) only
knows the half of the post-office regula-
tions affecting sailors. When I arrived
in Melbourne from overseas on a mer-
chant ship I wished to send a telegram
to my people in W.A., reply paid. “Will
I give the P.O. as my address?” I asked
the clerk. “Oh, no ; just send the name
of your ship and where she is berthed
and the reply telegram will be delivered
to you,” he said. When I expressed sur-
prise that this could be done, the clerk
said that it was different with the Navy,
but with merchant ships “it didn’t
matter.”
I decided that coming through the
tropics in midsummer with a cargo of
high explosives must have given me a
wrong sense of proportion.
Many are the instances of such queer
official reasoning; but what annoys
sailors most are the “bridge boards.”
On most ships the name is painted in
white letters, usually about two feet high,
on black boards on each side of the
bridge. At sea they are turned over so
the name faces inboard ; but when enter-
ing port they are lashed to the rails for
all to read. They can be read from a
long way off.
When a troop convoy had assembled
in an Australian port the ships were
numbered 1,2, 3,4, etc., and the crews
were told to refer to their ships by their
numbers in conversation to keep the iden-
tity of the transports secret. Imagine
the sailors’ disgust when they found that
anyone passing the docks in a tram or
a car could read the ships’ names on
the “bridge boards.”
If there is any particular reason for
having the name displayed, why put it
on the bridge? In most docks the ships
are pretty well hidden by the cargo
sheds ; when the name is so prominently
advertised, however, it can often be read
above the roofs.—J. H. (Vic.).
War Loan Policies
There is an English practice which
could be followed with advantage that
has not as yet been made available to
Australians.
The Briton wishing to invest in a public
loan an amount greater than can be
afforded out of income or ordinary sav-
ings can take out a special policy pay-
able by instalments over a period of 14
to 20 years or more. The company in-
sured with buys the specified amount of
stock and holds it for the stipulated
period or until the prior death of the
insurer. Thus the citizen is able to help
the State generously, makes a profitable
investment and ensures a return to his
heirs in the event of an early death.
There are various types of these poli-
cies, and they may be taken out for as
small a sum as £lOO. Hence even the
poorest can participate.
Similar facilities should greatly assist
the filling of Australian loans. Lyle
(N.S.W.).
Our Two Armies
I agree that there should be only one
Australian Army ; that there should be
two has always been ridiculous —almost
as ridiculous as the tactics of those who
are trying to make the matter a major
issue in party politics.
There are two armies because firstly,
the Menzies Government lacked the
courage to conscript the nation’s man-
power and weld it into one grand Aus-
tralian Army. Instead, it formed the
volunteer Second A.I.F. and sent the
New Diggers to defend Australia
where her front line was then situated,
the Middle East, at the same time encour-
aging the voluntary growth of the militia.
(The rest of the eligible man-power,
apart from the R.A.A.F. and Navy
volunteers, was allowed to carry on as if
there was no war on.) But I don’t seem
to recall Mr. Hughes, Mr. Fadden, Keith
Murdoch and other public-spirited gentle-
men decrying the fact then that we had
two armies. And that was the time when
the Empire’s, and consequently our own,
need was greatest.
There are two armies because,
secondly, the party to which the Curtin
Government belongs is opposed to the
principle of conscripting men for service
overseas. What the Government has done,
however, has been to conscript all avail-
able man-power for service in Australia
and Mandated Territories. Haying done
that, it has for some time now been
endeavoring to induce the C.M.F. per-
sonnel, by persuasion, to transfer volun-
tarily to the A.1.F., a course of action
that has been highly successful, with the
result that, while A.I.F. strength is grow-
ing daily, C.M.F. strength is .rapidly de-
creasing. Remembering the pitiful re-
cruiting campaigns conducted by the
Menzies Government, I cannot but think
that the present method is reasonably
satisfactory. Of course, the eligible mem-
bers of the C.M.F. could quickly solve
the whole problem by immediately trans-
ferring to the A.l.F—why they don’t
is, to say the least, puzzlipg.
Finally, if the Government should take
the advice of the Opposition and its
mentors, and weld the two armies into
one, what would be the suggested func-
tions of the new army? Would Labor
change its, policy and, if necessary, use
all or part for service overseas? Or
would the Opposition, aided by Mr.
Menzies’s flair for compromise, suggest
that it be used only as far as, say, the
Solomons?—T. G. M. (Vic.).
The Voluntary System
A.M.F. soldiers are being disturbed in
their training and their minds are being
unsettled by constant appeals to volun-
teer for the A.I.F. Worse still, pride in
their units, which should be fostered, is
“’ Struth , if he's gettin' on I"m gettin' orf !"
being weakened by suggestions that only
the A.I.F. is doing its full duty for Aus-
tralia.
The A.MVF.’s attitude to the matter is
varied. Many have heeded the appeal,
but many more are delighted at the
opportunity of being able to say “No” to
Authority; others profess contempt for
those who allow themselves to be “talked
into” joining the A.I.F.
Few, very few, would disagree with an
alteration in the law to enable them to
be used beyond Australian territory ; in-
deed the Government’s lack of courage
to make the alteration is one of the major
reasons given for not transferring.
Meanwhile because the Government
has not yet found that courage, these
appeals are going on all over Australia
and they are making the voluntary system
look cheap.— Don 5 (Q.).
Austerity Meals
Many people are still wondering what
all this propaganda concerning austerity
meals is about.
In Britain there is austerity on very
different lines. The Englishman can
obtain only one egg a month. The Aus
tralian gets two or even three with a
plate of bacon or steak in any cafe,
topped off by bread thickly buttered and
washed down by tea or coffee.
The Englishman thinks he is treating
himself well if he gets one egg, a small
strip of bacon and maybe a small cup of
tea.—B. N. H. (Q.).
Canteen Rationing
At a service canteen in W.A. the com-
mittee has decreed that any buyer of
tobacco, cigarettes, chocolates, boot
polish, etc., must turn in a wrapper or
container. This saves paper, cardboard
and tin, as well as being a mild form of
rationing. Civil authorities might apply
the principle with advantage.— B. Aus-
tere (W.A.).
Pulling Their Weight
Having reference to recent threats by
loud-mouthed members of the Govern-
ment that “white-collar” men are to be
compelled to pull their weight in the
war effort, the banks recently published
some rather impressive figures showing
how their staffs have responded. As
for another sheltered industry, the legal
profession, the Law Institute has just
published a list of solicitors who have
joined the fighting forces. It contains
575 names.
The last computation of the number
of solicitors practising in the State makes
the number 1750, a large number of 5
whom were admitted 40 years ago s and
upwards, so on the whole the devil’s bri-
gade shows up very well. It must be
remembered also that these gentlemen
did not take jobs in munition works, at
double and treble what they were making
before the war. In almost every case
enlistment means a substantial loss ol
income, and, in most cases, starting from
scratch again for those who come, back.
- Fit/, william (N.S.W.).
Married Women Teachers
Many married women in response to
urgent appeals have returned to the teach-
ing service since the outbreak of the war.
With the approach of the Christmas
vacation, which means for permanent
teachers at least six. weeks’ holiday on
full pay, these women in N.S.W. have
been notified that their services will be
terminated when the vacation com-
mences, but are advised that they may
be re-employed in the new year.
This, means that to avoid paying a few
pounds’ vacation pay the Department of
Education, adopting methods that are de-
nounced when resorted to by unscrupu-
lous employers of sweated labor, is dis-
missing these women without whose
assistance the position of the schools in
the matter of staff would have become
chaotic.
No doubt the Teachers’ Federation
will keep an eye on the situation, but it
would be interesting to learn the attitude
of the man-power authorities to this
action, and whether the Department of
Education can legally exercise this power
of dismissal.
The Police Commissioner found him-
self unable to dismiss an employee who
placed his patriotism before his job and
enlisted contrary to official orders. —
Actus (N.S.W.).
Saving and Spending
The piling up of savings by Austra-
lians ( B. 7/10/’42) is paralleled in Britain,
where, as in Australia, the cinemas are
taking an ever-increasing portion of the
people’s larger wages after what has
been deposited with the savings bank.
There, too, the complaint is strong that
workers are not heeding the insistent
calls to buy war certificates or invest in
other war necessities. Many in excep-
tionally good circumstances are content
to contribute sixpence a week to a factory
fund and be done with it.
London papers draw attention to the
fact that big cinema concerns, with rings
of theatres, have, in spite of increased
taxation and wages, made more money
than ever, an instance being one that
recorded an increased profit of £214,460
on the previous year. With four “sessions”
daily the Australian cinemas must be on
velvet these times. Until the Curtin
Government has a rakeoff from the sur-
plus wage by way of compulsory loan,
there is little likelihood of any stopping
of this extravagant spending,— Bill
Ding (W.A.),
New Order and Old Order
While everyone is agreed about a New
Order arising out of the war, no v one
has yet stated how it is to be brought
about, except implying in a vague way
that there will be an entirely new
monetary system, involving a fresh start
all round.
Three things which any worth-while
Government encourages people to own are
a savings bank account, a life assurance
policy and a friendly society member-
ship. The last accounts of the Common-
wealth Savings Bank (30/6/’42) show 165
millions of depositors’ balances, with 93
p.c. invested in Government and muni-
cipal securities. My life assurance society
has over 64 p.c. of its funds invested
similarly, while the friendly society I
am in has around 90 p.c. This is typical
of §uch institutions.
Before anyone thinks of wiping the
slate clean for a fresh start he might
reflect on what (he wiping out of that
93 p.c., 64 p.c. and c 4) p.c. would mean
to most Australians. —C. H. R, (S.A.).
Australian Films
I hope that after the war Australia will
go in for moving-picture production on a
large scale. A few pictures produced in
Australia, “Forty Thousand Horsemen,”
“Typhoon Treasure” and “The Flying
Doctor,” were of a standard equal to
anything Hollywood has produced.
There is a wealth of material to draw
on. For example, the epic overland trek
of the Duracks across the continent; the
trek of the Jardines through Cape York
Peninsula in the ’sixties, and feats of other
little-known explorers. Then the build-
ing of the telegraph lines and railroads
of the outback ; encounters with hostile
blacks ; the camel teams of the inland ;
the goldrush days; the bushrangers—
crammed full of incidents as stirring as
any Hollywood Wild West thriller ; the
big timber ; the cattle camps; the Great
Barrier Reef; the Mounted Police
Patrols of the Kimberleys ; and the pearl-
ing luggers of Broome.
Such pictures, acted by dinkum Aus-
sies, would be appreciated by the bulk of
the public and make them' aware of the
vast kaleidoscope of the Australian
countryside and its historic past.
Scenes for such pictures are not want-
ing-—from the Englishlike Tasmanian
countryside to the tropic jungles of the
far north and the deserts of the inland.
We have the country and the material;
why not the pictures ?—,G ip (N.Q.).
Dairy-farmers’ Subsidy
Dairy-farmers are not overcome by
enthusiasm for the subsidy idea, and
are still clamoring for a straightout in-
crease on the price of butter.* As a con-
sumer I naturally don’t enjoy the prospect
of paying more for butter, but when I go
shopping I find that, in spite of price-
fixing, I have to pay 40 p.c. more for
meat, 200 p.c. more for vegetables, 70
p.c. more for clothing and 200 p.c. more
for matches, not to mention cigarettes
and beer (which, being a woman, I don’t
have to worry about). So why pick on
butter alone as something on which a
low' price is sacred?
Wages have been allowed to rise as
the cost of living has gone up. For the
dairy-farmer, too, the cost of living has
gone up and the standard of living come
down, perhaps more sharply than for
any other section of the community.
War-time control and restriction have hit
especially hard.
The land man gets a raw deal. Pos-
sibly it is because he is a peaceful type
of citizen. Organised Labor has solved
the problem of getting what it wants. It
is not a case of “Ask and ye shall re-
ceive” but “Strike and ye shall have
abundance.” Living in an industrial
centre, one sees this policy in full action
and meeting with astonishing success
E. M. B. (N.S.W.).
Price of Fish
Of all fish coming into Sydney Muni-
cipal Markets the sale of only one species,
the mullet, is pegged to a fixed whole-
sale price of 6d. a pound. It is com-
mon to see side by side on the fish
benches black bream offered, and sold, at
2s. 6d. a pound and mullet at 6d. On
the journey from the markets to the
retail shop an incredible change in the
value of mullet takes place. A retailer
will unashamedly ask Is. 6d. and Is. 9d.
a pound for the fish. Surely the Prices
Commissioner is aware of this gross piece
of food profiteering?
A casual visit any morning to the fish
markets will reveal boxes of catfish being
bought up by fishmongers. One never
sees these truly labelled “choice fried
catfish” despite the fact that the flesh
is excellent eating.— John Dory (N.S.W,),


Charlie Jensen's
Double Life
In Charlie Jensen’s office at B.H.P. everything
reflects the “spit and polish ” tradition of the
men who go down to the sea in ships. Prints
of windjammers line the walls. Chief among
his treasures of the sea is a model of a wind-
jammer in a bottle. Problem: How did the
ship get in the bottlet Answer: It teas con-
structed with the masts lying flat, then slipped
inside the bottle and the masts pulled upright
by strings which slipped off the masts once
they were in position.
by WILLIAM J. DUNN
correspondent for Columbia Broadcasting System
of America , note touring Australia.
TALK to Charlie Jensen as I did,
amid the busy clamour of the
B.H.P. works where he is foreman
rigger, and you see only the “steel
man”. A man intensely conscious that
his particular job Is an indispensable
link in the long chain that keeps Aus-
tralia’s supply of war materials flowing
steadily from the home front to the
men at battle stations.
Not that Charlie Jensen speaks of this
in so many words. If you’re looking
for superficial patriotism, flag-wagging
and such, you won’t find it here. What
you will find is a steady determination,
plus an unshakeable faith in the
ultimate victory.
There is something here that a student
of human nature would seize upon at
once. An analogy between the charac-
ter of these steel men and the tough,
fine-tempered metal which they produce.
And back of all that there’s the human
touch. Like Charlie Jensen’s own par-
ticular personal reason for putting
more and more into his end of the job,
I didn’t discover it until we’d been
talking quite a while. It’s this. His
elder son, Charlie Junior, was one of
the heroic “Rats of Tobruk”.
I got the first clue to Charlie’s double
life when he showed me into his office.
Ships. He owns the most impressive
collection of prints and photographs of
windjammers that I’ve ever clapped
eyes on. Proud four-masters queening
it in full sail —as you looked at them
you could almost feel the stinging spray
and hear the wind in the rigging.
I asked Charlie about a perfect scale
model ,of a sailing ship that held pride
of place on his desk. By some extra-
ordinary means the fully rigged little
vessel was enclosed in an ordinary
bottle. Afterwards I found out how,
and the story is alongside the picture
above. “A model of the barque Dima”,
Charlie explained, and lifted it gently.
“Forty-two years. I’ve had this.”
The spirit of his Viking ancestors
showed in his eyes . . . Jensen is a
good honest Danish name . . . and I
wasn’t surprised when he told me that
he had served his time before the mast.
He left the sea 35 years ago, but has
never lost his love for the ships that
he knew.
Ask him about any of the sailing
ships that have crossed the seven seas
in his lifetime, and he will tell you
not only their tonnage, but their
temperament. Yes, temperament.
To a deepwater sailor a ship is a
living thing, a personality. She may be
well-favoured and well-behaved. Or she
may be a tricky jade whose erratic
whims are a trial to all who sail in
her. Or she may be downright unlucky.
Charlie "collects” wrecks as some men
collect sporting data. He is an authority
on the number of wrecks off the Aus-
tralian coast, and has the particulars
of each at his finger tips. He's seen a
few wrecks himself in his sailing days.
There was the 1902 disaster in Algoa
Bay, South Africa, when 19 ships were
driven ashore and 140 lives lost. “We’d
just rounded the Cape when it came
on to blow,” says Charlie. “I was in
the barque Glamis at the time. She
was a lucky ship,”
Someday he may write a book on wind-
jammers. He’s certainly the man to do
it. But right now he has a more press-
ing job on hand. Every man, he be-
lieves. must do “what he can these days.
You see this belief exemplified in his
family. His younger son, Norman, is
in the militia. Norman would have
liked to follow his big brother to the
Middle East and Tobruk, but the
authorities ruled that the youngest
Jensen was doing a pretty important
job in the steelworks already, so they
marked him down as “Reserved Occupa-
tion”. Norman carried the torch for
his brother, and went on making steel.
Steel is a family tradition. First
Charlie Jensen himself. Then his son.
Also his stepson John Miller —a B.H.P.
man for eight years now. And the next
generation will carry on. John Miller’s
baby son, John Junior, is already des-
tined to work for “the firm” when he
leaves school.
They make good steel, these men at
B.H.P. I think the answer lies in this
tradition that’s handed down from
father to son, from son to grandson.
Steel is their job, and they’re proud of
it. And. when a man feels that
inner pride in his work, he puts ixto
it an intangible quality that can never
be put there otherwise.
It’s something that springs from the
man himself, the same thing that men
of the old craft guilds put into their
work. Something compounded of loyalty
on the one side and understanding on
the other. Something that is the
natural outcome of a man’s feeling of
self-expression in his job and satisfac-
tion in his way of life. You could call
it by another name. You could call it
the spirit of a free people.
★ ★ ★
B.H.P. is a publicly-owned Australian
company with over 20,000 shareholders.
The people who founded and who direct
this company have laid the foundations
of a great national industry . . . Steel.
It is a tribute to the co-operation be-
tween management and employees that
steel from the B.H.P. plant has won a
leading place on the world's markets.
It is also a tribute to their spirit of
co-operation that Australia produces
steel at prices below that of the world
markets.
Charlie was persuaded to pose with some of his rare collection of wind-
jammer pictures. The group posing in the photograph he is holding is the
crew of the barque Glamis, taken in Puget Sound, America, in 1903. Charlie
was one of the ship’s crew.
