

Hi I
k
k*
k X
ii
The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” VoL 63.—N0. 3280
Wednesday, December 23, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CROWLAND ABBEY.
LINCOLNSHIRE, especially the Fen district, was famous
in early days for the extent and importance of its religious
foundations None more widely known than that which
ctr.rw-1 nn thp smith hnrHpr nf thp rmmtv miles from
Peterborough which toohad ite riseln tk founS of an
KW L Sa SJpH Kv thl nl! in%7o rebiSt
abbey m 656, destroyed by the Danes m 870 but rebuilt
afterwards. Crowland, or Croyland, it is variously designa ,
owes its origin to a hermitage founded about 650 by at.
Cuthloc. Of its abbey, founded by King Ethelbald and rebuilt
1112, a part, as will be seen in the illustration, is still used
by the Anglican communion as the parish church. The once-
popular conception of Abbeys as homes of superstition and
less undesirable things has now happily been abandoned, and
the tremendous work for civilisation and culture for which
they were responsible, as a whole, is generally admitted. Take
Crowland. The famous Chronicler Ingulphus was the Abbot,
and he flourished in 1030-1109. Born in London and educated
at Westminster and Oxford, becoming a notable Greek scholar,
at 21 he accompanied the Duke of Normandy to the Holy
Land and on returning entered the Benedictine Order at
Fontanelle Abbey> of which he becamc prior . Invited to
England by William the Conqueror in 1075, he was created
Abbot of what, even then, was the rich monastery of Croy-
land. The history of the monastery is interspersed with many
particulars of early English Kings. Abbot Adolphus history
was published by Sir Henry Savile in 1596 and reprinted at
Oxford in 1684. Almost a century ago it was again reprinted,
this time in London. The authenticity of the book has been
questioned, and the view is generally held that it is a fabri-
cation of the thirteenth or fourteenth centuries. Be this so
or not Ingulphus was a remarkable man. Crowland stands
at the junction of the rivers Nyne and Welland and the
Catwater drain, and here is a “relic of antiquity” exciting
almost as great an interest with the visitor as the Abbey-a
curious triangular bridge dating from the reign of Edward II
(13 07-27). It stands at the confluence of these waterways
and consists of three pointed arches which, having their abut-
ments at the angles of an equilateral triangle, meet in the
middle, giving three waterways and three roadways. Each arch
has three stone ribs and nine meet in the centre. From the
character of the masonry the bridge is believed to have been
built in the period mentioned. In a charter of the year 943,
curiously enough, antiquarian scholars point out, a “Croy-
land Triangular Bridge” is mentioned.


Learn
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin . ’
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
BUSBY OF MAORILAND.
It has many times been said on this
page that the best way to write a totally
inaccurate history is to regard the men
of past times, because they dressed differ-
ently from us, spoke a little differently
and faced different problems, as auto-
matically funny. And the second-best
way to write false history is to patronise
one’s hero, treating him, because he
lived 100 or 200 years ago, as not quite
adult, a small boy arousing affectionate
amusement. And the third-best way to
go wrong is to fall into the contemporary
fashion of debunking. From all these
faults Eric Ramsden’s Busby of Waitangi
(Angus and Robertson) is refreshingly
free.
If, dealing with part of the most color-
ful era in New Zealand’s history, the
biography is on the sober side, that is the
almost inevitable fault of its virtues —
patient and minute accuracy, fair-
mindedness, and, above all, the por-
trayal of Busby in correct historical per-
spective. A little less color (for there is
plenty) and it might have been a book
for historians only ; a little more (for its
drama is not emphasised) and it might
have been a best seller. It will be of per-
manent interest as a history, and as
general reading it should win a good
audience on both sides of the Tasman.
Busby was a pioneer of viticulture in
Australia and, as his father and brothers
remained in New South Wales while Mr.
Ramsden’s hero adventured in New Zea-
land, there’s plenty to interest Australian
readers. For instance:
Mrs. Busby arrived in Sydney when her
husband’s family was seriously concerned
over a paragraph in “The Australian” of
18th March, 1836. John Busby, snr., had
applied for exemption from serving on a
jury on the score of deafness. “The most
approved remedy for this defect is boring,”
observed the newspaper, “in the part of
which Mr. Busby ought to be by this time
perfectly au fait, having practised it with
no little pecuniary success for some years.”
Such a cowardly attack was more than
Alexander (whom John, jnr., called the
family’s “St. George”) could tolerate. He
challenged J. R. Hardy, the editor (whom
he called a tool or lickspittle to a de-
spicable faction) to a duel which took place
on Garden Island on 22nd March. Alex-
ander’s bullet passed through the editor’s
sleeve, and Hardy shot the “Laird of
Cassilis” through the trouser leg. The
editor later made a handsome retraction
and referred to his challenger as “a man
of honor and a gentleman.”
In New Zealand, Busby of Waitangi is
likely to make “news” as well as to be
welcomed as a fine achievement in his-
tory and biography, for James Busby
there has always been regarded as some-
thing of a joke ; and it is Mr. Ramsden’s
purpose—which he achieves—to prove
that, far from being a comic character,
Busby was a pioneer of empire and a
champion of the Maoris deserving all
honor. The present commentator con-
fesses with shame that his first comment
on seeing Busby of Waitangi brought in
for review was “Ah, the Man-of-War-
without-Guns!”; and proclaims now that
never again will he refer to Busby as the
M.-0.-W.-w.-G. and that if anybody else
refers to Busby as the M.-0.-W.-w.-G.
he will hit him gently on the side of the
head with a copy of Mr. Ramsden’s not
inconsiderable tome.
Somebody coined that abhorred phrase
to describe Busby’s absurd position in
New Zealand as the first British Resident
without a single soldier, a single police-
man or any semblance of power to en-
force his authority over the wild tribes
and still wilder whites (escaped convicts,
whalers, adventurers and desperadoes of
all sorts); and everybody, historians in-
cluded, got the idea that it was Busby
himself who was absurd. Not the New
South Wales Administration under
Governor Bourke, who (with his own
troubles to attend to) ignored all Busby’s
pleas for assistance ; not the British Gov-
ernment, which, not then wanting to be
bothered with another colony, was the
real culprit: Busby himself has taken all
the blame and all the mockery for a
situation the absurdity of which (facing
murder, robbery, debauchery, faction
fights among the missionaries, trade and
land squabbles among the whites, inter-
tribal Maori feuds and the gathering
storm of Maori resentment against the
invasion of their territories —all with the
ineffectual weapon of “prestige”) he
realised only too keenly and which, by
repeated appeals and reproaches to
Governor Bourke, he did his mortal best
to end.
Busby’s life was attempted ; Governor
Bourke could not afford the expense of
a soldier or a constable to protect him.
The Maoris quarrelled outside the Resi-
dency, two were killed, the house was
“filled with shouting Maoris and the
floors covered with blood,” Busby’s wife
and child were in danger: after “sleeping
on it” for 12 months. Governor Bourke
“decided against sending a force to New
Zealand; no British subject had been
interfered with, and there was insufficient
motive for armed intervention.” De-
ceived by an application which, stating
that Busby and the applicant (McDonnell)
lived on opposite sides of the island,
omitted to mention that the island was at
that point only 40 miles wide, the
Colonial Office appointed McDonnell an
Additional Resident and undermined
what little prestige Busby had been able
to maintain.
When at long last Busby‘managed to
have a Maori slave executed for murder
and, though well aware that justice could
never have been done if the murderer
had been a man of any consequence,
felt some satisfaction in the first practi-
cal demonstration of law and order in
New Zealand, Governor Bourke would
not approve until he had communicated
with the Colonial Office, and, the case
being referred to him, the Attorney-
General decided that the Governor
should not countenance “so strange a
proceeding” by paying the expenses
requested.
Busby was certainly a M.-0.-W.-w.-G.,
but it certainly wasn’t his fault. Yet a
historian of the standing of William
Pember Reeves fell into the fashion of
laughing at him and described his career
as “a prolonged burlesque—a farce with-
out laughter, played by a dull actor in
deadly earnest.” Busby’s attempts to
assert authority were “bloodless puerili-
ties” to Reeves. Mr, Ramsden has done
New Zealand a good service by correct-
ing this obviously inaccurate and super-
ficial estimate of the Resident.
The biography gives his full career—
emigration to Australia, term as New
Zealand Resident and Busby’s subsequent
bitter years of fighting for his land claims.
Mr. Ramsden stresses that Busby has
never been given due credit for his draft-
ing of the Treaty of Waitangi and (be-
sides giving a lively description of the
actual signing) demonstrates that Busby
played a much larger part in the making
of that well-meant but unlucky docu-
ment than has ever been generally known.
Two Fighter Pilots.
In time the politicians, the generals
and the rest will get their turn—no doubt
the disillusioned and the misfits among
them. For the present the war books
are in the heroic vein ; the best of them
by men who have themselves taken a
hand in the thick of it, some of the very
best by airmen, and one of the very best
Fighter Pilot, by Paul Richey, D.F.C.
(done in an Australian edition by Angus
and Robertson).
Fighter Pilot recalls that last-war clas-
sic War Birds. Written up from the
author’s diary (or more likely written
down, for it’s mentioned that the diary
ran to 100,000, and this is much shorter),
it gives the same impression of literary
roughness, but also of being authentic to
the last dot. Also, like War Birds, it
deals with men on the job learning
through experience. The same sense of
good fellowship runs through it; the
same feeling of reluctant acceptance as
that fellowship from day to day has gaps
broken in it.
A great difference is that —with the ex-
ception of “Cobber” Kain’s tragic end
and that of one or two others—nearly all
the gaps come from actual fighting. A
bitter feature of War Birds was the
number of these gaps made by mere acci-
dents. There has been a great improve-
ment in this, at all events; training acci-
dents in this war’s flying books are the
unusual instead of the commonplace.
The squadron with which Richey
fought was in France during the waiting
period, then in some of the heaviest fight-
ing, before they all had to get out. The
descriptions of air fighting are at least up
to anything yet done. By its record the
squadron must have been made up of
an extra good bunch of well-led fighters.
They put up the astonishing perform-
ance ;
From landing in France on September 9,
1939, until May 9, 1940: 26 enemy air-
craft destroyed; the squadron’s losses, one
new pilot.
From May 10, 1940, until May 19; 114
enemy aircraft fighters) destroyed;
the squadron’s losses, two pilots missing,
two wounded and one prisoner of war.
Total: 140 enemy aircraft destroyed.
The book itself is like that —packed
with fight and splendid courage. The
squadron, not the author or any other
individual, is the hero.
While also capital of its kind, Richard
Hillary’s The Last Enemy (Macmillan), is
altogether different. It is fairly straight
autobiography, much more consciously
a literary effort, and more in the tradi-
tion of last-war autobiographical novels
than of direct, plain personal experience
writing like Fighter Pilot and War Birds.
It has a novel’s title, and with very slight
alteration could have been made a novel.
The author is a young man —born in
Sydney in 1919 —who has had crowded
into one or two years of his life enough
high-tension living and enough physical
suffering to spread over the full span of
most 50 men. At Oxford, when the war
broke out, he was into it at once, though
holding (and taking in with him) the typi-
cal ideas of the long-haired of his day.
He trained in England and Scotland;
fought in the Battle of Britain; shot
down his share of Germans ; was himself
shot down in flames and dropped a long
way unconscious before he fell out of
his ’plane. He came to falling rapidly
alone ; managed to pull the release cord
of his parachute ; had a dreadful experi-
ence floating, very badly burned, in the
icy North Sea ; was rescued ; and, after
all that, had long stretches of hospital;
operation after operation; getting new
eyelids (four) grafted on and new lips.
The vivid story unfolds in three phases:
Oxford life in the year or two before
the war ; fighter pilot; hospital patient.
Throughout there is a nicely held balance
between, on the one hand, personal
drama and, on the other, good-humored
humor.
Good enough reading in its own right,
Hillary’s book has the advantage over
Richey’s of being the work of a writer.
Richey—back on the fighting job again
when his book was issued —might pro-
duce a continuation of Fighter Pilot, but
Hillary looks as good as certain to pro-
duce more and better books.
Celtic Twilight.
How much have Australian literature
and criticism changed in the last 30 years,
when in 1907 a critic in A. G. Stephens’s
“Australia” could reprove an Australian
poet for not using enough Irishisms in
his verse!
Bernard O’Dowd in his Fantasies
(Lothian) quotes a letter from “Owen
Roe O’Neill”:
Sir, you’re the only Irish poet that I
know of who writes pure thought. You
never consent to demonstrate the existence
of Irish poetry by saying “Erin go bragh”
once in a thousand stanzas. I suppose
you’ll be saying you’re not Irish, or that
you’re not an Irish poet. I’m sorry, then.”
The “Owen Roe O’Neill” who thus
pleaded for more of the brogue in Aus-
tralian poetry was, O’Dowd reveals, the
Miss Nettie Higgins whom we know
today as Mrs. Vance Palmer. Today, so
much have tastes and values changed,
Nettie Palmer would probably agree that
what marred O’Dowd’s verses was not
too little Irishism but too much of it.
O’Dowd’s Fantasies, a sheaf of prose
excursions reprinted from “The Heart of
the Rose” magazine (published in Mel-
bourne in 1907-8), are interesting as period
pieces, illustrating all that was best and
worst in the Celtic Twilight era of
Australian writing. Buoyant, sincere,
earnestly attempting to give a European
dignity to an Australian literature then
chiefly concerned with the Horse ; but so
mannered in style and inflated in tone as
to read almost comically today. The
opening paragraph, for instance—recall-
ing two stanzas that, for the sake of criti-
cal truth and the genuine poetry that lies
amidst the historical curiosa, O’Dowd
should have expurgated from “The Bush”
in his Collected Poems :
When She and I meet (almost nightly,
indeed in holiday times and on north-wind
days almost daily also) it is usually in the
vicinity of Chambers’ Pillar in Centralia;
for not only is it a convenient halfway
house in our separating desert, but there is
something so sacredly and intimately Aus-
tralian in the virgin solitude, something so
unspoilt and unspoilable in the native aura
of the place, that here surely is the
Olympus of the Australian dispensation,
where the gods we make by our virtues and
our powers shall abide and cherish us for
ever. Myers and his friends prefer River-
ina; Jephcott and his need the ripple and
roar of Kosciuskan waters; Williamson
(one of the petals of our own Rose, we
hope, and one who will be found very near
the heart itself) clings with his blue-eyed
friend to the opalescence over Matlock;
Roderic and Victor and Chris, with their
respective Deas, float faithfully, as an
efflorescence of its subtler glory, over the
blue and gold sunshine of Sydney; Gordon,
almost as a volcano cloud, hovers over
Gambier; Kendall wafts to grave Hebble-
thwaite at Georgetown his preference of
Araluen, even over the Tiers, the Derwent
and Wellington; while Jessie Mackay,
queen of the Southern Alps (and Jephcott
claims that Ross’s humpy is pitched some-
where over Maoriland, too), signals us all
that her Evarra dare not be ignored. But
oh, the perfume of the Rose of Desolation,
where She and I tryst! the simple yet in-
effable waft, as from a flowering bean-field
of Elysium, of breezes that mean Purity,
and Freedom unobsessed by the Past and
Love undeflected by infidel prudence as un-
tainted by stagnant dogmatism! There, if
anywhere, we say, from those throbbing
waves of pure heat shall our beautiful
Australia rise nubile to gladden and dower
the earth.
Things have come down to earth a bit
since 1907. Nobody on the present staff
of The Bulletin has been able to observe
that gallant veteran Rod Quinn actually
“floating” through the windows when he
comes in with a poem on a Friday.
Maybe, things have shrunk beyond
realism into pettiness. A course of
O’Dowd would do some of the contem-
porary depressed novelists and versifiers
a lot of good. Intrinsically, the notion of
the Centre not as the “Dead Heart” but
as the Australian Olympus is good critical
sense as well as good patriotism. O’Dowd
had the right idea;
By striving hard, in verse and prose,
to help plant a literature and a life here
which shall be racy of its virgin soil, blight-
proof to the enfeebling winds of either
English or Irish “colonialism.”
But he did not realise that, by using the
native idiom and by avoiding, as far as
possible, imported imagery, Paterson in
verse and Lawson in prose were —as he
was not —practising what he so enthusi-
astically preached.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“F.S.”: If the aim of the modernists
is to give us the horrors they certainly
succeeded in the Anti-Fascist Exhibition
of the Contemporary Art Society at the
Athenaeum, Melbourne. Their grinning
skeletons, emaciated children, skies drip-
ping blood and heaps of corpses make
the productions of the war artists of the
official persuasion look completely sissy.
Without probably having seen a skeleton,
a child suffering from emaciation —most
of them don’t mix in the circles where
these are to be noticed —or a corpse, they
have been able to conjure up the most
frightful images, visions and hallucina-
tions. The quality of the art is no better
and no worse than that displayed in pre-
vious shows of the organisation, but it is
fuller of pictorial invective.
The landscapes of Ethel Wardle at the
Le Meilleur studio-cafe, Melbourne, are
unpretentious little essays for the most
part, but none the worse for that. She
likes painting against the sun, a la
Gruner, about as difficult a problem as
any painter can give herself; but her
most pleasant work isn’t done from that
spectacular viewpoint. “Rain Clouds,
Mt. Dandenong” and “Riverside” look
more like unstrained bits of observation.
Highlights of a “cabinet exhibition” (it
means, this time, nothing over five
guineas) staged by the Australian Art
Society at Farmer’s Gallery, Sydney, are
some splendid splashes of color by Elaine
Coghlan, a series of sketches by John
Salvana in a new, broader, snappier style,
doves painted meltingly by Jerrold
Nathan and a good bush study by A.C.I
Reuben Gibson, R.A.A.F. Long-estab-
lished reputations are represented by such
painters as Duttilo-Rubbo, Garrett
Kingsley, G. V. F. Mann, monotypist
Tom Garrett, W. M. Whitney, Joe Hollo-
way (a good still-life), Frank Medworth
and Frances D. Ellis. Herbert Gallop
shows some of his pristine dash and vigor
in “Blue and White.”
A. A. Milne tbok hold of Kenneth
Grahame’s The Wind in the Willows and
shaped it into a fantasy for the stage,
“Toad of Toad Hall.” The book has long
been established as a favorite of child-
hood ; the play merits a place for itself.
As done by the Independents at their
North Sydney theatre it retains most of
the characteristics of traditional panto-
mime and adds a pre-Disneyan delight in
the antics of animals.
Melbourne University’s Tin Alley
Players didn’t set the Yarra aflame with
their third season of intellectual drama
at the Union Theatre, brought to a close
with “The Royal Family of Broadway,”
by Edna Ferber and George Kaufman.
This skit on a theatrical family and its
meanderings between Art and business
is said to be a hit at the celebrated
Barrymores, John and Ethel. The per-
formance of Keith Macartney, Ruby May
and others and Mr. Macartney’s produc-
tion would have earned the respect of
most professional entrepreneurs. But it
seems a pity that the alleged centre of
Melbourne’s culture should busy itself
with something that, in the best style of
box-office theatre, is described on the pro-
gramme as having been an “immediate
success” in U.S.A. and equally popular
in London. Aren’t universities supposed
to occupy themselves with more exalted
subject matter?


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
LIGHTWEIGHT WATERPROOF COAT
“THE SENIOR STORE”
/v
BUY
AND HOLD
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
The best Waterproof for the Country
Man and Outdoor Worker. Light-
weight Scotch Canvas, oil dressed.
Suitable for riding or walking. Storm
fronts, butterfly back, cape shoulders,
double arm pieces and two flap
pockets and leg straps.
Sizes 3 4 5 6 7 8
Chest 34" 36" 38" 40" 42" 44"
Length ... 46" 48" 50" 52" 54" 56"
At Anthony Horderns'. Price ... 99/6
4 Coupons Required
fd
f
<2
English Blue Drill Work Trousers, two
pockets and belt loops. At Anthony
Horderns'.
Sizes 30 ins. to 46 ins. waists. Price . 16/9
Size 48 ins. waist. Price 17/3
Size 50 ins. waist. Price 17/9
Size 52 ins. waist. Price 18/3
5 Coupons Required
(mm
- Trie
'-it _
Made in our own workroom from a reliable weave,
small dark check, Oxford finished, with a collar and
pocket attached. Sizes 14i ins. to 18 ins. neck. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 10/6
5 Coupons Required.
MEN’S OFFICERS’ BOOTS
In Tan, Black, and Brown grained leather, extra stout sewn standard
screwed soles of solid leather. Good fitting. Full and half sizes. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price 27/6
6 Coupons Required
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
SYDNEY
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


"FOLLOW THE SOMME"
By FLYING-OFFICER P. C. MULLENS.
‘ ‘ *T“ HEY’LL be no good for cloud
I cover anyway.” Simpson stood at
I the door of the dispersal hut
gazing at the few scattered clouds.
Behind him, framed in the soft April
sunlight, Ridge could see the ground
crews waiting around the ’planes. A little
flame of irritation burnt quickly in him
as he straightened up, his gloves in his
hand. Looking at Simpson, he wondered
angrily why the boy must always be say-
ing something trite and banal. They had
all looked at the clouds at intervals that
morning.
Ridge jerked his mind sharply away
from the thought of the need for cloud
cover and glanced at his watch —five to
eight. He looked around for Colteshaw
and saw him at the chart table with the
other observers, surrounded by a welter
of maps, rulers and calculators. As if it
mattered how accurate your course was
on a day like this. You would be able
to see the Somme estuary twenty miles
away.
Ridge pulled savagely at his Irvine
jacket, which had caught at the back of
his locker. Behind him Simpson chat-
tered on and on —vague, meaningless
words that meant nothing, even if you
listened to them. It was Simpson’s first
operational trip, so probably he was only
talking to cover up his nervousness, but
it was so natural, just as if he really wasn’t
nervous but as eager and confident as he
pretended to be. Ridge remembered him
at the briefing the night before, leaning
forward, his eyes intent and concentrated,
a half-smile hovermg on his parted lips.
Probably imagining himself doing deeds
of inci’edible valor, Ridge had thought
spitefully.
The observers had finished with their
maps and were getting into their flying
clothes. There wasn’t enough space with
all the lockers open and everyone moving
about to collect odds and ends, checking
and rechecking to see that they had for-
gotten nothing. “Bibi,” the Pole with an
unpronounceable name, was getting into
his boots. He was a thickset man with
very fair hair who had fought in Poland
and in France. He rarely spoke and one
never knew what he was thinking. He
made Ridge feel uncomfortable because
he knew, vaguely, something of the ex-
periences Bibi had been through ; things
that made his quietness and soft move-
ments seem inhuman, as if there must be
some awful tension wound up inside the
man which would inevitably snap. Ridge
felt that it was impossible for a man to
have seen the things the Germans did
in Poland—to have a wife there from
whom he had not heard —and yet be
calm and controlled.
Ten-past eight. The crews were in the
last stages of dressing. Some were wan-
dering around vaguely, looking at other
people’s equipment to see if they had
forgotten anything. A few were sitting
down talking in low tones, as if they
were afraid to raise their voices. A tense-
ness had descended upon the group with
the realisation that in ten minutes they
would be off. Little ribbons of conversa-
tion snatched at the growing oppression,
tangled, disengaged, became murmurs —
“only last week in the Thames estuary”
—“the new Focke-Wulf”—“danced at
the Savoy afterwards”-—“counted seven-
teen of them in five minutes.”
Anderson, the flight-commander, was
talking on the telephone, his voice calm
and assured but his fingers nervously
drawing little patterns on the table.
Simpson had suddenly become quiet and
was sitting tense on a chair. In the
corner “Bibi” was standing by his equip-
ment, motionless and impassive. Ridge
noticed with a sense of wonder that his
hands were perfectly relaxed. He seemed
to be completely detached from them,
simply waiting.
A pen scratched on paper. One of
the gunners was writing rapidly, trying
to get the letter finished before take-off.
The sound seemed to accentuate the
silence. Colteshaw was tapping his lower
lip with a pencil, taking a last look at his
target maps. Simpson, moistening his
lips with his tongue, was sitting erect,
his boyish face suddenly looking older.
The heavy flying clothes were making
Ridge hot, and he felt a trickle of sweat
behind his knees. He glanced at his watch
but didn’t notice the time. A pilot was
putting cartridges into his revolver and
Ridge found himself counting them. The
snap of the breech rang in the silence.
Suddenly there was the sound of foot-
steps coming towards the door. It was
the wing-commander, dressed in his fly-
ing suit and accompanied by the Intelli-
gence Officer. There was a grating of
chairs and a rustle of flying clothing as
they stood up and something like a long
sigh as the tension broke. The wing-
commander motioned them to be seated
and smiled, glancing around quickly to
see if everyone was ready. He spoke
briefly to Anderson and then turned to
the centre of the room: “You all know
what you have to do, and you know your
formation positions. The two flights will
separate near Amiens, each going to its
own target. ‘A’ flight takes off first.
Good luck.”
From outside there was a deep cough
and the steady roar of a motor —then
another and another. Ridge signalled
Colteshaw with his eyes, and each started
to collect his kit. The gunners, who were
nearest the door, picked up their para-
chutes and went out to their ’planes.
Everywhere there was sudden movement
and purposeful activity; the tramp of
feet and the clink of parachute harness,
voices raised a little above normal, as if
to overcome the last traces of the strain
which had been apparent in the previous
silence.
Simpson was chatting and laughing
with his observer. The laughter in-
furiated Ridge. How could you be frivol-
ous when most of your friends had died
and you might die yourself in an hour?
He threw his cigarette on the floor and
ground it out viciously with his heel.
Then, picking up his gloves, he pushed
his way in front of Colteshaw and strode
angrily outside.
|\J EARLY all the ’planes had been
1 started now, and the ground crews
were waiting restlessly. Ridge handed
his parachute to a fitter and climbed on
to the wing. He was hardly conscious of
the activity or of the eager faces of the
ground crew. From the moment he had
stepped on to the ’plane his whole con-
sciousness had become concentrated on
his machine. His mind was working
smoothly, running ahead of his actions.
He sat down in the cockpit and snapped
the harness into position. His eyes flicked
for a moment to each instrument, deft
hands adjusting, moving and checking.
He tested the controls and then slowly
opened the throttles. He experienced a
feeling of intense pleasure as the tone
of the motors changed into a deep-
throated roar. Throttling back, he opened
each motor separately and tested the
switches.
The wing-commander was taxi-ing
out and the rest of “A” flight preparing
to follow. Ridge spoke into his mouth-
piece asking his crew if they were ready.
The wing-commander’s ’plane raced
down the runway in a whirl of noise,
tucking its wheels up into the engine
nacelles in a smooth, graceful movement
as it flashed over the boundary fence and
climbed steadily to port. Another ’plane
followed and then another.
Now Anderson was taxi-ing out. Ridge
signalled to the ground crew and the men
ran in and removed the chocks. He
nodded to the flight-sergeant and acknow-
ledged his salute with a wave of his
hand. His fingers were caressing the
throttles softly as the big machine moved
gently. Halting at the edge of the run-
way for a moment he ran up the engines,
and then swung around into line. For
a moment the ’plane poised, gathering
its strength, and. then with a surge of
power roared forward. The track be-
came a blurred ribbon of color flashing
underneath. The whole world dissolved
into a crescendo of sound hurling itself
forward to infinity. There was a breath-
less instant of suspense, and then time
and distance slid back to reality as the
’plane climbed steadily into the air.
Ridge relaxed, a smile hovering on his
lips. Looking over his left shoulder he
could see the two formations getting into
position. He climbed unhurriedly,
making a wide sweep of the aerodrome.
Below them the mellow half-tones of the
English countryside greened the hills and
valleys, and Ridge found that he could
almost understand Simpson’s youthful
eagerness in the light of his own feeling
of well-being and mastery.
The two flights swung into position,
with “A” flight slightly to the left and
about three-quarters of a mile ahead.
They climbed steadily in open “V” for-
mation, with each pilot intent on his own
work.
Anderson was leading “B” flight, and on
his right and slightly behind was Simp-
son, with Ridge behind and to the right
of him again. A sergeant was flying on
the left of Anderson, with “Bibi” on the
left of the sergeant. Away ahead of
them a sharp break in the ground pattern
showed the coast, and beyond a pale-blue
carpet stretched into the haze. Soon
they would be at the rendezvous with the
fighter escort.
And there they were! About a mile
away and about a thousand feet above
them two squadrons of Spitfires were
coming in two groups of twelve ’planes
flying in echelon to port. Ridge’s pulse
quickened. Well, now it was on. Below
was the English Channel and, somewhere
behind, the coastline. The two forma-
tions of fighters separated, one going for-
ward to act as close escort to “A” flight
and the other staying with “B” flight.
“Hello, ‘B’ flight, close in—close in.”
It was Anderson speaking, and the ’planes
levelled off their climb and moved into
close formation.
'T- HEY flew on. Below them spread
1 the pale, quiescent sea. Ridge had
lost all sense of time. No longer was the
day measured in hours and minutes ; it
was measured in aeons of suspense. Their
whole lives were being lived in a void of
waiting —waiting for the French coast
and the Somme estuary ; waiting for the
Messerschmitts and Focke-Wulfs ; wait-
ing for the little black puffs of deadly
flak groping for them in the clear blue
sky ; waiting for Abbeville, for Amiens,
for their target. And while they waited
little claws of fear dug at their stomachs
and caught them with cold, tight fingers.
“Smoke trails above to the left, sir.”
Ridge’s gunner was sweeping the sky with
keen, probing eyes, alert for the tiny black
dots that might suddenly grow into a
flash of metal snarling death at them.
“Coming our way. They look like our
high cover. I think there are two squad-
rons.” Colteshaw’s voice was steady and
without any trace of emotion.
They flew on. High above two Spitfire
squadrons flew in loose battle formation,
weaving gently, alert for the enemy.
Time poised like a gull, motionless. The
steady roar of the engines muffled, puls-
ing with the blood in their ears. Below,
the sea, an endless blue lost in a purple
haze. For an age of timelessness and sus-
pense they hung between the earth and
the sky.
“There’s the French coast.” A vague
line parted the haze in the distance.
Gradually it grew larger, and the impres-
sion of distance and movement slowly
flooded back. The strain of waiting and
the suspense gave way to a little stirring
of excitement. Ridge relaxed in his seat
and moved slightly to take up a more
comfortable position. The feeling of un-
reality and of being motionless, which
gave this first part of the trip a dream-
like quality, disappeared. The Somme
estuary lay ahead of them, its foreshores
bare in the morning sunlight, a Lillipu-
tian etching on a monster canvas.
“Something in the sun!” The shout
came from Colteshaw and Ridge’s eyes
jumped involuntarily to the left. He saw
the two Messerschmitts diving steeply
from a great distance. They were dis-
covered now, and soon the enemy fighters
would be mustering.
Ridge moistened his lips with his
tongue, trying to concentrate wholly on
his flying. Simpson was flying steadily
in good formation and it was not difficult
to stick close to him. Out of the corner of
his eyes he could see “Bibi’s” ’plane,
seemingly motionless, opposite him. “Fol-
low the Somme to Abbeville” he was
thinking, “then to Amiens, then to the
target.” He would concentrate on each
point till it came sliding underneath and
then concentrate on the next one. Time
itself was meaningless when seconds were
hours.
THE estuary was below them now and
the fields and villages seemed like
miniatures set in a foil of green patch-
work. They could discern no movement,
and the tranquillity of the surrounding
countryside seemed a startling anachro-
nism. It was impossible to believe that
down there an implacable foe watched
and waited.
A little dark cloud mushroomed sud-
denly to the right of the “A” flight for-
mation, and then a bunch appeared
slightly behind, little white-and-black
blobs of smoke, feathery and harmless-
looking—“flak.”
They flew on. Below and to the left
two bursts stabbed at “B” flight, then
three more, one after the other at second
intervals, bursting dead ahead, each one
getting closer. Anderson led the flight
without wavering, flying straight on in
spite of the barrage.
Now the guns at Abbeville were open-
ing up, and little flaming points of light
floated up towards them. Slowly —slowly
they seemed to rise, curling in a gentle
arc towards the ’planes ; German Bofors
guns giving a frantic fireworks display.
They came up in a dozen separate
streams, each stream with six or eight
little red dots following one another in
effortless flight. It seemed to Ridge as
if they were being filmed in slow motion.
Then, as they got nearer, they suddenly
seemed to accelerate and flashed past as
a continuous stream of orange fire. For
a single moment they were all around
them, the whole sky was filled with a
diffused kaleidoscope of flame, and then
nothing.
“I don’t think anyone’s been hit.”
Colteshaw was looking anxiously at the
other ’planes.
Gradually the blue pastel sky filtered
back and Ridge wiped the little beads of
sweat from his forehead. Abbeville was
behind them and the Somme flowed tran-
quilly on their right.
“O OLLOW the Somme. Follow the
L Somme to Amiens.” Ridge had
fastened his mind on Amiens now. It
lay somewhere ahead, and the distance
between was a gulf his imagination re-
fused to span. They flew on.
“Where the hell are the Hun fighters?”
Colteshaw, with his gloved hands over
his eyes, was vainly trying to look into
the sun.
High above them the escorting fighters
were weaving lazily to and fro, while
behind them the close escort seemed in-
different and unconcerned. The sun
seemed to be blazing into the cockpit,
and a little trickle of sweat ran down the
corner of Ridge’s eye. His left arm was
getting tired from the strain of continu-
ously holding the throttles, and he relaxed
his grip and shifted restlessly in his seat.
He noticed a small ache in his back and
the muscles in his shoulders were tiring.
He kept his eyes on Simpson’s ’plane
and moved in closer to his wing. As
soon as he started to close in he saw
“Bibi’s” ’plane slide forward too, and he
marvelled at the alertness of the man.
The strain of waiting was beginning
to tell on his nerves and he felt a little
pulse throbbing at the side of his head.
He wanted to tear his eyes away from
Simpson’s ’plane and search the sky. He
knew that the German fighters must be
somewhere about and wondered why they
hadn’t attacked.
The tension increased. Around them
the sky seemed to be languid and inno-
cent, and below them the brown-and-
green quilt basked sleepily in the morn-
ing sunlight. The muffled roar of the
engines droned on and on. Ridge tried
to make his body relax, but he
knew it was taut with waiting and it
would not obey his mind. His left hand
was gripping the throttles tightly again.
On and on. They seemed to have
been flying for hours. The pulse in his
temple throbbed violently, and he took
his hand from the throttles for a moment
to ease a finger under his helmet.
“Amiens!” Ridge jumped as the word
bit into his earphones.
“There shouldn’t be any ‘flak’ out
here.”
They were bypassing the town by six
or seven miles in order to make a
straight run down on their target and far
enough away to be out of reach of the
town defences. A few of the closer bat-
teries fired, however, as the “A” flight
’planes swung to the right on the way
to their own objective.
i < J__| ELLO, ‘B’ flight, here they come,
t ' look out! ” Anderson spoke clearly
and Ridge felt a thrill of excitement as
he glanced quickly around.
“Christ!” The word burst from his
lips in a rising exclamation, suddenly
bitten off short as the first of the four
Messerschmitts began to fire.
They were comiqg in very fast from
the starboard quarter, making an almost
head-on attack in line astern. Away
above them a whole squadron was diving
across the track of the British aircraft
from starboard to port, preparatory to
making an attack from out of the sun,
and high above them again there was a
confused jumble of dots showing that
the high cover was engaged.
It seemed to be at the same moment
that the first Messerschmitt opened fire
that the close cover flashed over the bom-
bers’ heads to engage them. Ridge was
conscious of an instantaneous flicker as
the German tracer bullets and shells
o Continued on page 17.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 3280.
Wednesday, December 23, 1942.
TO THE ONES AWAY!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opjx
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : I Hare Place , 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE MAIN ENEMY.
As far as Australia is concerned there is
no doubt about the identity of this party.
It is first and above all the Jap. An
Allied loss in Europe would be bad
enough. A win for the Jap would mean
immediate actual enslavement of every-
body, and, soon enough, the wiping-out
of the race. The name would change ;
the people would be obliterated; this
country and New Zealand would be
extensions of Asia, taken over and wholly
populated by Asiatics.
That is something of what driven Mr.
Curtin knows to be at stake in suggest-
ing a change in the Defence Act that will
permit the supreme military command
to use Australian forces as present needs
and developments dictate. Since he
tossed the destiny of Australia as a ball
for clumsy mediocrities to play with the
clumsy-fisted have not produced one
argument indicating the faintest idea of
what is at stake. They have produced
nothing but old party political catchcries.
Yet they can have no doubt about
what the alternative they would permit
would mean. They cannot be unaware
that the job which is Australia’s main
interest in the war as it has developed
is a staggering one merely to contemplate,
let alone accomplish in the only way in
which it can be accomplished by
fighting the Jap until he is militarily
defeated. There can be no excuse today
for affected ignorance or for under-
estimation on either of these scores.
There was some sort of excuse a while
back, when “famous correspondents” and
others were cluttering their columns and
deafening the air with their childish find-
ings. The Jap, they reckoned, would be
a “pushover” ; economic blockade would
beat him ; he was the world’s worst flier ;
he was “bogged down” in China and had
lost the pick of his army there.
There was all the more excuse for the
ignorance this engendered in that scarcely
any other reports on Japan were then
published. It was as if the public in the
countries vitally concerned wished to
think that the Jap, if he dared, would be
easy ; and the writing and talking boys
were only too willing to cater for tire
public preference. Today the very re-
verse is happening. All the old hawked
fallacies are going holusbolus to the gar-
bage-tip, and being replaced by what, on
all the evidence, looks like honest attempt
at true and realistic estimates. It must
be a curious sort of patriot who can
examine this new mass of appraisal and
still think either that the enemy closely
threatening Australia’s very existence can
be defeated by limited means, or that in-
vasion by him of this country would be
polite and painless.
In the new estimate, instead of the war
with China having “bogged down” the
Japs and killed off the best of their
trained fighters, “the Japanese Army has
one great advantage over the United
Nations in the Far East —five years of
hard fighting in the China war, a proving
ground to build a tough, veteran army”
(Joseph C. Grew, last U.S. Ambassador
to Japan). Instead of economic blockade
being alone enough to set the Japs back
on their heels: “The Japanese cannot be
starved out. They will eat less and suffer
more and keep on fighting” (Ray Crom-
ley, who spent years in Japan). Instead
of the oft-told tale of the Japanese people
being so fed-up already with their end-
less war and colossal losses in China that
they would view any extension of war
with a dismay that would lead to revolt:
“It is futile,” reports Mr. Grew, “to
expect that the Japanese people would
rebel against the military clique, for the
Japanese Army is inextricably bound up
with the life of the people.”
Reams of hopeful stuff was churned
out about the Japs as airmen. Their eyes
were “set wrong.” They had “no
sense of balance, because when they are
babies their mothers carry them on their
backs and their heads wobble around all
■ the time.” Instead of this sort of thing,
the typical estimate of today runs :
“During the last four and a half years
the practice Japan’s fliers have had
in fighting China has made them very
good indeed. Not only has Japan’s flying
and bombing efficiency improved greatly
over those days, but airplane production
in the islands has kept pace with human
improvement.” (Hallett Abend, who spent
years in Japan and in China.) Also, by
the same authority, for the part-enlight-
enment (if possible) of those who appear
to believe that training for fighting and
“social security” should coincide, and
who, anyway, appear to be, or pretend
to be, oblivious of the nature of the race
that threatens Australia’s existence:
The Japanese Army catches future
. pilots very young. In addition to the
Air Military Academy, the army has a
special school for what it calls “boy air-
men.” Boys 15 or 16 years of age, after
a gruelling period of basic training, are
classified as future pilots, as expert main-
tenance men, as flying radio operators or as
gunners on armed ’planes.
From the former isolationist New
York “Daily News” comes a summing up
of what has increasingly become the
general public view in the U.S.A., where
there are now few of the delusions still
suffered or enjoyed by the limited-lia-
bility exponents in Australia, which
country is obviously in incomparably
greater danger than the U.S.A. is or
ever could be, and has more at stake in
the issue—the difference between sur-
vival or racial obliteration-—than the
U.S.A., Britain, Russia, Germany, Japan,
China or any other country engaged,
except only New Zealand. As the “D.N.”
sums up:
Victory in this war is not going to come
cheap. It will cost more than need be,
too, if we continue to regard the Japs as
comical little rascals who will beg for peace
the moment Germany caVes in, or who can
be smacked down with little trouble if
they insist on fighting after Germany caves.
The Japanese are tough and savage war-
riors, and as firmly convinced as ever that
they can lick us. It is high time for us to
realise just how dangerous they are, and to
direct our movements accordingly.
Directing our movements accordingly
is the essence of the Curtin plan. This
is a belated (and, as handled, a con-
temptibly shabby) acceptance of the obli-
gation a country these days underwrites
when it goes to war. The barefaced
proposition of its opponents is that a
country can go airily into modern war,
and then let the fighting be done by the
courageous few. What they haven’t yet
caught up with is that war these days is
total; once entered upon, it becomes
the direct personal concern of every one
of a country’s population. That is the
general position. The limited-liability
crew, in Australia’s present position, go
worse than refusing to accept that. With
Australia directly threatened, and with a
terrible job ahead removing that threat,
they still believe the few should do the
fighting.
The precedent for ending this—airily
entering into total war on a limited-lia-
bility scale —had to be set some time, now
that all wars must be total. Whatever
decision those to whom Mr. Curtin tossed
the ball reached, it would still be Parlia-
ment’s national duty to set that prece-
dent. Set, it will hold for the future.
The time has gone for ever when wars of
any sort —let alone war with racial sur-
vival directly at stake —could be entered
into on the tacit understanding that the
fighting would all be done by volunteers.
That other barefaced proposition im-
plicit in the stand of the limited-liability
crew —that Australians should wait for
invasion and then fight here —can be de-
scribed only as incredible indifference to
what that would mean. There is today
no more excuse for disregarding the
nature of the beast that would come
out hideously in such circumstances than
in underestimating the Jap as a fighter.
The two go together. In view of the
known Jap performance among the
Chinese, among natives and missionaries
in the Solomons and elsewhere, the now
widespread notion that the Jap fights
fanatically because he believes his Em-
peror divine and he himself dedicated
would seem to be in need of amendment.
Hallett Abend reports that “in China,
Japan has taken almost no prisoners.”
Chinese prisoners of war are shot, with
the exception of captured officers or fliers
from whom information may be extorted by
torture. After the torturers finish with
them the victims are shot in the back of the
head. Such is the treatment also adminis-
tered by the Japanese to Chinese wounded
abandoned on battlefields during a retreat.
This observer reports—and legions now
support him —that much of what the
Japs have done to their country’s ever-
lasting shame is “too terrible to be told
or written.” He reports on the “educa-
tion” of Jap children in savagery and
brutality, with schoolbooks showing in
pictures the slaying of Chinese. “By this
time, doubtless, companion volumes are
being printed, showing Japanese killing
and torturing Americans, British, Nether-
landers and Australians.” He declares
that the full story of Nanking cannot be
told, because it is unprintable. A frag-
ment of it that he records tells of hap-
penings at a Nanking civilian refugee
camp. The Jap soldiers
would go to the camps in great numbers
and call out that one hundred, maybe two
hundred, women and girls must come to
them or they would machine-gun the whole
place. They actually did machine-gun one
camp. After that, the Chinese women,
with faces like stone and with compressed
lips, walked out to the soldiers and were
dragged away in the darkness.
The observer insists that the “atrocity
stories are not fables; they are based
upon grim and terrible facts.” He points
out that the difference between the
known Japanese reasonably good be-
havior in the Manchurian campaign and
what has happened since is that in Man-
churia they wanted to keep the country
and its people as an integral part of their
Empire ; in China they aim to terrorise
and enslave ; in the south they aim to be
feared for generations to come. To this
programme it can be added that their aim
in Australia would be to exterminate and
take over. They would seek to do this
by animalistic methods which must be
beyond the imagining of the limited-lia-
bility crew, but which must sicken the
thought of anyone capable of thinking
beyond the length of his own shadow.
It could happen here: if Diggers and
Americans were not up there fighting to
keep it away it would be happening here
now —all that has happened in China, and
worse. The plain duty of Australian
statesmanship is to do everything nation-
ally possible to prevent it ever happening
here.
Message from Anthony.
In the House of Commons on December 2
Mr. Anthony Eden, one of the authors
of the Anglo-Russian alliance, that
curiosity among international arrange-
ments which, as historians will note, is
concerned only with the war in Europe,
surveyed the political future of that con-
tinent, from which he rarely withdraws
his eyes. “Whether we like it or not,”
he said, “we” being Britain, “we are
part of Europe. What is our message
to the nations of Europe?” That “we”
have “established co-operation with the
United States, China and Soviet Russia.”
When the fighting is over these four
Powers will have a virtual monopoly of
armed strength, and that armed strength
must be used in the name of the United
Nations to prevent a repetition of aggres-
sion. Other Powers, be they great or small,
provided they are willing to play their part,
will be happy in the enjoyment of that
independence for which they have fought
so 10ng... .Never again shall we turn our
backs on Europe. That, I hope, is our
message to Europe.
There was no “message” for the
Dominions fighting for their lives in the
war not mentioned in the Anglo-Russian
alliance, or for Asia, except the bit about
China being one of the Big Four.
Obviously noting this lack, the Turks
became uneasy. They have lost a great
part of the empire of the Sultans, most of
it after wars with Russia, and their rela-
tions with that Power became difficult
after August, 1939, when M. Saracoglu,
the present Prime Minister, visiting Mos-
cow and finding Molotov busy with Rib-
bentrop, was sent away with a flea in his
ear. London soon learned that “Mr.
Eden’s suggestion that British, Russian
and American forces will ensure post-war
security has caused disquiet among Turk-
ish newspapers and politicians.” They
“expressed the fear that Russia, which
has not given assurances under the
Atlantic Charter, would be preponderant
in the policing of Europe.”
This fear is not confined to the Turks,
and it will take a great deal more than
the vague assurances of Mr. Eden to
allay it. The writer of the foreign-affairs
article in the October “Contemporary
Review,” referring to “the fact that the
British Labor party has joined issue with
the British Communist party in an un-
compromising spirit,” points out that this
is “merely one of many manifestations
of widespread anxiety and confusion over
the part now being played by Commu-
nist organisations throughout the world.”
To the minds of the vast majority of the
British and American people all ideological
or theoretical concern about Communism
is driven into the distant background by
the Nazi menace. In Latin America, in
neutral Europe and in China, the question
of present Communist activity and its
future importance looms large in popular
discussion.
Characteristic of “the general uneasi-
ness” is the attitude of Portugal. Paying
an enforced visit to that country, our
Mr. Spender found the people friendly
and loyal to the ancient alliance with
England. Their ruler is Dr. Salazar,
who, though his machinery of govern-
ment is authoritarian, has succeeded in
promoting their national interests and
raising their credit among the nations
without shedding their blood. One of
the few men who, in a world full of
perils for neutrals, are not afraid to
speak out, he told the Axis that its dreams
of conquest and despotism would be
shattered.
Any intention of building on a basis of
violence and of the oppression of peoples
and consciences must be renounced. Re-
spect for the signed contract and for the
pledged word must be restored... .The idea
also must be abandoned that such and
such a people can be blotted off the map
on the pretext of having been vanquished.
A nation cannot be suffocated. France must
recover her so essential place in the world
equilibrium.
But in another pronouncement Dr.
Salazar, while professing loyalty to the
alliance with Britain, declared that, as
a result of the Anglo-Russian alliance,
“many people will be ready to confuse
an eventual British victory with an ideo-
logical victory for Communism.”
Of Latin America the “Contemporary
Review” man writes that “nowhere in
the world has the confusion of ideologies
caused more havoc in public opinion.”
Even those who were democratic by
tradition and sympathy have found this
ideological confusion too much for them.
In China, to which so great a part in
the post-war world is assigned, there is
a powerful Communist movement which
raised its own military forces, though “a
sort of Trotskyist and Stalinist division of
opinion on strategical methods has de-
veloped.” Both sections agree that “the
Chinese Revolution is part of the Com-
munist World Revolution and that the
ultimate goal is the full establish-
ment of a Communist regime in
China.” The section corresponding to
the Trotskyists opposes a united front
for war purposes as “diverting the
Comintern from its task of revolu-
lutionary class-war for the sake of the
immediate State interests of the U.S.S.R.”
The other and larger section, “adopting
the same ) tactics as the British Com-
munists, concentrates upon a Russian
victory, and to that end demands national
unity, the mental reservation being made
that as soon as that victory is won the
means will be found for an instant re-
version to the policy of national dis-
ruption, to the equal discomfiture of
capitalism, bourgeois privilege and re-
ligion.” This is the section which has
been lauded for upwards of ten years by
English-speaking Communists and wan-
dering Left-wing writers, and represented
in Australia as fighting for us.
American reactions to Mr. Eden’s
outline of his plan for the New
Europe have not been revealed in
Australia by the recognised agencies
of information, press and radio hav-
ing been too busy wiping out the
Germans in Russia by every means short
of drowning them in vodka; but the
president of the National Association of
Manufacturers may have had it in mind
when he made these few remarks:
I am not fighting for a quart of milk
for every Hottentot or irrigation schemes
on the Danube or Governmental handouts
of a free Utopia. I am not interested in
any other form of economy or government
than our own. I am not making guns or
tanks in order to win the People’s Revolu-
tion. I am making armaments in order to
help our boys to save America.
On the other hand, the gentleman may
have been provoked by the insensate
attacks on General Eisenhower’s arrange-
ment with Admiral Darlan. These
attacks have come, not only from the De
Gaullists, but from the peculiar people
who launched the Second-Front-in-France
agitation, now dormant though not for
long: in Britain, the Communist party,
Left-Wing Labor members, the Beaver-
biook press, stunt journalists on other
papers and academic Leftists like the car-
toonist Low. They are very stupid and
very dangerous. They should have ceased
when President Roosevelt explained that
the arrangement with Darlan was no
encroachment on the right of the French
nation to choose its own rulers and form
of government when free to do so, and
had been made “to save American,
British and French lives and render un-
necessary a mopping-up period in French
Morocco and Algeria which would have
enabled the enemy to build up strong re-
sistance in Tunisia.” This in fact the
enemy has done, and it is not pleasant to
contemplate what would have happened
had the Anglo-American forces been
obliged to fight their way into Tunisia
through the other French possessions.
To the Americans it must seem that,
with Algiers, Casablanca and Dakar
under Anglo-American control —Dakar,
scene of the De Gaullist fiasco in Sep-
tember, 1940 —Darlan has delivered the
goods. It must seem to them also that,
since the diplomatic and military arrange-
ments in French North and West Africa
were placed under their control for the
period of the great operations now in
progress, they had as much right to come
to terms with Darlan, forgetting what
he said and did between lune, 1940, and
October, 1942, as the British had to come
to terms with Molotov, forgetting what
he said and did between August, 1939,
and June, 1940 ; and that the agitation
worked up by the Peculiar People in
Britain is "the rankest impertinence.
One thing is certain: American
opinion will have to be handled very
carefully ; and that goes for Australia as
well as Britain. Hating and despising their
own rabble of Communists as they do,
the Americans, though set on delivering
the suffering peoples of Norway and
Western Europe from the horrors of
Nazi “order,” will not be parties to hand-
ing them over to the horrors of Com-
munist revolution. They will decide their
own course of action, but pandering to
what the “Nineteenth Century” calls
“Fascism on the Left” will have no part
in it.


PLAIN ENGLISH
W.A. to the Rescue.
which has barely one-fifteenth of the
population.
As a Westralian by choice, the Prime
Minister must be proud of this grand
record, and pained when he sees so many
familiar names on the casualty lists. As
a politician he must be conscious of a
return to the feeling expressed in those
great Westralian votes for conscription
and related, now as then, to the belief
that no section of our fit manhood should
be exempted by law or by edict from the
perils and sacrifices shouldered by the
willing. Many months ago a Labor poli-
tician told The Bulletin that if conscrip-
tion were put to the vote again there
would be another overwhelming majority
for it in Westralia. It is improbable that
this opinion has not been communicated
to Mr. Curtin, coupled with the reminder
that Fremantle, which very nearly
dismissed him in 1940, and all other West-
ralian seats in the House and the Senate
flattened out all the Labor candidates with
dreadful determination in 1917 and (ex-
cept for Kalgoorlie, though Kalgoorlie
was lost again in a few months) in 1919.
Be that as it may, Mr. Curtin decided
to put his political fortune to the touch
in respect of compulsory militia service
in the south-west Pacific ; and it was re-
served for the Westralian A.L.P. to give
him a majority of the State party organi-
sations which are to report to the Federal
party organisation. In no other country
would such a procedure be followed or
even proposed ; but that is another story.
'Come In, Comrades!"
In the “Tribune,” of November 3,
1939, “the chairman of the Communist
party, Mr. L. Sharkey,” was quoted as
having said at a Sydney Trades Hall
meeting that “this war should never have
taken place and should be stopped.”
The comrades were with him:
The meeting, which was called by the
•N.S.W. State Committee of the Commu-
nist party, unanimously carried a resolu-
tion calling for peace. The meeting also
condemned the Menzies Government’s intro-
duction of compulsory military training.
To the same period belongs a Dimitrov
pamphlet, “The War and the Working
Class,” done into English and published
in Sydney by “The Central Committee
Communist Party of Australia.” In that
pamphlet “Labor imperialists” were
attacked and Communists were instructed
that they could “have no united front
whatsoever with those who are in a com-
Strange that it should have been Mr.
Curtin’s fate to have to look to West-
ralian Labor to help him out of his great-
est difficulty by supporting conscription
with a vague geographical limit. Twenty-
six years ago when, a young and ardent
anti-conscriptionist, he became a West-
ralian by adoption he could not possibly
have imagined that he would ever figure in
so complete a change. In point of fact,
his opposition to conscription and his
part in the 1918 Federal A.L.P. confer-
ence were remembered against him in
Westralia for years.
Mr. Curtin is not the man to cherish
resentments, and in time he became
imbued with the Westralian spirit, shar-
ing the pride of a fine loyal people in
their pre-eminence in A.I.F. enlistments,
in proportion to population, and in the
achievements of their soldiers. West-
ralians of the Third Brigade were in the
first boats that landed on the Anzac
beach. In their 16th Battalion were
Harry Murray, V.C., D.S.O. with bar,
D.C.M. and Croix de Guerre, and Larry
McCarthy, V.C., two of the three most
famous fighting men in the army. From
the Lys to the rivers of Damascus Wcst-
ralians were in everything. They had no
greater admirer than Charles Bean, and
in the last volume of his Official War
History Dr. Bean made this entry;
Taking the record over the whole war,
Australian leaders would probably give first
place to certain units from Western Aus-
tralia and Queensland.
Fighting in other countries and adapt-
ing themselves to changed methods of
warfare, the Westralians have maintained
the grand reputation won by the men of
1914-18. The present Official War Cor-
respondent has testified to their distin-
guished share in the operations against
Rommel, which closed when they fought
their way to the Mediterranean just
before the British tanks drove through.
The first press correspondent who
reached Gona found Westralians there,
cleaning their weapons after settling ac-
counts with the Japs. There is another
heroic episode in which the enemy in the
Pacific has learned, to his discomfiture,
how Westralians fight; but it cannot yet
be told. Three of the six Australian
V.Cs. in this war hail from the State
mon front with the imperialists and sup-
port the criminal war against the people” ;
and there was a message for “the prole-
tariat” from “the General Secretary of
the Communist International”:
For the working class there is only one
correct stand, an irreconcilable courageous
struggle against the culprits and the agents
of this war primarily in their own country,
a struggle to end this predatory war.
“Australian” Communists acted on Dimi-
trov’s instructions until June 22, 1941,
when “the imperialist war” was suddenly
transformed into a holy war against
“Hitlerite Germany.” The war against
the Japanese (described as “butchers”
in Communist publications for years prior
to September, 1939) has not reached the
holy stage ; indeed it is rarely referred to
except when it is alleged that the Jap
could be swiftly stonkered by the landing
of a huge Anglo-American army on the
western coast of France.
Said “S. M. Herald”: “The ban, ex-
cept for preventing the production of
openly Communist papers, has lately been
ineffective.” This must have been read
with loud laughter by the staff of the
“Tribune,” which on December 9 pub-
lished what it gloatingly described as
“the 100th number of the ‘Tribune’ to
be issued under illegal conditions.” And
presumably this exponent of triumphant
lawlessness will presently become a re-
pository of official secrets relative to the
war against Japan.
But Corns, are held to be good boys
now. Having presumably made a bon-
fire of their anti-conscription “literature”
they are “supporting Mr. Curtin’s policy”
(at the 1940 election they savagely de-
nounced it and him), and, according to
Dr. Evatt, “a committee representing
themselves and the Communist party”
has “entered into undertakings which
bind all concerned to do all in their
power to assist in the effectual prosecu-
tion of the war.” The war against
“Hitlerite Germany” and the war against
Japan? Considering “the party’s” rela-
tions with the Communist International
and considering that neither that concern
nor Russia itself is at war with Japan —
Russia indeed has a neutrality pact with
our enemy in the Pacific—a precise defi-
nition of “the war” should have been
demanded and published.
Precise definition there was none, nor
was Japan mentioned, in the Attorney-
General’s statement announcing that “the
Government has lifted the general pro-
hibition imposed in June, 1940, on the
Communist party and its press.”
In view of its foreign associations and
its putrid past, no “undertaking” given
by the Communist party is worth a row
of pins. The Government has done a
bad job, and that clumsily. Its own
party will be the first to feel the effects.
Dog Story.
On December 4 it was stated in solemn
public prints that a Federal order banning
the transport by rail of racing greyhounds
had been extended from Victoria and
South Australia to N. S. Wales. In that
State “special train accommodation” for
“racing greyhounds travelling to and
from meetings” has been provided
throughout the war.
Straightway one W. J. Delaney, of the
Country Greyhound Control Council,
was heard to this effect:
We have already “contacted” several
Federal members [it’s remarkable how
easily these people can “contact” Federal
members] and will try to arrange a depu-
tation to the Minister (Mr. Lawson) as soon
as possible.
On December 7 the hackles of one A.
Hadfield, secretary of the Northern
Owners and Trainers’ Association, arose.
Miners on the northern coalfields are
seething with indignation and threaten to
strike if the ban is enforced.
No one remarked that it takes little or
nothing to make coalminers “seethe” and
strike.
A branch of the Hadfield organisation
cornered Mr. James, M.H.R. for Hunter,
and snapped and snarled at him. Another
section treed Mr. Watkins, M.H.R. for
Newcastle. Treasurer Chifley was caught
at Lithgow and there were more growling
and showing of teeth.
Presently loud canine sounds of joy
were heard. The Minister had saved his
pants by agreeing to receive deputations.
On December 10 the deputationists
mustered forces from the N.S.W. Trotting
Club, the N.C.A, the C.G.R.C.C., the
G.D.A. and the Western Miners’ Union,
and Mr. Lawson whimpered something
about “modification” of the ban.
On December 13 a lone yelp came out
of Melbourne, also from Mr. Lawson.
Mr. Lawson was to “confer with the de-
partment on the matter this week and
(Continued on page 8.)
THIS ABSENTEEISM.


THE
lIMITEniNSURANCE
U ll I I C U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution
A. C. DAWSON, T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
DANIEL
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
f
d
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days
free trial offer. No oblicjation-
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
DEPT. 21, 81 PITT ST.. SYUNEV.
make an announcement before Satur-
day.” No one was “likely to be affected
until Saturday.”
Saturday came and went; and nobody
was “affected.” For on December 15 Mr.
Lawson barked that the ban had been
deferred “pending further inquiries.” On
December 17 Mr. James, M.H.R., in-
formed the “Daily Mirror” of “a conver-
sation” he had had with the Minister.
“Mr. Lawson told me he had a confer-
ence with Mr. Hartigan in Melbourne
yesterday, when it was decided to lift
the ban on the dogs.” Mr. James hinted
also that “the ban affecting racehorses
for travel inter-city and to country towns
may also be lifted shortly.”
So Labor “government” wheezes and
waddles on. During this same week it
was announced in the press that meas-
ures would have to be taken to stop wives
of fighting men travelling to State borders
and slipping across them to see their men,
thus “defeating the rail priority system.”
POLITICAL POINTS
A Westralian Labor conference gave
Curtin a 10-to-l majority for his militia-
service plan. Whatever may happen in
N. S. Wales, there is no likelihood of
a Labor split in the P.M.’s State. Even
in the wild 1916-17 days there was no
vendetta against Labor conscriptionists,
except those who joined the Nationalist
party ; Tommy Walker and Bill Angwin,
both conscriptionists, were allowed to
stay in the party, and Paddy Lynch could
have remained in it if he hadn’t chosen
to follow Hughes.
Influenced by memories of uniform
income taxation and the swift collapse of
McKell’s opposition to it, the Sydney
“Parliament” has passed the Common-
wealth Powers Bill, but so far it is the
only “Parliament” that has. In the Mel-
bourne Assembly the bill was taken into
the committee stage, the discussion being
then adjourned to January 26. It had
a swift passage in the Hobart Assembly,
but the other shop “deferred” the second
reading till January 19. In all the
States with archaic franchises, the other
shops have too much power for mischief.
Though the Government got its
£100,000,000, and £4,200,000 more, the
number of subscribers fell far below its
expectations and the cost of flotation
must have exceeded them. It had to
compete with lot’ries in four States and
with the army of racecourse and s.p.
bookmakers, as well as the tote. Before it
goes on the market again it ought to rule
out all s.p. ’phones and telegraphing of
wagers, and veto lot’ries unless all prizes
are paid in war-loan stock and bonds.
From “No. 100” of the “Tribune,”
“organ of the Central Committee Com-
munist Party of Australia,” ten days be-
fore the ban on the party was removed :
For 100 illegal issues the “Tribune” has
carried on the fight for the defeat of the
Fascists and for Socialism. It won its spurs
as a weekly organ of the International
Communist Movement.
Characteristic Communist cheek and
mendacity ; prior to June 30, 1941, the
lawless rag campaigned against “the im-
perialist war.”
In a Sydney Sun advertisement “in-
serted by the Legal Rights Committee,”
and published in contempt of the fact
that the Communist party was still under
a legal ban, a list of speakers at a Sydney
Domain meeting, with their Communist
designations, was impudently given. The
thing was called a “demonstration under
the auspices of the Communist party of
Australia” and these were the intro-
ductory words:
Australians, for a Quick Victory Over
Japan We Must Have a Second Front in
Europe Now.
So ferocious is the contempt for the
Australian Government (if there is an
Australian Government) of an unwhipped
mob which can thus insult the intelli-
gence of the nation and outrage the feel-
ings of Australians whose sons, brothers
and husbands have suffered in New
Guinea.
N.S.W. Labor agitators for a limited-
liability war have disgraced themselves
by publishing a brutal personal attack
on Curtin, dug out of a “Tory” paper
published 26 years ago. They are alleging
that “unions representing 64,500 affili-
ated members unanimously carried a
resolution demanding a rank-and-file
conference.” This means only that said
conference was demanded by a parcel of
union bosses. The 64,500 affiliated mem-
bers were not consulted —in these matters
they never are.
Playford’s Government in S.A. wasn’t
interested in the Thebarton seat, and the
Labor man, J. F. Walsh, won hands
down. They haven’t compulsory voting
in S.A.; only about 6500 voted from a
roll of 18,000.
Neither Britain, which is paying for
the wool and sheepskins under the ap-
praisement scheme, nor any section of
the N.S.W. wool trade had expressed any
dissatisfaction with G. L. O. Dewez as
Director of Appraisements in N.S.W. In
point of fact, Dewez has done a remark-
ably good job in directing the handling
of nearly 5,000,000 bales of wool. Never-
theless, Scully coolly “retired” him with-
out any explanation other than that
“power to make appointments rests with
the Minister,” and that “it is the Gov-
ernment’s policy to change the consti-
tution of boards.” More will be heard
about this Scully manoeuvre, which smells
of politics.
Gagged though he was earlier, Archie
Cameron let Ministerialists have the
rough side of his tongue when Curtin
moved the adjournment to January 27.
“The reputation of Parliament,” he said,
“will not be enhanced by the exhibition
we have seen in the last two days, with
the member for Melbourne acting with
all the wind and noise and sparks and
dust of a dry thunderstorm in the desert.”
When it came to a vote there was not
one drop of rain in all his storm The
name of this chamber should be changed
“Phew, bad drain?”
"No, Communist party; but it assures me it has been disinfected.”
to the House of Delegates. There is a
vital distinction between a representative
and a delegate.
Calwell: What is it?
Cameron; I don’t want anything from
the dry thunderstorm. His place is in the
Yarra after today.
Calwell went to East Melbourne instead.
Then lie mumbled that “the reason I did
not call for a division” on the Blackburn
amendment, which he seconded, was that
“other anti-conscription members would
have been embarrassed.”
The Archie Cameron version of a story
that went the rounds at Canberra before
legislators caught the 4.15: “of 52
members in attendance at the Labor
Caucus 13 were one way and 13 the
other; the rest were waiting for that
fellow Majority to arrive so that they
could make up their minds.” Majority
must have arrived on that occasion.
There is an unpleasing uncertainty as to
his future movements, choice of sides and
length of stay.
Lang’s paper, which makes out weekly
lists of conscriptionists and anti-conscrip-
tionists, claims Falstein among the antis.
Falstein !
Melbourne “Herald’s” Keith Murdoch
was a target for Calwell mud during the
late disgraceful proceedings at Canberra,
as also —to the indignation of Drakeford
and Curtin was Squadron-Leader
Gorrie, the officer who took action
against Falstein. The “Herald credits
the Parliamentary Committee on Man
ing Orders with “proposing the provision
of protection for people outside Paiiia-
ment” (alliteration can be apt sometimes)
“from scurrilous attacks by people msioe
Parliament.” It says truly that Parliament,
though mudslingers imagine that it is
above the courts, “is itself a court and
ought to employ the forms of justice.
But that slander will cease to be privi-
ledged is almost too good to be true.
A sympathetic gallery reporter records
that Conelan, the Labor Whip, “worked
harder than Ministers” while the House
deliberated at Canberra for bits of two
days.
Labor members admit that Mr. Conelan s
fertile and politically astute brain and un-
tiring efforts have been largely responsible
for an outcome of a threatened crisis favor-
able to the Government.
Perhaps the exhausted man will recruit
his powers by going back to Adelaide
and, when his fertile and politically-
astute brain is in good working order
again, try to induce the dour Playford to
withdraw his veto, incomprehensible to
Conelan, on the gallopers and the pacers.
In a paltry attempt to justify its ban-
ning of Wesley Church broadcasts and
Dr. Benson’s Questions and Answers,
A.B.C. pleaded that Dr. Benson was an
engaged artist “for many years,” and had
been paid “more than £looo' in fees.”
Since it takes that line, the commission
should state how much it has paid to (a)
Communists as “engaged artists” during
the period of Dr. Benson’s engagement
and ( b ) other speakers who have sneaked
Red stuff into their monologues. And
piecise information about the losses on
the “A.B.C. Weekly” to December 1,
1942, would be welcomed by the com-
mission’s enforced customers, together
with the number of and the salaries paid
to A.B.C. staff men on that date, com-
pared with the figures for December 1,
1939.
Asked why bookmakers in the Army
weren’t allowed to ply their calling on
their “day of rest,” the same as jockeys,
an “Army spokesman” referred to
Forde’s speech: “As long as a soldier
attends his training regularly while in
camp, we do not propose to dictate to
him what he should do on his days of
rest.” This, according to the “spokes-
man,” does not amend Army regs. ;
jockeys were allowed to ride because
they were indulging in “recreation and
providing public entertainment.” He
should have betting stopped and then see
how the public would turn up to see
jockeys ride.
Informed that no fewer than 12 coal-
mines in N.S.W. were on strike one day
last week, Dr. Evatt described it as “a
blow at Australia” and immediately took
steps —to stop the strikes and punish the
instigators? No, to the coalfields, at the
invitation of the miners’ president.
Comrade Thornton must have been
moved to cynical mirth by the warning
that “new regulations are now being pro-
mulgated making it an offence to advo-
cate, encourage or suggest the use of force
as a means of advancing any political
cause or measure.” Even after the war
had ceased to be “imperialist” Comrade
Thornton wrote, in a brochure published
by his Red racket, that “arms were used
by working men in the most historical
struggle that this country has known, the
struggle at the Eureka Stockade, and
arms will probably be used by the
workers in this country again.”
In a mood rather suggestive of Robin-
son Crusoe when he found the footprint
on the sand, ex-Premier Mair announced
that N.S.W. trade-union bosses collect
vast sums of money, of which a great
deal goes in “management and other
expenses” and very little in benefits. Also
that 1939 returns, the latest available,
were incomplete, a number of bosses
having failed to supply them. It is a very
belated discovery. That sort of thing
went on during Mair’s whole period of
office and membership, and every year
the Industrial Registrar noted the same
“failure” to supply returns. Now that
Mair’s party can do nothing to ensure
regular and complete statements, he
seems to expect the Labor Government
to do something, which, of course, it
won’t.
The “Parliament” in Macquarie-street,
Sydney, has 150 members, and at the
week-end they had to elect 15 M.L.Cs. —
for 12 years, unreasoning optimists
asserted. Absent on military service were
Robson, Turner and Chaffey (U.A.P.),
and Old Digger Mitchell (Ind.) and a
ballot-paper handed to one M.L.C. was
not returned. Three others were rejected
or invalidated, though there were only
26 candidates. In the result, S’Samuel
Walder (“Sam the Tentmaker,” U.A.P.),
C. B. Bridges (Labor) and L. W. Ryan
(Ind., former Labor), were voted out, and
Labor-secretaries O’Dea, Wright and
Harrison and Snider (Ind.) were voted
in, giving Labor 21 of 60 seats. The elec-
tion is hailed by some people as a
triumph for something or other.
The cables have been buzzing with
assurances that the United Nations are in
touch with Mikhailovich, leader of the
patriot Serbs, are supplying his army to
the best of their ability and have the
utmost faith in him and his cause. This
is their answer to “Time,” that unwearied
discoverer of mares’ nests. Its latest was
that Mikhailovich had been repudiated
by the real patriots, fighting under the
leadership of a veteran of the Red In-
ternational Militia, the French elements
of which were last seen breaking all
records for the Pyrenees crossing pre-
paratory to turning dog on their own
stricken country. The sooner “Time”
goes out of the war business and con-
centrates on beach brats and ballet tarts
the better for the democratic cause.


EXB4-42
Let’s Coll a Halt on Thoughtless Buying
If the way you buy gives comfort to the Axis, it’s time to call a halt. Buy only
when you must and buy only longer-lasting things . . . for long, hard service. In
this way, you help Australia’s war effort.
BATTERIES
Still Keep Going. When the Rest Have Stopped
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Harry Walker, M.L.A., “father” of the
Queensland Parliament, is a Boer War
veteran who hasn’t forgotten the hard
scran on which our chaps did their fight-
ing in that scrap. There was no daily
12oz. of spuds for them. In fact, for
over 12 months he never saw a potato.
Instead, it was almost always biscuits and
tinned meat, the former so infernally
hard that the African white ants, after
demolishing the timber biscuit case, re-
fused to tackle the biscuits. Or so
Walker declares, adding: “Like the bis-
cuits, our chaps of 40 years ago were
hard and tough, too.”
Korumburra, South Gippsland, has
had three townsmen, each an A.I.F. lieut-
col. and all C.Os. of large units. School
inspector Eric Mathewson, an artillery
lieut. last war, is C.O. of an infantry bat-
talion. H. R. Birch, solicitor, did the
Tobruk siege and Syrian show as a major
and was promoted when brought back
to Australia: he had four years last war
as a stretcher-bearer. The other, dentist
Noel Peverill (35), invented a travelling
dental caravan that the R.A.A.F. has
adopted. Now in the Armored Div., he
was formerly a Carlton footballer and
Uni. blue.
Unless Wilfred Bailey Tarte, the only
press officer attached to London head-
quarters of the R.A.A.F., has reformed,
London had better keep a watchful eye
on the Nelson Column. In his Sydney
Uni. and “S. M. Herald” days the young
man, who came to Australia from Staf-
fordshire, was a great hand at souvenir-
ing. On travels through N.S.W. with
R. and Ministerial parties he was just
as likely to load a heavy railway coup-
ling into the car as a stray dog, and he
once enlivened a somewhat dull trip from
Trangie to Port Macquarie by buying a
large cabbage and using it to demonstrate
a Rugby dive for the line. The line hap-
pened to be a patch of saffron thistle, and
Tarte’s audience spent the next 50 miles
pulling thorns from his anatomy. A
publican in a south-west town must still
be wondering where on earth the cast-
iron dog came from that he found prop-
ping the front door open. It was
souvenired from another pub a couple
of hundred miles away. Wilf, who mar-
ried a daughter of Earle Page,, has the
rank of squadron-leader, is a prince of
good fellows, and claims the biggest feet
in Christendom.
“Tas.”; I see (B. 16/12/’42) that you
have dug up another “No. 1 Digger”
(SXI). I’m surprised that other military
districts are so slow in turning up,
especially Victoria, as VXI is General
Tom Blarney, who, no doubt (being in
Melbourne “on the outbreak”), actually
enlisted before the other three No. Ts
you have already listed (N.S.W. Q. and
S.
Living in a rectory beside a 92-year-
old church surrounded by factories, Rev.
Henry Hopton has the largest industrial
parish in Adelaide, and the slummiest.
It takes in Hindmarsh, Bowden, Bromp-
ton and Flinders Park. He works it
single-handed, except for one student
helper. The fighting performance of his
family on both sides recalls that C. E. W.
Bean, in the last vol. of his Official His-
tory, placed “clergymen or clergymen’s
sons” first for acts of heroic leadership.
Rev. Hopton has six sons in the foi'ces,
and lost nephews in the last war. His
wife’s brothers also distinguished them-
selves —Major Leslie Coulter (killed in
France) won the D. 5.0., and had also
been awarded a gold medal for bravery
at Mt. Lyell; and Col. Graham Coulter
won the D.S.O. and bar. Captain Sydney
Coulter, Boer War Queen’s Medallist, was
killed in South Africa. Sgt. Jason Coul-
ter was killed on Gallipoli. The present
A.I.F. leader in the Middle East, Lieut.-
Gen. Morshead, was with the Coulters in
the last war, and in the ship in which
he left for this war were two Hopton
sons.
J. R. Kemp, Queensland Main Roads
Commissioner, gets the 1942 Peter Nichol
Russell Memorial Medal, by unanimous
decision of the Council of the Institute of
Engineers. It’s the Council’s highest
honor, given for life-time service to engi-
neering in Australia. J.R.K. is also
Co-ordinator-General of Public Works
and Deputy-Director of the Allied Works
Council. He made a great job of the
Birdum-Territory all-weather road.
A Laughing Lud Mayor:
Sydney’s new Lud Mayor, Aid. Reginald
James Bartley, hasn’t his bunny outfit yet, and
says he hasn’t the coupons to get it with.
“And I can’t get any coupons from the wife,”
says Aid. Bartley, laughing heartily at the idea.
What apprenticeship as Mayor of the Harbor-
side municipality of Vaucluse and other useful
experience can’t do for him in his new job that
laugh of his should. By report there was much
violent tearing of ziffs and heaving of waist-
coats when-he was elected Lud Mayor, replacing
Aid. Crick, who had done the Rooseveltian act
of holding the job for three terms. Before the
week was out most of those who were reported
to be tearing their whiskers out by the roots
appeared to be eating out of the new Lud
Mayor’s hand. His laugh would be sufficient
explanation. It’s a gusty laugh that could have
filled out the spinnaker any time when, skipper-
ing the old 18-footer Scott, Bartley ran into a
calm on the harbor. Speaking of those 18-footer
days, he recalled one occasion when each of the
boats racing carried in its crew a young lady
contestant for a Queen Competition. He
drilled his lot thoroughly to be on their best
behavior, and, looking incredibly respectable,
they assembled to meet the lass, with the final
injunction, “Now boys, don’t forget—keep a
SYDNEY’S LUD MAYOR IN SEARCH OF HIS ROBES.
watch on your tongues! ” They stuck to it,
too, as polite-spoken as choir boys—right till
the start of the race! What ruined everything
was that they had to run out a spinnaker to
kick off with, which is somewhat out of the
ordinary run of things, and when a rope broke
loose and dangled in the wind far out of reach
the charming lass in the crew learnt enough
in the way of 18-footer vocabulary in five
minutes to give a statue of Queen Victoria a
permanent wave. Though he doesn’t race them
now, Aid. Bartley, who’s a solicitor, still takes
a sporting interest in the sailing craft, and,
though he doesn’t race horses, takes an in-
terest also in horscracing as a committeeman
of the Canterbury Club and a member of
Tatt’s.
Unlike the Indian babu who signed
himself “M.A., Oxford (failed),” Sir
Gurunath Venkatesh Bewoor, C. 1.,
8.A., 1.C.5., representing India at the
Imperial Telegraph Conference in Can-
berra, is a very successful man. He went
to Cambridge after a brilliant academic
career at Bombay University, then passed
the Indian civil service exam., and was
appointed Assistant Commissioner to the
Central Provinces. In 1924 he became
Postmaster General of Bihar and Orissa,
and in 1929 of Bombay. Director-
General of Indian Posts and Telegraphs
since 1934, he runs one of the world’s
most complicated systems, in which letters
are sometimes dealt with by the most
modern of methods and sometimes by
bullock cart, and which has to cope with
a public of 300,000,000 people talking in
150 tongues. He does the big job with
a dry twinkling humor that is probably
more characteristic of Cambridge than of
Bombay.
Cabled that Lieut.-Col. H. E. Adkins,
commandant of the Royal Military
School of Music at Kneller Hall, has been
acquitted by a court-martial at Aldershot
of 21 alleged offences, the charges rang-
ing from obtaining wine from canteens by
false pretences to retaining more money
than he was entitled to from band engage-
ments. Australian music-lovers will re-
member him as the tall, magnificently-
uniformed conductor with the natty
gestures who came here under A.B.C.
auspices in pre-war years and drew sur-
prisingly delicate music out of a British
soldiers’ brass band.
Queensland branch of Australian
National Airways has collected a new
manager, Captain Joe Francis, formerly
that co.’s Public Relations Officer in
Melbourne. Capt. Francis has been up
in the air for many years ; was a war
bird in 1914-18 with the R.A.F., and after
that flew extensively in Ireland. Coming
to Australia he bagged No. 4 commer-
cial pilot’s ticket. One of the early
Holyman pilots, he has been in turn in-
structor to the Tasmanian and Victorian
Aero Clubs. He has tutored many pilots
now well known on the air routes of the
Commonwealth.
Father Tigar, Preacher-General of the
Dominican Order, was in Maoriland
1907-13 on a mission to the Maoris, and
sometimes preached in city cathedrals, a
picturesque figure in his Dominican white
stole and black hood. Lately passed on
in England, he was a chaplain in the
1914-18 war, and for the last ten years
has been Superior of the Holy Cross
Priory, Leicester. He had some years’
civil service (Board of Trade) before he
entered the priesthood in 1888.
The Bulletin insists on its active-
service stories being written by men who
have been on the job, and the author of
“Follow the Somme,” in this issue, has
been well and truly there. He is Flying-
Officer P. C. Mullens, of the R.A.A.F.
Parents Australian, he was born in Lon-
don in 1915 ; soon afterwards his people
moved back here. Educated at Hayfield
Prep., Scots and Sydney Uni., ending up
with a Bachelor of Economics degree, he
spent a year or so studying art under
Julian Ashton’s “baffled and contemp-
tuous eyes,” but showed no talent, and
to Ashton’s “great relief” decided to have
a shot at winning the war instead. Join-
ing the R.A.A.F. in 1940, he trained in
Australia, Canada and England, served
with the R.A.F. from August, 1941, to
March, 1942, completing 23 operational
sorties, in the course of which he bombed
or “visited” Schipol, Gilze, Eendhoven,
St. Omer, Merville, Lille, Bethune, Abbe-
ville, Amiens and sundry other places
familiar to last-war Diggers. He was
brought back by Australian Government
request, along with a number of other
Australian pilots, when things were look-
ing specially tough for this part of the
world. He’s still on the job.
The Army reckons that, at 66, Pte. J.
Moores, A.1.F., has had a fair enough
innings, and has lobbed him back in Aus-
tralia from the Middle East full of good-
humored protest and still full of fight.
Originally from Middlesex, he had four
years with the 18th Batt. and 2nd
Machine-gun Batt., A.1.F., in the last war,
and still had enough youth about him
to look as if he wasn’t fibbing when he
went along to the recruiters in the present
show and said without a blush that he
was 40. Since then he’s had two years
with a machine-gun co. in Syria and
Egypt, including eight months at Mersa
Matruh, playing Soccer with his battalion
team in spells out of the line. He gave
to a “S. M. Herald” interviewer a view
on the matter that a lot of Old Diggers
have wondered about: “To me the dive-
bombers of this war did not seem so
shattering as those drum-fire artillery
bombardments we knew in France.”
Creswick (Vic.), which has lately cele-
brated the centenary of its foundation
by those sturdy pioneers the Creswick
brothers, the Hepburns, the Birches, the
Coghills and others, has more than once
got into print by virtue of having been
the birthplace of more distinguished Aus-
tralians than probably any other Austra-
lian township. As well as the Lindsays,
the list includes Alexander Peacock, the
man with the biggest laugh and one of
the biggest reputations in Vic. Parlia-
mentary history ; Prof. Laby, the physi-
cist ; Dr. Carty Salmon, ex-Speaker of the
House of Reps. ; Justice Starke ; Arch-
deacon Peacock; Mrs. Menzies, the
mother of R.G. ; Jack Curtin and many
others. Creswick’s only claim to histori-
cal distinction is the fact that it sent re-
inforcements to the relief of the Eureka
Stockade defenders, though few of the
200 or so miners got there, a torrential
downpour damping their revolutionary
ardor. On the individual side its record
is out of all proportion to its size.
Geoffrey Syme, managing and
part proprietor of Melbourne “Age,” cut
up for £177,450, apart from property out-
side Victoria. An income from £lO,OOO
goes to Veronica, his daughter, and a
life interest in the residue {less charitable
benefactions) goes to his widow.
There was a family-party air about a
recent passing-out ceremony at a Vic-
torian flying school. Among the young
pilots who received their wings was
L.A.C. Charles Douglas Sanger Brown,
and the commanding officer who pinned
them on was Wing-Commander Rolf
Sanger Brown, A.F.C., his father, who
was a topnotch pilot in the last war.
The trainee’s mother distributed the
prizes. L.A.C. Brown is a grandson of
knight Charles Merritt, president of the
Royal Agricultural Society of Victoria.
A D.Sc. (Oxon.) puts the coping stone
on the academic distinctions of Maori-
lander John C. Smith. When he went
to Manchester in 1921 to do organic
chemical research under Prof. Robert
Robinson he was an M.Sc. (Victoria Col-
lege, Auckland). On vacations from
Manchester he studied micro-analysis
under a Nobel Prize winner. Prof. Fritz
Piezl, at Graz, Austria. Then, after
acquiring a doctorate in philosophy from
Manchester Uni., he spent a couple of
years at McGill Uni. (Toronto), and in
1928 became a lecturer on inorganic
chemistry at Oxford.
Into the silence:
At Adelaide, G. L. Fisher (51), manager of
Australian National Airways there. Thirty-five
years with Adelaide Shipping Co., he was ad-
vertising manager when he changed a year ago
to A.N.A. A son is in the R.A.A.F.
In Adelaide, at 55, Dan Clifford, who began
business as a newspaper-boy (and was always
proud of it), and ended as owner of some 20
picture-theatres and head of a co. bearing his
name.
W. H. Cann, 85, was a mighty Methodist even
for S.A., which always has specialised in them.
A Devon man, he began as a “Bible Christian,”
but had a hand in the merging of all the
Wesleyan bodies in the State. Fie was specially
proud of the building of a Children’s Home
in the foothills and a £20,000 Central Mission
in the city.
At Nantawarra (S.A.) James Nicholls, presi-
dent of all sorts of local bodies, and father of
Robert, the Speaker of S.A. Assembly.
In Syria, Monsignor Joseph Dahdah, who
was in Australia for 48 of his 86 years, and
founded St. Maroun’s Church, Redfern, Syd-
ney.
In England, Arthur J. Rees, Melbourne
journalist and prolific writer of detective fiction.
Long resident in the Cold Land, he lived near
and was a personal friend of Thomas Hardy.
He was one of the founders of the P.E.N. Club.
In Pialba (S.Q.), Lady Evelyn Beatrice
Moreton, second daughter of the fourth Earl
of Ducie. Herself a Queenslander, born at
Wetheron station in the Burnett district, her
brothers are the fifth Earl (of Gloucestershire),
at present living in Pialba, and the Hon. Alger-
non Moreton, of Nikenbah (S.Q.). Ladies
Ethel, May and Ada, of Brisbane, and Lady
Iremengarde Stotten, of Bauple (S.Q.), are sur-
viving sisters.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Exdig”: A memory of soldiering in
the comparatively moderate winter cold
of France, when the rifle barrel if touched
stung like a burn even through a glove,
gives me a shivering sympathy for soldiers
forced to go campaigning with the ther-
mometer under zero. I hope the poor
cows have coffee, the one bright spot in
my memory of winter in France. I
shared a dugout with two other Diggers
who didn’t like the cold either, and as
I tried to generate warmth under my
blanket I heard Blue trying to get Darkie
into a conversation about Egypt, Darkie
answering only in monosyllables. “Do
you remember,” demanded Blue, “those
route marches when the sun seemed to
be blistering you and the sand was so
hot underneath your feet that you looked
to see if your boots were smoking?”
Darkie deigned to grunt that too right
he did. “Then for the lave o’ Mike,”
pleaded Blue, “let’s talk about it so’s a
man can have a chance to feel warm.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Whenever I encounter in
print the word “finalised,” which has been
overworked lately, especially in connec-
tion with the Austerity Loan, I think of
a former editor of The Bulletin who
put his foot firmly down upon it. He
was right, of course, and I find abundant
backing for his view in A. P. Herbert’s
What A Word! This author stigmatises
it as “grim,” “a Latin dog with a Greek
tail” and a coinage that has no point
seeing that it implies nothing that
couldn’t be equally well and more gram-
matically expressed as “settled” or “con-
cluded” or “completed.” Herbert—un-
justly, I think —debits it to this country ;
at least he says that it was in Australian
newspapers he first met it. My own
theory is that certain games, notably
lawn tennis, are responsible. “Finalists”
and “Semi-Finalists” with their obvious
meanings came into general use with
some justification, and the objectionable
verb followed —with none.
% * ❖ *
“Borstal Tie”; The arrest of a gang of
hobbledehoys for burglary and wilful
damage led to a police statement that
much of the booty was sold to “fre-
quenters of amusement parlors” and
that “some of the parlors may be closed.”
Not surprising. “Jukes Joints” these
parlors are called in the U.S.A. where
they originated (the Jukes family, a
classic example in sociology, was imbecile-
criminal). Sydney ones display notices
which show that the proprietors antici-
pate trouble and are ready to bounce
trouble-makers —not at all the sort of
atmosphere which should prevail in places
so largely patronised by children.
“Burnham”: Youngsters arrested in
Sydney last week were charged with “not
only robbing houses, but doing hundreds
of pounds’ damage to furniture and
rooms.” In a Killara home, as one in-
stance, “eggs and fruit were taken from
the refrigerator and hurled against the
walls. Furniture was hurled in all direc-
tions.” This urge towards malicious
destruction and defacement, present in
so many young children and eradicated,
usually without serious trouble, by
parents with a sense of their responsi-
bility, seems nowhere to have been ade-
quately analysed and traced to its source.
Freud, who re-discovered so many of the
elementary facts of life and gave them
fancy tabs, and Havelock Ellis and Kraft-
Ebing, who delved so deeply into the un-
natural and abnormal, don’t explain this
primal twist. It sometimes persists in
after life. I was associated for years
with a captain of industry, head of a
splendidly-managed business, who could
never resist spoiling a clean white surface.
The walls of his offices had to be painted
and distempered at least once a month —
he would scribble all over them, and ad-
vertising artists who let him handle a
sketch or design had to spend hours
whiting out big black pen marks scrawled
all over it.
* * * *
“Rusher”: Mine eye hath lighted on
many things of wonder in these won-
drous days, but I was scarcely prepared
for the shock of reading “Fadden
Reduces for Title Fight” in a newspaper.
With visions of the comfortable Artie
pulling down his waistline in readiness
for the coming election, I rushed the
nearest paper-seller, to find that the
Fadden referred to was Bill of that ilk,
a pug.
• - H * * *
“A.R.P.”: Our sector was running a
bit of a dance in a local hall to get funds
for the three wardens’ posts. As time
passed it was noticed that a number of
non-paying youths had edged their way
in. Our Chief Warden, a Scot, was indig-
nant. Stalking to the centre, he stopped
the band and cried, “The next ten
minutes is a sneak interval.” “A sneak
interval?” echoed several astonished
voices. “Aye,” roared the Chief, “to allow
those who sneaked in tae sneak oot again
before they get hur-r-r-r-t! ” There was
a hurried shuffling at the doors and then
the band struck up again.
“Look, Bert; and no Yanks about!”
“Tasser”: The two-masted auxiliary
schooner Abel Tasman has been launched
in Hobart by the McKay shipyard
to the order of Henry Jones and
Co., of jam fame. Her overall length
is 98ft., keel 80ft., beam 25ft., moulded
depth Bft. 7in. She will carry about
80,000 super feet of sawn timber, and is
herself built of native wood. Keel, keel-
son, stringers, timbers, planking and lining
are of stringybark, decking and bulk-
heads of celery pine, cabin, engine-beds
and other fittings of Huon pine. Main-
mast 90ft., and foremast 84ft., are each
a single stringybark spar. Two 68-h.p.
Diesels provide auxiliary power, giving
a speed of eight knots. Old Henry Jones
would have been glad to see her ; he
"She doesn’t know, but it’s an empty tin.”
was always keen on supplying Tasmania
with little ships.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Darlan has broadcast an
appeal to Moslems to join in the war
against the Axis. There are as many
Moslem sects as Christian, but the
Moslems the admiral appealed to would
mainly be Moors, the mixture of Berbers
and Arabs who occupied Spain till 1492,
the year that Columbus discovered
America. They have produced several
Mahdis or Messiahs. A Mahdi must be
a descendant of the Prophet and must be
proclaimed against his will at Mecca when
there is strife after the death of a caliph.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide was from the first
known as the City of Churches, but this
nrnbahlv Inst Wan so nf a contra 1
was probably just because or a cent at
cluster of them, prominent near the 1 own
Hall. Today its religious feature is the
number of creeds that it supports. Here
is a Saturday’s offering, per advt. of week-
end services. Taken for granted can be
C. of E., R.C., Jewish, Methodist, Pres-
byterian, Congregational, Baptist, C. of
C., Lutheran, Unitarian, Salv’army. Then
mvp (rot Annstnfic Thpnsnnbirnl Chris-
we get Apostolic, ineosopmcai, enns
tian Science, Christadelphian, Spiritual,
Incorporated Spiritual, Evangelistic, Re-
organised New Thought, Pentecostal,
Rationalistic, Second Advent Prophetic.
New World Order and British Israel.
And the very latest is “Bahai, otherwise
World Order of Baha’u’llah.”
* * * *
“Zake”: A newspaper caricaturist
whose happy -go - lucky attitude to
domestic chores has long been the despair
of his wife excelled himself recently. With
domestic help unprocurable and his wife
flat-out looking after two Sick children,
the black-and-white man rose nobly to
the occasion. The washing? Tch! Just
i j i j it u i
lead him to the tub and all would be
well. But his laundry technique didn’t
run to knowing what you put in the “first
boiling" and what constitutes “coloreds.”
Sweeping together everything that looked
due for a wash he set to work, just
after his wife had narrowly rescued a
fancy pullover from being boiled up
along with her white turban. Fishing
the things later from the copper, he ran
them under the tap in approved style and
, , ... r ~ r. .. ■
started putting them through the wringer.
His own pyjama coat offered inordi-
nately stout resistance, but after a terrific
stniaele he eot it throueh The last
struggle ne g i u mrougn. me iasi
things to come out of the copper puzzled
the artist: two small and identical pieces
of jellylike substance. These were later
identified hv bis wife as her nrecimis nair
D y.j Wlle as us . P a r
ot French kid gloves. And, when iron-
ing, she solved the mystery of the
resistance offered by the pyjama coat—in
thn nnrknt was bis wrist watch now a
me pocket was ms wrist waten, now a
mangled mess. A friend suggested that
he re-boil it and put it through again the
reverse way, but the b.-and-w. man has
sworn off.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”; I’m still a bit dazed about
it, especially since all my efforts to get
a bottle of good Australian wine for
Christmas have failed. One morning last
week Schweppes ran an advt. in “S.M.H.”
announcing that all citrus fruit juices had
been “frozen,” and that, when existing
stocks were sold, there wouldn’t be any
more. Then came this:
Beer Rationing Increase. Schweppes’
Ltd., note a statement in Sydney “Morn-
>"B Herald' ’ of Nov. 5 that an crease o|
tm operate in December, so that, whilst
non-alcoholic temperance fruit drinks and
fruit-juice cordials will not be available,
there will nevertheless be an ample supply
of alcoholic beer.
There wasn’t, as anybody trying to buy
a bottle discovered, but evidently the dig
got results. That very afternoon it was
announced that fruit juices in stock had
been defrosted, as it were, except lime-
juice, and that manufacturers could buy
citrus juice on the open market. I hope
my wine merchant sees it.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: I sometimes sigh for the
sub-editors of my beardless days. Had
one of them handled the copy of an
evening-paper reporter who interviewed a
Northern Territory identity I’m sure this
could not have appeared:
Characters that have become famous in
Australia’s northern history are personal
friends of his, including Bett Bett, the
little black princess immortalised by Mrs.
/Eneas Gunn in We of the Never Never.
The dusky maiden wasn’t mentioned in
the “Never Never” book. Mrs. Gunn gave
her a book to herself —The Little Black
Princess.
THE VOLTE-FACE.
“Waistcoats may now be added to Dedman’s Victory
suits.”
Great news! The ban that made our snips so
restless
Is off. No more ’twill raise dissentient din.
Your Victory suit no longer need be vestless,
Dedman has given in.
They led us to envisage him for long one
Who’d never yield an inch or cede a scrap.
The estimate, it’s patent, was a wrong one;
He’s not that sort of chap.
He knows, like one whom Tennyson acclaimed
so,
“The limits of resistance and the bounds
Determining concession” —when it’s framed so,
How dignified it sounds!
He knows, the poet’s metaphor to vary,
And put it more expressively in fact,
When circumstances make it necessary
To do the crawfish act.
How pleasant ’tis to feel no law you’re flouting
When round your torso extra tapes are placed,
Or when you hear sartorial voices shouting
The measure of your waist.
Great news! The waistcoat’s back. The
knotty question
Is settled that perplexed poor Dedman sore.
That snag removed, I hazard the suggestion
We get on with the War.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
SPANKING.
“To spank a wife is permissible in law, as coming
under the head of moderate chastisement, hut I under-
stand that wives don’t stand it any longer.”
— Mr. Justice Hahe Rogers in a divorce case.
Too right, your Honor! With your usual eagle
Eye you discern, and tell us for our good.
An act that may be technically legal
In these enlightened times will not be stood.
Things that our rude forefathers used to reason
Were lawful punishments and quite O.K.
Modernity regards as out of season,
Not to be borne today.
All government—in distant adolescence
I learned when in such matters I was
schooled —-
Rests ultimately on the acquiescence
. In its authority by those who’re ruled.
The principle in Law’s the same as this is
And in what category would be ranked,
If such a human being exists, a Mrs.
Consenting to be spanked.
The ducking-stool, that barbarous devisement
For scolds, has gone the rack-and-thumb-
screw’s way,
Although if that were “moderate chastisement”
For nagging wives I wouldn’t like to say.
But those hard-hearted medieval blighters
Who framed their man-made laws without
regrets,
It’s clear they never featured women’s-righters
Or visioned suffragettes.
To tame a shrewish madam, or a fury
In skirts, by application to her frame
Of well-directed slaps is still de jure,
It seems, but not de facto all the same.
So should you, brother, ever have occasion
In matrimonial jars to pull your weight,
Pray recollect this method of persuasion
Is surely out of date.
The Law may still regard it with approval,
Like other rights to Benedicts it gives,
But gentler custom favors its removal
From other husbandly prerogatives.
Hence, when some subject for domestic friction
Arises, try some milder recipe.
Placing upon your temper firm restriction,
Don’t —as I read is sometimes done in fiction —
Put her across your knee!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“B. A. Ker”: En route to the Red
Cross Blood Bank to give my quarterly
donation I decided to weigh myself
before and after. The cardboard
slip ejected from the machine gave the
weight 12.12 and a character reading:
“You are frank, impulsive and quick to
make friends.” An hour and a half
later, having given the regulation pint
of gore and partaken of a cup of tea
and slice of bread, I stood on the same
scale again. The weight was 12.10. The
character reading was: “You are inclined
to be secretive, shy and reserved, which
prevents you forming friendships.” I had
no idea that the effects of losing 500 c.c.
of blood could be so far-reaching.
* * * *
“W. I. Toe”: In Tobruk last year
those cheerful souls our Polish allies
were noted for their habit of carrying
around with them an extraordinary
amount of junk. When they took over a
sector from us their trucks arrived carry-
ing their usual paraphernalia of timber,
sheets of iron, old doors —anything use-
ful in making a dugout comfortable.
Dubiously eyeing this conspicuous pile,
our O.C. remarked to his Polish oppo-
site number “Good Lord, I hope the
shufti plane [reconnaissance aircraft]
doesn’t come over now. You seem to
have brought everything but the kitchen
sink.” The Polish officer’s stock of Eng-
lish colloquialisms was very limited and
this was beyond him. But as explana-
tions followed a look of delighted com-
prehension slowly dawned in his face.
“But, Captain,” he said proudly, “we
have the—er —kitchen sink.”
* * * *
“Louden”: All this talk about “ab-
senteeism” (funny words they coin nowa-
days!) reminds me of my old colleague
“Snorky,” a civil servant with a habit of
not turning up at work the day after pay-
day. After each lapse he was “granted” a
day without pay. Coming out of his board-
ing-house one morning on his way to
work he was met by a medico who had
been called to the house. “I’m Dr. Day,”
began the visitor. “So am I,” said
“Snorky,” interested ,in the coincidence
and waving his latest departmental notice
to substantiate his statement.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Of course the terrible
death-roll in the burning of that Boston
night club is attributable chiefly to panic
(B. 9/12/’42), but that was to be ex-
pected. Any average crowd of citizens
in any country packed into a club or a
cinema would tend to panic, even if a boy
shouted “Fire!” as a joke. In a crises,
where there is no disciplined body to
maintain order, almost everybody will
panic. Yet cinemas are built in such
a way that it takes a very long while
to clear them under normal conditions.
And late-exit and fire-escape regulations
seem to be based on the assumption that
people will behave reasonably, whatever
the emergency.
“Loo”: While the night-club tragedies
in America are still fresh in the public
mind, let me remark that one place in
Sydney I’d hate to be trapped in is
Paddy’s Markets on a busy Friday. Cer-
tainly there are doorways at each end of
each long aisle, but to be caught in the
middle of the crowded building would
be my idea of Hell.
* * * *
“N.”; Time’s whirligig has given a
serious turn to many a fantastic quip
and jest of W. S. Gilbert’s. Take this
from “The Mikado,” penned 60 years
ago;
And we shouldn’t be surprised if nations
trembled
Before the mighty hosts of Titipu.
Not now as absurd as it must have
seemed to our granddads.
* * * *
“X.S.”; I see that drug addicts in Mel-
bourne, according to a recent court case,
are in a bad way, shortage of shipping
having enabled the police to intercept
supplies of their favorite narcotics and
shortage of material having led to adul-
teration of supplies. The result* is that
the unfortunate drug-taker never knows
now what percentage of his dose of
“snow” is a perfectly harmless powder.
It seems possible that war-time restric-
tions may produce cures along the lines
used in institutions where addicts are
weaned from their habit by being given
a daily issue into which a greater and
greater quantity of innocuous substance
is introduced unknown to the patient.
The danger in these cases is t'hat if the
patient escapes and gains access to his
old sources of supply he, having been
unconsciously habituated to a much
smaller dose, may kill himself by using
the full quantity.
“Butyien”: “Strict Veg.” (B. 25/11 /’42)
doesn’t buttress his sweeping allegations
against white bread with any facts and
figures. Surely he would, if he could,
give cases of persons who, having
eschewed white bread, lived long, with
full vitality. Apparently he can't. To
squelch him I cite my mother, who lived
to 91, her father, who came to Australia
at 72 and lived to 96, and his other
daughter, my aunt, who also lived to 91.
They all detested colored bread of any
sort.
• * * *
“Hawkshaw”: The Probate Court in
Sydney had to listen the other day to a
strange effort to clothe the eight-year-old
Pyjama Girl mystery with some circum-
stantial facts. Star witness was a medico
who had been doing a bit of unofficial
sleuthing. In a hut on Albury Common,
near where the body was discovered, he
found a woman, who told him the
Girl came to her hut one morning
very tired and hungry and asked to be
sheltered for a few days. Girl, known
to the hut-dweller merely as “Sweet
Nell,” stayed three days and was then
murderously attacked by a resident of the
district. Resident’s pa and ma then
arrived in a sulky, bundled the dying girl
into a vehicle, pulled the informant’s hair
and smacked her face and told her to
“Get to hell out of it and keep your
“Well, Molly, you old scoundrel, what’re you doing tonight ?”
mouth shut.” A difficulty, that the
Pyjama Girl was shot in the head while
the crime described to the Probate Court
was done with an iron bar, was not ex-
plained. Neither was the mysterious hut-
dweller present as a witness nor repre-
sented by affidavit. A mother was
brought forward to explain her refusal to
identify her daughter when given an
opportunity to do so. The Court declined
to accept the evidence at face value,
declined the application before it, and
ordered the papers to be sent to the
Crown Solicitor “for consideration in
regard to steps in the criminal jurisdic-
tion.”
* * * *
“Jamwood”: I struck it, rather sur-
prisingly, in one of those columns in
which flappers and knuts “sling off” at
one another, as a rule with devastating
inanity:
Women wear high-heeled shoes to make
their short legs look longer.
Worthy of the man who wrote “Let
observation with extensive view Survey
mankind from China to Peru” —and
didn’t live to read the biting criticism
that his first line is redundant. But is
it true? My own impression, formed
when high heels came in, is that the idea
is to make tootsies look smaller.
* * * *
“Van Dee”; “Pequena” (B. 12/12/’42)
asks “did Nelson pronounce duty
‘dooty’?” No doubt he did ; and also
called a duke a “dook.” And, unless he
differed from all his contemporaries, he
would also pronounce gold as “goold,”
lilac as “laylock” and cucumber as
“cowcumber.” Even W. E. Gladstone
always spoke of “constitootinal and
“noos,” and Lord John Russell, consider-
ably younger than Nelson, called a
woman a “ooman” and was much
obleeged.” Lord Frederic Hamilton says
that his aunts, born with or before the
nineteenth century, always spoke of
“Proosia and Roosia,” and drank tea out
of a “chaney” cup. His grandfather,
born in 1766 (eleven years later than
Nelson), to the end of his life spoke of
“Lunnon,” in the eighteenth-century
manner.
* * * *
“Jackdaw”: Philatelists who can still
keep up their hobby find that the war has
caused a lot of changes. Propaganda
issues cover a range of stamps showing
all phases of war efforts, up to Cuba’s
anti-Fifth-Column set. Rising postal
costs and stamp shortages have caused
overprinting of existing stamps (as in
Australia). South Africa has saved paper
by issuing such small stamps that Afri-
kaanders must swallow more than they
stick on envelopes. Even conservative
John Bull has had to re-color his stickers
because of dye shortages. But there is
real philatelic turmoil in such places as
Malta, Somaliland and French overseas
possessions. Europe will be having
equivalent upsets, but obviously infor-
mation on these is limited. Quite early
in the piece it was made illegal to acquire
enemy postage stamps, new or used.
“Keg”: Does any member of Bris-
bane’s Johnsonian Club remember enter-
taining, about a quarter of a century ago,
the officers of H.M.S. Diomede? A much
gold-braided old gentleman told me how
he and his colleagues were taken quite
off their guard by an invitation from a
set of prim-looking gentlemen, whose
representatives they met at Parliament
House, and who in tones as prim as their
demeanor described themselves as “The
Doctor Johnson Club.” The aim and
business of such a body must, the
mariners felt, be the consumption of
coffee ; so, more in the spirit of a voyage
of discovery than in any expectation of
high revel, they went like lambs to the
slaughter. It wasn’t coffee. As my in-
formant put it, “those dear old boys well
and truly laced us up.” Sequel was a
return match. The Johnsonians were
entertained on board, and every man
jack of them went under the table.
“Mind you, Aussie,” confessed my in-
formant after a reflective pause, “they
were drinking gin, and we were drink-
ing water; but they weren’t to know
that.” So now the Johnsonians know
what is meant by the Nelson touch. Or
(an awful thought has just occurred to
me) was it the Nelsonians who in the
first instance were the victims of the
Johnson touch?
* * * *
“F.S.”: Subject to an Order-in-Council,
Victorian National Gallery trustees will
shortly sell by auction a collection of past
purchases of statuary which changing
fashions in art have relegated to the base-
ments. They include “Tragedy Envelop-
ing Comedy,” by Bertram Mackennal,
which Mrs. Brough presented as a
memorial to her husband ; busts of John
Pascoe Fawkner, Louis Buvelot, the Duke
of Edinburgh and other departed worthies,
and a “Daphne” for which a past panel
of trustees paid £lOOO. When a similar
procedure was adopted with regard to past
purchases of pictures the result was so
disconcerting that the trustees must have
been sorry they did it. Pictures that had
cost hundreds went for a few pounds.
* * * #
“Uramao”; The devastation wrought
in Genoa by the R.A.F. makes me specu-
late concerning the fate of two tablets
I saw on the walls of a ducal palace.
These tablets, unusual in that they record
not the virtues but the failings of the de-
parted, commemorate Raphael Torre
(1572) and Paulo Balbi (1550). I copied
the inscriptions, cut deep in imperishable
marble. Enumerated are all the crimes
of which Paulo and Raphael were guilty.
* * * *
“23-4”; In the women’s section of
my afternoon paper one of those featured
writers is asked for the chief causes of
marital unhappiness and launches into a
long answer, embracing everything, from
Jealously to indifference, but not the
chief cause —getting married.
* * * *
“Santadudman”: The atttempt to liqui-
date (or austeriate) poor old Father
Christmas recalls the last time that sort
of thing occurred. It began in 1644,
when the Long Parliament ordered Christ-
mas to be observed as “a day
of fasting and humiliation.” This
official ban on Christmas rejoicing
lasted for nearly 20 years. Cromwell
even shut up the churches on that
day, and on Christmas Day, 1657, Evelyn,
the diarist, was arrested because he was
found at church. He was interrogated by
several functionaries from Whitehall and
released, after being lectured on the enor-
mity of the offence of trying to celebrate
Christmas in such a manner!
* * * *
“Spasebo”: There is a lot of truth in
“Strict Veg.’s” assertion (B. 9/12/’42)
that Parisians have catholic palates, but
that is due to the skill and adventurous-
ness of their cooks. I was in Paris when
a camel died in a circus. A leading
chef promptly obtained full rights over
the carcass and announced that he would
prepare the flesh in 14 different ways and
serve the dishes at his cafe on an adver-
tised date. The rush was such that one
gourmet collapsed and died on the door
step. I left Paris next day, so I am unable
to say whether the chef used this unfor
tunate accident to further his culinary re-
searches.
* * * *
“Ajax”; Those radio speakers who
announce dramatically that we are now
turning out umpteen times as many guns
or tanks or ’planes as we were in such-
and-such a year certainly tell us nothing
tangible (B. 18/11/ ’42), but I sometimes
wonder whether they don’t tell the enemy
a good deal. Much of the work of secret-
service departments —much more than
people fed on spy thrillers think —con-
sists of painstakingly dollying for specks
of gold in other countries’ official pub-
lications, statistics, speeches by promi-
nent people and newspaper and radio
reports. Tiny scraps of information col-
lected in this way, each quite valueless
alone, may add: up to something of sur-
prising importance, especially if supple-
mented by information obtained from
other sources. The Axis had some idea
—possibly a very good idea—of the pro-
duction of weapons in Allied countries
before the war. Why keep them posted
on the rate of increase? Even though
the production figures which they worry
out from such information are not likely
to be absolutely accurate —maybe no
more exact than they could obtain by
other means —nevertheless the announce-
ments violate the first tenet of war-time
censorship, which is to make the enemy
work as hard as possible for every scrap
of information.
* * * »
“Oxbro.” remembers some early Aus-
tralian newspapers:
In the coming year the old Hawkesbury town
of Windsor (N.S.W.) will record the cen-
tenary of its first journalistic enterprise, the
“Windsor Express,” established by G. A.
Eager in May, 1843. It lasted about 12 months,
and was succeeded in July, 1844, by the
“Hawkesbury Courier,” owned by Hatham and
Foster. Eager was its printer, and eventually
became owner. However, it only lived for a
month or two in his hands. The town was
without a newspaper until 1850, when Benja-
min Isaacs established the “Telegraph,” whose
editor’s name was Layard. It didn’t function
for very long, and not until 1860 did anyone
else venture on a journalistic revival. This was
a badly-printed penny weekly owned by W.
Doyle, which had a short run. “The Windsor
and Richmond Gazette,” established by J. C. L.
Fitzpatrick in 1888, still circulates along the
old river.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “I wus trampin’ through a
lonely bit of country one time lookin’
fer a place t’ camp fer the night,” related
Dan. “It wus just on dusk, an’ a drizzlin’
rain had set in when I meets a kid on
horseback an’ asked him if he knew of a
campin’ place. ‘There’s an empty ole
house ’bout half a mile on,’ he ses ; ‘but
it’s sed t’ be haunted.’ As it wus a case
of otherwise spendin’ the night wet
through I reckoned I’d take a chance
with the spooks. It’s pitch-dark when I
finds the joint, a big tumbleldown crib,
an’ I gropes me way inside, thankful fer
the shelter. Two minits later I hear a
sorta moanin’ sound in the next room.
Gripes! Me hair begins t’ prickle! Then
I hears a door slam a coupla feet away,
an’ a bumpin’ sound agen it. I lets out a
howl of fright what echoed right through
the crib, an’ the moans seem t’ get worse.
I wus too scared t’ sleep, an’ ev’ry time
I moved an’ made a bit of a noise the
marrer-freezin’ moanin’ would start
again. It kept on at intervals all night.
By the time the first streaks of daylight
showed I wus shiverin’ like a jelly, an’ I
grab up me swag an’ stagger out. As I
turned the corner of the house I bump
into another bloke with a swag, lookin’
as seedy as I wus, an’ goin’ fer his life.
We stop an’ gape at each other fer a
minit an’ then gives a sheepish grin each,
two of the sorriest ghosts what ever
haunted an empty house.
* * " * *
“Casey”; A cocky in our south-west
W.A. district, fed up with the depreda-
tions in his poultry yard, got to work on
the foxes, and after a lot of difficulty
cleared them out. It was then that the
rabbits took charge of his property. The
fight against them was infinitely tougher,
so when the foxes began to drift back
he took no action against them except
on the advice of a neighbor to keep a
billygoat near the fowlyard. The pre-
caution has worked. Reynard has been
switched by the goat’s aggressiveness from
a diet of feathers to his more natural
one of fur.
“Kangaroo Hitch”: - A simple thing
like a wire fence will sometimes bring
about the downfall of the fox where the
most cunningly laid trap will fail. Came
on one the other day. It had jumped
the sheep-proof netting but, not having
put sufficient energy into it, its head failed
to clear the top wire on the other side
and had come down between it and the
wire below. The hind part of its body,
however, had gone over the top wire,
thus forming a lever which forced the
lower wire to the top. The fox was thus
held firmly behind the ears in the twitched
wire, its body dangling to the ground.
Strangulation was the verdict.
H* H'
“Bungle”: It happened when the stock
evacuation was at its hysterical height.
The harassed young cop had been coping
with a continuous stream of equally
harassed, irascible and bewildered cockles
from sunrise to sundown. At the end
of the day he entered the two-by-four
township’s tobacconist’s after a smoke
for badly-frayed nerves. The owner took
him imploringly by the button. In the
event of an evacuation what would he
do ; what would happen to his stock ;
he’d had no instructions. The weary six
feet of Law took one withering look
round the little shop. “My advice is
smoke the fags, stick the blasted tobacco
in your pocket and hop it,” he snarled.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Pat Ater”: Old Mick, the station
butcher, could never call a dog his own,
and his greatest sorrow was that none of
the station mongs would answer his
whistle unless there was obviously a feed
in the offing at slaughtering time. It
wasn’.t that they disliked the old fellow,
but it seemed consistent with dog honor
not tp'take him seriously. One day a
drover blew in with a woolly ball of
pupdom in his pocket and, in gratitude
for some fresh meat, presented him
to the old butcher. Mick, delighted,
lavished affection on the pup, which fol-
lowed him everywhere. Then the fell day
which we’d all been expecting arrived.
The pup—now half-grown—was seen in
close confab with the station tykes, after
which came k test. At Mick’s first
whistle the doglet showed indecision, but
came reluctantly. Next time, though, he
sat tight, tongue lolling, blandly im-
pervious to all commands and entreaties,
with the rest of the mongs lying around,
feigning sleep, but keeping a wary eye on
their latest “recruit.” Old Mick turned
away, the ashes of a cherished ambition
“You’ll he all right when you get your land legs.”
cold within him “That’s what comes
of trusting dogs the ungrateful hounds,
he muttered. 111 never do it again.
• • * ♦
“T.V.”: Hit the camp of Jimmy-m-
the-Bend the other day to find the old
chap in the throes of packing for his
annual Christmas holiday. Excited and
resentful of all the fuss, his old tortoise-
shell cat was making a nuisance of
herself. After she had nearly tripped
her master for the fifth time, jumped on
the table and narrowly escaped falling
into a tub of tar, 1 remarked that it
looked as though old Diddums knew her
boss was going away. “Know?” said
Jimmy, his eyebrows arched. Course
she flamin’ well knows. Aren’t the
labels plain enough on me por.7”
“Esk D.”; Old George, the hatter of
Alluvial Creek, is fond of cats, and his
hut is overrun with them. “They keep
the rats and mice and snakes away,” says
George. Dropped in one mealtime and
learned something new in the way of
table technique. There were cats on the
floor, the table and on a couple of im-
provised chairs, very interested spec-
tators. George’s hat as a cover protected
the butter, and while he kept guard with
his left arm as a barrier he forked the
tucker up quickly with his right. I soon
saw why he had to be so quick. As he
paused for a moment to speak, one ven-
turesome puss helped itself to the mouth-
ful off his fork. George pushed the cat
back a length or so and went on eating,
“Real characters, some of them,” he
remarked casually between bites,
“Botano”: I liked “B.A.K.’s” descrip-
tion of the cactus growing at Parramatta
(B. 18/11/ ’42), but that plant actually
was on the drunk, or being forcibly fed.
Its four-inch stems were designed for
extracting moisture from a reluctant soil,
under permanent drought conditions. So
when it found itself in a regularly-
watered garden it reacted as described.
The cactus in all its varieties is the
world’s champion at water-conservation
among the vegetables; and it also must
rank as the most selfish. Born to the
deserts of North America, its root system
is so adapted that it mops up the slight-
est shower, and at once pumps the water
into the stem or trunk, which is really a
tank ; clothed with a tough leathery skin
this tank is almost evaporation-proof.
When it is a long time between drinks
the frame of the cactus shrinks, the skin
becoming even tougher and more
leathery ; but within a few hours after a
rainshower the apparently dying plant is
itself again. Being a reservoir in a thirsty
land the cactus would be much appre-
ciated by thirsty animals. But instead of
becoming a benefactor in this way it has
selfishly covered itself with needle-sharp
thorns. All of which explains why
and how the prickly-pear got such a grip
on well-watered Queensland.
* * *
“Naturala”: Has anyone ever been
able to hand-rear and domesticate any
Australian wild duck? Wandering among
the hills to the east of Perth I came on
a small creek, and there, paddling slowly
along and obviously having lost their
mother, were a dozen wild ducklings,
pretty, fluffy little things all marked the
same —black legs and feet, black bills,
black plumage relieved by two yellow
spots on the back just beyond where the
wings start out. Using my shirt as a basket
1 got them home and started them oft on
the safest of all duckling fodder, rolled
oats, fiut within a couple of hours eight
oe |f ,, UVCI WlLh the sta BS er “- I then
lne “ the survivors on a diet of minced
n ? u . bo J? and P oll ard. They seemed all
ri §ht tor about a week, having plenty of
runnin S room m sun and shade, with
am f f. water. u . t Wltbm a fortnight all
bab died ' Two things I noted: they were
n / ucb m ore intolerant of being handled
than any domesticated duckling, and they
ac! an amazing turn of speed in running
1 rom capture. ■
“ M QR ” • Want to see a froe melt
• k ,‘ AC iT /m /7 A 1™ *[•
carbon' bMnhide M? ol ?.
yt-fl U
be a wisn of dried froaskin
**« ’ «
“Old-timer”: Piangil Pete, sitting pen-
sively on a log jutting out over the
Murray, spotted a fair lump of cod
prowling along the mud about six feet
under the surface. It was summer and a
clear river, and that fish was well fed and
idle. Pete watched for several minutes
as, with fins fanning steadily, it moved
ever so slowly along the bank and back
again. Then he edged himself gently
off the log, went up to the hut, got a
light clothesprop, bound a big toasting-
fork to one end and returned to the log.
The cod was still there and, taking care-
ful aim, Pete drove his trident down with
all his force. Next instant there was a
huge splash and a great floundering, and
a saturated spearman dragged himself
ashore. There, having wrung himself
out, he looked for his spear and saw the
haft of it waving out of the water. “Got
’im” exulted Pete, and dived in again.
But it was only the spear stuck upright
in the mud, the current causing the sway-
ing. Pete sticks to lines now. He’s never
heard of refraction, and is convinced his
eye isn’t what it used to be.
* & H - *
“Matilda’s Pard”; Old Ben, hurriedly
heading east, came up with another knot-
humper camped just outside Mullaley,
oh the Pilliga road west of Gunnedah
(N.S.W.). “Y’re mad,” snorted old Ben,
from the wisdom of his years ; “no bag-
man is silly enough t’ get stuck at a
one-pub joint at Christmas. That’s the
time t’ make for the big towns. Get y’r
gear an’ head f’r Gunnedah, mate. The
hand-outs an’ free beers in a big town
are thick an’ plentiful at a time like this,
take it from me.” And Ben disappeared
in the dust, striking out four miles an
hour to beat Christmas into Gunnedah.
* * * *
“Oak Eye”: I was deeply interested in
“Betcha’s” adventures with the newchum
sheepman (B. 16 / ’ 12/’42), but wasn’t it a
mistake to tell the poor cow that his
sheep had worms because his pastures
were too poor? In our neck of the
woods we never worry about worms until
the pastures become lush and squashy.
* * * *
“Meader”: Strange how some of these
bushwhackers, convinced in their own
beliefs, won’t subscribe to the beliefs of
others. “Langstroth” (B. 16/12/’42)
won’t credit that tin-banging will cause
a swarm of bees to settle, yet asserts that
if you flash a big mirror in their eyes
they will. Lie also asserts that throwing
water or dust among them will do the
trick, though how you get the materials
among a swarm 30ft. to 50ft. above
ground isn’t explained.
“Underbool”: So the Prime Min-
ister wants an austere Christmas.
He ought to come out to our ranch.
In former days we could look for-
ward to seating 20 around a table
laden with turkey, duff, beer, nuts
and all the other trimmings, and
every hand on the place had a fort-
night’s extra pay in his pocket. This
Christmas we’ll sadly remember
one lad dead in Libya, one of the
boss’s sons lost in the English
Channel and another a prisoner in
Malaya. Most of the other hands
are in the services, and the daughter
of the place is a W.A.A.A.F. There
will be no turkey and little beer,
we won’t have time for more
than a snack because we can’t
muster more than four men and
two boys, and there’ll be nothing
spent on presents. All this is caused
by circumstances, not by appeals
to be austere, but we’re not growl-
ing. And it says something for the
boss that, in spite of increased taxes
and costs, worries and losses, he
still made up the fortnight’s pay, in
the shape of a £lO bond each.
“Esk D.”: Long Ned collected the
water-wheel and piping from the old bat-
tery site and re-erected it, with a strong
head of water, to drive a small sawmill.
Logging went ahead satisfactorily, and
Ned was a proud man as he opened the
valve to set the mill in motion. The first
log jammed a bit; that meant a mend in
the new belt. By the end of the week there
wasn’t a usable belt or rivet on the job,
and the long bloke went off in search of
an engine. Water-power is hard to beat
on a steady job, but there is no give
to a sharp check, as with an engine;
something must give way to the dead
weight of water.
sfc *
“Billy See”: Passing through a West-
ralian town, I watched the municipal
gardener lopping ornamental shade trees.
Making an easy job of it he sawed off
quite large boughs six inches to a foot
from the trunk. A few miles further on
was the bush, where Nature does a more
intelligent job. There I noticed a gum
which a year or so ago had lost a large
limb ip a storm. Torn off flush with the
trunk, the limb had stripped the bark
down for over ten feet. But healing was
well under way. Working in a bulging
creep from the torn edges the bark was
slowly covering the wound ; a few more
years and the edges would meet, and,
save for some distortion, the tree would
be as though it had never suffered injury.
But that municipal gardener was denying
Nature any power of healing. From his
horns and stumps that had been limbs
the bark would creep back leaving a dry,
decaying protrusion which in time would
carry its decay right to the trunk itself,
perhaps to the heart of the tree. So, when
lopping a tree, saw off flush with the
trunk or major limb, and in very little
time the growing bark will have the scar
covered.
HEAT SPELL.
Sorrel-red the roads, where in chestnut crowds
Dust-devils weave the chrysalis sheaths of their
shrouds,
Stitching the heat-haze seams with a splinter
of sun,
Biting the gold thread close when the job is
done.
The glare of the armored roof is an upper-cut
That sends you reeling back with your seared
eyes shut;
The rusty tin that straddles the low ridgepole
Of the dog kennel burns your hand like a
living coal.
The shearing sheds are rancid with oaths and
sweat;
The russet backs of the shearers gush with wet;
Stupid with heat, the picker-up drowsily gleans
His harvest of wool to the rocking roar of
machines.
Down the runway they go, so bright in the
blaze
Of the light that you cannot follow their gleam-
ing ways;
Blood and tar, sheep-droppings and lanoline
smells
Clash and clang in your senses like brassy bells.
Greasy moleskins and muscles lax with the heat,
His eyes intent on the wether between his feet;
While above his head the slow flies circle the
beams —-
The ringer clips his way through a fleece of
dreams.
And when the sun stares with a bloodshot eye
Through bushfire smoke along a lurid sky;
At twilight, when the sweet dew is sucked up
Before the earth’s dark lips can taste its cup,
The crickets hold corroborees of woe
Along dry ridges, where brown, grass grubs mow
Each shard of green, till not one stalk remains
To flash its prayers of jade to emerald rains.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“V. Cluse”: Sydney suburbanites, en-
joying their first moist summer for a
number of years, have suddenly been re-
minded of the insect world and its joy at
the change. Cicadas were never more
numerous or loud than now, and you’re
likely to find them in the morning milk
or the kid’s clothes, strident choruses
emanating from the wardrobe at unex-
pected times. King beetles, in all the
glory of green and gold, are swarming
on the gums, and among the plants and
weeds in the gardens you run upon all
sorts of weird things. Out our way a
peculiar animal with feelers about three
inches long, a body that looks as though
it started to be a cricket and decided to
be a grasshopper, a pair of eyes like
headlamps and a grey armor like a hippo,
has taken a fancy to the bathroom. It
shares the shower with me, gravely
watches me shave and occasionally takes
a dip in the bath with my eldest. It and
I get along with it all right, but the missus
can’t take to it, and frequently dashes
forth clad in a towel and demanding its
instant expulsion or destruction. I’m
reluctant to destroy it, seeing that it’s so
friendly, and I can’t expel it because, put
out in the garden, it simply returns at
once to the bathroom. Maybe it likes
the kind of soap we use.
* * * *
“Flight”: One of the few rules formu-
lated by learned bodies about birds is
correct: that the larger the egg in com-
parison with the bird the more developed
the chicken will be when hatched. Pigeons
are often quoted as layers of small eggs,
and a squab only equals a human baby
in helplessness. On the other hand, a
quail brings its youngsters into the world
fit to fend for themselves. The young of
the ground-nesting tribe develop wing
pinions quicker than any other chickens.
Their eggs range from small to medium.
* * * *
“Nipper”: On the central western N. S.
Wales plains I’ve watched the hawks go
for the hares, but usually the results for
the birds were poor. If they ever picked
one up it was on a cloudy day ; when the
sun was shining the swoopers were never
in the race. Saw a hare on such a day
flash out from a patch of burrs and make
for a belt of timber. A hawk came in
for the kill, but the hare watched the
attacker’s shadow tearing across the
ground and at the right split second
applied the brakes, went into reverse and
then skidded off at another angle. He
repeated these tactics often, and each
time the hawk would reach just above
ground level at the spot where the hare
would have been had the shadow not
telegraphed the hunter’s position to the
quarry. I don’t doubt that the more
highly-educated hares stick around their
residences on dull, overcast days.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: It’s a bush truism that
the average bloke’s nerve with a bad
horse doesn’t often survive his thirtieth
year. I can nominate two chief causes
for such nerve failure. One is a bad
horse-and-man fall, especially when it
follows the mad gallop or flying pigroot-
ing of a colt out of control. The feeling
of utter helplessness that, comes when
you’re still in the saddle but have lost
all control of your prad is bad enough ;
when it’s followed by a crashing fall it
tends to be fatal to “nerve.” The other
cause is being tackled on the ground by
a bad horse after he has dumped you.
To lie on the gibbers trying to get back
your wind and senses and suddenly to
"Promise to be a good boy while you re in the Labor Corps.”
see a mad equine mountain, bristling
with bared teeth and raised forefeet,
descending upon you is an experience
few men care to sample twice.
* * * «
“Narriii”; The first and only musk
duck (B. 25/11/’42) I ever shot—l was
new to the Murray then, and beg to be
excused—fell victim to a bullet from 200
yards. Apparently the trajectory was so
high that he couldn’t smell it coming.
In the top end of S.A., where they are
common on tanks and swamps in a good
year, the same theory is advanced about
the little diver-ducks. Whether or not
they can see, hear or smell the lead on
its way, they certainly manage to be just
under water by the time it arrives. I’ve
seen a newchum salt the water in a tank
with a whole packet of .22 bullets in a
fruitless attempt to murder one of the
agile little coves.
* * *
“Solitude”; Seventyfiver announced
that he’d overcome the inconvenience of
the sugar shortage. “Honey,” he ex-
plained gleefully. “Won’t have t’ buy
it, neither; there’s stacks about.” He
scouted round the hills till he found a
bush hive in a yellow-box ; then, packing
his nag with tools and buckets, he set
out to collect. All day he labored and
all night he cursed. His eyes were
swollen, his dog stubbornly refused to
follow him any more, and his nag struck
suddenly for parts unknown. The old
fellow went stolidly ahead. Two days he
spent warming up the dark mess of
sticks and comb in the kero.-tin, after
which he strained it through the back of
his spare shirt, and, later, through his
lace towel. When he wasn’t fighting stray
bees out of the hut he was calling on
"Take them corsets off him, Toni The missus cant get a pair in Sydney."
Heaven to blast the ants and shifting his
eatables. On a recent morning I found
him marching up and down in the wind
dripping soapy water. His grin grew as
I approached, and snatching up a treacle-
tin he held it up for my inspection. “Jus’
look at that, will y’?” he chortled
proudly. “Just on two pounds o’ good
honey! Do f’r me tea ’n’ everything.
An’ it never cost a bean! ”
“B. 4”: At a N.Q. Repeating Telegraph
Station the O.C. had devised various
gadgets for treating ailments, imaginary
and alleged, with controlled doses of
electric current. A young gin afflicted
with toothache was persuaded to submit
to treatment. Requested to indicate the
offending molar she opened the gulf in
her cobra, into which the O.C. thrust his
fist and dropped a copper ball attached
to a wire into the aching cavity. He
then switched on a full dose of juice, and
as the lightning struck the startled lubra
bucked off the chair and bolted for the
door, smashing the trace and upsetting the
instrument. Whirling round, she let fly
a blast of h.e. remarks which singed the
dials of the audience and burnt the grass
outside. Becoming mollified, later, by
the prominence of the episode in the
tribal corroborees, the outlaw sidled up
to the amused O.C. and assured him:
“No more toot’ache now. Boss ; that one
plurry boxer lightnin’ bin finiss him.”
♦ * SC
“Taylor Ville”: Old Alec is the only
cocky in our district lousy enough to
work his horses on a Sunday. He was
out bright and early the other Sabbath,
and roman-nosed Chester, Sally, pig-eyed
Satan and bald-faced Trix and Boxer
looked thoroughly disgusted as he drove
them out to the paddock. Just on sunset
he pulled in from the last round to* the
dump near the gate and began forking
out. To clear out the last of the wheat
and chaff from the front of the box he
crawled inside and, slipping about on the
tin, got to work with his hands. Just then
the screws that held the door hook pulled
out of the perished woodwork. The
heavy door slammed shut and its spring
latch caught fast. Alec let out a startled
i oar, and the tired horses moved on.
They swung straight through the gate into
the 200-acre home-paddock, but un-
luckily for their owner they chose the
short cut over the flat. Skidding and slid-
ing on the polished tin Alec had the ride
of a lifetime as the nags bumped and
jolted over mallee stumps and limestone
outcrops. He had plenty of air from the
sieve at the back, but he wasn’t happy.
Then the team ran into the loose horses,
and about then the forewheel of the
stripper turned and locked on a stump.
Alec then put in an hour of meditation
until his missus, exploring with the
lantern, found and released him, after
which he took the horses out, fed them
and went in to tea. At bedtime he re-
membered the open gate between the
loose horses and the wheat. It took a
profane hour and a half to locate the
prads—in the scrub corner of their own
paddock—and to shut the gate. Alec is
finished with Sunday teamwork.
* % #
“J.P.K.”: Here’s something to beat
“Yorick’s” example in timber preserva-
tion (B. 2/12/’42). A fair portion of the
three-rail fence with which pioneer
squatter John Eaton, of Teebar (Q.),
fenced in his 640-acre weaning paddock
on his Neerdie outstation still stands.
Timber, stringy bark. Date of erection.
1858.
* * * *
“Wusslean”: When the retired city
chap built a fine brick place on a hill
commanding the best view over our
orchard district to the Dandenongs (Vic.)
everyone reckoned he seemed “too
darned standoffish,” and nobody except
tradesmen and city visitors went inside
the big ornamental gates for the first few
weeks. Then the secretary of the
hospital committee went along to ask for
a contribution to the new ward fund. Just
inside the gates he met a big white goat
that sniffed his trouserlegs and followed
him amiably up the drive. Ted didn’t
mind ; he had a couple of goats himself,
but he was surprised, after the maid
showed him into the library, to find Billy
still at his heels, smelling at the Turkey
carpet. The city chap welcomed Ted
pohtely, and conventional conversation
ensued, the goat meanwhile inspecting the
leather-backed volumes with a speculative
eye. Presently Ted nodded at it and told
the city chap it was a fine healthy
animal, and asked had he had it long.
“Have I had it long?” exclaimed his host,
“I thought it was yours!” Then, jump-
ing up, he said in good, plain friendly
Australian, “Give us a hand, will yon, and
we’ll hoof the blankard out! ” That swept
away reserve, and the newcomer was
thereafter elevated to the title of Good
Bloke.
* * » »
“Boxer”: For those who have an
elusive snake around the house here's
a hint. Quarter-fill with milk a jam-tin,
the still-attached lid of which has been
partly pushed back into the tin, allowing
enough space for the snake to insert his
head, and leave close to his haunt. When
he goes to pull out after going for his
favorite beverage the lid will jam and
practically sever Joe’s head.
* * * *
“Zake”: No doubt among Darwin’s
ex-residents speculation is rife as to
whether the great groper which for years
haunted the jetty waters fell a victim to the
hail of bombs in the big February raid or
during those sporadic ones delivered sub-
sequently. And no doubt also the specu-
lation is tinged with hope. Reputed to
weigh between 6001 b. and 7001 b., the big
fellow defied all efforts-—and they were
determined and many—to catch him.
With a mouth far bigger and better
equipped than a 10001 b. tiger shark’s, and
well able to snap a 14-stone man in halves
with one bite, the outsize Queenslander
could give the horselaugh not only to
man, but to the biggest reef eels and
estuarine crocs. But even a quarter of a
ton of the sea’s toughest fish would be
bomb-happy if a 500-pounder were to
lob within 100 yards of it.
* * * $
“B, A. Ker”: It’s peculiar the wav
temper affects different men. One fellow
will swear fluently, another become in-
coherent ; some flush red, others turn
deathly white. Once worked for a bush
boss who unconsciously flagged a danger
signal when his ire was aroused ; if he
began poking at his eardrum with his
little finger it was no time to be humor-
ous. My mate had a novel method of
self-control. Whenever the argument
grew overheated he slowly reached for
his makings, and with studied deliberation
rolled a fag; he claimed that the action
was not only equivalent to “counting
ten” but also had the psychological effect
of inducing the other fellow to do the
same. I tried it once, but my adversary,
being a non-smoker, wasn't susceptible
to the auto-suggestion, and took a swing
halfway through the performance. Bui
the queerest temper I ever saw was dis-
played by a big hodcarrier. His patience
was amazing—until things got too thick.
Then he’d tear off the ring he always
wore, fling it on the ground and swear
in the most descriptive flow I’ve ever
heard. Once asked him why he always
took his paddy out on the ring. “It’s not
that,” he said; “but my old lady’s reli-
gious, and she made me promise to wear
that ring as a reminder not to swear!”
THE TRACK.
The day the drover left his home,
Heart light as any feather,
The bush was lit with wattle-gold
And golden was the weather.
A drover he! Yet strange it was
And meet for scornful laughter,
No whip he bore, no horse had he
Nor dog that padded after.
Well known on many western routes
That oft he’d travelled over,
’Twas not towards these he turned his
gaze.
That sunbrowned inland rover.
Brave were his thoughts and bright his
eyes
As under skies unclouded
He set his feet upon a track
With pains and perils crowded.
The track he took upon that day
Today, though roughly trending
It leads afar, he will not quit
Till he has reached its ending.
Not lonesome does he tread its leagues
Nor count his lot ill-fated,
For there, though under alien stars,
He journeys many-mated
With townsmen, bushmen brown and
bold,
By night and day beside him,
He’ll keep that track and forward forge
Whatever may betide him.
God send that when his task is done,
Well done and haply over,
The western routes may greet again
Their sunbrowned inland rover.
JJ.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Sfs
DrS
&
PROOF
I
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
r
■
JP
r**"-
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYS AG H T'S 1 ' WIRE, WIRE NETTI NG, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
New N.S.W. Zones.
“Bungaree”: The shearing zones for-
mulated last year have been somewhat
altered for the coming season. Zoning
has now been extended to South Aus-
tralia, and there are changes in Victoria.
There are now ten zones in N.S.W.: —
Zone 1: All the country west of the
Darling ; shearing dates between October
4 and July 4 inclusive.
Zone 2 is new and takes in part of old
No. 2 zone, with its western boundary the
Darling. The eastern boundary starts
from the junction of Marra Creek with
the Barwon River, south to Mundaroo,
through Canbelego on an irregular s.-w.
line to Willandra Creek junction with the
Kilfera-Clare road to Clare. Thence to
Pooncarie and n.-w. for 30 miles, then
due west to the S.A. border. Dates:
October 18 to July 18.
Zone 3 is what is left of old No. 2,
with the boundaries as before on the
n.-e, and south. Dates: November 1 to
August 15.
Zone 4, formerly No. 6, with a few
alterations. Western and southern boun-
daries are unchanged but going north
from Peak Hill, the eastern boundary
now runs through Tomingley to Dubbo,
thence in a line to Mendooran, along the
road to Tooraweenah, to Goorianawa and
back by road to Coonabarabran. Thence
by road to Mullaley and an irregular line
running n.-e., then north and finally n.-e.
to Warialda. Thence by road to Yet-
raan and along the MacIntyre to Bogga-
billa. Two dates; July 19 to September
12 and November 1 to June 6.
Zone 5 used to be No. 7. The eastern
boundary is the new boundary of No. 4
down to Wagga and along the railway
from Wagga to Albury and all that part
of N.S.W. between No. 4 and the coast
except New England and Monaro. Dates:
August 16 to May 30.
Zone 6 is New England. Dates: Sep-
tember 27 to July 4.
Zone 7 is the Monaro. Dates: Sep-
tember 27 to July 4.
Zone 8 is a new zone taken out of
the s.-w. corner of the old No. 2. North
boundary is the new No. 2 boundary
from Pooncarie to S.A. border, thence
down to the Murray, along to Wentworth
and up the Darling to Pooncarie. Dates:
October 18 to July 25.
Zone 3 is old No. 3 with a new s.-e.
boundary from Narrandera to Berrigan
and on to the Murray to Tocumwal.
Dates: November 1 to August 22.
Zone 10: The northern boundary is
the Murrumbidgee from Narrandera to
Wagga, on the east the Wagga-AIbury
line, the Murray on the south and on
the west the new boundary of No. 9.
Dates: February 1 to September 12.
Sheep in Wheat Country.
“Galaquil”: There is plenty of scope
for sheep in Victoria. The State has been
asked to supply 150,000 tons of mutton
and lamb for 1942-43, against a normal
production average of 137,600 tons.
W. B. Miller and N. A. Bowman, Agri-
cultural Department officers, reckon that
at the beginning of 1942 Victoria had a
record sheep population of 20,598,000, of
which 9,390,000 were ewes mated to
produce lambs. These figures don’t in-
clude border districts like the Riverina,
whence a large amount of sheep meat
goes to Victorian markets. Two factors
can reduce production —superphosphate
rationing and lack of man-power. Stock
carrying increased heavily in Victoria
with the growth of pasture topdressing,
and good men are always necessary in
the industry.
In the main Victorian wheat belt
4.129.000 ewes were mated in 1941-42,
2.883.000 of them with British-breed sires.
Also in the wheat belt 1,244,000 ewes
were mated to merino, Corriedale or Pol-
warth rams, mostly in southern and
western Wimmera, where much of the
country will fatten lambs and produce
good crossbred ewes because it carries
gieen feed for six months of the year.
Miller and Bowman point out that lack
of super, and men also affects wheat-
growing, and, since the country has a
surplus of wheat, its production can fall
with safety. They expect next year’s
wheat-sowing to drop by a million acres
and fallow areas also to drop, making
perhaps 1| million acres extra for sheep.
This could carry 500,000 additional ewes
producing 250,000 more spring lambs and
another 100,000 lambs to be shorn and
“Hope it's a MOTOR -bike they mean; push-bikes are too damn' slow!”
held until 1944. If all the ewe lambs
were shorn and held for later sale as
breeders it would be a big contribution
to the 1944 ewe market with advantage to
ail concerned. Good young crossbred
ewes seldom make less than 255. a head
after shearing. -
The northern Victorian wheat belt
suffers low and uncertain rains, but it
is warm in winter and spring when feed
and stock grow rapidly. Lamb and
mutton from there is always first on the
metropolitan market and among the high
prices in the October-December rush.
With proper care and hand-feeding if
necessary, northern lambs could be ready
by September.
Dorset Horn rams on crossbred ewes
of at least 50 p.c. merino blood give
early fat lambs in the wheat belt, and
the Border Leicester cross is almost as
good though not quite as early, but it
makes the better cross for crossbred ewe
weaners as does the Corriedale ram. No
ram that does not measure up to standard
should be used, whatever the breed.
The stock must be kept in good condi-
tion. Winter grazing crops and fodder
conservation guarantee this. Hay and
grain grown on the farm is the cheapest
and best fodder, and oats sown in autumn
on stubble make good grazing in winter
and early spring. Use Mulga, Dawn,
Guyra and Fulghum, and sow at least
601 b. an acre. In some places of fair
rain and heavy soil the wheat crop can
be eaten back, but not in the Mallee.
Sometimes wheat can be sacrificed to
sheep with advantage, and often cutliva-
tion costs can be cut by sheeping the
fallows to keep down weeds.
A Workshop.
“Key Four”: You can easily run one
up with bush timber, A good place for
it is under a shady tree. Make the roof
weatherproof, and if you can’t do that
with all the sides do it with the exposed
ones. Galvanised corrugated iron on
bush-timber joists is best. Make pro-
vision for plenty of light, and have the
entrance big enough to run in your big-
gest machine for repairs. Make a timber
rack on one side, and use old boxes for
tool-chests and old tins for nails, bolts,
etc.
Give the forge a corner to itself, with
anvil and water-butt complete. Make the
work-bench strong and able to take
sti esses and blows, fit it with a vice and
have a grindstone and an emery-wheel
handy. Mount the drill on a sturdy post.
A lot of useful tools and other gear can
be picked up at district sales.
Make a single scrap site, and see that
every bit of old iron and tin goes on to
it. Plenty of scrap means a saving in
repairs.
Gutter the eaves and run the roof water
into a small tank ; it’ll be useful.
Pegs and hooks around the walls are
handy. The open is no place for good
tools when out of use. Keep them dry
and rub them over occasionally with a
greasy rag. Precision tools should be
locked in a felt-lined box.
While you’re about it, see that the
farm machinery is well housed as well
as the tools. You might even combine
workshop and machine shed.
For Potato Planting.
“Tuber McMurph.”: It’s suggested
that, because of the prevalent shortage,
there may be a relaxation of the hitherto
rigid standards set for seed potatoes.
But if you’re going in for spuds on a
commercial scale don’t be misled: heave
out seed spuds showing weaknesses of any
kind.
Stick to greening, i.e., expose the un-
cut seed to diffused light so as to en-
courage green, tough, sturdy shoots, and
keep enough good seed for the autumn
planting. Small seed, provided they afe
whole, healthy and have been greened,
are all right for planting but shouldn’t
be cut. The floor of a shed or under a
deep shade tree is a good place for green-
ing. Put them in shallow boxes or trays
if you can.
Before greening, dip to prevent scab,
which is bad this season. Buy the dip
made up or soak the seed for ten minutes
in acidulated corrosive sublimate (mer-
curic chloride). Dip before the spuds
show signs of sprouting.
Hints far the Farm.
“Mullengah”: To avoid injury to stock
passing through a gate or race in the
yards have the rails flush with the posts
and use padding where the fences make
sharp angles.
“Goulburn”: It’s better to grind wheat
into meal rather than to crush it for
dairy cows. They won’t digest the larger
parts of crushed grain, which are wasted.
When finely ground, mix the wheatmeal
with some other feed as it will otherwise
work up into a sticky mass, difficult to
swallow.
“Clyde”: For a saddle sore make a
blister of one part of biniodide of mer-
cury, four parts of lanoline and four
parts of lard. Clip the affected spot and
rub the mixture well in for 10 to 15
minutes. Don’t apply a second blister
until the effect of the first has dis-
appeared.
“Mackay”: Cow droppings give back
to the soil a good percentage of the
plant foods taken from it, but when each
cow is given 2oz. of bonemeal daily the
calcium and phosphorous removed in
the milk are returned to the soil in the
droppings. Break them up and distribute
well over the paddocks with harrows.
“V.G.L.”: Snip the dew-claws off pup-
pies when they are about a week old.
There will be practically no pain. With
an older dog either shorten the claw
with cutting forceps or completely re-
move it with sharp, sterilised scissors.
There is no bony substance between claw
and leg. After-treatment can be left to
the patient.
“Bushman”: When the auger sticks
while boring posts for wire, don’t twist
and break it, hitch a horse to it and pull
it out. Augers are dear and sometimes
unprocurable.
“Mullengah”: Geo, Armstrong and
Son’s Winderradeen Corriedale wool from
Collector (N.S.W.) realised 28d. per
pound, a new Australian record for
crossbred wool. The previous record,
als® held by Winderradeen, was 23|d.
per pound.
“B uty i e n”: “Mt. Boppy” (B.
25/11/’42) recommends feeding 51b. to
61b. of meal to pigs daily. Meal costs
at least Ifd. per pound, and to feed 51b.
daily for five months will cost approxi-
mately 70s. to 755. per pig. Under ordi-
nary circumstances a pig brings only
from 555. to 655. as a baconer, and dur-
ing the past year even lower prices. The
suggested ration would leave very little
for labor and skim milk, etc.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Departments
The radiator of my 10-20 tractor boils exces-
sively. Suspect inner corrosion. Is there any
form of chemical bath to cure this?
Know of none. If the inside of the radiator
is suspect remove it complete from the tractor
and then take the bottom tank off and clean
out any sediment that has accumulated. While
the tank is off use a hose to force water down
through the radiator tubes to clean them, then
reassemble. Straw and other matter which may
be clogging between fins and tubes can be
forced out with a hose. Check the rubber hose
connection between crankcase and radiator.
The rubber, after a lot of use, has a tendency
to peel on the inside, curl inwards and clog the
pipe. Faulty timing may cause overheating.
Check and, if necessary, re-set the timing so
that the magneto points are just opening when
the flywheel is on dead centre and the spark
retarded. With the timing properly set, the
spark should occur well before dead centre
when the spark control is set in the full ad-
vanced position. Correct magneto breaker-
point setting is .013 inches and correct plug
setting .020 to .025 inches. Valve tappet clear-
ance is .011 inches when engine is warm.
Check the carburettor; a lean mixture can cause
overheating.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
Wireless alone can meet the
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT ★ CONSTANT* CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRON
Us.. ....
RAD
VALVES
AMALGAMATE!) WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC I’RORRIETARS, LTD.,
S 3 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Chaplin v. Eisenhower.
[Condensed from an “open letter” to Lieut.-
Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower from Ed Sullivan,
New York “Daily News.” It goes as well for
Chaplin’s counterparts in Australia.]
Dear Gen. Eisenhower: In New York
Charles Chaplin and Orson Welles will
launch the Artists’ Front to Win the War.
In other words, Gen. Eisenhower, Little
Corporal Chaplin and Bigger Corporal
Welles have decided that the only way to
win this war is to open a Second Front.
This will come as a great revelation to
you, I know. You and the other Allied
generals, tensely concerned for the Rus-
sians, never could have figured this out
without the military precocity of Corp.
Chaplin and Corp. Welles, those re-
doubtable fighting men who have that
old feeling, that old Napoleonic feeling.
Corp. Chaplin and Corp. Welles be-
tween them have ruined several thousand
night club tablecloths figuring out mass
movements of glamor girls and other
commandos. It is true that you learned
about war at West Point, that you were
graduated from the Infantry Tank School
in 1922, from the command and General
Staff School in 1926, in which you topped
your class, from the Army War College
in 1928 and from the Army Industrial
College in 1932. It is true that you served
under MacArthur for five years in the
Philippines, and that at the age of 47
you learned to fly and won your pilot’s
rating. You have served as Chief of Staff
of the Third Division, the Ninth Army
Corps and the Third Army. However,
don’t worry about your meagre training,
Gen. Eisenhower, because Corp. Chaplin
and Corp. Welles are frothing for non-
combat duty.
Corp. Chaplin and Corp. Welles, Gen.
Eisenhower, are not novices. They have
seen anti-aircraft guns in action, in news-
reels, and they have seen tanks and dive-
bombers and. men blown to death, in
newsreels. Congress is thinking of giving
them campaign stripes for all of the
newsreels they have sat through. They
even saw the newsreels of the Dieppe
raid, in which over 2717 Canadian boys
were slaughtered, so they know that
opening a Second Front is a pushover.
These two famous fighting corporals
have been so busy being the life of the
party, General, that they probably didn’t
have time to read Allen A. Michie’s
factual analysis of the terrific problems
involved in opening a Second Front.
Michie said that the Germans could mass
1,500,000 men on the western front with-
out weakening their Russian strength.
Thai means that we would have to in-
vade with 150 divisions, or 2,500,000 men.
To move one-third of that force we’d
need 6,000,000 tons of merchant ship-
ping, and at least a million men in that
invading army would have to be trans-
ported all the way from the United
States. On top of that, we’d need, says
Michie, a continuous stream of shipping
to supply that invading army with guns,
food, ammunition. But let’s have no fear,
Gen. Eisenhower; Corp. Chaplin and
Corp. Welles undoubtedly have built
these ships, just as they’ll supply dive-
bombers, parachute troops, transport
’planes for infantry, air-borne tanks and
cranes to unload heavy guns and heavy
tanks. They’re the lulus of logistics.
The one thing that Corp. Chaplin and
Corp. Welles will not supply, General,
and you may as well know it now —they
won’t supply blood. They’ll do a lot of
talking at Carnegie Hall, but they won’t
be wounded. You can’t expect them
to master-mind the war from the
back seat and get hurt, too. Kibitzers
have automatic exemptions. Chaplin,
America’s unsolicited new adviser, did
not even make one trip to his native Eng-
land to entertain his British troops. I
guess he is subject to air-sickness.
Navy Deception.
(Condensed from a New York “Sun” article
by David Lawrence.)
The United States Navy is up against
one of the toughest tasks in all its history,
and one thing that causes Navy men con-
cern is the inability of the public to un-
derstand the real nature of the job and
the reasons for the way news had to be
handled from the Pacific area.
What is not generally realised is that
every gallon of octane gas for the air-
planes and every barrel of fuel for the
surface ships have to be transported
across 7000 miles or more of distance
and that there is only a limited amount
of tonnage available for the job of fuel-
ing the fleet and transporting troops.
Criticism has come from some sections
of the press, especially because the news
about the three heavy cruisers lost at
Tulagi in August was not given out till
more than two months later. The impor-
tant thing to be borne in mind is that
naval warfare is based to a large extent
on deception. The game of fooling the
enemy may mean safety to tens of thou-
sands of our sailors, and it may mean
the difference between victory and defeat
in the shaping of tactics to meet the
enemy at a particular moment.
In one operation it may be deemed
desirable to withhold the news until re-
placements are already in the same area,
and it may take a long time to get them
there from other areas. In another in-
stance, we may have already replaced in
secret a certain type of vessel and it may
be desired to let the enemy believe that
no replacement could possibly have
arrived within a certain interval.
It may be revealed that deception caused
the Japanese completely to under-estimate
our strength in the battle of Midway.
The High Command is a military and
naval group which knows what it is
doing. It is interested only in victory,
and not in politics or morale problems
away from the fighting fronts.
War-time Port Moresby.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post’’’
article by John Lardner.)
The Jap coveted Moresby from the
first. He did not mean to stop at Rabaul
and Lae. He had found the going easy
up till then. His sea-borne troops
descended upon country that had been
softened for them by the work of strange
fifth columnists —missionaries of German
stock. The missionaries co-operated skill-
fully with the Japs, and Australia’s little
Wirraway fighter ’plane was too slow and
flimsy to challenge the enemy over
Rabaul.
The Japs, their eyes cocked on
Moresby, plunged onward overland.
Swollen rivers and wild mountains turned
them back. So they abandoned the direct
route across New Guinea and tried by
sea. General MacArthur has revealed
that the Jap armada in the Coral Sea in
May was bound for Moresby, to pinch
off our menacing outpost and consolidate
Jap holdings north of Australia. Our
’planes smashed his fleet and dealt him
his first important defeat of the war.
His third try was by land again ; this
time at the point where the island’s neck
stretches thinnest, with snipers and jungle
troops trained and camouflaged for the
style of fighting that overran Malaya.
Port Moresby lies along the back curve
of a beautiful little harbor, white and
yellow houses and stores and Govern-
ment buidings set among low green hills
that command a harbor like the tiers of
an amphitheatre. The air is steaming and
foetid even in the dry season, and the sun
burns wickedly. It is fever country.
Among the troops the fever rate never
exceeded 1 p.c. at a given time, but few
men stay there long without collecting
dengue or malaria.
Moresby’s mosquitoes are notorious.
We hadn’t been in town an hour before
we heard mosquito Gag 1-A from an
Australian soldier: “The way the mos-
quitoes are in this place, Yank, they reach
in your pocket, look up your blood type
in your papers, and then send for their
friends that like that type of blood.”
The town was nearly deserted. Empty
shipping offices and stores lined the
waterfront. Farther up the hill, in the
centre of town, were two hotels, the
Moresby and the Papua, small but new
and shiny. They were completely vacant
now. So were the main streets of dirt
and loose stone, and the white houses,
many with windows broken from the
concussion of Jap bombs. The town had
been evacuated by military order. The
order extended even to Government
offices.
On the docks we saw scattered groups
of natives, workers assigned to special
jobs on the waterfront. . The Papuan
native is intelligent and a fine physical
specimen. We found, when we pene-
trated the bush to a seaside village on
stilts near Moresby, that the natives had
taken cognizance of the Jap and his
bombs and our anti-aircraft shells. They
were moving inland, lock, stock and
barrel.
When we were not pounding type-
writers in Moresby, or ducking bombs
along the road, we messed and passed
the time of day with the men of the
R.A.A.F., as cordial, eager and skilled a
group of fighters as the war has pro-
duced. In the R.A.A.F. bar and club-
house —the Oasis —the pilots gathered of
an evening, behind blackout curtains, to
read such papers and magazines as
reached Moresby, to look for mail, to
listen to the phonograph, to talk, joke
and review the day’s score.
The garrison was chiefly Australian.
There is seldom a dull moment in any
post where Diggers operate, and the Dig-
gers of Moresby were as rampantly in-
dependent and unorthodox as their
fellows throughout the world.
Under steady bombing and strafing
from the enemy, and conscious that our
own ’planes were dealing punishment to
the Jap in his roosting places a few hun-
dred miles across the island, the men of
Port Moresby gave little thought to any-
thing but war. To them, the romantic
little jungle town was simply and nakedly
a military base; a base in a war zone.
They knew it was a vital base, a sharp
prong in the flank of the enemy, and
they ignored its history and background
and its Hollywood connotations. But
Hollywood could do worse than examine
the port of Moresby, in peace or in war.
What Americans Are Saying.
(Condensed from various acknowledged-
sources.)
The war promises to be long at best, with
American soldiers fighting in every one of
its far-flung theatres before it is over. How
will the American people react, after the armis-
tice, to proposals that their boys put in several
more years in Africa, Asia, Japan, Germany,
the South Sea Islands, etc., forcing the natives
to take American democracy and like it? Our
guess is that the American people will not take
kindly to such a proposal. They will want
the boys home, as soon as the troopships can
function. They will want them so ardently
that people’s movements to bring them home
will build up, and will bring such pressure on
whatever Government we have that it will have
a hard time refusing to respond. The result
may be the wrecking of the Administration’s
entire plan to reform the world after this war.
—New York “Daily News.”
* * * *
Little is said about it, but Washington con-
sistently makes a distinction between "the mili-
tary clique now in the saddle in Japan and
the Emperor and his subjects. Elmer Davis,
director of the Office of War Information,
touched upon this when explaining the Adminis-
tration’s policy toward enemy countries.
“Japan,” he said, “must be defeated. But we
hope there are Japanese with whom we can
deal. We know there were once friendly
elements in Japan and hope there still are.”
But, he hastened to add, this attitude does
not imply any qualification of our determination
to impose complete military defeat. The dis-
tinction which Washington makes between the
militarists on the one hand and the Emperor
and the Japanese people on the other is not
new. Secretary of War Stimson followed that
policy in 1931 when he was Secretary of State.
— Wm. Philip Simms, New York “World-Tele-
gram.”
Mon cher Joseph Stalin, Moscow, Russia:
I recall that when your brave troops threw
the Germans back from Moscow last winter
General Douglas MacArthur from his foxhole
in Bataan sent you a graceful telegram of con-
gratulation. But 1 do not recall that you, mon
cher Joe, sent General MacArthur, Admiral
Nimitz or President Roosevelt a congratulatory
cable from the oilholes of the Caucasus on the
American victories at Midway and in the
Solomons. Let’s make politeness a two-way
street, as it were, mon cher Joe. — New York
“Jo urnal-A m eric an” columnist.
* * * *
We [Americans] are not in this war as Samari-
tans. We are not making a crusade. We are
fighting to save and to keep what is our own,
and it is best we should understand it and fight
accordingly. We are not engaged in gallant
rescue, but in a war for survival. — New York
“Journal-American.”
$ * * *
U.S. draft of 18- and 19-year-old youths is
to be felt widely. It is to cut short many
a high-school and college education. It will add
to industry’s problem of finding workers. It
is going to upset homes from one end of the
country to the other. Yet, when the draft age
is lowered by two years, a delay will come in
drafting many married men and a further delay
in drafting married men with children. Mil-
lions of homes, particularly where husbands are
past 35, will remain intact. At the same time
the army’s average age, rising steadily until
it is now above 28 years, will move lower again,
as the generals want. — “United States News.”
* * * *
If England had not held off the Germans
between September 3, 1939, and June 22, 1941,
when Germany attacked Russia, the Germans
would now be here in the U.S.A. In that
time we were practically undefended against air,
submarine and land attacks. If England had
gone down between September, 1939, and June,
1941, Japan would have struck us much earlier
than she did and she might have been in Cali-
fornia now. It was the English fleet and the
Englishman’s ability “to take it” that saved us.
—Benjamin de Casseres, New York “Journal-
American.”
* * * *
The Twelve Best ’Planes in the World, as
listed by Peter Masefield, technical editor of
“Aeroplane,” Britain’s leading journal in its
field:
Single-seater fighter—British Spitfire.
Long-range night fighter—British Beaufighter.
Medium bomber —Germany’s Dornier DO-17.
Heavy Bomber —British Lancaster.
Land-based torpedo bomber —Italy’s Savoia-
Marchetti 84.
Army co-operation scout United States
North American Mustang.
Long-range patrol boat—United States Con-
solidated Coronado.
Transport land ’plane—United States Douglas
DC-4.
Transport seaplane—United States Boeing
Clipper.
Naval fighter—United States Vought-Sikorsky
Corsair.
Naval torpedo bomber —United States Grum-
man Avenger.
Naval dive-bomber —United States Curtiss
Helldiver.
In the category of the single-seater fighter,
the latest Spitfire has a slight edge over the
German Focke-Wulf-190,' according to Mr.
Masefield. “In addition,” he says, “we have
both the Hawker Typhoon and the United
States Republic Thunderbolt (P-478) coming
into service with high hopes for then great
success as fighters.”— “Reader’s Digest.”
* * *
The American people gladly pay the price
to accomplish their objectives in this war.
But. in thus making a departure from the
American pattern of individual liberty and
rising material well-being, the American people
are pursuing abnormal, ephemeral policies for
the duration. Such procedures are justifiable
only so long as the objective is to produce dead
Japanese, dead Nazis and dead Fascists. After
victory has been assured, the goal should again
be to achieve the full promise of American
national life. Public opinion should be alert
to scrap the regimentation and the inflated
State-ism after the fighting is over. The tem-
porary war-time regime of restrictions should
not be permitted to be frozen into a permanent
pattern. The current emergency programme
should be envisaged as a detour —and not as a
permanent way of life. — New York “Journal-
American.'”


“For cutting Australian wood,
you’ll save by using
DISSTON
Salid Tooth Circular Saws”
■ :
IBM*
DISSTON SOLID TOOTH CIRCULAR SAWS
make accurate cuts, saw faster, stay sharp longer, are made of tough, uniform
Disston Steel, are correctly hardened and tempered and are easy to refit when
necessary. Turn out better lumber, increase your production on any kind of
wood —hard or soft.
Disston Solid Tooth Circular Saws are made in a wide variety of styles of teeth
and range in diameter from 4in, to 78in.
For full particulars, see your dealer or write to:
HENRY DISSTON & SONS, PTY. LTD.
VINE STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telegrams: DISSTON, SYDNEY BOX 47, CHIPPENDALE P.O.
WE ARE SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
£l5/17/3
DOUBLE RIGGED.
Delivery end of January, 1943.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This ij a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
N.S. W. Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order.
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
WALTHER i> STEVENSON "S
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY I
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy urgently Bacteriology by Gardner,
Introduction to Animal Physiology, by Yapp,
and I he Manual of Public Health and Hygiene,
by Curnc. Wanted for returned soldier. W.
NSW Railway-street, Wentworthville,
Information Sought.
(1) What was the total of enlistments in
the Commonwealth military forces for the war
°f 1914-18? (2) What was the combined total
of killed and wounded? (3) Did the soldiers
volunteer ?
(1) Naval, 3856; military, 412,953. (2) Killed,
39,739; died of wounds, 18,393; wounded,
125,684. (3) All were volunteers. *
* * * *
A few facts about Duntroon Military Col-
lege ?
The college had its origin in a recommenda-
tion by Kitchener in 1910, that a military col-
lege for the training of staff officers should be
established in Australia. The same year Briga-
dier-General W. T. Bridges selected the home-
stead on the Duntroon estate, a few miles from
Canberra, as the site of the college, and in
1911, when the college was officially opened,
he was appointed as the first commandant.
He was killed on Gallipoli, and his tomb over-
looks the college. For reasons of economy
the college was housed in Victoria Barracks
from 1931 to 1936, and then transferred back
(o the original site, which had been greatly
added to.
* * * *
Who were the early pioneers of civil aviation
in A ustralia ?
First of sustained efforts to establish and
operate an airline in Australia was made by
W.A. Airways, of which Major Norman
Brearley was the moving spirit. The co. estab-
lished in 1922 a service between Perth and
Geraldton, 270 miles. In the first year this
co. made a world’s record for adherence to
schedule and safety, and before this line ceased
operations the co. extended its services in W.A.
and established and operated a Perth-Adelaide
service. Later the same year Queensland and
Northern Territory Aerial Services (Qantas)
came into operation. The most ambitious of
Australia’s early airline ventures was Aus-
tralian National Airways, founded by Kingsford
Smith and Ulm, firstly operating an unsubsi-
dised service between Brisbane and Sydney
and then extending to other States.
* * * *
(1) When did Japan invade Siberia during
the 1914-18 period ? (2) Extent of the advance,
and the area in square miles of the territory held?
held ? (3) Reason for withdrawal from Siberia,
and the number of casualties suffered by the
Japanese? (4) Did United States Marines
occupy Vladivostock or intervene in Russia
during the Revolution?
(I) Japan’s expedition into Siberia was under-
taken in conjunction with U.S. forces in
August, 1918, primarily to render assistance to
Czechs, who during their progress from interior
prison camps in Siberia found themselves
threatened by hostile forces, said to be under
German command. Britain, France, Italy and
China joined in the venture and sent troops to
Vladivostock. The Allies fought their way to
the Amur River region and the Trans-Baikal
Province. (2) The area occupied by the Japa-
nese is difficult to determine, but they were in
the position to dominate the whole settled
region east of Lake Baikal, about 650,000
square miles. (3) In 1920 all the Allies with-
drew, except the Japanese, who maintained,
with Allied consent, a guard along the Trans-
Siberian railway. In Sept., 1920, after the
Czechs had left the East, Japan evacuated Trans-
Baikal and Amur Provinces, but continued to
maintain troops in North Manchuria, and the
southern part of the Maritime Provinces, “to
protect Japanese nationals” until Oct., 1922,
when the last Japanese troops evacuated Vladi-
vostock. Japan had about 70,000 troops in
Manchuria and Siberia, but the number was
reduced to 26,000 by the end of the year, and
still less later, and the total casualties were
1475 officers and men killed and 10,000
wounded in five years. They continued their
occupation of Russian Saghalien until 1925.
All Japanese troops were withdrawn under the
terms of the Peking Agreement of January 20,
1925. (4) U.S. Marines were among the forces
sent by the Americans in the Allied operations,
and were landed at Vladivostock.
What is this insurance proposal regarding
members of the fighting forces ?
The N. S., Wales branch of the R.S.S. and A.
League has pressed for the adoption of the in-
surance principle, which would mean that the
principles applying in ordinary life assurance
in civil life would be applicable in the case of
the services. The Commonwealth Government
in accepting a man for service adjudges him
fit after careful examination, and if the man
subsequently is incapacitated or dies the league
takes the view that a pension should be granted
either to him or to his dependants, provided
that the incapacity or death occurs whilst he is
a member of the forces, either in Australia
or abroad. In other words, it would mean
that the man and/or his dependants would
virtually be insured against incapacity or death
occurring during the period of his service.
* * * *
Is alluvial cinnabar suitable in any way for
war purposes ? What is the marketable value
per unit ?
Quicksilver or mercury (the product distilled
from cinnabar) is a very essential war com-
modity for drugs, chemicals and electrical trade
needs. Price today is approximately 20s. per
pound. One or two small Australian cos. pro-
duce and retort in a small way on their own
leases.
* ♦ * *
Mate and I had an argument in the cook’s
galley whether the dish is Welsh “rarebit” or
“rabbit.” Who’s right?
Original name for the dish (in 1725) was
Welsh rabbit, and is so designated in all old
recipe books. But later (in 1785) it was col-
loquially labelled Welsh rarebit by Francis
Grose in his Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar
Tongue, and the name stuck. All the standard
dictionaries support the use of the original word.
Chambers’s describes rarebit as “an erroneous
form of rabbit”; Oxford labels it an “etymolo-
gising alteration”; Webster’s International says
it is “sometimes erroneously called rarebit”;
and Fowler advises the use of rabbit, not rare-
bit.
* * * *
Home-made recipe for waterproofing duck
tarpaulin ?
(a) Dissovle soz. alum in one gallon boiling
water. ( b) Dissolve 4oz. sugar of lead in one
gallon boiling water. Mix (a) and (b), leave
overnight, strain carefully, and then paint the
duck tarpaulin with the solution, first washing
the tarpaulin down with water to remove any
dust; then apply to damp canvas. Wipe off sur-
plus mixture, leave till nearly dry, then repeat
the treatment. Wipe down and leave to dry.
* * * *
What were the fighting weights of boxers
Jack Johnson, Tommy Burns, Stanley Ketchel,
Fitzsimmons, Frank Moran, Al Kaufman,
Jim Flynn and Sam Langford ?
Johnson 15st., Burns list. 81b., Ketchel list.
41b. Fitzsimmons list. 61b., Moran 14s. 21b.,
Kaufman 14st. 91b., Flynn 13st. 81b. and Lang-
ford 14st. 41b.
Brief Answers.
J.T.S.: Cannot trace co. reported to be
making tobacco and cigarettes from Australian
gum I eaves. Cigarettes of the sort were put
on the market in Australia in 1926, but did
not take 0n... .C.J.S.: Depends on agreement
tor tenancy. If agreement was to take “from
. turclay then the tenancy commenced at mid-
lu T n ll and expired at midnight on
the following Friday. If, however, the agree-
ment was to take “from 2 p.m. on Saturday,”
tenancy would expire at 2 p.m. the following
Saturday. A week’s notice of termination of
me tenancy is required even if rent is paid in
advance.. 8.P.W.A.: Depends on terms of
policy. If liability in case of death on active
service is excluded from policy the co. would
n °f j ? ia ble in that event. If not so ex-
cluded it would be liable to pay. Federal
legislation does not affect this position but it
piovides that policies shall not be forfeited
for non-payment of premiums whilst the
assured is a member of the forces and for a
certain period thereafter. This only applies to
policies issued prior to September 3, 1939
U) Uniform income tax dates from
Une Could be done, but won’t be.
. ...M.G.C.: Wash bag with warm soap and
water, allow to dry, then finish with brown
boot polish... .G.G.: Starve the dog overnight,
and the first thing in the morning give it a
capsule consisting of calomel one grain, areca-
nut 10 grains, extract of male-fern eight drops.
Immediately following administer one large
tablespoon of castor oil and keep the dog out-
S u }* ie ouse as much as possible. Repeat
m® dose in a fortnight’s time if necessary; it
will do no harm... .F.D.G.; Boys are eligible
to sit for the examination for entry into the
Royal Australian Naval College as a cadet mid-
shipman only in the calendar year in which
their thirteenth birthday falls. The only other
avenue of entry as an officer is as a paymaster
cadet, applications for which are invited about
September of each year from boys who attain
the age of 17 years during the calendar year
in which they apply and who have passed the
leaving certificate examination. These vacancies
are advertised in the daily press.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
FJ.S.:
A uniform of any kind
Reacts on every woman’s mind,
Upsets her equilibrium completely.
T.E.McC.■
Sweet bad iuck to Hitler and all his dirty crew:
1 wouldn t have been a soldier, Adolf Hitler, but for
vou.
E.
Ye wildly babbling politicians,
Quoting glibly statisticians,
A little more of thrift from you
Instead of piling debts on to
Posterity
N-D.R.: “Things could be worse.” They
could be better, too W.S.F.: “The Arrival”
nearly stayed... .0.M.C.: Prithee, ne’er say
“Thou” and “didst” in 1942 J.H.: Pretty,
but sentimental WJ.: To label your en-
velope “Second-class Matter” was over-severe.
. ...E.N.: Set to music that would drown the
words, it might make a song J.T.: Refrain
from “fain”... .E.F.: Scrappy... .J.C.R.:
Elementary S.F.: Didn’t you know you
were rewriting a nursery rhyme? V.J S •
Try a woman’s paper... .L. 8.: The need of a
rhyme for “youth” is no excuse for that “for-
sooth” C.M.0’8.: The pun crept like a
mouse into the w.p.b R. 8.: So many sea-
birds have been heard “crying, crying” that
the phrase has become trying, trying L. 8.:
If it had been as amusing as the covering
letter... .T.A.: Poems that rhyme “dawn”
with “born” shall be tawn by forns on the
lorn G.M.: Hard work trying to say any-
thing new about sunsets N.P.: Another
Austerity horror.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F. Easier on the shadows and try for
more crispness in your linework L.G.N.:
Our etcher took one look at that peasoup-fog
washeflort and fainted H.S.J.: You bring off
the double with a pirated wheeze and a pinched
style. Was it your own ink and board? .. . .F.C.;
The oldest Hebraic-Caledonian joke in captivity.


MAYFAIR
CAN N ED
HAMS
* Keep them in your Ice
Chest or Refrigerator and
they -will indeed crown your
Festive Dinner.
Packed by POKES & CO. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., State Abattoirs, Homebush.
IS FOR EXCELLENCE
Two Americomdivisions of General Motors—
Pontiac and Fisher Body-
)>■ \ 1
■ have now been
awarded the U.S. Naval Ordnance Flag and
the Navy "E" pennant for outstanding effi-
ciency in the production of Naval material.
W\ \
At the presentation ceremony to Pontiac,
Rear Admiral Downes, U.S. Navy, said; “No
one who knows the Navy need be told what
it means to earn the ‘E’. On a Naval vessel
it tells the world she is a smart ship a
champion. Of all the firms engaged in war
production only a few have attained the
degree of excellence meriting the Navy ‘E’
Award”.
In the Australian factories of General Motors-
Holden’s, as in the many G.M. plants in Britain,
America, Canada, and elsewhere, thousands of
men and women are vigorously applying their
peace-time skill in mass production to the
manufacture of vital war materials.
The results achieved are tributes to the standard
of National Service rendered by the men and
women who have done the job.
Victory is our Business
REHERAL MOT 0 R S-H 0L D E N’S LTD.
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth
Serve and Save. ■ . Buy War Savings Certificates
C. 762-22
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
whipped by him, and then the German
’planes had half-rolled and dived away.
The Spitfires did not follow, but swung
back again and took up their old posi-
tion, while one of the higher squadrons
went up sun to engage the ’planes pre-
paring to attack out of it.
Ridge jumped his eyes back to
Simpson’s ’plane and tried to concentrate
on his flying, but he could feel his fingers
trembling on the control column.
“That was a bit damned sudden.”
Colteshaw’s voice seemed to come from
a great distance, and Ridge took a deep
breath. “They scared the daylights out
of me,” he admitted “Anything behind?”
“Can’t see anything behind, sir ; what’s
doing up front?”
Colteshaw answered the gunner, giving
him a brief description of what was going
on.
High above them the dogfight was still
in progress, with little black specks milling
about all over the sky. It was impossible
to distinguish friend from enemy at that
distance, and when one of the ’planes
dived steeply with black smoke plumed
behind it they could not tell whether it
was a Messerschmitt or a Spitfire.
‘ ‘ L_J ELLO, ‘B’ flight, correction right,
I A correction right.”
They were starting their bombing run
on the target now, and the formation
moved a few degrees to the right follow-
ing Anderson.
Still the second attack from the Mes-
serschmitts did not develop, and Ridge
wondered what was happening up there
in the sun.
“Hello, ‘B’ flight, correction right, cor-
rection right.”
They had just made the second correc-
tion when Ridge’s gunner yelled to him
that a squadron of Messerschmitts was
diving at them from behind. He passed
the word on to the rest of the flight and
watched Simpson’s gunner suddenly
swing his guns around and up. He held
his breath.
“Correction left, correction left.”
Colteshaw was straining around in his
seat, trying to see what was happening
behind. Simpson’s gunner was slowly
moving his guns downward, following the
diving ’planes with his sights.
“Target coming up. Bomb doors open.
Get ready.”
Colteshaw crouched over his sights, his
right hand gripping the bomb release.
Twin spurts of flame leapt from the rear
of Simpson’s ’plane. Ridge could hear
his own gunner hissing through clenched
teeth and then the quick rattle of fire. A
stream of tracer bullets flashed past his
right wing. A second burst lashed at
them, this time from the left, and little
pieces of wing leapt from “Bibi’s ’plane
and disappeared. Ridge could hear his
gunner hammering away with short, stab-
bing bursts. Out of the corner of his eye
he saw “Bibi’s” gunner swinging his guns
from right to left in a long, steady sweep,
firing all the time, and suddenly knew
that someone would get hit properly this
time.
“Bombs gone!” The crash of bullets
tearing into the fuselage behind Ridge’s
back drowned Colteshaw’s words. For
one sickening instant Ridge was gripped
by complete paralysis, and then a wave
of nausea swept over him. From a great
distance he heard Colteshaw’s voice
shouting at him and then gradually began
to realise that he hadn’t been hit. For a
moment he couldn’t answer, and when he
did his voice sounded so strange that he
v/as shocked into sudden silence.
“Are you all right, sir?” It was his
gunner calling, and when he answered
the gunner spoke again. “Three of them
got through the escort; I don’t think
they’ll come back again. I saw two of
the others going down out of control.”
“Hello, B flight. Turn left; turn left
for home.” Anderson’s voice had a ring
of triumph in it, and Ridge felt a glow of
satisfaction shoot through him. The
flight turned left slowly in a wide arc.
Behind them the close escort weaved
violently and away above them the high
cover was re-forming. The morning sun
fingered the ’planes warmly and Ridge
relaxed his tired muscles.
“There they go! A little short. No—
bang on it. Boy! O boy!” Colteshaw
was watching the bombs bursting on the
target with monotonous precision. The
’planes straightened and droned back over
France towards the Somme.
THE Intelligence Officer was sitting on
the window-sill, gazing into the sky.
Every now and again he moved restlessly,
and once he walked slowly over to the
map pinned on the wall of the dispersal
hut, and studied it for a moment. He
looked at his watch for the tenth time
and wandered over to the door, where
he stood thoughtfully looking into the
distance. On the aerodrome everything
was still. Along the perimeter track the
ground crews were sitting in small groups
waiting. The officer walked aimlessly
back to the table and dropped into a
chair. A half-played game of patience
was set out and he picked up the cards,
moving them slowly one by ope. Half
his mind was watching the cards and the
other half was listening. He looked up
sharply, a card poised in mid-air, his head
turned half towards the window. For a
moment he held his breath in an effort of
concentration and then let the card fall
in front of him. Nothing. The game
wouldn’t come out, and he shuffled the
cards together. Then he put them down
again and went over to the window.
A car drew up outside and the station
commander stepped out, banging the
door after him. The noise seemed un-
naturally loud in the silence. The Intelli-
gence Officer stood up as he entered, but
remained .by the window. The station
commander took off his cap and drew
out a cigarette.
“Should be back soon. I’ve just been
on to Operations and it seems to be a
pretty big show today. There were two
diversionary sweeps sent out as well, one
to Calais and St. Omer and the other
from Dieppe to Rouen. They should get
through all right.”
“They’ll get through, sir, but I’m
worried about the German fighters. The
sun will be almost directly behind them
on their way back and I don’t like that.
I wish they had been allowed to do it
later in the day.”
“There’ll be other squadrons out this
afternoon. Someone has to do it this
time of day. Anyway they’re a damned
good squadron.”
“Yes, they’re a good squadron all right,
sir, but I wish someone else was doing
it now.”
Outside the ground crews were getting
on to their feet, and, looking up, the two
men saw the ’planes approaching.
“All correct.” They said it simultane-
ously and smiled at each other.
“It should be ‘A’ flight, sir ; they’re due
back first.”
The ’planes broke formation and
started to come in singly.
“There’s ‘B’ flight. All correct, too!”
The station commander was leaning out
of the window, smiling happily. The
Intelligence Officer took a deep breath
and sat down at the table.
RIDGE let the motors idle for a
moment before switching off. He
moved deliberately and unhurriedly as
if he were reluctant to stop their deep
rhythm. There was a friendliness about
their tone that always pleased him. He
breathed deeply and flicked the switches.
A tremendous silence suddenly settled
around him. He sat perfectly still, letting
it soak into his tired mind. Behind him
the excited clamor of his ground crew
broke out, and a swift shuffle of steps
climbing on the wing. The hood sprang
open and an excited rigger helped him
with his straps. He stood up slowly, let-
ting the luxury of movement course into
his tired muscles. The ground crew
were examining the deep jagged
gashes in the fuselage behind him with
awe, their eyes searching his face
curiously. He nodded to them, and
climbed slowly down to the ground.
Colteshaw joined him and they walked
stiffly towards the dispersal hut.
Inside there was a confused babble of
voices and laughter. The Intelligence
Officer was scribbling furiously on a
large pad as each crew detailed its obser-
vations. Ridge took out a cigarette and
drew on it deeply. Across the room his
eyes met “Bibi’s” and a glance of fellow-
ship and understanding flashed between
them. Ridge moved around to his side.
“Care to come into town tonight for
dinner? We might see a show after-
wards.”
“Bibi” nodded, his face lighting with
quick warmth, and Ridge felt a glow of
pride in their new friendship.
Beside, them Simpson was laughing
gaily, his hands moving in eager gesticu-
lations. A lock of hair had fallen over
his forehead. “Bibi” touched Ridge’s
arm. He was looking at Simpson and
raised his shoulders and eyebrows in an
understanding gesture, smiling.
Ridge looked at Simpson, too. Im-
perishable and enthusiastic youth was
written in his every movement. His eyes
were sparkling. Ridge was surprised to
find that he no longer annoyed him. His
eyes met “Bibi’s” and suddenly they both
laughed.


■ af
:
Since 1858 MDOWICI’S
have provided Australian Industry
with the finest leather belting.
---per
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only our Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys, Bearings, Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
11Z YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET), SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
★ power
TRANSMISSION
ENGIN EERS
Ludowici's engineering work-
shop — largest of its kind in
Australia—produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * »
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney. —Advt.
**’ * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, SCO Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Gel Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
track well and strong again—if the trouble is
paused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the hlood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflnessi under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to la? you
tip Ask your chemist or store for DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. If backache is bother-
ing you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1932. . 462,907 5i p.c- 460,950 2,017 6,264,980
1933.. 439,616 5 „ „ 439,000 616 6,265,596
1934.. 439,739 5 „ „ 439,000 739 6,266,335
1935.. 442,660 5 „ „ 439,000 3,660 6,269,995
1936.. 470,454 5j ~ „ 460,950 9,504 6,279,499
1937.. 543,242 6 „ ~ 526,800 16,442 6,295,941
1938.. 547,835 6 „ „ 526,800 21,035 6,316,976
1939.. 550,876 6 „ ~ 526,800 24,076 6,341,052
1940.. 544,770 , 6 ~ „ 526,800 17,970 6,359,022
1941.. 547,123 6 ~ „ 526,800 20,323 6,379,345
1942.. 548,004 6 „ „ 526,800 21,204 6,400,549
The efficiency of an army in the field
depends partly upon the economic posi-
tion at home. Economic strength pro-
vides the means to continue war with in-
creasing power, which, together with other
factors, paves the way to victory, while
economic weakness plays a large part
in preparing the way to military collapse.
The economic strength of the Allies has
not yet been fully mobilised and de-
veloped for war. Germany has passed
the zenith of her economic and military
power and reached a state of overmobili-
sation, expected to develop into economic
weakness. Recent Allied successes in
Africa will accentuate this weakness, and
nothing but victory in Russia can relieve
it. Japan’s conquests have extended her
resources of essential war materials, but
industrially she is weaker than the Allies
or Germany and the pace is likely to tell
when she becomes more heavily involved.
The peoples she has conquered aren’t
likely to be of much immediate help in
solving her industrial problems either.
The supply lines which keep fighting
men armed, fed, clothed, equipped, muni-
tioned and mobile stretch back beyond
the army’s railheads and base areas
through factories and rolling mills to
blast furnaces, coke ovens, farms and
pastoral runs. Raw materials of all kinds
have to be forced by the energy of men
and machines through the processes which
turn them into munitions, equipment,
clothing and food. And at every stage
the process involves an active combina-
tion of materials, machines and men,
coupled with organising skill. Also, the
demands of the armed forces for men,
munitions, supplies and transport set
ever-harder tasks for the rest of the
nation.
So as the pace grows hotter more
and more men and women are combed
out of civilian work into war
work and out of war work into the
forces. The big changes in the nature
and direction of production and con-
sumption thus involved have produced a
host of financial, man-power, transport,
distribution and other related problems,
which in turn have given rise to the net-
work of Government controls and restric-
tions that now surround every aspect of
trade and private activity. In some direc-
tions these controls, etc., have been used
to further the ends of party politics, and
are bad. In other directions they have
resulted in the overlapping and waste
they were designed to avoid, and there
have been muddling and inefficiency
arising out of ignorance and inexperience
of the directorates, boards and depart-
ments the Government has set up. The
redeeming feature of it all is the will to
win.
One of the outstanding achievements
of Australia since the outbreak of hostili-
ties has been the rapid expansion of in-
dustrial production. The output of com-
plicated military requirements, including
guns, munitions, aeroplanes, etc., not pre-
viously undertaken in this country, is
now flowing in increasing volume to our
own and Allied fighting forces. A
feature not yet given the priority it de-
serves is the amount officially allowed to
be set aside out of earnings to cover
maintenance and replacement of plant,
wear and tear of which has been acceler-
ated by war demands and which in some
cases will become more or less redundant
after the war.
Japan’s entry into the conflict made
the shipping problem, among other
things, more acute, thus affecting dispatch
of dairy produce, meat, fruit, other food-
stuffs and wine to Britain under contract.
Shipping priorities have almost entirely
cut off outside markets for fruit and wine,
and the Asiatic outlet for our wheat and
flour has been lost, of course. Wheat-
growers were also sufferers because pro-
duction ran ahead of the limit set under
the Government guaranteed-price scheme.
Wool has been least affected. Its export
has moved fairly freely, while a 15 p.c.
lift in the contract price with Britain was
secured to cover increased production
costs. The industry’s main problems are
shortage of labor and lack of storage
space. Speaking generally, seasonal con-
ditions were mixed, but scarcity of labor
tended to limit production, while demand
was stimulated by the presence of Allied
troops. This combination meant much
to many producers ; and lend-lease activi-
ties have opened up new avenues in inter-
national trade with post-war possibilities.
Heavy war expenditure and the Gov-
ernment’s financial policy are reflected in
the following comparison of B.N.S.W.
balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1941. 1942.
Notes .. £81,159 £81,125 £Bl,llO
Bills, de-
posits, etc. 111,769,712 131,671,894 143,729,693
Liquids . . 30,193,019 58,668,405 60,659,789
Deposit* . . 452,211 551,688 14,564,893
Advances . . 93,077,235 . 84,223,972 80,298,371
Premises . . 3,300,000 3,600,000 3,600,000
* Statutory deposits Australia and N.Z.
Last term a growth of £12,057,799 in
deposits was accompanied by a contrac-
tion of £3,925,601 in advances and expan-
sion of £14,013,205 in statutory deposits
and of £1,991,384 in other liquids. Aus-
tralian statutory deposits are lodged with
the central bank, carry 15s. per cent, in-
terest, and cannot be withdrawn without
permission. When the books closed,
advances had dropped to 55.8 p.c. of de-
posits, liquids amounted to 52.3 p.c. of
outside liabilities and the bank was hold-
ing £9 9s. sd. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own. The earning
capacity of the trading banks and their
power to influence monetary policy have
been tethered by regulation, while the
central bank has been given wider con-
trol over credit, etc.
After paying the tax bill (amount un-
specified) and making provision for con-
tingencies, there was little change in the
’Wales’s declared net earnings last term.
The £548,004 of profit claimed was 6.2
p.c. on the £8,780,000 of share capital, or
no more than 3.6 p.c. on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined).
The div. remained at 6 p.c.
Dominion Breweries, Ltd. (M.L.)
, —Dividends — v To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. and Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 1,044 Nil 1,044 5,436
Loss. Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £19,100 .. .. 13,664
1933.. 14,002 Nil 27,666
Profit.
1934.. 2,436 Nil 2,436 25,230
1935.. 7,947 Nil 7,947 17,283
1936.. 15,224 6J p.c. = 5,819 9,405 7,878
Reserves.
Share premiums, £17,235 .. •• 9,357
1937.. 22,039 9 p.c. = 12,298 9,741 19,098
Share premiums, £21,739 .. 40,837
1938.. 41,258 10 p.c. = 22,453 18,805 59,642
Share premiums, £12,500 . . . . 72,142
1939.. 65,477 12 p.c. = 32,600 32,877 105,019
Share premiums, £6,250 .. .. 111-,269
1940.. 56,660 12 p.c. = 37,441 19,219 130,488
• Loss sale Consols, £11.560.. .. 118,928
1941.. 36,118 84 p.c. = 29,750 6,368 125,296
1942.. 25,972 7 „ „ 24,500 1,472 126,768
Profit movements are badly out of step
with the trend of Maoriland liquor con-
sumption. In the period corresponding
with the accounts under review, the
Shivery Isles brewed more beer than ever,
aggregate output moving like this:
Ale and Stout Brewed.
Bottled, Bulk, , Total N
Year, Gallons. Gallons. Gallons. Value.
1939- .5,961,035 11,849,180 17,810,215 £3,325,119
1940- .6,719,971 12,400,270 19,120,241 3,783,544
1941- .7,538,523 12,292,795 19,831,318 3,989,955
Beer duty accounted for £1,953,448 of
the value of last year’s vat outturn, and
M.L. brewers haven’t been as successful
as their Australian counterparts in pass-
ing on excise lifts. Hence, with fierce
direct taxation and a growth in costs
partly reflecting social experiments, the
precipitous decline in Dominion Brew.’s
div. Another Is. a gallon beer duty has
been nailed on since the close of accounts,
while alcoholic content has been cut.
Amid formidable competition, the co.
began cautiously in 1930, trying its luck
with the Waitemata brewery, Auckland.
Investment prominence began in 1936,
and £241,418, which brought with it share
premiums of £57,724, has been put up by
shareholders since. At the same time,
£517,650 extra has been garnered from
outsiders, and most of it has gone in a
vigorous policy of hotel purchase and
brewery extension. In a half-dozen years
the written-down book value of fixed
assets has grown £746,626, effectively
tethering a good slice of the trade.
Despite expanded turnover, gross earn-
ings (£273,015) slipped £3448 last term.
More or less controllable outgoings
(£162,615) got away with an extra
£17,854, too. But the uncontrollable item
taxation (£84,428) panned out £11,155
lighter as a result, leaving the net balance
£10,146 down at £25,972. That was 7.4
p.c. on capital, against 10.3, 18.1 and 24.1
p.c. back to the prosperous days of
1938-39. So another point and a half
was lopped off the div., reducing it to
7 p.c. all round.
“Adequate” depreciation was struck
off before arriving at profits, and on the
plant side at least these figures appear
to bear out the contention:
_ . 1936. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. £108,582 £248,344 £350,000 £350,000
Sundry creditors 18,084 46,533 143,713* 157,288*
Overdraft . . 59,425 124,731 110,584
Mortgages . . 239,442 246,935 267,862
Land and
buildings.. 16,177 438,277 568,216 608,373
Plant, etc. . . 47,487 135,260 222,600 199,435
Leaseholds, etc. 8,264 22,417 4,307 10,746
Stock .. 33,106 56,732 124,044 117,421
Sundry debtors 15,706 48,422 74,253 74,304
Cash, etc. . . 11,866 9,505 12,723
* Including provision for taxation.
The amount of outside money in use
gives the complete financial structure a
rather unwieldy look, though precisely
half of it is fixed debt. War hasn’t en-
tirely precluded additions to property
account, but because of labor and other
controls, etc., hotels of themselves aren’t
now so remunerative as they once were,
Goliath Portland Cement Co, (Tas.)
I Dividends
Net Pref. Re-
Sept., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 20,258 11,447 Nil 8,811 24,105
1933. . 28,264 22,894 p.c. = 6,396 25,131
Tangible assets written down, £40,752.. 65,883
Reserves.
Capital written off, £85,285 .. . • 19,402
7 p.c.
1934.. 37,543 10,016 10 p.c. =17,057 10,470 29,872
1935.. 45,102 10,016 15 p.c. = 25,586 9,500 39,372
1936.. 48,204 10,016 124 „ ~ 21,321 16,867 56,239
1937.. 69,063 10,016 15' ~ ~25,586 33,461 89,700
Reserves capitalised, £85,263 . . . - 4,437
Reserves disappear, £24 .. .. .. 4,413
1938.. 51,794 10,016 11.8 p.c.=30,381 11,397 15,810
1939.. 66,601 10,016 15 ~ ~38,375 18,210 34,020
1940.. 55,663 10,016 14.3,, ~36,776 8,871 42.891
1941.. 34,220 10,016 13.1 „ ~33,579 33,516
1942.. 24,250 10,016 6.3 „ ~15,990 31,760
Shipping is now the principal difficulty.
Before the war made its economic weight
feel really heavy in this part of the world
this low-cost producer, which operates at
Railton (Tas.), not only enjoyed a vir-
tual monopoly in its own State but ex-
tended its selling campaign to parts
of the mainland. The proximity of
good shale, clay and limestone deposits
to the plant, together with cheap Govern-
ment hydro-electric power, made this type
of competition possible and profitable.
The spread of turnover kept the 100,000-
ton plant going at an economical rate
even if some mainland business was mot
as remunerative as the rest. Now shipping
space for cement is almost unprocurable,
and not only has Goliath’s turnover fallen
sharply, but the war-time inflation in costs
is bearing particularly heavily on the
reduced business done. Building restric-
tions have added to the problem.
Taxation is another disconcerting
factor at the moment. After the 1941
accounts closed Labor brought in addi-
tional company tax, and the co. was
stung for £5102 more than it had pro-
vided, the amount being here deducted
from 1941 earnings. Last term, after
providing for taxation in accordance with
latest Budgeting but allowing only £7500
for depreciation (compared with £15,000
the preceding term and £30,000 in 1939),
net profit was shown at £24,250 (including
minor reserve movements), down £9970,
and equal to 5.5 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 9.4, 17.8, 22.1 and
16.3 p.c. in the four preceding years. The
ord. div. was reduced by a little more
than half, and reserves were drawn on
for £1756 to pay it and the pref. re-
quirements. Since 1934 the ords. have
averaged 12.5 p.c. p.a. in divs. and have
had £85,263 of lost capital restored. So
notwithstanding the present lean time,
there is still some income as well as


Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LIMITED.
(Dividend No. 51.)
NOTICE is hereby given that the Board of
Directors has decided to recommend at the
Annual Meeting of the Company, to be held
on 30th December, 1942, payment of a final
dividend of 25 per cent. (1/- per share) in re-
spect of the year ended 30th June, 1942, less
United Kingdom income tax at 6/2 in the £
(3.7 d. per share), the net amount of dividend
being 8.3 d. per share sterling. This dividend
makes a total distribution of 37£ per cent, for
the year ended 30th June, 1942. Subject to
confirmation by the shareholders the dividend
will be payable on 28th January, 1943, to all
persons registered as holders of shares on the
Australian register on 19th December, 1942.
The transfer books will be closed from 21st
December to 24th December (both days in-
clusive).
For Lake View and Star, Limited.
WM. THOMAS, Local Secretary.
Kalgoorlie, 15th December, 1942.
N.B.—Shareholders are advised that since the
entry of Japan into the war operations at the
mine have been affected by the calling up of
most men, totalling about 60 per cent, of the
staff, consequently reducing the tonnage treated
by about 50 per cent. It inevitably follows that
the rate of profit during the current year will
be on a lower scale, and this, it will be under-
stood, must affect for the time being the rate
of subsequent dividends.
-THAT
zm
r he
ARE YOU
AN EXECUTOR?
Are there not times when you wish you could be freed from the onerous
responsibilities associated with executorship? Would you not welcome some
relief from the burden? In these days of worry and anxiety, with their grave
problems of financial administration, it is particularly difficult for anyone who
is trying to look after the interests of someone else. Probably your own affairs
cause you enough worry without the added responsibility of estate adminis-
tration. If you are an executor you will be interested in reading a free booklet,
"The Task That Few Men Want." Why not write for it?
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY, LIMITED.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
ill
ISil 11
.
:
T. & G. Mutual Life Society
STRONG POSITION.
The Sixty-sixth Annual Meeting of The Australasian Temperance
and General Mutual Life Assurance Society was held on Thursday, 1 7th
December, at the Society’s Head Office in Melbourne.
The Chairman, Mr. J. T. Thompson, re-
ferred to the sad loss which the Society had sus-
tained by the recent death of Mr. W. Forster
Woods who had been a Director since 1922 and
whose outstanding ability, good judgment and
wide experience had been of inestimable value
to the Society. The Directors mourned the loss
of one whom they held in the highest affection
and esteem. Mr. Arthur William Relph had
been appointed to fill the vacancy.
New Business.
The New Business completed in the Ordinary
and Industrial Departments comprised 125,664
Policies assuring £12,058,342. No fewer than
47,915 Policies, equal to 38 per cent, of the
total issued, were taken out by existing mem-
bers, thus demonstrating in no uncertain manner
their confidence in the Society. The net result
is a substantial reduction in the total New
Business, as compared with the previous year.
The Board, however, is in no way concerned
about this temporary fall in the amount of its
completions, as the exigencies of National Emer-
gency require that the writing of New Business
should be subordinated to the servicing of the
existing business covering more than 1,200,000
Policy contracts.
Income and Interest Rate.
The total Income increased by £312,130 to
£7,107,335, of which £5,475,780 was received
in Premiums and the balance, £1,631,555, from
Investments. The Interest earned on the Mean
Funds was £4/8/1 per cent.
Payments to Policyholders.
Payments to Policyholders reached the record
sum of £3,094,033. Endowments matured, with
bonuses, amounted to the large total of
£2,002,862. Death Claims amounted to
£709,596. Claims from war casualties exceeded
those paid in the previous year, and further
heavy claims are inevitable. The Chairman
announced that he was confident that the
Society, with its strong reserves, is well pre-
pared to meet whatever claims may yet arise
from the operations of war.
Expenses and Contingency Funds.
The Report discloses a considerable reduc-
tion in the expense rates. War Damage Insur-
ance and A.R.P. expenditure totalled £19,352,
while there was a further increase in taxes paid
of more than £42,000. Although the Society’s
assets are well secured, the Board decided that,
under present circumstances, it was desirable
to further increase the amount of the Con-
tingency Funds by £lOO,OOO this year.
Large War Loan Subscriptions.
Nearly £23,000,000, or 58.2 per cent, of the
total Assets, is invested in Government, Muni-
cipal and Public Body Securities. £2,780,542
was invested during the year in Government
securities, practically all accounted for by con-
tributions to the various War Loans issued by
the Commonwealth and New Zealand Govern-
ments. The Society’s total subscriptions to War
Loans now exceed £6,000,000.
The Actuary’s Report.
The Actuary’s Report shows that the same
conservative bases of valuation were used again
this year. After making provision for all lia-
bilities and reserves, a surplus of £794,308 was
disclosed. Of this surplus the Actuary recom-
mends that, after deducting £345,000, which
has been set aside for unforeseen contingencies,
the greater part be distributed in the form of
Reversionary Bonuses and other benefits to Par-
ticipating Policyholders. If it should happen
that the amounts reserved exceed requirements,
then any resultant surplus therefrom again be-
comes available for appropriation; meanwhile
the amounts set aside are invested for the
benefit of all Policyholders.
Staff.
A very large percentage of the Agency Staff
has gone into War Service, while of the Indoor
Staff only a few key men with special training,
apart from the Managerial Staff, have been re-
tained. Some have been wounded in their
Country’s Service, while others, alas, have sacri-
ficed their lives in the great cause. To the
relatives of the departed the heartfelt sympathy
of the Board was extended. Appreciation was
expressed of the splendid efforts of those still
with the Society who have been required to
perform many extra duties, and special thanks
were extended to those men and women of the
Field Staff who have so faithfully carried out
their duties in the service of the Society’s
Policyholders.
The retiring Directors, Mr. P. R. Sutherland,
Col. Sir Charles E. Merrett and Mr. A. W.
Relph, and the retiring Auditors, Messrs. A.
McK. Hislop and C. A. Holmes, were re-
elected.
pleasant memories, with a post-war
prospect reasonably well assured.
Confidence in the future receives sup-
port from balance-sheet figures:
1934. 1937.- 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £295,266 £313,663 £398,926 £398,926
Overdraft • • 2,896 ■ —
Sundry creditors 8,250 9,346 9,526 9,210
Freeholds, leases,
plant, etc... 300,390 256,915 177,093 171,284
Stocks .. 22,179 23,010 82,444 96,040
Book debts . . 42,833 79,755 57,899 33,554
Cash, etc. .. 45 83,830 161,830 140,922
Shares in other
cos. . . 1,900 2,000 17,000 17,000
Until the last term liberal provision for
depreciation and profits that usually
covered div. requirements comfortably
were responsible for an annually-increas-
ing surplus of more-or-less liquids over
liabilities. Last term the movement was
checked. In spite of a drop of £24,345 in
debtors, cash, etc., was drawn on for
£20,908 in order to carry an extra £13,596
of stocks and pay the additional tax
bill. The liquid surplus was £31,341
lower at £261,306.
But the financial position is still very
comfortable. Liberal past depreciation
allowances compensate for present re-
duced ones, and there is a fine replace-
ment fund. The immediate future re-
mains obscure, and the ords. may be
lucky to get 5 p.c. in the current term,
but buyers who offer 20s. for the 13s. 4d,
ords. can’t get them. For the 20s. prefs,
275. is bid in vain.
A merger of Works Council boss Theo-
dore’s Fijian goldmines is in the air,
terms yet to be worked out and sub-
mitted for shareholders’ approval. Man-
agements have been identical all along,
but, with Loloma ore-occurrences wan-
dering off into the Emperor area and the
Emperor lode thought to reciprocate,
straightout common ownership is calcu-
lated to produce more economic and
efficient working of both. Moreover,
there will be considerable capital savings
by avoiding much duplication of treat-
ment facilities as Emperor gets deeper
into the sulphides and Loloma ore de-
clines in gold content at depth. At the
moment, with native boys finding copra
and defence work more remunerative
than mining, labor is the chief anxiety.
Because of conservation of finances, it
is over a year since either co. has passed
anything on to shareholders, and in their
last accounts Emperor Mines and its
operating subsidiary together had liquids
and stores of £A377,500 on view,, of which
only £37,000 was owed to outsiders.
Combined profit for the year to June was
£140,536 Aust., a decline of £80,383,
to which a lift of ss. 4d. in unit costs
and power-rationing were the chief dis-
cernible causes now that production
statistics aren’t released. Sixpence a share
went out early in the term, calling for
£47,500. Despite curtailed development,
ore reserves “remain practically the
same.” Along with Loloma, the co. has
decided to carry all its own workers’
compensation and fire risks.
For the year to July, Loloma’s profit
was £A237,874, down £86,736 because of
reduced tonnage, 6s. 2d.-a-ton rise in costs
and progressive decline in head values
to around 21dwt. Although development
was substantially reduced, ore reserves
show only a “slight” decrease, the board
assures. Main work occurred in the
south drive on No. 4 level, where 33dwt.
ore was dug up for a length of 460 ft.
over a 3ft. width. Values below, how-
ever, haven’t yielded the returns antici-
pated, though more poking about remains
to be done. Until the labor position —
only half pre-war strength—improves, the
mine, like Emperor, will have to live on
developed reserves. An interim shilling
took £41,250 in Aug., 1941, leaving cur-
rent assets, excluding power-co. advances,
at £A274,646 at the close of accounts ;
liabilities then were £57,284.
* * * *■
Lake View and Star’s final dividend of
Is. makes, with an interim sixpence,
Is. 6d. (less tax) for the year ended June.
Shareholders got 2s. (50 p.c.) the pre-
vious year. Before taxation and deprecia-
tion (together £271,400 in 1941), profit at
£437,771 stg. was down £27,522. Ore
reserves are still around the 4,000,000-
ton mark, but three-fifths of the staff has
been lost, with resultant 50 p.c. contrac-
tion in treatment. Capacity of the plant
is close to 60,000 tons monthly.
* * *
The bald statement from London that
Wiluna Gold Corporation, the holding
co., lost £4843 stg. in the year to March
said nothing about Wiluna Gold Mines,
Ltd., the operating co., whose entire
issued capital is possessed by the holding
concern. Treatment and recoveries were
on a reduced basis for the latest term ;
in the year ended March, 1941, the Aus-
tralian co. showed a profit before taxa-
tion of £251,388 Aust. Optimists declare
that if Wiluna Gold Corporation liqui-
dated tomorrow shareholders would get
at least 12s. 6d. a share. However, the
board is hoping it has a new property in
its Mt. Charlotte option.
* * * *
The mine being only up with the mill,
A 1 Consolidated, at Gaffney’s Creek
(Vic.), ceased crushing in September
because of the shortage of labor for de-
velopment. Profit for the year to August
shrank from £21,993 to £11,645, and
liquids were tapped to pay four shilling
divs. (£18,000). Contraction of 28 p.c. in
throughput (5310 tons) and all-in costs of
78s. 3d., up 18s., a ton produced the de-
cline. Recoveries improved a little ; still,
the values at depth aren’t panning out
much more than half what they were
higher up. A change is looked for when
No. 15 floor can be got at —one of those
west-dipping bodies that have been so
remunerative in the past. The mine is
main support of the township.


1
■YjtAP POI NT MEN T.
Post-war —as Pre-war
HIS MSTERS VOICE
RADIO
WILL FAITHFULLY MAINTAIN
ITS HIGH STANDARD OF TONE
QUALITY AND TECHNICAL
EXCELLENCE
☆
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
R.27/42
Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of FELIX
JOHN CONNOR, last heard of at Paddington
in New South Wales, or t{ie abovenamed
person’s sons, named JOHN and FRANK,
kindly communicate with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Hobart.
MOLLOY, Miss M. L., last heard of 75 Cowper
Street, Randwick, N.S.W., or anyone knowing
her whereabouts, please communicate with the
SOUTH BRITISH INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
Cnr. Hunter and O’Connell Streets, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
TO HENWOOD KEITH BLAMEY of Sydney
Solicitor formerly practising at 39-49 Martin
Place Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that the Statu-
tory Committee of the Incorporated Law In-
stitute of New South Wales did on the second
day of December instant ORDER and appoint
that the hearing of a question or matter as to
alleged professional misconduct by you as a
Solicitor particulars whereof have already been
served at your former registered office be fixed
for Friday the 29th day of January 1943 at
11 o’clock in the forenoon at the Board Room
(9th Floor) M.L.C. Building 44 Martin Place
Sydney AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that if you fail to appear at the appointed
time and place aforesaid the committee will
proceed to hear the matter your absence not-
withstanding. DATED this Fourth day of
December 1942. —J. E. GOSLING, Chau man
of the Statutory Committee, 3 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Colossal and the Childish
The Budget estimate for Australia’s
war expenditure this year was a colossal
one —£440 million, of which £5O million
was earmarked for overseas spending.
Set alongside a national income that was
last reckoned at £lOOO million it is obvi-
ously a strain on the civil standard of
living. People who don’t study Budget
figures—and how many do, apart from
those interested in the increase in sales
tax and the duty on beer? —have no
idea of what is really expected of them
by their “Government.” A war expendi-
ture approaching half the national in-
come is a critical matter..; highly to be
desired in the problem of winning the
war, it is far too intimate and burden-
some to be accepted lightly unless accom-
panied by sober, sympathetic and efficient
administration.
Actually the administration has in
many respects been deplorable. Two
vital jobs—war organisation of industry
and man-power—have been entrusted to
the irresponsible, “smart” boys of the
Government —Dedman and Ward —and
they are socialisation mad. Mr. Chifley,
the Treasurer, is a nice chap but no
financial man. Then there is a tail-end of
cranial heavyweights outside the Ministry
who periodically kick up a row about
some crack-brained idea or grudge they
may have been nurturing for ages, and
who carry some weight when it comes
to a vote in Caucus. There are also
Wilson and Coles—“lndependents” —who
have to be considered.
War expenditure within Australia for the
five months to the end of November has
already outstripped Budget estimates. To
that date it was £207 million, an average
of £4l million a month or £492 million
a year. For the months of October and
November respectively the outgo was £46
million and £4B million, and if anything
like those figures are averaged for the
rest of the financial year we may find
our war bill running into £530 million —
nearly £lOO million more than the figure
for which the Budget made the most ten-
tative and insecure provision.
Australian troops have done a fine job
in Papua. They have fought big cam-
paigns, some successful, some desperate,
on the African, European and Malayan
fronts. The Australian Navy has lost
heavily in action. But the money cost of
all this actual fighting has been small in
relation to the total money cost of Aus-
tralia’s war effort. A vast amount of
our war expenditure is represented by
“foundational” and incidental outgo in
the Commonwealth, some of it —such as
expenditure on munition and associated
factories, shipyards, strategic roads, aero-
dromes and makeshift arrangements
essential because of war’s dislocation —
highly necessary to a proper war effort by
the nation, but not yet bearing full fruit
owing to the time factor in all these
things. On the other hand, far too much
of this great expenditure is waste, even
when the essential wastefulness of war is
fully taken into account.
In Dedman, Ward and suchlike
we have gentry who make no bones
about the political motives behind
their war-time administration. Not
pleased with the idea of doing one
full-time job—winning Australia’s share
of the war —to the best of their
limited ability they have confused
the issue and added enormously to the
national difficulty by attempting an eco-
nomic and social revolution concurrently
with the war. It is possible that poli-
ticians of this type believe that the
Empire will win the war, anyway, and
that Australia can afford to dilly-dally
with political futilities, waste and
economic disruption. These things cer-
tainly don’t help a full and sober effort
from this country.
Extravagant pay is going to thousands
of war-time workers —pay that menaces
the economic security of the country. Yet
the Government never raises its voice
against this sort of thing. Wages under
£8 a week, representing the bulk of the
Commonwealth’s incomes, is taxed very
lightly for war purposes, and all the other
incomes put together cannot pay for the
war. There seems to be an insane poli-
tical desire to swell figures of all kinds,
especially money and man-power figures.
Waste of man-power is almost as bad as
the prevailing waste of money. Depart-
ments are overloaded with white-collar
staffs, and clouds of “memos.” and
printed . forms are circulated every
week. There are loose ends that
never seem to tie up and departments
that overlap and obstruct. Private in-
dustry is badgered and beaten, and the
bureaucratic machine goes on like an in-
creasing whirlwind which, having swept
up money, materials, factories and man-
power holus-bolus, is dangerously likely
to let a lot of it crash to earth before
very long.
The expenditure of £207 million on
war during the first five months of the
current financial year would be entirely
creditable to this country if it had been
wisely raised and spent. It has been
neither. Big spending figures have been
accompanied by inflating debt, costs and
wages, and the next election has never
been forgotten. Where private enter-
prise comes into contact with “the
machine” it is amazed and dismayed at
the manner of doing things, and from the
actual services themselves come more
complaints. But the spending side of
our war effort is cloaked in mystery and
camouflage. Whether the need for
secrecy be one of defence or merely of
politics it is well achieved so far as the
people are concerned. All they have
been able to catch more than a glimpse
of has been on the civil side—the futile
waste accompanying rationing and ration-
alisation, the vestless “victory” suit that
was crushingly defeated by commonsense,
the taking of pink out of icing and the
uncontrolled black market in “rational-
ised” liquor.
But from the manner of raising the
war funds we can take our cue as to the
rest. Though a matter entirely within
the control of the Australian Parliament
itself, our financial measures are an invi-
tation to economic defeat. However
careful we may be of our war expendi-
ture, by far the greater part of it repre-
sents waste from an economic point of
view. Instead of treating the bulk of it
as expense we planned to pay for only
46 p.c. of the entire Budget outlay out
of revenue. The proportion of taxes tc
actual war spending is lower still.
For the five months now run, of the
£207 million laid out only £3B million
was in fact provided from revenue. That
represents 18 p.c. of the total! There is
usually a greater inflow of revenue dur-
ing the second half of the financial year,
but in the present state of war expendi-
ture it doesn’t look as though the
18 p.c. will be greatly improved upon
unless the Government belatedly does the
right thing and imposes adequate taxa-
tion over the majority as well as the
minority of voters. Debt is piling up at
a colossal rate. During the period in
which £3B million was raised by taxa-
tion to pay for war £169 million was got
in on loan, and mostly by the weak-
kneed method known as bank credit.
During November alone recourse to
Treasury-bill finance and bank overdraft
amounted to £l9 million. Altogether the
Commonwealth now owes £174 million
on Treasury bills.
Portion of the recently “oversub-
scribed” £ 100-million loan was filled by
bank and similar assistance ; how much
we don’t know. Such figures are kept
from us now, like so many other figures
that are suppressed for political reasons.
The Government has refrained from
giving us an estimate of the national in-
come lately, though details were pressed
for by Opposition members about the
time of the Budget.
At June 30 last, Treasurer Chifley stated
in the House on Sept. 30, the national
debt of £1628 million was held as to
£265 million by the Commonwealth
Bank and its savings bank, as to £56
million by other savings banks, as to £9B
million by trading banks, as to £B7 mil-
lion by life assurance cos., and as to
£1122 million by other institutions and
the public. The figures must be partly
approximations, but those of the central
bank would be correct; big as they were
on June 30 they will be much greater now.
Only the artificial controls of total war-
fare have averted the runaway infla-
tion that the Commonwealth war-finance
policy loudly indicates. But we have had
20 p.c. costs inflation already. Frantic
talk about the need for post-war controls
is now coming from Canberra. Far too
much stupid, childish damage has already
been done by this Government to trust
it with anything more than a minimum
of necessary powers.
Before the war Australian factories of
all kinds employed 542,000 people. At
the end of July last the total had risen
to 705,000, including those engaged in
munitions work. That means one in ten
of the total population. It is a high
figure, and seems more so when the big
number of men and women in the fight-
ing services is considered in relation to it.
In 1928-29, the last pre-depression year,
the total reached was 432,000, and it was
not until 1935-36 that that figure was
regained. Among other things the growth
in factory employment since, especially
in present circumstances, means the rural
areas are losing population, even if some
country towns are benefiting as a result
of decentralising war-time industry. The
shortage of agricultural produce is there-
fore understandable. Both munitions and
the army have taken rural labor, and it
is not seasonal conditions alone that have
caused metropolitan householders to
plant their flower-gardens with vege-
tables. There is likely to be a chronic
shortage of fresh vegetables so long as
demands on rural man-power continue.
Dried fruits and wine are also going to
be produced in smaller quantities, though
the loss of an export trade may mean
that the home market can still be looked
after. The figures available in connec-
tion with employment in munitions
activity and other factory work, and
those approximations that may be made
with regard to the fighting forces, indi-
cate clearly enough the big problem
which man-power means at present. It
is a problem not likely to be solved by
abolishing pink icing or rationalising
Father Christmas.
■* * * »
N. S. Wales Attorney-General Martin has
been delivered of a bill to amend the law
in relation to actions for the recovery
of damages, primarily for “injury arising
from nervous shock.” He spoke of
“notorious deficiencies of the N. S. Wales
law.” Whatever the deficiencies of the
law they have not been such as to prevent
the recovery of damages from insurance
cos. for such things as “shock.” Quite
often the spouse of the “shocked” one
asks for —and gets —damages as well.
There is sometimes a lawyer or two about
to encourage the idea of “shock” in the
minds of both of them.
* * * *
Maoriland has extended its price-
stabilising arrangements from 38 commo-
dities and services to 110 items. Wages
are to be pegged as well. Prices of none
of the main primary products will be in-
creased. Prime Minister Fraser said that
the idea was to ensure that £1 would buy
the same next month as it did this. Since
1939 the national income had increased
by £5O million, but the available supply
of goods to the people had fallen by
more than £4O million. This excess buy-
ing power of nearly £lOO million was
threatening to overwhelm Government
price control. “The steam had to be
turned off at its source” if inflation was
to be prevented ; “inflation would destroy
all that had been attained in the way of
social security.” If, after three months,
prices of declared goods rise by more
than 2 2 - p.c., wages will be adjusted by
the Arbitration Court accordingly. After
that there will be no adjustment unless
prices move by more than 5 p.c. The
farmer will be treated the same.
* * * *
Morgenthau, Secretary to the U.S.
Treasury, has announced that Britain and
Australia have asked for silver for coin-
age purposes on a lend-lease basis. The
U.S.A. has a great reserve stock of silver,
bought as part of the operations of the
New Deal. Until some time after the war
started Australia also had silver bullion
reserves. The need for extra coinage in
Britain and Australia has arisen from the
.presence of so many American troops.
If borrowed, an equal amount of silver
will be returned to the U.S.A. after the
war.
* * * *
Great Britain, the U.S.A. and Canada
have decided to pool their steel resources
so that a maximum war production may
be achieved. The U.S. Steel Corp. alone
is said to have a greater output than Ger-
man and Japanese plants combined.
▼ * * *
According to the list of maximum
prices issued by the Stock Exchanges
after consultation with the Treasury .last
week. Tooth, A.C.1., 8.H.P., Bank of
N. S. Wales, Commercial of Sydney,
Adelaide Steam, Huddart Parker, Kandos
Cement, Felt and Textiles, Associated
Pulp and many other issues are now at
their top. Some issues which still show
latitude are Carlton Brewery, Austra-
lasian Paper, British Tobacco, most retail
and chain stores, Bradford Cotton,
Bond’s Industries and most hotels. The
list is described as the “ultimate ceiling
of share prices,” and apparently it is for
the duration of the present Government
if not for the duration of the war. It
is based on prices of last year immedi-
ately pre-Jap.


RURAL BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
RURAL BANK DEPARTMENT
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1942
LIABILITIES. £ s. d.
Stock and Debentures issued ~ .. .. 13,703,254 18 4
Reserve Flmd 911,899 13 9
Special Reserve (as established
under Section 12 (2) of Rural
Bank of New South Wales
Act, 1932, in relation to
the share of the profits of
the Commonwealth Savings
Bank of Australia in its
operations in New South
Wales) 1,577,029 13 8
2,488,929 7 6
Deposits and other Liabilities,
including Reserves for Con-
tingencies .. .. .. 3,024,137 13 0
Government Agency Department—
Group 2 Capital Account
(as established under Sec-
tions 70K. and 70M. of
Act No. 48, 1906, as
amended).. .. .. 160,927 12 5
Guarantee and other Funds 121,279 3 10
Net amounts due to other Departments 1,585 7 3
£19,500,114 2 3
ASSETS.
Cash on Hand and at Bankers ..
Investments (at cost or market price, which-
ever is the lower) —
Commonwealth Government
Reserve Fund Investments, at cost or market
price, whichever is the lower) —
Commonwealth Government
Securities .. .. 610,841 7 5
Metropolitan Water, Sewer-
age and Drainage Board
Securities .. .. 263,566 11 1
Loans and Advances to Customers
Sundry Debtors and other Assets
Bank Premises—Land and Buildings—less
amounts written off
£ s. d.
799,180 7 10
1.420,180 14 4
874,407 18 6
15,468,265 18 6
225,993 17 7
712,085 5 6
£19,500,114 2 3
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1942
DR. £ s. d.
To Interest paid and accrued .. .. .. 435,593 9 1
~ Expenses of Management .. ~ .. 183,019 0 4
„ Balance transferred to Reserve Fund ... 39,227 2 3
£657,839 11 8
CR.
£ s. d.
By Earnings „ 657,839 11 8
£657,839 11 8
RESERVE FUND
DR.
1942 £ s. d.
June 30 —To Balance ......... 911,899 13 9
£911,899 13 9
1941
July I—By Balance ...
1942
June 30—By Balance transferred from Profit and
Loss Account
CR.
£ a. d.
872,672 11 6
39,227 2 3
£911,899 13 9
We hereby certify that, to the best of our belief, the above Balance Sheet and Accounts are true and correct in every particular.
BRUCE SMITH, Chief Accountant. C. R. McKERIHAN 1 . .
S. M. NORTON, Secretary. H. ROGERS [-Commissioners.
P. KEARNS J
21st August, 1942
The books and accounts of the Rural Bank Department of the Rural Bank of New South Wales have been examined and audited,
under my direction, for the year ended 30th June, 1942, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 29 and 30 of the Government
Savings Bank Act, 1906. All information and explanations required by me have been obtained, and my report has been forwarded to
the Colonial Treasurer. . .
In conjunction with such report I have to state that, in my opinion, this Balance Sheet correctly sets out the financial position of
the Rural Bank Department as at 30th June, 1942, according to the best of my information and the explanations given to me and as
shown by such books and accounts.
SYDNEY, 22nd October, 1942. E. H. SWIFT, Auditor General.
ADVANCES FOB HOMES DEPARTMENT
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1942
LIABILITIES.
Stock and Debentures Issued
Reserve Fund
Deposits and other including
Reserves for Contingencies
Amounts due to other Departments
£ s. d.
.. 11,451,289 7 9
946,808 12 4
_ 1,337,389 8 7
„ 5,644 0 5
£13,741,131 9 1
ASSETS. £
Cash at Bankers .. .. .. .. .. 148,158
Investments (at cost or market price, whichever
is the lower) —
Commonwealth Government
Securities.. .. .. 1,263,019 16 5
Fixed Deposits with other
Banks 201,133 8 5
Inscribed Stock Rural
Bank Department .. 455,000 0 0
1,919,153
Reserve Fund Investments (at cost or market
price, whichever is the lower) —
Commonwealth Government
Securities.. .. .. 753,834 12 8
Metropolitan Water, Sewer-
age and Drainage Board
Securities.. .. .. 153,679 17 1
907,514
Loans on Mortgage and Contracts of Sale .. 10,747,988
Sundry Debtors and other Assets .. .. 18,317
;. d.
i 7
4 10
9 9
3 6
6 5
£13,741,131 9 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1942
DR. £ s. d.
To Interest paid and accrued .. 379,576 14 0
~ Expenses of Management .. .. .. 112,241 12 10
„ Balance transferred to Reserve Fund .. 39,570 19 5
£531,389 6 3
CR.
£ s. d.
By Earnings _ ... « 531,389 6 3
£531,389 6 3
RESERVE FUND
DR.
1942
June 30 —To Balance
£ s- d-
-946,808 12 4
V
£946,808 12 4
1941
July I—By Balance
1942
June 30 —By Balance transferred from Profit and
Loss Account
CR.
£ s. d.
907,237 12 11
39,570 19 5
We hereby certify that, to the best of our belief, the above Balance Sheet and Accounts are true and correct in every particular.
BRUCE SMITH, Chief Accountant. C. R. McKERIHAN "1
S. M. NORTON, Secretary. H. ROGERS
P. KEARNS J
21st August, 1942.
The books and accounts of the Advances for Homes Department of the Rural Bank of New South Wales have been examined and
audited, under my direction, for the year ended 30th June, 1942, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 29 and 30 of the Govern-
ment Savings Bank Act, 1906, All information and explanations required by me have been obtained, and my report has been forwarded
to the Colonial Treasurer.
In conjunction with such report I have to state that, in my opinion, this Balance Sheet correctly sets out the financial position of
the Advances for Homes Department as at 30th June, 1942, according to the best of my information and the explanations given to
me and as shown by such books and accounts,
SYDNEY, 22nd October, 1942. E. H. SWIFT, Auditor General.
#5?
'ti
m
gKSJV-iE gt<sa^aafei
ff
More and more people are smoking
CRAVEN A
every day —-
quality always tells!
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
3014
MADE SPECIALLY
P REVENT SORE THROATS
Our “Political” Economy
The Commonwealth Bank, in its annual
report, said: “Surplus spending power
should be substantially reduced by taxa-
tion or saving on a much larger scale
than in 1941-42.” There is no evidence
of this caution being heeded in the Com-
monwealth figures for the first five
months of this year’s war expenditure.
On the contrary, with tax revenue equal
to only 18 p c. of total outgo (borrowing
and “bank credit” represent the other
82 p.c.) the position is much worse than
last year. Money is passing in a huge
volume to wage-earners as portion
of the expenditure on war, but only a
fraction of it is being charged against
them as their share of the cost of war.
The result is that there is a surplus of
money and a shortage of substance.
Goods and services are rationed and
rationalised, but instead of money being
rationed it is being prostituted to poli-
tics. Wage-earners are having so much
of a good thing that it cannot help but
turn into a bad thing. Their financial
security is daily changing into insecurity.
In the manner of King Canute, the
Federal Government is proposing to stem
the tide of inflation by making use of
“more intense control” of spending in
both war and post-war periods “as a
quid pro quo for the use being made of
bank credit.” But it has started something
that can’t be stopped by artificial con-
trols. A Canberra press correspondent
has passed on inspired stuff to the effect
that the danger of inflation, from a long-
range view, “can be exaggerated, the
thesis being that any use of credit made
in Australia’s war-time Budgets is more
than compensated by the permanent capi-
tal assets the Commonwealth has gained
in return for the credit employed—such
as roads, railways, harbor works and
aerodromes.” This opinion is understood
to be “common ground betwjeen the
Government and the central bank board.”
In other words, it is assumed that less
than 18 p.c. of the current cost of war is
waste. If the bank board has any such
delusions it is daft and not fit to be in
charge of a pie-stall, let alone the central
bank. But obviously it assumes no such
thing. The “assumption” looks like pure
Canberra propaganda, and part and
parcel of the campaign for amending the
Constitution. Claude Reading, chairman
of the bank, four days after the story was
circulated, said the bank board “had not
expressed itself in such terms on the sub-
ject.”
The danger of billowing spending
power has been officially stressed often,
even though officially created in the first
place. This Government-created danger
is now being used as semi-official propa-
ganda for the handing-over of more
powers to the Government not —officially
—so that it can create bigger and nastier
dangers, but so that it can exercise “more
intense controls over post-war spending.”
What it needs to do is to exercise a great
deal more control over itself.
Final figures for the Austerity Loan .
were satisfactory within the limited tale
they tell. A total of £lO4 million was
put up by 420,000 subscribers ; there was
a 96 p.c. conversion of maturing securi-
ties. Cash receipts were £82.3 million.
The number of subscribers was the best
definite feature of the loan.
£ * * *
In its trading department the Common-
wealth Bank on Dec. 14 held £l6O mil-
lion of Government securities, compared
with £lO3 million on June 30. In the
note-issue branch the holding of “deben-
tures and other securities” has gone up
by £ll million to £96 million in the same
period. The note issue now stands at
just under £llB million, up nearly £4O
million since this time last year.


THE SERVICE MAN
Greet Work in Papua.
“Ek Dum”: Buna village was occu-
pied by Allied troops on the morning
of December 14. Air forces were then
holding off a new attempt to land troops
from two cruisers and three destroyers at
the Kumusi River mouth, 20 miles north-
west of Buna and a little beyond Gona,
and at the Mambare estuary, where the
river runs out into a bay just inside
Papua at the Mandated New Guinea
border.
Though small numbers of Jap troops
got ashore, nothing permanent was
achieved by the enemy.
The convoy had been under observa-
tion all the way down the New Guinea
coast and through the Vitiaz Strait from
near Madang. On the night of Dec.
13 it stood some miles off the coast be-
tween the Mambare and the Kumusi.
Barges went out to take ashore its cargoes
of men and materials. They had per-
sisted in coming to their rendezvous
despite attacks by Liberators and For-
tresses, which had scored hits during the
day.
The medium ’planes took over the
battle at dawn on December 14. Beau-
fighters, Bostons and Airacobras joined
in. Many a packed barge loaded to the
water with heavily-equipped Japs failed
to reach the beach and went down on
fire amid a tangle of dead. The surf
was horrible all day with rolling Oriental
bodies.
The enemy landing forces were obvi-
ously large. More than 20 barges were
seen at one time round the ships, which
presently moved out to sea.
Over 150,000 rounds of ammunition
were fired at the invaders with 54 tons of
bombs during 134 sorties against the con-
voy and troops. The missiles included
many of the new parachute fragmentation
bombs, which seem to be a small edition
of the parachute land mines which the
Germans used over Britain in 1940. In
34 battles with air escorts, the Allies
shot down a bomber and destroyed 13
and damaged five “Os.”
Many of the aerial attacks were made
from low level, and with R.A.A.F.
Beaufighters, which in a single sortie shot
34,000 rounds into barges and whaleboats
and set fire to 100 cases of stores dumped
near the Mambare mouth. Australians
also were flying Havocs which, from tree-
top height, rushed in with 5001 b. and
2501 b. bombs.
The convoy was pursued by the heavy
’planes, which aimed 26 tons of bombs
at it, as it made off at 25 knots.
At the end of the day (Monday) the
verdict of General MacArthur’s H.Q. was
that “a major enemy effort to land troops
has been parried.”
All next day mopping-up operations
were going on round Mambare Bay with
the freshly-landed units doing their best
to rescue floating stores, and with the
village which they had occupied burn-
ing about their ears, in the middle of
continuous carnage.
General MacArthur reported:
Our air forces continued incessant bomb-
ing and strafing attacks on remnants of the
enemy landing force at the mouth of the
Mambare. The entire area is strewn with
derelict barges, wreckage and enemy dead.
The Japanese air force made a desperate
attempt to intercept American Liberator
bombers in the area ; but abandoned it
when eight “O” fighters had been shot
down.
At the week-end another and much
larger convoy of two big freighters and
five warships, on its way from the
Admiralties and apparently bound for
Madang or Finschhaven, was sighted and
battered by Uncle Sam’s heavies, north
of the Vitiaz Strait. The attackers sank
a light cruiser with several hits on the
deck, while two “O” fighters which tried
to interfere were shot down. The cruiser
blew up when its magazine caught fire.
The convoy dispersed, the warship flee-
ing, and one each of the freighters going
to Madang and Finschhaven.
The attack on Buna village on Dec. 14
was preceded by a vigorous mortar bom-
bardment opened at 7 a.m. When 400
heavy shells had been plumped into the
village, Americans rushed it from two
sides in the face of direct fire, smashed
the guardian m.-g posts and pillboxes
and finished a triumphant entry behind
the barrage 100 yards ahead of them,
worming their way into the village which
consisted mainly of very wet shellholes
containing very dead Japs.
Three hours after the first shot in the
assault the U.S. troops were on the hunt
for stragglers.
Endaidere Taken
The capture of Buna left two pockets
still in enemy hands, but the position of
the holders was not enviable. Towards
the end of the week they held the mission
area east of Buna, in the port area, with
two limited air landing strips and the
land leading out along Cape Endaidere.
The Allied troops steadily squeezed the
enemy into tighter packs. By Friday all
that remained to him was Cape Endai-
dere and the stretch of heavily fortified
defences round the air strips—well-built
fortresses of concrete and steel, their
trenches connected with tunnels and well
covered by m.-g. and mortar posts.
All through the week these had been
incessantly bombed by Allied aircraft, co-
operating perfectly with the ground
forces.
Seasoned A.I.F. men had silently re-
placed the Americans in the front line
facing the stubborn pocket on the Cape,
which previously had defied all efforts at
dislodgment. Our veterans took the posi-
tion with a fierce rush, following a bom-
bardment opened by the 25-pounders, and
Uncle Sam’s men cleaned up the pockets
behind. There were about 600 Japs in
the area, and they failed to stand up
at any point to the A.l.F.’s methods with
cold steel and grenade. It took the at-
tackers only an hour to overrun the Cape
positions. Then they turned west and
pushed another 600 yards towards Buna.
By Saturday night the Australians and
Americans were in horseshoe formation
ready to grip the final enemy stronghold
and pinch it out. A tough fight for this
last bit of Japanese-held earth in Papua
was expected.
General MacArthur reported on Dec.
21 that a general attack under cover of
artillery fire was being made by tanks
followed by infantry. The enemy’s posi-
tion was deteriorating. His casualties
had been heavy and—crowning disaster
—“Lieut.-General Horii is reported killed
in action.”
Allied air-raiding continued over
enemy bases in the Bismarcks, as far
afield as New Hanover. Salamaua was
raided on Dec. 14 (installations bombed),
on Dec. 16 (aerodrome bombed), and on
Dec. 19.
On Dec. 18 it was reported that land
patrols were exerting pressure on enemy
outposts in the Lae-Salamaua area.
Gasmata was attacked on Dec. 15,
when fires were started and two “O”
fighters shot down, and on Dec. 16, when
a heavy formation raiding the aerodrome,
dispersal areas was attacked by 12 “Os,”
of which three were shot dqwn and two
others damaged in aerial combat.
The enemy combined reconnaissance
with ineffective attempts to bomb targets
near Moresby during the week. Timor
was the scene of regular strafings of
enemy objectives by the R.A.A.F.
An Advance in Burma.
“Ek Dum”: A New Delhi commu-
nique, issued after Paris Radio had an-
nounced a Japanese penetration into
Assam:
Some of our troops in the last few days
advanced southwards from the Arakan
frontier into West Burma and occupied the
Maungdaw-Buthidaung area. The Japanese,
who had fortified the area after our with-
drawal, retreated without offering opposi-
tion.
The R.A.F. supported the ground
operations, bombing some villages and
Akyab itself. U.S. Army bombers, under
Major-General Bissell, carried out opera-
tions across Burma, where little enemy
troop movement was noticeable, to
Yunnan, where the enemy was concen-
trating. U.S. bombers in China also
attacked several centres.
The Maungdaw-Buthidaung area is
inside the Arakan border, about 50 miles
south of Cox’s Bazaar and 120 miles
south of Chittagong. The advancing
force is light, and up to Dec. 20 had met
no resistance,
Maungdaw is on the coast. Buthidaung
is 12 miles inland, joined to the coast
town by an isolated bit of railway. A
road of sorts has for long run down the
low coast from the railway, about 50
miles, to a point on the Mayu estuary
facing Akyab, which is on a peninsula
s.-e. another 12 or 14 miles. A few
miles inward, north-east of Akyab, there
are plenty of hills, but all the land around
Akyab itself is low-lying and divided by
channels and estuaries.
As the crow flies, Akyab is 128 miles
from the Irrawaddy at Magwe, about 250
miles up the river from Rangoon, but
well below the junction with the Chind-
win. The heavy-rainfall countryside be-
tween Akyab and the great river which is
Burma’s main artery is not very pro-
pitious for ground expeditions —in the
interval are the Pakokku hill tract and
the Arakan Yoma, whose peaks rise from
5000 ft. to 6500 ft. in the most direct
route, though the An Pass slightly to the
south-east of Akyab gives a crossing of
the range. Further down the coast, the
Taungap Pass gives access to Prome.
At Akyab the Irrawaddy traffic would
be within fighter range, and Rangoon
only 250 miles away. The main north-
ward railway would be less. It is a fine
point from which to assault Japan’s cen-
tral communications in Burma.
Also around Akyab is one of the two
densest ricegrowing districts in Burma, a
point of great importance to the rice-
eating enemy, along the coast and the
Chittagong border country. It also is
a great fishing centre.
All the coast in this region is broken.
Mangrove swamp alternates with rocky
capes and headlands, and there are some
good natural harbors. But the whole
district is, generally speaking, isolated
from the rest of Burma save by sea.
It does not seem a likely point for
invasion of Burma on a large scale ; but
it is a fine point from which to attack
the enemy’s sea and land and air and
river communications, and from which
to play hell with his traffic in general,
while the main fighting takes place up
in the north on the Manipur Hills routes.
At the same time Australian troops in
Papua have proved that worse high coun-
try than the Arakan Yoma will not stop
a determined army able to supply itself
by air.
On the Shores of Tripoli.
“Ek Dum”; On Dec. 14 the Cairo
communique reported that on the pre-
vious day the Eighth Army had turned
the enemy out of his strong coastal posi-
tions at Mersa Brega, at the sea end of
the Agheila-Marada line, thus breaking
his connection with the sea and, with
other forces —mentioned previously by
the Germans as having swept to the
south in an attempt to outflank the Axis
armies—threatening him with complete
encirclement unless he lit out at once for
the west.
Rommel was said by unofficial re-
porters to have 60,000 men, mostly
Italians. He took his army out of the
Agheila lines on the run, as he evidently
had expected that he would have to do,
leaving behind a prepared rear full of
mines and traps. These slowed up most
of the British land forces, but not the
R.A.F., which continued to make the life
of the fleeing convoys a hell.
Rommel and the main body of his
pursuers were tied for much of the way
to the road area because of salt marshes
and difficult country to south and north.
Thus bombers and fighters had little
trouble in finding their marks, over which
they swooped continually at 100 feet or
so belching nickel and explosive.
The enemy himself had little air sup-
port. The Allied Air Command had
taken the precaution of blasting the Axis
forward aerodrome at “Marble Arch,”
so that, at any rate in the earlier stages
of the retirement, the fighting area was
out of bounds for the short-ranging
Messerschmitts.
By Dec. 15 the enemy vanguard was
reported to be 40 miles along the road to
Tripoli. The pace was increasing as the
wet roads dried up and the day-and-night
bombing and machine-gunning of the
roads urged the vast but dwindling Axis
columns to hurry.
On Dec. 16 the vanguard of the retreat
had travelled another 60 miles, but the
rearguards were still straggling 30 or 40
miles from El Agheila.
Maorilanders’ Great Job
The Allied advanced forces were not
rushing. They moved forward with pon-
derous strength, while outflanking Maori-
land armored formations swept south-
ward along a little used track, slicing
across the line of retreat at Matratin
Wadi, 55 miles from the El Agheila lines.
Thus the whole of Rommel’s rear, some
of it consisting of strong armor, was cut
off and left lashing about in a net from
which some of it had no hope of escape.
The Maorilanders, as usual, did a mag-
nificent job. Personally commanded by
General Freyberg, they took 500 prisoners
and the bag of tanks, guns and motor
vehicles was great.
When it had been sufficiently subdued
for inspection, the arrested German rear-
guard turned out to consist largely of
picked units of the Afrikakorps, pinned
in 20 miles between “Marble Arch” and
the British Matratin line —the leavings of
the proud 15th Armored Division and
of the 90th Infantry Division, which had
had such just cause to remember the
A.I.F, at El Alamein. About 1000 of
them escaped in the dark, but they seemed
to be doomed between two British armies
at a later stage.
Meanwhile, another section of the
enemy rearguard was struggling to rend
itself from the detaining hand which the
Eighth Army had laid on its shirt-tail at
Nofilia, still 40 miles nearer Tripoli.
The shirt-tail came off in Mont-
gomery’s hand before the week-end. He
had Nofilia. His vanguards were many
miles to the west, only eight miles from
Sirte, after a week of advancing, and
the Allied air force, having built itself
new fighter bases, was carrying on the
good work miles onward from Sirte.
Nothing had been heard of the mixed
Allied force which was supposed to be
assembled at Lake Chad in October and
to be moving northward last month.
There are two routes from Lake Chad to
the Tripolitan coast —the distance is over
1200 miles to the sea by the shortest.
The main route runs through Khun and
800 Ghem to Geddahia, which is only
about 50 miles from Sirte and between
it and Tripoli.
It would be perilously awkward for
Rommel if his flank were caught by
fresh troops at this point while he was
still 160 miles or so from Tripoli.
The Eighth Army has not an easy job.
Apart from the obstructions and traps
and the damage done to the roads by
continual bombing, and the water diffi-
culties which it shares with the enemy,
its supply lines have lengthened out till
those to Alexandria are about 1000 miles
long.
Captured harbors are some help—but
only some. Most of them have been
put almost completely out of action by
the R.A.F. If Hitler has succeeded in
mustering any forces worth the name in
Tripoli, and if the defence area is
ec ffiipp e d with artillery and well supplied,
taking it may be as difficult as the First
Army is finding it to take Bizerta and
Tunis.
Waiting in Tonis
In Tunisia both sides have been accu-
mulating forces and waiting for favor-
able weather before fighting it out. Large
formations of Flying Fortresses and other
heavyweight ’planes have bombed mili-
tary, naval and air facilities at Bizerta,
Tunis, Gabes and other ports further
south-east, as well as enemy communica-
tions ; and concentrations have received
continual attention from both British and
U.S. squadrons.
Land fighting has been limited to pat-
rols, exploratory contacts and all the
local wrestling which goes on along an
active front preparatory to major opera-
tions.
Nothing has happened of any moment
in the fighting in Tunisia since Dec. 11,
but the Allies are tightening their grasp
both on the Mediterranean and on French
North Africa.
The French Navy
On Dec. 17 Admiral Darlan announced
that French warships at Dakar and in
African ports on the Mediterranean
would join in the fight against the Axis.
Some of these ships are not in fightable
condition—they are short of stores and
need refitting, and some are badly dam-
aged, among them the new battleship
Jean Bart at Casablanca.
In good order and otherwise, the
known French ships at African ports are
the Richelieu (35,000 tons), three cruisers,
15 destroyers and 20 submarines; at
Casablanca, the Jean Bart (35,000 tons)
and some smaller ships ; at Alexandria,
the Lorraine (of ancient vintage, 22,000
tons, 13.4 in. guns), the heavy cruisers
Saffron, Duquesne and Tourville (all
about the same fighting weight as
H.M.A.S. Australia), a 6in.-gun cruiser,
three destroyers and a submarine.
There are some other small ships in
Algerian and other ports, including three
submarines escaped from Toulon —Dar-
lan has decorated the crews.
The R.A.F. has settled the question of
what happened to the French fleet in
Toulon. Forty out of 64 are shown to
have been scuttled or submerged to the
decks, including the largest and newest,
and many of the remainder are damaged.
Sea-harrying of the Axis supply lines
continues. The Admiralty announced at
the week-end that our submarines had
destroyed three more supply ships and
hit another with two torpedoes. One
ship blew up with such force that it
wrecked an escorting ’plane.
Admiral Sir Andrew Cunningham de-
clares that the Axis is losing a ship a day
in supplying Tunisia, that Allied control
of the Mediterranean is better than early
in 1942, that (great news this) Malta is
being regularly supplied without loss, and
that millions of tons of stores have been
landed in North Africa and hundreds of
British and U.S. warships are at sea every
day supporting the transport of further
supplies. The situation is “well in hand.”
Operations in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Russian communiques on
Dec. 14 reported that in the Stalingrad
factory area Red Army forces were de-
stroying blockhouses and pillboxes, and
that in south Stalingrad 150 Germans
were wiped out. There was fierce fight-
ing south-west of Stalingrad, where 10
tanks were destroyed and the Russians


CD
am
repulsed two assaults and killed 200 Ger-
mans. The midnight communique of*
the same date said that in Stalingrad area
the Russians “continued their offensive
in the same direction as before,” but
south of the city the Germans had
launched a powerful attack with con-
siderable forces. They were repulsed.
Moscow correspondents and radio
uncles reported an attack in the Kotelni-
kovo area, but the Russian official indi-
cation of the direction suggested that the
Germans outside the Stalingrad “hedg-
hog” defence were many miles nearer the
Volga than correspondents and uncles
had indicated. It turned out that, instead
of being only eight miles from Kotelni-
kovo, the main Russian line was 40 miles
to the east.
On Dec. 15 the Russians officially
claimed to have captured several build-
ings in the Stalingrad area ; to have dis-
persed and partly annihilated a German
infantry battalion n.-w. of the city ; to
have repelled enemy counter-attacks in
another sector and killed 200 of the
enemy ; to have pushed back four enemy
counter-attacks s.-w. of Stalingrad, killed
300 troops and destroyed five tanks. The
later communique for the day stated that
“our troops in the Stalingrad area con-
tinued offensive operations in the same
directions as before.” North-west of
Stalingrad an enemy infantry attack was
repelled ; south-west of it “the enemy at
heavy cost succeeded in pressing back
our troops slightly.”
Dec. 16 again saw the Russians “con-
tinuing to fight offensive engagements in
the same directions as before.” S.-west
of Stalingrad three enemy counter-
attacks with infantry and tanks were
repelled. In another area of the sector
Russians “advanced and captured several
centres of resistance.” Outside the city
in the north-west Russian troops im-
proved their positions, and a fortified line
was captured, 700 of the enemy killed
and five tanks destroyed—“an important
gain.”
On Dec. 17 the communique spoke of
the wiping out of 1235 Germans at Suro-
khvino, 60 miles west of Stalingrad,
across the Don, and the capture of 585
guns and 1500 lorries west of this place.
Otherwise the fighting was limited to
“offensive action in the same directions
as before.”
Dec. IB’s official bulletin told of the de-
struction of seven blockhouses with their
garrisons in the Stalingrad area. North-.
west of Stalingrad several counter-attacks
were repelled; in one five tanks were
destroyed and 200 Germans killed. South-
west of Stalingrad “offensive operations
resulted in the capture of fortified posi-
tions.” In another sector eight tanks
were wiped out and 250 Germans
destroyed.
Round all this small fighting corre-
spondents and radio uncles built up the
story of a great German attempt to break
into Stalingrad. The Germans helped
to encourage and embellish the story of
giant forces which were presently sup-
posed to have pushed the Russians back
in the Kotelnikovo area “by weight of
superior numbers.” Nobody explained
how an enemy reckoned to have lost
174,000 men in killed and prisoners, and
certainly another 150,000 wounded, could
have achieved “superior numbers” so
suddenly in that area.
However, it next turned out that the
Russians had clamped into the sides of
the wedge which Hitler had driven into
the southern part of the Russian fence
round Stalingrad, and repelled the attack.
One correspondent let it out that the
“superior numbers” which the enemy had
used consisted of two regiments —about
6000 men.
The Germans undoubtedly are con-
centrating forces on the Kotelnikovo
sector, but the enemy attacks last week
seem to have been merely an explora-
tory thrust.
At Rshev and Velikiye Luki
West of Rshev at the beginning of the
week the Russians announced that they
had taken several strongpoints and killed
700 of the enemy. Three counter-
attacks by a German regiment made the
Red Army give ground at another point,
but “all the attacks were repulsed.”
On Dec. 15 the Red Army repelled six
counter-attacks on the central front, “in-
flicting heavy losses.” At Velikiye Luki
Moscow spoke of “mopping up of sur-
rounded groups.”
On Dec. 16 “two fierce German
counter-attacks” in the Rshev sector were
repulsed and “several hundred” of the
enemy wiped out; at Velikiye Luki “Rus-
sian troops continued mopping up sur-
rounded German garrisons.”
On Dec. 17 the Red Army was offi-
cially reported to have “wiped out about
a battalion of the enemy and cap-
tured prisoners and booty” on the
Rshev-Viazma-road. Around Velikye
Luki nothing further was said of the
fate of the surrounded German units,
but the repelling of more counter-attacks
was mentioned.
On Dec. 19 Moscow’s communique
said that the Russian army had continued
its offensive on the Stalingrad and Central
fronts, destroying 40 ’planes on Dec. 18,
including 13 transports in the Stalingrad
area. S.-west of Stalingrad the enemy
wedge in the Russian positions was said
to have been encircled, 40 tanks destroyed
and several hundred of the enemy wiped
out. On the central front, positions were
consolidated, the offensive continued and
two inhabited areas in the Velikiye Luki
area captured, all counter-attacks being
repelled and 500 Germans wiped out.
On Dec 20 the communique declared
that artillery fire had exterminated enemy
units in the Stalingrad factory area and
that storm troops had destroyed six gun
emplacements. It proceeded:
Our forces in the Middle Don broke
through the enemy’s defence and occupied
a number of inhabited localities. In an-
other sector of this front we occupied an
inhabited locality, killed 1500 of the enemy,
and took 1000 prisoners. We also cap-
tured two artillery batteries, 26 machine-
guns and five supply dumps. On the
central front we fortified captured posi-
tions and continued to advance. West of
Rshev we repelled counter-attacks, killed
800 Germans and destroyed five tanks, 52
blockhouses and 37 strongpoints. In the
Velikiye Luki area we exterminated sur-
rounded units. N.-e. of the Black Sea port
of Tuapse we dislodged the enemy from
fortified positions.
Moscow Radio made a special announce-
ment that night that “a few days
ago” the Russians had pierced the enemy
defences about 100 miles south-east of
Voronezh, for a breadth of about 60
miles in the Nova Kalitva area, and in
the Bakorsk area on a 12-mile front,
advancing respectively 45 and 75 miles.
In four days of ceaseless fighting the
Russians captured more than 200 in-
habited localities, including Novaya,
Kalitva, Kantemirovka, on the Moscow-
Rostov railway, Boguchar and the re-
gional centres of Radchenkoye and
Bobovsk. It was added;
We routed nine infantry divisions and a
tank brigade. We also took more than
10,000 prisoners. Incomplete figures show
that the booty includes 84 tanks, 1102 guns,
608 trench mortars, 1729 m.-gs. 28,000
rifles, 420 a.-t. rifles, 2720 lorries, 1000
horses and 45 dumps of ammunition and
food; 64 ’planes, 88 tanks, 120 guns and
more than 500 lorries were destroyed and
the enemy left more than 20,000 dead on
the field.
In a later communique, numbers of
enemy dead and captives were given as
28,000 and 13,500 respectively ; the time
mentioned was five days.
A German communique the same
day mentioned for the first time an
attempt by the Russians between Dec. 13-
19, to recapture the Ossetian road, south
of Alagir, in the Caucasus. This attack,
it declared, had been beaten off and the
Russians driven back to positions behind
those which they originally occupied. The
enemy claimed the capture of Russians
in the Kalmuck Steppes by mobile units ;
then the capture of Russian positions
between the Volga and the Don (there
“hard fighting continued”) and the re-
pelling of attacks in the Great Don Bend.
Next it was asserted that “in the Don
area” a heavy attack on a sector held by
the Italians had broken into the Axis
lines, but that the Italians, with the help
of the Luftwaffe and other air forces,
eventually had beaten it back, “inflicting
most severe losses.”
The Hungarians (it was alleged) had
made an attack on positions east of the
Don. At Stalingrad itself an attempt by
the Russians to bring troops across the
Volga had been frustrated by German
artillery. In the Toropetz area, the opera-
tion of mopping up the surrounded Rus-
sian forces had been completed— two
divisions and a brigade were “wiped out”
and others “severely depleted.” Moscow
mentioned this operation for the first
time on Sunday night and poured ridicule
upon it.
The outstanding fact about the Russian
situation in the last few days is that the
Germans seem to have been taking most
of the aggressive action, except on the
Don, below Voronezh. But the Russians
show remarkable activity, which is an
asset to the common cause, as well as
being greatly to their credit.
Fighting on the central front seems
to have been taking place “knee-deep and
often waist-deep in snow,” according lo
unofficial versions. In the Caucasus
heavy rain has been falling.
Stalingrad’s garrison continues to pos-
sess its changeling character. Having
fallen to 130,000 or so at the beginning
of last week, it had risen to over 350,000
to the Sydney evening press on Friday.
On Saturday morning it had become “a
force of at least 100,000 well-armed,
battle-tried troops.”
Three Years of the R.A.A.F.
“Ek Dum”: This week the R.A.A.E.
celebrates the third anniversary of the
first entry of one of its squadrons into a
fighting zone. The Grand Old Tenth —
“old” because its birth was in the year
2 a.h.d. (After Hawker Demons) —landed
in Britain just in time to limber up for
the events of the following spring. At
once it found itself plunged into a non-
stop adventure which shows no signs of
ending.
It was a Short Sunderland flying-boat
squadron, which had been destined origi-
nally for Port Moresby and owed its
existence to the only Air Minister with
a real understanding of flying problems
Australia has had —J. V. Fairbairn, who
died, as he had lived much of his life,
in the air. The 10th thus had a start with
machines bigger than Fortresses, from
which, indeed, the makers of the Fortress
learnt much about armament of heavy
’planes.
The Luftwaffe gave Sunderlands a
wide berth, particularly R.A.A.F. Sun-
derlands. Enemy cargo ships made for
port when they heard the hum of four
engines, and U-boats found the bottom
safer than the top when Sunderlands
were about.
Sunderlands operated over wide areas
—in the North Sea, down the Channel,
across Biscay, out into the Atlantic
towards the American coast, up towards
Iceland. And, at the end of three years,
the personnel is still flying its mastodons
of the air, which have never been im-
proved on for their own particular kind
of job, though they themselves have been
considerably improved. The squadron,
apart from its long roll of kills, has a
great record of sea rescues to its credit.
The arrival of No. 10 Squadron in
Britain was the beginning of the build-
ing up of an R.A.A.F. now greater in
fighting and technical personnel than was
the R.A.F. at the outbreak of war.
Almost at once, in January, 1940, the
Empire Air Training Scheme began to
function. In Australia Donald Cameron,
K.C.M.G., was made Director-General
of Recruiting. Airmen soon lost any
qualms they had had about the appoint-
ment of a non-flying man to that job.
Cameron had fought in South Africa,
and had been a bold and successful
A.L.H. commander in Palestine.
His preoccupation at the outbreak of
war was an engaging battalion of Queens-
land Cameron Highlanders, who, in
tribute to their kilts, described them-
selves as “The Glamor Girls,” and who
were prepared to use main force if neces-
sary to enlist in the A.I.F. in a body.
They were not allowed to do so. Their
turn came later, and they had the pleasure
of introducing a somewhat surprised
enemy to themselves as Australian fight-
ing men, at a party so grimly hospitable
that few of the guests went home.
Cameron’s effort and that of an army
of helpers were highly successful. Within
three months 60,000 of the flower of
young Australia’s manhood had their
names down ; in six months the number
had more than doubled.
Recruiting still goes on. Number
recruited is a secret, but many thousands
of men are on R.A.A.F. service in
one way and another, much to the pride
of Cameron himself, who regards them
with the air of a man who has founded
a large and thriving family which has
passed its first generation.
He himself serves now as chairman
of the N. S. Wales R.A.A.F. Recruiting
Committee, making a whole-time job of
the work and taking no pay.
Four years ago a cynical politician re-
marked that the R.A.A.F. had given up
horse-racing because it was more sport-
ing to bet on how many ’planes would
fall out of the air every week. It was
the exception rather than the rule for a
squadron of H.Ds. to fly between capi-
tal and capital without a trail of forced
landings and sometimes worse.
The first two-engined ’planes in the
R.A.A.F. were coming into use —Avro-
Ansons. They were grounded tern-
porarily in May, 1939, because they had
no night-flying equipment.
After No. 10 Squadron paved the way
with the “heavies,” a daring set of
pioneers, many of whom have their
photographs pinned in hundreds over the
looking-glasses of Australian 15-year-
olds, earned glory as the deadliest com-
bination in the Libya of the Wavell era.
They flew, well on into 1941, in the tiny
32ft, span Gloster-Gladiators —biplanes!
Then came the Tomahawk Squadron
of Syria. To the machine-starved
Middle Easterners the Tomahawk seemed
the last word in ’planes. By that time
there was a large batch of Australians,
who had passed their primary training
in their homeland and their second
course in Canada, who had been seasoned
to steel hardness by the Battle of Britain
and who were used as a hard core by
R.A.F. squadrons.
By progress through Finucane’s squad-
ron to a wider field the army of Aus-
tralian fighter pilots and gunners de-
veloped.
There is now no air zone in which
they have not been. There is scarcely a
fighting field in the world in which they
have not had a hand —in Britain, the
Atlantic, Dakar, over the North Sea to
Norway, in almost every big raid over
France and Germany, on the Russian
front, in the Lancasters’ thrilling jaunt
to Augsburg, over Brest—even Tommy
White, one of the four graduates of
T 4, succeeded somehow in getting there
—over Dieppe, Italy, Syria, Irak and! at
Malta. (One young Australian has re-
turned from that battered island weighed
down with decorations, and with 12
enemy ’planes notched on his stick.)
They were through the trials of Malaya,
the first D.E.I. battles, Ambon, Timor,
India, Ceylon and finally over N. Guinea
and over Australian soil itself.
In every zone R.A.A.F. and Australian
R.A.F. men have fought with unsur-
passed skill and valor.
Not least those first air-fighters of
Australia’s own war, some of whom had
to go up over Rabaul to meet the Jap in
Wirraway trainers, knowing that they had
little chance of reaching earth again alive.
Those youngsters, unblooded till then,
were among the bravest.
In December, 1941, according to the
newly issued official book, “These
Eagles,” the R.A.A.F.,
performed prodigies of valor, and incred-
ibly, almost miraculously, succeeded in
holding the thin blue line which brought
the Japanese avalanche to a halt at the
shores of Australia.
In the first days of December, 1941, Aus-
tralia stood in her most deadly peril. She
was saved from the horrors of an Asiatic
invasion by a new generation of “Old Con-
temptibles” which had arisen and taken to
the air.
Those first days of December were to
Australia what the early days of September,
1940, were to Britain. What the Spitfire
boys of the R.A.F. did for Britain in hurl-
ing back the Luftwaffe, the Wirraway,
Hudson and Catalina boys of the R.A.A.F.
did for Australia.
Behind the crumbling of the British
forces in Malaya lies the story of some
of the most glorious, resolute and self-
sacrificing air fighting the world hasever seen.
It was only on March 17, 1939, that
the first Wirraway was completed. So
much progress has been made in the
three years that while seasoned and
battle-wise young Australians are flying
Beaufighters and many more machines of
similar standard under the Southern
Cross other young Australians in their
thousands are building some of the very
latest and most deadly battle chariots for
them to fly in.
Major-General Dan Pienaar, 49 years
old, C.-in-C. of the South African forces
in East Africa, was killed last week in
an air crash with 11 others. He was a
hero of the Abyssinian campaign, in
which he won a D.S.O. at El Wak.
Pienaar was an artilleryman by training
and one of the most capable exponents
of mobile warfare in Africa. General
Smuts said: “Dan Pienaar’s death came
as a great loss to me and to all S. Africa.”
* * * *
The A.I.F. had no complaints about
mail during the El Alamein battle. On
Nov. 2, in the middle of some of the
heaviest fighting, the postal units distri-
buted 2400 bags, without loss of a letter.
It was the biggest delivery for weeks.
* * *
A heavy R.A.F. raid over Germany
on Dec. 17 covered several centres, but'
there was low cloud and the results could
not be fully seen. The R.A.F. lost 19
bombers. The Air Ministry reported a
few enemy ’planes over n.-e. England
which caused some damage and a few
casualties.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Lud Mayor Nettlefold has just made
a move towards better music for the
people by giving his first Sunday-after-
noon concert at the Town Hah. All citi-
zens were invited and no seats could be
booked. The programme was a full one,
John Fullard singing, a 100-voice choir
and, quite newsiest singer in it, a fellow-
City Father, Cr. Townsend, who raised
a robust voice with trumpet and organ
obbligato in “The Trumpet Shall Sound.”
The belief is held in many circles that if
the City Council is satisfied that cater-
ing for the many with concerts instead
of for the few with dances is a success
there may be important post-war changes
in the city’s way of entertaining.
V.A.Ds. are gone for ever, or rather
have changed their spots and are under-
going the rigors of camp life as
A.A.M.W.S. Civilians who have not the
services’ glibness in following this letter
business found V.A.D. nice and simple
to say and translate and are quite non-
plussed by the new tag, but the erstwhile
V. prefer it because they like the
clear link-up with the A.A.M.C. Duties
will probably be widened with the letters,
providing a multi-useful body with both
domestic and medical services of many
kinds at its collective fingertips.
W. are also recruiting and are
driving for 300 more women at the
moment. Uniform of this service is con-
sidered rather a draw (brass buttons!),
though it doesn’t run to the beautiful
three-cornered officer’s hat of the English
W.R.N.S., in which the Duchess of Kent
looks so fetching.
Facing the obligation of thanking
their supporters for help over a difficult
year, and wishing all a bit of Christmas
cheer, Women Journalists’ War Service
Committee hit on a happy idea. The
helpers were all invited to the usual
monthly meeting to hear proceedings and
then take morning tea and scone at the
Lyceum Club with members. Meeting
and scone snatching took place in the
club’s Blue Room. Miss Edith Allen
told of the sending to lonely outposts of
books and magazines for little groups of
airmen stationed there. Bulletin readers
can help in this good work by dropping
their read copy of the paper each week
at the Journalists’ Book Depot, 47
Queen-street, where the Women Journal-
ists have their workroom for repairs of
books sent to them to re-stock their
library.
With other services demanding things
like a knowledge of maths., executive
ability or stamina to walk an incredible
number of miles a day, it’s a relief to see
an appeal for volunteers who need only
“know how to handle a bicycle.” Most
Melbourne women know something
about that nowadays as they use the iron
steed for cargo transport and are be-
coming adept at shifting the weight when
the eggs give a list to port and the like.
Red Cross wants women cyclists to act
as messengers between Red Cross House
and various city addresses. Uniform is
not compulsory, but, if worn, consists of
culotte skirt, blouse and cap in khaki.
There are many similar corps in the
suburbs on a practise-for-emergency
basis. Transport in any form, even per
bicycle, is considered most fun. Most
favored is the Medical Transport Service,
on account of its exquisite tawny-fawn
uniform which puts it all over all other
lasses in service garb.
Hector Crawford and Edna Stock took
the plunge into matrimony at All Saints’,
East St. Kilda, on Saturday to fully
choral music. Mr. Crawford, in spite of
the demands his orchestra makes on him,
has always managed to look cool, calm
and debonair. His open-air concerts in
the Botanical Gardens have been extra-
ordinarily popular, and thousands have
crowded into the natural amphitheatre
above the lakes to listen to the Conser-
vatorium Symphony Orchestra discours-
ing sweet music o’ Sundays. Mr. Craw-
ford did not make the wedding an ex-
cuse for stopping work, for his choir of
100 voices was one of the highlights of
the Lud Mayoral concert the day after
the ceremony.
The Town Hall looked like lunchtime
on the Tower of Babel at midday on
Friday. This was sheepskins for Russia
appeal day, and a luncheon buffet in the
Lower Town Hall was run by represen-
tatives of various nations. The Chinese
colony had its dim-sim counter outside
on the Collins-street corner. Inside one
might try a Russian midday snack of
Peroshki, Borsch or, for the more
cautious, eggs a la Russe or indulge in
the savory rice and spaghetti dishes of the
Greek section. Czechoslovak dishes
were also in evidence. Booths, where
turkeys and other rare birds were raffled,
dotted the streets and had a good day.
News comes from England of the
engagement of Flying-Officer Robert
Stuart, R.A.A.F. overseas, to Mrs. Bar-
bara Pares, daughter of Sir Alan and
Lady Rae Smith, Furzedown, Limps-
field, Surrey. Flying - Officer Stuart
is the elder son of Mr. and Mrs.
R. J. Stuart, of Elwood, and has been
abroad for some time. Mrs. Pares
is the widow of Lieut.-Commander Pares,
of H.M.S. Hood, and with her parents
has been entertaining Australians who
might otherwise have found service over-
seas a rather lonely and homesick busi-
ness.
Julie Cotton, otherwise Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson, pictured here by Athol Shmith,
is one of Melbourne’s most gifted ama-
teur actresses. She recently scored a
success with the Tin Alley Players, whose
brightest star, Keith Macartney, played
also in “Royal Family of Broadway,”
the Tin Alley’s latest effort. Working
for patriotic causes, especially the Uni-
versity Women’s war effort, these men
and women put their wits to work and
have been clever in picking plays which
not only enable them to find congenial
relaxation from war jobs, but also have
brought good audiences to the Union
Theatre.
Though parties are “out” for the
duration the advent in Melbourne of the
wife of the Dutch Minister, Baroness
F. C. Van Aerssen, was not allowed to pass
unheralded, and over a quiet drink many
friends of the Dutch gave welcome. The
Baroness has a most decorative son,
Marnix, who, if mamma and papa allow,
should be a joy to portrait painters. Most
of the Dutch who gathered to the small par-
ties to welcome the baroness exclaimed
at the sad fact that most Australians
speak only English. With four or five
languages at their command they hoped
to be able to conduct conversations with
all sorts of folks ; instead they found
themselves up against the Australian ver-
sion of the English language all the time.
Goldilocks might be the second name
of Allison Nelson, 15-year-old pianist
with the Symphony orchestra on Satur-
day. Lovely golden hair that must have
made synthetic blondes gnash their teeth
in envy fell down her back below her
waist and two butterfly pink bows gath-
ered the tresses at the top of her head.
In her audience the most enthusiastic
were Con. girls who, a few weeks ago,
were themselves solo pianists in concertos
with the same orchestra. The myth that
the feminine of the species can’t be gener-
ous in its admiration was exploded by
these girls.
If the opening meeting of the Women
For Canberra movement is any guide
the advent of women should make for an
improvement on the social side of politics.
Not only did the League of Women
Electors hand round tea and scones to
the gathering which taxed the space of
the wide rooms of Mrs. Weber’s East
Kew home, but, when an executive meet-
ing was held afterwards to get the move-
ment under way, the same league mem-
bers served a delicious buffet tea and
cleared it away in complete silence so
that the meeting was able to proceed in
the same rooms without any waste of
time. A thought that always occurs when
pioneer women in the political field come
out from their retirement to give their
blessing to a new movement is that the
battle and the breeze of turmoil haven’t
hurt them much, and that they are a very
vital and good-looking bunch. No pret-
tier old lady than Vida Goldstein could
be found—and perfectly dressed! If
Mrs. Alex Russell of the Western District
becomes a candidate even Mrs. Weber s
great good looks will have a rival in the
women’s drive on the Capital city.
From Sydney
A few pairs of knitting needles are
going to be worn to the bone now that
they know the Australian Comforts Fund
needs 100,000 or more pairs of short
socks. The Norman Nock lady, chair-
man of the Women’s War Comforts Sec-
tion of the A.C.F., said so at the last
meeting of the year. This was held in
the Pickwick Club. Mayor Stanley Crick
and Mrs. Crick were both there, he very
pleased at being made a vice-president of
the fund as from his retirement from the
mayoralty at the end of the year. British
war correspondent and lecturer William
Courtenay was the lion of the afternoon.
He told of life on the Owen Stanley
Range and of the soldier’s ever-present
need for tobacco. He told of the cheer-
fulness with which Young Australia is
facing hardship. Colonel Goward, Chief
Commissioner of the A.C.F., also brought
news from the North.
The hockey girls of this State have
gathered in the thousand pounds for the
Mrs. F. J. Davy memorial, and 30-odd
pounds over. They have done this with-
out neglecting any of their many war-
time activities. Their president, Dr.
Marie Hamilton, was so pleased that she
celebrated with a dinner party on
Wednesday—the last cheque had been
sent to the hospital that day. To this
all those who had most concerned them-
selves were invited. The dinner was
spread in Dr. Hamilton’s home, and as
this is in Strathfield, where the gardens
are ever bright and gay, the flowers had
a velvety splendor. Nancye Wicks,
organising secretary for the memorial, was
an important guest. Mrs. Ray Allen
arranged three competitions, all of which
were won by Yvonne Brierley.
Sydney, after three years, is to have a
new Mayor. He is R. J. Bartley, and he
comes to the civic ermined robes with
some experience, because he is the Mayor
of Vaucluse. Mrs. Bartley, too, will take
over with ease the job of Town Hall
hostess and queen bee of the various
war-time organisations that are the heri-
tage of the city’s Mayoress. Mrs. Bartley
is slim, dark and attractive looking. Her
great recreation is gardening. At present,
of course, the garden is mainly devoted
to vegetables. Last Thursday retiring
Mayoress Mrs. Stanley Crick welcomed
Mrs. Bartley to the C.A.S. Auxiliary
meeting in the Mayoress’s rooms in the
Town Hall. This is one of the auxiliaries
of which Mrs. Bartley becomes, by virtue
of her husband’s office, the chairwoman.
Dorothy Welding photograph.
It will be a great day for the Service
Woman who finds her way around to old
Paris House on December 25. The
restaurant that was one of Sydney’s high-
lights in the late ’nineties is now a club
for women of the Services, and the
National Defence League Women’s Aux-
iliary hatched it. A house committee of
which Mrs. R. Dixson is head promises
turkey and ham and plum pudding with
all the trimmings on Christmas Day.
And no charge will be made to the
woman in uniform. All this and more
was talked of at the League’s end-of-
the-year tea-drinking. President Kae
McDowell told of the necessity of each
suburban group, next year, promising a
definite quota so that the canteen com-
mittee could budget income and outlay.
Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax, her complexion
like a rose petal above her china-blue
flowered frock, told with great verve the
story of the canteen’s metamorphosis
from a long-empty night club to its
present crisp cleanliness. It was like
listening to the story of a reveller who
joined the army and became a field-
marshal, or, at any rate, a sergeant-major.
What a good-looking group of women
they are who steer the club’s course!
Rose Merivale, for three years president
of the Forum Club, is one of them. Fler
present anxiety is to hear from hostesses
willing to entertain service girls in town
for the Christmas holidays. There was
a splendid rally of workers from the vari-
ous centres.
The dark velvety red roses at Govern-
ment House on the two nights of the film
show for the comforts fund of the Land
Army Girls are still being exclaimed over.
Flower arrangements were declared a
little breath-taking, even by North Shore
Liners. Cigarettes cropped up in
generous array, and the fruit cup was
the right kind of nectar. A silvered moon
patrolled the heavens, though it is only
fair to say that G.H. had no hand in this.
Mrs. Stanley Crick has, like the wife
of Dick Whittington, been thrice
Mayoress. She has been a smiling and
cheerful Town Hall hostess, and during
the three years of war never once has
lost her air of serene courage. Her tonic
influence was felt through all the war-
time activities emanating from the Town
Hall. Since the beginning of its C.A.S.
women’s auxiliary Mrs. Crick never failed
to turn up on sewing-circle days. In
seven months the centre’s output has
been nearly 700 patchwork quilts, the
same number of pillows and 286 recon-
ditioned army blankets. Former Mayor-
ess, the Norman Nock lady, is secretary,
and at the final meeting last week she
made graceful eulogy of Mrs. Crick’s in-
terest and hard work.
Sir Ronald Cross and his wife were
down from Canberra last week and
had quite a run around Sydney. Among
functions Sir Ronald went to was
the prize-giving at The King’s School,
Parramatta. In fact, he handed out the
awards. Lady Cross also went to a
breaking-up. This was at St. Catherine’s,
where the Julius lady was the prize dis-
penser. The Mayor’s Comforts Fund,
the Anzac Buffet and many service can-
teens were also visited by Lady Cross.
One blithe party at which she was a guest
was the wedding of Helen Pao Ching
Hsu. Helen, looking like a dainty doll in
her white satin and tulle, became Mrs.
Yen-Kaing Hwang at the home of the
Consul-General for China, Dr. Tuan.
The Consul-General for China in Singa-
pore and the Consul-General for China
in Batavia assisted in the ceremony.
Bride’s father is the Minister for China in
Australia. ’Groom’s father, Parcane C.
Hwang, is district manager of the Bank
of China in Australia.
A ripple of satisfaction ran through
the groups of women at the Sydney In-
dustrial Blind Institution when the
amount of the Christmas donation was
made public. The cheque handed by knight
Alfred Davidson’s wife to Lady Gowrie
was for £3OOO. This amount was, in
spite of the war in the Pacific, as
large as that of last year. The meet-
ing was a great success, and the com-
mittee of the White Ball (though indeed
there will be no more white balls till
Peace takes up her dwelling with us once
more) raised almost £7OO of the total.
Mrs. Roy Buckland, president of the
White Bailers, was at son David’s
breaking-up at The King’s School,
but she is set upon her committee doing
big business in the cause—in 1943. The
branches and the suburban concert pro-
moters came in for special praise from
the president. There was music and then
tea, and then Lady Gowrie went through
the different rooms and saw the trainees
at their crafts.
The W.A.N.S. have a canteen of their
own. This has been duly opened by Lady
Wakehurst, and makes gay showing on
the first floor of Ocean House. Its chairs
are poinsettia-red, and there are enough
of them to seat 60 diners. So far meals
are of the light refreshment kind, but the
salads are already gaining a reputation.
This is going to be a great meeting place
for the Land Army girls, so many of
whom graduates) through the W.A.N.S.,
and supervisor Winifred Iliffe is looking
forward to the day when the canteen will
have to extend to two or three times its
present size.
Musicians and lovers of music had no
austerity in their menu last week. Rather
was it an orgy of the best and the rarest
fare composers for violin and piano have
to offer. Thomas Matthews was the violin-
ist, his wife, Eileen Ralph, the pianist.
These two look so shining and bright
and have such evident joy in their own
music that audiences just about eat them
up. The Conservatorium listeners last
week were as enthusiastic as any. The
three Brahms sonatas for violin and piano
were the first programme. At the second
recital piano works by Stravinsky, De-
bussy, Beethoven and other famed writers
found Eileen in congenial mood.


SEVENTEENTH NEW ZEALAND
NATIONAL THOROUGHBRED SALES,
TRENTHAM, WELLINGTON, N.Z.,
JANUARY 15 and 22, 1943.
202 THOROUGHBRED YEARLINGS 202
119 Colts. 83 Fillies.
Representing 43 leading English and Colonial-
bred Sires.
On the the score of relationship to high-class
winners, the catalogue is unique. The year-
lings include the progeny of all the Dominion’s
noted proven sires and the first progeny of the
Classic winners Coronach, Battle Song, etc.
To date (representing 13 seasons) no less than
45 Classic-winning three-year-olds have been
bought at these Sales.
Also a choice catalogue of Brood Mares,
Racehorses, English and Colonial-bred Sires and
Untried Stock.
COMMISSIONS: As customary for many
years past, the Auctioneers will accept com-
missions on behalf of absentee buyers. Arrange-
ments can also be made to leave yearlings in
New Zealand and have them broken in and
given preliminary training.
Catalogue obtainable from —
Wright, Stephenson & Co. (Aust.), Pty.,
Ltd., 34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Mackinnon & Cox Pty., Ltd., 482 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
Wm. Inglis & Son Pty., Ltd., 28 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
J urfinriPPrc •
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.,
Wellington, N.Z.;
PYNE, GOULD, GUINNESS, LTD.,
Christchurch, N-Z.
Cable address:
“Wright Stephenson,” Wellington, N.Z.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce..
TO ALFRED LANCELOT TURNER also
known as ALLEN LEONARD TURNER late
of 139 Holt Avenue Cremorne. —TAKE
NOTICE that KATHLEEN MAY TURNER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1867 of
1941 on the ground of bigamy with adultery
and adultery. If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by Ist Feb-
ruary 1943 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. ABRAM
LANDA, BARTON & CO. Solicitors 9-13 Bligh
Street Sydney— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO LOTUS DUFFY late of Perth West Aus-
tralia.—TAKE NOTICE that HENRY WIL-
LIAM DUFFY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1774 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE if you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
befbre the 16th of April 1943 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from S. G.
SOMMERS & STEWART Solicitors 197 Eliza-
beth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
Notions
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Three double-figure winners gave the
books an advantage over backers at
Randwick on Saturday, when, including
members of the forces, the attendance
was about 30,000 and the tote turnover
was £67,844 —an average of about £2 ss.
per person.
Riverton (W. Cook), best of the two-
year-olds this time last year, returned to
form in the Villiers Stakes, for which he
was second favorite. Guild Hall made
the early running, but Romero was first
into the straight, with Grand Prodige,
Guild Hall and Riverton in attendance.
The last-named swung a little wide, but
led halfway down the straight. Near
the finish Grand Fils, with a fast run on
the rails, looked dangerous, but he weak-
ened slightly, and was cut out of second
money by Evergreen, who was last soon
after barrier-rise. The Miller, who had
only Evergreen behind him after going
half a furlong, was a good fourth, suc-
ceeded by Nightbeam, who would have
been better suited by a longer journey.
Romero headed the remainder. Mer-
rimba, who made a forward move oppo-
site the leger, never quite looked a place-
getter, and was losing ground at the
finish. Arahura did not work into a
winning position at any stage, and it was
the same with Prince. This was River-
ton’s first win since the December Stakes
last season, and it was a welcome change
of luck for G. Price.
Lambeth evidently appreciates a light
scale. In the Encourage Handicap won
by Wellesley at Rosehill he was not dan-
gerous with 9.0, but a drop to 7.2 in
open company enabled him to beat a
good field in the December Handicap.
Angus and Sir Wyvern set the pace, with
Many Ways nearest them. Lambeth was
behind this trio entering the straight,
but taking charge shortly after com-
mencing the final furlong he hung on
long enough to score from Amberspear,
with Chatham’s Choice a good third.
Enderby and War Trophy were nearest
the place-getters. Angus and Sir Wyvern
tired, and Panurge at no part raised the
hopes of his backers. Old Hope was one
of the field, and finished where his
aldermanic appearance suggested was
probable.
Ridden by R. Carter, Flight gave
backers an unpleasant surprise in the
December Nursery. Outpacing Est-
borough after going two furlongs she
entered the straight ahead of the latter
and Van Eyck. A furlong from home
Flight looked like winning comfortably,
but she had to be ridden out to beat Van
Eyck a length, with Estborough third,
and then Goya, who was nearer the front
at the finish than at any other stage.
Ponyish Newfield and Cockcrow did no-
thing to justify the support accorded
them, but the latter got away badly, and
St. Quentin did not run nearly so well as
when he beat Van Eyck at Rosehill.
Flight, who is in the same ownership as
Arahura, is by Royal Step from Lam-
bent, by Tractor from Dazzling Light,
and was a 60gns. yearling. It was her
first start in a race.
Sir Neith (R. Parsons) was unlucky
in Modulation’s race at Rosehill the
previous week, and though he was not
prominent in the Three-year-old Handi-
cap until the straight was entered he won
decisively from Hawklet. The latter, in
addition to being squeezed back when
the barrier rose, experienced a check or
two in running. Even if she had fared
better in the early part she might not
have beaten Sir Neith, but she would
have made a much closer race of it. Miss
Hua and Nobleman were first into the
straight, Baroda and Battle Dress also
being prominent; but though Baroda and
Nobleman were third and fourth respec-
tively their form was much below expec-
tations. Battle Dress tired, and Angel,
who looked well, did not get near the
front at any part.
There was merit in Adjust’s (Gollogly)
Encourage Handicap win. She was sixth
or seventh at the turn, and in the straight
was checked when going for an opening.
However, being taken a little wider than
her jockey at first intended, she got
through and was a sure winner 50 yards
from home. She added to S. Chatter-
ton’s long-priced winners. The minor
place-getters, Casket King and Gryphon,
ran well without being able to trouble
Adjust. There was nothing in Kingston’s
third to Hawklet and Silver Crown at
Rosehill the previous week to war-
rant the way he was backed, and he
never got in it. Makatha and Usher led
into the straight, but could not see it out.
The latter has lots of pace, but his
Queensland form suggested he was a little
out of his distance at a mile, and so it
proved. Adjust, who had not previously
won a race, is a sister to Addition (The
Buzzard-Calculate) and cost 550gns. as
a yearling.
Two wins the same afternoon, and both
at long prices—Adjust at 14 to 1 and
Ron Rico 12 to I—gave1—gave trainer M. Poi-
son a good foundation for a pleasant
Christmas. My Friend, favorite for the
Highweight Handicap, led at the leger
after being second to War Spear enter-
ing the straight, but then Ron Rico came
through and finished too strongly for the
minor place-getters, Mustapha and
Cadger, Rylstone and Petruchio, who
headed the remainder, ran well, and
Whisper Low, Mary Lou and Skerries
were prominent to the turn. My Friend's
9.1 was too much for him at a mile, and
Tel Asur and Haripur were among those
not sighted near the front at any part.
In September Ron Rico beat Rylstone in
a similar class of race at Randwick.
Counsel, a gift horse, compensated for
his unlucky defeat in the Ascot Cup a
week earlier by defeating Portfolio and
the favorite, Sunrocks, in the Epsom Cup
run at Mentone on Saturday. Starting
at 6 to 1, he hit the front entering the
straight, and cleared away to win by four
lengths. A five-year-old gelding by Law
Maker from Open Mind, Counsel won
races in Tasmania and Victoria for his
breeder, P. Grant Hay. Latter presented
him to a daughter, Mrs. D. Fraser-
Smith, several months ago, and Counsel’s
win on Saturday was his first for his new
owner. Sunrocks, although only a
moderate third, would have been closer
to the winner but for running wide on
the turn.
Vergure, a first-class sprinter in Syd-
ney about two years ago, and more re-
cently winner of several races in the
Riverina, survived a protest after defeat-
ing El Reo in the Mordialloc Stakes.
Mclnerheney, rider of the runner-up,
alleged that Vergure was only a length
in front of El Reo when he crossed to
the rails near the half-mile, and that the
ground he lost in being forced to check
his mount was much greater than the
winning margin. The judge said Vergure
won by half a length, but the finish
looked closer, Vergure’s race on Satur-
day was only his second in Melbourne,
and news of his success would be wel-
come to his present owner, I. Ryan,
former amateur rider, and now a mem-
ber of the R.A.A.F. “somewhere in Aus-
tralia.” Vergure, who was taken over by
Riverina trainer E. H. Shinn early this
year, is an imported entire by Flaming
Orb from Ventolena.
Grey Box, a grey colt by Blanl|-
Speckled Panne, landed some nice wagers
at long odds when he defeated Evidence
and Crown Seal in a close finish for the
Murray Handicap. He started at 14 to 1
after 33 to 1 had been bet. Actor was rep-
resented by his first winner when Lemact,
backed from 20 to 1 down to tens, fin-
ished determinedly to beat Pickway and
Reply Paid in the Manumbar Handicap.
Lemact, who had finished fourth in the
Oaks two starts earlier, has raced only
lightly and impresses as likely to improve.
Philander, second in the Oaks, and warm
favorite for Saturday’s race, did not
really flatter her backers at any stage.
Prince David and Great Peak regis-
tered easy wins in their divisions of the
Parkdale Welter, in which riding was
restricted to hurdle and steeplechase
jockeys. According to official times,
however, Great Peak was more impres-
sive of the pair. He was recorded as hav-
ing run the mile in 2} seconds faster time
than Prince David, but such a wide
margin leaves doubts as to accuracy. Jill
Ann, a four-year-old mare by Rob Roy
from Queen of Opera, cleared away from
the bend to defeat hot favorite Azores
and Kynoona in the Cheltenham Handi-
cap. Lady Collingwood, backed from
tens to fives, looked to be going well
when she toppled over King Silvius, who
feel near the half-mile. Apprentice T.
McKenzie was held responsible for inter-
ference which caused the accident and
suspended for two months.
* * * *
Nothing happened at Randwick on
Saturday to cause Dashing Cavalier’s
popularity for the Summer Cup to be
challenged. Grand Fils made a good
showing in the Villiers, but with 51b. less
than he will have to carry next Saturday.
The extra distance will help him, but he
is in receipt of only 111 b. from Dashing
Cavalier, who, at 13 furlongs, can afford
to be a little slow in finding his legs,
Lambeth has 51 b. more than in the
December Handicap, and will meet
Amberspear 111 b. worse. Figures give
the latter a decided advantage, but it is
no certainty he will like the Cup dis-
tance as well as Lambeth, who ran a
fair mile and three-quarters when second
to It’s Funny in the St. Leger.
There was support for Dewar in the
Villiers, but even allowing that the
distance was short for him he did not
run well. He may do much better in the
Cup, as he looks particularly bright.
Angus and Panurge failed so badly in
the December Handicap that it is diffi-
cult to stand either, and for a place bet
War Trophy may be preferable to most
of those below 7.7. Rimveil is bound
to make a good showing, but he meets
Dashing Cavalier only 21b. better than at
Rosehill. He has yet to show he can run
the Cup distance as well as Dashing
Cavalier, and though the latter may be
beaten it is difficult to select anything
likely to do it if the going is firm.
sp * * *
A penalty of 51b, should not stand in
the way of Haddon Hall’s success in the
December Stakes. He has shown im-
proved form at each start, and his win
with 9.2 at Rosehill was an excellent per-
formance. He has finished strongly in
his races, and 8.10 should not trouble
him. He should again beat Clarion Call,
and all the others that finished behind
him in the Kirkham Stakes. Belle Pomme
and Van Eyck are others engaged.
Hecuba recently injured herself slightly,
and is a doubtful runner.
• * * «
Wright, Stephenson and Co. and Pyne,
Gould and Guinness will hold Maori-
land’s big yearling sales at Trentham
(Wellington) on Jan. 15 and 22. Forty-
three sires will be represented by 119
colts and 83 fillies. All the most success-
ful sires are in the catalogue, and there
are newcomers in Coronach and Battle
Song. In addition mares, racehorses,
sires and untried stock will be offered.
Difficulty of travel may stand in the way
of the presence of many Australians, but
it is certain their representatives will be
to the fore as buyers.
* * ♦ *
At the B.A.T.C. meeting (Brisbane) on
Saturday last all trainers of second and
third horses received a Christmas box of
£5 each. It has been the club’s custom
for several years, and should at least
assure employees in several stables a
poultry dinner on Christmas Day.
♦ * * *
Excuses were made for Great Britain’s
failure in the Melbourne Cup, but his
poor showing in the Ascot Cup throws
doubt upon whether he is as good as
suggested by his easy Victoria Derby
win. It would seem as if Victoria’s three-
year-old stayers are no better than those
of New South Wales. At one time in Eng-
land a Derby win credentialled a horse
as a great racehorse and a potential sire.
Of recent years that idea has been some-
what modified, a high-class handicap
winner under a big weight receiving full
credit as a racehorse and a possible stud
success. In Australia several Derbies
have been wop by horses that neither
shone subsequently in big handicaps nor
at the stud, and for that reason it is pos-
sible to query whether Derbies are really
worth the prize-money they carry.
Breeders will naturally contend they are,
as well-endowed three-year-old races
have marked bearing upon yearling
prices.
» * * *
The Sydney Turf Club is to have a
chairman, vice-chairman and treasurer to
be appointed by the Governor, who, of
course, will act on recommendations
made him as to the men best fitted for
those positions. The idea obtained in
some quarters that the appointments
would be more or less political and would
mean a few fat billets. Such supposition
was seemingly erroneous, as it is stated
out-of-pocket expenses are all that will
be allowed directors. Therefore only
men genuinely interested in racing are
likely to seek those appointments. As
all profits are to go back into racing
we should hear no more complaints from
owners and trainers concerning alleged
niggardly prize-money. Still, as some
would be unhappy without a grievance it
is probable they will manage to find
something to give the directors cause for
thought.
* * * *
The fact of Rivette having thrown her
first foal, a colt to Hellespont, calls fur-
ther attention to that mare’s continued
debarment from the Stud Book, because
she was not registered within the prescribed
time. Her sire and dam are in the Stud
Book, as are her half-sisters and half-
brothers. Their progeny will be eligible
for classic races, while those of Rivette —
Caulfield and Melbourne Cup winner—
will not, because of her owner’s negli-
gence. A stiff fine should meet such
cases. It might be contended that an
undesirable precedent would be created,
but it would not lead to an influx of
mares to the Stud Book, as only the
owners of outstanding performers with
the necessary breeding would be prepared
to pay for their admission.
* * * *
All trainers have their run of “outs.”
The skill that has taken them high in
the winning list in many previous seasons
has not deteriorated, but it is not unusual
for youngsters to fail to fulfil expecta-
tions, and when older horses also go off
or amiss at the same time they have an
anxious period. Most owners are good
winners, but lucky is the trainer who gets
hold of patrons who can equally take the
bad with the good. Many owners go into
racing with the idea that they will at
least make enough to cover expenses, and
if their expectations are not realised
they are likely to deem it advisable to
either reduce their teams, change trainers,
or drop out altogether.
The somewhat mysterious welterweight
champion Hockey Bennell, who has been
beaten in “non-title contests” by almost
every welterweight of note, was seen at
his best against Bill Fadden at Leich-
hardt. Fadden had whipped Bennell
twice and drawn with him on another
occasion, but Fadden never looked
like winning their fourth affair. Early in
the sixth he fought Bennell into a corner.
Before Bill could “shoot,” Bennell
whipped a left to the body, then a right
to the chin, flooring his man for the
count.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Christmas Trial Handicap: Casket
King, 1 ; Sir Tennyson, 2 ; Condig-
nity, 3.
Summer Nursery Handicap;
Goya, 1 ; Moresby, 2 ; The Beacon,
3.
December Stakes: Haddon Hall,
1; Clarion Call, 2 ; Van Eyck, 3.
Chisholm Handicap: Soho, 1 ;
Hydra, 2 ; Lagoon or John Halifax,
3.
Summer Cup: Dashing Cavalier,
1 ; Lambeth, 2 ; Grand Fils, 3.
A.J.C. Handicap: Nightbeam, 1 ;
Tidemark, 2 ; Warbird or Salivant,
3.


f
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., Sydney.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
W.S. 161. 8.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
1
Ls
,1 i i
imm ««i Mtiiiui
wpii ill Bpimi
HUM 111 Jglll'l
Ui.' >
H
Modern high-elf ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Winterjarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO REX PARNELL RICE late of Broken Hill.
—TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN MAY RICE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 387 of
1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the First of March 1943
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from W. C. BEERWORTH Solicitor 233
Argent Street Broken Hill or his Agent J. H.
PEOPLES Solicitor 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD GOODALL formerly of Pad-
dington. —TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY
IRENE GOODALL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2459 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion without just cause for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Ist March
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from M. B. BYLES & CO. Solicitors
3 Castlereagh Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
LOVELY SUMMER IS HERE
BUT—SO ARE FLY-BORNE DISEASES
Eliminate Closet Pans and the Sanitary Man by Installing
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
THE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM.
NO FEIES. NO SMEEES. NO GERMS. NO EMPTYING.
YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF AND FAMILY.
Health alone justifies it apart from its _ great wmfort. fpom them>
Besides serious diseases inherent in closet pans many minor <
No water supply required.
Any handyman can install it. Thousands in use.
„,. rrn PIMITIDVr Dl. T|.J 26 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Fty. Ltd., Telephone: B l«f)2.
Obtainable direct, all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Tax
PRICE, F. 0.8. Sydney, £ll/17/6, plus 25/- Mar Surcharg ,
Crating (if necessary), 10/9 extra. y- tnri-ir Producers
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane ; Soarfe Ltd., Adela d , \ L
Co-op. Co. Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mdnerney & Co., eta.,
’ IMMEDIATE DELIVERY GAN BE GIVEN.
SMOKE-OH!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Actor in cage with lion.” — News item.
Well, what is the R.S.P.C.A. doing
about it?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A sugar dredger is excellent for holding
soap powder.
— Correspondent, “Woman’s Mirror.”
He got his own tea while the wife was
away. The dredger he used. And you’ll
gather from what he remarked after tak-
„g a S wi S that ha shortly was al, of a
.j. 4. 4. 4.
“Dairyman lined £2O for adulterating milk.”
, News item.
No doubt he d like that watered down.
* * . '**
High Distinction.
Some service girls might have adopted
a rather cocky air had they achieved such
a rare distinction, but Private Gladys
remained quietly modest about it, even
demure.
Her early recruit days had given no
pointer to the celebrity she was destined
to enjoy. Her giggle when the sergeant
had tried to get them all into a straight
line had been no louder than the others ;
she had also squealed with the rest the
night the tarantula had chased a fly across
the hut ceiling ; she had frankly admitted
that if she had been allowed to fire on
the rifle range it was doubtful if she
could have hit the mound, let alone the
target. Yet she had been singled out;
she was now a figure, celebrated ; the
other girls, she knew, talked about it con-
stantly. But through it all she kept her
head, and if she experienced a thrill of
pride now and then it never crept into
her demeanor.
Yes, Private Gladys was the only one
in the whole of her corps who hadn't
had her photo, in an afternoon paper
with an accompanying interview as to
why she had joined up and what she
thought of her service life!
K.
4* •i* 4* 4*
“Our visitor didn’t stay long. He blew in and
blew out, so to speak.”— Story, woman’s paper.
He wasn’t so much a guest as a gust.
❖ 4 1 4*
“One night she discovered some powder on
the shoulder of his coat and nagged at him con-
tinuously until he went to work next morning.”
—Short story.
It proved to be a headache powder.
•b *b 4* *b
A woman need not be proficient at the
culinary art in order to cook her hus-
band’s goose.
“Our hostess had made a lovely pillow out of
a flourbag.”— Social column.
Bill the Hatter does the same, only he
doesn’t tip out the flour first.
“The green turtle is the one that provides us
with delicious turtle soup.” —Weekly paper.
Its land-speed is studiously imitated
by the waitress who brings the soup in.
+ 4* 4*
Important Announcement.
Our Parliamentary roundsman is in-
formed on reliable authority that the
Minister for Returns made an important
statement at a secret session of the
House.
“I received this morning,” the Minister
is understood to have said, “from our
financial adviser of the Economy and
Anti-Spending Committee a memoran-
dum setting out that living standards and
war costs are variable and depend on a
formula as to their increase or decrease
on the principle of Lease-Lend, Habeas
Corpus and Fi Fum, after allowing for
the increase or decrease of the price of
commodities and corresponding rates of
taxation, reckoned according to the curve
of the second degree, whichever is the
greater or less.
“With this clear exposition before it
Cabinet has therefore decided to make
the necessary rules requiring householders
to furnish returns numbered ‘A’ to ‘E’
inclusive ; these will be promulgated at
once. A new department, to be known
as the Department of Returns and Forms,
with an under-secretary, director, deputy
director, assistant deputy director and the
usual executives and staff, will therefore
to set up to collate and dissect the infor-
mation contained therein.”
The House then continued its discus-
sion on the Uniform Garment Standards
Enabling (Amendment) Bill.
Vermis.
»£• A
“Goat whiskers are used in making carpets
and rugs.”— “World’s News.”
And to get her husband to buy them
the woman often uses a bit of kid.
►j, .j. *J*
’Phoney Business.
“There is a need for some device which will
limit the duration of public ’phone calls to a
reasonable period.” —“Daily Mirror:”
Pending the arrival of such a blessing,
there are various ways for the waiting
person to put an end to long-winded con-
versations.
If the user is a nervous type of woman
you can pad restlessly up and down, mut-
tering loudly to yourself and pausing
every now and then to hack pieces out
of the ’phone box with a long-bladed
penknife.
Another method is to run into the box
screaming “Quick! He’s had a heart
attack! Let me ring the ambulance!
Quick !” If the user has any human sym -
pathy he will hand you the ’phone and
you can then settle down to your own
conversation.
When there is a group waiting and the
box is one of the open sort, you can all
join hands and dance around it a la may-
pole, each singing a different song, or,
better still, yodelling it. Even if the user
remains stubborn in the face of such a
protest, you have the satisfaction of
knowing that it will greatly irritate him.
T. W. N.
Quiz for “Famous” Correspondents.
[Peek at the answers if you like,
but no guessing—you get enough of
that in your everyday work.}
(1) In describing any effort of the
German army, whether referring to
patrols, skirmishes, offensives, band prac-
tices or retreats, one adjective must
always be used: Lackadaisical ; methodi-
cal ; ineffectual; long-drawn-out; bor-
ing ; frenzied.
(2) No comment on any British officer
of high rank can be considered com-
plete unless it contains a reference to
his: Side-levers ; flat feet; admiration
for Gertrude Stein’s works ; brilliance,
addiction to horehound beer ; Old School
Tie.
(3) Any British general who fails to
do what you advised him to do has a
complex. The dash represents: In-
feriority ; superiority; persecution ;
Speed Gordon ; 1914-18.
(4) In giving descriptions of incredible
hardships suffered and hairbreadth
escapes from violent death the pronoun
to be used should be; He ; they ; you ; I.
(5) Seeing that foreign correspondents
are not allowed within 1000 miles of any
Russian engagement, the best source for
a brilliant tank-by-tank description of the
fighting is: A Red Navy submarine
stoker ; a vodka seller in Bogorodsk ; a
girl sniper who bagged 748 Huns with
747 bullets ; Stockholm.
(6) In the bar of your hotel you learn
from a half-shot commercial that Goring
stabbed Hitler to death in a beer-hall
brawl over the blonde dancer Erika
Kniitt, and that one of Adolf’s 17
doubles is hoaxing the squareheads. In
dispatching the story, you must attribute
it to: Mr. Pu Yi ; Gandhi’s goatherd ;
Woolcott Forbes ; Laurel and Hardy; a
neutral businessman just arrived in
Ankara from Berlin.
(7) The wildest furphy of the day must
have the imprimatur of a Personage;
e.g., “according to .” The
represents: Bung ; “Boots” ; a barmaid ;
an uncertain low official ; a certain high
official.
(8) A middle-aged female with a face
like George Formby’s and a chassis like
Bertie Stevens’s has been sentenced to
14 years’ for espionage. She must always
be referred to as: Hysterical ; deter-
mined ; obnoxious; half-witted; beautiful.
Answers: The last word or expression
is correct.
BO.
Darlinghurst !
Ears back, the cat streaks down the street,
No cat could possibly go quicker.
And yet the dog is faster still.
(With dread we feel our heartbeats
flicker .)
The dog just gains his door in time !
His owner clasps him, soothes his fear.
Thp Knvnvp rat Knits twice then leaves—
-1 ne savage cat spits twice, men leaves
Oh yes, we breed em tough round
here !
O’HELL.
Hatred of Liars.
“When a wife discovers that her husband
has been lying to her she loses respect for
him.” — Woman’s paper.
“I detest liars!” Maria said vehemently.
I looked up with studied calm while
trying to determine whether she had
found out something or was merely fish-
ing. But next moment I breathed an in-
ward sigh of relief.
“Look at Mrs. Foozle last night, delib-
erately telling us those lies about why
her husband hadn’t been called up,”
Maria went on. “About the war import-
ance of his work and all that.”
“Ah, well,” I remarked, “people like
to swank. You said yourself about
me”
“Well, what if I did ?” challenged
Maria sharply. “I only said it to see
what she’d say about her husband.”
“You told her that I”
“Of course I did. Did you think I
was going to allow that woman to have
ii all her own way?”
“But”
“Aitchem, are you trying to make out
I’m a liar?” demanded Maria belliger-
ently. “You know I hate lies. Well,
you’d better get off to town. And don’t
forget to ring Clara up on your way in
to the office and tell her I’m away for
a few days. You know, I can t stand
the woman. I don’t know what she wants
to come here for. ... What? You’re
running late already? Well, can’t you
say the tram broke down?”
H. M.
The Horse with a Past.
Our baker’s horse is rather coarse ;
heavy of hoof ; very aloof ; with a rear
the width of a fowlhouse roof, and a tail
that he wields with force. He thinks a
lot, and it isn’t rot. His top lip moves
into toothy grooves as he sneers to show
that he disapproves but doesn’t care a
jot. He’s a cynical nag, yet he’s hard to
fag. He drags the cart with a tireless
heart; still his private life is a thing apart
—if quizzed, he’d prove a snag.
But we think we know what makes him
so disgusted. Life’s no song. Yet years
ago, when he thought it was, a filly did
him wrong. That’s true, for though he
never gives a grin despite who chaffs,
when he passes the mare in the bottle-
oh’s cart, back goes his head and he
laughs!
LOOBY.
Case in Point.
“What self-respecting mother would treat her
offspring as she might a dog?”
— Woman’s paper.
Offhand I’d say she wouldn’t; yet
As I was strolling round
The park one afternoon I met
A mother, child and hound.
And as they passed this tickled me —
The dog (of doubtful breed )
Was merry as a grig and free,
The child was on a lead!
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4%d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Army Red Tape
1 have recently been acting profession-
ally for the widow of a soldier who died
on active service. His assets consisted of
£] 100, the proceeds of an A.M.P. policy ;
and £5 4s. 3d., the balance of his military
pay. Upon the issue of the probate 1
took it to the office of the A.M.P., with
a certificate from the Stamp Commis-
sioner. A clerk took down particulars
of the probate, number, date of grant,
and name of executrix, and handed the
document back to me. Time taken, five
minutes. The following day, the executrix
received a cheque for £llOO.
I then went to the Army Accounts
Office at the Showground and produced
the probate again. This was insufficient.
I was told that I would have to send
them a certified copy of the probate, and
(notwithstanding that probate is legally
evidence of death) a formal certificate
of death from the Army—to the Army!
I moved down a corridor and asked for
a certificate of death, and was told that
since one had already been issued to
the Registrar of Probates they could not
issue another, and I would have to apply
to an office in Melbourne. I wrote to
that office and was informed that they
could not issue the certificate, which
would have to be issued by the gentle-
man at the Showground, the same to
whom I had already applied. So the
matter rests.
If I were charging the unfortunate
little widow for the work —which I am
not —the legal expenses would eventually
be more than the £5 4s. 3d., but, mean-
while, my time and that of my clerks
must be wasted. Up the bureaucracy!
Won’t it be fun when they control every-
thing?—Fitzwilliam (N.S.W.).
Military Police
Why all the current abuse and con-
demnation of them? If civilian police
are regarded as a necessity it is a hun-
dredfold more essential to have some
force on hand when you are dealing
with full-blooded youths removed from
the sobering influences they may have
had in their ordinary days of peace.
Probably the antagonism to the M.Ps.
started with the few unthinking who
dubbed them as “cold-footed narks” —
and the idea has gathered way. It takes
fair courage to face a mob who
have got out of hand. In December,
1915, some of our unit were “detailed”
to check train leave passes between Tel-
el-Kebir and Cairo, and I well recall
the stupid belligerence towards them.
There has been foolish newspaper pam-
pering of this “indiscipline” as if it were
a virtue. It first saw light in the Boer
War, was nurtured during the 1914-18
upheaval, and shows no signs of being
scotched in this war. We have exuber-
antly traded on the wrong-headed idea
that, because the Digger has a good repu-
tation as a fighter, hoodlums in uniform
are privileged to misbehave off duty.
It is time we removed this trouble-
some bee from our bonnet. It obscures
better points, and shows signs of having
developed into a national fault that will
take some eradicating.— R. Treacy (Vic.).
The Noble and the Mean
Your leading article (B. 2/12/’42) over-
looked these‘ important facts:
(1) It was the special glory of the
A.I.F. that it was a volunteer force. “All
the world wondered” not only at the
prowess of the troops, but also at the
fact that they had voluntarily given up
their peace-time jobs and travelled half
round the world to fight for freedom.
(2) The Diggers were justly proud of
the achievements of the A.I.F. Most of
them had no desire to have conscripts
forced into their ranks. Hence thousands
of them voted “no” on the conscription
issue. For the same reason thousands
of their relatives and friends in Australia
voted “no.”
(3) The great majority of returned sol-
diers never joined the Returned Soldiers,
etc., League. And now this league
restricts its membership to the A.1.F.;
the conscripted militia are excluded.
(4) In the early stages of the last war
the P.M. announced that Australia would
send one division. The shortage of re-
inforcements was due not to the fault of
Australia’s youth but to the muddling of
the authorities.—W. Watson (N.S.W.).
Man-power Exemptions
What investigation do man-power offi-
cers make into claims for exemption from
service? Recently I was present at a
call-up. Of 78 men examined only three
had no excuses to offer, and only two
of the 78 have so far been called up.
In the past employers, Ms.P., parsons,
shire secretaries and local pooh-bahs have
all exercised their pull in getting men out
of their obligations, but now it seems
that the statements made by men at their
examination are taken for granted, and
men who tell a tale are not called up.
I believe the only body capable of giv-
ing them a jolt is the R.S.L. All state-
ments made to the M.-P. officer could be
automatically turned over to the local
R.S.L. sub-branch for consideration and
report. This would relieve the officer of
much of his individual responsibility,
which would be borne collectively by
shoulders broad enough to carry it with-
out fear or favor, and it would give the
necessary jolts just where they are most
needed. — F. Edup (Vic.).
Not MORE Parliamentarians!
When the Evatt-Curtin proposal for the
amendment of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution was mooted such few of us as still
hope for some economy in government
thought that here was the move to bring
about the abolition of useless State Gov-
ernments and politicians—so numerous
“ Stoopid, I told you to use a bottle-opener .”
that had they existed in the Egypt of the
time of Moses they would certainly have
been listed as one of the plagues.
But even while the discussions were
going on at Canberra politicians rushed
in with the proposition that Australia
should have more politicians the
Senate to be increased to 48, the Repre-
sentatives to 100, thus bringing the
salary bill for Federal politicians up to
£150,000 per year, without counting
Ministerial salaries, and the salaries of
the additional Ministers that, of course,
will be found necessary.
That the increase will come amounts
to a certainty it will be enthusias-
tically supported by all sitting poli-
ticians, ex-politicians, and aspiring poli-
ticians, on the principle that the more
seats available the greater the chance of
reaching that favored state of being able
to live in luxury and ease on dividends
from the public Treasury.
Is it any wonder with such plans fer-
menting among the “heads” the workers
should persist in “hopping in for their
chop”? -W. C. C. (W.A.).
Broadcast Parliamentary Debates
Let us hear the Parliamentary debates.
The folk in their homes by the radio
should be able to hear them and discuss
them.
The whole household can’t go to Par-
liament to listen. Those who do go are
not impressed by the speeches and atti-
tude of Parliamentarians. But if the
debates were to be put over the air our
representatives would be inclined to take
more care, and Parliamentarians intent
on showing their constituents that they
were really intent on governing would
apply themselves to their main tasks and
throw off the influence of importuning
letters.
The radio is our main channel for in-
formation now. The home is the main
place to which information should be
sent.—C. R. L. (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Saving
What people and politicians fail to
realise is that the ir.trc.' ?tion of com-
pulsory saving would confer a favor on
all affected by it. The only benefit that
can be got from higher wages during war
lies in the future. If people are deter-
mined to spend their surplus cash the
result will be fantastic prices in black
markets. By forcing them to save the
Government would provide them with re-
serves to face possible unemployment
after the war, and at the same time
diminish its present financial problems.
As in all matters connected with the
war, reliance upon voluntary effort
penalises the patriotic. It is unfair to
induce people to save, and then let them
down by allowing the unrestrained spend-
ing of others to depreciate the value of
the Australian pound.— Arc (N.S.W.).
Forgotten Women
In these days of pensions-for-nearly-
all, one wonders why ageing unmarried
women are friendless.
Pensions for childless widows, divorcees
and grass or hay widows who have lived
with their fancy men, out of wedlock,
for over three years. None for the
spinster who has lived a spotless life for
over half a century, as a rule giving her
best years to the care of aged parents
and, Lord, how querulous old people
can be! —G. F. N. (Q.).
Public Finance
In recent weeks the Australian public
has been assured by the Prime Minister
that the planning and conduct of military
operations have been and still are en-
tirely in the hands of the military
leaders ; in other words, there has been
no interference from politicians. It is
regrettable that a similar assurance could
not be given concerning war finances.
Everyone who has read Mr. Chifley’s
Budget statements knows that the Aus-
tralian war effort is being financed partly
by the expansion of bank credit (at a
time when resources are so fully em-
ployed that rationalisation of industry
and rationing of essential commodities
are the order of the day), partly by vol-
untary loans and partly by a taxation
scheme that penalises the wage-payer and
the thrifty and lets the wage-earner off
extremely lightly. In so far as it de-
pends upon excessive bank credit, the
Budget is inflationary, which means that
it is dangerous to monetary stability and
tends to increase the cost of the war.
In so far as it depends on voluntary con-
tribution, it is too uncertain for total
war. In so far as it taxes inequitably
it reeks of political favoritism.
The whole affair is a glaring example
of political interference in a matter for
experts. If it is wise to leave the plan-
ning and conduct of military operations
to military experts, would it not be wise
to leave the raising of the money required
for war and other essential expenditure
to the permanent Treasury officials and
their economic advisers, who could at
least be trusted to bring down a Budget
free from political bias? —Wusslean
(Vic.).
Uni. Students and Their Fees
Twice on this page have appeared criti-
cism of soldiers’ pay for students on the
grounds that the student week is a 25-
hour one. This is a pre-war attitude of
persons associated with the Arts Faculty.
The student voice has not been heard
enough on this question. The following
facts apply to me —a medical student
having just passed from university pre-
clinical work to a hospital where I spend
2\ years before graduating. I work nine
till five with an hour for lunch, and on
Saturday the whistle blows between 12
and 1. Time spent studying in the even-
ings is hard to estimate, but 2i hours
would be an average night’s work.
Our final examinations in preclinical
studies were held in August instead of
November, and for these I worked 15
hours a day for eight weeks with half a
day off a week, and a friend finished
work only five times in ten weeks before
one o’clock in the morning.
But the main point is that we don’t
want soldiers’ pay. We don’t want any
pay—we want a reduction in fees. Since
January, 1942, I have paid £72-odd in
fees (hospital and university) and over
£3O for books and instruments ; the latter
is of course high for this year when in*
struments used in hospital work must be
bought.
Medical students in our city were too
disillusioned to be anything but wary
when the Labor Government’s assistance-
to-students scheme was announced. And
how right we were! Full benefit to
students whose fathers earn less than
£250 p.a. The number of fathers earning
less than this now must be very small!
These people tell us we have a 27-week
year. Actually there is a six-weeks’
vacation at Christmas time and two
periods of a fortnight during the year.
These precious weeks are used to the full
in earning as much money as possible
towards the next term’s fees. The only
holiday I’ve had since war began was
16 weeks spent in the Army before being
reserved to continue medicine.
It is said we will get the money back
when we graduate. Overlooking the fact
that we’re in this job for the love of heal-
ing, the nationalisation of medicine, which
is coming with the peace, will ruin the
hopes of any commercially-minded
students we may harbor in our midst.
—Jock (S.A.).
Progress
A Spanish satirist summed up human-
ity’s debt to its vices by visualising a
world from which all ulterior motives
had been withdrawn. The result was
inertia, stagnation and finally chaos. He
showed “The Seven Pillars” (his title)
on which civilised society rests to be no-
thing more nor less than our familiar
friends the Seven Deadly Sins in some
guise and degree.
I am not such a fool as to discount
moral progress and economic advance-
ment, Even a short lifetime sees signi-
ficant and massive social changes. But
the method of arriving at social change
and the real motives of the iconoclasts
demand unwinking scrutiny. The means
may sometimes be of even greater im-
portance, sociologically, than the end.
When casuistic gentry promise to levi-
tate me to the skies on the wings of their
Seven Deadly Virtues, I like to quote the
chiding commonsense of old Voltaire:
“Perfection walks slowly; she requires
the hand of Time.” He, at any rate,
could take stock of his world and still
keep his feet on the ground.—F. O. (Vic.).
Producer Gas
My opinion of producer gas is that it
is at best a poor substitute. Although
it may be well enough on good,
well-formed roads, it is quite useless for
really heavy work, such as drawing a
load of wheat out of a cultivation pad-
dock.
Recently I applied for a few extra
gallons of petrol to enable me to draw
my wheat to railhead (my truck being 12
years old, it would be useless and un-
economic to fit it with a gas producer)
and I received this reply:
I have been directed to acknowledge
your letter relative to the transport of
wheat to railhead, and to inform you that
the policy of the Commonwealth Liquid
Fuel Board is that supplementary allowances
of petrol for such work should be granted
only in cases where the vehicle to be used
has been converted to the use of substitute
fuel.
It still has me wondering.—Leslie
F. Latham (N.S:W.).
Propaganda
“Roy Biv” says (B. 14/10/’42) that
people forget the important fact that
German propaganda is disruptive and
aims to put the rest of the world at sixes
and sevens. He omits to mention that
Hitler learnt his methods from the
British in the last war and acknowledges
his debt in Mein Kampf.
Hitler says that British propaganda in
the last war was magnificent and Ger-
man was wretched. The German propa-
gandists told the Germans that the British
would run away at the first shot and
that Scotchmen, Irishmen and Austra-
lians were not in sympathy with Britain.
Consequently, he says, when they first
met a Scottish regiment and it didn’t
act in accordance with their offi-
cial propaganda they were completely
taken by surprise. The British soldier,
on the other hand, had been told that
the Germans were terrible fellows and
were like the hordes of Attila. When
he met the Germans he found they
weren’t as good as his propagandists had
asserted.
In this war our propaganda has been
largely taken over by persons who
alternate between flatfooted complacency
and the jitters.—Lord Luvus (Vic.).


Qrrvotts
ff
Dear Sirs;
My grocer cannot supply some of my favourite biscuits.
Have you stopped making them?
Dear Madam;
Our factories are working at full capacity. Arnett's
Biscuits are “On Service” on every Australian battle
front. We have removed many lines from our lists to
enable us to fulfil war orders, and we look forward to that
happy day when supplies will once again be ample.
Grocers everywhere are assisting us to distribute fairly
our available supplies and avoid disappointment to our
many friends.
Lend to Defend
FAMOUS
■m
BISCUITS
