

1.-' -
..
m
tfhtliihe <yfteite
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 63.—N0. 3235.
Wednesday, February 11, 1942.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a
Seppelts
DUNSTER—A LOVELY SOMERSET VILLAGE.
IT has been claimed that the West Country of. England, embracing the counties of Somerset, Devon and Cornwall, is without parallel
in the number of villages, “picturesque in structure and natural surroundings, it possesses. Be that as it may, none will question, at
least those familiar with this favored section of the Old Land, that it would be exceedingly difficult to find more delightful examples of
the rural beauty of England than present themselves. Take, for instance, that small market town in Western Somerset, Dunster. Here
is no trace of the hustle and bustle characteristic of twentieth-century life. Rather the visitor is conscious of being carried back, as it were,
through the years to the days when life was more placid and simple than when death-dealing “war minions of the air reduced the loveliest
countryside to scenes of desolation and misery. In Dunster, one sees the sixteenth-century castle, one of the few remaining inhabited
castles in England, built on an English mound, and at its base, in true medieval fashion, the cottages of the peasantry nestling. Dunster
provides, in this respect, an almost perfect picture of communal conditions prevailing “in days of old when knights were bold and barons
held their sway.” It has for long been a favorite haunt for artists and visitors from the Dominions and the United States.


d
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
- —CUT HERE AND MAIL
PleaTft, send, without obligation, your New Free
booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name ..
M y A ddress
S.B. 142
The Red Page
A FAIRY TALE.
should you wake, my darling, at this hour,
In (his unhaunted nurse-room of your sleep?
uri str . eet: ' s silent, echoing your screams
With shocked politeness; the clock ticks past
four—
It is no time for dreams.
Only a vanishing trail of footsteps keeps
Smartly in time with time. Come —turn over,
Hide your twisted face under the blue cover,
And cover your bared soul with shaking hands:
It is too naked, and we are alone,
And I am not young enough to understand,
Only to pity, your trembling stare,
Your hopeless moaning.
Terror has struck me, too; it is older than age,
Ola as the simple cell, old as air,
Helplessly aware of doom—
The last page turning—
But why in the fastidious silence of this room?
Am I to believe, in spite of night,
Sleqp, solitude, security, warmth, love
All nursing you, your mind, remembering,
Heard the sound of engines in flight?
Through the thick skin of sleep did come
The roar of the drumskin, and the whistling?
‘he drum —did you hear the drum?
Maybe, then, with the whole world turned to
metal
You watched through shut eyes on the eyelids’
screen
The abattoirs in action, much death
Of howling flesh, but not the flesh of cattle.
Between the taking and relinquishment of a
breath
All that will be, is, must have been,
Backwards and forwards on the screen runs
In chaos, generating terror, griping
Ihe tangle of bowels—the fighting on the dunes,
slaughter among mountains, under suns
Torrid and dusty, in snows, in the dark,
In the dawn and at twilight. Death sniping
Merrily from the void wipes out a city,
And with a mighty shout as of one voice
We all scream “Pity—give pity! And monev!”
and then
Are seen, in the exploding crash and roar
Or chambered flame released, to be men
¥? r women) impressed by so much devastation :
a vi • , as never been seen before,
And it s the proof of our age, civilisation—
You see it in a bombshell in the night,
And you, my darling, suck it out of the air
Into your sleep, and dream it really is true.
No! this is a fairy story for small girls,
A tale so well-devised, so rare,
It even convinced you!
Wait till tomorrow’s imperial dawn unfolds
Its east red-white-blue banner, you will see
Nothing so evil under such a flag could be.
Turn and sleep again.
The sound you dreamed was just our old friend
Thunder
Roaring with pain.
The wet and splashing torrents,’that showed red
through eyelids closed on open dreaming eyes,
Were only rain,
And tiic footsteps have walked up into the sky,
Away at the street’s end. In this bed
is nothing but a warm girl who must
Always, always sleep very peacefully
And not scream in the night
(I trust. I trust).
N.S.W,
KENNETH MACKENZIE.
A New Digger's Book .
Shawn O Leary, who has been repre-
sented in the Red Pages of A.I.R verse,
is the first of the new Digger poets to
come out with a book: Spikenard and
Bayonet, neatly presented by Melbourne
Bread and Cheese Club.
J. Alex. Allan, who introduces the
verses, suggests an affinity with Rupert
Brooke. But there’s little of the Brooke
note about them—-no welcoming of war
like swimmers into cleanness leaping.”
There is faith, there is courage, there are
even glory and joy; but glory and joy
m Libya and Syria, where O’Leary has
been fighting, were harder to come by
than in Brooke’s England of 1914, and,
when the soldier attained them, were
much more like Blunden’s or Sassoon’s
emotions than Brooke’s.
“1 have seen a green country, useful
to the race,' wrote Blunden in his
Report on Experience,” “knocked silly
with guns”;
God bless us all, this was peculiar grace!
And yet, he believed, “Somewhere our
God still lives”:
Ovci there are faith, life, laughter in the sun.
O’Leary’s “report on experience”
strikes the same two notes of realism and
of faith. There are stark reports on
sa ttie, not yet moulded by long thought
nto poetry, but like jagged pieces torn
rom reality:
Once I bayoneted a Senegalese
In Syrian moonlight. . .
He didn't scream much after the first thrust,
Only moaned;
And his limbs jerked in the dust
For all the world like a black spider
Impaled on a blued-steel pin.
“It isn’t pleasant to see men,” the
report on experience continues, “scrib-
bling their agony in dirt.”
It isn’t pleasant; but the soldier, as
Blunden in France used to escape to the
woods and fields and quiet villages behind
the lines, can still escape from battle to
a beauty made more beautiful by con-
trast and a serenity where experience can
be shaped into poetry:
Why does the moon so gleam upon the honey-
tree?
Could a yellow skull in a zodiac, unkissed
By leavening of God, cast silver-cobwebbed mist
O’er wooden thing? .. .
And why do stars step down to seek the water’s
breast
In crusted dress ... as though green flambeaux
flasht from sky
To polished pool and there upon their couch
with sigh
Gave over the brief night to holiness of rest?
Joy in escape. But battle itself can
become poetry when the mind has a clear
moment to perceive the enduring human
nobility in the midst of stark experi-
ence : —■
Look swiftly then, but for your sakes be brief
And linger not
In looking; then turning each one to his Bren
Spew forth the hot
Hell again; and feel the cold curse of your grief
Subjugated to your glory that you’re men ~.
And when we hurry on in a red burst of death,
Remember that for honor we relinquish breath
In common lot.
Joy in escape ; a bitter glory in battle ;
strength, peace, beauty and the poetry
coming to its finest when the war is seen
as a whole, summed up and accepted at
the burial of a friend:
This hour we lay you with the cypress trees
Always in one poor thinking mind shall live;
And though no footsteps leading out can give
You of the world again ... remember these;
The scent of jasmine wafted on the night
And the moon, pale as a wraith, silvering
The thicket by the pool where bul-buls sing;
Grey olive-trees against the hills
The hand of friendship gripped before the guns
(With each of us not sure we could be brave!)
Remember this . . . and know down in your grave
That I shall walk with the remembering ones.
Realism ; horror; escape into beauty,
memory or comedy ; pride and comrade-
ship in battle; understanding and accept-
ance of war in all its implications: there
are only 20 poems in Shawn O’Leary’s
book, but it is a complete “report on
experience” and the verse, as a whole, is
of genuine quality.
Life of Eyre.
If the ghost of John Baxter, being at
this date sufficiently detached to take only
an impersonal interest in the fate of its
corporeal remains, happened to be hover-
ing about Malcolm Uren and Robert
Stephens as they wrote Waterless
Horizons (Robertson and Mullens), there
must have been a spooky grin, as pale but
as wide as a new moon, in the air.
On the other hand, if the ghost is as
serious about it all as the authors are in
the chapter entitled “The Mystery of
Baxter’s Bones,” somebody is going to
be horribly haunted one of these days.
For Baxter’s bones were lost by civil ser-
vants in W.A. Say Uren and Stephens,
after recording that a lengthy search of
the correspondence in the Chief Secre-
tary’s Department, Perth, brought to
light the minute “BAXTER, forwarding
remains 0f—1432 of 1882—30/33”;
Cemetery records returned a blank and
the only possible conclusion now to be
reached is that the bones were left for-
gotten in the Colonial Secretary’s Depart-
ment. Perhaps some time ago three calico
bags were thrown away because they con-
tained what appeared to be unidentifiable
and rather gruesome relics, but if a calico
package marked A is ever located, those
would be Baxter’s bones.
Baxter, it should be explained, was not
just a citizen who, waiting to get some-
thing done by the civil service, dwindled
to a calico bag of bones and was then
lost in the Colonial Secretary’s Depart-
ment.
His bones do, as Uren and Stephens
most passionately urge, merit honorable
burial if possible, and certainly his name
deserves an honored place in Australian
history, for he was Eyre’s companion
on many journeys and was murdered by
two of the aboriginals with Eyre on the
great walkabout from Fowler’s Bay to
Albany. Eyre wrote of the murder:
The frightful, the appalling truth now
burst upon me, that 1 was alone in the
desert. He who had faithfully served me for
many years, who had followed my for-
tunes in prosperity and in adversity, who
had accompanied me in all of my wander-
ings, and whose attachment to me had
been the sole inducement to remain with
me in this last and to him, alas, fatal
journey, was now no more. For an instant
1 was almost tempted to wish it had been
my own fate instead of his. The horrors
of my situation glared upon me in such
startling reality as for an instant almost
to paralyse the mind.
At the dead hour of night, in the wildest
and most inhospitable wastes in Australia,
with the fierce wind raging in unison with
the scene of violence before me, I was
left with a single native, whose fidelity I
could not rely upon, and who for aught I
knew might be in league with the other
two, who were perhaps even now lurking
about with the view of taking away my
life as they had done that of the Overseer.
With the solitary native, who in spite
of Eyre’s fears remained loyal, the ex-
plorer battled on for 550 miles round the
Bight to reach Albany in triumph.
Waterless Horizons is a life of Eyre
—the only one except for a biography by
Hamilton Hume which, Uren and
Stephens say, is two-thirds devoted to the
Jamaica rebellion which Eyre quelled,
and the ruthless suppression of which
caused his downfall and made him a still
lively subject for historical debate. Uren
and Stephens, though they discuss the
Jamaican business and mention (too
sketchily) his sojourn in Maoriland as
Lieutenant-Governor, are chiefly con-
cerned with Eyre in Australia. v
Because of the murder of Baxter, and
of Eyre’s dramatic meeting with the
Frenchman Rossiter, most historians, the
authors contend, have paid too much
attention to the Albany trek, and too
little to Eyre’s earlier pioneering and
exploring ventures.
The true position is that Eyre’s final
journey put the seal on his Australian inter-
lude. Look at the sum total of his ex-
periences—a pioneer pastoralist on the
Hunter River district; one of the earliest
graziers near Warrah; a pioneer landholder
in the Molonglo Plains district; one of the
first overlanders from N. S. Wales to Mel-
bourne; the first man to strike west from
Melbourne into the Wimmera district as far
as Lake Hindmarsh; the second man to
drive cattle overland from N. S. Wales to
Adelaide and the first man to drive sheep
overland along the same route; a pioneer
station owner in South Australia; the first
man to go north from Spencer’s Gulf to
try to probe the secrets hidden in the heart
of Australia; the first man to make long
exploratory trips in what is now known as
the Eyre Peninsula; one of the first to
overland stock from Albany to York, an
outpost of the settlement at Swan River;
the first man to round the head of the Great
Australian Bight; the first man to walk
from Fowler’s Bay to King George’s Sound,
The authors suggest that the new East-
West highway connecting South Australia
and W.A. should he named “Eyre High-
way”: which seems worth considering.
Waterless Horizons should be histori-
cally valuable ; and its interest as general
entertainment is increased, rather than
lessened, by the somewhat naive enthu-
siasm that runs into dramatic one-
sentence paragraphs, passionate capitals
and excited exclamation marks, and the
extraordinary seriousness of the bones
interlude. The authors had a good notion
when they made the first chapter into a
sort of shop window, in which the peak
moments of Eyre’s life are set out in a
way that must tempt any reader to learn
the details.
Latest flock of Penguins includes Oil
Paint and Grease Paint, the auto-
biography of Laura Knight (three vols.,
illustrated with reproductions of her paint-
ings) ; Shaw’s Pygmalion (illustrated);
Russian Short Stories, selected by S. S.
Koteliansky ; Kipps and The War in the
Air, by H. G. Wells ; Europe at War,
cartoons by Low; and White’s The
Natural History of Selborne, edited by
James Fisher.
The Doctor and His Patients: Arthur
E. Hertzler, M.D. (Bodley Head). The
author of The Horse and Buggy Doctor
here turns to handing out advice in large
slabs gratis—or, at any rate, for the price
of the book.
D Air Devil: Frank Clune (Angus
and Robertson). Breezy account of the
career of Ernest Mustar, the Australian
airman who was in the air war in
Palestine last time and subsequently
pioneered flying to the New Guinea gold-
fields. When last heard of the author
was heading for the Middle East, to look
into Comforts, and, of course, write
another book.
1941 New Zealand Best Poems, which,
judging by the space allotted to J. R.
Hervey and Arnold Wall, should have
been even better than usual, is consider-
ably marred by bad proofreading and
a mix-up of the paging. The middle of
the book, from page 19 to page 27 in-
clusive, is an unreadable jumble. Eve
Langley’s two fine contributions (one
reprinted from The Bulletin) and Anton
Vogt’s assured experiments in the con-
temporary manner are not affected, but
both Wall and Hervey have suffered.
Children First: F. Alexa Stevens
(H. H. Tombs, Ltd., M.L.). When the
ruthless set about debunking the
child in short stories, they nearly always
magnify the malevolence of childhood,
its egotism, its secretiveness or its animal-
ism to such an extent that the infant
becomes a monster. Which is absurd.
But if they don’t exaggerate —if they
present the child sympathetically, natu-
rally, humorously and with a due sense of
proportion—then the stories are likely to
become like these by Miss Stevens—
pleasant, true-to-life, but of little com-
pelling interest to any males except those
in the abnormal state of young father-
hood. For an appropriate audience, the
sketches are excellent.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Lil ac t ime ’ failed to blossom at Svd
ney Royal. Instead, the Ivan MenziesS'
conjured up an extra week or two of Gil
sullivan billing for the final fl utt i
lolanthe, the piece Sullivan conducted
at London Savoy the night news VVils
broken to him that, the investment co
which handled his money having gone
bung, he was broke to the world.
Deems Taylor, the commentator of
Disney’s “Fantasia,” recalls in a recenllv-
arrived tome, A Treasury of Gilbert
and Sullivan (Simon and Shuster), that
Sullivan was an inveterate gambler-
hence his ability to go on conducting, icy
cool, when that ill news was told. On
another occasion Gilbert worked or
Sullivan’s addiction in that line. Having
previously agreed to collaborate on the
then embryo “Yeomen,” Sullivan, whom
influential forces were urging to knock
off composing light and airy tunes in
£ a vof of more of his “Onward, Christian
Soldiers” and some grand opera, wrote
to say he was through with comic opera
for good. Gilbert (who, incidentally,
had the idea for “Yeomen” from a rail-
way poster with a large Beefeater on it
advertising the Tower Furnishing Co,
replied with a masterpiece of flattery am
cajolery, winding up with a tip on
system for playing roulette. It worker
the oracle.
Both Gilbert and Sullivan considerer
“Yeomen” their best work. It was in
eluded in the final outburst at the Royal
and in it (in present Showman’s view
Ivan Menzies, as Jack Point, does his
best job. The Royal co. should rightly
be called the Menzies co., since Menzies
seems to have been more the attraction
than Gilsullivan. Gilbert’s view on tha
might be edifying. He had a horror of
professional actors, choosing players with
modest stage reputations for the Savoy
co. George Grossmith, who played the
Menzies parts, had specialised in drawing-
room pianologues: he was dubious about
Gilsullivan, fearing that, if he failed to
make good, he’d never again be engaged
by the Y.M.C.A.
There are half a dozen or so good
Gilsullivan people in the Sydney Royal
co., but there’s no question that Menzies
has dominated their shows. Whether
what he purveys is good Gilsullivan is
another matter. He has the serious han-
dicap of a very assertive personality.
Excepting Jack Point, he cannot sink his
identity in his Gilsullivan parts and let
what Gilbert created do the job. He
gives the impression that he’s above this
mere comic stuff; in fact, that he should
by rights be playing Hamlet. Jack Point,
as he finely does it, is a serious part. In
other pieces the shows certainly are liveli-
est when Menzies, a fine individual artist,
is on, but purer Gilsullivan when he’s off.
It takes an ultra-serious mind to step
out after a Gilsullivan curtain, and—as
Menzies has done~publicise a religious
organisation. The same sort of ultra-
seriousness in one now known almost
solely for his whimsical humor led Lewis
Carroll to express himself as horrified
by the song about the “pale young
curate” in “The Sorcerer” (also included
in the Royal’s closing outburst). Remem-
brance of Carroll’s outraged solemnity
subsequently made Gilbert switch in the
course of basing a libretto on his ballad
of “The Rival Curates,” and the result
of the switch was “Patience,” lampoon-
ing, instead of curates, a brace of literary
figures—less protected game. The Gilbert
touch was extended to the original cast-
ing, the pocket-size Grossmith being got
up to figure as the blubbery Wilde, and
Swinburne, who could nearly take air-
raid shelter under a soup-plate, being done
by the big and beefy Rutland Barrington.
The Royal (or Menzies) co. seems to
have become, deservedly, an institution;
but if it should break up and, say, turn
to Shakspeare, the precedent of the
American actor James Owen O’Connor
might serve it well in these shortage times.
He took the precaution of playing Ham-
let behind a net, and collected a fine lot
of vegetables.
There’s another American precedent.
"Hie co. which put on the original Eng-
lish production of “Pirates” (another of
the final Royal outburst) included
Richard Mansfield, who, going to the
U.S.A. to play the parts Menzies plays
here, subsequently became one of
America’s great dramatic actors. His
success, however, led him later on to turn
down Bernard Shaw’s “Caesar and Cleo-
patra,” holding that an actor of his
standing could not be expected to appear
in such trivial stuff; “it should be offered
to Ada Reeve for presentation with music
and chorus at the Gaiety.” To which
Shaw retorted with a postcard inscribed
“Farewell, Pompey,”


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —h usiness sincerity UE SENIOR SI ORE
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
LAST DAYS OF
Restrictions on the Delivery of Parcels
Under instructions from the Director of Emergency Road Transport, the
RETAIL TRADERS' ASSOCIATION announces that the delivery of parcels
under 4 lb. in weight or less than 3 ft. in length has ceased within the
City and Suburban area.
fd
32'6 Rose Bowls, 29 11
English Cut Crystal Rose Bowls, diamond
cutting with flare, complete with centre.
Size, 6i ins. high x 6* ins. in diameter. At
Anthony Horderns', price, 32/6. Sale Price,
each 29/11
18' 11 Comports, 16 / 11
Swedish Full Crystal Comports, tall type
with diamond cutting and cut star base.
Size, 7 ins. high x 6 ins. top. At Anthony
Horderns', price, 18/11. Sale Price, 16/11
f
»&& '-" '2 > «J •> l.*
SftVV
? -*£■
iX
m
>o« —<
)-" , .-<V--T>
5^
*
m*
m
vs>':
n?i
“>
•'i me*
m
: ; 3? *;•:«$
f <&
?-V?
«83
4>v^
sr-
i", *«
. , 1 \ 7
;: • •' M ;
S
> v
->*
ss)
-<i^r.yy
i
8-
c--s
<v
X
fir*.
OVT\.
px
x.
fK
w
r^W:
PS
X
m
G
■.-.•.-.•. w.-.-:• •■■■■■ ■"’ • ■’• .V-
-"X
■v\
Itr*
X.
» / S&kA
i"?.
if. | , % - ’ ‘
i s * f^a
Mi
.'V ■■
• China and Glassware—Third Floor.
51'- Mimosa Tea Sets, 45 6
English Empire Mimosa Tea Set, buttercup colouring, 21
pieces, comprising 6 Tea Cups and Saucers, 6 Bread and
Butter Plates, 1 Teapot (6 cup size), 1 Sugar Bowl, 1 Cream
Jug. At Anthony Horderns', price, 51/-. Sale Price. 45/6
'Phone: M 2401, Day and Night.
£6'l2'6 Utility Sets, £6'6'-
Myott's English 40-Piece Utility Set in a delightful
Autumn Leaf design with embossed panels, Ivory
finish. Set comprises 6 Bread and Butter Plates,
6 Dessert Plates, 6 Dinner Plates, 6 Coupe Soups,
6 Cups and Saucers (12 pieces), 1 covered Scollop
(2 pieces), 1 Meat Dish, 12ins., 1 Jug, % pint approx.
At Anthony Horderns', price, £6/12/6. Sale Price,
Pickle and Chutney Jars
Pickle Jars, cut polished Flute, sensible size, with
ground glass stopper. At Anthony Horderns',
price, each, 6/-. Sale Price, each, 4/11
Chutney Jar to match, price, 4/-. Sale Price, 3/6
m
:
m
m
mm
■i-y
m
6'll Ducal Eng. Teapots, 4 6
Crown Ducal English Teapots, 2 cup-size, with
Green or Black and Yellow blanket stitch edge,
Ivory glaze. At Anthony Horderns', Price, 6/11
Sale Price, each 4/6
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


PINE HILL
By JAMES HACKSTON.
TO the west of Red Range there was
a little wild mountain bristling with
massive boulders and rocks, as if
set there to hold the fort of Nature’s
unkempt wildness. It was a stronghold
of undisturbed silence where a battalion
of sturdy mountain pines stood on guard,
with solitary sentries dotting the slopes.
It was a gaunt place of grey battlements
and turrets that looked down on to the
tamed and conquered lands below. It
had never been selected, bought or
leased ; a fierce-looking island surrounded
by subjugated earth, where Nature, aloof,
ruled in all her loneliness.
Not owning any land, and wanting to
badly, Father found out that he could
get this place almost for nothing. Maybe
some official had once seen it, or sur-
veyed it, and had been scowled down by
the beetling rocks and boulders. Any-
way, Father got it, and never had twenty
acres of the earth’s surface been bought
so cheaply, and never for so small a sum
of money had any man ever been able to
say that he owned land. Father could
now say that he had a property in the
west, that he owned Pine Hill, as he
christened it. And so the little eminence
of scowling aloofness that had long
frowned man down at last lost its free-
dom, like the surrounding country had,
and became Father’s plaything.
Father had always wanted to be able
to say that he owned land, and he had
at last achieved his ambition. With the
possession of it his chest went out; there
was a new air about him —a landowner
at last, just like other men, with that fine
feeling of responsibility that goes with
owning land. I remember when, some
short time after he had acquired it, and
before he had fenced it, there was a fire
somewhere in the w'est. Father smelt the
smoke with a smell that belonged, rightly,
to smelling twenty thousand or so sheep
in danger, or hundreds of acres of grass
on fire. Had you seen him sniffing that
smoke you’d have reckoned he owned
Bungowannawinnie station.
J REMEMBER the first day Father dis-
* covered Pine Hill. As I climbed up
and over it with him I felt the hill was
watching us ; there was, to my mind, an
air of hostility about the place. You
could see the great grey giants towering
menacingly, and almost pressing down
on us. There was a feeling of watchful-
ness about everything, and 1 felt as if
we were trespassing.
Then after Father had bought the
place and visited it again, this time wear-
ing an air of proprietorship, there was
another feeling ; the rocks and boulders
felt grimmer and the pines seemed more
huddled together, like a mob does when
in danger. Every time Father waved his
arm over “his property” it was a com-
manding arm, an owner’s arm, and it
made in its movements a slave of Pine
Hill. “There’s thousands of tons of
road-metal here, now I come to look the
place over properly,” he said. And then,
when we had to struggle and puff and
climb to get past and through the
obstructing boulders, it seemed as if those
great grey monsters were opposing our
every step, trying to baulk us at every
turn. Father pointed at them and said,
“Fancy my owning all these, to do what
I like with, how and when I will.” And
as he strode majestically and pompously
on, his proud owner’s eye sized them up,
measured them off and surveyed them
like a sultan taking stock of his slaves.
“What are you going to do with it
all?” I asked. And in the stillness the
echoes of his words went scurrying
through the crevices, down the granite
gullies, into fissures and clefts, cracks
and hollows, like a messenger bringing
tidings of the foe. “Why, fence it first
of all, of course. When you own land
you have to fence it.”
Looking at it then, it looked to me
like a place that did not seem to belong
to a fence ; the kind of place that didn’t
go with man’s handiwork. It suited it
more to go tumbling down its rough
sides in abandoned, fenceless freedom ;
its own aloofness was its enclosing panel,
and a ring of prim, straight posts enclos-
ing it would not be in keeping with its
wildness. But Father soon set about
imprisoning the bristling little mountain.
In the burning sun he cut and hauled
until he had nests of posts dumped all
round the hill. It was a hard, long job,
and every time the axe rang out I could
hear its echoes among the boulders.
When we started to dig the postholes
you’d have sworn the hill had sent de-
tachments of rock underground to thwart
us, for, as Father said, the devil himself
couldn’t have made sinking the postholes
harder. The crowbar met rock that
dynamite would scarce have shifted. We’d
go down a few inches and then strike it,
unflinchable and immovable, and Father
would have to move the posthole farther
on to escape it, and then, more often than
not, be baulked again. Never was there
such a hard job to fence a place as the
fencing of Pine Hill. 1 felt that Pine Hill
had fought us, but Father got the fence
round the hill at last, and all the boulders,
rocks, gravel, pines, lizards and rugged-
ness that Father owned were now im-
prisoned within the boundaries of his
fence.
“What will you do with it now?” I asked.
“Do with it!” he said. “Why, just go
on owning it, of course.”
p ROM then on Father went on enjoy-
A ing his sense of ownership. He used
to skite about “my property. Pine Hill,”
and tell people that he was going to
crush all the boulders for metal; at other
times he’d say he was going to erect a
solid home there, built of stone. But
all this was in the far distance, and he
did no more than enjoy being its owner.
Sometimes he’d go up there to enjoy
his proprietorship the more —a man can
gloat over what he owns when he has
it actually before his eyes. When he
visited it he’d stalk over it arrogantly ;
he wasn’t going to own Pine Hill without
letting Pine Hill know it. You could see
it in his bearing as he strutted among the
boulders. He’d place his hand on the
boulders in a patronising way, telling
them by his touch that they were abso-
lutely his to do what he liked with them.
He’d stare at a beetling rock in a most
commanding manner, as a general stares
a soldier down. One day he said, “I’ll
dynamite them all, and put in a crushing
plant here.” His threat echoed among
the doomed giants, “There’s enough
stone here to feed a crushing plant for
years.” You could hear the silence about
us. “I’ll provide metal for all the roads
for miles round.” There was another
space of listening silence. “I’ll blow them
all up and put them through the crusher.”
“You will?” I said.
“Yes,” he said triumphantly. “Every
man jack of them.” And so Pine Hill
heard its doom.
Father kept on going up to Pine Hill
to put it through its paces, to let it know
who was boss. All the world now knew
that the rugged little outlaw had become
his. He’d worked out how many tons
of food for the roads there was on it,
and was making inquiries about how
much it would take to put in a crushing
plant, when (how it happened no one
knew) a fire started there and destroyed
all father’s fencing. Some people said
it might have been caused by the limb
of a tree rubbing against another. Any-
way, the only thing Father knew was that
it had burned right round the hill and
destroyed his fence. A few black sticks
were all that remained of Father’s posts.
Gone his work, his perspiring hours, his
feelings of pomp and pride, leaving but
the echo of time wasted. All that he
owned was now a fenceless waste of ugli-
ness and grimness.
“What a sight it looks now,” he said.
And, standing there. Father didn’t look
like its owner; he’d wilted in his arrogance,
lost his haughty bearing, and, up against
those hard, ruthless-looking stone ama-
zons set in their black, burnt surround-
ings, he looked small and insignificant
and beaten.
“What are you going to do with it
now?” I asked.
“Do with it,” he repeated. “Do no-
thing with it.” He shrugged his shoulders.
“I don’t want to own it any more, not
now.” He looked about him. “Funny
thing, I can’t imagine now, for the life
of me, what made me want to own such
an eyesore.” He turned his back on it.
“I give it back to itself ; I never want to
see it any more. Come on.”
“Going to leave it?” I asked as we
walked away.
“Yes,” he said. “Desert it.” He smiled
a wry smile. “You know, my sonny, I
always felt that it would feel fine to be
the owner of a bit of land, but now I’ve
experienced it I must say there’s no-
thing much in the feeling, after all.”
“There’s not?” I said.
“No,” he said, “not like I thought it
would feel.” He shrugged his shoulders
again. “Anyway, it was an experience,
that was all, and that’s the end of it.
Pine Hill can go back to the Crown, and
to hell with the flaming place.”
FATHER never went near Pine Hill
after that, but I did once, and as I
trespassed there I saw the little rugged
army of pines building up again, sentries
again springing up on the slopes, the great
grey boulders looking more ruthless and
more rugged, still holding the fort of
Nature’s unkempt wildness.
FORECAST.
This is the day of our immediate need,
And this the day we never shall forget,
But in that not impossible tomorrow,
Perhaps in that inevitable tomorrow, —
Tomorrow when the travail sharpening
Across today is only half-remembered.
When there are many talking of long
thoughts,
And making books to amplify the time,
And taking of the knowledge of the
world
C Each but so much as each may ill
digest!),
All cramped Messiahs seeking publishers
To bring the echoed and re-echoed word
To the dull with repetition ... one shall be
Pinnacled to new wisdom suddenly.
And cry, We will not glorify the soldier,
We will not glorify the fighting man.
In that day let there also be a voice,
A brazen tongue, the clapper of a bell,
A mocking voice, a gibing, shaming voice,
To answer, No, we will not glorify
The soldier, for the debt is onerous,
And we have no immediate need of him.
(This is the day of our immediate need,
And surely these things are not. true of us!)
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
THE DOG IT WAS THAT DIED
By VAL CAREW-SMYTH.
NEARLY all the kids at school and
a good few of the grownups in the
township had money on my mum
and my dad and the bet was
whether my mum would have to leave
home or whether my dad would have
to leave home. There was a lot of money
on and everyone was pretty excited.
It happened like this. My dad had a
goat. I suppose it wasn’t a bad sort
of goat as goats go, and I took my dad’s
word for it it couldn’t help its smell.
Smells and goats, my dad says, go natu-
rally together same as behind-to-front
collars and parsons go together. Still,
whether it could help it or not, that goat
certainly did smell pretty high. Besides
the goat, my dad had my mum, and my
mum wasn’t a bad sort of wife either as
wives go, and again I took Dad’s word
for it she couldn’t help the way her
tongue was made, it being sort of long
and loose and, my dad says, too fond of
wagging.
Anyway, there it was. All day long
that goat went about the place smelling
pretty high, and all day long my mum
went about the place wagging her tongue.
And mostly Mum’s tongue wagged about
the goat.
“Fair’s fair,” my mum would say to my
dad. “Fair’s fair, William. I don’t
objects to the goat. Even when it per-
forms on my front doormat I don’t
objects. But the smell! I repeats, Wil-
liam, the smell is more than flesh and
blood can stand!”
My mum always puts on s’s to her
words like that when she’s mad, and
they seem to hiss in the air even when
she stops talking, which isn’t often.
Her harping about the poor goat went
on every mealtime, and my dad would
just sit there at the head of the table
in his special high-backed chair eating
earnestly and saying nothing except now
and then perhaps that bit about smells
and goats going naturally together.
When he would say this my mum
would put her hands on her hips and
Cock her head on one side and tell him
“I think you thinks more of that goat
than you thinks of your lawfully-wedded
wife! ”
When she told him that my dad would
just go on eating and mumble through
his mouthfuls “Goats is brainy animals,
Henrietta. There’s brains in goats,”
This went on for a long time, and my
mum’s nagging about the goat’s handi-
cap and my dad’s same-as-always
answers became as much part of our
meal as the thick cups we drank from.
Then one dinnertime my mum said
something that changed everything.
“William,” she said, “I’m going to have
that goat disinfected!”
My dad began to mumble, from force
of habit I suppose, that bit about goats
and smells going naturally together, when
it suddenly dawned on him what my mum
had said, and he jabbed his fork savagely
down on his plate with its handle in
the gravy and roared “Disinfected!
What do you mean disinfected ?”
That started it. My dad said if she
had that goat disinfected it would kill the
smell and everything that made a goat a
goat, and my mum said that was exactly
what she wanted, and then she said she
would give my dad a week and if he
didn’t have it disinfected by that time
she would clear out. Then my dad said
if she dared to have that goat disinfected
he would clear out.
Well, there it was, the two of them
as stubborn as young bull calves and me
in the middle, neutral because I thought
that goat wasn’t a bad sort of goat as
goats go. On the other hand you couldn't
hardly blame my mum because, honestly,
that goat certainly did smell pretty high.
ONE day at school I told the kids that
pretty soon either my mum would be
clearing out from horqe or my dad would
be clearing out from home, and it all
depended on the goat. If we had a dis-
infected goat we wouldn’t have my dad,
and if we had a not-disinfected goat we
wouldn’t have my mum. None of the
kids knew what disinfected meant, but I
told them I thought it had something to
do with smells.
They started laying bets then on who
would win, Not-disinfected or Dis-
infected, and a kid called Scrubby Wal-
don kept the book. I was still neutral,
so every day when I came to school I
had to tell them how the starters were
shaping, and the odds went up and down
according to what I told them. One day
it would be evens Disinfected and Not-
disinfected would be a rank outsider at
fifty to one, and then another day it
might be Not-disinfected right ahead and
Disinfected not drawing a punter.
Scrubby Waldon’s father kept a bar-
ber’s shop in the township, and one day
my dad came home and said that old
Waldon was taking bets on two horses
he’d never heard of, and he’d heard of
most; they were called Disinfected and
Not-disinfected. Then I told him how it
was he was Not-disinfected and my mum
was Disinfected, and if, the goat was dis-
infected and he had to clear out then
Disinfected won and the other way about.
That made my mum and my dad more
stubborn than ever, and when I’d come
home from school at night they’d each
ask me on the quiet how the bets were
going. They took to calling one another
Disinfected and Not-disinfected, and my
dad was sure my mum would have to
clear out and my mum was sure my dad
would have to clear out.
All this time no one seemed to be
taking much notice of the goat except
me, and I noticed he began to get a wist-
ful look in his eye that stretched my heart
right up into my neck. He would follow
my dad about with his nose touching my
dad’s trouser leg and his little feet neatly
filling in the beats between my dad’s long
clumpy steps. My dad didn’t appear to
love him as much as he used to, and
seemed to think of him nowadays as a
mere smell, and I’m sure that goat under-
stood and his feelings were pretty hurt.
As the end of the week drew near I
watched that goat pretty closely, and I’m
sure the hurt look in his eyes changed to
one of faint resentment. He stopped trot-
ting about after my dad and took to
hanging furtively around comers as if
he were listening, and bleating quietly to
himself and watching my dad and my
mum with faint mistmst.
After school the last day before the
week was up the kids came out to have
a look at him. We found him behind
the henhouse bleating quietly to himself.
The kids all smelled him and agreed he
was certainly pretty high, and I know
he knew he was being thought of as a
mere smell again, because that wistful
look crept into his eyes and he put his
head between his legs and sort of sobbed.
Then his look changed to one of indig-
nation, and he suddenly bolted off and
got under the tankstand.
The kids went home then, and before
I went to bed I went to have another
look at him, and I’m pretty sure he was
crying in the way goats cry all by him-
self under the tankstand. He had a sort
of distraught, tearful look, and I thought
to myself that goat is pretty unhappy.
I went to bed then, and the next morn-
ing my dad slammed the back gate and
came pounding up to the house yelling
to my mum: “Disinfected! That smell’s
gorn. Clean gorn he has; not a whiff
of him to be seen —gorn —clean gorn!”
Sure enough it was the truth. That
unhappy, fed-up goat had up in the night
and cleared out. All the kids at school
and the folks in the township and my
mum and my dad were mad as scalded
bull-ants, because not one man jack ot
them had thought of betting on the goat.


HONORABLE NUT DAMN’ TOUGH !


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P* H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
SINGAPORE AND AUS-
TRALIA.
Newspapermen who remember how the
war correspondents at British head-
quarters in Flanders were bundled across
the Channel a week before the evacua-
tion began at Dunkirk had a bad quarter-
hour after reading that war correspon-
dents had been taken from Singapore to
the Netherlands East Indies.
An Australian Associated Press man
related how he had made a perilous
voyage in a naval vessel with a damaged
warship in tow.” Bombers came over ;
the towrope was severed, and “for four
hours and a half we wallowed in narrow
waters, an easy target.” A new hawser was
made fast, but the old one fouled a pro-
peller, and for twelve hours we limped
along, towing on one screw,” till the job
was taken over by another warship. Told
to prepare for the worst, the passengers
stood on the deck weiring only tin hats
and lifebelts”; and when the vessel
reached port at last the captain had been
on the bridge for three days. A London
Daily Mail” man had a similar experi-
ence, except that his ship was bombed
four times.
That such risks should have to be
taken at such a time looked ominous,
more especially as the Japanese were
boasting that 25 British troopships carry-
ing soldiers and civilians had left Singa-
pore , and a New York “Times” corre-
spondent reckoned that there were only
two British Imperial divisions on
Singapore Island to encounter 100,000
Japanese (he was soon contradicted).
Dismal stuff came also from Lon-
don, where one Jeremiah suggested
that the garrison would have to
get along without fighter-’plane sup-
port, and another—a wordy peer with
some naval experience—wrote that the
Singapore docks were doomed. The
Japanese, indeed, claimed the sinking of
the 50,000-ton floating dock, but then
they had claimed to have sunk Major-
General Bennett and to have “annihi-
lated” the A.I.F. more than once.
It came out presently that other cor-
respondents, Australia’s lan Fitchett
among them, had remained on the island.
And the Governor was not down-
hearted. “Here we are and here we
stay! ” he said in a broadcast to his
people. “All we have to do is to hang
on, grimly and inexorably; and it will
not be for very long. I can tell you that
substantial reinforcements have reached
us in the last few days.”
The same note was struck vigorously
by our own Army Minister, Mr. Forde.
In a message addressed to the Australians
of the garrison and their companions
he counselled them to be of good cheer,
for help was on the way:
It will go, not as a few consignments
from a shrinking store, but as a stream
which will swell to a flood, and a flood
which will grow to an overwhelming torrent.
Then came General Wavell with an
order-of-the-day as inspiring in its way
as Haig’s “backs-to-the-wall” address to
his weary but indomitable troops:
The Japanese are straining every nerve
to keep the advantage gained in their
initial surprise.... Once their impetus is
thwarted, they will soon be discouraged.
Our part is to stop them and gain time for
the great reinforcements which Britain and
her American Allies are sending.
We are in a similar position to the
original 8.E.F., which stopped the Germans
and saved Europe in the first battle of
Ypres. We must be worthy successors and
save Asia by fighting these Japanese.
They have now reached an area where
we cannot be constantly outflanked, where
the enemy cannot exploit his superior
mobility.
I look to you to fight this battle without
iurther thought of retreat and make the
deience of Singapore as memorable and
successful as the defence of Tobruk.
From London, where Mr. Hardman
spoke to the press, and from Washington
came assurances that America would not
leave Australia in the lurch. And Sir
lan Hamilton gave it as his opinion,
though it may be contrary to all reason,”
that “Singapore will hold out.”
No man’s opinion is entitled to greater
respect. As a prophet of the changes that
n Ve * n Europe, Sir lan surpassed
all other men, and he is perhaps the only
military authority living who made a
first-hand study of the Japanese under
the test of a great war. While he has
never foolishly underrated them, as did
the pack of reporters who wrote that their
army was bogged in China and their air
force a joke, he knows their nation’s
weaknesses as well as its strength, and
is acquainted with the reasons which
drove them to accept, at the instance of
the first Roosevelt, a peace which seemed
strangely favorable to defeated Russia.
And, as likely as not, he Connects the
long delay in attacking Singapore island
with the admission of a Japanese war
correspondent, made weeks before the
end of the campaign in Malaya, that, with
all their superiority in numbers and
equipment, the invaders had found jungle-
fighting a rather awful business in which
water, mud and mosquito bites (so fierce
that they left blood smears on damp
bodies) had added physical suffering to
the losses inflicted by a stubborn foe.
But to Sir lan, always a friend to Aus-
tralia, the Commonwealth is in danger ;
and this is true. In danger Australia has
been since the Japanese landed at Rabaul,
and the peril has increased since they
threw an army into Amboina and sent
their bombers to Koepang, as well as Port
Moresby. And an Asiatic invasion of a
white man’s country, though it may have
no terrors for Mr. Alexander, the fatuous
First Lord of the Admiralty—the gentle-
man who said that after “we” have dis-
posed of Hitler, “we” can “easily” deal
with Japan—might have frightful conse-
quences, not only to white people in Aus-
tralia, but to the white race. This view
has been expressed by Americans, and
it appeals to Englishmen like Earl Win-
terton, who told Mr. Churchill to his
face, in words spoken with such feeling
that the Prime Minister himself acknow-
ledged their appositeness and sincerity,
that it was Britain’s sacred duty to assist
Australia. But though the enemy boasted
at the week-end that “the destruction of
the greater part of the Netherlands East
Indies Air Force” had placed him in a
position to “start a direct offensive against
Australia,” for which indeed he was
“now ready,” as long as Singapore holds
out and General MacArthur continues
to deny the enemy the use of Manila Bay,
Australians can contemplate their own
peril with unshaken nerve and with hope.
Bombing they will take with the forti-
tude shown by the people of London,
Coventry, Liverpool and Dover. Invaded,
they will prove themselves worthy of the
men, their own sons among them, who
held Tobruk. If they have to hang on
till the forces of their great partners can
be assembled for an offensive which will
never cease till the Japanese are knocked
out of the war —and to that the blows
struck in the Marshalls and Macassar
Strait are sure pointers—hang on they
will. But the Government must do more
than it has yet done to mobilise the
strength and resourcefulness of the nation
and inspire it with an unconquerable will.
Last week it conscripted “all male aliens”
for “national or military service.” Aliens ;
a fraction of one per cent, of the popula-
tion! Why not all Australians?
Canada Shows the Way.
“As a war-time measure, the whole
income-tax field in Canada has been
reserved for the national Government.”
So it was announced in Ottawa recently.
As compensation for accepting the inevit-
able, the provincial Governments (there
are nine) are to receive $100,000,000 p.a.
The equivalent could and should have
been done in Australia in September,
1939. Indeed, the thing would have been
comparatively simple, for the solvency
of three of the States was dependent on
special Commonwealth grants, and the
other three could have offered no effec-
tive opposition. They would really have
been less difficult to deal with than some
of the Canadian provinces, which have
a much longer history of jealously-
guarded rights. But the opportunity was
not availed of, and so for three years
we have had the spectacle of income
taxes being levied in the States with no
regard for national necessities, and of
amounts taken by the Commonwealth
for war purposes showing vexatious and
wholly unjustifiable differences because
State taxes paid have been allowed as
deductions from income taxed by the
Commonwealth.
Because State taxes are so steep, and
because Federal Labor objected to in-
comes of £2OO and under being taxed
for war purposes at all, Mr. Fadden
resorted to various expedients—one was
to hit middle incomes too hard and high
incomes not hard enough—to set, as he
thought, a limit of 14s. in the £. His
successor, finding that the 14s. limit had
in some cases soared above 20s. in the £,
offered to waive 2s. if State Govern-
ments would waive Is.—which they have
not done. Presently he found it neces-
sary to tax incomes below £2OO and
to impose a special tax of 6d, to Is.,
calculable after the amount of the
tax previously announced had been
deducted. This meant, among other
things, the re-examination of scores
of thousands of assessments which were
ready to go out. Indeed, the whole de-
mented business has involved the unneces-
sary concentration on taxation work of
a large body of intelligent men, mostly
of military age, who are capable of giving
the nation really useful service.
The national Government has increased
old-age and invalid pensions, assumed the
burden of child endowment—thereby re-
lieving N. S. Wales alone of an expen-
diture of a million a year—and been
the means of reducing unemployment and
food relief to a minimum. Did the State
Governments show their appreciation by
reducing their taxes? Not one of them
has done so. The N. S. Wales Govern-
ment made a pretence of abolishing its
unemployed-relief tax, but, except for
some vote-catching exemptions, it merely
tacked relief tax on to income tax, adding
a special slug for receivers of divi-
dends. As a result, N.S.W, “Governmental
revenue” (excluding receipts from the
Transport and Main Roads departments
and the Sydney Harbor concern) for the
first six months of 1941-42 was up
£1,714,000 and “Governmental expendi-
ture down £1,277,000. N.S.W. people are
being scandalously overtaxed to maintain
an obese provincial outfit, headed by a two-
Chamber Parliament which is idle half
its time, when every pound of revenue
over and above what is legitimately
needed for essential local services and
obligations should be placed at the ser-
vice of the nation in its time of peril.
Four months ago Mr. Curtin saw
clearly what should be done. On October
1, attacking the Fadden Budget, he “put
it to the committee that Parliament is
not obliged to adjust the differences which
exist in State taxes unless that adjust-
ment can be effected without impairing
the physical standard of the community.”
The right remedy for having seven taxing
authorities is to substitute one taxing
authority. The Government of which the
hon. gentleman is the leader... .could
take the requisite steps if it had the courage
to do so the steps to bring about one
taxing authority in Australia.
Mr. Curtin’s attack was successful. The
Fadden Government went out and the
Curtin Government came in. But so
far from having the “courage to take the
requisite steps,” it has only made con-
fusion worse confounded. Professor
Carslaw has quoted some amazing
examples. On income from dividends
the Commonwealth and N.S.W. Govern-
ments are taking £l9BB from £3OOO,
£3027 from £4OOO and £4026 from £5OOO,
so the taxpayer with a nominal £5OOO
actually loses £3B by “making” £2OOO
more. And one particular N.S.W. tax-
payer finds that the combined taxgatherers
will leave him only £360 out of a nominal
£lO,OOO, whereas if his income had been
£2OOO he would have £l3lB for himself.
These may be extreme cases, but many
taxpayers with smaller nominal incomes
are receiving what Professor Carslaw
calls “unpleasant shocks.”
There was another Premiers’ confer-
ence at Canberra last week, and, as usual,
the Premiers took everything and gave
nothing. Notwithstanding Mr. Curtin’s
bold words in October, they are ip go on
levying their iniquitous taxes. It is not
on record that they were even asked to
get out of the extortion business so that
justice may be done to the taxpayers and
the nation by the imposition of one in-
telligible and equitable Commonwealth
tax.
"My Army! O My Army!"
For two thrilling weeks or thereabouts
the “civilian People’s Army” had a fine
run in registered and unregistered papers
published in Sydney and other parts.
Sydney “D.T.” turned its brightest or
Pinkest young men loose to report pro-
gress and write articles about the
“famous” Tom Wintringham and other
heroes of the deathless Red International
Brigade. Blessings came from Bishop
Burgmann, the Rev. Churchward, Mrs.
Jessie Street and other ladies. Towns-
ville (N.Q.) caught the contagion, and a
“roving reporter” from Sydney “Sun”
discovered in “Aid. F. W. Paterson,
Townsville barrister,” a ready-made
organiser of a “People’s Army, North
Queensland,” with plans for the enlist-
ment of “4000 able-bodied men,” armed
with “machine-guns and rifles and hand
grenades,” in “Townsville alone.”
The men, Aid. Paterson suggests, should
be allowed to take their rifles and grenades
home at night, so as to be ready to deal
with parachute troops at a moment’s notice.
And if some of them forgot to return
their rifles and grenades after the war,
what then? As reported by the roving
young man. Aid. Paterson did not say,
though he declared that “the Government
must trust the people.” No doubt, but
who are the people? Who is Aid. Pater-
son? The late (?) “Tribune” of Feb. 6,
1940, described him rapturously as “the
endorsed Communist candidate for the
Federal electorate of Herbert,” and as
having drawn “spontaneous and hearty
applause” from a meeting at Mareeba
“when he declared that this was a war
to make the rich richer and the poor
poorer.” “S. M. Herald” of July 24,
1941, gave another account of him;
Frederick Woolnough Paterson, barrister,
and an alderman of Townsville City
Council, today appeared on a charge of
having tried to influence public opinion in
a manner likely to prejudice effective prose-
cution of the war.... The basis of the
charge was an amendment moved by Pater-
son at a City Council meeting on May 15
during discussion on farewells to soldiers.
Stripped of Red rigmarole, the amend-
ment read:
This council will give a farewell to
members of the A.I.F. on their pre-
embarkation leave, but at that farewell will
explain to them that....the present war is
not a war to smash Fascism or Nazism,
but, like the war of 1914-18, is a war to
decide which group of millionaire exploiters
is to dominate the world.
Aid. Paterson was fined £4O, with £4B 18s.
costs, and required to enter into a bond.
Sharper than a serpent’s tooth, for be-
tween May 15 and the end of July, the
“war to decide which group of million-
aire exploiters is to dominate the world”
had become another sort of war
altogether.
Persons very like Aid. Paterson, except
that they haven’t had his bad luck, were
moving spirits in the “civilian People’s
Army, N. S. Wales.” This stuck out a
mile, but it did not prevent the “D.T.”
from taking up the Cause by way of
“giving Australia leadership” once more.
On January 30 it announced chat “the
prospect of a People’s Army has kindled
tremendous enthusiasm.”
The Government hasn’t yet decided to
call for a nation-wide army of guerrillas
But the people have decided... .The Gov-
ernment should not neglect this magnificent
opportunity— not for a day.
The Government didn’t. On February
2 Army Minister Forde, who knows
Townsville and has heard of Aid. Pater-
son, pointed out that Australia already
has a People’s Army, composed of
the A.1.F., the A.M.F. and the Volunteer
Defence Corps. Next day he intimated
that “the formation of an irregular
People’s Army would be a serious em-
barrassment to those directing the coun-
try’s defence.” Because, for one thing,
“a first essential in case of invasion is
that the civil population should remain
in their towns and villages and on their
farms: evacuation during actual military
operations is one of the greatest prob-
lems that a commander of an army in
the field can encounter.”
Mr. Forde went on to say that the
V.D.C. would take and train all men not
in the other formations or services, and,
under the direction of the military com-
manders, would attend to all defence
activities outside the ambits of the militia
and the A.I.F. Its scope would be
greatly extended, and members would be
required to enlist as soldiers. Informed
that “women were training with the
People’s Army detachments formed in
N.5.W.,” and also perhaps that Mrs.
Jessie Street had demanded the right to
“die fighting,” the Minister replied “We
have no intention of enlisting women
in the fighting services.”
Unfortunately Mr. Forde continued to
talk, mixing flattery with scolding, and
Mr. Curtin found it necessary to say
something on his own account. Nor did
he mince his words:
Any organisation outside the authority
of the Minister for the Army will be illegal,
and the Government will not allow it to
be formed.
That should be the end of an agita-
tion whose color stuck out from the be-
ginning, though, as usual, color-blind
mugs were taken in. But, since the inso-
lence of Reds and Pinks knows no limit,
it is possible that attempts will be made
in Sydney and on the coalfields to run a
private army. If so, it will be the Com-
monwealth Government’s duty to sup-
press it instantly and place the ringleaders
under arrest, whoever they mdy be. Under
the Constitution, it has the sole power
of raising and equipping armies.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Wirraways.
It is four years since the Commonwealth
Government went about the manufac-
ture of Wirraways, designed to carry two
guns and reach a speed of 200 m.p.h. It
was here pointed out that the then new
Hurricane had eight guns and could hit
335 m.p.h., but politicians seemed to be
satisfied that Australians were incapable
of building anything but the simplest
type of aircraft.
Results have been seen in New Guinea.
Experience there was followed by a hur-
ried announcement that no more Wirra-
ways are to be built “for the present.”
An R.A.A.F. officer who saw Rabaul
raids told a Melbourne newspaper that
he “did not know how the Japs would
stand up to modern fighters.” The
enemy’s performance at Rabaul, he said,
was “efficient but not brilliant,” and “in
the face of equality in the air he had no
doubt that the accuracy of their bombing
would wilt. Even at the unequal odds,”
he said, “w r e broke even with them.”
Lae, the new N.G. capital, had to be
abandoned because of raiding by com-
paratively slow two- and four-engined
bombers escorted by fighters, six of
which could not catch a Lockheed 14
passenger liner. In one hour, however,
the enemy destroyed the hangars, work-
shops, the power-house and residences
and machine-gunned the town at will. An
eyewitness said:
The R.A.A.F. Wirraways had no chance.
The Government was told by General
Blarney, what the world already knew,
that the best defence for cities and towns
threatened with bombing is a couple of
squadrons of fast fighters—at Southamp-
ton when Stukas first appeared the Hur-
ricanes got 28 enemy machines in half
an hour. Nevertheless, it is going ahead
with plans to build only bombers, in-
cluding one of a new design which will
take at least two years to get into the air.
Canada, for its part, is turning out
half a dozen types of ’planes, from giant
Catalina flying-boats downwards. It is
building Hurricanes, which are easier to
build and far quicker to throw into pro-
duction than a new-type bomber. The
Canadian example should be followed,
and there is not a moment to be lost.
"Canberra Squalling."
Wielding his powers as Postmaster-
General, Senator Ashley last week called
off repeat performances of this A.B.C.
feature production for the duration. A
great pity. There is little enough to
laugh at without deliberately gagging a
bunch of evidently topnotch comedians
before they had a real chance to endear
themselves to the public.
In the one week-end that it had them
at its disposal A.B.C. certainly made the
most of them. On the Sunday it had
them on for all but a small part of its
Canberra “sessions” at 5 p.m., 7 p.m. and
10 p.m. By the time the ten o’clock
“session” was reached, with the whole
hilarious performance to be gone through
all over again, it was impossible for any-
one with any glimmering of a sense of
humor to refrain from loud laughter.
There was Mr. Ward, the Minister for
Labor: “Australians are only beginning
to realise that there are guilty men within
these shores who have put Australia’s
interests last.” In his best satirical vein
Mr. Ward used this sentence to make
light-hearted fun of those who had failed
to make Australia “militarily powerful.”
Mr. Ward named Mr. Spender ; but the
really clever thing about his gag was that,
unlike most music-hall skits, it had such
a universal application.
There were other richly comedic quali-
ties in Mr. Ward’s performance. Only
a master of irony could have thought of
launching a cutting attack on the party
in power in the guise of an attack on
named and unnamed members of the
other side. For Mr. Ward, hanging up
his gallery, would of course know that
everyone would know what he was really
driving at —Labor’s incomparable record
of two years in power in 25 years, and
the matchless wisdom with which, in that
span, it put an end to compulsory military
training, budgeted for a defence expendi-
ture of almost four million pounds, and
as good as wrecked the whole Common-
wealth military establishment.
In the A.B.C. comedy Mr. Spender
figured as a perfect foil, or stooge. Mr.
Ward having tempted him with a large
bunch of synthetic carrots, the way he
rushed in kicking should ensure him a cer-
tain Tivoli engagement for the next pan-
tomime season. He would be the success
of the evening at any A.I.F. concert party.
There was, especially, something irre-
sistibly funny in his asking if the public
had forgotten Mr. Ward’s “bitter oppo-
sition” to defence of Australia, defence
of Darwin and defence of New Guinea.
It takes a master of humor to charac-
terise that with such a miracle of under-
statement as merely “bitter.” But what
was perhaps most infectiously amusing in
Mr. Spender’s performance was the droll
solemnity with which he uttered his part-
ing wisecrack: “If we had listened to
this man’s outbursts I dread to think how
utterly desperate our position would have
been.” That priceless joke was funny the
first time it came over the air; after
several repetitions every radio set in the
country burst out laughing on its own
account at the picture conjured up—of
Mr. Ward talking on defence and of
somebody listening to him.
Also in the A.B.C. production were
such eminent patter artists as Mr. Fadden,
Senator Cameron and Senator Ashley—
the same Ashley who denied listeners
repetitions of this convulsing show. If
the reason for thus ringing down the cur-
tain was disappointment over his own
small part, the Senator should console
himself with the thought that, after all,
it isn’t everybody’s privilege to figure on
the same bill with acknowledged masters
of comic solemnity, however good he
may be in this line himself.
McKeSl—and Others.
There was no outburst of “fighting
words” from the Sydney Premier at the
Loan Council meeting last week, nor did
any admiring Sydney reporter feel in-
spired to report that Mr. McKell was in
a “tigerish mood.” Possibly his mood
was one of speechless gratitude, some kind
spirit at the doings having enabled Mr.
McKell to obtain the “right,” by grant and
loan, to £7,530,000, the amount allowed
the other States being only £466,000 more.
The Sydney and Melbourne daily press
published very little more about the con-
ference than the “allocations,” though the
Co-ordinator of Works had had some-
thing to say about some funny business
or other. He had
emphasised the difficulties of making a very
large reduction in the programme because
a substantial part of the funds allocated
had already been spent or committed.
There was also a hint—in “S.M.H,” —
of a “long wrangle” when S.A. Premier
Tom Playford sought a more substantial
reduction than that adopted, i.e., from
£20,000,000 to £17,300,000. The report
said Playford had asked for “2 per cent,
all round”—evidently a misprint for
25 p.c.
Some of the other Premiers are re-
ported as saying that a reduction like
that would benefit S.A. because “it had
the smallest number of semi-Government
works at stake”—merely a twist of the
Labor idea that public works “to relieve
the unemployed” should be unrestricted so
long as there is a middle-class that can be
savagely taxed to finance losses. Still, if
the Labor Premiers are right, it seems
that the only purely non-Labof Govern-
ment is the only one making an honest
effort to help national war finance,
Mr. McKell’s State dominates the
figures. For Government works: Com-
monwealth, £2,282,000 ; N. S. Wales,
£4,415,000 ; Victoria, £1,324,000 ; Queens-
land, £1,940,000 ; S-A., £1,356,000 ; W.A.,
£800,000; Tasmania, £795,000. For
“semi-Government” and local government
“works”: Commonwealth, £39,000 ; N.
S. Wales, £3,115,000 ; Victoria, £790,000 ;
Queensland, £722,000 ; S.A., £lO,OOO ;
W.A., £77,000; Tasmania, £182,000.
However the subject is looked at, Mr.
McKell’s State has got from the Loan
Council amounts that are of all
proportion, and the fact that it includes
£212,000 for A.R.P., while Queensland,
which is in greater danger of raids, asked
for far less and got £54,000, suggests
that the Sydney Premier might start
calling himself “Lucky” McKell. And
since the total “allocations” have been
cut a mere £2,700,000 since August, when
the war was a far, far different war from
what it is now, and the Commonwealth’s
financial obligations on a shrinking loan
market are far greater than they were
then, it is more than time that the six
superfluous State Governments should be
rendered unable to get at another penny
of loan or tax money. What with assert-
ing their financial “rights,” their muddled
A.R.P., their savage taxes, their insistence
that “conferences” and borrow-and-bust
should go on despite the national emer-
gency, they look like a positive menace
to Australia’s security.
“Mr. Forde Draws a Red Herring.”—Sydney “Daily Telegraph” attacking the Army Minister for his refusal to adopt
the alleged “people’s” army.
Red, Yes—In Fact, It Pongs!


NOW TO KEEP FIT
You can’t keep fit if you suffer from
cbnstipation. Constipation saps energy,
makes you feel tired and “off-colour.”
NYAL FIGSEN, the pleasant-tasting
laxative, ends constipation quickly and
naturally. Figsen is made from three
of Nature’s own laxatives—Figs, Senna
and Cascara. That’s why Figsen is NOT
habit-forming, and why it is equally
good for everyone. Figsen is one of 168
dependable NYAL FAMILY MED-
ICINES. Sold by chemists every-
where. l/3i a tin.
The next best thing to Nature ~
Nyal Faff sen
FOR CONSTIPATION
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A HOME IN AUSTRALIA?
TASMANIA-THE IDEAL PLACE
An ideal residential area to accommodate 100 families, on the East Coast of Tasmania,
well known as the best climate in the world, offers exceptional opportunity for your
new home in Australia. Facts for your information:
- Hours of sunshine 2250 per annum.
Average maximum temperature over year 64.4.
Average minimum night 44.6.
Rainfall 29.06 inches, spread evenly over the year.
It is desired to get in touch with, and give preference to, persons who are in a position
to select and build their own homes, and with qualifications for assisting in Honorary
or Professional capacity in progressively establishing the desired Recreation and
Social services. Those retiring from active business life and seeking security and
peaceful living conditions can be assured of the ideal home and surroundings.
Settlers, by careful planning, supplemented with community service, can share in
shaping future developments. Official support assured.
Correspondence invited from interested parties to —
The National Business Service, P.O. Box 403, Launceston, Tasmania.
LADIES' FITTED
DRESSING CASES
. . . from KITCHINGS’.
In beautiful chrome tanned cowhide.
FITTED WITH mirror, comb, and hair
brush on lid and glass containers for
powder, toothpaste, scent, etc., on body
of case. Enamel and chrome fittings.
PRICES:
20 inches, £lO 22 inches, £ll*
Free Delivery to all Suburbs.
C E. KITCHING:
Pty.,
jtd.,
319 George Street, Sydney.
Near Wynyard Station. 8W7133.
POLITICAL POINTS
The further the Sydney Premier goes
the more it seems that he is becoming
the McKnell of State Parliaments.
Forde talks too often and too copi-
ously. He could have snuffed out the
more than dubious “civilian People’s
Army” agitation in a short sentence:
The A.1.F., the A.M.F. and the Volun-
teer Defence Corps are the People’s Army.
That was well said, and there was no
necessity for Francis to go on translating
himself day after day, as he did. In the
end Curtin had to declare bluntly that
“a civilian People’s Army” would be
illegal and the Government wouldn’t
“allow it to be formed.”
The A.W.U. did two wounding things
at its annual conference. It flatly refused
to recommend the “civilian People’s
Army” to the Government and it de-
manded Aid from Russia, mentioning
Vladivostok as the obvious starting point.
Red and Pink union leaders are now
more than ever convinced that the
A.W.U. is -a borjoice nark.
Australia’s weird and wonderful taxa-
tion system is harrying men who gave up
fair-sized incomes to serve in the fighting
forces. Many will face years of debt if
they try to pay assessments made on
their civilian income from their service
pay. Added to this is a variety of
anomalies between and within the differ-
ent services. Taxation officials calmly
announce that individual cases get
“utmost consideration” and are “always
treated leniently,” a striking example of
the power weakly allowed to bureaucrats
by alleged Parliaments. No fighting man
should be worried by taxgatherers.
How Maoriland does it. Last month
27,104 men were “called up for terri-
torial service for an indefinite period”;
married men without children, aged 18 to
45, and youths who have turned 18 since
the last territorial call-up. Said the
Wellington “Dominion”:
Not all the men called up will be avail-
able for service. The result will be the
number called up less those who are unfit
or who are granted postponements of ser-
vice by appeal boards.
In Australia, the only known appeal
board is the local member.
Rommel’s counter-offensive has sorely
embarrassed Sydney “D.T.” On De-
cember 6 that parlor-Pink paper dis-
covered that “someone” had “blundered
again....the Empire Army went into
action inadequately informed as to the
enemy’s strength and insufficiently
equipped and organised.” By December
27 it had divined why “Cyrenaica is in
British hands again, the threat to Egypt
removed,”
For once the British deliberately set out
to build up superior armament before
striking. That’s why they succeeded... .The
British Empire prepared scientifically for
the second Libyan campaign and scored a
first-class victory.
Now the “D.T.” has to choose between
silence—always vexatious in these cases
—and another twist.
Newspapermen have suddenly become
kind to Sir John Anderson. One described
him as “one of the few men in Parlia-
ment with the qualities and force to stand
up to Mr. Churchill” ; he “would make
decisions and would hit hard and fear
nobody.” Another, notorious for his
strafing of Chamberlain, referred to Sir
John Anderson as Churchill’s only pos-
sible successor. A third gave him one of
the four posts in a new War Cabinet.
Strange, exceedingly, for the fellow was
named a Minister by Chamberlain. He
is, in fact, one of those unutterable Men
of Munich.
The War Council, adopting a Defence
Committee report, is against large-scale
evacuation of civilians in the event of
invasion on the ground that it would be
detrimental to morale and maintenance
of essential production. It is not against
“limited evacuation from areas con-
tiguous to possible target areas” and from
“certain congested areas,” but thinks it
should be confined to the removal of
young children “to a safer area in the
metropolis concerned.” That seems all
right as far as it goes, but decisions are
to be “made by the Governments of the
States, after consultation with the G.O.C.
“Minister Ward objects to army officers having flunkeys—batmen and chauffeurs....
Three Labor members have been appointed to assist Mr. Ward to administer his department.”
WHAT’S IN A NAME?
of the district concerned” ; and the Gov-
ernment of at least one State has other
ideas about evacuation. In any case, time
is the essence of such a contract. Can’t
Canberra decide anything without calling
in the six Excrescences?
In 1929 Ward helped to make a wreck
of the national army by enthusiastically
supporting the abandonment of compul-
sory training. On November 29, 1938, he
thundered against the proposed increase
(to £16,000,000 or so) of “an already
swollen defence Budget,” on the ground
that “the inevitable result of any nation
engaging in an arms race [!] and spend-
ing a huge amount of money in defence
must be a demand that the people shall
accept a lower standard of living”:
The Labor party will not be sidetracked
by members opposite who say the Ministry
is in possession of certain information which
warrants this vast expenditure.
The gentleman has now worked himself
into a frame of mind in which he sees
himself as an unbending champion of
defence to the limit of the nation’s
physical capacity and purse and “mem-
bers opposite” as Guilty Men.
While the world war rages, the war of
cities goes on. Launceston (Tas.) woke
up the other morning to find that, under
a regulation issued at Hobart, local pub-
licans were authorised to charge Hobart
prices for less than the Hobart allotment
of beer, because Launceston is listed as
a country town. And a Sydney paper
referred to Kharkov as “a city as large
as Melbourne.” The Statesman’s Year-
Book, strictly impartial in these matters,
gives Melbourne (1939) a population of
1,046,750, Kharkov one of 833,432.
Told that Fallon, of the A.W.U., had
said there were Communists who
“couldn’t be trusted with a shanghai,”
much less lethal weapons, one W. A.
Wood, “chairman of the People’s Army
Provisional Committee,” said “We are
not going to stand for any sabotage of
the movement by outside reactionaries.”
And again:
We do not ask yet for .303 rifles, Lewis
or Bren guns, but merely for .22’s, .32’s,
,44’s or even shotguns.
Presently the young gentleman was heard
saying that he was going to get some
idea or other into Forde’s head if he
had to perform a surgical operation. If
his case isn’t attended to at once his
own head may burst.
Two Sydney reporters who accom-
panied Curtin to Perth returned marvel-
ling at the citizenry’s apparent insensi-
bility to his greatness. The P.M., who
has been well content to live as one of
them for 25 years, knows that they can
be appreciative without being demon-
strative in the hysterical fashion that
appeals to flapper-papers, but the re-
porters discovered other “reasons” for
their restraint. One blithered that West-
tralia’s “mass philosophy tends to be
parochial, colonial and London-con-
scious ; they dislike Americans ; they dis-
like and distrust the Russians.” There
are two editors from Westralia in the
gentleman’s office. Either could have
told him that these conclusions were on
a par with his contemptuous dismissal
of the Japanese air force as a “pushover.”
The N.T. Lands Department has been
evacuated to the Centre and “many
valuable records were included in 11 tons
of documents taken there.” The Terri-
tory’s normal population is about 6000,
exclusive of full-blood abos. Now how
many tons of documents would have to
be evacuated from (say) N.S.W. Lands
Department?
The old firm of Anthony Eden and
Haile Silassie has resumed business at
the old address, Addis Ababa, where
Amazons used to abound —and bound for
newspaper photographers. Diplomatic
relations have been re-established,
Anthony intimates to the customers, and
Haile is to receive an annual subsidy,
beginning at £1,500,000, from the poor
old British taxpayer. For his part, he
has undertaken to abolish slavery. If
the news reaches the Silent Land there
will be some agitation among the shades
especially those of Clarkson, Wilberforce
and Canning.
“The War Cabinet’s plan to spend
£5,000,000 on an Australian bomber of
secret design and to allocate other money
to buy fighter and operation aircraft
will be financed by higher taxation”
Senator Cameron, the Aircraft Produc-
tion Minister, said:
Low-paid workers are heavily burdened
by direct and indirect taxation already, so
the money will have to come from higher
incomes.
That should mean in some cases, since
the chaos of State taxes is to continue
225, or 235. in the £.
Victoria’s U.A.P. Parliamentary party
is to decide tomorrow whether it will ask
Hollway to continue as leader—though
he has become an R.A.A.F. mechanic—
or farm the leadership out among a com-
mittee of three. A better plan would
be to invite Macfarlan to return to the
party as leader conditionally on the thing
being put to the vote when Hollway is
available again. The cause of the quarrel
with Macfarlan is now forgotten, but the
man himself has never ceased to brighten
the debates. And if “the senior Indepen-
dent” were asked to let bygones be by-
gones, Mrs. Weber might come in too.
The play of politics:
Beasley (Canberra): I urge every motorist
to keep his car in running order in case of
emergency.
Motorists: We’d be glad to. But that means
petrol in the tanks, and to get petrol we must
pay registration fee and road tax at rates fixed
in pre-war times by State Governments.
Mr. Curtin (Canberra): I should like the
States to consider a reduction of these fees and
taxes.
Playford and Willcock (S.A. and W.A.): We
have reduced them 25 per cent.
McKell, Dunstan, Forgan Smith, Cosgrove:
No!
There, for the moment, the debate rests,
though Beasley and Curtin have “assumed
control of transport.”
The Commonwealth Government is
conscripting aliens, and when the Sydney
Government goes to “work” again it is
going to make unionism compulsory. Its
Hamilton Knight denies that this is a
form of conscription, though “people
who are connected with big businesses”
maintain that it is.
I would like to know from these people
whether they would allow people who are
not shareholders to participate in their
profits. Trade-unionism is a company in
which every worker is a shareholder. The
man who is not a shareholder should not
be given his share of the profits which have
been won.
This, though Mr. Knight thinks no end
of it, rivals what Macaulay called “the
worst similitude in the world”:
The soul, aspiring, pants its source to mount,
As streams meander slowly to their fount.
The poet Montgomery was the per-
petrator. Knight is the Montgomery of
Sydney politics.
Don’t Miss “Fact,” given Free with the
“Sunday Sun.” On the Sunday before
the British forces retired to Singapore,
claims the Sydney Sunday sheet:
In all editions, “Fact” carried a graphic
map of Singapore Island, showing every
aerodrome, the naval base, the town, the
reservoir, the island’s cultivation and layout.
On the Sunday after it came out with a
“picture-map” of Port Moresby. No
Japanese, German or Italian should miss
“Fact.”
According to a London correspondent,
“it is most doubtful whether the present
limited changes [in the British Cabinet]
will be regarded as satisfactory. They
certainly illustrate Mr. Churchill’s diffi-
culty in finding suitable men.” Or in
finding suitable Churchill men?


QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
HELPING
AUSTRALIA’S WAR EFFORT
‘TO
ysi
4
How the
AUSTRALIAN
COMFORTS FUND
helps our fighting men
Providing comforts, equipment and entertainment
for sailors, soldiers, airmen, nurses and others in
the war service of Britain and her allies, the
AUSTRALIAN COMFORTS FUND has won unlimited
praise for the great usefulness and efficiency of its
organisation.
In ensuring the prompt dispatch of comforts and
supplies urgently needed, and in flying the Honorary
Commissioners of the Fund to widespread distribut-
ing points, Qantas has been proud to co-operate.
This advertisement is inserted to assist the War Effort by
QANTAS EMPIRE
SYDNEY M
Ai RWAYS
SOURNE BRISBANE
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
If there’s any justice left, the useful
sum of £4 10s., plus much accrued in-
terest, should one day go to Oscar C.
Zehnder—placed here by Frith in the
predicament (perhaps a little exaggerated)
that petrol rationing might make of his
new job as secretary in Sydney of the
Royal Automobile Club of Australia. As
a youngster in Kalgoorlie, he and another
budding Sherlock watched a waterhole
for days, waiting for a missing citizen,
for finding whom there was a reward of
a fiver, to come to the surface ; deduc-
tion based on quantity of beer known to
have been consumed. When time proved
them right, young Zehnder swam out, a
rope was used to make a cert, of their
reward, and they reported the find. At
47, it still hurts that, after waiting a
month for the Law to cough up, they
OSCAR C. ZEHNDER.
were fobbed off with half a sovereign,
and, when they protested “Aw, come off
the grass, sergeant!” had to beat it for
the lick of their young lives, with a
cop in pursuit spluttering fire and
brimstone. Zehnder (father, Swiss;
mother, French ; b. Fitzroy, Vic.) was
one of the quickest off the mark in Kal-
goorlie to enlist in the last war, and
ended up a captain with the M.C. Since
then he has built the membership of the
Westralian R.A.C. from 1000 to 15,000.
It takes something to shock Sydney,
but Sydney was really shocked by the case
of the Carlton Hotel cook, a Tommy
throughout the last war and a rejected
volunteer in this, who was tackled in a
King’s Cross tram by a tough in uniform
and bashed in the street by the cowardly
ruffian and two others, also in uniform.
One of the men who found the poor
fellow dying was variously described as
Harry Austin and H. Bretnall, book-
maker. Bookmaker is right, and in speech,
manner and professional origins he is a
very unusual bookmaker. His name
appears on the N.S.W. medical list as
Harry Austin Brentnall, L.R.C.P. and
L.R.C.S., Edinburgh, and L.R.F.P.S.,
Glasgow (1927).
Youngest Australian K.C. (at 38), John
Vincent Barry is also one of the most
intellectually vigorous. Thriller addicts
might shy off his Ethics of Advocacy, but
others can count on him as an outspoken
critic of the more reactionary aspects of
the law out of which he has built one of
the biggest practices in Victoria. A pupil
of Eugene Gorman, lately Comforts
Funding in the Middle East and now
Australian Consul-General in Java, he
got from him the radical way of thinking
that led to his vice-presidency of the
Council for Civil Liberties, Born at
Albury (N.S.W.), Goulburn’s St. Patrick’s
College taught him his pothooks and
Melbourne Uni. gave him his legal equip-
ment. He will be the principal officer of
Consul-General Gorman’s diplomatic staff
in the N.E.I.
The literature of exciting escapes could
have a notable contribution from Profes-
sor L. T. Ride, of Melbourne. C.O. of
Hong Kong’s V.D.C. field ambulance
when the fortress surrendered, he has
turned up at Chungking, having evaded
his Jap guards and melted in with the
Chinese population. Last-war experience
helped him through ; he enlisted at 18,
was with the 38th Battalion and got a
couple of Blighties. Victoria’s Rhodes
scholar in 1922, he studied medicine at
Oxford and was Hong Kong Univer-
sity’s Professor of Physiology when the
Japs started throwing their weight
around.
Basil Burdett, killed while serving with
the Red Cross in Malaya, brought off
that amazing journalistic scoop the Keith
Murdoch exhibition of “modern” Euro-
pean art. Though the date’s recent, Gal-
lery authorities would at the time have
sooner exhibited a rattlesnake than a Van
Gogh. Accepting Paris opinion as his
touchstone, Burdett brought out 300 to
400 examples culled from current move-
ments. Murdoch hired Melbourne Town
Hall, installed loudspeakers, invited
“moderns” to instruct the multitude, hung
placards on trams and used all his organs
of propaganda to sell the outfit, like a
brand of soap, to the public. More
people attended the exhibition in a fort-
night than attended orthodox shows in
a year ; old-timers nearly burst with fury ;
a leading gallery director cast reflections
on the morals and sanity of the painters.
For a couple of months a visitor would
have thought art filled the lives of the
citizenry as it was alleged to have done
in Athens. Another month and, like
other newspaper stunts, it was all for-
gotten ; but admirers of the good
Cezannes, Van Goghs, Gauguins, etc.,
that shortly appeared in the Nat. Gallery
have to thank Burdett’s lead.
How the Essington got its name:
Nobody on hearing Essington Lewis men-
tioned thinks “Buffaloes!”; but whole herds
of them stamp in the background of the Com-
monwealth Munitions Director’s Christian
name. Alec Chisholm tells the story in his
new book about Leichhardt. In 1818 Capt.
Phillip Parker King, in H.M.S. Mermaid,
wandered into a harbor in the Coburg Penin-
sula, north-east of Darwin, and named it Pprt
Essington after an English admiral. English
soldiers and convicts under Gordon Bremer
hoisted the Union Jack there in 1824, aban-
doned it after three days in favox; of Melville
Island, abandoned that, too—“an infirmary for
one portion of the population, a cemetery for
the other”—in 1829. Then in 1838, having
heard that the French had designs on the lonely
north of Australia, Bremer and the military
returned to Port Essington. The settlement was
again abandoned in 1849; and in 1873 John
Lewis —explorer, cattleman and goldseeker, and
father of Essington Lewis —found there only
graves and ruins. John Lewis came back in
1875, built a house on the Coburg Peninsula,
and “tamed many of the buffaloes, Timor ponies
and Sourabaya cattle that had been roaming
at large since the settlement was abandoned.
He was thus the first civil settler at Port
Essington.” Did he, too, up and away?
Essington Lewis was bom at Burra (S.A.), 1881.
Queensland Royal Geographical
Society, which has awarded its Dr. J. P.
Thompson gold medal only 10 times in'
many years, has handed it simultaneously
to two close friends —Dr. J. C. (Sydney
Harbor Bridge) Bradfield and Father Leo
Hayes, parish priest at Crow’s Nest, near
Toowoomba. The Doc.’s performances
have often been recorded ; Father Hayes,
who gets the award for outstanding
scientific research, has at his Crow’s Nest
home a remarkable geological and ethno-
logical museum, a collection of abo. im-
plements held to be of great scientific
value, and what is acknowledged to be
the largest and most valuable private
library in the State, including rare vols.
and documents dealing with every phase
of Australian history, exploration, land
development, literature and science.
Father Hayes was geologist and ethnolo-
gist to the scientific expeditions which
visited the Carnarvon Ranges (C.Q.) in
1937, 1938 and 1940. Taroom (C.Q.)
prickly pear would like to catch him
alone on a dark night; he introduced it
to Cactoblastis.
“Hamer”: Long since forgotten, but
a figure in his day—Jim Barnes, clock-
maker, who, at 88, has gone where time
troubles none. Forty-odd years back
papers freely published his arguments
(and he had plenty) in favor of the 24-
hours clock; only one vote defeated his
effort, to have one installed on the Sydney
Town Hall tower. Outside his time ob-
session he was an easygoing chap, which
explains why he died poor, though he
once had a big business. The only time-
piece he possessed when he died was a
cheap clock —one of the common or
garden 12-hour variety.
Maoriland’s foremost zoologist, Wil-
liam Blaxland Benham, of Dunedin,
vigorous still at 81, has been handed an
hon. D.Sc. degree by N.Z. University.
Benham, who earned such a doctorate
from London Uni. donkey’s years ago,
was prof, of biology at Otago Uni. for
just on 40 years, and before that was
Aldrichian demonstrator at Oxford. An
emeritus prof, since 1937, knighted three
years back, he has been a tower of
strength to Maoriland’s W.E.A. and is
one of the Dominion’s few Fellows of
the Royal Society.
“El V.” on a colorful character:
Hughie Mclntosh, dead in London at 66,
looked like something out of Arnold Bennett.
The real Bennett air went with a career which
he began sleeping in wet doorways as a tinker’s
boy and which reached its height in the Royal
Box at Ascot, where I once had him pointed
out to me (from over the fence!) as Lord
Rothermere. Hughie rejoiced as much over
that mistake as if he’d been made a visccpunt.
Under the burly exterior and hard experience
he was a wistful sentimentalist, always hero-
worshipping some prototype he’d selected as a
pattern —aspiring to figure as a Williamson or
Ziegfeld, or else as a newspaper lord. One
thing none could deny of him was that he was
a man of iron nerve, as he showed when,
having arranged the Burns-Johnson fight in
1908, he elected to referee it himself, after
the black panther had refused to accept
“Snowy” Baker because of his youth and
Colonel “Bull” Ryrie because of his inexperi-
ence. It was a game thing to do; it would
have needed only one mistake to see the ref.
skinned alive. Hughie handled the fight as
well as he’d handled first Johnson’s demand
for more money (turned down, with a revolver
produced as persuader) and then the black’s
demand that “Tahmmy” should remove his ban-
dages (also declined, though “Tahmmy” volun-
tarily took them off). Hughie was a good ref.,
acknowledged by The Bulletin (31/12/’08) to
“know the game from A to Z.” Above all,
it was his courage that counted. Who but
HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Hughie would have been brave enough to
offer Nellie Melba £lOOO to sing “Home, Sweet
Home” as a Stadium prelim.?
A world reputation in the science of
flying and a regular kite’s tail of scientific
labels taking up most of the alphabet
back up Lawrence Percival Coombes,
D.F.C., etc., in his job on the Aircraft
Advisory Committee. Chief of the
C.S.I.R. Division of Aeronautical Re-
search in Melbourne, he was with the
British Air Ministry as scientific adviser,
and was also for a time a co-pilot with
Kingsford Smith. He was born in 1899
in Madras, which should stand to him if
he now has to make a curry of finely
chopped red-tape.
Here depicted, Arthur Edgar Leighton
(C.M.G., F.1.C., etc.), not caught in the
act of listening for an air-raid alert, but
thinking out a problem of explosives pro-
duction. A 69-year-old Englishman, he
has been mixed up officially in gun-
powder plots since 1903, when he started
Expert in Explosives.
reorganising munitions supply in India
for Kitchener. From 1914 to 1918 he
held down a like job as British Ministry
of Munitions consultant, then came to
Australia to join the infant Board of
Munitions Supply. Controller-General
when he retired in 1937, he was recalled
when Hitler started to show fight, and is
now consultant to the Ministry in all
matters connected with explosives. A
pleasant, cultivated, well-read fellow,
who frequents the Royal Melbourne Golf
Club, the Melbourne Club and the all-
important Naval and Military in his
“off” moments, you’d never guess he was
so deeply immersed in the lethal business.
Into the silence:
At Auckland (M.L.), 56, Dr. Kenneth Mac-
kenzie, president of the British Empire Cancer
Campaign in M.L., prominent in Rotary and
a son of a former M.L. Prime Minister. A
highly qualified surgeon (Edinburgh, 1913), he
was in the 1914-18 war.
At 83, in Melbourne, Herbert Randall
(privately, W. F.), an original Savoyard, who
subsequently toured Australia with Ada Reeve
and later managed for Percy Hutchison. His
wife was once well-known comedy actress
Henrietta Cavendish, and a son, Brett Randall,
keeps the flag of serious drama flying at the
little St. Chad’s Theatre, South Yarra.
In Adelaide, at 75, Sidney Wilcox, wealthy
pastoralist and bachelor. He gave away a lot
of money, including a recent £5OOO towards
at last starting a women’s college at Adelaide
Uni. He and his father amalgamated with the
onetime Sydney firm of Mofflin and Co. to
found the present Wilcox Mofflin Co.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 70, John Dunbar
Grey, who, when a “Star” reporter in his
native Auckland, became assistant private sec.
to Seddon, later joined “Hansard,” was secre-
tary to the Recruiting Board in the 1914-18
war and afterwards the Repatriation Board,
with terms in a like post for External Affairs
and Cook Islands Administration. His two
sons are in the N.Z.E.F.; one, Lieut. Duncan
Grey, reported missing in Libya.
At Sydney, Gerald Harman Walenn, violinist.
London-born, he won every prize open to a
violinist at the Academy of Music, was well
known on the English concert stage, introduced
to England new works by many noted com-
posers, toured England with Melba and made
successful appearances in the U.S.A. and
Canada. He came to Australia in 1917 to join
Adelaide Con., and seven years later transferred
to Sydney Con. Symphony orchestras in various
Australian capitals are well stocked with his
former pupils.
Col. James Walker, D. 5.0., at 78; King’s
Prize winner and member of a Queensland team
that won the Intercolonial Cup. Taking him
on in a revolver duel would have been one
sure way of committing suicide. Originally from
County Down (Ireland), and in civil life a
builder in N.Q., Canberra and Sydney, he went
from lieutenant to captain in the Boer War,
and to colonel in 1914-18, when he commanded
the 25th Battalion on Gallipoli and in France.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
"What, you’ve never seen a midshipman's sea chest?”
“Clooter”: The meenister had some-
what reluctantly allowed himself to be
taught auction bridge, largely because it
was the main pastime of the leaders of
his flock, so when he called upon the
three surveyors in their camp out of town
and was forced to remain overnight be-
cause of a car breakdown he accepted
their invitation to make a fourth. Things
went smoothly until he got the good
hand. There was the usual backing and
filling until one of his opponents risked
three hearts. The meenister pondered
deeply, studied his cards and his partner’s
disapproving face, then said “Three
spades.” Disgustedly the heart bidder
swore, “Blast you! ” “Well,” said the rev.,
“I’m not up in the finer points, but I’ll
reblast you.”
“Sevener”: On our public golf course
a military installation has been placed
bang on the middle of the line between
two fairways. A notice warns golfers
not to hit their balls towards the instal-
lation, albeit the average player on
that course never knows where his
ball is going. Four of us, having
absorbed the warning, glanced at the
installation and saw the man on guard
there watching us intently. As soon as
it became clear that we were about to
drive off he—he put on his steel helmet!
* * * »
‘MacH.”: When I wrote a mildly
humorous par. in B. 4/2 / ’42 about Crime
returning to King’s Cross and thereabouts
in the brownout, I’d fallen into the com-
mon romantic error of this generation in
associating a certain glamor with Syd-
ney’s vanished “pushes.” But how ugly a
thing street violence is when it breaks out
again! A last-war service man (medically
rejected when he volunteered for this one)
in a tram going up William-street towards
the Cross ; a “soldier” picking a quarrel
with him, demanding, when there were
vacant seats in the compartment, that he
should give up his seat to a woman ; the
victim, to avoid trouble, leaving the tram ;
three “soldiers” following him ; and then,
according to Sydney “Daily Telegraph”;
Suddenly Coleman was punched and
knocked into the gutter. He rose and tried
to escape, but another soldier struck him.
Again he fell. His first assailant then kicked
him on the head. The soldiers then hurried up
the stairs to the higher level of Forbes-street.
Coleman, who was a cook at the Carlton
Hotel, died in hospital. That’s Sydney’s
biggest brownout story to date, and it’s
not a pretty one. William-street isn’t any
dark lane where a man might expect
trouble, but the main thoroughfare from
the city to the Cross.
* * * *
“The Chaser”: The old, old need for
a uniform Commonwealth divorce law
was stressed by Acting Chief Justice Rich
in the case of a man who, his wife hav-
ing deserted him, went and lived with
another woman, who bore him two
children. The man had been refused a
the strength of a decision given
m a South Australian case, that 1 where
a husband who has been deserted by his
wife commits adultery within five years,
tbe P e l Hod of desertion is terminated, even
though the adultery is unknown to the
wife.” Tragic in a country which now
realises—or should realise—what a small
__ __ npi ti* i
population means. The High Court
allowed an appeal, and one Justice re-
marked that since the S.A. precedent the
Court had had abundant knowledge of
the hardships it could inflict on forsaken
husbands aSd wives.
« * * ,
“Avon”: Sydney isn’t the only place
where breaches of blackout regulations
occur in the last places you’d expect
them. Wellington (MX.) doused its
glims the other night and darkness
wrapped the shores of Port Nicholson
in a sable mantle—all except Parliament
House, where lights blazed from several
windows on the top floor. The Mayor said
the sort of scorching things that are said
on such occasions. There was an inquiry,
of course, and it elicited the usual chapter
of unlikely accidents. The only thing
clear was that the city wardens had done
their job. The stage was set for recrimi-
nations and general unpleasantness, but
Premier Fraser took a hand, put all the
blame where it belongecb said the M
was “100 per cent, right,” thanked him
between for ca[li attention to the breach and
congratulated the city wardens on the
faithful discharge of their duties,
* % * *
“Zake”: “X.S.” (B. 4/2/’42) emits
cheers over a statement that Victoria,
with a population of close to 2,000,000,
celebrated 178 splicings last December,
with a total of 1363 for 1941. In 1860,
with a population one-quarter its present
one, Victoria saw 4351 hardy pioneers
take their brides to the altar.
* * * *
“Across and Down”: Many people
regard an addiction to crossword puzzles
as a weakness and a waste of time. Prob-
ably there are more commendable ways
of whiling the tedium of a daily railway
journey, but I maintain that these
chequerboard designs are not without
educational value. Without them I should
never have learned that Odin had a
brother named Ye, that the name of fish
sauce is alec, that a click beetle is an
elater, that a sweetsop is an ates and that
esne is another name for slave. Some
of the fattest dictionaries I have con-
sulted have been ignorant of these
matters. Nor have I been successful in
extracting from histories of music the
information a thousand times proffered
me by crossword compilers that Ela was
the highest note in Guido’s scale. Grove,
for instance, says one of the notes was
E la mi, without indicating its position ;
but as Guido was the pioneer of tonic
sol-fa it is unlikely mi was at either end
of his gamut. And good old Noah
Webster, even in his latest enormous
tome, doesn’t know, as I know, thanks to
x-words, that a xat is a totem-pole.
♦ * * *
“Dhas”: While in normal times I take
as much innocent delight as any of us
in the misfortunes of others, in war I
don’t. I think the last time I permitted
myself a malicious grin was when
all the Corns, turned turtle. I think I
shall allow myself just one more. Britain
and America, the cables tell me, are com-
ing to some arrangement about conscript-
ing British subjects living in the U.S.;
and, as it stands at present, all British
subjects between 20 and 45 living in
America are liable for service with the
U.S. forces. Lord bless my soul, all that
merry gang who were known as the
“Gone with the Wind-ups” ; the actors
who skipped to Hollywood ; the wealthy
wanderers ; the leader of England’s Pink
Poets ; the stalwarts of “non-resistance”
and the Peace Pledge movement ... I
had a notion that Nemesis would catch
up with them sooner or later. And, yes,
little as I like the idea of artists being
mixed up in a war, and much as I agree
with the contention that such people are
militarily useless, I think I shall permit
myself a grin.
* * * *
“Hayer”: Nobody need be alarmed —
the military or the police or somebody
is taking all steps to stop the formation
of private armies. Evidence? A man
went to buy an air-gun for his small son
and was told by the shopkeeper that he
would have to get a permit before he
could get the air-gun.
* * * *
“Looby”: The freckled brat from the
flat next door nearly bowled me over in
his anxiety to get up the stairs. “What’s
on?” I asked. “Beans,” he grinned,
bright-eyed with delight. I was rather
horrified, vegetables not having been a
cause for anything bar a row in my ex-
treme youth. “You must like them,” 1
said, startled. Halfway up the second
stairway he called down, in scorn, “Aw,
don’t be silly. I hate ’em. But Mum
sent me out to price ’em and they’re
one-and-six a pound and she’ll never buy
’em at that price!”
* * ♦ *
“Nakhoda”: Says my morning news-
paper, recounting the privations suffered
by evacuees from Malaya:
Many of the women who a few weeks
ago possessed almost palatial homes in one
of the world’s richest countries and whose
domestic staffs numbered up to a dozen
servants have for the past month or so
tended their children practically day and
night, preparing their meals and washing
and ironing their meagre laundry, often
under the most difficult conditions<
One of the most devastating influences
of life in the tropics is the ability of white
women to command the labor of colored
people and to believe that they have an
inalienable right to do so. To this fact
is probably due nine-tenths of tropical
neurosis. The harm done to children
is probably less than the harm done to
mothers, but children feel that they are
less important to their parents than a
game of bridge at the club or a cocktail
party at Raffles, and a barrier is set up
which is rarely surmounted. The healthiest
white women I ever encountered were
the wives of some rough Cornish miners
imported as overseers to the coalmines
of Labuan, off the coast of Borneo. They
kicked out the native servants allotted to
them by their employers and, to the
horror of European society in general, in-
sisted even on cooking their husbands’
dinners. Whenever I wanted a really
good dinner I made a point of calling on
these sturdy people, carefully avoiding
the manager’s “palatial home” with its
dozen servants. The food there was awful.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: The only thing I ever
learned from working with Slavs, Italians
and other Southern Europeans was that
the average Britisher has as much chance
of understanding them as he has of
understanding the Orient. The West-
ralian police nevertheless seem to be
satisfied that they have got to the bottom
of the ghastly affair at Boulder, in
which, according to their theory, a Slav of
“morose and sullen disposition,” worried
about the troubles of his native land,
bombed a boarding-house and an old de-
licensed pub. The explosions killed 14
people and injured 15, all Slavs, where-
upon the bomber blew himself up in the
Boulder cemetery with “half a case of
gelignite”—an extravagant allowance
considering what one stick of the stuff
will do. If the notion that he was wor-
ried “by the suffering of his countrymen
in Europe and greatly disturbed by the
fact that he was not able to be with
them” is correct, then he chose a most
illogical way to help them—three of his
victims were on draft for the A.I.F. and
due to leave for Perth.
* * * *
“Zend Avesta”: Sinking an enemy’s
merchant ships is the easiest part of war.
Britain suffers heavily because she has
such a huge fleet of merchant ships.
There’s nothing new about it. During
the Napoleonic wars (1793-1815) 10,870
British merchant ships were sunk or cap-
tured by the enemy. Even after Trafal-
gar, when Britain had undisputed com-
mand of the seas, the average British loss
was 550 ships a year. Britain continued
to build ships, continued to man them,
continued to feed her people, and at last
crushed Nap.
“You’re disqualified! You blinked.”
SIRENS.
The Sirens of Ulysses’ day
Were female-visaged birds of prey
Who, perched upon their chosen posts
Around Italia’s southern coasts,
As every schoolboy ought to know,
Their voices o’er the sea would throw,
The fascination of their notes
Enticing chaps on ships and boats
To head for shore, intent to see
Whence came such wondrous melody,
All unsuspecting that their fate
Was to be killed —and then be ate!
When Old-World myths and legends died,
We find the classic term applied
To just one type of dame or miss,
A real, living charmer, this,
An undisputed sorceress
In feminine seductiveness
Who brings a host of men to heel
With sheer, insistent sex appeal,
Such witching wiles as Helen knew.
And Egypt’s Cleopatra, too,
But who no longer eats her prey—
Not literally, anyway.
A siren next becomes a horn
Whose harsh and raucous sounds are borne
Across the waves when fogs debar
Skippers from knowing where they are.
“Watch out,” it rumbles warningly.
“Where’er you’re bound, keep clear of me! ”
A curious divagation, eh?
From what the sirens used to say.
And now, whene’er the message rings
From these intimidating things.
No soft “come hither” floats thereon,
Merely a frantic “get you gone.”
For cover you must look around
Or go, if possible, to ground.
Queer that a siren call has got
To mean the opposite of what
It once denoted, is it not?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
TWO SORTS OF SPIRIT.
“A man convicted of attempting to vote at the
Leichhardt (Sydney) municipal election in the name
of a deceased ratepayer was released on a good-
behavior bond, his counsel having pleaded the com-
bined influence of drink and party enthusiasm in
extenuation of the offence.”
When, influenced by varying emotions,
Discerning citizens are met to choose
Such spokesmen as they trust will air their notions
At council tables and reflect their views,
Tis wise to shy at alcoholic potions
Or, in colloquial phrase, cut out the booze.
What poets designate the “flowing bowl”
May get you into trouble at the poll.
There is a time for all things—no disguising
That axiom. And though I scout the pledge,
There’s still one abstinence that I’m advising:
Good friends, forbear towards the bar to edge
Too often, previous to exercising
The freeman’s immemorial privilege.
Too lavish sluicing of a thirsty throat
May possibly invalidate your vote.
I care no whit if partisanship sways you
Or camaraderie, it matters naught
What motive to the polling booth conveys you,
I wouldn’t give the point a second thought
Unless, of course, your clannishness betrays you
To doing something that you “didn’t ought,”
Something for which the Law exacts a price,
Such as deliberately voting twice.
So, brother, if you’re filled with liquor cheering
As well as passionate esprit de corps.
And hold all’s proper in electioneering,
Just as it’s said to be in love and war,
You’re risking disillusionment, I’m fearing,
You may be in for an awakening sore.
The penalty next time will go beyond,
I’m venturing, a good-behavior bond.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


"Where Would I get a leave pass? I'm doin' ten days C.B.!"
“V.C.”: In the lost-and-found column
of my morning paper I came across this:
“Flapjack, gold, colored, sentimental
value, reward.” Now I yield to no man
in my admiration for the culinary ability
of my missus, and when she really sets
out to make flapjacks it’s something to
write home about. But I’m darned if I
ever eyed the best one on my plate with
a sentimental feeling, though its rich
gold, brown and black coloring swims
before me as I write. Just before some
smarty bolts in with the information that
the lost flapjack isn’t the kind I’m think-
ing of, let me insinuate that I once knew
a man who claimed £35 damages for a
pair of trousers he was wearing when a
riot swept upon him. Asked to explain
he said the breeks had a sentimental value
because they were the ones he wore on
his wedding day. There is just a chance
that the lost flapjack belonged to some
happy ’groom who was carting it home
to show Mother what the girl could do.
* * sfc
“Ex-Mister”: An indignant citizen in
our suburban railway carriage one morn-
ing wound up a fervent denunciation of
Governmental intrusions into personal
affairs with the complaint that the new
sundial which he had installed on his
lawn would be rendered useless by this
daylight-saving nonsense. As a matter of
fact, sundials, even when correctly laid
out and sited, agree with clock-time only
four times a year. The difference for the
remaining days has to be worked out by
an equation based on the sun’s apparent
motion. A clock-day represents only the
average length for the solar days of a
year. A further complication is that
eastern Australian mean time is calcu-
lated from the 150th degree of east longi-
tude, which meets the Australian coast in
the vicinity of Cape Howe, passes
about 80 miles west of Sydney and 200
miles west of Brisbane, and leaves the
coast northward of Rockhampton (Q.).
In no principal town or city in the area
do mean time and sun time agree, even
without the daylight-saving complication.
Anyhow, it’s long odds that our fellow-
traveller’s sundial is incorrectly orientated,
so he’s got nothing to grumble about.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Repartee has gone out of
fashion in war-time Melbourne, but
there was a fair sample at Tex Morton’s
Rodeo the other evening when a roisterer
suddenly became resentful of the musical
element in the proceedings. “Who are
you?” he demanded of Morton in a voice
of thunder. After the umpteenth repeti-
tion of this inquiry, that broadcasting
Beethoven paused in his guitar-playing
and retorted: “All right, I’ll bite! Who
am I?” This question reduced the inter-
jector to silence for fully a minute ; then
he resumed the offensive. “Yes, who am
I?” remarked Morton ; “the answer ought
to be very funny.” This moved the inter-
rupter to fury, necessitating the interven-
tion of a policeman. As the recalcitrant
one was being escorted to the exit,
Morton paused in his singing of a senti-
mental ditty of his own composition to
say “And who are you?” It closed the
incident neatly.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Our district simmered with
a mystery. A married couple living, not
amiably, in a flat had not been seen
for a fortnight, nor had their wireless or
their arguments been heard. Many feared
the worst when a party, including police
and the agents for the flat, came down
to investigate. The flat, its furniture
(which belonged to the tenants) intact,
had no occupants; but there were no
corpses. Two letters in the mailbox ex-
plained the situation. One, from the
husband to the wife, intimated that he was
fed up and was off, with personal effects.
A letter from the wife to the husband
was an almost similar document. There
are now new tenants in the flat; the fur-
niture has been stored, awaiting a claim-
ant. And somewhere in Australia are a
husband and wife who each fancy that he
or she has deserted the other. They
may never know that the idea struck
both of them at the same time.
sfc 3: * $
“Craiser”: State Government paternal-
ism in Victoria hasn’t sapped self-
reliance. A 13-year-old girl in West
Brunswick organised a gang composed of
herself, a brother, aged 11, and a friend
of the same age, and in five days con-
structed an air-raid dugout in her parents’
backyard 10 feet long, five feet wide and
six feet deep, with sandbag reinforce-
ments.
» * * •
“Galenus”: An interesting example of
the mental similarity between “identical”
twins (those produced from the same
maternal ovum) has been provided by
the results of the recent junior public
exams, in Brisbane. Two C.E.G.S. boys,
twin sons of a doctor, obtained precisely
similar results in each of the nine sub-
jects for which they sat. Each scored
firsts in arithmetic, algebra and chemistry,
seconds in English, German, geography
and geometry, thirds in English his-
tory and physics. Their physical re-
semblance is equally close. In contrast
to “identicals,” twins evolving from
separate maternal elements seldom bear
more than an ordinary family re-
semblance to each other and may vary
widely in mental and physical attributes.
There is a recorded case in the eighteenth
century of a notorious French criminal
whose twin brother became a bishop.
» * * 9
“F.S.”: All this debate about the
genius of war correspondents, or lack
of it, leaves me cold. It is their subject
matter, not the skill of their writing,
which makes their stuff seem important.
From the point of view of subject matter,
a painting of a cathedral is more inter-
esting than a painting of a washhouse,
but from the point of view of painting
the one may be worthless and the other
a masterpiece. If these war scribes could
give a vital description of ordinary
domestic relations or some little incident
in a tramcar I might believe that they
were great writers. But how many of
them are? And how many people want
to read the opinions of “famous” war
correspondents when a war is over?
♦ * * *
“Hashigo Kara”: The Jap lingo, as it
is spoken (especially on what, in per-
fectly good Japanese, is the rajio ), is
rather like a series of Q.M.S. store requi-
sitions or army form sentences, both in
sound and idiom. For example, Wata-
kushi-no inu-wa o-Eddie-Ward-sama-no
nego-no-kogeki-o habimemashita —“I-of,
dog-nominative-particle, honorable-Eddie
Ward Mister-of, cat-of, socking-accusa-
tive particle, has begun.” In other words,
“My dog has begun to sock Eddie Ward's
cat.” It would be simple to any old-
time regular Q.M.S. or “Hansard” in-
dexer ; and civil servants should delight
in it. Most tongues are content with one
or two syllables to express “I” —Latin,
ego; French, je ; Norwegian, jeg; Hindu-
stani, ham ; Cantonese, ngo ; Pitta Pitta,
nun ; but to himself Johnny Tokyo is
watakushi. On the other hand, when he
wishes to express something new he does
it simply: den, lightning; so denki
(“lightning emanation”), electricity;
denwa (“lightning conversation”), tele-
phone ; yodenki (“yes-lightning emana-
tion”), positive electricity. Or he goes
European, grabs somebody else’s word as
if it were a patent right, and Japanises it.
Thus, kara is a collar, bata is butter,
inki is ink, departo is a department store.
And the Jap for “all aboard” on a bus
is “awrai”
* * * *
“El V.”: Suggest that some of the
evacuated schools of Sydney should be
turned into colleges at which courses in
ethics and simple geography might be
handed out to radio announcers. The
“morning news sessions” in my part
of the world are introduced by a
merry jester in terms something like these
—they vary slightly from day to day:
“Well, folks. I have good news for you.
lam about to leave you. But, ha! Who’s
this? Brucie! It is! Here he comes!
The glamor boy of radio—yes, indeed.”
And after that anxious mothers and sleep-
less wives are allowed to hear from
“Brucie” or “Ernie” or whoever it is
war news which may mean lifelong grief
for them and death and mutilation for
their loved ones. So much for the ethics,
As for the geography: MacArthur is on
the “Batoum” peninsula; the Japanese
have threatened Mandanoo, Mandanoh
and Manandoh ; what most people in ad-
jacent waters call the Sell-ebees have be-
come Sel-ee-bees, and we have heard too
much of Lorengahn and Kah-viang.
* * * *
“Bo”: He is known throughout the
suburb as the gate-crashing champion,
His long suit is attendance at functions
in aid of the church to which he belongs ;
and the other night he beat his own
record easily. The hostess naturally
thnnoht that hv q ™ the last miest had
" The„ by a fammar figurf loomed
m the gateway and a determined sister
took charge. One and six, please, sister
said, holding out her hand. Cornered
the gate-crasher admitted estrangement
between himself and all com of the
realm but eventually fished out a postal
note for a shilling and three stamps. In-
doors the bettmg game of Esmeralda was
in full swing. Running true to form
our hero borrowed sixpence and put it
on Peeping Tom, which answered the
spin and paid out sixes. The champion,
what passed for a conscience perhaps
pricking him, returned the sixpence, re-
deemed the p.n. and stamps. That was
his only bet. He looked on^ until supper,
when he ate about ten bobs’ worth.
**, * * .
“Filmer”: It has long been my convic-
tion that Hollywood has solved the prob-
lem of achieving all sorts of dramatic
expression with 12 standard plots, 12 stand-
ard character types and 12 standard set-
tings, I do not mind that so much, as it
provides for quite a lot of variety when
the plots and characters and settings are
shuffled, but I do object to standardised by-
play. One of the most annoying examples
of what I mean is the by-play of delayed
intelligence. It has come now to the
stage where, if one character tells another
a fact of the utmost importance to the
plot, the character so informed shows no
sign of comprehension for several seconds
—goes on talking about something else.
Then slowly, very slowly, comprehension
begins to dawn and there is a request
for the repetition of the statement. I
suppose this representation of film char-
acters as being
the uptake is intended as subtle flattery
to film audiences, but the compliment
grows wearisome.
5 * * * *
“Strict Veg ”: I see that the Washington
Treasury Department has discovered that
since 1931 the Japanese have been con-
ducting a secret war against Western
civilisation, using narcotics to debauch
the white races. If the Japanese really
believed that they can destroy the
nhvsiaue and morale of nations whose
countries they purpose invading by sell-
ing them narcotics they must be sillier
tion I think they are. After generations
of more or less open trading in China
there were fewer opium addicts than
there are whisky addicts in Britain and
beer addicts in Australia, proportionate
to population, A huge proportion of the
Australian people spend more on tobacco
and strong drink in a week than the aver-
age Chinese coolie earns in a twelve-
month. If prohibitionist prophecies dur-
ing the last 50 years had come true Aus-
tralia would long ago have been finished
as a nation owing to its predilection for
hard stuff. But it takes a long time
dying.
t * „ * . * *, f
Cauboy : Concerning the value ot
entertainment in the present crisis there
are two schools of thought m Melbourne,
C ne holds that to ban mass amusemen
would be just as injurious to morale
as an t * ie , er ’. that t e
congregating of large numbers in enclosed
spaces might result m a nerve-shattering
catastrophe. It would be interesting to
know how the authorities expect the
populace to act rationally in the ma er
when their own minds are divided. n
the one hand, A.R.P. authorities are ex-
hortmg people to keep out of the ci y ,
on the other hand, the City Council as
a huge poster advertising a weekly dance
a t the Town Hall with massed bands in
attendance, and approximately 3000 take
the bait on Fridays.
„ Ar !„. x . et;il u* uu; n „ liri
0 D f : TT«y re st.ll bobbing up, these
V*™ °> d Dl «S« s ■"“‘■"8 ™' es
whom they long since thought dead.
M<=Co>- and Bob Fenwick were
g stopped one and Bob helped him
t h P stretcher bearers Later Bob heard
l hat Ba | ney had 3 one west and mourned
V J bumped into
> a caK in Muswellbrook
(N sw , Barney . s home tOW n, the other
J the re y union gave pause to the
life of , he p]ace B Bob
was on a
. ; f m Hurstvi f lej a Sydney suburb .
**/ * *
“Cauboy”: “8.P.” (B. 28/l/’42), who
j n yfles me to imagine Shakspeare reduced
to modern English-cwm-American idiom,
is barking up the wrong tree. Shakspeare
liv es, not because of his Elizabethan con-
yentions, but because every now and then
a g reat thought emerges and because of
his understanding of human nature. I
haven ’ t read Dorothy Sayers’s Biblical
play It may be aw f ub But it is a new
play? and there is a difference between
writ j n „ a new p i ay abo ut an old theme
and reW riting Shakspeare in the Ameri-
aß language. I see no objections to an
author writing a play about the Redeemer
in an }di o m with which she is familiar
instead of one she doesn’t know. Ameri-
can evangebst Billy Sunday preached in
his own racy i anguagej and his sermons
were much bdtter rea ding than those of
many an archbishop,
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.” is reminded by the dedi-
cafion of a memorial tablet to the original
St Phillip’s Church in Sydney (conse-
crated in 1810 by Samuel Marsden) of a
cb urch that wasn’t built:
Q n Sept. 1, 1819, Governor Macquarie laid
the foundation-stone of a cathedral in George-
TTtowUs
[ } escr j( 3ec j b is idea : “The Church was to
stand in the centre of a large circus, similar
to the plan, laid down by Sir Christopher Wren,
of St. Paul’s Church, London. At the four
principal points, four st^ ts g
sd - e^t a !.. .another was to
have ’ communicated with Hyde Park—which
park was originally given to the inhabitants ot
£&£**£&£%
a h o ut this grand quadrangle so laid out all the
public buildings were to have been raised in a
classical style upon a level base, makmg as a
Bi ‘ o ~ vcto ed this scheme, although the founda-
tio ° ns of the cathedral had been begun, and so
the city lost its central square.
"No sense in being unprepared."


ABORIGINALITIES
"Why d'you want me to transfer to a mechanised unit?”
“They might wind you up, Dave.”
“The 0.D.”: Our new hand, fresh from
the city, was sent out to cut scrub for
the sheep. “Lop the kurrajongs,” said the
boss, “an’ make a neat job of it. I don’t
want branches lyin’ all over the place.”
Lunchtime came, but no new hand,
Search revealed him at the top of a 50ft.
high and bare kurrajong pole, every twig
and every branch of which had been
neatly taken off close to the trunk, only
he’d worked up instead of down and left
himself no foot- or hand-holds for the
descent.
. * . * * *
Private Pip ’: We were resting under
a tree during a trek when one of the com-
pany found himself surrounded by ants,
“Bull-ants!” he yelled. “They won’t hurt
you,” says I; “they’re only meaLants.”
He was up like a shot. “Since when,”
he screamed, “have I been a blasted vege-
table?”
* * ♦ • »
“Wang”: Dad Greybox and Jimmy
Lynch, in the township one market day,
a u K/i u “t a Y
spotted Hungry Murphy Lets duck
before that cow spies us, said Dad, or
he’ll nip us fer something.” They dodged
down a side street, and Jimmy remarked
“Gripes, I’d willingly give a quid t’ see
somebody put a whizzer over that flamin’
cadger.” “Same here,” replied Dad cor-
dially. A couple of hours later Hungry,
on his way to the saleyards, was accosted
by a stranger. “Mister Murphy?” asked
the stranger. “That’s me,” replied
Hungry, eyeing him suspiciously. “My
name’s Benson,” said the other. “I’ve
bought that farm of Hogan’s next to your
place, the one ole Greybox used to have,
I wus up with him lookin’ it over the
other day, an Greybox pointed you out
t’ me. So I thought I’d make meself
known, as we’ll be neighbors.” “Yes, yes,
certainly,” agreed Murphy. Then Dad
and Lynch appeared around a corner,
and Dad nodded in a friendly way to the
pair. “See y’re gettin’ acquainted with
y’r new neighbor, Murphy,” he re-
marked, and passed on. An hour or so
later on Benson, looking a trifle “lit up,”
on the outskirts of the township was
joined by Dad and Jimmy. “Well, how
did y’ get on?” asked Dad. “Great,”
replied the other. “Friend Murphy took
me to the pub, an’ spent over a quid
shoutin’ for me, an’ insisted on me takin’
this b'pttle of whisky with me, an’ hoped
t’ see more of me soon. 1 told him all
about the new motor plough an’ all that
like y’ said.” “Good,” said Dad. “Well,
here’s the two quid we promised y’.”
Mr. Benson, smiling happily, pouched
the notes and, shouldering his swag, hur-
ried off.
* * # *
“Old-timer”: Dan Creegan, Irish and
proud of it, would never have stayed on
Kilpoora had the boss not understood
him. He had been there three years,
during which he kept the outstation in
apple-pie order, and the men sent out
to work with him came and went with a
somewhat monotonous regularity. Some
came back and complained about Daniel,
but the boss usually soothed them down
with a small monetary compensation and
work on the homestead station. But
there came a time when Creegan, usually
happy, became glum, his tongue lost its
cheerful incivility and he rode round the
sheep in a listless manner. There was
a worry on his mind, and to dispel it he
rode the 43 miles into the head station,
sought out the boss and delivered him-
self. “Look,” he said, “f’r two an’ a
haff years, begob, I’ve nursed y’r blessed
shape out yonder an’ in that toime y’ve
sent me good min. Stout min that would
argufy wid me an’ put up their fists at
the ind of it. Some of ’em Oi’ve sint
back becase Oi bate ’em, ithers becase
they bate me, an’ a mahn grows toired o’
beltin’ the same mug over an’ over agin,
An’ phwat do y’ do but sind me that
teeny little mahn McLeod. He don’t
argue, but jist listens, an’ when Oi go f’r
him he jist bolts, bein’ too fast on his
fate f’r me t’ catch. So Oi’m turnin’ it
in.” Said the boss, “You go back out
there and send that whippersnapper
home. I’m sendin’ big Fleming out.
s , b * g B er than you an they say he can
“i e f hls d ° ok , s ' Creegan took two days
°ff for a bender, then went happily back,
isi the wers for a p gJ s <h k
understood men
* * * *
“Basalt”: The party of miners from
inland Queensland were visiting the coast
f or the first time. Sighting near the sea-
shore a flock of birds he had never seen
before, one of them asked a local what
they were. “Minahs,” replied the ques-
tioned one. “Oh, are they?” retorted the
visitor, bridling at this example of smart-
aleckry. “Well, you can say you’ve been
buffeted by one of ’em and it flaps harder
than a flamin’ wharf-lumpah bird—cop
that I” and he let fly with a right cross.
* * * *
“Rook”: Here’s how a duck enters its
nest in the hollow limb of a tree (B.
28/l/’42). The tree chosen will be in-
variably on a slope below water-level
close to a river. The thick roots which
spread into the river will be hollow,
allowing water to rise in the hollow
stump and along its main branches. The
duck dives into the river, enters a root
and paddles up to its nest, thereby elud-
ing enemies on the lookout for a cheap
supper. These intelligent birds use a
hollow branch opening off well below the
water-level in the trunk to allow for a
fall in the river whilst nesting. At least,
that is my theory, and, as since the big
fall in river levels caused by the drought
I have noticed ducks going back to the
old dangerous method of nesting in the
swamps, this would seem to confirm it.
» * * *
“Metax”: Noticed some pecked pota-
toes in the patch the other day, and that
was immediately after a mob of starlings
hanging around the paddock had taken
wing from the rows. Having watched
the imported pest change his diet from
caterpillars to cherries, plums and cur-
rants, I am fearful that shortly he will
not be content to scratch after the ones
just under the surface but will develop
burrowing tendencies.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: “D. Beach” (B. 14/l/’42)
has the right oil on trapping crocodiles,
though I prefer dog as bait to bullock’s
heart and the deader the dog the better.
But an easier way to catch the wily croc,
is by means of the wire noose. Take
a steel wire clothesline, bend one end to
a running noose and tie it so that it is
open in a circle of a couple of feet or
more (strong twine will do this). Sus-
pend noose from tree-branch overhang-
ing water, a quiet pool or a shady reach
for preference, since the saurian loves
such spots. Bait lower bend of noose so
that the meat just lies level with the
water. Along comes the croc., bites on
the meat, then starts to pull away.
Twine snaps easily, noose draws tight,
closing round croc.’s upper jaw, the thin
wire rope slipping up between the teeth.
So the saurian is caught—and the more
he struggles the more hopeless his case
becomes. A few bullets will finish him
off. But be sure and select a stout limb,
for the enraged croc, is a powerful brute
and has been known to tear off limbs six
inches through. Failing a strong enough
limb, carry fall of the rope up and fasten
round the tree-trunk. Crocs, grow to
20ft. and more, but even they are not
strong enough to tear out a tree much
over a foot in diameter.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; The ring-tailed possum
is my nomination as the most fascinating
of all Australian animals, koala in-
cluded. Watch a “ringy” frolicking in
the moonlit branches and you begin to
understand what “joy of living” means.
His judgment of distance is amazing, and
in every leap the tail, carried stiffly
behind with only the tip curly, is ready
to fasten to the nearest branch should
the objective give way. I remember my
dad sitting up armed with the shotgun
intending to get square on the culprit
who was nightly raiding the peach-tree.
When the marauder arrived Pop made
the mistake of waiting to shoot him red-
handed. The delay saved the little thief’s
life. Entranced, the old chap spent nearly
an hour watching the acrobatics, then he
came inside, unloaded the gun and de-
clared “A feller who could shoot one o’
them is capable of murder!” From then
on, while the peaches lasted, he waited
by the tree every night—without the gun
—and reckoned a bit of fruit was a cheap
price to pay for an hour’s entertainment.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The ladies of Murray
and other eastern islands in Torres Strait
have a better and more convenient
method of collecting sardines for the
family table than by the cast-net (B.
21/1/ ’42). Their armament consists of
a spear carrying a shaving-brush gadget
of fencing-wire points and an enamel
dish. When Koos and Abob, the soft-
and hard-backed pilchards, appear in the
channel within the fringing reef, each
thrifty housewife kilts up her lava-lava
and wades through the shallows pushing
the floating basin before her. When a
shadow in the water
indicates a shoal of
pilchards she pitch-
poles the spear into
the air so that it
will fall vertically
into the midst,
wades up to it as
it floats and strips
off into the dish
the succulent little
fish jammed be-
tween the diverg-
ing points. Should
a coral bream or
other larger fish
come within range
the spreading points
make a certainty of
holding it. War
shortages will prob-
ably compel a
return to the fire-
hardened bamboo
points and the wooden dish which their
ancestresses used for centuries before the
white man came, but they are equally
effective.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: That goanna
which “B. A. Ker” (B. 21/1/ ’42) watched
cramming starlings down its gullet by
bumping them on the floor was a poor
glutton compared with Bill Beatty’s
A.B.C. go. which pushed bones into its
tummy by shoving their ends against a
tree. Both are mere amateurs in the
stuffing line compared with the rare
Orlmeyi snake (Dipsomanicus bungstar-
teri), discovered during my second ex-
ploration of the Da-mnl-iah country. This
formidable reptile lies in wait for the
three-tailed forest buffalo (Bos guyverus )
as it comes to drink at one of the natural
beer springs which form so delectable a
feature of that favored country. Loop-
ing itself across a lofty bough, it hangs
over the track with the tail in the direc-
tion from which the buffalo will
approach. Dealing the astonished animal
a hearty smack on the rump with it, the
snake opens its mouth to receive the
quarry as it bounds involuntarily for-
ward. The tail is then used to force the
prey further and further along the gullet
until nothing remains but a great scaly
ring round the branch. The rareness of
the species arises from the fact that its
members are given to dreaming that
they have caught a buffalo, in which case
the somnolent reptile thrusts its tail into
its mouth and keeps on swallowing until
it disappears entirely.
* * * «
“Dungeness”: Henry, Sambo and Dan,
of the N.T. police, have demonstrated
conclusively that the ancient art and craft
of tracking has not died out amongst
their race. Two soldiers from Darwin
got lost while out on a bush walk. Search
parties failed to find them. With a
mounted constable the three sleuths spent
a day studying the lay of the country
and finished by picking up the lads’ tracks.
Thereafter they followed them without a
halt over rocky reefs, across creeks and
streams and through dense bush straight
to a woodcutters’ camp at Middle Arm,
where the missing pair had arrived
shortly before. A number of other sol-
diers had found the camp and somebody
expressed doubt about the tracking story,
whereupon Sambo, who didn’t know one
man from another, inspected the boots
of 20 men and picked out the two occu-
piers thereof who had been lost. The
trio had previously told the constable the
correct height and build of each man as
deduced from length of stride and im-
print of boots as seen in soft sand,
* * * *
“Murty”: I see be the papers that a
mob of carpenter blokes is busy putting
up a barricade of hardwood and dirt
round the Sydney G.P.O. to pertect it
from them there air raids. I want one
of youse Bulletin blokes to go up and
tell ’em to be careful about the big clock
on top. I bought it back in 1919, but I
ain’t had time to get down there and col-
lect it yet. I’ll come on somebody for
damages if it’s knocked about.
“A clear case of suicide.”
MATESHIP.
Close-linking bush folk together,
As talk of the inland tells,
Firm set in the heart of Australia
The spirit of mateship dwells.
Beneath it bright bonds are woven
lhat naught ’neath the stars shall part,
As ever and ever it hearkens
The calling of heart to heart.
Dim campfires and hearth-fires know it
And under its breath glow red;
And men ’neath its urge die gaily
Lest others die in their stead.
Full many have sensed its presence,
Beholding grim signs at hand—
A waterbag shared to the finish,
And bones on the desert sand.
Apd many, made kind by its urging,
Have hearkened the outlaw’s call,
Made room for him under their blankets
And given him half of their all.
Wherefore, let us praise and thank it
For all that it is and gives,
While warm in the heart of Australia
The spirit of mateship lives.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Jayem”: Vic, inspecting a line of
steers, was trying to beat the price down.
He criticised them on practically every
point, and finished up by saying that they
were too poor. “Well, I’ll admit they
are a bit on the thin side,” said the
owner. “I should say they are,” said
Vic. “Gripes, you could brand two at
a time if you put carbon paper between
’em.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Whether Nature, the
supreme artist, attains to beauty pur-
posely or by chance no man can say. The
pearlshell and the pearl, lifted from one
fathom or forty, are always beautiful.
Why that lustrous sheen, only to be
buried in the depths of the sea? More
curious, how is it formed? One theory
is that the nacre attains its lustre through
the rays of the tropical sun filtered down-
wards through the clear sea water. Again,
take the common cowrie shell. Not all
the human polishers can attain to the
smooth perfection of the cowrie. Be-
tween Broome and King Sound, W.A.,
the sea beach often is littered with cow-
ries, some no bigger than a pea, others
the size of a man’s fist, but all of the
same exquisite polish, mottled with spots
of a deeper colour. And its hardness is
such that a cowrie will roll backwards
and forwards with the waves for months
without being affected by sand abrasion.
Yet the same abrasion will wear the razor
edge off broken glass within 48 hours,
and grind the outside of a bottle to a
frosted pattern inside a few Weeks. As to
the living corals —blue, purple, red, green,
brown, all of which die when taken from
the water, leaving the bleached white
skeleton —no brush or camera can pic-
ture the exquisite beauty of them.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Australian radio announcers
get into some strange tautological
muddles over Malayan place-names, not
recognising that, for the most part, they
are simple descriptions and not traditional
names whose meaning has been forgotten.
Kuala means “mouth” and lumpur
“muddy” ; tanjong means cape or penin-
sula, so it is superfluous to talk of Cape
Tanjong. Sungei means river and siput
shellfish, so Sungei Siput is Shellfish
River. Batu means “rock,” kota means
town or fort—most towns were forts in
the days of independence, when there
were scores of rajahs all fighting one an-
other. Bharu means “new,” so Kota
Bharu is Newtown ; Johore Bharu is New
Johore, established by the present Sultan.
And there is Blakang Mati, the island
in Singapore harbor. It means “after
death,” and was the rendezvous of all the
ghosts on the way to Gehenna. For in-
venting horrible hobgoblins the Malay is
in a class of his own. Take Langsuyar, for
instance; it has the head of a beauteous
maiden and long flowing locks which on
closer inspection turn out to be her
entrails. She waylays travellers and lures
them to death with her embraces. Until
the British occupied it a Malay fisherman
would sooner be drowned than wrecked
on Blakang Mati.
“The 0.D.”: An A.B.C. announcer,
trying to explain to the English the mean-
ing of terms like “jumbuck,” “matilda”
and “billabong” in “Waltzing Matilda,”
got along all right till he came to the last.
“A billabong,” said he, “is a waterhole
in a dried-up river bed.” So next time
you camp on a billabong you’ll know
that, by A.B.C. standards, you haven’t.
* * * *
“J.8.C,”: An echo from Professor
Archibald Watson, now dead on Thurs-
day Island and formerly of Adelaide,
touched the N. S. Welsh Far West a while
ago in the person of a scholar of some
distinction. He was elaborating Watty’s
original idea that if the whites inter-
married with the abos. these would be
absorbed and scarcely recognisable in
three or four generations. Indeed it was
our beautiful duty to do so. “And
would you set an example by marrying
“Remember your instructions , gentlemen: five bursts rapid fire."
a full black?” our learned visitor was
asked. “Certainly,” he conceded, “pro-
vided the Government had educated her
to my standard.” The idealist was at this
stage informed that it takes four days to
clear a small hospital ward of Mary’s
odor. Swift was the retort: “And a
white’s odor is equally repugnant to the
pure black.” “Um-m,” drawled a voice,
“so even Nature seems agin’ y’r argu-
ment ! ”
* * * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We had a clearing con-
tract in the Vic. Mallee, and the farmer
seemed a pretty decent bloke until about
the third night, when he came down to
our camp and started going crook about
nothing much. We were getting well
paid and doing a good job, so we didn’t
say much, but he kept coming at it,
always at night and averaging about twice
a week. After a bit we got more or less
used to it, but I was waiting for the
night when the boss struck Mat in a bad
mood. It looked imminent the afternoon
Mat barked his shin and then drank some
cold tea with black ants in it. He was
still snarling after tea when he jumped up
with “Come on, I’m goin’ t’ beat that
so-and-so to it. We’ll go t’ his place an’
go crook f’r a change!” Close to the
house we stopped ; all we could hear was
the cocky’s missus, nagging 19 to the
dozen. In 20 minutes we learned more
about his parents, his past and present
life than he knew himself. Then Mat
touched my arm and we drifted thought-
fully back to camp. A half-hour later
the cocky appeared. Mat dusted a box,
put an old coat on it, sat the cocky on
it and said, “Ryebuck, let ’er go. We
don’t mind. We was up near the house
this evenin’. A bloke’s gotter get rid of
it somehow.” Overcome by this exhibi-
tion of understanding that cocky looked
at us hard, then went and gave his missus
the father of a hiding. Thereafter our
after-toil hours were full of peace.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: I watched the home-
garden department of one of Melbourne’s
biggest stores the other day, and, for one
person who bought seeds or seedlings of
cabbage, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts or
lettuce, 20 bought the good old portu-
lacca, antirrhinum and calendula. Why?
Purely from habit. The Government has
appealed to citizens to do everything in
their power to aid the war effort by re-
lieving the food situation. There is a
vegetable shortage; bean crops can’t be
gathered because the labor has gone into
factories or the army ; lettuces and beans
are at luxury prices, and a man who had
the forethought to plant a few acres in
pumpkins made a fortune, some of his
monsters fetching £1 apiece at the market.
But Melbourne suburbanites have for so
long kept the facade of their dwellings
elegant with pansies and standard roses
that the habit appears to be ineradicable.
A similar appeal was made in Perth in
the 1914-18 period. In my suburb one
resident took his courage in both hands,
dug up his front garden and in a few
months had it blooming with turnips and
tomatoes. His neighbors thought he had
spoilt the look of the suburb, but the
extra vitamins his children got certainly
improved their looks.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: It is a tribute to the
veneration with which the horse is held
in this country that a stipendiary steward
of a racing club in Melbourne, who is
also a vet,, has prevailed on the club to
establish an A.R.P. service for animals
which is at least as comprehensive as, if
not more so than, that for human beings.
It will ensure that animals injured in an
air raid will receive prompt and expert
first-aid attention; that hopelessly
wounded animals will be assured of a
quick and humane lethalisation; that
there will be animal A.R.P. posts in all
the principal municipalities to control
panic-stricken dumb creatures that may
endanger the human population; that
veterinary first-aid posts will be standing
ready, while mobile veterinary units can
be dispatched to localities where animal
casualties have occurred, just as with
human beings. The new service is to be
built into the general A.R.P. framework,
and vets, and members of the various
animal welfare institutions have promised
their co-operation.
* »
“K.1.N.”: Perhaps some horse writer
will resolve this for me. Say a man
went to the yard to catch his horse and
it was brown today, grey tomorrow, pie-
bald another time, and black next, would
he recognise it immediately? I’m laying
a shade of odds there’d be confusion
among the saddle-polishers. Yet how
many times does a horse make a mistake
once he’s used to his rider? Today that
fellow might wear a blue shirt with white
trousers; next time he catches that horse
“As Chamberlain would say, ’e miss the bus.”
he may have a white shirt and
grey trousers. He can mix ’em
any old way, but the horse doesn’t
have to ponder who’s who. And
how does the moke do it? It
can’t be by sound, for recognition
will be instant even though the
man doesn’t speak ; and no matter
which way the wind is blowing—
and that would govern the ques-
tion of scent —the prad can still
pick him in one.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: Blokes capable
of walking 100 miles inside 24
hours were fairly common in the
days when pedestrianism was the
chief form of individual locomo-
tion. Back in the ’seventies one
Professor Jameson did most of
the halls of Australia on that feat.
Any decent-sized building did
him, for he was a firm believer in
the sixpence admission at the
door. Covering the floor with
sawdust and straw he took off,
round and round; any spectators
so inclined being invited to join
in. Rests were allowable but no
sleep. Not so very difficult.
Twenty years after that I saw one
Abley, then 70 years of age, hit-
ting up a 25-mile walk at the set
rate of six m.p.h.—a good aver-
age pace; the ordinary walker nowa-
days does about four. So at. five miles
an hour the 100-mile walker would have
four hours’ rest on his little stroll during
the 24-hour period.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: Reference to the
dugong as a “sea-pig” (B. 21/1/ ’42)
reminds me. When voyaging from Eng-
land to Australia a few years ago a
Queensland girl who knew her natural
history reasonably well found herself
coaching one of the English officers on
the subject. She asked him had he ever
seen a dugong. “Never heard of it,”
quoth he; “what’s it like?” The girl
supplied a rough description. “In effect,”
she said, “it’s a sea-pig.” “A sea-pig,”
echoed the mariner. “Damme, we’ve got
plenty of those among our passengers!”
* * * *
“A. Perist”: I like “O.U.’s” ’ dictum
that wing-fanning and manipulation by
bees in the hive have nothing to do with
bee aeronautics (B. 14/1 / ’42). Young
bees thus develop their wing muscles.
Like baby birds, baby bees show a defi-
nite weakness in flight, and the bee re-
quires prodigious wing strength. For not
only does its wings carry the weight of
its body, but a tremendous added burden
as well. Watch field bees arriving from
their foraging—legs burdened to the limit
with pollen; honey sacs distended with
nectar. And how far may a bee carry
such a load? Investigation has estab-
lished eight and a half miles as the limit.
Seventeen miles of flight to gather one
load of pollen or nectar! And on a
long summer day the bee may repeat
such a journey half a dozen times. That
makes about 100 miles of flying. During
the flush of the honey flow a field bee
will wear its wings to tatters.
« * ♦ •
“Bert”; Steve was studying for his
deputy’s ticket, and as usual in coalmines
the officials were lending a hand. When
he asked, referring to the seam, which
in his place was tough and unmanage-
able, “What is the stuff, anyway?” the
under-manager took time off to explain
about the mud-and-slime era and sub-
merged, compressed forests. Steven heard
him out in heavy silence, then he gave his
own sour original theory. “This stuff
ain’t compressed wood. It’s blasted com-
pressed blackfellows’ skulls, and the
all had curly hair!”
* * * *
“Sirius”: Browsing over my copy of
Robert West Mayne’s sad little booklet
of verse, The Two Visions , printed in
Sydney in 1874, I could see one line only
worthy of repetition after so many years
of obscurity; “The shepherds with their
white umbrellas raised.” I had forgotten,
if I ever knew, that the old-time Darling
Downs shepherds, like Robinson Crusoe,
carried white gamps round to keep off the
sun. Or were the shepherds in question
merely a few degenerates who at that
time were working for Jimbour station
(Dalby, Q.), where the poem seems to
have been composed?
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: Dynamite is peculiar
stuff, all right. Early one morning I
planted a charge in the bole of a dead
gum. There was a good smoke from the
lighted fuse, but it disappeared without
being followed by an explosion. I didn’t
risk tinkering with it, and during the day
avoided the mined tree. Astir at 4 a.m.
next day I was startled by a flash and
explosion in the half-cleared paddock.
The tree had been shorn off at ground
level.
THE LESSON.
“Just take a ‘screw’ at Johnno there, said
Bob the Bot, and jerked his thumb
To where a stockman, long and lean, lay
stretched supine beneath a gum.
“It seems unnacheral to me. I like me bed, out
—strike a light! — ,
There’s time an’ place for evTythmk. me
proper time for bed is night.
“Not since I was a ninfant have I gone to
sleep while daylight’s on,
Exceptin’ once when I was humpm bluey up
round Beenangon.
I’m in the pub one sultry day, an’ I has scarcely
touched the booze,
W’en, wot with bein’ all knocked up, I stretches
out and has a snooze.
“It musta been an hour or two before I woke,
an’ then I learn .
Two shearers from a cut-out shed has mizzled
in with cash to burn.
They shouted for the mob six rounds!
before they went,” said Bob the Bot.
“A facer that (yair, mine’s a pint), a lesson that
I ain’t forgot!”
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


WHILE PASTURES ARE SO DRY...
Tri-cal: You should be feeding calcium phos-
phate regularly to make good the mineral
deficiency in our soils. A mineral supplement —
such as Tri-cal-os Bone Flour —in which you
can have absolute confidence will make good
the lack in the pasture and also enable the stock
to make better use of the poor coarse fodders.
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is a pure bone product,
containing a guaranteed minimum of 33%
phosphoric acid and 40% lime, and it is
specially processed to ensure maximum digesti-
bility. I find my stock take to it readily and
are holding condition splendidly. Davis Gela-
tine will send all particulars about Tri-cal-os
if you write to them.
G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058,
Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O.
Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Old Farmer.
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment—even as little as £2o—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies yielding, at
present prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. I, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Grain Sorghums.
‘Balander”; Out on the Downs (Q.)
good work is being done with grain
sorghums following experiments at Gat-
ton Agricultural College, where it was
found that wider rows gave higher yields,
although they didn’t pay where the area
was large enough for a header. It was
also found that shallow ploughing was
best in heavy, black country, sorghum
seed apparently responding to a shallow,
firm seedbed from 3in. to 4in. deep.
D. F. L. Skerman, who raises stud pigs
in the Downs wheat country, grows the
sorghums for grain feed. He found wheat
crops erratic and attempts to grow
summer maize hopeless, but the sorghums
have solved his problem. He tried maize
and sorghum together ; the crops ripened
about the same time but the sorghums—
Wheatland Milo, Brown Yolo and Kalo
—yielded 11 bags an acre compared with
five from tne maize. The sorghum was
harvested in a day by two men with a
header; the maize took a week to pull
and then had to be carted and threshed.
Both areas were the same size.
Yields of 18, 28 and even 32 bags of
sorghum seed an acre have been reported
on the Downs, where the crop suits
wheatgrowers as an alternative or rota-
tion because it can be handled with wheat
machinery. Like wheat, sorghum grows
well on a variety of soils, but on any-
thing other than the black stuff weeds
may make things, a bit tough.
A comparison of food values of two
sorghums with wheat and maize, for pigs,
gives the digestible nutrients per 1001 b.
of grain as follows: Crude protein, Kalo
11.25, Wheatland Milo 11.34, wheat 10.24,
maize ’8.38; other nutrients, 78.91,
80.18, 78.92, 87.42 ; totals, 90.16, 91.52,
89.16, 95.8.
An advantage of sorghums is the green
feed left after harvesting. There is much
regrowth from both roots and stocks
which gives a fair body of feed at times
and is always palatable to stock.
On the Downs last season Kalo and
W. Milo grain brought up to £5 a ton
for stock and poultry feed. Purity of
seed is as important as it is in wheat-
growing.
Substitutes for Staples.
“R. Ney”: Bran and pollard—the main
concentrates for dairy cattle, poultry and
pigs—are scarce owing to the reduction
in flour gristing because of export re-
strictions, and A. C. T. Hewitt, of the
Victorian Department of Agriculture, has
investigated substitutes.
Main substitutes for bran are maize
oil-meal, maize gluten feed, crushed oats,
oat or barley branning, malt coombs,
dried brewers’ grains and lucerne pollard
or chaff. Food value and bulkiness of
all these vary a lot and Hewitt has
worked out check weights: To get the
same food value as 1001 b. of bran, use
501 b. of maize oil-meal, 571 b. maize
gluten, 581 b. coconut meal, 691 b. barley
bran, 711 b. crushed oats, 941 b. oat bran,
961 b. brewers’ grains, 981 b. malt coombs
and 1261 b. lucerne chaff.
For dairy cows there are various mix-
tures of crushed grain and rich concen-
trates, say five parts of ground grain to
one part of meatmeal, two of peanut-
meal or three of linseed-meal. All these
mixtures are much richer than bran and
must be fed more carefully, only 61b. of
any of the mixtures to replace 101 b. of
bran. On that basis the milk yield should
be unaltered.
R r „ n u , . „
nr w > P ° U,try 18 .V. Sually 3
P ' C ” bu l ]t can be reduced without sen-
°usly affectin § the ration. The bran can
be r fP laced in part or wholly by the
substitutes mentioned, though if lucerne
pollard and malt coombs be used they
shouldn’t make more than 15 p.c. of the
mash.
Pollard substitutes are ground cereal
grains, oat and rice pollards and rice-
meal. They are nearer the food value of
pollard and not so much care is needed
as with bran substitutes. Here are the
equivalents to 1001 b. of pollard: 961 b.
ground wheat, 1111 b. ground oats, 971 b.
ground barley, 901 b. ground maize, 1111 b.
o at pollard, 961 b. rice pollard and 931 b.
ricemeal. For most practical purposes
the same quantity of protein supplement
“ It's only gotter go down another three feet and We'll be able to open
the door.”
should be fed with any of these mixtures
as for pollard.
Scabby Mouth.
“Huxave”: Scabby mouth is extremely
infectious, and all affected sheep should
be isolated. In the field dressing affected
parts of mild cases with a solution of one
tablespoonful of lysol to 2\ pints of
warm water has had good results. Dettol
and Monsol are good. The scabs should
be removed and an antiseptic applied:
Dettol or Monsol five parts, sulphur 10
parts, lard or vaseline 100 parts. If this
treatment is given three or four times a
week an early cure is certain.
In severe cases first bathe with anti-
septic solution and remove scabs. When
ulcers are deep and discharging paint the
inflamed surface with tincture of iodine.
Afterwards dust with one part of chloride
of lime to two parts of boric acid. Repeat
as often as possible till the surface is
healed.
Sheds or yards which may be infected
should be sprayed with disinfectant. Pad-
docks in which an outbreak has occurred
should be burnt off or cultivated before
restocking.
In some outbreaks 90 p.c. of lambs are
affected, with a percentage of
ewes. Early treatment usually gives a
complete cure and prevents spread. Sheep
which recover are immune from further
attacks. Vaccination gives immunity.
Sheep under 12 months are most suscep-
tible, though all may get it. Watch for
swelling lips and small pustules of pus
which burst and form scabs.
Black Disease.
“Huxave”: Black disease may occur at
any time, but is most prevalent from
December to June and at its worst from
February to April. It affects sheep irre-
spective of age and usually the healthy
ones. Generally they are found dead in
the morning, while the rest of the flock
appear in good condition.
Only one symptom may be noticed: a
sick sheep being forced along may lag
behind the flock, lie down on its brisket
with legs tucked under it and head
stretched as though out of breath. Death
follows quickly. After death the carcass
turns black, the wool pulls out easily and
decomposition sets in rapidly. Post-
mortem examination shows the liver to
be dark red and full of blood. A red-
dish, jellylike material is frequently
found under the skin near the brisket
and surrounding the heart; a blood-
stained fluid is often present in the body
and chest cavities.
The vaccine now used stimulates maxi-
mum immunity 21 days after injection,
and this immunity is maintained over a
lengthy period. Vaccination, however,
does not kill the responsible germ. Sheep,
vaccinated or not, may carry the bacillus
in the liver and remain in good health
just as long as they are not attacked by
fluke.
Carcasses of sheep dead from the
disease should not be allowed to rot on
the ground. This infects pasture and
germs gain entry into the livers of other
sheep. Bodies should be either burned
or buried deeply and fenced off.
To rid pastures and districts of both
fluke and black disease drench at end of
April and middle June, bluestone pas-
tures, swamps and streams at end of
June, drench again end of July, vaccinate
in November and bluestone again at end
of December.
For cattle, control by the same means.
Stocking cattle in “flukey” paddocks in
place of sheep will not eradicate the
disease.
Blocking Gullies.
“Cab. G.”: Dealing with gullies (B.
28/1/ 42) was a problem in erosion con-
trol at Dookie College (Vic.). In 1939
wire-netting checks were placed across
several gullies and caused a con-
siderable deposit of silt. Experience
has shown room for improvements in
their design which, in any form of check
dam, should tend to bring the flow
to the middle. Again, dams frequently
stop the flow too suddenly, so that the
water swirls to the sides, goes round the
ends of the dams and thus widens the
gully.
In shallow gullies sandbags—the top
bags containing soil in which grass-seed
is sown are used. When the grass shoots
a solid sod is formed which prevents the
flow cutting away the check. Stones have
also been used with success in shallow
places, and one of the best checks is a
barrier of bush timber and old galvanised
iron.
By contouring the slopes above gullies
the flow of water is greatly reduced,
scour ceases and, provided seed or grass-
roots are sown, the gully soon begins to
heal or at least to stabilise.
At Dookie it was found that often
grass grew on both bottoms and sides. A
steep-sided gully can be broken down
with the plough and graded into a wide
and shallow depression. Sown to approved
grasses it isn’t long before
what was once a harsh
scour in the earth becomes
a well-grassed and unwash-
able dip.
The gully that grows up-
hill is a frequent source
of trouble. It is caused
by the falling water eating
back into the soil and by
the swirl at the bottom of
the fall gouging under the
face of the drop. At
Dookie they carted soil
into these guily-heads and
chocked it with logs or
sandbags, sodding the sur-
face with seeded bags of
soil. This sodded area has
to be protected from stock
and the slopes above it
must be contoured; with
that done the gully soon
ceases to climb back and
reclamation work can go
ahead.
Labor costs have to be
recognised, of course, but
they pale beside the value
of the reclamation work
that can be done with
these methods.
Late Tomato Crops.
“Brecko”: As a rotation, late tomato
crops can replace peas and beans on the
central N.S.W. coast. They improve soil
fertility and health and will produce
through the winter.
Good cluster varieties are Improved
Walker’s Recruit and Potentate, and
approved larger types are Bonny Best
and Break o’ Day. Grow Bonny Best on
soil not previously used for tomatoes.
Break o’ Day is fairly resistant to
fusarium wilt.
In the seed bed use a protective frame
against excessive heat or cold. A damp
hessian bag over the bed will help ger-
mination in dry weather. A light dusting
of superphosphate should be worked into
the soil three or four days before sowing.
For the main tomato crop plough in
green crops six weeks or apply organic
manure four weeks before planting.
Good results have come from fertilising
with equal parts of super, and bonedust
at the rate of Bcwt. an acre. Apply along


Better Way to
deal with
Blowfly Strike
Graziers all over Australia are finding it best to
use Way-Bio strike preventive which does not
scald and cannot wash out.
Way-Bio is the result of scientific treatment of
many species of Eucalypts in a specially-
designed plant wherein the compounding of
their active principles has produced the most
positive of all blowfly strike preventives. It
heals the wound without scab-formation, pre-
vents re-strike, is non-poisonous and is harm-
less to sheep and fleece.
Use Way-Bio when crutching to prevent strike
or re-strike and to save sheep already struck.
Saves time and money, since sheep once treated
are safe for the whole “danger” season, and
its use costs less than one penny per sheep.
Order Way-Bio from your regular wool-house
or station supplier, or write to the Manufac-
turers, W. K. Burnside Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
and Sydney. Trial 1-gallon tins, 13/6.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE MANAGER: A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES', LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
A FACTOR OF VITAL IMPORTANCE
EFFICIENT COMMUNICATION
BETWEEN SEA, LAND AND AIR.
AUSTRALIAN MADE
RADIOTRON
Valves . , . Always Available
STANDARD TO AIR FORCE TRANSMITTERS AND RECEIVE
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY., LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney. '
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co, Pty.. Ltd.
“FORRERS ”
Self-Oiling Pump
MOTOR OR ENGINE DRIVE
100 LB. PRESSURE OR
230 FEET ELEVATION
CONTINUOUS PERFORMANCE
24 HOURS A DAY WITHOUT
ATTENTION.
We are Sole Distributing Agents for
Forrers Pumps in every State in the Commonwealth except
Queensland.
John Danks s,Son P W
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
rr
HE
MSP
m
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.O
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carle.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio; Grancentral.
•»
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
the furrow and plant the seedlings immedi-
ately above. Don’t side- or topdress with
fertiliser until most of the small fiui is
formed. For topdressing try four parts
of super, and one part of sulphate ot
ammonia.
Furrow method of irrigation is best.
Spray-wetted foliage may take disease
Overwatering ruins quality. Stake
crops will do best.
“Hoe Hee”: The Westralian Depart-
ment of Agriculture has completed an
experiment on blackberry control m
Bridgetown and Southampton districts.
Sodium chlorate being expensive and un-
procurable, a weak solution of sodium
arsenate (about 0.6 p.c.) was used The
spray stopped the pest. Burning-off and
working followed, and the area was sown
with perennial rye, P. tuberosa and clover.
The few blackberry shoots were readily
eaten by stock.
“Bundalinga”: What is a fair drink
for a dairy cow? A herd of 100 A.I.S.
at Exeter (N.S.W.), after a hot day, drank
1500 gallons of water for the morning
drink. Some say that 25 gallons is the
daily intake of a milker during summer ,
others make it 10 gallons.
Outback Occasions.
No.20.
THE CANDIDATE'S APPEAL.
Father had been told that the new can-
didate for Parliament would be calling
on him shortly, and we looked forward
to that occasion with interest. We had
seen and met Afghans, Chinese, drunks,
cranks, insurance agents, Italian and
Syrian hawkers, and once a fleeing em-
bezzler stayed at our place overnight,
but none of us had ever seen a poli-
tician. This one, Father had been told,
was standing in the farmers’ interests and
he wished to rally “true blue” farmers
around him, and Father was a leader in
the district —so they said—-and just about
the truest blue there was.
“Aw,” said our brother, who had gone
into long pants and felt competent to
criticise on such matters, “anybody d
think Father was hand-drafted an’
raddled right down the back like a flock
two-tooth.”
Well, on that Saturday a couple of car-
loads of men arrived at our place —we
were all done up like sore toes for the
occasion—and the men gathered round
Father on the verandah and shook hands
and beamed. Then they pushed a beefy-
looking man forward and said he was
the candidate. And the candidate said
to Father, “What do you think of the
policy?”
“Well —er,” said Father, who had never
heard of it before. He didn’t get a
chance to say any more. The candidate
cleared his throat and opened up. The
more he spoke the more his eyes stuck
out, until it looked as though Father
would have to duck under them or some-
thing.
“The farmers,” he boomed, “were never
in a worse position. All producers of
butter, cheese and milk, and sheep, cattle,
wool and wheat, and every farmer are
suffering a living hell from the raw deal
that sweeps upon them at the hands of all
Governments, past and present, State,
Federal and—er—well, you can see for
yourself”
Father stepped back, looking round for
help, but the candidate stabbed him with
one finger and roared, “To be forearmed
is to be —I mean forewarned. It is national
sooecide to delay longer. The cost of
production to the farmers and it will
cause an economic disaster that no nation
will intolerate. It is slavery pure and
simple to force you to produce butter,
cheese, milk, meat, wool and other
primeval products”
“Well,” began Father, but the candi-
date was now in full flood. He left
Father and began striding up and down
the verandah, his arms waving and his
eyes goggling. Our sister Ccirne out dnd
looked at him and ran inside again. Our
brother leaned against a post and gazed
at him in fascination. Two of our dogs
came up and smelt his boots and looked
tremendously puzzled, and then went
round and smelt the two motor-cars and
looked more puzzled. This made me
giggle, but it had no effect on the torrent
of words.
“ Under the croollest conditions
unmanageable. Even the people on the
dole are getting something to live on
without work, but the land on the men
that is, the men on the land working
daylight to dark, seven weeks a day, risk-
ing drought, pests, disease, whooping-
cough and lungworm, loss of cattle and
crops, are still kept under enforced
slavery conditions. It is a one-eyed, crool
and selfish policy to”
“I was thinkin’,” Father began, and
stopped.
“ policy to grind you in the dust,
that’s what it is. The present policy of
the Government is breaking you up, too,
and it is senseless to allow it. It is time
now for & showdown to stop the shcimc-
less treatment of farmers that exists on
the land today. Senseless to starve and
smash them and their livestock, smash
and stop production when all we ask is a
fair living wage —er —I mean a fair price
for our products, and that will surely
come”
“Well, I was thinkin’,” said Father; and
this time the candidate heard him.
“Yairs,” he roared, “you was think-
ing! But where does thinking get you?
I tell you it will get you nothing and take
you nowhere. In 1927 the Government
collected six million income tax. Where
is that money now? You can’t tell me?
Of course, you can’t! That’s why all
the poor, slave-driven farmers are down
in the dust. In the name of justice let
them up! By joining a union you can
—I mean, where will this country finish
if”
“It’s about time” tried Father.
“Time,” shrieked the candidate. “There
is no time. It must be done now or it
will be too late. The power of the bosses
—the power of the vested interests is
smashing and starving us farmers. I
warn the Governments that I will not
stand for it.. The sole blame and dis-
grace rests on them for their timidity
and their audacity to deny us our rights
and use us as political playtoys. The
people want to get behind their leaders
and”
“Yairs,” said Father, soothingly, “well,
what about”
“Need you ask? Need you ask?” He
was screaming now. “The leaders must
rise to the occasion at once. They must
lose their shyness and the drunkenness
of political success, cast off their ties and
their hangers-on and face up to the grim
determination of a hundred per cent, fair
deal for all. The Governments are well
aware of the farmers’ position. They
know the serious tragicness of it as well
as we do. Why wait? Why fool
around? Why delay? The lives of men
and their cattle and their families are in
the balance! The horror is on us!
Heaven sees the great drama rushing to
its cleeinax ! Awake! Arise! ” He
paused for breath and effect, and at last
Father got his chance.
“I was thinkin’,” he said, “that a cup
o’ tea wouldn’t be too bad.” And he
led the way inside.


It’s “hush-hush” i..., us „
concrete fact .... The censor (quite rightly) won’t let us
say where the defence authorities are using Masonite for concrete forming. It must
suffice to say that, because of the speed with which Masonite forms can be assembled,
and the extent to which every sheet can be re-used, the smoothness of Masonite
(obviating the need for re-finishing), the modern builder now thinks of
Masonite whenever he thinks of concrete. And not only is MASONITE his
first choice for concrete forming. In a thousand ways, in buildings, plants.
Army huts, and fighting ships, Masonite is proving its value as “the
Wonder Board of 1000 defence uses.” The Navy Board, the Army
Board, the Air Board .. all choose the “Wonder Board”—MASONITE.
QU ARTRBOARD DE-LUXE
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE
0
PI
1
-tr
n^a
jT
0
IP
A
0
I
«
•An—AZ
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . MELBOURNE . . BRISBANE . . ADELAIDE . . PERTH
BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE ...
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract.and will
restore your man*
hood. Price 10/6.
df
WRITE
TO-DAY
T. JO MIS £ CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
iTliis 013 Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It Is surprising how quickly many suffered
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
3 pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds of
Waste matter.
If your kidneys don't work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
is wrong with the kidneys or bladder.
Don't wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS .. .
Used successfully the world over by millions
of people suffering with backache and other
kidney disorders. They give quick relief and
Will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes. So be sure you get DOAN’a BACK?.
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
Our Service Department
Wanfs.
d T° buy A Dream in the Luxembourg, by
Kiciiard Aldington, and/or the collected poems
or the same author —3235.
To buy copy of Morley Roberts’s The Pro-
yt33° n and Other Stories. —
Information Sought.
(1) What is the reason for “daylight saving” ?
now long is it to last? (2) When was it intro-
duced before and why was it discontinued ?
(1) As clocks are advanced an hour during
summer people rise and retire earlier, spend
more of their waking hours in daylight and thus
use less current and so conserve fuel. In winter
the clocks are set back an hour. (2) It was in-
troduced by an Act of Parliament on January 1,
1917, clocks being advanced by an hour until
March 25, but the experiment failed* The dura-
tion of twilight was considered too short, pro-
test came at once from country industries, and
the Act was repealed in the following September.
* * * i
What was the last verse of Will H. Ogilvie’s
In Memoriam” to Adam Lindsay Gordon,
published in 1901? In what journal did the
complete poem appear?
The full poem appeared in The Common-
wealth: An Annual of Australian Literature and
Art, No. 2, and was printed from a block
made of the original writing of Ogilvie. The
last verse ran:
Ah! Sweetest, saddest singer of The South,
I had wished, could 1 have wished for you at all,
Vou had left us with the laughter on your mouth
Ere you changed the golden honey for the gall.
-Now I wish you, Lindsay Gordon, that your sleep be
deep and sound
With the Mother-ocean rocking at your knee,
That your restless heart be cradled and your prayed—
for peace be found
Where you sought it—by the bosom of the Sea !
* * * *
What forest area per head does a country
need to make it self-providing in timber? What
is the position in Australia?
Generally, a country has to import timber
when its forest area falls below .86 acres per
head of population. Australia has 2.8 acres
per head, but normal excess of imports over
exports amounts to 28,000,000 cub. ft. There
are two reasons: firstly, the area of 19,500,000
acres given as the wooded area comprises all
forest lands, reproductive or otherwise, and
the bulk of this area consists of cutover forests
swept by fire at frequent intervals; secondly,
Australia does not possess a sufficient supply of
softwoods and must import thb bulk of its re-
quirements in this line from overseas. If the
19,500,000 acres were yielding its maximum
supply of hard- and softwoods the Australian
timber supply would be sufficient for a popu-
lation of 22,500,000.
* * * *
AS' New Guinea is so close to Australia why
wasn’t it fortified? And why weren’t the natives
trained for military service?
Article IV of the League of Nations Man-
date under which the Territory of New Guinea
was entrusted to the Commonwealth states that
“The military training of the natives, otherwise
than for purposes of internal police and the
local defence of the territory, shall be pro-
hibited. Furthermore, no military or naval
bases shall be established or fortifications
erected in the territory.”
* • ♦ •
What lengths of what different kind of roads
are there in N. S. Wales?
The following figures are for 1939 and in-
clude roads, streets and lanes; Cement con-
crete 332 miles, asphaltic concrete 248, wood-
paved 32, tar or bituminous macadam 3282,
surfaced waterbound macadam 2591, water-
bound macadam 3684, gravel or crushed rock
27,037, formed only 25,091, cleared only 27,336,
natural surface 36,425; total, 126,058.
♦ * V *
Results of the last Mexican election ?
On July 7, 1940, General Manuel Avila
Camacho was elected President over General
Juan Andreu Almazan, who contested the elec-
tion. Congress announced the vote (September
12) as Camacho 2,476,641, Almazan 151,101,
Rafael Sanchez Tapia 9840. At the same time
a new Congress, completely controlled by the
Camacho party, was elected.
** . «
Particulars of the Waratah and its disappear-
ance ?
The s.s. Waratah, a 9000-ton twin-screw ship
of Lund’s Blue Anchor Line, was built in 1908,
and on her second voyage left Adelaide for
London on July 7, 1909. She coaled at Durban,
and left for Capetown on July 26; she was
spoken to on the following day by s.s. Clan
Maclntyre, and that was the last record of
her. Lives lost totalled 211, including 92 pas-
sengers. The ship probably capsized in a heavy
westerly gale on July 28, when off the S.
African coast.
* * * *
(1) For how long does a copyright apply?
(2) How is it affected by the death of the
holder? (3) Can it be transferred during the
life of the holder or bequeathed by him in his
will? (4) Where should I apply for informa-
tion about a copyright of a book thought to
have been registered in Australia?
(1) For the life of the author, plus 50 years;
for a posthumous work, 50 years from first
publication. (2) On the death of the holder
the copyright passes to the beneficiaries under
his will. After 25 years from the death of an
author of a published work it may be pub-
lished by any person subject to payment of
royalties and other conditions set out in the
Copyright Act. (3) Yes. (4) A search in the
Copyright Indexes may be made by anyone
at the Copyright Office, Commonwealth Bank
building. Martin-place, Sydney.
* * * »
(1) What is the correct method of sharpening
scissors and similar tools? (2) Any books on
the subject?
(1) The scissors should be opened as widely
as possible and drawn from heel to toe over an
oilstone or hone. They should be slightly tilted
to the stone at, say, about 80 degrees for ordi-
nary work, and about 85 degrees or slightly
more for metal work. A rough stone may be
used first, followed by a finer one. Care should
be taken to keep the blade at the same angle
right through the strokes. Finally the blade
may be drawn once or twice on the flat across
the stone, but be careful to avoid any rounding
of the edges. (2) There is an article on the
sharpening of fine-edged tools in Spon’s Work-
ship Receipts for Manufacturers and Scientific
Amateurs —Supplement, pp. 350 to 352.
* * * *
Directions for feeding a puppy?
The pup should not be taken from its mother
until six weeks old. It should have not less
than four meals a day at regular intervals —
say 8 a.m., noon, 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. For
the morning and afternoon meals divide the
yoke of an egg in a little milk into two portions
and spread over some crushed biscuit. The
midday meal may consist of table scraps, but
no sweets of any kind. The evening meal
should consist of raw beef cut small —not"
minced —mixed with a little crushed biscuit and
a little scraped raw carrot. The best drink
is fresh clean water. Only treat for worms
when suspected; use a mild wormseed mixture
having chenipodium as its basis —anything
stronger is dangerous. A sick dog should not
be wormed except under competent advice.
* * * *
Is it possible to crystallise pawpaw ?
Here are the N. S. Wales Department of
Agriculture’s instructions: Select pawpaws with
the skin just turning yellow—if too ripe the
fruit will break in processing, if too green it
will harden like pumpkin—and cut into lengths,
peel, cook until tender and dash into cold water,
changing the water a few times until the fruit is
cold. This helps to. toughen the fruit. Make
a syrup of sugar and water with a hydrometer
(Beaume) reading of 18deg. when cool; place
fruit in syrup, making sure that it is covered.
Leave for 24 hours. Drain the syrup off, heat
and add more sugar to bring up to a reading of
22deg. Replace fruit in syrup and leave for
24 hours. Drain off syrup again and bring up
to a reading of 26deg., replace fruit and stand
for 24 hours. Drain again and bring the read-
ing of the syrup up to 30deg. This process is
continued until the fruit will not take any
more sugar. Remove fruit from syrup and
place on tray to dry, which usually takes a few
days according to the weather. Turn each £
kee P. in shade—sun darkens the fruit if
fei mentation commences in the early stages the
fiuit can be boiled in the syrup but for nnt
mo; e ed tha T n is? Ur inUtCS; sc um P shou!d 'be™'
moved. earthenware or enamel vessels.
lx xx x
whfnXed"'™ ‘ OU,S “ .S
io2? The 1 fi i st te , am came in 1862, the second in
1864 and the third in 1873. Matches wen
Kd aft .h (2) The first Test match w 2
played at Melbourne on March 15-17 1877
Australia scored 245 and 104, England 196 and
* * * «
SS£ Sf < 2 > c - &-
(1) Plant these cormlets in a box or garden
Plot made rich with plenty of well-rotted
TffF'ttf and f f bttle sand, and water regularly.
Lift them after the foliage has died down in
the first year and store them; in the second
year they will flower. (2) Dip bulbs for 15mS,
a--,mI XtUr r made Of i-pint of formalin and
? ( x °! watc [- Gladioli bulbs should not
be planted in beds containing fresh manure
sk&t ,he chief causc ° £ ‘ he ****
Does Anybody Know?
How to soften bullock horn to make it'soft
and pliable?—3234.
Brief Answers.
X.Y.Z.: N. S. Wales Education Department
suggests The Matter and Method of Modern
Teaching, by Valentine Davis ; The Principles of
Teaching, by P. R. Cole; and Judd Psychology
of Secondary Education... .Anon: A 16-year-
old girl interested in war work might apply
to the Junior Red Cross Society, 27 Jamieson-
street, Sydney ; the Junior Naval War Auxiliary,
24 Spring-street, Sydney; or the Woman’s
Volunteer Naval Reserve, Fourth Floor, 212
George-street, Sydney P.N.A.: Eczema in
dogs is an internal complaint and, although
relief may be given by external remedies, a
cure is impossible unless attacked at the source.
....N.F.; Unable to trace the verse....
A.L.D.: Canada, on June 10, 1940, was the
first British Dominion to declare war on Italy;
Australia, M.L. and S. Africa declared on
June 11... .C.E.J.: Suggest A First Course in
Wireless, Bs. 3d., from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney. ...A.L.H.: Better write to the A.B.C.
about it... .M.A.R.: The wife’s pension rate
will not be affected... .C.N.: There is con-
siderable variation with different models, but
as a basis it may be taken that the tail plane
area is about one-third of the area of the main
plane D.W.: Get in touch with N.E.S.
Headquarters, Macquarie-street, Sydney
N.T.H.: Sir Charles Bright laid the first cable
between Valentia in Ireland and Newfoundland
in 1858. It was not worked with success
J.M.P.; The Order of the Garter was established
by Edward 111 in 1349 J.M.: Jane Eyre
is obtainable from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, 3s. 3d. Cannot obtain Anna Lee
A.F.F.: On Active Service is unobtainable
at present S.W.: Depends on the prospects
of the mine. Write to the Mines Department,
Perth... .J.N.T.: (1) Fulminate of mercury.
(2) Dangerous to use such an unstable explosive.
C.R.W.: Better to use one of several good
commercial preparations C.H.: The hard
substance is tartar; it may be removed by a
sharp knife W.R.C.: At June 30, 1940, there
were 2381 soldiers and nurses and 50,141
widows receiving Civil War pensions in the
U.S.A W.D.: The area of Arabia is esti-
mated at 1,000,000 sq. miles, and the popula-
tion at 10,000,000... .G.8.L.: Queensland has
8.8 p.c. of its working population engaged in
transport and communication. Great Britain has
8.2, U.S.A. 7.7, M.L. 9.6 and Australia 8.8


Personal and Missing Friends.
MISSING BENEFICIARY.
WOULD JAMES RAYMOND GIBSON, last
heard of in Northcote, Melbourne, and Beech-
worth in 1933-36, or anyone knowing whether
he is alive or dead, please communicate with
the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Christ-
church, New Zealand?
ALFRED JOHNSON, who formerly resided
at Barrett-street, S. Melbourne, then a carpenter,
now aged 71 years, please write McKEAN &
PARK, Solicitors, 84 William-street, C.l.
Public Notice-
1, CAROL JULIAN LUCZKIEWICZ, of
German nationality, born at Berlin and resi-
dent 30 years in Australia, now residing at 216
View Street, Annandale, New South Wales, in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936. •
WORRIES
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THK ROUSSEIi APPETANCE CO..
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
H7M:
FISHING TACKLE FOR EVERY NEED
As practical anglers, with complete stocks of tackle, we can supply everything
needed for beach, rock, deep-sea, harbour and river fishing. Call or write
for full particulars ... or for advice about specialised tackle. Prices are
moderate ~ . and all goods are GUARANTEED by us.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
V%
9> v
f
ff
m
w
m
w
I
m
A
m
%
TOUGH & TENACIOUS
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Australia) M 27
VACUUM
QUALITY
PRODUCT
0
Si
it-:..
&
4V
V
More and more people are smoking
CRAVENA
I every day
quality always tells!
lO forll" 20 for 110
30)4
Made specially to prevent sore throats
W.R.D.: You could get to Mount Isa by rail
and then chance a lift to Darwin or, at leas ,
to the Darwin-Birdum railway; or you couia
get to Alice Springs by rail from S.A., then
try for a lift from there to Birdum with one
of the carriers. You could manage the Mount-
Isa-Darwin route by bicycle... .C.D.: All
persons entering the Republic of Ecuador must
have a passport vised by an Ecuadorean Consul
at the place of ordinary residence of the
traveller. Charge for visa is about 18s., and it
is valid for three months. Letters of reference,
vaccination and health certificates are required.
No visitor may remain in the country for more
than 90 days unless he becomes domiciled, and
all passengers to Ecuador must deposit 100
dollars (U.S.) with the shipping company to
ensure return fare... .C.J.L.: The King is the
Chief of the Royal Air Force W.D. : The
British dirigible RlOl crashed at Beauvais m
France in 1930; 48 persons were killed....
R.F.T.: There are 225 languages, exclusive ol
dialects, spoken in the Indian Empire... .C.E.:
Signs of the Zodiac are Aquarius (the Water
Bearer), Pisces (the Fishes), Aries (the Ram),
Taurus (the Bull), Gemini (the Twins), Cancer
(the Crab), Leo (the Lion*), Virgo (the Virgin),
Libra (the Balance), Scorpio (the Scorpion),
Sagittarius (the Archer), Capricornus (the Goat).
D.C.: Canadian gold production for 1939
totalled 5,094,379 fine ounces 8.H.T.: In
1937 there were in the U.S.A. 2228 daily news-
papers, 528 Sunday papers, 54 tri-weeklies,
6793 weeklies, 392 semi-weeklies, 2064 monthlies,
179 semi-monthlies and 790 other periodicals,
a total of 13,028 T.L.P.; Population of
Berlin at 1939 was 4,332,242... .F.R.: Dorothea
Mackellar was born at Rose Bay, Sydney....
G.T.H.: The tommy-gun gets its name from
the U.S.A. inventor, John T. Thompson....
W.P.S.: There were 2045 people killed in road
accidents in England for the three months ended
June 30, 1941 D.E.P.: The “Saturday Even-
ing Post,” Independence-square, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, U.S.A., is sufficient address....
P.R.D.: Write to the Department of Agri-
culture, Sydney, and to the C.5.1.R., Mel-
bourne.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no M.S. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
A.V.S.: — .
There is really no need to blackout our ■windows,
The Japs don’t intend to reduce us to cinders.
Of this Mr. Churchill has told us quite plain.
1 wonder if that will be all wrong again.
G.R.T.: —
They say the Japs can fight like the devil,
But we’ve simply got to lick ’em;
Our men can fight with guns and shells,
Or with the bayonets they’ll stick ’em.
There is no doubt that we shall win
When w'e have had a breather.
I know that we shall give ’em beans,
And 1 don’t mean soya beans either !
A.E.G.: “Bark and slab prevail”; “dense
scrub-trees screen the rearward view.” Are
you a land agent? .... A.K.R.; Surely there s
no “if” about it T.A.: The feeling’s there
all right; try to express it with more strength.
M.M.: Try elsewhere... .M.P.; All right,
then; next time we see a ragged beggar with
one sad eye we’ll remember that his dear wife
is probably a-dying... .R.G.: Two lines of:
“The Snowy River Scheme”:
As the dams begin to fill —damnation to all drought,
Glory to the gentleman who’ll bring this scheme
about!
F.W. ; “Circe” has charm; but it’s remote
and ’Ninetyish Anti: One very mild joke
padded out to 32 lines... .N.C.: You’ll have
to work harder than that to make a sunset-piece
any different from everybody’s sunset-piece.
M.D.O’B.: Pleasant, but cut to a conven-
tional pattern A.C.H.: There is only one
drought poem and everybody writes it
H.W.: You’ve set down a list of things to
write a poem about, but you haven’t written
the poem... .Newman: The problem of man
caught in the machine is hardly to be solved
by making a noise like a c0g....P.5.: Sympa-
thise, but it sounds personal R.J.J.; Only
thing to do with “The Flowers in Your
Heart” is to stick it in a vase on the mantel-
piece J.F.H.: “You sat with her often at
dawning, you sat with her maybe at dusk.”
Wrong. We never knew anyone, except a
broody Black Orpington, that sat at dawn
J.M.: Keep at it 1.H.: Can’t find much
comfort, or even much meaning, in the sugges-
tion that our departed spirits will carry with
them “Knowledge that the human race multi-
plies itself in space”... .V.C.S.: Those un-
rhymed concluding lines give the impression
of legs without feet....K.E.C.: Very close,
.... J.R.P.: Send it to the lady with the lovely
knees. ...JjA.L.. The verse is still a bit off
least that doggerel wags its tail... .8.E.K.W.;
Light as the feather... .F V W • Nothing in
“A Wild Bee’s Ne5t....A.E.8.: Neither of
that ill-assorted couple T.T.: Not here
C.T.: Dull dialogues R.S.: “Dead End
Job” doesn’t get anywhere.
•—-
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
•
M.L.G.: The lady with the revolving neck
and semicircular, elbowless arms takes the
week’s freak honors... .D.M.S.; Spiritless joke
and dull drawing N.T.F.; The dowager has
limbs like a heavyweight wrestler and a back-
bone w hich appears to be worn outside her
M.C.P.: Can’t find a place for a Can-
adian trapper stalking unrecognisable animal
" roun ‘ l , gum-fringed btllabong... .P.H.: A re-
grettable defacing of some very nice Bristol
board... .C.F.L.: “Blunders with Bristles”
bristles with blunders K.H.0.: Old jest
illustrated presumably with shaving-brush dipped
in raven oil Bert C.: Welcome to old bucolic
friend who blows flies out of his beer....
M.J.F.: Chinese station cook with pigtail and
strange jabber hung up beside contemporary
portraits of Bravo and Henry Parkes
Eric M-: Petrified figures, niggardly lines and
a tangled mass in the background.


A Man’s
First Thought
is far Bis Family
Through hard work, careful planning and
often by self-sacrifice, a man accumulates an
Estate to safeguard the future security of his
family or other dependents.
But so that his life’s work and good intentions
shall not be jeopardised, and, to avoid hard-
ship being inflicted on his family, he cannot
do better than follow the lead of many
thoughtful men and women in taking three
important steps;—
“^at3k
1. Consult his Solicitor and have his Will drawn in precise
legal language to save misinterpretation and costly litigation.
2. Appoint an Executor and Trustee who is competent and
trustworthy in place of one who may not live to complete
his trusts.
3. Have his Will revised regularly to meet changing conditions.
The appointment of The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited as Executor or Co-Executor and Trustee
ensures that the estate shall be managed with the experience,
intelligence and fidelity which have characterised the Company’s
service for more than 63 years. Security is ample. Fees are
fixed and moderate. Consult your Solicitor or write or call for
full particulars.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
am/ '///(’//ty JttiL
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 HUGH ST.. SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.0.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S.Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS’:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ; W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager; K. M. Hughes.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Drug Houses of Australia
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ - £ £ £
1932.. 60,069 2J p.c. = 63,071 7,881
Unexplained reductions, £1,129 .. 9,010
1933.. 38,133 l-\ p.c. = 30,499 7,634 1,376
Reserves.
1934.. 88,112 3J „ „ 85,397 2,715 1,339
1935.. 123,581 5 „ ~121,996 1,585 2,924
Tax refund, £2,332 5,256
1936.. 147,108 6 p.c. = 146,394 714 5,970
Unexplained addition, £2,187 .. 8,157
1937.. 158,878 64 p.c. = 158,594 284 8,441
1938.. 159,331 6* „ „ 158,594 737 9,178
1939.. 161,145 64 „ „ 158,595 2,550 11,728
Pref. Ord. Total.
1940.. 174,588 6 p.c. 6} p.c. 163,891 10,697 22,425
1941.. 167,284 „ „ 166,891 393 22,818
That table deals with the holding co.,
whose only asset, apart from etceteras, is
a £2,594,110 holding of shares in the prin-
cipal wholesale druggists of the Com-
monwealth. For the year to June 30 divs.
from these subsidiaries amounted to
£176,380. Most of the drop in the profit
shown is due to extra taxation provisions.
The slender reserves are labelled nomi-
nal because they are subject to whatever
intangibles were acquired in the purchase
of the various shareholdings in 1929. The
associated trading houses then merged
were:
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney; Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins,
Ltd., Melbourne; A. M. Bickford and Sons,
Ltd., Adelaide and Brisbane; Felton, Grim-
wade and Bickford, Ltd., Perth; Taylors,
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd.,
Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville.
The later addition of L. Fairthorne and
Son Pty., Ltd., of Launceston, completes
the list.
Almost at the outset depression nulli-
fied anticipated trading advantages. How-
ever, a 2 p.c. dividend came along in
1931, and the rate slowly improved until
p.c. was reached in 1937. Since then
it has been stationary.
Two years of war and exchange-ration-
ing have induced changes in the business,
directing greater attention to local manu-
facture. Nevertheless, the energetic
efforts of the co.’s London office this year
managed to secure supplies in excess of
last term’s shipments. Sales for the period
are reported to show a satisfactory in-
crease, and gross profit therefrom also
increased. But costs also are mounting,
and probably will do so at a faster rate
than revenue can be pushed.
Here are the consolidated results of the
trading concerns and the holding co.:
Drug Houses and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.f
1939. .180,516 64 p.c. = 158,594 21,922 408,897
Unexplained reductions, £7556 ~ 401,341
1940. .179,940 3000 64 p.c. = 160,891 16,049 417,390
Unexplained additions, £lO2B .. 418,418
1941. .187,915 6000 64 p.c. = 160,891 21,024 439,442
* After deducting outsiders’ proportion,
t Subject to intangibles.
The profit from trading, after providing
for taxation, was £236,543 (up £2382).
Directors’ fees £6600 and depreciation
£52,064 (down £1285) reduced the figure
to £177,879. Income from general in-
vestments decreased by £llO4, but
brought the surplus up to £194,087 (not
including an unexplained addition of
£lO2B to reserves). After deducting £5903
additional tax for 1940 and allowing for
£276 of profit to be shared by outside
interests, the net result was £187,915.
Most of the increase of £7975 is due to
the smaller depreciation allowance and to
the fact that the 1940 profit was charged
with £8964 excess taxation for 1939. The
profit remaining after the £6OOO pref.
div. charge was equivalent to 7,3 p.c. on
ord. capital of the holding co., compared
with 7.2 p.c. and 7.4 p.c. previously.
These results are not suggestive of an
increase in the p.c. ord. div.
Consolidated balance sheet shows little
change in fixed assets, these being down
£8577 net:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital— 1938. 1940. 1941.
D.H.A £2,439,912 £2,575,244 £2,575,244
Outside interests 75,000 4,116* 4,139
Mortgages . . t 80,638 80,688
Sundry creditors 691,826 982,456 1,264,568
Freeholds and ]
leaseholds .. [ 763,251 1 707,525 706,902
Plant, etc. J (139,569 131,615
Shares, etc. .. 281,573 79,489 79,094
Stocks . . . . 865,491 1,158,790 1,326,979
Book debts .. 908,194 939,194 988,119
Cash, etc. .. 4,613 40,281 70,734
Suspense account 52,384 118,036
Undistinguished
assets .. 719,762 765,600 765,590
Goodwill, etc. .. 145,580 263,137 263,137
* Including proportion of undistributed profits.
• t Deducted from asset.
Floating assets leave a margin of
£1,119,570 above all liabilities, including
mortgages £80,688, but not taking in
the substantial item “suspense account
£118,036” (up £52,384 last year and
£14,197 the year before), the exact nature
of which is not clear. Stocks (£1,326,979)
show a useful increase of £168,189, and
debtors are up £48,925, Including a lift
of £282,112 in sundry creditors, these
movements do not suggest any sluggish-
ness of trade.
In addition to the £263,137 valuation
for goodwill, trade-marks, etc, there is a
difference of £765,590 between the con-
sideration paid for the subsidiary shares
(based on independent valuations of
assets) and their nominal value.
Market in the shares pays considerable
respect to the influential position enjoyed
in the trade. The shares sold up to
325. Iojd. to 1936, but when war began
they fell to 21s. 6d. At 275. the yield is
4.8 p.c. from 6\ p.c. dividend. Prospects
of improvement are not enhanced by the
rapid growth of costs since closing of the
accounts last June.
Australian General Insurance
To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends, serves. Reserves.
1930.. 6,578 9 p.c. 6300 278 52,589
Loss.
1931.. 3,937 4 „ „ 2800 45,852
Profit.
1932.. 7,952 6 „ „ 4200 3,753 49,604
1933.. 10,640 8 „ „ 5600 5,040 54,644
1934.. 12,031 8 „ „ 5600 6,431 61,075
1935.. 12,874 9 „ „ 6300 6,574 67,649
1936.. 12,345 9' ~ „ 6300 6,045 73,694
1937.. 13,648 10 „ „ 7000 6,648 80,342
1938.. 16,418 10 „ „ 7000 9,418 89,760
1939.. 14,253 10 „ „ 7000 7,253 97,013
1940.. 14,366 10 „ „ 7000 7,366 104,379
Staff Provident Fund, £5OOO .. 99,379
1941.. 15,354 10 p.c. = 7000 8,354 107,733
Business activity generally continued to
gather momentum last year, and insur-
ance cos. shared in the experience.
Although motor-car business, which
hadn’t been very profitable of recent
years, fell away sharply, building activity
continued at a high level, merchants
carried substantially increased stocks,
payrolls lengthened and marine experi-
ence in connection with British shipping
outside the Atlantic was favorable.
The Australian General, whose busi-
ness is well spread throughout the Com-
monwealth, gathered an extra £1716 in
net premiums, as the following table
shows, together with other things:
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57,5 36.4
1928.. 120,614 65,175 45,899 54 38.0
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 6*9.2 41.4
1932.. 74,658 37,099 35,184 49.7 47.1
1934.. 69,819 28,881 34,990 41.3 50.1
1935.. 70,907 30,125 34,411 42.4 48.5
1936.. 78,511 37,029 35,767 47.1 45.5
1937.. 91,388 43,278 41,336 47.3 45.2
1938.. 97,806 44,644 44,027 45.6 45.0
1939.. 98,988 47,910 44,309 48.4 44.7
1940.. 97,753 47,817 43,535 48.9 44.5
1941.. 99,469 44,213 47,934 44.4 48.1
Including a bigger but unspecified allow-
ance for taxation, exes, were £4399
heavier; but claims were £3604 lighter,
the loss ratio being one of the best since
the public became interested in the busi-
ness about 16 years ago—for 17 years
before that the co. was mainly engaged
in reinsuring risks for the Mercantile
Mutual. The underwriting result was
thus £921 better at £7322, equal to 10.4
p.c. on capital. Interest brought in £8032
(up £67), or 11.5 p.c. on capital, making
the net return from all sources 21.9 p.c.
on capital as against 20.5, 20.3, 23.4, 19.4,
17.6, 18.3 and 17.1 p.c. back to 1934. It
all gives the 10 p.c. div. a very attractive
look, so far as anything of the kind can
look attractive in these troubled days.
All the spare funds that became avail-
able during the year went into Govern-
ment securities (up £13,000), which now
account for over 52 p.c. of the balance-
sheet total: —
1935. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £70,000 £70,000 £70,000 £70.000
Liabilities .. . . 14,903 26,692 26,859 31,120
Freeholds . . .. 2,500 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages . . . . 42,648 41,408 40,213 38,469
Debentures , . 9,000 9,000 8,250 7,700
Public securities.. 68,397 88,024 106,488 119,488
Book debts .. 5,509 8,754 8,608 9,888
Cash, etc 34,598 47,267 50,179 50,807
After allowing for the final div., policy-
.holders could see net tangibles equal to
178 p.c. of the year’s net premiums when
the books last closed, whereas 150 p.c. is
usually considered adequate. Also, assets
can be taken as well worth their book
value.
As for the current term, war-damage
insurance will become a Government risk,
with the commercial cos. acting as agents
for collection of the special premiums in-
volved. What is likely to happen in this
respect nobody can say. It is, however,
reasonable to assume that Japan will en-
deavor to prevent Australia becoming a
base for large-scale operations against
her ; and that might mean anything from
more or less regular raiding operations to
actual invasion of our mainland territory,
or both. Thus the time is at hand when
traders and investors will have to think
in terms not of profit but of our war
effort, upon which conservation of more
than private property will, depend.
War has already caused one particular
readjustment in the case of insurance cos.
Owing to petrol rationing, from Jan. 19
premiums on private cars have been cut
25 p.c., and on commercial cars 12j p.c.
The market prices the pound shares
paid to 7s. each at 155., at which figure
the yield is 4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c, div. basis.
The net tangible cover is 17s. 9d. per
share.
Cresco Fertilizers, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Loss. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves,
1931.. 26.260 f Nil Nil 114,269
Profit.
1932.. 16,616 12 p.c.*t Nil 13,316 3,300 117,569
1933.. 26,577 6* „ 4 p.c. 31,579 112,567
1934.. 22,675 6* „ 2J „ 22,217 458 113,025
Loss.
1935.. 29,349 6* p.c. Nil 6,659 77,017
1936.. 16,472 6* „ Nil 6,659 53,886
Bad debts recovered, £ 2500 .. .. 56,386
Tax reserve disclosed, £2500 .. .. 53,886
Profit.
1937.. 19,087 6* p.c. Nil 6,660 12,427 66,313
1938.. 18,632 6* „ 14 p.c. 15,987 2,645 68,958
1939.. 11,787 6* ~ 1J „ 15,989 64,756
1940.. 28,307 6* „ 14 „ 15,989 12,318 77,074
Enlisted employees’ fund, £lOOO .. .. 76,074
1941.. 32,033 6* p.c. 24 p.c. 22,210 9,823 85,897
*lncludes 5 p.c. on old prefs., 2825 in 1930, now
240. t After making special provision ( £59,000)
for depreciation and doubtful debts. II Deludes arrears,
A surprisingly good result considering the
season. The co.’s turnover depends
partly upon conditions in the wheat
industry, with a good demand from
graziers who cater for the fat-lamb trade.
Last term fewer acres were planted in
S. Aus., Vic. and W.A. and scanty rain-
fall produced little sap, and, of course,
there was less grain in the ears. The fol-
lowing table shows what happened:
Bushels.
Season. Acreage. Bushels. Average
Yield, per Acre,
Q . „ 1 1939-40 2,735,000 41,072,000 15.02
». aus, < 1940l _ 41 2,559,000 17,822,000 6.96
, . j 1939-40 2,827,000 45,054,000 15.93
Victoria < 1940-41 2,673,000 13,521,000 5.06
. j 1939-40 2,970,000 40,861,000 13.76
W. Aus. | 1940-41 2,620,000 21,048,000 8.03
Still, Cresco reports output to be practi-
cally the same as for the previous year,
despite damage by the enemy to loading
facilities at Nauru, and thanks to the
stock of phosphate rock built up in Aus-
tralia by the British Phosphate Commis-
sioners. In Vic. the board arranged with
Commonwealth Fertilisers and Chemicals
to supply the co.’s requirements in that
State, because the Federal Government
took over, for defence purposes, the stock
of brimstone at the Geelong works.
These are not suitable for use of Aus-
tralian pyritic sulphur. To convert them
would be very costly at the moment, and
the co. hasn’t the ready cash to spare.
Shareholders will, however, suffer no
financial loss by the arrangement, the
chairman says.
During the year the Federal Prices
Commissioner approved an increase of
IBs, per ton in the charge for super. The
figure was later reduced to 145., making
the price £4 14s. per ton. Gross earnings
(£107,803) improved £14,096. Including
‘ an' extra £14,000 (making £15,000) set
aside for the taxgatherer, exes. (£75,770)
took £10,370 of the increase, leaving the
net result £3726 better at £32,033. This,
however, was no more than enough to
pay the pref. divs. (£6650) and show a
wink over 4 p.c. on the £622,200 of ord.
capital, compared with 3.4, 0.8 and 2
p.c. for the two preceding terms. A point
was added to the div., making it 2\ p.c.
The financial position improved:
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £734,679'£733,165 £733,165 £733,165
Liabilities .. 256,466 323,501 324,270' 263,267
Freeholds and
plant .. 509,485 587,369 578,815 560,142
Stocks .. 123,739 190,933 284,556 236,168
Shares in other
cos. . . 90,005 90,005 90,011 90,011
Debtors . . 202,930 143,790 129,465 159,865
Cash, etc. .. 140,458 75,103 14,029 15,584
Farm prqperty, etc. 54,212 58,623 62,768
When the books last closed, there was
£99,413 (down £69,382) coming to Cresco
Fertilizers (W.A.), for which the parent
acts as banker. This explains the net re-
duction of £61,003 in liabilities. Debtors’
balances were up £30,400 and stocks
down £48,388, while £18,673 more was
written off than was spent on fixed assets.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£148,350) was £44,570.
Farm properties (up £4145) are largely
foreclosures.
As for the current term, the area
sowing to wheat has been restricted, but
the yield promised to approximate more


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated Dy
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * ¥ #
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
offers all facilities for the transaction of every class
of Banking business. Since 1854 I— l over a century
ago r- the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
has maintained the confidence of its depositors and
the community alike.
HEAD OFFICE
IT.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
1717-1.42
wmm,
/P rafter Awe a
K^dCapstan/
m
i
m
fry::-:
mmm
Wm
mm
r#
vm
mm
i If
«
-tfScyte 4&ndee( 'Se&ebf
. rA pSl^ l
Capstan Special Mild . . Red Packs * Capstan Modlum . . Blue . PocAs ★ Capstan Full Strength . . Brown Packs
closely the 1939-40 figures, and a
guaranteed 3s. lOd. per bushel f.o.b. ports
will be paid for as much as 140,000,000
bushels, which quantity is likely to be
exceeded. Manufacturers are to get a
further 325. per ton for super., to cover
increased costs, and users will receive
a subsidy of 255., making the net price of
super. £5 Is. per ton, or 7s. more than
last season. Also, the quota of phosphate
rock supplied to manufacturers has been
reduced by 30 p.c., and the cut is likely
to be much more severe at an early date.
This rock comes chiefly from Ocean and
Nauru islands, which have been recently
raided by Jap bombers. Present stocks
are being supplemented by comparatively
small supplies from elsewhere, at greatly
increased costs. The outlook for share-
holders, therefore, is not a bright one at
the moment.
For the ords., backed by 225. 9d. a
share on book values, the market pays
4s. 2d., to obtain a yield of 12 p.c. so
long as the 2\ p.c. continues. The prefs.
return 6.5 p.c. at 18s. 6d.
Mt. Morgan surplus dropped over
50 p.c. in the last four-week period, but
this covered the Christmas holidays,
always a time for overhauling plant.
While it depressed the market tem-
porarily, there was little occasion for it,
as reserve-grade ore has since been com-
ing out regularly below No. 4 bench.
The bastion on the east side of the cut
remains immovable, but the west is melt-
ing away before the excavators, every
foot thus won making extra ore avail-
able below where the richest reserves lie.
Only wet weather, accidental stoppages,
strikes or blackouts can now stop reserve
ore rolling out to make up some of Aus-
tralia’s deficit in copper output. Let it
roll!
* * * *
The long-range prospects of the Plevna
oil-shale field behind Mackay (C.Q.)
don’t look so remarkable when the
recently-published geological map of the
area is studied in detail. Most of the
deposit is covered by ranges of volcanic
rocks, and the shale peeps through in a
valley as through a small window of 60
acres extent. The syndicate’s driller
claims a bed 150 ft. thick, and it is neither
disputed nor confirmed, the latter simply
because drillcores were not obtained.
Analyses of shale (official) are 17 to 23
gallons a ton; unofficial, up to 32
gallons. A little gingering-up is required
or the war will be over before the first
lot of oil relieves the position in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
B.H.P. is said to have bought three
auriferous areas adjacent to its Hannans
North-Golden Zone mine at the north
end of Kalgooflie. They are almost in
a direct line with Mt. Charlotte, now
under option to Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd.,
and are known as the Golden Goose,
Golden Dream and Golden Crown.
Whether they have a golden future
remains to be proved.
* * *
Coolgardie reports that Western
Mining Corporation has taken an option
on a small gold-producer known as the
Surprise. Worked by a miner and his
four sons, it has yielded about £4OOO-
- of bullion in the last 12 months.
It is believed to have a chance of de-
veloping into something bigger.
* * * *
Empress Gold Mines, N.L., announces
that, in order to avoid expenditure on
plant, it is negotiating for the sale of
its Norseman mine (W.A.) to its next-
door neighbor, Blue Bird, N.L. The
latter says such a deal is desirable from
its point of view.
* * * *
Associated Northern Ora Banda, a no-
liability co. formed in Sydney in 1934
to acquire the old Associated Northern
Gimlet group at Ora Banda (W.A.), to-
gether with a complete power and treat-
ment plant and a 50,000-ton tailings
dump, reports a credit balance of £144
for the year ended June 30, 1941. This,
it states, reduced debit balance of the de-
velopment account to £16,706. Share of
profit from the re-treatment of tailings
received from a contractor was £624. Co.
ceased mining operations in 1935, but
continued re-treatment of tailings until
1937. Then it stopped. Of 600,000 issued
ss. shares, the public took 450,000, and
up to the end of 1938 had paid 2s. 6d.
on each of them. At the time of flotation
the vendors got £20,000 and £150,000
paids.
* * * V
“Peta”: If exigent need for cobalt for
war purposes arises there are several
shows in the Cloncurry (N.Q.) area that
could doubtless supply the demand. One
is incompletely developed, the other in-
sufficiently prospected. The former is
Mark Eve’s old discovery at Mt. Selwyn,
which closed down for reasons uncon-
nected with the intrinsic value of the
deposit. It was mentioned in a recent
N.A.A.G.G. Survey report as having been
proved to a depth of 230 ft., although
only stoped to 110 ft. Its proved length
is 700 ft., according to that authority.
Water shortage was a perennial difficulty
in treatment of ore. The headgear was
also burnt out. As a lode it has shown
a sounder body of the sulphide cobaltite
than any other show of its ilk. in Australia.


BRANDAUIR’N
a*
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRjLNDADKR * co, lul. bikuinuuam. eno
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Labor’s Financial Fuddle
Over seven months of the 1941-42
financial year has now run, and many
people, aware of the importance of the
national finances in the defence arrange-
ments, are wondering how the Federal
Government is getting along in this
regard. Labor in the past has shown
J'ttle appreciation of the delicacies and
difficulties attending a really major finan-
cial undertaking, and there is no doubt
that the carrying-through of this year’s
war programme is the greatest financial
job ever faced up to in this country.
Recent statements by three or four Min-
isters suggest that they, anyway, have a
very poor idea of what “facing up” really
means. Messrs. Ward, Forde and Senator
Cameron may be named in particular.
Fortunately, none of them has any direct
say in the management of the Treasury,
though each occupies a prominent post
m the Government.
Australia had the present Government
thrust on it by a vote on the Budget
presented by the Fadden Government.
Labor very early showed that it had
made a miscalculation in its estimates —
the estimates that A. W. Coles, who voted
Labor into office, said differed from those
or Fadden only as between Tweedledee
and Tweedledum. Within two months of
the Chifley Budget’s presentation, sup-
plementary taxation calculated to bring
in over £2O million this year was intro-
duced. Previously far too much reliance
had been placed on borrowing. It re-
mains to be shown that too much borrow-
ing is still a feature of Labor’s financial
programme, and to be queried as to
whether Labor really can handle the job
before it.
Actual expenditures in 1940-41 are here
compared with Fadden’s (abandoned)
estimates and Chifley’s preliminary
Budget figures:
• Expenditure.
Actual, Fadden, Chifley,
1940-41. 1941-42. 1941-42.
£Mil. £Mil. £Mii.
War —
Australia .. .. 127.0 160.0 162.5
Overseas .. .. 43.0 57.0 59.0
170.0 217.0 221.5
Civil 85.0 102.0 103.5
Total .. .. 255.0 319.0 325.0
Revenue.
Cash in hand .. 28.0 2.0 2.2
Taxation .. .. 130.0 148.0 163.7
Business income .. 20.0 22.0 22.0
Post-war credits .. 25.0 Nil
Lohns —
Australian! .. 62.0 122.0 137.1
London .. . . 15.0
Total .. .. 255.0 319.0 325.0
t Including banks.
Labor did away with Fadden’s scheme
of post-war credits, and, although it did
not add taxation to those earning under
£3O a week, it taxed the higher incomes
to the point where it was necessary to
introduce legislation to prevent Federal
and State taxes taking more than 20s. in
the £l. It added £l5 million to the
amount proposed by Fadden to be bor-
rowed. Altogether, including £2.6 million
to be raised and spent on behalf of the
P.M.G.’s Department, the gap in Labor’s
Budget not bridged by revenue totalled
£139.7 million.
So far during the current financial year
public borrowing on behalf of the Com-
monwealth has amounted to only £3O
million of new money. A further £35
million is to be offered on the 17th.
Assuming that this is taken, then there
will remain a gap of £74.7 million, quite
apart from any borrowing that may be
contemplated on behalf of the States.
Towards the bridging of this gap—which
is subject to increase should war outgo
increase—the ls.-in-the-£ tax imposed in
December should bring in at least £2O
million this year. In addition, other taxa-
tion revenue will probably be greater
than the Budget estimates by reason of
the large (but indefinite) sum remaining
uncollected from previous years on June
30. It is generally supposed that a fine
nest-egg was deliberately left behind by
the Fadden Government for the reason
that in 1940-41 the rate of war expendi-
ture had not reached the aimed-at dimen-
sions, and that everything available would
be wanted in the current term.
Assuming that this fund amounts to
the large sum of £lO million, the gap
drops to £44.7 million. And already Cus-
toms and P.M.G. revenue (for the first
six months of the year) is up £5 million
on estimates ; provided that in the present
altered circumstances this surplus can be
held over the next six months, the gap
falls to £4O million. It is still a big figure
to expect the trading banks to handle,
especially as they had already taken £6O
million of Government paper between
the outbreak of war and June 30 last.
As we shall see later, they and the Com-
monwealth Bank are now being asked for
vastly greater help.
But there is no assurance that, even
under the most favorable revenue condi-
tions, the Budget gap will not be greater
than £4O million. On the opposite side
to revenue, of course, we have expendi-
ture, and it is liable to exceed estimates
just the same as revenue. In fact, by
all previous forecasts, the actual Budget
war-expenditure figures of both Fadden
and Chifley looked underestimates. It
has been a feature of Australia’s war
effort, this inclination to underestimate
expenditure at the beginning. And since
the commencement of 1941-42 there has
been a tendency for all costs to rise and
for the demands of war to increase.
Already we have actual figures to sug-
gest a far bigger war expenditure than
indicated by any Budget figures. For
the first half of 1941-42 outgo under this
head was £123.3 million (of which £96.4
million was borrowed), a rate of nearly
£250 million a year, compared with the
Budget estimate of £221.5 million for
the full year. If the rate of expenditure
recorded during the first six months con-
tinues during the second half, then we
may see all the revenue increases and
windfalls offset by the increased defence
outgo, which would bring the Budget gap
almost back to where it stood at the be-
ginning of the term. In that case, some-
thing between £65 million and £75 mil-
lion will remain to be borrowed (subject
to bank assistance) or otherwise obtained
after the February loan is raised. That
would mean borrowing as much again
as was publicly raised during the first
eight months of the financial year. In
addition, State Government works will
call for another £10.6 million of loan
money, and semi-Government undertak-
ings a further £5 million. Some of the
latter money has already been raised.
Put in another way, it may be that
after the February loan is negotiated the
gap between revenue (including public
loans) and expenditure will exceed all
borrowings and bank assistance on behalf
of the Commonwealth within Australia
during the preceding financial term. In
that period £62 million was raised in Aus-
tralia and £l5 million in London. This
term it was stated that we would be able
to do without London assistance.
The conclusion come to after study-
ing these figures is the evident reliance by
the present Government on “bank credit”
to an extraordinary extent. The Com-
monwealth Bank has increased its
holdings of Government IOUs by £59
million since June 30. Since the end of
September, which corresponds roughly
with Labor’s accession to office, the in-
crease has been £44.5 million. Over the
six months to Dec. 31 the trading banks
added £8 million to their holdings of Gov-
ernment paper. Unless it is Canberra’s in-
tention to retire some of this “credit” out
of proceeds of the next public loan and
the big taxation revenue generally re-
ceived in the last quarter of the year, the
position is one where inflation becomes
an obvious threat, even if its effects creep
into the economic system only at a slow
rate.
The need for this bank credit has
arisen, as The Bulletin has pointed out
all along, from lack of courage and
financial understanding among our poli-
tical leaders. Governments, particularly
that one now in office, have failed to
shape up to facts. Labor insisted that it
could fight a costly war and maintain
the living standards of the voting majority
at the same time.
The “credit” issued by the Common-
wealth Bank may be partly public sav-
mgs and partly newly-created money. It
seems largely to be newly-created money
—that is, the Government gives the bank
an lOU and the bank pays the Gov-
ernment’s bills as they fall due. It is poor
finance at best. Even if borrowed out
of public savings, the loan is created on
nothing solider than war waste; how
much worse to put new money into cir-
culation with no solider backing than war
waste!
War expenditure is, inescapably, a
national tax. The economic books are only
falsified by treating it as anything else.
Any method of finance other than taxation
is inflationary. Though it is not possible to
finance the entire Budget outlay out of
taxation, it is possible to finance war ex-
penditure in Australia out of taxation to
a far greater extent than is being done.
Political ignorance and timidity, plus
barbarous taxation laws and incompre-
hensible obstacles raised by State Govern-
ments, are the reasons why taxation isn’t
used to a greater extent. So far com-
panies and higher-income-earners have
been handled almost savagely. The vot-
ing multitude, on the other hand, is still
being kidded to at this critical hour.
Hotel Metropole, Sydney, has deferred
payment of an interim div. until the
financial year is complete. Last year’s
interim was 3 p.c. and the final 5 p.c.
Standard Cement has cut its interim from
44 p.c. to 3 p.c., though, with the excep-
tion of Goliath, most other cement cos.
have maintained their rates. William
Adams, an importing concern with
headquarters in the same State, has
decided to pay an unchanged interim.
Queensland Meat Export Co. is paying
a steady 7 p.c. Metropolitan Building,
Sydney, has. cut its distribution from
2s. 2d. to Is. lOd. per 30s. share. Sar-
gents has dropped its interim to 2\ p.c.
Silver ton Tramway is paying no interim
(174 p.c. went out last year alto-
gether) because heavy taxation has to be
met soon. Revenue has been fully main-
tained during the half-year. Beaurepaire
Investments, Melbourne, has reduced its
ord. interim from 5 p.c. to 4j p.c. Berlei’s
handout is unchanged, as is that from
Pelaco. Where there have been reduc-
tions, taxation is to blame in most cases.
STATE ACCIDENT INSURANCE OFFICE
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1941.
Claims .. .. ..£142,941 6 0
Add Provision for Un-
adjusted Claims .. 89,813 0 0
£232,754 6 0
Less Provision for Unadjusted Claims,
1940 88,841 0 0
£143,913 6 0
Balance carried down .. .. .. .. .. 85,035 3 3
£228,948 9 3
Administration Expenses, Act 3806 .. .. .. £2OO 0 0
Agents’ Expenses and Commission .. .. .. 11,070 8 8
Expenses of Management (including Salaries) .. 10,958 1 8
Net profit .. .. 67,766 17 0
£89,995 7 4
Premiums for year . .£288,775 5 10
Less Special Discounts .. 39,306 6 9
£249,468 19 1
Less Re-insurances and
Rebates .. .. 13,406 5 1
236,062 14 0
Add Provision for Unearned Premiums,
1940 105,146 15 10
£341,209 9 10
Less Provision for Unearned Premiums,
1941 112,261 0 7
228,948 9 3
£228,948 9 3
Balance brought down .. .. £85,035 3 3
Interest on Investments and Funds at Treasury .. 4,946 14 0
Gross Rents from Building .. .. .. .. 13 10 1
£89,995 7 4
APPROPRIATION ACCOUNT FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1841.
30/ 6 / ’4l To General Reserve Fund .. .. .. £32,000 0 0
„ Bonus Reserve Fund .. .. 25,766 17 0
„ “Transfer to Consolidated Revenue, Act
3936” Account .. .. .. .. 10,000 0 0
£67,766 17 0
30/6/’4l By Profit and Loss Account £67,766 17 0
£67,766 17 0
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1941.
LIABILITIES.
Unearned Premiums .. .. .. .. .. £112,261 0 7
Outstanding Claims .. .. .. .. .. 89,813 0 0
Sundry Creditors .. .. .. .. . . 4,085 12 11
General Reserve Fund .. .. .. £136,560 0 0
Plus Appropriated, 1940-41 .. .. 32,000 0 0
168,560 0 0
Bonus Reserve Fund .. .. .. £40,780 0 6
Plus Appropriated, 1940-41 .. .. 25,766 17 0
66,546 17 6
£441,266 11 0
ASSETS.
State Accident Insurance Fund —Cash at Treasury .. £247,465 3 0
Premiums due and Agents’ Balances .. £14,782 2 8
Less Bad Debt Reserve .. .. .. 353 19 3
14,428 3 5
Treasury Interest Accrued .. .. .. .. 745 16 0
Stamps on Hand .. .. .. .. .. . . 84 13 1
Furniture, Office Machines and Motor Cars (at cost,
less depreciation) .. .. .. .. .. 1,202 15 0
General Reserve Investment —
Land and Building .. .. .. £96,541 12 10
Cash at Treasury (Building Account) 3,458 7 2
Australian Consolidated Inscribed
Stock .. .. .. .. 36,560 0 0
136,560 0 0
Bonus Reserve Investment .. .. .. .. 40,780 0 6
Transfer to Consolidated Revenue, Act
3936 £50,000 0 0
Less Amount Written Off .. .. 40,000 0 0
£lO,OOO 0 0
Less Appropriated, 1940-41 .. .. 10,000 0 0
F 10,000 0 0
£441,266 II 0
In accordance with the provisions of Section 36 of the Workers’ Compensation Act 1928, the accounts have been audited for the
ended 30th June, 1941. In my opinion the balance sheet and statements present a true and correct view of the accounts ot the State
Accident Insurance Office.
(Signed) E. A. PEVERILL, Auditor-General. 16th Oct., 1941. (Signed) W. H. Holmes, Insurance Commissioner, 3®th Sept., 1941.


m
n i
SK.
I
v
S-.
mm
DRAW on the BANK of SUCCESS!
Commercial Art is the career of to-morrow; it is part and parcel
with our industrial progress. If you enjoy sketching, there is no
easier or more fascinating way of making money. The Art Training
Institute can fit you—in your own home and in your spare time
for a delightful, highly-paid career.
COULD YOU SUCCEED ?
Write for our free book, Art Ability Tests, submit your copies of the
sketches it contains, and we will give you a frank answer to that
question. In addition, you will receive a detailed criticism of your work
by an expert Commercial Artist —entirely without cost or obligation
if you mention “The Bulletin.”
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE
80 SWANSTON STREET MELBOURNE
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; F. E. Loxton, Esq. ;
Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ; E. E. D. White, Esq. ; H. C. Morrow, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
1
a
ma
i
: M
d
-mm
■ m
'
m
m
ii
«
jl
Portrait of a woman who knew what she wanted ... a soulless siren
who would let a man die that her dreams might live . .. Bette Davis
in Samuel Goldwyn’s “The Little Foxes,” released by RKO Radio
Pictures.
Behind her lovely face a mad desire for power. In her soft white
hands, the will to crush men who are foolish enough to love her!
Bette Davis at the very pinnacle of her dramatic power... as a
beautiful woman who took all she could get from life, and de-
manded more. . . in the greatest emotional drama of all time!
A long time coming... worth waiting an age to see!
N. S. Wales Premier McKell’s taxa-
tion trickery is agitating members of the
military forces. When McKell abol-
ished” wages tax in his State he substi-
tuted additional ordinary income-tax for
the most part; furthermore, he gave his
Government the right to levy the in-
creased ordinary income tax on income
that had already borne wages tax. Thus,
though 1940-41 income had wages tax
deducted from it at source in thousands
of cases, it is now being assessed again
with the doubled ordinary tax. McKell
protested that in effect this technicality
would make little or no difference to
people in continuous employment. The
Bulletin pointed out at the time, how-
ever, that wage-earners were being made
liable for an additional year’s taxation,
even if payment was being deferred 12
months, and that people leaving this
country or whose income suffered a heavy
fall in 1941-42 would feel the double
load immediately. The same applied to
the estates of wage-earners who died
about June 30, 1941. The first people to
receive any publicity as a result of
obvious injustice have been soldiers who
have joined up within the last six months
or so and who find their army pay is
below what they received in civil life
during 1940-41, but whose taxation bill
this year is still at civilian-life levels. Mr.
McKell early in the piece spoke of “relief
in the case of hardship,” and last week the
Taxation Department graciously an-
nounced that “no man in the fighting ser-
vices will face poverty and hardship
through taxation.” It is all very kind
of Mr. McKell and his department con-
sidering the rough one that has been
put over wage-earners generally. Justice
could be done —and it should be done
even at this hour —by making the
assessment on 1940-41 income simply an
advance payment in anticipation of the
1941-42 tax.
m * * *
Under the National Security (Man-
power) Regulations, “no person employed
in a protected undertaking shall be
appointed to or enlisted in the defence
force without the permission in writing
of the Director-General of Man-power.”
A “protected undertaking” is any industry
declared “protected” because “it appears
to the Minister to be necessary so to do
in the interests of public safety or de-
fence.” No employer not engaged in
munitions work or in a protected industry
may engage a male employee without
permission from the Director-General or
his deputies. And an employer Carrying
on a protected undertaking may not
“terminate, except for serious miscon-
duct, the employment of any person em-
ployed therein.” The Minister in charge
of these regulations is E. J. Ward ; the
Director-General is W. C. Wurth.
* * * ♦
The collapse of the Industrial Rela-
tions Council is one of things the full
story of which has not yet been told.
The employers went into it believing it
was a consultation and advisory affair
in which differences between two sides
might be harmonised and advice given to
the Government; they state that, instead,
it was conducted as an industrial arbitra-
tion tribunal. The “Council” grew out
of a suggestion made by Labor Minister
E. J. Ward, which probably explains
most of the trouble encountered. Rather
than be trapped, the employers have
taken protective action, which has been
followed by a bitter attack from Mr.
Ward. The story is sad enough for the
Prime Minister to give it first-hand
attention.
* * * *
Last week in Melbourne Davies, Coop
ords. were bought at 305., whereas in
Sydney Bradford Cotton shares changed
hands at prices down to 31s. Davies,
Coop, has paid 8 p.c. on its ords. m
recent times —last year out of earnings
declared at 16.7 p.c. on ord. capital—
whereas Bradford has been paying 10 p.c.,
even though last term earnings were only
12.3 p.c. on capital principally because
of the large amount of extra funds put
to work since war made such heavy de-
mands on the Australian cotton textile
industry. Though on appearances the
figures of Davies, Coop are more attrac-
tive than those of Bradford, the Sydney
co.’s longer history of success, combined
with other factors, once caused the market
to pay a substantially higher price for
Bradford scrip than for that of Davies,
Coop. In September, for instance, when
Davies, Coop sold at a highest of 365.,
Bradford changed hands at 435. 6d.
Since then the McKell company taxation
has altered the respective investment
merits of the shares, but not to the ex-
tent shown by recent market prices.
* * * *
The Commonwealth note issue on
January 12 totalled £81.3 million, of
which £65.6 million was in the hands of
the public. A year earlier the public
held £48.6 million—£l7 million Jess—
and immediately before the outbreak of
war a mere £35 million sufficed. This
increase of £3O million held by the
public in cash since war began is of more
than academic interest. Part of the lift
is because of hoarding, part of it because
of the greater employment generally,
part of it because of the unaccustomed
places in which the fighting forces, etc.,
sometimes find themselves, and portion
of it is because of the desire to avoid
income tax on the part of some people.
Some of the increase may, in a general
way, be attributed to the inflation that
has taken place in Australia’s war-time
finances. This has crept up to above
10 p.c., and is rising. The increase in
the note issue has not in itself been a
cause of inflation —it is an effect rather
than a cause. But the use of bank credit
extensively is inflationary.
* * * *
Olympic Tyres reports that, for the six
months to Dec. 31, production has been
substantially confined to requirements for
essential services and national purposes.
Factory and plant have been extended to
carry out Government jobs and store
essentials. Manufacture of tyres for civil
use has been curtailed, but stocks on
hand are expected to look after the
limited immediate demands.
* * * «
Canada, since the outbreak of war, has
accepted war contracts worth £7OO mil-
lion in Australian money. It is claimed
that about half the workers in Canadian
factories “are more or less directly en-
gaged on production associated with war-
time needs.” It is tipped that Canadian
production for 1941 may show an in-
crease of 40 p.c. over the boom figure
for 1929. Steel output has doubled since
war started. Only 1500 men were en-
gaged in Canadian shipyards before the
war; more than 20,000 are now em-
ployed. In the aircraft industry em-
ployees have jumped from 2300 to 32,000,
and ’planes are coming off the produc-
tion lines at the rate of 2000 a year.
« * * *
According to New York “Times”
figures, normal imports of rubber and
tin by the U.S.A. from British sources,
principally Malaya, have amounted to
£62,500,000 Australian a year, increasing
to £94,000,000 under war-time conditions.
Apart from the physical difficulties caused
by the Japanese occupation of all
Malayan tin and rubber areas, the finan-
cial strain on trading arrangements with
the U.S.A. will be increased by this
British loss of dollar income. A New
York cable says Nicaragua is going to
finance the re-cultivation of rubber-trees
allowed to go wild 20 years ago.
* 4 s ♦
The war-damage insurance premium
rates have been tentatively put at 4s. per
cent, on buildings and fixtures (including
State property), Bs. per cent, on stocks of
goods exceeding £lOOO (on lesser quanti-
ties the rate may be 6d. per cent, less),
and Bs. per cent, on church property and
household effects, including cars. Appar-
ently churches are regarded as being
more vulnerable than suburban cottages.
There will be free insurance by the Com-
monwealth of “certain types of institu-
tions” to be defined later. All State
Governments have accepted the scheme
for insurance of their property, though
not all kinds of property will be included.


THE SERVICE MAN
All One War Now.
“Ek Dum”: The Pacific Allied com-
mand has gradually been moulded
towards its ultimate shape. On Feb. 8
Washington announced the constitution
of the Anzac Area command arrange-
ments and the linking of them with
General Wavell’s command.
Leaving out the war-zone plan the
political bodies resolve themselves into ( a )
a joint chief-of-staff organisation in Wash-
ington for the general planning of major
strategy in the Eastern and Pacific war
zones; ( b ) a centralised chief com-
mand under General Wavell at Soura-
baya ; (c) a centralised naval command
under Admiral Tom Hart, U.S.N., sub-
ordinate to General Wavell as Battle
Area Commander-in-Chief ; ( d) two naval
areas, dividing the western Pacific. The
southern one embraces the screen of
islands along the eastern Australian coast
and Maoriland, as well as Australia and
its own naval units. It will be com-
manded at sea by Vice-Admiral H. F.
Leary, U.S.N., under Admiral Hart,
In the north various allied fleets, under
their own internal commands, will be
subordinate to Admiral Hart in the
general scheme of operations.
Thus, the whole of the forces in the zone
E. and S. of Singapore are under U.S.
Navy command at sea, but in the general
scheme of defence at the disposal of the
Commander-in-Chief, General Wavell,
and subject to the plans of the Chief of
Staff Board in Washington.
Australian and Maoriland representa-
tives and those of the N.E.I. and China
will take part in the C.O.S. Board’s
deliberations where their “national inter-
ests are concerned.”
It is hard to say where they are not
concerned. Both Australia and ' Maori-
land might well be represented per-
manently, but the present staff is large
enough for workability.
The battle zone has resolved itself into
a great arc, the rind of which every day
is being strengthened by access of troops
from both sides. It forms the vastest
theatre of war concerned with a single
group of operations in history.
It swings round a giant half-circle, the
diameter of which is 4000 miles across,
and runs from Mandalay through the
Malacca Strait, where the centre lies east
of Padang, the Allied base on the south
of Sumatra. Its eastward sweep takes
in South China, the Philippines, the
Celebes, Borneo, the Moluccas, virtually
all the N.E.I. and the Timor Sea down
to the Australian coast. This eastern
half-circle contains 20,000 islands, apart
from mainland Asia ; the western half
is virtually all sea, which would fall a
prey to the enemy if he conquered the
eastern part.
The eastern arc and diameter on which
the war is being carried on is about
10,000 miles in length—as long as the
voyage from Australia to Britain.
Fight on the Salween
It begins with Burma. Here the struggle
has continued steadily since the Japanese
began their attempts to cross the Salween
River, as a result of their occupation
of Moulmein, 120 miles from Rangoon,
on its abandonment by the British forces.
The first crossing was attempted on
Feb. 3 at two points—eight miles north
of Martaban and 27 miles further up the
stream at Paan. The southern point is
just north of the Houng River fork, which
forms a common mouth with the Salween,
guarded on one side by Martaban, the
other by Moulmein. Where the Salween
breaks northward out of this joint estuary
there is an island in the centre of the
streams. On this the Japanese got a foot-
hold, having brought up motor-boats and
barges, which probably came down the
Houng.
Then the invaders crossed the narrow
eastern channel and formed a bridgehead
on the Martaban side by means of their
usual dribble of man-power, which flowed
on —on bicycles, on foot, in light cars,
in uniforms of both sides —irrespective
of losses caused by British machine-gun
fire. In the later stages of the crossing
hundreds of the enemy leapt into the
stream and swam —the British rearguard
had crossed by the same method. At any
given moment during the advance across
the river the Japanese force seemed
small because, as in northern Malaya, it
was being pushed forward in small de-
tachments doomed to death in process
of tiring out the defenders.
The Japanese commanders later suc-
ceeded in bringing up artillery strong
enough to have a nuisance value in
Martaban from across the Salween. Their
aircraft also raided the single-track rail-
way which runs from Martaban to Ran-
goon. Generally speaking, they held the
initiative along a 50-mile line up the
river at six main points.
They took advantage of every small
island for cover in crossing, but were
mercilessly harassed by the R.A.F. and
American air volunteers, who kept them
off Balu Gyon Island, at the mouth of
the Salween, between Martaban and
Amherst.
Up to Feb. 8 only small parties had
crossed the Salween, Repulsed near
Martaban, they slackened their efforts
there halfway through the week and in-
creased the pressure up the river at Paan.
But here British and U.S. airmen battered
them again, while their regular nightly
raids of Rangoon by up to 50 aircraft
were driven off again and again. Their
biggest attacks were on Feb, 6, when they
lost 10 machines for certain and probably
another 10 out of five waves of three to
four squadrons each. In three days they
were said to have lost 62 machines.
Tokyo’s version of the fighting is that
its armies hold bridgeheads all along the
western bank of the Salween; that in
the north-west Japanese forces from
Thailand were on Feb. 6 only 50 miles
from Lashio railhead, whence the Burma
Road sets out on its perilous 1000 miles
of serpentine to Chungking ; that Ran-
goon had been abandoned as the seat
of government in favor of Mandalay,
and that the main centre for landing of
goods for the Chinese armies had been
moved to Chittagong, a rain-soaked port
across the Ganges estuary from Calcutta,
about 300 miles from Mandalay along
the Tropic of Cancer.
Chinese troops were reported from
British sources to be massing to support
the Allies in the defence of Burma.
General Wavell, after a second inspection
of Burma defences lasting three days,
said: “We are in a far sounder position
to halt the Japanese than before —we are
now on a sound line,”
In China
Sweeping eastward round the circle of
war, Chinese troops were reported to
have reached a point only 50 miles from
Canton ; but the week before they were
reported even nearer. Chungking, inci-
dentally, announced that Japan had
between 32 and 33 divisions in China.
Apparently because a week without a
smashing victory would sound dull,
Tokyo Radio surrounded and annihilated
100,000 Communist supporters of Chiang
Kai-shek; but the Chinese remarked
laconically that, in Kiangsi province,
where the disaster was supposed to have
befallen their men, Japanese drives had
been prevented from pushing through:
“All thrusts were smashed with heavy loss
to the enemy.”
MacArthur Stands Pat
Next on the list of combat zones is
the Philippines, where General Mac-
Arthur continues to put up a grand fight.
Red Cross men who arrived in the
Commonwealth with the last shipload of
wounded to be allowed out of Manila
Bay by the invaders declare that 800,000
civilians were evacuated from Manila
district, mainly in an orderly way, after
the first bombs were dropped. When the
city was abandoned it was a burning
ruin, its waterfront smashed to match-
wood, its approaches choked and its
harbor mouth blocked by Corregidor.
It was no longer of any military use to
the enemy.
The man whom Moscow’s official
“Pravda” accused of cowardice because
he had declared Manila an open town
executed a masterly wheeling movement
into his present fortress positions, with
the enemy in huge force on his left flank
and the sea behind him under problema-
tical control. Since then, he has not only
succeeded in holding Bataan, but in keep-
ing most other parts of the islands under
his administration. And very naturally his
name has been placed on the roll of
American national heroes beginning with
Washington.
The Philippines fight is not merely a
sideshow. Reconquest of the islands
would make a thundering difference to
the whole strategic situation and would
force the Japanese to revolutionise their
plans. The Philippines lie athwart all
Japan’s channels of access to the Indies,
Indo-China, Malaya, Northern Australia
and Westralia. More will certainly be
heard of this aspect as Allied strength
develops.
The enemy is well aware of this ; hence
Tokyo never fails to regale its people
with a daily tale of victory, and with
sneers at the unimportance of the U.S.-
Philippine divisions on the island,
“which will be forced to surrender to
mighty Japan as an insignificant part of
greater East Asia.”
All this is altogether inconsistent with
the desperate attempts to bring the fight
to an issue by coastal assaults, begun on
February 1. On the west picked Jap
troops were hurled against the gallant
garrison apparently under a• complete
misconception about the disposition of
the defence. The attack was a series of
simultaneous razor-edged cat-clawings at
what the Japanese believed to be the left
rear angle of the U.S.-Filipino flank. But
the attackers found themselves pushing
their paws into the full heat of mortar
and artillery, screen-pit and pillbox cover.
Simultaneous squeezing movements from
the inland side were treated in like
manner. The enemy must have come to
the conclusion that the only rear the de-
fenders of Bataan own is deep-seated in
the heavy gun runways of Corregidor.
For the rest of the week the Nip-
ponese were busy licking their wounds
and trying to fill the gaps in their ranks
with reinforcements landed on the Lin-
gayen Gulf beaches out of reach of Mac-
Arthur’s guns.
Yarding Singapore
Operations south of the Philippines
were widespread but not yet at their
height. Their objective mainly seemed
to be to distract the attention of every
immediate part of Allied territory from
which help for Singapore might come,
and particularly to prevent the fortress
being reinforced and to close Torres
Strait and immobilise Sourabaya and
Darwin.
The bombing of Sourabaya seemed at
first more mischievous than otherwise,
but it caused heavy damage. The air
rang with threats throughout the week
about the horrors in store for the
wretched, unprotected natives. But the
natives must have been heartened by the
fight which the Dutch put up for Balik
Papan, where all the oil installations were
wrecked, despite a barbarous threat issued
by the Japanese to the Netherlands com-
mander in writing:
If the Balik Papan garrison demolishes
the various geological riches in the area
the Dutch commander and all the Dutch
concerned will be wiped out without ex-
ception.
They must have also found it cheer-
ing that even so remote a point as Am-
boina, cut off by distance and location
from hope of reinforcement, had been
able to put up a fight.
Java’s First Raids
The capture of positions in southern
Borneo brought Java and Sumatra well
within the bombing zone. In their first
large attack on Sourabaya on Feb. 3 the
Japs used delayed-action bombs. Their
attack appeared to be mainly aimed at
the ’drome and naval base, but bombs
fell in the heart of the crowded city,
sections of which had to be evacuated.
In the native quarters there were heavy
casualties. The bombers —there were 70
to 80 all told —pushed on due south along
the railway into the mountains to Malang
and westward towards Samarang and
Bandoeng, the capital.
No casualty report was issued for over
24 hours, which was ominous. It turned
out that 31 were killed and 139 injured
in Sourabaya and 10 killed and 52 in-
jured at Malang. The Dutch admitted
that their machine losses were “very con-
siderable,” and that “presumably the
enemy lost eight fighters and two
bombers.” Japanese Imperial H.Q.
placed the score at 85 Dutch and four
of their own machines.
The attacks continued and were ex-
tended. Samarang and various other
ports of Java joined Sourabaya as victims.
Palembang, in Sumatra, the one sub-
stantial oil centre left to the Allies in
the N.E.1., and Padang, on the southern
side of that island, about 250 miles from
Singapore, were the western limits of
these attacks. Padang was mentioned by
Tokyo as a concentrating point for Allied
shipping and aircraft. Sumatran bases
in any case had become important since
air reinforcements delivered there would
have a very vital effect both on Singa-
pore’s fate and on the control of the
Malacca Straits.
On Feb. 8 Japanese ’planes were re-
ported south of Timor, about 300 miles
from Darwin. The western passenger and
mail 'plane was promptly grounded and
a squadron of fighters took over to inter-
cept the enemy if he made for the Aus-
tralian coast. Troops went to battle
stations. “All clear” was given after two
hours, during which Darwin mostly went
about its ordinary business.
Koepang was raided again on Feb. 3
by fighters which machine-gunned ship-
ping and killed four persons.
There must be an aircraft-carrier ofi
Timor.
Berlin Radio’s Naval Victory
Dutch and U.S. naval units were far
from idle. In the middle of the
week Uncle Sam reported a bag of nine
enemy machines in Macassar Strait. The
Dutch reported further destruction of an-
other 11 machines along the Borneo
coast, the sinking of a Japanese cruiser
and the damaging of another cruiser and
a submarine in waters off Amboina.
Berlin Radio then went into action and
described the sinking of “practically the
whole of the Dutch East Indies Fleet,”
an achievement which had left Dutch
East Indies helpless in Japanese hands.
Two cruisers of the “Java class” were
specifically mentioned, and the U.S. Navy
was declared to have been deprived of
two cruisers of the Marblehead class—
which are about the size of H.M.A.S.
Hobart and Perth but carry four more
6in. guns.
By the week-end Balik Papan, out of
which the gallant garrison had fought its
way, a new point at Seremban on the
Bornean coast and apparently Amboina,
with which all communication had been
cut off, were in Japanese hands.
General Wavell remarked that the
Dutch were carrying out the policy of
making the enemy fight hard for every
yard and of leaving nothing of value
behind with sacrifice and resolution.
Qantas Machine Down
The side thrust towards Darwin had
first found expression on Jan. 31 in the
bombing of Koepang. During operations
in that area the Qantas Imperial flying-
boat Corio was shot down, her crew and
passengers mercilessly machine-gunned.
The officers on the upper and operating
deck came through with only wounds.
Captain Koch has a broken leg and
machine-gun wounds down his left side.
He brought the ship down near the mouth
of the Noelmans River, but it crashed
into the sea. He himself and First Officer
Lyne were saved. Radio Officer A. S.
Patterson, Purser G. W. Cruickshank and
Flight Steward S. C. Elphick were among
the 13 killed, all the rest being young
Australians. A ton of mails was lost.
It was the first Qantas disaster during
the war. Australian civil aviation has a
magnificent war-time record. Despite all
difficulties and complications and the
heavy strain put on its machines by
Defence demands, there was not a single
air accident which caused loss of life in
1940-41.
At the Crossroads
A deep silence has fallen over the
Marshall Islands since Admiral Nimitz’s
ambassadors paid their visit. The attack
turned out to be a much larger operation
than had at first appeared. About 150
ships, including heavy units backed by
aircraft, went there looking for an oppor-
tunity of avenging Pearl Harbor.
The heavy stuff found nothing of equal
metal, but considerable damage was done.
No forces were landed, and some critics
complained ; but there are priorities in
these things. A division of American
troops in Australia, Philippines, Batavia
or Singapore is worth five in the Mar-
shalls at present.
The centre of the New Guinea attack
shifted near to Torres Strait and the Aus-
tralian coast. Australian military forces
and militia are still out of contact in
their fastnesses behind Toma and in the
Bainings; but the R.A.A.F. has done its
best. It bombed ships in Rabaul harbor
on February 3 and for the first time
was resisted by Japanese fighters.
The visitors hit a ship with a stick of
bombs and made a near miss on another.
Two raids were made by the enemy on
Port Moresby—the first on Tuesday,
February 3, when six bombs were
dropped and one man was killed and three
injured. In the second about 30 bombs
were dropped. Next Samarai was
mildly attacked —it is on the eastern
tip of Papua commanding the coastwise
entrances to the Bismarck Sea.
Japanese exploits in New Guinea were
chiefly vocal. Among other things they
claimed was that, after the surrender of
Kavieng, the officer in command there—
whose name and rank varied from session
to session—had acted as their guide. One
announcer was enthusiastic about the
“gentlemanly courtesy” ‘with which this
polite Australian was alleged to have wel-
comed his captors. The officer’s own
version should make a popular outback
Australian radio feature when he has time
to give it.
A Lockheed Hudson during the week
had a fierce battle with a fighter in the
Bismarcks. The first pilot came back
with a compound wrist fracture, the
second pilot with his left leg broken, rwo


H.M.A.S. Warramunga, second of the
Australian Tribal destroyers, ■ was
launched at Cockatoo Dock, Sydney, by
Mr. Forde on Feb. 7. She carries eight
4.7’5, like the rest of her dangerous breed,
and will do more than 36 knots.
Missing Friend.
RE ALFRED HENRY CULLEN, late of Long
ford, Tasmania, Deceased.
WILL GORDON CULLEN, formerly of Long
ford, Tasmania, son of the aboyenamed de
ceased, or any person knowing his where
abouts, please communicate with HAROLL
BUSHBY, Solicitor, Launceston, Tasmania?,
fingers of his right hand mutilated and
his left upper arm lacerated, and the
radio operator and air gunner with a
wound in the leg. T he fuselage was punc
tured, the petrol tank holed and the alti-
meter and speedometer wiped out; and,
apart from enemy bullets, the ’plane s
seamarkers had exploded inside the fuse-
lage, almost blinding the crew. Yet the
enemy was driven off, and the Lockheed
got home safe on one engine.
The Lion City at Bay.
“Ek Dum”: With the last notes of
“Cock o’ the North” from the Argyll
pipes and the explosions which wrecked
the causeway to Johore, Singapore began
a settling-in period. The tired troops
from the north were glad enough to
shave their beards and rest a night or
two in clean beds.
Wandering reporters noted that the
British civil population had somehow
turned itself from “whisky-drinking _ in-
competents” and “loafing mems.” into
the calm, busy, self-effacing English who
are almost always at their best under
stress. Memsahibs were helping to dig
Asiatics out of their bombed houses,
binding wounds, lining up in queues with
Asiatics of the lowest grades, driving cars
with destinations marked on windshields
after the London strike-time fashion, and
picking up whoever cared to wave.
Ships moved in and out under an um-
brella of Japanese assault south and east
of Malacca ; but on the north and west
along Johore Strait there was, for a day
or two, only intermittent mutter of guns.
Further up the coast, inside the mine-
fields, the R.N. and its salt-water allies
were beginning to clean up the remnants
of the gallant rearguards who had stayed
behind to hold up the wings of the
Japanese advance. By the week-end the
respectable total of 2000 last-minute men
had been collected, making nonsense of
Japan’s boast that the sea is “absolutely
under Japanese control.” Chinese were
guiding other stragglers and escapees
among mangrove-hidden inlets to sam-
pans and safety at the imminent risk of
their own lives.
Any hope that the Japanese had that
the British might clear out of Singapore
faded from day to day. On February 2
Tokyo Radio, in a hopeful mood,
trumpeted:
Reconnaissance aircraft noticed the
British evacuating soldiers and civilians
from Singapore, loading troops in 25 trans-
ports and also destroying military installa-
tions on the island. They realise the futility
of attempting to hold Singapore. It is
Japanese already, even if the white nag
has not been hoisted.
Berlin chimed in:
Many fires are raging in and near Singa-
pore. Heavy guns on Singapore have
opened up, but Japanese bombers are
passing over without interruption.
The naval base was supposed to be on
fire and a “total wreck.” Aerodromes
and oil tanks were represented as “ruins.”
Ships were taking out civilians. The
Governor said that they would try to
send away as many women and children
as wished to leave, and he thanked the
Commonwealth for opening its doors to
Asiatic and Eurasian refugees. He added
that food, water and hospital requisites
had been arranged, and said that the
Asiatic inhabitants need never imagine
they would be abandoned. There was
no rush for the gangways.
On February 4, while two bunches of
raiders dropped bombs among the im-
passive Chinese and Malays, who already
had learnt to take them as a matter of
course ; while troops worked feverishly
laying mines along the Johore Strait and
the big guns rumbled and shook the
chunam out of the ceilings of the old
houses, and made the thatch and palm-
trees rustle and quiver, General Wavell
sent a cheerful message urging the garri-
son to hold on “and gain time for the
very great reinforcements which Britain
and her American allies are sending to
the eastern theatre.”
Singapore needed no exhorting. The
veteran troops who had plodded down
the Kluang road had the pride of know-
ing that, man for man, they were more
than a match for the enemy and the
deep satisfaction of seeing around them,
for the first time, all the evidences that
they would have superior artillery sup-
port, a strong naval guard and some of
the comforts of a home with no leeches
and not too many tigers or king cobras.
The prideful A.I.F. found its own re-
cuperation in the memory of its per-
formances. Australians had laid down
the defences of Mersing and Jemaluang,
on the east coast; some of them had come
fresh from hitting the enemy so hard that
it had winded him and made it possible
for all the Imperial troops on the east
coast to withdraw without further con-
tact with the enemy.
There were among them two grim bat-
talions of N. S. Welshmen who had been
left behind in Mersing and who had dis-
persed themselves warily round the Jema-
luang-Kluang crossroads on Jan. 26-27,
silently waiting for the inevitable inflow
of the enemy through the rubber-trees.
They came, first , soft-footedly, then
noisily, on the afternoon of Australia’s
Foundation Day holiday, dodging
through the trees as if engaged on a
boar hunt, beating the jungles and plan-
tations, shouting and firing their tommy-
guns. The N. S. Welshmen withdrew
quietly. Night fell. At 1.15 next
morning Japanese opened fire on an un-
blooded A.I.F. company. They were
allowed to come on, filtering towards the
companies and platoons until they were
well disposed for the mashing machine.
An hour later guns and mortars laid
down a creeping barrage, moving at 200
yards a minute ahead of our infantry,
who were going forward at the morning
stir over ground of which they knew
every foot. Dawn rose on groups of
bloody bayonets and echoed to the clatter
of running Japanese. Enemy mortars
came into action, and light and heavy
automatics. But A.I.F. gunners had the
range. The infantry moved on steadily
for 1000 yards, combing the trees and
undergrowth for nearly five hours. By
8 a.m. a whole Japanese battalion had
been wiped out.
The N. S. Welshmen, turned into
veterans in a day and a night, marched
proudly southward. The Japanese, in-
cluding their reinforcements, were on
their way back to Mersing to lick their
wounds.
To men such as these, to the men of
the Muar, to the Highlanders, Punjabis,
the Indian border regiments, the Rajputs,
the Ghurkas, there could be no talk of
surrender or retreat. Their determination
was steeled every little while by the hom-
ing of escaped prisoners with tales of the
kind of treatment which might be ex-
pected from the enemy. Some had been
brought down the coast by friendly
Chinese who had given them shelter,
treated them like kings and guided them
home. Some had swum by night across
Johore Strait. The tales they told were
of weary men being bound hand and
foot by their captors, of being left thus
cruelly bound through dank, fever-
stricken, mosquito-haunted nights, of
being turned, weak and injured, into
beasts of burden for Orientals, of being
smacked in the face by screaming hys-
terics as they lay helpless when the dread-
ful casualty lists goaded the Japanese to
fury-
In Singapore, time for once was on me
side of the defenders. The guns, the vast
defence works, earned it. Even with an
inadequate garrison, it cannot be tackled
without heavy artillery or at least im-
mense offensive fire-power.
True, the Jap Air Force provides this;
but aircraft as artillery is the most expen-
sive form of destruction.
A single aircraft can drop only a few
bombs at most, and that without heavy
impact. The 9.2 in., 12in. and even 15in.
guns with which Singapore is said to be
equipped hurl their shells with deadly
accuracy miles beyond the range of ordi-
nary road-borne artillery. A 15in. land
gun delivers 18501 b. of shell with a muzzle
energy sufficient to lift 88,000 tons a foot
off the ground. It can fire about six
shots every five minutes and reduce a
whole convoy to pulver from 18 miles
away.
By Friday low-level dive-bombing in
Singapore had become routine. The naval
base, useless for land defence, had been
closed, the King George V dock flooded.
Our own ’planes had moved out to fresh
fields in Sumatra and elsewhere, whence
they were doing solid work pounding
the enemy’s rear bases, harassing his
communications, and spotting for the big
fellows in their caissons among the rubber
plantations and other innocent-looking
features on the north of the island. Now
and then Hurricanes went up over the
island itself.
A tanker burned lazily in the roads,
sending up black smoke. The chunam
flaked on to the floors as the earth shud-
dered in chorus with the heavy guns
pounding observation posts and Japanese
columns picked by reconnaissance above
Johore Bahru.
That Friday Tokyo announced that
the general attack on Singapore had
begun; and there was more than a
shadow of truth in it.
Saturday and Sunday (Feb. 8) the pre-
parations for attack were rising to a
crescendo. Sunday was the ninth day of
the siege. .
The enemy made his first attempts to
reach Singapore and grasp it in a nut-
cracker. His advance was made both
on die east and west of the north side
of the island.
On the east he landed troops on the
unfortified island of Übin, which sticks
in the gullet of the Johore Strait between
Changi Pt. aerodrome and the main naval
air base. It is an unpromising place, full
of mangrove and mosquito, and there is
more water between it and Singapore than
there is between the mainland and Wood-
lands at Causeway.
His second attack on Singapore island
itself was made in the dark between 11
p.m. and 1 a.m. on Sunday night before
the moon rose. The invaders came in
every type of craft after a day of bom-
bardment in which shells sometimes fell
at the rate of 75 to 100 a minute. They
landed along the coast west of the Cause-
way. Here are low flats, wide, muddy
estuaries, full of mangrove suckers,
plenty of cover on the mainland side
and the kind of conditions which
made for concealment on the island
itself. It is the most savage part of Singa-
pore, the only settlement being poor
fishermen along the west and rubber
plantations further east towards the
Causeway.
This sector is held by Queenslanders
and N. S. Welshmen. These tough fel-
lows made a desperate attempt to push
out the enemy before he could receive
reinforcements on Monday night, A new
influx could have no chance of crossing
the channel before dark,
Domei and Chinese Radio reported at
the same time that tanks had crossed the
strait and were fighting their way down
the road. No British report endorsed the
tale,
A.I.F. Casualties —1187
Lists of casualties from the Malayan
and other campaigns began to be issued
during the week. They covered both the
A.I.F. and R.A.A.F. The high proportion
of family men made the A.I.F. lists
especially sad reading.
The totals to the week-end, however,
were less than had been expected con-
sidering the overwhelming flood of in-
vasion which the units of the Muar and
Mersing had had to face, and the fact
that many units and sections were cut
off behind the enemy’s lines for days.
But they were painful enough—lB3
dead, 359 wounded and 645 missing, total
1187. _____
Along Derna Wadi.
“Ek Dum”; Developments in Libya
make distinctly unpleasant reading. At
the week-end the enemy sweep had
travelled nearly 280 miles from its
furthest point. In five days a spearhead
gobbled up 170 miles of desert and farm
land east of Benghazi, from which the
4th Indian Division retired in good order.
The Indians rejoined the main army,
which now lies in one of the strongest
positions, along the Derna Wadi, with
its right flank across the sea, its
centre facing the summits of Cyrenaica
the peaks of the 3500 ft.-high Jebel
Akdhar —its left flank over the lower lip
of the plateau shelves at the great desert
junction of Mekili or beyond.
Derna Wadi is a great north-south
wooded valley near the sea, cored by a
river. Out of it, westward, a huge
gully runs into the plateau about 17
miles from Derna towards Benghazi.
Nearer to Derna another wadi runs
out of the Derna Wadi eastward. Two
roads come in from the west, one along
the coast joining by a zigzag on the
Benghazi side of Derna port with the
main highway on top of the plateau,
along which an A.I.F. division in April
last made the retreat which ended
gloriously at Tobruk.
Halfway towards Mekili British posi-
tions on the 1000 ft. heights on the Tobruk
and El Adem side, across the Tngh
Capuzzo highway, would look westward
to see the enemy across vast open plains
beyond the wadi and Mekili road.
The Derna Wadi position is strong. It
was suggested on this page that the Aus-
ralians and their companions might make
their stand there during the 1941 retire-
ment, but they had neither the men nor
equipment to hold the line. At the same
time, it is the most advantageous posi-
tion from which to retire eastward from
an overwhelming attack or to drive one
home. It was along the wadi that the de-
cisive thrusts were made which sent
Rommel and his men back to the El
Agheila lines. .
The pause at this point is all to the
good for the British. Apparently only a
spearhead of the enemy has reached the
edge of the wadi. The main forces are
further back near Msus and are being
savaged by a British armored division
and the brigade of Guards, which, all
through the latter parts of the struggle
down to El Agheila and back, have formed
the teeth of the British Lion. Enemy-
supply columns have been seen m force
well to the rear. They are being harassed
by the Imperial Air Forces, as have been
also the aerodromes on the western
Cyrenaican top which the enemy is busy
reconditioning, and those of Sicily.
Italian communiques declared on Feb.
5 that Axis forces had passed Derna and
“continued to pursue the fleeing enemy.
According to Rome, Rommel s armies
took 3500 British and Indian prisoners,
with 370 tanks and 192 guns, to Jan. 31.
In Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Last week the Russians
admitted the recapture of Theodosia in
the Crimea, which the Germans reported
as having taken again on January
What were described a fortnight ago as
drives which might push the Germans
out of the Crimea, and perhaps cut ott
their retreat across the Perekop Isthmus,
seem now to have developed into raids.
Sevastopol is still besieged. Bucharest
alleges that Rumanians and Germans
have “cleared” three-fourths of the Kerch
Peninsula. .
Concerning operations along the Azov
coast, the Russians on February 5 claimed
to be approaching the eastern environs ot
Taganrog, less than 30 miles from
Rostov. And a Russian spearhead was
said to have licked down to Berestovoie,
within 40 miles of the Azov coast
A move further north on the Kharkov
front is ostensibly a concomitant to this
operation. Marshal Timoshenko m
December made a “heavy thrust at
Kharkov itself. ,
In the last week of January the Red
Army was reported to have pierced the
outer defences and to be only a tew
miles from the city. A few days later
the distance was placed at 12 miles. A
new drive had developed to the south
which had captured Losovaga, about 100
miles south of Kharkov and 70 miles
from Dnepropetrovsk, and later, the Rus-
sians declared, Petropavlovsk, 60 miles
n.-w. of Mariupol.
The Germans admitted the loss ot
Berestovoie, north of Berdyansk on the
Azov coast. They also admitted the
“temporary” loss of Losovaga, but
asserted that enough reinforcements were
being brought up from Dnepropetrovsk
to right the position. Moscow reported
that the Red Army had so much of the
Azov part of the Donetz region now
wrapped up in Tidioshenko s pudding
cloth that, of seven railway lines avail-
able for the enemy to escape from the
Stalino sector a short while ago, only
two were open.
Between Kursk and Kharkov another
Russian drive was mentioned as having
reached Byelgorod, an important railway
junction which the Germans seized after
the capture of Kharkov. Russian reports
were clear that, here, as at Losovaga,
their troops were “pursuing the Ger-
mans.” The enemy declared on February
6 that counter-attacks had driven the
Russians back here and n.-e. of Kursk.
The central front showed much the
same features as the Kharkov front the
Germans in a vast bag along the
Moscow-Smolensk road, with the mouth
closing on the west from Velikiye Luki
in the Valdai hills towards Vitebsk and,
from the south, from around Yelnia, 60
miles or so s.-e. of Smolensk.
Hopeful writers believed that even
Smolensk might be engulfed in the great
Moscow road enclave. Velikiye Luki had
not been taken up to February 5, but that
day it was reported that the Russians
had captured the town of “V.”
Berlin Radio declared that “big
battles” were raging on the Moscow road,
that the Russians were retreating towards
Mojaisk and had lost 70 p.c. of the effec-
tives of three divisions. This is the first
time for weeks that the Germans have
described operations in which so great
a number of the enemy was mentioned.
As for the north, the enemy reported
activity inside the Leningrad siege lines
and claimed to have bombarded indus-
trial suburbs of the city. “Red Star” re-
torted that Russian cavalry had broken
into the German ring round Leningrad
and that infantry and artillery were
widening the gap.
There was undoubtedly more move-
ment on the whole front, and there weie
signs that the Germans were using greater
forces with a livelier technique. Moscow
spoke of “attacking along the whole
front, driving deeply into the Germans’
defences and forcing them to use divisions
which Hitler was attempting to keep
fresh for the spring.”


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The position of women with regard to
the war effort is being cleared up, and
all are beginning to receive their orders.
Contrary to expectation, it is announced
that women students in cultural courses
are wanted at the University, and
farmers need women’s labor if we are to
keep up production standards. The Uni-
versity is pointing out that women trained
for teaching and secretarial work are
going to be needed desperately for some
time to come, but it is demanding real
brains from those it is being called on
to train. It looks as though the axe will
go down heavily on girls who think of
the University as a swanky matrimonial
bureau in which a husband is a good
return for a few guineas spent on one
subject, and also as though the lassies
prepared to look beautiful in a country
setting won’t find life down on the farm
at all what they dreamed. •
The Olympic pool and Elwood beach
were last week the brighter for the
presence of several new mermaids, and
the local lads and lassies envied them
their agility and tan as the strangers
flopped and swam and dived like seals.
Secret was soon out when a handsome
male member of the visiting Kirsova
ballet turned up, and the swimmers
were disclosed as Kirsova’s babies, other-
wise the Australian members of her
junior ballet. The ballet has been in-
vited here, there and everywhere, but
time has not permitted of many parties.
Kirsova herself took a quiet week-end
off from toil at the George Caros’ home,
and Henry Legerton has been baching
with three Melbourne young men who,
like him, can cook their own omelets.
Medical Corps Welfare Association
women set a standard in war-time
fitness-of-things in their party for mem-
bers this week. Jts background, the
superb Botanical Gardens, is just the
right spot to enable guests to spread
themselves out, instead of crowding in a
huddle. President Mrs. Gordon Shaw
hasn’t needed much practice to make her-
self heard, for she has been lent the mega-
phone through which the Lennox Speirses’
young hopeful previously cheered school
champions. A bright feature of all these
gatherings, at which about 500 wives and
mothers of men serving with medical
units gather, is the baby park. As mother
passes the president and gets a hand-
squeeze her young are lured away from
her, and with sweet music and kind words
kept far from her till she has enjoyed an
afternoon untrammelled by George and
his sticky fingers or Annette’s immode-
rate yearning for ice-cream.
With Dr. (Colonel) Lennox Speirs
away with the A.I.F. in all the toughest
spots, including Tobruk, a son who has
carried on the medical tradition now
with the Navy and daughter Elizabeth
at munitions work, the Speirs family,
their mother points out, are making a 75
per cent, war effort at least. It may be
added that mother is doing her best to
make it 100 per cent., and people who
know Mrs. Speirs’s work with the
A.G.H. Medical Corps Welfare and the
Red Cross would agree that she succeeds
in making up the family quota. Another
family that is putting all its efforts be-
hind a military father is that of Brigadier
Frank Lind. Daughter Pam, fresh from
Clyde, is working at munitions, Mrs.
Lind is helping Red Cross and A.I.F.
Welfare and Comforts Funds and elder
daughter Patricia is doing research work
in science at the University.
Fighting her battles over again for the
benefit of those who want to know how
it was done is Mrs. W. A. Hands, who
as Alma Hansen went to Oxford and
was caught up in the big war 25 years
ago. Now she is living here with her
handsome husband, who can tell how
to put women into the engineering trade
while he takes his after-dinner coffee.
Mrs. Hands was plunged into the iron
and steel industry as personal secretary
to an ironmaster, and saw the whole fas-
cinating translation of 700,000 women
with about one idea on making shells
among them to a body of competent
engineering operatives who could build
nearly anything that runs on iron legs.
Like most women with heads on their
shoulders, she wants to see her sisters
used much more in a real war effort here.
With the two Valeries as bridesmaids,
Valerie Palmer and Valerie Purves, and
St. John’s, Toorak, which she and the
bridegroom, Bill Purves, both attended,
as the place of the ceremony, Patricia
Mein is having a very family atmosphere
about her wedding next Saturday. Mrs.
Alex. Creswick. the former Claudia
Palmer, and, like bridesmaid Valerie
Palmer, a cousin of the bride-to-be, is
placing her house at the bride’s disposal
for the reception. So far bride’s dress
and other furbelows of ’maids are dark
secrets. But with her Titian hair the
bride is almost a sure starter in white.
The ’maids, both petite and pretty, might
try any color, but Valerie Purves is so
perfectly suited in briar-rose pink that
several friends will be sorry if she dis-
appoints them.
Engagement by cable is becoming the
order of the day. Latest to follow the
new style is June, daughter of the
Norman Robinsons, who are almost as
well known in racing circles as Phar Lap
was. June is a V.A.D. and has also
driven a sewing machine at the Gov-
ernment House branch of Red Cross. At
present she is learning typing and short-
hand to make herself more fit for war
work. Fiancd Joshua Pitt, son of the
George Pitts, of Monara-road, Kooyong,
is a lieutenant in the forces abroad since
he gave up business with father’s firm to
follow the colors. Mrs. Norman Robin-
son, who is one of the Knit Bees, on
whose socks hundreds of our boys have
marched in comfort, says that the young
folk have no plans at the moment, but
June just smiles.
Came the afternoon concerts. These
were promised —in whispers, ’tis true,
nevertheless a firm “yes, you shall have
them” some time back, but the days
went on. Now, all suddenly, the Sidney
Myer concert last Sunday, and on
Wednesday the first of the unfortunately
named “musicales” at the Town Hall
with Lady Mayoress Beaurepaire as
hostess and tickets ss. each. Everyone is
so relieved, for teas and other gatherings
at which conversation was the main enter-
tainment have become a real terror to
the exhausted war-worker who has no
new ideas on military strategy and doesn’t
want to know how to win the war by
amateur tactics. Strella Wilson, who had
the arranging of the programme for the
Town Hall musicale, is seen about these
days mostly with daughters Pauline and
Marjorie, and has hopes that at least one
daughter will rival mother’s singing fame.
Billie (pictured here by Athol Shmith),
Betty and Mother form a working tri-
umvirate in the Wesley Ince family.
Sometimes it’s the Blood Bank, sometimes
the Lady Forster Free Kindergarten that
they concentrate on, and Billie has also
set herself the job of becoming one of
Melbourne’s best-trained girls by doing a
course in Domesticity at Invergowrie
Homecraft Hostel. At this spot the girls
not only listen to lectures on how and
why, but at one stage go into residence
in a tiny cottage in the grounds, where
they housekeep for a couple of their
fellow-students (and how their boarders
yell if the soup is cold or the beds
lumpy!). Just before deciding to take up
more study Billie is helping the Red
Cross and Comforts Fund by a last-
minute all-in run for the title of Summer
Girl, and the family trio has organised a
picture night at South Yarra to make a
big sum all in one effort.
One of the little bits of silver to our
war-time cloud is the immensely increased
popularity of “Australia’s best immi-
grant.” Babies abound, and no longer do
young mothers-to-be sit at home biding
their time. Instead they are led proudly
forth by hubbies or mothers and even
sometimes by the pending baby’s elder
brothers and sisters. An incident in a
Malvern tram the other day is typical.
Three little boys about seven, five and
three accompanied a young mother-to : be
and grandma. Passing Prince Henry’s
Hospital, the eldest drew the attention
of the other boys to the towering new
wing. “It’s Prince Henry’s Hospital,”
said grandma. “Oh,” said young Seven-
year-old, “that’s not the one we’re going
to, is it, mother? We’re going to the
Women’s, aren’t we?” Indulgent smiles
all round the tram met young mother’s
embarrassed eye, while “gran” murmured
“You can’t keep much to yourself these
days.” At town, the family moved off
briskly to take the Carlton tram.
From Sydney
Warw.ick Farm meeting at Randwick
last Saturday was still another of the
season’s proofs that expensive dresses
and hats are no longer an integral part
of going racing. Summer frocks, most
of them of the washing variety, simple
hats or none at all, were the array of the
smartest. Glare glasses and browned
legs fitted into the picture. In spite of
one thing and another, the young-enough
dine and dance in town with unabated
vigor, among them already some re-
turned soldiers. The big date of the
moment for dinner-dancers is February
17. This is the date for the “Rise Above
It” do at Prince’s in aid of the R.A.A.F.
Central Area Comforts Fund. Cartoonist
Jimmy Bancks is said to be hatching a
clutch of new gags for the occasion.
When Lorna Nimmo won the Wynne
Prize for landscape she pioneered her sex
into a promised land. Lorna is the first
girl in 47 years—in fact, since its incep-
tion —to carry off this notable award. The
Wynne Prize is looked upon as some-
thing of the year’s blue ribbon in the art
world of this State. Most of its recipients
have been front-rankers. Lambert, Syd
Long, Gruner, Hans Heysen and Will
Ashton, Director of the National Gallery,
have been winners of this accolade. Lorna,
who is a Mountains dweller, is young
and good-looking and a fine painter. Last
year she won a travelling scholarship,
and now she pockets the Wynne. Photo-
graph by Pat Holmes.
At Fire Brigade depots demonstrations
are given of the method of putting out
a dinkum incendiary. The men of the
Fire Brigade are proving apt instructors.
This applies not only to town stations,
but also to those in the suburbs. If any-
one rings up and tells the officer in charge
that he or she and a few neighbors are
coming along for instruction, the firemen
will be all ready with sandbags, stirrup-
pumps, lecturette and practical demdh-
stration, in which the audience is invited
to become the actors. Sydney women are
determined to give stoush to the unwel-
come incendiary judging by the numbers
who are attending these demonstrations
and qualifying for the Women’s Fire
Auxiliary. Premier McKell’s wife handed
out 69 certificates to competent looking
women last week when members of Fire
Brigade Headquarters gave an A.R.P.
lesson in the form of a diverting play.
Mrs. McKell herself extinguished a bomb
—one of the “Made in Japan” type.
The American Centre is the name given
to the long room at 140 Phillip-street. This
is the meeting place for Americans swept
by war’s hurricane from their homes.
Here the involuntary visitors will find
their country’s magazines and accents,
and will be aided not only with advice
but with material help. As soon as pos-
sible they will return to America. In the
meantime, their countrywomen here will
do their best to make their days pleasant.
The first sight that greets the eye on push-
ing open the door is America’s flag—at
once a message of hope and courage. On
the opposite wall Australia’s flag gives
greeting, too.
The vice-chairman of the Centre’s com-
mittee, Mrs. Charles Brown, has taken
on a nine-till-five job. Some days her
“office hours” will be longer, for the
doors aren’t always locked at five. Satur-
days and Sundays, too, come into the
picture. Already there’s a look of com-
fort about the quarters ; and the workers
feel that all will be well when they attain
the carpet which is promised. American
firms have lent tables and chairs. Mrs.
Leonard Johnson sees to the flowers, and
last week managed to secure a cluster of
deep-red roses to help the glad eye view.
An interested visitor was Mrs. Nelson
T. Johnson, wife of the U.S.A. Minister
to Australia. The Centre’s working was
given to her in detail by Mrs. Brown
and Mrs. K. Kerr. There is a movement
to open such meeting places for U.S.A.
“visitors” from the Near North (the
Centre doesn’t quite like the sound of
evacuee) in Brisbane, Melbourne and
other State capitals.
One of the pleasures of Will Ashton’s
(Director of our National Gallery)
American mail last week were the letters
of congratulation still being written about
the “Australia in Art.” The loan exhibi-
tion of Australian paintings made its
American ddbut in impressive surround-
ings, nothing less than the greenly
marble halls of the National Gallery at
Washington. Those looking for an attack
of gallery neck and feet find this the
place for their money. There are five
acres, broken into 90 courts, to traverse.
The Australian landscapes showed up
well, and over one thousand visitors were
at the opening.
The work of women artists is to be
seen in the frescoes, the murals and the
sculpture of America’s more recent public
buildings. Doris Lee is among the well-
knowns. Mary Cecil Allen (onetime of
Melbourne) is now more than holding
her own in New York. Spencer Macky,
from Maoriland, now Dean of the Art
School of San Francisco, and his wife,
Constance Jenkins, who was the first
woman to win Melbourne’s art travelling
scholarship, sent greetings to Australia
through their old friend. Of the friendli-
ness of the Americans to the stranger in
their midst the National Gallery Director
speaks long and fluently.
From Washington the exhibition was
sent to New York, and was shown at the
vast Metropolitan Museum of Art. The
museum immediately bought three paint-
ings: “Monday Morning,” by John
Russell Drysdale ; “Early Colonial Archi-
tecture,” by Elaine Haxton ; and Ken-
neth Macqueen’s “Cabbage Gums and
Cypress Pines.” Yale University had
already bagged one of Margaret
Preston’s. The murals and friezes of the
great public libraries and galleries were
a joy to Will. The Boston institution is
enriched by three murals, the subjects
Biblical. The artists are Sargent, Abbey
and Chavannes respectively. Of smaller
art treasuries the Vanderbilt Whitney
(run by a woman) and the Freer, which
houses the Peacock room by Whistler,
are vivid memories. All the galleries
house a lunchroom or cafeteria.
Artist Albert (“Joe”) Collins handed
over eldest daughter Kathleen to the life
custody of Roy Herbert Chandler, of
Adelaide, last week. Good wishes came
like a shower of confetti, for Kathleen
and her parents are among the city’s
popular. “Joe” paints a good picture, is
an outstanding character actor, and tells
a good story. Kathleen is a commercial
artist, and finished off her training in
London and in just pre-war Europe.
Sister Mrs. Robert Osbiston was the
bride’s matron of honor. The Chandler
address will be Adelaide. A family party
followed the ceremony in Petty’s Hotel,
which is just across the way from St.
Philip’s.
The art and writing groups of Sydney
knew Basil Burdett, who was killed in an
air crash while acting as officer-in-charge
of Red Cross activities in Malaya. Basil,
in its early days, ran the Macquarie Gal-
leries in Bligh-street. He was an art
critic and a fluent writer on the subject
of pictures. As a ballet enthusiast he
was a frequenter of its seasons here and
later in Melbourne, which for some years
had been his home city. It was he who
selected and collected the much-discussed
exhibition of French and British
“modern” art sponsored by newspapers
in Melbourne and Sydney.
Furlough House, Narrabeen, the A.I.F.
Wives and Children’s holiday home,
which has been in action for 24 years,
is to be closed for the duration. Its
good work will go on at Orange, where
a suitable property has been found.
Furlough House has always been run
by purely voluntary subscription, and
more than 19,000 women and children
have been given a fortnight’s holiday,
free of charge, at this seaside residence.
Mrs. I. Johnstone, the organising secre-
tary, appeals for donations to help the
association to carry on the same work
at Orange. The Parker lady (onetime
Sydney’s Mayoress) is Furlough House’s
friendly matron.
Alec Coppel, of the Minerva, has mar-
ried Myra Morton, of London. Myra has
appeared in several Minerva productions.
Alec’s family live in South Yarra, Mel-
bourne.


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Reproducing his best spring f° rm >
Burrabil decisively deteated l ranqi! Star
and Primavera in the £lOOO C. F. Urr
Stakes at Moonee Valley on Saturday.
Mildura, 10-to-9-on favorite disgraced
himself by finishing second-last in a neia
of eight.
Burrabil is one of the most improved
gallopers in training, and his success
showed that his owner may have been
on the right mark when he paid £3U
several days earlier to make Burrabil
a late entry for the Futurity Stakes. It
will cost another £2O to run, and Burra-
bil will be ridden in that race and the
Newmarket by O. Phillips. Latter was
criticised by some backers for rushing
Burrabil from a rearward position to hit
the front about three furlongs from home
on Saturday. Phillips, however, justified
his action by saying that his mount hung
out very badly in the early stages, and he
thought it better to give him his head in-
stead of fighting to keep him on the
course. The result bore out his judgment.
Tranquil Star, racing for the first time
since the spring, did well enough to sug-
gest that she might reproduce her good
form of last autumn, while the Oaks
winner, Primavera, came from last at
the three furlongs to finish third. Prima-
vera is on the improve, and her connec-
tions hope she will extend the best of the
colts in the V.R.C. St. Leger. Velocity’s
form in finishing fourth was quite good
enough to hearten his Australian Cup
admirers, and, although Gold Salute
weakened from the turn, his owner-
trainer, A. Cooper, considers that he
might have needed the race. Chatasan
failed to stay the mile, and All Veil, who
showed good pace while his condition
lasted, finished last.
Mildura’s inglorious showing was the
real sensation of the race. According
to his rider, N. Creighton, he attempted
to hang off the course all the way, and
was never going kindly. Mildura’s form
obviously was all wrong, and he may do
better if started in the St. George Stakes
at Remington next Saturday.
Reception emphasised his Oakleigh
Plate and Newmarket chance by a narrow
win over Sunflash and Denis in the first
division of the Marine Handicap. He
carried 11b. less than his Oakleigh Plate
weight of 9.1, and would have been
beaten in another stride, but the fact
remains that he is a proved performer
up the Flemington straight. Saturday’s
success was his third in succession,
and he has been a wonderful bargain at
the £5OO he cost in Sydney last spring.
Sunflash, an Adelaide-owned but Vic-
torian-trained horse, impressed at his first
Melbourne appearance. He has been
backed at long prices as the first leg in
Newmarket-Australian Cup doubles, and,
as Saturday’s race was his first since June
last year, improvement is probable.
Tea Cake, although beaten into fourth
position in Reception’s race, did not lose
any Oakleigh Plate admirers. He should
derive considerable benefit from the run,
and will meet Reception 101 b. better in
the V.A.T.C. sprint next Saturday. San-
gallo, who usually veers out in his races,
kept a straight course to defeat Queen
Baccha and Kelos in the second Marine
division. Queen Baccha began slowly,
and would have won in another stride.
The race will improve Kelos, who weak-
ened after leading for home,
?: * * \ *
Backed in sensational fashion from 4
to 1 down to 6 to 4, despite rumors that
he was very sore, Rex Buzz recorded a
four-lengths win from Bev Rose and
Cavallo in the Wyndham Handicap. He
cleared right away in the straight.
Cavallo, who was forced wide at the
turn, is on the improve, and the Port
Adelaide Cup winner, Renown, will be
better suited by a larger track than
lyioonee Valley.
Lord Walla gave former jockey A.
Brown his first success as a trainer by
leading practically all the way to defeat
Comic March and the hot favorite
Koorenbeen (who was unlucky) in the
first division of the Newport Welter.
His win was a 25-to-l result for book-
makers, but fielders who laid as much
as 50 to 1 and 33 to 1 against La Chelone
for the third Newport Welter had reason
to regret their generosity. The country-
owned and -trained mare firmed to 8 to 1
and won as she liked fom Birdplay and
Bluebeard. It was her fifth successive
There was a satisfactory attendance at
Randwick on Saturday, and the racing
was excellent. As only two of nine
favorites were successful, and winners in-
cluded two 20-to-l chances, presumably
most of the books were winners.
The heavy backing of Evergreen for
the Glenfield Handicap, in which he had
9.11, savored of optimism. Never a really
smart beginner, his big weight quickly
had him a long way back, and from the
half-mile he was not in it. Metallic and
Petruchio were first into the straight, but
in a great finish the improving My Friend
got home a head in front of Forward.
Panchio, who was not lucky in running
and was not among the leading division
at the turn, was a similar distance further
away. Cable’s fourth put him in line
for another suburban welter win, but,
though the belief that he had returned
to his two-year-old form caused a lot
of money to go on Prince, he was among
those well beaten. Still, the fact of his
being so greatly fancied causes him to
be worth keeping in mind.
Gundagai, favorite for the' Warwick
Farm Handicap, cut up badly, and, though
Jymjon ran past Haridelle and Beau Frere
nearly a furlong from home, the last-
named raised another effort, and dead-
heated Jymjon. Haridelle and Beau Frere
did the pacemaking from the start until
the straight was reached. Ron Rico, who
could not raise a decent gallop early in
the race, came home well to run fourth,
Bartle’s horsemanship stood to Beau
Frere, who met Climax 31b. and Jymjon
71b. worse than at Canterbury.
In the first division of the Ingleburn
Nursery Hawklet again let her backers
down. Although she ran third she never
looked like winning, and this time no
excuse for her was possible. Davinia,
an Idex filly trained by D. Lewis, led
into the straight, and had no trouble in
scoring from Tralena, a daughter of
Piccadilly. Idex is by David. Great
Scot (by Constant Son) and Afloat (by
Midstream) followed the place-getters, and
the latter did well to make up a lot of
leeway after being a long second-last
when the first furlong was covered. He
got away indifferently.
In the second division of the Ingleburn
Nursery Angel added £l5O to her earn-
ings, but still has a long way to go to
cover the SOOgns. she cost as a yearling.
She led into the straight from Lady
Hamilton, Berne and Amazing and scored
an easy win. Savannah, a well-grown
Double Remove gelding, who is sure to
improve, was third, and then Amazing
and Man o’ War, the last-named doing
well to finish so far forward after losing
a lot of ground at barrier-rise owing to
his misbehavior. Domineer also shaped
fairly. Angel is in the same ownership
as Yaralla, and is by Double Remove
from Virgin Wing, by Magpie from Cym-
bala (imp.), by Robert le Diable.
Marcovelian (by Marconigram) led all
the way in the first division of the
Maiden Handicap, Fox Track and
Bragger being his nearest followers from
the time the field settled down. Fox
Track died away, but Bragger hung
on to get second. Mutineer was third,
but the distance was short for him. Etch-
ing was close to the place-getters, while
another well up was March By, who will
be all the better for the race.
Silver Princess won her division of the
Maiden Handicap in the same fashion as
Marcovelian. She led from the first fur-
long, and in the run home was equal to
stalling off Puchong. At the turn Toss
Up, Line and Beachcomber were also
prominent. Beachcomber again failed to
run on, and Lordship and Kookaburra
were fourth and fifth respectively. Silver
Princess is by El Cacique from Silver
Wedding (Antonio-Wedding Present), and
is related to many well-known winners.
Bel Doree drew clear when Grand Pere
swung out at the turn in the third divi-
sion of the Maiden, and, though she tired
over the last half-furlong, won by a head
from Winnie, who would have beaten her
in another two strides. Lancambre, in
third place, finished strongly, and Audax,
Lord Wedgewood and Antagonist made
a fair showing. Bel Doree, who was a
190gns. yearling, is by Medieval Knight
from Golden Curio, by Rossendale from
Golden Shoe.
.*••••
Wellesley, tenth at the home turn in
the Farm Novice, beat Danny Boy a
head, and the form of both was good
enough for suburban open middle-dis-
tance handicaps. Brumaire was third, but
though unlucky in running his effort was
not as good as that of Wellesley. Cape
Hero should win in the near future, but
the trip was too far for Rotonde, who
was second to Winzone into the straight.
Winzone tired badly.
Merrimba again proved himself a good
welter horse, Beaucaire was in charge
at the turn in the Merrimba Handicap,
but Munro, who had waited for a run
through, got it in the straight and landed
Merrimba an easy winner. The Squire
struggled into second place, but had no
chance against the winner. Mortine, who
was a good third after being prominent
throughout, should stand an excellent
chance of winning when she next runs
in a middle-distance handicap. Steal On
is also worth following.
* *
An attendance of 19,000 at Randwick
on Saturday was 1000 more than on the
corresponding day last year, notwithstand-
ing there was opposition in the shape of
a trotting meeting at Victoria Park. The
tote turnover was £38,132 for nine races,
against £28,302 for seven, so the average
was also slightly greater.
9 * * *
Newmarket and Cup doubles have
been commenced with Beaulivre, but at
present anything concerning that horse’s
chance can go little beyond guesswork.
Though above himself, he was sprinting
fairly before leaving Sydney, but little
definite will be known concerning his
Newmarket chance before he has raced
at Flemington next week. During his
holiday Beaulivre did well, and one
thing certain is that very few better-
looking horses will be seen out this
autumn.
* * * *
Victoria Park, Sydney, made a greater
profit last year than the previous one. Of
the net profit of £4425 an interim dividend
of 3d. a share took out £3034.
Tea Cake is a strong fancy in Mel-
bourne for the Oakleigh Plate, and, though
only fourth with 8.11 in the Marine
Handicap won by Reception (9.2) at
Moonee Valley, that run is expected to
do a great deal for him. He comes down
91b. and will consequently meet Recep-
tion 101 b. better. However, as the
latter continues to improve he is again
sure to run well. Chatasan, Kelos and
Orteli are others that enter into calcu-
lations, and though Phoines’s recent form
has been somewhat disappointing I think
he is something more than a possibility.
Freckles has an excellent chance, not-
withstanding he did not finish well in the
Challenge Stakes. Unless Melbourne
sprinters are above the average, it
may trouble any of them to lead
Freckles in the early part. Anything cap-
able of outpacing Trimmer has to be par-
ticularly brilliant, and Freckles did so.
The trainer of Freckles must be credited
with knowing more than anyone else
the class of work that suits that horse,
but Freckles’s tasks after his suburban
win were very light, and as a result of
his Challenge Stakes run and subsequent
work it is reasonable to look for improve-
ment in him as a stayer. Flemington’s
five-and-a-half-furlongs course is not
easy, but I think it is within Freckles’s
compass, and expect him to win, with
Tea Cake, Phoines and Reception his
most troublesome opponents.
# * * *
Few trainers can get their horses ready
without giving them a little racing, but
how far they should go in that direction
is a matter of opinion. An owner and his
friends and the trainer and his friends may
know that a horse is not ready to win,
but the man in the leger may not and,
in the belief that some pillar of the turf
would not start anything unless it had
some hope of success, throws away a few
shillings without any chance of winning.
I have heard it suggested that a horse
should be barred if it fails to get a place
in a certain number of starts. In the case
of young horses that would scarcely do.
Phar Lap was unplaced at his first four
starts at two years. Another suggestion
that reached me was that in races where
there were a dozen or more runners the
last two or three should be barred from
appearing again for a month or two, so
as to give their trainers a chance of
getting them into better trim. That pro-
cedure would also be inadvisable, as
absolute bad luck often causes horses to
finish among the tail-enders. At the same
time it would be a check on horses being
allowed to drop out completely when
their riders found they could not get a
place.
* * * *
If the idea that three or four races
principally short ones overtax the
strength of 15- or 16-year-old appren-
tices should be applied, to football there
would be an end to public schools
matches. Seventy to eighty minutes of
fast football, with a rest of ten minutes
when halfway through, is a harder physi-
cal test than a few races for an appren-
tice during three hours in an afternoon.
* * * *
In view of the comparatively low prize-
money at some meetings in Australia’s
principal cities, it is interesting to read
that at the close of last season not one
of the five leading clubs in the State of
New York was allowed to give less than
$l5OO (about (£A456) for any event.
Between them they raced 175 days in the
year.
* * * *
The old adage of “Silence is golden” is
completely out of date nowadays. In
racing, as in politics and many other
things, the man who talks most and loud-
est is often accorded knowledge he does
not possess. Even some trainers know
silence is not golden when it comes to
securing a punter. They recognise that
they must boost their goods, and do not
leave anything unsaid.
9 * * *
Last year 76 sires were represented in
William Inglis and Son’s catalogue for
the Sydney yearling sales. This time
there are only 56, and those with prin-
cipal representation include:
Midstream .. .. 21
Double Remove .. 18
Brueghel 17
Melfort H
Vlarconigram.. .. 11
Beau Pere .. ..11
Bullhead .. .. 10
Harinero .. .. 10
Hall Mark .. ..10
The Buzzard .. .. 8
Conspirator .. .. 8
Felcrag 8
Fresco 8
Hua 8
Pentheus .. .. 8
Excitement .. .. 7
Genetout . • •. 6
Nuffield 6
Winooka .. .. 6
Andrea 6
Manitoba .. .. 5
Talking 5
Constant Son .. 5
Assignation .. .. 4
Madagascar .. .. 4
Calidore 4
Peter Pan .. .. 4
Spearfelt 4
Silver Standard .. 3
Chatham . . .. 3
Of the above imported Fresco, Felcrag,
Genetout and Calidore appear in the
catalogue for the first time, as do Aus-
tralian-bred sires in Nuffield and Silver
Standard.
So far this season few high-class two-
year-olds have been seen out in N.S.W.
Riverton, one of Midstream’s first pro-
geny, won the December Stakes, de-
cisively disposing of the claims of Hall
Stand, Modulation and Bangster to be
considered - front-rankers. Takarangi,
Strood and Mon Pere are winners, but
their form is a lot below that of River-
ton, who, at 600gns., has proved the bar-
gain of last season’s Randwick sales.
Hesione is first among the fillies, but she
may not be very far ahead of her stable-
companion Battle Dress, despite the
latter’s December Stakes defeat. Battle
Dress won so easily at Randwick since
then with 9st. in time equal to about
I.ll| for six furlongs that she must be
credited with being above the average.
Unless Battle Dress should be a stum-
bling block for Riverton and Hesione, the
position may be similar in Sydney this
year to the close of last season, when
All Love and Yaralla stood out from the
others of their age. Up to the present most
of the yearlings which brought 650gns. or
over at the Randwick sales have been so
much in the background that, unless they
do something of account before the April
sales, there is unlikely to be any rush for
their immediate relatives.
* * * * .
Jumpers command full value in
America. At the sale of T. R. Hitch-
cock’s jumpers at Pimlico (Baltimore) in
November, a three-year-old gelding
name Legume, winner of two brush
events, was sold for $13,000 (roughly
£A3950).
As reported, Jack McNamee staked £5O
that he’d still be on his feet at the end
of his Sydney Stadium scrap with the
Alabama Kid—a rash thing to do with
a pug who’d just dished Ron Richards,
though Jack had at least more chance
than the comparative tyros who’d. been
meeting Alabama in gym. scraps in the
hope of earning a quid or two by not
being knocked out. Jack lasted six
rounds before the ref. stopped the mass-
acre. A miles better fight was the
return meeting of Hockey Bennell and
George Elliott at Leichhardt. Last time
Hockey won ; this time George had him
as groggy as a brewery vat when time
expired and the ref. astonishingly called
it a draw.
FOR CAULFIELD.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Warrein Hurdle: Harley, 1 ;
Generous Gesture, 2 ; Bureaucrat, 3.
Federal Stakes: Hesione, 1 ;
Great Britain, 2 ; Chatfield, 3.
Oakleigh Plate: Tea Cake, 1 ;
Freckles, 2 ; Zonda, 3.
Bond Handicap: Rex Buzz, 1 ;
Renown, 2; Sir Romeo, 3.
St. George Stakes: High Caste,
1 ; Mildura, 2; Tranquil Star, 3.
Salisbury Welter: Status Quo, 1 ;
Queen Baccha, 2 ; Centenary, 3.


Rubber
goes lo war
The speed of modern warfare de-
pends on rubber. Guns would be
slow without pneumatic tyres,
tanks would not last without rub-
ber-covered wheels to withstand
shock, troops would have to march
instead of riding on pneumatic
wheels—lack of speed would mean
defeat. Dunlop is supplying this
speed to thousands of our fighting
vehicles—tyres, wheels and rubber
parts for every type of machine
and Dunlop factories are working
24 hours a day.
%
a
Dunlop tyres on a bomb
carrier
£
m
y Dunlop tyres for Artillery.
m...
fr-
ig '
m
SSWS
A
r- "
I**?*-"?
* *1
Bren-gun carriers fitted with
10 Dunlop rubber-covered
wheels.
DUNLOP
MAKERS OF DUNLOP SILENT "9 0” TYRES
Dunlop Rubber Australia Limited (Inc. in Vic.). H.B. 530.
SERVING ON ALL FRONTS
ALFRED J. BRITON.
WATCH THEM TURN
AROUND!
Notice how every woman prefers the fellow
who carries himself with head up. Notice
how the broad-shouldered man always gets
their eye. They want a dependable he-man
when they make their choice —one who can
protect them. And you can be that man. Re-
member, I not only promise it; 1 GUARANTEE
it. Now don’t put it off a minute. Get gointr
to new happiness and real manhood today.
MAKE THIS TEST
TONIGHT!
BEFORE you hop into bed tonight, try
this. Strip down to your birthday suit
and stand in front of your mirror. Look
yourself over.
What do you see? A fine, upstanding
specimen of a MAN, splendidly propor-
tioned, superbly muscled, glowing with
health and vitality? Or do you see a
flabby, sickly sort of fellow, with
sunken chest, bloodless-looking flesh,
scrawny arms, neck and legs?
WHAT 1 CAN DO FOR
YOU IN JUST 30 DAYS!
In the first 30 days I guarantee to add
one whole inch of real live muscle on
each of your arms, and two whole inches
of rippling strength across your chest.
ITI take the kinks out of your back,
strengthen and broaden your shoulders,
give you a wrist of steel, and a fighting,
powerful personality that just yells youth,
vigor and vitality all over. I’ve done it for
hundreds, and I can do it for you!
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 24 Clarence St,
Sydney, N.S.W.
"The Secrets of Muscular
Strength"—FßEE!
THE GREATEST BOOK OE THE CENTURY.
Never before has any book created such a sensation! Never
before has it been possible to show such overwhelming
PROOF in amazing- photos and letters, and now you may
get this great book FREE if you send the coupon AT ONCE!
ir
r aiP THIS OUT i
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. Xj, 34 Clarence St., Sydney, N.B.W.
Dear Sir. —Send me, FB.EE, under plain wrapper,
your latest hook, “The Secrets of Muscular
Strength.” Please enclose 3d. in stamps for
postage.
NAME
NNO MAIL NOW
| ADDRESS
11/2/42.
SMOKE-OH!
“The fastest talker in Hollywood is an actor.”
— “Woman.”
After about his third marriage he’ll get
out of practice.
»!«
“When fire threatened the boarding-house
there was no apparent alarm among the gusts.”
— “D.T.”
But they were a bit windy, surely!
“Pillows lost, bet. Ashfield-Concord W.
Saturday.”
Anyway, it’s a change from doing the
shirt on a certainty.
“Bed-sitting room, cosy, fireplace, nice dis-
trict, suit single business gent. 14 x 14.” — Advt.
He must be on the square.
“Don’t worry, George. It's bullet-proof glass.”
“Negroes can see better at night than white
men.”— “World’s News.”
A black out is at home in a blackout.
•i* -2* -I*
“Max pondered ruefully that his had been
a spendthrift’s life. He would reform, and
save. Geraldine’s frank talk with him had at
last put him on his metal.”— Short story.
That would be brass.
Don’t Believe It.
“Rumors that shocked Hollywood.”
— World’s News:”
It Greta Dootrick has arrived back
from her honeymoon with her ninth hus-
band and there’s still no talk of her get-
ting a divorce.
2. They’re not going to advertise a
new super-film as “colossal.” It’s only
going to be “stupendous.”
3. Harry Hartbeat, the popular juve-
nile lead, has 11 children and is ready
to admit it.
4. Bandy, the four-year-old child star,
has been forbidden by her mother to give
a cocktail party for at least another two
years.
Star E.
v -I-
Overture.
“Sang Own Song At Wedding Reception.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Just prior to their honeymoon
His joy persuaded him to croon
To her the song he wrote; but soon
He’ll doubtless sing another tune!
Percy.
“Handy man, gardener, odd-jobs, painting,
etc., very reliable 5 days week.”
—Situations Wanted ad.
Insists on the week-end binge, eh?
.
Armed Toilers Can Beat an Invader!
[Bill Summerheat, famous expert in pitchfork
warfare, who was led into action by his own
volunteer brigade in the Battle of Malaga {“the
greatest fight in history”), and who was one
of the few to come out of it sober, has written
this article from London, exclusive to the
“Daily Yellowguff.” He demonstrates clearly
what can’t be done with blunt agricultural
implements, but how profitable a sharpened
pencil can be.]
Arm everyone! Above all, let the
masses organise themselves into a fight-
ing force that will confound the hordes
of Nippon. It can be done, but not if
left to the brasshats of the army. What
do they know of fighting? I doubt if
one of them ever saw service in the
Spanish campaign.
The whole of Australia, from the great
rain forests of the Victorian Malice to
the gibber deserts of the Queensland
downs country, offers wonderful oppor-
tunities for guerrilla warfare. And there
is no reason why Japs shouldn’t bite the
dust at the hands alike of the slum-
dwellers from big cities and the sheep-
ranchers from the prairie country of the
Carnarvon Ranges. Knowing how to
handle improvised weapons is the secret!
One of the Australian cattleman’s com-
monest implements is, I understand, the
“header.” This could be quickly turned
into an efficient landmine by biting off the
top, filling it with old nails, horseshoes,
stirrup-irons, separators, bolts from stiles
and the like, and putting in dynamite,
attaching a fuse and burying it just out-
side the front gate.
Should the invaders infiltrate down
through the thick fir and spruce forests
of North Queensland, a well-trained corps
of woodmen might lead them to their
complete destruction. Cunning must be
matched with cunning. They must be
taught to hit the invaders only with the
sharp side of their adzes. The Japs have
hard heads, and were they to use the
blunt side the weapon might rebound and
lay the attackers head open. Points like
these are important.
As crawling on one’s stomach is an
attitude repugnant to any worker, those
who are stalking Japs in country in which
the only cover is afforded by, say, sparse
mesquite or low-growing ironbark
shrubs, could adopt the disguise of a
jackeroo and leap from plant to plant.
Japs eat only fish and rice, and the sight
of a jumping animal would not therefore
arouse their interest.
Should the enemy, traversing country
which is crossed by inland broads, happen
to seize unscorched paddle-boats and
barges, picked detachments of grouse-
shooters and grenade-hurlers should
shelter in claypans or in dried-up billa-
bongs. Grenades can be easily made by
grinding up a mixture of gelignite and
blasting powder and putting it in jam-tins.
If no fuse is available insert a wax
match with head sticking out. Light the
match and keep blowing on it until it is
within one-eighth of an inch of the mix-
ture. If it doesn’t go off in the thrower’s
face it should on reaching the barge.
One of the most powerful weapons in
the hands of a citizen army is sleep-pre-
vention. It is well-known that Japs must
have ten hours’ sleep a night or they
can’t fight the next day. Hoot owls,
kookaburras and other cage birds can be
sneaked up to where the enemy is
bivouacked and let go. The Japs, who
have poor sight at night owing to de-
ficient calcium in their diet, will miss
while shooting at the birds, who, of
strong homing instincts, will go back to
their cages at dawn, to be used similarly
the following night. On at most the third
night the comatose enemy can easily be
killed.
Workers in factories should be trained
to carry their guns always with them.
Good practice can be had stalking the
boss.
80.
Teaser for Two.
“Problem of Years Before Marriage.”
— “Woman.”
Your leisure, young blade —
How have you employed it ?
No doubt you have played
At love with a maid
And greatly enjoyed it.
But the problem you’re set
Isn’t marriage as yet,
But how to avoid it!
P. O. M. C.
Benefit of N.E.S.
“Many men are finding that N.E.S. work is
an actual benefit.” — “S. M. Herald.”
“I have endured a lot from your
friends,” was how Maria greeted me when
1 made my appearance, “but there is a
limit. Never dare encourage that man
Soake around here again.”
“Why, what’s he been doing?” I asked.
“The drunken sot!” said Maria, who
hates answering a question direct. “I
pity his wife. Why don’t they make him
do work as a warden?”
“Why, he”
“Now, don’t defend him. . I thought it
was you snoring away there outside the
dog kennel until your chief warden rang
up to say you’d be on duty all night.”
Odd bits of memory began to seep back
then. Dimly I recalled that Soake at the
club had strongly urged me against going
home —he had met Maria. He had
reminded me that Bloggs, who was one
of the party, had rung up Maria while
still fairly sober about the N.E.S. duty.
It was I who had slept outside the dog-
kennel.
But let Soake take the blame. He —
at a distance —can bear Maria’s scorn
better than I.
H. M.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
i%d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
“Apathy in Britain”
In the fury of fulmination I am re-
membering some things that make me
hot under my British collar.
A news-rag poster screams “Apathy in
Britain” in letters half a foot high, and I
am reminded of a good Australian who
returned from Britain a year ago. Fresh
from the realities of the Blitz and front-
line tempo over there, the atmosphere he
found here rendered him almost speech-
less. “My God, don’t any of you think
at all? Does it mean anything to you
except high wages and newspaper
drama?” It has taken Malaya et seq. to
take the indulgent grin off the faces of
his listeners. Now they are shrieking of
British apathy to their danger,
I am remembering another who raved
for months: “Wotinell are we wasting
our good troops in Malaya for, doing
nothing? They could be doing some-
thing in Russia. If we let those poor
Russians down” He was one of
many. Now the wail has been adapted
to the new situation.
And I remember the men who, had
they been in power, would have kept
every Australian on Australian soil, on
the theory that here is the place to de-
fend Australia. Every square mile out-
side of it, apparently, was to be a charge
on. the beleaguered island in the North
Sea. Defence of Australia on her own
doorstep, alas! is now the unpalatable
prospect. But are those who could
visualise no wider horizon of duty and
prudence grown wise or penitent? True
to form, the only reaction they are cap-
able of is blaming the other fellow. —
Blaydon (Vic.).
Not Bad Sports
There are bad sports in Australia, as
elsewhere (B. 14 /1 / ’42), but in the matter
of imperial co-operation Australians have
shown a sporting spirit unexcelled in any
other part of the Empire. Ever since the
1914-18 war British foreign policy has
been consistently supported even when of
doubtful wisdom and fraught with peril
for Australia. Australia, too, has been
the only Dominion to make a serious
effort to relieve the Motherland of por-
tion of the burden of imperial naval de-
fence. She has also for many years past
given substantial preference to Empire
goods over those of foreign countries,
though in cases it would have been to
her advantage to have done the opposite.
On the other hand, Britain, until the
Ottawa Agreement, did not accord any
of the Dominions similar treatment. And
to serve some temporary political pur-
pose a British Government has not hesi-
tated to give a foreign State economic
privileges at the Dominion’s expense.
Since this war started one after another
of these proteges has proved a broken
reed. — Sam (N.S.W.).
Followers Needed
“Smilax” (B. 14/1 /’42) need not distort
his “cycle of history.” Charles Martel, Don
John of Austria and Jona II of Poland
were stout fellows and good enough
leaders, but was the defeat of the Moors
and the Turks due to their leadership or
mainly to the fact the nations they led to
victory had been so hammered and
menaced that they finally made a dinkum
concerted effort to oust the invader? I
think the latter.
Anglo-Saxon peoples have always been
and still are far too prone to rely on
Providence sending them a special kind
of genius to pull them out of their diffi-
culties. It seldom happens that way.
In no crisis in British or American his-
tory has a leader of the people been
able to do any good until they have been
so chastened by adversity that they were
willing to make a dinkum effort to win.
I cite the careers of Cromwell, Welling-
ton, Pitt the Younger, Grant and Lincoln
to prove my contention, and toss in who-
ever may be regarded as our leaders in
the 1914-18 war as makeweights.
We British, and Americans too, make
a fetish of individualism and personal
wizardry and forget that fellowship is
usually more important than leadership.
Hitler is no wonder leader. He merely
has some gift of the gab and knows
enough to exploit primitive desires and
not to overestimate the intelligence of
the masses. He arrived with a plan
a poor thing, but still a plan when Ger-
many was feeling frustrated. Germans
are better followers than most peoples,
Japanese excepted.
If and when the Anglo-Saxon peoples
make up their minds to put up a 60 p.c.
war effort they will find scores of com-
petent military, even political, leaders
standing about awaiting employment.
This despite the fact that British and
Americans alike have consistently done
nothing in particular towards training
their fighting men for real leadership.
We need no special dispensation of Pro-
vidence to provide a man to win the war
for us. We need only fellowship through-
out the Allied nations and ability to
recognise one or two out of the scores
of potential war-winners available. —
Auchen (Q.).
Gold Production
Perhaps I can explain to “Feng-Shui”
(B. 28/1/’42) the use of goldmining in
war-time. From early times a stock of
gold has been regarded as a good “war
chest” because of its acceptability in ex-
change. If you had gold you need never
go short of weapons or supplies, as long
as they were for sale anywhere. The
war effort could therefore be augmented
by past efforts and sacrifices devoted to
accumulating gold.
The totalitarian States appear to have
looked at the matter in a different way.
Instead of building up a stock with
which to buy supplies in war-time, they
have built up the supplies themselves in
advance —wise enough on their part, be-
cause they knew that all other powerful
industrial nations would be either hostile
or virtually inaccessible.
Our problem, now that America is with
us and there are no important neutral
countries left, becomes much the same.
The Lease-Lend system ensures that no
supplies will be withheld merely because
means of payment are lacking. Why,
then, should we continue to mine gold?
If man-power and resources used in the
mining industry can be switched to
other uses, gold production becomes only
a hindrance to the joint allied war effort.
But if equipment and labor are so
specialised that no transfer is practicable,
continuance of goldmining is justifiable
as a means of reducing our post-war in-
debtedness. — Arc (N.S.W.).
The Voluntary System
That arch-humbug the voluntary sys-
tem has been shown up again. In
Queensland the Minister for Public In-
struction ordered schools not to reopen
after the Christmas vacation, and called
upon citizens to form voluntary working
bees to dig slit trenches in schoolgrounds.
Work commenced in the long week-
end in which the Foundation Day holi-
day fell. At the bigger schools, where
800-1000 pupils are taught, only 20 to
30 parents arrived to dig ; at the smaller
schools the average was about 10,
and at some schools nobody at all
turned up. At one of the schools, middle-
aged fathers of families dug trenches
next to a sports ground where young men
were playing cricket; at another, the
trenches were dug round the tennis courts
on which athletic young men played
strenuous and exciting sets.
At some of the schools soldiers and
airmen on leave helped the working bees,
and a newspaper reporter commented
on the “coincidence” that at one school
the only young men present were soldiers
and rejected military volunteers.
Those who did not help gave as their
reason their belief that the work should
be done by the Government at the Gov-
ernment’s expense. Of course they whole-
heartedly supported the Commonwealth
Government’s demand that Britain and
U.S.A. should send all possible help to
Australia, — Smilax (Q.).
The Rejected Volunteer
At any hour of the day at army re-
cruiting depots, R.A.A.F. centres and
naval offices you can see them —the hun-
dreds of men of all ages and classes who
daily offer themselves for their country’s
defence. None of them come in bath-
chairs or on crutches, all of them seem
reasonably fit and healthy, and most of
them do their civil jobs efficiently, yet
before all tests are completed 30 to 40
per cent, of them will be rejected.
Most of them express contempt and dis-
gust at their rejection—when one has
heard exhortation after exhortation from
the country’s leaders, coupled with
demands for help from countries thou-
sands of miles away, it is a surprise to
be rejected from service on the ground
of flat feet or varicose veins. Half-
hearted attempts have been made to deal
with the problem of the rejected volun-
teer by sending army recruiting officers
to R.A.A.F. centres, and by the estab-
lishment of p.c. schools to cure minor
defects ; but for all practical purposes
the problem remains nobody’s business.
To the clerk who fills in the volunteer’s
papers and the doctor who examines him,
he is just another applicant to be passed
if he complies with the standards laid
down and to be rejected without com-
punction if he does not. There is no
effort to fit him into a unit in which his
services will be of value.
That there is something wrong with
the system is self-evident. In one week
in Brisbane the Army Medical Board
rejected an international Rugby foot-
baller, a leading jockey, an inter-city
League forward and a professional boxer
as unfit; and the papers have printed
many complaints by rejected men, includ-
ing one by an old soldier rejected from
the Home Guard for bunions! Even
doctors have supported the complaints
that some Medical Boards have “rejec-
tion complexes” and are rejecting healthy
men.
Whether this is true or not, the com-
plaint of one man seems pertinent: “I
thought they would grab every man who
volunteered with both hands,” he said.
“Instead, the way they treat you you
would think you were after a job at £2O
a week instead of volunteering to fight at
six bob a day.”— Junius Jr. (Q.).
Guernica
In criticising “B.M.’s” praise (B.
28/2/’42) of Noel Monks’s reporting of
the Guernica business, I did not say the
town was not bombed. On the contrary,
I emphasised that bombs were dropped
on or about it while the Francoist drive
that led to its capture was in progress.
What I did say was that, far from it
having been proved that Guernica was
wrecked by aircraft, the weight of evi-
dence is strongly to the effect that in-
cendiarism by the defenders was the main
cause of its destruction. Fires did not
break out in most parts till some time
after the last raid, and far from trying
to extinguish them the militia prevented
citizens from doing so. Of this there is
convincing witness from townspeople
whose homes were burned. No journal-
ist appears actually to have seen the town
set on fire, the first on the spot arriving
about an hour later.
Wing-Commander James, an air-
man whose impartiality, integrity and
knowledge of the subject are beyond dis-
pute, went to Spain to study air bomb-
ings, and especially the effect of incen-
diary bombs. Before going to Guernica,
he spent some time in Madrid. After a
thorough investigation James declared
that Guernica was mainly destroyed by
burning, not aerial attack.
That also was the verdict of the
“Times,” after sending a special corre-
spondent to the spot.
Guernica was definitely no open town.
Sencourt (Spain’s Ordeal ) says that;
The presence of the barracks and arms
factory made the town a legitimate object of
attack, the more so as Guernica lay on the
line of communication between the firing
lines at Oitz and Marquira and the base
20 miles back at Bilbao. Less than four
miles from the fighting line, it was on a
crossroads filled with troops retiring from
the outer defences.
I’d advise “8.M.” to read Spain’s
Ordeal; the whole matter is thoroughly
dealt with there.—REQUETE (N.S.W.).
Propaganda
In the last war I had a commission in
a Bosnian-Herzegovinian regiment. The
rank and file were Yugoslavs ; the officers
Austrians proper, Magyars, Czechs,
Croats, Serbs and so on. In 1914 and
the beginning of 1915 there was one will
predominant among all —to win the war.
Nothing could be observed of a so-called
Slavonic solidarity in regard to Russia,
and in 1915 hatred and contempt of
the Italians was a still further stimulus
to fight. But in the middle of 1915 on
the northern front, and in 1917 on the
southern front, the picture changed. Regi-
ments deserted as a whole, and the offen-
sive of 1917 against Italy was betrayed
to the Italians by a Slav officer.
What brought about this change among
nearly the same people? The master
propaganda of the English. The Allies
gave the world two great discoveries in
the last war —their propaganda and their
tanks. Both were used in a masterly way
by the Germans and neglected by the
Allies in the first years, of this war.
The first constituent of an effective
propaganda is truth ; the second, not less
important, is an appeal to an idea,
because ideas alone dominate mankind in
the long run. And the idea emphasised
again and again by the Allies to the
people of the old Austro-Hungarian
Empire was that history had chosen them
to fight for the freedom of their people
and that the Allies would guarantee this
freedom after victory was won —which
the Allies did.
Fascism and Nazism began with a
similar appeal to an idea. Mussolini
appealed to the historical past of his
people —the Roman past. But for our
purpose —the purpose of enlisting the
sympathy of this people by appeal to an
idea, a true idea —the Italians have an-
other historical past. It is the great past
of Italian liberalism, represented by men
such as Mazzini, Garibaldi, Cavour. Let
them speak to the Italians again—
through us. Through this kind of propa-
ganda—always telling historical facts —
the Italians in Italy and abroad (and the
latter are important) will become again
conscious of their great liberal historical
past.
Hitler continued the work of his pre-
decessors in the Germany of William 11.
—he appealed to the philosophical past of
the Germans. Nazism is the continuation
of that Prussian philosophy which
started at the time of Luther and found
its main representatives in Fichte, Hegel,
the Romantics and in Woltman, Cham-
berlain, etc. But the majority of the
South Germans have always refuted this
philosophical elevation of force —the his-
tory of Germany is a history of the
battles between the Prussians, who made
war “necessary” for the ethical well-being
of mankind, and the South Germans (col-
lective name for the non-Prussians), who
preferred poetry, music and art.
Let German poets, statesmen, musicians
tell these facts to South Germans. Let
Herder say something about his contempt
of the Prussians; let Goethe repeat his
warnings to his friends: “Beware, my
friends —they are Prussians.” Let the
philosophers Schopenhauer and Nietzsche
speak about the Prussian spirit—the poison
of German mentality. Let the Parlia-
mentary records of the battles between
Windhorst and Bismarck be published ;
let it be shown how brutally the whole
south of Germany was treated and sub-
dued by the Prussians, and this through-
out history. Add to this propaganda the
utterance of the essential peace aim, as
far as Germany is concerned, of libera-
tion of the South from the tyranny of
the North; ask the South Germans to
organise today, tomorrow, in __ small
groups, even in cells, their resistance
against Nazism, which is Prussianism,
and the Allies will again prepare the soil
for their armies, and save thousands of
lives.—K. S. (N.S.W.).
"It's 'ard t ’ know 'oW t' fill in time now they've cut out midweek racin'."


I
y
,
mHHMn#
i(i|i
A'j
V j
■-
m*
i :
Mb
*
- i
>*C3> »* -'•'-*>*
*«
Vv\^J
Don’t say Gin, say
>s;:
li&g
I*.-/? p®
m*m
V*%w c^-
t-> v.. 0 .«!
o'tS^”
tf/2
>- StT) r*t.qr **a •Xctllfst
t! I *-')/- * : * ozi P ” it”
I
I
ppetite responds gratefully to the stimulating
impulse of a Gilbey’s before meals . .Whether
in cocktail form or simply “straight ’ with a
umm dash of bitters, diluted to taste, the delicate
aromatic flavour of this famous gin sharpens the
palate for a keener appreciation of the good
things to come ... At any time or in any form,
Cilbey’ s is a safe, wholesome and enjoyable drink.
After dinner a Gilhey’s Liqueur is the natural choice of the good diner ...
Scientifically distilled, true to formula, from the finest fruits and choicest
ingredients, there are no better aids to digestion than Gilhey’s Creme de Menthe,
Cherry Brandy, Apricot Brandy, White and Orange Curasao, Creme de Cacao,
Gilbedene or Advocaat . . . They have no superiors, imported or otherwise.
and —they cost a lot less.
