

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3275
Wednesday, November 18, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
GREAT HALL, WINCHESTER CASTLE, AND KING ARTHUR'S ROUND TABLE.
POLITICALLY, culturally, socially and ecclesiastically,
* Winchester, the county town of Hampshire, is regarded by
some, and not altogether without reason, as the most famous
city in England. Hilaire Belloc has reminded us in his
notable book “The Old Road” that “Winchester was a capital
city longer than London has been.” This statement at first
sight may seem perhaps an exaggeration. A little historical know-
ledge quickly removes any such conception. Already, in this
series, opportunity has been availed of to glance at Winchester’s
chiefest monument—the Cathedral—second only to West-
minster Abbey as the shrine of a long roll of kings and princes,
and within whose hallowed walls for centuries English kings
were crowned. But the castle, known, too, as the King’s
Castle, possesses a history dating back almost a thousand years
to the Conqueror’s days. Yet, this castle, with its hall con-
taining a relic, and, if a material article can be applied in a
material sense to what many regard as a legend, pure and
simple, the “immortal Round Table of Arthur” has a unique
interest, interwoven as it is with that section of our “literary
history known as the period of ancient romances.” In prose
and poetry King Arthur and his knights form a delightful
portion, so to speak, of our literary heritage. That industrious
Welsh priest, Sir Thomas Malory, famed, while the language
remains, as the author, or compiler, of “Morte d’Arthur,”
completed in 1470, and, as Caxton recorded, taken out of
“certain books of French and reduced to English,” bequeathed
to posterity a gift of priceless value. Who, with any preten-
tions to culture, is not familiar with the chief figures of
Arthur’s Court? Sir Lancelot Du Lake, Sir Galahad, Sir
Percivale, Sir Bors, Sir Tristram, Sir Dinadau, Sir Palomides,
Queen Genever, Elaine, Merlin and many other figures on
this heroic stage—in a sense, very human stage. In these
matter-of-fact days do we not still read with interest the
stories of adventures with giants and dragons, witches and
enchanters, even though they be, as Bishop Percy stated,
“monstrous extravagances of wild imagination.” Tennyson
has in his “Idylls of the King” made “Arthur and the Round
Table for ever assured of a place in our hearts.” All of us
confess to a fascination for the mysterious, or, perhaps,
improbable. Mark Twain in his “Yankee at the Court of King
Arthur” did not kill that affection by his wittv ridicule.
Agreement will be forthcoming with the late Professor Ernesl
Rhys:
“If Ibsen gives us studies of magnificent disease
in terms of his later art, Malory, luckily, deals with
his romantic heroes only in terms of pure romance.
His Percivale, Galahad and Lancelot do not come into
any category of actuality or of modern life and its
restraints. They live, move and have their being
only under the freer laws of romance; and where
they are, modernly speaking, most impossible, they are
precisely most delightful and most romantically satis-
fying. Mr. Mark Twain, indeed, would persuade us
that Sir Lancelot and King Arthur and the rest are all
archaic fools; but who would not rather be foolish
with Sir Lancelot than wise with Mr. Twain’s typical
Yankee?”
The table at which sat King Arthur and his twenty-four
knights is eighteen feet in diameter. Leaving romance for
reality, it was in this hall Sir Walter Raleigh heard his death
sentence pronounced, while in 1685 here Judge Jeffreys, of
infamous memory, held his “Bloody Assize,” the hall, on
the occasion, being grimly, but appropriately, “draped with
cloth of scarlet hue.”


Learn
Freelance
Journalism
° at how:
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, imthout obligation, yow
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
ESCAPES FROM ART.
(1) Blaming the Age.
Every age gets the art it deserves and
every age must accept the art it gets.
— T. S. Eliot.
If it is impossible for us, under the
circumstances amidst which we live, to
think clearly, to feel nobly and to de-
lineate firmly — Matthew Arnold.
Brennan, the genius and great scholar,
was too big a whale to find full realisa-
tion in our shallow cultural sea.
—Miles Franklin.
When European civilisation itself is
threatened one turns for a kind of illu-
mination not to the literature of New
Zealand but to a mature European
mind: “between two worlds, one dead,
The other powerless to be born"
— E. H. McCormick.
If all these assertions are true, and
they are made by some formidable
authorities, it is futile to ask for giant
art from New Zealand now, or at any
time until the “new world” is born. Mr.
McCormick (the quotation is the conclu-
sion to his centennial Letters and Art in
New Zealand) does not specify the nature
of his new world, but, assuming that he
means a world of eternal love, peace and
justice, it may be unwise to expect any
great work from New Zealanders before
the Millennium.
On Miles Franklin’s authority it would
have been futile to demand a full achieve-
ment in poetry from Christopher Brennan
(or any other Australian artist with the
capacity for major art) during the years
1870-1932.
On Matthew Arnold’s authority, it was
impossible to construct great art in Eng-
land during the years 1822-88.
On T. S. Eliot’s authority (the quota-
tion is from his foreword to A Little
Book of Modern Verse, selected by Anne
Ridler and published by Faber) it has
been impossible, from 1844, when Gerard
Manley Hopkins was born, to the year
when the essay was written, 1942, for
any of the writers he surveys to have
written more or better poetry.
In one place or another, then, the
political situation ever since 1822 has
been so bad that poets, always hungering
for greatness, might just as well not have
been born. There has not been a single
interval of grace in all that time when
art had an opportunity to come to its full
flower. Minor art there might be ; but
not the great song. For that, one needs
the Golden Age.
Since the Golden Age is thus held in-
dispensable to the production of major
poetry, the first task of any examination
of the state and prospects of the arts is
obviously to determine what constitutes
that happy time and when such times
existed.
Everybody knows the answer to that.
The Golden Age in which we shall all be
able to write the masterpieces we now
can only dream about will be the time
of universal peace and love. No time (we
feel with Mr. McCormick) could be less
suited to the practice of the arts than the
present. Hitler ravages Europe. The
hordes of Asia march towards Australia
and New Zealand. Sydney “Sunday Tele-
graph” is perturbed because we have not
yet had an “instalment” of the New
Order. The world, clearly, has fallen
into chaos. What art (we ask with T. S.
Eliot) other than the image of chaos,
frustration and despair does such an age
deserve? If, in the last pale gesture of
defiance, our trembling fingers reach for
the pen, we must write with Clifford
Dyment (quoted from Poems of this War,
an anthology edited by Patricia Led-
ward: Cambridge University Press);
Shouldering a way through crowds.
Or brooding with the dance of leaf
Delightful on the sunlit page,
I freeze in grief
For trees that will not bud in Spring
Now murder drags faith from its bed,
And the potential serpent coils
In the stern head.
But know sorrow will not ease
Eyes empty in the last despair:
For me now are the claws of love,
And the sick prayer.
With the young man who has joined the
R.A.F. in Tambimuttu’s anthology
Poetry in War Time (Faber), incapable
even of the “sick prayer,” we go apatheti-
cally to our doom:
And now I take a man’s state by a number
and wrong will be the measurements I learned
somewhere once, in a decorative summer.
I go to aid the battle and may now die
a watching failure not many can comprehend,
available for death on land, on sea, in sky.
Before the war broke out we felt with
Stephen Spender “our laughter dancing
stop. Or ride to a gap.” And, enduring
the war, we wonder with Spender whether
Victory and Defeat aren’t “the same
Hollow masks worn by shame.” We
don’t get much fun out of being alive;
and if readers don’t get much fun out
of our verses, it’s their own fault: “Every
age gets the art it deserves.” Far in the
future or far in the past lies the Golden
Age.
This war still in progress, Disarma-
ment as far and fabulous as the moon,
the wicked middle-classes not yet bleed-
ing in the streets of Sydney, it seems that
no living man can hope to see that age
of universal bliss in which he can make
great art. For us there is only the melan-
choly satisfaction of searching into the
past for the golden times into which men
more fortunate than ourselves or
Matthew Arnold were born.
Whereupon we find the shocking, the
deplorable, the fantastic, the monstrous
paradox that the Golden Age to which
Arnold yearned was the era when an
earlier conqueror strode in blood and
fire across Europe and threatened Eng-
land with invasion.
Yet now, when boldest wills give place,
When Fate and Circumstance are strong,
And in their rush the human race
Are swept like huddling sheep along,
Those sterner spirits let me prize,
Who, though the tendence of the whole
They less than us might recognise,
Kept, more than us, their strength of soul.
Our bane, disguise it as we may
To weakness, is a faltering course;
Oh, that past times would give one day,
Joined to its clearness, of their force!
Looking back from the stormy
twentieth century upon the comparatively
tranquil and prosperous nineteenth, no-
body could help wondering what on
earth Matthew Arnold was making such
a fuss about. Napoleon died the year
before Arnold was born ; and yet Arnold
insisted that all was wrong with the
world: “O born in days when wits were
fresh and clear,” he addressed his
“Scholar Gipsy”—
And life ran gaily as the sparkling Thames;
Before this strange disease of modern life,
With its sick hurry, its divided aims,
Its heads o’ertaxed, its palsied hearts, was
rife —
Fly hence, our contact fear.
“Fly hence” in 1822-88! “Stay put!” is
the advice we would give to anyone
living in those blessed years. But
Arnold was very sure that his peace
wasn’t peaceful—or too peaceful; that
great art in his time was not possible ;
and that, if only he had been able to
join old Wordsworth sitting upon a hill-
top and composing irate (and very bad)
sonnets to scare Napoleon away, all his
unwritten masterpieces would have
sprung into the sunlight.
But we, brought forth and rear’d in hours
Of change, alarm, surprise—
What shelter to grow ripe is ours?
What leisure to grow wise?
Too fast we live, too much are tried.
Too harass’d to attain
Wordsworth’s sweet calm, or Goethe’s wide
And luminous view to gain.
Recalling that Shakspeare wrote with
the turbulence of the Renaissance and
the quarrels of England and Spain beat-
ing about his head ; that Milton saw the
Cromwellian upheaval ; and that in
Arnold’s Golden Age of the French Revo-
lution and the Napoleonic wars there
flourished Wordsworth, Coleridge, Keats,
Shelley and Byron, one might be tempted
to agree that —whatever we think of our
own situation —the piping times of peace
are historically the worst times for piping.
But that would be to ignore (as Arnold
mysteriously contrived to do) the his-
torical fact that in his weak and falter-
ing days not only did he himself manage
to write poetry that very nearly attained
major status, as also did Rosetti and
William Morris, but that major poetry
was written by Tennyson, Browning and
Swinburne. While Matthew Arnold was
lamenting in verse and criticism that all
was wrong with his world, the magnifi-
cent Browning was shouting that
Morning’s at seven,
The hillside’s dew-pearled,
God’s in his heaven —
All’s right with the world!
And it is clear to us now that in Matthew
Arnold’s time all was as nearly right with
the world as it ever had been or is ever
likely to be.
Nearly all assertions as to the impos-
sibility of producing great art in any
given age are made loosely. Matthew
Arnold, we know from his life and his
work, made this one slip in the finest
essay on poetry ever written —the preface
to his poems of 1853 —in a pardonable
attempt to disguise his own inadequacies
in life and art. He made no attempt to
find any historical justification for his
apologia, and if he had examined
history he must have found that major
art occurs in all ages, under all political
systems, in war and in peace, in periods
of faith and in periods of doubt, in
changing times and in static times, when-
ever a great artist happens to be born.
Mr. McCormick, declaring that great
writing could not spring from New
Zealand until a “new world” was born,
obviously did not pause to reflect that,
while never since men began to live, to
toil and to die upon the earth has any
new world been born, somehow or other
the long hexameters rolled from the soul
of Homer, /Eschylus and Euripides
staged their dark and murderous dramas,
Dante saw heaven and hell, Shakspeare
created Lear and Falstaff, and Milton
poured into the figures of Lucifer and
Samson all the passionate defiance of his
spirit. When she wrote (in the Septem-
ber “Southerly”) that Brennan could not
find full realisation in “our shallow cul-
tural seas” Miles Franklin could not have
given thought to the fact that the popu-
lation of England in Shakspeare’s day
was roughly that of Australia in Bren-
nan’s, and that, while writing as Brennan
did for a few intellectuals and an uncul-
tured populace, Shakspeare certainly
came to full realisation in England’s
shallow seas.
T. S. Eliot, however (it would be hard
to find a single example of loose thinking
in Eliot’s criticism), has spoken with
forethought. Before he makes his odd
defence of “modern” poetry, sounding so
much more like a condemnation —“Every
age gets the art it deserves and every age
must accept the art it gets”—he reasons:
If we like the work of a particular poet,
we are usually willing to allow that he has
expressed more than he has been aware of,
that he is the voice of his time, or in some
sense the instrument of unknown powers:
if we dislike it, we are only too ready to
put down what seem to us his faults to his
own perversity, affectation or incompetence.
Accepting that —and it is an argument
difficult to counter, for surely, one is
tempted to agree, Shakspeare “expressed”
the vigor and color of the Elizabethans,
Byron the pride and cynicism of the early
nineteenth-century aristocracy, Tenny-
son the Victorian Complacence and Eliot
himself (in “The Waste Land” and “The
Hollow Men”) the contemporary frus-
tration and gloom—it most certainly
follows that every age deserves the art
it gets. And so there should be both an
explanation and a justification of the
worst faults of modern poetry in this
paragraph from Francis Scarfe’s Auden
and After (Routledge):
The accusation of insincerity and futility
directed against Spender (who stands, in-
cidentally, very much in the same relation
to Auden as Shelley did to Byron) is very
wide of the mark. The critics in political
blinkers should realise that these poets of
the ’thirties, producing works like Spender’s
“Vienna,” Auden’s “Spain,” Barker’s
“Calamiterror” and Day Lewis’s “The
Nabara,” represent first of all a disintegra-
tion of the bourgeoisie, and secondly a
disintegration of bourgeois aesthetic values.
But is Eliot’s theory acceptable? Is it
not in fact utterly wrong, the exact re-
verse of the truth, which is that the poet
creates the age, not the age the poet?
Before one can decide that Shakspeare
“expressed” the Elizabethans (that, in
effect, the Elizabethans created Shak-
speare ; that the true author of the
plays was the mysterious Spirit of the
Age, working through the puppet from
Stratford-on-Avon) one would have to
be convinced that there was, as a his-
torical fact, some unique vigor in that
period: not merely vigor and color, but,
since Shakspeare stands alone in litera-
ture, unique power in the age. One must
be convinced that the Renaissance was
a more powerful phenomenon than the
Industrial Revolution ; that the war
against Phillip, muddled and half-hearted
though history records it, was prosecuted
with more gallantry than (in Byron’s
time) Nelson’s and Wellington’s battles
against Napoleon; that the deedls of
Drake and Raleigh were more stirring to
the soul than those feats of heroism in
our own time which, recorded daily in
the newspapers, are so stupendous and
so numerous that the mind reels absorb-
ing them. Before one can decide that
Byron and Shelley “expressed their age”
one must reconcile oneself —by heaven
only knows what somersaults of the
mind —to the historical fact that their
age rejected and reviled them and drove
them both into exile.
If our own age is so full of chaos and
despair that the poets are forced to be
chaotic and despairing, how does it come
about that Eliot in his later poetry has
emerged to faith and cohesion? Is the
American Paul Engle somehow not liv-
ing in the age he lives in when, full of
vigor and courage, he writes in West of
Midnight (Random House);
Five hours west of midnight from the edge
Of that disastrous continent where men
Black out against the droning, dangerous sky,
Their little light contrived against the dark.
You travel backward into day and find
Suddenly overhead in the glowing air
American sun, gigantic in its light.
What happens to Eliot’s theory when
even in troubled Europe John Pudney
can write of the young airmen (“The
Dead,” from Dispersal Point: Bodley
Head):
The victim gods in an heroic age
They ride like thunder where man’s fear and
greed
Are frontiers locked in mean outrage;
These fly, now engined by all human need.
These, wishing life, must range the falling sky,
Whom an heroic moment calls to die.
Is it of some other time than our own
that Laurence Whistler (who in both
Patricia Ledward’s anthology and Tam-
bimuttu’s looks like a coming man) writes
with such brave acceptance;
Thus for the island Genius, Liberty,
Much loved by Roman letters in our stone.
Another generation learns to die
Gravely, not caring if the flags are flown.
Believing simply it must save for Earth
A way of life becoming to mankind,
A grace of centuries, a thing of worth:
This we believe, who by a peaceful hearth
Have laughing eyes tonight, but are not blind.
If posterity reads Auden, Spender and
Eliot’s “Waste Land” and assumes that
they spoke for our time, it will decide
that we were a rabble of wailing defeat-
ists. If it reads Whistler and Paul Engle,
it will decide that we walked the earth
like gods. The spirit of the age unques-
tionably affects the artist; but the spirit
is infinitely complex and it seems pure
chance, depending on the response, spirit
and talent of the individual to some
aspect of that complexity, that any given
image of the period is transmitted to
posterity so that it may say “This is the
Elizabethan spirit” or “This the Twen-
tieth Century.” It is more accurate to
say that the poet creates the age than
that the age creates the poet.
Dealing with such vast generalities, a
precise statement is impossible. But on
the immediate effect of Eliot’s doctrine
on the practice of poetry there can be
no debate: like all other attempts to
absolve the poet from personal responsi-
bility for the fulfilment of the talent with
which he was born, it is wholly per-
nicious. Disguised as a principle of criti-
cism, it is nothing less than the upholding
of our old friend Determinism as against
Free Will, an attitude which, as a church-
man, Eliot has specifically rejected.
(To be continued.)
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Lillian Heilman has been going great
guns as a playwright in America and the
inevitable boiling-over has come to Aus-
tralia. The Minerva did “Watch on the
Rhine” and the shadow of Bette Davis
was seen in a filmed version of “The
Little Foxes.” Now Doris Fitton’s Inde-
pendents are trying “The Children’s
Hour,” which was the basis for Merle
Oberon’s latest film, styled “These
Three.” It was here alleged against both
“The Watch on the Rhine” and “The
Little Foxes” that, however much Miss
Heilman succeeded as a storyteller, her
characterisation in both cases was all to
pieces. That criticism could justly be
levelled at “The Children’s Hour” also-
But perhaps Miss Heilman’s is a chronic
case of “misreporting.” At any event
“These Three” and “The Children's
Hour” are scarcely recognisable as the
same piece. The play is an earnest and
serious study of Lesbianism ending in
suicide, the film a—nearly—new version of
the triangle, ending in the Wedding March.
Of the latest crop of Sydney film re-
leases, “Moontide,” at the Mayfair,
stands out —Jean Cabin, who made a
striking debut in Sydney in the superb
French film, “Le Grand Illusion,” gives
an equally good performance in a Cali-
fornian waterfront story.
Adelaide Society of Arts has yet
another show of Tom Garrett’s delicate
monotypes, which still hold their attrac-
tion, and are still selling. Among
everything from a claymore to a snuff-
box at the “Scotland” exhibition, arranged
by the Friends of the Public Library, are
interesting photographs of the Canberra-
Duntroon district, as founded by Scot-
tish families.
“5.W.K.,” more in fury than in anger:
Had Messrs. Roosevelt and Churchill during
their historic meeting agreed upon one other
freedom for humankind —from the infliction ol
ex-pugs as talkie stars —the Atlantic Chaster
would have been a still greater document for
suffering humanity. Hillbillies, the Andrews
Sisters, yodelling, college co-eds, hoofanhowl,
grid football, horse operas and sponsored-radio-
session plots have been bad but the
quintessence of excruciating agony is “Slapsie
Maxie Rosenbloom before the klieg lights.
Apart from his formidable frontispiece and
crudest of puppet-string antics, Maxie has a
voice that records as n it had been minced
with steel filings and recorded on a half-set
jelly. If a congenital idiot were accused of
perpetrating the plot of his latest film, “The
Lady and the Lug,” he would be justified in
being outraged. Some kind friend should tip
off Maxie to take up tatting or fretwork as
a profession, if he must do something.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’
“Truth in Advertising”
sdfsdfdsf
RIGHT ->
CROWN STAFFORDSHIRE English
China 9-piece Morning Set, decorated
with Primrose, Pink, and Blue hand-
enamelled flowers, Ivory finish. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, set .. 63/-
LEFT
MYOTT S ENGLISH “Blue Bermuda”
7-piece Supper Set, showing an allover
White Rose decoration on a Blue back-
ground. At Anthony Horderns'. Price
set 13/-
RIGHT ->
STUART'S ENGLISH Crystal Grape Fruit
Dishes, engraved Fern pattern. Set of six.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price, set 69/-
<- LEFT
NEWHALL ENGLISH
Semi - porcelain 21 - piece
Tea Sets, a neat Green
and Yellow decoration,
with Yellow handles and
shading inside cups, etc.
At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, set ... 39/6
RIGHT ->
STUART'S English
Crystal Fruit
Drink Sets. 7
pieces, in a de-
lightful etched
Tree design.
At Anthony
Horderns'.
Price, set,
£5/10/-
BUY
AUSTERITY
WAR LOAN
BONDS
AND
SPEED
VICTORY
WITH
YOUR
MONEY!
THE SENIOR STORE”
119th Year of Service
BELOW, LEFT
KENT'S ENGLISH Semi-porcelain
41-piece Utility Set, a delightful
decoration showing a large spray
of Scotch Heather, w'th Mauve
"True Lovers' Knots." Corres-
ponding sprays in miniature in
each corner, and Mauve em-
bossed corners. Set comprises 6
each Dinner, Dessert, and Bread
and Butter Plates, 6 Oatmeal
Bowls, 6 Cups and Saucers (12
pieces), 1 Covered Scollop (2
pieces), 1 Meat Dish inches),
1 Sauce Jug, and 1 Slop Bowl. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, £5/6/6
m
m
m
a
ms
%mm
m a.®
*>
w>
vr~'
i
h
|S V U
p?
Si
m™
Pm
n
m
V 4 ’!
m
m
PHONE: M 2401 (Day and Night)
fAMOUS
JJORDf
LOW PRiots
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


S. H. PRIOR PRIZE
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mission of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
The Prize this year (£100) will
be awarded to the author or authors
of the book by an Australian writer
which the trustees consider the most
valuable contribution to Australian
literature published in Australia be-
tween June 6, 1942, and June 6,
1943. (“Australia” and “Austra-
lian” for the purposes of this award
include New Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
THE CAVE
By A. P. GASKELL.
IT was a long time ago. I’m an old
man now but I can still remember
the impression it made on me. I was
only a boy then, and the thought of
the two men in the cave gripped my
imagination. Long afterwards I used to
dream of it, and my dream was full of
thick, choking despair and there were
always those twisting masses of seaweed
across the entrance that swirled and
writhed and lifted in the waves. Some-
times I dreamed that the rope had come
in, and when I reached down into the
water to grasp it my hand came up hold-
ing a cold strand of weed. I was only a
boy, and a boy lives vividly. We had had
ships wrecked before, but this was the
first time I had seen that life can stop
before we are dead.
I saw the Crest go out in the evening.
We boys knew all the vessels and most
of the men that sailed them. We were
all going to be sailors and have ships of
our own. When I looked down from
the hill that spring evening and saw the
Crest putting out, I knew she was making
for Kaiapoi. I had seen them felling the
trees and loading her. I knew Captain
Ellis and Mr. Barker and Ted Cun-
ningham, but I didn’t know who the
fourth man would be.
The next day when Father came in for
his dinner he told us that she had been
wrecked. It seemed impossible. I had
seen her so often and I knew the men
who worked her. When I had looked
down on her from the hill the evening
before she was moving gently and draw-
ing long, slow ripples across the harbor.
Father told us she had struck near the
North Head. Mr. Barker had managed
to escape in the dinghy and had landed
at Flea Bay early in the morning. He
had brought the news over to Akaroa.
“And the others are drowned,” said
Father. “Three fine men.”
“Are Captain Ellis and Mr. Cunning-
ham drowned too?” I asked him. It was
a foolish question, but I was just a boy
and I had seen the men so often.
“Of course they are, and Mr. Belcher
too,” he told me. Mr. Belcher was the
fourth man I had seen on the ship.
HT HE news caused great distress in the
' township. We lived close to the sea in
those days. Most of our supplies came
by water, and the coming and going of
ships was of interest to everyone. The
loss of a ship affected us all closely, and
the loss of three fine men in a young
settlement was a severe blow.
Father let me go down to the wharf in
the afternoon and we boys stood near the
men listening to their talk. I can remem-
ber their grave manner and the feeling of
something beyond my comprehension
hanging over us.
And then later in the day when I had
gone home to help Mother with the milk-
ing my father came rushing home in a
great hurry.
“It’s wrong,” he shouted. “It’s wrong.
They’re alive!”
It’s a long time ago now and for a
time there was so much confusion that
I can’t recall just what we did, but my
father told us that one of the Rawsons
who lived near North Head had ridden
over with the news. They had rescued
Ted Cunningham, and the others were
still alive. I can still remember the thick,
choking surge of excitement within me.
“They’re still alive,” my father said
as he bustled around in the house.
“Barker got away without making sure.
The Rawsons went out in their boat to
look over the spot, and they rescued
Ted Cunningham from a rock. Good-
ness knows how he got there with all that
weed about.”
“Are Captain Ellis and Mr. Belcher
on the rocks, too?” I asked.
“No. They’re still on the wreckage.
The Rawsons tried to reach them, but
there are too many rocks and, besides, the
wreckage has drifted into a cave. We’re
going now to get them out while it’s still
light.” He was getting coats and food
and rope.
Words tumbled from me. “O Father,
could I come? I can row and I won’t
get in the way. I promise. I can row
and handle a boat. You’ll need someone
to hold her steady while you rescue them.”
I was a big, strong boy, and I had been
out fishing many, many times with my
father. He looked at my mother for
a moment, then he said “We’re taking
the old whaleboat. The oars are too
heavy for you, but you could steer. It
will release another man for the oars.”
I HURRIED to get ready. When we
I left, I carried everything I could and
kept asking for more. In no time we
were off down the harbor, the men pull-
ing with a will. I sat in the stern urging
the boat forward with all my thoughts.
The late-afternoon sunshine came over
the hills, and ahead of us I could see
another boat bent on the same errand,
and behind us came another. Once out-
side the heads the long, slow surge took
hold of us and we rose and fell, up and
over the gently sloping backs.
“Let her in the weeds and I’ll tan your
hide till you’ve not an inch left,” said
my father, who was pulling strongly just
in front of me.
I looked towards the cliffs. In the
sea beneath them the rocks disappeared
as each wave surged over them, then
reappeared wet and shining and running
with water as the wave passed. Among
the rocks the eddies swirled and flicked
the long brown ropes of weed. The sea
was thick with them.
I kept a safe distance from the weed,
and we soon came up with the boat
ahead. “There it is,” someone called,
and pointed. Our men rested on their
oars and looked round. I could see a
dark opening in the cliff. It was quite
wide and about a man’s height. We
rowed both boats as near as we dared to
the rocks and weeds, and gave them a
hail. We could not see very well because
the afternoon sun left the cliff and cave in
the shadow, but I saw something flutter.
“They’re there, Father,” I cried. “I
saw something wave.”
And then it came, faintly above the
wash and swish of the waves, a yell from
the cave. It had a strange, hollow, echo-
ing sound as it came to us across those
hundred yards of water, but without a
doubt it was a yell. We roared joyfully
in answer.
“To it, lads. We shan’t be long now,”
cried my father, and then a little later
“K only we could get nearer.”
I had not imagined anything like this.
I had expected to row up and take them
off, and I soon noticed that most of the
men were equally at loss. We could not
risk our boats among »the rocks, A
swimmer might have struggled through
if it had not been for the weed. A thrown
rope did not reach half the distance. It
was dusk now and the tide was rising.
From the marks on the cliff I could see
that at high tide the water covered the
mouth of the cave.
“The roof must be higher inside,” said
my father. “They have survived one high
tide already.”
I stared at the cave till my eyes ached,
but could see no more movement.
“Come on, lad, home again,” said my
father. The men were settling in their seats.
“Are we going to leave them?” I asked.
“There’s nothing we can do now. To-
morrow morning the tide will be low, the
sun will be shining on the cave and we’ll
know what to bring.”
“Couldn’t we wait till high tide and
then we can row over the rocks right
up to the cave?”
“The cave mouth will be under water.
We can do no good.”
“They could dive out to us.”
“No. Cunningham thinks Mr. Belcher
has broken his leg. There must have
been some injury or they would have
shown more movement. It’s home for
us now.”
That was the first night we left them.
For three more mornings we rowed out
to the cave eager and hopeful, and three
more evenings we rowed home defeated.
Each morning the womenfolk saw us go
and endured a day of fearful anxiety
until they saw us row slowly back. For
us, as we rowed out each morning, there
was a terrible question until our hail
brought an answering cry from the cave.
The fourth morning there was no cry.
The cave was empty. We never even
found the bodies.
ATER we often used to discuss it —
J—' what we could have done or should
have done, but no idea seemed to offer
a solution. We had only rowing boats,
and ropes, and our own strength. We
tried everything we could think of. The
weather was calm, the boats rose and
sank on the swell, the sea rushed and
surged over the rocks and the weed
swished snakily between them.
Afterwards, thinking back on it, I
could never be sure of the order of the
happenings. Those three days to me were
a confusion of sea and weed and help-
lessness, rocking there in a boat on the
waves a hundred yards offshore from the
cliffs. And the cave. Always there was
the cave! In the evenings the sea shone
on the cliff-face and even a little
into the cave. At first we could dimly
see the wreckage inside and occasionally
some movement about it.
I think that would be the first day,
because later the wreckage broke up and
Captain Ellis and Mr. Barker were on a
ledge of rock along the side. I saw them
one morning when the water reflected
the sunlight into the cave. One had a
white shirt. That would be Mr. Belcher.
He seemed to be sitting and Captain
Ellis was standing over him. Many of
us saw them that morning, and we won-
dered how they survived the high tide
now that they no longer floated on the
wreck. It was not till Dominique swam
closer that he saw the board hung from
the roof of the cave on two pieces of
rope. I think Captain Ellis must have
rigged that up. At high tide they had to
climb somehow on to it and hold tight
while the water rose beneath them.
Even after all these years I still won-
der how they felt. Four days of cold and
wet and exposure, with no food or drink,
each day seeing the rescuers no nearer
and knowing their own strength failing.
We could see them plainly in the morn-
ings and hear their cries, but the roar and
swish of the waves drowned their words.
It seemed to me that I had spent half
a lifetime rocking out there in the boat
trying and trying to get closer, but always
prevented by the rocks and weed. Each
morning I looked at the men around me
and thought “Today they are bound to
think of something,” or “Wouldn’t it be
wonderful if we could row straight over
and take them off?” but each day it was
the same. And the fourth morning when
we yelled we heard nothing but a faint
echo back from the cliff.
Many things were tried. I can re-
member Dominique; he was a negro
and a great swimmer. Time after time
he dived in with a rope around his body.
He reached the weed and eased himself
gently over it. But the surge of the
waves tossed him about and beat him
against the rocks and flecked the weed
aiound him. When he could go no fur-
ther he would signal, and the men pulled
him back to the boat bruised and ex-
hausted. There he would rest and later
try again. A dog also was tried to carry
out a rope, but the weed stopped him
more easily.
We floated ropes across buoyed up
with cork. One drifted into the cave, and
Captain Ellis actually grasped it. Their
relief was within sight, but when a strain
was put upon it the rope frayed agamst
the rocks and broke. That was the most
miserable moment of all —Captain Ellis
had it in his hand. However much we
tried again no rope struck that particu-
lar &ddy which carried it into the cave.
To the men in the cave that must
have been the sign of death. There they
were, four days in that dim light, some-
times clinging to a board and swaying
crazily while the tide flowed beneath
them, sometimes balanced on a ledge of
rock while outside the sun shone on the
boats and rescuers, and the water re-
flected dappled light on the roof of the
cave. The rescuers got no nearer, but
always, I should think, they had hoped
until Captain Ellis grasped that rope, felt
it tighten in his hand, and then go slack.
ON the fourth morning the sun was
still shining on the cliffs, the water
still surged over the rocks, but the cave
was empty. We reproached ourselves
bitterly. We should have done this;
we should have tried that; poor Domi-
nique was in a frenzy of remorse ; but
in calmer moments we had to admit that
there was nothing further we could have
done. Three days is a long time, and
the men had tried everything their brains
could invent, and every night the people
at home gave fresh suggestions.
I think being so near to the men and
hearing their cries made it worse. I
know for a long time afterwards I
dreamt of those men in the cave. I was
only a boy at the time, you understand,
but I think that afterwards I was less of
a boy than before. I had seen some of
the strange and terrible things in life.
Various Verse
Harry Pearce.
I sat beside the red stock route
And chewed a blade of bitter grass
And saw in mirage on the plain
A bullock wagon pass.
Old Harry Pearce was with his team.
“The flies are bad,” I said to him.
The leaders felt his whip. It did
Me good to hear old Harry swear
And in the heat of noon it seemed
His bullocks walked on air.
Suspended in the amber sky
They hauled the wool to Gundagai.
He walked in Time across the plain,
An old man walking in the air.
For years he wandered in my brain;
And now he lodges here.
And he may drive his cattle still
When Time with us has had his will.
R.A.A.F.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
In a Convex Mirror.
See, in the circle how we stand,
As pictured angels touching wings
Inflame a Dutch interior
Bespeaking birth, foretelling kings.
The room is still and brushed with dusk;
Shall we not disregard the clock
Or let alone be eloquent
The silence between tick and tock?
Shall we be fixed within the frame,
This breathing light to clear-cold glass
Until our images are selves
And words to wiser silence pass?
Bqt ruined Rostov falls in flame,
Cities crumble and are gone,
Time’s still waters deeply flow
Through Here and Now as Babylon,
And swirling through this little frame
Will rive the two of us apart,
Engulfing with unnumbered floods
The hidden spaces of the heart.
N.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Mantrap.
What does she hide,
This girl so young, so fresh.
Slender and starry-eyed,
Behind the alluring flesh?
The spirit of an elf,
You think —an angel even—
(lf you be young yourself)
Strayed from heaven.
Depth below depth of love?
A pure yet ardent mind?
The nature of the dove,
Wise, gentle, kind?
Whatever you may guess,
You would not seek in vain
Beneath that loveliness
A padlock and a chain.
MX.
ARNOLD WALL.
Above the Valley.
This monastery of granite hills
Sets spring upon its ferny sills
In unremembering rapture.
So
Would I set peace, at heart, but, no!
The sour, cold rocks grind through my mood;
Stunned with a monstrous solitude,
I feel their stony grief, their sense
Of dim, enormous permanence.
I am grown one with the unsought,
Unhuman gropings of their thought.
As surely do they live, as live '
Those eager soldier lads who give
Mock battle ’mid the trees below —
So tiny-seeming, frail and slow,
Yet so gigantic.
Men, trees, rocks.
One sullen urge of conflict locks
All in Time’s acid Hell, whose bars
Are the waste waters of the stars.
No new thing, this! It chanced before
Wars dreamed of men, or men of war —
A planet sickness of the prime;
Matter at odds with space and time.
Flesh may not boast it fights alone:
Trees ambush trees, stone crumbles stone.
This scarred and sombre crag above
Dreams of wars older than God’s love
That lifts and drifts like morning mists.
What flinty grapple ground the fists
Of glaciers on that snarling mouth
Lest it should spell, with lips uncouth,
The hieroglyphic hate that runs
Through Nature and her savage sons!
Blithe, to another battle day
The soldier lads have marched away.
Far off, the desolate twilit plain
Aches with old beauty, turned to pain.
Lost, late rosellas zigzag by,
Brief flames against the violet sky;
And turtle-shadows cautiously
Stretch out their wrinkled necks to see.
The wind breathes chill, leaves twist and fall.
I watch —as the last man of all
May watch, on time’s last ledge, alone,
The march of warring tribes of stone
When falls the moon in monstrous rain
On earth’s long dead, and desert plain.
A night-bird calls; life breaks the spell;
How cold it is, how dark, in Hell!
Good hunting, old guerrilla!
See
The faint mists drift, how tranquilly,
How careless what dim trysts you keep —
Maybe Truth’s well is not so deep!
Time’s secret simply that the mists
Outlast the mountains, Love persists.
s.a.
J. HOLLOWAY.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3275.
Wednesday, November 18, 1942.
FOR WHOM THE BELLS TOLLED.
"To mark the victory in Egypt, church bells were rung throughout Britain on Sunday for the first time since the outbreak of war.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ‘Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place ; 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
TO MUNICH VIA ORAN.
In the fourth year of the last war Russia
became a dark and complex problem to
Britain and the United States, and all
their efforts to solve it failed. In this
war they have had on their hands the
dark and complex problem of France.
By force of circumstances they had to
tackle it separately and employ different
methods, the French Government having
thrown up the sponge and accepted Ger-
many’s terms 18 months before Britain
and the United States became allies.
In the wars of Louis XIV, the First
Revolution and the first and third Bona-
partes, the French showed that they
could endure greatly and rally swiftly.
Their recovery from the military disasters
of 1812-14, 1815 and 1870-71 was wonder-
ful, and though faction and the dead hand
of bureaucracy may have impaired the
qualities which produced these miracles
of recovery they can scarcely have
destroyed them altogether. Englishmen
well acquainted with the French and their
history have maintained all along since
the capitulation of June 22, 1940, that
France would come again.
But the British Government was in no
position or mood to take this for granted.
It had to save the country with such tools
as the Continental disasters had left in
its hands, and it had to prevent Hitler
from making the heavy odds in his favor
heavier still. Judging that the French Fleet
was Hitler’s for the taking,, and that, the
Armistice terms notwithstanding, the
Petain Government would surrender it
rather than renew the fight, the Govern-
ment gave its naval commanders orders
to secure French warships in African
ports. Hence the Oran fight and the
demilitarisation of the squadron in
Alexandra harbor. It has been asserted
in the “Saturday Evening Post” that the
British were tricked into attacking the
battleships at Oran by a faked Ger-
man wireless message to the effect that
they were about to be handed over to
Hitler. In point of fact, no part of the
fleet was handed over, and though it
has been asserted a thousand times that
Dakar was placed at the service of Ü-
boat commanders proofs were lacking.
There followed the fiasco at Dakar in
which H.M.A.S. Australia lost her sea-
plane crew and that crew their lives.
Dakar had been invited to surrender in
the name of General de Gaulle as head
of the Free French. The expedition,
which was ill-managed from the begin-
ning, was ah unhappy introduction of
the De Gaulle movement, and the wisdom
of backing a French party was acidly
questioned, it being pointed out that
French parties supported by the British
Government had always flopped, es-
pecially in the time of the second Pitt.
Indeed, though Vichy has had few de-
fenders, the Churchill Government has
been taken to task in Britain for its
whole handling of the French question.
The “Nineteenth Century” has been
particularly severe. In his March issue
the editor was very rough on General de
Gaulle (“he does not represent France
and should be leading his troops in
Libya”) and on 8.8.C.’s “Colonel
Britton” (“his broadcasts are cheap, silly,
boastful”). In the June issue he praised
the “psychological insight and the diplo-
matic skill with which the U.S.A. has
dealt with the very difficult problem
created by the allegiance of Martinique
to Vichy” and dwelt harshly on the
British record:
Had the British Government shown
similar skill and insight there would have
been no bloodshed at Oran in Syria or
in Madagascar. Oran itself, Dakar, Casa-
blanca and, perhaps, Djibuti would have
been at the disposal of the British Fleet.
General de Gaulle would have been in
active command on one of the fronts of the
Free French forces, which would have
been many times as big, instead of playing
at politics that hinder, rather than promote,
closer Anglo-French collaboration and re-
duce to impotence and inactivity many of
the most ardent and resourceful French
patriots. It is conceivable that if the tragic
blunder of Oran had not been committed
and if Syria had been invaded without pre-
judice to its judicial status, the French
might have been more willing to oppose the
Japanese in Indo-China. Small as the
means at their disposal were, a gain of
only a few days might have been more
than welcome to the defenders of Singapore.
Australians, comparing the stiff resist-
ance in Syria, in which 1700 of their own
men were killed, wounded and taken,
with the abject surrender in French Indo-
China and its consequences, can scarcely
be expected to accept excuses for Vichy.
They prefer the stern but just verdict of
Smuts:
Vichy opened Indo-China to the Japanese.
We never dreamed that this backdoor to
Singapore would be opened against us by
our ally. It has only been possible to checjc
the flood at the very shores of Australia
and New Zealand. 111-disposed people have
taken the fall of Singapore as a proof of
our decadence. It was merely a result of.
the fall of France.
Nevertheless, the “Nineteenth Century”
man sees in the sale of the pass to the
Japanese no obstacle to another alliance
between Britain and France, and he re-
gards such an alliance as “essential to the
survival of the French and British
empires, as well as of the mother coun-
tries.”
France and Britain are the only two
World Powers. France is today not
amongst the Great Powers, but she will be
amongst them when the war has been won
—she will be so almost automatically then,
for the war will have been won by a
narrow margin, and amongst the weary
and battered nations France, with her re-
souces not greatly impaired and her fight-
ing spirit reborn, will have a decisive part
to play
Events have shown that the defence of
Indo-China is essential to the defence of
Singapore—and therefore of India and Aus-
tralia. Without the recapture of Singapore
the war cannot be won. Indo-China must,
when the war is over, become part of a
great defensive system, with Singapore as
the central base and stronghold. Events
have shown that Singapore cannot stand in
isolation. Siam will have to surrender
strategic points which would, under Anglo-
French command, belong to the same
system.
Much of this will seem fantastic to people
who read only the daily papers and listen
to A.B.C. and 8.8. C.; but strange things
have happened in this war, and stranger
things may be in store.
Glancing at the situation in Europe, the
“Nineteenth Century” man wrote with
some prescience, though his concluding
paragraph will try many souls;
Events will show how necessary France
is to a major offensive against the enemy,
no matter whether, that offensive be opened
in the West or in the Mediterranean. If
the French African Empire were in alliance
with Great Britain, the Germans would not
be in Libya today. If the French African
Empire were collaborating with Germany,
the whole Mediterranean situation would
be desperate—the Straits of Gibraltar might
become impassable and the Germans might
be in Cairo. What the Germans need is
not only peace with France, but an alliance
with France. When they say “collabora-
tion,” they mean alliance. But the “col-
laboration” they are receiving is neither
peace nor an alliance. The time will per-
haps come when Marshal Petain will be
seen to have played a decisive part in
promoting the final defeat of the Ger-
mans—it will have been the most difficult
and thankless part played by any soldier,
politician or soldier-politician in the war.
Be that as it may, it can now be seen
that the White House was wise in refus-
ing to commit itself to De Gaulle, and
in maintaining relations with Vichy. By
so doing it secured information and a
measure of co-operation in French
North Africa which neither the De Gaul-
lists nor the British Government, with
necessarily restricted opportunities, could
possibly have got, and the soundness of
the information has been demonstrated
in the opening moves of the Campaign
which has been entered upon in North
Africa. It is not going to be all plain
sailing, but in conception and organisa-
tion it is truly a campaign on the grand
scale, and it has been hailed with enthu-
siasm by’all except the enemy and the
Second-Front-in-France crowd. It has
placed Italy in peril, and compelled
Hitler to extend his front by sending into
the part of France previously unpolluted
the hated Germans and the despised
Italians. These moves were preceded by
the tearing up of another scrap of paper,
an event which must have convulsed the
French world.
Caught in Algiers, and evidently will-
ing to be caught, Darlan (to “Colonel
Britton” one of “the rats” marked down
for “particular punishment”) gave the
cease-fire signal to all the forces in North
Africa and asked the commanders at
Toulon to bring their ships to ports
under Anglo-American control. Petain’s
hands are tied by the terrible fact
of the prisoners of war, which has
dominated, and will continue to
dominate, his policy. There remains
Laval, the contemporary Fouche, and
Laval may be willing to wound the Allies,
but his capacity to strike is limited. The
Imperial Policy Group sums him up as
“a French peasant with a heavy sus-
picion of all foreigners, including the
Germans. He hates Britain, but he also
loathes Germany.”
His policy may still force him into des-
perate acts to Germany’s advantage, but in
his secret peasant mind he remains an in-
dividualist and an anti-German. In many
ways he is most intelligent and is fighting
with great tenacity for his goal. He wants
to put as many difficulties as he can in the
path of all belligerents so that they can’t
go on with the war. He thinks that the
exhaustion of Germany and the Anglo-
Saxon Powers would give Latin Europe its
chance. And for him the centre of Latin
Europe is France, and at the centre of
France is Laval.
The shifts of this unpleasant character
may be contemplated without fear and
without hope. Meanwhile Italians must
be trembling for their cities, and Ger-
mans must be gloomily recalling Luden-
dortf’s confession that the collapse of
Bulgaria in 1918, leaving “a hole big
enough to allow armies to march into our
vitals with safe lines of communications
behind them, was clearly the end of all
things, for Austria-Hungary stood per-
fectly naked.” This time the collapse of
Italy may be “the end of all things” in
Europe ; but it remains true that “with-
out the recapture of Singapore the war
cannot be won.”
J. Bull's Weak Line.
Australians steadfast in their admira-
tion for J. Bull have wondered why, when
such a good case can be made out for
him on the score of his war performance,
the case has been so badly handled.
The mystery has been partly explained
in a recent complaint by an Australian
press correspondent in a London news-
paper article on the theme “Why the
Empire does not appreciate what Britain
is doing in the war.” The writer declared
that the Empire press in London was in-
variably omitted when any discrimination
was shown between the British, American
and Empire press. Empire journalists
were not invited when journalists of
other countries were taken along to get
first-hand information on various aspects
of Britain’s part in the war. In the
Middle East, the writer alleged, Austra-
lian accredited war correspondents were
not allowed to visit British units.
All of which —fully supported, as it
was, by Canadian, South African, New
Zealand and other press representatives
—sounds true enough of J. Bull, one of
whose genial faults is that he, while begin-
ning to realise dimly that he has to “sell”
himself to foreign countries, takes it
for granted that there can’t possibly be
any need for this with Empire countries.
Where these are concerned he is content
to stick to the copybook maxim about
deeds speaking louder than words, happy
in the notion that his known preference
for reticence and understatement is so
well understood in his offshoot countries
that any change would cause astonish-
ment.
That might have been all right once ;
but with the vast expansion and im-
provement in means of spreading infor-
mation, and with these largely used for
propaganda, much of it inimical to J. 8.,
what is now astonishing is that he should
apparently remain indifferent to the self-
evident charge that his propaganda about
himself is far and away the world’s worst.
In recent months spokesmen on his behalf
have been busier than formerly, but most
of their stuff has boiled down to a dull
insistence on the one point that, so far,
J.B.’s war production has been so many
times greater than that of any other
country. As one spokesman put it, J.B.’s
war production represents
the most gigantic effort ever made by
45,000,000 people in the history of the
world, and it had to be improvised and
brought up to full strength at a time when
the German Army was 21 miles away, and
when we were raided day and night, and
when we stood alone and defied the world’s
greatest military machine to do its worst.
The trouble with this —true as the
claim is, and wonderful as the per-
formance has been —is that American
propaganda in the same line has all
along been so vivid and lively that prac-
tically everybody is convinced that Uncle
Sam is rapidly overhauling J.B. and will
presently far outshadow him. Indeed,
with Uncle Sam’s potentialities—he has
now set a world record by launching a
prefabricated 10,600-ton ship in four days
hours after keel-laying—it will be
strange if that does not soon happen.
The charge against J.B.’s clumsy propa-
ganda covers a lot wider ground. His
performance on the trumpet is so weak
that it calls for a deliberate effort of the
imagination to get anything like a pic-
ture of some of the finest things he has
done and is doing all the time.
How many have other than the vaguest
idea of the really great story of his con-
voying of goods to Russia? There have
been a few telling pictures of his Arctic
convoy warships with their great guns
bearded with ice; there are the un-
answerable (silencing) figures—supplied
to the U.S.S.R. in the last 12 months
by the northern convoy route alone,
3052 ’planes; 4084 tanks; 30,000
vehicles ; 831,000 machine tools (which
aren’t chisels or picks, but vital, compli-
cated and often weighty things); 42,000
tons of aviation spirit; 66,000 tons of
fuel oil; 80,000-odd tons of miscellaneous
war supplies. But such pictures and
figures are hard to grasp and weigh ; the
epic of courage, endurance and bull-
dog determination they illustrate remains
to be told. Instead of people generally
appreciating the greatness of this and
other aid to the U.S.S.R., there is a
widespread feeling—carefully nurtured
by anti-J.B. propaganda—that the Old
Man has done next to nothing for the
U.S.S.R. Any other titular head of an
organisation like the British Empire
would have seen to it that the magnifi-
cent story of the convoys, with the full
truth of the vital help given to Russia,
was so clearly told that, at least, the false
contrary propaganda would have no
earthly chance against it.
After a particularly vicious spate of
anti-J.B. propaganda—extending over
months, and becoming so bad as to force
the Old Man to drop some of his tradi-
tional reticence and try to tootle a little
louder on the bugle—the news at last
broke of the splendid victory and the
general offensive activity in North Africa.
From how many does J.B. get his due
measure of credit for making all this pos-
sible? Apart from his Navy’s familiarly
outstanding part in the actual operations:
a wonderful chapter, without parallel
even in J.B.’s unparalleled sea-war his-
tory ; the organising over the vasty deep
of the gathering of 850 ships that took
the Allied expeditionary force to North
Africa —500 for the carrying of the
troops and supplies ; the other 350 of the
spreading armada convoying warships —
this Navy, and the R.A.F., and British
and Empire fighting forces, and British
equipment, among them managed to keep
the Mediterranean open. This is another
epic of J. Bull at war that hasn’t been
fully or clearly told. Even the story of
heroic Malta is vague and obscure, need-
ing imaginative effort to piece it together
into something definite and real and com-
plete. The Mediterranean epic as a
whole —one of the most important aspects
of the war, and one likely to be decisive
in the long run —is scarcely known at
all. It has been wholly a I. Bull epic ;
otherwise it would be known well enough.
The bombing of Europe is another
J.B. epic, so clumsily told that the liveli-
est mind’s idea of it is only a vague
shadow of the actuality. It has carried
on from month to month with mounting
intensity—on its own a superb fighting
part towards winning the war, and a vital
help to the U.S.S.R. There was no word
of praise for it, or for any of the rest
of J.B.’s great performance, when the
Second - Front - Through - France yelling
was at its height, and the proposition
was advanced by the yellers and swal-
lowed by their dupes that, because J.B.
declined to lose the war by the short cut
the yellers advocated, it followed that he
had done, was doing and would do
nothing.
Nothing whatever is now heard of yet
another J.B. epic, though its mighty nar-
rative has flowed on unceasingly since
the war began, and still goes on. That
is the Battle of the Atlantic. It is typi-
cal that this should have been widely
publicised at a time when J.B. appeared
to be getting the worst of it, when, until
America came in, he battled at it alone.
Now that the Axis is the losing side
there —evidenced by the landings of the
huge American and British forces in
North Africa —the Battle of the Atlantic
drops out of the picture. Yet it goes on
all the time —one of J.B.’s very greatest
performances towards the eventual win-
ning of the war. (The well-informed
Smuts has warned that the perils in this
Battle will increase as the enemy now
perforce makes a desperate bid with
U-boat warfare.)
Welded together, these separate but
related epics make one superb epic that
would —if only part of it were properly
told and grasped —make the necessity for
J.B.’s spokesmen to be up insisting that
“Britain has nothing to be ashamed of”
seem preposterous. There would be no
necessity, either, for such friends of J.B.
as the publisher of the New York
“Times” to be appealing to Americans to
reject “a lot of disloyal complaining
about the British,” complaining which
is a loud part of the vicious Left racket
in the loyal Dominions as well.
It is, of course, largely J.B.’s own
fault. If he were not such a notoriously
poor hand on the bugle, he could himself
silence it all with a good blast or two.
It speaks volumes for his actual war
performance that, wretchedly presented
as this has been all along, the Old Man’s
stature seems to go on enlarging, despite
the efforts of his strangely assorted
critics.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Civil and Military Courts.
In France in the last war American sol-
diers accused of criminal offences were
tried in their own military courts. When,
the same powers were asked for in this
war in countries to which American
forces have been sent there was some
criticism at Westminster and Canberra.
According to a Raymond Gram Swing
broadcast, things said in the Commons
debate had “a very unfavorable effect on
public opinion in the United States.”
Writing to the “Times” from Oxford
University as “a member of both the
English and American Bars,” Arthur
Goodhart made out an unanswerable
case for giving the American Army full
jurisdiction in these matters. He said
there was no mistrust of British justice ;
no such feeling existed in the United
States. It was essentially a matter of
the maintenance of discipline, and that
responsibility must be borne by the
American Army; to share it with the
local civil authorities might, in certain
circumstances, impair discipline and effi-
ciency.
In respect of minor offences an Eng-
lish (or Australian) court could punish
only the offence itself, whereas an Ameri-
can military court would deal with it
under the head of conduct prejudicial to
good discipline. Rape, though still nomi-
nally a hanging matter in Britain and
Australia, is in practice punished in the
civil courts with a term of imprisonment
which rarely exceeds 10 years. The
American military penalty is death or
imprisonment for life.
The honor of the United States Army
is a source of just pride to the American
nation, and Australians can gratefully
testify that it has been maintained in
this country. In the very few cases in
which military courts have had to be
constituted, the procedure has been ad-
mirable and the punishment salutary. In
a very ordinary case of assault (with a
bottle) and robbery for the like of which
Australian ruffians might get 18 months
the sentence was five years for the assail-
ant and four years for a companion,
together with dishonorable discharge
from the Army, And, after reference of
the verdict to Washington, Leonski has
been hanged.
Criminals of the Leonski type break
out now and then in different parts of
the world. The probabilities are that
Leonski would have followed his homi-
cidal bent if he had never worn uniform
or if he had been born in the part of
Europe from which his people came and
had remained there. Had he been tried
by Victorian law the sentence might have
been the same —though he would not
have been executed in Queensland or
New South Wales —but it is very much
better that his guilt and punishment
should have been determined by the
American Army,
Miners and Wharfies.
Plain people whose sons, brothers and
husbands are at the war, and who have
themselves steadily supported the war
effort since September 3, 1939, were
edified to read that 1500 bags of potatoes,
first of the new crop, had been reserved
for N.S.W. coalminers by special decree
of Mr. Scully, the Labor Minister of
Commerce. These plain people had been
without potatoes for months, and had
been looking forward to a distribution
without favor. They should now realise
what it means to be excluded from the
New Aristocracy.
It occurred to one of those bowelless
wage-payers to compile a list of N.S.W.
coalmine stoppages since the consum-
mation of the fourth (or fifth) code, the
policing of which was entrusted to the
Miners’ Federation. His list showed 279
stoppages “due to industrial disputes”
on 93 working days since July 2. In
many cases no “reasons” were given ; in
others, the “reasons” were rows in bath-
rooms, lack of potatoes, tobacco short-
age, “non-issue of extra coupons,” no
seats in a bus, daylight saving, the
weather (“tophands declined to work in
rain”) and the disappearance of a pair
of pants.
It is now seven months since Mr. Ward
“settled the trouble on the coalfields” by
denouncing “the unscrupulous em-
ployers” and demanding “nationalisa-
tion”—this at Lithgow, on a strike-day
at the Government mine, which managed
to lose £17,000 of tax-money last year.
Mr, Ward is now trying in his fashion
to “settle the trouble on the water-
front.” Early in his Ministerial career
he essayed a settlement at Darwin, but
darkness has descended on the results of
his mission to that port. His task in
Sydney has been made difficult by a fac-
tion fight between Communists and
“moderates.”
The Sydney waterfront has become a
haunt for s.p. bookmakers and other
persons who strongly object to manual
labor and any form of war service.
“My department,” said Mr. Bellemore,
the Deputy-Director-General of Man-
power, “was informed that 4000 men had
applied for and been given wharf-
laborers’ tokens, but that not more than
2200 had been found at work on any one
day, notwithstanding that there were
shortages of labor.” At the request of
the Stevedoring Commission Man-power
undertook to make a check by way of
determining how many possessors of the
tokens were really entitled to exemption
from military and Allied Works Council
call-ups. Man-power officers were sent
to the picking-up places. A strike broke
out immediately, and after it had lasted
half a day “the Man-power officers were
directed to withdraw.” Directed by
whom? Mr. Bellemore would not say
and Mr. Ward “declined to comment.”
Mr. Ward is the Man-power Minister.
To shout with the larger crowd is Mr.
Ward’s “policy.” Simple hitherto, but
dreadfully embarrassing when it is not
clear which is the larger crowd.
Australian Wines.
Because Christmas is coming it is pro-
posed to make 40 per cent, more beer
available next month. Nothing is said
about more Australian wines, though a
case as strong or stronger could be made
out for them.
The Australian wine position has
reached the stage where people who like
to have sherry or hock in the house
can’t even put in an advance order for a
bottle or two at the big stores with wine
licenses. They have to line up by the
hour and take their chance of a wineshop
having any left when they eventually get
into it.
Instead of this all-Australian industry
being hampered on all sides, the present
state of things offers a first-class oppor-
tunity for permanently establishing Aus-
tralia’s wines, pronounced excellent by
American visitors, on the home market.
A more plentiful issue of the product
that has become world-famous—it has
most honor outside its own country—
would mean that a very great number
now coming to appreciate how good Aus-
tralian wines are could be won over as
permanent supporters of an Australian in-
dustry which —unless shortsightedness
ruins it —will be very handy when the
war is over and the mounting bills begin
to fall due.
"Reasonably Precise."
A review of the operations of the
Apple and Pear Board in S.A. up to June
30 shows that output handled was
270,670 bushels of apples and 94,750
bushels of pears of all varieties. Sales
averaged 11s. 4|d. a bushel for apples
and 10s. s|d. for pears. Payments to
growers ranged from Is. to 3s. for apples
and Is. to ss. for pears. Advance pay-
ments averaged 2s. 9d. for apples and
3s. 9d. for pears, marketing and storage
costs were about 3s. 3d., making a total
expenditure of roughly 6s. for apples and
7s. for pears.
Where has the difference gone?
Growers, whose returns so far represent
only about half their production costs,
want to know. The Premier, who has
been told that some growers threaten to
uproot their orchards, wants to know.
The consumers, who pay famine prices,
also want to know.
The Premier sought a further advance
of a modest Is. for the growers, going
straight to the Prime Minister about it.
He was told that the request would re-
ceive attention “when the marketing
boards can furnish reasonably precise
information on the financial results of
the marketing of the 1941-42 apple and
pear crop.”
Any ordinary business can be and is
called on by the Government to furnish
precise information of its transactions.
Apparently “reasonably precise” infor-
mation will do from the A. and P. Board,
which, presumably, is to be the judge of
the reasonableness of the preciseness.
Mr. Playford is not satisfied. Neither
is anybody else, outside the Apple and
Pear Board.
"Dudley Flats."
“Spokeshave” is sarcastic:
In the Victorian Parliamentary debate on
the proposed amendments to the Constitution,
Premier Dunstan trotted out objections made
familiar when uniform income taxation was
the issue, and went on with his usual adden-
dum —“It is regrettable at a time like this, when
unity is so essential, that contentious matters
should be brought forward.” On the same even-
ing and about the same time police were
stumbling in the dark over piles of kerosene-
tins, heaps of refuse and mounds of metho-
bottles, which form part of the horror known
as “Dudley Flats.” They were looking for
the body of a colored woman who had de-
clined from the state of a concert singer to
that of a denizen of “Dudley Flats,” where
she engaged in nightlong bouts of metho-
drinking. When found the body showed signs
of having been gnawed by dogs or rats.
Now, Mr. Dunstan has been Premier for
upwards of seven years, and during that period
the term “Dudley Flats” has been a synonym
for squalor and swinish debauchery. Nobody
would say that “Dudley Flats” is a contentious
subject. Nobody would maintain that the
liberty of the subject would be interfered with
or that it would be an outrage on State
rights if inhabitants of the tangle of tin
houses were removed to State institutions, and
no wicked Commonwealth Government stands
in the way of Mr. Dunstan exercising his sani-
tary powers in that direction. If he has done
absolutely nothing to solve such a simple prob-
lem it is superfluous for him to warn the State
that some frightful disaster will overtake it if
amendments to the Commonwealth Constitution
take some of his authority away and give it to
someone else. Even if it resulted in a virtual
dictatorship, the dictatorship couldn’t be worse
for “Dudley Flats” than the gentle sway of
Mr. Dunstan.
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.


YOU CAM STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that thera
Us something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
In your body passes through these tubes to be
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
(Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or -scanty passages with
smarting and burning also show there Is
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as vour neighbour does —take DOAN’S
BACKACHE KJIWEY PILES tttrday.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON £ CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
Queensland
insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
From Sydney “D.T.”:
Main agitation for the raising of the ban
on the Communist party comes from Dr.
Evatt, who is reported to be encountering
strong opposition from other Ministers.
From Melbourne “Herald,” same day:
Westralian delegates to the Federal A.L.P.
Conference have been instructed to oppose
the lifting of the ban on the Communist
party.
As Curtin is one of these delegates, he is
or will be one of the “other Ministers.”
In effect, the first little rift within the
lute.
Dr. Evatt’s proposals for Constitutional
amendments have had a bad press and a
bad reception in State Parliaments, but
they were supported in a memorable
speech by Isaac Isaacs. Old as he is,
the one native-born G.G. has not lost his
eloquence or his national outlook, and
his fine effort brought back memories of
the giants of old, among whom he never
claimed to be the first. The A.N.A. is
enthusiastic, and the Attorney-General
expressed his admiration and gratitude
in presenting the case for his proposals.
Cairns (N.Q.) voting at the State
general election last year: O’Keefe
(Lab.) 5003, Griffin (C.P.) 3193, Tucker
(Ind.) 835. At the recent by-election it
was Crowley (Lab.) 2169, Barnes (“King
O’Malley Laborite”) 2100, Tucker (“Anti-
Fascist”) 1776, Griffin (Ind.) 852. Pref-
erences lifted Barnes’s total to 2535,
giving him a majority of 201 over Crow-
ley. Now Labor’s once-almighty Q.C.E.
is a prey to gloomy thoughts, not only
about the loss of another “safe” seat to
another member of the Barnes family,
but about the sharp increase in Tucker’s
vote on a greatly reduced poll.
The mercurial Barnes of Bundaberg,
having helped to get his brother in for
Cairns as a “King O’Malley Laborite”—
he labels himself “Andrew Fisher Labor-
ite” —is looking for fresh seats to con-
quer. When Forgan Smith quits Mackay,
the Andrew Fisher and King O’Malley
Laborites will combine to run a “Dave
Bowman Laborite,” if one can be found.
Queenslanders are getting a kick out of
the Barnes blend of politics, but the
Labor crowd that has run the country
for 27 years, off and on, finds the infusion
extremely nasty, more especially as the
Barnes brothers, though they have odd
ideas on other subjects, are solid for the
abolition of State Parliaments,
“The Jews of America” have been in-
vited by “224 Left-Wing Jewish Labor
leaders, including the presidents of four
C. 1.0. national unions,” to subscribe to
a fund for sending 1000 tanks and 500
bombers “immediately” to the U.S.S.R.
as “a gift from the Jewish people to the
Red Army.” The American Jewish Con-
gress and its Russian War Relief organi-
sation have advised Jews to have no-
thing to do with “the drive,” pointing out
that if the tanks and bombers could be
obtained they would cost at least
$150,000,000, and that Washington’s posi-
tion is that “the only effective military
assistance which can and should be given
to the Soviet Union must come from
the Governments of the United Nations.”
One of the “224 Left-Wing Jewish Labor
leaders” retorted that “We, the Jews, will
get the tanks and bombers, if not from
the United States then from England.”
Arrogance incarnate when tyrannising
over individual unionists, or bragging of
its pro-strike and anti-war “policy” prior
'to June 22, 1941, the gang which runs
the Federated Ironworkers’ Union or Red
racket can’t “take” it. Stung by articles
based on its own publications, the gang
went squealing to the N.S.W. Labor
Council for “action” against The Bulle-
tin, and a boycott was suggested. Old
hands demurred, but one Hyland, of the
Shop Assistants’ Union, perhaps ren-
dered ferocious by the sudden fading of
the rosy prospect of an enforced addi-
tion of 15,000 to the membership, let fly
at The Bulletin in a speech full of
terms like “scab” and “Fascist” which
mob orators fish out of the gutter. Evi-
dently a Hyland totally surrounded by
bilge.
Reviews of young Mr. Aldridge’s novel
preceded the arrival of copies of the
masterpiece in Australia. One mentions
that, “after six months in New York with
‘Time,’ ” the young gentleman is “back at
the front for the North American News-
paper Alliance.”
His novel includes an attack on the in-
competence of the British officers The
talk of the men says the officers come from
a ruling class that doesn’t know its busi-
ness. The men with experience are
marking time; their job is to survive until
they can take control and kick their rulers
“Who come-a da valtzin’ Mateelda vit’ me?”
out The fliers of Aldridge’s novel have
no use for the officers at headquarters.
Young Mr. Aldridge was last heard of
in Persia. He doesn’t seem to have been
in Egypt when the officers and men broke
Rommel’s army, and that without the
political training he had prescribed for
the Tommies, The Tommies, he com-
plained, before wiping the dust of Egypt
off his shoes, didn’t fight with “the speed
and anger of hatred” because they hadn’t
been “taught what Fascism” is.
From a paper called “Progress,” issued
bv an alleged N.S.W. Labor party (not
McKell’s) and compounded of Moscow-
mania and muck:
Munichite fear of revolution in Europe
is preventing the British Government from
launching a western offensive and over-
throwing Hitler quickly. The British army
chooses to fight in Egypt, where rapid pro-
gress cannot be expected.
Date of publication, November 6, when
the rapid progress which could not be
expected was catching up with the wreck
of Rommel’s army, though it could
scarcely be seen for Libyan dust. No
reference to a northern offensive against
Japan. Nowadays Japan is never men-
iioned in the publications of Corns, and
heir fellow-travellers.
Though it has been whining for weeks
that the special grant from the Common-
wealth Government, £575,000, is too
small —it amounts to £2 Bs. per head —
the Cosgrove Labor Government has had
the gall to put on the estimates £5OO a
year for a Public Relations Consultant
and £75 a year for each of the party
whips. The Public Relations Consultant is
George Fitzpatrick, of Sydney, and that
will make some Sydney people grin;
but it is no joke for the taxpayers. Aus-
terity may be sauce for the taxpaying
geese, but not for the political ganders.
The N.S.W. Aid Russia Committee
has changed its name to the Friendship
with Russia League. There was already
a swarm of Soviet Friendship Leagues,
but in this field there is no such thing
as competition. An Aid Australia League
would be denounced as fifth-columnist.
For forty years or so Westralia has
had an Arbitration Court composed of a
Supreme Court Judge, a representative
of the employers and a representative of
the employees; and it has worked pretty
well. Curtin should have thought of that
before he let Ward set up the Women’s
Employment Board, with a 25 p.c. vote
for wage-payers and abuse if they
objected.
An open letter to Dedman, “Minister
for War Disorganisation,” appears in
Lang’s “Century.” In the same issue are
several other attacks on Dedman, a criti-
cism of “the fantastic patent-medicine
regulations,” a Labor Honor-roll of
knights (six), professors, “Tory” news-
papermen and other Government
appointees (“join the U.A.P. and get a job
in the Labor Government”); also bitter
denunciations of “the mushroom Public
Relations section” of Forde’s department
and of “the wild scheme from the Uni-
versity crackpots to hand 40,000 shop
assistants over to Man-power.” The heart-
cry of Lang’s friends in Reid is that, if
elected, he would be a Great Help to
Curtin.
Slating the President, the “Wall Street
Journal” of September 3 said that “the
entire Administration political propa-
ganda was that no one should he elected
to public office who was not in accord
with the Roosevelt foreign policy before
Pearl Harbor, because only those who
were can be trusted”:
Now, while no one disparages Mr
Dewey s patriotism, he certainly was
classed as an isolationist before we went
to war, and was as much opposed to the
Roosevelt foreign policy as to the Roose-
velt domestic policy. And there is not a
New Dealer in the country who would
call him a “Liberal.”
Very curiously, the paper predicted
success for Bennett, the Roosevelt-rejected
nominee for Governor of New York, and
establishment thereby of “Mr. Farley’s
position as the outstanding Democratic
politician in the country.” Dewey got in
with one of the greatest majorities ever
given to a Republican in New York, and
straightway called upon all Republicans
to go all out for winning the war under
“our Commander-in-Chief”— i,e., the
President.
From a survey of “the Tasmanian
economy” by the State Government
Finance Committee:
The economic and financial outlook for
1942-43 is more favorable for the Tas-
manian community than for the State Gov-
ernment deprived of its most flexible
source of revenue under the uniform income
taxation scheme.
So the scheme is good—for the com-
munity. It will be better when the State
Government is abolished.
In the middle of 1942 the Miners’ Fed-
eration promised that the N.S.W. coalies
would be good boys. Between July 2 and
October 28 there were 279 mine stop-
pages, “due to industrial disputes,” the
average being three per “working day.”
There were 93 “working days,” and only
on 11 were all mines working. As a
present for the good boys. Commerce
Minister Scully had 1500 bags of potatoes
sent to northern mining townships. No-
body else could have bought a spud with
gold.
Reply by a Queensland shire council
to the Fuel Control Board’s request that
it should fit a gas-producer to its truck;
On C.C.C. works in our area only one
truck has been fitted with a gas-producer.
It seems that little or no effort is made to
save petrol on these trucks. The owners
are able to obtain petrol to take their em-
ployees into town at the week-ends, and
make a charge.
These shire council fellows have too much
time to think.
H. J. Bate, M.L.A. for N.S.W.’s South
Coast for many years, has had the sad
experience of being beaten twice for the
seat in 18 months, and that by father
and son —R. N. Beale, lately dead, and
J. G. Beale. Like his father, young Beale
—he is only 27—calls himself an Inde-
pendent. Bate called himself U.A.P., but
he repudiated Mair’s leadership, and that
did him no good. His son is M.L.A. for
Wollondilly, has seen active service
abroad, and is back on military duties.
Justice Starke and a special jury of 12
heard the case against Mervyn Macpher-
son Brewer, general manager of Mac-
Robertsons, who was charged with having
paid one Ritchie secret commissions
amounting to £450 in respect of Canteen
Service contracts. The verdict was
“guilty,” but, saying that he would re-
serve a case for the Full High Court on
“very important points” raised by Men-
zies, his Honor released the accused on
bail “to come up for sentence when
called upon.” Menzies, Richard Win-
deyer and Stanley Lewis appeared for
Brewer; J. B. Shand and W. A. Fazio
were counsel for the prosecution.
The modest editors of “Time,” “Life”
and “Fortune” have a plan for redis-
tributing the whole world. Charming
paragraph from the section devoted to
Asia and Australasia:
Australia has been a classic example of
economic nationalism with high tariffs and
severe immigration restrictions. The lead-
ing supporter of such nationalistic policies
has been the Australian Labor party, in
close and curious alliance with the giant
trust of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
The editors might have added that the
joint managers of B.H.P. are Essington
Lewis, Forde and Ward.


BRANDALERA
m
f>C.V
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BBAXUAVHK * CO, Ltd, BIKMIBOHiM. EKQ
DANIEL
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHIL JAMES late of Maitland New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that JOHN SAXBY
has filed a Petition in Divorce No. 2094 of 1942
on the ground of Adultery your adultery with
the respondent. If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance by the Thirty-first day of
December next and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from FREDERICK Mc-
GUREN Solicitor of 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Among the fine young officers recently
lost in action was Captain Peter Barclay,
A.1.F., only a little while back from the
Middle East, where he had been through
most of the hard fighting in Libya, Greece
and Crete, playing a gallant part and
earning his promotion in the field. He
was the only son of A. de R. Barclay,
secretary of the Sane Democracy League.
Born and brought up in the military
tradition of one of Maoriland’s oldest
Army families, Peter was one of the first
to enlist in the A.I.F. His grandfather
reached Maoriland over 80 years ago as
an officer of the 24th Regiment of the
Line.
Giraud, the French general who has
proved himself in Houdini’s class as an
escapologist, is apt to be confused with
Gouraud. That fine old warrior is fav-
orably remembered and highly regarded
by Col. A. W. Hyman, president of the
returned service men’s league in N.S.W.
Heading for the King’s Jubilee celebra-
tions in London in 1935, Col. Hyman
struck Paris on Anzac Day, and on
behalf of the league went along to lay a
wreath on the Unknown Soldier’s grave
at the Arc de Triomphe. In the course
of the proceedings General Gouraud,
who was then Governor of Paris, took
Col, Hyman by the arm and led him to
the Golden Book, which is kept in a
special recess in the Arc, and asked him
to sign it in the name of Australian fight-
ing services. For these the General said
he had a soft spot in his heart, having
been in touch with them on Gallipoli,
where, at Helles, he commanded the
French forces.
S.A. Society of Arts has made the
veterans John White and H. E. Fuller
life-members. White is the very type of
the amateur painter ; a city chemist, he
has produced occasional landscapes right
in the National Gallery class, and he was
on its board for years. Fuller has been
secretary or treasurer of the Society of
Arts for nearly all his 50 years of mem-
bership, and was the last president of
S.A. Library, National Gallery and
Museum before they were split into
three.
Rev, Hector Maclean, Moderator-
Designate of the Presbyterian Assembly
of Victoria, is not only M.A., B.Sc.,
and 8.D., but M.C., having gained that
decoration fighting in the last war with the
N.Z. Rifle Brigade. He has also been a
fighter on another front. When the row
over Professor Angus was transferred from
Sydney to the Assembly Hall in Mel-
bourne, Rev. Maclean was one of those
who mounted the rostrum against the
prof., with a most impassioned address.
Born at Lismore (N.S.W.), he was edu-
cated in M.L. and at the University of
Glasgow. In 1928 he was appointed to
the chair of Old Testament Studies at
Theological Hall, Ormond College, Mel-
bourne, and became principal this year.
“Cauboy”: Touching Lieut.-Colonel
Jim Gerald, there is a story that, sub-
sequent to Jim’s appointment, a high
official rang up Mo at the Tivoli in Mel-
bourne and asked him if he would accept
a position in the organisation for enter-
taining the Diggers. According to the
yarn Mo said “Sure, if I’m given the
appropriate rank.” “What rank do you
want?” said the official. “Admiral of the
Jewish Navy,” replied the eminent pur-
veyor of sexological humor.
“El V.’s” farewell and hail:
Major-General V. W. Odium, Canada's
High Commissioner, moved about Aus-
tralia for only a few months before he
was transferred to Chungking as Minis-
ter to China, but he covered an immense
amount of ground. He was hailed early
in his Australian career by a sour daily-
paper journalist as “a wasp-waisted Holly-
wood type of soldier.” The fact was that he was
a S’African veteran and a double D.S.O. of the
last war, during which he succeeded to the
command of a battalion in the height of a
battle in which he saw his C.O. and his brother
and half of his men killed. After Dunkirk
his sturdy Second Canadian Division formed the
only well-equipped body of troops in the
United Kingdom —the division has since won
eternal fame at Dieppe. In Australia the
general seemed to divide every 24 hours into
aeroplane and boot periods—he walked about
as many miles as he flew. And his habits were
original. His idea of a really happy Sunday
afternoon was one on which he could mingle
unobtrusively with a Domain crowd and listen
to Communist orators slang-whanging the in-
competence of British generalship. His life
in Australia was full of kind deeds. The
general’s successor, T. C. Davis, is a 53-year-
old Judge of the Appeal Court of Saskatche-
wan, his native province, a man of long politi-
cal and Ministerial service and a specialist in
financial and industrial law; he left the Bench
temporarily to become Associate Deputy-
Minister for National War Service in the
Dominion Government.
Frank Bulcock, who has represented
the Barcoo in Queensland Parliament
since 1919 and has been State Minister
for Agriculture since 1932, goes to Can-
berra as chief of the new Federal
Directorate of Agriculture, Born at Mt.
Arapiles (Vic.) in 1894, he went from
Sydney Tech, to Wagga Experiment Farm
before heading north. Knowledge gained
at Wagga Farm, which was a proving
ground for Farrer’s wheat experiments
and most of the agricultural develop-
ments of the Riverina, stood to him in
his Queensland job, and he can fairly
claim success in it. He’ll get plenty of
his favored golf at Canberra, but will
find the fishing in Molonglo somewhat
different from that on the Queensland
coast.
A Maorilander, born at Mosgiel in
1892, knight Stanton Hicks, Australia's
Chief Inspector of Army Catering, col-
lected an M.Sc. before going abroad
with the N.Z.E.F. in 1916. Followed a
brilliant medical career in Maoriland
and post-graduate work in Europe, He
was appointed Physiology Professor at
Adelaide Uni. in 1926.
On the face of it, it looks a fairly
severe testing of a play in verse to put it
up against prose plays and carry off the
stakes, as Red Page editor Douglas
Stewart has done with the radio version
of his verse three-acter “Ned Kelly” in
the A.B.C.’s open-play competition. It
could have been reserved for the verse-
play competition which A.B.C. is also
running, but Stewart holds to the view
that a play in verse should and must be
able to compete against all comers. The
complete “Ned”—which is a stage play
at least three times as long as the radio
version, and altogether stronger —will
shortly be published as a book by Angus
and Robertson. It will be Stewart’s fifth
DOW[?] STEWART.
published book. The first, Green Lions,
was done in his native New Zealand (he
hails from Taranaki, is now 29, and has
been with The Bulletin five years). The
White Cry was published in London by
Dent’s (who have also accepted his radio
verse play “The Fire on the Snow” for
publication). The other two, Elegy for
an Airman and Sonnets to the Unknown
Soldier, were published in Australia.
“The Fire on the Snow” has already been
put over the air three times by A.8.C.,
and “Ned” twice. As well as his pub-
lished books, Stewart has in MS. form
another verse play and a volume of short
stories.
U.S. Consul in Adelaide for the past six
years, Charles Albert Hutchinson (now
35) is one of the youngest to hold such
a post for Uncle Sam. And before going
U.S. CONSUL.
to Adelaide he’d been vice-consul at
Tokyo, also for six years. Even at that
date he got fed up during the last two
years in Japan with bailing out American
citizens arrested on trumped-up charges.
When he took over in S.A. the consulate
included Westralia as well.
“F.S.” reviews parsonage daughters:
Considering the attitude of the time to the
theatre, it is just as surprising that the Rev.
Prebendary Barnes, of Exeter (Eng.), should
have been the father of two of the most dis-
tinguished actresses of their era as that the
parsonage of Haworth should have produced
the Bronte sisters. The Rev. Barnes’s elder
daughter, Violet (who has died in London), made
her first stage appearance in 1886. Her younger
sister, Irene, made hers two years later. When
the Rev. Bronte learned that his three daughters
had been writing novels and poems under his
nose he hit the roof, but history doesn’t record
what the Rev. Barnes felt when the Vanbrugh
sisters’ names were being written in electrics
over London theatres. Violet married Arthur
Bourchier, and appeared with Toole, Irving,
Beerbohm Tree and other distinguished actors
in England, America and Europe in plays a
list of which would fill several columns. She
made her only visit to Australia to see her
daughter Prudence, also an actress and now
Mrs. James Dickson, of Edgecliff, Sydney.
Violet’s marriage was dissolved; Irene played
opposite her husband, Dion Boucicault, right
up to her last appearance.
J. G. Beale, the 27-year-old Indepen-
dent who won the Sydney Parliament’s
South Coast by-election, is an unusual
brand of candidate. Son of the former
member, he succeeded his father also as
chairman of directors of the weightily-
named South Coast Co-operative Ship-
building, Canning and Development
Society, and in his spare time he’s an
hon. lecturer in physics and maths, to
the R.A.A.F. A native of Sydney, he
collected an engineering diploma at
Sydney Tech.
In a reshuffle of “Y emma blokes”
Tom Brown, who was in the Middle East
and kept a mobile refreshment outfit
going under fire in Syria, becomes
Deputy Assistant Commissioner in the
Northern Territory, in succession to J.
Curtis, field rep. of the camp welfare
organisation there since 1940, who goes
to be D.A.C. for S.A. Before the war
Brown practised law in the wilds of
Broken Hill.
One who probably knows more about
the antics of juveniles than McKell’s
Clive Evatt ever thought of is Playford’s
ex-private secretary, F. G. Byrne, who
becomes S.A.’s Under-Secretary for
Health and Clerk of the Executive Coun-
cil. He joined the S.A. Children’s De-
partment in 1906, became secretary in
1927 for the newly-formed Children’s
Welfare and Public Relief Department
and was chairman of the board control-
ling it by 1938. Outside the department
his main interest is bowls ; he’s president
of Kensington Club. He’s also a past
master of the Public Service Lodge.
H. Greenwood Thomas, Area Safety
Officer for S.A. and Westralia, is a
37-year-oJd Londoner who, before com-
ing to Australia in 1930, had ex-
perience of tin- and coalmining in the
Old Dart. After two years at Mt. Isa
(Q.), he shifted to Westralia, where he
was employed at the Big Bell and
Gladiator concerns. From 1937 until
early this year, he was on the staff of
the Western Mining Corporation. Rugger
has given way to reading as his favorite
recreation.
The second N.Z.E.F. Maori Battalion,
which has got a reputation among the
enemy for its bayonet work, is now com-
manded by temporary Lieut.-Col. F.
Baker, who went to the battalion as a
lieutenant from the Waikato Mounted
Rifles. He was twice mentioned in dis-
patches and promoted captain and major.
His second-in-command is Major I. A.
Hart, more widely known for his football
than for his connection with a legal firm
in the Wairarapa.
Making exceptions in favor of anyone
in the fighting forces and a few special
cases where this paper can’t be got other-
wise, The Bulletin has reluctantly had
to cancel regular subscriptions, part of
the enforced plan of pegging circulation
because of publishing man-power short-
age. Diggers in Egypt, New Guinea and
elsewhere, airmen and men of the Navy
in sundry parts of the world get their
Bulletin posted as usual (in various dis-
guises to make sure it reaches them), but
regular subscribers have had to be cut out,
unless they could show “special cause.”
One special case has had to be con-
sidered, The subscriber has written stat-
ing that he can’t get The Bulletin un-
less it’s posted to him direct, and with-
out it, he says, his idea of the war and
other happenings would be confined to
what appears in Sunday papers. He’s in
quod for life.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 60, Edouard Lambert,
known to thousands of music-lovers for his shy
bow before he took the seat of the first violin
at Melbourne Symphony Orchestra concerts and
for the superb leadership in that position which
made Hamilton Harty and other visiting con-
ductors shake his hand at the conclusion of a
performance with more than conventional en-
thusiasm. Born at Liege, Belgium, he was
an orchestral leader at Ostend before he came
to Australia. He was the father of Raymond
Lambert, equally distinguished on the piano.
At Canberra, C. E. Francis, Controller of
Stores, whose busy part in many citizen
activities —Citizens’ Representation League (foun-
dation president), local A.N.A., bowling club,
etc. —did not prevent him from having one
of the show gardens of the Garden City.
Earlier he had proved as good a citizen on
similar lines at Bairnsdale (Vic.), and had once
been a candidate for the Vic. Parliament. He
had a hand in the building of the Naval Col-
lege at Jervis Bay, and later of the hutments
at Molonglo, near Canberra, in which Germans
were interned in 1914-18.
In Sydney, at 58, Percy Himler Eldridge, who
became secretary of the N.S.W. Licensing Re-
duction Board when it started in 1920. Keenly
interested in Australian literature, he wrote
a little himself. He was with the 13th Batt.
in the last war.
At Rotorua (M.L.), Mrs. Ani Te Waaka,
chieftainess of the Arawas, and one of the last
survivors of the Tarawera eruption of 1886.
Widow of Rev. W. A. Te Waaka, and herself
a devout Anglican, she was noted for upholding
Maori tradition, was an authority on ancient
Polynesian customs, and had treasured a vast
fund of important events in the remote past
history of her people. Three of her four sons
are on active service.
In Argentina, at 42, James McCann, one of
the travelling Australians who make their
mark about the world. He went to South
America as a youth, and ended as manager
of the great Bovril works at Santa Elena.
Charles McCann, S.A. Agent-General in
London, is a brother.
In Sydney, at 75, Dr. George Henry Abbott,
foundation Fellow of the Royal Australian
College of Surgeons, and a former member of
Sydney Uni. Senate. Back in 1909 he was presi-
dent of the Australasian Medical Congress.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 71, Arthur John
Wicks, formerly of M.L. Land and Survey
Department. A native of N.S.W., he learned
surveying in Sydney, worked a while for the
N.S.W. Government, and in 1896 went to
Malaya, and subsequently carried out a large
survey near Shanghai for the International
Settlement. He anchored in M.L. in 1904
At Invercargill (M.L.), at 76, knight Robert
Anderson. One of Southland’s industrial
captains, he was associated with Joseph Ward,
and together they founded in 1898 the present
co. of J. G. Ward, of which S’Robert was
managing director. He was also chairman of
the Nestle concern, and found time to specialise
in sheep-breeding, establishing a fine stud of
Southdowns.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“8.P.”: I have often wondered what
became of certain gentlemen who make
themselves so busy just before an election
and, when the last count is done, dis-
appear. The wife of one of them has
cleared up the mystery. Pithily and suc-
cinctly she told a Judge in divorce, “He
worked for the U.A.P. during the elec-
tion in 1933 and then went on the dole.”
❖ % 3 s He
“Pitt St.”: I wish “Ologist” and some
others had been sitting with me on a
bench in Sydney’s Macquarie-place the
other day when three refugees struggled
with the language whose finer points
seem so interesting to the etymological
contributors. Forced to overhear, I
gathered that two were greeting one
whom they had lost track of and were
concerned about the state of his wife's
health. Heedful of regulations they kept
the conversation in a lawful language,
which led the new-found one to remark
that the lady was “How is it, ah, un-
bearable?” A shocked silence, till an-
other realised the language difficulty.
“No, no, the vord iss—iss—ah—incon-
ceivable.” The third looked a bit puzzled
but let it go. I was tempted, but didn’t
offer them another alternative, “impreg-
nable.”
$ $ $
“X.S.”: Just eight days short of four
months since his conviction, Edward
Joseph Leonski, the 24-year-old U.S.A.
private who was convicted before a U.S.
military court in Melbourne of the strang-
ling of three woman within a fortnight,
has been hanged atPentridge. The fact that
American Army law required Washing-
ton’s approval of the sentence accounted
for the long delay between the judgment
and its execution. It was the first time
a court-martial had been conducted by
the army of another nation on Australian
soil.
“Zake”: On buildings in two Austra-
lian cities have appeared cryptic mes-
sages, such as “Foo is watching!” and
“Keep an eye on Foo! ” Some folk have
guessed it to be an ad. for a coming
talkie, or the work of yellow-peril cranks.
Wrong. That cheerful humorist Jack
Tar was responsible for it. Its origin
can be traced to a naval establishment
where the “old man” lost his bicycle (the
accepted mode of transport in that place).
Next morning the grid was visible at the
maintruck, and on being hauled down
there was found attached to it a note
which read: “Foo has struck again! ”
And subs, shuddered till the commander,
who can take a joke, grinned and said
“If I catch the blankard who did this
I’ll give him a Foo days in clink!”
* * * *c
“Bouquet”: What commander in the
World War has enjoyed such a press as
Erich (or Erwin—accounts differ) Rom-
mel? Thesauruses have been ransacked
for adjectives with which to glamorise
him ; certainly no Allied general was in
the race with him when it came to free
publicity. Erich (or Erwin) was never
shown pictorially in other than heroic
or pugnacious poses, mostly standing up
in a tank. Tales were circulated of how
he led a charmed life and would emerge
from a hot encounter, spit out a few
spent bullets and shake a hundredweight
or so of shrapnel out of his greatcoat
before boring in again. And now Erwin
(or Erich) goes down in utter defeat. In
18 months of desert campaigning, dur-
ing which he rushed around wasting
rivers of oil but never attaining a single
vital objective, when he had a five-to-
one superiority in firepower, ’planes and
men he made a brave show; forced on
the defensive he proved an utter dud ;
in retreat he beat all his side’s speed
records.
* * He
“Nipper”; For unhurried dexterity
those girl sorters of salvaged waste paper
(B. 11/11/ ’42) take some beating. Also
it pays them to keep a keen eye open for
valuables —rings have been found and
occasionally a banknote turns up. The
girls on the bench of one big paper mill,
opening some old wrapping-boxes as
they moved along the cage, got a shock
as a bride’s wedding-gown and dresses
for six ’maids came to light. Consigned
to a country address from a big city
store, they had got mixed up with old
boxes destined for pulping. Their vigi-
lance earned for the finders a reward of
£l5.
* * ♦ »
“Campbell Filter”: Hasn’t “Dhas” (B.
4/11/ ’42) misunderstood the term
“stopping - power”? A bullet, no
matter the calibre, must hit to stop;
hence accuracy is a primary neces-
sity in any gun, A .303 bullet
has a powerful stopping action at
600 yards, because of the accuracy with
which it can be dispatched. Sub-machine
guns are in a totally different class. Their
accuracy is not comparable with that of
a rifle at any distance, but their firing
rate is 50 times greater. I did my pig-
hunting on the slopes of Ruapehu and
Tongariro, and we called it hunting in
preference to shooting. We took .303
rifles, but far more important were three
good dogs. Once a trail was struck the
dogs moved away, and we followed at
semi-leisure. They kept us well informed
as to their progress and later their where-
abouts when the pig had bailed-up, as it
“Leave the room, Horace—I want to tell the captain a story.”
will invariably. Using beautiful and un-
canny judgment they would keep the pig
in defence with combined frontal and
flank worrying attacks. On the word of
command the two flank dogs would tense,
and while the front fellow caused a diver-
sion the two flankers would each take a
pig’s ear with tenacity and firmness. The
noise would be terrific, and when the
pig had tired sufficiently it would be shot
at short range. It air goes to show that
the conditions under which a gun is to
be used govern its usefulness.
• * * *
“Loo”: “Are you married?” they
asked the newcomer to the pub’s cosiest
corner. “Too right,” he said. “Any
kids?” they inquired. He jumped. “Any
kids?” he echoed. “Well, in our street
nobody ever says ‘the Ryan kids’; they
say ‘That football team.’ ”
“Congratulate me — I've been made a temporary acting
lance corporal !”
“Harold Hardupp”: The intrusive
slarkc wbirb suit nhnnt 7 ner rent of
slacks, which suit about 2 per .
the women who wear them and upon
50 per cent, of’the rest look grotesque,
continue to make headway war condi-
tions helping. But our office remains
slacks-free. When two of the boldest of
the office beauties arrived slacks-clad one
Monday morning, the chief met them
with what looked like enthusiasm,
“Girls,” be announced for all to hear, “I
want you to know that we realise it is
war-time and we have no objection to
anything you care to wear. As a matter
of fact I think it’s fine to think that girls
should not care how ugly they make
themselves as long as they think they are
helping the war effort.” The two beauties
were back in their usual garments in the
afternoon, although it must have taken
all their lunch hour to get home and
change. And no more slacks have
,- n nnr n fn r p
appearea in Ollice. #
“Tummas McNark”: Though there’s
been a general howl for Deddy’s blood
over the banning of Santa Claus, lin
a bit with Deddy. Christmas has been
exploited by commercialism in the same
way as Mother’s Day and Father’s Day.
But why pick on poor old Santa? Two
„ 3v , 1 ~ • u 1 ,
Government lotteries have been drawn
within three days. Deddy ought to do
some banning about that kind of spend-
j ng _
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Here’s a bit of Dickens
history I have never seen in print. In
r,. 1 -jo n; i] „ ■ • i./Lj
Pickwick Sam Weller is introduced to t
reader in the courtyard ot the White
Hart Inn, “imparting a shine to a
pair of topboots that would have driven
envy into the heart of the amiable Mr.
Warren. (They used Day and Martin at
the White Hart.)” When Pickwick became
a best-seller, Day and Martin had thou-
, r i- • , j u • .1
sands of slips printed bearing the words
“Day and Martin’s Blacking, immortal-
ised by Charles Dickens in The Pickwick
Papers!” and quoting the relevant para-
graph. They withdrew the ad. at the
novelist’s request, and he, though advised
to do so by his publishers, refused to ex-
punge or alter the words in the many
later editions of Pickwick, My in-
formant was an old master printer in
M L He was printer’s devil in the house
whprp thp Dav and Martin advertising
where the Day ana Aiartm advertising
slips were printed, and burnt a great
Stack of them in the stove.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Cabled report that letters
written by Robert Browning to his friend
Alfred Domett in 1840-77 brought £l2O
at Sotheby’s, London, recalls that
Domett set Browning’s circle guessing by
disappearing mysteriously from his usual
haunts in 1841. Domett was the
“Waring” of the verses commencing
“What’s become of Waring Since he
gave us all the slip.” On arrival in
Maoriland Domett joined the staff of the
Nelson “Colonist,” and later became
editor, engaged in politics, and was Pre-
mier when the Maori War of 1862 broke
out. He wrote the 14,000-line poem
“Ranolf and Amohia” while in Nelson.
Domett returned to England in 1871 and
died in 1887.
* * * *
“Watsonia” remembers old Sydney:
Park-street in the seventies of last century
was made up mostly of pubs, stores and
factories, white and Chinese. Where later stood
the Criterion Theatre was Alexander’s furniture
shop, like most of the others a one-storeyed
wooden building. Walpole’s Spreadeagle Hotel
was on the Eliza-
beth-s tre e t end,
north side. The
Perman family lived
next door, round the
corner. Three of
the family, Willie,
Percy and Bella,
travelled the world
as s t e p-dancers;
Bella missed the
c h a m p i o nship of
England by half a
point, the judge
being Dan Leno. On
the opposite Eliza-
beth - street corner
was Hummerstone’s
Avenue Hotel.
Bradshaw’s produce
store was next door.
In a setting all its
own, a large oak-tree
grew on the foot-
path. Pokes had a
grocery business on
the other corner,
which soon after-
wards became Jim
Coder’s New Bruns-
wick Hotel. Jim
was very thin, but
his handsome wife, a
cheerful soul, made
up for that. Oppo-
site was the Barley
Mow Hotel, kept by
Saundersl, and l at
the George - street
end Steve Punch had
the Swan With Two
Necks, the rendez-
vous those days of
trade-unionists. On
the other corner was
the Town Hall
Hotel, a three-
storeyed brick build-
ing. Changes were
imminent as the ’eighties approached, and soon
the cheap, boxlike buildings gave way to some-
thing more in keeping, the first being a block
of three storeys on Pitt-street corner.
* * * *
“L. de R.”: One doesn’t need to sub-
scribe to a comic paper now that the
queue has become fashionable in Mel-
bourne, The inoffensive-looking little
man in front had been served with a
packet of 18 inferior fags and charged
two and fourpence for them. “You ought
to buy a horse,” he announced clearly as
he stuffed the gaspers into his pocket.
“Why?” asked the shopman. “Well, Ned
Kelly had one! ”
SECOND-FRONT TAILORING.
“He had discovered a year ago that neither he nor
Mr. Churchill could walk into a department store,
purchase a second front and walk out with it. It
had to be tailor-made, a job for experts.”
-—President Roosevelt.
A figure of speech, a homely metaphor,
How frequently it helps an orator
To pack his points into a nutshell, or
Enforce conviction!
A phrase like this can carry twice the kick
Of anything designed to stir and stick
In all the range of glowing rhetoric
And fluent diction.
This second front —the noisy know-alls thought
It was an article that might be brought
From off the shelves, like reach-me-downs, and
bought
(Ticket appended)
In any store where moles and dungarees
Are stocked, and almost anything you please
Down from an overcoat to a chemise
Waits to be vended.
What crude shortsightedness did they display!
How little did they grasp—who day by day
Bellowed for action and denounced delay
With shrill displeasure—
The first essential of a suit like this,
So that its purposes it may not miss,
Is to be cut with art and artifice
And made-to-measure.
And now the finished product’s there to view,
Tis meet we give the expert snips their due,
How well they wrought to make a fit so true!
One feels persuaded,
As of an axiom beyond dispute,
That when it came to tailoring the suit
Few master-craftsmen could have done as cute
A job as they did.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
MIXED DOUBLES.
“Platonic friendship, when one or both parties
to it are married, leads to the Divorce Court more
often than not. There is a possibility of innocent
relationship, but guilty association must generally
be inferred.” —Justice Halse Rogers.
Though lots of good people should stoutly
persist
In holding a spiritual bond may exist —
Not anything more—when a sociable pair
Engage in what’s airily termed an “affair,”
In mild disregard of a conjugal oath
Already on record for either —or both,
There’s a salient fact such a couple must face,
This world is a sadly censorious place,
And the innocent picture old Plato could draw
Is little but punk in the eyes of the Law.
The Grecian philosopher lived, as you know,
A full three-and-twenty long centuries ago.
And he featured a union which flatly denied
Any notion or thought of the physical side,
An idealistic conjunction in sooth,
Between opposite sexes, of goodness and truth.
Hence over the ages he’s left us a word
That never has foundered and still may be heard,
Though rarely perhaps in the era we’re in
Without it provoking a cynical grin.
In the eyes of our Judges poor Plato’s devoid
Of whatever authority once he enjoyed
As a bird who was almost ineffably wise
To all human relationships under the skies.
Grave Uni. professors his merits may stress
As a guide to all virtues we ought to possess,
But you’ll find him of little account in the courts
Where “Odgers on Libel” and “Pollock on
Torts”
Are the authors that count, and there’s some-
thing that thrills
In an argument buttressed by “Byles upon
Bills.”
So, brother, supposing that you and that she,
The one as respondent, the one as co-re.,
Are cast for those highly unpopular parts,
Albeit you know in your innermost hearts
You are nothing but friends, and the term
they’d apply .
To your friendship’s a dastardly, damnable he,
Set your counsel bombarding the roof till it
rin a s
About evil constructions on innocent things.
But —if Rogers presides —better bid him beware
Of using the phrase “a Platonic affair.’
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


A recording has been made
and broadcast of the one soldier song of
this war (so far) that seems assured of
being beefed out at future reunions along
with “Mademoiselle from Armentieres,”
if it does not even supersede that classic.
Like “Mademoiselle,” it has its ribald and
polite versions. In the polite, it’s entitled
“Bless ’Em All,” and runs:
Bless ’em all, bless ’em all, bless ’em all,
The long and the short and the tall.
Bless all the sergeants and w.o. ones,
Bless all the corporals and their blessed sons.
For we’re saying good-bye to them all,
As back to their stretchers they crawl.
You’ll get no promotion
This side of the ocean.
So cheer up, my lads, bless ’em all.
It hardly needs saying that this version
and the , rest of the song (the wording
varies a lot) are seldom heard in wholly
Digger gatherings. Indeed, early in the
song’s career the polite form was so little
known to many Diggers that when a
young lady appeared on a concert plat-
form and the pianist struck up the tune
the situation of expectancy rocked the
house.
* * * *
“Macann”: A reference that has been
hopefully handed in all seriousness to a
Sydney firm by an applicant for a job
must have been written by a confirmed
legpuller (like the Diggers who used to
write highly unflattering references for
Arab camp nuisances), or else by one
suffering from “Strewthian” alliterativitis.
It commended the applicant as an “expert
horseman, footballer, fighter and fatuit-
ous,” with the truly superlative qualities
of being “courageous, cynical, craven
capable and, above all, contagious.”
T * * *
“Old Dig.”: Greyheads who served in
France during World War I must have
pricked up their ears when they heard
that the 51st Highland Division had a
leading part in the Eighth Army’s suc-
cess. Back in 1914-18, when in billet and
estaminet, Aussie infantrymen amused
themselves by nominating a force they
reckoned would be able to smash right
through to Berlin. They always put the
51st Highland Division amongst the
Empire troops selected. The division
had earned for itself a proud reputation
in France and Flanders. When Italy
reeled after Caporetto, the 51st was in-
cluded in the Franco-British force sent
to stop the rot. During the retreat to
Dunkirk in the present war units of the
51st made a magnificent contribution to
the escape of the British Army from
France. At a critical period the High-
landers held out in the streets of Boulogne
for several days, diverting a mass of Ger-
man infantry, many tanks and a con-
siderable force of dive-bombers. Of the
defenders, only those who went ultimately
into a German prison camp came out
of that unequal struggle alive.
* * * *
“The Heretic”: I’m one of those
common Australian blokes who, having
been frequently told that my country has
no culture to speak of and the less said
about its conceptions of art the better,
have been striving desperately to make
myself fit for the company that criticises
me. But it’s hard, damned hard, to live
up to that company. The art critic of
my morning paper, noting an exhibition
of Contemporary European Art, tells me
of Cezanne that
The assertion of his plastic vision, his
architectural simplification of nature to
its elemental content, has completed the
cycle of art that began with Giotto in the
thirteenth century.
I’m afraid that, faced with the problem
of discovering the elemental content of
an architectural simplification of nature,
I must go out and chew gum-leaves and
ponder on the introvertible inconspicu-
ousness of the impulsive spasmodism of a
grazing kangaroo. But I dare not go
alone, dear God, not alone!
* * * *
“Pawang”; A story in a recent Bul-
letin about Kent Hughes, the Mel-
bourne surgeon, and the removal of some
Chinese tonsils reminds me of a kindlier
one concerning Stanley Argyle, A friend
wanted to get into the A.1.F., and went
to him for a preliminary examination.
Dr. Argyle looked him over thoroughly
and shook his head. “Not the ghost of
a chance, man,” was his diagnosis, “Why,
what’s the matter with me?” said the
alarmed recruit. “Your teeth are simply
awful,” said the physician, not liking to
tell his friend that he was far too old
for active service. A couple of weeks
later his friend presented himself again.
“There you are,” he told the dismayed
S’Stanley, “I’ve had all my teeth removed
and got a false set!”
>* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Reading Mein Kampf,
I chanced on a remark to the effect
that it is better to be a crossing-sweeper
in Germany than a king in any other
country. I was at once reminded of an
incident that astonished me and others
in the days when Nazism was regarded
vaguely in Australia as a rather ridiculous
creed of no importance. A German
scientist of considerable attainments had
come to the country at the instigation of
one of our universities and he chummed
up with a professor in the same line of
science. They liked each other so much
that they were always together and even
spent their vacation on long walks in the
country. The Australian professor used
to expatiate on what a fine fellow the
German was, and he had no reason to
suppose that the German didn’t think
the same about him. Consequently he
was astounded one evening at a party,
as everything was going nicely, when his
German friend solemnly remarked: “I
like you very much. I think you are the
best of fellows. But I would sooner be
eating and drinking with a German
criminal than with you, Herr Professor.”
If the Australian had read Mein Kampf
he wouldn’t have been so painfully stag-
gered.
* * * «
“Chevroford”: Since Melbourne held
its umptieth air-raid rehearsal wardens
have been heard to complain bitterly that
they patrolled the streets for 3y hours in
full equipment without a single “incident”
being provided in certain sectors. On a
previous occasion when the city was told
to expect a night attack by a large force
of bombers a zealous warden brought his
men together in his home and waited for
something to happen which would test out
the value of their training. Nothing un-
“Cut out the talkin—you're in the army now.”
toward having occurred after two hours
of suspense, the warden decided to ride
on his bike to h.q. to ascertain the reason.
His heroes waited for him another hour
and then gave up in disgust and went
home. They subsequently learned that
their chief had been run in by a police-
man he had collided with in the darkness.
* * * *
“Nakh”: A remarkable act of salvage
has been the recovery over the last two
years of most of the innards and a lot
of the outwards of the s.s. Orungal,
wrecked off Barwon Heads and almost
burnt out in the process. The remark-
able thing about it is that the job has
been carried out, not by professional
ship-salvage experts, but by Whelan the
Wrecker, whose experience has been all
of knocking down city buildings. Using
for transport an old ship’s boat discarded
by the R.A.N., and with over 100 bullet
holes in her, his “bulls” have been worry-
ing the hulk, come storm, come calm,
winter and summer, until she now looks
like a bit of Whelan’s own lumberyard
in Coburg. The turbines, the most im-
portant things remaining, have suddenly
become valuable for war purposes, and
a strong effort is to be made to snatch
them from Davy Jones’s locker. The
Whelan family has wrecking in its blood,
and has brought parts of Melbourne
down in ruins several times over. It was
a younger son of the family who, on a
trip to pre-war London, stirred pride in
the parental bosom when he wrote home
“Have just visited St. Paul’s. Oh, Dad,
what a place to wreck!”
* * ♦ *
“Pawang”: Some earnest Melburnians
have made the discovery that marital
unhappiness and other social evils are
caused by ignorance of family his-
tory, and to remedy the defect they have
established the Genealogical Society of
Victoria. They hold that bad family
strains, such as insanity, anti-social char-
acteristics, cruelty and alcoholism may
be improved or eradicated by careful
marriage. Even the color of the hair is
important—in short, if you know your
ancestors you know what to avoid and
what to follow. It is to be hoped that
these well-intentioned persons will keep
their discoveries to themselves, or the
next husband who can’t get on with his
wife will be thinking that everything
would be all right if she didn’t have red
hair or if only she was descended from
William the Conqueror.
* * * *
“Theo D. Lite”; Australian coins have
weights which are integral fractions of an
ounce. Five shillings in silver weighs
one ounce no matter what silver coins,
from florins to treybits, comprise the
sum. Three pennies also equal an ounce,
and so do six halfpennies (a one-ounce
letter goes for the minimum postal rate
—at present 2yd.). These weights can be
relied on until a very appreciable amount
of wear has taken place, as wear mostly
occurs on the raised tips of the letters and
figures, and has little effect on weight.
A silver threepence weighs l-20th ounce,
and by using counterweights it is possible
to get down to l-30th ounce, which is the
difference between l-6th ounce (yd.) and
l-sth ounce (Is.). The diameter of a
halfpenny is exactly one inch. A silver
threepence is exactly fin. and sixpence is
fin. A penny is 1 3-16th inch.
“A Major”: Though the war-news is
more exciting than it has been for a long
while Melbourne “Herald” has been find-
ing space in its columns for a correspon-
dence controversy of the sort that in
happier times used to be associated with
the “silly season.” The question, posed
in a special article, was “Why don’t the
radio stations broadcast more good
music?” —classical being meant by good.
I don’t know what peculiar conditions
may exist in Melbourne, but in Sydney
the question would excite derision—it is
almost impossible to flick through the
stations at any hour of the day or night
without catching a bar of Tschaikowsky’s
“Pathetic” or Grieg’s Pianoforte Con-
certo or something similarly highbrow.
However, the Melbourne plaint drew
some bites, and a B-class station pro-
gramme man wrote:
The proportion of music-minded people
in the community is very small and a
commercial station must cater for the tastes
of the majority. Sponsors have statistics
to prove that the people who demand good
music are much in the minority. For
direct selling you want pep and jazz.
I think he was dead right. One of my
uncles was a Mus.D. and a cathedral
organist. One day he said to me, confi-
dentially, “My boy, a hatred of good
music is the most deeply implanted in-
stinct in the human breast.”
* * * *
“O. B. Server”: “Oxmead,” who can-
not find “abscondences” in any of his
dictionaries, should invest in Fowler’s
Concise Oxford Dictionary, which con-
tains the word. Fowler does not list
“abscondings” as a noun —it is not good
English like “abscondences.” If “Ox-
mead” had recognised it as a Latin de-
rivative he would not have suggested
that his “new” word was formed on
analogy with “despondences,” which, by
the way, is not an improvement on
“despondings.” These words both come
from Latin infinitives in “ere,” abscond-
ere and spondere, from which latter
come also “correspondence” and “re-
spondence.” The same lax etymology
as “Oxmead” shows is responsible for
the confusion in spelling between Eng-
lish words ending in “ence” or “ance.”
The latter often come from Latin infini-
tives in “are,” as “preponderance” from
ponder are. English is even more capable
of enriching and supplementing my
vocabulary and “Oxmead’s” with well-
established words which are new to us
than it is of being enriched or supple-
mented.
* * *
“Sevener”: Whether golf is a sport,
game, obsession, incurable disease or
form of insanity has yet to be deter-
mined, but it is certain that “age cannot
weary, nor the years condemn” its
acolytes. Witness a 93-year-old prac-
titioner who, denied use of his car by
the war, hired a taxi not only to take
him to the course, but from shot to shot
round the course. “At first I used to do
18 holes,” he said ; “later I dropped to 14
or 12. Recently I’ve been playing a
nine-hole game.” It happened in Eng-
land, and it cost the taximan a 10s. fine
for wasting petrol. Had it been Scot-
land, noo, nae" doot the mon would hae
been awarrrded a suitably inscribed
haggis.
* * #
“Zero”: Throughout this war poli-
ticians, radio commentators and famous
correspondents have been
irritating mathematically-
minded souls like myself
by making comparisons
between undisclosed quan-
tities. For instance, Opdub
Kooblecluck, of the “Kala-
mazoo Examinee,” will
announce that the produc-
tion of Bun guns in a cer-
tain Milwaukee factory is
a thousandfold what it
was in 1938, and a radio
voice, here in Australia,
will say that this country
now has available for its
defence umpteen as many
aircraft as it had at such
and such a time. So far as
the Milwaukee factory is
concerned, one may in-
dulge a suspicion that it
wasn’t turning out any
Bun guns whatsoever in
1938, so the comparison
means nothing. What
these people do not realise
is the elementary mathe-
matical fact that any pon-
derable quantity whatever,
however microscopically
small, is immeasurably
large when brought into
relationship with nothing ;
further, that such equa-
tions as “y equals lOOx”
only begin to have intelli-
gible significance when the
value of y or of x is
stated.
* * *
“Uramao” recalls some forgotten
Antarctic history;
A centenary that passed unnoticed a few
months ago was the arrival back in America
of Charles Wilkes’s Antarctic fleet. Wilkes left
America in August, 1838, on an exploration
voyage that occupied four years and covered
90,000 miles. The fleet comprised two sloops-
of-war, a brig, a storeship and two tenders.
After beating about the coasts of South
America and the islands of the Pacific the ex-
pedition arrived at Sydney late in 1838, and
on New Year’s Eve, 1839, Wilkes left for the
Antarctic. The members of the party were
almost certainly the first human beings to see
the Great Ice Barrier, which they sighted on
January 19, 1840. They sailed along it for 2000
miles, then headed for Maoriland, where they
visited a port never since identified. One hun-
dred years ago last June Charles Wilkes’s ex-
pedition got back to New York. Captain
Wilkes, in command of the San Jacinto
during the Civil War, raised a diplomatic
rumpus when he stopped a British mail packet
and took prisoner certain Confederate Com-
missioners bound on a mission to Europe.
Lincoln had to express official disapproval,
but later on Wilkes received the thanks of
Congress.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: Every American service
man who arrives in Britain is handed a
handbook designed to help him under-
stand the manners and customs of the
British. Among other things, he is asked
to realise that, though the natives are
reserved, it is because they have a great
respect for privacy and that their friend-
ship is not to be doubted because of it.
I suspect that the British are passing
through the same experience as a lot of
Australians, who had come to judge
Americans by Hollywood standards and
found them quiet, unassuming fellows,
about their only distinguishing marks,
apart from uniform, being their accent
and their neatness. The little booklet will
undoubtedly help the Doughboys in
Britain, and it also contains a statement
that a lot of Australian writing and radio
boys could well take to heart—“lt is
militarily stupid to criticise your Allies.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“T.V.”: The boss’s pet mania is a
militant dislike of what he calls the
“cheap newspapers” ; in fact he packed
one married couple merely because the
woman persisted in taking a woman’s
journal of which he disapproved. Going
into the office the other day I was sur-
prised to see a copy of a paper renowned
for its collection of mares’-nests; but
the boss didn’t even look guilty. “Look
at that front page!” he invited. There
were the usual bloodthirsty demands for
the scalps of a few generals, an “ex-
posure” of the vegetable racket, a scream
about “unnecessary” shortages of half-a-
dozen commodities, a yell about the un-
fairness of clothes rationing to the work-
ing man and the banners of a crusade
against the discomfort suffered by the
factory front in public conveyances.
“Yair,” said the boss, “I send it out to
the outstation. Any o’ the boys who’ve
got a hankerin’ for city jobs an’ wages
are likely to change their minds when
they read that stuff.”
♦ * * *
“Narrin”: An erratically-floating black
log with a crick in its neck preceded by
a low, booming grunt and followed by
a loud slapping noise accompanied by a
shower of spray: that’s my impression
of a musk duck. We are used to seeing
the queer bird swimming along with its
neck bent up and head submerged, but
a question is: What does it gain by slap-
ping the water with its absurd tail?
Spread out flat and stiff like a small fan.
the tail feathers smack down on the
water and up again to full-cock position
over the bird’s back in a movement so
fast that it is difficult accurately to ob-
serve its sequence. It could be to scare
such game as shrimps towards the sub-
merged head ; my own theory is that the
water-whacking, in conjunction with the
grunting noise, is the bird’s notion of a
mating call,
« * * <
“Mat’s Mate”: I struck Mat, literally,
in St. Arnaud (Vic.) one wet night. Hit-
ting the place just on dark I found a
disused flourmill, dropped the bluey on
the first floor and had a look at the town.
About midnight, feeling the way up the
steps and across the floor to the nap, I
stepped on some rotten flooring and went
through, to land on something soft which
promptly heaved, clasped me firmly round
the waist and began to throttle me. I
struck out in the darkness and for a
couple of minutes wondered whether it
was a bottled-up thunderstorm or the
whole Victorian police force which had
me. Then the storm subsided and a
voice gasped “Whoa, it’s no good rattin’
me, mate, I got nothing.” I stammered
an explanation, he struck a light, looked
at me closely and then snapped “Flash
y’r docks.” I did so, he turned them
up, looked at the corns put there by
hard yakka and said “Ri-buck, them’s
honest dooks. Where y’ headin’ f’r?” It
began a mateship of years.
# * * *
“0.-t.”: I still cannot see how a weed
taken into the stomach can be antidote
for a blood-poison, which is what snake
venom is (B. 11/11/ ’42). And the claim
that the go. goes for a weed between
rounds needs an answer to the question:
How many bushmen have actually seen
one snake-go. fight? In 10 years in a part
lousy with both lizards and serpents I
saw only one, and both turned it up and
skedaddled when I sneezed. More blokes
than you could poke a stick at have con-
vinced themselves that they’ve seen gos.
fighting snakes purely through constant
telling of an imaginary brawl.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Dropping in with a mes-
sage one night I found Seventyfiver
huddled up looking white and shaken.
At my startled inquiry his head lifted
slowly from his trembling fists. “Aw,
it’s the medicine that travelling quack
sold me,” he explained. “I took a dose
t’night for me cold, an’ it’s damn’ near
finished me.” “Better lie down,” I advised,
bundling him on to his bunk and look-
ing round for some spirits. Two hours
later the effects had worn off, so I left
after adjuring him to take it easy for
a day or two. Next evening, looking
in to see how he was, I was surprised
to find him again doubled over and rock-
ing back and forth wretchedly. “Gripes! ”
I gasped, “it can’t be the medicine after
all! Must be something serious the
matter with you.” “It is the medicine, I
tell y’,” he moaned. “I was right enough
till I swallowed the blanky rubbish a
while ago,” “What! You took another
dose! ” I said. “ ’Struth! after the way
it treated you yesterday when y’ took it
“Will I stop this ’ospital ship for you, Joe ?”
for your cold!” Seventyfiver wobbled
upright. “Well,” he said defensively, “I
didn’t take it f’r me cold today —I had
a twinge o’ rheumatiz in me elbow!”
* * # *
“B. A. Ker”: Of all species of plant-
life the cactus is surely the most versatile.
Its leaf may vary from a few inches long
to a full yard ; from round or oval shape
to thin or four-inch-wide spikes. But a
cactus in the beautiful grounds of Parra-
matta (N.S.W.) Mental Hospital demon-
strates a —to me —entirely new angle.
Growing at the foot of a pine-tree by
the roadside the plant covers an area of
about four feet by two, and, at first
glance, stands only six inches high. It
wasn’t until I happened to stop in ad-
miration of its little red bell-like flowers
that the four-inch-thick green ropes
ascending the tree attracted my eye.
Straight up they go without once circling
the trunk. Thirty feet or more from the
ground the vines smother the top of the
tree with a canopy of cactus ten feet
across. How such a comparatively small
ground plant can pump nutriment thirty
feet from earth to feed a growth five or
more times its size baffles me.
* * ' * *
“Wandering Jew”: By pouring scorn
on bindi-eye as a diet for merinos
“Danyo Bore” (B. 28/10/’42) proclaims
that he has never been in sheep country
in the n.-e. of South Australia. There
bindi-eye is the staple diet where the salt-
bush has been eaten out. Without it
much country would not be occupied
now.
* * * *
“Top Rail”: I’m now for ever con-
vinced of the sagacity of the horse —
tradesman variety, anyway. Man-power
shortage has hit this part of the country
hard —how hard was impressed on me
when I noticed that the new baker’s-cart
man never looked at the money when
paying the weekly bill. He asked the
amount, then felt in his bag for change
of the half-note. The change he paid
into my hand without once looking at it,
doing it all by the feel, as a blind man
would. He is, I learn, so near blind it
doesn’t matter. The baker’s horse, used
to the run, sees him around, stopping
only at customers and passing the rest.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”; I like “M.U.R.’s” idea
of a good boiler-fuelling wood, gum cut
green and left half a year in the stack
(B. 14/10/’42). Wouldn’t those logs be
pretty dry by then, or doesn’t the sun
shine along the Australian Father of
Waters? Now, what I call a green fuel
is the wood that for over 40 years has
fed the fireboxes of the Boulder Golden
Mile. Salmon-gum mostly, cut and
then trucked, delivered with the least
possible delay; I’ve used it with the
green leaves still on it, and it produces a
heat comparable with that of coal. The
explanation is that such trees, growing
in actual forests over hundreds of square
miles of practical desert, carry the mini-
mum amount of sap. To such forests a
4in. annual rainfall represents deluge
conditions; 2in. is ample, while lin. will
keep them green with verdure.
* * * *
“8.4.”: With gun handy I waited near
the waterhole for supper to fly or hop in.
A flock of screeching cockatoos settled
near by in a bloodwood, and hard on
their heels a mob of crows spiralled
out of the blue, side-
slipped, flew above the
tree with questing
downbent heads, and
some finally landed,
whilst the rest omi-
nously circled and hov-
ered, uttering occa-
sional “c aw s” and
“gwaas.” The cockies’
querulous squawks be-
spoke their apprehen-
sion, and their fears re-
solved to a discordant
clamor of protest as the
sombre horrors sidled
nearer the sulphur tops.
The circling, fluttering
demons above now ac-
celerated their raucous
croaking, and the din
grew stunning as sun-
dry screaming cockies
had a wing grabbed and
extended from each
side, whilst other sable
assassins jabbed and
stabbed their dagger
beaks into the yelling
fowls held in the arm-
stretch. The lucky ones
fled the tree, flat-out in
full screech. As the
noise subsided the
bayonet thuds became
audible, the cowardly
cockies supinely sub-
mitting to the kill.
Though armed with
powerful beaks, a
caprice of Nature coun-
tered with chicken hearts. Recalling other
vociferous creatures too cowardly to
fight, I refrained from interfering. After
all, Kelly, though cruel, is more useful
to man’s economy.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; My paragraph anent the
Struggler and her struggle against the
speed of the Murray (B. 11/11/ ’42) was
written of the record flood, and the old
boat was belting her way between high
banks which confined the waters from the
wide —20 miles wide—sea above. Our
estimate of a nine-knot current was an
estimate, true, but if “Theo D. Lite” had
been with us he’d have learned then that
there are times when nature beats statis-
tics.
* * * *
“Ireckon”: Used to wandering round
the place and roosting where they would,
old Jack’s chooks took fright when he
built for them a swanking fowlhouse.
They had one good look at his handiwork
and fled squawking. At first Jack didn’t
mind spending a couple of hours each
evening routing them out of trees and
scooping them off stumps —“till they got
used to the palace”—but when, after
several days of to and fro, they still beat
him back to their hideouts, he lost
patience. Rushing up to the house he
was soon back again with large tangles
of string, and in next to no time six
very surprised birds perched in a row in
their new abode, their feet tied firmly
to the perch with knots that would have
given Houdini a headache. “You’ll stop
there and like it! ” he roared at the crest-
fallen sextet. They stopped there, but
they didn’t like it, and duckings and
squawkings could be heard all night. “I
only had to tie them on for three nights,”
said Jack ; “they took the hint after that.
And just as well for them,” he added,
“or they’d have been pecking at the
knots in barbed wire.”
* * ♦ »
“Louden”: Making his first visit to
Wentvue, the Indian hawker drove up
the woolshed track in his two-horse van
and “dropped anchor” under a shady
red-box between the shearers’ huts and
the shed. Before unharnessing his fat
and sleek horses he strolled over to the
shed, where shearing was in progress. On
the sheepyard fence near the engine-room
was a full-woolled skin of a ewe that
had died in the shed. Noticing the
Indian inspecting the skin the boss went
out and asked him if he wanted to buy
it. “Verra sorry, mistah,” said the affable
Rancid Buttah, “but no buy the sheep-
skin : no carry it. Sheep, fox, other skin
make plenty smell, an’ toffy station lady
say ‘Pooh,’ an’ no come to buy pretty
dress, stocking, scantee.”
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Black Brother was strong
on the virtues of goanna oil both as a
hair dressing and a body emollient. His
practice of greasing his naked skin at
every possible opportunity greatly en-
hanced his resistance to wet-weather con-
ditions. A good greasing all over, too,
represented his idea of a cleansing, com-
parable with the white’s plunge bath.
But it was only rarely that life offered
such an occasion. To inland tribes it
never came, though coastal abos. did
better. On most territories along the
western coast a stranded whale could
be reckoned on once at least in every five
years. From a hundred miles in every
direction the clans would gather, a truce
being declared, since the Fates had been
so generous. As the weeks of feasting
passed, tunnels and man-sized cuttings
would develop in the huge decomposing
carcass. In such cuttings when the blub-
ber began to run to oil sybarites, male
and female, would roll until they fairly
dripped with grease. This was held to
be extremely strength-giving. It prob-
ably was, since the carnival invariably
ended with the stealing of women and
the joining of a general battle; after
which the survivors went home sur-
rounded by an aroma that might have
made the vegetation wilt but to them-
selves was sweeter than all the scents of
Araby.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: Six pound of cherries
as a daily snack (B. 14/10/’42)! When
I ate about 200 of McPherson’s cherries
in a working day of about 12 hours I
was 13 years of age. Now 60, I would
undertake still to eat 61b. of cherries in-
side 10 hours, and keep it up for a
week ; though I wouldn’t guarantee to
swallow more than half the stones. But
though my youthful achievement was
good it paled before that of a fellow-
toiler in an aerated-water factory. Here
we were allowed to drink as much as we
liked, the management’s idea being that
the sooner we sated of the liquids the
less we would drink in the end. Paddy
on his first day downed 28 pint bott.es
of assorted drinks. But to his disgust next
day he could manage only the bare
dozen.
HEAT.
Shoreward the long waves slowly range,
While seabirds landward wing.
As though they, too, would rest a space
From too much wandering.
Gasping, the day dies out at last
By stifling heat oppressed.
Though red gleams from a sunken sun
Still linger in the west.
Seen through a haze that gathers thick
Beneath a smoke-dulled sky.
Landscape and seascape, dim-discerned,
In sullen silence lie.
Who gazes, hearkens, here gains naught,
Though ear and eye be keen;
Westward the land all soundless seems,
Offshore no ship is seen.
Farewelling day with gladsome notes
And glad that night has come,
Heard is no bird afar or nigh
In ti-tree, oak or gum.
It seems as if, since in those trees
No light leaf stirs or sounds,
The Four Great Winds that range the world
Lie stilled like kennelled hounds.
Hopeless and helpless gasps the Scene,
Doomed in an evil hour
Prostrate to lie with choking throat
Beneath a monstrous Power.
Prostrate it lies, and thus will lie,
Like one with muted mouth.
Till, fresh and free, rides up a wind
Of rescue from the south.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


CONFLICT OF LAWS.
On the edge of the woods
The mother to be,
Pressed down hard in her nest,
Sits in the low tree,
With her hot little eggs burning
Under her breast.
She dreams and broods,
Frozen in a yearning
Immobility.
Rousing with a start,
She is aware of me,
In the chair reading,
The strange gigantic foe;
That I am rapt and unheeding
She cannot know;
A voice within her seems to cry
“Escape, hurry, fly!”
Before she can obey.
Another voice, stronger and sterner,
Deeper in her heart,
Answers and says
“Stay, stay!”
Opposed desires shake and burn her;
She is torn, she is rent,
In mere bewilderment,
Pulled both ways—
But she stays.
m.l. Arnold Wall.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; The only time anybody
ever saw the boss without his hat was when
he was in bed. He never took it off in
the house—his own or anyone else’s —and
it was said that if the local parson would
have yielded to him on the point the
boss would have gone to church. A grass-
fire broke down the back ridges and
headed for the river, all along which were
fences, homesteads, sheds and stock half-
hidden in a record grass crop. The boss
was a noted fire-fighter, and everybody
rallied round him when the blaze started
down the ridge on a six-mile front. He
was sunk, hopeless, a wreck of panic
and indecision, rushing bareheaded from
point to point of his big house, glaring
at the distant flames and mouthing inani-
ties. Then somebody woke up, found
his old hat behind the piano, shoved it
on his head and stood back. In a minute
he was giving cool, sharp orders, the
force was swinging into action, inspired
by his leadership. By dawn we’d turned
the fire into the swamps and went thank-
fully home, giving thanks, not to the
boss, but to the bloke who’d found his
hat in the crisis.
Hi * sfc
“B. 4”: After witnessing numerous
bullfights down the years, sometimes as
many as half a dozen scrubbers and/or
station bulls on the one camp, I have
“He hasn't been the same since Mr. Dedman said there ain't goin' to be
no Father Christmas."
concluded that the poley is the daddy of
them all. While dairy bulls can and do
cut wire fences in their savage struggles,
and often break horns when levering in
a headlock, these encounters are mere
tests of brute strength between bovine
tanks. But the poley after a few battles
develops the technique of a ram. Using
the crest on his nut as a club, from a
few feet Poley jumps at his antagonist’s
lowered head and delivers a stunning
punch between the eyes which makes the
horny bawl for the aspirins. A few
more flying tackles at the curl, and the
dazed bull sags to bis knees. Now poley
jumps back and, with a triumphant
bellow, slams Horny in the slats and
rolls him on his back. By judicious foot-
work and paunch-punching he soon re-
duces the challenger to a mass of bawl-
ing beef.
* * * *
“Dr. Squills”: “Bohemian’s” praises
of koromiko, the great Maori remedy
(B. 14/10/’42), may be right enough;
but when he claims it to be the only
medicine that cures both dysentery and
constipation—well, what about good old
castor oil?
* * * *
Lex McLennan: I have either touched
Ex-Romaite (B. 28/10/ 42) on a sore
spot with my “effort” on “Roma, Roma
sixty years ago” or else his knowledge of
Roma was gained by promenading the
main street and visiting conveniently situ-
ated bars. The admission of “a few cases
of cattle-duffing” and “a murder or two”
leads one to believe that it would take a
blitz of the North African variety, plus
a couple of bullfights to the acre, to
create a disturbance to “Ex-R.’s” satis-
faction. Those “passes through the
ranges” are situated in what is generally
regarded as one of the roughest and
wildest parts of Queensland —that vast
area lying north of Roma and south of
Taroom and the headwaters of the Daw-
son, all “Roma country” to the “grey-
beard Queensland bushmen” I wrote of.
Their actual distance from Roma is
somewhat difficult to assess accurately ;
I would say approximately 70 miles.
In referring to the recordings of his-
tory “Ex-R.” ventures on still more un-
stable ground ; history does record that
much less than 60 years ago in the foot-
hills of the Carnarvons the Kenniffs shot
and killed the two troopers who sought
to arrest them on cattle- and horse-steal-
ing charges. As for the richness and red-
ness of Roma, E. J. Brady in Australia
Unlimited says: “At Roma, 318 miles
west of Brisbane, we find ourselves in the
heart of a beautiful dairy-farming and
wheat-growing country We have come
to the border region where the black soils
are giving way to the rich red 50i15....
Beyond the 320-acre blocks lie the
sombre brigalow, the hi 115....”
* * * *
“Jayem”: Red Victor was trying to sell
a horse to a buyer for the Army and
was trotting the nag round for inspec-
tion. The buyer was getting a bit sus-
picious about the horse’s wind. “He’s
got a great coat,” said Vic. “Yair,” con-
ceded the buyer, “but I don’t think it
goes too well with his pants.”
* * * *
“Bo”; Big Herb and Joe the Beater,
after battling the trails on the way down
from the Northern Rivers, called at a
farm out from Scone (N.S.W.). Big Herb
wore the only presentable bit of clothing
they possessed—a coat which the auction-
eer at a horse sale had injudiciously hung
up on a post behind him. In its inside
pocket reposed their two ration books,
which Herb and Joe regarded as their last
financial reserves, for they expected to be
able to “flog” a complete page of their
untouched clothing coupons for ten
shillings. The cocky sprang a good feed,
with the promise of a quid apiece if the
pair could trap an old-man wombat which
was playing havoc among the spuds,
Though the entrance to its domicile on
the side of the hill paddock was there for
all to see, traps and dogs, guns and
poison had alike failed to bring the hefty
burrower to a full stop. It was Joe to
whom the big idea came like a flash,
He got Herb to doff the coat, and across
the entrance to the lair he pegged it
stoutly. Then, armed with a sturdy sap-
ling apiece, they took up positions on the
flanks in full view of the hole, but out
of sight of anything approaching from
the front, and waited. About an hour or
so later their patience was rewarded as
the marauder hove into view. With a
yell Herb was up and in full pursuit as
the wombat streaked for home and
safety. But, contrary to expectations, it
paused not in wonder at the strange ob-
ject hung in front of its residence, but
unimaginatively kept going with undimin-
ished speed. A second later the coat,
financial reserves and all, had disappeared
with the wombat into the bowels of the
earth.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: Choom, our new hand, a
hefty youngster, was of an inquisitive
bent, and anything strange around the
farm received his earnest attention. Com-
ing on a patch of loose soil, obviously
recently disturbed, he straightway started
"Now, I'm Robert Taylor and you're Tyrone Power."
to investigate with a bare foot (he used
to go about barefooted “to get ’ardy”).
Just as he was muttering “Ah woonder
what did that,” the sprung rabbit-trap
got him by the big toe. Fortunately it
was a glancing grip, breaking no bones,
but Choom’s yells could be heard up at
the house, half a mile away. It took
a lot of explanation to induce him to
believe the whole thing was not a nasty
plot designed to catch him, and some
practical demonstration to prove this was
a regular method of trapping rabbits in
this country.
* * * *
“Zake”: Our departing J. Hop was
giving his successor the once-over of
his district. Passing some Crown land
he saw in the distance a couple of fellows
helping themselves to timber. At sight
of the cops one kept on nonchalantly
with his work while the other bolted. The
new upholder of Lor was galloping after
the runaway when a whistle brought him
back. “This’ll be the bird who hasn’t
got a license,” quoth the Copper Who
Used His Head ; and so it was. Like
those among whom he moves, the country
cop is often smarter than his city
counterpart.
“Louden”: Working in the shearing
shed on the Riverina property where I’m
assisting with the mustering and the drov-
ing are three half-caste abos. and a half-
caste Chinese, and it has just occurred
to me that I’ve never seen an abo. shear-
ing. What sort of a fist does he make
of it?
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Butting in on this head-
er tail-swallowing argument: I have often
watched cormorants swallowing fish, and
my observation as to whether the meal
goes down head- or tail-first is that the
bird uses its own judgment. With small
fry any way does, the tail and fins being
too small and soft to cause trouble. But
with a big fish, and especially a small
catfish, I have noted that the bird arrives
at the surface with its prey gripped by the
middle. It then turns it so as to get the
head, and down it goes. As for disgorg-
ing, the bird’s stomach possibly exercises
a certain selection and yields up a fish
softened by digestion in preference to the
one last swallowed. Predatory fish also
swallow tiny stuff just as it is caught
—by the tail. With larger fish they
snap above the tail, biting it off’and then
passing the rest of the body down. But,
given the chance, most fish will take the
head first. That’s why the experienced
angler in using a whole fish as bait puts
the bottom hook through the head and
the top hook through the tail, thus pre-
senting the bait head-first to the prospec-
tive catch.
% * * *
“Yair”: The weary traveller stopped
young Burton, who was driving the cows
home along the dusty road. “I got off at
the wrong siding. Is it far to Rock-
town?” he asked. Burton grinned. “Aw,
about two miles as the crow flies,” he
said ; “just keep goin’.” The traveller
had covered about five miles without
sighting anything but roadside scrub;
then an orchard came into view and,
with sweat pouring from him, he
approached the orchardist, who was
mending a fence. “A young cove back
there told me I’d strike Rocktown about
three miles back, but I didn’t. What’s
the joke?” he asked. “You’re going the
wrong way,” said the orchardist calmly.
“But he said Rocktown was two miles
as the crow flies,” protested the way-
farer. “Well,” drawled the other, “you’ll
have to go back about two mile to a
track that leads across that there ridge.
Rocktown’s somewhere behind that belt
o’ timber over to the west there. Y’see,
it’s so hot here the crows don’t fly ; they
walk so as to take advantage o’ the shade.
When we reckon it’s such an’ such a dis-
tance as the crow flies we mean y’ can’t
get there without a lot o’ trouble.”
“Lachlan Lad”: “Naturala” (B.
11/11/ ’42) would have appealed to the
editor of our local rag. Describing the
murder of a brown snake by the school-
children he called it “snake,” “serpent,”
“viper,” “deadly adder” and “reptile”
three times in 20 lines of copy.
* * * t
“Propalong”: Gasser and I were cart-
ing wood to the shearers’ kitchen and, as
we were collecting dry stuff in water-
course country, the talk got round to
snakes. But snakes meant nothing to
Gasser. “Down on the Murray when I
was a kid, that was the place for snakes,”
he declaimed. “Y’ never see enough t’
worry about up here in this dry country.
Down home —why, I been out with the
ole man when we killed 38, all tigers, in
one morning. We didn’t take no notice
o’ snakes. Mum used t’ rake a couple
outa the oven every mornin’ when she
lit the fire, an’ us kids nea’ly always
found one or two in our schoolbags ;
while as f’r findin’ ’em in bed —well, we
felt sorta lonely if there wasn’t a four-
foot tiger among the nap. No, we never
got bit: made us keep our eyes open, y’
see. All our family’s got no nerves.
Nothin’ much can surprise me even now.
I’m hardened to it. Why, many’s the
time I’ve stooped t’ pick up a bit o’
wood like this” Here Gasser turned
a sugardoodle backwards, his jaw hang-
ing and his eyes sticking out, while
the two young mopokes on which he’d
nearly put his hand glared red-eyed with
indignation from a near-by mulga.
* * * *
“Arev”: Mrs. Jupp was cutting a
melon into the preserving pan when Bill
came hurrying into the kitchen. “Mum,”
he said, “here’s that Casey coming over
the paddock. I’ll bet he wants to borrow
something. I’m going to harness up
Darky in case Casey’s after him. I’ll
have to do a bit of ploughing to show I
need the horse myself. If it’s anything
else, you put him off.” Bill went off to the
stable and began to get down the harness.
Mrs. Jupp could see the neighbor
approaching. Not wishing to offend him,
she went out of the front door and around
to the little kitchen garden. Shortly, she
heard voices; evidently Casey had
found Bill at the stable. Mrs. Jupp
waited until she heard the departing foot-
steps of Casey ; then she went back to
the kitchen to get on with her jam-
making. She met Bill at the door. “You
soon got rid of Casey,” she said. “What
did he want?” Bill grinned sheepishly.
“It wasn’t for himself. It was for Mrs.
Casey. She wanted the loan of the
preserving pan.” Bill moved off. “I
emptied the melon into the wash-up
dish,” he said as he quickened his steps.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery
cloth to grinder discs is
DAVIS
LIQUID GLUE
specially recommended for shearing-shed use.
Obtainable in 4oz, f Boz., 16oz. and 1-gallon sizes.
Hardware and general stores.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fluke and Black Disease.
“J.R.D.”: Losses from both are likely
from now until the beginning of winter.
Black disease can only cause losses on
fluky country. The fluke germ may re-
main harmlessly in the sheep for a life-
time until certain conditions enable it to
become active. These conditions occur
when young fluke damage the outer sur-
face of the liver by breaking through it.
If fluke could be eradicated from a
property there would be little danger
from black disease. Eradication is
almost impossible, but fluke can be re-
duced to comparative impotence.
Successful treatment must be preventive
and based on a knowledge of fluke, which
breeds within the sheep; the eggs reach
the ground in the droppings. On dry
ground the eggs become sterile but on
damp ground they hatch, but unless the
fluke larvae can reach a certain small
fresh-water snail and burrow into it their
lives end. The snail is the vulnerable
part of the life cycle.
Snails may be killed by broadcasting
finely powdered bluestone over swamps,
the edges of creeks and in soakages. Mix
one part of bluestone to three parts of
sand and broadcast at the rate of lewt.
per acre. Or dissolve bluestone at the
rate of 11b. to 15gal. of water and spray
the snail harbor. Hang a bag of blue-
stone crystals over the surface of running
water and dams, but it is necessary to
drag the bluestone through still water for
good results.
Drenching with carbon tetrachloride
will kill adult fluke in sheep but will not
affect immature fluke unless the drench-
ing is followed with at least one further
drenching about a month later. Single
strength carb. tet. (1 c.c. carb. tet. to
4 c.c. paraffin) will kill fluke.
Bluestoning should be done in winter.
In spring the larvae will hatch and re-
infestation commences. Since horses,
cattle, rabbits and kangaroos also carry
the infection, drenching can only be re-
garded as treatment, not prevention. Con-
trol, therefore, consists of (a) destroy-
ing snails by bluestoning, {b) drenching
with carb. tet., (c) inoculation with black
disease vaccine.
Inoculation will save sheep even in
heavy fluke country. It should be done
in spring, is easiest when the wool is
fairly short, and done at shearing saves
an extra muster. Symptoms of black
disease are rarely noticed ; the sheep are
found dead usually on camps, the skin
turns almost black and the carcass putre-
fies quickly. Chronic fluke symptoms
are pale skin, loss of condition and bottle
jaw—symptoms similar to those of krge-
stomach-worm infestation. Acute fluke
is usually caused by infestation of young
fluke sufficient to kill the sheep before
they are sufficiently matured to be
affected by drenching. Prevention by
bluestoning is therefore most important.
Getting Good Cream.
“L.C.”; Run the separator too fast
rather than too slow. The fat lost in the
skim-milk goes up as the revolutions go
down. Let the milk enter the bowl
freely, as the float automatically controls
the level. When the flow is partly cut off
a higher testing cream results, whereas
oversupply causes lower testing and
heavy loss of fat.
Milk is at its best separating tempera-
ture direct from the cow, when it runs
easily and gives better separation. The
best machine cannot do good work with
milk below 80deg.
Other variations in the test can be
put down to amount of water or skim-
milk used to flush the bowl, vibration
which brings the skim-milk and fat to-
gether so that they do not go down their
respective outlets, and fat losses through
escape of fat globules down the skim-
milk outlet.
Any difference in the fat content of the
mixed milk of the herd rarely affects
quantity. From 1001 b. of milk with a
fat test of 4 p.c., 41b. of butterfat is
”He just sits there all day ponderin' how he can assist the Austerity Loan.”
usually produced. If the fat test is 5 p.c.
51b. of butter will result.
A Trench Silo.
“H.C.”: A 45-ton trench silo can be
made in two or three days by two men
on ground in fair condition. The site
should be reasonably level, well-drained
and as close to feeding place as possible.
The trench must be 30ft. long, Bft. wide
at bottom, 12ft. at top and Bft. deep ;
batter at each end should be l-in-3 grade.
Use plough and scoop for main dig-
ging and trim the walls with spade and
mattock. Tip the scoop loads along each
side of the pit as close to the edges as
possible. Don’t chaff the material.
Spread sheaves or loose hay lengthwise
in the pit and pass each load over the
stuff from end to end to press it down.
Fodder that shows signs of dryness
should be sprinkled with water at regular
intervals. Let the filling come well above
the surface till it makes a 3ft. ridge slop-
ing to the sides of the trench. Finish
off with grass and top with 9in. to 12in.
of earth.
To get the silage out open the trench
at one end and dig away top earth and
grass. Use a hay knife or axe, cut down
vertically and remove a complete section
from top to bottom. Once the first lot’s
out, the remainder will come away easily.
This type of silage is ready for use within
two to three months, or may be left for
years without deteriorating.
Sub. Clover in Orchards.
“Pat Ater”: Sub. clover has done well
as a ground cover between fruit-trees in
districts of heavy winter rainfall and
where the slope demands it to prevent
erosion. If there is deep volcanic soil as
well there is little need to worry over a
slight delay in spring ploughing between
rows.
Orchard soil usually stays sufficiently
moist in average to good seasons until
November, and the clover, once estab-
lished, keeps down most winter weeds.
Without such a binding surface mat over
winter and springtime, much of the good
topsoil on fertile N.S.W. tablelands
would be washed into the valleys. An
alluvial deposit on the flats, already 10-
12 inches deep, shows the erosion trend
before preventive measures were taken to
hold it.
Some smaller orchardists have already
accepted the inconvenience of a late
ploughing and clean-up between the
rows as an offset to the enriching of
their soil. Heavy winter rains, which
would have washed away precious top-
soil in cartloads without its binding in-
fluence, suit sub. clover better than irri-
gation ; it needs to be seen to be believed.
As a self-seeding perennial green manure
it is hard to beat.
First ploughing is across the slope,
between the tree rows, leaving a green
strip till mid-November for a seeding
that will germinate in the following
autumn. A subsequent harrowing down
the slope will distribute enough seed and
nitrogen-humus to assist healthy growth.
Do it after the heaviest rains have passed.
Citrus on the M.LA.
“Ibis”: Success is by no means easy.
The average soil is not suitable ; citrus
trees do best on deep, sandy, well-drained
soils, and they are few and far apart on
the M.LA. On shallow flat soils citrus
thrives only for a time and there
is fairly heavy mortality after a wet
winter. In 1932, when many orchards
were flooded by heavy rains, many trees
in low patches went out. Similarly in
1939 and the wet winter just past.
Some trees, cut hard back, made a
comeback, but were affected again by
wet conditions. The local Citrus Re-
search Station has been seeking a remedy
for the decline, but it is like finding a
cure for cancer.
Now Dr. Lillian Fraser, of the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, has diagnosed
the trouble as Phytophthora, caused
mainly by excess moisture both from
irrigation and wet weather. Possible
results lie in the planting of citrus trees
on trifoliata stock. Trees budded to
trifoliata stocks have stood up to wet
conditions. There are objections to
these stocks, because they have been
proved suitable only for Late Valencia
oranges or grapefruit and not for Wash-
ington navels or lemons ; also they are
inclined to dwarf the trees and, further,
there are many variations in the stock
itself. A tremendous amount of research
work remains to be done and it looks as
though some citrus groves will not sur-
vive the wait.
Vegetable Growing.
“Myrrhee”: It seems simple enough,
but is a job that demands a long appren-
ticeship and a genuine liking for the
work. Suggestions: Get seed and seed-
lings from a reliable seedsman and keep
them well watered ; go in for the more
easily grown vegetables at first —lettuce,
onions, silver-beet, red beet, beans (climb-
ing and dwarf), pumpkins and marrows
(if plenty of room).
Carrots and parsnips are not hard to
grow, but carrots need plenty of water
right through the growing period. Keep
a note of planting dates to discover the
best time for planting in a particular
locality. In the suburbs, times vary
almost from backyard to backyard, de-
pending on shelter, amount of sunlight,
aspect, etc. Seedsmen’s guides are right
enough as a rough timetable, but each
gardener must find out for himself the
best times to plant. During hot weather
mulch with straw, leaf mould or lawn clip-
pings. Soft hedge tips from Golden
Privet make a satisfactory mulch. Water
well. Better to give the soil a good soak-
ing as required than merely wet the sur-
face at frequent intervals. Surface water-
ing brings the roots to the top, where
they are withered by the sun. Start with
a small area and gain confidence with
each success.
Hints for the Farm.
“M 8”: The C.S.I.R. reports that
wethers suffering from sheath rot can be
cured if made to starve for a while.
Affected wethers were kept ten days in a
paddock with plenty of water but practi-
cally no feed. Then they were allowed
an hour’s pick each day for nine days.
Cured, 71 p.c. ; almost cured, 20 p.c. ;
little or no improvement, 8 p.c. Loss
of weight can be recovered quickly.
Three weeks is suggested as limit of the
starve ; at all times there must be ample
water. Operate on those that don’t re-
cover. Recurrence is unlikely till the next
flush season.
“Mullengah”; You can’t guess the
yield of a dairy cow ; only sure guide is
regular weighing of milk and regular
Babcock testing. These tests also show
the value of the bulls being used, since
a cow’s productive quality is inherited.
“Crosbuck”: Next time the horses get
too full of sand (B. 28/10/’42) pour into
each of them about half a gallon or more
of milk and honey, two things almost
always at hand. Use plenty of honey and
warm the milk to dissolve it. If you can
throw the patient all the better. Mas-
sage the stomach with something round
rolled along it or, if you like, shed your
bluchers and dance a fandango on it
in your bare feet. A warm soapy-water
enema helps, but don’t drench with oil.
“B.”; Try growing your own linseed
and grinding the plant into a meal.
Protein content is still high and it pro-
vides roughage. Linseed is easily grown
on the coast and can be handled with
binder or mower and crushing or gristing


Missing Friends.
HANCOCK, Frederick.—Mr. Frederick Han-
cock husband of Margaret Ethel Hancock,
who died in Perth in 1905, or any person having
knowledge of Frederick Hancock’s present
address, is requested to communicate without
delay with THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, 401
Collins Street, Melbourne.
P ers on knowing the whereabouts
of MRS. MARY JOSEPH {nee Antoni-Vitter),
who left Croydon, North Queensland, about
“1® 1 904 , please communicate with the
PUBLIC CURATOR, Edward Street, Brisbane?
Legal Notice.
WILLIAM FREDERICK BENNETT, iormerly
of Budgerum, in Victoria, Farmer. Son of
WILLIAM and MARGARET MADELINE
BENNETT. Would the abovenamed (who is
entitled to shaie in the estate of his mother,
the abovenamed Margaret Madeline Bennett,
now deceased, if he makes claim thereunder
prior to the Third day of August, 1943), or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with MESSRS. CLARKE & GAVAN
DUFFY, Solicitors, of 52 Lydiard Street, Bal-
larat, Victoria?
5
HO
E
S
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Ptv.J.^jano^L^vd^
“ FORRERS”
Self-Oiling Pump
MOTOR OR ENGINE DRIVE
100 LB. PRESSURE OR
230 FEET ELEVATION
CONTINUOUS PERFORMANCE
24 HOURS A DAY WITHOUT
ATTENTION.
We are Sole Distributing Agents for
Forrers Pumps in every State in the Commonwealth except
Queensland.
John Danks c.SqnP^W
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Charge
your
engine
with...
s
AND GUARD AGAINST WEAR
rrr
*st
mm
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
ISI CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date
Telephone: 8W1531
Dining Room—All
(7 lines).
Meals a la Carte.
Box 35875, G.P.0.,
. ... - Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
machinery. Practically the same proposi-
tion as maize. Sow the rust-resistant
type.
“B.”: Disinfect before cleaning after
contagious diseases. After 24 hours
scrub, scrape, bury and burn. Disinfec-
tants: One pint of phenol to four gal-
lons of water, 11b. of chloride of lime to
one gallon of water, 1| pints of crude car-
bolic acid to four gallons of water. Spray
on all surfaces. Regular disinfecting of
farm buildings is good insurance against
disease.
“Archbell”: Red beet seed is hard to
make strike in some districts when drier
weather sets in. Soak seeds in warm
water for a couple of days and not many
will miss so long as the soil is kept damp.
“23-4”: Wire-netting lasts much longer
if given a coat of a hot mixture of five
parts of tar and one of pitch. New net-
ting won’t take the paint easily; it is
better to let it weather a little and then
rub off the light coating of scale that
forms.
“Lang Lang”: Use of cloths to wipe
dairy utensils after cleaning is unneces-
sary and may introduce bacteria. If
properly scalded the heat of the can will
cause the rapid evaporation of moisture.
“C.H.S.”; Canning tomatoes are
wanted, the fixed price being ss. per
481 b. case for canning types and 3s. for
standard grades. Canning grade are be-
tween 2in. and diameter, firm red
ripe, well-shaped and smooth skin with-
out blemishes or disease. San Marzana
and cluster types may, of course, be
smaller. Standard grade are the same as
to condition and color without size limits.
From the N.S.W. Chief Vet.;
Published that 800 tick officials idle in the
Grafton district could be used for farm work.
There are only 350 men on the job on the
Clarence and they are not idle, though work has
eased on the dipping to some extent. Patrols
have to be maintained, forest cattle mustered
and dipped, dip maintenance continued and
gates watched. The statement that there are no
tick fever or ticks in Grafton-Maclean is
wrong. There were eight outbreaks of fever
just before this season’s dipping began, and
-4 tick-infested farms w'ere located around
Grafton alone. The dipping and the dry spell
undoubtedly reduced tick numbers to a mini-
mum, but wet and warm weather of recent
weeks will soon alter that.
“Bungaree Beauty”: N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture is anxious to make
contracts with Spud growers for a winter
crop. Guarantee is £8 10s. a ton Sydney
for Factors or market price if higher.
There’s a 10s. premium for Satisfactions
or Brownells. Seed is available at £9 a
ton, f.0.r., Sydney.
Outback Occasions.
No. 62.
FATHER'S OLD MATE.
As Lawson remarked with truth and
feeling, “there’s many a good old mate
named Jim knocking round the bush,’’
and our father’s old mates used to drop
in on rare occasions and we boys would
listen to the yarns they swapped with
him and the memories they recalled and
we’d look hard at Father and think what
a tiger he must have been when he was
a cub.
One day a long, lean, leering individual
with a cigarette swag and stringy whis-
kers and a hard blue eye arrived at our
place. It was just after tea and we were
sitting on the verandah. The dogs gal-
loped out, investigated the visitor’s heels,
seemed to be considering whether they'd
make a meal of him or not and were still
undecided when Father rose, peered
hard and exclaimed “My stars, it’s Jim
McSuch.”
The long bloke dropped his swag in
the dust and eyed Father carefully. Then
a wintry sort of grin broke through his
whiskers and he hurried forward and
shook hands. It turned out he and
Father had been mates on a shearing
run nearly 30 years before. After the
first greetings Jim sat on the verandah,
took off his boots, borrowed some
tobacco from Father, eyed us and the
house and the farm generally and said,
with a sort of grudging admiration, “By
crippees. Jack, y’ve done pretty well f’r
y’rself.” Father looked embarrassed and
asked Jim how he was getting on. It
was pretty obvious how Jim was getting
on, as Mother tartly observed from the
background, Mother having no time for
people like Jim. Jim started off on a
long tale, the gist of which was that he’d
been robbed and tricked and denied and
taken down all along the line by crimi-
nals, crooks and worse, of which, if you
believed Jim, the world was full.
Then Father made his mistake. “Well,
Jim,” he said kindly, “y’ might as well
stay here f’r a few days an’ get rested
an’ get a few good feeds inter y’. Then
we’ll hunt y’ up a job ; there’s tons of
work goin’ in the districk.”
“Well, I dunno,” Jim whined. “I got
a crook back, y’ know.” And for 15
minutes we listened to Jim talking about
his back. We listened for the next five
weeks to Jim talking about that back. He
accepted Father’s invitation, was given
a bunk in the back room and settled
down. That night we heard Mother
going crook about it to Father and
Father’s reply, “Well, y’ know, a bloke
can’t see an old mate on the outer,”
Father’s old mate lost no time in
getting on the inner. He stayed in bed
every morning because his back hurt.
When he did get up he picked the warm-
est part of the verandah, some cushions,
a deck chair, Father’s tobacco and our
books and spent his time chasing flies
off his whiskers and spitting hearty. Once
or twice he brought the tea up the pad-
dock, but complained bitterly about
“wimmen havin’ no sympathy with a
man when his health was all broke up.”
He was first to the table and last to
leave, last to bed and last to get up. He
stuck close to Father after the first few
days because it was only when he was
close to Father that he was safe from
Mother’s hints about doing a bit of work.
He tried to borrow ten bob from our
brother, failed and tried me for five bob,
failed and complained about louts who’d
never wanted for anything and would
not help a man who was in trouble.
“By cripes,” our brother said to
Father one night at the table, “you
picked y’rself some funny mates when
y’ was knockin’ about.”
Mother laughed with pleasure at this,
but Father only went red and didn’t say
anything. A sort of cloud had come
over us. We couldn’t talk about things
after tea, we couldn’t exchange confi-
dences, we were frightened to show
money for fear he’d want to borrow it,
we boys got mighty suspicious about a
missing pocketknife and watch and
night and morning we had to endure the
whine of Jim’s voice. Even the dogs
slunk about the place in a sort of canine
depression, and once or twice Ruff had
to be forcibly restrained from taking
James to pieces.
“Why don’t you tell him to go?”
Mother demanded in a brief Jimless
interlude.
“I’ve given him a hint or two,” Father
said miserably. He was kindly and sen-
sitive, was Father, and he couldn’t bring
himself to be harsh with a man whom
he had welcomed warmly to the place,
Father couldn’t understand that men like
Jim have no sensibilities. Kicked out,
he’d have gone down the road fulminat-
ing against us, but within a day or two
would have been boasting how he got
free tucker and board out of us.
Mother, too, was kindly and sensi-
tive, until any sort of threat to the family
aroused her maternal instinct of pro-
tection. Then she became as ruthless as
a Roman proconsul. She regarded Jim
as a threat, so she told him his back
needed care, and she filled the bath with
hot water and some crystals of her own
and invited him to soak himself for an
hour. He refused, as she knew he would,
so she announced her intention of strip-
ping him and putting him in herself.
“Your back must be cured,” she said
and advanced. Whereupon Jim let out a
yell, grabbed his cigarette swag and de-
parted. He could stand anything but an
attempt on his modesty.


■
Wm
Hi p m
■n
B|
jfi
J
M IMHm
m
W3M
» I
Wm
mm
■ ' ••' '■•'■
■
Mr
Rt'Mi
n
1
' , ■
*
.
€
B
I n
H
K
i
Pi
■
i
a.
z-z-z- Z m Z“Z m
that’s the way a DISSTON SOLID TOOTH
CIRCULAR saw rips and cuts into a job—
an ever-hungry blade of steel, with keen teeth,
biting into the wood like a knife into butter.
Disston Solid Tooth Circular Saws are made
of Disston Steel under exacting laboratory
control by steel experts. Every Disston Circu-
lar Saw is hardened throughout; hardened
to withstand wear and resist strain. They last
longer between sharpenings, take swage or
spring, set easily and retain set longer than
any other saws. There are many styles and
patterns for cross-cutting, ripping or combin-
ation work, also a variety of tooth styles made
for specific jobs, specific woods and conditions.
Diameters, 4in. to 78in.
For full information, see your dealer or write to:
HENRY DISSTON & SONS, PTY. LTD.
VINE STREET, NO FERN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telegrams: DISSTON, SYDNEY BOX 47, CHIPPENDALE P.O.
REWARD
7'6
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy “Art in Australia,” complete set
or single issues.—3322.
Information Sought.
(1) Who is credited with having been the
first to discover gold in Australia and where
was it first discovered ? (2) Is it true that West-
ralia has Australia’s greatest output of gold,
and, if so, what is the comparison with world
output ?
(1) The first authenticated discovery of gold
in Australia is credited to assistant-surveyor
James McBrien, who recorded in a fieldbook
(still in existence) on Feb. 15, 1823, that near
the Fish River between Rydal and Bathurst
(N.S.W.) he found “numerous particles of gold
in the sands on the hills convenient to the
river.” Gold was won in the early years from
alluvial deposits in shallow ground. (2) Since
1911 Westralia has yielded over 60 p.c. of the
Commonwealth’s total. During the same period
Australia’s proportion of the world’s gold pro-
duction has decreased from 11 p.c. to less than
5 p.c.
* * ♦ *
Particulars of “flag” bridge?
“Flag” bridge is played with three people
at each and a dummy hand. The M.C.
cuts each hand for trumps, and when the
player on the left leads a card the dummy hand
is turned up, and the game is played. If he
wins, the visitor at each table (who plays,
with the dummy hand) takes a flag away to
his or her allotted table. Players are called
A, B. and C, and each moves to further tables
in turn. At the end of the evening a hand is
played for the “king” flag (each table cutting
to decide their representative to play the
game), which is generally worth five points.
Conditions are invariably made by the pro-
moters of the gathering (there are no authori-
tative rules guiding it), and these rules should
be explained before the evening begins. The
number of players does not control the value
of the “king” flag. Ten ordinary flags are
allotted to each table, and the number of
these finally held, in addition to the “king”
flag, decides the prizes.
* * * »
Is it true that if pansies are pollinated by
hand the best results emerge from seeds saved?
How is the process carried out?
It is not necessary to hand-pollinate pansy
or any flowers: bees, beetles and other winged
insects will do that. If bees are not noticeable
about the gardens, grow a few plants of the
sunflower type and the bees will soon be
attracted to carry on the good work.
» * * •
(1) Recipe for making cream cheese? (2)
Recipe for pickling cucumbers in brine ?
(1) Dissolve three junket tablets in a little
cold water and add two gallons warm fresh
milk. When milk sets, put on low heat to
cook about one hour. Break up curd well,
drain off whey, add one dessertspoon salt
and stir well. Put curds into basin or tin (so
that they can drain away) lined with clean cloth,
put weights on and leave for a week, renewing
cloth daily. May be used at once, but im-
proves with keeping. (2) Put about 250 small
cucumbers (gherkins) in brine made so strong
that an egg will float with top partly out of
the water. Leave overnight, drain, wipe and
put gherkins into jars. Boil together for 15
minutes one gallon vinegar, 6oz. salt, loz. all-
spice, loz. mustard, 2oz. cloves, 4oz. mace,
one nutmeg (grated), one stick horseradish
(grated). Skim carefully and when cold pour
over gherkins in jars to fill. Leave 24 hours
(covered), then stand jars in pan, put warm
water into each almost to the necks, bring to
simmering-point and keep at that till pickles
are green. Take off and seal while hot.
» » « *
(1) Method of bottling tomato pulp ?
(2) Method of making tomato sauce that will
not ferment ?
(1) Choose ripe tomatoes, skin them by drop-
ping them into boiling water and then into
cold water (skins can then be quite easily
removed). Put into preserving-pan with one
tablespoon salt to each tomato, bring to boil,
mash lightly and boil for half-hour. Have
ready screw-top jars with sound rubbers:
sterilise jars by putting in cold water and bring-
ing water to boil. Pour boiling pulp into jars,
and stand jars ,in boiler or pan in water up
to necks, bring to boil, then with more boiling
pulp fill to overflowing and seal at once. Tins
with lever lids will do in place of jars if
sealed with paraffin wax outside when cool. (2)
Boil together 141 b. tomatoes, 21b. onions, 2oz.
cloves and one pint vinegar. Mix in basin one
pint vinegar, one cup sugar, 41b. salt, loz.
ground ginger, 4-teaspoon red pepper. Rub
tomatoes and onions through the colander, re-
turn to pan, add second vinegar solution and
boil all till thick (four to five hours). Bottle
and seal while hot.
* * * *
(1) What are the birth dates of cricketers
Bradman, Archie Jackson, C. Hill, V. Trumper
and M. A. Noble? (2) Who was the youngest
Australian to appear in Test matches v. Eng-
land ?
(1) Bradman, August 27, 1908; Jackson,
February 5, 1909; Hill, March 18, 1877;
Trumper, November 2, 1877; Noble, January
28, 1873. (2) Clem Hill, who at 19 years three
months had his first innings at Lord’s (Eng.)
on June 22, 1896.
* * * *
When did the late Mrs. R. Cozens (nee
Daphne Akhurst ) win (1) the Australian tennis
ladies'' singles championships and (2) with whom
was she partnered to win the Australian ladies’
and mixed doubles titles ?
(1) Won singles titles at Sydney, 1925; at
Adelaide, 1926; at Sydney, 1928; at Adelaide,
1929; at Melbourne, 1930. (2) Ladies’ doubles
with Miss Lance, at Melbourne, 1924; Mrs.
R Harper, at Sydney, 1925; Miss E. Boyd,
at Sydney, 1928; Miss Bickerton, at Adelaide,
1929; and Miss Bickerton, at Sydney, 1931.
Mixed doubles with J. Willard, at Melbourne,
1924; J. Willard, at Sydney, 1925 ; J. Borotra
(France), at Sydney, 1928; and E. Moon, at
Adelaide, 1929.
Brief Answers.
W.J.M.: (1) Military fines are deducted from
a man’s pay and remain in consolidated revenue.
(2) and (3) No record available. (4) C.Os. do
not collect fines. They are deducted from a
man’s paybook. Officers of units do not handle
cash at a 11... .P.T.M.: No applications are
received for naval service from members of
the military forces serving in advanced opera-
tional stations... .Solo : Yes, hands containing
cards of one suit only cropped up sometimes
in whist in the days when that game held the
field, and later in bridge. Investigation of such
cases generally shows that dealing was on the
“goulash” principle—no shuffle, and cards dealt
in threes or fives or even larger batches....
P.M.: Endowment may be collected at any time
within six months after the date on which it
becomes payable R.C.P.: Write to Royal
Australian Navy Recruiting Office, 18 Loftus-
street, Sydney... .E.L.M.: Know of no process
for rendering papier mache waterproof. Baking
in the sun is superior to oven baking unless
the operator is an expert at gauging the cor-
rect temperatures. N.S.W. Bookstall Cos., Syd-
ney, can supply book on the making of
papier-mache articles... .X.Y.Z.: (1) No satis-
factory empirical formulae can be given for
ship-propeller design. (2) Design is based
on actual results obtained from the trials of
existing ships and from experiments with
models. Propeller investigators plot these re-
sults on charts which are used as a base for
the design of propellers for other ships....
R.C.: Taylor’s Gold from the Sea; Angus and
Robertson, Sydney; 12s. 6d R.J.M.: Writ*
to Merchant Navy, Customs House, Melbourne,
stating all particulars... .H.H.: There are now
new regulations governing all sales of land.
A copy of these may be had at the Sub-
Treasury, sth Floor, Commonwealth Bank.
Ask for Regulation No. 425 of 1942. You
can also obtain there a long official explana-
tion of the regulations... .G.McN.: “Nutshell
Series,” No. 27, Care of the Cat, 6d., or
Domestic and Fancy Cats, by John Jennings,
Is. 6d., from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
. ...L.W.: The nature of electrical changes in
the human body can be understood only after
adequate study of physics and physiology. It is
also necessary to read special works dealing with
electrical phenomena in the heart, brain and
muscles. A preliminary essential to the proper
appreciation of such matters is a thorough
scientific training. The bodily electrical re-
actions have no effect upon the working of
wrist watches... .P.M.: The condition is almost
certainly one in which a rodent ulcer or cancer
of the skin has long since invaded deeper struc-
tures. The case is hopeless; all that can now
be done is to secure proper nursing care.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
R.G.: —
The Japs advanced southward our Empire to mar
At Gaudalcanal (or Gaudalcanar).
The Yanks made a vow then —eject them we shall
From Gaudalcanar (or Gaudalcanal).
R.J.:
“An apple a day,” says the doctor,
Injunction that can’t be ignored.
But why, when I buy the apple,
Should nourishment go to the Board?
Anon:
Friends, selfishness may cause a failure:
Did yourselves please in loan to Australia?
Dictatorship makes us all feel sad —
Drive its works from here for they are bad.
Every day we hear of selfish tricks.
A'ow is no time for Party Politics.
W.T.T.: “Arch” doesn’t rhyme with
“park,” nor “hum” with “run,” nor “yarn”
with “farm”... .E.D.: Some good lines, but
the general effect is confused and choppy....
N.R.T.: Say it in prose... .H.P.McI.: Too
personal... .D.D.: It “boomed” and bust....
1.T.; Where could you publish 2400 lines
about the brotherhood of man? Well, unless
you happen to know a publisher in heaven....
K.C.; Clip that “streaming forelock”....
W.M.F.: Scrappy... .J.W.: They’re not for
us. Try them elsewhere, but first learn that
“Austerity” shouldn’t yet demand that you use
both sides of the paper... .E.M.: “Je was a ;
,pst jp, e wjem of pccireed tp jo, kist wjat jad
ja||emed% He pulled the horse up sharply,
worry creasing his forehead and clouding the
clear blue eyes.” It’s little wonder.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.D.T.: You dress an elephant up as a
railway porter expressly for the purpose of
dragging in a pun on trunks. Tut! tut!
D.L.C.: If a field gun like that was ever got
to fire, then God help the crew.... Billo:
Six figures jammed up in one corner, and a
mass of cross-hatching to fill up the rest of the
space... .J.L.K.: Niggling linework in indelible
pencil on tissue paper, and you expect someone
to buy it! P.G.S.: The policeman has two
left arms and apparently can dispense with ears.
A.C.: You’ve given the horse a round,
bulgy face, whilst the visage of its rider is dis-
tinctly horselike Emma: If that ship ever
left the launching-slips it would glide straight
under R.T.: Welcome to the doc. who is
taking the pulse with his thumb and is listening
in with a hose to the patient’s upper arm!
8.C.5.: When we advised you to use a brush
instead of a pen we didn’t mean a No. 8
sash tool Bert C.: The building on the right
makes the Leaning Tower of Pisa look a
model of perpendicularity.


rvF MfCCfrr
Off fARM'ByiOu,
Meggitt’s is a name famous
* among men of the land since
1911... a 31 years’ reputa-
tion that has been won by sheer excel-
lence of product and sincerity of ser-
vice. “Low,” the famous cartoonist,
has executed many drawings which
show his intense love of animals and
his evident enjoyment at seeing them
thriving on “Meggitt’s.”
j£lMJt¥rC ■
'iiSSmSI
M
m
my
f* ) in?
afifiSTS
f #
> #1
!( 1
v'iV T.
-i- \
V"
iC lav
A few of these happy cartoons are re-
produced here as a reminder to Aus-
tralia’s great army of primary pro-
ducers that Meggitt’s fights alongside
them in their nationally important
work, with first quality, ample
supplies and practical advice. /
v t
MEOGirr
M
1
(IK pi/ h
u * .) 9 m
*
V\ Jj(«‘
\Ax
s
(3
f/V
,-v.
UIGGITTs
06
tCciTTlt
lEgg itt
li w
#
o u
M
i
<u»w
w ‘ -j
i 1 /
1 xn —A .
iIW/l
r
*»f G e’.r-
(r
i (
V
fc CTfcr
I*C»
• V s
a
/
(-1
s
K
1
■ A M
- CJ»j
v'v-'
■s.~
V
V. ' 5s
z
-1
y
a
n
W a
u*
yTtn
H
&
K
c\
ano
i
Sf
Mill
fef S^.
v>,,
r
SP
MS
>
MEGGITT
LINSEED OILS—LINSEED OIL MEAL SHEEP NUTS AND LINSEED - BALANCED NUTS.
Meggitt, Ltd., Head Office: 67 York Street, Sydney.
Box 1555 E, G.P.0., Sydney. Works: Parramatta, Melbourne, Adelaide.


an
\
ran yon
rely upon
individual ?
A Trustee should administer your Estate to
the greatest advantage of your beneficiaries,
a task needing business wisdom, constant
devotion of time to the duties involved over
a considerable period, and sound technical
knowledge. He must be completely trust-
worthy. Should you find a friend possessing
all these qualifications and appoint him
Trustee —he may die before completing his
duties —age may sap his wisdom—misfortune
may befall him.
But should you nominate The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited,
these circumstances cannot arise. Consti-
tuted under Act of Parliament, and answer-
able to the Courts, it is absolutely trustworthy.
It devotes its whole time and energy to the
administration of Trusts. It has the necessary
knowledge of the technicalities relating to
Trusts, is controlled by Directors of proved
capacity, and . . . the Company “goes on
for ever”.
Charges are moderate. For details write or
call upon;
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled ) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £ 959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E. ; G. S. Colman, C.B.E.
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager; K. M. Hughes
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Promot and liberal settlements of claims. .
THOMAS A MAGNEY, Chairman; P. R. Baker; F. W. Duesbury ; Sydney Samp
R. A. MANZIB. Managing Director. Sydney.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 139 Pitt S >
Directors:
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends To Re- Rc—
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total.t serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’32.. 206,276 9 p.c. 6 p.c. 167,069 39,206 247,035
’33.. 217,724 9 „ 6 „ 167,705 50,019 297,054
’34.. 226,460 9 ~ 6 ~ 168,083 1, o 377 309,431
To tax reserve, £46,000 . . )
Unexplained addition, £16,251 • - 325,68-
’35.. 261,402 9 p.c. 71p.c. 194,237 67,165 392,84,
’36.. 289,664 9 p.c. 81 p.c. 211,582 ( 75 032 467,929
To staff fund, £3OOO .. \ ’ ’
’37.. 321,011 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 j, Q 7 7 0 0
To staff fund, £3OOO .. f 97,801 565,730
’38.. 319,369 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 |
Written off freehold, £20,000 j-74,159 639,889
To staff fund, £5OOO . . J
’39.. 305,080 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 1
Written off freehold, £20,000 1-59,870 699,759
To staff fund, £5OOO . . J
’40.. 312,476 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 1
Written off freehold, £20,000 j- 67,266 767,025
To staff fund, £5OOO . . |
’41.. 272,868 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,2101
Written off freehold, £ 20,000)- 12,658 779,683
To staff fund, £20,000 . . J
’42.. 193,525 9 p.c. 7* p.c. 194,335 778,873
t Including employees’ shares (6 p.c.).
This big department store, largest of
its kind in Australia, was “declared” in
January last for breaches of price regu-
lations. The sum mentioned was £250,UU0,
stated to be excess profit over two years’
trading. Whispers of profiteering were
heard, of course, but there was no official
suggestion of deliberate intent to over-
charge. Explaining the position at the
annual meeting, chairman Norman Myer
said, among other things:
At all times we have exercised the great-
est care to ensure that no higher rate of
profit was made on each and every indi-
vidual item. We are not infallible, and a
few isolated mistakes occurred, but our
supervision of prices was effective in that
the number of significant breaches of the
prices regulations was negligible. We even-
tually found, however, that owing to the
flood of unrestrained war-time purchasing
power our normal losses due to bad buy-
ing and price-cutting had been reduced
through no skill or design on our part, so
that less of our normal profit margin was
eaten up by losses that we usually provided
for. Accordingly, although our goods had
been marked at no more than our usual
low rate of profit, we were left with a slight
percentage increase in gross profit because
of these lower losses... .Out of the £250,000
nearly half never entered the profits of the co.
in any shape or form, because it merely
represented our normal rate of discount on
an enlarged stock. This, in conformity
with usual retail practice, went back to
the public through reduced prices in the
form of bargains and sale events... .Cus-
tomers were not charged one penny in
excess of our normal low pre-war mark-up.
It was further claimed that the co.’s rate
of gross profit to turnover never exceeded
21\ p.c., which is over Is. in the £ less
than was usually looked for in the retail
trade. Of the 21\ p.c., staff salaries took
14 p.c., rates, interest, advertising, repairs,
depreciation, etc., 1\ p.c. and taxation
3 p.c., or 55 p.c. of the net profit. That
left 2\ p.c., less whatever was set aside
for contingencies, for shareholders. A
glance at the introductory table —it shows
the net position from the shareholders’
point of view—doesn’t arouse any sus-
picion of profiteering. What it does sug-
gest is that the Government, not share-
holders, got whatever gains accrued from
expanding war-time turnover and more
besides.
Last term sales reached a record figure,
and exes, were proportionately less, yet
net earnings were £79,343 lighter. This
means that the co. shaved a bit off its
normal low margin of gross profit, and
forced the pace for competitors in some
lines. That was after setting aside
£105,673 (down £591) for depreciation
and £200,000 (£6475 more than was
earned for shareholders) for the tax-
gatherer, who made off with £226,389 and
£107,284 for the two preceding terms. The
£193,525 of profit claimed was enough
to pay the pref. and staff partnership
divs. (together £64,960) and show 7.4
p.c. on the £1,725,000 of ord. capital, as
against 12, 14.3, 13.9, 14.7, 14.7, 13,
11.3 and 9 p.c. back to 1934. The div.
was lowered from 9 p.c. to 1\ p.c., and
a further chip seems likely unless depre-
ciation is to be cut.
Combined figures for the parent and
Adelaide woollen-mill and buying sub-
sidiaries show net earnings at £221,554
(down £175,067, mainly on account of
taxation). Total shareholders’ funds
appear at £4,307,265, of which £457,359
represents outsiders’ equity.
Though clothes-rationing has eased the
strain on external supply lines and ser-
vice-pressed local manufacturers, and at
the same time created a run-off of spend-
ing power into the reservoir of war
finance, it has also rolled back the tide
of retail sales. Meanwhile a host of regu-
lations governing rationing, prices, local
and overseas buying, employment,
standardisation, deliveries, etc., have
made overhead difficult to restrain. Work
connected with price observance alone —
the old percent addition on cost has
been replaced with a fixed absolute
amount of profit per article —has meant
a substantial addition to staff since April,
and diversion of girls into the services
and war industry will further complicate
the staffing problem. There will be
savings in some flexible items, but it is
unlikely that costs will be got back pro-
portionately to the drop in turnover.
Here are the parent’s balance-sheet
figures:
1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital . . £2,479,950 £2,479,950 £2,479,950
Mortgages. . . . 516,650 408,000 408,000
Sundry creditors. . 778,441 1,422,929 1,025,368
Tax reserve . . 75,646 160,000 200,000
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. . . 2,105,195 2,084,560 2,013,076
Plant, vehicles, etc. 269,786 216,850 193,943
Shares in other cos. 441,309 441,309 441,309
Stocks .. .. 1,093,863 1,818,063 1,854,832
Debtors . . . . 706,997 846,878 464,176
Cash, etc 25,314 93,614 73,928
Chief movements last term were a con-
traction of £382,702 in debtors’ balances
and reduction of £397,561 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors —it reflects
public policy of cash buying. The cut
in the debt was mainly in the overdraft
(£33,438, down £330,449). There was an
improvement of £31,942 in the more or
less liquid surplus (£959,568). Since the
close of accounts the business, stock and
book debts of Incley Pty., Coll ins-street,
have been taken over.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd. (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 22,257 4 p.c. = 19,970 2,287 55,996
1933.. 42,810 6 „ ~29,955 12,855 68,851
1934.. 56,666 7i ~37,444 19,222 88,073
1935.. 52,134 7 „ ~34,948 17,186 105,259
1936.. 42,973 7$ „ ~33,450 9,523 114,782
1937.. 44,881 8 „ „ 31,952 12,929 127,711
1938.. 59,853 10 „ ~ 39,941 19,912 147,623
1939.. 48,233 10 „ ~39,941 8,292 155,915
1940.. 41,147 9'J„ ~37,943 3,204 159,119
1941.. 40,150 9 „ „ 35,946 4,204 163,323
1942.. 27,661 7 „ ~27,958 163,026
Australian cement production has shown
little annual variation from 865,000 tons
for four years or so ; but the figure hasn’t
been evenly spread. In N.S.W., for
example, output declined from a peak of
460,000 tons in 1938 to 375,000 tons in
1940. Notwithstanding virtual cessation
of State works and private building, it
strengthened a little to 380,000 tons in
the calendar year passed. After a general
35.-a-ton cut about the outbreak of war,
selling prices remained stable till April
last, when another Is. 6d. was clipped
off the price to the Government, now
more than ever the biggest customer for
Commonwealth defence projects.
Standard operates in a State with a
works capacity about twice present de-
mand. It set up its 120,000-ton plant
near the big Kandos unit, on the Mudgee
line, 150 miles from Sydney, in 1926.
Basic materials, such as limestone, coal
and shale, found within a stone’s-throw,
are delivered to the mill by gravitation,
and with these natural advantages and
Government contracts the co. was
soon up with its heavy competitors, not-
withstanding the debt of £169,000 with
which it began. This has long since been
whittled down, and that besides repaying
£99,851 of share capital and spending
liberally to keep plant up to a high pitch
of efficiency.
That sound and progressive policy con-
tinues, depreciation balances of £26,547
(up £1547) again going back into new
equipment last term:
1927. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £466,691 £399,406 £399,406 £399,406
Creditors . . 169,248 43,150 38,509' 24,735
Freehold, wu 408 , 9 M
Investments .. 35,009 35,009 35,009 35,009
Stores and „„„
stocks . . 35,774 38,399 86,132 102,806
Book debts and
cash . . 22,160 209,439 89,551 56,341
Over the past five years that lifts
apparent gross expenditure on the chief
earning asset to over £200,000, all pro-
vided from the co.’s own resources.
The debt, indeed, would now seem to
consist mainly of the tax provision tossed
in therewith. Investments comprise scrip
in the subsidiary colliery, Kandos-
Coomber Mining.
How Standard fared with the tug-o -
war with costs last term isn’t apparent;
but the decline of £12,489 in profit-earn-
ing was probably due to the demands of
the taxgatherer, to whom sums really
chargeable to 1941 may have been paid,
and to the price reduction towards the
close of the period. At £27,661 the final
balance in p. and 1. ran out just short
of 7 p.c. on capital, and not since 1932
has the rate been lower. So whoever is
making money out of the war it isn’t
Standard. A couple of points were
chipped off the div., which looked like
developing into a regular 10 p.c. three
years back.
At this stage few post-war posers con-
front cement-producers, who have seen
the uses of their product extended, per-
manently in some cases, an interesting
development overseas being employment
of reinforced, pre-cast concrete members
and slabs for large and small structural
work, including home units. Meantime,
special war jobs will eventually exercise
a big demand.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd, (Hobart)
To Re- Re-
June. Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1932 . 12 797 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,797 98,990
Ifi'ss.'. 12*655 5i „ „ 11,000 1,655 100,645
Written off shares, £5OOO . . 95,645
1934.. 17,607 7 p.c. = 14,000 3,007 99,252
Bonus equalisation reserve, £4020.. 103,272
1935.. 18,849 8 p.c. = 16,000 2,849 106,121
1936.. 25,788 10 „ „ 20,000 5,788 111,909
1937.. 29*297 Hi „ .. 22.500 7 5)197 1;l 7 ( io 6
Written off freeholds, £l6OO 1
1938.. 31,468 12 p.c. = 25,750 ( j 912 119,018
Written off freeholds, £3806 j
1939.. 31,283 12 p.c. = 27,000 } , 900 120 ,918
Written off hotels, £2383 j
1940.. 29,721 12 p.c. = 27,000 2,721 123,639
1941.. 28,238 12 „ „ 27,000 \ __ m ,SI7
Written off hotels, £2060 j
1942. . 30,768 12 p.c. = 27,000 } 1 26g 12 4,085
Written off hotels, £2500 J ’
With its shipping link disorganised, the
Apple Isle has developed into a some-
what isolated community. As far as
Cascade is concerned, war hit early
the tourist trade on which its hotel
takings partly depended ; but compensa-
tions arose in the better balance given
the Tasmanian economy by the expansion
in mining and papermaking activity,
while the profitable mainland and over-
seas demand for the co.’s draught and
bottled ale prompted extensions to the
brewery last term. But, generously
treated to date, beer has been relegated
to a less-favored position among cargo
priorities, and other important new
factors in brewery economics are
restriction of production and civilian
deliveries to two-thirds of Jan.-Feb. pro-
portions and, on the hotel side, control
of trading hours, dining-room services
and capital expenditure.
Actual beermaking is in the hands of
Tasmanian Breweries Pty., in which Cas-
cade and J. Boag and Son merged this
part of their activities on a 50-50 basis
as far back as 1922. The board is tight-
lipped about the earnings and distribu-
tions of the brewing co., which had a
bad spin for many years to 1933 ; so out-
siders are left to guess whether the pup
keeps anything buried from view nowa-
days or not. Cascade itself concentrates
on dispensing the brew through its hotels
and on manufacturing cordials and cider,
and the soft stuff is responding nicely to
the capital outlay recently incurred m
connection therewith.
Feature of the past half-dozen years
is the stability of results. Allowing for
reserve movements, there was an im-
provement in profits of £2530 last term
that would have been more but for the
advance in taxation and costs, the lift m
beer duty being among the isolated ones
to be recovered. On capital, the £30,768
was 13.6 p.c., against 12.5 p.c., and, while
most mainland brewers reduced divs., trie
12 p.c. of the past five years again went
out. That was after writing £2500 on
rebuilt hotels. Normal depreciation is
shown with trade exes, at £6522, and taxa-
tion is grouped with repairs, etc., at
£23,604 (up £1764). They are items in
which a little dissection is called for.
The addition to tax reserve, tempor-
arily used to lighten the floating deo ,
was the most significant financial change.
1935 1940. 1941. 1 942 -
Paid capital. . £200,000 £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgages and ir(! ».o
deposits .. 121,129 161,979 150,761 156,758
Other liabilities 2,433 5,274 13,04. >
Hotels, etc. . . 254,246 306,398 316,272 316,248
Plant,’etc. .. 88,228 95,500 94,837
Stock.. .. 7,339 17,568 20,903 20,46-
Book debts, etc. 18,296 38,643 40,938 42,0-9
Cash, etc. . . 10,340 14,170 214 238
Shares other cos. 65,196 64,646 64,640 ,
Depreciation looked after any property
outlay, which had cost £54,358 over an
above writings-off in the three years
before, largely in modernising hotels- a
policy to be continued when times are


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
YOU never know when circum-
stances may alter the routine of
your affairs. And the threads of
your business, if left in unaccus-
tomed hands, may soon twist into
knotty problems. It is wise, there-
fore, to safeguard your interests by
appointing a competent business
organisation to manage your affairs.
The principals of Smith, Boydell SC
Company act as attorneys, trustees,
executors, and agents under power
of attorney. No detail is overlooked
to render thorough and capable
service in the management and
supervision of the estates and per-
sonal businesses placed in their
charge. Write for an explanatory
brochure.
smimßavDELLcco
Principals: H. Landon Smith, Esq.
F. M. Boydell, A.1.C.A., A.CJ.S.
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
Sydney.
THE RATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(incorporated in victoria)
Head Office and Registered Office:
271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
BALANCE SHEET AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1942.
Authorised Capital— LIABILITIES.
300.000 Ordinary Shares of £lO each ..
875.000 Ordinary Shares of £8 each . .
Issued Capital—
-200.000 Ordinary Shares of £lO each fully paid
600.000 Ordinary Shares of £8 each, £5 paid ..
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business)
Dividend Proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities includ-
ing provisions for contingencies
Notes in Circulation
Balances Due to Other Banks
Contingent Liabilities (Under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, etc.)
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other Banks
Money at Short Call—London
Treasury Bills—-Australian Government
Public Securities (excluding Treasury bills) at or
under market value —■
i. Australian Government Securities
ii. Other Government Securities
iii. Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities’ Securi-
ties
Special Wartime Deposit Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit . .
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deduct-
ing provision for debts considered bad or doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost less
amounts written off)
All Other Assets
(The Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss figures
are stated in Australian Currency.)
Contingent Assets (as per contra)
To the Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on
the books at the Head Office and with the certified returns from the
Branches. We have obtained all the information and explanations we
have required and we are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and
Profit and Loss Account are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and
correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs and of the results
of the business of the Company for the six months, according to the
best of our information and the explanations given to us and as
shown by the books of the Company.
Melbourne, 9th November, 1942.
S. J. WARNOCK, F.C.A.(Aust.), )
J. R. BISHOP, P.C.A.(Aust.), J
Auditors.
mm
m
m
/in mirPßV^
Hill n
are so mu eh smoother
110 for 1/1
120 for 2/2
sdfdsfdsf
MADE SPECIALLY TOP RE VENT SORE THROAT S ~4oos
mm
miSiP"*':
m: •:
more propitious, and towards which more
husbanding of recent earnings would not
have been amiss.
“O.B.”: Man-power reduction is still
going on, and is increasingly affecting
the Westralian mining industry. Every
goldmining centre has been hard hit;
some have been completely knocked out.
Development and production have been
restricted everywhere. Effect of the war
on the gold industry was explained by
Under-Secretary for Mines A. H. Telfer
to the Commonwealth Grant Commission
the other day. He said last year’s output
of 1,109,318 fine oz. would probably fall
this year to 800,000 oz. About 4900 men
were now employed, compared with
15,216 in 1939. At Kalgoorlie the
monthly wages bill, which was £33,000 in
Dec., 1941, fell to £20,000 in August,
1942. Man-power reduction, said Telfer,
had meant the closure of many mines,
as low-graders could continue operations
only on a maximum tonnage. Principal
ones closed to date were Triton, Youanmi,
Gladiator, Cox’s Find, Spargo’s Reward,
Three Boys, Beryl and Yellowdine Gold
Areas, while a number of smaller ones
had shut down. Several others, mostly
large, were on the border-line, and any
further loss of men would result in more
closures. This might not convey much to
persons unacquainted with the State, but
it had meant that previously prosperous
inland towns which goldmines kept busy
had disappeared or had been seriously
affected. Social and essential services
such as schools, hospitals, railways,
police, water supplies, etc., provided by
the Government had ceased, and build-
ings had become a liability.
* * * *
Accounts of Gold Fields Australian
Development, Ltd., disclose that during
1941 co, received £5713 sterling in divi-
dends from Yellowdine Investments and
Yellowdine Gold Development, and this
year a div. of £12,000 from Moonlight
Wiluna, making, with £1371 interest on
London and Australian deposits, a total
of £19,084. Deducting £11,214 London
and Australian expenses and adding
£3692 brought in give a balance of
£11,562, out of which £4500 is reserved
for taxes, £2014 chipped off prospecting
and development, and £5OOO off invest-
ments in other properties. Board regrets
that income from Moonlight Wiluna and
Yellowdine interests doesn’t permit a divi-
dend. Last year 5 p.c. was distributed. Co.
holds the entire issued capital of Moon-
light Wiluna and Mt. Ida, and has a big
wad of shares in Yellowdine Gold De-
velopment, which it recently took in ex-
change for a bulky bundle of Yellowdine
Investments scrip.
The mine of Moonlight Wiluna Gold
Mines, Ltd., at Wiluna (W.A.), appears
to be nearing exhaustion. Speaking at the
annual meeting of Gold Fields Austra-
lian Development, Ltd., London, which
holds the entire issued capital of the
Moonlight co., chairman W. H. Geikie
said that 122,952 tons of ore was extracted
last year and none was disclosed. The
management estimated that there would
be very little remaining in the mine at the
end of 1942. Moonlight Wiluna had
been offered a 25 p.c. interest in an
option held by Wiluna Gold Mines in
the Mt. Charlotte group at Kalgoorlie,
but it had little current value owing to
the inability to get the necessary equip-
ment for such non-productive work as
testing a property.
Referring to other interests held,
Geikie said an option had been exer-
cised on Mt. Ida Gold Mines, and satis-
factory results had been obtained from
development work. Here also there was
a difficulty in carrying on owing to the
property’s somewhat isolated position,
and it was possible that operations would
have to be put on a care-and-mainten-
ance basis owing to shortage of labor.
Geikie added that the interest in Yellow-
dine Gold Development, Ltd., from
which £5713 had been received in divi-
dends last year, had been retained. The
changed official attitude towards gold-
mines in Australia (arising out of the
war) gives added importance to the anti-
mony content of Moonlight Wiluna ore.
Geikie’s view of the outlook is expressed
in the hope that “it may be possible that
the demand for this metal may enable us
to continue operations until the mine is
exhausted.”
* * * *
Lady Shenton’s accounts for the year
to June 30 are being completed as
speedily as possible, taking into con-
sideration that the whole of the male
clerical staff has been called up. The
co. had an option over Maranoa Gold
Mines, Menzies, and, although it proved
to be a payable proposition as a 7dwt.
show on a good tonnage basis, it was
found impossible to carry on ; the
number of men employed in the early
stages of development gradually dwindled
.
own to the manage! and one man, and
the option had to be relinquished alter
a considerable sum had been spent on
development. It was hard luck, but
most mining cos. in W.A. have suffered
considerably in regard to man-power,
and a number have already ceased opera-
tions. At present the remaining plant,
including a five-head battery and power
, •* „ i : j- i 'c j i
unit, are being disposed of, and the
tunas will be available for distribution
to shareholders on liquidation. The
amount per share will be very small
mdeed, the co. has informed the Wild
ed- ’
p. * T , J " '
From London.
Youanmi Cold Mines board mforms share-
holders by postcard that the Westralian Gov-
ernment has requisitioned a considerable pro-
portion of the co.’s closed-down electrical plant,
including that of the main shaft and electrical
winder, and that it is expected that further
requisitions will take place from time to time,
in these circumstances the board considers that
it may be advisable to dispose of the remainder
of the idle plant should a reasonable offer be
made. This information is given in view of
the statement made by the chairman at the
last annual meeting that the plant would not
be sold without reference to shareholders.
“O.B.” remembers:—r
U.S.A. is closing down all goldmines to re-
lease man-power for copper and other vital
metal production, and Westralian investors
aren’t happy about the immediate future of their
mine interests either. In U.S.A. the public
is hot interested in goldmining, most mines,
especially the big producers, being privately
owned. So far are they from asking for
public money that they are surrounded by
galvanised-iron fences and “Keep out; this
means you” notices. No reports are issued,
and reporters are hated. At Cripple Creek in
1910 I once applied for a job. “Sonny,” said
the editor, “you’re too inexperienced in our
ways to avoid initial mistakes and miscalcu-
lations. For one thing, you must be quick
on the draw; the last fellow wasn’t.”
* * * *
From Jo’burg: According to Minis-
ter of Mines Stallard the Union Govern-
ment doesn’t desire a reduction in gold
output. He says it has made, is making,
and would continue to make every
effort to maintain the industry on a
proper footing. Reports that the output
would tumble were based on the allega-
tion of a prospective shortage of native
labor, but labor had been coming forward
steadily and there was no reason to ex-
pect a decrease. Meanwhile mineowners
are doing their utmost to minimise the
restriction on goldmining arising out of
the taking of white labor for the army
and of scarcity of supplies.


for war
Not so long ago the Nitrogen Industry depended
entirely upon natural mineral deposits of nitre
in distant Chile, and ammonia from coal distil-
lation. Today from air which is four-fifths
Nitrogen this gas is taken and with coke and
water ammonia is made and from ammonia
nitric acid.
Here we have the beginnings of a multitude of
products. Explosives for war Nitroglycerine,
Nitrocellulose and Trinitrotoluol (TNT) are
examples.
Cordite (containing nitroglycerine and nitro-cellu-
lose) is the propellant explosive that hurls the
gun fired projectile, be it rifle bullet or giant
naval shell. TNT is the devastating charge con-
tained in depth charges, shells, aerial bombs, and
the war head of the destructive torpedo.
Of all strategic industries essential to the success
of our war effort Nitrogen Fixation is one of the
most important.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICIANZI
ll
m
(,<0
freon*"
We shall vanquish our enemies. The time will come to '
beat our swords once more into ploughshares; and we
may be sure that out of the grim necessities of war will
have come new discoveries and techniques that will go
far towards translating the dream of prosperity and
security for all into reality.
INSERTED BY WE MANUFACTURERS OF
fELTEX
FLOOR COVERINGS
limn
m
to
F 1.27.16
Business, Rollery, etc.
They Serve Who Save
In Adelaide last week Priminister
Curtin, appealing for support to the
£lOO-million loan, criticised the Austra-
lian who protested “I have spent a life-
time endeavoring to get something for
my old age.” He commented: “It is a
sad reflection that there are so many Aus-
tralians of that disposition. What he has
saved is now at stake in the war, and only
the success of his country can ensure its
preservation for himself.” He bracketed
such people with conscientious objectors.
But Mr. Curtin is tackling the wrong
person when he criticises the man or
woman who has saved in the past to pre-
vent his or her becoming a charge on the
country. There are other people who
have a stake in the country —wage-
earners and pensioners, for instance. It
is not the person who has saved in the
past from whom we want money for the
war in any case. We want it from the
person who is earning—and spending—
it now, and it is from that very person
that Mr. Curtin and his colleagues are
not game to take it, except in the case of
a comparatively few “capitalists” and
other well-drained sources.
Mr. Curtin is indeed no financial man.
Whatever his other qualities, whenever
he starts to talk on financial matters he
is more plausible than practical. His
party is not particular whether it raises
money by fair or frantic means, and it
has a traditional habit of abusing the
financial system rather than using it
legitimately. It is like the timbergetters
of early Australia who saw the cedar
forests, built up over centuries, and set
to work to exploit them regardless of any
replanting for after years. There is no-
thing permanent about Labor-party
finance. The party has never learned
that you can’t have your financial cake
and eat it too. To it the financial system
is something to exploit. It invariably
makes the mistake of thinking that
finance must be abused where the welfare
of “the worker” is threatened. Actually,
properly-managed finance never stands
in the way of any desired object, civil or
military. It is a facility. But where man-
agement of finance is not the best you
can’t make it work better by doing all
you can to cause it to break down.
The war is being fought with youthful,
living men and with useful current pro-
duction. Work done before the war,
financed with savings made before the
war, in nine cases out of ten cannot be
converted to new uses. The houses,
the farms, the city buildings and the
majority of factories (though not all)
were designed for peace-time purposes,
and it is neither desirable nor practicable
that they all be turned into war equipment.
They are wanted as they are. And where
a person has invested his savings in such
things, directly or through life assurance
or the savings banks, he would have to
borrow or cause others to borrow in
order to lend to the Government. The
banks might as well lend directly to the
Government themselves. It would
amount to credit inflation just the same.
The basis of our war effort is current
production. Most of the “live” money
in Australia is based on current and
future production. It is “live” money
that is needed to win the production
war and defeat inflation in the peace.
During each year of war Australia has
the services of some millions of men and
women at its disposal. Those services
can be directed as the nation wishes.
Instead of doing or altering the jobs of
the peaceful past a large proportion can
be directed to the new jobs of war. War
work can be done from the plans to the
finished article according to the latest
design and requirements. That is why cur-
rent production represents the preponder-
ant proportion of our war effort. The
muzzle-loading cannon in our parks are
no good for this war except as scrap-iron.
The same applies to much more recent
pre-war production. And the same applies
to savings of the pre-war period that
have already been put to work. You
can’t effectively put them to work a
second time on the job of munitions pro-
duction. Along that road waits inflation,
and in war-time inflation is a very aggres-
sive and übiquitous thing.
Associated with this pool of war-time
man- and woman-power are their war-
time earnings. It is a big, enlarged pool
by pre-war standards, inflated by a higher
basic wage and overtime earnings. In
peace-time these earnings would be used
to buy back the products of industry after
they had been collected from the special-
ised factories and put on show together
in the general stores. But at present in-
dustrial output is largely for the purpose
of fighting enemies, not for sale to civil-
ians. Therefore the earnings—enlarged
earnings, let it be repeated—of most
workers and some other income-earners
are far greater than the goods available
in the stores, and it is this surplus, or a
great deal of it, that the Prime Minister
and his Treasurer should be after now in
order to finance the war on sensible and
sound lines.
Much of it should be taken by taxa-
tion. War is an expense, not a thing
that can be safely financed on borrowed
money. If it is possible to take £449-
million-worth of goods and services from
the people for war this year it is also
possible to take most of the correspond-
ing money.
This paper is all for the success of the
present £ 100-million loan. Even if it be
practicable or desirable, no country in
the world has found it advisable to
finance its war effort entirely out of taxa-
tion. But after this Australian loan we
see the prospect of a further £2OO mil-
lion of loans. Altogether 54 p.c. of
Commonwealth expenditure is to be met
from loans this year, and it represents
a situation that approaches the scan-
dalous.
The voluntary system of asking
for money, like the voluntary system of
enlistment, draws principally on the
better class of citizen. And it is the
better type of citizen who in any case
would be careful that his spending did
not interfere with the Government’s
efforts to buy the essentials of war at the
most reasonable price. On the other
hand it is hard to visualise the black-
marketeer subscribing to Government
loans voluntarily. Nor will the spend-
thrift who competes with the Govern-
ment in buying be the one to help —he
will be another hindrance. Yet the Gov-
ernment’s taxation policy rests lightly on
these people, while the Prime Minister
castigates the thrifty. The fact that the
thrifty do save rather than spend, even
if they do not directly lend to the Gov-
ernment, is of definite assistance.
The Government won’t be able to
raise £3OO million from the public this
year by means of voluntary loans. It
will have two alternatives —to increase
taxation or to hog into bank credit.
These alternatives are the opposite of
each other. Taxation is the ideal system
of paying for war ; it represents current
payment for a current expense, spread
over the people in the proportion to
their ability to pay, and, as it corresponds
with the facts of the case, it has no hang-
over. Bank credit, on the other hand,
actually adds to the money in the hands
of the people, and produces the utterly
erroneous illusion that money is being
made out of war. It produces inflation
eventually even if price-control and
rationing temporarily check it, and in-
flation then kills off production and em-
ployment. As things seem at present,
inflation threatens to be the principal
component of Australia’s “new order”
after the war.
It is of no use Mr. Curtin’s flogging the
willing horse further or holding the
decent and thrifty up to contempt. It
is his own knock-kneed financial policy
that is at fault—the fear of taxing ration-
ally those hundreds of thousands who
together amount to the greatest producing,
consuming, earning and voting factor in
Australia today. The people earning £8
a week and under represent over 70 p.c.
of all incomes. These people have to
be governed whether they are willing or
unwilling. Labor is afraid to govern
them, and its fear arises not so much
from the attitude of the people concerned
themselves as from the stand of some of
their trade-union bosses and the organisa-
tion at their disposal. Some of these set-
ups are utterly un-Australian and un-
democratic in “principle.”
Tooth and Co., the big Sydney brewery,
has maintained its div. at 12 p.c. in spite
of rationing, rationalisation and taxation.
Its shares have moved up to 535. again,
the top limit.


If o w
LD
man
SAWE
NED, WHAT ARE
1 you DOING
WITH ALL THE i
EXTRA CASH '
ZOO EARN, THESE
DAVS? /
OH, I PUT A BIT
6X UNCLE.
BUT IT ISN'T HARO TO GET RID OF MONEy.
RACING.
ru
ry,
1
0
s
K
m.
\ vV
%
P 'CTURBS.
GUESS YOU'RE Y
ENTITLED TO A I
BREAK, SON. BUT *
WEVE ALL GOT TO
PAV FOR j£^LTHE
,
JUST THIS, MY BOV. THE
GOVERNMENT'S ASKING US
TO CUT DOWN SPENDING i
AND IT'S UP TO CHAPS /
LIKE YOU AND ME TO 1
Buy AUSTERITV BONDS]
WITH OUR SAVINGS. A
I HADNT
THOUGHT OF
IT LIKE THAT.
I COULD GET
ALONG ON
> LESS.
WHV, WHAT ARE
yOU GETTING AX
I UNCLE ?
Bonds
cost £lO each and
are obtainable in
multiples of £lO.
Your investment is
backed by the
whole resources of
Australia.
WAR, you
KNOW
m
m
t \
✓ax*
■C*
U*,: f h
s&!!S
W\
jrtvQQrvwv.
%
a
OiS 1
X'w
m
VAST
WELL HERE'S THE FIRST OF
MV BONDS, UNCLE. I CAN /L '
SEE IT'S THE RIGHT THING
TO DO. AND NOW I'LL HAVE
SOMETHING TO MVSELF
UP WHEN
UX OVER.
<1
M
It’s not enough to work
fight . . . we must PAY for
the war as well
How much should a man save? Every pound, every
shilling that he doesn’t require for his vital needs. You
see, by spending cash on things that are quite unneces-
sary, you keep men working on jobs that really don’t
matter. That’s not going to help win the war! Why not
follow this rule? Put all you can spare into the Austerity
Loan before you spend a penny of your pay. You’ll be
helping the country and you’ll have something to draw
when the war’s over.
austerity bonds
• £lO each and obtainable in multiples of £lO.
• H% interest if you redeem them in 1958.
redeemable in 1947.
£ Bonds are realizable in case of need.
Q You can buy your Bonds by instalments If you
wish—lo% down and the balance over 3 or 9
months.
O Interest starts on money paid from the date of
lodgment.
• Bonds are obtainable from any Bank, Savings
Bank, Stockbroker, or Money Order Post Office.
AL.64.i7
A case recently came before the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court where a
youth was employed on munitions work
by Sidney Williams, Ltd., at two-thirds
of a man’s wages, and an adult
had previously done the work at
adult wages. The youth was doing
the same amount of work as the
adult until the Federated Moulders’
(Metals) Union directed him to cut down
his output by one-third. Under the
National Security Regulations his em-
ployer was debarred from paying him
the wages of an adult. The firm is a
protected undertaking, and Judge O’Mara
suggested that the only thing to do was
to get rid of the 20-year-old youth
and have him transferred To the army ;
“in a protected undertaking there is no
place for a young man who is going
slow.” Mr. McDonald, who appeared
for the Metal Trades Employers, replied:
“The difficulty is that this young fellow
is not going slow because of his own
desire ; it is because of the intimidation
and what is held over him by the shop
committee. I understand these are the
people who will not allow him to do it.”
Mr. Hargreaves, for the union, said it
was the executive of the Moulders’
Union, not the shop committee, who
made the decision. He suggested that the
difficulty be got over by ordering the
employer to pay the youth full wages.
His Honor said he had no authority to
do that, though the willingness of the
firm was admitted, and he had no stand-
ing in the matter of dealing with unions’
“go-slow” tactics, as suggested by Mr,
McDonald, under the National Security
Regulations. He asked why the em-
ployers didn’t take the matter of hin-
diance to the war effort to the Attorney-
General themselves. But there was no
argument that reduced output at the fac-
tory was a result of union action, and
Mr. Hargreaves said “That is admitted.”
* * * *
In order to stop the hoarding of
metallic currency the Federal Treasurer
has issued a regulation imposing severe
penalties on people found guilty of pay-
ing or accepting more than face value for
Australian silver or copper coins. This
action has been made necessary by the
hoarding of coinage “for petty gain,”
said Mr. Chifley. He added that over
the past 16 months more than nine times
the amount of coinage had been put into
circulation compared with a similar
period immediately preceding the out-
break of war. It is, unfortunately, not
merely for ‘petty gain” that people are
hoarding coin; they are also hoarding
notes by the million, and fear of the
Government’s financial policy, plus a
desire to avoid taxation, is at the bottom
of it. The Government obviously ought
to take more of the national income for
war purposes at the source of earning.
Then there wouldn’t be the opportunity
or desire to hoard,
* * * *
It has been announced that a “new
system” of price revision is to be intro-
duced on the Stock Exchanges. “From
time to time” Treasurer Chifley will
“select a group and a date for its price
revision. The ultimate ceiling of prices
is the levels ruling in September, 1941.”
That is going to be hard on holders of
B.H.P. scrip and N. S. Wales shares.
Around September, 1941, Forde, then in
the Opposition, was bellowing for the
nationalisation of 8.H.P., and prices were
very depressed. About the same time all
N. S. Wales shares had been dealt a foul
blow by McKell’s new company tax,
which abolished rebates, and by the un-
certainty of his tax measures generally.
* ~ * *
In London, New York and Australia
last week industrial share prices averaged
the highest level of the year. London’s
recovery has been more pronounced than
Australia’s, especially in recent weeks,
notwithstanding that there have been
no “4 p.c. profits” suggestions in Britain
this year to establish a low base from
which recovery might be judged. Aus-
tralian share prices have suffered severely
in 1942 from political causes, and now
are held down by Treasury control of
quotations. In most other Australian
prices inflation is evident, and “policing”
measures are being taken that are costly
in money and man-power. The Austra-
lian economy is caught up in a tangled
web of deceptive finance. Politics are
to blame.
* * * »
The sustained demand for good shares
on Australian ’Changes, which has
forced the price of almost every leading
stock up to its permitted sale limit, mostly
arises from regard for the future. At
present many industrial investments give
a very low yield—B.H.P., for example—
and it is not this immediate return that
is the attraction. It is the belief that after
the .war the organisation and equipment
of these concerns will be vital to the re-
covery of Australia’s trade, which is the
basis of employment and living standards,
and that they will be allowed participa-
tion in the benefits of the return
to peace-time conditions, plus the
general expansion in this country that
seems likely. But at present share-
holders in the majority of companies
are receiving reduced dividends, and even
where they have been maintained at their
old percentage figure divs. have suffered
a depreciation of their buying power.
“The workers,” for whom we gather that
the “new order” is to be a monopoly,
have all the time during this war re-
ceived full cost-of-living compensation
whenever there has been inflation in
prices, etc., and this inflation now
amounts to over 20 p.c. Similar compen-
sation has been denied shareholders, and
in many cases they have, as noted, suf-
fered cuts in the monetary amounts of
their divs. These divs. nowadays carry
no rebate of the tax paid by the com-
pany, and furthermore they are taxed
at the high property rate. The pro-
prietary side of industry has made a very
real sacrifice in this war, and there should
be no forgetting it when the fight is fin-
ished. Another reason for the present
demand for shares is that inflation is
attacking fixed incomes, bank deposits
and life policies, and there is a rush to
change money into essential property,
such as dwellings, land, factory buildings,
plant and stock. This inflation is largely
a Government creation, and its full
measure has not yet developed openly.
* * * *
Australia’s Third Camp—the “war-
time administration” section of the civil
service—is growing and blossoming. A
manufacturer who found he could, by
nrlTi °i °A der ! r° m A lnd ‘ a ’ h . is
price to the Australian Army suddenly
nenelcl a company of investigators
descending on him after he had an-
nounced a reduction in price to the
authorities. They were on the premises
ter weeks and discovered nothing that
resembled profiteering. The same man
was unable to get a written decision on
a necessary change in vital war work,
though all the authorities agreed—orally
-—-that the suggested change was the only
thing that could be done if the work was
to be finished. Now the banks have had
a visitation of showers of inspectors to
see that they haven’t lent any money to
the wrong persons under the provisions
of the National Security (Banking) Regu-
lations. And so the incredible perfor-
mance goes on—the greater the need for
productive man-power, the more the
civil service is swollen with non-produc-
tive men. In transferring men from the
peace-time productive camp to the war-
time camp a third—administrative—camp
was inevitable. But it is growing out of
all proportion to the service it renders,
In fact it is frequently as much obstruc-
five as it is helpful. And in order to help
get out of difficulties created by too
much staff more staff is often taken on.
Will the mushroom growths of this war
ever shake down?
* * * *
One thing that has been noticeable as
a result of the drastic financial regula-
tions now operative in this country is the
almost complete absence of the tub-
thumping and more secretive type of share-
salesman. Even Senator Arthur, who
spruiked for support for Producers’ Oil-
• weU Su PP lies to the extent of holding
public meetings, has been off that sort
of thing since the “oilwell” co finished
in financial disaster and a strong smell
that was not of oil. To begin with,
there are regulations controlling the regis-
tration of new cos., and after that there
are provisions barring the issue of capi-
tal for unessential purposes. Mr. Dedman,
too, has to approve of the projected es-
tablishment of any new industry. On
top of these statutory impediments to
the share-salesman there is the physical
war-time disability, in many cases, of
the enemy having overrun or threatened
the areas favored by company promoters
as the spot marked “X” for their opera-
tions. New Guinea was selected for
several new' rubber-growing enterprises
before the war with Japan, and some of
these were advertised extensively over
the air. They are off the air now. Man-
power shortage has taken even company
promoters and share-salesmen from their
appointed ways, and a strange calm now
prevails in places where once there were
the rustle of prospectuses, the signing of
“vendors’ agreements,” the advising by
lawyers on share-hawking and the smooth
but persistent flow of talk from the sales-
man who met his client by “appointment.”
Share-hawkers made hay in Australia for
15 years before the present war. An
impetus was given to their activities by
the devising of the bond method of
finance. Only a microscopic fraction of
the millions of pounds of public money
put into these things has ever shown a
return to those who signed on the dotted
line.


THE SERVICE MAN
Solomons and Papua.
“Ek Dum”: Operations in the Medi-
terranean may be “the end of the begin-
ning” of the European war, but the war
in the Pacific has not more than begun.
Japan has well on towards 100 trained
and equipped divisions and another 200
to 250 of trained reserves. It still has sur-
plus shipping sufficient to run commer-
cial schedules along the Chinese coast.
It has large stores of metals, fuel and
food. It probably has 10,000 aeroplanes
and is outbuilding its monthly losses,
possibly by 300 per cent, or more. It has
great battleships and large quantities of
smaller naval shipping on the stocks, and
in the past year its 40 to 50 fortified posi-
tions throughout the Mandated Islands,
including the large enclosed base at
Truk and heavily protected submarine
and raider bases at Palau, have un-
doubtedly been considerably strength-
ened. The preoccupation of Washing-
ton and London with the Mediterranean
is an incentive to the enemy to hasten a
decision in the South Pacific.
Whatever happens in other parts of the
world we must never underestimate this
formidable enemy. And we cannot count
on the Russians having anything to do
with the war in the Pacific, in spite of
a thousand Communist assurances that
the “undeclared war” on the Manchukuo-
Siberian border would merge into a
larger war once an Anglo-Russian alli-
ance was signed.
Everywhere in the Pacific, except in
the Solomons, where he is forced to act
in an attempt to drive forward and pre-
vent the development of Australia as an
offensive base, the enemy has entered on
a period of strategic defence. He has
taken a vast empire full of rich war and
industrial stores. And he will use all
the time he can gain to transport iron,
rubber, oil, tin and bauxite, as well as
food, from Malaya and the East Indies
to his home bases in preparation for the
main struggle. That, he knows, can-
not come yet awhile.
After retiring temporarily from the
assault on Guadalcanal, and taking a
bad beating off Santa Cruz, the Japanese
Navy on Thursday launched another
attack with a strong fleet and crowded
transports —“the second round of the
great battle of the Solomons.” An
official warning was issued in Melbourne
on Friday that “this means that we are
still essentially on the defensive” and
that “the Japanese evidently intend to
make another determined effort to
recover Guadalcanal.”
On Sunday Washington announced
that the battle was still in progress and
that to announce details at that stage
would be to give the enemy valuable in-
formation. The enemy claimed to have
sunk six cruisers and a destroyer for the
loss of two destroyers and damage to a
battleship;
Enemy air attacks on Henderson field
area have become intensified. On Nov.
11 two attacks were made—one by 10
bombers and 12 fighters, the other by 25
bombers and five fighters. But United
Nations airmen were ready. Twelve
enemy bombers and five fighters were
shot down and three more bombers and
two fighters were mentioned as probably
destroyed. Seven U.S. Grumman Wild-
cats were lost.
Australian - command co-operation
Fortresses meantime were giving the
Buin-Faisi concentration area in the
north Solomons little rest.
On Nov. 12 at dawn heavy bombers
attacked the Jap naval base and
plastered four ships which were loaded
with troops and equipment — one
of 12,000 tons, one of 10,000, one of
8000 and the fourth of 7000, on the
bombers’ estimate. Losses of men and
material must have been severe. Medium
bombers at the same time struck at the
airfield and started eight separate fires.
In the two raids about 15 tons of bombs
was dropped.
On Saturday MacArthur’s bombers fired
a 12,000-ton transport in a convoy near
New Georgia. On Friday they had hit
two light cruisers at Buin and made near-
misses on a destroyer and a transport.
Time has been on the Allied side in the
Solomons business. On Guadalcanal the
Marines have established moral superior-
ity, and U.S. and Allied air forces are
being built up to considerable strength.
The defenders’ outlook is fully expressed
by Vice-Admiral Halsey, U.S.N.: “Of
course, we are going to hold the Solo-
mons! Has there ever been a doubt
about it?”
On from Oivi.
In Papua the last miles are proving the
hardest. Beyond Kokoda, wedged among
the foothills between Oivi and Gorari,
about 10 miles from the Wairopi bridge
on the Kumusi River, the Japanese put
up stern forlorn-hope resistance, while
U.S. ’planes bombed their track to Buna
every time a target of any description
showed its nose.
By studied and careful outflanking
movements and by dint of hard fighting,
Allied troops inflicted heavy losses
on the enemy and took prisoners. The
rest fled north and north-east to-
wards the hills. They have little hope of
survival. Up to Saturday over 500
Japanese dead had been counted at Orari
and there were hundreds more.
Our men have done a great job, but
their difficulties increase with every yard
through the lengthening of their com-
munication lines, the worsening of the
weather and the slough, and the fact
that they now have to face enemy field
guns. Some of these, together with small
arms, horses and stores, were captured
in the Oivi fight. Air transport has helped
with supplies and wounded.
On Sunday our men were well beyond
Wairopi and the Kumusi River, which
they had rebridged, and only 35 miles
from Buna at the head of the motor road.
The last phase of the Papuan fighting has
been entered on. The U.S. troops flown
into New Guinea have been brought into
the fray. Soon the Nipponese can wave
farewell to Buna, if there are any of them
to wave.
The penetration and occupation of the
country north of the Owen Stanleys will
have serious effects on Japanese strategy,
especially since the fine harbors of the
D’Entrecasteaux are occupied by United
Nations troops. The establishment of
Allied air bases on the north side of the
range will be bad news for Lae and Sala-
maua, or what is left of the outposts of
the Asian co-prosperity sphere established
there. At Buna the Allies would be 200
miles from Salamaua ; the same distance
from New Britain.
The past two months has worked a
notable change in the outlook in the
Australian north-east front.
The Allies now have substantial forces,
better trained and equipped every day,
with armored backing, heavy field-gun
batteries and other might undreamt of a
year ago.
The time will come, possibly within the
next six months, when the enemy will
have to drain every ton of shipping he
possesses southward to man the southern
limits of his occupation in the Pacific.
Even then his marine resources will not
be enough.
Cunningham and Eisenhower.
“Ek Dum”: The quick settlement of
the fate of Algeria and Morocco was a
triumph of sea organisation, planning
and diplomacy.
As a feat of transport and convoy there
has been nothing like this achievement
of Admiral Cunningham’s in history.
The admiral, who sounded gleeful at
being back in the Mediterranean after
months in Washington, told his men on
the deck of a British cruiser: “Nobody
could have done the job better. We look
forward to having the Mediterranean
open shortly. I believe I am correct in
saying that the British and American
navies brought this huge force of troops
to the assault points without a single
soldier being lost at sea.”
In the North African operation 500
mercantile vessels and 350 naval ships
were used, though necessarily not all at
the one time. No estimate of the number
of men landed has been provided. Enemy
sources estimated 140,000 men, though
it was not clear whether this included
the British First Army, which began to
go ashore near the Tunisian border early
last week. An army complete in itself
ranges roughly round about 100,000 in
numbers, sometimes less and sometimes
more, according to its purpose.
In any case, the implications must make
Berlin tremble —Britain has to feed itself
and its resident Americans, Free French,
Poles, Norwegians, Belgians and Czechs,
and provide defence raw materials en-
tirely by sea. It has had to feed with
munitions and vehicles the Russian front,
the Middle Eastern front, the Indian
front and, to a lesser extent, several
other fronts. Yet it has been able to
build up a huge armada with unprece-
dented supplies and push it scatheless
through bomber- and U-boat-infested
seas for a couple of thousand miles to
develop offensive action right under the
nose of the Luftwaffe.
Events in French North Africa have
not sorted themselves out fully. The
towns which were taken —Casablanca,
Rabat, Oran and Algiers, Bougie and
Bone are the principal ones in Morocco
and Algeria—assure command of most
inland roads, of airfields, ports and of a
reasonably safe sea route a third of the
way along the Mediterranean under the
protection of coastal guns and land-based
’planes.
General Eisenhower did his best to
land peacefully. British and American
officers were in North Africa before him
engaged in secret negotiations. The
Americans had been at work diplomati-
cally for months. The Free French,
whose presence might have complicated
the business, were left out of the adven-
ture —General de Gaulle was in London.
The first attacks along 1000 miles or
more of coast were almost simultaneous
in the early dawn. The atmosphere was
well prepared by the smashing victories
of the Eighth Army, which was well on
towards Libya in its chase after Rommel.
The Ports Are Taken
The main interior concentration was
against Algiers. There it was known
that Admiral Darlan, the French Com-
mander-in-Chief, who had been visiting
ports as far afield as Dakar, was lodged
with the C.-in-C. of North Africa, Gen-
eral Juin. Algiers is peculiarly susceptible
to naval attack —it stands out like a
dropped handkerchief against the hills
behind.
Before dawn on November 8 a fleet
headed by the British 16in.-gun flagship
Nelson, with her sister Rodney and the
aircraft-carrier Argus, convoyed in a
large fleet of transports laden with U.S.
troops. A destroyer landed American
Rangers on the quay. Main landing-
forces were put ashore on each side of
the city, which they gradually enveloped.
There was some fighting, a little shell-
ing of docks and of a submarine which
tried to leave the harbor and was dealt
with.
A strong initial advantage was gained
when Maison Blanche, one of the two
main aerodromes, fell to the Allies with-
out a fight. U.S. paratroops took the
other ’drome —Blida. Both were soon
stacked with fighters and bombers from
the carriers and Gibraltar. Inland high-
ways were cut, rail communication with
Oran was broken.
By dark the city, almost completely
undamaged (it holds about 250,000
people), was in Allied hands. Darlan
had apparently allowed himself to be cap-
tured at the bedside of his sick son. Juin
had surrendered with him. Later it de-
veloped that Darlan was acting as a free
agent.
A British destroyer led the fleet into
Algiers. The Union Jack, the. first flag
up, was hoisted without hauling down
the French flag. It had all been orderly.
At Oran, which is less susceptible to
direct attack, a similar procedure had
been followed. On one side of the town
and naval base of Mers-el-Kebir land-
ings of men, tanks and guns were made at
Arzeu, to the north-east; Bou-Sfer. on
the west, also saw a landing. Coastal bat-
teries fired on the squadrons, and land-
ing parties came under fire as they con-
verged round the city and made for the
aerodromes. There the fighting was far
heavier than at Algiers.
One British cruiser came in under the
land guns and wrecked three destroyers
which attempted to leave the harbor. She
damaged two more and silenced shore
batteries which hampered the rushing
of the boom defences. Finally, after two
days in action, during which 25 tor-
pedoes were fired at her, her batteries
were straddled by superior land guns and
she passed on her job to a battleship.
A number of small French vessels
were sunk. Vichy claimed the sinking of
two British corvettes. Communications
were cut. Aerodromes were taken over
and put into use before the news of the
armistice.
On the Atlantic coast several landings
had been made, all aimed primarily at
anchorage, aerodrome and highway con-
trol. The main objective, Casablanca,
with its fine man-made naval harbor, was
approached warily and only after foot-
holds had been secured in other places.
In Casablanca harbor there was some
French naval force, and the presence of
the Jean Bart advertised caution. This
35,000-ton ship, 794 ft. long, 155,000 h.p.,
was complete at St. Nazaire when France
fell, save for her 15in. guns, which had
not been installed. She had never been
to sea, but the French succeeded in get-
ting her to Casablanca.
There is no specific information as to
whether they succeeded later in gunning
her heavy turrets ; in any case she was
something to be wary of, and at the
same time a valuable prize, though not
so valuable as Casablanca intact.
The failure of a planned rising in
Morocco seems to have delayed success
there, equally with French naval resist-
ance. In the end Casablanca harbor had
to be bombed. The Jean Bart was hit
and set on fire. Destroyers were sunk
and damaged. Vichy, after the fall of
the town, admitted that a part of the
defending forces had been destroyed
along with the greater part of the French
fleet operating in Moroccan waters. Six
or seven U.S. battalions with naval and
air support were used.
German Counter-measures
The Germans wasted no time before
trying to meet the situation.
Within three days their troops began
to march southward.
Before the week-end Berlin declared
that all strategic points had been covered
along the south coast of France from
the Spanish border eastward, and that
the occupation of Corsica by Italian
forces was proceeding. Later came news
that Corsicans were resisting the invasion.
U-boats were rushed to the Mediter-
ranean. Bombers made some vigorous but
unsuccessful attacks on landing forces
and aerodromes.
Every night Berlin Radio put out
astronomical claims as to its successes
in sinking shipping. It began on Nov.
8 with the allegation that “about 442,000
tons have been sent to the bottom in 11
days” and built this up to nearly 1,000,000
tons by the end of the week. It was
claimed that the Queen Elizabeth, the
world’s largest ship, was among the
victims of torpedoes. The Admiralty,
while admitting that there had been some
other losses, said “not confirmed” about
Elizabeth. 8.8. C. reported the destruc-
tion of 13 U-boats —five in two days.
By the end of the week Paris Radio
declared that there were 250,000 Germans
in southern France, and that 1,000,000
Italians were arrayed on their native soil
burning to defend it. It made nobody
uneasy, save those who have to provide
prison camps and who already have
enough Italian prisoners to start anew
Italy.
A German attempt to develop an agi-
tation in “occupied France,” through use
of Doriot’s People’s party, for a declara-
tion of war against Britain and the
U.S.A., failed to produce anything except
riots in Paris.
Though in Washington the Vichy
Minister was handed his passports, all
France was declared enemy-occupied ter-
ritory, and all French ships in American
ports were taken into custody, Mr.
Cordell Hull declared that there would be
no declaration of war for the time being.
Darlan Orders the Cease-fire
Within 24 hours of the first operations
against Algiers, British and American
troops were landing there and the first
steps were being taken to establish the
British First Army further east in a posi-
tion whence it could march into Tunis
as the spearhead of an Allied force. The
First Army is commanded by Lieut.-
General K, A. C. Anderson, a Seaforth
Highlander with a great war record.
President Roosevelt before the attack
on the African coast had informed the
Bey of Tunis of what was afoot;
The indomitable and massive armed
forces which I am dispatching to North
Africa in collaboration with the forces or
France will co-operate with you in the
defence of your country... .We and our
Allies hope for the great privilege of a
passage through Tunisia, thus enabling us
to accomplish our mission-—the elimination
of the forces of evil in North Africa.
The first landing of British troops at
Philippeville, 60 miles from the Tunisian
border, was followed by the intermediate
occupation of Bougie, a halfway port
between the Tunisian border and Algiers,
and by the dropping of mainly British
and some U.S. parachute troops at Bone,
still closer to the Tunisian border and
within fighter range of the great naval base
o£ Bizerta and of Tunis and Sfax. Stax
faces eastward across the Libyan Gult,


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND—HAMILTON DISTRICT.
No. 1237.
TO REGINALD CONRAD FITZGERALD
formerly of Te Awamutu in New Zealand
Labourer but latterly said to be of Townsville
Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
FLORENCE HELLEN AMELIA FITZ-
GERALD has filed a Petition for Divorce
against you in this Court on the ground of
wilful desertion without just cause during a
period of three years and upwards namely
from the 17th day of June 1930 to the present
time AND that unless you enter an appear-
ance and file an answer in the said Court at
Hamilton within forty (40) days from the date
of insertion of this advertisement the said peti-
tion will be heard and determined in your
absence A copy of the citation and petition
will be supplied to you on your applying for
same at the Supreme Court Office at Hamilton.
DATED at Hamilton in New Zealand this 6th
day of November 1942. — (1.5.) A. E. REY-
NOLDS, Registrar. Friends of the Respon-
dent are particularly requested to forward to
him the foregoing advertisement. JOHN FER-
GUSON STRANG is the Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, whose address for service is at the Office
of MESSIEURS STRANG & TAYLOR, Solici-
tors, South British Insurance Buildings, Vic-
toria Street, Hamilton, New Zealand.
and, time and again, has proved a haven
of refuge for Axis ships caught in the
narrow seas south-west of Pantellaria.
A few dozen miles more advance and,
in clear weather, the invaders will be
able to see Pantellaria —a bit of Italy
sticking high out of the middle of the
Sicilian Strait. It won’t be Italian very long.
At 7 a.m. on Wednesday, Nov. 11, an
anniversary equally hallowed by great
mutual memories to French, British and
Americans, “cease fire” was sounded
throughout North Africa on the orders
of Darlan, to whom General Nogues,
Resident-General in Morocco, had
handed over. Negotiations had, it was
now revealed, been going on with Darlan
for several days.
The Darlan order read:
Our engagements having been fulfilled,
and a bloody battle become useless, the
order is given to all land, sea and air
forces in North Africa to cease their fight
against America and her Allies sur-
render their arms and return to their bar-
racks and bases and observe the strictest
neutrality.
The terms include an exchange of
prisoners—there were 400 Americans,
largely parachutists, in French hands.
General Giraud meanwhile had an-
nounced that he had assumed command
of all French troops in Africa,
With Algeria and French Morocco
at the disposal of the Allies and the bulk
of the rest of the huge territorial posses-
sions of France presumably so, with the
doubtful exceptions of Tunis and Dakar,
Armistice Day was celebrated at Rabat
by the placing of a wreath on the tomb
of Marshal Lyautey, founder of the
French African Empire.
On Thursday night a proclamation by
Darlan was broadcast. He said that on
Tuesday, before the German entry into
Unoccupied France began, Petain, believ-
ing that he (Darlan) was a captive, had
appointed General Nogues as his dele-
gate in North Africa. “In full freedom,
and at General Nogues’s request,” he,
Darlan, “assumed responsibility for
French interests in Africa,” and he had
“the approval of the American authori-
ties,” on whom he counted in assuming
North Africa’s defence, Nogues made a
confirmatory broadcast.
It was clear that Hitler was not getting
much co-operation from the Vichy Gov-
ernment. Though Vichy Radio, now
under German control, declared that
Petain was incensed at Darlan’s dis-
obedience, there was no authenticated
official complaint from the Marshal.
Lieut.-General Clark, for the U.S. C.-in-
C., broadcast that General Eisenhower
was acting in co-operation with Darlan
for the defence of North Africa.
Few Germans were found in French
North Africa —only the Armistice Com-
mission, which was grabbed entire.
By the week-end only one matter
remained to be cleared up at the western
end of the Mediterranean. French North
Africa had been firmly occupied. Recon-
naisance ’planes reported that the French
in Tunisia were resisting the landing of
hastily-sent German and/or Italian
troops and light tanks, and a dozen
Italian transport ’planes had been shot
down by Allied defence squadrons.
The main aerodrome at Tunis, which
seemed to be in German hands, was
bombed twice by the R.A.F., which
during its second visit lost two machines.
Landing of German paratroops on the
airfield of the naval base at Bizerta and
subsequent heavy raids on the base by
Allied machines were reported; also,
German air raids on Bone and Bougie.
Lieutenant-General Anderson, with his
First British Army, had begun to cross
the Tunisian border without opposition.
The R.A.F. was still able to find enough
of Genoa to raid.
British and U.S. policy had proved
itself right again in Spain. General
Franco had notified Mr. Roosevelt that
“he accepted with pleasure” the Presi-
dent’s assurances that the Allies in North
Africa did not menace Spanish territory
and “confidently” hoped that relations
among the Moroccan people would be
maintained “in the spirit of peace and
reciprocal confidence.”
It would have been a far different tale
if the intervention for which boo-boo
boys and Communists had yelled hotly
during the Spanish war had taken place.
The only mystery was that of the
French fleet of two battleships and sev-
eral cruisers and other ships in Toulon,
which the Germans had not occupied—
possibly because it would have meant a
fight on French soil which might have set
the whole of France aflame. The fate of
the fleet and its whereabouts and condi-
tion are not yet known, except perhaps
to Darlan and those in his immediate
confidence.
It is unlikely to have any German or
Italian sympathies. Darlan has had strong
support from the French Navy throughout.
What was happening at Dakar was also
unknown at the week-end. Paris Radio
reported Boisson, Governor-General of
West French Africa, as saying that Dakar
“constituted a card of which nobody
doubted the value in the game against
the British,” and that he and his fol-
lowers “had no intention of letting it be
taken away.”
The position of Dakar is hopeless, if
it actually needs to be taken.
French North Africa, if its armies can
be turned to Allied uses, is a great mili-
tary acquisition. Its standing army is
about 120,000 to 140,000 seasoned troops,
with an excellent backing of* reserves.
Armed and given air and artillery sup-
port, they will form a formidable accre-
tion to the Allied forces —enough to
bring France once again into the front
ranks of the fighting Allies.
It should be possible to raise 400,000
first-class troops and to recruit a vast
quantity of invaluable native labor in
France’s African possessions, apart from
the value of her naval bases and ports.
Rommel Really Runs.
“Ek Dum”: While two diverging col-
umns of Allied troops were driving into
Tunisia—one bound for Bizerta, the
other aiming straight for Tripoli, 450 miles
away —Rommel was reported to be in
Munich explaining himself to his
Fiihrer, and what remained of his army
was racing hell-for-leather ahead of the
Eighth Army across Cyrenaica.
To Montgomery’s hard-tried men it
must have seemed like a miracle. On
Oct. 23 they were beginning their battle.
On Nov. 4 they were in the throes of an
intense line battle reminiscent of the last
war, with all its nerve-shaking parapher-
nalia of artillery barrages and bayonet
and grenade attacks and guns every 20
yards.
On Nov. 13 no Germans or Italians
remained in Egypt save the dead and the
prisoners. Though rain had cheated the
Eighth Army of a more complete tri-
umph, its cup was full enough. Solium
and Bardia had passed into its hands
without resistance. Thirty Maorilanders
had taken the Halfaya Pass positions
with the loss of one man killed and two
wounded, though 600 Italians were
entrenched and heavily armed in the
strong though easily bombable ravines.
The Maorilanders scaled Halfaya
heights and went over the top yelling.
They were met by a few scattered shots
and a waving sea of white handkerchiefs.
Tobruk, or what was left of it after the
numerous visits of the Imperial Air
Forces, did not resist. In it were found
4000 happy but emaciated colored South
Africans who had been kept there by the
Germans as laborers. Some German
prisoners were taken. Hundreds who
tried to escape in boats and barges were
wiped out by the R.A.F.
Rushing westward to Gazala, along a
route marked clearly by abandoned
Italians and other German jetsam, the
fires of Derna could be seen across the
wadi.
In a week the British vanguard had
travelled 460 miles after an exhausting
battle. It seemed some time since they
had been in contact with the main Axis
forces, which appeared to be racing for
El Agheila, abandoning every town, port
and airfield in an attempt to reach the
only point possible for a stand east of
Tripoli before the British Hussars could
break south through Mekili and cut them
off on the Benghazi-Agheila road, as had
been done by Wavell’s men in pursuit
of Berganzoli’s fleeing armored caravans.
By Saturday the main body of enemy
troops were at Gyrene, while its rear-
guards burned the stores and dumps of
Derna. It was clear that it would be
nip-and-tuck for Rommel.
It was also clear that the description
of his forces as “remnants” was correct.
His casualties counted by the British to
Nov. 13 were 75,000, but there were still
thousands of Italians waiting to surrender.
Benghazi was being ceaselessly bombed.
The coastal drive of the British was only
150 miles from that town, and mechan-
ised pursuers were approaching Mekili,
only 120 miles from the Benghazi-
Agheila road.
The enemy had no chance of holding
Agheila. Its defences, though strong,
were too limited to withstand the Eighth
Army’s type of push.
There was enough British artillery to
pack guns wheel to wheel along the 15
or 20 miles of defence line, and the de-
fenders had no aerodromes worth the
name in the region.
On Sunday it seemed that it would be
only a matter of hours before two British
armies, the Eighth at Benghazi and the
First at Sfax, would face each other
across the Gulf of Libya and hold in a
vice the last bit of parched North
African coast in Axis hands.
Then woe betide Tripoli and the rest
of Rommel’s army! For them there is
no escape. At the beginning of the
month they and their masters in Berlin
seemed to be the de facto controllers of
North Africa. Now the broken rem-
nants of the racing panzer and mechan-
ised divisions are only a fugitive band
in an Allied continent. And it becomes
a smaller band each day as it is more
closely confined by the nature of the
escarpment and the roads, and as Allied
bombing of the packed columns becomes
more concentrated.
The A.l.F.’s Great Part
The more that becomes known of the
decisive factors of the El Alamein battle,
the more room there seems to be for
pride in the A.l.F.’s grand Ninth Divi-
sion.
The enemy knew the British attack
was being prepared. The advantage, if
anything, seemed to rest with him. He
actually at first had superiority in the
air, but not superiority in vital air
phases—the Boston bombers, which pat-
terned their battle targets on his aero-
dromes with eggs laid only 50 yards
apart, were the squadrons which, accord-
ing to Air Marshal Tedder, broke the
back of the opposition. They destroyed
everything; they were “more terrible
than anything seen before.”
The coastal sector was held by the
30th Army Corps. Its commander, Lieut.-
General Ritchie, presumably the former
commander of the Eighth Army, had the
task of forming the axis of the battle
while another corps forced the break-
through further south. He gave the
lion’s share of the credit for his success
to the Ninth Division A.I.F.
He wrote to Lieut.-General Morshead
that it was difficult for the A.I.F. to
realise the magnitude of the part it
played in the battle, since the ultimate
break-through by the armored divisions
had been made in a part of the line
it could not see.
He wrote:
I am quite certain the break-through
was only made possible by the Homeric
fight over your division’s sector... .When
it was no longer possible for the crumbling
process to go on in the south, the Army
Commander decided to continue with his
Homeric policy in the north. This led to
five days’ bitter fighting on your front.
During this time your division was attacked
four times and counter-attacked inces-
santly by enemy infantry and tanks. The
main mass of heavy and medium artillery
was concentrated on your front and the
enemy had concentrated the whole of his
panzer corps against you. Your fight gave
the opportunity for the conception of the
final break-through in the centre, but this
could never have been done if your front
had been broken If the Germans could
have broken your division the whole gun
support of the attack would have been dis-
organised and its success vitally prejudiced.
The A.1.F., then, formed the pivot on
which General Montgomery’s leverage
worked. The hammer which battered out
the first narrow breach and widened it
beyond repair was the 10th Corps, made
up of two British armored divisions and
the armored Maorilanders.
This compact and terrible formation,
which Mr. Churchill described as “a ball
of fire,” was kept specifically for this
battering-ram job.
It had been withdrawn from the front
line after the battle of August 30, when
Rommel failed to break through. Ger-
man scouts occasionally had a hurried
glimpse of it 50 miles away indulging
in intensive training. Its Grants and Sher-
mans appeared to be still there on the eve
of the break-through, but during the night
the 10th Corps had stolen forward, leav-
ing behind a vast array of camouflage
and imitation which completely deceived
the enemy.
The first Rommel knew of the actual
presence of the 10th Corps in the battle
was when it hit him.
The only fight he put up afterwards
was in a grim encounter down the road
at Fuka, where British and German
armor joined battle in a real gust of
racial fury. In this the Germans who
took part were almost wiped out.
In the rear R.A.F. ’planes were drop-
ping water and food to famished Italians,
who had been left to their fates when the
Germans stole their vehicles to accelerate
their own flight.
Mr. Casey, now British Minister in
the Middle East, quoted General Mont-
gomery as saying that thousands would
have died through the appalling callous-
ness of their German “allies” if it had not
been for the succor of our land and air
patrols. A whole Italian division (Pis-
toria) was found in the waterless desert
country of the border without transport.
Mr. Casey summed up the battle after
viewing the trail of ruin for all the way
to Libya by saying that he did not think
history could show many instances of
the destruction of so many divisions in
so short a time.
The most humorous item in German
news during the week was an announce-
ment that Rommel’s main force was not
in contact with the enemy, but was ad-
vancing westward without molestation.
A week ago Mr. Churchill gave the
Eighth Army’s losses as 13,600 officers and
men, 58 p.c. being U.K. The Australian
casualties are reckoned at 2000, the great
majority being wounded.
Winter Comes in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Winter has begun to
clamp down on Soviet Russia. Last
week it was reported that the Luftwaffe
was being withdrawn from the front—it
began to withdraw from the north last
year on November 6.
There has been some struggling for
communication lines east of Leningrad,
including fighting for or in Schlusselburg,
which lies at the south-western tip of
Lake Ladoga.
It was first reported that the tempera-
ture at Stalingrad had dropped below
zero ; then that the weather had appar-
ently improved so rapidly in a few hours
that the Germans had attempted another
large attack. Still a few hours later it
was announced from Moscow that the
assault lacked weight and momentum.
The German force used, according to
Moscow, consisted of two regiments—
-6000 men. Next day it was reported that
“several thousand” had been destroyed.
A German tank division was men-
tioned by correspondents as being iso-
lated south of Nalchik, in the Caucasus,
and in a serious position through lack of
petrol. And the Germans near Tuapse
on the Black Sea coast were now de-
scribed as having to contend with a
strong Russian force in their rear in the
southern environs of Novorossisk. All
that the official Russian communiques
have had to say is that “at Nalchik our
troops conducted active operations, driv-
ing the enemy from two inhabited places.
Our troops repelled two small enemy
attacks north-east of Tuapse.”
To all intents and purposes the mobile
campaign of 1942 in Russia can be
counted as over. What happens during
the winter will largely depend on what
food and coal and other fuel supplies
have been stored up. It will be a shock-
ing winter for the people.
The Allies will, of course, do what they
can, but their own offensives must be
their first preoccupation.
Moscow paid comparatively little
attention to the Allied drive in Africa
until Stalin expressed confidence that the
African campaigns would soon relieve
German pressure on the Russian front.
Then it received qualified praise.
“Lolly Legs”: A useful job has been
done almost throughout the war by the
Gunnery Instruction School, which has
grown into new quarters at an Austra-
lian port. The school gives a short
course in low- and high-level gunnery
to men who go down to the sea in ships.
Ingenuity and enthusiasm are the
driving forces of the teaching staff,
which doesn’t set out to turn out
a complete gunner in the short time, but
rather to give a basic training which
can be followed up at sea. The
school has the best equipment south of
the Line and is gaining more. Some of
the gadgets reproduce actual warfare con-
ditions, even to the noise of dive-bombers
and rapid-fire a.-a. weapons. On all the
seas of the world merchant ships are
sailing with gun crews who’ve been
through the school, and they have an im-
pressive record of kills of both enemy
aircraft and subs. Anybody who wishes
may take the course on providing the
usual bona fides, but it is more or less
specially designed for merchant seamen,
who, on completion of their training, get
a certificate and a present of 10s. from
the King. About 2500 men, mainly mer-
chant seamen, have passed through the
school in the past 10 weeks.
* * * *
The Admiralty reports the loss of H.M.
submarine Talisman and her daring cap-
tain, Lieut.-Commander Michael Wilmot.
She had a long list of kills to her credit.
Her best known exploit was one in which
she sank a U-boat, cheekily turned her
single gun on an Italian destroyer escort
and sank a troopship under the destroyer’s
unjointed nose.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Though the heads had come off many
of the poppies bought the Friday before,
and the petals were just crumpled up
little blobs of red in handbag and coat
pocket, still Sydney wore the scarlet
emblems on Armistice Day. She wore them
in her memories. She wore them in her
heart. But this year, the first time since
the war began, there was a sort of
triumph mingled with the thoughts of
that brave young army of 1914-18. To-
day’s enemies, who had been its enemies,
were again being beaten back. An-
other young army which also believes
in justice and liberty and human kind-
ness was prevailing. Two minutes’ silence!
A man, or a woman, can think a long
way back, a long way forward, in two
minutes. Sydney, with the rest of the
Empire, last Wednesday remembered her
soldier dead. The sentiments of tender-
ness and pride of the first Armistice Day
have grown into a noble tradition.
Amusing, yet at the same time alarm-
ing, was the note received last week from
The Bulletin’s old friends Anthony
Horderns’, on Brickfield Hill. Here is an
extract; —
We were informed by the Police Depart-
ment that a draft order has been put
through and that there will be no ban on
Santa Claus. He will arrive at the store at
1.30 on the 15th inst.
So the Police Department has had to visa
Santa Claus’s passport and, as it were,
O.K. his respectability. Shades of
Dickens! For centuries the benevolent
friend of children who comes laden with
toys and joys has been the most welcome
guest this world has known. Children,
in every tongue of Christendom, have
hymned his praises. But in this year of
grace he has just escaped being made an
outlaw by the Minister of War Organisa-
tion.
This afternoon at two o’clock the
Make and Menders of the N.W.A. intend
to combine business and pleasure and
hold a card afternoon for their funds.
Bridge is the game chosen, and the Pick-
wick Club the battle station.
When the Japanese submarines came
romping into Sydney Harbor a few
months ago they did not do so with the
intention of benefiting the British sailor
man. But they did —to the extent of
£13,000 to date, the amount netted by the
exhibition of the shattered subs, in Bene-
long Park. This was rejoiced over at
the Naval War Auxiliary meeting. This
active group of women workers dis-
tributed 22,000 garments to the R.A.N.
and men on the minesweepers and patrol
ships. The auxiliary held its third yearly
meeting at David Jones’s, George-street,
last week, and Rear-Admiral Muirhead-
Gould brought the good tidings of a
gift of £3OO. Mrs. C. J. Pope is the presi-
dent of the N.W.A.
The Lunch-time Music Club will gp
into yearly recess after November 30th’s
concert in History House. Musically and
in every way the club has been
a success. Certainly it has been
an acquisition to Sydney, In the black-
est weeks of the early part of this
year, when the Pacific was a seething
cauldron of disaster, it was good to slip
into this neat and complete little hall
near the Quay, and, dropping the heavy
green curtains at the entrance on the out-
side world, to rise on wings of song into
realms higher than bomber could attain.
This commendation also extends to all
the musical world of the city, from A.B.C.
symphony concerts and Conservatorium
operas to student recitals. All have done
their part, and, if they could not show the
silver lining, at least they reminded that
the silver lining was there. On Monday
week the L.-t.M.C. will end its season
notably. “On Wenlock Edge” is the
work chosen, and those who know the
Housman poem will have special joy in
it. Archie Hamilton will be the tenor.
Early this year Furlough House put up
the shutters on its Narrabeen home and
went west. It settled in Orange, and there
continued the good work it has been
doing for 24 years, giving the wives and
children of soldiers a yearly holiday.
The yearly meeting of the A.I.F. Wives
and Children’s Holiday Association went
off last week with harmony and enthusi-
asm. The big decision was that of estab-
lishing a Furlough House permanently at
Orange, where the good air has already
done much for the guests, and, when the
war is over, to reopen the house at Narra-
been. This would mean that inlanders
could come to the coast and seasiders
could sample the green and plenteous
countryside of Orange. Mrs. I. M.
Johnston is organiser of the association.
Furlough House will soon have a recre-
ation hall. The Greek community is
launching an appeal for £5OO for this
purpose.
The Y.W.C.A. will soon scoop in its
millionth shilling, and then recreation
huts for service women will raise debonair
beads wherever the need for them is felt.
This national shilling drive has been as
swift to advance to its objective as the
Eighth Army in Egypt, The appeal was
sponsored by Lady Gowrie and had
steady support from Lady Wakehurst. At
a meeting of the N.S.W. committee last
week it was disclosed that this State had
dug into her handbag and produced
£17,255 of the £46,000 already in hand.
Victoria’s not inconsiderable donation
was £12,000. Queensland flung £4OOO into
the arena and the Federal Capital con-
tributed the very respectable amount of
£l2OO. The Minerva Theatre matinee a
few Saturdays ago added almost £l5O to
the final round-up.
Mrs. Reg Stafford’s big war effort is
the blood-transfusion work of the Red
Cross. She is on the job telephoning
donors and keeping records at Stanton
House at nine o’clock every day, Satur-
day included, and finishes at five or later,
according to the work on hand. Mrs.
Stafford’s station home was for many
years Llangollen, in the Cassilis district.
She now lives in the Astor, Macquarie-
street. This photograph is from Falk.
South African novelist Cynthia Stock-
ley arrived in Australia two or three
years before her death looking exactly
like one of her own beautiful heroines.
Artist Elaine Haxton has this same
quality and looks like somebody painted
by herself. She brought her special air
of blitheness to the opening of her show
in the Macquarie Galleries, which are
hung about with her paintings. The
show attracted a number of artists,
among them Lloyd Rees, Russell Drysdale
and Sydney Ure Smith, who opened the
exhibition. The artist’s mother was there,
pleased at her daughter’s success.
Sydney Ure Smith said that Elaine’s
art was like the ballet, in that it wafts
the onlooker into a world where all
is light and color —like dreams come
to life. Particularly applauded were
the speaker’s regrets that talents of
artists in Australia had not been
made greater use of in this war
effort. And certainly if man does not
live by bread alone, neither is the
spirit of patriotism fed exclusively by
famous correspondents’ reports. Indeed,
with every army it might be a good idea
to enrol a picked company of artists and
poets. Miss Haxton has work in the
National Gallery, and the Metropolitan
Museum, New York, has bought one of
her pictures from the collection of Aus-
tralian art now in U.S.A. Her art studies
ranged from Sydney Tech, through Lon-
don, Europe and Mexico.
Friends in Goulburn as well as in Syd-
ney were interested in the wedding of
Eileen Gillespie and Lieut. Max H. D.
Waring, A.I.F. Bride’s parents are the
E. Gillespies, of Woollahra. Eileen, all
ivory lace and a billow of tulle, married
her soldier in St. Mary’s Cathedral.
Cousin Kathleen Gillespie was brides-
maid, Robert Burford best man. Bride-
groom is the only son of the H. A.
Warings, of Strathfield.
Not all the matings associated with
chess occur on the playing board. There
were the matrimonial linkings of the
Purdy-Crackanthorp families. Champion
Koshnitsky (“Kosh” to the legion of
chess-players) met his affinity over the
chessboard, and, now that he is away
on army duties, Mrs. Kosh. is fully com-
petent to look after the chess-room at
Anthony Horderns’. Lajos Steiner (whose
war work as a technical engineer keeps
him out of public chess) decided almost
on sight that Edna Kingston, six years in
succession undefeated woman champion
of N.S.W., was his affinity. Now Lorida
Karmalsky, who took Mrs. Steiner’s
chess title from her when only 17, is to
marry Sergeant B. Y. Mills, who has been
seconded from the army for scientific
war work. The pair played with the
University chess team. Medicine is in
Lorida’s blood: her father was a Rus-
sian medico ; her mother is also a doctor.
Lorida is in the fifth year of her medical
course.
Seventeen-year-old Enid Elliott, of
Brisbane, belongs to the company of
what the Irish call “the dark people.”
Through an illness at the age of three
she is quite blind, but she has not allowed
this to interfere with an ambition to be
a radio actress. She has already advanced
the first steps in this career. She played a
small part in “Jealousy Story,” then took
the lead in “Under Suspicion” and other
plays. This clever and determined girl
transcribes her parts into Braille at her
mother’s dictation, and then studies them.
From Melbourne
Saturday afternoon at Flemington was
about as lively as a very ordinary mid-
week meeting of pre-war times. Every-
one wore last autumn’s frock or suit,
usually with last year’s millinery, which
would have looked better had it been
left alone instead of being brought up
to this year’s notions. Surprisingly few
notable folk attended. There was the
usual turnout of grandmas, and there
was even the old dear who for years has
worn her white frock and coat to the
Big Week. Only sign that Melbourne
was rejoicing over the war news was a
great spray of pure white rhododendron
worn as a buttonhole by the wife of a
well-known medico who has a good war
record.
The problems facing the service woman
away from home with a few days’ leave
are being solved by the Y.W.C.A. leave
hostels, the first of which has been
opened in St. Kilda-road. Capacity
is 90 girls, and it is expected that full
house will be the rule nearly every week-
end, this in addition to a fair week-day
average. Presiding genius, Matron
Booth, has done a terrific job getting
things shipshape in the very short time
between taking over the house and
dealing with the fifst rush of over 50
girls. She has broad-minded ideas about
management and discipline. Her right-
hand is Vice-Matron Fishbourne, who has
had experience with clubs and cheerfully
grapples with this one, though there’s
practically no staff.
For the Concerto Festival with Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra six contes-
tants are practising their hardest. Five
of them are pianists and the sixth, Wilma
(or, as she is usually called, Poppe)
Olsen, here pictured by Athol Shmith,
is a violinist. Aged 21, Miss Olsen
is in her third year of the Diploma
of Music course, an exhibition scholar-
ship having brought her to the University
Conservatorium. At the festival (on
Nov. 24) all six finalists will play one
movement from a chosen concerto for
their own instrument and the orchestra.
There is no question of picking a winner,
the six having already qualified for
laurels by their inclusion in the final six.
After the concert many Conservatorium
cirl students will take jobs in canneries;
others will pick fruit during the vacation
season.
One of the finest developments in
W.A.A.A.F. organisation has been the
encouragement of music. A band
formed early in the year plays at most
W.A.A.A.F. gets-together, and girls who
can sing or play always get their chance.
On Sunday night airwomen in neat blue
uniforms gave their first public concert
as a choir, and their singing was accept-
able to a big audience. The A.W.A.S.
also has its choir, and has been heard at
loan and recruiting rallies. This increase
of the musically-minded in the com-
munity will perhaps improve the reper-
toire at community sings, where any but
the best-known ballads are now
embarked upon with deep misgivings.
Denizens of the barracks too far from
the city centre to lunch comfortably in
the time that can be spared from defence
work should be grateful to the members
of headquarters R.A.A.F. Welfare
Auxiliary for starting their canteen and
running it so successfully. Originally
intended for use of the R.A.A.F. and
W.A.A.A.F., hospitality is now extended
to all barracks personnel. Catering and
cooking, in the hands of a chef from
one of Melbourne’s poshest hotels, are so
good that lots of the “higher-ups” who
used to feed in town have made a habit
of coming across to the canteen instead.
Waiting on tables and helping in the
kitchen are the jobs of volunteers, many
of whom have a daily round of various
canteens filling up the entire week.
Appointment of Annette Oldfield as
chief officer of W.R.A.N.S. will place
at the head of the service a first-class
speaker whose voice has often been
heard supporting the National Shilling
Drive and other war-time efforts. Her
greatest achievement has been in plan-
ning and running the club which was
established for women employees at the
Myer store. The clubrooms are delight-
fully furnished and its fees are modest
enough to enable all hands to belong.
Over sherry in one of the tiny dressing-
rooms at the Comedy last Wednesday
Myra Morton met a few women writers
and others who follow theatre news
closely. Hilda Dorrington, also of the
“Rebecca” co., turned up looking un-
like “a woman with a bag of reptiles” (as
one critic called her interpretation of
Mrs. Danvers) as was possible. Three big
theatre nights were held in the first week
of “Rebecca” by well-known organisa-
tions, the last, the English-Speaking
Union’s Red Cross branch. R.A.A.F.
Welfare had held one a few nights pre-
viously, when airmen of allied nations
were in the audience.
Professor and Mr. W. E. Agar have
been receiving messages of goodwill fol-
lowing the announcement of the
approaching marriage of their daughter,
Third Officer Elizabeth Agar, W.R.N.S.,
who has been braving the bomb and the
blitz in Great Britain for some two years.
Lieut. Marshall, her fiance, is, like the
bride-to-be, in the Navy, and the wed-
ding at Christmas will not give either
more than a few days’ leave. Another
Agar daughter married not so long ago
Major Taylor, of the Indian Army, and
came south when British subjects left
Singapore. Her husband managed to
reach India, and is still on active service.
Red Cross authorities are making a
drive for a substitute for the rushes with
which in former times convalescent
patients in military hospitals made rush
baskets. The substitute bears Scirfus-
lacustris as its botanical name. It can’t
be identified by that, of course, but if
any reader sees anything grassy that
looks as though it were tough and pli-
able and grows in running water she or
he can help by forwarding a specimen
to the Melbourne Uni. Botanical School
or to Red Cross House, Swanston-street,
Melbourne, with sender’s name and ad-
dress. Scir, etc., is round and fibrous
with a single stem, and grows straight out
of the water to about 6ft. with a brown-
ish bushy head.
Vale, Edouard Lambert, of Belgian
birth, who for so long played first violin
in Melbourne’s symphony orchestra. For
the last two big orchestral concerts he
had been too ill to attend, and Elise Steele,
who was next to him, led the orchestra.
Son Raymond, who married the daughter
of T. J. Ryan, played with his father on
the last occasion on which Edouard was
heard in public.
Hilltop, the picturesque home of Major
and Mrs. Barnes at Doncaster East, was
the rendezvous for the
minded on Saturday, when an afternoon
in the garden with stalls and games
attracted those who like to help the Red
Cross and aren’t averse to seeing how
someone else’s garden is growing. The
visitors found all the flowers as they
should be and went in heavily for hippe-
astrums. These are lilies from South
America which are running Regales
close for first place in popular regard,
though they have not yet arrived as bridal
vegetation. Unlike Remington flowers,
which have been heavily hit by the thnp,
the Doncaster blooms were still m the
pink and purple.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Outstanding Melbourne Cup trials were
recorded by Great Britain, Tranquil Star,
Skipton and Dark Felt at Flemington last
Saturday.
Great Britain won the Victoria Derby
impressively enough to indicate that, like
Skipton last year, he will carry on the
good work in the Cup. Thrown off
balance by interference shortly after the
start, and eighth after the field had gone
two furlongs, he hit the front at the top
of the straight and streaked away to win
by five lengths from Amazed and
Illyrian, who dead-heated for second.
His time was only half a second outside
the record for the race, and although ex-
cuses were again possible for Amazed
it is improbable the latter would have
beaten Great Britain in any circum-
stances. W. Cook, Sydney soldier jockey,
who used leave granted to take the Great
Britain mount, donated his winning per-
centage to the Federal Government.
Great Britain is the first horse raced
by Mrs. D. Belsom, who paid 850gns.
for him as a yearling, and has returned
£7215 in stakes alone. His decisive win
dispelled all fears concerning his stamina,
and justified trainer H. Freedman’s often
expressed confidence in him as a genuine
stayer. In the last three years Freedman
has won the Victoria Derby with Lucra-
tive and Great Britain, and the A.J.C.
Derby with Laureate. He is of opinion
that Great Britain will “stay all day,”
and that it is only a matter of his doing
well this week to win the Cup.
Tranquil Star, largest stake winner
racing in Australia, with £17,000 to her
credit, enhanced her already bright Cup
prospects by a brilliant win from Pan-
dect and True Flight in the L. K. S.
Mackinnon Stakes. In front soon after
the start she was given a breather by
her apprentice rider, K. Smith, halfway
through, but dashed away again to win
with something in reserve by four lengths.
She equalled the race record of 2.3 i for
the 10 furlongs, and ran the last half-
mile in 47T The record would have been
broken had she been ridden right out.
Tranquil Star has won four races in
succession, and five of her last six. She
has been ridden in four of the wins by
Smith, but it is probable that D. Munro
will have the Cup mount if he is in Mel-
bourne next Saturday. There will be no
fitter runner than Tranquil Star, and,
although 9.3 in the Melbourne Cup repre-
sents a tougher job than the 8.12 she
carried to success over the half-mile-
shorter distance of the Caulfield Cup,
sheer class and fitness might pull her
through.
Although beaten decisively Pandect was
not disgraced, and is still a Cup possi-
bility. He was not doing as well as the
winner at the finish, but met her 91b.
worse than Cup terms, and, being a proved
stayer, will appreciate not having to be
bustled in the early stages of that race.
Brcasley, who rode Tranquil Star in the
Caulfield Cup, but preferred to accept
the mount on Pandect in the Melbourne
Cup, was suspended for two months on
Saturday. His suspension, however, will
not take effect until after the last race
next Saturday, and he will be able to
fulfil the Pandect engagement.
Dark Felt followed his Moonee Valley
Cup success by a clear-cut defeat of
Skipton and Mercury Bay, who dead-
heated for second, in the Hotham Handi-
cap. Dark Felt carried 51b. more than
his Cup weight, and is one of the most
improved stayers in training. His con-
nections concede him a first-class chance
next Saturday, but he may have his work
cut out to finish ahead of Skipton over
the additional two furlongs, fin-
ished the better of the pair in the Hotham
Handicap, but, whereas he is a slow be-
ginner liable to run into trouble during
a race, Dark Felt has the ability to take
up a leading position from barrier-rise.
East End, outstanding juvenile filly
trained in Melbourne last season, easily
defeated Refractive and Mermeran over
the mile of the Wakeful Stakes for three-
year-old fillies. Never farther back than
second, she ran on strongly at the finish,
and a mile and a half should not stop
her in the Oaks next Saturday. Philander,
who made up ground to finish a poor
fourth in the Derby, and Refractive may
be her strongest rivals. East End, like
Great Britain, is by imported Enfield.
Maemanto took her record to four
starts for three wins, a third and £lB5O
in stakes when she outsped Pharisee and
The Bohemian in the Maribyrnong Plate.
Costing only 85gqs. as a yearling, Mae-
manto has developed into a rare bargain.
A brilliant finishing run took Queen
Baccha to decisive victory over Phocion
and Lilette in the Cantala Stakes.
* * * *
Canterbury Park had a specially large
attendance on Saturday, and a tote turn-
over slightly exceeding £31,300 proved
there is no falling-off in ready-money
speculation on our racecourses. No
doubt the books share the prosperity of
the tote.
Trimmer (Shean) made a one-horse
race of the Flying Handicap in 1.12,
against Beaulivre’s track record of LIU.
He led soon after the field settled down,
and from that on he had the race safe.
Petruchio was second from the three
furlongs to the straight entrance, but,
weakening in the run home, was cut
out of second money by Guild Hall.
Though Soho, Romero, Tidemark and
Overbold were backed they did not have
a look-in.
The Canterbury Handicap was also a
runaway affair. Shortly after starting
the back stretch War Bird, who was
slowly away, led from Haripur, Amber-
spear, War Trophy and Angus, but
before reaching the half-mile Amber-
spear (J. Duncan) took up the running.
After that he had matters all his own
way, quickly establishing a lead that
gave nothing a chance of overhauling
him. Gundagai, in second place, came
home strongly, though without being able
to threaten the winner. Panurge, who
struggled into third place, found the dis-
tance as far as he liked, and though It’s
Funny finished fourth his weight had
him settled a long way from home. None
of the others counted in a truly-run race.
Rimveil looked as if he had not done a
great deal since racing at Randwick.
Irish Sea (Bartle) ran up to his backers’
expectations in the first division of the
Highweight Handicap, but, though he dis-
posed of the pacemakers, Burlington and
Young Valais, at the leger, he was all out
to win by a neck from Skerries, who
struck a little trouble early in the piece.
Usher, a good-looking Queenslander, was
fourth, and is worth keeping in mind.
Fervent tired after being prominent to
the turn, and though there was support
for Linemond his position wide out at
the barrier settled his chance,
A hot favorite in My Friend (Bartle)
won the second division of the High-
weight Handicap in very edsy fashion after
Lord Pentheus had shown the way into
the straight. Arenessa, a rank outsider,
eventually cut the latter out of second
money. Apart from My Friend, only Air
Link, Overjoyed and Goonee were backed
to any extent. Air Link and Overjoyed
were never dangerous; the distance was
too short for the former, and Overjoyed
did not run up to the form he displayed
when he gave Guild Hall a hard race at
Rosehill a few weeks ago. Goonee was
fourth, but of the unplaced runners
Mastery was doing better than any at
the finish.
Favorite for the Trial Stakes, and run-
ning up to her best previous form, Addi-
tion (Bartle) settled Longbow and Kara-
set soon after turning into the straight.
However, she had to be kept going to
stall off Tyrannus, who ran on again
after losing a little ground at the bend.
The Chatham gelding Longbow displayed
surprising pace, leading by several lengths
three furlongs from home, but he could
not see out the trip. Panabil is improving.
Craglia (Knox), who had shown fair
form in the Gimcrack Stakes, was behind
Alcestis, Frontier and Annie Laurie enter-
ing the straight in the Two-year-old
Stakes, but she had that trio beaten at
the leger, and was then equal to stalling
off Kurranulla. In a field of 18 the last-
named was at the disadvantage of start-
ing from near the outside. The winner,
who was sold for 120gns. as a yearling,
is by Felcrag (Felstead-Florence Dom-
bey), from Cornelia (Tomatin-Sunny
Jane). Kurranulla is by Hua from im-
ported Probably Not, and was a 300gns.
yearling. Tennessee did not run as well
as at his previous start, and Frontier’s
showing suggested he has been a little
overboomed.
Windbrook (Darke) unexpectedly came
to light in the Campsie Handicap, and
gave the books their winning race of
the day. Early in his career Windbrook
won at Rosehill, Randwick and Gosford.
Since then a weak leg has made him
difficult to train. Mortine and Silverelda
led into the straight, with Windbrook a
long way back. Then Windbrook got a
run through, and won narrowly from
Haridelle, who, after being a little un-
lucky earlier in the race, looked a winner
half a furlong from home. Silverelda
hung on well to run third, followed by
Glendower, who, though badly placed
soon after the start, had a nice run sub-
sequently, but lost ground nearing the
turn and did not finish as well as ex-
pected. Metallize and His Lordship did
best of the remainder. Well-backed Sir
Wyvern was an absolute failure, and
Steal On died away after making a run
that took her up close to the leaders at
the turn.
» * ♦ «
Some militant owner-trainers and
trainers talked of boycotting Rosehill be-
cause of its increased fees. It is improb-
able, however, that such a proposal would
be approved by a majority of trainers.
Some owners might say: “Well, if you
don’t want to race at Rosehill, we do.”
That might indicate a rearrangement of
teams, and would tend to a pocketing of
principles on the part of some of those
inclined to make most fuss.
* * ♦ *
The closing of Kensington as a race-
course is likely to give Randwick more
fixtures, and it may have at least half of
next year’s Saturdays. That should meet
with the approval of owners and trainers
as a whole, as it means substantial prize-
money. Racegoers, too, would appreciate
the position, as with the attendances they
are now receiving the minor courses do
not permit of much comfort.
* * * *
Tranquil Star’s L. K. S. Mackinnon
Stakes win definitely proved she was
never better, and it is certain that in the
Cup she will give a different showing from
when she was last with 8.9 in a field of
23 last year, Skipton could not have
given a better showing than Tranquil
Star did on Saturday, and she will meet
him only a pound worse than weight-for-
age. Neither may win, but it appears as
if the two miles will have to stand to
Skipton to make his defeat of Tranquil
Star at all certain.
American racing clubs set themselves
an objective of $2,000,000 this year for
war relief funds. Up to August 22 a
total of $1,340,000 (roughly £A407,500)
had been reached. Of this sum $1,184,600
was contributed by 23 clubs, and $135,500
by individuals associated with racing in
various capacities. As four other leading
clubs had not reported their donations it
was anticipated that the $2,000,000 mark
would be reached when nine months were
completed, and, with an additional three
months to help, it is probable the total
contributions will be much greater than
at first anticipated.
* * * *
In public opinion there is so little be-
tween Great Britain, Skipton and Dark
Felt as Melbourne Cup possibilities that
it is difficult to say which of the trio will
start favorite. Pandect, Tranquil Star and
Amazed are most fancied of the remain-
der.
♦ * * *
Stayers appear to be more numerous
in northern New Zealand than good-class
sprinters. There are 63 entries for the
two miles Auckland Cup, of £3450 and
a £5O trophy, against 57 for the six fur-
longs Railway Handicap, of £lOOO, at the
same meeting. There were only 31 entries
for the New Zealand Cup, of £2OOO, and
as that number includes horses from the
north there must be a shortage of stayers
in the South Island.
* * * *
The fact of comparatively few A.J C.
Derby winners of recent years subse-
quently distinguishing themselves in w.f.a.
races throws doubt on whether that race
is really worth the money it carries.
As a rule there are rarely more than three
or four runners for a Derby possessing
a chance of success, and it is difficult to
contend that as a racing spectacle it is
of equal value with an Epsom or Metro-
politan. Naturally breeders would be
inclined to resent such a step —it might,
to some extent, lessen the value of their
yearlings—but the distribution over
handicaps of some of the money now
allotted the Derby would probably be
appreciated by owners as a whole.
* * * *
Despite the reduction of racing several
Sydney horses have returned their owners
more than £lOOO in prize-money for the
current season. Thanks to the A.J.C.
Derby, Main Topic is on top, that race,
three seconds and two thirds making his
total £4253, Grand Fils is next, with
£3330 for three wins, then coming
Yaralla, whose four wins and a second
carried £2695. Hall Stand’s two wins, a
second and a third totalled £2lOO, and
Freckles has done well with £1915 for
two wins. It’s Funny’s owner received
£lOBO and a £lOO trophy for two wins,
and, though Soho disappointed his lessee
at the commencement of the season, £1165
for two wins and three seconds is a
satisfactory return. Katanga and the
two-year-olds Moorland and Ajixia have
each won £lOOO. The figures given show
that even in these days of austerity there
is money in racing for owners lucky
enough to get hold of a good horse —but
that’s the trouble.
* $ * *
Not many horses have started favorite
for more than one Melbourne Cup, but
Phar Lap headed the quotations three
times in succession. As a three-year-old
he was third at even money, won the
following year at 11 to 8 on, and at his
third attempt ran eighth at 3 to 1. Beau
Vite was third last year at 11 to 2, and
fourth at 9 to 4 in 1940. Trafalgar ran
second when favorite for the 1910 Cup
at 9 to 2, and fifteenth at 7 to 2 the fol-
lowing year. In 1902 Abundance shared
favoritism with The Persian at 4 to 1,
but the following year, at 9 to 2, was
only twelfth.
* * * *
The distance of this year’s Hotham
Handicap was a mile and three-quarters,
against a mile and five furlongs last year,
and a mile and a half on previous occa-
sions. Catalogue had 8.4 when he was
beaten by Spear Chief and L’Aiglon m
1938, but the following Tuesday he was
successful in the Melbourne Cup with
the same weight. The following year he
won the Hotham Handicap with 9.2, but,
though third favorite for the Cup and
ridden by E. McMenamin, he finished a
long way back with 9.0. Last year Son
of Aurous won the Hotham and then
with 6.10 ran second to Skipton (7.7) in
the Cup. This time he will meet Skip-
ton 161 b. better, but the w.f.a. scale
allows for 221 b. improvement in Skip-
ton and none in Son of Aurous since
last November. In last Saturday’s Hotham
Skipton, on worse than Cup terms,
finished well ahead of Son of Aurous
* * * *
America’s principal two-year-old sales,
held at Saratoga in August, were dis-
appointing for many breeders. The num-
ber of youngsters sold dropped to 480,
against 577 last year, and they averaged
approximately £A3OS against £A525.
Bleeder R. A. Fairbairn had the best sale,
his nine averaging £776. The highest
price paid at the sale was £A2710 for the
Nydrie Stud’s bay colt by Sir Gallahad
111 from Heloise, by Friar Rock.
« * • «
In reply to a question in the English
House of Commons, the Minister of Agri-
culture said that, of a total of 2359 acres
in the Newmarket area held by the
Jockey Club for horse-racing and -train-
ing purposes, 1668 acres had been requi-
sitioned or earmarked for military pur-
poses, and 196 acres ploughed up and put
under arable cultivation, leaving an area
of 495 acres for the original purpose.
Out of a total of 7990 acres of grassland
on stud farms in the same area 2910 acres
were ploughed up, and a considerable
part of the remainder is used for the
grazing of dairy herds.
Tommy Colteaux, said to be middle-
weight champion, outpointed George
Elliott in a willing 12-rounder at Leich-
hardt. He connected often with clean
punches, whereas Elliott lost points by
indulging in illegalities. An inside right
counter knocked Colteaux to his knees in
the second, but he won most of the other
rounds.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
By Our Melbourne Representative.
MELBOURNE CUP.
Great Britain 1
Tranquil Star 2
Dark Felt or Skipton 3
OAKS STAKES.
East End 1
Philander 2
Refractive 3
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Encourage Stakes: Gauntlet, 1 ;
Panabil, 2 ; Brumaire, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes: New Pen-
theus, 1 ; Kurranulla, 2 ; Craglia or
Urgent Rate, 3.
Horsley Handicap; My Friend, 1 ;
Lagoon, 2 ; Trimmer or Skerries, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Mas-
tery, 1 ; Young Valais, 2 ; Display, 3.
Milperra Handicap: Tel Asur, 1 ;
Gundagai, 2; Haridelle, 3.
Leumeah Handicap: Enderby, 1 ;
Ron Rico, 2 ; Pinero or Kimbell, 3.
MELBOURNE CUP.
By "PILOT.”
Amazed 1
Great Britain 2
Tranquil Star or Heart’s Desire .. 3


*****
%
\
m.
Savings
FIRST
SAFETY
**• FIRST
NP only sate way to ensure your future independence is to save for it. And
the money you save now helps to ensure Australia s safety. Thrift is more than merely
an individual consideration, it is a timely and vital contribution to the vast national
war effort. For both personal and patriotic motives, therefore, you should restrict your
buying to the barest minimum: and avoid getting anything that will divert men, money
or materials from essential production.
Start saving to-day, learn to subjugate the passing whim that prompts
you to spend. You'll find genuine satisfaction in seeing those shillings
build into pounds—pounds which will purchase bonds for victory.
To simplify saving, and provide you with a shield against future uncertainty, use
a commanuiciuTH
SBUinCS BflllH BCCOUHT
The Security of the Nation is your personal responsibility
lnvest all you can in
A NAT I 0N A L SAVIHOS BONDS
A WAH SAVINGS' CERTIFICATES
A A USIER. I f Y LOAN
Divorce Notices.
TO PETER JOHN FINNIGAN formerly of
Echuca in the State of Victoria Labourer
TAKE NOTICE that your wife EILEEN
ELLEN FINNIGAN of Kanyapella in the State
of Victoria married woman has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for divorce on the ground
of desertion you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office Law Courts
William Street Melbourne in the said State
within fourteen days from this advertisement the
said suit will proceed in your absence and a
decree for dissolution of marriage may be
granted and you may be ordered to pay costs
If you intend to defend this suit you must also
file an answer in the said office within ten days
after appearance. —DATED this Second day ol
November, 1942. FITZGERALD & FITZ-
GERALD, 396 Little Flinders Street, Melbourne,
agents for JAMES F. BRADY, 171 Hare Street,
Echuca, in the State of Victoria, Solicitor lor
the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY WISE DINGLE late of Botany
Street Waterloo. —TAKE NOTICE that
JOSEPHINE VIOLET DINGLE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2120 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
by the Thirty-first day of December 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from ROSCOE S. JONES Solicitor 67 Castle-
reagh Street Sydney— (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
SMOKE-OH!
“Tod looked down at her lifted, lovely face
with that wakened wonder in his eyes.”
— “Woman.”
Wonder, that is, at what the face-lifting
bill would be.
-I- *1- *l*
“Roger played his part to perfection in his
role of the corpse.”— Short story.
True to life, so to speak.
*!• »!• -!•
“At a cinema in Durango, Colorado, the
manager packed his theatre by offering each
male patron a free kiss from an usherette.”
— “World’s News.”
Lip-service.
*i*
“The watchmaker, Percy Albert , asked
for time to wind up his business.” — “D.T.”
Apparently he’d let it run down.
“Large front room, on transport, meals if
required.”— Suburban paper.
Sounds all right, provided one can sit
at the captain’s table.
4* •& . 4*
“If you have roaring, buzzing noises in your
ears go to your chemist and get loz. 0f....”
-—Patent-medicine ad.
But wouldn’t it be simpler to hang up
and dial again?
“Put the leg in a large saucepan and cover
with warm water. Add vinegar. Boil gently
for II hours.” — Woman’s paper.
A final word, dears — don’t use this
me thod G f removing those dreadful super-
hairs unless everything else has
£a,kd - . *
“Woman requires washing, ironing.”
— Suburban paper.
j s ij-, e successful tenderer entitled to
charge for waiting time while she is hang-
to dry?
*' * 4* 4-
“Boyd’s brows met furiously.”— Serial story.
Fortunately, though, he got them apart
a nd pacified them before any damage
was done.
it 7 S^boof
Bul an d this * s ™ ost important none
of u . the shades of soot, such as
white, apple-green or heliotrope, should
b e used,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It was not until after her marriage that she
started her screem career .’’—“Sunday Sun."
Naturally.
Gardening Made Easy.
VIII.
Dealing with More Pests.
For the sweet-pea mite, which prefers
a host that doesn’t incommode an
uninvited guest with thorns, subtlety
must be employed. Some gardeners stick
to the old method of dusting with lime
sulphur. This is best done through some-
thing silk, ensuring a fine sieving. But
unless the wife has a sulphur-colored slip
or vest, which would render subsequent
discovery less probable, you had better
resort to the “hydraulic” process.
The aim here is to blow the mites off
with a powerful jet from the hose. The
only hope of blasting them off is to catch
them unawares, for at sight of a held
nozzle they dig their proboscises into the
thick foliage and can thus defy your
efforts. Unless you can catch them at
mating time, when their thoughts are
not upon man and his works, the best
plan is to trick them by imitating the
“jglxz! ” call of the Rutherglen bug, mak-
ing it appear to come from the top of
the fence up which the sweet-peas are
growing.
The mites will look up, startled, mouths
agape in dismay. Those that don’t crack
their necks through this sudden and un-
usual movement will Ipse their grip, and
will be washed off when you twirl the
nozzle to full pressure, or, catching the
full jet in their open mouths, will suffer
a fracture of the thorax, thus rendering
their munching apparatus harmless. Any
sweet-pea vines which are blown out of
the ground by the force of the water can
be put back and tamped down with a
maul.
The Rutherglen bug itself is a savage-
looking insect with a long pointed beak,
which it jabs into fruit or leaves, suck-
ing out the juice or sap. Poison sprays
do not appear to affect its robust health.
Some gardeners smear both sides of a
board, say 10ft. square, with treacle and
draw this, end on, between their plants,
which they shake, the insects being
pushed against the sticky board. But
unless you are about 7ft. high control
of such a board may be difficult.
An easier way is to glue two leaves of
your tomato plants together with a piece
of hoop-iron in between, varnish the
whole thing and tie back on the plant.
At sight of the luscious feed the bug
will jab in its beak, which will either
snap off or be turned back in a loop,
so that the next time it goes to attack
anything in your garden it will stab itself
in the chest.
The highly-destructive pumpkin beetle
can be readily distinguished from the
ladybird, a gardener’s friend, because it
has 47 spots. The ladybird has 46.
On seeing several insects alight on the
pumpkin vine wait till they get inter-
ested in their grazing and then sneak up
and count the spots on one. If you
make it 47 you can safely assume they are
all pumpkin beetles, because these beetles
have the gregarious instinct strongly de-
veloped. With the atomiser gently spray
over them a strong solution of arsenate of
lead. The insects will cease eating, but
after what they imagine is dew falling
they will lash into the second course, with
fatal results.
Now re-count the spots. Forty-seven?
No ; 46. You will find the pumpkin
beetles having a gorgeous time on the
bush marrows on the other side of the
garden.
When woolly aphis are gathered on the
apple-tree keep a fine spray going on
them, if necessary night and day. The
continued wetness will shrink their woolly
covering to infinitesimal proportions, and
it remains only to set the electric-fan
going under the tree and they’ll die like
flies from pleurisy.
Although Indian wax scale is classed
as a pest, it is best to leave it on the
citrus-trees. What gardener hasn’t gone
out on to his back lawn on a pitch-black
night, walked straight into the thorny
mandarin, and had to spend the next ten
minutes picking spikes out of his face
'and stomach? The white scale on it
makes the tree dimly visible. No matter
if your oranges and mandarins are the
size and juiciness of nutmegs ; it’s worth
it to have such protection.
With slugs and snails the easiest way
is to buy a lot of patent insecticides
which claim to kill them in two minutes.
Mix these all together and spread where
these pests congregate. After they have
eaten all the lettuce down they will top
off with the insecticides. If you spread
enough they will get so fat that they’ll
be able to move only with difficulty. In
that condition they can be easily cap-
tured.
Fungus growth such as black spot,
etc., is cheapest of all to beat. Just
grow a beard and go and stare at your
infected tomatoes, going from plant to
plant. The fungus, seeing a bigger,
better and more savage-looking fungus
looking menacingly at it, will get the
wind up and leave for healthier climes.
Bo.
Logic.
The moan revolves around the earth.
The earth revolves around the sun,
And everything revolves round us
When we have had “that extra one."
When we are sober, earth and moon
Seem purely static, do they not ?
Well, that supports my argument
That men are normal when they’re
shot!
T. W. NATHAN.
Strategy.
“ ‘You hate me! ’ she sobbed, burying her
face in his vest.” — Story, woman's paper.
“You hate me,” she sobbed, but he
said “It’s a lie.” So her gentle heart
soared like a rocket. She buried her face
in his vest with a sigh. Much later he
woke up that then, on the sly, she had
buried her hand in his pocket.
LOOBY.
Thinking Ahead.
“Good housewives heed, without dismay, our
Prime Minister’s plea for the more austere way
of living.”— Woman’s paper.
“Yes, indeed, I’m planning austerity
meals, my dear. A bunch of carrots will
last a week now. For three days I’ll use
them as table decoration. For two days
I’ll serve them boiled, half a bunch a
day. (There’s only six of Us.) And the
next two days I’ll cook the tops. Why,
even a cutlet will last three days —the
meat one day, the bone the next and an
argument over it all on the third.
“Why, I expect to save a pound a week
on food alone, and that’s just what our
Prime Minister wants. He couldn’t have
suggested Austerity at a better time.
As a rule, we never have enough saved
up to have a proper go on the Melbourne
Cup.”
MRS. NUTHIN.
Paradox.
“Police Seek Owner of Watch.”
—“Great Northern."
Here's a case , you’ll agree, without reason
or rhyme:
The police want a perfectly innocent
man,
And, although he has never committed
a crime,
When he’s finally found he’ll be handed
out time
And be grateful for same —sort it out
if you can !
“At this new threat to us the Italian fleet
immediately steamed west.”
—Rome Radio boast.
The fact that it was aware that the
British fleet had already passed to the
east must be regarded as a feather in the
cap of Italian naval intelligence.
“Two lads who recently left school smashed
£2OO worth of school property.” — “Argus.”
A breaking-up party.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Austerity and War Borrowing
Mr. Curtin’s circular letter asking for
subscriptions to the War and Austerity
Loan, though doubtless well meant, was
unfortunately worded in some respects.
To ask a man to subscribe “to the full
extent of your accumulated resources”
is rather rubbing it in, when most
people’s liquid resources have been
skinned from them in the form of dis-
criminatory income taxes and ill-
conceived Economic Organisation Regu-
lations make it impossible for them to
realise their investments. And to say
“This must be everybody’s loan,” while
flatly refusing to make it everybody’s
loan, is rather a waste of time. If it must
be everybody’s loan there is only one
way to make it so, disagreeable though
that way may be to those who expend
their surplus wages on drink, the dogs and
State lotteries.
So far as doing without “everything
which it is humanly possible to do with-
out” would not that expression come
better from anyone but a politician? It
ought to be humanly possible to live on
half a Minister’s or even a private mem
ber’s salary, but so far it does not seem
to have occurred to any politician to do
so. — Fitzwilliam (N.S.W.).
Austerity and Ministerial Jaunts
We are asked to live simply, save
food and clothes and refrain from travel-
ling. Yet Federal Ministers are jaunting
across the continent, from Perth to Bris-
bane, and I suppose their secretaries and
retinues with them.
These journeyings seem unnecessary.
With full control of broadcasting Federal
members could make their appeals and
announcements by radio. It is very
doubtful if one unwilling person has ever
been influenced because a Minister made
a speech in his home town. — Austere
(Q .). ________
Churchill
“W.C.C.” (B. 21/10/’42) debits
Churchill with all the mistakes and omits
to credit one of the best deeds. What
about this great statesman’s handling of
matters that ended in the Empire getting
America’s wonderful help? The Ameri-
can public wanted to keep out of this
war, and indifferent diplomacy on our
part would have kept America out.
Churchill made no mistake here.
I was in England from 1934 to 1937,
and during that time Churchill was
always warning the Government about
Germany’s arming—in Parliament, in the
press and in public speeches. No one
had time to listen to him. He would
interfere with business profits, or sport-
ing, or racing. Now the country is in the
mess he predicted he, above all, is ex-
pected to pull us out without mistakes.
Did “W.C.C.” hear General Smuts’s
speech in the British House of Commons
which was broadcast lately? The gen-
eral’s reference to Churchill was met with
spontaneous and prolonged cheering.
Such genuine cheering is hardly likely
for a man who is messing at the expense
of the Empire. That wonderful old man,
who is “in the know” about the war,
thinks Churchill is the right man in the
right place.
Let us leave the job of winning the
war to Churchill and his experts.
M. H. M. (N.S.W.).
Another Prophet
Without entering into the controversy
for or agin Churchill, I should like to
question “J.W.R.’s” grounds for regarding
Wyndham Lewis as a good judge,
whether of a people or of an individual.
Have just finished reading his Hitler, pub-
lished 1931, in which there occurs the
following:
Hitler is the German man, therefore
Hitler is a Man of Peace It is essential
to understand that Adolf Hitler is not a
sabre-rattler at all. Indeed he uses all his
influence to prevent his followers from
engaging in stupid nationalist demonstra-
tions against France or against Poland
I do not think that if Hitler had his way
he would bring the sword across otherwise
peaceful frontiers. I am positive he would
remain peacefully at home fully occupied
with the internal problems of the “Dritte
Reich.” And as regards again the vexed
question of the anti-Semitic policy of his
party, in that also I believe Hitler himself,
once he had obtained power, would show
increasing moderation and tolerance.
Comment is unnecessary.— Kay C.
(Q-).
War Responsibility
I’m getting a bit weary of the constant
iteration in newspapers, over the radio
and from pulpits of our concerted re-
sponsibility for the global war. If only
half the things said of the Germans by
Vansittart are true then the major share
of guilt lies with them. To seize upon a
war of such frightfulness as this to do so
much hot-gospelling does not display
that sense of propriety or charitableness
which one should associate with our pro-
fessional moralists. Had the Germans
been content these past 40 years to work
amicably with the world we might have
reached a stage of relationship as jocund
as marriage bells. It’s no good blaming
us because they couldn’t behave them-
selves. — Bill Ding (W.A.).
Uni. Training; for Soldiers
I am much interested in this proposed
free university education scheme. I have
been serving for some time, and have
heard many fellows say how much they
would like to be given another chance at
their schooling. Perhaps the military way
of life fosters this what-I-might-have-
been attitude, but all the lads were quite
serious. Would it not be a sound step in
the post-war scheme of things to allow
them to be given that chance?
Very few of the men in the ranks have
had either the time or money to get a
“ Natural-born Australian ?"
university education, and the Australian
has proven his capacity for learning any-
thing which may appeal to him. Surely
a place in a university class would not
be asking too much. — Vacco (N.Q.).
That “£2,000,000 Hospital”
In reply to “Quiet, Please” (B.
21/10/’42):
Anyone who has taken a good look at that
“£2,000,000 hospital” must wonder what sort
of a nark the critic is. The complaint that
spare land is being laid out for lawns and
grass instead of vegetables and fruit ignores
the fact that the reclaimed land of the grounds
is shaly muck that wouldn’t grow fat-hen —
the bit of lawn and the few flowers are being
grown on a soil cover of a couple of inches.
Efforts were made by the C.O. to obtain soil
for vegetable growing, but in vain, so he ob-
tained some spare allotments outside the
grounds. Two are free for the duration, two
more are cheaply leased, in all about half
an acre on which patients and staff will sow
and reap.
Of the two flat roofs on the hospital proper,
one is available for convalescents, the other
has to be kept clear for medical work. As
to leave, the hospital is for acute cases—its
job is to get men fit enough to be moved to
convalescent homes and rest centres so as to
make room for more acute cases. Two half-
day leaves a week are allowed after a month
and week-end leave after six weeks. Leave
is controlled by military headquarters, not by
the hospital, and patients should know that
it is a privilege, not an “entitlement.” There
had to be some curtailment of the privilege
because it was abused; all the same, patients
numbering up to 300 can be seen leaving the
place at a week-end. As for their being
“more or less rigorously confined to the
wards” and the critic “never seeing a patient
exercising himself in the grounds” there are
billiard tables and a host of other games in
special halls, a large concert hall where pic-
tures are shown thrice a week, a Red Cross
hut with writing and the usual facilities and
a library of some 3000 books. There is a
workroom for hobbies and another for occu-
pational therapy. The C.O. had ground
marked out for bowling-green and tennis-
courts, but Government authority couldn’t
supply men and material for the work.
It must be said that the patients don t tall
over themselves to use the facilities _ provided.
Two physical-training instructors appointed can’t
fill classes; the Red Cross supplied a cricket
set and a pitch was laid out, but there were
no takers. A Patients’ Sports Committee died
within a month for lack of enthusiasm. Ihe
hospital has plenty of funds and many gener-
ous donations of gear have been made, but
users are scarcer than hen’s teeth. “Polishing
parquet floors” and making their own beds
are done by patients to keep them from dying
of ennui. Jobs like that are compulsory in
overseas military hospitals.
The hospital itself is a colossal affair, fully
equipped in a manner _ that has aroused the
envy of American visitors. Its administra-
tion is a tremendous task and it is a model
of efficiency. As an “acute hospital” its job
is to cure. It was never intended to be a
sort of play-nursery.
—O.T. (N.S.W.).
Boards and More Boards
Every time I take a walk in Melbourne
I see a building with a fresh shingle on
it announcing that some new board or
department or directorate concerned with
producing foodstuffs has taken up its
residence in the interior. I used to be
of the opinion that the earth, the sea, the
air and the animal kingdom were the
only producers of foodstuffs, but now
apparently boards produce them. Or do
they? Ask any housewife. — Nakh (Vic.).
W.A. and Central Control
The Bulletin is often savagely sar-
castic on the question of all these Parlia-
ments. It may be all right for Sydney-
siders to howl down State Parliaments,
and barrack for a single Commonwealth
House, because (the Commonwealth Par-
liament being practically in Sydney)
they would find themselves in undisputed
control of the whole of the rest of the
country, which would groan under the
lash applied by Sydney’s political and
big-business interests.
What about us here in the West? The
Lost Tribe, would have nothing on us!
It is bad enough now, God knows —we
are run from Canberra in every matter
that brings a headache. It is safe to say
that every regulation that has no sense
comes from the Federal authorities, and
we have little or no say about what’s
going to happen in the future.
The times have given politicians un-
heard-of power over the lives and liberties
of the people of Australia. While this
power is used to knit the country to-
gether in a solid effort to win the war,
well and good, but when it is used to
further sectional and party interests and
to gather more and more control into
the hands of a few, then it is time that
such authority was wrested from them,
by the exercise of the true democratic
rights of the people to have a say in what
should happen to their future and their
country’s future. — R. H. Gordon (W.A.).
South Australian Transport
To conserve coal the S.A. Government
has decided to reduce the suburban rail-
way service. Far from being a hardship
the edict means relief for groaning tax-
payers. The main line (Port) has been
nothing but a sink for public money.
Despite this, misguided people advo-
cate placing everything under State con-
trol! It is high time Government
bungling ceased. On every side people
arc urged to economise, but our legis-
lators seem hard of hearing.—A. D.
(S.A.).
The Little Man in Business
“Mark Patch” and “Bernard Hack-
shaw” (B. 4/11/ ’42) have been moaning
about the trials of the “little man” in
suburban business, attributing his troubles
to rationing. In some small measure they
may be right, but I think the little man
has quite a lot of blame to lay at his
own door.
Suburban shopkeepers would be a
great deal worse off if wholesale firms
were allowed to distribute their goods
as they thought fit, instead of having
to give the little man his share, I am
an employee in a retail business, and
have noticed that it is only after a given
item has been officially noted as being
“short” that regular, though small, sup-
plies have come to hand.
Secondly, the little man is being forced
out of business because he insists on
showing favoritism in respect of “short”
lines. Customers will not tolerate for
long the attitude of the “independent”
corner shopkeeper who keeps his stock
solely for old customers, account custo-
mers and the like, and answers all new
potential customers with a growl.
It is high time that the small shop-
keeper realised that he holds his tobacco
license, his milk vendor’s license, etc., to
serve the public and make a comfortable
living for himself, not in order that he
may hold sway like some petty prince,
giving and withholding favors. — Pharmer
(N.S.W.).
Lowering the Voting Age
While I agree with most of “Dragnil
Junior’s” reasons (B. 28/10/’42) for the
lowering of the voting age to 18, doesn’t
it set a dangerous precedent? Soon we’ll
have children of 12 or 14 coming along
saying they want a vote because the Gov-
ernment is making laws affecting their
education. If we’ve got to draw the line
somewhere, why not give all taxpayers,
irrespective of age, and all people over
21 who have reached a predetermined
educational standard the right to vote?
—Tonsi (Tas.).
Rationalising Wheat Production
Mr. Scully said it —the Agricultural
Council had decided that, because of the
extent to which acreages had been re-
stricted already and were likely to be
restricted next year, no further steps
would be taken to rationalise the wheat
industry. The council’s decision was
based on estimates that sowings next
year would be seriously reduced because
of shortages of super., labor and fuel.
The very fact that this is likely to
occur strengthens the need for some
realistic form of rationalisation. Farmers
themselves are unable to predict what
national stocks and requirements are
likely to be, and thus they are unlikely to
grow the quantity of wheat which con-
siderations of high policy would demand.
Moreover, an important consideration at
the present time is the distribution of
wheat stocks and production between the
States, because everything possible must
be done to ease the strain on the rail-
ways.
It is not unlikely that in some States
rationalisation will be needed in order to
maintain production at safe levels.
Queensland, in particular, has never been
able to meet its full requirements, and
as a war-time measure might be encour-
aged to raise rather than reduce produc-
tion. With the present heavy traffic on
northern railway systems it is vital that
haulage of wheat be reduced to a
minimum.
Finally, it has always been understood
that one of the fundamental reasons for
rationalisation is the need for making
available for war purposes labor and
other scarce resources. If this is the case
it is an additional and most important
reason why any further cuts in wheat
acreage should be carefully planned and
not left to the haphazard chance of indi-
vidual decisions. The object must be
both to organise production so as to
minimise inter-State transport and to
concentrate production as far as possible
in those districts which require the least
amount of labor, superphosphate and
fuel per bushel. Even if by accident the
total amount of wheat produced in 1943
happened to coincide with the optimum
from the point of view of the nation this
would be very poor organisation. It
would be a long way from what is re-
quired to bring about economic organisa-
tion for victory.
Give farmers a lead and they will
co-operate. Without such a lead they
can hardly be expected to make those
changes most necessary to the nation and
its Allies. — Planner (N.S.W.).


Services
COMMUNICATIONS
BEAM WIRELESS p.p^y R EGRAM SERVICE
BEAM WIRELESS p ICTURt_ E
SERVICE
wirS| mgjgH Sons
WIRELESS >LL tr K, ANDERS
SS SSS? instruments
radiola broadcast receivers
OWNERS* A ND OPERATORS NS
«»»
marcomi SCHOOL
radio telegraphy
radio mechanic
ESS**
DEVELOPMENT
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'sia) LIMITED
Australians National Wireless Organisation
