

The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 63—No. 3231.
Wednesday, January 14, 1942.
Price 6d.
the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
THE TIGER TAVERN. TOWER HILL.
Nearly at the bottom of Tower Hill,
where it joins Lower Thames Street, is
the Tiger Tavern, one of the most
famous, as it is one of the most written
about, public houses in London. Rebuilt
the year before the first Great War, a
fact commemorated over the second
story, it has an association dating back
almost five hundred years. While it is
in a locality of fearsome memories of
executions for political and religious be-
liefs, a glance today up the hill from the
Tiger’s portals suggests more peaceful
activities. Here are to be found the
Royal Mint, Trinity House, the elaborate
structure housing the Port of London
Authority, while business premises of
varying importance suggest no trace of
“bloody deeds of long ago.” Tradition
has liberally endowed the Tiger ; actually
few metropolitan taverns are richer in
this respect. The wheat of tradition has,
nevertheless, to be sifted from the chaff
of fable. Many of the traditions it
could be wished, if only for the sake
of their picturesque and romantic charac-
ter, could be marked with the impress of
truth. Of the old building practically
nothing remains. The inn sign, a tiger
poised in heraldic manner, swings over
the northern doorway from one of the
beams that was part of the old tavern.
The most entertaining story associated
with the Tiger is that which relates how
Queen Elizabeth on her release from
captivity to assume the Crown stopped
here and partook of “the good brown
ale and cheese.” There is a far greatei
foundation of fact in this report than,
for instance, that which credits the
existence of a subterranean passage to
the Tower, employed for the escape, or
the reverse, of Stale and olhei prisonci s
confined in the fortress and, doubtless,
occasionally used by warders and other
officials when inclination suggested a re-
course to the glass that cheers. The Tiger,
on its western and southern sides, has
been unpleasantly adjacent to one of the
worst Hitler-bombed areas of the City
of London.
Hihs of KM mellcmieU andlouqod


"lorn Writing
>m l VI ot HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write ' for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
H.Y. 342
The Red Page
New Diggers, Their Book.
Put forward as a “souvenir book”
representing the New Diggers’ “first con-
certed message to the folk in the home-
land,” Active Service is this war’s Anzac
Book, but as different from that publica-
tion as this war is, in many ways, dif-
ferent from the last.
Active Service is official —“Published
for the Military History and Information
Section, A.I.F. (Middle East), by the
Board of Management of the Australian
War Memorial, Canberra,” publication
the work of Angus and Robertson’s Hal-
stead Press, Sydney..
The striking difference in it is that it is
in the main intensely serious. There is
humor, but not predominantly even in
this, and certainly not in the book as
a whole, is there the irrepressible light-
hearted flippancy that characterised the
great bulk of soldier publications in the
last war.
On the other hand, there is also none
of the air of disillusionment that came
into soldier writings towards the end of
that war ; nothing whatever of the de-
bunking of war’s adventure to which
many an ex-soldier later contributed.
There is also practically nothing of the
spirit of gay defiance that broke out in
such poems as “Into Battle” at the begin-
ning of the earlier war, nor is there any-
thing of Brooke’s brooding sentiment.
Verse, however, is not a strong feature
of Active Service. Oddly enough, what
verses there are are mostly flippant, in
remarkable contrast to the seriousness of
the great bulk of the contents. The weak-
ness of the verse included is curious in
view of the better verses from Diggers
in the Middle East which have appeared
on the Red Page. These may not have
been submitted to the editors, though this
seems unlikely, since the prose contents
are by quite a variety of hands. So
perhaps it might be as well not to base
a set idea of the New Digger character
on the evidence this book provides. It
may, in its historical and factual serious-
ness, represent mainly editorial charac-
ter, which must have some influence in
all anthology books.
There is a leavening of sketches that
can be classed as fiction, but, apart from
these sketches and the few verses, the
book’s literary contents are as solidly
factual as the plentiful photographs and
war-artist paintings and drawings that
illustrate them. The photographs are
excellent —in themselves a widely repre-
sentative and vivid pictorial record of
the various campaigns in which the New
Diggers in the Middle East have so far
taken part. War artist Ivor Mele’s paint-
ings and drawings are exceptionally good
—clean, sure, vital; altogether most im-
pressive and effective work on a factual
basis. Harold Herbert’s paintings and
drawings also enhance the pictorial effect
of the book, but in the comparison they
seem pretty pictures, lacking Hele’s
appropriate boldness and vitality.
Full-page color reproductions of Hele’s
paintings include a portrait of General
Blarney, a vividly realistic impression of
an Australian 25-pounder in action under
desert conditions, an even more vivid
impression of a casualty clearing station
interior, portrait of a sister of the Aus-
tralian Army Nursing Service, and of a
Digger as seen after the capture of
Tobruk. Drawings by Hele include a
very fine head of a Nazi prisoner.
It might be mildly questioned her©
why it is that artists should have their
names printed at the foot of their paint-
ings and drawings, while the writers have
to remain anonymous or write over regi-
mental numbers only.
The principal literary contents are the
successive chapters giving brief, compact
histories of each of the campaigns. Here,
set down clearly and concisely, with the
stamp of authority on every word, is the
record of the New Diggers in the Middle
East to date—the first months abroad,
the first crossing of Cyrenaica (the first
Bardia and Tobruk and the first pursuit
to the west), and then in turn the retreat,
the siege of Tobruk, Greece, Crete and
Syria, with a chapter on the R.A.A.F.
and other air fighting generally, and in the
opening chapter a word for the Navy
typical of sundry other incidental refer-
ences: “There was not a man of the
A.I.F. who failed to appreciate the effi-
ciency of the Navy. Those first months
established a trustful regard for the Navy
Which was to deepen dramatically in the
critical days of 1941.”
As set out in this first chapter, the first
Libyan campaign—ironically like the
later enemy attack which started the re-
treat—began with “an exercise” to test
the strength of the invaders. This proving
“unexpectedly successful,” “The ‘Army
of the Nile’ moved instantly to the offen-
sive. With it, and into one of the most
remarkable improvised campaigns of
siege and movement, went Sixth Aus-
tralian Division.” It was, however, any-
thing but a walkover. Bardia, when the
Diggers first attacked it, was a very
powerfully defended position, with,
among other defences, 80 strong posts,
40 being in the front-line system and
most of the remainder in a secondary line
200 to 500 yards in the rear, many of
these consisting of circular concrete
trenches, 40 yards in diameter, 10ft. deep,
and each containing concrete emplace-
ments for three machine-guns and one
anti-tank gun. A labyrinth of trenches
with head cover had been dug inside the
stronger of these posts.
This represented, on the face of it,
probably as tough a nut to crack as any-
thing the Old Diggers ever tackled ; and,
as well, it turned out that the estimate
of the garrison, which put it at 25,000
men holding the place, was short of the
actuality by 20,000. Going in to fight
25,000, the Diggers found themselves
fighting 45,000-—not that that made any
difference to the outcome. With the vital
assistance of British tanks—-which are
very strongly praised in all references to
them, here and elsewhere —they fought
with a determination, courage and ability
that not even the Old Diggers ever ex-
celled, and took the place in remarkably
short order. The Italian commander at
Bardia, in reply to a message from Mus-
solini, had declared: “In Bardia we are,
and here we stay.” This was correct
enough: “Of the garrison, 44,868 re-
mained—killed or captured in the battle.”
This performance, proving the New
Diggers to be essentially true counter-
parts of the Old, was typical of their
showing in the following campaigns,
though some of these, owing to over-
whelming enemy numbers and other
causes, must be numbered with Gallipoli
in the lists of glorious defeats.
Somewhere about the time of Bardia
The Bulletin had a joke block showing
a crowd of Italians approaching a few
Diggers to give themselves up as pris-
oners, and being told to come back later.
It was as good as literally true. Late
one evening during the Bardia fighting
the brigadier of 16th Australian Infantry
Brigade received an envoy from the Italian
Divisional Commander of the northern
sector saying that he and 7000 men were
prepared to surrender. Embarrassed
already with thousands more prisoners
than he could handle, our brigadier re-
plied that it would be more convenient
if they left it till the morning! This sug-
gestion was accepted.
From this early contact with them on-
wards, the Diggers’ feeling towards the
Italians seems to have been a mixture of
tolerance and some sympathy. They
seem to have been sorry for the Italian
settlers in Libya, who “welcomed the
entry of our troops as a protection
against marauding Libyans.” The “frugal
populace were no proud imperialists.
The regime had driven them hard.”
There is a further striking revelation
of this Digger feeling in one of the very
best of the excellent factual sketches by
individual hands which follow the open-
ing historical chapters. The writer, out
in a vague, undefined no-man’s-land at
night, has been wounded and near-blinded
by shell or bomb, his rifle has been
smashed in his hands, and he is trying
to find his way back to his own lines,
not knowing in which direction to head.
Suddenly, some few yards away, I see a
figure move. He begins to crawl towards
me, and calls out in Italian. 1 have only
my bayonet, which I removed from my
mangled rifle. I answered softly “Amico! ”
and he crawls nearer. When he gets close
he sees that I am not one of his own
troops.
“Christo!” he whispers. He isn’t above
18 years old, and with what seemed to me
in my semi-blindness as the biggest eyes
I’d ever seen. I think, “I can’t kill a baby.”
So I say to him, “Bono, bono; soldato
Englesi,” and he appears to be a little more
reassured.
I know little or no Italian, and for the life
of me I can’t think of the word for
“Where.” I want to say “Where are the
British soldiers?” So I compromise by
saying “Italiano soldato la” and pointing
from the direction from which I had come,
and then saying “Englizi soldato?” with a
high note of interrogation in my voice.
It works, for he points towards the
direction from which he has crawled. I
say “Gratias,” and offer my hand, first
transferring my bayonet from it to my left
hand. I see him draw back, so I repeat
“Amico.” He grabs my hand, presses a
damp kiss on the back of it, and bolts
for the lick of his life.
I hope they don’t kill him.
This night vignette of desert no-man’s-
land in this war is typical, too, of the
mostly factual character of these contri-
buted sketches. Another good one de-
scribes the eternal stray dog attaching
himself to a Digger in Crete and accom-
panying him in some of the doings there
and in the retreat back across the island.
Perhaps this and the no-man’s-land
sketch are the pick of the contributions,
with a preference for the no-man’s-land
piece, the author of which might well
make a notable mark in literature before
he’s through.
The Digger character which seems
revealed in these and other separate items
seems neither grim nor gay. It is not
sardonic or cynical, optimistic or pessi-
mistic, unsophisticated or disillusioned.
Rather, it is something matter-of-fact,
acceptance of a hard job to be done, and
confident determination to do it. Despite
this, the general serious approach of the
book as a whole and the remarkable dif-
ferences that have come into war itself
since the Old Diggers fought, there are
still picturesque features even now, as
there were in the last war, for all the
emphasis laid on the sordid by the blood-
and-guts war-book writers.
Instance, the “bush artillery,” “one of
the features at Tobruk”—captured Italian
guns manned by soldiers who were other-
wise employed in cookhouses, messes and
the like, reissuing through their “bush
artillery” enemy shells to the enemy.
Also the Long Range Desert Group—a
motorised force of Maorilanders and
British troops created for long-range raid-
ing and reconnaissance between Italian
posts in Libya: “A picturesque unit of
bearded men, this unit ranged far and
wide, setting its course by the stars on
long desert voyages.” In Syria there was
“the Kelly gang”—one of the Digger
cavalry detachments having temporarily
taken some of its personnel out of car-
riers and mounted them on captured
horses to operate in the difficult hill
country.
There were, too, the Digger papers pro-
duced in Tobruk—“Tobruk Truth,”
“Mud and Blood” (named not in any
sardonic mood, but from the battalion
colors, brown and red), the “Furphy
Flyer” and “The Newt,” these probably
corresponding more in contents to last-
war Digger publications than does Active
Service. However, even these day-to-day
or week-to-week New Digger publica-
tions have, like the contents of Active
Service, a serious factual basis—actual
news, leavened with general contribu-
tions. This, of course, wireless makes
possible ; and this innovation in commu-
nication since the last war might very
largely explain what, on the evidence of
their respective sorts of publications,
seems such an extraordinary breadth of
difference between the Old Diggers and
the New.
That difference is so marked in Active
Service and, as well, the serious con-
tents of this volume—the main historical
outlines of the various campaigns, the
factual sketches and the bulk of the illus-
trations—are all so very good that the
essays in flippancy made in most of the
verses, one or two of the contributed
sketches and some of the drawings seem
both comparatively weak and right out
of character, though, taken separately,
they are entertaining enough, and in-
teresting, too, as part of the record. At
least they somewhat offset the general
impression that the New Diggers spring
from an entirely new race—one that has
lost a sense of carefree gaiety and be-
come instead balanced, determined and
serious.
So many copies of Active Service were
ordered by or for Diggers that copies
will not be available to the public till the
end of February. As well as the great
interest attaching to its authoritative
accounts of Greece, Crete and so forth,
the able writing in the economical style
that has gone into these accounts, and
the authentic literary quality of such
contributions as “Action on the Peri-
meter” (the no-man’s-land piece), the
book is a beautiful volume, most admir-
ably turned out, and, with its large color
plates and other illustrations, very freely
and handsomely illustrated.
From Dunkirk to Benghazi: “Strate-
gicus” (Faber and Faber). Second vol.
of this author’s clearly-stated survey of
the war to date.
Prior Prize Judges' Report.
The trustees of the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize have received the fol-
lowing report on the 1941 Competition
from the judges, Miss Beatrice Davis,
of Angus and Robertson’s, and Mr.
H. M. Green, Fisher Librarian, Univer-
sity of Sydney:
This year’s novels were a disappoint-
ing lot, to judge by the six best, which
were read by us. We recommend the
awarding of a second prize, but no first.
Of four of the six novels the same
thing may be said. (One dealt with life
in a small Victorian country town, one
with life in a farming community and
one with life in a Sydney suburb ; and
one was based on the rivalry between two
stores in a large country town in Queens-
land.) All four were well enough thought
and worked out, and the characters and
circumstances were fairly convincing, so
that all four contained the possibilities of
success. Nevertheless, they were undis-
tinguished, even dull.
It is possible to make a great novel
out of the most ordinary events and
people, provided the novelist has enough
imaginative insight to reach the very
depths of at least his principal characters,
so as to reflect mankind in a particular
individual or group. But the writers of
these novels, though they can observe,
feel and record, never go far below the
surface.
The fifth novel is a study of the
gradual mental awakening of an intelli-
gent child in conflict with his funda-
mentalist father ; it, too, is well worked
out, but the same thing has been done
better many times and is hardly worth
doing nowadays, anyhow. Moreover, the
last part of the book describes a trial
which, though also fairly well done, is
not of a piece with the rest.
The only novel of the six which wais
worth considering for a prize was a
study of Bohemian London life and
characters as seen through the eyes of
a girl who has left Australia to study
painting in Europe. This novel is in
quite a different class from the others;
its author does possess imaginative in-
sight and presents a small world of
characters, all real and some exceed-
ingly interesting. On the other hand,
the novel lacks construction and ends
without finishing, and at the end we are
confronted with a situation which is to
us incredible.
In a series of inter-chapters the author
is shown as an amateur poultry farmer
who, with his wife, has played a prin-
cipal part in the life which he is gradu-
ally crystallising in the novel to get it
all out of his system. This is a little
complicated ; but it finally appears that
the poultry farmer is actually the talented
young surgeon of the book itself, an in-
veterate Don Juan whom one can hardly
imagine marrying anyone, for love any-
how. Yet it appears that he has gone
out to Spain during the civil war, mar-
ried the girl whom he had seduced;,
accompanied her back to Australia, and
set up on this farm, partly as a rest cure
and partly to write the novel. The book
being finished, he enlists in the A.I.F.
In spite of the interest of the story and
people, and the real ability of the author,
we simply cannot swallow all this.
On the whole, the good parts of the
book are so good that in spite of its
shortcomings we recommend that it be
awarded a second prize. But we should
advise the author to reconstruct parts of
it before seeking publication.
Beatrice Davis, H. M. Green.
The trustees regret that the rules gov-
erning competitions for the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize do not permit the award-
ing of a second prize, as recommended
in this instance by the judges. The rules
state that in the event of no entry being
considered worthy of the Prize (£lOO,
allotted annually), the prize-money shall
be added to the prize-money for the fol-
lowing year.
Therefore the prize-money for the 1942
Competition, which closes on June 6 next,
will be £200.
The trustees have decided that this
current competition will, like the one just
concluded, be restricted to novels.
Random Rhymes: Victor Courtney
(Paterson’s Press, Ltd., Perth). Mr.
Courtney’s verses, mainly reprinted from
Perth “Sunday Times,” rarely attempt to
be more than their title implies; light,
pleasant, popular rhymes on topical sub-
jects ranging from Hitler to the Cnp.
But some of the war verses—especially
those written prophetically about Japan-
have a Kiplingesque ring and vigor that’s
just what the situation calls for:
They knew us little in London town.
And little in gay New York,
And the statesman’s word and the toeman’s
frown
Were lost in a world of talk.
But one day yet they shall strain their ears
And hurry to send their ships,
And our name shall sound 'mid a thousand
fears
On every white man’s lips!
And the freeman’s world shall know us then,
Though we voice no blatant brag,
And shall pray for our cause and pray for our
men
While wc stand to the white man's flag I


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —always
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
“THE SENIOR STORE”
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
HALF YEARLY GENUINE
* AVAILABLE ONLY
UNTIL SOLD
in
I
£6/6/- Suits To Order, £5/15/-
Suits Made to Order from All Wool Fancy Blue
Suitings with neat designs. Tailored by Anthony
Horderns' and cut by our Craftsmen Cutters. Linings
and interlinings are all pre-shmnk. Choose yours
as early as possible, as they are only available
until sold, and cannot be repeated. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price £6/6/-
SALE PRICE £5/15/-
• Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street,
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.
'Phone: M 2401
(Day and Night)
Box 2712 C,
G.P.0., Sydney
14/6 Business Shirts, 12 7 6
British Poplin Business Shirts, in neat
striped effects, with double cuffs and
two fused collars to each. Sizes 14 to
inch neck. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 14/6
SALE PRICE 12/6
mu?
msm
mm
mm
m
mm
m
I mi
32/6 Lumber Jacket, 30'-
Men's Heavyweight All Wool Knitted Lum-
ber Jackets, turn down collar, buttoning to
neck. Fancy jacquard designs on blue,
grey or fawn grounds. Sizes 36 to 40 inch
chest. At Anthony Horderns'. Price .. 32/6
SALE PRICE 30/-
wk
22/6 Fur Felt Hat, I7 7 6
Men's High-grade Pure Fur Felt Hats,
smart snap brim styles, silk lined,
greaseproof leather. Colours are steel,
drab, slate, blue-grey, and fawn. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, each, 22/6
SALE PRICE 17/6
67/6 Sports Coat, 59 7 6
Men's Sports Coats in All Wool Wor-
steds, lightweight for summer wear,
tailored backs, pleated patch pockets,
tailored in our best possible manner
and lined with art. silk linings. Regular,
long, stout, short, and corpulent fittings
available. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price
SALE PRICE
67/6
59/6
UNDERWEAR
BARGAINS
Natural Wool and Cotton
Underwear in a light to medi-
um weight. Undershirts with
short sleeves in sizes 34 to 42
inch; Underpants to ankle, all
sizes 34 to 42, except 38 inch.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
each
SALE PRICE
9/6
7/6


WITH HORSES YOU CAN’T TELL
By OLAF RUHEN.
BIG Jack Bayner was late letting the horses
out. It was three hours since he had put the
feed in the boxes, three pecks of chaff and a
quart of glistening black Southland oats for
every beast. The twelve horses in the stalls were
twisting about nickering for him to come, for they
knew it was a Sunday. The other fourteen had left
the long troughs against the fence and were mooching
about the yard.
Most of them were ripe for mischief. There were
two unbroken fillies rising three and a gelded colt
that had forgotten the rope. Old Molly was hanging
over the south fence. She called to the stallion that
she knew was confined beyond the ridge that sheltered
the house from the southerly winds.
Jack’s brother Billy left the house, too, and
walked over to the gate on the road. The horse-pad-
dock gate was next to it, and it was swung so that
you could draft a mob into the paddock or into the
road. Billy wasn’t broad and slow like his brother —-
he wasn’t like his brother at all; he was small, with
weasel eyes and a quick, wide, staccato gait—but they
both had a way with horses.
Tom Fairlie came from the house, too, cramming
a last bite into his mouth as he broke into his
stumbling run. He was gangling and awkward, and
the reason he was worth his wage was that he was
so slow of thought that he was safe with horses. He
was never frightened until after the emergency ; he
never rushed his beasts, and he never interfered in
stable arguments. He joined Big Jack at the tail-
end of the mob.
Dexterously Billy swung the gate, easing two older
mares out into the road. Old Molly tried to follow
them, but he sent her back, and she joined the mob
inside the road fence, all snorting their surprise at
the development. The youngsters all came with a
rush, and there was a bit of a skirmish before the
skewbald filly was sent out to join the mares, and the
other two went off with the mob. The fresh morning
and the turf called to them, and they streamed right
down the quarter-mile length of the paddock, the
heavy Clydesdale hoofs shaking the ground as they
angled up the sidelings of the little gullies. Outside on
the road, the skewbald went mad, nose to fetlock,
jumping lamb-crazy on the edge of the grass, and
bolting back and forth to the mares, whose hearts were
more in the frolic than their heels were, until at last
they finished up all standing at the corner of the
paddock.
Big Jack came through the gate, a halter in his
hand and a big coil of rope on each shoulder. “She’s
in great nick,” he said.
Billy nodded, looking pleased. Tom said, “She’ll
give us a bit of trouble the way she is. Oats fer the
last three months an’ no work.”
“How the hell can you work her, an’ she not
broke yet?” Billy wanted to know. “Tell me that,
now.”
Tom still looked dubious, but he didn’t answer.
Neighbors called the Bayner boys mad. They got
their horses fighting fit before they broke them, but
it was admitted horses from their teams gave little
trouble once they were steadied down.
They walked down to the three horses and drove
them quietly along the road before them. There was
no one about at the old station homestead, and they
went steadily down the drive between the poplars. Off
to the right were the big cattle yards, with the slip-
rails down. The horses went quietly in. They didn’t
put up the rails, but drove them through to the
second pen. The skewbald, curious, walked through
into the crush pen and up into the crush, _wijh the
two mares following her. Billy walked forward un-
hurriedly and slid a short rail behind the filly’s hind-
quarters. He slid in another one, lower down, and
looked at Big Jack. “Too dam’ easy,” he said.
“Plenty o’ time for fight yet,” said Jack.
The filly strained back against the rails behind
her, then eased up and stood quiet. Billy and Tom
turned back the older mares, and Tom dogged them
down the drive and out on to the road. The filly tried
to turn to watch them go. They took no notice. She
called to them softly, but there seemed a desperate
note in the call.
Big Jack got the halter on her after five minutes
of horseman’s blarney. She snorted and shook her
head once, and stood still again. Billy climbed the
rails. Big Jack slipped another short stick in front of
her and opened the gate an inch. He passed up the
end of the heavier line, and Billy slipped it round
the filly’s neck and knotted it. Billy passed out the
end of the halter, and Jack bent it on to the other
coil. They both waited until Tom came back from
the road.
There was a clear space beyond the yards, and
the paddock in front was open to the road. They
opened the small crush gate and slipped away the
rail. The filly stood still, then very gently and care-
fully, picking her steps, walked out into the open.
The men gave her plenty of room. Big Jack and
Tom walked out the length of the rope that was round
her neck. Billy held her shorter on the halterline,
but he was a good ten yards off. The filly walked
quietly and unsteadily, shaking her head twice, and
then stopped. Billy let her feel the halter.
She screamed then, but in bewilderment, and just
once. She reared to all her height, up and up until
it seemed that she must fall back, the colors of her
neck and head dark against the sky and only her
white belly barrel round. Big Jack lent his weight to
the rope that was round her neck, and she came down
on all her four feet. She propped and jerked and
gave a short whinny, only still, it seemed, in bewilder-
ment, and stood quietly. A muscle above and behind
her forearm was quivering now.
Billy let her feel the halter ever so gently again,
and she walked towards them. They walked to the
gate, the men crabwise, careful for their feet and still
with an eye for every move of her.
Billy said quietly as though he were in a room,
“It’s too dam’ easy. Jack.”
Jack answered him, half-worried, “She should
begin to fight it now.”
Going through the gate when the ropes were
close together, the filly came after them with a little
rush, and they separated as quickly as they might
without frightening her, but she came up to them
close, and led quietly with the ropes in a big bight
that they tried to keep tauter all the time, and that
was the way they brought her home. There was fight
in her, but she was holding it in. They were fright-
ened, for if their mastery were taken unawares it
might fail, and there would be a good filly spoiled
and a reputation bruised.
They passed the rope round the corner pillar of
the end stall to lead her up into it, and she went
quietly. They tied her by the head with three ropes
to the head of the stall, and she stood quietly. They
ran three trace chains across the back of the stall,
and for a moment she was uneasy. Big Jack had put
chaff and oats in the stall and new rocksalt before
they had taken the skewbald down the road, and
she smelt at it but did not eat. They all went over
to the house for a cup of tea.
THE Bayners’ kid sister Rhoda had the kettle boil-
ing, and grabbed the teapot as they came in. “Did
you keep me in a gig horse?” she wanted to know.
Big Jack, sitting down, struck his knee with his
open fist in a gesture of annoyance. “I’ll get one in
for the afternoon ” he promised.
“Well, you needn’t bother. Mick Bryant’s going
over this afternoon. He’s calling in.”
“Oho,” Jack laughed ; and Rhoda, standing by
the open fire, threw the black potholder at him. He
caught it and, getting up, flung the pad back on its
hook under the mantel.
“You better change that shirt,” Rhoda said. “I
ironed you your white one.”
Jack turned and looked at her. “An’ what would
I be doing with a white shirt?”
“I thought maybe it was time you roofed in Macy’s
cowbail. Or is it the yard gate wants hanging?”
Billy slapped his knee and laughed outright, and
Tom Fairlie grinned. Since Macy had died Big Jack
had spent a bit of time one way and another doing
odd jobs for his widow. That was only goodness of
heart, but it wasn’t Mrs. Macy’s fault that the senti-
ment hadn’t developed. There was no reason why it
shouldn’t, because it wasn’t far to look back on the
time when she had been the tastiest skirt in the county,
and marriage hadn’t spoilt her looks.
WHEN they went back to the stable the filly was
eating. They moved about her. From safety,
Billy caught her tangled tail and combed it with a
sharp penknife gently. After a second’s indecision
the filly continued eating. Jack examined the knots
that tied her. She had been leaning back and tightened
them, but not overmuch. From the next stall they
ran hands all over her; till Jack crawled in at last
by her head. She was as quiet as an oldster.
“She may be all right,” said Jack, but Billy didn’t
like the look of things. She was used to the end stall,
though. She had been fed there often, but she had
never been tied. They left her after an hour to do
their usual Sunday chores with the stallion.
Before they ran the other horses in they led her
down to the waterhole —the three of them, just as
they had brought her up the road. She followed
quietly again, with her head down.
Leading her back to the stall, they had passed
the halterline round the head of it when she reared.
She squealed and lay back and lashed out. She nearly
squatted right to her haunches and worked her head
and neck, worming and twisting against the ropes.
Billy got to the halterline. Tom at the head of the
stall had had to let out line, but Jack had a turn
of the heavy rope round one of the trunks that sup-
ported the roof of the open-front stable. The skew-
bald worked her way back along the line of the stalls,
and Billy got the halterline under the neckrope and
out into the clear. The filly swung as he went out
at an angle to her, put her head down and her heels
flew again. She screamed then, and leapt forward
with a little hop. She took another short jump, and
they saw she was swinging her near hind leg. Her
struggles stopped. She was circling and trying to
save her hoof,
“She got it under the rail of the middle stall,”
Tom cried, a little excitedly.
Jack didn’t say anything. He was coming up
the neckrope, easing up, hand over hand. The skew-
bald watched him and snorted and jumped about.
Her near hind leg was bleeding from the fetlock, and
there were a little pool and splashes of blood. She
didn’t take long to calm down.
Soon they stood by her head. She was trembling.
But before it had been anger, now it was fear again.
They cut the neckrope and hung the free thirty feet
in a loop loose on her withers. Then they eased her
over to snare her off leg, and brought the loose end
up to a double purchase in a small loop on the bight.
She snorted and struggled when they lifted the
leg high up to her lower ribs, but now all her weight
was on her lame leg, and she was afraid, so she stood
still until they had examined and bathed and sewn
the wound; and bathed it again, and bound it in
one of the long khaki puttees Jack had saved from
the last war. Then she followed them quietly into
the stall, where they made her fast.
<‘V/OU were a long time,” said Rhoda when Jack
I was first in. “I thought you were away over to
Macy’s without your tea.”
“Just get the tea and keep quiet, that’s all.” Jack
was tired ; the reaction had set in, but Rhoda hadn’t
heard him talk like that for years.
She shrugged her shoulders, but then relented.
“Sorry, Jack. What’s the trouble?”
“Nothing. One of the horses got cut. Only lay-
off that Macy talk. If I want a woman I’ll go straight
out and ask her. Not hang around and do odd jobs
like a schoolboy round a circus.”
THE skewbald was quiet enough when they took
her from the stall to the waterhole next morning,
though she danced a little and sidled round, stiff as
she was in the leg.
“We still got it coming,” Billy noted, and Jack
nodded.
There were flies hanging round the leg as she
stood on the manure floor of the stable, and they
decided to let her go with only the halter on to crop
the fresh grass inside the fence that enclosed the
house. The bandage was bloody, but there was team-
work to do, and they went off for the day with the
three teams, nineteen heavy, glistening horses, with
the three of them perched sideways, one on each near
leader’s broad back, all a-nodding and a-jingling in
the morning sun, with nosebags high on every second
pair of hames and a spare swingletree jammed
grotesquely on one.
Rhoda watched them go, standing in the doorway
of the bare hut. There was a strange mare in the
yard, and her near hind leg was bandaged and bleed-
ing. The girl brought a basin and warm water with a
drop of sheepdip in it, and set it down. The skew-
bald mare stood nervously, “It’s going to nip,” Rhoda
told her as she squeezed the water from the rag over
the dry blood at the top of the bandage.
The skewbald stood quietly, nickering sometimes
as Rhoda tended her. The girl left to get a fresh clean
puttee, brought it back and wound it expertly on. The
cut was deep and it had been sewn. It looked as
though the mare had lashed out and caught a fence-
rail, but she did not look wild, only timid. She
stood well, too, without tying.
When the men were coming up the road for tea
Rhoda went out again and put the other puttee back on
the sore leg. The wound was healing already, but
the little mare seemed to look forward to her coming
with the basin and the bandage, new and dry and
clean again.
“Did you see it?” asked Jack when Billy drew
into the stable after him.
“A bit of comfort,” said Billy. “It takes a woman.
A man’ll use fight an’ he’ll get nowhere, but a woman
uses a lump of sugar and a kind word, and there
you are.”
“Mark you,” said Jack, when they were stripping
collars, “the beast is better off.”
“That’s a hell of a funny thing for him to say,”
thought Billy, but he grinned and said, “It’s a wise
beast that knows it.”
RHODA wouldn’t believe them when they told her
the skewbald wasn’t broken. “Anyway, even if
she wasn’t, there was no fight in her. She’s quiet as
any lamb,” she said.
Jack had gone off then: dressed in the white
shirt and the riding breeches he wore on Sundays
sometimes, and the coat of his good tweeds, though
it was Monday. “If you want to know, I’m going
over to Macy’s,” he had said. “And I’m staying for
supper.”
WHEN they tried the skewbald in the mouthing
gear she fought like fury.
SUPERANNUATED.
How like the ghost of some old warrior
Who fell at Marathon or Thermopylae
And now revisits his own nameless grave
And finds himself stirring among the brave
Young heroes, marching in the ranks once more
About the coasts of that familiar sea.
Undaunted yet amazed, warring unseen.
And sharing in the age of the machine,
As one in spirit with the singing sons
Of Britain with their tanks and ’planes and guns —
How like that ghost, among my fellows I,
Emeritus, alone amid the throng.
Seen yet unseen, an echo and a name,
immune from jealousy or praise or blame,
Tread reverently, while jostled by the young.
On stricken fields where my old comrades lie.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3231.
Wednesday, January 14, 1942.
1
ROWING AGAINST NIAGARA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland ; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London ; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
IS IT REALISM AT LAST?
Accepting that the Anti-Axis Alliance,
the appointment of General Wavell as
supreme commander in the Pacific and
other related actions mean what they
appear to mean, and what they ought to
mean, there should from now on be a
vital difference in the Allies’ war methods.
Probably for some time yet they will
have to fight defensively; but this will
be changed.
Up to now Japan has the initiative
that inevitably belongs at first to the
aggressor side. This has been the
immeasurable advantage of Hitler and
the whole Axis set-up all through. It
was not only in regard to their unpre-
paredness that Hitler shrewdly judged
the weaknesses of those he proposed to
destroy. He knew also that they were
tied down with moral scruples ; that they
did not dare go all out on the prescrip-
tion that moderation in war is imbecility.
Had they done so, they would have
played right into his hands.
Once war had been declared on Ger-
many the apparent realistic policy was
to wage it aggressively by every means
and on every front available. This, as
Hitler had rightly judged, was quite out
of the question. It was not only the
Liddell Hart school of defensive warfare
which then flourished in Britain nor
Maginot-mindedness in France that pre-
vented it. There were neutrals in those
days, and moral scruples insisted that they
were untouchable.
Had the Allies tried to make war realis-
tically on Hitler through Belgium and
Holland, as Hitler subsequently made
war on them, not only would those coun-
tries have fought the invaders, but there
and elsewhere in Europe Hitler’s political
position would have been strengthened
enormously. And not only in Europe.
Moral scruples were among the con-
siderations that ruled against any bomb-
ing of Germany until the Germans had
started it. Had the Allies started it—as
military realism might have dictated —
there would have been plenty in the
Allied countries to say that the good Ger-
mans would never have done such a
wicked thing if they hadn’t been driven
to do it in fair retaliation. Again, the
effect in America would have been disas-
trous. Despite everything the Germans
have placed on their evil record, America,
if it had come in at all, would have come
into war against the European end of the
Axis a dangerously disunited country.
The same influences have operated to
the Axis advantage in the Pacific • no
less than in Europe. There have been
signs for some years past that a much
more united America could be depended
on for war in the Pacific than for any
war in Europe. Nevertheless, if Japan
had held off attacking America directly
in its Pacific possessions, there would
today be very strong influences in
America working against participation.
The voices of Nye, Wheeler and Lind-
bergh would be louder than ever.
Right up to the very eve of Japan’s
attack New York “Daily News” and
other publications were telling America
that Japan had no quarrel with them, and
some were insisting that America had
“no business barging in to save British
and Dutch Pacific holdings.” America
would no doubt have come in eventually,
despite these; but it would not have
come in as the united country that
Japan’s madness instantly created —the
country that cheered the President when
he budgeted for a war expenditure of
$53,000,000,000 this year—and it might
have come in too late.
What the position would have been in
America if the incredible had happened
and Uncle Sam taken the initiative can
be easily imagined. Uncle Sam had pro-
vocation enough ; some time before the
final provocation Washington officially
listed the number of American grievances
and complaints against Japan at some-
thing over 600.
Despite all this, and the fact that
Japan’s designs had for some time been
undisguised—certainly they were never
mistaken by America’s leaders—it would
still never have done for Uncle Sam to
go starting a war. As had been the case
with Germany, Japan not only could not
be attacked in advance, but every possible
means of trying to induce it not to attack
had to be used, even to feeding it lav-
ishly with the very materials it needed
to build up its strength for its intended
war. More than a year ago the best
American foreign correspondent in the
Far East wrote:
We [U.S.A.] did not send our fleet west-
ward to or toward Singapore because we
feared such an action might anger Japan
to the point of a declaration of war and
precipitate the very attack we sought to
avoid. But Japan probably intended an
attack upon Singapore all along. Our re-
fraining from action may go down in
history as another blunder of the democ-
racies—trying to avert an inevitable con-
flict and thereby giving the aggressor the
initial advantage. This sort of thing has
happened repeatedly since September 3, 1939.
The enormous advantage to the side
taking the aggressive initiative is today
only too starkly evident. In Abyssinia,
Cyrenaica, Syria, Iraq and Iran the British
side has acted successfully with that ad-
vantage ; but the greatest successes on
this account have, of course, been those
of the Axis. This is a most important
and a favorable —factor in considering
future prospects. The Allied side is not
completely done with scruples, but at
least all those that have hitherto been
hampering handicaps are now done with.
The entry of Japan put an end to all
that. Henceforth the Axis on all fronts
must wage war without the very advan-
tage that has been about nine-tenths of
its success up to date.
On the other hand, there are no longer
political reasons hampering the Allies in
waging war the only way it can be suc-
cessfully waged—that is, by war’s own
grin) standards, which are always fiercely
realistic. The cricket complex has had a
very extensive innings ; the job ahead
isn’t sport, and should no longer be con-
fused with sport. It’s a fighting job—
all in.
"Russia First."
Voices familiar and unfamiliar to Aus-
tralians were raised in England last week
on subjects of immediate concern to all
Australians, even N.S.W. coalminers;
and one, too familiar, was heard on the
air. It was that of Mr. Anthony Eden,
who is to be joined in London presently
by Mr. Duff Cooper, after a brief and
inglorious mission to Singapore.
Mr. Eden has made another pilgrimage
to Russia, and in the accents of Eton
and Oxford he delivered himself of a
panegyric on that country and its rulers,
closing with the promise or threat of
close Anglo-Russian collaboration for the
political regeneration of Europe.
This must have had a very bad effect
in countries which object to being “re-
generated” by Stalin. And that goes for all
European countries, particularly Petain’s
France, in which Washington has been
trying to correct the mistakes of
Churchill-Eden policy by refusing to
recognise the De Gaullist seizure of the
St. Pierre and Miquelon islands, and by
arranging to send “shipments of essential
material to French possessions in Africa,”
in an effort to keep Vichy French out of
the German orbit. Apropos of which,
British newspapers which have abused
the aged Marshal for 18 months have
now discovered that “Hitler’s Mediter-
ranean plans have been frustrated by
Vichy’s inflexible refusal to join the Axis.”
The unfamiliar voices were heard in
the House of Commons supporting the
Australian attitude as expressed by Mr.
Curtin. “There is no harm in plain
speaking,” said Mr. Pethick-Lawrence
(Labor); “it is a proof of Anglo-
Australian friendship.” “We were assured
that there had been adequate Imperial
consultation,” said Captain Edgar Gran-
ville (National Liberal). “Australia has
a grievance which has been publicly
stated, but no reply has been made.”
There must be something wrong when
Mr. Curtin has to communicate with Mr.
Roosevelt. The British Government appears
to have been out of touch with Dominions’
opinion. I have long advocated an Empire
War Cabinet; Australia must have a voice
in running the Commonwealth of which
she is a member.
Commander Sir Archibald Southby
(Conservative) continued in the same
strain. “It was utter folly,” he said,
“to deny Singapore and its adjacent
aerodromes the defences vital to
them. The Government and people
of Australia are angry and appre-
hensive. The peril of Singapore is the
peril of Australia and New Zealand.”
And Sir Percy Harris (Liberal) was “not
surprised that the people of the
Dominions feel they have had a raw
deal. If an Imperial War Cabinet was
important in the last war it is tenfold
important now, when the life and in-
dependence of the Dominions are
threatened.”
Mr. Churchill himself came in for
criticism, though the general tendency is
still to spare him and put the blame for
his sins of omission and commission on
“the men of Munich.” Sir Archibald
Southby referred to “the tragic mistake
of allowing political and sentimental con-
siderations to interfere with military
strategy,” instancing Greece and Crete.
Mr. Stokes (Labor) said that his absence
from the debate “illustrated the disadvan-
tage of having a Prime Minister who is
also Minister of Defence.” Commander
Bower (Cons.) put his criticism in a letter
to the “Times,” He pointed out that
Mr. Churchill had excluded his three
service Ministers from the War Cabinet,
thus making them “tend to become no
more than glorified staff officers to him.”
Mr. Churchill is playing a dangerous
game. Parliament, press and public should
demand that our strategy be directed by
those trained to do so, under the asgis of
a strong War Cabinet representing the
whole British Commonwealth.
Mr. Atlee, who “leads” for Mr. Churchill
when Mr. Churchill is away, attempted
a defence of his all-powerful chief. He
admitted that “the war with Japan” had
“found our territories in the Far East
less strongly garrisoned and equipped
than we could have wished,” and that
“fifteen aerodromes” had been lost in
Malaya. He pleaded that “the danger*
to Singapore seemed less imminent than
the danger to Russia and the Middle
East,” which “had to be supplied first,”
and that “it was beyond our resources
to be strong everywhere.”
It is a satisfaction to us to know that
the tanks and aircraft sent to Russia have
borne their part in the great advance.
Sir Archibald Sinclair, the Air Minister,
maintained, doubtless with justice, that
the R.A.F.’s operations in Western
Europe had “forced the Germans to keep
more than half their squadrons away
from the Eastern front.” Assuredly a
great contribution to what Sir Archibald
called the Battle of Russia, and, though
he didn’t mention it, another must have
been made by the Royal Navy and the
Merchant Navy. But it was not enough
for the Churchill Government. “We
took risks in the Far East to help heroic
Russia in her extremity,” said Sir Archi-
bald Sinclair, explaining why “British
air squadrons in the Far East are all too
few.” “The vastness of the aid we have
given Russia will be known some day,”
said Lord Moume, Secretary of State
for the Colonies (!), who “leads” for
Mr. Churchill in the House of Lords.
Out of its limited resources Australia
itself sent assistance to Russia, egged
on by newspapers which are Russia-mad.
And its Government took the lead in
urging the declaration of war on Finland,
Hungary and Rumania, after consultation
with “the realist who never wavered,
Stalin.” The Stalin Government has
shown its “gratitude” by refusing to assist
the Empire against Japan. In the words
of “S. M. Herald’s” London correspon-
dent, “Russia has persistently played a
lone hand,” and “it must be accepted as
a fact that Russia will think only of
itself.” The correspondent even suggests
that “events may compel a change in the
theory commonly held that Russian
enmity to Japan is immutable.”
Be that as it may, if Soviet and British
accounts of Russian victories over the
Germans and the equipment of the
Russian Air Force with fighter ’planes
superior to anything German are true
only in part, the sending of so many
British ’planes, tanks and crews to
Stalinland was a tragic blunder, since the
Russians could have done without them.
Because of its immense value as a source
of rubber and tin, and because of its
enormous importance to the maintenance
of sea-power, of the safety of Australia,
New Zealand and the Netherlands East
Indies and of British prestige in Asia,
the defence of Malaya should have come
before aid to Russia. We paid dearly
for the subordination of Imperial in-
terests to a mistaken chivalry in Greece
and Crete, and in Malaya we have paid
for it already in cruel losses of men and
machines, of productive districts from
which Britain and America drew huge
supplies of materials essential to the
prosecution of the war, of military points
important—perhaps vital —to the preser-
vation of Singapore, and of that “face”
which counts for so much in Asia. And
if the full price is not exacted it will only
be because of the valor and skill of men
inferior in numbers and equipment and
of the mercy of God.
Dingoism on the Coalfields.
No trade-union in the English-speaking
world has a worse industrial record in
war-time than the organisation of N.S.W.
coalminers.
In the last war this concern went in
for so many strikes and trivial stoppages
that production dropped from 47,555,700
tons in 1910-14 (annual average,
11,888,900 tons) to 34,932,200 tons in
1914-18 (annual average, 8,733,000 tons).
There were two general strikes: one
lasted from October 31 to December 4,
1916 ; the other from the beginning of
August to the beginning of October, 1917.
In the present war the miners have
followed 1916-17 form. Naturally com-
plete statistics are not available, but
it has been revealed that, because of
strikes and stoppages, output fell from
11,317,000 tons in 1939 to 9,662,800
tons in 1940. With petrol imports re-
stricted and endangered, and with produc-
tion of munitions multiplied, especially
in South Australia —a State entirely de-
pendent on N.S.W. coal—everyone but
coalminers has recognised that a maxi-
mum output has been all along a national
necessity. The actual quantity of coal
won has been so tragically short of re-
quirements that the South Australian
Premier was recently heard protesting to
Canberra that his State had only three
weeks’ stocks in sight. And the chairman
of the Coal Commission has pronounced
it “fantastic to suggest that stocks for
essential industry in any State have
reached even reasonable proportions.”
In 1940 N.S.W. coal- and shale-miners
were concerned in 382 industrial disputes
out of a total —all industries —of 434.
Man-working days lost in 1940 numbered
1,075,714; coal- and shale-miners were
responsible for 962,801. In the first six
months of 1941, 383 mine-working days
were lost in N.S.W. mines, and lost time
per cent, of possible working time was
reckoned at 8.9 p.c.
Yet these miners have been virtually
allowed to fix the terms on which they
work —when they do. Their Federation
has laid down the “principle” that a
year’s toil should consist of 200 working
days of eight hours, whatever the nation’s
coal requirements may be. Actually the
eight-hour day means 6) hours at the
face, and the wages of contract men in
northern mines average between £l2 and
£2O a week.
It was proposed to install scraper
loaders —mechanical devices for extract-
ing coal in greater quantities and with
greater safety. This was vetoed by Mr.
Baddeley, the Minister of Mines, over
the heads of competent advisers. The
same Mr. Baddeley put through a bill
granting pensions of £2 a week to miners
at 60, plus £ 1 a week for a wife and
Bs. 6d. for each child under 16, plus
Commonwealth endowment for each
child after the first. The pensions are,
in effect, a charge on consumers and
taxpayers. They were recommended by
a commission which asserted that they
would make for industrial peace. So did
Mr. Baddeley.
Before the Pensions Act was passed,
the miners received an arbitration award
in which they were allowed one day’s
holiday on full pay for every 25 days
worked. This was taken to mean that
they would have to work a full 25 days
before the concession operated, but the
very reasonable interpretation resulted in
a flurry of strikes. Thereupon the usual
device was resorted to —a commission,
which recommended that the 25 days be
calculated regardless of strikes and sec-
tional stoppages. The recommendation
was, of course, adopted.
The Christmas-New Year holidays
over, the miners broke out again. For
five days most of the large pits on the
northern and southern fields were idle, and
in that time production of over 100,000
tons of coal was lost. Pretexts for the
strikes varied, but the favorite was that
men due for retirement at 60 had “decided
to continue working till February 21.”
This, Mr. Baddeley pointed out, they were
entitled to do, and Mr. Baddeley im-
plored “the boys” to go back to their jobs.
“The boys” took little notice of Mr.
Baddeley and less of Mr. Beasley, who
had intimated that he was “very dis-
turbed by reports that more than 7000
miners were on strike.” But some of
the union bosses looked as if they had
eaten sour fruit when they read a tele-
gram from the Prime Minister begin-
ning in these terms:
So grave is Australia’s position that if
coal is not available for essential war pur-
poses I must take steps to get it, and will
do so. Neither bosses nor workers can be
allowed to increase the dangers to our
country.
In reply, Mr. Curtin was informed
among other things that the South Coast
miners had been instructed to return to
work, and he described this assurance as
“very welcome: on behalf of the Gov-
ernment and in the interests of Aus-
tralia, I thank you deeply,” But, having
learned that 28 pits were still idle, and
that only three were working on the
South Coast, he sent another telegram
next day. It contained this sentence:
Any Government that allowed essential
production to suffer because men would not
work when provision existed for the speedy
settlement of disputes would be traitorous to
Australia.
The reply was that the gentlemen
“appreciated the seriousness of posi-
tion” and were “doing all” in their
“power to rectify same” ; but most of the
strikes went on. Thereupon Mr. Curtin
“warned the miners that if they did not
resume within 24 hours drastic action


would be taken against them under
National Security regulations.”
Informed at the end of the 24 hours
that not a tap of work was being done
that day in 11 mines, Mr. Curtin issued his
National Security regulations. Though
on the face of it they were immediately
effective they will be tested only by time.
In some respects they are drastic; in
others rather amazing. Mineowners are
ordered to keep their mines open, with
strict observance of existing pay rates, con-
ditions and customs of the calling, and to
furnish the Coal Commissioner with “the
name and address of every person who
refuses or fails to attend work.” If they
default in these obligations, “every direc-
tor and every person concerned in the
management” will be liable, “unless he
proves that the offence took place with-
out his knowledge.” The Coal Com-
missioner is empowered to cancel the
exemption from military service of “every
person” who, without reasonable excuse,
“refuses or fails to attend work,” con-
trary to the instructions, counsel or
advice of “the duly constituted committee
of management of any organisation of
employees in the coalmining industry,” and
such persons will be “liable” also to expul-
sion from the union by said committee.
Defaulting mineowners and miners may
be fined £IOO or imprisoned for six
months or both “where proceedings are
taken under summary jurisdiction.” If
convicted on indictment they may be
fined “any amount and imprisoned for
any period or both.” But there is no
express prohibition of strikes or stop-
pages authorised by “the duly constituted
committee of management,” nor is there
any obligation on any such body to order
men to work, much less expel them.
In short, the regulations go too far in
one direction, and not far enough in
another. The Government should itself
take and exercise the powers required,
and not delegate them to any committee
of management. It is a case for indus-
trial conscription, and disfranchisement
should be added to the penalties pro-
vided. Men who will not win coal for
good wages and under conditions of their
own shaping when the nation may con-
ceivably be sunk without it are not fit
to have the vote.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The War-time "Bulletin."
Paper rationing—itself a necessary part
of Australia’s war effort —has enforced
reduction in the size of The Bulletin,
and other changes are necessary.
Regretfully, “Uncabled Additions” has
to be suspended until air-mail services
are functioning again.
Other changes are mainly in the nature
of reduction in the space that can be
allotted to regular features. The drop-
ping of “Sundry Shows” from the present
issue could not be avoided; but this
feature will be revived in anoher form.
Some pegging of circulation has also
been enforced by the new rationing, and.
to avoid possibility of disappointment,
readers are advised to order The Bulle-
tin either direct or through newsagents.
In the last war The Bulletin was last
to increase its price and first to reduce
the price again when that war was over.
This time there has been no change in
price ; and Bulletin readers need no tell-
ing that all features will be back to
normal as soon as that is at all possible.
Before the Bottle.
In this war, as in the last, Australia
and Maoriland have been well served by
the war correspondents accredited to
their fighting forces. All, without excep-
tion, have done a difficult and dangerous
job faithfully, and with fine literary
workmanship. Each has conducted him-
self as if he regarded it as an honor to
record the deeds of Australians and
Maorilanders in battle, as indeed it is.
One of these young men who have made
good is lan Fitchett. From the Middle
East he sent graphic campaign sketches
that his grandfather would have been
proud to own. Transferred to another
theatre of war, he was in Malaya when
Gordon Bennett’s men were awaiting the
onset of a hitherto victorious enemy; and
he reflected their mood and his own in
words which might have been written
on July 22, 1916, instead of January 6,
1942, for the Digger doesn’t change.
Although inaction is proving galling to
the A.1.F., the troops are accepting it with-
out grumbling. It has become obvious
to all others that their responsibilities will
be doubled, but they, above all others,
have been trained and specialised for the
job they will be called on to perform.
Ultimately, Malaya must be reinforced or,
failing that, pressure must be brought to
bear from Burma to relieve the strain.
Meantime, some of the press cuttings
from home are hardly good reading for
men waiting hourly to put their long
months of preparation to the test. All that
is left for them to do is to hold on and
attempt to deal a temporary knockout to
the enemy, who so far has had everything
his own way.
Stunt attempts to name “guilty men”
taste sour in the minds of men on the
brink of desperate things, the more so
when there was still time left for intelligent
journalism to attempt to get something
constructive done. Any tolerance that
could be expected from cynical troops was
finally hit on the head by a bright state-
ment from an ex-Ministerial office-holder
that he had known all along the truth about
Malaya.
The ex-Ministerial office-holder is Senator
Foil. That gentleman, when Minister
of Information, took a party of little
editors to the Near North, where, it was
recorded—presumably by a member of
the party —he sat on a golden throne,
nibbled peanuts from a silver plate and
was entertained with the dancing of
palace virgins. True or not, when the
outfit returned to Australia at the end
of August neither Mr. Foil nor any of
his guests gave the slightest indication of
uneasiness about the military and equip-
ment position in Malaya, if any of them
was aware of it.
One little editor worked up a domestic
tragedy about Diggers alleged to be suf-
fering from “bloody-mindedness” as a
result of gazing too long at rubber-trees.
He had his prescription ready: “The
men should be transported in convoys
to the Cameron Highlands—the Cam-
eron Highlands will take the A.I.F. out
of the sweat and steam.” To another
little editor, “one of the urgent needs”
was “for the Army to send up to Malaya
men with authority to get things done,
men with power to” —demand and secure
prompt delivery of lots more bombers,
fighters and tanks, with trained crews?
No ; “to put up canteens, to order talkie
equipment, to buy books.”
The “stunt attempts to name ‘guilty
men’ ” were made in the Sydney “Tele-
graph.” That paper has become notori-
ous for its attacks on British commanders
—even those who have proved their
worth in the campaign in Libya—and for
the mud it has thrown at Australian
officers with splendid 1914-18 records.
Notorious also, of course, for its merry
contempt for the “pushover” Japanese
air force, and for the passionate cham-
pionship of Russia which prompted it to
demand the sending of clouds of aircraft
to that country and to Vladivostok (500
American ’planes manned by Australians
were to be dispatched to that station)
and the opening of the Second Euro-
pean Front demanded by Stalin. Charac-
teristically, the “Telegraph” did not pub-
lish the part of the Fitchett dispatch
which concerned itself.
"As Ye Sow."
There lately burst on Sydney a publi-
cation called “Fact”: a “supplement to
the ‘Sunday Sun,’ ” “the up-to-the-minute
Australian news-review,” “must not be
sold separately.” Let us study “Fact”
of 4/1/’42.
Its “special inside news” was that
“Stalin plans a new Europe.” Uncle Joe
has “clear-cut designs for splitting up”
the Continent:
France and Germany, as they are to-
day or were before the war, will disappear.
... .They will be divided into Sovietised
Republics.... Interesting as the plan itself
is the suggestion that it will not conflict
with the ideas of Britain.
“Special inside news,” indeed. Particu-
larly as it was announced in the
“Moscow News” of September 29 that
“the Soviet Government,” through
Maisky, had “recognised General Charles
de Gaulle as leader of the Free French” ;
and De Gaulle is no “Sovietist.”
“Fact” went on to assert that Ameri-
can correspondents were responsible for
the yarn that the Japs were jokes as
fighters (its parent eagerly copied them),
that Essington Lewis “reputedly” gets
£lO,OOO a year, free of income tax, and
so on, before it got right down to busi-
ness with a vivid picture of the N.S.W.
wheat harvest.
Wide skirts billowing in the hot, dry
wind, the farmer’s middle-aged wife climbed
the horse wagon. Muscles tuned to hard,
long hours in the home kitchen tightened
as she plunged the heavy fork into sheaves,
pitched them into the hayshed. She did
it that day, and the next and the next, till
the wheat was in. With what help they
could find, having to call on their women-
folk, N.S.W. wheat-farmers brought in their
45,000,000 bushels crop.
And from the Namoi to the Murray
work ceased for the day, everybody being
too weak from laughter. The cream of
the joke was that “Fact” itself could not
know why they laughed.
ALL-IN—UP TO A POINT.
“The Federal Government is unlikely to alter its present policy of not conscripting men for service outside Australia
and its territories.”


QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
HELPING AUSTRALIA’S WAR EFFORT
The St. John
Ambulance Brigade
1
This message is presented by
in the Service of Australia
As an ever-reacly essential service the St. John
Ambulance Brigade has grown vastly in its functions
and importance—as part of Australia’s War Effort.
In providing instructors for numerous war-time
organisations, in training the public in First Aid,
Home Nursing and Air Raid Precautions, and in
maintaining regular medical First Aid Service on ail
public and patriotic occasions, the Brigade has won
for its national usefulness a wide appreciation that
is richly deserved.
The St. John Brigade plays its part—and Qantas Empire.
Airways are pleased to co-operate wherever possible with
this nationally important organisation.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
The R.A.C.V. is inviting members to
enrol in the emergency transport corps it
is forming at the request of the Victorian
Government. In the meantime, owners
have to keep their vehicles garaged and
in good condition, which costs money.
Since they are likely to be so useful
one would imagine the Government
would go out of its way to keep them
friendly. But when it is asked to reduce
the registration fee which has to be paid
if the owners are to keep their cars in
condition it maintains a stony silence.
“As an ex-member of the A.1.F., I say
that the great Dominion from which it
came is entitled to a full say in the
direction of the war.” Thus Captain
Edgar Granville, M.P., and Sir Archibald
Southby, M.P., backed him up:
It is not long since I heard Captain Gran-
ville urge an Imperial War Cabinet without
much encouragement. Once he got the
raspberry.
The Bulletin had the same experience—
not once, but every week for about 19
months, except after Greece and Crete.
There has been another intermission
recently.
Sydney’s No-Water Board, having first
put the city on its “honor” not to use
“It appears” that Dr. Page “does not
favor direct representation in the War
Cabinet, but rather a method of consul-
tation similar to that of the Australian
Loan Council and Agricultural Council.”
The doctor should be more explicit.
Would he prefer to send the Apple Board
or the Pig Board to London?
Bruce, breaking a long silence:
We are going to get co-operation between
Britain and the United States, China and
Russia. Surely to God we can have a little
sense and get a little co-operation between
the countries of the British Empire. We
must have more imagination in the future,
and the Dominions can help there.
He was silent too long. Perhaps he didn’t
care to interrupt other gentlemen in
higher posts who have talked too much.
The situation in Malaya seriously con-
cerns the U.S.A. Its imports from that
country, chiefly Para rubber and tin,
were valued at $268,331,000 in 1940,
being second in value on a list of 34
“principal countries.” They were worth
far more than U.S. imports from U.K.
($155,060,000), Australia ($25,560,000)
and M.L. ($7,968,000). U.S. imports from
the Netherlands East Indies were valued
at $169,080,000 —over $10,000,000 more
than the value of imports from Japan.
R. G. Menzies to J. Bull, via the “Daily
Express”:
We have occasionally felt that you saw
Gibraltar and the Suez plainly, but Singa-
pore through a mist of tropic miles. We
have sometimes thought rude things about
you. We have permitted ourselves to sus-
pect that you were missing the bus in
diplomacy, in trade, in realism about the
problems of peace and war.
Yes, but did Bob ever say any of these
things? Did he ever say anything but
“Yes, Mr. Churchill,” when it was his
turn to speak?
N.S.W. Premier McKell, reminding
other people of their obligations, accord-
ing to his smug habit;
Ninety per cent, of Australians are awake
to the danger which threatens us. There
still remains, however, a minority which
either cannot or will not realise the gravity
of our position.
That appeared in a newspaper article.
On the next page it was announced that
“special trams” would “run to Randwick
races.” The special trams were ordered
by McKell’s Transport Minister O’Sulli-
van, notwithstanding the Labor P.M.’s
declaration that the coal position pre-
cluded the running of race trains and
trams. Said the light-hearted O’Sullivan,
“We have plenty of coal.”
Victoria’s Mr. Dunstan has re-
harnessed his team consequent on the
jibbing of John Harris from the shafts
of Education and Health. Deputy-Premier
Lind has been yoked to Education and
is still in Forests traces. Mackrell is on
the offside for Health and Labor, and
Tuckett, M.L.C., is on the outrigger for
Lands. The spare shatter is Rodda,
M.L.C., as Honorary Minister. The collar
of the leader in the Legislative Council
team hadn’t been filled when this lot
of chaff was mixed.
Senator Ashley, who succeeded Foil as
Minister for Information, has had a crack
at his own department, saying it “has
not functioned as it should have done
in the interests of Australia and its war
effort and has failed in the dissemina-
tion of news.” “Pathetic ignorance! ”
barked C. H. Holmes, resigning as
Director-General; “Senator Ashley has
never once given us a lead and is trying
to ‘pass the buck.’ ” Each gentleman said
a lot more, and the net result is that Aus-
tralia is at last getting some informa-
tion from the Information Department.
“‘Boys, return to work at once! ’ was the advice tendered by Mr. Baddeley, the
Minister for Mines, to the striking pitmen.”
“If you are going to behave like this how on earth are we to get fuel for
our race trams?”
water, discovered that N.E.S. wardens
could be called upon in a “civil emergency”
and invited Minister Heffron to turn
them loose as “water police” to catch the
householder taking a pint too much. The
collective howl from the wardens sent
Heffron post-haste to press and radio
to refuse the use of them, and the
No-Water Board retired into silence.
Eden, burbling about “Anglo-Soviet
amity,” mentioned with pride that
“British material is steadily reaching
Russia.”
Hurricanes especially have proved popu-
lar, and British tanks have done very
valuable service at a critical time.
That was published alongside a report
of a series of Russian victories on land
and in the air, the latter being appar-
ently attributable to “a new type of air-
craft, superior to any German fighter,
issued to the Russian Air Force last
month.” On the next page it was stated
that the defenders of Malaya, who could
do with Hurricanes and tanks, had “with-
drawn from their positions below Ipoh”
and that the Japs were on the way
to Kuala Lumpur. But since, as Eden
maintains, “closer political collaboration
between Britain and Russia can and will
be realised,” why worry about Malaya?
Though Mexico and Colombia broke
off diplomatic relations with Japan last
month, neither is a party to the Solidarity
Pact. The little Central American and
Caribbean countries are all signed, but
none of the South American republics
was in the line-up. It doesn’t mean that
any of them prefers the Axis, but it is
scarcely a thing to be cheerful about.
Mrs. Jessie Street, vice-president of the
N.S.W. Aid to Russia Committee,
“explains” to the “many people” who
“are wondering why Russia does not
declare war on Japan”:
Russia has Siberian airports from which
her ’planes could easily bomb Japan’s
cities; she has warships and submarines in
Vladivostok which could menace Japanese
seaways. Why doesn’t she use them? The
main obstacle is the Russo-Japanese non-
aggression pact, which was signed on April
13, 1941.
In effect, a few days after Matsuoka left
Berlin, where he must have told Hitler all
about it. But the “obstacle” would be
child’s play to Stalin if Stalin wanted to
fight the Japs. He took half a dozen
such obstacles in his stride when he
ordered his troops into Poland, Latvia,
Lithuania, Estonia, Finland and Rumania,
all fellow-members of the League to
whose covenants he had subscribed. Mrs.
Street should try to do a bit more “ex-
plaining.” And, incidentally, is there an
Aid to Australia Committee in Russia?
The Roosevelt armament programme,
as outlined to Congress last week, is awe-
inspiring. “All the nations fighting the
Axis” are to share in it, and if plans are
realised there will be distributed among
them 60,000 ’planes, 45,000 tanks, 20,000
anti-aircraft guns and 8,000,000 tons of
shipping this year and 125,000 ’planes,
70,000 tanks, 35,000 a.-a. guns and
10,000,000 tons of shipping in 1943. To
Hitler, Mussolini and Tojo every figure
must have felt like a clod on his coffin.
Westralia has 80 State members, and,
thanks to the easy money supplied by
Canberra, the minimum salary is £5O a
month, with a lot more for Ministers and
officers of both Houses. Out of the £5O
a month they are to pay £2 a month
apiece into a compensation fund, so de-
signed that “loss of membership after
seven years will entitle a member to
receive £6OO, and loss of membership
under seven years to double the amount
he or she has contributed.” Dissatisfied
with the actuarial basis, if any, Joe
Holmes, M.L.C., one of the veterans of
the House —he was a Minister about 40
years ago—said in committee “The
public will have to pay some day.” For
this he was actually suspended for the
rest of the sitting, though the rest of the
sitting lasted only 10 minutes. No other
gentleman interrupted the harmony of
the occasion by pointing out that no
State Parliament will be suffered for any-
thing like seven years.
At 71 Edmund Dwyer-Gray, though
he remains Treasurer, has ceased to be
Deputy Premier of Tasmania, Caucus
having voted D’Alton, the Minister of
Agriculture (46), into that position. And
at 77 David John O’Keefe is to be suc-
ceeded as speaker by J. J. O’Dwyer, V.C.
(51). This amounts to a minor revolution
in Tasmanian Labor politics.
Another Sydney professor, Clunies
Ross, is giving Roberts a go for —er —
supremacy as a war commentator. The
“champion” is 40 and the challenger 42.
It seems a pity that Curtin should let
the newspapers have the use of their
transcendent military talents when they
might be persuaded to combine and run
the war.
As Melbourne “Argus” sees the Vic-
torian political scene:
Expected support for the all-party Minis-
try came from Mr. Hollway, but the neces-
sity for retaining Labor co-operation,
especially in the newly-formed A.R.P.
committees and the State War Advisory
Council, is a factor which would probably
deter Mr. Dunstan from accepting U.A.P.
representation in Cabinet.
Bombs or no bombs, those dreadful
U.A.P. fellows will not be allowed to
horn in on the Dunstan-Cain arrange-
ment.
In the first half of 1941-42 the Forgan-
Smiths spent £1,320,126 more than they
received, though receipts were up.
Revenue totalled £9,433,051 and expen-
diture £10,753,177. The shocking thing
is that unnecessary Governments should
be allowed to handle such sums at such a
time.
“Blackout” Heffron isn’t so happy as
he was. A.R.P. wardens in Newtown,
a congested Sydney suburb, downed tools
when the local council appointed a deputy
chief-warden at £7 6s. a week. There is
a shortage of wardens in Sydney, and
unions are demanding 3s. an hour with
workers’ compensation, meals and beds
for fire-spotting. Heffron should be a
strong supporter of conscription.
Melbourne’s Lud Mayor Beaurepaire
is out with a protest against the cost of
the present system of blackouts, saying
that his own firm’s job would cost £4OOO.
He suggests a master-switch and inde-
pendent control of street lighting as a
means of saving money; otherwise “a
million pounds would go nowhere in
meeting the expense of complete black-
outs of Australian factories.”
It was stated in Australia that Roose-
velt had established a precedent by send-
ing a message to the Mikado over the
heads of the warlords. Actually he fol-
lowed one. His first paragraph read:
“Almost a century ago the President of
the United States addressed to the
Emperor of Japan a message extending
an offer of friendship of the people of
the United States to the people of Japan.”
The second began with the words “that
offer was accepted” ; and the last opened
thus:
I address myself to your Majesty at this
moment in the fervent hope that your
Majesty may, as I am doing, give thought
in this definite emergency to the ways of
dispelling dark clouds.
The day was December 7. Before it
dawned in the mid-Pacific bombers pro-
tected by “dark clouds” were raining
death on Pearl Harbor and Honolulu.


20 Investments in One!
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a "spread” of investment over 20
leading Australian Companies listed on the Stock Exchange.
You also obtain a yield, at present prices, of around 5 % per
annum, and your investment is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; F. E. Loxton, Esq. ;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ; E. E. D. White, Esq.; H. C. Morrow, Esq.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia a ““.
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
t'f,
: U7i
FISHING TACKLE FOR EVERY NEED
As practical anglers, with complete stocks of tackle, wc can supply everything
needed for beach, rock, deep-sea, harbour and river fishing. Call or write
for full particulars ... or for advice about specialised tackle. Prices are
moderate .. . and all goods are GUARANTEED by us.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
•• •..rvß' rySajsLf
‘“C
PERSONAL ITEMS
That cheery, smiling Dutchman Dr.
Hubertus Johannes Van Mook (pro-
nounced “Moke”), who is in Australia on
a mission connected with the defence of
the N.E.1., put up one of the best diplo-
matic performances of the last two years
when, as Director of the N.E.I. Depart-
ment of Economics, he met Japanese
envoys in conference and sent them away
with a strong feeling that they had been
gypped, but with no loss of face. For
that achievement Van Mook was called
to London to be Colonial Minister in
the transplanted Netherlands Govern-
ment, but the Pacific war scotched that
move, and he remains at this end of the
world as Lieutenant Governor-General
of the N.E.I. He was born in Samarang,
Java. A lawyer by profession, he has
archaeology as a hobby —he discovered
the site of an ancient capital of Mataram.
Victor Wentworth Odium, Canadian
High Commissioner to Australia, was
born in Ontario 61 years ago, son of a
university professor, and is a soldier by
profession, holding rank as major-
general. When his latest appointment
came he was in command of the Second
Division of the Canadian Active Service
Force. He won decorations and pro-
motion in the S. African and 1914-18
wars (D. 5.0., 1915 ; C.M.G., 1917 ; C. 8.,
1918) and had four years’ Provincial Par-
liamentary experience as Liberal member
for Vancouver City, his home town. He’s
married, with three sons.
John Klunder Jensen, who succeeds
J. B. Brigden as Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Munitions, was formerly assistant
secretary and is a qualified accountant.
His career in the Commonwealth civil
service dates from the age of 11, when
he donned the cap of a telegraph mes-
senger. He was born in Bendigo (Vic.)
57 years ago, and is mainly self-educated.
Since 1900 he has been associated with
army administration in Australia, and in
1910 and 1918 he visited Britain and the
U.S.A. to get experience in munitions
organisation. When the present war broke
out he was Controller of Munitions Sup-
ply. His own account of his recreations is
“reading, writing, swimming and wander-
ing in the bush.”
From an old acquaintance:
Curtin turned 57 last Thursday. He had no
time for celebration, one of his worries that
day being the drawing up of an ultimatum to
the striking N.S.W. coalminers —the most dis-
tasteful job he has ever had to do as a Labor
politician. Still, he has had so many worries
since 1917 that he has grown philosophical
about them. Going to Westralia that year full
of ambition, he found Labor swirling into
an unpopularity that lasted for years. Always
industrious, he got into the habit of writing half
the “Worker” and licking the other half into
shape. He kept on doing this until 1919, when,
without letting up in the office, he stood for
Perth, addressing three or four meetings a
night. In the result he not only failed to
shift the late J. M. Fowler but suffered a
bad breakdown. In later years too-close appli-
cation to his work in the one position left
him with an astigmatism.
In 1925 Curtin tackled Fremantle and was
beaten by William Watson, a philanthropic
butter merchant, elected in 1922. Watson re-
tiring for a time, Curtin won the seat in 1928
and again in 1929, but Caucus left him out
of the Scullin Ministry, though Scullin—always
a friend —would have been glad to have him.
In 1931 Watson beat him again. He regained
the seat on Watson’s retirement in 1934, but
nearly lost it last year, and had actually aban-
doned hope when a delighted scrutineer
brought the news that many of the second
U.A.P. man’s supporters, instead of voting
the ticket, had marked their preferences alpha-
betically. So, to his own astonishment, Curtin
got in again—to remain Opposition Leader and
to become P.M., with a firmer seat in the saddle
than either of his predecessors had.
Happy in his home and in the State of his
adoption—he loves to go back to it —Curtin
is one of those rare men who pass through
public life without arousing animosities, being
naturally courteous and considerate and incap-
able of doing anything mean or underhand.
Though he never talks about it, he was a re-
jected volunteer in the last war.
A. G. Barrett, of Melbourne and Adel-
aide, will have to be called Arthur now
that a title has come his way, but will
still remain “Bob” to his friends. He
is son of another Arthur —A. O. Barrett,
maltster, amateur champion walker of
Victoria when young, and collector of
paintings later, A.G., after Melbourne
Grammar, moved across to Adelaide at
19 to look after the family maltings, and
has remained there ever since, except for
service, mostly in the air, with the A.I.F.
in France. He holds many public posi-
tions, and for the last four years has
been Mayor of Adelaide. His wife was
one of the Mair family of Melbourne.
Schoolmastering seems to be the most
prolific seedbed for military talent in
Australia. Major-General Leslie James
Morshead, knighted for his defence of
Tobruk, is one of the various Australian
generals who learnt soldiering while
chalking blackboards. He was born at
Mount Pleasant, Ballarat, in 1889, and
got a State school education. Then he
went into the Education Department in
Victoria. After 18 months of that he
moved to Armidale College (N.S.W.), and
then to Melbourne Grammar. He en-
listed in the 1914-18 war as a private,
rose rapidly to the rank of lieutenant-
colonel —the youngest in the A.I.F. —was
at the Landing, led an assault on Lone
Pine and wound up in command of the
23rd Battalion. During the interval of
peace he was Melbourne and then Com-
monwealth manager of the Orient line of
steamers. When Hitler erupted Morshead
was commanding the sth Infantry Brigade,
N.S.W., was promptly promoted to major-
general and left for England in com-
mand of the 1940 contingent. He was in
the first Libyan push and then took
charge at Tobruk.
“This is your Announcer, the unpopular
BOB MENZIES.”
(The former Priminister is doing a weekly
talk for a chain of commercial stations.)
David Bailey, appointed chairman of
the Inter-Allied Information Committee
in New York on the outbreak of war in
the Pacific, is the Director of the Aus-
tralian News and Information Bureau in
the U.S.A. He was born in Tasmania,
had his early newspaper experience on
Melbourne newspapers, and in 1938
joined the London staff of A.A.P. After
that he was for a while manager of
A.A.P.’s New York office.
Dr. Thomas George Wilson, of Adel-
aide, who at the New Year was em-
powered to add C.M.G. to the already
long string of letters after his name, is
one of Australia’s leading gynaecologists.
He’s 65, was bom at Armidale, N. S.
Wales, holds Sydney and Edinburgh de-
grees, and is a Fellow of the American
College of Surgeons and a foundation
Fellow of the R.A.C.S. From 1925 to
1940 he was Willis Way lecturer in gynae-
cology at Adelaide University. He served
DR. T. G. WILSON.
in the 1914-18 war on various fronts and
holds rank as lieut.-col. He was presi-
dent of the S.A. Branch of the B.M.A.
in 1922. Plays tennis and golf.
Ordinary Seaman I. D. Rhodes,
R.A.N.V.R., who has been awarded the
Conspicuous Gallantry Medal, was a
former champion Melbourne golfer who
enlisted in 1940 under the yachtsmen’s
scheme. He earned his distinction off
Crete when, irritated by the behavior of
a German dive-bomber which had re-
turned to machine-gun British survivors,
he manned single-handed an anti-aircraft
gun on the sinking destroyer Kashmir
and blew the offender to perdition.
Rhodes was born at Kaipawa (M.L.).
Point Cook aviation school has a new
C. 0., Group-Capt. R. S. Brown, who
goes from R.A.A.F. headquarters. The
new C.O. had a good active service
record in 1914-18, was liaison officer for
the R.A.A.F. in England in 1925-26, was
A.D.C. to the Governor-General for the
next four years, rejoined the R.A.A.F.
in 1940 and was C.O. of elementary
flying training in S.A. before going to
headquarters.
In 1921, before Hitler had even been
envisaged, five men sat round a table in
Melbourne to open the initial meeting
of the Munitions Supply Board, when
Australian munitions-making was gener-
ally regarded as a superfluous activity.
They were John Klunder Jensen ; Arthur
Edgar Leighton, an Englishman who had
had experience of military supply in
India; Colonel T. J. Thomas, M. M.
Maguire and N. K, S. Brodribb. It was
an interesting reunion when they all met
at luncheon in Melbourne last week, with
Leighton presiding. Leighton, Maguire
and Thomas were recalled from retire-
ment in September, 1939, to take advisory
jobs in the organisation they had worked
to establish. Brodribb and Jensen have
worked right through the crisis. Brodribb
is now Assistant Director-General of
Munitions,
L. R. Rodda, the new Victorian Hon.
Minister, had three years in France
with the Australian Siege Battery in
1914-18 and came back to farming around
Horsham, in the Wimmera. He got into
agrarian movements almost at once, and
in 1937 became a Western Province
M.L.C. He has been working on the
Emergency Wheat Transport Committee
handling this year’s Victorian harvest.
Into the silence:
At Caulfield, Victoria, at 67, Captain Thomas
Easson, as well known along Melbourne’s bay-
side as the Gellibrand Light. He started in
windjammers, was first officer of the old ex-
cursionist Weeroona, was master of the Werri-
bee and for years skippered the Nairuna on the
Bass Strait run. After that he practised as a
marine surveyor and adjuster of compasses in
Melbourne.
At Capetown, aged 76, Sir Alfred Karney
Young, who, firstly as Attorney-General and
latterly as Chief Justice and Chief Judicial
Commissioner of the Western Pacific, spent the
last 15 years of his official life in Fiji, retir-
ing in 1929. He was the son of a one-time
Governor of the Gold Coast Colony, qualified
in Law at Oxford, played cricket for Kent,
and joined the Colonial Service in 1890. He
married late in life—at 65.
At 83, Alexander Gordon, of Sydney, for
18 years a Judge of the N.S.W. Supreme Court.
He was born in Sydney, son of Alexander
Gordon, Q.C., educated in England and called
to the N.S.W. Bar at 24. Having built up a
big private practice, he took silk at the age ot
46, being elevated to the Bench six years later.
For 12 years he was Judge in Divorce, handed
down many important still-quoted decisions,
and earned a reputation for kindliness towards
suitors in poor circumstances. His cultural
and social interests were wide, and he was a
great supporter of tennis and cricket. He was
knighted in 1930.
In Brisbane, at 73, Waverley Fletcher Cameron,
one of Queensland’s best-known real-estate men,
son of one of the first auctioneers and land
salesmen in the northern capital. He was a
lieutenant in the old Naval Brigade, a com-
mander in the R.A. Naval Reserve, an enthusi-
astic yachtsman and a life member of the
R.Q. Yacht Club. Three of his five surviving
sons hold commissions in the A.I.F. or R.A.A.F.
At Beaumaris (Vic.), at 73, Lieut.-Colonel
Leonard Dobbin, who had the distinction of
forming, training and leading in Gallipoli the
Ist Battalion, A.I.F. He was Base Com-
mandant at Alexandria after the Evacuation
and then Administrator at Ismailia. Senior
partner of the legal firm of Dobbin and Spier,
of Sydney, he was a founder and life member
of the Royal Sydney Golf Club, its hon. sec.
for years and then secretary of the Common-
wealth Golf Club at Oakleigh, Melbourne.
In London, at 75, Melbourne-born Oswald
Stoll, who founded the “chain” theatres in
Britain. He wrote books on economics and
was knighted in 1919.
Edwin Joseph Mackrell, who has held
the portfolio of Labor in Dunstan’s Vic-
torian Government for seven years, and
who now steps into John Harris’s shoes
as Minister for Health, thanks The Bul-
letin for maintaining his political career.
This journal made fun of a daily paper’s
calling him a “political bushranger” on
the eve of an election, and its jesting gave
Mackrell just the helping shove he
E. J. MACKRELL.
needed. Mackrell was born at Strath-
bogie, in the Ned Kelly country, the year
that hero was hanged, went to State
schools, became a dairy-farmer and butter
manufacturer, crossed to the W.A. gold-
fields and then to S’Africa, made the
acquaintance of Botha and Smuts, served
with S’African irregulars under General
Botha in 1914, ran a butter factory in
the Orange Free State and then returned
to Strathbogie to be a grazier. Three
years after that he entered politics and
served 13 years as secretary of the Par-
liamentary C.P, The unemployment
problem is his particular pet.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Philallergic”: For the first time the
emu is to appear alone on a Common-
wealth postage stamp—the new 5 yd.,
color dark blue. Other new stamps are
to carry the King’s head, and the Queen
is to stay.on the Id. issue in plum color.
The usual uproar has emanated from
“modernist” artists and their cohorts, who
condemn the new designs generally as an
added horror of the war. But these
people have never yet in my memory
praised a local stamp, note or coin issue,
so their spluttering can be put down to
habit. What’s it matter what the thing
is like? Few people ever give more than
a cursory glance at a stamp, anyhow.
“Wodgil”: From a copious war article
by a knowall professor:
Almost every day reports come of fresh
enemy concentrations on the Thracian
border, and, equally as sinister, of fortifi-
cations on the Greek coast and the Aigean
islands.
“Equally as sinister.” It recalls a story
told of a professorial author. Chatting
with brother-professors about his latest
work, he proudly declared that 10 foreign
editions had been published, and that
his gratified publishers had arranged for
another —in Swedish. “Good,” said the
Oldest Professor, “and now tell me,
young fellow—when is it going to be
translated into English?”
* * * *
“D.E.”; I don’t think much of these
“commando” raids, though they have
given the flapper press a new thrill. In-
deed the “famous” Frank Owen demands
heaps more of them: “To those who ask
where there is one place in Europe you
could land to create a second front” the
“famous” Frank’s answer is, “there are
ten thousand.... for bold men who in-
tend to create trouble,” but you can bet
your life Frank Owen won’t be among
them, though he is even younger ’than
Sydney’s most notorious fountain-pen
fusilier. What are the facts? In a mag-
nificently foolhardy attempt to kidnap
Rommel, Colonel Keyes, the admiral’s
son, lost his life, and in the inevitable
retreat across the desert his men got hell.
And in the attack on the Norwegian
island of Vaagso, eight bombers were
lost (though one of the crews was rescued)
and a supporting operation cost us three
fighters. And there is mention of Beau
and Blenheim fighters and Hampden
bombers having been employed. About
the same time the chilling news came from
Singapore that “the small British fighter
force in Malaya” was “being kept in
reserve” because General Percival could
not “afford to fritter away his limited
strength while it is awaiting the maxi-
mum Japanese air attack.” What
wouldn’t he have given for the 11 good
machines and crews “frittered away” in
the Norwegian stunt?
* * » *
“A.R.P.”: Putting in a continuous five-
hour stretch on our local warden’s post
the other morning, I did a good bit of
thinking in the fitful manner of a man
hungry for sleep. Through my mind
went all the calamity-crying of the daily
press over the situation in Malaya, the
demands for the “sacking” of alleged in-
competent leaders, the urge to everybody
to prepare for the worst. These things,
conned in the silent hours before dawn,
when the suburb slept and not even the
prowling milkman had yet ventured forth,
filled me with depression. Then the sun
rose over the Pacific, a large red ball in
the mask of dust and sea haze, and my
mood saw it as a grim reminder of the
enemy whose emblem it is. Head down
and sunk in pessimism, I walked home.
A piece of torn paper was stuck on the
gate. From what strange hands it came
I know not, but it was a Tasmanian
sheet and staring at me in black letters
was the inspiring message “New Nor-
folk Is Ready.” It was enough. Sure
that the nation was awake I hopped into
the matutinal sausage.
* sfc * *
“Keel Row”: The Scots in our midst
must get some dour amusement out of
a comparison of figures in the “Weapons
for War” efforts. While Sydney and
Melbourne were making heavy weather
of a drive for funds to replace
H.M.A.S. Sydney, Edinburgh announced
completion of a short drive for
£15,000,000 to replace the battleship
Prince of Wales. At the 1931 census
Edinburgh’s population numbered
439,000, less than half that of Melbourne,
so the subscription works out at around
£35 per head! Such a record from a
country where wages are lower than ours,
where taxation has been at high-water
mark almost from the outbreak, and
where the community has had to bear its
quota of loss and damage through enemy
action should make us pull up our socks.
* * * *
“lurumudi”: Many district officers of
Malaya must have been relieved to get
the order to remain with the natives in
the event of a Japanese invasion of their
districts. Most of my acquaintances have
an almost sentimental affection for the
Malay, coupled with an intense dislike
of other races. One D.O. told me Malays
“If she don’t answer, Joe, put one across her bows.”
always reminded him of English public-
school boys in their likes and dislikes,
habits and customs. Anyway, they took
to football like ducks to water. To have
to desert them would have been painful
and, in the event of their coming back,
the reunion would be even more painful.
There is one fly in the ointment, how-
ever. The district officer who stays behind
to look after his charges will have to
work in with the invader if he is to do
any good, because the only authority he
could appeal to would be the authority
that happened to be in possession. So,
technically speaking, he would be a Quis-
ling in the eyes of those pressboys who
hurled this epithet about so lavishly when
Hitler was overrunning Europe. Since
they didn’t draw the line at Leopold of
Belgium, they are not likely to have any
scruples about bespattering minor offi-
cials whose responsibilities are the same
in kind, if not in degree, in Malaya.
* * * *
“K.”: One of the things admired
by Sydney’s citizens is the co-opera-
tive spirit that distinguishes its Gov-
ernment and “semi-Government” con-
cerns. The suburbanite who pride-
fully views the newly-made road out-
side his property, for instance, can be
certain that there was no clash between
gas - main layers, water - main layers,
telephone - main men, electricity - main
putters-down and the council’s easement
and drainage artists when it was con-
structed. All these will come along at
intervals later to take the bitumen up
and put it down again. Probably, then,
not one of the city’s million and a quarter
inhabitants was in the least surprised to
read that, despite the Drops of Water
Board ban, barely a dozen inquiries
had been made to the County Council,
which supplies electricity for 20,000
domestic hot-water services, for cut-offs.
It seemed strange. Then I turned over
the page and light dawned as my eye
caught an Sin. by siin. ad. depicting a
grinning female draped in a towel and
poking her head around the bathroom
door. Yes, it was a County Council ad.
offering to install a hot-water service in
your home without deposit “and for as
little as 4s. a week.”
* SK * «
“Zake”: “Criminal Shot Dead. Gun
Battle With Police.” My hopeful eye
caught the heading in “S. M. Herald.”
Here, then, was the answer to those who
aver that, despite long hours of practice
on the police range with revolvers, the
cops never hit anything they aim at. Here
at last was my vindication. They really
could shoot straight, even though it took
15 shots fired at short range—2s, another
account had it —to administer the coup
de grace. But, alas! When the true facts
emerged, they showed that the criminal,
who had been in smoke for 14 months
since escaping from Maitland gaol, had
ended himself with the last bullet in the
chamber of his squirt,
* * * *
“Looby”: There are many brave men
who never get a headline. One of these
is our neighbor-across-the-hall. He rang
the bell of the flat next to ours, and
after telling his tale there rang my bell
and repeated the yarn. “I’m selling but-
tons,” he beamed. “Threepence.” I bit
—and was handed a shirt button. “It’s a
private war effort,” he chortled. “They’re
all buttons my wife won’t sew on for me,
so I’m going round showing her up. With
the money I collect I’ll buy needle and
thread and do it myself.” He had taken
a bob when his
wife, with a dial
like a beetroot,
dragged him home.
His shirts are now
in beautiful repair.
* *
“T. Square”; It
is rather the fashion
to rail at the mod-
ern tendency to
plainness and sim-
plicity in architec-
ture, but surely
anything is prefer-
able to utterly un-
meaning ornament,
particularly in pub-
lic buildings. A case
in point is the Edu-
cation Department
building in Sydney.
Apparently the out-
side and inside of
this building were
designed by two
different hands,
each ignorant of or
indifferent to the
intentions of the
other. So it comes
about that the sand-
stone facade, clut-
tered with all sorts
of heavy and expensive ornament, presents
an array of balconied windows. Now bal-
conies (in moderation) are all very well
on palaces and town halls, so that
monarchs and mayors may harangue the
populace, but what a couple of dozen of
’em are wanted for overhanging Sydney’s
quiet little Loftus-street is not so easy
to understand. It would, too, be quite a
job to address the multitude from any
of those balconies, because the windows
they front have sills at least 15ft. higher
than the floor levels, and long ladders
must be used to get to them.
* * * *
“Apple Gum”: Compared with cities
closer to the scorching flame of war, of
course, Sydney can, so far, reckon itself
well off, but the nonchalance with which
it takes its little war-time troubles is
worthy of some recognition. Quite a
lot of the city’s experiences seem to have
no more effect than water on a duck’s
back. Sudden prohibition of neon signs
and shop-window lighting, which used to
blaze all through the long hours of day-
light, didn’t matter a scrap—the streets
look as cheerful as ever, perhaps more
cheerful, because the sunshine has a free
go. And though almost every retailer in
the place has had his trade nibbled at
by import restrictions and other prohibi-
tions and the customers, what with a
water shortage and a petrol ban and the
high price of beer and smokes and the
ever-rising tide of taxation, could be
excused a furrowed brow, the social
atmosphere, if anything, is happier than
it was in 1938. Possibly the universality
as Well as the inevitability of war-time
drawbacks helps to make them tolerable.
However it may be, Sydney’s virtue of
tolerance has never shone with brighter
lustre.
# # * *
“Darwarb”: “Some day,” wrote a
young R.A.A.F. man to a Brisbane
friend, “Darwin will be a great city, with
wide streets, leafy boulevards, lovely
homes and fine business centre.” Well, I
hope he’s right, but it isn’t comforting to
think that the place was forgotten by
Canberra for 40 years until the war and
the Pacific side of it brought Darwin
into prominence. Before that, it wasn’t
Canberra but the flying-boat services that
put the place permanently on the map,
and it is likely to stay there, since flying
will develop enormously after the war,
and the Commonwealth will have to clean
up its front door for the passage of
visitors.
3= $ * ♦
“8.P.”: Militiamen digging at the top
of Bulli Pass (N.S.W.) put a pick through
a tin trunk about 2ft. underground. In
their casual way the youngsters dragged
the thing out, convinced it contained
nothing much but joking about hidden
sovereign hoards, dismembered bodies
and so on. Then they opened it and a
collective gasp went up as their eyes
fell on bundles of brand-new fivers. The
flimsies were in packets of 50 and 100,
and, as one of the men put it, “We were
too excited to do any more work.” With
visions of a large reward they sent for
the police, who unhappily recognised
the notes as forgeries similar to some
passed at race-meetings and other places
about a year ago. The soldiers cursed
fluently and went back to their job,
wondering why the spot they had chosen
to dig out of 3,000,000 square miles of
country should serve them a trick like
that. The notes had a spurious value
of £20,000.
THE CARPERS.
“Artists and art critics condemn the designs on
the new issue of Commonwealth postage stamps as
dull, commonplace, uniesthetic and even hideous.”
Strange, is it not, whene’er the powers that be
On new designs for postage stamps adventure,
One never hears a word of eulogy?
Critics and fellow-artists all agree
(For once) in scornful censure.
Relentlessly with flout and jeer and gibe,
With epithets opprobrious and invidious,
They pillory some brother of their tribe,
Deplore his limitations and describe
His artistry as hideous.
The fate’s the same for those who coins design
Or banknotes decorate with sprightly pictures.
They never score a tribute, faint or fine,
From anybody else who’s in their line,
But merely acid strictures.
Whoever’s picked our tokens to endow
With something apt, in spirit and in letter,
One mostly learns from the resultant row
Of countless craftsmen —hundreds, anyhow—
Who could have done it better.
We minstrels are an irritable crew,
Some Latin poet tells, high-strung and jealous
Of others’ eminence. Which may be true.
Yet in withholding patient merit’s due
I doubt we measure up to some of you
Fastidious artist-fellows.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
THE RETURN OF THE KELLYS.
“N.S.W. Chief Secretary Baddeley has lifted the
ban on ‘Kelly Gang’ films which has been in opera-
tion since 1925. The Minister said it would be
ludicrous to prohibit such a picture as ‘When the
Kellys Bode’ now that the world was experiencing
the unbridled horrors of war.”
These blood-arid-thunder plays of outlaws pit-
ting .
Their wits and stratagems against police
And countless crimes audaciously committing
Before their wild careers are made to cease
Might justly have been reckoned unbefitting
For pictures, in the piping times of peace.
But now the dogs of war are fighting madly
The veto may be lifted, argues Baddeley.
They might have turned young thoughts to
lawless courses,
Those presentations of a vanished day
When sturdy robbers hit the breeze on horses
Before the motor-car arrived to stay,
And sorely taxed Authority’s resources
To cramp their style or block their getaway.
But in a world where war’s incessant hell is,
What harm if we resuscitate the Kellys?
Again we’ll see those reckless violators
Of Law’s interminable “shan’ts” and “shalls,”
Those local followers and imitators
Of bold Dick Turpins and of Claude Duvals,
Albeit I doubt those high-toned operators
Would have accepted Ned or Dan for pals.
However hard it is to understand it,
Some glamor clings about the bushland bandit.
Again we’ll view those hunted thieves and
plotters
Of long ago playing their knavish pranks,
Seizing the mails, intimidating squatters,
Incontinently looting pubs and banks;
And though we know they’re ruffians and
rotters
Maybe we owe the film-producers thanks.
The scraps with cops, the shouting and the
shooting,
From Baddeley’s point of view may help re-
cruiting.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Just as I thought—made in Japan!”
“Nakhod a”: Melbourne A.R.P.
authorities advise citizens caught in the
streets in an air raid to lie down in the
gutter. Apparently they haven’t ob-
served Melbourne’s gutters. Owing to
the city’s 25in. p.a. rainfall, they are less
than a foot deep for the most part and
only one-sided—in fact they are merely
kerbs. In Singapore the advice would
have some relevance. Singapore, in
common with most Indonesian cities, has
an immense ready-made system of trench
shelters. They are the. deep concrete
drains which surround* every house and
building and line each side of the high-
ways. In my first days in Java I was
astounded at these contraptions, which
ran from a foot in depth down to canyons
of nine feet. I lost my surprise five
minutes after the first torrential down-
pour of the wet season, when they be-
came leaping torrents. In Singapore in
peace-time they provide shelters for 75
p.c. of the Tamil road-menders when the
overseers aren’t looking. One weary
worker keeps watch while the others
smoke opium, drink arrack, gamble or
slumber in the cool shade several feet
below the roadway.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: The Japanese invasion has
shattered at least one of my illusions.
If 8.8.C.’s pronunciation, which our
A.B.C. copies, of Russian, Libyan, Syrian
and Polish place-names is no better than
is its pronunciation of Malayan towns
and rivers, I have been grievously misled.
Malay is a simple, euphonious language
without any traps for foreign speakers.
It is spelt as it is sounded, and there
should be no difficulty about it. But
the 8.8. C. announcer who sends his name
out to the listening millions feels obliged
to make such mouthfuls of Kuala
Lumpur and Ipoh that their own mother
wouldn’t know them.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: This being mid-
summer, let me in with a winter’s tale.
The fire from the glowing grate soft-
ened even the austerity of the board-
ing-house sitting-room to a passable
imitation of genial warmth and comfort.
To the star boarder reading the racing
news, his slippered feet on the fender, it
brought unbidden thoughts of domestic
joys which he had hitherto managed to
evade with success for more than twenty
manhood-years. His only companion in
the room was his landlady, knitting indus-
triously, and the sudden realisation came
to him that she wasn’t such a tough-
looking old fowl after all. In fact, a man
might do a lot worse, especially as she’d
surely have a bit of money stowed away.
Swept away by impulse he clasped her
hand fondly and murmured “Will you
marry me?” No coy start or blush re-
sponded, no long-hidden lovelight shone
from her speculative eyes, her hand re-
mained in his with no more response
than a slab of cold fried fish. At last she
spoke. “You’ve been here four years
now. You’ve never once grumbled at
the food or service or failed to pay your
bill promptly and without any argument.
You never come home anything bu,t
sober, you don’t make love to the maids
or bring home noisy friends, and you
don’t squabble with the other boarders,
Thank you for asking me, but I certainly
cannot marry you. You’re far too good a
boarder to put on the free list.”
• * * *
“X.S.”; According to statistics war has
brought a sharp decline in crime in Mel-
bourne—from 974 trials held in the
Supreme Court and General Sessions in
1939 to 779 in 1941. The same thing
happened in the 1914-18 war, when the
figure dropped from 621 in 1914 to 420
in 1918. In 1920 it was back again to
624, and it rose to a peak of 1031 in 1931,
which was the year of the great depres-
sion. When the earlier figures were pub-
lished the inference was promptly made
that crime and unemployment are bed-
fellows. But embezzlers and shyster corn-
pany promoters aren’t usually indigent
persons ; nor are the individuals who are
lumped under the name of sexual
offenders. The fact is that in peace-
time society has no common purpose. A
few artists, scientists and others can
maintain their interest in what they are
doing, but a vast proportion of the popu-
lation loses its interest and becomes
bored to extinction. Some may solace
themselves with sickness and neurosis,
some with drink, some by becoming
criminals. A crisis like the present tends
to draw people together, and they can
momentarily forget themselves in the
general purpose,
“Scribbler”: The rush of married folk
to throw petitions of all sorts—nullity,
judicial separation, restitution and other
reasons at the Divorce Court Judges
m 1941 smashed all previous N.S.W.
records when the clock chimed on De-
cember 31. The new figures are 2377,
half a dozen more than in 1940, How-
ever, recent years were not shamed by
much, since there were 2229 in 1937 2339
m 1938 and 2371 in 1939.
t. * * * *
“S.T.S.”; Because of war-time pres-
sure, the ban on married women in the
public service of S.A. has been removed
at last. They will still have to get special
leave from the P.S. Commissioner either
to come in or to stay in after marrying,
but for just 20 years they have been
barred by the wedding ring from either.
* * * *
Chink”: Out of respect for the
memory of my friend Sam, I rise to say
that “Ologist” (B. 31/12/’4l) is merely
pedantic in refusing to sanction “most”
as a strengthening tag to “unique.” When
Sam first chanced upon “unique” it
seemed to him an eminently desirable
word ; and indeed it was a choice item
as he pronounced it “you-na-kew.”
The “Ologist” of the day having inter-
vened, Sam accepted the correction with-
out loss of dignity, but in the new render-
ing he found that some of the
glory of the word had departed.
He therefore adopted the simple
expedient of using trimmings,
and thus whenever he heard or
read a tale of any interest he
always observed briskly, “Most
bloody you-neek! Yes, most
bloody you-neek!” We lads of
the village used to take our
yarns to Sam for the express
purpose of hearing that com-
ment. Can you imagine any of
us having done so if Sam’s “you-
neek” had been unadorned?
“Fed-up”: A person whom lam grow-
ing to hate with a virulence hitherto
unsuspected by myself is the ancient
josser who canters up to a recruiting
centre with a toothless grin and volun-
teers for the A.I.F. He’s bobbed up in
various parts ever since the war began
and never fails to “contact” flapper-
press reporters, who faithfully do a half-
column on him and his sturdiness. He
is seldom under 70 —one of him in Perth
(W.A.) was over 80 —and always alleges
he is as “fit as when he was 20.” He
knows, the recruiting officers know and
the flapper-press knows that he has abso-
lutely no chance of getting into the A.1.F.,
yet there’s always a newspaper to fall
for his publicity stunt. I’m petitioning
the Army to grab the next one that totters
forward and damn the medical regula-
tions.
•••••*
“C.Q.”: An A.I.F. recruit who showed
embarrassment in Melbourne over the
removal of his singlet for medical inspec-
tion because emblazoned on his chest
was a Japanese rising sun probably owed
his predicament to a fashion which once
flourished in the southern city. Nobody
knows how it was started, but adventur-
ous young men and ambitious damsels
suddenly got the craze for going to the
tattooers and getting their skins embel-
lished. At the height of the craze there
were 11 tattoo experts doing big busi-
ness on Friday evenings in Russell-street
and down by the docks, and they had
long lists of waiting clients. Some young
men got themselves literally covered
from neck to ankle, and one young
woman gained temporary fame by hav-
ing embossed on her back, a greyhound in
hot pursuit of a rabbit. When the craze
collapsed there were long queues of
regretful fashion addicts at the tattooers’
seeking to have the disfiguring designs
removed with electric needles —a process
even more painful than having the things
put on.
* * * m
“Nakh”: People can find ways of get-
ting round repressive authority. A small
town in Denmark was raided by the
R.A.F. and a war plant blasted. The
Nazi officials issued a communique stat-
ing that no damage was done except that
a cow had been killed. The local Danish
rag obediently published the information,
but added: “The cow burned for four
days,”
* * * «
“Colonel Bungstarter”; The Caterpillar
Club, for which the only eligibles are
airmen who have made forced parachute
landings, considers itself pretty exclusive,
but its upturned nose is now quite out
of joint. The Late Arrival Club, recently
constituted in the Middle East, confines
membership to those of the Allied Air
Forces in those parts who have returned
on foot from a machine which has either
had to make a forced landing or has
crashed. A recent Australian member
qualified after being forced into hedge-
hopping tactics by four Messerschmitts
over Libya during which he scraped a
sandhill and lost his undercarriage and
propellers. The ’plane bounced 500 ft.
into the air but luckily landed pancake-
fashion. Considerably the worse for
wear but without serious injury, the pilot
set out to walk the 30 miles to the
Egyptian frontier by night stages. Two
days later he found an Allied patrol and
was back with his squadron by the fol-
lowing week.
* * * *
“G.Y.X.”: It had been an all-night
poker sitting, and the teller had not quite
recovered when he faced the general
public across the bank counter the fol-
lowing morning. His first customer, an
old lady, tendered a cheque for £2O to
be cashed. “Four fives,” she demanded.
“Too good for me, mum,” replied the
teller before he could check himself,
* * * *
“L.H.P.”; I question the claim, re-
corded by “Avon” (B. 31/12/’4l), that
H. P. Barber was first conductor of
the first Pollard Lilliputian Opera Co.
Formed in Launceston, Tas., in 1880 by
James J. Pollard, senior, it toured M.L.
in 1881. The founder conducted in
Tassie, but J. J. Pollard, junior, conducted
in M.L., with Chas. Pollard leader, Fred
Pollard flute, Harry Pollard double bass,
Alice Pollard piano, and Nellie Pollard
organ. On the stage were May, Maud,
Olive, Willie and Arthur Pollard. Tom
Pollard (who was born O’Sullivan —he
married a Miss Pollard) was stage man-
ager, and “Pinafore” and “Les Cloches
de Corneville” were their first operas.
Maoriland saw ’em first on March 2,
1881, at Sloane’s Theatre, Invercargill.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A well-known Melbourne
painter sent his entry for the Archibald
Prize to a carpenter to be boxed for
transport. A couple of days later the
carpenter rang up the artist. “Did your
picture have a hole in it when you sent
it?” he asked. “No, it didn’t,” replied
the painter. “Well, it’s got one now,”
came the cheerful answer. After he had
sufficiently recovered the painter got his
canvas back and repaired the damage.
It won the prize that year.
"It still don't look like a tank battle t' me!"


ABORIGINALITIES
“Lord Luvus”: Victoria’s Chief Secre-
tary Bailey is a humane man. When he
decreed that 1000 Phillip Island seals
should be dispatched—for it is alleged the
sleek swimmers have been depriving deni-
zens of the southern city of fish supplies
- —he hedged the tenders around with so
many conditions to minimise suffering
for the victims that to date none has
been forthcoming. It is now thought
likely that in desperation Mr. Bailey will
be obliged to swim over to the
and bore them to death by reading “Han-
sard” to them.
* * * *
“Gab”: The city schoolteacher had
been transferred to Billyfullabutta. He
found things very strange and very dead,
so when old Doolan invited him to the
wedding of Maggie, his eldest, the
schoolie accepted with alacrity. Well
before the ceremony was due to com-
mence he stepped out of his car in front
of the church, resplendent in tails, a white
flower in his buttonhole, his hair sleekly
varnished. For five minutes he endured
the gaping of the stragglers, but when
Murphy’s billygoat started to eye his tails
off he decided to drive home and change
into his sac suit. Twenty minutes later
he was back and just in time to see a car
draw up and two men, dressed in iron-
clads and tails, step out. It was enough.
Back into his car he rushed, raced
home, threw himself into his original
glad rags and came tearing back, only to
learn from one of the kids that the men
had been going to a big wedding at a
town about 20 miles further on, and had
only stopped to inquire the way. Now
gibbering with maniacal fury, the chalk-
pusher set off to change once again—only
to run out of petrol about a mile from
his destination. According to Stepper
Wilson, Doolan’s son-in-law, the froth-
ing apparition stampeded a horse that
had been given up for dead two weeks
previously.
* * * *
“Loo”: This symposium on “first
drinks” reminds me of the day we woke
our parrot up to the fact that hops aren’t
only something you take from one perch
to another. He was a happy-go-lucky
Blue Mountain larrikin, eager to try
everything once. We emptied the water-
tin and refilled it with Pilsener. Down
came Joe, all eyes and thirst. He took
one sip and then thrust out his round
tongue abruptly, coughed and shook his
head as though the feathers were sud-
denly too hot. Then he drank about six
slow, thoughtful beakfuls and retired,
puzzled. We expected great fun, but
were disappointed. Joe climbed clumsily
up to the lowest perch, fell off it, croaked
heavily, climbed back and was sound
asleep almost at once. But the memories
of his bender didn’t displease him, be-
cause for three days after that, whenever
we put his tin of fresh water into the
cage, he’d jump quickly down to it, take
one hopeful beakful, then savagely kick
the tin flying and sulk for hours.
I * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry was laying
down tjie law about taxation to the mob
in the hut. They listened to the sage for
a while and then Bill Harris said “What
does this indirect taxation really mean,
Harry?” “Gripes, that’s easy,” the long
’un answered. “The dog tax is an
example. Y’ see, the dog don’t have to
pay it!”
* * * *
“Carnie”: As an unofficial postmistress
I would advise that new father of Out-
back Occasions (B. 17/12/’4l) to demand
a refund of the second Is. 6d. opening
fee which the exchange keeper socked
him for. No subscriber may be charged
more than one detention or opening fee
in a half-hour in respect to the same
office, even if, in this interval, such sub-
scriber may make a series of calls. More-
over, in the case of calls to doctor and
ambulance and summonses from hos-
pitals to relatives of the dying, there’s
many a small bush exchange which for-
feits the opening fee. This is the code of
those who are bush folk first and un-
- official p.ms. afterwards, although, I may
add, such calls require more time and
initiative than usual business, and de-
mand that the p.m. be adviser, consoler,
messenger boy and at odd times private
detective.
“ Coming , Gwen!"
“Edjudina”: lam gratified to be able
to tell “Oont” (B. 17/12/’4l) where in
“Australia’s dry places” he will find
kurrajong and quandong to serve as
camel-fodder: right across the East Cool-
gardie goldfields. No one could call that
“coastal-fall” country, and it is so dry
that the fire beetles there take a bath in
the ashpits. And it is camel country, all
right; in the roaring ’nineties it saw more
oonts than th«? rest of Australia put
together.
» * * *
“Wang”: “Me an’ a mate makes camp
one evenin’ at the end of a sizzlin’ hot
day,” related Dan. “We’re sittin’ yarnin’
before turnin’ in when a little bloke
appears outa the darkness. We get yarn-
in’, and the talk naturally turns to booze
as we fan ourselves with our hats. There’s
no pub within ten miles, but the cove
says there’s an ole girl what lives in a
kipsy half a mile on who does a bit of
sly-groggin’. Two minutes later we’re
on the move, an’ in a little while we spot
a house standin’ in from the road. There
ain’t no lights showing; the bloke ex-
plains that the ole girl does all her biz-
ness at the back o’ the joint. ‘Now,’ he
ses, ‘youse better stop here an’ let me
do the rest of the job fer yer ; she won't
serve strangers. She charges half a
dollar a bottle.’ “Get eight,’ we ses, an’
hand him half a quid each. We had no
option but t’ trust him with the dough.
He disappears round a corner, but in
a minit he comes rushin’ back. ‘Get fer
yer lives,’ he whispers, ‘there’s a coupla
Johns round ; they’ve raided the joint,’
an’ he disappears outa sight. We tear
back to our camp an’ wait fer him. We’re
still waitin’. Next day we go on our
way an’ presently hit the sly-grog joint.
It’s empty, an’ be the looks of it it’s been
so fer twenty years.”
* ♦ • •
“Flight”: Once I had the notion that
a magpie could belt anything in feathers,
including his aggressive cousin the
butcher-bird and all hawks. But there s
a sneaking cow of a thing that haunts the
scrubs in N. Queensland from April to
September. Officially listed as a goshawk,
he is only a pocket edition of a kite, a
shade ungainly in his actions in the open,
pretty nippy in the scrub, silent on the
wing, with talons akin to the tentacles
of an octopus and capable of slaying a
full-grown cock turkey. Then I saw one
clash with a magpie. The brown shadow
flitted out of a scrub to a flat on which
several maggies were feeding. It hovered
over one. That singer turned and rose
to meet his opponent. The other fellow
dropped like a stone, closed his writhing
serpents of talons around the magpie’s
loins, and that was the end of that sec-
tion. And before a bullet avenged the
victim his cobbers had faded from sight.
They knew their master.
* * *
“Gryllus”: This year there has been
heavy mortality amongst petrels on their
southward nesting migration along south
Queensland coasts. Three or four years
ago they died off less extensively, prob-
ably on account of shortage of the small
surface-feeding fish on which they mainly
live, for dead and dying birds were
emaciated. Now they are plump enough,
but seem to suffer from some paralysis
of legs and wings, for they float help-
lessly before wind and sea, though they
are able to squawk and peck when
handled. From late November miles of
ocean beaches northward from Moreton
Bay have been littered with their remains,
and eagles, ravens, bush cats, goannas
and dingoes have, gorged themselves to
repletion, while sharks have taken toll
of the helpless drifters. But the petrel
race is not in any danger of extinction,
or even substantial reduction. Darwin
considered them to be the most numerous
of all birds, and one flock seen in Bass
Strait was estimated by Flinders to con-
tain 132,000,000 of them.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Billy Hopkins was, in
the language of the district’s bucks, “kick-
ing round” with Mattie McGlew. In
practice, this consisted mostly of sitting
on a log at the bottom of the McGlew
home paddock. Billy was not disposed
favorably towards any unnecessary amount
of progression per boot, partly on ac-
count of a naturally lazy disposition,
partly because a scrub bullock had once
horned him in the leg. Mattie was a coy
and modest lass, and whenever her swain
showed signs of becoming too ardent she
would break away and race home, know-
ing well that he could never catch her.
Observing that she always took the same
track close along the fence, Billy paid an
unannounced midnight visit to the locality
and put in a half-hour of quiet work.
Next evening they visited the courting-log
as usual, and after demands that he stop
his nonsense and behave the lass took
to her nimble heels. Billy pounded after,
a sudden squeal and thump came from
the darkness ahead, and a minute later
he gathered his sobbing inamorata in his
arms prior to releasing her from the
wallaby-springer.
“Dickie Beach”: An Australian indus-
try which seems to be kiboshed for the
duration is that of trapping crocodiles
for. shows. In some suitable isolated spot
in the mangroves of a northern river or
estuary the hunter would dig a trench
about 20ft. long, 3ft. wide and 2ft. 6in.
deep, and revet the sides with logs. It
was sited to have a good solid mangrove-
tree at the trench-head and led in from
high-water level. A block was attached
to a main limb, and through it was rove
a wire rope with a running noose at one
end and a heavy bag of sand at the
other. The bag was hove up ne&r the
limb and the block jammed with a peg
from which led a wire carrying the bait.
A bullock’s heart was regarded by experts
as the most tasty of morsels from the
croc, viewpoint. The noose was arranged
upright in the mud of the trench so that
the visitor would have to crawl through
it to about halfway between his front
and hind legs in order to reach the bait.
As he pulled the peg came free, releasing
the sandbag and tightening the noose
round his middle. His own bellowing
signalled the capture ; his jaws were las-
soed and made fast to a tree, his tail to
another and stout poles lashed along back
and belly. When jaw and tail lashings
were made fast to these he could be
carried in perfect safety.
* * * ♦
“Atrax”: The unknown genius who
gave the lawyer-vine its popular name —
if anything about the accursed vegetable
can be regarded as popular deserves
rank amongst the world’s greatest word-
artists. Than those graceful, slender
threads camouflaged against the dark-
green background of the rain jungle
nothing can appear more harmless and
inoffensive. As the unsuspecting victim
brushes against them they make their
first insinuating contact,
yielding as he moves
but always gently, un-
obtrusively, surely im-
proving their grip.
Then, as he goes to
brush them aside, those
feathery filaments
change suddenly into
writhing, ruthless
strands of sharp, hook-
bordered steel sunk in
his flesh to rip and tear
until the blood wells
out in long lines. The
entire job is so con-
vincingly reminiscent of
the technique of a good
• cross - examining bar-
rister handling an im-
portant witness as to
make it certain that the
original sponsor of the
devilish plant had him-
self been on the foren-
sic gridiron,
* ♦
“Ned”; “I’m up at
the Bend with old Joe
Hames, countin’ clouds
an’ watchin’ the hungry
appeal in the cows’
eyes grow more appeal-
in’ every hour, when out o’ the hot north
wind comes a lot o’ dusty willy-
willies. Away goes the roof o’ the
hayshed, the pigsty goes somewhere, too,
the dairy what the inspector joker’s been
harpin’ about not bein’ up t’ architectural
alignment lands on the far side o’ the
gully, an’ the wall o’ the house where the
white-ants has their eatin’ place crumbles
t’ dust. I’m watchin’ the last bit o’ dry
grass soar into the stratosphere when I’m
half-blinded by th’ flash o’ lightnin’ what
knocks the old bloodwood. I’tn wonder-
in’ how I missed countin’ the wisp o’
cloud what sends the rain peltin’ down
on the Bend when I hears old Joe yellin’
‘Fire!’ I rushes over t’ the house and
nearly suffocates with kerosene fumes.
After all the neighbors what comes oyer
t’ hand out sympathy leaves off pokin’
about the ashes old Joe becomes con-
fidential. Tt was a bit o’ luck me cigar-
ette butt failin’ near where that tin o’
kero, spilt, Ned,’ he said. ‘You an’ me’ll
have a week in town when I go down
to elect the insurance! ’ ”
* * * *
“Haddington”: After a lifetime spent
among horses I have only two set ideas
about them. One is that a yellow bay
or a washy chestnut is in nearly every
case a squib, and any horse with a black
line from coupling to tail is game and
tough. There is a third which I some-
times toy with—that well-handled and
well-broken-in horses, provided they have
decent conformation, are nearly all good
station utility nags. And a belting for
bad temper and a soft voice and kind
hands for high spirits isn t far wrong
as a creed. I await the bites.
MULVANEY.
Mulvaney was Monaro-born and true to
mountain breed,
The only creed Mulvaney knew was old
Monaro’s creed:
Never to leave a bucking colt while girth and
gear held fast,
To take the lead when wild mobs broke and
see that nothing passed.
Tired of cold Monaro snows, sick of the sleety
rains,
Mulvaney drifted far away to Queensland’s
golden plains,
And there on cattle camp and yard he rode
to deathless fame
Until today a legend glows around Mulvaney’s
name.
If there was scrubber mob to run where mid-
night shadows stirred,
If Jhere was outlaw horse to ride, they sent
Mulvaney word,
For in a life where men were judged by worth
of bridle hand
Mulvaney was a king of kings, a lord of cattle-
land.
Oh, there was rhythm in his hands, his seat
was like a rock,
And well he spoke the magic tongue of wizardry
with stock;
And now on Queensland’s pastured wastes are
men who tell with pride
Of how they shook Mulvaney’s hand or saw
Mulvaney ride.
But one would find it easier to stay the shift-
ing sands
Than set a bound to lives of men who ride
the grazing lands;
This year they come, next year they go, and
few know where they’ve gone,
For like the dust the west wind whirls they
too have drifted on.
So God knows where Mulvaney is or if he
rides today!
His name alone remains a flame that cannot
fade away
Where grizzled stockmen teach their sons the
horseman’s secret code,
And pray that they may some day ride as Jim
Mulvaney rode.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN


“Mat’s Mate”: The big bloke had gone
broke in Melbourne and was about to
tramp out of the place when a smart
little cove who’d been eyeing him off
asked him if he wanted to earn a few
bob posin’ as Atlas holding the world
on his shoulders. It seems he runs an
art class. “It was a newy on me,” said
Mat, “but this bloke reckons I’m just the
glassy marble, an’ he spars up a ‘wheel’
an hour, so I give him the rye buck.
That afternoon I’m at the stoodio, as he
calls it, strips an’ gets down on the stage
thing with me globe. Then the door
opens an’ in comes a herd o’ blokes and
tabbies wearin’ gowns an’ with lumps o’
clay an’ stuff. Gor bloomey, an’ me
without a stitch.” “Cripes,” I said visual-
ising the picture, “what didjer do?”
“Do!” says Mat. “I dropped that flamin’
globe, ducks behind the screen, gets inter
me duds an’ I’m back on t’ the stage in
a jiff. An’ then the mob starts laughin’
like jackasses. So I stands up again an’
looks round an’ says anybody thinks I’m
a joke can hop right out. After that they
went dead quiet, all ’cept one little tart
that comes up, pats me bare shoulders
and says, ‘Really, you’re the most refresh-
ing model I’ve seen.’ What you reckon
she meant, Bally?”
« * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “McNark” is not only
ungallant in challenging “Kicked’s”
veracity over that twice-loaded gun which
lodged a bullet in tfie cow’s udder (B.
24/12/’4l), but he also misquotes the
lady, for, as she said, “Dad loaded the
old gun to shoot a wild pig” ; after that
the lady loaded it with powder and shot;
naturally, therefore, the bullet would
have been found in that udder. Despite
the lack of rifling a shotgun loaded with
ball can be a formidable weapon. I
once knew an old chap who always filled
12-gauge cartridges with about three-
eighths of an inch of lead for use on pigs
or Toos. At 40 or 50 paces the slug
would penetrate a swamp-oak to a depth
of nearly two inches.
» * ♦ *
“Sur Cingle”: “The trouble with ol’
Jack,” Mick confided, “was that he never
could learn to ride a rootin’ horse. Tried
every gadget, from a Blanchewater grip
on his saddle to a fakus consistin’ of a
hobble strap on each o’ the horse’s legs,
with ropes goin’ through a ring on the
girth to a ratchet-an’-pawl arrangement
on the saddle. Idea was as soon as the
“ Don't shoot. Blue; it's one of ours!"
prad flew into it y’ started t’ wind up,
bringin’ his legs together; but Jack
always fell off before he could wind
it up enough. Then he had a brain-
wave. He rigs up a big beach umbrella
with converted ribs fixed with a socket
affair to the pommel of his saddle, then
he tries it out on oF Raven. When the
horse shot up the brolly opens an’ he
floated down easy. I suppose Raven
didn’t like it. Anyway, he threw in a
real skyscraper. Just as the brolly
opened an ol’ man whirly-wind hits the
joint when the horse is doin’ a rabbit
buck, an’ we heard the click as Raven’s
neck snapped under the sudden strain.
Nex’ thing we saw was Jack, dead horse
an’ flappin’ umbrella disappearin’ up-
wards in a cloud o’ red dust, flyin’ buck-
bush and kero.-tins. If any o’ you blokes
out on the Cooper come across a sandy-
haired ol’ coot with disappearin’ eyebrows
send him back. We want t’ know how he
got on.”
* # * 9
“Propalong”: The Siding becoming
inured to its regular summer weather
cycle—cool in the early part of the week,
warm on Wednesday, hot on Thursday
and Friday, thundery on Saturday, with
a cool change on Sunday—when, by the
week-end train, a city bloke arrived. He
spent the Sabbath showing us the Mauser
.22, complete with telescopic sights, with
which he was going to shoot up bunnies.
In the cool of Monday evening he went
out but did no good, and he openly
doubted if there was a rabbit within 10
miles of the pub. Then Dan assured him
solemnly that the only way to get rabbits
was to study the stars. The bloke was
quite sarcastic, and that hurt Dan. “Come
out here, mister,” he said, and took the
visitor out to the verandah. There he
studied the heavens and announced his
verdict. “I’ll bet a quid that next Sat’dey
night we can count forty rabbits within
a quarter of a mile from the pub.” It
was taken. All that week we kept the
bloke busy after hares in the mallee or
Toos in the porcupine country. After
dinner on Saturday evening Dan led the
way out from the stifling room. Over
the first sandhill we counted 23 rabbits,
over the next 19, then we went back to
the pub to absorb the winnings. Dan
talked earnestly about the stars all the
way, but in the bar he lifted his pot,
winked at us, and said “Well, here’s to
the weather.” It was hot enough to
make us thirsty, hot enough to bring the
rabbits out early. We drank to the
weather.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Anthropologists are pretty
well agreed that the abo. entered Aus-
tralia in two waves, the first being an
inferior type that practised the cult of
circumcision, the second the superior
type to whom the cult was unknown.
Most interior desert and semi-desert
tribes practise the cult, and they inhabit
the starvation portions of the continent.
So it is considered that they were pushed
there by the wave of superior types who
came later, and by virtue of a better
armament occupied all the desirable
parts of the country. This was exempli-
fied in Westralia ; the Bibbulmun nation,
which inhabited the south-west corner of
the continent, was probably the most in-
telligent of all Australian types. Full-
bodied, strong men, capable in most cases
of a hand-to-hand match with any white,
"And remember this—when you hear the sirens, Walk, DON'T run.”
they were in strong contrast to the in-
terior blacks in physique and intelligence.
The latter without exception practised
circumcision—the Bibbulmun didn’t. And
between the two constant war went on,
which probably dated back through the
ages to the time when the Bibbulmun
thrust the Peedongs into the desert and
took possession of the coastal lands of
plenty.
» * * *
“Bughouse”; When man has gone one
better than Nature with his inventions
he has never done it by imitating the
Dame. Thus the locomotive bears no
resemblance to the ox or the horse, the
means of traction ready provided by
Nature ; the steamship hasn’t the faintest
resemblance to any aquatic animal; the
’plane might look like a bird, but that’s
where the likeness finishes. Which brings
one to that original genius who first in-
vented the means of generating fire. Long
before man appeared on the earth.
Nature had played with fire, through
rivers of lava and lightning-struck forests.
So primitive man had fire placed almost
at his hand, and with care he might have
kept such fires alight. But he wasn't
satisfied until he had invented the means
of producing fire at will. And his two
methods, the fire-saw and the fire-drill,
owe nothing to Nature’s methods. And
the oddest thing is that such methods are
known from one end of the globe to the
other. Yet it would tax the inventive-
ness of even the most ingenious civilised
brain, were its owner not aware of the
method, to produce fire with nothing more
than two dry sticks picked up in the forest.
Primeval man may have been the dim-
brained,, half-ape we are apt to picture
him, but the discovery of the means of
generating fire seems to rule this out.
» * * m
“0.U.”: Wing-fanning and -manipu-
lation by the mob clustered over the
honeypots has nothing to do with bee
aeronautics (B. 24/12/’4l). It is just the
“daily dozen” practised in the hive dur-
ing winter hibernation to keep an even
temperature. Added to this, they change
places, the outer ring moving in to the
centre, where the queen has her possie,
while the inners move out. In a general
dole-out from the stores, the food is
passed back from row to row, so that
those in the outer get their fair whack.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; I wish someone would
clearly define for me what is meant by
the Australian “interior” and “coastal
fall.” “Flight” (B. 31/12/’4l), a bloke
whose bird lore I’ve always admired,
insists that the kookaburra is only “a
coastal bird, unknown in the interior,”
and that the black swan “doesn’t leave
the coastal fall.” Out along the Darling
I’ve heard battalions of kookas greeting
the morn and seen black swans by day
and heard them by night, travelling west.
But perhaps to one who’s been to The
Centre the Darling is a bit of a coastal
creek running past Sydney’s western
suburbs; I dunno.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”; Surely the printer blun-
dered with “Gip’s” par. (B. 31/12/’4l)
about the lotus bird when “Gip” is made
to say “Although the huge toes are
webbed, the jacana can swim well under
water.” I’ve always thought that having
them webbed was an aid to natatory pro-
ficiency.
* * * »
“Old-timer”; The bloke who, given a
tenner to buy building material for a
shack, returned with a pound of nails
and a blissful expression (B. 31/12 / ’4l)
reminds me of Rogers. He had a, good
sort of fruit block out of Mildura, and
one day a dapper little man with a Cap-
tain Kettle beard arrived and signified his
desire to buy it. Grape blocks were
booming then —it was just after De Garis
put Mildura on the map—and Rogers
nearly fell down when his price was
accepted. He hopped into the car with
the dapper midget and was driven into
town to clinch the deal. The last seen
of Rogers was when he was leaving the
solicitor’s office with a large cheque, with
which he vanished in the direction of the
Settlers’ Club. Ten days later Rogers
arrived home, a shocking example with
the shakes and eyes sticking out like those
of a snail. His missus, almost hysterical
with fear of the ruin staring them in the
face, flew into him and then anxiously
frisked his clothes. Not a razoo did
Rogers possess, but with a silly and
apologetic grin he said “I didn’t forget
y’, missus,” and opened up a paper
parcel to reveal a pound of butter. His
missus collapsed, and only fully recov-
ered when she learned that the Captain
Kettle bloke was a crank with no money
whatever who drew cheques in grandilo-
quent manner after depositing a fiver or
so in some bank and putting over a tale.
She was so relieved she gave Rogers a
quid to go back to town and suffer his
recovery in peace.
BUSH PAGEANT.
There was a witchery that never waned,
A magic that renewed itself each day;
We thirsty children drank but never drained
The cup of our enchantment; wonder lay
Beneath each grass blade, under every stone
That beckoned like an opal in the flash
Of cavern-cold bush water. Lying prone
Beside some fern-fringed pool, we watched the
flow
Of pageantry within its crystal world;
Mailed water-scorpions passing squat and slow;
Sleek piebald leeches resting closely curled
Below hot, spicy blossoms of young cress;
Flat boatmen beetles rowing rhythmically
With tiny elfin oars; frail loveliness
Of inch-long golden carp, and bold and free
The bullfrogs with their wide perpetual smiles.
In pockets of poor soil among the heath
The hungry dew-plants spread their honeyed
wiles
To lure fair insects, every flower sheath
A living death-trap set to catch the gay
Unwary reveller, closing swiftly down
To crush and suck the flesh and cast away
The poor husk afterwards. In orchid time
We found quaint cow-heads, thrusting green
and brown
Curved horns between warped gum-roots, where
white rime
Of manna lay on hot December noons
When shrill cicadas wielded whips of song.
Scrub pansies scowled like little tawn baboons
From caves of leaves that dripped cool jade
along
Dim shallow dingles, where in purple lairs
Of wild Janilla leopard orchids snarled.
Bush butterflies went dancing past in pairs
Gay as wind-shaken tulips ’neath the gnarled
Old honeysuckles that bore sturdy gold—
Strange fleecy blossoms that we said were
sheep;
We knew where ground-bees hid beneath the
mould,
Their hives as small as cups, wax-sealed to
keep
The hoarded treasure from marauding things
That slyly crept or flew on stealthy wings.
The rocks were great grey dragons rough with
scales
Of flaxen moss that thrust as harsh as jute
Along their sides. These monsters had their
tails
Prisoned by earth, their roars were rendered
mute
By day’s white witchcraft; but we always knew
That night released them from their stone dis-
guise
Lntil they crawled like lizards, while the dew
Withered before the blue flame of their eyes.
There were strange things that moved and
cried and crept
t^ie s hadows after darkness fell,
When lashed by wind the gum boughs strained
and leapt
Like chained hounds, and the secret mousy
smell
Of bats came drifting faintly. Bark tongues
talked
? ar ,^ e tree t run ks, and the grasses heaved
To sudden restlessness as something walked
Among their flaccid ranks and sighed and
grieved . ..
The bunyip left his hole, thin voices hooted
From hill to hill as eerily as owls
Where, like grey friars, she-oaks, deeply rooted,
Smothered their eldritch laughter in their cowls.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


MINERALS FOR SUMMER PRODUCTION
Tri-cal; It is futile to become agitated
about summer production under dry con-
ditions; do something about it. I’ve told
you before that regular feeding of a
calcium phosphate supplement and 1
strongly recommend Tri-cal-os Bone Flour
with its guaranteed minimum of 33%
phosphoric acid and 40% lime—will help
to maintain condition; Tri-cal-os also
enables the stock to make the best use
of the poor fodders. Handle the situation
intelligently now and you’ll thank me for
the result's.
Old Farmer.
P.S. —The folder I have says all particulars
about Tri-cal-os can be obtained from Davis
Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O.
Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 712 F,
Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane;
G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
'as
/m? *
BEECROFT GRAMMAR SCHOOL
A Preparatory for day boys and boarders —in a safe district —away from all military
objectives. Effective AIR-RAID SHELTER. Next term commences February 4, 1942,
but if desired care of pupils accepted earlier.
For Prospectus and particulars, apply the Principal—
REV. A. BOOTH, 8.A.,
Tel.: Epp. 151. Copeland Road East, Beecroft, N.S.W.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE —MANAGER; A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES*, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A Shearing Lesson.
“R. Ney”-‘: Next season a lot of people
will have to shear sheep who never shore
before, and owners of small lots might
find themselves depending on learners and
novices.
Make arrangements as soon as possible
for one or two old hands to be available
as teachers, even if they’re too old for
active shearing. If you have to do the
job yourself go about it this way:
Catch the sheep by putting the left
arm round the near shoulder and lifting
with the left hand on the brisket, the
right hand having hold of the off fore-
arm. Keep the sheep clear of the floor
and back through the pen-gate to the
stand, finishing within easy reach of
handpiece and gear-pull.
Holding is the most important factor.
The sheep should sit on its haunches
with the shearer’s right leg against but
not pressing into the flank, and the right
foot slightly under the rump as a lever.
The left hand comes across the face and
takes the off forearm, the head rests
against the shearer’s chest, while the
right hand begins on the belly wool.
Start from the top of the brisket, open
downward a little and then use cross
blows, finishing by dropping the left
hand inside the off foreleg and using the
fingers to cover the teats in ewes. Throw
the belly-wool well aside and clean across
the inside of the crutch from right _to
left, from one hock to the other, being
careful of tender parts. Pressure of the
left hand just above the elbow will force
the hind leg out straight. Make sure not
to put the knee into the sheep’s belly.
Then take outside the near hind leg
and clean well over the back and tail,
being careful not to break the fleece
when moving the feet. Next, the right
foot steps in between the hind legs and
front legs, the head is bent firmly but
gently round the left leg, and the throat
wool is opened up from brisket to chin,
then the near side of the neck and
shoulder and that foreleg are shorn.
Holding the left foreleg against the
sheep's left cheek you let it down partly
on its right side and start the long blow
right along the flank from rear to front,
keeping it up till you are well over the
spine and up along the back of the neck.
Finish off the head, turn it firmly but
gently into the right knee and cross-
shear down to the off shoulder.
Next shear outwards along that leg
and then inwards to clean, then bring the
sheep up and shear around that flank
until you reach the hind leg and finish
off running out from the tail to the hock.
Your sheep is finished now, and the
first thing is to throw the machine out
of gear with the left hand. Then the
sheep rises, its head still between the
shearer’s legs and facing the chute,
through which it will go with the right
prompting from an arm behind its tail.
If you’ve never shorn before, get hold
of a quiet sheep and practise the motions
of holding and shearing a few times. Two
important things are to keep the machine
out of gear when not shearing and to
keep the feet under the fleece all the time.
You’ll need to know something about a
handpiece. Machinery agents generally
have plenty of literature available free.
Pleuro-pneumonia.
“H uxave”: The value of the
complement-fixation test for pleuro-
pneumonia is best judged by Victorian
results, the State being notorious for the
trouble till the test was introduced. Its
function is to discover which cattle are
affected by or are carriers of the disease.
According to A. D. Campbell, 8.V.5.,
and A. W. Turner, D.V.S., the test is
remarkably accurate. Sera from 2050
Tasmanian cattle known to be free from
pleuro-pneumonia gave completely nega-
tive reactions. But 25 out of 25 cases
of acute pleuro-pneumonia were detected
by the test, 42 out of 45 chronic cases
gave positive reactions, and the remain-
ing three were put down as possibly
sterile.
In considering control by the com-
plement-fixation test, with or without vac-
cination, Turner and Campbell regard
prophylactic vaccination of the tail with
some anxiety, since it so frequently leads
to serious infections and even deaths. On
the other hand, they state that the addi-
tional protection given by vaccination
must be admitted. Emphasising the neces-
sity to quarantine cattle and infected
property and the destruction of affected
animals, they recommend regular inspec-
tion and clinical examination as an aid
to detection, and repetition of the test at
weekly intervals until two consecutive
negative tests are obtained.
Victoria’s Wheats.
“Ben C.”: Except in the far Mallee
Ghurka, Baldmin, Quadrat, Magnet,
Dundee and Ranee 4H are the main
wheats for Victoria. The first two are
for main sowing east of the Shepparton-
Tocumwal line and Ghurka and Ranee
4H for the west. Quadrat and Magnet
aren’t recommended for the west side
until they’ve proved themselves ; they can
be sown to a limited extent on the east.
Ghurka has led all wheats in Victoria
for six years. A heavy yielder that strips
freely, it has a short, strong straw, resists
flag smut and partly resists rust. The
short straw is a drawback if a lot of hay
is wanted or where tall weeds are likely
to be thick. Baldmin is another good
yielder and gives a medium-strong flour.
There is a weakness in the straw, but
prompt harvesting will beat that.
Ranee 4H suits the drier parts, where
it has done well for 11 years. An early
maturer, its grain is attractive and a bit
bigger than that of Ghurka. Quadrat is
the Ghurka-C.M.G. 5543 cross developed
for the Wimmera and east-north (dis-
tinct from the Victorian north-east) and
in tests at Dookie has consistently out-
yielded Ghurka. A free-stripper like
Ghurka, it has a slightly taller, strong
straw, has equal disease resistance and
the same maturity. Magnet is the Major-
Free Gallipoli cross, prolific yielding in
the Wimmera and better than Ghurka
under test. A late-maturer, its grain
doesn’t thresh as freely as that of
Ghurka, but its flour quality is as good.
Dundee, once a great N.S.W. favorite,
strips readily but is liable to rust when
seasons are wet; in the right season it s
a good yielder.
Bencubbin doesn’t make much head-
way in Victoria, where it is mostly used
as a dual-purpose wheat. Pindar, which
is an improved Ghurka selection, has all
its parent’s attributes and gives a better
flour, but all that is under test and so
far it is recommended . only for the
Mallee. Regalia, a very early-maturer,
has done well in the Mallee and should
suit drier areas.
Super, and Seeding.
“Jung”: Further evidence of the value
of superphosphate in the Victorian wheat-
"Stop bomb-watching for a while, Dave, and come an' have your dinner."
belt comes from tests made around
Dookie, Invergorden, Waaia, Shepparton
and Rutherglen. There was a heavy in-
crease from supered paddocks in all in-
stances, though no response came from
treatment with nitrate, potash or farm-
yard manure. Lime and gypsum, put on
some paddocks a ( month before seeding,
stepped up yields, but not sufficiently to
cover costs.
Best net return came from a rate of
l|cwt. super, an acre, which, allowing 3s.
a bushel for wheat and £5 13s. a ton for
super, on the farm, gave a five-year
average yield of 33.1 bushels an acre,
an increase of 8.8 bushels over the check
plot. This worked out at 265. sd. worth
of wheat for a manure cost of Bs. 6d.,
leaving the net return at 17s. lid. an acre.
Other returns, all net, were: lewt, 15s.
2d.; lewt., 15s. 4d.; 2cwt., 15s. Bd. That
was at Dookie.
At the other places pretty much the
same result followed, except that at Shep-
parton the 2cwt. application increased the
yield by just on two bushels over the
llcwt. To strike a general rate from
such tests is difficult, since soil quality
and farmers vary greatly, but it suggests
that at least lewt. an acre is necessary
on fallowed land, and for those willing
to lay out a few bob the llcwt. rate
could be given a go.
In tests on rate and time of seeding,
Ghurka, Baldmin and Dundee were used.
Rates were 501 b., 751 b. and 1001 b. an
acre, normal seeding being taken as early
May and late seeding about a month
later., There was a marked yield increase
in the early-sown crops for all rates of
seeding, the average being nearly six
bushels an acre. The only difference
between the 501 b. and 751 b. rate was 0.2
bushels and between those and the 1001 b.
rate 0.4 bushels and 0.6 bushels respec-
tively. Thus heavy seeding isn’t neces-
sary, and a fair rate would be 60-701 b.
an acre, increasing a little as the sowing
time becomes later.
Flax Fodders.
“Huxave”: In addition to fibre, Vic-
toria’s 28,000 acres of flax is expected to
yield 6000 tons of boll-chaff and 1000
tons of seed screenings. The chaff has a
protein content which almost equals that
of lucerne and clover hay. But the
nutrients are unbalanced, and the feed’s
value is midway between oaten-hay and
oaten-straw. Still, it’s a good substitute
for either meadow hay or silage for cattle
and horses.
Screenings of immature flax seed, straw
and other refuse have a higher food value
than the chaff. Grinding is necessary to
enable animals to digest the seeds. Then
it’s good feed for sows.
Prussic acid is sometimes present in
flax seed. For safety, feed flax boll-chaff
dry and flax seed refuse or flax seed dry
or thoroughly boiled. Damping or soak-
ing liberates the prussic acid from any
glucoside present in the seed. All flax
fodders are produced during the de-
seeding process at the mills in late
summer. Then, storage space being
limited, the mills let the products go at
lowest prices.


THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL
3400 feet above sea level.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL situated
in the country.
Spacious buildings and grounds—4o acres of
playing fields.
Well-equipped Junior House separate from the
rest of the School with its own playing fields
and tennis courts.
Matrons are trained nurses.
School prepares boys for the various Public
Examinations.
Boys are trained for Professional, Commercial
or Pastoral careers. A Special Agricultural
Science Course is offered.
Arrangements may be made for boys during
the short holidays.
Illustrated Prospectus on application to the
Bursar.
G. A. Fisher, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Blowfly Strike
Sure Preventive
Discovered
Now, veterinary science has discovered an
effective preventive for use in your fight against
the blowfly. This new method, known as Way-
810, uses a compound of many different species
of Eucalypts which are distilled in a plant
especially designed for the purpose, and wherein
the extraction of their most active principles
gives them positive preventive properties. In
Way-Bio the addition of certain viscous com-
ponents overcomes the effects of evaporation
and retains antiseptic properties for long
periods. Having destroyed the maggot, Way-Bio
is able to prevent the re-growth of bacteria
which attract the fly, and so ends all possi-
bility of re-strike.
If used before the fly attacks, Way-Bio rids
the sheep of all bacteria and thereby renders
the development of strike impossible. Non-
poisonous, non-scalding, and harmless to the
fleece, Way-Bio is safe as well as sure. Use
Way-Bio now, before the fly attacks. Ask your
regular wool-house or station supplier for
Way-Bio, or write to the Manufacturers, W. K.
Burnside Pty., Ltd., Melbourne and Sydney.
Trial 1-gallon tins, 13/6.
5 Es
RO
LOTiO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rosa & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St. Sydney
■
m
WM
ms
mM
m
A FACTOR OF VITAL IMPORTANCE
COMMUNICATION
’
AUSTRALIAN MADE
BETWEEN SEA, LAND AND AIR.
u
Valves . , . Always Available
STANDARD TO AIR FORGE TRANSMITTERS AND RECEIVERS
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA). ltd.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
BILLABONG
HAND, POWER
AND
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
dsfg
DESIGNED TO
MEET THE
STATION OWNER’S
and
Farmer’s Requirements
SEND TO THE MAKERS FOR ALL
PARTICULARS
JOHN DANKS & SON
Pty. Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
A
m
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11/-
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals ala Carte. ■■■■—■ —" ■ Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: GrancentraL G. C. C. McKAY, Manager,
Hints for the Farm.
“H.C.”: Ear canker among dogs is in-
dicated by continual shaking of the head
or pawing at the ears. The canker looks
like brown dust. Under the microscope
each dust grain becomes a twisting
maggot. Applications of lotion only clog
up the ear crevices. Take a hairpin bent
closely together, insert the rounded end
into the animal’s ear and, moving gently,
lift away all particles of dust and wax.
First and second operations usually dis-
lodge wax which can be extracted by
the third. Repeat at daily intervals until
there is improvement. Tackle the job
when the dog is quiet. It’s practically
impossible to treat an excited dog.
“Huxave”: Since the tar oil used in
8.T.8. 15 blowfly dressing is required by
war industries, the C.S.I.R. states that
either of two oils, creosote 259 and
middle oil 43, mixed with power kero-
sene, wets and penetrates the fleece more
thoroughly than the original 8.T.8. 15.
Replace the tar with 2 p.c. of a 50-50
mixture of power kerosene and one of
the specified oils. Skim off the slight
deposit on the oil-kero, mixture.
“Brecko”; Staggers in pigs is brought
about through lack of vitamin A in the
diet and is most common in young pigs
in prime condition and growing fast.
Dose the animal twice daily with one
teaspoonful of cod liver oil or red halibut
oil. Feed a good allowance of lucerne
or clover once a day. Foods rich in
vitamin A are sliced carrots and whole
cow’s milk.
“H.C.”: Superphosphate supplies for
1941-42 farming have been rationed on
a flat rate of 60 p.c. of the supplies
obtained during 1940, the rationing to be
reviewed at the end of March. Appli-
cations for supplies are to reach agents
not later than 31/1/ ’42 for quantities for
the January-June period.
Outback Occasions.
No. 18.
MAKING SOAP AT HOME.
Our father got the idea of making
soap on the occasion of the big depres-
sion, when the bottom fell out of wheat
and about all you could do with a mob
of sheep was eat them. The storekeeper
had been bothering Father a bit about
our account, and said that though he
would not stop credit he felt that Father
ought to try to cut down expenses a bit.
Father came home and talked to
Mother about it. Then he called us boys
and our sister in and talked to us about
it. He said that he wasn’t going to have
us wasting any more money on gramo-
phone records and pea-rifle bullets, and
he intended cutting down his tobacco
consumption for one thing and he ex-
pected us to do the same. We boys didn’t
smoke then, but we saw what Father
meant.
Father was all gloomy and serious
about it, and Mother sat there not look-
ing at us, and it made us all feel as
though we’d lost a quid and found three-
pence. Father had been talking before
that about giving up the farm and going
down to the coast to try something else —
he’d said there was money in whaling if
one had a ship—and we boys sort of
hoped this ultimatum from the store
would start Father and us catching
whales, but we soon found out that the
hope was vain, for Father announced
that as a beginning we could help him
make some soap.
He got us to clean out a kerosene-tin
and asked Mother if the wash-copper
was ready. Mother stood up and said
he wasn’t going to use her copper for
his ideas, and he could get that idea out
of his head. We boys went and sat on
the verandah until Mother settled Father,
then we went with him over to the shed
and helped him clean out a 44-gallon
oil-drum.
Well, after a lot of hard work and get-
ting half-smothered in dirt and grease,
we got the oil-drum on to a couple of
bricks and lit a big fire under it, first fill-
ing it with water. Our brother and I
kept the sticks up to the fire and the
water up to the drum, and Father was
very busy with a kero.-tin of melted fat,
some caustic soda and other things.
Our dogs got pretty curious about the
business, and when Father put the tin
of fat down to cool old Spieler shoved
his nose into it and was scalded. He
bolted up the paddock and all the other
dogs bolted after him, because they
thought Spieler had grabbed a titbit from
the tin and they wanted to be in on it.
While they were racing past Father he
stepped back on one of them and lost
his balance and sat square on the fat tin.
He shot up off it like a Jack-in-the-box,
and our brother and I went round the
back of the shed and stuffed our shirt-
ends in our mouths because Father wasn’t
the sort of man you could trifle with on
occasions like that.
Anyhow, Father was working away
when we showed up again, and he gave
us a stick each and told us to stir the
mess in the drum. We stirred, while
a cloud of steam and an awful smell rose
round us, and we caught glimpses of
Father moving about, putting in a bit
of this and a bit of that. After a bit
he told us to stop, and he got a shovel
and cleaned away all the fire from under
the drum.
Presently he threw what he thought
was a handful of coarse salt into the
hot drum, but it must have been some-
thing else, because the drum threw a
yellow, bubbling mass into the air, and
it ran over the sides and squirted and
flew in all directions. Some of it fell on
Father’s shirt, and when he went to brush
it off all that part of the shirt fell out
and we could see Father’s chest, bright
red, through the hole. Father ran up
to Mother, and she poured olive oil on
the red part, and then she tittered and
said that his soap must be pretty good.
Father ignored her and came back.
After a bit the stuff cooled off, and
Father spread a clean bag and upended
the drum. He gave it a thump and shake
or two and righted it again. There was
nothing on the hessian, so Father got
me crowbar to loosen round the sides of
the mass, but when he pushed the bar
in he couldn t pull it out again. Our
brother said the best thing would be to
get an axe and cut the drum away from
the soap, but Father said not to be silly
and we would warm it up again. Obvi-
ously, he said, we’d let it get too cold.
Well, we warmed that soap up, we
poured water on it, we tried to dig the
middle out of it, we shook and shook
that drum, but the soap stayed put.
Mother said that perhaps Father had
used a recipe for glue-making, but
Father said if she had any sense she’d
make a cup of tea instead of trying to
crack silly female jokes. Mother got
“that look” on her face and called our
sister and went inside, and we wrestled
with the drum some more,
But it was no good. In the end we
got a cold chisel and split the drum away
from the soap, but nothing would look
at the soap, so we rolled it round the
back of the shed and left it there. It’s
still there, and sometimes people ask
what it is, and Father says it’s something
the boys brought home one day. But
most of our neighbors know what it is.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbuvy ; Sydney Sampson.
11. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 873G1. Branches in All States. 139 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Does your car nse more
fuel than it should?
It is false economy to use spark plugs too
long. Worn out spark plugs become carbon
encrusted give a weak spark and the re-
sult is sluggish performance, wasted fuel
and a car that is unpleasant to drive. In-
stall new Champions every 10,000 miles.
They pay for themselves itt fuel savings
alone, besides greatly improv-
ing your car’s performance.
Factories, Feltham, Eng.
Windsor, Can. Toledo, USA.
Sillment seals Cham-
pions against trouble-
some leakage, at the
shoulder and past the
center electrode,
common to ordi-
nary spark plugs.
This patented feature
corrects rough, uneven
and wasteful engine op-
eration caused by leaky,
overheated spark plugs.
rr>
&
5q
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
masm
'Him
ill
aiHihUk
iWiUI,
jjgiu
Will
i’’.
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
Terms to Subscribers to
“The Bulletin” in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Aus-
tralasia, weekly: 12 months, £1 45.;
6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s. ( Ex-
change must be added to Country and
inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas
{British Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 165.; 3 months, Bs. To
members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any Address Overseas
{Foreign): 12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6
months, £1 25.; 3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua,
Fiji, New Hebrides and other places
within the British Empire, Hd. per copy.
United Kingdom, per copy. To all
other places, A\d.
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kl3ney Tubes
*— Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble Is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood In your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This Is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don't wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. If backache Is bother-
ing you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S
Backache kidney pills to-day.
MCI JtPN
([kkot
Send for Fret
Brochure.
A Money-Making Hobby
Ticket and Show-Card Writing is
a profitable hobby. Learn
modern methods this new, easy
way. H. & R. train you . . .
at home. Send for free Brochure.
Dept, of Distribution
Hemingway & Robertson
38a Barrack House, 1C Barrack St., Sydney.
Offices in all Capital Cities, N’oastle & L’nceston
To HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
Please forward me your illustrated Brochure
on Modern Ticket & Show-Card Writing.
Name dge
Address
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Married man, A.I.F. reject, wide experience
of cattle, wants position looking after Queens-
land property up to 30,000 acres. —3206.
Out-of-the-rut job wanted by shorthand (re-
porting standard) typist, exp. correspondent,
freelance writer. No long hours, short pay or
hack routine. —3217.
Dental mechanic, used to good-class work,
wants permanent position, preferably Brisbane.
Good refs. —3215.
To buy Vol. 12 of The Australian Stud-Book.
—3214.
To buy Pacific Islands Handbook, 1939. —
3208.
To buy second-hand copy of Thompson’s
Anatomy for Art Students and De Tocque-
ville’s Democracy in America and State of
Society in France Before 1789. —3216.
To buy Australian Finches, by Neville Cayley.
—3207.
Words of verse containing the lines: —
And out of the highways and into the byways
In search of contentment Mick Rafferty rode.
—3213.
Information Sought.
Particulars of the Waratah and its disappear-
ance ?
The s.s. Waratah, a 9000-ton twin-screw ship
of Lund’s Blue Anchor Line, was built in 1908,
and on her second voyage left Adelaide for
London on July 7, 1909. She coaled at Durban,
and left for Capetown on July 26; she was
spoken to on the following day by s.s. Clan
MacIntyre, and that was the last record of her.
Lives lost totalled 211, including 92 passengers.
The ship probably capsized in a heavy westerly
gale on July 28, when off the S’African coast.
* * * *
How can I make the equivalent Fahrenheit
markings on the mounting of a centigrade ther-
mometer ?
To convert degrees C. to degrees F. multiply
by nine, divide by five and add 32 — i.e., 100
degrees C. equals 212 degrees F., and nought
degree C. equals 32 degrees F. If the space
between 212 degrees F. and 32 degrees F. is
then marked into 180 equal parts, each mark
will represent one degree F.; if it is marked
into 18 parts, each mark will represent 10 de-
grees F.; if it is marked into 36 parts, each
mark will represent five degrees F.; and so
forth.
* * # »
Any Australian agency or society which
traces ancestries? Fees and information re-
quired ?
The Society of Australian Genealogists,
91a Phillip-street, Sydney, exists for that pur-
pose. Annual subscription is 12s. 6d.
There is no other charge except, of course,
for official certificates of marriages, etc., when
required. If necessary to continue the search
Bie United Kingdom, the society has repre-
sentatives in those countries. For a search, the
more information available the better—dates
an d places of births, deaths and maniages,
names of families connected by marriage an
an y other details all help.
.** * *
Recipe for whitewash that will stand up to
weather?
Know of none that is really permanent
against heavy rains, but the following is as
£ood as most. The surface should
thoroughly cleaned and damped ]ust before
Australian Stud-Book. “.j’fn 7& c J'S poS ovS
them; the lime will begin to boil and break up
a nd must be kept under about half an inch of
water. Before the lime begins to boil fiercely
add half a pound of tallow or common fat to
every 71b. of lime. If desired, a little ochre
may be added to give the wash a cream or
buff tint, according to the quantity used.
When the lime is thoroughly slaked it should
be stirred and sufficient water added to make
* he heavicr sa A . milk ’ f£ e H r
it should be strained. May be applied hot ir
npppwarv
# #
Who was the “Flying Pieman'’’?
William Francis King, who was born in
London in 1807 and who came to N. S. Wales
in 1829, where he was appointed schoolmaster
and clerk at Sutton Forest. He tired of that
job, acted as a tutor for several years and
J the n drifted to Sydney, where he worked as a
pieman and barman. He got his nickname
through several walking feats, including one of
1634 miles in five weeks and four days. Twice
h e b eat t h e Windsor-Sydney (34 miles) coach
by several minutes; twice a day far six
consecutive days he walked from Sydney to
Parramatta (15 miles) and back. On three con-
secutive days he walked from St. John’s Church,
Parramatta, to St. Matthew’s, Windsor, and
back again, a distance of 43£ miles; on the
first day he did it in eight hours, on the second
in 74 hours, and on the third in seven hours
and 25 minutes. His many other performances
included carrying a 701 b. dog over 33 miles
from Campbelltown to Sydney between 12.30
a.m. and 8.40 a.m.; and a 921 b. goat from
Talbot’s Inn, on Brickfield Hill, to Andrew
Nash’s Woolpack Inn at Parramatta in seven
hours. He died on August 12, 1874, in the
Liverpool asylum for old men.
• * * *
Particulars of the occupations of Lithuania,
Lalvia and Estonia by the U.S.S.R.?
„ , . m . . , T • T
Re t^ rmy , roops entered Lithuania on June
]5, 1940, and on June 16 ultimatums were
issued to Latvia and Estonia demanding an
immediate change of Government and free
p assa g e D f troops into those countries, neces-
sary) R was declared, to ensure the fulfilment
of the Soviet-Latvian and Soviet-Estonian
mutual-assistance pacts of 1939. Violations of
the pacts were alleged in that Latvia and
Estonia had not cancelled their military alliance
and had extended it by including Lithuania
and attempting to include Finland. An ulti-
matum had been served on Lithuania on
June 14 stating that that country had violated
the Soviet-Lithuanian pact by entering into
an alliance with Estonia and Latvia against the
U.S.S.R. The three countries accepted the
ultimatums and the Soviet troops entered.
Governments friendly to the Soviet'were estab-
lished and elections were held, but Opposition
candidates were pot permitted.
Brief Answers.
R.H.: Suggest Adjunbilly, “creek of per-
manent water”; Battunga, “large trees”;
Cobbadah, “place on a hill”; Mundanup, “high
hill”; Taronga, “beautiful view”; or Yuruga,
“extensive view”. . ..Mr. P.; Orris root is now
unobtainable, except, perhaps, in small quantities,
from chemists in Queensland... .Pal: Write to
the Munitions Employment Bureau, 132 George-
street North, Sydney... .I.McN.: Write to Lars
Halvorsen, Hayes-street, Neutral Bay, Sydney.
L.F.: (1) Seems that you are still domiciled
in Victoria; write to the Deputy-Commissioner
of Taxation, 436 Lonsdale-street, Melbourne,
for further information. (2) Don’t include the
endowment policy in your returns F.J.R.:
Yes, members of Parliament in Australia pay
income tax on their Parliamentary salaries....
S.D.: (1) Your wife is not liable for State or
Federal income tax on the allowance. (2)
Write to the Electoral Office, Fraser House,
Bridge-street, Sydney... .P.R.C.; You have no
right to drive outside the boundaries of your
area at any depth and should apply immediately
for title to the adjoining land if it is available.
Regarding your right to cut timber, write to
the Mines Department, giving full particulars
of location and title... .J.L.A.: R. D. Minter’s
Textile Fibres and Wool Quality is obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney, price
ss. 6d., post. 4d 0.F.: Word is probably
“strzelec,” meaning “soldier,” and should pre-
cede the name... .8.H.M.: (1) No agents for
Star cars in Sydney; try K. G. Miller, 171
Botany-road, Waterloo, for spare parts. (2)
Leather upholstery of a car is best cleaned
by washing with lukewarm water and a very
small quantity of pure soap; it should be
thoroughly sponged down afterwards with
clean water and dried with a chamois leather.
Soap containing soda or chemicals, or special
cleaning compounds, will damage the enamel
surface of the leather. Petrol should never
be used. After washing, the leather may be
preserved by applying a very small quantity of
good neatsfoot oil, which should be thoroughly
polished off with a soft, dry cloth... .H.S.:
Trouble is caused by a defective diaphragm.
Only satisfactory method of repair is to re-
move and dismantle the pump and fit a new
diaphragm, together with the necessary valve
and springs. These parts, sold complete as a
kit, cost about 3s. 4d. and are obtainable from
Bennett and Wood, Bathurst-street, Sydney....
A. 8.: Value, with map, is about 10s.; without
map, about 6s A.J.P.; (1) Mischa Elman
was born at Talnoi, Russia, studied music in
Odessa and Petrograd till he was 13, and then
burst upon the world as an infant prodigy.
He was never out of Russia till he made his
first tour abroad in 1904. (2) Alberto Zelman
was a good musician... .G.E.H.; If mechanism
of propulsion in each case was equally efficient
the horse-power required in each case would
be the same. But as far as experience goes a
well-designed screw propeller working in water
is more efficient as a means of traction than
an air propeller, and immeasurably more so
than the best of steam winches... J.8.Y.:
Flint occurs in the earth in natural form;
further information will be posted as soon as
possible... .C.D.: Insufficient information.
Consult a solicitor if you think the value of
your share justifies the expense H.J.S.: (1)
Upon receiving the money he becomes liable
to a special disqualification and, if he con-
tinues in office, he commits an offence. (2)
£5O minimum, £lOO maximum, plus disqualifi-
cation for up to seven years. The money paid
can be recovered by the council. (3) None
fixed. (4) The shire clerk, but any person may
take proceedings. (5) The disqualification does
not arise until the money is paid and re-
ceived... .C.A.N.: “Brasso,” or any similar
preparation, will clean brass inlay without
harming the wood, provided a fresh, clean rag
is used as soon as each is soiled. Polish the
brass, then give a coat of wax (or beeswax and
turpentine). This will benefit the wood and re-
tain the polish of both brass and timber —
the thin film of wax left after polishing will
keep the brass brilliant. If preferred, clear
lacquer can be used instead of wax T.W.:
Caustic soda is sodium hydrate and cannot be
kept in the form of a paste. Add water and it
liquefies; leave the liquid in a dry place and it
will eventually become a dry powder. It is
dangerous stuff to experiment with in any way.
P.J.: Sorry, impossible to advise from
here; your local engineer’s suggestions seem
very sound, particularly with regard to 60ft. of
pipe. You might write to the Department of
Agriculture, Brisbane W.N.: Generally, the
higher the aerial the better the reception with
crystal sets. If possible make it 50ft. high
S.V.L.: Daylight saving was introduced by
Act of Parliament on January 1, 1917, clocks
being advanced an hour until March 25, but the
experiment failed. The duration of twilight was
too short; protest came at once from country
industries, and the Act was repealed in the fol-
lowing September A.Z.W.: Know of no
steam turbine suitable for driving a small
lighting plant. Any further information will
be posted; meanwhile you might canvass
engineering firms in Brisbane P.M.W.: A
copy of Dick’s edition of Hogarth’s plates
good condition, was bought in Sydney last weel-
from a second-hand dealer for 7s. 6d
G.G.: Artificial teeth may be cleaned with
bicarbonate of soda, used dry and then with
water. Another cleaner can be made by mixing
loz. of powdered camphor, 2oz. precipitated
chalk, ioz. finely-powdered cuttlefish bone two
drams myrrh and two drams powdered borax ■
keep in a tin in a dry place. Some chemists
recommend a good plain household soap; Bon
Ami, retailed in shaker tins, is good as is
precipitated whiting. There is also a good
overnight cleanser which acts in solution
E.G.H.: Using fine emery cloth, remove all
traces of old work, then polish with raw linseed
oil or apply any preferred lacquer.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
G.M.:
The Fiihrer came with a mighty train
To rob Russia of her oil and grain.
But the grit of the Russians upset his game
So he thought he’d have to go home again.
V.D.:
I’m a great old witch who fathoms things,
And sick and tired of wars,
So I’m going to stop these scorpion stings
By putting a spell on Mars.
Hitler I’ll seal in a fortress strong,
And make sly Japanese quake,
Restore to Britain fair Hong Kong,
Deadly mines from deep seas rake.
To war-worn soldiers I’ll bring health,
Make all children dance and sing;
Lift to light all the hidden wealth,
And spell of happiness bring.
... .N.N.: But how does one bathe in a sheaf?
. ...F.W.: The last stanza’s nicely done, but
that sort of romantic melancholy belongs to
the ’nineties... .J.S.L.: Are you saying “Och,
Colleen Acushla!” to a Scot?... .M.A.H.:
Elementary E.T.: “Australia! Smite, full
high and wide, tyrants amain!” Gadzooks!
Hand us our trusty exclamation mark
P.M.F.: Sorry, can’t undertake such a search;
files are available to anyone who wishes to
go through them.... A.C.: Don’t ever want
any “slimy labyrinth of anger hatred contempt
cruelty”; and, anyway, wait till you get your
typewriter fitted with a comma... .8.C.: Bellow-
drammer P.S.: Tripe for the dog
V.C.-S.; Interred E.W.: Flapper fodder.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.G.; Curate who says “Well, I’ll be so-and-
so*’ after his polite objurgations have succeeded
where swearing bullocky has failed is an old,
old friend J.L.K,: You’re mixing two styles
in the one drawing; it isn’t the best sign —
L.P.E.: What are all the stalactites doing in
a shearing shed? .... J.H.: We prefer the ex-
planatory letterpress to take up less space than
the drawing.. , .S.N.: Your figures are lifeless,
lumpy and scratchy, your setout is all wrong
and your perspective all to pot H.Y.: Put
meat into your gags... .C.L.; We are returning
your unsolved jigsaw puzzle W.8.M.: Bad
luck the goanna running over your drawing
before the ink was dry.... C.R.; Such wispy
linework wouldn’t reproduce.... Bert C.; The
dog looks as if its 20-stone bibulous owner had
slept on it P.L.; Jests on roofless mouths
and other deformities go out on sight 8.V.:
Your cow cocky in jodhpurs, ten-gallon hat and
collar and tie leading a bison into a bail earns
an honored place in our private gallery
H.G.: The text on the wall was beautifully
drawn.. . .R.L.V.: Can’t help thinking that
Joe would have looked better if his arms
had been attached to his trunk.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2|tL First'place for a Victorian who writes with knowledge on the subject of shoes.
Shoes and Things
It is stated that defence needs are now
absorbing 80 p.c. of the leather available
for shoes, and that the figure will soon
go up to 95 p.c. I am wondering it an
old dream of mine is to come true at
last.
Sensible shoes for women, ot service-
able type with reasonable heels, with a
strict rationing of variety, would be a
boon to health and purse. The majority
of lines offering up to the present are
modelled almost exclusively on the
appeal to the eye, generally without any
regard for anatomy, body balance, toot-
ease or long-range health interests. The
sufferers have been the women them-
selves and their families.
But apart from the assaults made on
the feet by fashion whims and spike heels,
T would like to see a drastic reform m
the design of all “cheap” shoes tor men,
women and children. Grades made
for the working-class trade are not only
pitifully unserviceable from the wearing
point of view (the main and perhaps
legitimate reason why they are cheap),
but they are designed on lasts that flout
all the lines of normal foot formation.
The lasts on which cheap shoes are built
would seem to be cunning travesties or
nature. They who want the security and
comfort of scientific form can have fl-
at a price. . .
As I see it, the only legitimate dittei-
ence between cheap and expensive shoes
should be the quality of the materials
themselves— Vigilant (Vic.).
The Cycle of History
Japan’s attack upon the white races of
the Pacific is the fourth occasion in the
Christian era on which a powerful anti-
Christian (or anti-European) nation has
endeavored to subjugate the Christian
world. On each of the three former occa-
sions, by a coincidence in which even
the unbeliever may see the hand of Provi-
dence, a humble and obscure soldier was
raised up to smite the assailant.
In 732 it was Charles Martel, mayor
of the palace of a degenerate Frankish
king, who so hammered the hitherto in-
vincible Moslems at Poitiers that they
never again menaced Western Europe.
In 1571 it was Don John of Austria,
Chesterton’s “nameless prince upon a
nameless throne,” who demolished the
naval power of the Turk at Lepanto and
restored the Mediterranean to Christian-
dom ; and in 1683 it was the Pole John
II who smashed at Vienna the last infidel
attempt to invade Europe.
On each occasion the aggressor
has been a warrior race, fanatically
brave ; on each occasion his furious on-
slaught has seemed irresistible ; on each
occasion his early victories, by showing
the Christian world the magnitude of its
peril, has meant his inevitable defeat.
If the cycle of history means any-
thing, we may be sure that somewhere
in the forces of the white Powers is the
man who is destined to smash the brown
heathen hordes. Whoever and wherever
he is, it is certain that the spirit of vic-
tory he will bring will have no place m
it for funk evacuations, jitters and abuse
of honest fighting men ; rather it will be
one, in the words of the Prime Minister,
of “unstinted sacrifice, undaunted courage
and unswerving determination.” Smilax
(Q).
Quinine
A disturbing feature of the Japanese
menace to the N.E.I. is that Java pro-
vides the greater part of the world’s
supply of quinine. Much of the re-
mainder comes from British India, also
intimately concerned in the outcome.
Malaria is the most potentially destruc-
tive and disabling of all diseases, par-
ticularly from a military aspect, through-
out the Middle and Far East, and quinine
and its derivatives are essential for its
control.
The cinchona-trees from whose bark
the drug is obtained were introduced to
Java in 1851, and by development of
cultivation methods —particularly the
“forced-bark” one of covering stripped
sections with damped moss or matting
the alkaloid yield was increased very
greatly and the producing life prolonged.
The trees grow profusely from seeds or
slips, and production begins in the fourth
year.
Seventy years ago Government Botanist
Von Mueller grew thousands of cinchona
seedlings in the Melbourne Botanical
Gardens, and found from experimental
distribution that they flourished in other
parts of Victoria and yielded a high
quinine-content. Many other parts of
Australia are equally or more suitable.
There is a practically unlimited demand
for quinine in peace and war alike, and
the C.S.I.R. and State agricultural de-
partments might well take the possibilities
of cinchona cultivation under active con-
sideration. —Puyyaka (Q.).
The Prophet Curie
Your article of 31/12/’4l interests me
greatly. I spent several weeks with Curie
during his last visit to Australia (in 1939
—not 1935), and he was then quite cer-
tain that a world war was imminent.
In July, 1939,1 was Curie’s guest on an
overland journey from Adelaide to Dar-
win. A stay of two days there in an over-
crowded hotel was more than enough for
him, and he chartered a taxi-cab lor a
jaunt of 1050 miles to Mt. Isa via New-
castle Waters, the Barkly Tableland and
Camooweai. From Mt. Isa we went by
rail to Townsville, Brisbane and Sydney,
where he embarked for British Columbia.
Since then he has shuttled to and fro
between Vancouver, New York and Los
Angeles. Tpo old for active war work, he
held that living in England would mean
one more mouth for that overstrained
country to feed under war conditions and
that this could be avoided.
He tells me he has another book com-
pleted, and talks of an Australian edition.
—Carolus (S.A;).
Leadership!
When Japan entered this war our Gov-
ernment took two immediate steps: first,
to ensure that the snakes wouldn’t escape in
the event of the Zoo’s being bombed; and,
second, to stop the leave of us soldiers.
Flushed with success it stopped every-
body’s leave, declared universal six-
o’clock closing, discontinued train ser-
vices, and proclaimed blackouts, dugouts
and hideouts. It begged, rather humbly,
the support of all the State Parliaments.
Then most of the members rushed off to
catch trains home for Christmas, leaving
a few of their cobbers behind to pass a
highly-important tax bill. After which, Par-
liament went into recess until next March.
Then Government remembered that it
hadn’t issued adequate instructions about
a new call-up, or reconsidered the list of
reserved occupations, or thought of har-
vests perhaps rotting in the fields for want
of labor, nor, in fact, really remembered
anything at all, except air-raid pre-
cautions, to which it voted a huge sum
for works that defied the opinions of
experts like Blarney.
So it is small wonder that,, following
our leaders, we are all running round and
round in circles, feeling decidedly un-
comfortable. We are at war, fully in a
war, but not even on a semblance of a
war-time footing. Why must we be
obliged to wait until our towns are
bombed and our shores are violated? We
of the A.I.F. joined up to fight the war
on the other fellow’s territory, to keep it
away from here. Are we to be let down
by inadequacy and inefficiency?
Mr. Curtin’s Government can save the
situation. Never before has any Austra-
lian Government had such complete sup-
port and such golden opportunities, with
a task to perform that will always stand
out boldly in history. If it will lead
the “all-in” effort, everybody will follow.
And leadership needs a lot less thought
about snakes, and a lot more about man-
power and munitions and money. Pip
(Vic.).
Noel Monks
If Noel Monks’s account of the destruc-
tion of Guernica in the Spanish Civil
War is typical of his general reporting,
then he does not deserve “B.M.T. s
praise (B. 24 /12 / ’4l).
Outside of circles that wish to believe
the opposite, it is now recognised that
the wrecking of that Basque town was
not primarily the work of airmen, Ger-
man or otherwise, as alleged by Monks
and Steer. It was fired by the de-
fenders when it became untenable. While
the Nationalist drive that led to the cap-
ture of the town was in progress it was
bombed several times, but there were
only about 100 casualties. It was a legi-
timate military objective, having a bar-
racks and an arms factory, and being an
important point in the Basque line of
communications.
The late Sir Arnold Wilson, Sir Henry
Page-Croft, Major Yeats-Brown, Denzrl
“ Young woman, why aren't you in pigeon-egg blue?"
Batchelor (then “S. M. Herald” corre-
spondent in England), a distinguished
British airman, Wing-Commander James,
and a special correspondent of the
“Times,” among other skilled observers
who visited Guernica after its occupa-
tion by the Nationalists, testified to seeing
whole rows of buildings completely
gutted with not a trace of a bomb crater
anywhere in their vicinity.
The burning, when possible, of towns
they were forced to abandon was a
common practice of the anti-Francoists.
—Requete (N.S.W.).
The Defaulters
1 always stand amazed at the sublime
indifference to all aboriginal rights with
which our British fathers occupied this
country.
Australia, legally, was claimed by the
British Crown by right of the "act of
occupation.” It was held that, as the
native race was doing no development
work and was incapable of ever doing
such work, it had defaulted in its
ownership, and the continent naturally
passed to the first superior race making
a claim upon it. And in the face of such
logic the aboriginal had no option but
to submit.
But how, nowadays, does such logic
apply to ourselves? The other day the
Mayor of Perth, a qualified doctor, made
some pungent remarks about the birth-
rate, which seems to keep on falling, or,
if not falling, standing still. The Japanese
birthrate doesn’t —it keeps increasing.
What if the day should come when a
superior race, superior in power, should
apply to us the doctrine applied by our
fathers to the aboriginal? He practised
birth control, communal laziness, sun-
basking and many other of the pleasant
little antics of the peace-time white Aus-
traliaii. —W. C. C. (W.A.).
Farm Competitions
When the Government was making
every effort to conserve petrol, cars
travelled thousands of miles in N. S.
Wales to judge fodder-conservation,
wheat-crop and general-farming competi-
tions. The other day the president of an
association of agricultural societies said
that it was “especially desirable to con-
tinue fodder-conservation and field-wheat
competitions.”
Why? Surely Australian farmers have
shown that they do not need the stimulus
of comnetitions, with the chance of win-
ning a trophy, to encourage them to do
their best.
Originally these competitions may
have served a useful purpose by encour-
aging farmers to adopt improved methods
of production, but their usefulness in
jecent years has declined. Too many ot
the same old names appear amongst the
prize-winners, indicating that the same
old field enters every time. Very little
new ground has been broken in the last
half decade, and it would be interesting
to know just how great has been the
decline in entries since the outbreak ot
war. —Two Strand (N.S.W.).
“The Bulletin”
It is just 50 years since I first read a
copy of The Bulletin ; it was the Christ-
mas number of 1891. I think The Man
from Ironbark,” by “Banjo” Paterson,
appeared in that issue, also a feature by
“Hop.” I was then a boy of 14, and 1
have been a subscriber to The Bulletin
ever since. I have always admired it
for its sturdy Australianism and freedom
from political bias. May it long continue
to be a power in the
land! —T. J. Tam-
pion (Vic.).
Many old Bulletin
bulldogs are growling
because there was no
1941 Christmas num-
ber. Some of us for
59 Christmases have
looked forward to this
issue and have seldom
missed it. All along it
has maintained the
high standard set by
good old quillmaster
Archibald, and it is
still reckoned the only
worth-while Austra-
lian Christmas read-
ing. To writers it
used to be the hall-
mark of the Inky Way
to get “a bit in the
Christmas Bull y,”
and I remember today
the delight I felt at
being successful
several times in the
’nineties. Out in the
western district it was
always a scramble to
get hold of this issue
—sometimes a fight.
It was hard enough to get the weekly
Red Rag, and we wanderers had fre-
uently to beg, borrow or pinch it. But
we got it.— Lezo (N.S.W.).
[The Bulletin had to drop the Christ-
mas number because of the newsprint
situation. There will be other Christ-
mases. — Ed.]
I agree that we are called a nation of
squealers (B. 31/12/’4l), and justifiably
so. The Bulletin is no exception in
respect to Churchill and Russia, neither
of whom is any more infallible than any
human individual or institution. Aus-
tralia is a less than half-educated com-
munity ; we are the rottenest sports in all
the world of those who speak English
“Bodyline,” the murder (alleged) of
Les Darcy and the poisoning of Phar Lap
are typical of the foul mentality of the
uncouth Australian mob. Now Curtin
squeals when he smells the smoke of the
bushfire for the first time.
As an Englishman of 40 years’ Austra-
lian experience, I believe a few bombs
discriminately dropped here would not
be an unmixed evil. —H. W. M. (Vic.).
Enclosed is a Sydney “Mirror” poster
(“Russia Joins Allies Against Japan”) typi-
cal of Left Wing wishful thinking, and
the “Sun” cover of the story was almost
as bad: “Twenty-six nations signed a
Solidarity Pact pledging themselves to fight
the Axis (Germany, Italy and Japan)
until it is smashed. While Russia is not
yet at war with Japan... .it is generally
agreed that at the appropriate moment
she will strike at Tokyo.”
Heartiest congratulations to yourself
and staff and every wish for future suc-
cess in your consistent policy of truthful-
ness and the exposure of what Douglas
Reed called “that rotten racket called
Communism.” —E. F. Gillin (N.S.W.).


Devoted to a
Single Purpose
F
OR more than 63 years The Trustees Executors & Agency
Company Ltd., whose foundation marked the inception of
corporate trusteeship in Australia, has devoted itself to
one single purpose the care and management of the
property of its clients.
Throughout the period of its operation, it has provided the
impartial advice and assistance of a permanent corporation as
Executor, Trustee, Attorney, Agent and in other capacities of a
fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the Company as Executor or Co-Executor
of your Will ensures continuity in the execution of the trust.
Service is prompt, sympathetic and efficient. Ample security is
provided and fees are fixed and moderate. Consult your
Solicitor or write or call for further information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
amdoi^ene^^umpafwjttd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLiGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £958,760.
BOARD OP DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S'. Column, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS*:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ; W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J, W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
« * * ♦
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated bv
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
# # * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated! Textiles (Aus,), Ltd.
c . . To Rg— Re—
oept., Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1632.. 1,337 Nil 53
Profit.
1933.. 21,768 5 p.c. = 14,769 7,009 7,062
Unexplained reduction, £282 .. .. 6,780
1934.. 9,733 3J p.c. =: 11,028 5,485
1936.. 17,624 5 „ „ 14,704 2,920 8,405
Unexplained reduction, £73 .. .. 8,332
1936.. 12,513 Nil 12,513 20,845
1937.. 7,183 6 p.c. = 14,709 13,319
Forfeited shares, £ll4 13,433
Plant, etc., written up, £64,041 .. 77,474
Written off freeholds, £11,116 .. 66,358
Nov.* Loss. Deficit,
1938*. 125,652 Nil ■ — 59,294
Forfeited shares, £142 .. .. .. 59,152
Tax refunds, £4575 .. .. .. 54,577
From tax reserve, £1405 .. .. 53,172
Sept., Profit.
1939 f. 6,367 Nil 6,367 46,805
Loss sale property, £1457 .. . . 48,262
1940.. 30,469 Nil 30,469 17,793
Profit sale of shares, £433 .. .. 17,360
Reserves.
Written off capital, £55,158 37,798
1941.. 35,667 9.2 p.c. = 22,063 13,604 51,402
* 14 months. Figures for some years prior to 1938
misleading owing to overvaluation of stock,
t 10 months.
The recovery staged during the last three
years is a refreshing change. Some
earlier history seemed almost like a swan
song. Though war no doubt supplied
the chief stimulus recently, much credit
is due to the co.’s own efforts.
At the formation in 1923 the co.
visualised the establishment of mills
throughout the wool-producing centres of
the Commonwealth. This scheme, a
departure from the usual centralisation in
capital cities, got off to a poor start at
Albury and Orange. An additional mill
at Goulburn was acquired in 1929, but,
though a small profit was then earned,
the accumulated deficit of over £70,000
had become too unwieldy for comfort,
and capital was reduced to 13s. 4d. per
share. Then came depression ; but in
1933 a div. of 5 p.c. surprisingly came
to light. This was the co.’s first distri-
bution, and was followed by another
two or three before the board woke up
to the fact that all was not as it seemed.
Inflation of stock quantities by the then
manager, which had been extending over
a number of years, was disclosed by in-
dependent valuations late in 1938. The
shock to shareholders and to the market
was in no way alleviated by the depletion
of finances through div. and tax pay-
ments. Revaluation of fixed assets, how-
ever, helped the situation by producing
a handy £53,000. Net result of the
shake-up was that shares were again
reduced, this time to 10s. 10d., their
present denomination. And a new
general manager stepped in to take
charge early in 1939.
Net profit of £6367 was earned for
the 1939 term (10 months), followed in
the next year by £30,469, equal to 10 3
p.c on capital as it then stood and to
12.7 p.c. as now constituted. The 1941
saw a further profit advance of
£5199 to £35,667, equal to 14.9 p.c. on
capital, and shareholders got a total of
Pf •> absorbing £22,063, and leaving
±13,604 for reserves. These at balancing
date were £51,402. Though compara-
sender in relation to paid capital
they have come almost en-
tirely from the last three years’ trading.
Net tangibles amount to 13s. 2d. per
10s. lOd. share.
A feature this year is the transfor-
mation in the co.’s liquid position:
Nov., Sept., Sept., Sept.,
t>„-j ~ , 1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £294,179 £294,179 £294,179 £239 021
Overdraft . . 61,894 53,330 58,705 ILB7B
Sundry creditors 65,100 51,851 44,394 24,762
Freeholds .. 72,235 72,235 66,035 66^035
Plant, etc. .. 135,627 130,501 123,829 120,880
stocks ~ 117,620 98,555 119,436 101,827
Book dents .. 26,242 50,267 71,398 55,315
Cash, etc. .. 1,560 1,398 1,388 1,716
The 1940 profit had been utilised to
finance increased stocks and book debts.
This year, before payment of final
dividend, the more or less liquid
surplus over liabilities increased by
£33,105 to £122,228. Liabilities were re-
duced by £66,450 to £36,640. Healthy
movements all round. Shortening of the
customers’ terms of payment is reflected
in the reduction of book debts from
£71,398 to £55,315, despite the increase
in turnover. Shrinkage of £17,600 in
the stocks on hand would support the
assumption that trade was well main-
tained to the finish of the period.
An active demand for the co.’s pro-
ducts is fairly well assured while the war
lasts. But unless expanding production
can keep pace with the constantly increas-
ing costs, which seems unlikely for the
reason that all the mills have been run-
ning to capacity, profits can hardly be
expected to effect changes comparable
with those of the two-year war period.
A very important factor in the costs rise
will be taxation. During the last two
years the co. has received considerable
benefit by being able to offset past losses
against current profits. This advantage
will not apply to future profits, which
will not only have to sustain the full
weight of the present imposts but some
heavy additions as well. Payroll tax,
e.-p.t. and other such devices on top of
the flat-rate company tax are severe.
The market in the shares has varied
from 2s. 9d. in 1939 to as high as 11s.
4d. in 1941. At the middle price of Bs.
3d. ruling at start of 1942, the investor
doubtless is keeping one eye on the.post-
war problems that may confront r Aus-
tralian textile industries, and the other
to a possible recurrence of the special
problems that hampered the co. in the
open competition of the past. Based on
a purchase at Bs. 3d., each £1 of purchase
money buys 31s. lOd. of tangible assets,
and will yield 12 p.c. if the 1941 div. is
repeated.
Goliath Portland Cement Co. (Tas.)
, Dividends
Net Pref. Re-
Sept., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1931.. 12,806 9,383 Nil 3,423 4,382
Loss on sale of assets, £28,534 .. 32,916
1932.. 20,258 11,447 Nil 8,811 24,105
1933.. 28,264 22,894 2J p.c. = 6,396 25,131
Tangible assets written down, £40,752.. 65,883
Reserves.
Capital written off, £85,285 .. .. 19,402
7 p.c.
1934.. 37,543 10,016 10 p.c. =17,057 10,470 29,872
1935.. 45,102 10,016 15 „ ~ 25,586 9,500 39,372
1936.. 48,204 10,016 124 „ ~ 21,321 16,867 56,239
1937.. 69,063 10,016 15 „ ~ 25,586 33,461 89,700
Reserves capitalised, £85,263 .. •• 4,437
Reserves disappear, £24 .. .. .. 4,413
1938.. 51,794 10,016 11.8 p.c.=30,381 11,397 15,810
1939.. 66,601 10,016 15 „ ~ 38,375 18,210 34.020
1940.. 55,663 10,016 14.3 „ ~ 36,776 8,871 42,891
1941.. 39,322 10,016 13.1 „ ~33,579' 38,618
For many years this low-cost producer
at Rail ton, Tasmania —alongside good
shale, clay and limestone deposits, with
cheap hydro-electric power available —
has enjoyed a virtual monopoly in its
home State. It has also extended its busi-
ness to compete with Australian Portland
Cement in Victoria, and further afield
again to the keenly competitive markets
in N. S. Wales and elsewhere. Owing now
to war shipping difficulties, mainland
sales, which had previously helped to
keep going part of the 100,000-ton plant,
have been reduced. When building re-
strictions came as well, 1940-41 accounts
showed sales appreciably lower than the
1939-40 record level.
Last term, after a further cut in depre-
ciation from £25,000 to £15,000 (1937-
38-39, £30,000 p.a,), and allowing for
minor reserve adjustments, net earnings
slipped again, to £39,322, a reduction of
£16,341 on the preceding term, and down
£27,279 on 1938-39 figures. Increased
costs of production, delivery charges not
passed on to the consumer, and heavy
taxation all helped to reduce the year’s
result. Allowing for the pref. div., the
final showing was 11.4 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 17.8, 22.1 and 16.3 p.c.
for the three preceding years. A further
penny was taken from this year’s ordinary
dividend, making the distribution Is. 9d.
per share, although reserves were drawn
on for £4273 to make this possible. It
is the first occasion since depression days
that the dividend has not been well
covered. Although distributions of the
last two years have been successively
reduced, since 1934 ordinaries have aver-
aged 13.3 p.c. and had £85,263 of lost
capital restored.
The balance sheet shows a very healthy
position:
1934. 1937. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £295,266 £313,663 £398,926 £398,926
Overdraft .. 2,896 —•—
Sundry creditors 8,250 9,346 8,273 9,526
Freeholds, leases,
plant, etc... 300,390 256,915 189,699 177,093
Stocks .. 22,179 23,010' 48,522 82,444
Book debts .. 42,833 79,755 61,112 57,899
Cash, etc. .. 45 83,830 184,551 161,830
Shares in other
cos 1,900 2,000 17,000 17,000
The only outside liabilities are sundry
creditors at £9526. The more or less
liquid surplus at £292,647 is up £6735,
mostly by reason of the provision for
depreciation. Stocks on hand show a
substantial increase at £82,444 (up
£33,922), possibly due to the transport
difficulties referred to. Over the last five
years depreciation allowances of £130,000,
plus part of the undistributed profits, have
been invested outside the business, mak-
ing the financial position very snug. There
was £120,047 in Consols alone last
balance day.
At 225. 6d. the ords. return 7.7 p.c. so
long as the present div. continues. The
7 p.c. prefs. at 265. 6d. return 5.3 p.c.
Net tangible cover for ords. is 15s. 4d.
per 13s. 4d. share; for prefs., 61s. 4d.
Although difficult days are ahead, plant
is in good condition and the financial
position is particularly sound. It looks
like a case where waiting will be worth
while.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 23,412 7-J p.c.= 21,745 1,667 109,216
!932.. 22,689 74 „,, 21,750 939 110,155
1933.. 22,551 7 i„ „ 21,750 801 110,956
1934.. 34,262 7\ „,, 21,750 12,512 123,468
1935.. 23,218 7| „ „ 21,750 1,468 124,936
1936.. 29,381 10 „ „ 29,000 381 125,317
Contingencies reserve disclosed,
£36,716 162,033
1937.. 42,674 124 p.c.= 36,250 f 9
Pension fund. £4OOO j 2 > i2 * 164,457
1938.. 29,404 10 p.c. = 29,000 404 164,861
1939.. 29,628 10 „ „ 29,000 628 165,489
To staff funds, £3OOO .. .. 162,489
1940.. 31,863 10 p.c. = 29,000 2,863 165,352
To staff funds, £2850 .. .. 162,502
1941.. 35,021 10 p.c. = 29,000 6,021 168,523
To staff funds, £6OOO .. .. 162,523
This co., which is in the wool- and
produce-broking and stock-and-station-
agency business in N. S. Wales, is well
dug-in, financially and otherwise. Prior
to the war earnings fluctuated according
to seasons, prices and the general level
of costs, mainly wages. Since then
Britain has continued to buy the export-
able portion of the Australian wool clip
at a flat rate of 13.4 d. per pound, thus
eliminating the speculative element from
the price factor for both growers and
brokers. British meat and mutton con-
tracts have been very helpful, too, so far
as prices were concerned in the cattle
and sheep markets.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the co. completed its fine
new wool warehouse at Newcastle, where
35,143 bales were handled, with savings
in rail freight to clients in the north and
nor’-west of the State. Owing to
seasonal conditions, the clip for the
entire State was lighter, and so was the
wool cheque (£23.4 million, down £2.8
million). Still, Pitt, Son’s business con-
tinued to expand. An extra 7254 bales
were put under the hammer, and the
number of sheep sold increased by
58,353:
Year to Wool
June 30, Bales. Sheep. Cattle.
1940 . . 134,253 317,177 32,522
1941 .. 141,507 376,530 19,551
The contraction of 12,971 in the number
of cattle sold is mainly the result of
seasonal conditions on supplies. What
the British contract is worth to wool-
growers can be judged from the fact that
in addition to the appraised price of the
staple they received a sweetener in the
form of an equalisation dividend equal
to 6 p.c. of gross value less handling
charges.
The profit claimed on trading account
was £8320 better at £40,335, while the
return from interest was £2663 lighter
at £7186. After providing for taxation
(£12,500, up £2500), the net return from
all sources (£35,021) was £3158 stronger,
making it a shade over 12 p.c. on capital,
compared with 10.9, 10,, 10.1, 14.7 and
10.1 p.c. back to 1936. The div. was kept
at 10 p.c., and £6OOO of the £6021 that
remained was sent to various staff funds,
including the one for those on active
service.
Main feature in balance-sheet move-
ments was the growth of £73,133 in free-
holds, on account of the Newcastle ware-
house already referred to; —-
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £290,000 £290,000 £290,000 £290,000
Overdraft . . 54,304 230,435 169,181 231,059
Creditors* . . 75,399 32,611 30,426 38,995
Freeholds . . 154,174 154,421 155.900 229,033
Advances, etc. 161,667 282,480 319,306 316,454
Liquid assets 306,236 301,103 207,005 212,488
* Including tax reserve.
A curious feature is that, despite a big
wad of liquids (£106,470 cash and
£106,018 Government securities), the
board went to its bankers for a further
£61,878, raising the overdraft to £231,059.
Still, the financial position is very com-
fortable. Including advances, the more
or less liquid surplus amounted to
£258,888 (£67,819 less than at the pre-
vious balance), or 17s. lOd. per pound
of paid capital.
As for the current term, the clip
threatens to be a bit lighter, but the
British contract continues, and there is
a strong and growing demand from the
U.S.A. for Australian wool for army
purposes. Shipping space will be one
difficulty so far as export is concerned,
but that won’t affect local growers, be-
cause the British contract is f.o.b. Aus-
tralian ports.
The market, which has always had a
high opinion of the scrip, prices the
pound shares at 40s. (345. 6d. a year ago).
The return at 40s. is 5 p.c, on a 10 p.c.


SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
offers all facilities for the transaction of every class
of Banking business. Since 1854 >-* over a century
ago the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
has maintained the confidence of its depositors and
the community alike.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Irs VIRGINIAS A«
trPVTIIAGOOO.ro*
MADE EXTKA
extra enjoyment.
OMLITV
:? il
777
w&
,StNtHS
MVRGXNVA
CXOAHETTES
sw«^ ss
* THREE SEVENS *
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
1459-10-41
VISCACELLE-WRAPPED FOR FRESHER FLAVOUR
div. basis. The backing is 31s. 2d. in
net tangibles. ________
Yiiparn one of Westralia’s oldest and
, , g r a L ’ins goldfields, where Deeming
was nabbed and Coolgardie's discovery
was first announced, has i hadl an^evenl :£ul
vpar Ten cos. operated, and scores or
nrosnectors, fossickers, tnbutors and
dryWowers, as well as pub-keepers and
starting-price bookies made a good living
or more than a good living. Some railed
a few went insolvent. Burbidge, a local
no-liability venture, raised production to
over 3000 oz. a month. Yellowdme Gold
Areas led in output and dividends. Edna
May Amalgamated made its first distri-
bution to shareholders, contributed a sub-
stantial sum to a war loan, and began
prospecting in new ground Nevona, a
London-financed concern, launched pre-
parations to treat a big tonnage and only
awaits the removal, transport and re-
erection of the Youanmi mill to make
a start. Yellowdine Gold Areas, a Perth-
controlled venture, acquired at Evanston
a new and second string to its golden
bow and talks optimistically of the
future. Its other string, from which
shareholders have received some small
dividends, is still being worked. May
Queen, one of the earliest mines opened
up on the field, was unwatered prepara-
tory to further prospecting. Adelaide-
controlled Sterling Co. at Marie’s Find
furnished good returns. Yankee-bossed
Big Bell, after some investigation, aban-
doned an option on the Corinthia, and
Western Mining Corporation took Ridge
Bros.’ Evanston mine, reputed to be the
best gold discovery in Westralia for years,
on approval. Yilgarn’s production totalled
56,0000 z. last year, compared with
60,0000 z. the year before.
* * * *
Westralia is boosting its alumina de-
posits, which are mostly near Perth and
in the south. Mines Department recently
broadcast their existence, and at its re-
quest the Federal Government is making
tests. Dispatch by-and-bye of large
tonnages to New South Wales for treat-
ment is talked of. There are similar de-
posits in other parts of the Common-
wealth, which in some respects are stated
to be more suitable than the Westralian
as they possess a lower silica content.
Results from bulk samples to be treated
should settle the question. It’s high time
Australia got on with the job of pro-
ducing aluminium.
* * ♦ ♦
Oroya North block, one of the hold-
ings of North Kalgurli, Ltd., at the north
end of the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile, has
been leased to and is now being worked
by Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie on a profit-
sharing basis. Through the Oroya North
passed the famous Oroya-Brownhill shoot
from which millions of pounds’ worth of
gold were taken and whose best sections
yielded £lOOO to £l5OO for every foot of
their length.
sic $ * *
Bewick-Moreing managed, London,
Australian and General Exploration Co.
reports that revenue for year ended last
July was more than double that of the
preceding 12 months. Profit was £2599
compared with a loss of £1334. But co.
found it necessary to write off assets of
two speculations which had gone bung,
and the final result was a loss of £7334.
Co. is a second reconstruction of London
and Western Australian Exploration,
Ltd., which formerly operated at Lawlers
and elsewhere in Westralia. Its sole
Westralian interest is now a substantial
shareholding interest in Sons of Gwalia.
It also has money invested in various cos.
in other parts of the world.
From the manager (V. M. Reilley):
On F. W. Cuthbert’s Gold Bar mine, Geoi ge-
town. n.q., work was carried on in 1941 trom
Jan. 5 to Dec. 11. The shaft, which is Lit.
by 4ft., with two haulage chambers and one
ladderway, has been sunk dun P g . the S
from 90ft to 23 0 f t., and timbered
Two levels at noft. have been started, one
east along the reef for ,® nd ° f n h e
along the reef for 17ft. At 217 ft. another two
levels have been commenced, the east one being
15ft £nd the west 20 ft. along the reef From
the surface to the present depth of 23 Jft- the
reef has averaged 20m. in width lor a
average value of loz. lOdwt. gold and 2oz.
9dwt. silver a ton on assay. In some P9 rdo^
of the sba f t tbe va i ues have been as high as
7oz M w jth several 4oz. and soz. assays. From
the sinking of the shaft 270 tons of ore has
been raised-220 tons during the year just
Thjs ore will be carted a distance of
n j ne m ji es and crushed at the Hawkins Hill
battery in the new year. The mine has been
equipped with a Diesel-driven two-stage air-
compressor of 109 h.p.; this will work all the
rock . drilling machines, drill-sharpener and
pumps on the mine. There was a delay or
eight months in the delivery of this machine
from the U.S.A.; it is now working satis-
factorfl Two new j ac khammers and a jackbit
grinder have also been acquired; an air-driven
pump j s to be installed when the mine re-
sumes work after the holidays to cope with
the water, which has been making between
35Q and 400 gallons an hour up to a week
be fore t he mine closed down, when a further
heavier flow was tapped.
The battery at Hawkins Hill has not crushed
any stone during the 12 months. The plant
has been overhauled. Three men are employed
idi sands at the Hawkins Hill mine,


Only the best is
;ood enough
*
SP
7<
1
Australian Troops
on Parade.
It’s a great work this equipment of the
Australian Forces with articles necessary for
their comfort, safety and the successful prosecu-
tion of the war. To this end, this Company is
absorbing vast quantities of Australian wool.
Plant has been extended; production is three
times greater. Science, research and engineering
are also playing their part. The lessons learned
by our technicians and operatives, at this time,
will stand Australia in good stead when peace
comes again.
t n,
\ 'I ' *
Felt and Textiles
of Australia Limited
261 George Street, Sydney Fil>2
Felt and Textiles are manufac-
turing Khaki Uniform Cloth,
Blankets, Flannel, Linters for
Gun Cotton, Felt Strips for
Shell Cases and Fuse Boxes,
Covers for Water Bottles and
many other A.I.F. requirements.
BRANDALJERg
PENS
tr«
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDADBE * 00, UA BIEMINQUAM, ENO
BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
“Doctors say your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract.' Will definitely rejuve-
nate youi and banish weakness.
Price 10/4. Write TO-DAY.
MEN!
T.JON ES 6 CO.
B 21
GLAND
TONIC
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Vital Wages Decision
The New Zealand Court of Arbitra-
tion has taken the step of refusing an
increase in wages in proportion to in-
creases in the cost of living. This refusal
opens up a matter of vast interest not
only to Maorilanders but to Australians
as well. The judgment was based prin-
cipally on the fact that war has made a
reduction in living standards inevitable.
A controversial aspect is the point that
the reduction in living standards is being
recognised partly in wage reductions and
not wholly in increased taxation. It
may be that the Court feels obliged to
do something that the Government finds
itself unable to do. It may be also that
an actual check to the rise in money
wages is necessary to stop further in-
flation.
In the words of the judgment “As a
result of the war a reduction in the
standard of living as a whole is ineyit-
able. In 1939-40 the value of goods
available for consumption fell by 10 p c.
and the volume by 8 p.c With the
further fall in imports, with the increas-
ing diversion of man-power from indus-
try, and with the dispatch overseas of
increased quantities of locally manufac-
tured goods, it appears that there will
be a further fall in 1941-42.
“The application for an increase in
wages for one large section of the com-
munity is in effect a request that the
quantity of goods and services which
was available on the average to the indi-
vidual members of that section imme-
diately before the outbreak of war
cbmiTrl roma.’n . ,• „
uld lemam constant, except insofar
as their purchasing power is affected by
special war taxation. The total quantity
of goods available for consumption has
1-11° ,i „ ,i j x- • ..
fallen more than the reduction in the
purchasing power of the workers by
special war taxation. Consequently, if
an application for a general increase in
. . 6 . ~ :
wages IS granted, the present proportional
distribution of the available goods and
services between the different sections of
the community must be varied, and the
share the workers must be increased,
This means inevitably that the share of
other sections of the community would
re< J mre to be reduced, including the share
of pensioners and other individuals with
dxed incomes.
. The Court went on to point out that
lf wages were increased and the share of
§ oods . available to the wage-earners were
not > either because of increased war taxa-
tion or because of increased price of
B° ods and services, then the raising of
wa § es would be futile even from the
workers’ point of view. A section of the
workers were already receiving a greater
share of rational production by reason
of their overtime receipts. Receivers of
overtime loading were depriving others
of some of the goods, etc., available,
Further increases in wages generally
would be followed by a lift in the cost
of war to the Government. This would
mean either a reduced war effort or in-
creased taxation. In any case, an increase
ln war taxation was visualised even apart
from tbe wage-inflation issue, as an in-
crease instead of a decrease in the M.L.
war effort is now imperative. The Court
took the inflation factor very seriously.
It went on to say:
To sum up the position, it appears prob-
.able tbat our exports and imports will
will be less, yet the cost of our overseas
war effort is almost certain to become
greater. A drop in imports will result in
fewer goods available for local consump-
tion, anc j a j so j s ji ke i y to a ff e ct the supply
of raw materials for local factory produc-
tion. Imports for war purposes will prob-
abjy be gr f ea \ er ’ tbu ® further a |f tin S tbe
volume of imported consumable goods
available for civilian consumption. It
appears likely that, as time goes on, more
locally-manufactured goods will be sent
overseas, thus leaving fewer of suclv goods
for local consumption. The new and more
imminent danger to our country must mean
greater expenditure locally on defence
measures, and a corresponding diversion
of still more man-power from industry.
Everything points at the moment to a
further decrease in the volume of goods
available and able to be consumed in New
Zealand.
In its final reckoning the Court took
into consideration the fact that the
seasonal outlook was not good, that exter-
nal trade had deteriorated, that shipping
was already difficult and likely to be more
so as a result of Japan’s entry into the
war, and that, in view of the difficulty
of obtaining skilled labor and raw
materials, internal production, including
that earmarked for war purposes, might
actually be lower than before the war.
Since 1935r36 there had been a great
increase in M.L. factory production, but
most of the benefit of the expansion had
passed to the worker in the shape of
increased wages.
The employees’ assessor, A. L. Mon-
teith, recorded an opinion strongly dis-
senting with the rest of the judgment.
“I know of no economic conditions which
could require this Court to force wage-
earners to bear the burden of increasing
prices,” he said. “On the contrary, I
believe that it is in the national interest
that an increase in wages should he
granted to enable the workers to main-
tain approximately their standard of liv-
ing.” Mr. Monteith said he thought that
living costs had increased more than the
5.3 p.c. shown by the statistician’s index.
(The union asking for the wage increase
had requested a lift of 7.8 p.c., represent-
ing this 5.3 p.c., plus a 2.5 p.c. margin
to cover possible inaccuracies in the
index.) He said that a general increase
of not less than 5 p.c. should have been
awarded, and claimed that the “effective
wage rate for males is now below the
1936 average, or, in other words, the
relative position of wage-earners in rela-
tion to prices is worse than at any time
since 1935.”
In hoping to “maintain approximately”
pre-war living standards, Mr. Monteith
shows himself to be unreasonable. Maori-
land is not a great manufacturing coun-
try ; on the contrary, it is not nearly so
well advanced as the Commonwealth,
especially in the vital matter of steel pro-
duction. In these circumstances the in-
roads of war make maintenance of all
living standards impossible. The over-
time worker may be able to maintain
his by working more, but without in-
creased production the fighting of a non-
reproductive war must reduce the avail-
able benefits for the community as a
whole. And the reduction must be borne
by the whole of the people ; no one class
is strong enough to carry it.
In spite of the great war-time demand
for spelter and the better-than-pre-
war prices prevailing. Electrolytic Zinc
has reduced its interim div. to 4 p.c.,
against 6 p.c. this time last year. In the
last full term final distribution was 8 p.c.,
making 14 p.c. for the year, and in the
term before that the same rate was
handed out. In 1937-38 and 1938-39 the
total distribution was 15 p.c. Reason for
the decline in distributions, especially the
latest one, has been increasing costs and
the enormous taxation burden imposed on
companies. Sellers are offering E.Z. scrip
at 445. 6d., with buyers suggesting 435.
Highest price touched this year was
565. 6d. The taxation position has had
more to do with the fall in share prices
than anything else. Which indicates the
injustice of the thing. If income from
shares were taxed in shareholders’ hands
only, the shares themselves would suffer
no more market depreciation than real
property or Commonwealth loans. But
because income is taxed heavily in the
hands of the co. before it passes to share-
holders, thus inflicting double taxation of
the most severe kind, shares have depre-
ciated in market value at a time when
nearly all other kinds of property are
appreciating.
4* H?
Bradford Cotton shares looked excep-
tionally good buying at last week’s price
of 325. Not so long ago they were
selling at 435, 6d. To those people who
are not in the 10s.-in-the-£-and-over
taxation class, many first-class shares now
offering cheaply should be well worth
attention. Bradford may possibly be
affected later on by difficulties in obtain-
ing raw-cotton supplies, but the need
for cotton goods such as twill, canvas,
duck and dungarees is so urgent for army
purposes that the Government will prob-
ably give cotton imports priority over
many other things. Though taxation on
all energetic companies is terrific, taking
the cream off earnings for the duration,
bread-and-butter figures at least should
be maintained by Bradford, which has
an exceptionally good business, and whose
history shows that it is no war baby.
Another excellent stock is B.H.P. Here
again it is a bread-and-butter proposition
for the duration, but the price asked by
the market is no champagne-supper
touch.
* * * #
Tasmania has been on the hunt for
bauxite deposits since the need for estab-
lishing an Australian aluminium industry
became so urgent. Activity in the Speck
has been stimulated by the realisation that
it requires an enormous amount of elec-
tric power to produce aluminium from
alumina, and the Tasmanian hydro-
electric scheme has long been a magnet
for new industries needing cheap power.
Electro. Zinc established its works at
Risdon for this reason. In connection
with aluminium, it was officially reported
a few months ago that bauxite deposits
had been located close to Hobart. Last
week Major Davies, Minister for Mines,
stated that more extensive bauxite deposits
had been discovered in the Ouse district.
Ouse is about 50 miles from Hobart,
near the junction of the Ouse and the
Derwent. It is comparatively handy to
the Great Lake power supply.
♦ * * ♦
Canberra had better have no delusions
about the position confronting it in 1942.
It is proposed to raise between £7O and
£PO million in the Commonwealth by
borrowing in the next six months “to
complete requirements for the balance of
1941-42.” About half this amount will be
asked for next month. But the Japanese
intrusion into the South Pacific must have
called for a recasting of all previous esti-
mates of war costs, in which case the
need for taxation revenue rather than
borrowings will become greater than ever.
Already the higher and middle incomes
have been taxed severely—the higher in-
comes savagely. The great consuming
masses will now have to figure more
prominently than they have done in the
past. They represent the largest aggre-
gation of incomes and the biggest con-
suming factor in the country. It is from
this direction that additional war require-
ments will have to be taken. The logical
way of taking them will be by way of
taxation.
* * jfc *
The Bulletin has raised the matter of
the unfairness and danger of paying
penalty rates for overtime working in
time of war. The need for overtime has
resulted from the shortage of man-power
caused by enlistments, etc., in the armed
forces. Therefore it is unjust that those on
whose shoulders the responsibility of keep-
ing up supplies of a military and civilian
character should demand penalty rates of
payment for working a few hours longer
per week. Ordinary rates should be
plenty in the circumstances ; and we all
know that a longer working week is not
an unendurable strain on the health of
workers. Under the penalty-rate system
the position is that little or no more work
is being done by the country as a whole
than before the war, but what is being
done is costing a great deal extra. The
payment of penalty rates for overtime
working is decidedly inflationary.
* * * #
The Prices Commissioner has approved
of increases in prices charged by Sargents,
the Sydney chain-restaurant proprietors.
The increases included 2d. on entrees,
2d. on fish dishes, Id. on “hot serves”
and Id. on sweets. The increases were
approved “after full consideration,” said
Professor Copland,
• * • • • 4
The Prices Commissioner is to take up
the matter of motor-car insurance in the
light of present-day petrol rationing. It’s
a pity he can’t take up the matter of
registration fees with the various State
Governments and view it in the same
light.


0n Seuk Cefcun /
CHEVROLET
World’s sales leader for 10 of the last II years
Because of restricted imports and the
precedence given to war production
in our factories throughout Australia,
Chevrolet virtually has been off the
market for the greater part of the
year. Only now is it possible for us
to make available a limited quantity
of cars for those who require a new
vehicle.
These latest Chevrolets are again the
value leaders. Beauty and utility are
the keynotes of their styling. And they
have every improvement to ensure
you years of trouble-free transporta-
tion.
If your business allows you reasonable
use of motor transport —now is the
time to buy new Ghevrolets. Owners
of single units or fleets will realise the
uncertainty regarding future avail-
ability of motor cars. The vehicles
you are operating today may there-
fore have to last a long time. If they
are reaching the expensive stage in
operation, if they are needing too
much time-wasting service, it is good
economy to replace them with new
Ghevrolets.
Keep your transport efficient and re-
liable, by investing wisely in Chevro-
let. See your dealer now.
m
sS&S
Note Chevrolet’s advanced
body design—running boards
are now completely concealed
when doors are closed.
miuresr mesr
CHEVROLET
CHEVROLET IS A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia. GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN'S LTD. 075^-33
CRAVENA
are kinder . .
to the throat
10 for ll d 20 for 110
Also in Fifties
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
mm
m
m
2819
s
The Sharemarket
Last week the Australian sharemarkets
took a turn for the better. On Thursday,
Friday and Saturday there were many
more rises than falls, and turnover was
much wider than usual. Rises were rep-
resentative of most classes of scrip,
Malayan tin excepted. Some Australian
tin issues were in demand, Tableland m
particular. Australia can use all the tin
it is producing now, and the Government
must be interested in seeing that Table-
land’s new dredge, which should be cap-
able of producing upwards of 750 tons oT
tin a year, gets going as soon as possible.
Malcolm Newman says July should see
commencement of operations.
B.H.P. figured prominently in last
week’s small but heartening recovery.
A.G.I. was well in the picture also. Aus-
tralian Cement in Melbourne was weaker
than Kandos in N. S. Wales the Vic-
torian co.’s £1 scrip was at 355., whereas
295. was offered (in vain) for Kandos
16s. shares. On the other hand, Bradford
Cotton in Sydney at 325. seemed cheap in
comparison with Davies, Coop in Mel-
bourne at 30s.
Looking back, the month of December
was a testing one for Australian share-
markets. A short time before (following
some tricky and rough tax revisions in
N. S. Wales) the inexperienced but cock-
sure Federal Labor Government had in-
troduced taxation rates that had little
basis of justice in them and practically
no regard for economic consequences.
The sharemarket was inclined to the view
that irresponsibility was in the saddle at
Canberra, and that the national economic
policy would be in the shape of experi-
ments based on ignorance. The market
wasn’t far out either. The exceptionally
heavy taxing of shareholders in com-
panies, irrespective of whether they rep-
resented “capital” or merely “savings,”
and the solicitude shown for the voting
multitude, were amazing.
When Labor was forced to tax incomes
of £3 a week, it did not fail to add more
to the tax loads of the already heavily-
burdened.
In circumstances already unnerving to
sharemarket supporters, the Japanese
attacks started. Shocks came quickly.
Malayan and Thailand stocks naturally
suffered first, but soon Australian issues
showed heavy depreciation. The Sydney
index of 34 representative ord. shares
closed for 1941 at 109.69, lowest figure
for the year, against a highest of 131.26
a few months before —the highest point
reached, incidentally, in several years.
The New Year opened with quotations
even lower. On January 7 the index
stood at 109.01. But that figure was still
above the 102.13 touched in June, 1940,
when France was overrun. Following
Roosevelt’s speech a recovery began, and
on January 10 the index was up to
110.74.
Senator Cameron, Minister for Aircraft
Production, says that one of the tragic
lessons of the war in its early stages had
been that too much reliance had been
placed on people given to posturing. Very
true. But posturing is still no lost art,
and has to be watched for just as sharply
as before. In the future, said Senator
Cameron, results will count. Although
not on the Senator’s beat, results on the
coal and shipping fronts aren’t so hot
at the present time, and something might
be done in the matter. Posturing can
occur among the rank and file and its
immediate leaders just the same as it can
happen higher up.
* * * *
Some cos. are maintaining their diy.
rates in spite of war taxes. Masonite’s
interim is unchanged at 3i p.c. —in the
preceding period a final of 4\ p.c. made
8 p.c. for the period. Rosella Pre-
serving has declared an unchanged final
of 12 p.c. Swallow and Ariell has kept
- ts j nter j m at p.c., suggesting 5 p.c.
£ or term Commercial Bank of
Australia is paying the usual interim of
3| p.c. Australian Cement, Edwards
Dunlop, KSW Blue Metal and Robert
harper have either maintained tneir
divs. or have declared unchanged in-
terims. Olympic Tyres has cut its interim
handout from 7 p.c. to 6 p.c., though
last year’s final was only p.c., and
the interim rate just declared should have
been no shock to the market. Taubmans
13 p.c. is a drop of 2 p.c. on last year’s
rate. There is more likelihood of cuts
in divs. where the rate in the past has
been over 10 p.c. Electro. Zinc and
Olympic and Taubmans are cases in
point. The market is apprehensive in
the instances of G. J. Coles and Wool-
worths. Something should be heard from
G. J. Coles any day now. A final is due
from Woolworths in April.


THE SERVICE MAN
The War in the North.
“Ek Dum”: At the beginning of the
week it was obvious that the battle for
Singapore was imminent, if it had not
actually been joined. There is a con-
siderable British land force available
which has not hitherto been employed.
The Japanese asserted that only one
British division was involved last week
on the Slim River front and they prob-
ably exaggerated.
Major-General Gordon Bennett, com-
manding the A.1.F., remarked early last
week:
Sooner or later we must get reinforce-
ments. In the meantime we shall hang on.
Lieut-General Pownall, in a broadcast
on Sunday, said:
The most vital area to defend is Singa-
pore, which we are absolutely determined
to hold. Our second task, in which we are
now engaged, is to hold the enemy from
vital areas—hold him as far away as pos-
sible while we renew, regroup and supple-
ment our forces.
Major-General Savige, fresh from the
Middle Eastern war, said on his return
to Australia via Singapore: “Give our
men fighter ’planes and we will clean up
the Japs.” No defeatism there, though
some Australian newspaper men have
got their tails down, as usual. It is
acknowledged that the fight will be hard,
and lamentable “deficiencies” have been
admitted by British Ministers. But there
is real strength in the fortress, beyond
all doubt. Some of the finest British and
Indian regiments are known to be there.
Singapore has not the same problems
as Penang and Kong Kong in defence
to face.
The extent of the air-power being con-
served there and of the help being or
capable of being sent is not known. The
Dutch Minister for Shipping has testified
that the N.E.I. has 2000 ’planes “strategi-
cally disposed,” and American ’planes
are operating from Burma. Certain it
is that what help can be sent will be
sent quickly.
At Changsha
According to Chungking, 80,000 men
of Chiang Kai-shek’s army have won a
victory over 120,000 Japanese at
Changsha, the almost obliterated capital
of Hunan. Chungking declares that five
Japanese army corps were torn to rem-
nants during a three-day offensive, after
making an abortive attack on Changsha,
and that 60,000 Japanese were “trapped
in the fork of the Laotao 1 and Liuyang
rivers, where they were being bombarded
point-blank on Jan. 9 with no chance
of escaping.” General Hsueh Yueh had
ordered the immediate construction of
two tombs to receive the ashes of 21,000
Japanese bodies piled up all round the
shell of the town. There was no mention
of prisoners, but the Chinese themselves
were said to have lost 4000 men.
The enemy’s version was that the
Japanese had “withdrawn from Changsha,
which they had entered on Jan. 1, after
completing mopping-up operations round
the city and destroying the enemy’s mili-
tary establishments.” The Japs stated that
they had advanced further north search-
ing for “the fleeing Chinese” and were
now attacking them in the mountains.
They claimed to have “annihilated” three
divisions and taken 9000 prisoners.
The Chinese claimed that another
offensive was taking place only 120 miles
from Nanking at Kweichi, and that other
Chinese formations had pierced the de-
fences of Canton, which the Japanese
have controlled since October, 1938, com-
pelling the enemy to fight desperately
to hold the city.
Unfortunately, almost exact replicas of
these victories have been reported more
than once before, without apparently
achieving any decisive turning point in
the war. But it is encouraging to know
that the Chinese are fighting in an offen-
sive spirit. A hundred and fifty thousand
Chinese troops are said to have been sent
to Burma. Their value in that country
depends on their equipment, training and
leadership. Some reports suggest that an
attack against Thailand is in the offing. It
would take some organising through
terrible border country, and would be a
vast and hazardous adventure. At the
same time 50,000 coolies are reported by
Chungking to be building a second Burma
Road.
Activity in Burma, save for a small
infiltration of Japanese across the border
which was sent back with a flea in its
ear, has been entirely in the air, Ran-
goon has taken the brunt of the raiding,
which evidently was intended to close the
port for the Burma Road. There was a
Japanese attack on an average twice every
24 hours from New Year’s Day onwards.
One of the heaviest was on January 7,
when the dock area was “severely
damaged.”
The R.A.F. and the volunteer U.S.
squadron on the spot retaliated vigor-
ously. They raided the Meshod aero-
drome, near Bangkok—a daring mission
over wild country destroyed seven
’planes on the ground and probably an-
other for the cost of a single machine.
Since the outbreak of war, forces based
on Burma have destroyed 53 Japanese
machines for certain, and “probably” be-
tween 20 and 30 others.
Before Kuala Lumpur
As pointed out previously, the forward
front-line defences of Singapore are in
the Kuala Lumpur region. It is sad that
this had to be, since establishment here
meant the abandonment further north of
a great proportion of the tin and rubber
districts and of Kelantan’s iron deposits,
which can be valuable to the enemy if
developed. The position, however, is dic-
tated by geography. Kuala Lumpur is the
first point at which there can be a really
cohesive defence line across the penin-
sula.
It is the dividing point between reason-
ably good and well dispersed communi-
cations of the south with Singapore base
and the very disjointed and unsatisfactory
communications of the enemy with its
more distant Thailand bases. It is suffi-
ciently near Singapore to allow switching
of aircraft instantly if a threat from the
sea by the superior Japanese air force
should arrive.
The enemy movement so far has been
along three crucial routes. He had made
a landing on the east coast at Kuantan,
180 miles from Singapore, and had there
acquired the wrecked aerodrome —Tokyo
said it had been taken from 1000 mem-
bers of the A.1.F., who —as usual—were
“annihilated.” From here the invaders
evidently aimed to drive down the east
coast, possibly supported by fresh land-
ing parties.
The central force had pushed slowly
down through jungle and range without
meeting much resistance until the later
stages of the unpleasant trek, when
British forces took the pressure and
retired, blowing up railway bridges and
firing facilities. The enemy at the week-
end was approaching Kuala Lipis trans-
verse and the first trans-peninsula road
system, which joins Kuantan to Selangor.
He was about 80 to 100 miles north of
the line of Kuala Lumpur here.
The western and main drive coming
down the Perak coastal littoral by Jan.
7 had reached the Slim River, about 50
miles north of Kuala Lumpur. Thus
about half of the whole of mainland
Malaya had been occupied or infiltrated.
The enemy held all the northern aero-
dromes and coastal ports. He had driven
in on the western coast in a new landing
between the Slim and Port Swettenham
at Kuala Selangor, and was bombing
nearly deserted Kuala Lumpur, Klang,
its port, Swettenham, Tebong (seven
killed, 20 injured), and Maur, 100 miles
north of Singapore.
Hitherto, the Japanese had fought only
advanced-post actions as they sneaked
along jungle paths or drifted down rivers
or methodically repaired the damage
along the main road, what time snipers
harassed them and reconnaissance troops
kept them continually on the alert.
Bridges were destroyed before their
advance, rubber went up in huge columns
of foul-smelling smoke, tin dredges were
keeled over in ruins and population was
evacuated wherever possible from the
destroyed plantations and mines.
When, however, the western advance
approached the Slim with a strong spear-
head of tanks backed by mechanised
troops and dive-bombers, it had reached
the frontal positions of the defence area
and found resistance by specially-picked
troops waiting.
The Japanese light tanks nosed ahead,
followed by the heavy types. No British
’planes were seen, but that does not
necessarily mean that none was available;
the Burmese operations have been fairly
substantial and machines were found dur-
ing the week to tackle the Japanese aero-
dromes in the rear in good earnest. Big
fires were started at Inch and Sungei
Patani, the main n.-w. Japanese air base
for the campaign, and Tak, near the
border, lost three ’planes in these opera-
tions. The air was kept almost clear of
the enemy over Singapore, save for very
half-hearted and almost harmless raids.
Heavy fighting was for the first time
pushed home against a solid British and
Indian force, salted with a small specially-
trained unit of the A.1.F., which, accord-
ing to Major-General Heath, the G.0.C.,
achieved “considerable success.” It
seemed, however, on the British side to
be again merely a delaying action, car-
ried through by specialists. A U.P.A.
correspondent wrote that the British were
“outnumbered scores to one” in their
positions along the Slim and Bil rivers,
a little north of Tanjong Malim. An-
other correspondent said that the Japanese
casualties were “almost unbelievable”:
Japs were mown down by concentrated
fire and whole detachments were blown
to pieces. Eventually the heavy tanks
pierced the British lines, which were then
withdrawn south of the Slim.
With that move, the campaign slipped
into its first crucial phase.
The Japanese asserted on Jan. 11 that
on Friday they were within five miles of
Kuala Lumpur, after having destroyed the
11th British Division and captured its
G. 5.0.1. After that they claimed to have
entered the place without meeting resist-
ance.
No large body of the A.I.F. had been
in action up to Jan. 12 —only the special
unit mentioned by Major-General Heath
in the Slim River engagement and parties
of raiders. Daring and resourceful raiders
they proved themselves.
One party surprised a Jap staff car
leading three lorries, let hell loose on
them and sent the two leading vehicles
flying with the rearguard crashing on top.
Japanese infantry started to return the
fire of the ambuscaders, but grenades
soon settled the argument. All inside the
staff car were killed. One of its assailants
found himself in trouble for “wasting
ammunition.” There was a Japanese
general in the car. Generals are not
common targets, and the Australian had
made sure of him by giving him a whole
drum from his tommy-gun.
The men engaged on this forward area
work are nearly all young bushmen.
Mac Arthur in His Stockade
General MacArthur had meantime
given the enemy a taste of his quality.
Surrounded entirely by Japanese-con-
trolled seas —for the moment, at least—
his air reserves almost exhausted and his
forces strung out in a great arc round
Manila, he made a well-timed retreat.
He appears to have withdrawn into a
narrow and well defendable peninsula
just to the north of the entrance to
Manila Bay. Vague U.S. reports credit
him with an army of 40,000 men and
the Japanese with 200,000, though the
latter figure is open to doubt.
At MacArthur’s left as he faces n.-e.
he has swamp and sea and a reasonable
harbor. At his back, across a two-mile-
wide strip of water and acting as a cork
to Manila Bay, which the enemy so far
has not been able to draw, he has the
fortress island of Corregidor, which
recent tourists were told had siege sup-
plies for three years. Otherwise, he is
in a complete, thick envelope of Japanese,
But their bombing of Corregidor so far
has been like the dropping of peas on
the carapace of an old-man turtle.
Late in the week Japanese attacks on
the island ceased and there was a general
lull, followed by artillery attack. It was
“believed” that the Japs were waiting to
land cavalry to attack MacArthur in his
rough terrain. It seems more likely that
they have decided that his concentrated
force and Corregidor’s shell call for some
dissolvent applied with heavy, hard-
hitting, concentrated guns.
Renewed assaults on MacArthur’s
right-flank positions were swept back
with loss at the week-end.
Dutch Oil in Danger
On Jan. 8 numbers of fresh transports
were seen off Mindanao, the southern
island of the Philippines, and it was ex-
pected that further landings in those
islands would be made.
The secret of the move seemed to be
that an attempt was to be made to wrest
Dutch Borneo, with its oil, from its right-
ful owners. On the night of Jan. 10 the
enemy made three landings in the Mina-
hassa Peninsula in the Celebes, evidently
with a view to securing bases opposite
the oilfield region, and with them con-
trol of the Macassar Strait, the main
thoroughfare between Australia, 1000-odd
miles away, and the North.
The landing parties were reported to
be parachutists. They were fiercely
resisted.
The same night forces in a strong fleet
of troop and supply ships escorted by
cruisers made a landing at Tarakhan,
on the north-east of Dutch Borneo. The
island had been bombed eailiex in the
week.
Later it was announced that U.S.
bombers had set a Japanese battleship
on fire further north, near Mindanao.
On Sunday, the invaders had a foot-
hold on Dutch Borneo almost opposite
their landing-points on the n.-w. coast
in British territory. It was not yet clear
whether they could establish themselves,
though it looked likely.
Rabaul and Other Points
Outside the main theatres of war
effort was more restricted than in the
previous week. The Hawaiian islands
were left severely alone.
Rabaul (Mandated New Guinea) had
raids or warnings every day. The enemy
formations numbered from one to two
squadrons; they dropped few bombs,
and none inside the town, A little un-
specified damage was done, and total
casualties to January 10 were 12 natives
killed and 30 injured. The attacks seem
merely incidental to more important
reconnaissance work. The actual results
would certainly not justify the risks of
1000-mile return trips, usage of petrol
and exhaustion of man-power.
One of- Maoriland’s Samoan islands
had 14 shells fired into it by a Japanese
ship. Damage was “not material.”
A few ships were attacked, but there
certainly was a drawing in of horns, par-
ticularly after it had been announced that
Allied submarines were operating close
to the Japanese coast and that a Japanese
steamer had been attacked within three
or four hours’ steam of it.
After having “annihilated” the U.S.
Fleet and left Uncle Sam and Britain
“powerless” in the Pacific, Tokyo re-
peated a statement, allegedly from Hil-
versum, in occupied Netherlands, that
Japanese torpedo boats and aircraft had
sunk the U.S. New Mexico and Missis-
sippi—both are about 33,000 tons —on
their way to Darwin. This was said to
have been done about 600 miles off the
Australian coast —presumably for the
benefit of this country, which was that
evening being treated to the most fear-
some warnings of the horrors that
awaited its people. They were advised to
surrender before Australian innocents
paid for the “crimes” of the British.
As both ships were supposed to be
already at the bottom of Pearl Harbor the
victory was something of a feat of naval
arms; but perhaps it was only an anti-
dote for an aching sore to Japanese
pride. The account of the capture of
Wake Island had just then been rendered.
It had always been a foregone con-
clusion that Wake Island would not hold
out long in a Pacific war —its defences
existed to keep the links of the trans-
pacific airline open long enough to get
the Clippers home and make some other
preliminaries possible.
It, therefore, was held by only a few
hundred marines with a sense of humor
(“Send us some more Japs!”),
Its reduction cost Nippon a cruiser,
four destroyers, a gunboat and a sub-
marine. President Roosevelt remarked
that the conduct of officers and men on
Wake had “been noted with admiration
by their fellow-countrymen and the civil-
ised world.” They earned that tribute.
Two features of Japanese propaganda
were noticeable during the week. Tokyo
did not claim one success, besides the
advance in Malaya, on its own authority.
All the news of Japanese triumphs was
credited to Buenos Aires, Lisbon and
Berne, with occasional alleged admissions
of terror and defeat from Canberra.
And several resounding challenges were
trumpeted to the “annihilated” U.S.
Fleet to “come out and fight.”
More Japanese Brag
Japanese claims of naval and air
achievements vary like the moonlight,
but on Jan. 7 Tokyo Official Radio stated
them as 569 Allied ’planes destroyed
(81 Japanese) and 54 naval and transport
vessels—including nine gunboats, four
torpedo-boats, two destroyers and a sub-
marine—wrecked by the Imperial Air
Force alone. It admitted the loss of
only five ships sunk and 16 damaged,
and Jap casualties to Jan. 3 were stated
at 752 killed and 1835 wounded, against
2105 British and U.S. soldiers killed and
23,864 taken prisoner. Tokyo claimed
on Jan. 11 that a U.S. 10,000-ton cruiser
and two submarines were found sunk at
Cavite. The U.S. Navy says all ships
were removed.
Varying claims were made about ship
captures at Hong Kong, where, according
to one Tokyo announcer, seven British
destroyers, five gunboats and “numerous
other naval vessels” were taken, “apart
from several destroyed.” They must
have been a new brand of British naval
vessel. Even the lonely river gunboat in
the Whangpoo at Shanghai went down
sooner than surrender, thus following


British naval tradition. It is possible that
a few of the old anchored depot ships
in Victoria Harbor fell into enemy hands.
Rommel Still Running.
“Ek Dum”: It was reported on January
6 that General Rommel’s men were mar-
shalled in the desert round Jedabya in
hard, bitter cold. The desert had been
turned into a quagmire in parts by the
rains, “making escape almost impossible.
British mobile self-contained columns
were hurling themselves on the enemy
while a Guards Brigade did its best to
keep him pinned to receive the blows.
These attack columns were doing
severe injury to the enemy, smashing his
aerodromes, tearing up his transport and
developing the kind of movement which
compelled the Germans to use their re-
maining tanks as infantry support. The
correspondents were convinced that
Rommel intended to make his last stand
at Jedabya, though some of them were
not certain that he himself was there to
make a stand, it being reported that he
had been sent back to Germany ill.
The British Imperial border forces,
having taken Bardia and its adjacent
heights, were devoting themselves as seri-
ously as the bad weather and poor visi-
bility would allow to the siege of Half ay a
and Solium.
However, as pointed out (B. 7 /1 / ’42),
it seemed unlikely in reality that the
British, with such a long line to watch,
could hold the enemy enclosed if he
wanted to escape. On January 7 he
actually began a withdrawal, concentrat-
ing his 50-mile front to pour through
the gaps and covering his main body
with a strong, tough rearguard. The
rearguard came into collision with Cold-
streamers and Scots Guards about seven
miles s.-w, of Jedabya at noon. The
King’s Dragoon Guards and a South
African armored column were exerting
pressure further south along the Tripoli
road.
They penetrated 30 to 40 miles into
what had been strongly occupied terri-
tory. But they found only the enemy’s
ddbris and a light holding of rearguard.
The 70 tanks and the 6000 Germans,
with their large but unestimated Italian
support, had faded into the sandstorm
which then was raging.
Reconnaissance showed that when cor-
respondents were letting the world into
Rommel’s secrets the day before, his
advance guards were already pouring
down the Tripoli road towards El Agheila
and the westward bend of the Sirte coast.
The advantage was now all on the Ger-
man side. The weather had been such
that the strokes across the desert at
the enemy’s moving flank could not
meet with full success, since they could
not be delivered with the requisite speed.
And the enemy had prepared for flank
attacks, as well as for rear assault, by
laying interminable minefields.
Meanwhile the Imperial air squadrons
pushed their own attacks ahead both of
the German and British frontal areas and
blasted El Agheila aerodrome. They de-
stroyed several enemy aircraft, smashed
up considerable equipment, tore up road
communications and knocked about some
of the little ports along the Gulf of Sidra,
where enemy stores were being landed
from small vessels shuttling backward
and forward from Tripoli.
On January 11 there were in Egyptian
prison camps 7000 Germans and 19,000
Italians, And about 7000 more were
locked up in the strong but uncomfort-
able Halfaya positions, over which the
R.A.F. was running a 15-minute bomb-
ferry service so that the sandstorm was
almost continuously mixed with splinters.
Early in the week an Italian doctor
brought out several wounded under a
white flag, explaining that there were no
surgical supplies in the besieged laagers
to treat them. This gentlemanly act was
reciprocated; the doctor went back to
his siege loaded down with comforts for
his wounded. Apropos, the Italian civilian
internment camps for British nationals
are described as “equal to those on the
Isle of Man,” and all reports agree that
both soldiers and civilians are well
treated and well fed in Italy. For that
matter there has been no serious com-
plaint about the treatment of British
prisoners in Germany.
Raiding has gone on round the Mediter-
ranean on its usual schedule. Malta has
been the chief target of the enemy, whose
ports from Naples to Taranto and all
along southern Sicily have had good
cause in the last few months to realise
the existence of the battered but aggres-
sive little island. In 24 hours on Jan.
8-9 Valetta had 10 air warnings. The
R.A.F. took the brunt of the damage,
losing eight machines in warding off large
formations, but preventing all but a very
few bombers from getting through, and
those that did penetrate the outer de-
fences from dropping more than a few
bombs.
During December the R.A.F. sank or
damaged 11 enemy ships in the Mediter-
ranean and made 124 raids on 78 targets,
including 10 on Tripoli, besides giving the
Eighth Army co-operation such as a
British army has never before had from
the air.
The bag of the R.A.A.F. Kittyhawk
Squadron was 13 machines destroyed,
five “probables” and 13 severely dam-
aged in eight days.
On the Russian Front.
“Ek D.”: On January 4 it was
announced in Moscow that the Germans
had 100,000 men at Mojaisk, on the main
west road, 70 miles from the capital, and
that they were in serious danger of
encirclement. The Russians held Staritza,
115 miles or so north-west of Moscow,
though they had so far not pushed into
Rshev, the natural goal of their northern
drive. They also had taken Kaluga, 110
miles s.-w. of Moscow, on the Bryansk-
Kiev railway, and Maloyaroslavets, be-
tween Kaluga and Moscow on the same
railway.
The Germans along the main road
seemed therefore to be a huge spearhead,
enclosed more or less tightly in a Russian
scissor, 160 miles across at its widest.
The extent of their danger depended on
the weight of Russians closing on them
and on relative mobilities. They had a
main road —an important consideration
in snowed-in country. The closing pincer
would not have a main road, and no
doubt there were flanking minefields to
be considered.
The Russians pushed 45 miles due west
from Kaluga to Mishkhovsk and its
neighbor town Mosalsk. Mosalsk is not
of great military importance save for its
proximity to Yukhnov, the strongly-held
southern point of the German Mojaisk
triangle.
The Russians’ next job is to take either
Rshev or Yukhnov. If either falls an
enemy withdrawal from Mojaisk now
the nearest German-held point to
Moscow —becomes inevitable. It is a
formidable position for defence and has
been greatly strengthened. Frontal attacks
by the Russians against it must prove
costly. About the real position, there is
no clear-cut Red Army statement, though
there has been the usual seething mass
of contradictory allegations from Stock-
holm, N’York and London.
Moscow Radio, on Jan. 7:
Our new offensive is well under way.
We are heading westward and are not
stopping halfway. We are going on to the
end. We will avenge the suffering and the
destruction the Germans have caused.
There will be no mercy.
The position on the rest of the fronts
was nebulous. It was rather surprisingly
mentioned that a heavy German attack
on Leningrad had been repulsed, but
there were no details. It was claimed
that Hogland Island, taken by the Finns a
fortnight previously this was not re-
ported— had been retaken, though the
Finns claim to have it again.
Moscow Radio announced on Jan. 9
that the siege of Sevastopol had been
lifted. There was no specific report of
any breach in the German encircling line
—only the statement that it had been
moved back. Further Russian landings
in the Kerch peninsula region were
announced. The Germans on Jan. 11
reported “little activity” in the Crimea.
Of the vital Kursk-Kharkov front
there was no authentic news from
the Russian side save that “heavy fight-
ing” was in progress 30 miles from Khar-
kov, and that advances were being made
in the Donetz region. The enemy on
Jan. 9 merely stated:
Bitter defensive fighting continues in the
central and northern sectors. We repulsed
a number of enemy attacks and destroyed
centres of enemy preparation.
To the “famous” John Gordon “Hitler’s
armies in Russia are about to be com-
pletely destroyed: Hitler is on the edge of
the greatest military disaster in world
history.” Major-General Odium, the new
Canadian High Commissioner at Can-
berra, “has told Federal Ministers that
he suspects the Russian advance is
phony; that the Germans are just let-
ting them take some ground while they
consolidate themselves.” Both gentlemen
are quoted by Sydney “D.T.”
No Small Job.
Wavell’s new command does not
cover the whole Pacific war area. It
excludes the two main ultimate stakes in
the battle, Australia and its territories
and Maoriland, as well as India, which
would come into the war zone at once
if Burma were conquered. But, at that,
its extent js roughly three times that of
Europe, and it has a population of
over 100,000,000 —as great as that of
European Russia. But half of it is can-
centrated in 51,000 square miles in Java,
another fourth in the remaining East
Indian Islands and 16,000,000 or so in
the Philippines.
This concentration of simple and often
unwarlike native peoples, living, for the
most part, under tropical conditions in
thatched towns and villages and bamboo
huts, presents commanders with a serious
problem.
Enter Mr. Roosevelt with a declaration
that in 1942 Uncle Sam will produce
60,000 ’planes, of which 45,000 will be
combat ’planes; and in 1943 100,000
combat ’planes. Also 45,000 tanks in
1942 and 75,000 in 1943 ; 20,000 a.-a.
guns and 8,000,000 tons of deadweight
shipping this year, 35,000 and 10,000,000
tons next year.
If the programme is carried out 1942
shipping production will be four times
the combined production of merchant
ships by Britain and U.S. last year. Out-
put of combat ’planes will be doubled.
But account must be taken of slowing-up
factors which will inevitably operate
through the necessity of scrapping exist-
ing types to make way for new ones and
to meet 1942 German machines.
Japan, the “experts” have discovered,
has about 6000 ’planes. They do not
seem to be sure whether they are front-
line machines or merely ’planes. One
N.E.I, expert points out that the U.S.
programme will provide as many
machines in a month as Nippon has
altogether.
There are a lot of flies in the ointment,
Japan’s Air Force has an already full-
trained and war-tested personnel behind
it. Because it is being used for aggres-
sion it can be concentrated. Because it
is being applied against teeming native
populations by an enemy with no pity
it can be used to tear native civilian
morale to pieces.
And when it comes down to tintacks,
man-power is as important as machines.
Both on the mechanical and fighting sides
only specialists, physically and mentally
perfect, need apply, and with every month
air-fighting calls for a still higher order
of brain power and physique and a more
intensive degree of training.
Trained men cannot be obtained in a
few weeks from the raw material. It
takes longer to build a first-class airman
or air mechanic than it does a big
bomber. The increasing use of ammu-
nition and mechanical equipment on
every front will presently call for care-
ful balance between skilled men needed
for production and for fighting.
Transport strain will increase with
every intensification of the war in the
Pacific, where the battle of the Atlantic
will soon have to be fought all over
again. A submarine war on a large scale
off the Australian coast is a far greater
probability than the large-scale air war
which the Heffrons expect to be in pro-
gress over Australian cities any minute,
German productivity must be con-
sidered. Undoubtedly the Germans have
large reserves of machines, and they are
reputed to be building 2200 per month —
the figures are T. P. Wright’s.
Hitler has command of numerous
European countries with fine technical
resources, including occupied France. If
he retains possession of the Ukraine he
will be able to add considerably to his
stocks of fuel and materials. And Italy
cannot be discounted. Neither, of course,
can Japan. It may not be beyond the
capacity of the Axis to approach the U.S.
and British 1942 programme or even that
of 1943.
In the Pacific, the man-power prob-
lem will be acute because of the neces-
sarily wide separation of bases, each of
which, in fighter units, must become self-
contained.
It might be argued that it would be
wise policy to denude every air base in
the A.B.C.D. region and the American
coast to preserve Malaya and the Philip-
pines.
Singapore without a lifeline would be
scheduled for surrender. So would most
other British, Dutch and U.S. possessions.
The sea lanes which carry food, reinforce-
ments and munitions must be kept open
at any cost. The patrol of two Aus-
tralian-Malayan routes alone is virtually
equal to the patrol of the route from
Fremantle to London, and just now more
perilous.
The R.N. commands the surface of the
European seas. In the Pacific zone the
patrol is doubly important and onerous
because it is over seas which the Japanese
Navy is momentarily strong enough to
command.
Before war with Germany broke out,
Britain had only 1750 machines in its
front line “metropolitan” force. The
strength of the R.A.F. was 118,000.
Yet machines in those days were not
then so large or so complicated on the
average, and human wastage was nothing
to what it is today.
That the Australian Government has
made a real effort to produce a full-scale
air force is shown by this year’s estimates,
in which £36,000,000-odd was provided
for the R.A.A.F. and training overseas
and in the Commonwealth,
The Australian Command.
“Ek D.”: Some changes have been
made to subdivide the centralised author-
ity of the G.0.C.-in-C., which at best had
been ill-defined.
The main danger areas are:
(1) New Guinea, where the problem is
largely aerial and naval, and (2) Darwin,
which is of great naval importance. It is
essential that these should be in a posi-
tion to be integrated with General Wavell’s
command, since either might be attacked as
a preliminary to attempted encirclement
of the Dutch East Indies. And Darwin
particularly is vital to the whole structure
of Indian Ocean naval defence.
(3) The five eastern States, which con-
tain nine-tenths of the continent’s defence
industries, over 13-14ths of its people and
have a potential front twice as long as the
Russian fighting front, with harbors capable
of being surprised.
(4) Westralia, which is isolated from its
sister-States by a long slab of mostly unin-
habited country, but which holds a vital
railhead and the key to sea communication
with the Middle East, India and Europe.
Each area falls naturally into a dif-
ferent compartment and its problems call
for a commander with power of initiative
on the spot.
Defence structure now resolves itself
thus:
At the head is a War Cabinet, which
decides policy and endorses general
strategy and operational plans for both
Australia and overseas, prepared by
naval and air staffs and the Military
Board, headed by Lieut.-General Sturdee
as C.O.G.S.
The Eastern-area Command goes to
Lieut.-General Iven Mackay. Under him
are generals who have been allocated to
the part of the terrain or to the par-
ticular department of arms with which
they are most familiar.
The isolated Westralian area has been
placed under the care of Major-General
Eric Plant, subject to military H.Q.
New Guinea and Darwjn commands
are separate, under H.Q.
The scheme seems sensible enough.
Always provided that the C.O.G.S. and
the commanding generals are placed in
a position to make quick decisions and
take responsibility without undue inter-
ference with detail, strategy, tactics and
armament by come-by-chance Ministers,
State Governments and peahen editors.
H.M.S. Galatea —1934-35, 5270 tons,
six 6in. guns —was sunk by a U-boat off
the Egyptian coast on Dec. 15. She was
hit three times at close range. Her cap-
tain, E. V. B. Sim, was among the 405
officers and men lost; the complement
was 580.
* * * *
“S. M. Herald’s” London correspon-
dent reports that merchant shipping losses
in the first half of 1941 were roughly
2,500,000 tons ; in the second half, less
than 1,100,000 tons, excluding Jap
sinkings. British and U.S. building of
merchant ships in 1941 was over 2,000,000
tons,
**, * *
“Aileron”: At long last the R.A.F. is
to have its own marines to defend aero-
dromes from the land and to do
numerous other military duties for which
there have been no specific units in exist-
ence. The new force will need to be ver-
satile.
« * * *
On January 6 light naval forces, backed
by R.A.F. machines, swooped into the
winter-darkened Hele fiord, between
Trondhjem and Bergen, Norway, and
sank a medium ship and two trawlers
beside the wharves of Floro.
* * # *
Raiding over France last week included
several attacks on Brest and bombing
sweeps up the Belgian and Dutch coasts,
with a 64th incursion to Wilhelmshaven
and one to Emden. The weather remains
unfavorable ; it is a very severe winter
throughout Europe. A few desultory day
raids were made at various points round
England, but there was an interval of a
full week during which no enemy
machine attempted to fly over Britain at
night. ,
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: It is not surprising that
Japanese troops are adept at jungle fight-
ing. Japan has had for generations an
Imperial Institute of Tropical Warfare,
the necessity for which arose during the
campaign against Formosa. This enor-
mous, mountainous and jungle-covered
island, once infested with headhunters,
was full of strange diseases. The Japanese
High Command went to extraordinary
lengths to master it, even prescribing
sweating and weakening exercises for the
troops in order to prepare them for
sudden climatic changes ; and there can
be little doubt that the experience
gathered in Formosa is being found very
useful in Malaya.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
War careers are opening up for the
girls of the village. Diana Armit, look-
ing fair and unruffled, as she might after
finishing her arts course with history and
philosophy honors, tells how she is
helping to run the family station. Helen
and Mary Essington Lewis fail to report
at the old haunts because they are farm-
ing for father up Tallarook way. Alison
Adams and Greta Harrison are training
at Methodist Ladies’ College to become
W.A.A.A.F. officers, and June Harrison
Owen is polishing up her rules of the
road. Mrs. Lex Rentoul, who used to
do the president’s job for Presbyterian
Ladies’ College Old Girls, has a sterner
task in hand as an air officer in training,
and dozens of girls who once thought
they would use their skill in design for
window-dressing and interior decoration
are putting finishing touches to models
of enemy ’planes being made in our
technical schools as guides for the Air
Training Corps.
Collins-street becomes the most dis-
tinguished walk these days. In one morn-
ing’s bag there may be lovely women
from near and far all seeking out the
hairdresser of their native land or taking
tiffin at the old spot. Mrs. Tom Bren-
nan, fascinating American wife of Doctor
(now Lieut.-Colonel) Brennan, is likely to
catch the eye, she being a sojourner at
a city hostelry for the nonce. Pretty
Mrs. William Brown, once an adornment
of the J. C. Williamson chorus and later
married to William Brown, of Rabaul, is
also taking the local air as guest of her
in-laws. Mrs. John Oliver-Bellasis flashes
across the vision, too. She twinkled
brightly when she was a Falkiner, and
then India claimed her. Now she and
her son Charles are mostly at the Otway
Falkiners’ station home, with occasional
trips to town. The daylight-saving has
made meeting everyone a joy. Night
takes so long to fall that the occasion
may be called tea or a pre-dinner drink
or just dinner, and maybe seen under a
mellow light of setting sun.
With designs on the munitions girl,
whom she regards as facing serious
health problems, Jean Barnet, of the
Women’s League of Health, has crossed
the northern border and descended on
Melbourne headquarters. She wants to
arrange classes in physical jerks and
other health-giving stretches at the fac-
tories between shifts, and to get into
touch with the girls in their recreation
rooms —if any —or at the factory door.
The league has now swelled its numbers
to the 3000 mark in this city, hence Ethel
Lanser, who usually holds down the Mel-
bourne director’s job, is able to take holi-
day in Sydney with an easy conscience
while Jean swelters in our heat-waves.
After luxuriating for a period in the
cool depths of Polly Hurry’s studio at
storied No. 9 Collins-street, where genera-
tions of artists have painted, the Woman
Artists’ Association has moved out to
East Melbourne, where Ola Cohn has
given it houseroom. The wee shop which
has brought grist to the war funds from
the sale of arty and crafty dolls and toys
will still function, and the flock will still
meet on Mondays for tea and toil, but
stern times call the faithful to the making
of camouflage nets, at which the artistic
fingers simply fly. The sisterhood is a
close one, and so far there are almost
no absentees from the meetings, though,
considering the nature of their work, it
would be as easily performed in the
country. It’s typical of the artist women
to stick together, and they’re hoping to
be used still more in the war effort than
to make medals and suchlike. No one
except themselves knows how much they
have given in their art and in general
work to the country, and they don’t tell.
An Old Girl of the Hermitage, Gee-
long, is Eileen Moore, now Mrs. G. J.
W. Mackinolty, of Kensington-road,
South Yarra, who is putting her skill at
guiding the very young, learnt from
bringing up two of her own and from
toil at the Training College toyshop, to
good account. She is acting as stand-in
for Mrs. McEwen, wife of the former
Air Minister, who is temporarily laid
aside by indisposition. So behold Mrs.
Mackinolty styled Assistant Directoress
of the R.A.A.F. Welfare Play Centre, and
looking the infants in the eye when they
threaten to be bad. However, like all
other modern babies, the frequenters of
the infants’ bar at Welfare Centre are
mostly just too good to be true, and the
Mackinolty path is so far roses, roses
all the way.
A tip for the blackout a spot of
luminous paint upon the tail of the
family dog. If he’s a sedate animal trained
to stick to the footpath and dodge the
culverts so much the better. Several
years ago the Frank Wraiths, of Harriet-
ville, tried a similar trick with a damped
wax matchbox wedged upon the tail of
their little fox-terrier. On dark nights
the foxy, trotting ahead in the snow-
covered mountains, was easily and safely
followed by the bobbing glowworm light
of his tail.
The W, H. Murphys, of Fourth-street,
Black Rock, had a memorable day last
week when in the space of a few hours
their youngest girl, Edna Anna,
announced her engagement to Dr. John
Mullany, and their second, Julie, now
Mrs. Arthur Adams, presented them
with a grandson, Arthur William. As
Dr. Mullany is in camp at Balcombe
the usual celebrations were not so evi-
dent, but the Murphy girls, who include
in their number Mrs. W. H. Sinn, wife
of the medico, are popular, and friends
kept the telephone trilling. As Dr. Mul-
lany is son of Mrs. Charles Mullany, of
the Esplanade, Middle Brighton, the
family homes are now within coo-ee,
but the Murphys are building a new
home in Albany-road, Toorak. Jack
Cato made this picture of the bride-to-be.
The huntin’ C. C. Moores are also re-
joicing over their son Charles Owen
Moore’s engagement. Like his father
C.C., who is Master of Melbourne
Hounds, Charles rides, or did till the
family decided to call it a day till war
was over. At the moment Charles is at
Seymour with the militia. He is artillery,
and likes it, too. Fiancee Mary Murphy
is down on that ornamental farm The
Briers, Mornington. When she came out
a while ago she made a distinct impres-
sion, and should one day rival Mrs.
C. C. Moore in smartness.
Whether he be general or private, a
soldier returned to his homeland, the
smirch of upon his soul if not
obviously scarred upon his brow, deserves
an hour or so of relaxation and com-
mendation among his friends. Thus no
one would grudge Major-Gen. Vasey his
appearance as guest of honor within the
white brick precincts of the Hamilton
Sleigh home in Wallace-avenue. Also
in white was Mrs. Sleigh, but it was
her sister Mrs. Vasey who secured even
more compliments. Never has she looked
so well, never before has a coiffure
effected such a metamorphosis. Hers was
Edwardian, and it suited her perfectly.
The lion of the evening, off his leash
for a short time, made no bones about the
fact that he was enjoying himself. He
talked about this and that, enjoyed an
argument now and then, manoeuvring the
while from the lasso of leading questions.
He’s for brownouts as against blackouts,
and has figures at his fingertips to prove
his case. An anachronism of the
general’s homecoming is that his home
has become isolated. Wantirna buses are
off the road and taxis to Ringwood are
the only means of transport. It looks
like a horse and buggy for the Vasey
family. The general has no passion for
motor-bikes, and his memories of boy-
hood days on pushbikes are not of the
rosiest. He had more than his fair share
of busters owing to a competitive spirit
while riding downhill.
From Sydney
Everybody was pleased at the honor
received by Major-General Morshead,
commander of the A.I.F. garrison which
held Tobruk. The Major-General is now
K.8.E., and his lady, who lives in Vau-
cluse, is still busy answering the many
congratulations that started to pour in
immediately after the news had been
broadcast. She is a vice-president of the
A.I.F. Women’s Club, and is a worker
for the Lord Mayor’s Fund and St.
Andrew’s hut. Daughter Elizabeth is
studying at Sydney Tech.
Even the village green in “Patience”
showed signs of the water restrictions,
and the 20 (by the way, there seemed to
be 25) lovesick maidens hymned their
matins to Bunthorne on a lawn that
looked slightly burned off. The men and
the chorus came in for lots of applause,
and Evelyn Gardiner’s Lady Jane, who
has no illusion about her lack of charm,
was fascinating. What a marvellous
major-general Lady Jane would make in
a woman’s territorial army! Dressing
on the stage was as gently colored as a
bed of mixed sweet-peas. Dressing in
the house was daytime-ish, and, what
with the feeling that the blackout was
seeping through the door and leaning
over everybody’s shoulders, the effect was
dingy. Still, in air-raid London ladies
often dine out in slacks all ready for
plunging into shelters or staying up all
night if need be. Another thing noted
is the large size in handbags now carried
in the evening. Is it just chance, or is
it that the big bag will hold a torch and
a few other amenities to help along
should things start popping?
Great sympathy from all over this con-
tinent is being expressed for the little
widow of knight Alexander Gordon,
son Alexander and daughter Anne.
The former Supreme Court Judge
died last Thursday in St. Luke’s, of
which hospital he had been a patient
for only two or three weeks, although
ill-health had been creeping on him
for some years. The Judge had
played quite a part in the home rela-
tions of the State, as he was Judge in
Divorce for many years. His widow is
one of the most popular women in Syd-
ney. She is an untiring worker for good
causes, and has been one of the most suc-
cessful raisers of patriotic funds since the
outbreak. Daughter Anne is busy with
war work in London.
Thea Philips’s fine singing and acting
in the last grand opera season Sydney
knew are still remembered. All Aus-
tralia will have the chance to hear her as
Elisabeth on Sunday next, when the
A.B.C. is broadcasting “Tannhauser ”
Thea sang this part at Covent Garden,
when the opera was conducted by Sir
Thomas Beecham. In private life Thea
is Mrs. Claude Wallis. Athol Shmith
photograph.
An intrepid Sydney girl, Kathleen
Lynch, plans soon to leave for Rangoon
to marry Uhtred Bernard Home Dunbar.
Kathleen’s parents are the James Lynches,
of Hurlstone Park ; her affianced’s home
town was London. Sir Lorraine Dunbar,
secretary of the Bank of Bengal, is an
uncle. The pair will be made one in
St. Augustine’s Church, Rangoon.
Ken Brodziak, now a sergeant-observer
with the R.A.A.F. overseas, tells Syd-
ney of theatrical shows he saw recently
in New York. Ken was always keen on
the theatre and three of his plays were
produced in Sydney, so he had a real
grease-paint bath—not exactly on Broad-
way, though every play showing in New
York is supposed to be “running on
Broadway.” Of the hundred or more
legitimate theatres in N.Y. only one is
on Broadway; the others are on side
streets —as many as seven in one block.
Warren Munsell, who was in Australia
for some time (his father is one of the
brasshats of the Theatre Guild), is doing
well, and has been managing Fredric
March’s new play, “Hope for a Harvest.”
Here are some of the plays seen by the
Sydneyite, in order of preference:
Emlyn Williams’s “The Corn Is Green,”
starring Ethel Barrymore ; “Candle in the
Wind,” written by Maxwell Anderson,
and bestarred by Helen Hayes; “Pal
Joey,” in which Vivienne Segal scintil-
lates ; “Lady in the Dark,” in which the
inimitable Gertrude Lawrence plays
lead; “Claudia”; “Life with Father,”
and “Arsenic and Old Lace.” There are
others, including “Hellzapoppin.” This
has been running for four years (Ken
adds a thoughtful “I don’t know why”).
Three Australians in Broadway shows
are Judith Anderson in “Macbeth,” Ethel
Morrison (really from Maoriland) in “All
Men Are Alike,” and Esther Mitchell in
“The Corn Is Green.” Bondi’s Wyn
Hurwyn is gathering fame as an exhibi-
tion dancer.
The girl in the flat opposite has had a
slight difference with the woman down-
stairs. Last week when she went into the
laundry to do her bits and pieces, she
found the woman downstairs had the
copper and every tub overflowing. The
woman downstairs, although it was not
her day for the tubs, went on busily
wringing and bluing, and took no notice
of the newcomer. The girl in the flat
opposite at length said sweetly: “But
the Japs are still only in Malaya ; there’s
really no need for you to set up a laundry
yet.”
Though the sun rises and sets a crimson
ball, and the hot winds blow a withering
blast, and the water in the city’s reservoirs
looks sluggishly at the moon, Leo Davis,
director of the show, and Madeleine
Withall, secretary of the Wool Trade
War Fund, are working overtime pre-
paring the way for tomorrow night.
At the Town Hall a pageant of
old-time songs, dances and gags guar-
anteed to carry the listener back
to the good old nights when Harry
Rickards was king of the Tivoli will be
presented. There will even be black-
faced corner men. This will seem so
topical that it will probably be mistaken
for a modern turn. A musical comedy
cavalcade will bring back Irene, Merry
Widows, Wildflowers and Chocolate Sol-
diers. Gladys Moncrieff, Fred Bluett,
Phil Smith and Alan Coad will be among
the night’s delights. War Veterans’ Home
at Narrabeen will benefit.
Another bride of last week was Alicia
Inglis. Alicia since her schooldays has been
an active worker on charity committees.
She became the wife of John Sutherland,
of the Coastal Defence Reserve, with the
blessing of St. Mary’s. Afternoon frocks
and hats served for b<?th bride and atten-
dant sister Flora, and there was a small
family party to follow the ceremony at
the home of Alicia’s parents, the J. Inglis
couple, of Vaucluse. ’Groom’s aunt, Mrs.
F. Dodwell, helped Mrs. Inglis to receive
the guests.
Canberra soon will rival Washington
in the number of its official residents.
One of the most popular of these should
be Canada’s new High Commissioner,
Major-General Victor Odium. He came
to us from England, and didn’t like doing
it because it meant leaving the Canadian
Division which he commanded there. He
has an impressive lot of decorations,
and his speech reveals the touch of Irish
in him.
Minerva director Alec Coppel reports
that “The Man Who Came to Dinner”
is, in spite of the Japs, the heat and the
“brownout,” still a leading favorite. The
part of Bert Jefferson, which was played
by Charles Kilburn (now going into
camp), is being taken over from Saturday
night, January 17, onwards by redhead
Hal Thompson.
A woman friend in England writes:
“I think, perhaps, our real need at the
moment is dried fruit —not that one anti-
cipates making anything so frivolous and
utterly luxurious as a Christmas pud-
ding! But it is not till one comes to be
quite deprived of him that one discovers
how much one misses the little raisin and
his lady friend the sultana.”
The Society of Artists was pleased
when it handed in to the Red Cross the
other day a cheque for £226, door takings
at its last exhibition, plus 20 p.c. on sales.
A very small girl came home from
kindergarten a few weeks ago and said
to her mother: “I’ve been chosen to sing
at the concert, and teacher says I’m to
wear a white dress.” Father, who was
listening, laughed at mother and inter-
jected ; “Oh, that will be easily managed.
You can make her frock from the tails
of my white shirts.” Small daughter
beamed, and said no more. The next
morning she electrified her teacher by
running up to her calling out: “I’m to
have a lovely white frock for the con-
cert. Daddy says mother can make it
out of his old white shirts.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Although an attendance of slightly
over 16,200 at Randwick on Saturday
was 2000 less than at the correspond-
ing meeting last year it was satisfactory.
R. Cashman trained a good grey horse
in Sir Chrystopher, with whom he won a
Doncaster Handicap, and he has another
smart one of that color in Sir Andrea, a
son of Andrea. When Sir Andrea ran
in Tatt.’s Flying Welter, won by
Petruchio, he got very tired after being
one of the leaders into the straight. It
was different in the Sefton Handicap, as,
shaking off Melvale after turning for
home, he went on to win nicely from
John Halifax, who had every chance, as
did Forward in third place. Session and
Amiable were nearest the place-getters,
and either or both may win within the
next fortnight. Amiable is retaining her
condition in remarkable fashion. Panchio
was disappointing, but the run will im-
prove him.
On his recent form at Randwick it
seemed as if Malagigi had seen his day,
but after being ridden well back in the
field most of the way in the Warwick
January Handicap, he put in a good run
to narrowly defeat Beau Frere, who,
with Adjutant and Jymjon, led into the
straight. The favorite, Gundagai, struck
his share of trouble, and after making a
forward move at the turn Patrician fin-
ished weakly.
E. Bartle won the first division of the
Maiden Handicap on Shining Night, and
the second division on Nemesis. Although
starting from the outside Bartle had
Shining Night in front in the first hun-
dred yards in his race, and Adjust was
the only runner that afterwards looked
like troubling him. However, she died
away entering the straight, and the minor
places went to Turmoil and Wellesley,
with Ceres, Valaroi and Mutineer head-
ing the others.
Dundalk, a short-priced favorite,
appeared to have the second division safe
when he ran up to Nemesis and Silver
Princess inside the last furlong, but
Nemesis fairly outstayed him. Silver
Princess was a close third, and then
Chatudo and Brumaire, both of whom
should win in the near future.
After a great set-to from the straight
entrance Double Birthday won the colts
and geldings’ division of the Nursery
Handicap from Yarrawonga, who
appeared to be doing slightly the better
commencing the last furlong. The sur-
prise of the race was Strood (Chatham-
Split Ear), who cut Kiaree out of third
place. Double Birthday is a half-brother,
by Double Remove, to Yuletide, and was
a 350gns. yearling. His dam. Cheer, is
a Heroic mare.
Odds were laid on Angel for the second
division of the Nursery, but, though she
ran second, she did not have any chance
against Display, who was third to Hugette
and Ohaeawai entering the straight. Her
price of 12 to 1 might suggest her suc-
cess was as much a surprise for her con-
nections as anyone else, but they did not
entirely neglect her. Display, like Double
Birthday, was bred by P. Miller, and is
by Constant Son from Gerbera, a three-
quarter sister to Myosotis, dam of
Chatham. As a yearling Display was
bought for 160gns.
Comet and Approbation made a match
of the Farm Encourage from the first
furlong, and the former lasted longer
than the mare, with Breezy Boy running
on well in third place. Sponsor and Sir
Tennyson shaped fairly without ever quite
looking like winning. Jasper did not give
any trouble after turning for home, and
Indian Emperor added to his many
failures, being one of the tail-enders
throughout. At one time a lot was ex-
pected of Comet, but until Saturday he
had not shown form for so long that
his tote price was 60 to 1.
Kenil Gem won the Hurdle Race at
Victoria Park last Wednesday, and that
jumping had not affected his pace was
demonstrated when he finished brilliantly
in the Berala Handicap to defeat Cacique,
after the latter had disposed of the pace-
maker, Escutcheon, half a furlong from
home. Willie Green was fourth, Levraut
fifth and Mandowie sixth, but nothing
outside the place-getters looked a win-
ning possibility over the concluding fur-
long. Mandowie, however, is evidently
coming on again.
* * * ♦
Adelaide-owned Chatasan, one of the
most improved sprinters in training, re-
corded his third win from his last four
starts when he led throughout and de-
feated Denis and Nifty in the Chester-
field Handicap at Ascot (Melb.) on Satur-
day. He was favorite, despite his failure
in the Standish Handicap, and his form
would suggest that he is better round a
turn than in races up the straight-six.
A change of training routine may also
have benefited him. Between his races
in the Standish Handicap (on New Year’s
Day) and Saturday he visited the training
track only once, the rest of his work
being done around the hills at Mentone.
Chatasan, who is a four-year-old gelding
by Chatham from Cho Cho San, and
cost 300 guineas as a yearling, is to be
entered for the Oakleigh Plate and New-
market.
«•••••
Chatasan may have won in any
circumstances, but a ragged start con-
tributed to his success. Whereas he
jumped out clear, Orteli, Law Student
and Reception—second, third and fourth
favorites respectively—lost many lengths.
Age is no bar to Somerset, who dead-
heated for first with Jerry Cronin in a
muddling-run race for the Inverness
Handicap. He is in his twelfth year, and,
considering that this usually slow begin-
ner was forced to make his own pace,
did particularly well to battle on as
gamely as he did when challenged by
the seven-years-younger Jerry Cronin.
Somerset has been a useful money-
spinner for his part-owners, J. J. Fregon
and K. J. McKenzie, latter of whom is
serving with the A.I.F. abroad. Jerry
Cronin improved on the form he had
shown at Moonee Valley a week earlier,
but he likes Ascot, and was suited by the
slow pace. Sound, a maiden 50-to-l shot,
finished a close third, but the race was
not run to suit Rippling Avon, favorite
at 2 to 1, or Heart’s Desire, equal second
favorite. The time, 2.25, was six seconds
outside the course record for 11 furlongs.
Reg, sold to his trainer, S. Murphy,
for 350gns. in November, recorded his
second win from three starts in his new
colors when he defeated the faster-
finishing Hectare and Carzana in a close
finish for the first division of the Sand-
hurst Welter. He had the box-seat
throughout, whereas Iridium, warm
favorite, pulled hard while disputing the
lead with Carndale, and weakened into
fourth position. Iridium may have done
better had his rider allowed him to run
along. Reg’s win completed a double
for Murphy and jockey V. Hartney, who
had been associated with Christopher
Wren’s surprise success in the Effingham
Handicap earlier.
Brian Robert Smith, alias “Brian
Robert,” had the distinction of winning
at his first ride when he piloted the 50-to-l
chance Vida to a runaway win in the
sixth division of the Anglesey Trial.
Vida’s last start had been over hurdles.
When application was made for the lad’s
permit the V.R.C. decided that, as there
were five other Smiths riding, confusion
would be avoided if he rode as “Brian
Robert.” A successful show-ring rider,
Robert is a nephew of well-known cross-
country jockey J. Regan. Another
apprentice, R. Clarke, who had not previ-
ously ridden a winner, landed the 20-to-l
chance Birdplay winner by a head from
Adelaide-owned Memoria in the second
division of the Sandhurst Welter.
Memoria, who is a sister to the ill-fated
Tempest, winner of a V.R.C. St. Leger,
was racing in Melbourne for the first
time, and should improve.
Darraweit did not defeat a strong field
in the third division of the Anglesey
Trial, but he carried 9.7 and won impres-
sively enough to indicate that more im-
portant wins are ahead. His new owner,
L. Kennedy, has found him a splendid
proposition with two wins from as many
starts in his colors. Edmonton, winner of
the second division of the Trial, gave
Captain R. H. Richardson his first success
as an owner. Edmonton is the first horse
he has raced, but Art Union, a winner at
Flemington last spring, will also carry his
colors in future.
* * * *
Sir Andrea did best of the Challenge
Stakes candidates that ran at Randwick
on Saturday, but though he has not in-
curred a penalty he will find it difficult
to pace it in the early part with Freckles
and Trimmer, while High Caste can be
relied on to put in good work at the end.
Figures for the last Doncaster Handicap
would point to High Caste having a pull
over Freckles, as in that he gave the
latter 331 b. and a beating, while here
only 211 b. separates them. However, the
difference between a mile and six furlongs
will mean a lot to Freckles. When he
ran High Caste to a neck in the seven
furlongs Warwick Stakes last August he
was getting only 131 b. from Tancred s
horse.
Good as is Yaralla 101 b. over weight-
for-age is a load for a three-year-old in
first-class company, and it will be no
easy task for him to concede 241 b. to
Soho, also a three-year-old. The coming
week’s track doings may throw more light
on High Caste’s chance —he is sprinting
well up to the present —but of those which
have raced recently the prospects of
Freckles and Trimmer strike me as
brightest. Last year Trimmer was second
favorite with 9.8, but ran unplaced.
* * * *
Gundagai was disappointing on Satur-
day, but though he does not now read
quite as well in the Anniversary Handi-
cap as Malagigi, even though he will be
meeting the latter 71b. better, the lower
scale may help him over the longer dis-
tance. Malagigi drops 41b., but his defeat
of Beau Frere and Jymjon was not really
impressive. If he has a chance that of
Jymjon must be nearly as good. Satur-
day’s run did not say anything favorable
for Mabson even with 91b. off his back.
It has appeared in print that Dewar is
sure to run, but though he can carry
weight he has had so much hard racing
during the past few weeks that it is not
a certainty he will be as good as in
Tattersall’s Cup. In any case he is meet-
ing Grand Fils 61b. worse than in that
race, and he scarcely beat him that much.
The last three-year-old winner of the
Anniversary Handicap was Clever Fox,
and he had 8.4. Queenslander Bucolic
is a stayer, and though Aristocrat has not
hitherto shone in good races at Rand-
wick he is so well now that it is possible
for him to improve upon all his pre-
vious form at that track. As he is at
a fair price in combinations commencing
with any of the fancied Challenge Stakes
horses it might be worth while ending a
double with him. Nearly half those re-
maining in the race have less than 7st.,
and as Jymjon has won at 13 furlongs
at Randwick he may be the best of that
division. One thing certain is that there
will be no such hot favorite as Feminist,
who, at 3 to 1 on, beat four other runners
last year.
* * * *
Commenting on the rumors as to the
A.R.C. breaking away from the A.J.C., a
prominent member of the former body
remarked this week: “I do not know
their source, and there is nothing in them.
Such a step as breaking away has not
received consideration.”
» * * *
Rosehill will hold its meeting of next
Saturday at Moorefield. This necessarily
means a change in the distance of some
races, and weights were not issued on
Monday.
* * * *
Towards the close of last season it was
anticipated that the present year’s racing
would be the most successful ever known
in America. That country’s entry into
the war has naturally altered the position,
and the abandonment of Santa Anita’s
50 days’ meeting, which was to have
commenced on Dec. 31 and ended on
March 14, must have been a shock for
everyone associated with racing. The
prize-money totalled $1,160,000 (approxi-
mately £ A 353,000) for 402 races spread
over 50 days (five days for charity). The
principal races were the Santa Anita
Handicap, of $lOO,OOO, Derby, of $50,000,
and a mile and a half handicap for all
ages of $50,000. Following the example
of California, the probabilities are that
the States of New York, Maryland and
Illinois will make big cuts in their racing.
* * * *
The attendance at Victoria Park last
week did not equal that of many previous
Wednesday meetings, but was sufficiently
large to cause the proprietary to regret
the ban on midweek racing. It was sug-
gested to secretary W. Donohoe that,
through the loudspeakers, he should re-
quest the crowd to sing “Auld Lang
Syne” after the last race, but he was
feeling too sorrowful for the idea to
appeal to him.
* * * *
E. Bartle has a better record in the
Challenge Stakes than any other jockey
who will be riding in that race this year.
His first win was on Greenline in 1928,
and he has since won on Captivation
and High Caste. J. O’Sullivan, who may
have a mount on the coming occasion,
won on Silver Rose and Bradford, and
Munro, Cook and Knox have had a win
each.
* * * •
It is announced that breeders are not
sending up nearly as many yearlings for
sale as in past seasons. Well, as all-
round reduction of racing means that they
will find it difficult to sell privately, or
to lease to the same extent as in the past,
it seems as if some breeders will be prac-
tically forced into racing their own stock.
If so, they may put into racing something
commensurate with the amount it has
returned them over a long period.
* * ♦ •
As we are getting round to the yearling
sales, the following list of sires of two-
year-olds successful at Sydney or pro-
vincial meetings this season will be of
interest to intending buyers:
Hua: Miss Hua (2), Takarangi (2), Hugette.
The Marne: Easy Mark (2), Mardevon, Mar-
quesas
Equator: Orderly (2), Fervent.
Brueghel: Hesione, Bluebell.
Midstream; Riverton (2), Current.
Double Remove: Battle Dress (2), Double
Birthday.
Limerick: Marwin (2).
Pentheus: Bangster.
Excitement: Radio Star.
Harinero; Jungle King.
Oro: Oriole.
Constant Son: Santa Cruz, Display.
Manitoba: Modulation (2).
Hall Mark: Hall Stand.
Bulandshar: Baroda.
Plantain: Peachbloom Beauty.
Contender: Conspirator.
Beau Pere: Belle Desiree, Mon Pere.
Of the winners mentioned those sold
at the autumn sales in Sydney were:
Battle Dress (1050gns.), Baroda (600gns.),
Dark Princess (80gns.), Bangster (70gns.),
Radio Star (340gns.), Santa Cruz
(200gns.), Bluebell (80gns.), Double Birth-
day (350gns.), Display (160gns.), and
Prince Tuckiar (HOgns.). Modulation
(300gns.) was bought in Melbourne. 'Hie
absence of some sires from the winning
list is surprising, while others will have to
fare better before April to maintain their
sales average of last season.
* * * *
Auckland Cup winner Piastre was only
eighth in demand for that race, but his
light weight of 7st. enabled him to out-
stay the favorite, Beau Leon (9st.). Piastre,
who was bred in N.S.W. by A. E. Cooper,
is by Salmagundi from Love Lake, by
Wallace Mortlake, and was sold as a
yearling for lOOgns. He is trained by
T. R. George for J. L. Cheesman. George
has won four Auckland Cups in the last
seven years. Another item of interest in
connection with the Auckland meeting
is that Sir Beau (Beau Pere-Rose Ray),
in winning the w.f.a. race, the King’s
Plate, with 9st., equalled the Maoriland
record of 1.35} for a mile. All going
well, we may later see Sir Beau in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
In the State of New York last year the
five major tracks made a record for
America in prize-money. The total dis-
tributed over 175 days was $3,198,554
(£A972,890). The tote turnover was the
remarkable one of $133,256,323 (some-
thing over £A40,532,000). At Belmont
Park 305 races were run on 39 days, the
daily average in prize-money being about
£A7765.
Promoters set ’em up, Louis knocks
’em down. The latest was Max Baer’s
big brother Buddy (17.12), floored twice
for nine seconds before taking the count
in the first round at New York.
* * * *
Dead in an aircraft accident in Eng-
land, Gerald Backhouse, of Victoria —for
years Australia’s outstanding runner at
a mile. He was an Air Force sergeant.
FOR CAULFIELD.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Hawthorn Hurdle: Harley, 1 ;
Giant Killer, 2; Generous Gesture, 3.
Holiday Stakes: Attorney, 1 ;
Border Law, 2 ; Pickway, 3,
Anniversary Handicap: Togo,
1 ; Elanage, 2; Portfolio, 3.
Rowena Welter: Hectare, 1 ;
Iridium, 2 ; Royal Jubilee, 3.
Koakaribb Trial: Mercury Bay,
1 ; Kalapani, 2; Tunic, 3.
Tooronga Handicap: Orteli, 1 ;
High Title, 2 ; Chatasan, 3.


P
m
m
mmmm
m
m
m
m
m
tm
mmJ
A
r
s^
m MAI 5-41
yo ° or e , .
•***■*, ' 5W '»» /,/„ *>«• o, »
**■«•««. ,efe » „ 7 «•<*
« /e «/o«
/5/i w >n
sn, °" / ee .
Brciawh*
Q She has grown beyond the stage of sharing a room. Build
her a room of her own... with Masonite. A partition of Masonite
Presdwood may be all that is required. Perhaps a room already
exists that merely needs a Masonite floor laid over an existing
worn wooden one or requires Masonite panelling over cracked or
broken walls. Then, so that your little "adult" may be properly
at hornt give her a built-in table, cupboards and book
shelves also from Masonite. The low cost will surprise you;
and you can work Masonite with ordinary tools. Grainless,
splinterless, steel-strong Masonite boards can be left in their
natural colour or painted, enamelled or lacquered in any shade.
MODERNISE WITH
Masonite boards are made in Australia irom
Australian timbers hitherto thought commer-
cially useless. They possess the advantages
of wood without its disadvantages. Masonite
is used for both modernisation and new con-
struction: for floors, counter tops, for "tiling''.
for partitioning in fact, for "1,000 uses",
PRESDWOOD . . . TEMPERED PRESDWOOO
QUARTRBOARD DE-LU XE . . .TEMPR T i L E
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division) . . Sydney . . Melbourne . • Brisbane . . Adelaide . . Perth
KITCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
All Types of Luggage Stocked
OVERNIGHT BAGS
Calf Leathers, Outside Pockets.
English Frame .. . . 45/-
C. E. KITCHINGS
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
SMOKE-OH!
“Lost; One left-hand navy-blue lady’s kid
glove.” —“West Australian.”
“He liked Annie. She always brought out
the whisky when he called.”— Woman’s paper.
So, because she had a hard spot for
him he had a soft spot for her.
4* 4* 4* 4*
, “He had failed in many things; but working
as a demolisher six storeys from the ground
he put zest into his work.” — “D.T.”
He was afraid to fall down on that job.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She was curious to know why he called his
wife so frequently on the ’phone.”— “D.T.”
And, of course, what.
»% •%
“Cool off with tea.”— Advert.
The coolest thing is the hot price
they’re asking for it.
“The thief was a merry fellow.” — “Sun.”
He shook with laughter.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Some fellows float a loan merely with
the object of sinking it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A poltergeist is supposed to be a thought-
form surviving fvom the disintegration of an
intelligence. And it has a playful little way
of throwing things around regardless of Who
may be used as a target.” — “New Idea.”
Poltergeist, my foot! That’s a clear
description of the wife.
Protection.
As the air-raid siren screamed, Blog-
son walked calmly down to his shelter.
He sat down and was waiting with an
air of complacency when suddenly his
attitude changed. His hands began to
ransack his pockets. The search became
more and more feverish. At length he
stood up in veritable panic. Yes! He
had left his lucky charm in the house!
The special one his wife had bought from
the Chinese greengrocer, who had ob-
tained it from the lucky herbalist who
had so miraculously cured Mrs. Bulbah’s
little child of ringworm.
He couldn’t possibly feel safe without
that. He had been relying on it. Although
he could hear the drone of the approach-
ing ’planes, he decided to take the risk
of running back to the house. Arriving
there he found the charm and thrust it
into his pocket with a sigh of relief. He
was returning to the shelter when the
bomb dropped at his feet.
They identified the remains by the
lucky charm.
Nat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Aborigines should be taught to realise what
it means to live in a white civilisation.”
Wouldn’t it be better to let them live
in happy ignorance?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“His later life was wholly dominated by his
devotion to alcohol.” — Biographical item.
A consuming passion.
•I- -I* *l* 4*
“A kookaburra that meows.” — News item.
This is no time for laughing.
4* 4* 4* 4 -1
“Two days after the hotel was built a hurri-
cane struck the township and the new edifice
was utterly destroyed.”— Travel book.
That must have been a blow!
4* q. q. q.
“He blamed his wife’s extravagance for his
bankruptcy; she seemed incapable of passing
a shop without buying an expensive hat.”
—Court item.
No wonder she left him financially flat
And made him see red,
For, whenever she spotted a smart-look-
ing hat.
It went to her head!
T. W. N.
4* 4* -I- 4*
“Let them cut all the cackling about synthetic
fuels and get on with the job. The motto
should be ‘Make Petrol First.’ ”
— “D.T.” correspondent.
In contradistinction to the motorist’s
endeavor to make petrol last.
Nice Distinctions.
“Extra trains were not run on the Mort-
dale line on Saturday for Moorefield race
patrons; they were put on to accommodate
residents who had been crowded off their ordi-
nary trains by racegoers.”
— N.S.W. Transport Minister O'Sullivan.
Speaking at the official opening of
the Quince and Nutmeg Board’s new
£350,000 palace, the chairman, Mr.
Septimus Softcop, gave an emphatic
denial to allegations that since the board
had come into existence the price of
quinces to the consumer had been greatly
increased, and that tens of thousands of
cases had been burnt. The facts were
that prior to the board’s formation the
public couldn’t buy quinces under Is. a
dozen ; under the board’s careful market-
ing scheme the public could now buy
them for as low as 3s. a dozen. Far from
raising the cost, therefore, the board had
actually enhanced the value of the fruit.
For consumers’ protection it had occa-
sionally been found necessary to incinerate
overproduced fruit, but to say that surplus
supplies were deliberately burnt was to
do the board a gross injustice.
Charged at the Quarter Sessions last
week with inflicting bodily harm, Joe
(“Egghead”) Bludgin pleaded not guilty.
In a statement from the dock accused said
that the sworn statement of the witness
“Dirtbox” Annie that he had pushed his
wife’s face into a plate of scalding soup
was a lie. All he had done was to push
the plate of soup up into his wife’s face.
Nor had he hit her on the head with a
blunt instrument, as the Crown alleged.
He had merely slugged her across the
scone with a blackjack. After the jury
had returned a verdict of guilty Judge
Horsehair said that he would not now,
as he intended, give accused five years’
hard labor. He would only order that at
the penitentiary in which he would be
incarcerated during the next half-decade
the prisoner should be kept fully occupied
doing manual toil of a strenuous nature.
Interviewed after his fight by the
“Daily Trombone,” in which had
appeared that morning his article explain-
ing how he intended to k.o. his opponent,
“Spike” Bingle said that he had expected
“Ocker” Mittslinger to adopt a crouch-
ing attitude, lead with a long left and
follow up by a haymaker with the right,
tactics which he had taken pains to
counter in work-outs. Instead, “Ocker”
hadn’t stood upright once. Moreover,
“Ocker” had confounded him by shooting
out a telescopic molly dook and had un-
accountably followed this by a wide-
swept right which had got him on
the point ten seconds after the opening
bell. He was lucky that he had only been
rendered unconscious for 2\ minutes,
otherwise he might have suffered a k.o.
At the resumed inquiry into his affairs
before the Registrar in Bankruptcy, Mr.
Sol Pinkbaum heatedly denied that he
had ever distributed £40,000 in jewellery
among members of his family in an
attempt to frustrate his creditors. Actu-
ally, he had only given £lO,OOO of pre-
cious stones to each of four close rela-
tives. Regarding the fire at his ware-
house, it was not true, as the asses-
sors had alleged, that most of the stock
which he had claimed was in the
building had been removed to a
secret place prior to the fire. In reality
only the major portion of it was taken
to another place. When bankrupt asked
to be granted his discharge the Registrar
promised that it would be granted un-
equivocally provided the £40,000 in jewels
was returned and certain other matters
could be explained to his complete satis-
faction.
Bo.
They breed ’em black in Oodnadatta;
Blondes, brunettes and brindle browns
You’ll find in towns from Wdngaratta
To those up in the Darling Downs.
But only in West Oss. you’ll view
{lf you’re in luck ) a lady who
Is molly-handed navy blue.
BUTCHER-BIRD.
On the Gun Arm.
lust as I was freeing my electroray
gun to face the rush of the drago-lions
my arm was seized. But it was only
Maria.
“If you must risk your life,” she
gushed, “my place is by your side, Speed
Aitchem! ”
I broke into a cold sweat. It was bad
enough facing all the horrors of that
sinister monarch Bing the Brutal with-
out having Maria always hanging on my
gun arm and swearing she would die
with me.
There was no time to lose. Smartly
rapping Maria on the head with my ray
gun, I tied her to a strand from the web
of a mastospiderdon I had just slain.
Then I heaved her over the cliff. If the
strand held and let her down gently, well
and good. If not, at least it would finish
off one pest.
It held, and that gave me an idea.
After killing a dozen of the great herd
of drago-lions, I took another strand of
the web and slid over the cliff myself.
Maria was safe with Rostov Kharkov or
whatever his name is.
But a new danger threatened. Bing
had sent a fleet of aero-tanks against me.
“Go for your lives,” I yelled. “I’ll hold
them.”
But Maria, bump on her nut and all,
was hanging on the gun arm again. “If
there is danger I will share it with you,”
she said.
I had just grabbed Maria and was
about to toss my No. 1 Nuisance at the
leading aero-tank when I woke up. And
Maria was talking—of course.
“If you are going to speak at this meet-
ing tonight,” she was saying, “I’m going
to be on the platform, too. My place is
by your side.”
Women are all alike. They will have
the limelight.
H. M.


r
A
YOU TO-DAY?
i
Do you feel sufficiently fit to grapple with the
problems of the day? Do you possess that keen yet
cheerful nature which helps you through?
.j *v 'j : , i N
When feeling well you can face the position with much
more equanimity than the one who is handicapped by
indifferent health. That means a lot today.
HOW ARE
Remember the condition of the liver largely influences one’s
outlook on life. Therefore, the first essential is to keep the
liver and other organs of digestion in a regular condition, thus
ensuring the clear, balanced vision and active brain that are
so necessary to cope with the difficulties which are constantly
arising.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills enjoy an unrivalled reputation
as an everyday remedy. They stir the liver, act on the stomach,
and promote regular action of the bowels in a gentle yet
thorough manner.
DrMORSES
INM
They Make You
Feel Brighter
'
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies. —Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/8-3- per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
l twitching, irritability, sleeplessness.
' and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co.. Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO "THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange) the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME ...
address
(Subscribers living outside and New
Zealand should send 30!-)-
* For local office, address
see Page <5.
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates;
12 months 15/-
6 months .... 8/-
3 months . 47-
post free.
c°
6)
cy
&
<s e
&
4\
. t S* .•*' ..•** of V<#V
.♦* S^\0 C


Aspects of Australian Industry, No. 8
*#&< c
wm
&
m
SS
mm*
m
.
iiiiiit
mmmmm
mmmm
W&M&i
■
mm
ss,.
ia
W&m
f
SSSSSS
THE TRAGIC FIQURE
rTIHE tragic figure in the story of soda is
Nicholas le Blanc, the French chemist
and surgeon, who patented a process for
producing soda from salt, thereby replacing
the older methods of extracting it from sea-
weed and salt marsh plants. In the French
Revolution he lost everything and eventually
died by his own hand. Two important
figures in the story are John Brunner and
Ludwig Mond who, in 1873, started the
great British alkali industry which was to
earn world-wide fame first as Brunner,
Mond & Co. and now as 1.C.1. (Alkali)
Ltd. In this country, 1.C.1. Alkali (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd. have established a large
plant near Port Adelaide to make
alkali products, probably the most
important of all industrial chemicals.
p
Mrs* Brown may know one form as
washing soda or soda crystals: the
chemist another as “soda bicarb*”: and
the housewife a third as ‘water
glass” for preserving eggs (silicate of
soda), but Industry recognises soda
ash as something which at some
stage enters into the making of every
manufactured article from face powder to
fertilizers, soap to shaving brushes, paper
to petrol, glass to galvanised iron, bell
batteries to bread. Soda is not only an
industrial raw material as basic as coal,
iron or steel, but it is a barometer of trade
activity also, and almost all the soda
used in this country is being pro-
duced by the South Australian plant
of 1.C.1. Alkali (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
“Behind the Empire Throughout the Empire”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND
CIANZ
NEW ZEALAND LTD.
Subsidiary Companies :
NOBEL (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD, 1.C.1. ALKALI (AUST.) PTY. LTD. IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES (N.Z.) LTD.
