

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.-No. 3279
Wednesday, December 16, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
WELLS’ CATHEDRAL.
THE ancient,' but magnificent, Somerset city of Wells, lying
at the foot of those Mendip hills to which Chesterton once
made happy and poetic reference, is but six miles from
Glastonbury, “the home of Christianity in Britain,” and some
19 or 20 miles south-west of Bath by rail, somewhat less
“by air.” Wells without its cathedral, one of the noblest
and most magnificent of all the secular churches of England,
would be merely a small country town, with agriculture as
its mainstay and other industries represented by breweries,
flour and paper mills, on a small scale. It is a venerable burgh
all the same, being first chartered by King John, of Magna
Charta fame, in 1202 and elevated to the position of municipal
borough by Queen Elizabeth. From the time of Edward I
down to 1867 it returned two members to Parliament and was,
in fact, a typical “pocket-borough” in pre-reform days. It is,
however, in the ecclesiastical field its importance is and “always
has” been of the first order. The name is derived from
numerous hot springs in the vicinity known by that of
Scotland’s patron saint. In this locality, so long ago as the
year 704, a collegiate church was founded. During Saxon
times it was one of the most important towns in the Kingdom
of Wessex, and in 905 was made the seat of a bishopric by
King Edward the Elder, when its ecclesiastical status rapidly
grew. That growth was not unassociated with trouble. Some-
where about 1091 Bishop John de Villule moved the see to
Bath, and for some time Wells’ ceased to be an Episcopal
city. This was none to the liking of clergy and laity in Wells,
and serious trouble started, the secular clergy of Wells and
the “regulars” of Bath being the vanguards of the opposing
forces. After many struggles it was in 1139 arranged, by
way of a compromise, that the diocesan should take the title
of “bishop of Bath and Wells,” which “remaineth unto this
day,” and should be elected by delegates appointed partly by
the monks of Bath and partly by the canons of Wells. The
foundation attached to the Cathedral Church of Wells consisted
of a college of secular canons of St. Augustine, governed by
a dean, sub-dean, chancellors and other officials. The existing
cathedral, illustrated, was begun by Bishop Joceline shortly
after his election to the episcopate in 1220, and the greater
part of the building was completed before his death in
1244, indicating his lordship was possessed of great energy
or driving-power. The eastern part of the church was first
taken in hand, the choir being consecrated for use long before
the completion of the nave, the western portion of which, with
its superb series of statues in the fagade, was carried out from
1250 to 1300. The upper half of the two western towers has
never been built. The noble and well-designed central tower,
160 feet high, was built about 1340. The late Dr. J. Henry
Middleton, F.S.A., Slade Professor of Fine Art at Cambridge
University, a great authority, penned a glowing description
of the cathedral almost 60 years ago, from which the following
excerpts are taken: “The whole church is a building of very
exceptional splendour and beauty Its plan consists of a
nave and two aisles with two short transepts, each with a
western aisle and two eastern chapels. The choir and its
aisles are of unusual length, and behind the high altar are
two smaller transepts, beyond which is the very richly
decorated Lady Chapel, with an eastern semi-octagonal apse,
...On the north of the choir is the octagonal chapter-house,
the vaulting of which springs from a slender central shaft.
As the church belongd to the secular clergy it was not neces-
sary to place the chapter-house in its usual position by the
cloister... .The oak stalls and bishops’ throne in the choir are
magnificent examples of fifteenth-century woodwork.... The
great glory of the church and that which makes it unique
among the many splendid buildings of medieval England is
the wonderful series of sculptured figures which decorate the
exterior of the west front—the work of English sculptors of
the latter part of the thirteenth century—a series which shows
that at this time England was, as far as the plastic art is
concerned, in no degree inferior of Germany and France, or
even Italy, if we except the work done by Niccola, the
sculptor of the wonderful baptistry pulpit at Pisa. The whole
of the fagade, 147 feet wide, is covered with this magnificent
series; there are nine tiers of single figures under canopies, over
600 in number, mostly large life-size... .these represent angels,
saints, kings and queens of the Saxon, Norman and Plan-
tagenet dynasties, and bishops and others who had been
benefactors to the see. There are also 48 reliefs with subjects
from Bible history and immense representations of the Last
Judgment and the Resurrection, the latter containing about
150 figures. The whole composition is devised so as to
present a comprehensive scheme of theology and history
evidently thought out with much care and ingenuity.”


sraii
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL—
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Iloul.'iel explaining how to Write jot Profit, as
uaoertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 142
The Red Page
SEVERAL TRAVELLERS .
“Tearing” might be a better word for
Frank Clune’s Prowling Through Papua
(Angus and Robertson). He remains
Australia’s outstanding example of a
man in a hurry. If the aeroplane hadn’t
been invented to speed him along he’d
have invented it himself, or died early of
inhibited haste. With it, he tears through
great chunks of the map, and pelts down
a bombardment of books—this is his
twelfth ; he’s 49, and he didn’t turn
author until late, having first tried his
hand at most other things.
In authorship he has evolved a formula,
and this latest book, like most of the rest,
is built to recipe. He takes off ; sees as
much of his objective and talks to as
many of its inhabitants as his boundless
energy makes possible in a limited time ;
(hen swoops down on his typewriter and
records his observations and reactions
(psychological and physical), eking these
out with strong advice to the Govern-
ment on how to run the place, and still
more with diligently dug-out slabs of the
most picturesque doings of the country’s
past, quarried from history and official
documents.
Evidently Clune’s readers like this mix-
ture, and he misses no chance to make it
extra palatable by spicing it with anything
calculated to produce a grin. Some may
feel that there is too much history to the
amount of Clune ; and the quality of the
Clone that at times in this volume
struggles out of the jungle wilds of haste
and history into the broad day suggests
(hat a book of nothing else but direct
Clune observation would be something to
read. Instance his description of men of
the Orakaiva tigbe being transported by
plane from the inland to work at Port
Moresby.
Awaiting the transport ’plane', the 60
Orakaivas “were like soldiers going away
to war, farewelled by their weeping wives
and the girls they left behind them.” They
were taken in batches of 20 ; none had
ever been in a ’plane before, nor beyond
the 11,000 ft. walls of the valley that
hemmed them in.
One young bride, with a new-born babe,
wailed louder than all the others. She
threw herself on the ground, clutching
the grass, leaped up again, shrieking in
misery, as tears rolled down her face and
on to the babe at her breast ... .The weep-
ing of the other women became louder,
and soon hard-boiled Clune started to weep
in sympathy. Terrible was the grief of
these primitive people, as their loved ones
departed from the valley which was their
h0me,...1 flew to Moresby with the third
load of recruits—in the cockpit with the
pilot. Behind us in the steerage were 20
Orakaivas, crouched on the floor, heads
bowed, eyes shut, fingers in ears, huddled
together like monkeys in a pit on a cold
day They had come straight from
villages in the jungle, and had never climbed
higher than a treetop. Now they were
climbing to the top of the world —from
Stone Age to Plane Age in 20 minutes—
flying in a Junkers bomber, they knew not
where Up and up to 14,000 ft., where
the air is rarefied and cold. In the cabin
the primitives crouched, as they got a
new sensation and felt colder than ever
before in their lives Slyly the pilot tilted
the tail of the Junkers. Up went the
hoys—and down —like tossed pancakes, as
they thought their life’s span had ended.
Then they saw the Bird Man laugh,
and they laughed too.
For all his speeding, the Pacific war
caught up with Clune and passed him.
These things all happened before the Jap
broke loose. Since then he has speeded
over the Middle East disguised as a Com-
forts Fund Commissioner, and another
book is on the way. A rather different
Middle East dissertation than he is likely
to write makes up a large part of Charles
Barrett’s latest book, On the Wallaby
(Robertson and Mullens). Barrett, too,
has a book-writing formula. His method
is to sit down with some writing instru-
ment—possibly a quill—and just let it
wander at will. His manner is the anti-
thesis of Clune’s —leisurely, quiet, modest
to a fault. He calls himself a “hod-
carrier for science.” As a matter of fact,
he has been over a long stretch of years
one of the best of Australian journalist
naturalists.
One instance —he holds a record of
having discovered more kinds of Austra-
lian ants than any other “hodman of
science.” His “adventures among ants
would make a book,” though he hesitates
to call himself “by the proud title of
myrmecologist.” There’s.an ant wearing
the proud title of Polyrachis barrettii in
his honor. A white-ant named in his
wife’s honor figures “impressively in
entomological literature.” Dr. Santschi,
of Tunis, named several ants after
Barrett, who further records on this sub-
ject that
Auguste Fore], onetime professor at the
University of Zurich, at the age of 68
became an active member of the Socialist
party, after gaining world fame as a student
of ants.
Barrett is a last-war Digger who looked
over the Middle East as an A.I.F.
Camelier, so naturally camels can be em-
phatically counted out of the endless list
of creatures in which he takes an absorb-
ing friendly interest. While other Diggers
spent their leaves largely as their pockets
dictated, Barrett would go forth tracking
scarabs, desert birds or fragments of
Egyptology. Mentioning a furphy,
“attributed originally to a padre,” that
Delilah was born at Khan Yunus, he
comments that he’s not the only Deser-
tonian who will agree that the damsels
there have remained true to type; but
Not, mind you, that we took much notice
of the Arab girls. Now and then, just by
chance, one’s eyes might meet those of a
pleasant-faced lass of the village. In
Gaza time was too precious to spend upon
any other romance than that of ancient
history.
Which alone—apart from abundant
other similar proof in an engaging book
that rambles through large parts of Aus-
tralian bushland as well as Middle East
desert—establishes Barrett as far too true
a Sherlock of science to be classed as a
mere hod-carrier. Since he is naturalist
first and author almost by apology he
would be an ideal reader for Inagua
(Robert Hale), by Gilbert C. Klingel,
who touching on flamingos touches also
on Barrett’s old desert conveyances:
this peculiarity (of their bills] gives them
an exaggerated aristocratic appearance re-
minding one of (he cartoons picturing
middle-aged Englishmen of the nobility;
camels have a similar expression.
Inagua is an island of the Bahamas.
“It is a strange piece of irony that the
islands which were the first land trod by
Europeans in the new world should re-
main to the very last the most forsaken,”
with Inagua, when the author first went
there, most forsaken and most derelict
of them all.
K]ingel's right to be classed as a true
-Sherlock of science is every bit as sound
as that advanced for Barrett. One night
out in the open on the island he is about
to fall asleep when a heavy, sweet odor
comes to him.
The moon had risen and the soft sand
was suffused with a, delicate blue light
that cast deep purplish shadows. Standing
up 1 sniffed expectantly. The odor was
gone, swept away by the gale. The only
means of tracing it to its source was to
creep close to the ground, trailing it in
the manner of a hound following a rabbit.
For a few moments I. was tempted to give
it up, for to go crawling over the ground
in the moonlight seemed sheer idiocy.
So I laughed a little at my fancy, hesi-
tated, and then decided to persist. The
trail led down the slope of a dune and
into a sandy valley. The scent was
hard to trace, for it was shielded and dis-
guised by a horde of other odors, by the
rich hay smell of beach grass, the dry,
parched aroma of sun-caked earth, the musty
reek of dead leaves and rotten wood. There
were hundreds of similar fragrances, strange
perfumes that I did not know existed until
I concentrated on them. This was adven-
ture in a new world.
So, sniff by sniff, on and on till he
came to where the stunted tree with its
thousands of tiny blossoms “gleamed
faintly white, and when I shook the
branches a cloud of filmy pollen went
drifting off in the moonlight.” There
are scores of other like proofs, quite as
striking, of a man dedicated. He went to
the island in the first place with a mate
in a 38-footer exactly modelled on the
craft in which Slocum made maritime
history by being first to complete a lone-
hand voyage round the world. On the
way Klingel and his mate ran into one
of the worst storms on record. While
great ships were wrecked in it, their tiny
craft somehow kept going (where the
storm took it), though their scientific in-
struments, gear, provisions and the like,
which had been most securely nailed and
fastened in the cabin, broke loose and
smashed and swirled about the floor. The
description of this storm as a whole, and
of individual waves standing up like
precipices and crashing down is equal to
some of the passages in The Bird of
Dawning.
They were not heading for Inagua.
When the storm died, they dropped ex-
hausted in sight of distant land, slept,
and woke to find they had been swept by
a current on to the coral and wrecked.
The main settlement on the 50-mile-long
island was a negro-mulatto-near-white
harbor hamlet of broken windows and
creeping ruin. Soon Klingel’s male had
to go home ; and the rest of a fascinating
book is Klingel making a naturalist’s
study of the whole island, living on tinned
stuff salved from the wreck, voluntarily
undergoing experiences that only a man
dedicated would think of facing ; having
for his reward such phenomena as the
waves and waves and waves of land crabs
marching from the inland at nature’s
appointed hour back down to the beach
and into the sea, and such spectacles as
this of flamingos whose nesting place
at an end of an expansive shallow lake
he is approaching by wading straight
down the lake towards it: —•
A sudden hush settled on the universe.
The birds remained motionless, their heads
high in the air. Fifty yards. Then thirty.
I unslung my camera, opened it and held
it in my hand. Then the whole world burst
into flame. With a resounding roar the
3000 birds catapulted into the sky at once,
and the entire firmament was sheeted in
crimson. Instinctively 1 crouched, as 1
would have if a blast of fire had suddenly
“ swept out of a volcano. Even at 30 yards
I could feel the rush of air created by the
wings. The great multitude poured in an
immense swathe over my head, and a long,
slow rain of pink feathers, dislodged by the
sudden action, floated all around on the
water. The flock swirled out into the lake
and then settled like a vast pink snowstorm
on Ihe surface. When I recovered from the
spell of their going 1 was amazed to dis-
cover that 1 was trembling all over. No-
thing that I have ever witnessed in all the
realm of nature has ever quite come up to
(his incident.
The Lucky Immortal.
If working in a quarry is a harder life
for a poet than being free as Byron and
Shelley were to involve themselves in
one melodramatic disaster after another,
Shaw Neilson had a hard life. But not
as hard as that of the young John Mase-
field, for he never went adventuring into
ruthless foreign cities ; not as hard as
W, H. Davies’s life, for he wasn’t a
super-tramp; not as hard as Clare’s, for
he had no taint of insanity; not as hard
as Bums’s, for he lacked passion.
The writers who in Melbourne Bread
and Cheese Club’s tribute John Shaw
Neilson : A Memorial are inclined to seek
pathos in Neilson’s life should have re-
membered those facts. Mary Gilmore's
reference to his laboring is doubtless
honestly what she felt—•
When I saw his work-swollen hands, with
the fingernails worn to the quick by the
abraiding stone, I felt a stone in my
heart—
but the roughness of Neilson's hands
probably worried his friends much more
than it ever worried him. In the long
run, a poet generally tells the truth about
himself in his verse, and Neilson’s song
is happy as the lark’s (a lyrist which also
has to work for its daily worm).
People who write about poets usually
mistake incongruity for tragedy. It is
incongruous, they feel, that an immortal
spirit should be working in a quarry ;
and so it is; it is incongruous that Mr.
Churchill should once have worn nap-
kins and howled incessantly for his
mother ; but it is not tragic. Poets may
well be inhabited by angels (or, in some
cases, by the bunyip), but they rarely
think of themselves as other than ordi-
nary human beings, and they're quite
prepared to put up with the normal in-
dignities of human existence.
Shaw Neilson was a lucky man. Lucky
never to have had enough money to
allow him to make a mess of his life or
to take him away from the simple labor
in which his simple art flourished. Lucky
to have had friends and honor in his life-
time, yet not to have had so much patron-
age that, like Burns, he should have been
damaged by it or, like Clare, ruined.
Supremely lucky in his art that he should
have had genius without great genius;
not (as Chris Brennan had) a burden of
talent too big for his heart, so that he
crashed in defeat, but a small talent that
fulfilled itself and gave him— somewhere
between Clare and W. H. Davies—a
minor but unassailable immortality.
It’s significant that not one of the con-
tributors to the Memorial even mentions
in relation to Neilson the narrow
Freudian concept of the artist as an exhi-
bitionist, embodying in his work his inner
failure and conflict. One explanation of
the omission might be that a good many
of the contributors haven’t kept up with
contemporary criticism. But a better
reason is that both as a poet and a man
Shaw Neilson plainly wasn’t a failure
but —clearly to all who saw, knew or
read him —an immortal; “the instru-
ment,” in Eliot’s phrase, “of unknown
powers.”
The biographical notes by R. H. Croll
are the most interesting Contribution to
the Memorial. Mary Gilmore, Nettie
Palmer, James Devaney and others add
pleasant tributes and reminiscences ; and
there are a number of memorial verses
—mostly adequate, but without great
merit. D. B. Coutts’s otherwise uneven
poem, relating Neilson to the eternal
springs sums up finely in the concluding
lines I^—^
And when she fades, beware of mourning her.
She dreams, and wakes to her predestined spur.
Somewhere, deep in the earth, the heart of
spring'
Pulses until the hour of wakening.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
All national pastimes have their
hazards.-Aussies risk being kicked to death
should they ring in a double-header;
Italians may get a black eye from either
a snapping mandolin string or an inamor-
ata’s exasperated parent; the Spanish
matador, unless gifted with a sidestep
better than a rugby five-eight’s, is liable
to be torpedoed by the business end of
several hundredweight of annoyed beef.
The latter possibility was worked out
very fully by Vicente Blasco Ibanez in his
juicy novel Blood and Sand, the latest
screen version of which at Sydney Regent
is given gorgeous settings in color. Tyrone
Power is the super prodder of bovines
who meets death in the afternoon. Linda
Darnell is graceful as (he trusting wife
before whom he waves the red cloak of
infidelity, and Rita Hayworth constitutes
the bull-fancier’s second interest in life.
Caramba! But the excitement when the
bull slides past with the four brakes on —
is it not magnified?
Seen again after 18 years, Chaplin’s
early comedy work in “The Gold Rush”
(Sydney Mayfair) is as fresh today as
then. The reason is clear. Chaplain’s
humor has its roots in life ; his blending
of slapstick with the touch of pathos is
masterly. He is the pathetically incom-
petent little man, tossed into the world
of large, rude men. The sequence of the
prospector’s hut blown by a blizzard to a
precarious balance on a precipice edge
and the efforts of Charles and his hirsute
fellow ’weight-chaser to maintain equili-
brium is irresistible. Music has been
added, and a dialogue-curm-commentary
is delivered by the comedian in a vibrant,
clear and aptly mock-dramatic voice.
Of other films doing the Sydney
rounds, “Saboteur” (State) is a well-
constructed and feasible story laced with
tension and a seat-gripping climax in the
best Alfred Hitchcock tradition ; “Paris
Calling” (Victory) has Elizabeth Bergner
foiling the machinations of the polished
Basil Rathbone in an underground-move-
ment story of Paris under the Nazi heel
(good up to the impossible ending);
“Tarzan’s Secret Treasure” (St. James)
is virile, smoothly done outdoor stuff,
with Swimmer Johnny Weissmuller and
Maureen O’Sullivan ; “A-Haunting We
Will Go” (Plaza) is Laurel and Hardy at
their battiest in a whirl of corpses and
magician Dante's props ; and “Lady in
a Jam” (Lyceum) does what she can with
a poor story which has been “fixed” to
give Irene Dunne a chance with madcap
comedy. The story beats her from the
gun.
Sydney Royal has the revived “White
Horse Inn’’ for its Christmas fare, a blaze
of color. An outstandingly well-dressed
show, even by LOW. standards in that
line, everything adbut it looks as bright
and cheerful as if it was all just out of
a Christmas box that had somehow
evaded the vigilant eye of Mr. Dedman.
As well as chorus lasses who look quite
a bit under 45, it has Strella Wilson's
voice, Don Nicol’s comedy, the very tak-
ing comedy teamwork of Fred Murray
and Joy Youlden, a nice party of Tyrolese
dancers and sundry others helping to
make it a show that can be prescribed
out of hand to anybody down in the
mouth from austerityitis.
John S. Loxton (Athenaeum, Mel-
bourne) was a pupil of Mclnnes and
Bernard Hall. Then he threw up painting
for seven years. The sight of an old box
of water-colors re-aroused his inspiration
to get back to Nature, and in “Potato
“Gatherers,” “Rain Mist, Rosebud,” and
“Under the Pines” in the current exhibi-
tion he goes a lot of the way, while in
“Old Smithy, Jamieson,” he gets a depth
unusual in water-color.
A memorial exhibition of the work of
J. Muir Auld, Sydney painter, who died
a few months ago, is a reminder of his
versatility. He had equal facility in oils
and water-color, in portraiture or land-
scape. His figure piece, “The Broken
Vase,” is one of the best known of Aus-
tralian works, and in his happiest vein,
as exhibited in such canvases as “The
Oat Patch” and “Summertime,” he
showed a mastery of color and light
shared by few of his contemporaries. The
N.S.W. National Gallery has been able
to gather together 66 of his pictures.
Necessarily, covering as they do a wide
period, they are uneven in merit and
significance, but each bears testimony to
Auld’s stern artistic conscience and his
sensitive delicacy of taste.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’
"Truth in Advertising”
THE SENIOR STORE
119th Year of Service
ff ßeading Maketh a Full Man . . ”
m
..jr
m
m
H
'm
BUT ONLY GOOD BOOKS
ARE
REALLY SATISFYING
THE ELM CLASSICS
This exquisite new series of pocket Classics has just been received. The handy little volumes are beautifully bound
in Red, Green, also Blue Rexine, lettered in gilt. The type is clear and easy to read. Many are well illustrated in
black-and-white. Titles include:
"Little Women” (Alcott)
"Good Wives” (Alcott)
"Cranford” (Gaskell)
"Tom Brown’s Schooldays” ( Hughes )
"A Tale of Two Cities” (Dickens)
"The Three Musketeers” (Dumas)
Price, each, 4/6 (Postage, 4^d.)
"Greenmantle” (Buchan)
"Westward Ho” (Kingsley)
"Robinson Crusoe” {Defoe)
''Martin Chuzzlewit” ( Dickens )
"David Copperfield” ( Dickens )
Poems (Burns)
''Vanity Fair” ( Thackeray)
Price, each, 5/ (Postage, s^d.)
A well-chosen library is like a walled garden. In that charmed seclusion the love of books, like the love of
flowers, grows of itself. If the reading habit is to be acquired, young people in particular ought to he given
REAL BOOKS, which may be handled with pleasure and kept with pride. ELM CLASSICS are really good
books that have stood the test of time, fittingly produced for inclusion in the most treasured home library.
They are books which grown-ups, too, will want to own, either because they have never read them—but always
meant to or because they have read them and knoiv they are worth possessing, especially in such
a satisfactory form as this. ELM CLASSICS are produced in a series exclusive to Anthony Horderns’.
DEEP-SEA ADVENTURE
"Gold From the Sea,” by James Taylor, is
the epic story of the recovery of the gold
from the ill-fated "Niagara.” Romance and
adventure blend in this story of deep-sea
salvage. By retrieving bullion to the value
of £2,379,000 from the wreck in the turbu-
lent waters north of the Hauraki Gulf, New
Zealand, Capt. John Williams and his crew
performed an amazing and thrilling feat.
Price, 12/6 (Postage, 6^d.)
EARLY NEW YORK
"Young Ames,” by Walter D. Edmonds.
Once again the author of "Chad Hanna”
has written a rollicking and exciting story.
It tells of the adventures of a young man
who went down to New York in the early
1830’s to find his fortune. It is a very human
tale, full of the colour and thrill of the
sailing-ship days, the great New York fire,
and all the bustle, life, and romance of
America’s great seaport a hundred years ago.
Price, 9/6 (Postage, 4id.)
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
This fine edition of the "Prose Works of
Henry Lawson” contains nine books in one
—720 pages, 143 stories. Lawson is the voice
of his land, and here in his delightful prose
every aspect of Australian life receives recog-
nition. Thrilling tales —tales full of humour
—homely tales—in fact, stories for every
mood, find a place in this volume; and all
are alive with the magic of Lawson’s genius.
Price, 12/6 (Postage, Bd.)
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Famous Book Department
(SECOND FLOOR)
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night) Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


Fact Not Fiction: —
CAPTAIN JOE FOSS, D.F.C.
FLYING round about Guadalcanal
with nothing particular on his
hands just then American fighter-
pilot Joe Foss saw fish as he’d never
seen them before. They looked to be
all over the place. Countless thousands
of fish everywhere the eye could plumb,
from the green surface deep down into
the sea.
Sharks down below there, too. Fero-
cious, hungry brutes. If a native here
throws any sort of thing into the sea —
a dead dog or anything like that—there’s
a surge and a grab at once, and a shark
has it. Something to think about, those
sharks. Different from fighting over the
land, where a pilot bales out with some
sort of a show.
Joe Foss (Captain Foss seems some
way too highfalutin for this North
Dakotan American air ace) was going to
be reminded pleasantly one day of those
fish, and most unpleasantly of the sharks.
He’d come to the Solomons with
lashins of flying experience, but, like all
his fellow-American fighter pilots who
have been knocking the Japs out of the
sky there, no previous air-fighting ex-
perience. Other fighting experience, no
doubt; he’s had his nose broken eight
times, one way and another, though it
doesn’t look anything like that sounds ;
and he has the phiz, of a good fighter,
like Stribling’s—and what a fighter he
was! When Young Stribling met
Ambrose Palmer at Sydney Stadium
Ambrose was Australia’s best. He looked
a stripling beside Stribling, and never
put a glove on the merciful American.
Burns v. Johnson wasn’t in it. Ambrose
was game to get into the same ring.
Joe Foss isn’t as tall as Stribling, and
does his fighting in a bigger ring. It’s
just that he has that rangy sort of frame,
the same browned hue, and, especially,
that sort of face. At 27 he’s older than
popular fancy pictures air aces ; but, as
to that, “Killer” Caldwell is 33. This
may account for Joe’s way of putting it:
that, no matter what flying you’ve done
before or what you’ve read about air
fighting, things happen different when
you get into it; and, when you do, three
days of it is plenty to sort out “the men
from the boys.” Further on this, the
bit older man, says Joe, is more likely
to stay cool and think clear in a tough
spot.
Joe started flying in 1937, in a private
’plane, like thousands of others in Uncle
Sam’s States, where boys of 15 fly about
in their own ’planes and get solo licenses
—ace pilots in the making. Then he took
on instructing, and put through, among
others, a lot of chaps from England, and
some from Australia and New Zealand.
In 1940 he joined the American air
force; and so, a while back, to the
Solomons, where his score reads: 22 Jap
Zeros and bombers definitely shot down,
and two others streaking down for the
horizon, smoke pouring out, and with
100 miles ahead of them, and their own
and Buckley’s chance of making it.
The Japs, he reckons, had come to stay
at Guadalcanal in a big way. They had
outsize refrigerators, which those who
booted the Japs out find very handy.
They also had big power plants installed,
and, among other supplies for a long
stay, a couple of sheds stacked with sake
and suchlike provisions. He didn’t risk a
sip of the sake, and still looked as if he
wouldn’t when Frith (jabbing away
modelling Joe’s head out of a lump of
plasticine) started remembering Tokyo
and saying he’d guarantee a couple of
sakes to make your hair curl, by cripes!
(Frith is becoming audibly Australian —at
any rate, till you mention Churchill, and
then he’s as British as the rest of them.)
Anyway, Joe’s hair has waves in it, so
he can do without curls ; and the Pacific
has all the extra waves he ever wants to
see —or swim through, as he’s had to do.
Fighting far out over the Pacific one
day he’d knocked one Jap ’plane into the
ocean, then another, and then another in
quick order. Nice work ; or, as the argot
of the air also has it, Good show. Then
something started to go wrong. Joe
doesn’t know whether his engine had
stopped some Jap bullets, or what it was.
He’d stopped none himself; but there he
was, with his engine conking out, and the
job of getting back all ahead of him.
Heading in the general direction of
home, he was losing height. The engine
was behaving worse. With a long way to
go yet, it conked right out.
There was land in sight, and he auto-
matically made for it. He didn’t know
what it was, or whether there were Japs
there, or what. At other times (four
altogether) when knocked down he man-
aged to land on the field. This time the
engine was finished ; he was a good way
out; it was a matter of getting as near
that land as possible.
He didn’t make it. He had to come
down in the sea. ’Planes of the sort he
was flying don’t float; they head straight
for the bottom. He got dragged down,
too. A long way down. He swallowed
plenty of salt water before he got up
again. There his Mae West kept him
afloat. He reckoned the land to be about
two miles away. He couldn’t swim much
(“I’m a better swimmer now,” says Joe),
and the harder and longer he swam the
further the land seemed to go away.
Then he thought of the sharks, and
started remembering all he’d heard and
known about them. He thought about
the natives throwing some animal in, and
the way it vanished in a murderous swirl.
Every time his arm came down he ex-
pected a shark to grab. Swimming there
Captain FOSS.
(Modelled by Frith.)
°, n T . ° wn J hrou 8 h some of the worst
S'lif? t'“ the W ° fld ’ he
n ~ a /• , . , .
Lie started thinking harder about the
land he was trying to “ swim to He kncw
there’d been Japs all about those parts, but
he didn’t know what island this was. The
last Japs had been cleaned up there only
a few days before, but he didn’t know
that. Anyway, it broke in on his think-
about the sharks,
, nd * dere was something else to think
It was gating dark, and he was
Setting no closer to and. The water was
all right, as far as that went. Different
from fe that North Sea that pilots dropping
into itj have lived to tell about
after a bit, your teeth start chattering,
arid y OU start to freeze. A Sydney-born
pilot, Richard Hillary, has told in a fine
book how he kept up a chant to keep his
teeth still; then deliberately opened the
va ive and let the air out of his Mae West
s 0 that he might go down, but the para-
chute in which he was tangled wouldn’t
j e t ffi m .
was a i re ady half-dark when Joe
spotted canoes coming his way from the
island. That was something further to
think about. What were they—Japs?
They do dirty things, Japs. As far as that
goes, air fighting altogether isn’t all
chivalry, either. One of our own Aus-
tralian pilots—D.F.C., like Joe—can tell
you how the Germans in the Middle
East started shooting down pilots who
had baled out. Japs, by the record, have
nothing in that line to learn from Ger-
mans, on the ground or in the air.
“What would you do yourself in the
case of a Jap pilot baling out and able
to get clear away?”
“Waal,” says Joe (he speaks more like
a Southern than a Mid-Central); “Waal,
the only ones I’ve seen bale out were 20
miles out at sea, and I reckon anyone
who can get out of that there’s welcome
to it.”
Japs could have other ideas. On islands
like the one away past the canoes they’d
been butchering the natives and playing
hell with their women. They take hell
of a killing, those natives, says Joe. One
of them that the Japs had been at got
through. He ought to have been dead,
but he crawled in, and the doc. fixed him
up. He knew by name the Jap who had
ordered it. When he was right again,
“I’ll keel him,” he said ; and those who
heard and saw had no doubt that he
would, later.
Those canoes could have Japs in them.
It was pitch-dark before they got near
Joe, and, with his thoughts, he wasn’t
saying anything. He’d half-forgotten
about the sharks. As the canoes came
about him he floated and stayed still.
Then out of the dark a voice shouted
an order to one of the canoe crews, “Over
there!” In English! “Yair,” Joe bawled
back as loud as his lungs could make it;
“Yair, over here !”
A canoe moved close. Natives leaned
over and fished him out. The man who
had called the order turned out to be an
Australian, Tommy
Mason. He’d been a
good while off his
native heath, and had
been running a saw-
mill of his own on
the island. He’d
seen Joe come down,
and was tickled pink
to find him, none
the worse for it.
There was a fair-
sized mission on the
island. There he
took Joe ; and there
Joe, delivered away
from the sharks,
came to remember
back past the shark
nightmare to the fish.
The mission had
been cut off from
supplies for about a
year, but they were
getting on fine, liv-
ing off the land and
the sea. They fitted
Joe up with dry
clothes ; then he had
the fish. Good fish.
Also, three steaks.
Three. Something
to remember, three
steaks!
They sat up till
midnight ya r ning.
There was the
Father in charge of
the mission—“No, I guess he was a bishop,”
Joe corrected. It was, says Joe, a regular
League of Nations. There was a French-
man, and a Dutchman, and a Norwegian
W’ho came from Australia, and a Cana-
dian, and others, and one was from Ohio
—“Right next to where I come from back
home,” says Joe,
The Japs who’d been about there hadn’t
got on to them. They were managing along
all right, and Joe wasn’t the only one
saved from the sea and looked after by
them. But, oh, hell, their tobacco! “Have
you ever tried that local-grown stuff they
have in those places? You roll it up and
smoke it.” So when he got back again
he got together a whole heap of packets
of American cigarettes and plenty of
chewin’ tobacco and rollin’ tobacco, and
then he flew over them and dropped it
for them.
He learned later that it dropped in
the jungle and wasn’t damaged. Natives
found it and brought it in. Later on
there was another American pilot fetched
in from the sea as Joe was. The good
men at the mission gave him dry clothes
and fed him fish and steaks, and they
sat up late yarning. They told him about
Joe, and how Joe had come back and
dropped cigarettes and tobacco. It was
very welcome, they said —not altogether
in an Oliver Twist manner of putting it;
but, anyway, they’ve since had another
supply.
It was no Jap but a touch of malaria
that landed Joe in Australia for a break.
He reckons —and when he reckons any-
thing it carries conviction —that by the
way the Japs were setting themselves up
on Guadalcanal both New Caledonia and
this country too would have been in a
pretty tough spot if the battles of the
Solomons hadn’t happened. Odd to think
that of all the other places where the
major battles of the Pacific could have
been fought, they should happen in that
still primitive, peaceful spot, and that to
gel away from what was none of their
doing, the poor beggars of peaceful
natives should have to take to the com-
paratively foodless hills and wander
hungry there, away from the plenty of
their familiar coast.
It could be happening here, of course.
As it is, Joe Foss, for one, has found
this a good place. “Waal, yes ; very dif-
ferent from what I expected,” says Joe.
What he’d expected he tactfully kept to
himself.
The Melanesians
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
THE islands south-east of New
Guinea, where the destiny of the
Pacific is being debated between
Australians, Americans and Japa-
nese, are fairly densely populated by a
people as ancient as they are interesting
—the audience to the argument. Over
350 years ago Spaniards from Peru looked
them up, influenced them not at all, went
away and were speedily forgotten. At
the end of the eighteenth century they
met the British, who have influenced their
lives and destinies a good deal, but
nevertheless they remain the same Black
Islanders whom Wallis and Cook found
when they sailed through their coral seas,
whom even the blackbirders, the mission-
aries and the Queensland sugar planta-
tions on which they worked did little to
change. Except for the few who are con-
stantly in touch with the white man they
remain what they were before Alvaro de
Mendana discovered them in 1567.
The most striking thing about their
social organisation is the fundamental
division of the people into two or more
classes which may not intermarry, and in
which descent is counted through the
mother.
The Reverend Dr. Codrington, who
is the outstanding authority on the
Melanesians, has explained the absence
of tribal distinctions; “There are no
tribes among the natives —if the word
‘tribe’ is to be applied as it is
to the Maori people of New Zealand,
or as it is used in Fiji. No portion of
territory, however small, can be said to
belong to any one of these divisions ; no
single family of natives can fail to consist
of members of more than one division ;
both divisions where there are two, and
all the divisions where there are more
than two, are intermixed in habitation
and in property; whatever political
organisation can be found can never be
described as that of a tribe grouped
round its hereditary or elective chief.
When one reads of the ‘coast tribes’ or
the ‘bush tribes’ nothing more is meant
than the people who inherit the coast or
the inland part of the island.”
The ownership of the land they live
on is a peculiar feature of Melanesian
society. Land is everywhere divided into
three distinct sorts. There are the plots
of ground on which houses are built in
the villages, the allotments in the gardens
where yams and bananas are cultivated,
and the bush—which is simply the com-
mon hunting-ground in the wild primeval
jungle. The jungle itself is not regarded
as property by the Melanesians, and they
don’t set any limits to the parts of it
reputed to belong to the village or dis-
trict they reside in.
Both the gardens and the sites of the
villages are held in portions as private
property, and these possessions can pass
by inheritance. Every allotment has its
owner for the time being, who retains it
as his share of the family property but
may not dispose of it as if it belonged to
him. In a sale of land —a very modem
innovation—the consent of all interested
in the property is essential, and the exact
limits of each plot must be set out. Every
plot and every fruit-tree must be valued,
and the claim of every single individual
adjusted.
The divisions of property in land do
not correspond to the divisions of kindred
for matrimonial arrangements, but are
held by families. A man’s son is not his
own kin, but belongs to his mother’s divi-
sion—yet father and son may possess the
one garden and work it together. The
present trouble throughout Melanesia
won’t much disturb these age-old customs.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63. —No. 3279.
Wednesday, December 16, 1942.
THE NEW ORDER ARRIVES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings iopp
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
ALL GAS; NO GUTS.
It is the fifty-third week of the Japanese
war, the hundred and seventieth week of
the war against Germany. A proud week
for the Australia that fights and honors
its fighting sons. For “the men who
chased the Japs up and over the Owen
Stanleys, hungry and sick for weeks, tor-
tured by fever and heatstroke, sometimes
even without ammunition” have, after
“a night of terrible slaughter,” taken
Gona (F. C. Folkard in the Sydney
“Sun”); and it comes out that their com-
rades of a brigade whose commander and
brigade major were killed, not only held
against “six desperate counter-attacks”
“the vital thumb-shaped salient” they had
wrested from Rommel’s crack forces
but “completed the corridor” through
which the enemy was “driven in head-
long flight.” A sad and anxious week
for fathers, mothers and wives. For
“battle casualties in New Guinea, ex-
cluding Rabaul and sickness cases,” have
reached 2190, with losses since December
1 to come ; and the El Alamein casualties
have mounted to 2740. In both opera-
tions 1260 soldiers have made the supreme
sacrifice, “killed in action or died of
wounds.”
The Prime Minister gives these
melancholy figures in a statement pre-
pared for Parliament, which is in session
again for two (2) days. He mentions
what “the Australian and United States
troops” have had to endure and “with-
stand” in “one of the worst tropical
climates and one of the most difficult
campaigning areas in the world.” He
extols the officers and men and their
commanders, mentioning first “their dis-
tinguished General MacArthur.” He
dwells on the “directive” issued to
General MacArthur as “supreme com-
mander in the south-west Pacific,” re-
sponsible for operational strategy to the
Chief of Staff of the United States Army,
and with “the combat forces of the Aus-
tralian Navy, Army and Air Force” under
the general’s control. He issues a solemn
warning about the danger of Timor be-
coming “a base for operations against
north-west Australia.” Timor is “the
counterpart in the north-west of New
Guinea in the north-east,” and “we must
be prepared to repulse all air and sea-
borne attacks against Australia from that
quarter.”
Here it must occur to all the gentle-
men present that General MacArthur,
“in fulfilment of the commitments
assigned to him and accepted by the Aus-
tralian Government,” can send A.I.F. men
to Timor but may not send Australian
militiamen there. In other words, his
“supreme” command in the south-west
Pacific, in respect of regions beyond
Papua and Mandated New Guinea,
covers only part of the Australian army.
But the Prime Minister does not mention
this difficulty, much less invite the House
to discuss it.
Mr. Curtin’s omission is deliberate.
He has “referred the question” of militia
service in the south-west Pacific —not
wherever the enemy is to be found—to
the bosses of six Labor-party organisa-
tions who are to report to the bosses of
a seventh Labor-party organisation. He
has been gladdened by the news that
four (4) bosses of the Tasmanian Labor-
party organisation, outvoting three other
bosses, have “endorsed the Prime Minis-
ter’s proposal to widen the scope for ser-
vice of the C.M.F.”—widen it to the
south-west Pacific, whatever that geo-
graphical expression may mean —though
he is presently to be saddened by the
news that 19 bosses of the Queensland
Labor-party organisation, outvoting 12
other bosses, won’t have any widening
of “the scope.”
Meanwhile the Opposition members
consider the position. Some of them pro-
test that the Government, by asking non-
elected civilians to “decide” in a leisurely
fashion the geographical limits of militia
service, regardless of the views and needs
of the supreme commander, of the
hazards in which the country may be
involved and of the duty it owes to its
A.I.F. and its Allies, has placed itself and
Parliament in a position utterly ignomini-
ous and without precedent. They point out
that such a decision is one for Parliament
and for Parliament alone, and argue that
the supremacy of Parliament should be
insisted upon, whatever the consequences
to the Government. Their representa-
tions fail. Their “leaders” tell them that
the situation is awkward and must not
be made any more embarrassing for the
Government by an Opposition challenge.
It is all very well to talk about the
supremacy of Parliament, but to assert it
“at a time like this,” at the same time
asserting in the case of men in uniform
the grand democratic principle of
equality of risk, would be “nationally
and politically inexpedient.” And expedi-
ency prevails. Some grumbling is heard
from Opposition members, but nothing
more.
In the Labor party itself there are
the beginnings of another split. During
the depression it was written that “a
national crisis finds this party out; on
such occasions it goes to pieces, being
unable to govern itself, much less govern
Australia” ; and it looks as if 1942 will
witness a cleavage as wide and deep as in
1931 and 1917.
Mr. Curtin and his militia-service plan
have been attacked at the meeting of the
Victorian Labor-party organisation, and
that by one of his own Ministers, Senator
Don Cameron. At the instance of Mr.
Calwell, the member for Melbourne, the
Victorian Labor bosses reject the plan
by 17 bosses to 5 ; and Mr. Calwell re-
turns to the attack in the House. Mr.
Blackburn, another Victorian Labor
member, whose credentials have been
cancelled by the bosses, Mr. Calwell lead-
ing them, because Mr. Blackburn per-
sisted in speaking for the Friends of the
Soviet, moves, as an amendment to Mr.
Curtin’s motion for the printing of his
statement, without stopping to consider
what the Friends or the Soviet will say,
that “this House... .opposes any form of
compulsory service outside of Australia
and its territories.” Mr. Blackburn was a
delegate to the 1918 A.L.P. conference
which wanted to “refer the question” of
A.I.F. recruiting to a vote of A.L.P.
branches and trade-unions.
Mr. Calwell seconds the amendment.
Mr. Ward, speaking on it, says he can
see “no reason why we in Australia
should follow the Americans’ methods of
obtaining their forces.” Dr. Evatt main-
tains that the Government merely “pro-
poses to modify, to some extent, the exist-
ing Labor policy,” and that its proposal
is “strictly limited to areas which are in-
tegral to the defence of Australia.”
Mr. Forde appeals to the party to
stand behind the Prime Minister and the
Government. “Mr. Curtin,” he says, “is
very far from proposing general con-
scription for overseas service.”
The amendment to be put before the
[seventh] Labor conference simply means
that the militia forces, termed the C.M.F.,
may be used, at the discretion of the Gov-
ernment and subject to proper safeguards,
outside the strict legal limits of Australia
and its territories. It does not mean a
merger or fusion of the A.I.F. and the
C.M.F. That would not be possible with-
out imposing upon members of the C.M.F.
full liability for service anywhere in the
world, a step which would be contrary
to a fundamental principle in the defence
policy of the Labor party and contrary
also to the deeply-held convictions of a
very large section of the Australian people.
Mr. Forde is Minister for the Army,
and rather fancies himself as an organ-
iser of victory. An organiser of victory
who contends that a nation in danger of
invasion and extinction has a right to
claim limited liability for part of its
army when all its allies in the Pacific,
and all its enemies, too, accept total
liability for their undivided armies was
never seen before on sea or land. He
is express on the point that the final
decision rests with the bosses at the
seventh Labor conference. So is his col-
league Ward, though Mr. Ward is of
opinion that if “the Federal A.L.P. con-
ference alters the policy of the Govern-
ment it will not help to improve the Aus-
tralian war effort.” Even the Attorney-
General, who has been trying to remould
the Commonwealth Constitution, in
which no Labor conference is charged
with the duty of attending to “the naval
and military defence of the Common-
wealth and the several States,” insists that
“the declaration of Mr. Blackburn that
~,, our militia must never venture out-
side the three-mile limit....is the very
question that will shortly be determined
by the [seventh] Labor conference.” The
Blackburn amendment, he proceeds, is
“calculated to embarrass the full and free
consideration of this question by the
proper authority of the movement.” The
proper authority of the movement! No
man knows better that Parliament is the
proper authority.
Mr. Morgan (Labor), whose seat (Reid)
is coveted by Mr. Lang (that rather ex-
ploded politician has dug up all the anti-
conscription invective of 1916-17 and is
hurling it at Mr. Curtin), moves the
adjournment of the debate. With Mr.
Blackburn and Mr. Coles (Independent)
voting with the Opposition, the division
is carried against the Government on the
Speaker’s casting vote. The robustious
Mr. Calwell has sided with the Govern-
ment. He sides with it again, and so
does Mr. Ward, when Mr. Blackburn’s
amendment is put to the House and de-
clared lost on the voices. In effect, Mr.
Calwell and Mr. Ward “squib it.” Then the
relieved Mr. Curtin announces that mem-
bers are free to disperse again and need
not return to Canberra till January 27
unless an emergency has arisen in the
meantime.
Before members hurry to catch the
train that bears them away from Can-
berra when their “work” is done
it is given out that the question
to go before the seventh collection
of Labor-party bosses will be “decided”
one way or the other on January 4. It
was submitted to them in the first in-
stance by Mr. Curtin (“submitted” is the
word) on November 18, and they referred
it to the six sets of State party-organisa-
tion bosses for reference back to them
if four sets are willing to let Mr. Curtin
have his way. The young Napoleon said
he beat the Austrians in Italy because
the Austrian commanders did not know
the value of time. Those Austrian com-
manders were marvels of speed com-
pared with this Labor party. Their Aulic
Council is a byword in military history;
but there was only one.
What will our allies think when they
learn what cannot now be concealed from
them? What will the A.I.F. think and
say, especially when it remembers that
the politicians now skulking behind it,
ready to urge it to fresh sacrifices rather
than abandon an outworn and disgraceful
shibboleth, were against having an A.I.F.
at all, and then against its having militia
support in Australian territories? It
is easy to guess. It is not easy
for the ordinary citizen to moderate his
language when he considers what the
fighting men have done and suffered and
how far the talking men have fallen
below the fighting men’s standards.
Leaders without courage, parties with-
out vision, politics without principle, a
Parliament that abjectly and dangerously
surrenders its powers to Ministers like
Ward and Dedman, to swarms of bureau-
crats and to mobs of party-organisation
and trade-union bosses —such is the pic-
ture presented at Canberra.
The Wave of Optimism.
For years the church bells of England
hung silent, to be rung only in the event
of invasion. They were rung to cele-
brate the smashing victory at El Alamein,
superb sequel to triumphs of production,
transport and organisation. Natural
enough, encouraging, invigorating and
thus justified.
From that date optimism about the
state of the war has steadily spread
through Allied countries. It has been
aided along by the Anglo-American naval
and military achievements on the other
side of Northern Africa; by the con-
tinued American land, air and ocean suc-
cesses about the Solomons; by the belt-
ing back of the Japs in New Guinea,
with the taking of the Gona beachhead
(to the New York “Daily News” “the
first decisive land victory against the Japs
in this war”), and by the R.A.F. and
American bombing of Axis supply works
and centres.
Further sound cause for the widespread
brighter outlook has been the increas-
ingly encouraging reports on the “awak-
ening giant,” American production,
“Tanks, guns, ’planes in thousands, are
coming from the production lines.” So
are ships of all kinds, including “the
largest battleship ever launched,” the
52,000-ton New Jersey, with nine 16in.
guns; destroyers at such a rate that if
the Japs get one it is replaced by seven;
10,600-ton cargo ships at or near the
record rate of four days, 15£ hours from
keel-laying.
On all this basis the wave of optimism
can fairly be held to be justified. But
the basis is not all so sound. Anybody
reading the sort 'of war reporting which
the sensation-a-day sheets still dish out,
and which is repeated, with trimmings,
over the air, must know, if he checks it
up from week to week, that a huge
amount of fantastically wild exaggeration
is being published as factual news. A
good deal of the wave of optimism is
based on this stuff —on accounts of mili-
tary successes which are not only incred-
ible but impossible.
Another dubious factor in the wave is
the uncertainty of anybody making a
right assessment of the present war situa-
tion as it affects the future. The whole
set-up is full of imponderable elements.
Mr. Churchill has guessed that the war in
Europe may end before the war in the
Pacific. Mr. Lyttleton has guessed that
the war (presumably as a whole) will end
next year. And “specially qualified
observers in Washington” are guessing
that there will be a Nazi breakdown about
the end of 1943, with Japan’s defeat to
follow “a year or more later.” But there
is no means of testing whether even the
most eminent assessors of the war situa-
tion are anywhere near the mark, or far
from it.
They are, it is said, in a position to
know ; but do they know? Do they take
into the reckoning the surprises the other
side may have in store? Do they get
down to such fundamental elements as
the fighting quality of the individuals
making up the armies on either side? Do
they consider that, so far, the last, worst
weapon of all has not been used, and
what are the chances of its yet being re-
sorted to by desperate men threatened in
advance with eventual full punishment for
their crimes? What does anyone know of
what effect on the progress of the fight-
ing the use of gas may have? Or what
new weapons may yet be let loose? Or
how ’planes may yet be developed before
it is all over?
“Economists,” according to one shovel-
ling of optimism fuel, “contend that in-
tensified bombing in 1943 may dislocate
production and demoralise Germany
into surrender.” Who else can accept
this, or reject it, either? Like so much
else in the war, it depends on develop-
ments ; on a whole barricade of “ifs”
as big as mountains. “If” the combined
Allied ’plane production comes up to
expectations; “if” developments else-
where permit the concentration of
enough of it on Germany; “if” no
counter to the bomber is discovered ; and
a score of other “ifs.”
The First Lord of the Admiralty,
Mr. Alexander, has expressed concern
over “people beginning to predict an
early end of the war as a result of the
complete change in the world strategical
outlook.” In common with others on his
side of the world, he has come to the
view, held all along by thinking people
on this side, that beating the Jap back
to where he belongs is going to be a par-
ticularly tough job. Also, “we must con-
quer the U-boat menace, which is very
grave.”
In America the U.S. War Production
chief, Mr. Nelson, has also been alarmed
by the “unwarranted optimism sweeping
the country since the turn of the tide in
the Mediterranean.” His view that a
“long and hard struggle lies ahead” has
support from Mr. Churchill: “I know
nothing justifying the belief that the war
will not be long, that bitter and bloody
years do not lie ahead.”
Mr. Curtin expressed the same view
vividly in his review of the war, especially
Australia’s part. In the war with Japan
he forecast a long, tough struggle.
We must realise that we are up against
a powerful fighting machine. It is backed
by people whose training and discipline
produce a national morale which willingly
accepts the utmost sacrifice, including death
itself, for the national cause. Such a race
can only be beaten by actual physical de-
feat. We therefore must be prepared to
make such sacrifice for victory as will
enable us to match and overcome a foe so
thoroughly trained to the needs of total
war. This is the prescription for victory
which I adjure all Australians to observe.
Answering the early-enders as effec-
tively as he scathingly cut into recent
squealing critics of military leaders —
critics who, for security reasons, could
not at the time be dealt with as they de-
served to be —the P.M. pointed out that
Japan, like Germany, is master of vast
territories with large populations and
vital resources for waging the war.
Though Japan has suffered certain naval
and air losses, he said, its strength is still
great.
Touching on the “grand strategy” of
beating Germany first and Japan after-
wards —a grim prospect for Australia, to
say the least —Mr. Curtin significantly
mentioned that
Mr. Churchill and President Roosevelt
were unable to fully accept the views of the
Australian Government on Pacific strategy
and the provision of the forces and sup-
plies sought.
In other words, the Government —
though Mr. Curtin expressed its gratitude
for practical support obtained —has not
been able to secure the full measure of
support it considered necessary towards
what counts for Australia above all: that
is, this country’s survival, and beating
the Jap.
Mr. Curtin mentioned another point
of great significance:
At the time that the President and Mr.
Churchill reached their decision to defeat
Germany first, the transformation had not
come over the Pacific situation by the loss
of the Philippines, Singapore and the
Netherlands East Indies.
No encouragement in any of this for
the early-enders. As well, the very tough
fighting for a bit of beach in New Guinea
can be pointed to as probably a surer
signpost to things ahead than all the
guesswork put together.' It emphasises
once more that beating the Japs must
call for the finest fighting quality that the
greatest possible number of fighting Aus-
tralians and others can muster, with the
greatest possible unslackening efforts on
the home front backing them up. Any-
one who can still feel unduly optimistic
after fairly facing up to that contract
must be either riding extra high on the
wave or as blind as Messrs. Calwell,
Ward, Lang, Don Cameron and suchlike
moles, bats and ostriches.


PLAIN ENGLISH
On the Dedmain Front.
The days of palace revolutions have
returned to “the movement,” and there
were at least two last week, one in the
Caucus and one in the Cabinet.
After the one in the Cabinet, Mr.
Dedman appeared among the reporters,
and a cry from a withered heart was
heard. It was to the effect that waist-
coats might now be added to the Victory
suits, in which no one but the inventor
and a few painfully self-conscious martyrs
have been seen. Also that householders
and others employing domestics would
not, “for the time being,” be dissevered
from them or permitted to keep them at
Man-power’s discretion, “doubts having
arisen regarding the validity of the pro-
posed order regulating the employment
thereof, following the recent High Court
judgment in respect of holiday pay for
certain public servants.”
The High Court judgment was de-
livered before the proposed order was
catapulted from Mr. Dedman’s depart-
ment, together with the intimation that
the procedure governing the employment
or non-employment of domestics would
begin with the issue of a couple of mil-
lion forms; but this point was not
stressed by Mr. Dedman. He said
nothing more than harsh circumstances
forced him to say. He is never voluble
except when he is having a crack at “the
capitalists,” and then he can be as
copious as Mr. Ward.
On rare occasions his hostility to “the
capitalists” is salted with a ferocious sort
of humor, if humor it can be called.
Mr. Dedman: The honorable member
for Robertson made a sneering reference
to the vestless Victory suit.
Mr. Archie Cameron: You took the “v”
out of vest, anyway.
Mr. Dedman: Yes, and we shall take the
“vest” out of vested interests, too, be-
fore we have finished.
“The capitalists,” being only human,
are as hostile to Mr. Dedman and Mr.
Ward as Mr. Dedman and Mr. Ward are
to them. But some day the services
which these extraordinary Ministers have
all unwittingly rendered to the system of
free enterprise will be assessed at their
true worth.
In their clumsy efforts to bring about
the socialisation of industry by degrees
they have revealed to all not hope-
lessly dull and bigoted what the sociali-
sation of industry would mean. It
would usher in a new order in which big
and little tyrants would demonstrate that
the customer is always wrong. There
would be control not by the men who
know, but by the men who don’t know.
There would be production “for use” of
things unwearable, uneatable, undrink-
able, unusable, with the certainty of vast
loss. Enterprise would be stifled by
mountains of edicts and forests of
forms. Industry would become the sport
of bureaucratic meddling, Dedmanism,
Wardism and trade-unionism rampant,
until chaos arrived. Then the community,
its' capacity for suffering exhausted,
would call “the capitalists” back.
Shirts and Shibboleths.
There is a good, sturdy English word
which somehow fails to receive the atten-
tion it should get from politicians, press
and radio.
Politicians especially are squeamish
about uttering the word. Yet the young
used to hear it often; it received
homage from the mature and the aged ;
our history is full of countless instances
of devotion to what it expresses. Pity
the word does not find a leading place
in our war vocabulary, which has become
cluttered up with things like “V for
Victory,” “Fight Fascism,” “Lend to
Save,” “Work or Fight”; above all,
“Austerity.”
The present Australian Government is
working “Austerity” to death. We are
to observe Austerity at work and at play ;
there are “Austerity” meals, suits, hats
and shirts, which have suffered a loss of
“one to three inches in the front and
three to five inches in the back” to bring
victory that many inches nearer.
Meantime fighting men of our Empire
and its Allies, all over the world, are
serving that other word which politicians
and others seem afraid to use. Merchant
seamen in their gallant old ships pay it a
special devotion —a devotion without
which we could not carry on the war.
To them all the compelling force is not
“Austerity” but Duty.
Duty is defined as “that which one
ought or is bound to do.”
It was reserved for the “North Queens-
land Register,” published in “a target
area,” to pronounce judgment on “Aus-
terity” :
An ugly word, sour, astringent and
severe The craze of the moment
Lacking union protection, shamelessly over-
worked.
It added pithily, “given fair treatment by
our authorities so that we may trust them
implicitly, the people of Australia will
rise soaring above the artificiality of
‘Austerity’ and embrace that simple,
compelling, more dignified and noble
word Duty.”
The Garden of Anthony Eden.
“Feng-Shui” surveys it:
Mr. Anthony Eden has been saying that a
vast international organisation, equipped with
every kind of lethal weapon, will be necessary to
maintain the peace after this war. He does not
envisage a world in which Britain, Russia, the
United States and China would try clamping
down, by some big-Power dictatorship, on every-
body else. Then how is he to get it?
All previous world States had to use more and
more force and all ended miserable failures.
There was the Holy Roman Empire, which
somebody said was neither Holy nor Roman
nor an empire; there was the world empire of
the Khans, and there was the Chinese Empire.
The Romans firmly believed that their little
bit of Europe, Africa and Asia Minor was the
whole of the world and were vastly surprised
when their empire was invaded by Goths,
Vandals and Huns. When the Chinese took
over they were similarly astounded when their
harmonious arrangement was upset by tough
little bands of Portuguese and Venetian sailors.
In more modern times Mr. H. G. Wells has
had the same dream as Mr. Eden, but he at
least saw some of the difficulties of the prob-
lem. He recognised that Armageddon would
engender an enormous amount of hatred which
would have to be paid for by the children of the
belligerents and by their children’s children. So
he invented a situation in which trade and com-
merce and international communications had
broken down and the various nations had re-
lapsed into barbarism and tribal warfare. The
only organised community was a body of airmen
who, since they could command the skies and
drop bombs on any resister, were able to
restore law and order. The subsequent Wells
world State, founded on perfect social justice,
rested, however, on the assumption that all the
airmen would be H. G. Wellses. He made the
same mistake as did Voltaire when “the brilliant
Frenchman” advocated universal education.
Nobody would say it was not a good thing
for everybody to be educated, but Voltaire
thought that the educators of the future would
be people like himself. He never imagined
that they would be radio proprietors, film mag-
nates and daily newspaper barons.
Mr. Woodrow Wilson also gave birth to a
similar brain-child, or what Socrates would have
called a wind egg, and out of it was hatched the
League of Nations. The League never did any
good, as far as I know, except to give its
endorsement to a rat poison which I have found
most efficacious. It didn’t prevent any wars,
big or little; in fact, it helped to produce some.
Mr. Wilson no doubt visualised the League as
being run by a committee of Solomons and
Solons, but it got into the hands of the same
old crowd of diplomats, financiers and poli-
ticians. His own country refused to become
a member.
Mr. Eden’s international garden would re-
quire a lot of cultivation, not only in the
material sense but in manners, and in the in-
terim it would need a lot of policing. Aus-
tralia would no doubt be expected to act as
one of the policemen. If the past is any
criterion of the future it would be busily en-
gaged in cracking heads from Kamschatka to
Teirra del Fuego for the next 10 generations.
The Dampney House.
G. F. Dampney, a Sydney man, has
invented a process for making concrete
boards for building. The process is a
departure from accepted notions of con-
crete construction as used in big city
buildings and is so simple that any handy
man can, under instructions, erect his
own home. Homes built by the process,
both large and small, have satisfied archi-
tects and building-construction experts
of their durability, health and cheapness.
There is no set pattern about the type
of house. They can be built to any
design and any number of storeys, and
the Dean of Architecture at Sydney Uni-
versity has declared that, even where con-
ditions are favorable to weatherboard, a
Dampney house would cost at least 10
p.c. less to erect.
The plan has made a strong appeal to
professors, social workers, trade-unions
and clergy, who have offered tons of sup-
port. Dampney holds, and with truth,
that few homeless men could fail to
become better for having homes of their
own. He claims that his invention and
scheme will place homes within their
means at a cost far below ruling costs of
house construction. And it is a claim
which should interest a Government
faced with a gigantic housing problem.
Forward, the Professors I
Almost every second day Australia
hears from some professor or other a
vague sort of recipe for a new order after
the war. Reconstruction seems to be the
chief ingredient, though definitions of re-
construction vary as as politicians’
definitions of what they stand for. The
professors occasionally obtain large space
in the press but are more frequently
heard from the radio.
It is doubtful whether words can do
much for Australia unless they are backed
by action. No dreamer ever brought his
dream near fruition by simply dreaming.
Hitler’s ambitions have been described,
with truth, as megalomaniacal dreams,
but the world knows to its sorrow that the
man wasn’t content with the mere dreams.
Therefore professorial exponents of a
new order might be asked what they pro-
pose to do about it. Along with other
thinking but possibly less-erudite Austra
lians, they must be conscious that the
nation’s Parliament holds few of the type
of men from whom acceptable new orders
might be expected. How many of these
professors of the new order are preparing
to go into action? How many intend to
seek Parliamentary power to implement
their dreams? How many are ready to
come down from their aloofness into the
hurly-burly of practical, everyday things
and work for the new order in the only
place where that work can effectively be
done?
It is not on record that any professor is
after a Labor, U.A.P. or C.P. nomination.
THE ACT THAT FAILED.
“Take him off!”


MAYFAIR
CAN N ED
HAMS
* Keep them in your Ice
Chest or Refrigerator and
they will indeed crown your
Festive Dinner.
DANIEL
CRAWFORD'S
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
POLITICAL POINTS
While a weak and divided Government
was letting A.L.P. and trade-union bosses
have all the say as to whether militia-
men should do their fighting in or beyond
Australian territory, the Federal Opposi-
tion “decided that it would be nation-
ally and politically inexpedient” to put
the question to Parliament. “Nationally
and politically inexpedient” to ask Par-
liament to assert its supremacy ! Hooray
for expediency and minority rule, and
down with principle!
For bits of two days Ms.H.R. at Can-
berra wrangled about militia service in
the south-west Pacific. On a motion for
printing the P.M.’s war review, Blackburn
tabled an amendment opposing militia
service “outside Australia and Common-
wealth territories.” The bold Calwell
seconded it, and damned militia service
in the south-west Pacific, being sup-
ported by the bold Ward. Then the bold
pair voted against Blackburn’s amend-
ment, having previously voted for a
Rosevear motion (Rosevear is another
anti, or says he is) gagging Archie
Cameron and other Oppositionists who
wanted to speak. Then, Government and
party being safe, “till January,” the
“rebels” and a lot of other legislators
made a blackguard rush for the 4.15.
No consideration of Parliamentary re-
sponsibility or of national honor, duty
or equality of sacrifice ever prevents
their catching the 4.15.
The Opposition Senators could at least
have tried to hold Parliament to its
responsibility for deciding the matter of
militia service beyond Australia and its
territories, instead of letting the Govern-
ment pass the buck to seven bands of
A.L.P. delegates. Some Opposition
Senators “protested,” but that is all the
Opposition ever does, though in a clear
majority. The authors of the Constitu-
tion had great hopes of the Senate, and
until it surrendered to party those hopes
seemed in a fair way to fulfilment.
Nowadays it just dodders on—to extinc-
tion.
Apologising for Curtin, and arguing
that it doesn’t really matter if a month
or so elapses before the Defence Act is
“amended to meet the demands of the
war situation,” Melbourne “Age” pleaded
that “Mr. Curtin and his fellow-Ministers
have given pledges to the party, which
required that its authority be obtained
before policy is varied in any major
respect.” In other words, the P.M.’s
“pledges to the party” come before his
duty to the country, and the safety of
the State is no longer the supreme law—
at least not in Australia.
Can anyone remember Chamberlain
going hat in hand to the Conservative
Association before he introduced his
conscription law, or Churchill before he
gave Russia a pledge of full support? In
national emergencies the British look to
their Prime Minister for leadership, and
they get it or change the Prime Minister.
In Australia we have many bosses but no
leader.
Young Mr. Aldridge, who has so little
use for British officers and Tommies, the
latter because they have never been
“taught to hate Fascism,” has bobbed up
again with a certificate, published in
“Time,” which now employs him, that
the Russian soldiers “are better dis-
ciplined and more deadly serious about
this war than the troops of any other
nation.” The same opinion is obviously
held by a swarm of other correspondents,
commentators and radio uncles. Which
is why plain people, musing on reports
of stupendous victories which come to
nothing, get the feeling that they have
been “had.”
Treatt, a returned soldier, put it to the
“Parliament” in Macquarie-street, Syd-
ney, that it should discuss the merging of
the A.I.F. and militia and the removal
of geographical limits in the Defence
Act as a matter of urgency. Not quite
the place for such a discussion, but, seeing
that a mob of A.L.P. branches, execu-
tives and trades-unions was butting in,
the man thought that the “Parliament”
might reasonably be asked to express its
views. All he got for his pains were
bitter reproaches and the rejection of his
motion in jig-time. When members are
not attacking private citizens, the things
“THE PIG GOT UP AND SLOWLY WALKED AWAY.”
Ward to Cal well (and C. to W.): “Nice sort of anti-conscriptionist you
are! Ready with the gab, but not game to vote."
that interest this “Parliament” most are
horse-racing and the tin hares.
Dr. Evatt, as Attorney-General, and
Menzies, as counsel for the accused, were
concerned in the case against Mervyn
Macpherson Brewer, general manager of
Macßobertsons, who was found guilty
at a High Court trial of having given a
secret commission of £450 to one
Ritchie, for having helped the Mac-
Robertson concern to get army-canteen-
service contracts. On a point taken by
Menzies, the verdict was set aside by
Chief Justice Latham and Justice McTier-
nan. Justice Rich dissenting, the point
being that Ritchie had not acted for the
Crown. The Privy Council is to be asked
for special leave to appeal.
A message from Goulburn states that
30 shops in the main streets are now
closed, some of them for the first time in
50 years. Goulburn people don’t like
the term “closed.” They prefer “Ded-
manised.”
“Body-snatching,” new style, was the
subject of a bitter protest in the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court. On jobs
where mixed unions operate, men coming
in find themselves bones of contention
between rival unions. There are no rules
in the game ; it’s all in and get what you
can while the going’s good. Presumably
bones of contention are permitted to join
all the warring unions.
“We of the Labor movement see the
defeat of the Axis Powers as laying the
basis for a new world of peace, freedom
and economic security,” declared the
miners’ president over A.B.C. Yes, but
you don’t get in without your union
ticket.
Grasshoppers are getting out of con-
trol in some parts of the inland. Send
for Dedman or Ward—they’ll guarantee
to “control” anything.
According to Sydney “Sun,” “dull
evenings, unattractive sandwiches and
sick-pay delays” were the sum of com-
plaints heard on a conducted press tour
of C.C.C. camps and “Average weekly
pay envelope is £13.” So far, there have
been no complaints about dullness from
Gona, where average weekly pay enve-
lopes aren’t £l3.
Now it’s Christmas and New Year
greetings telegrams that have been
banned. Still, there doesn’t seem to be
anything to stop anybody from tele-
graphing to anybody “A sorry Christmas
and a woeful New Year.” Or would
Canberra consider that to be a greeting?
There are now 609 members of Parlia-
ment in Australia, and 79 of them are
Ministers. If Earle Page, Mulcahy,
M.H.R., Dunstan and other gentlemen
have their way there will be a lot more
Federal legislators—3B more, Page sug-
gests. Though Australian politicians
have done daring things in the salary-
increase line the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment would hardly dare to bloat its own
membership without reference to the
people. The verdict of the people should
be “Not another Federal member unless
there is a substantial reduction of State
members, Ministers and salaries.”
Senator Sampson has been described
as one of the silent members of the Con-
vention at Canberra, but he opened his
mouth on the last day to say, among
other things, that “Tasmania is the price-
less pearl in the Australian oyster.”
Another view is that it is a pearl for
which the Government at Hobart charges
and receives a great price. This year,
to help to keep its excessive establish-
ment going, it is getting £550,000 from
Canberra in one line. In three war
years, during the last of which Man-power
and the Allied Works Council have been
going their hardest, it has coolly added
500 persons to the number of its em-
ployees—B464, mean population being
239,500.
Some cynic remarked that “Democ-
racy is not safe in the hands of the
people.” It is certainly not safe in the
hands of some of the people at Can-
berra.
Scully has been heard over the air to
the effect that the Australian wool indus-
try ought to remain under price-control.
In effect, Australia should say to the
rest of the world “Here is our wool, and
if you want it you must pay our price
for it.” But what if the other fellow
says he doesn’t want it at that price and
then refers Scully to the Atlantic
Charter?
According to a cable, the thumbnail
biography (or autobiography) of Hitler
published in every war-time issue of
Who’s Who is continued in the 1943
edition. This is how it begins:
Head of the German State since 1934
and Chancellor of the German State since
1933 ; Commander-in-Chief of the German
Fighting Forces since 1938; b. Braunau
on the Inn, Upper Danube, 20 Apr.,
1889, of an old Upper Austrian peasant and
artisan family. Religion, Catholic.
Perhaps with the cable in mind, Arch-
bishop Mannix, addressing “more than
800 Catholic railwaymen” in Melbourne,
said “he wanted to see Christian methods
in Australia without the atheism of either
Germany or Russia” (“Age” report).
Writing in August Admiral Richmond
mentioned that the Japs had suffered their
first setback. Where? Not one daily
newspaper reader in a thousand could
give the answer.
The first setback in the Japanese career
was the successful defence of Ceylon, arid
it is not unlikely that the setback was due
to the arrival, only a short time before,
of a force of Spitfires.
Curtin has revealed that if the Japs had
got ashore they would have found two
splendid A.I.F. brigades waiting for them.
The Apple and Pear Board has been
scratching its head over the disappoint-
ing apple crop in Victoria —it is less than
half the normal crop of 2,500,000 bushels
—and a board official is of the opinion
that “some environmental factor” must
be responsible. Environmental factor?
Quite so. The Apple and Pear Board.
From the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment, in reply to an O.F.M. correspon-
dent who asserted that married-women
teachers were being put off to “avoid
paying them” for the Christmas vacation,
and “advised that they may be re-
employed in the new year”:
The terms of employment of teachers are in
the hands of the Public Service Board. All
teachers who have been continuously employed
since July 1 and who continue next year will
be paid salary in full for the Christmas vaca-
tion period. Under the Married Women (Lec-
turers and Teachers) Act, 1932-35, the employ-
ment of married women in the teaching service
is restricted to specific periods which may
be extended from time to time. Hence it is
that all current employment will expire on
December 31. Arrangements are now being
made for extension of the employment of all
married women now in the service who desire
to continue next year.
From a fellow-Victorian;
A Lady-Members-for-Canberra movement
lias been launched by the lady member for
Nunawading (Vic.), and Miss Vida Goldstein’s
assistance has been sought; indeed some of the
other ladies would be charmed to see her be-
come one of the lady members at Canberra.
No doubt Miss Goldstein has other views.
First of her sex to stand for Parliament in Aus-
tralia, she came out for the Senate in Victoria
at the 1903 election. There were 18 candidates;
Miss Goldstein finished 15th with 51,497 votes.
Sixteenth was Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, an Irish
baronet who had cut no inconsiderable figure
in Victorian politics, and 17th was George
Henry Wise, afterwards M.H.R. for Gippsland
(1914-25) and one of Hughes’s Ministers (1918-
21). The lady made another attempt in 1910,
winding up seventh, with 53,583 votes, in a
field of eight. By that time the ticket system
had been "established and, realising this, she
abandoned politics without regret. She has
survived most of her opponents of 1903 and
1910.


STOP GETTfNO
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night because 08
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladdep
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe It to your health to heed the
warnings and take Immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, puffiness under the eyes and
excess uric acid.
Don’t delay! Neglect is dangerous. Take
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
DOAN’S DACKACHB KICNSI fILLS 10-day.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON £ CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
OBTAIN DOUBLE
LIFE -hrm SHOES
tfie-
'Muqgbt'
Don’t dab the brush into the polish, draw
it lightly over the top and give your
shoes that last brisk rub with a soft cloth.
A LITTLE
USE
GOES A
LONG WAY
SPARINGLY
mmmm mi
PERSONAL ITEMS
One of the most amazing escapes in
this war or any other was that accomplished
by fighter pilot David Borthwick, of Gee-
long (Vic.), now recovering in hospital in
Egypt. Brought down while covering
bombers, Borthwick made a parachute
descent with both legs wounded. After
performing first-aid on himself with bits
of his parachute, he started to propel
himself across the Western Desert to-
wards Mersa Matruh with his arms
alone, his legs being useless. Eating
beetles for food and washing them down
with drops of dew, he travelled in this
way for five days until a Bren-gun carrier
spotted him. They breed them tough in
Victoria’s Sleepy Hollow.
An odd shift in jobs is that of A. J.
Baker, director of the Tourist Bureau in
Adelaide till pleasure travel became offi-
cially banned instead of encouraged. He’s
now chairman of the local Children’s
Welfare and Public Relief, and his main
job lately has been outfitting and “plac-
ing” refugees from Darwin and even
further north. He has backing him the
experience of controlling “Barwell boys.”
Retiring from the Education Depart-
ment of S.A., Dr. Constance Davey, who,
after studying in Europe, has been for
18 years running a medico-psychological
clinic for children not fitting well into
the usual routine. She will continue as
lecturer in psychology and logic at the
Uni,, with help to the Children’s Court
as a sideline.
“Jesmond”; Col. Arthur C. R. Waite,
M.C., son-in-law of Lord Austin, who has
been having trouble with British food
officials, was in Australia in the late
’twenties as sales manager for the family
cars. He put the Austins right in the
news by winning the first Grand Prix
at Phillip Island (Vic.) in 1928. Though
there were several more powerful cars
running, Waite was quite confident, and
only an hour or two before the start,
while his car was in as many pieces as
possible and it seemed impossible to
assemble it in time, he took all the bets
offered. He wore his opponents down,
won in fairly easy style, and collected
not only the prize and his winnings but
also the sweep, having drawn his own car.
Billed to retire after five years as Chief
Inspector of Secondary Schools in Vic-
toria—the highest position ever held by
any woman in Vic. State Education —
Julia Teresa Flynn, B.A. Of Irish parent-
age and a brilliant student, she was born
in Melbourne and educated at the Pres-
byterian Ladies’ College, the Alma Mater
of Henry Handel Richardson and Melba.
From Drought to Millions of Gallons:
When Leonard Abbott Saunders was a
youngster round about his birthplace, Dubbo
(N.S.W.), there was no Government benevo-
lence to help if drought came, and in the five-
years’ drought of the ’eighties his people first
skinned their stock, dug holes in the Macquarie’s
bed for water, and finally walked out. For
his part, the young Saunders solved the prob-
lem of getting to Sydney by winning a Bulle-
tin epigram competition (first prize, a tenner)
in which Dowell O’Reilly was second. Wading
into journalism, Saunders worked in turn for
the “Sunday Times,” “Evening News” and the
old “Tele.,” and was vice-president of the AJ.A.
when Tom Mutch was president. Early this
century Australia used to send a lot of table
grapes to Maoriland ; because of an outbreak
of phylloxera this market was threatened, as
was that for Australian wine, the notion being
that the grape disease could even be carried
in the bottles. Saunders, who had made him-
self a journalist specialist in primary industries,
including wine, was sent by the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment to intercede with the Seddon Govern-
ment, and did the job so well that he was given
a six-months job in M.L. investigating the possi-
bilities of the Dominion growing its own wine.
While on this he helped in the rescue of those
aboard the Ellingamite, a passenger ship that
was wrecked on the Three Kings while making
a Christmas trip. Subsequently he left journal-
ism to play a big part in helping Australian
wines along, and after the last war lectured ex-
Diggers who were going to grow wine grapes.
Between wars Saunders carried on with the
good work, and he’s still at it, looking person-
ally a tiptop advertisement for his own view
that there’s nothing better anywhere than Aus-
tralia’s good wine.
Published some years back by the
Endeavour Press, Pearls of Papua, by
Commander Henry Charles Brewster
(R.N., ret), will soon be on the book-
stalls again in a new edition. These days
Commander Brewster dwells out Bathurst
(N.S.W.) way, where he bought a prop-
erty some 17 years back, when he’d de-
cided to take a change from the sea.
Previously he’d been a world rover most
of his life. As a lad he joined the train-
ing-ship Worcester, and went round the
world four times in sail. His parents
thought that that would cure his taste for
the sea, but he went on into the Navy
and kept on seeing the world. A slight
limp he has was gathered in that service
during the Messina earthqvke, for sav-
Seaman and Author.
ing life in which he was made Cavalier
of the Order of Italy and awarded the
Messina Medal. Through all his seafar-
ing he kept a diary going, and part of
the fruit of it is Pearls of Papua, written
after he'd come to Australia, where he
married into the Hume family. The MS.
of another book dealing with his sailing
days, along with a large number of
photos, to illustrate it, went up in flames
in the blitz fires that burnt out Pater-
noster Row, destroying millions of books.
Jim O’Brien, appointed to the Maori-
land Cabinet at 67, is a native of Forest
Creek (Vic.), and was educated at Castle-
maine Grammar. He started work as a
shop assistant, then had a go at mining,
engineering and prospecting in Victoria,
N.S.W., Queensland, Tasmania and New
Guinea. Arrived in M.L. in 1904, he was
a coal prospector on the West Coast,
engine-driver at the Runanga State mine
and business manager of a Labor
daily, the “Grey River Argus,” which he
placed on a good commercial footing.
He unsuccessfully contested the Westland
seat against T. E. Y. Seddon in 1919, the
magic of the name being his greatest
opponent. He won it in 1922, lost it in
1925 on the casting vote of the returning
officer, regained it in 1928, and has been
member ever since.
“G.H.S.”: SXI was Private Richard
Alan Gully, of 2/10th Battalion. He
enlisted in 1939 and has since been dis-
charged medically unfit.
Before the war Pilot-Officer Toderick
Hilton, of the R.A.A.F. in England, who
recently got the D.F.C. for a remarkable
rescue of an R.A.F. flight-lieutenant off
the French coast, was singing in the choir
of the Collins-street Independent Church
in Melbourne.
Melbourne dailies were puzzled by the
news that a Dr. S. C. Leslie, who has
achieved fame in England with his book
Front Line, 1940-41, was a former gradu-
ate of Trinity College, Melbourne, and
Victorian Rhodes scholar for 1919. In
those days he favored his family name of
Lazarus, changing it to Leslie when he
went to England in the train of High
Commissioner S. M. Bruce. He took his
doctorate of philosophy at Oxford, then
held various university posts in the Cold
Land and in Melbourne.
“Uramao”: The appointment of
Maorilander Sholto Black to the head-
mastership of Haileybury College, Mel-
bourne, a month or so back was right in
line with the remarkable preference for
M.L. tutors for big Australian educa-
tional jobs, especially in Hielan’ institu-
tions. Scots, Melbourne, for donkey’s
years was under Dr. Littlejohn, ex-Nelson
College. He was succeeded in 1934 by
Colin Gilray, of John McGlashan Col-
lege, Dunedin. Scots, Sydney, after being
bossed for 20 years by an Oamaruvian,
James Bee, in 1934 appointed A. K.
Anderson, a Southland product. Scots,
Warwick (Q.), has as its head M.L.
Rhodes scholar J. A. Dunning. Joseph
Richard Sutcliffe, ex-head of Wellington
(M.L.) Scots, is now head of the C. of E.
Grammar School that turned out Stanley
Bruce ; and Melb. Presbyterian Ladies’
College is ruled by William Gray, an
Otago native.
The late Tom Barr Smith, chairman
of Elder, Smith and Co.—it was founded
in Adelaide by his uncle, Thomas Elder,
and his father —has left £lO,OOO to Adel-
aide Uni., and nearly as much to assorted
S.A. charities.
Melbourne’s fire chief, James Kemp,
joined the brigade in the days of gallop-
ing horses and firemen with sergeant-
major voices and a distressing lack of
technical or any other education. Now
the devoted crew which watches over the
city’s skyline from Eastern Hill has to
sit for exams, that would tax a
university professor and its mechanised
equipment resembles a modern army’s.
Kemp must have seen the change com-
ing. He prepared for his entrance by
getting himself a tutor and spending his
nights for two years studying hydraulics,
chemistry, physics, mathematics and even
Latin, which he thought would be good
for his memory. Consequently it isn’t
surprising that in the first exams, held
in the brigade he came top. In ’29 he
was elected a member of the British
Institute of Fire Engineers. In a life of
adventure two events might be recorded.
Melbourne Fire Chief.
For braving gas fumes when, on the
motorship Idomedeus, he was searching
for a missing man Kemp got the Royal
Humane Society’s Medal. In 1918,
during the epidemic, he was put in charge
of 60 cases of pneumonic influenza in a
tent erected in the station yard, Boer War
experience standing him in good stead.
Back in South Aus. as Adjutant of
Ordnance Services Lines of Communi-
cation, Captain Gordon Reginald
Stuckey, son of S.A. Under-Treasurer R.
CAPT. G. R. STUCKEY.
R. Stuckey. Now 25, Captain Stuckey
lost his right leg in the Syrian campaign,
having joined up in 1940 as a lieut. in
the 2/27 Batt. Over 6ft., he used to be
a fine tennis player and footballer. His
artificial leg hasn’t stopped him from
taking up tennis again, but he’s replaced
football with golf.
Into the silence:
At 69, at B'airnsdale (Vic.), Joseph Robert
Coate, one of the pillars of the Lakes district.
His driving force helped to open up the
Buchan Caves, whence came the marble for Vic-
toria’s Shrine of Remembrance, and without
him the Prince’s Highway might not have
touched the Lakes Entrance, the stone con-
struction of which was largely his work. He
was president of Tambo shire for many years.
In Brisbane, at 67, Wilfred Jeays Lilley,
youngest son of Charles Lilley, who was Chief
Justice of Queensland. For the last 35 years
W. J. Lilley practised as a solicitor at Allora,
Darling Downs. He represented Q’land in inter-
state tennis. A son will carry on the family
tradition; a Lilley solicitor or barrister has
practised in Q’land for upwards of 80 years.
John Murray, at 70, after half a century
among the. Brisbane markets’ fruit and vege-
tables. Last war he was a major in the A.I.F.
John Lister (81) and Arthur Lister (71),
passed hence within 11 days of each other,
linked back to the pioneering days. In 1851
their father, with Hargraves and the brothers
Tom, found the first payable gold at Ophir,
near Orange (N.S.W.). The little party were
making camp for the night when one of the
Tom brothers picked up a nugget weighing
4oz. which gleamed from the roots of a tree.
At Oamaru (M.L.), at 94, William Milne,
last link with M.L.’s first shipments of frozen
meat to London in the early ’eighties, when, as
banker, he gave assistance and advice. He had
had banking experience in Scotland and Eng-
land prior to arriving in M.L. in 1880. When
the Government extricated the Bank of N.Z.
from difficulties in the ’nineties it appointed
him to the board of directors to watch the
£2,000,000 it had pumped in. He held the job
for 16 years.
At Springfield, near Goulburn (N.S.W.), at
88, Augustus Lucian Faithfull, whose father
established in 1838 what is claimed to be the
oldest registered merino flock in Australia in
the continuous possession of one family. A. L.
Faithfull also bred Herefords and trotters, and
was “Father” of the Australian Club, Sydney.
In Melbourne, Rev. H. A. Brooksbank, who
came from Cambridge in 1888 to be chaplain
at Melbourne Grammar. Later he was chaplain
at St. Peter’s College, Adelaide. Back in Mel-
bourne, he got the job of research into the his-
tory of church schools from the Carnegie In-
stitute. For 30 years he was examiner in
senior divinity for the Diocesan Board of Edu-
cation. A daughter is the wife of Owen Dixon,
Australian Minister to Washington, two sons
won decorations in the last war, a third is now
in the A.I.F, and a fourth in the R.A.N.V.R.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“T.M.”: A line in an agony column
caught my eye: “Please come home,
mother fretting. If no money, wire, ring
or write. Will send money.” It reminded
me irresistibly of Bert, with whom I
shared an empty room in the Fitzroy
wilds in the depression days. Bert, it
seems, was married and a father, and
back home there awaited comparative
wealth and ease if he cared to return.
Day after day letters came from his wife,
enclosing amounts ranging from £1 to
£lO and urging him to come back. Bert
returned them all without a word. “No
fear,” Bert would say, “she can’t buy
me. A man should be boss in his own
house. I wanted to learn the cornet and
I’m going to learn the cornet.” And,
often starving but never yielding, he’d
tootle through the hungry hours.
* * * *
“Bouquet”: Dedman is somersaulting so
often these days that he’d make a vaude-
ville acrobat envious. The weskit,
brought back from its regulatory tomb,
has received such an ovation from the
tailors that I fancy that garment must be
the most profitable in the whole sac suit.
The joy among the snips is about
balanced by the gloom prevailing among
patriots who hopped in and got a giggle
suit of the sort that caused Dedman
such oodles of self-satisfaction when he
sponsored it, and who now have to carry
cigarette butts, tram tickets, nail files, etc.,
in among their papers in the inside coat
pocket. The re-established sanctity of the
servant, too, affords me great satisfac-
tion, as the thought of dispensing with
the services of my seventh under-
gardener, who also acts as the wife’s
manicurist and can, I believe, also drive
a locomotive, occasioned me great pain.
To regularise, as it were, all future
deregulations of the Dedman Regulations
I suggest that the Government should
lose no time in setting up the
8.F.R.E.R.1.8.D. —Board for Repealing
Embarrassing Regulations Issued By
Dedman.
“Chevroford”: A count in the Mel-
bourne indictment against the Dedman
suit was that Melbourne had been made
the victim of Sydney arrogance, Ded-
man having been advised against weskits
by tailors in the northern city. Bunkum!
The complainants were victims of man’s
immemorial timidity in the face of con-
vention. There is no law to prevent the
well-dressed Melbourne man from wear-
ing a cardigan in lieu of a waistcoat, but
he would no more do that than
walk down Collins-street naked. He
doesn’t mind wearing a colored shirt be-
cause everybody else wears one, but 50
years ago he would have destroyed him-
self rather than do so. Apropos, an artist
friend of mine took the colored-shirt
fashion from Footscray to London, and
when he turned up at a function in
a bright blue shirt bought in Bourke-
street English guests nearly split their
sides with laughter. A few years later
Edward P. appeared on the Riviera in
a shirt of similar bright complexion.
Within a week all the nobility and gentry
of England were following his example.
» * * ¥
“D.E.”: A George Canning jingle has
stuck in my mind for many years:
Little Billy Smith lives here.
Billy Pitt made him a peer,
And took the pen from behind his ear.
The Smith of whom it was written —he
never forgave Canning—was grandfather
of the lively character whom N. S. Wales
knew as Governor Carrington—Wynn-
Carrington the family calls itself now.
Pitt was, of course, the statesman, great
son of a greater father —also William
Pitt till he buried himself in the Lords.
And now I see in one of the Sunday
papers that Australia has acquired a
Billy—no, Mick—Pitt. No statesman he,
not a descendant of famous men, nor
English—no, a Pole “of Jewish extrac-
tion, as short and slight as a jockey,”
who made a cool £40,000 at the spring
meetings betting in big amounts. What
a good easy mug-country this is when
an immigrant from eastern Europe can
take an illustrious English name and let
himself go in an obsequious Sunday rag
on his gambling coups when there was
a war loan on the market, and travelling
badly!
* * * *
“Taniwha”: For the last 50 years the
Prohibitionist influence in Maoriland's
Parliament has been manifested in legis-
lation (sometimes very skilfully and un-
obtrusively) in the direction of outlaw-
ing and ostracising all trade in intoxicat-
ing liquor. This hostile and repressive
attitude of the law to the licensed
victualler makes itself felt in most Fern-
“ We'd better get away from here. I believe it's out of bounds!"
*and hotels, where Bung and his entour-
age purvey beer with an air of sour
disapproval. Drinking, they seem to
imply, perforce there must be, but just
let anyone start to make merry! And
now a Wanganui magistrate, after close
study of the latest Licensing Act frills
and furbelows, has decided that a Bung
who gives a friend a nip after hours
commits a breach of the law, and he has
fined one £lO for the heinous crime.
Common law says Bung is in exactly the
same position as any other citizen when
dispensing hospitality, but a 1942 M.L.
regulation makes it an offence to “sell,
supply or expose” liquor outside bar
hours. It is rumored that the 1943 Regu-
lation will be phrased “Sell, supply, pos-
sess or expose.”
% % He *
“1.0.A.G.” (Buenos Aires): “Strath-
bogie” (B. 13/5/’42) mentions the death
of Mick Reardon at 79. One of the
Kelly brothers is actually alive today in
Buenos Aires. A Victorian, born at
"I've got a girl in the W.A.A.A.F ., and my husband's fighting
in the V.D.C."
Glenrowan and a neighbor and school-
mate of the Kellys, tried for hours to
prove that this fellow was a fake, and
at last was compelled to admit that he
is what he claims to be. Kelly is an old
man, but in good health. Sometime ago
he was in a Wild West show here crack-
ing stockwhips and riding steers.
» * * *
“Adelaide”: This city is gradually
growing out of the sleepy restfulness
which has always astonished visitors. A
skeleton tramway service was granted a
year ago for Sunday mornings, and now
a 1 a.m. daily car service is to start from
the railway station for about 20 distant
suburbs. This will supply a growing need
for munition workers who reach the city,
nearly all by train, after midnight; also
suburban street lamps are being kept
alight till 2 a.m.
* * * *
“Louden”: Both Bungs in the two-
trough town were at their wits’ end. Old
Corriedale, good spender and inveterate
drinker of schnapps, had arrived in town
for his annual bender a month ahead of
schedule. A half-bottle on the shelf at
the Royal represented the district’s supply
of his favorite tipple. A messenger had
been sent by car to the big town 50 miles
away for more, but two hours must
elapse before he could return. Fortu-
nately it was the custom of Corriedale
to knock over two or three spots at one
pub, then go to the other and surround
a few more, and keep on going back-
ward and forward at varying intervals
until the jag ended. On this occasion he
downed the first two at the Royal, then,
running true to form, left for the other
drinkery. The Royal’s schnapps got
there just ahead of him. A bit later it
came back, following and overtaking
Corriedale. At the end of two hours the
car, with ample supplies, and the end
of the half-bottle came in sight together.
* * * *
“C.S.”: Before the war few men
bothered to get more than three or four
shaves out of a safety-razor blade, and it
was a popular belief that that was all
they were good for. Now, since they’ve
become scarce, there is a host of gadgets
for refurbishing old blades, all guarantee-
ing years of service from one blade and
most fulfilling it. Where were they be-
fore? Was it impossible to sell them to
improvident shavers, did the blade-
makers keep them out, or was it that
nobody ever thought of them until the
need arose ?
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: A little crowd gathered
in Pitt-street while three heavy iron con-
traptions were carried to a salvage-collec-
tion wagon. There was speculation as to
what they were, and few recognised them
as the old iron letterpresses that used to
be part of army officers’ furnishing in the
’nineties. Probably the “copying ink”
that was employed to write letters in the
old long-hand days, and certainly the
letter-copying books, the tissue-paper
pages of which had to be damped before
the letters were inserted for reproduction,
would be hard to buy today. The letter-
presses containing much solid cast-iron
had been dug out of the junkroom in an
old office.
* Jjc *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: Radio commen-
tators, war publicists and armchair gen-
erals love big general words, and their
latest darling is “global.” “This is a global
war, and the only peace that can be con-
sidered truly victorious will be a global
peace,” says a special writer in the
“Argus.” One gets a general impression
that the “Argus” writer has such a sweep-
ing grasp of the issues in the present con-
flict and the requirements of social recon-
struction that he can produce a scheme
which will blend in perfect harmony the
Japs, the Chinese, the Zulus, the Eskimos,
the Germans, Russians, Jews, Finns,
French and British, not to mention the
Tierra del Fuegans. I doubt whether he
has such a scheme. If he has, the “Argus,”
which still quarrels with its contempor-
aries on such simple subjects as the liquor
traffic, State Parliaments and mixed bath-
ing after dark, has been able to withstand
its pacifying influence.
* * * *
“S.Y. Another”: “Another 0.C.” (B.
2/12/’42) might not be able to recall
Slonyhurst, but I can, together with an-
other classic in snobbery as well as the
retort courteous. The reply received from
Eton upon the request of the captain of
Stonyhurst for a game of cricket was
“What is Stonyhurst?” To which the
Stonyhurst reply was courteously re-
turned “Stonyhurst is what Eton was, a
school for gentlemen.”
PRE-ADAMITE.
A 1,000,000-years-old skull of the first male human
hemg of whom records exist has been discovered in
Java, according Dr. Koeingswald, of the Carnegie
Institution.”— Cable.
A million years ago! If the assertion
Be true, I vvonder where’s the cleric who’ll
Essay to reconcile it with the version
They hammered into us at Sunday school.
Say. what of Eden and the happenings listed
Therein, back forty centuries or so,
If good old Homo sapiens existed
A matter of a million years ago?
The Peking man, the Piltdown man, and others
About whose ages pundits disagree,
The record of this new discovery smothers
Eor sheer and absolute antiquity.
No Missing Link is here, whose skull displeases;
He doesn’t differ much from us, you know,
Our ancestor who braved Batavian breezes
As early as a million years ago.
He lived and moved, grew thinner or rotunder,
Like you or me, upon his frugal fare;
Hunted the mastodon, I shouldn’t wonder.
And trailed the brontosaurus to its lair,
Or fled, more likely, from such fearsome
creatures
To roost in trees aloft or caves alow.
The first of fauna blest with human features,
Our forebear of a million years ago.
He lived and ate and drank and fought and
hated,
And loved, of course. It’s tolerably clear
That if the species hadn’t cooed and mated,
Increased and multiplied, we’d not be here.
He paid with life too often for his bungles
And, come to think of it, there’s much we
owe
To him who jigged and jogged through Java
jungles
A matter of a million years ago.
.Long aeons passed ere o’er the earth he lorded
Who erst ran wild in woods or dossed in dens.
Here’s to the earliest occiput recorded
As tenanted by Homo sapiens!
And spite of all the scientific glories
We heirs of all the ages have to show,
I feel some doubt we’re sapientiores
Than him we glimpse in prehistoric stories
Who did his dash a million years ago.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE HARD WORD.
“ ‘You are a swine.’ ‘A man ought to punch you
on the jaw.’ ‘You are a lying hound.’ ”
Vic. Parliamentary amenities.
These chaps inside our Parliamentary portals
Who guard our welfare and our laws decree,
What pointers they can show us humbler
mortals
In stinging gibes and slashing repartee!
How thoroughly they scorn polite evasions,
Content to say exactly what they mean
Upon the fairly numerous occasions
When wigs are on the green.
Laboriously-phrased circumlocutions
From those who’re fain to wound but loath
to strike
They leave to less exalted institutions.
Church synods, for example, and the like.
When moved to register disgust or dudgeon
The rapier as a weapon they condemn;
The knuckleduster and the homely bludgeon
Are good enough for them.
They reckon polished rhetoric less effective
Than lingo blunt and pungent, square and
straight,
The sort of terse and withering invective
That used to be entitled Billingsgate,
Argot in which the only implication
Couldn’t conceivably be plainer made.
In short, they seldom fight the inclination
To call a spade a spade.
The bullocky’s vituperative clangor
Echoes no more along our rural ways;
The repertoire, they tell me, of the ganger
Has mellowed somewhat since the olden days.
But would you hear the pointed insult bandied
About when nerves are frayed and tempers
flare, , ,
The blague by one and all that’s understated,
We still have Parliaments. And, to be candid,
It’s not outmoded there.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Tuart”: In N. S. Wales last year
there were 1493 divorce cases in which
the decrees were made absolute. Deser-
tion for three years or more was far and
away the most frequent ground, 856
couples (519 of the suitors were wives
and 337 husbands) being sundered on this
score. Next came adultery (429 ; 185 of
the petitioners husbands) and “non-
compliance with order for restitution of
conjugal rights” (274; 175 husbands).
More than half the successful petitioners,
779 in fact, had been married 10 to 24
years, the 10-14 group having a melan-
choly lead over all others with 410 suits,
then coming 15-19 (238) and 20-24 (131).
The 1493 dissolved partnerships yielded
only 1819 children. In 550 cases there
were no offspring ; in 449, one child ; in
271, two children ; and 153 of those 410
10-to-14-years unions were barren. In
N. S. Wales, at least, there is sound
statistical warrant for the old saying,
‘Children keep the home together.”
* * * »
“Ajax”: Perhaps so few contemporary
orators and writers employ well-phrased
invective (B. 25/11/’42) because it is in-
effective. A man who is really angry
with another is too busy being angry
to pick and choose his words. He may
perhaps feel exasperated frustration be-
cause he can’t express his feelings ade-
quately, but the moment he starts to
search for suitably mordant words he be-
gins to calm down ; and if he succeeds
in his quest he ceases to be a really
wrathful man and becomes a satisfied
artist. Because people instinctively recog-
nise this, a burst of high-class invective
fails in its objective. It evokes amused
appreciation of its author’s invec-
tiveness rather than the indignation
it was intended to produce. If people
hear a man, in a voice stuttering with
anger, call another a dirty rat, they know
he hates that man ; but if they hear him
describe the other in a picturesque pro-
cession of brilliantly caustic phrases they
know he is being more clever than angry.
“Mick”: Invective? King O’Malley’s
effort was fine: “I trust all good and true
Australians will swear by the altars of
their gods, the tombs of their ancestors
and the cradles of their unborn children
that they will never vote for men whose
sole ambition is to destroy the Common-
wealth Bank, and whose brains if ex-
tracted, dehydrated, placed in the quill
of a cock-sparrow and blown into the
eye of a flea would not even make him
wink.”
» * * *
“Vimy”: That the Japanese were the
first outside race to land in Australia is
suggested in the opening chapter of Wil-
liam Moore’s Story of Australian Art.
He describes the discovery in 1838 by
Lieut, (afterwards Sir George) Grey of
rock paintings in a cave on the Glenelg
River, W.A., representing human figures
curiously dressed. There were inscrip-
tions in some language unknown to Grey
and his fellow-explorers. At a meeting
of the Australian Association for the
Advancement of Science in Sydney in
1898 an explanation was given of the
meaning of the signs, said to be hiero-
glyph employed by the Japanese until
the twelfth century, when a modification
of Chinese ideographs took . their place.
The Korean alphabet is derived from this
form of writing, and inscriptions in it are
found in Siberia as well as Japan. The
meaning of the Glenelg writings was
given as “The number of the hopeless is
sixty-two” (circles to that number giving
the numeral). Presumably the crew of a
shipwrecked Japanese vessel. Date,
about the end of the ninth century.
* * * *
“Cloviski”: Returning to a changed
Australia after straying long in heathen
parts, 1 set out in my ignorance to buy
my very small son a teddy-bear. But
because of Dedman or W. S. Gilbert or
someone it couldn’t be done. Teddy-bears
are still in stock; in fact they were all
over the shop, but they can no longer be
sold to Australians. Any base, deceitful
Australian who might think of getting
an Allied colleague to buy one for him is
also forestalled by the all-foreseeing law-
giver, for the only way in which the for-
bidden thing can be sold is by direct
posting from the shop to an address
abroad. I regretted I had not bought
one in South Africa. I noticed plenty of
them for sale there. No doubt Aus-
tralians buy them for posting to Aus-
tralia.
“Craiser”: When 60ft. of garden hose
was put up at an auction at Heidelberg
(Vic.) and bought by a woman for a
tenner, nobody knew that an offence or
offences had been committed. But no-
thing escapes the war-time departmental
sleuths, and all but £2 10s. of the pur-
chase price had to be returned to the lady
—those prices are fixed. But the sale of
hose without a permit is banned, and it
is now expected that the auctioneer and
the lady will be hanged, drawn and quar-
tered for committing a sin against regu-
lations, and that, as to be the occasion of
sin is the same as sinning, the citizens
who pushed up the bidding will be boiled
in oil or something.
* * * *
“Hamfat”; Theatrical salaries? I
mind me the time when the favorite
jape in theatrical circles was “My boy,
there is a lot of talk about actors being
engaged at three and four pounds a
week, but do they get it?” Just-dead
Fred Bluett started at 30 bob a week.
When Williamson paid Julius Knight £4O
a week it was a subject of awed com-
ment amongst theatricals.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The Victorian school exami-
nation system had a spotlight thrown on
it recently in the Williamstown court. A
man was committed for trial on a charge
of having unlawfully detained a boy of
13 without his parents’ consent for four
weeks. The boy gave evidence which
vividly recalled an incident in Ethel
Turner’s Seven Little Australians. His
alleged abductor made a rope ladder
leading to a manhole in the ceiling of his
dwelling through which he lifted a
stretcher and lantern. Here the boy slept
while the man was away on night shift,
and when detectives came the lad
promptly climbed into his dugout, pulling
the ladder in after him. Under cross-
examination, the boy said that he was
bad at sums, was scared of an approach-
ing examination and had asked his pro-
tector to help him hide until the exami-
nations were over.
“I left six bottles of beer on the platform. Have they been sent in yet ?”
“Melbn”: Melbourne “Herald” re-
cently stated that a nonagenarian woman
had lived in the same house for 48 years,
and this was claimed as a record. It was
piomptly trumped by a man who de-
clared he had occupied the same subur-
ban villa for 60 years, and the figure
steadily mounted as fresh elderly stayers
announced that they had not shifted for
as far back as they could remember.
Probably the prize, if there is one, will
go to Ben Watson, of Trentham, for
v/hom it is claimed that he has slept in
the same room for fourscore years and
three. The fact that it is still called “the
boy’s room” about clinches the matter.
* * * *
“C. Pipe”: Women! What must the
missus do a few weeks ago but stop deal-
ing with the grocer who has been serving
us for years and switch her custom to a
smaller man. Her reason was that she
felt that the old grocer was favoring
some customers at the expense of others,
and that she suffered because she was a
cash customer, whereas those who ran
big accounts every month got the best
of it. Also, the new grocer was a nice
man, and they’d just had a baby and his
wife worked in the shop, poor thing, and
—well, it was her job to provide the food
and I could mind my own business. It
was my business. The old grocer is
licensed, and I was depending on him
for half a dozen bottles for Christmas.
« * * *
“Pitt St.”: Calling at a place in Sydney
which Americans use for some military
purpose or other, I found, fixed to the
counter for the use of anyone who de-
sired attention, a klaxon horn. What on
earth would happen in any of our own
Government departments should such an
instrument be sounded by any taxpayer
in search of service?
* * * *
“Bumpk”; Modern prophylaxis! A
Melbourne mother, up to date in the
latest medical improvements, was dettol-
ing, powderffig and plastering a quarter-
inch scratch on one of her infant’s toes
and agitatedly talking about the neces-
sity of an anti-tetanus injection. Look-
ing scornfully on was her country cousin.
“When I was her age and any of us fell
down and busted our knees,” she snorted,
“we used to sit on the back doorstep and
let the dogs lick the sores. And I look
healthy enough, don’t I?”
* * * *
“C.U.”: They dub the German air-
raiders “Circumstances” over here (Vent-
ror, Isle of Wight), and this is how the
Isle of Wight “Mercury” flippantly
records their interferences;
“Mr. Circumstances” arrived at Steep-
hill round about 4.30 p.m. on Saturday,
accompanied by a whole lot of elements,
and as there was not room for him and
the cricketers at the same time the latter
were forced to give way and the game
was abandoned.
And another:
“Circumstances” make it impossible to
hold services in the Congregational church
on Sunday next.
The church and an adjoining hall had
received extensive bomb damage a few
days before.
• » * »
“Rooinek”: Mention of Delarey (B.
9/12/ ’42) recalls his dealings with Aus-
tralian troops —most notably for them at
Elands River in the middle of 1900, when
a small unit defied his commandos and
was besieged for a fortnight until relieved
by Kitchener. One of the Boers’ best
fighting leaders, the writer remembers
him with great respect because of
personal participation in the smash-
up at Nitral’s Nek in June, 1900, when
Delarey captured five companies of the
Lincolnshire Regiment, a squadron of the
Scots Greys and two guns of “O” Bat-
tery, R.H.A., and chased the rest of us
down the Magaliesberg Valley to the
shelter of the forts outside Pretoria. A
most uncomfortable night it was with the
rearguard, periodically dismounting from
wornout horses to fire at the flashes of
the Boers’ rifles and wishing that
Delarey would betake himself and his
burghers to hell. All who fought against
him during the long scrap would will-
ingly salute his ghost with a hearty
“Sakabona!”
* * * *
“C.Q.”; The “man bites dog” type
of news has been achieved at Tina-
amba (Vic.), where a dog set fire to a
house. Hopeful, aged five, was bitten by
the dog and scored one up on the canine
by pouring kerosene on it and setting it
alight.- The dog ran into the house and
set it alight, causing £125 worth of
damage.
* ♦ * •
“Jurumudi”: Dutch merchant skip-
pers are high in praise of their Javanese
seamen, one stating that they are
“Nature’s gentlemen, fearless, faithful,
enthusiastic.” This particular captain had
a cup of tea offered to him by his “boy”
when bombs were falling on the bridge,
and was so taken by surprise that he
ordered the “boy” off the bridge. He
apologised afterwards. Other Javanese
manned the guns alongside the white men.
It might naturally be asked, if the material
was of this quality, why the Dutchmen
made so little use of their 80,000,000
subjects in the Malayan archipelago dur-
ing the Japanese invasion. The reason is
that they carried on the old Portuguese
tradition of “Divide and rule,” drawing
most of their forces from the Outer Pos-
sessions amongst races that were as alien
to the Javanese as a Russian is to a Ger-
man. That the Indonesian is a good
warrior when he has some cause to fight
for is shown by the fact that the Acheen
war in Sumatra lasted 29 years.
“Lao-dah”: A once well-known Mel-
bourne tailor, having made a fair com-
petence and tired of the hustle and bustle
of modern existence, decided to get away
from the cares of civilisation on some
idyllic Pacific island. He sold his house,
handed the business over to his partner,
went to his self-centred paradise, built a
house, installed an electric-fight plant,
made a garden and settled down, like
Diogenes, to lead a solitary fife. Now
his house is a flying officers’ mess, his
garden a landing ground for aircraft and
he himself is training for the Air Force.
* * * *
“Yair”: There are three sure ways of
getting into print. First, “Father and
son enlist together,” with picture. Second,
“Over eighty but tries to enlist,” with
picture and interview. Third is to have
an offspring of six or seven years and
send her or him direct to Mr. Curtin with
a pound or two and the explanation
“earned by running errands, sir, for the
war effort!” Not being a father-and-son
or a rejected volunteer of eighty-odd, 1
have patented the third dodge.
* * * *
“Nakh”: If Freud hasn’t made much
progress at the universities he has at least
made some inroads into the suburban
nursery. A Melbourne mother heard a
crash and a bawling, and rushing into
the infants’ bedroom saw her four-year-
old daughter standing triumphantly sur-
veying the postrate form of her howling
baby brother. “What has happened?”
said the mother. “He took my doll and
I pushed him off the cot,” said the young
hopeful blandly. “Was I anti-social?”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Australian idioms? A
shy little Indonesian sailor chummed up
with a New Digger in Melbourne.
“How do you do, sir?” he said politely,
obviously using up most of his available
stock of English. “Well,” drawled the
Australian, “I feel that low that if I had
to look a snake in the eye I would have
to get a ladder.” I wonder what the
Javanese matros made of it.
* * * *
“Avon”: Every now and again some-
one arises to tell Maorilanders they have
no national culture. Latest is Winston
Rhodes, lecturer in English at Canter-
bury College.
Nationally, we New Zealanders have con-
tributed nothing to the world. We are
not New Zealanders, but merely a number
of people. We have not put down our
roots into the soil, and that is most im-
portant in an attempt at national develop-
ment. We have nothing to join us together
as a people. We look upon ourselves as
exiles in a strange land.
“Breathes there a man! ” We Maori-
landers may be an uncouth lot, better
fitted to produce butterfat and Rugby
footballers than masterpieces of art, but
we gave up considering ourselves as
exiles 50 years ago. And if anyone thinks
we haven’t roots in the soil let him try
to pull us out.
* * * *
“F.S.”: I see that Bishop Burgmann,
of Goulburn (N.S.W.), in delivering
the Moorhouse Lecture at St. Paul s,
Melbourne, said that the obvious time to
give children sex instruction was when
they asked for it, and that this usually
happened after they learned to speak
clearly. This is not often so in my experi-
ence. Long before they can speak
children begin to have their associations,
pleasant or unpleasant, fixed around, not
only sex, but food, clothing and every-
thing else that is important to their little
psyches. If their associations are un-
pleasant, the last thing they are likely
to do is to ask questions of their parents.
A modern mother told me she saw
her three-year-old standing by a swim-
ming pool quite naked. “Are you going
in for a swim, darling?” she asked. “No,
lisped the infant. “I haven’t got me
bathers on, so how could I?” Some little
associational thing or other had given
the child an attitude which would be
heartily approved of by the St. Kilda
Council, if not by Bishop Burgmann.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”; The Bishop of Adelaide,
who said in Perth that he had advised a
number of pupils at a school in S.A. to
have 15 children each when they mar-
ried, was wasting breath. The rate of in-
crease has been astonishingly similar in all
ages and amongst all races. They have just
managed to replace themselves with a bit
over, whether in primitive tribes or m
highly-sophisticated societies, and whether
birth control has been frowned on or
encouraged. War, pestilence, famine
and other natural phenomena have never
made much difference, and only when
there has been a great increase in pro-
ductivity (as when the New World vyas
discovered, and when the steam engine
came to the aid of industry) has there
been any great leap upwards. Families ot
14 were common in Australian pioneer
days, because there was plenty of land
to expand in. Professional men today
have small families because they couldn t
afford to give large families a university
education.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wester”: A long-standing feud be-
tween Mack and Bunting, both old
enough to know better, came to a head
the day of the picnic races. Each had
a nag entered in the Bracelet, and all the
rest scratched, leaving only the two. They
came up the straight with Mack’s Red
Streak two lengths in front It was too
much for Mack. He leapt the fence,
howling “What about your White Star
now? What about it now?” White Star
was Bunting’s nag, and he, too, leapt the
rail and closed on Mack, yelling “Give
’em a go! Give ’em a go!”' Red Streak
galloped up to the wrangling oldsters,
propped, deposited his jockey among
them and fled. White Star turned short
and jumped the rail. That led to a rush
of partisans of both sides and there was
a rare old dust-up. The stewards called
it no race, but nobody cared because it
was a good fight while it lasted.
* * * *
“B. 4”; On our greenhide station,
when abo. camps were numerous, we
ran out of shot, and Mungo, a cheeky
old buck, becoming aware of the fact,
decided to stage a Ned Kelly tackle for a
“handout” while the muster was on. As
the old myall approached the slab villa,
flourishing spears and nullas, he shouted
out his requirements to Mum, who ad-
vised him to seek a warmer climate, at
the same time producing the double
muzzle-loader. In his ignorance of sub-
stitutes, the old rascal spun round, and
smacking his posterior invited the silly-
pfeller missus to shoot. The charge of
rivets he received knocked him flat, and
lubras had to rope and hobble him while
they dug the copper out with butchers’
knives. The station gin, Kitty, was then
dispatched with a bottle of turps to render
first-aid. The subsequent agonised howls
and “Yackais!” announcing the virtue
of the treatment brought gratified smiles
to the face of the missus.
• * * *
“Theo D’ Lite”: “Sou’-west” (B.
25/11/ ’42) repeats an old story that “frac-
ture always strikes downwards.” “Frac-
ture,” so-named from what it, as distinct
from gunpowder, does to rock, is a liquid
called nitroglycerine put up in a solid
form by absorption. It is unstable when
subjected to violent concussion, and
changes to a mixture of gases of the same
total weight and momentarily of the same
volume but under enormous pressure.
This is equal in all directions: upwards,
sideways and downwards. The “striking-
downwards” theory originated because
the damage to what was under the charge
could be seen, but, except at night, when
the white-hot gases are visible, nothing
else seems to happen. The pile allegedly-
driven would be subjected only to its
share of the pressure, and it would take
a lot of patience and perseverance, not
to say gelignite, to coax it a few feet into
very soft soil. If a heavy steel cylinder
is put over the explosive and around the
sides of the pile, the pressure would act
longer and be more effective. There is a
light pile-driving and -ramming tool
which uses this principle, but the ex-
plosive is petrol and air ignited by a
spark.
* * * *
“B 4”: '“Pat Ater” (B. 25/11/’42) can
be assured that the line which anchored
the serpent was of good American white
cotton ; we never saw Japanese gut in
those days. Quite believe that a frog
would melt pronto in Joe’s gut, as the
hydrochloric acid of his gastronomic
department acts as a solvent. Any-
how, a frog is easily melted. Have
seen them dissolve and disappear when
crossing the road on a hot day in dry
weather. Once fried some toads, but on
lining up for supper all we noticed was
that the tide had risen in the pan, the
heat having dissipated the meat.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“J.D.P.”: “Campbell Philter” (B.
18/11/ ’42) appears unaware of the vast
difference between a .303 and a sport-
ing rifle. The .303 lead-antimony cored,
nickel-plated bullet is essentially designed
to penetrate, and its pointed bullet en-
sures great accuracy at extreme ranges.
On the other hand, oval-pointed and
snub-nosed bullets like the Winchester’s
exert a stopping effect due to the shock
of impact on animal tissue which para-
lyses. File the nose of a .303 or bore a
hole in it and you have a missile that will
knock a bull off its feet, the impact at
close range being about four tons. Again,
soft-nosed bullets “mushroom” on im-
pact, and multiply the calibre thereby.
“There's far too many flies about the cookhouse!”
“Yessir—how many should there be?”
I’ll guarantee to knock any boar with a
pea-rifle. There are two vulnerable spots:
the depression just below the eyeline in
the forehead, or in the spinal coupling.
But if you miss, make for your pillbox to
save your own bacon.
* * « *
“Mat’s Mate”: “One o’ me narrowest
escapes,” said Mat, “was in Melbourne
the year King Ingoda won the Cup. I
had a fair sock when I got there an’
slapped a fiver on him, more out of sen-
timent because I’d seen him win a race
over in South Oss the year before. Well,
I got pretty molo an’ must’ve bin goin’
well, but I don’t remember much till I
suddenly wakes up t’ find meself travel-
lin’ in a taxi. First thing I lamps is a
pair of red shoes, an’ I follers ’em up
till I finds a face an’ a couple of big
eyes gazin’ at me. Before I can get a
word out the taxi stops an’ I’m helped
out an’ led through some gates. Next
thing I spots is an arched doorway an’ a
bloke in a gentle smile an’ a nightdress.
I takes one look around an’ then ducks
f’r me life. Cripes, yes; she even had a
couple of bridesmaids ready.”
* * * *
“Betcha”; When the newchum settled
in the district I willingly offered to advise
him—not, he reckoned, that there was
anything to learn about sheep, and this
grazing business had always appealed to
him as an easy living. However, it wasn’t
long before he was over looking for help.
“Worms,” I diagnosed. “Your pasture is
too poor. You’ll have to drench ’em.’
Halfway through lambing season 1 was
again called. “Pulpy kidney,” I ex-
plained. “Pasture’s too rich.” Next, it
was twin-lamb disease, and a few weeks
later foot-rot. “You’ll have to treat
them,” I told him. “And, for heaven’s
sake, move ’em off this damp ground.”
He scratched his head vaguely. Soon
there was a beaten track to his property
while he labored through spells of scabby
mouth, pink-eye, plant poisoning and fly.
“Chronic fluke this time,” 1 pointed out
a bit later. “That other you had was
acute fluke. But, if you will run ’em on
this creek, you must expect trouble.
Lucky you haven’t got black disease, or
some of the really bad complaints.” I
met him coming from the saleyards last
week. “Well, thank the stars I got rid o’
that burden o’ cussedness,” he sighed
relievedly. Then, gazing ruefully at a
little row of figures he’d been calculating,
“Hey, I s’pose y’ don’t know where I
could pick up a few cows cheap?”
$ * * *
“Underbool”: Nothing new in
“D.R.H.’s” discovery (B. 9/12/’42) of a
cocky who solved the man-power prob-
lem by sitting on the machine and driv-
ing the tractor from there by means of
reins. It’s been done before in many
places. But there is something new in a
much-boosted genius like that being con-
tent to use a stripper; the things went
out with horn gramophones.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Was checking up some salt
licks in an old two-roomed hut on the
creek the other morning when Seventy-
fiver rode up. He entered and began
gazing around. “Well, now, I ain’t been
inside this place since old Billy Crew
lived here nigh on 40 years ago,” he mur-
mured dreamily. “Worked for the
station, Billy did. Got a quid a week,
an’ reared ten kids on it. Most o’ the
blokes got round about a quid in them
days, an’ their fam’lies made out right
enough. You young ’uns can’t do it!
Takes the ol’-timers t’ show y’, when it
comes t’ managin’ the cash, eh?” He
strolled to the door. “Well, I better be
gettin’ in t’ town f’r them stores. Just
come this way in case y’ might be
wantin’ somethin’ brought back. An’ —
er —reckon y’ better lend us a few quid.
The prices these flamin’ robbers charge
f’r things nowadays, a bloke never knows
where he is.”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”; The hound put up a black
snake which lit out and, near the edge
of the billabong, flashed down a hole.
Then it flashed out again, with an indig-
nant outsize in yabbies hanging grimly
on to its snout. The expression on the
face of that snake ruined me and the
dog, and, before we could recover, it
and the yabbie had vanished into the
water. I’m still wondering who won.
* si: * *
“D.R.H.”: The Murray is falling, and
in the lagoons, in the sunny green water
and the cool dark basements under grey
old logs there is a great stirring. Down
every green lane through the ribbon-
weed and spiralis fussy old finny gentle-
men in their best green-mottled suits a™
escorting their wives towards the riv er
It waspeaceful there a while ago in th P
grey shadows and in the cloisters roofed
with duckweed whose crimson and purple
barred the water world with the colors
of a stained-glass window. But now it’s
a subway with callop in green and gold
Jos hng the rowdy young cod, water-rats
cal mg out rude things and thuggkh
turtles lurking in the dark corners where
the water-lily roots make an ambush
possible. Its certainly no place f or 1
gentlemanly cod with his portlv ladv
especially when there is no time to col-’
lect the shrimps that peep from among
he reed stems and the fine blue yabbief
that sidle in and out among the tree roots
The open river these days is the only
place for a Murray cod—and when he
gets there 1 m very much afraid he’ll find
those slimy, leather-jacketed parvenus the
catfish in possession of the best reaches
tt „* * * *
“N.”; Called the other day at Blue’s
camp in the bend. The old chap was
bending over a nose-tickling mess in the
frying-pan. “Stay t’ tea?” he invited
Only got rabbit, but it’s a nice young
un Me old cat just brought me in my
half—she alius brings me half uv her
rabbits—a little while ago.”. But I had
to move on.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Whenever I have ex-
pressed my beliefs on the strength of
photographs and a little geographical
commonsense, that the Western Desert
must be very like the top end of S.A. and
the far west coast, it has been received
with that special scorn reserved for those
who meddle with other people’s illusions.
In fact, it was regarded as rather blas-
phemous and faintly disloyal. Now 1 am
vindicated, and by no less a person than
“Ek Dum” (B. 4/11/ ’42), But
it is rather remarkable that
most Australians consider that
deserts are the sole preroga-
tives of such countries as
Africa, and I strongly suspect
that the merino sheep is re-
sponsible. To settlers newly
come from England there
could have been scarcely any-
thing more desertlike than the
gibber plains, salt lakes and red
sandhills of northern S.A. with
a rainfall so slight that a
genuine English clover plant
would perish at the sound of
it. And yet no one in S.A.
these days thinks of a desert
in his own State. Probably
because those same arid lands
were taken up by the sheep-
men early in its history.
* * *
“Avon”: After football,
wild-pig hunting, rabbit-shoot-
ing (with a .22 rifle, not a shot-
gun), the most popular outdoor
sport in Maoriland is eel-spear-
ing. This is done at nigh* in
a sedge-lined creek or lake by
the light of an acetylene flare.
You can operate from a boat
or just wade in. Like other
sorts of fishing, such as trout-
tickling, this has never been
regarded as a highly meritori-
ous occupation, and in war-
time even Maori practitioners
have done it a bit shame-
facedly. But that’s all changed
now. There’s a Dominion
shortage of fish oil, essential
to many industries, and the
Fisheries Research Laboratory reckons
the M.L. fresh-water eel is as good a
source as any. And there are plenty of
them. Lake Ellesmere, in Canterbury
(not far from Longbeach, John Grigg’s
world-famous farm), can yield up 600
tons of eels a year and feel no strain on
its resources, and that’s only one eel-
bearing locality.
* * * *
“Bo”: The new arm of the Lor had
come to Blackendbilli, and it wasn't long
before the populace was aware that the
good old open-slather-at-the-pub days
were gone. The newcomer was a Nark,
and in particular he had a down on
booze for the abo. Perforce Bung had
to hand the cold mitt instead of the foam-
ing schooner to his old customer Flour-
bag. The boong was indignant at this
scurvy treatment of an old patrom
the wassail-jerker was adamant. “Thin
I’m goin’ to get in bad just to let you 8 e
half-shot?” Thus Bung countered the
argument. “Nick off, Flourbag-yr
makin’ the place untidy.” That eV^ nltl =
the sable ex-customer was observed Y
Wilson, the baker, staggering up tne
road burdened with the sign “Blacken
bilh Arms. Nat Brophy, Pf°P- ‘
man of dough requested enlightenmei •
The nig. was biief. “Brophy „
gibum rum, no gibum beer. rl9 u , .
take his blurry license away, finis
bung!”
THEY MAY NOT RIDE AGAIN.
In years that have wafted westward we met on
the blacksoil plain,
Where the furlongs rolled like ribbon and the
bluegrass waved like grain,
And we were a country race crowd who played
on our picnic day.
When life was as bright as sunlight and war
was a world away.
fhc sunrays shone on the satins and gleamed
on the bay and brown,
And the hours were light with laughter as the
bush boys “rubbed them down.”
We thrilled to the hoofbeats’ music as the reins
grew white with foam,
And they swept the bluegrass under and flashed
round the turn for home.
We met today where the furlongs still ribbon
the blacksoil plain,
And sunrays shone on the satins, but life was
as grey as rain;
For the lads with the carefree laughter who
rode on the highland runs
Are sighting the cold black rifles and manning
the ack-ack guns.
The music had left the hoofbeats and the satins’
lustre fled,
And laughter that lived lighthearted is dead as
the years are dead;
Our comrades whose sun-browned fingers were
fashioned to grip the reins
Have bartered their spurs for mortars, their
horses for fighter ’planes.
We’ll meet in the years unravelled where the
bluegrass dips and waves.
When boys from the highland country are
sleeping in foreign graves;
And then when the hoofbeats thunder and the
dustwrack leaps like flames,
Each inch of the shoe-torn furlongs will ring
to their deathless names.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX MCLENNAN.


“J.R.D.”: Rats had invaded the hay-
sheds and had overflowed into the home-
stead of a far-out friend. In spite of
“Jerry?”
“ Bully!”
his shanghaiing all the cats within a
radius of 20 miles the rodents were still
on top, and his distracted wife had issued
an ultimatum; if the rats didn’t go she
would. A neighbor had suggested carpet
snakes as a counter-attack ; could I get
hold of some? I could—and did, from
a small Sydney shop which retailed Joe
by the foot—lineal, not super or cubic,
After two months I received a cheque in
payment of 40ft. of reptile, with a short
note. “Thanks for the snakes. They
did a good job. The rats have gone,
P.S.—So has the wife.”
. . . . . ,
“D. Grimmett”: Is there any creature
more cunning and cautious than an ex-
rwipnppH rat hpnt nn evading man’s
penenced rat bent on evading man s
poisons, traps and snares? In my feed-
shed resides an elderly doe, who penodi-
cally brings forth young, which I as regu-
larly destroy by means of various cunning
devices. But the old one I could never
catch. Then incautiously I left open
overnight a large pot of fresh tallow. In
the morning there was ample evidence of
where a large rat had feasted. Surely
here was my golden chance come at last.
Carefully I dusted the tooth-scored sur-
face of the tallow with arsenic, not thick
enough to be detected yet sufficient to
kill. That was a week ago ; since then
the sapient rodent has confined her meals
to swede turnips, a bag of which stands
in a corner.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Old Dan bit like a hungry
cod when he heard Long Tom declare
thaf cnm,Borin’* tL mi t c nf o
that somebody hadn t the guts of a
drought-stricken wether. Guts! roared
Dan. “You show me anything with
more. Them there merinos go out on
the plains and battle f’r a crust an’ grow
wool where you an’ me an’ most other
animals wouldn’t stay two minutes. Strike
me, they got everythin’ against ’em. In
a bad year they starve while crows an’
foxes an’ flies eat ’em alive. In a good
year there’s more flies an’ lung-worm
an’ footrot, an’ in between they’re dogged
an’ drafted an’ shorn and shunted here,
there an’ everywhere. The poor devils
never get any rest or peace, an’ all they
can hope for is to die bogged in some
tank or blown on a sandhill if the butcher
don’t get ’em. How long would you
stand it, Tom, or me? Not two minutes,
I tell y’. Yet y’ can go out any time y’
like an’ there’s the good ol’ merinos stick-
in’ to it an’ providin’ the likes of you
with a good job. Don’t talk to me about
’em!” "And Daniel got up and walked
out into the night, overcome.
* * * *
“Nairb”; Three of the new recruits
had been slaughtermen, and keen on their
job. Their first night in camp they told
innumerable stories of the slaughter-
yards and their prowess therein, each try-
ing to outdo the others in the matter of
sheep slaughtered in a day. At last, long
after “Lights Out ” a weary voice from
the corner spoke up. “Sheep!” it groaned.
I’ve been counting blasted sheep lor an
hour, and you blankards have to go and
murder every tenth one!”
“Bogaduck”: Flint rare in Australia
(B 11/11/’42)? Rubbish! Binghi used
it for axes, scrapers, chisels and what
not; you can often find a little of dis-
carded flint tools around old abo. camps.
Lumps of flint for toolmaking were bar-
tered from tribe to tribe, often over hun-
dreds of miles from where they were
found. To find flint go to sandstone cliffs
around our southern coast and you’ll see
huge banks of the stuff, weathered from
the rock and lying as shingle on the
beach. Often, on the cliff above, you’ll
find the ground covered with chips, the
debris from abo. toolmaking factories.
Today a lot of these flints are being used
in ball mills for grinding ore. But Aus-
tralian flint is nearly always of a bluish-
grey color; you only find the real glassy,
yellow flint of Europe at spots like Victor
Harbor (S.A.) and Port Adelaide ships
ballast of the wool clipper days. As for
Are lighting ; hit a bit of Australian blue
flint with a bit of steel that is neither too
hard nor too soft and you 11 get showers
oi sparks.
* . *
“Tracechain”: Strikes me that Iheo
D. Lite s ’ eyesight is a lot better an
his aim when he claims (B. 25/11/ 42)
that all his ricochets came from the dry
box trunks and not from the goanna’s
.armor. The go., of course, has his
Achilles spots, though the man wi e
rifle has to manoeuvre a bit if he is after
f only the paralysed will fall to
nd "jhe m £ rdy wounded instinc-
tiyef make for a horizontal bed and
dig in> and “ Tbe o” would have to climb
and pr i S e sucb loose with a leg of his
tripod if he wanted their kidney fat.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Tuesday afternoon, and
p t f or our section ; with the choice
Q f a cross-country run, or jerks and medi-
dne ba n G r a route march, Sergeant
j a ck, an old-time ped., is already in
sb orts and lopes off towards the west,
followed by a couple of colts who’ll be
sore tomorrow ; a few more are begin-
njng to toss the ball about; the rest look
toward the bloke from the bush and
hope for the best. There are half a
dozen tracks we could take, but all the
morning from beyond the ridge north
°f the drome a low hum and the
flicker of yellow beaters told their own
SQ nQrth wg went This mustering
ig made up mostly of dty chaps> some
of wbom bave neV er seen a binder in
ac tion before, and chasing it round when
draw n by a Fordson is good enough exer-
cise f or anyone ; but one by one they
] ea ve the clattering contraption and drift
across to where the stocks are rising.
j be handling of hay again rolls back the
y ea rs, but there is enjoyment on the faces
D f the tyros, too—they begin by dumping
sheaves every possible wrong way, but
ge t caught up in the steady race of this
team against that, in the reasons behind
correct methods, in the satisfaction of
immediately seeing something for your
WO rk. Boots used to asphalt are red with
a thin paste of earth and the fine spray
f ro m fresh stubble ; noses familiar with
fumes are filled with the perfume of
fresh-cut clover ; and when the mob
finally trudge home they are wearing
grins as broad as that on the dusty dial
0 f the cocky himself and, like him, won-
dering why there can’t be more of it.
* * * *
“Langstroth : Not much going to
Virgil in order to find out anything about
bees (B. 11/11/ ’42). He laid it down that
if you wanted a swarm of bees you chose
a nice, warm day in spring, killed a young
calf and let its body lie in a glade. Bees
would breed in the and it you
came along on the next fine day you
Wo M ld find that ] he b f“ had left the
rotting carcass and would be hanging on
a near-by bush. How anybody could
confuse the buzzing of blowflies around
rotten meat with that cleanly insect the
bee 1 don’t know, but it shows how much
reliance you can place upon Virgil as a
naturalist. As for the tin-banging idea, I
have proved during the 20 years in which
1 have been gaining a living from bees
that this has no effect whatever towards
making a flying swarm settle. But this
I have established—that spraying water,
throwing dust among them with a shovel,
or flashing the sun’s rays on them with a
big mirror will make them look for a
branch and settle on it.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide has got so used to
calling its mountains “the Hills” (Lofty,
the highest local peak, not eight miles
by crow’s route from the G.P.0.,
is 2334 feet) that it was quite
surprised when a bit of moun-
taineering had to be done to
rescue a youth who was out
after rabbits. He was helpless
for some hours 200 ft. from the
top of an 800 ft. cliff, and the
rescuer had to be lowered by
ropes.
» ♦ *
“Arev”: Bill Jupp was about
to climb the steps of the back
verandah when he heard the
voice of his neighbor Murphy
in the kitchen. Retracing his
steps, he took up a vantage point
in the stable and waited for
Murphy to depart, hoping it
wouldn’t be long. He had asked
for an early dinner so that he
could go to the clearing sale at
Thompson’s at the river bend,
for he was keen on buying
young Thompson’s bay coll.
Bill had left his horse at the
blacksmith’s, so he would have to
walk two miles to the sale. Ten
minutes later Bill saw the stocky
figure of Murphy come from the kitchen
and walk around the side of the house.
Then came the slap of reins, the “Giddap,
Barney,” and the diminishing sound of
sulky wheels. Bill hurried into the house.
“Gee!” he said. “I thought that feller
would never go. Dinner ready, Mum?
I’ll have to fly. What did” Mrs.
Jupp managed to get in a word. “Where
were you, Bill? 1 couldn’t see you about.
Mr. Murphy came to give you a lift to
the sale, but he couldn’t wait any longer.
Said he was after that bay colt of
Thompson’s and didn’t want to miss out
—Higgins the auctioneer told him it was
first on the list.”
He % * ♦
“T. Teagle”: Anent the poor cocky’s
lack of city amenities, country folk are
often reluctant to use such amenities even
when placed within their reach. Once
let a seaside cottage, with ice-chest, tp a
well-to-do farmer with a wife and four
children. Mentioned that ice service
could be got for sixpence a day, and told
the iceman to call. But a week later Mrs.
Seedoats was using the ice-chest as a
bread cupboard and still wrapping the
butter in a wet rag, despite an average
temperature of 98 deg. or so, until a
much-poorer married sister from the city
arrived to spend a week with them. A
few weeks after his vacating the cottage
I met Seedoats in the city. “That cottage
of yours with its ice-chest just about
ruined my missus,” he said. “At first she
wouldn’t spend any sixpence a day buying
ice just for it to melt. Then her sister
started buying it herself; reckoned life
wasn’t worth living in the summer with-
out a bit of ice. That’s why I’m here,
buying a refrigerator. The missus reckons
she’s done with oily butter, and the kids
keep singing out for jellies. One hundred
and forty quid it’s costing me, getting jellies
for kids! But she wouldn’t have got it only
I reckon I’ll soon save the cost in the meat
1 chuck away through the summer.”
* * * *
“Avristan”: Sam had drifted in just
as a tramline was being laid. It was
almost complete except for the turn-
table, where a large steel spike which
acted as a pivot remained to be driven
into the ground. Handing Sam a 101 b.
hammer, the boss, after instructing him
to slog at the spike until it was level
with the top of the turntable, returned
to the office where a commercial traveller
was waiting. Divesting himself of all
superfluous clothing, Sam addressed him-
self to the job in hand. As the shim-
mering heat-waves danced up from the
ground, and tiny rivulets of perspiration
coursed down his cheeks, his attention
was arrested by bursts of uproarious
laughter coming from the near-by office
window. As each swing of the hammer
brought forth fresh merriment, Sam's
temper took control. Dashing in the
door he glared at the smiling face of the
boss. “You blasted mongrel!” he roared.
“Laugh at a flaming man would you?
Here, take your damned hammer!” and
he brought it down with a shattering
wallop on the table. If anyone ever
starts to tell the boss a funny story now
he shuts the window first.
* * * *
“Aratta”; “I’ve read of some long-
distance scraps in the Prize Ring days.”
said Bogan Bob, “but they weren’t in
it compared to one between two big
Swedes who wus workin’ on a contract
job where I wus once. They had a
barney one afternoon, an’ flew at each
other. They wus about the same size an’
weight, an’ strong as bullicks. They
didn’t show no science; they’d just
slog inter each other for about five
minits, then one bloke would say ‘Jah’
or something like it, an' they'd stop till
they got their wind back, an’ then at it
agin fer another five minits. They kept
it up fer two solid hours ; then the p’lice
lobbed in an’ lumbered ’em. As the lock-
up was already full with a coupla drunks,
they handcuffed each Swede to a saplin’
gum a few feet apart an’ left ’em there,
dead beat. Durin’ the night the sergeant
wus woke up be what he thought wus a
cyclone. He finds them Swedes at it
agen ; the noise he’d heard wus the trees
swishin’ about as they jerked an’ struggled
t’ get at each other. The doctor
gave it a draw in the end, an’ they wus
sports enough t’ accept his decision."
“What had the doctor to do with it?”
I asked. “Well, y’ see, they belted each
other about with the bendin’ saplin’s
so much they wus in ’orspital for a month
an’ come out the same day.”
« * ♦ •
“Narrin”: With a long-legged stride
and an inquiring air an Australian
traveller has recently journeyed south,
with a lordly contempt for other people’s
fences, over what my map calls the
Olary ridge and the black-oak plains of
S.A. Looking rather like an animated
feather-duster he has arrived in a district
near the Murray River that is noted for
scant and du*ty mallee, red drift sand
and stark limestone gibbers. And, arriv-
ing, he has landed straight into heaven.
Anyway, when 1 passed a heap of wheat
and chaff dumped from the stripper last
night he was there, on the windward
side where the wind had exposed great
drifts of orange-tawny grain, squatting
down as emus always squat when drink-
ing on a steep batter, and just bogging
in to the most miraculous tuck-shop an
emu could imagine.
+ * * *
“Naturala”: The Indian mongoose,
locked in mortal combat with the cobra,
makes inter-round excursions to partake
of an antidote weed. What I should be
interested to know is whether Joe
Blake, matched with a go., courte-
ously waits for the return of his
opponent; whether he takes after
said opponent hoping to catch him
with his mouth full of vegetation ; or
whether he hits out for far horizons while
the going is good? I think that the most
likely reptilian course.
“I ’ear that Dedman bloke's gain ’ to rope us in as domestics ."
HAWK AND CROW.
The hawk on convoy duty swings
Above the lanes of ewes, and he,
When groundlark from her cover springs,
Is beautiful in cruelty.
He makes the stockman catch his breath
Who is less intimate with death.
Regard that crow. At lambing-time
He guards each skeleton of trees.
A universe shrinks to his eye.
I see the setting Pleiades,
yet with a sharper appetite
He watches through the winter night.
r.a.a.f.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery
cloth to grinder discs is
DAVIS
LIQUID GLUE
specially recommended for shearing-shed use.
Obtainable in 40z., Boz., 16oz. and 1-gallon sizes.
Hardware and general stores.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH. Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEY,ILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drench Regularly.
‘J.R.D.”: At present in N.S.W. sheep
country fly, grass-seed and worms are
causing a lot of trouble.
The heavy body of feed has gone to
seed. In most places stock can’t control
it, and younger sheep are sticking to
small patches of grass rather than face
the seed. The result is a form of over-
stocking. The weather has encouraged
stomach worms, and there is heavy in-
festation. Unless preventive measures
are adopted there may be heavy losses.
What with fly and labor shortage there
is little inclination to handle sheep more
than necessary, but they should be
drenched regularly now. It will be too
late when they show signs of worminess.
The large stomach worm is doing most
damage. Watch carefully for anaemia,
sheep may die fat, the worms having
drained the blood from them. Look for
pale skins or paleness in the eye mem-
branes.
Carbon tetrachloride can’t be had, but
a bluestone solution will give fair results.
If nicotine sulphate is available keep it
for the younger sheep. Bluestone and
arsenic may be used as (a) bluestone-
arsenite of soda or ( b ) bluestone-arsenic
pentoxide.
The first is made up by dissolving ylb.
of bluestone in a gallon of water and 2oz.
arsenite of soda (60 p.c. arsenic) in a
gallon of water. When the solu-
tions are mixed together the cloudiness
should be cleared by adding \\ fl. oz,
spirit of salts. The mixture should then
be made up to three gallons with water.
For ( b ) make a stock solution by dissolv-
ing Hlb. arsenic pentoxide in ten pints
of water. This should be clearly labelled
“poison” to prevent accidents. For the
drench dissolve |lb. of bluestone in a
gallon of water and add a pint of the
arsenic pentoxide solution. Make this
up to three gallons with water and strain
through a piece of cloth.
Dose rates of both drenches are the
same, and three gallons should drench
480 grown sheep. The dose for grown
sheep is 1 fl. oz. ; for sheep, 12 to 18
months, f fl. oz. ; 8 to 12 months, \ fl.
oz.; 4to 8 months, 10 c.c.; under four
months, } fl. oz. or 8 c.c.
There will be failures. These sheep
will soon show up and should be drafted
off and drenched with phenothiazine. It’s
expensive but sure.
A Jetting Mixture.
“Bungaree”: To make up 160 gallons
of calcium arsenite you’ll need 21b. caustic
soda, 161 b. unslaked lime and 161 b. white
arsenic and a number of kerosene-tins.
Don’t make it up indoors. Put four
buckets on to boil, and while waiting
divide the caustic soda and arsenic in
equal quantities between four empty
buckets. When water comes to the boil
pour half a bucket on to each soda-
and-arsenic bucket and boil them until
the powder is dissolved. Into another
half-bucket of boiling water gradually
drop 41b. lime to allow it to become
thoroughly slaked.
When the arsenic and soda is boiling
clear, lift the tins off the fire and pour
half a bucket of slaked lime solution into
each slowly, taking care it does not boil
over, then place the full bucket back on
the fire to boil slowly for 10 to 20
minutes. This will give four buckets (16
gallons) of calcium arsenite, which should
be diluted with ten times the volume of
water for the required jetting strength,
making 160 gallons.
If not immediately required, the con-
centrated solution can be put away in
airtight containers. Make up a good
supply before jetting to save time. Cost
of ingredients for 160 gallons is about
10s., plus freight. Buy ingredients in
large lots (lewt. of each); it gives a big
saving on freight.
Accessories for jetting are hard to get.
Rubber gloves and aluminium face
shields are out of the question. A suit-
able shield may be made from tin. The
side of a kerosene-tin will do, with cellu-
loid strips to cover the eye slots.
Shortage of crutching labor makes jet-
ting the main protection against fly-strike.
“The blokes at Buna seem to be doin' pretty good."
"Wot are they getlin'—bream or blackfish?"
Keep the jetting plant in good orde r ,
with a supply of parts most likely to wear
handy.
Lambs and Wheat.
“R. and S.”; In a survey of the fat-lamb
areas of S.A., D. S. Thompson, of Rose-
worthy College, says that the S.A. wheat
belt is particularly suitable for lamb
raising because of the short growing sea-
son, but he isn’t so sure of the marginal
wheat country.
Up on the Mt. Lofty highlands and in
the south-east, where fair rains can be
relied upon and there is scope for pas-
ture improvement, lamb raising is a good
spec., but Thompson holds that since
cattle are necessary to control some of
the pasture growth dairying may com-
pete with lambs for first place. On the
older cereal country, in an area running
from the Adelaide plains out to
Kapunda, up around Port Wakefield and
down Yorke Peninsula, good lambs are
raised, though there is room for improve-
ment in quality. This can only come
from breeding and better fodder crops.
In the newer Murray mallee wheat belt,
where both rainfall and soils vary con-
siderably, where erosion is a problem
and farming precarious, with the result
that holdings are being increased and
going from wheat to grazing, a survey
from Swan Reach west (south of the
river) to the Renmark line and out to
Pinnaroo showed that on the best of the
country lambs did all right, though many
are pure merinos, with some Corriedale
and Polwarth flocks showing up.
This marginal country Thompson be-
lieves fit for crossbred ewe production
rather than lambs, the ewes to go into
the better areas to become lamb mothers.
He mentions that very little recognition
of the ewe business is to be found, and
in that his S.A. areas have something in
common with similar parts of N.S.W.
and Queensland, where people persist in
trying to turn off lambs when the cross-
bred ewe would be a more payable
product. All the same, Thompson is on
souhd ground when he states that the
mallee merino programme-fat lambs or
wool and then sales of stores —makes for
more stable sheep running on that coun-
try than short-term lamb growing.
Stem-rust and Seed.
“Ben C.”: The late rains had their
effect on the earlier parts of the N.S.W.
wheat belt, and it looks as though a lot
of grain will be under standard because
of stem-rust. Some claim it to be the
worst outbreak since 1930, though not as
bad as that year, when heavy damage
was done. In the north-west, around
Gunnedah and Tamworth, some crops
have taken it so badly as to be hardly
worth stripping. Summer rains are an
annual threat to those parts, where yearly
crops are grown and big yields are
common, the heavy black and red soils
being mostly able to produce without
superphosphate and on short fallow.
The new wheats, Eureka and Fedweb,
have done all that was expected of them
in resisting stem-rust, and Bordan has
also weathered it, but to a lesser extent.
Some Ford crops have got through, but
Bencubbin has copped out heavily.
Generally, there is a wide range of bushel
rates, from as low as 551 b. up to 651 b.
There will be a lot of pinched grain in
the area this year.
The abandonment of the R.A.S. wheat
contests may leave some people unde-
cided on the question of seed for next
year. It takes a knowledge of wheat to
assess a crop’s purity and, since it isn’t
advisable to use seed from crops that
have been grown from the same seed for
several years, it should pay not only to
have a look round for good seed, but to
mark off good parts of the standing crop
for seed.
Marking off can be done now only in
late crops, and even then it is too late
for roguing and other measures. How-
ever, standing wheat of any fixed variety
runs pretty true to type in color, appear-
ance and size of heads, and where a few
acres can be found carrying a uniform
stand its value as seed may make it
worth stripping separately and storing in
clean, new bags.
A Nasty Weed.
“B.”; Hoary cress is present in most
parts and a wide summer outbreak has
occurred in South Australia.
The first leaves are innocent looking,
but once it flowers it’s well dug in, costly
to get out and rarely eradicated after it
spreads over a large area. Hoary cress
lowers cereal yields and land values.
Even lucerne finds it hard to stand up
against on alluvial flats. A bad feature
is its underground habit. An inch of live
root can start a whole crop. Digging
and sifting of soil and subsoil are possible
only on a small scale. The Victorian
Department of Agriculture found that
fortnightly cultivations over two years
were necessary to kill the root system.
Salt is the best killer for small patches.
Carbon bisulphide is good when the soil
is dry and porous. Bore 18in.-deep
holes about 2ft. apart ; pour in Hoz. to
2oz. of the bisulphide and seal up. Where
the patch reaches any size try a double
spraying of sodium chlorate. For the
first use a strength of 11b. to one gallon.
After three weeks spray again at the rate
of Hlb. to 21b. per gallon. Acid sodium
arsenite is the best arsenical compound.
Dissolve 41b. white arsenic and lib.
caustic soda in 2\ pints of water. When
one part of this solution is mixed with
100 parts of water stir in five parts sul-
phuric acid —slow-motion method. Apply
in hot weather late in the day and re-spray
on the following morning with water.
L. J. Cook, a S.A. experimentalist,
says that if possible the area should be
continually grazed or covered with a
haystack, manure or sawdust to cut the
cress off from air and sunlight. Another
method is the erection of a fowl-run or
piggery over the area.
Maize for Pigs.
“Pat-Ater”; Pig-raisers should start
now sowing as much maize as possible.
With plenty of warmth and splendid sea-
sonal conditions the maize should grow
rapidly and outstrip the black beetle. At
present the beetle is between hatchings,
so quickness off the mark counts.
There’s need for grain food or grazing
to top-off porkers and baconers, especially
where they’re raised on dairy-farms and
fattened on too much swill: “Fats” are
not wanted as bacon in the Army.
Too many growers forget that the pig
is a grazing animal and needs a balanced
diet, properly vitamised and with suffi-
cient minerals. Left to graze it fills these
needs with greenstuff and roots. Maize,
added to the usual rations, is a splendid
builder. If green pasture, such as field
peas, clovers or millet can be provided
and suitable sheds erected, so that the
animals will have nearly natural condi-
tions, quality will improve.
Hints for the Farm.
“R. Ney”: Crutchings left lying about
are great nurseries for flies. Burn them
or poison them with 1 p.c. arsenic. When
small lots of sheep are being done have
them crutched on a square of canvas or
hessian so that the crutchings can easily
be gathered.
“Longlegs”: In grasshopper country,
where the good season has brought a few
swarms on the wing, keep an eye open
for bare patches of hard soil like clay-
pans, etc. That’s where they’ll burrow
and lay till they emerge in thousands to
deal with the young crop next year. Any
such areas that show a pitting with holes


SEI
CO
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H ; A ; Ros^^^o i> Pty ; JLtd ;^<in^St; j (i SydiiB£
IT’S A TAST MOVING
WORLD TODAY...
Events happen overnight these days. The world is
for ever moving on at a faster rate and so men and
women wish to keep pace despite their personal
feeling—whether sick or well —bright or dull —the
job must be done. You can only give of your best
when you feel fit. If you are constipated, heavy,
livery, or out of sorts there’s a simple femedy and
one that today is followed by thousands throughout
the land, those brim-full-of-energy people who make a
habit of regularly taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills and clearing their systems of the foreign matter
that slows up the works.
DSMORSES n ' n -
Ind.rhß OT
Q?or tke o(l'ver y I LL 3
fe<
BILLABONG” Centrifugals
PUMP
WATER
BY/THEACRE
DT/iTnk
WRITE
TO
THE MAKERS
JOHN DANKS 8 SON Pty. Ltd
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
wmm
ss
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—AH Meals ala Carte. —— Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentrai.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
should be ripped up with the plough as
soon as possible.
“Billinudgle”: Excitement among crows
in a back paddock, stock careering round
for no apparent reason, a flurry among
the sheep, a frantically barking dog are
all worth looking into. They may signify
anything from a treed goanna to a ram
trapped in a fence.
“Doody”: To help make young horses
pull together, hook the near-sider’s in-
side trace to the offsider’s bar and vice
versa. They can veer away from each
other as much as they like then.
“L.C.”: No two calves feed at the
same pace. Each needs its own trough.
In community feeding the fast drinkers
get the slow one’s share, and young calves
gulp too quickly. Slow drinkers on full
milk rations make the best growth.
“C.H.S.”: A Sydney girl has been try-
ing for a month to locate the owner of
a good young Queensland heeler between
14 and 18 months old, three large black
spots on rump and side, head and ears
mostly black, silver ruff with fawn bib
and fawn feet. The dog may have been
brought down by a service man. Short
of the owner, any country person may
have him. Write to M. C. Munday, 257
Bronte-road, Waverley.
“Kernel”: Under new regulations in
N.S.W. you can’t give, lend or sell
second-hand fruit eases to other than
dinkum vegetable- or fruitgrowers or
dealers holding a permit. And you can’t
use second-hand cases for other than fruit
or veges, or destroy ’em without a permit.
Outback Occasions.
No. 66.
THE FROG-FARMER.
As Mother said, it was all through
Father being a goodhearted sort of
bloke who was always willing to help
anybody if he could. Many and many
a time Father has undertaken to do
something without first thinking about
it, and then found himself involved in all
sorts of complications. The business
about the frogs began quite simply.
The University down in the city
wanted some frogs for some purpose or
other, and it wrote to the Agricultural
Department about it. The department
consulted the Agricultural Bureau, whose
secretary had spent a night at our place
a week before. He said that there were
plenty of frogs in the lignum swamp
behind our place —he had heard them
giving tongue all night —and he was sure
that Father wouldn’t mind collecting a
few. So the University wrote to Father.
He was visibly impressed by the letter,
with its embossed crest and Latin motto
and the signature of a man who titled
himself “B.Sc., 8.A., D.Ph., Dean of the
Faculty of Science (Anat.),” and he let
us all see the letter and then put it care-
fully in the drawer in which he keeps
his special papers. After that Father
and we boys went over to the swamp
and started hunting frogs. After splash-
ing about in water and slush for half
a day we got 46 of the things in a
variety of shapes, sizes, colors and con-
dition. Then Father made a neat little
box with air holes, put some reeds and
mud in it, shoved the frogs in and
addressed it to the University. Then we
took it to the railway station, and he
went off and sent a wire about it.
That would have been all right, only
one of Father’s friends —we never found
out which one for some time —happened
to be on the station and saw us deliver
the box. It didn’t take him long to find
out what was in it and, after Father had
gone, he printed under the address the
legend, “From J. Fordcubbin, Frog-
farmer, Lindisfarne.” Some of those
frogs started to sing, and a lot of people
were moved to have a look at that box
and the word got around.
Then it started. Local people would
stick Father up on the road and, with
solemn faces, ask him how the frogs
were doing, and if the game was a pay-
ing one. They wanted to know how
many frogs he ran to the acre, was he
using stud sires for breeding, did he have
a monopoly of the market or could any-
one start growing frogs. Were the city
people taking to frogs as food, like the
French, they asked, and could the frogs
be domesticated, like chooks, or did you
have to run ’em wild and muster and
draft. Had he a registered brand, the
stock inspector asked one day, and was
he prepared to have his frog herd tested
for t.b., pulpy kidney or redwater. Some
silly cow telephoned one day and sug-
gested that it might be cheaper to drove
the frogs and offered Father a complete
frog-droving outfit, “with special tanks
for night camps,” at half what it cost.
We boys copped it, too. Every time
we hove in sight the other lads would
start croaking and hopping and yelling
to one another to “Look out, froggies,
here come the great frog hunters.”
They’d ask us all sorts of silly questions,
like what bait we used and if music
would bring frogs and so on. Our
brother and me had more fights in the
next six months than you could poke a
stick at.
Mother and our sister got some of it.
Women aren’t usually humorous in the
same way as men (they have humor, but
it is foreign to pretty well every male),
but they must have got home on our
women, for Mother started making sar-
castic remarks about Father and about
different women in the district and
Mother didn’t do that unless there was
good cause for it.
The thing spread. Father got a letter
from some bloke named Julien Montpar-
nais, who said he had a “limited clien-
tele” and was prepared to buy certain
types of frogs. He would prefer, he
said, for Father to “treat” them on the
spot and send their legs down in jelly
in airtight containers. Father, always
softhearted where living things were
concerned, shuddered and threw the
letter away. Then, happening to be
near the swamp looking for a stray horse,
our brother found a notice stuck up:
“Lindisfarne Frog Orchard. Visitors are
requested to refrain from whistling. Do
not handle the stock. Unauthorised per-
sons will be prosecuted.” Our brother
pulled it down, but everybody knew
about that notice.
The climax was the arrival at our
farm of a well-dressed, well-spoken
young man with a large camera. “I’m
Bill Henry,” he said, “from the ‘Daily
Splash.’ We’ve heard about this new
departure of yours, sir, and the paper
sent me up to give you a write-up with
pictures an’ everything.”
“New departure?” said Father, a bit
dazed.
“Yes. This frog-farming venture of
yours.”
“Oh!” Father sat down and we boys
moved protectively closer to him. We
felt he’d had enough. There was a short
silence. Then Father stood up, a light
in his eyes, and he looked at us and
said, “Well, everybody’s having fun,
why not us?”
Repressing a couple of whoops as we
caught the drift we dragged that young
man down to the swamp and gave him
such a going-over as man never got
before. We had a lot to work off about
frogs, and we worked it off on him. We
filled him with tales of cross-breeding
and line-breeding and the habits, cus-
toms and manners of frogs. We captured
tree-frogs and brown frogs and king-
crackers, and he photographed them
and us. We did it so well that in the
end, getting back to the homestead tired,
wet and happy, the poor reporter was
talking about giving up newspaper work
and coming up to join us. Mother had
some curried mince on toast and we
swore that it was a special frog dish, and
we put him in his car and sent him away
with enormous enthusiasm.
The poor fellow was quite overcome.
He couldn’t realise that, mean as it was,
we had at last got some of our own
back about those blasted frogs. We
watched the “Daily Splash” for weeks,
but it never had anything about frogs
and, grasshoppers breaking out about
then, the district soon dropped the
subject.


“Without air support, naval strength is virtually impotent, whilst
Military operations, unsupported by an adequate Air Force, are
greatly prejudiced and frustrated."
_£N the full story of Australia’s war effort is told,
one of the greatest contributions towards eventual victory
will prove to have been that of hundreds of Caterpillar
Diesel Tractors and Waugh & Josephson Earth-Moving
Machines ... in building airports, arsenals, naval bases
and strategic roads in record time.
Only with the support of air, naval and military bases
can planes, ships and tanks make full use of their might.
The stamina, brawn and big work - capacity of these
famous tractors and earth-moving machines are provid-
ing these bases at a record low cost to the taxpayer and
are relieving hundreds of men for other essential war
jobs. Our armed forces^have first call on our output.
Meantime we thank our customers who have given clear
right-of-way to our Victory effort.
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.
Unwin's Bridge Road, Si. Peters, Sydney 'Phone: LA 3321
Marquis Street, Gunnedah 'Phone: Gunnedah 326
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton; Mr. R.
Tweedle, Port Macquarie — 'Phone: Port Macquarie 81; Mr. D. McDougall, 96
Kincaid St.. Wagga — 'Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne St., South Brisbane —
'Phone; J 1456; Rankin" St., Innisfaii — 'Phone: Innisfail 47 5
THE PRIME MINISTER, THE HON. JOHN CURTIN.
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
CT 1.33-42
Wanted to Buy.
WANTED TO BUY. —Recordings of Bruck-
ner s 4th and 7th Symphonies. Must be in
good condition. Particulars and price to K.
Mclntyre, P.O. Box 66, Devonport, Tasmania.
Legal Notices.
WILLIAM FREDERICK BENNETT, formerly
of Budgerum, in Victoria, Farmer. Son of
WILLIAM and MARGARET MADELINE
BENNETT. Would the abovenamed (who is
entitled to share in the estate of his mother,
the abovenamed Margaret Madeline Bennett,
now deceased, if he makes claim thereunder
prior to the Third day of August, 1943), or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with MESSRS. CLARKE & GAVAN
DUFFY, Solicitors, of 52 Lydiard Street, Bal-
larat, Victoria?
TO HENWOOD KEITH BLAMEY of Sydney
Solicitor formerly practising at 39-49 Martin
Place Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that the Statu-
tory Committee of the Incorporated Law In-
stitute of New South Wales did on the second
day of December instant ORDER and appoint
that the hearing of a question or matter as to
alleged professional misconduct by you as a
Solicitor particulars whereof have already been
served at your former registered office be fixed
for Friday the 29th day of January 1943 at
11 o’clock in the forenoon at the Board Room
(9th Floor) M.L.C. Building 44 Martin Place
Sydney AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that if you fail to appear at the appointed
time and place aforesaid the committee will
proceed to hear the matter your absence not-
withstanding. DATED this Fourth day of
December 1942.—J. E. GOSLING, Chairman
of the Statutory Committee, 3 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
BRANDAIJER’S
" -.f sv
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDADBR * GO, L UL BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Our Service Department
Information Sought.
CD Date and place where Hargreaves first
found payable gold in Australia ? (2) Details
of the three biggest nuggets of gold found in
Australia? (3) When was gold discovered at
Lambing Flat ? (4) Date and place of the first
discovery of gold in Queensland?
(1) Hargreaves and a young bushman named
John Lister washed the first pan of gold-bear-
ing gravel at the junction of the Summerhill
and Lewis Ponds creeks, in the districts of
Bathurst and Wellington, on the 12th February,
1851. (2) Excluding Holtermann’s Nugget
(75600 z.), not technically a nugget, the three
biggest were Welcome Stranger (22820 z.), found
at Mogiagul (Vic.); Welcome Nugget (22170 z.),
found at Ballarat (Vic.); and a nugget, in
two pieces (29520 z.), found at Dunolly (Vic.).
(3) 1860. (4) Some time in 1853 Samuel
Struchbury, Government Geologist of N.S.W.,
found gold near Port Curtis, at Calliope.
A recipe for dog biscuits ?
Cooked meat, free of fat and gristle, should
be finely chopped and dried a little in an oven.
Then make a dough of good wheaten flour,
separate into about 84 parts by measure, and
16 parts of the dried chopped meat with about
one teaspoon of salt to every 21b. in weight of
the two ingredients; moisten with sufficient
cold water to make a light dough, roll or press
out on a board, mark into biscuit proportions
and bake in a moderate oven until light brown.
Store in airtight tins. If you prefer a biscuit
not quite so flat, instead of the wheaten flour
you can use the self-raising for the next lot.
Finely-chopped bones, bonemeal and phosphate
of lime may be added.
* * * *
Hints on growing horseradish; suitable soil
and planting-time ?
Horseradish is grown from root-sections set
diagonally 12in. apart and 18in. between rows
in well-drained soil not over-richly manured.
Planting for main crop is in early spring. Keep
the soil moist or the roots will be dry and
tasteless. Surplus roots from the autumn
digging stored in sand will keep for next year’s
planting. Seed merchants quote roots at 6d.
each, 3s. 6d. doz.
* • « *
(1) Who composed “Advance Australia Fair” ?
(2) When? (3) Where was it first performed ?
(1) Words and music were composed by Peter
Dodds McCormick. (2) Probably in 1878. (3)
It was sung by Andrew Fairfax at a Scottish
concert in Sydney on November 30, 1878. Also
on Easter Monday, 1880, at the Garden Palace,
Sydney; the programme states that the song
was performed with band and full chorus,
conducted by the composer, Mr. McCormick.
Copyright was registered by McCormick about
that time.
* * * *
(1) Was Bill Beach ever defeated for the
world's sculling championship? (2) What were
Beach's wins and the years? (3) Length of the
various courses on which the championships
have been decided?
(1) No. (2) Beach defeated Hanlan on the
Parramatta in 1884; Clifford, Hanlan and Mat-
terson on the Parramatta in 1885; Gaudaur
and Ross on the Thames in 1886; and Hanlan
on the Nepean in 1887. Then he retired. (3)
Parramatta (N.S.W.), Clarence, Ulmarra,
(N.S.W.) and Woodburn (N.S.W.) are each
three miles 300 yards; Nepean (N.S.W.), Wan-
ganui (M.L.) and Akaroa (M.L.), 3t miles;
Brisbane (Q.), three miles; Zambesi (South
Africa), 3| miles; Rat Portage (Canada), three
miles, with turn at halfway; Tyne (England),
three miles 713 yards; Thames, 4| miles.
* * *
(1) Who is the heavyweight champion wrestler
of Australia ? (2) Did Tom Lurich ever hold
this title ?
(1) Fred Atkins. (2) Some years ago Lurich
claimed to have won this championship, which
he lost to Penchiff. As neither was an Aus-
tralian (both are now naturalised), wrestling
authority recognised Eddie Scarfe as champion.
Many refused to regard Scarfe as champion,
and a tournament was held at Leichhardt
(N.S.W.) Stadium. Atkins won this tourna-
ment.
Brief Answers.
Write to State Forestry Office,
44 Margaret-street, Sydney, for pamphlet on
charcoal-making... .F.C. and Constant Reader:
C. 1.8. will not supply such information. You
could search the files at the Public Library,
Macquane-street, Sydney.... J.N.8.: National
Security Regulations governing the purchase
of cartridges states that such cannot be pur-
chased unless a permit is issued by the police.
It % is possible to buy cartridges inter-State
°iP ** le sa permit, whilst the police have
the power, under the regulations, to determine
for what quantity they will issue a permit
J.D.R.: Sydney agents for the Ditmar kerosene
lanterns are George Wills and Co., 49 Clarence-
street. ...L.T.: Get in touch with Merchant
Navy, York-street, Sydney, or you could try
the Customs Department, Circular Quay, Syd-
ney... -G.G. : No record of receiving it
J.H.N.: Australian Freelance may be obtained
through J. K. Moir, Box 1663, G.P.0., Mel-
bourne... .Eluant: Mick Simmons, Hay-
market, Sydney, could help you with advice as
to materials, etc A.F.W.: Send full par-
ticulars to the dress-designing section. East
Sydney Technical College C.D.M.: Prod
thin wire down holes to full length of holes and
Pou r turpentine down each of the cavities.
Fill holes then with sealing wax. Only effec-
tive way of eradicating wood-borers is by fumi-
gation ... K.8.P.: Kingsford-Smith had Pethe-
“dge; with him on his last flight... .Q 100,000:
Ihe 1919 Rugby League team in Maoriland
played nine matches, won eight, lost one;
points for 443, against 93. First Test, at Wel-
lington, Australia won 44-21 ; second Test, at
Christchurch, M.L. won 23-10; third Test,
at Auckland, Australia won 34-23 ; fourth Test,
at Auckland, Australia won 3J2-2. Caples, Craig
Carstairs, Cubitt and Watkins have played
against ML, List of the greatest R.L. forwards
or Australia, M.L. and England too extensive
to publish.
Answers to Correspondents
Name f,nd address must appear on the MS.
tso liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
F.S.T.:
“Democracy is dying.” This the cry
From parrot throats that never knew
Xo *P eak a thought, untrammelled by a lie
Where sky and sea and everything is blue.
J.B.C.:—-
Dednmia dreadful Dedman, let’s up and at him, too.
T.C.: Wordy and weak M.C.: Try that-
one on a woman’s paper and let us see some
T.EJ.: Much “Too Late’’....
nTTr merely scrapes an old furrow....
.M.L.: N°t for us R.H.: It’s “intermit-
tmgly bad and worse... .G.R.: Rubbishing.
. ...0.1.K.: You might be able to give it away
a! l f ' -C-W-: Slushy sentimentalism....
Out with you; it’s a thinly-disguised
copy of an A. C. Headley story.... C.H.:
Your schoolboy hero would have better scope
lor his talents in Hollywood T.D.: Dull
and depressing... .T.C.Q.: They’re merely
fragments; and not very interesting fragments.
. ...D.G.: You fail to make it real F.H.:
Let s say it just once more: Leave battle
scenes to those who’ve seen them.
TO ARTISTIC (AND~INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C'-V.R.. Mary is the first Myall gin we’ve
seen with a bunchy-top hair-do and a dinner-
plate lip N.P.: Stage Irishman with a 12in.
space between lip and nose, a pipe stuck in
hat, carrying a shillelagh and shouting “whisht,
begorra!” is as dead as minnie golf.


DUNLOP IS NOW WORKING
90Z ON WAR PRODUCTION
n
n
ii
Dunlop
* v
mm.
mm
¥S:is?v
M
V
mMsj
I Y/here once
i| - p re ma ~?«■
ft
- v - tP
m
pill
ij
{ ° r lhC
beC d P | S' erVlC ~~^^~ T ~ J ~^j
IffS sermoo rl^.
■ buoys taking the.r
CAP^ e 1 place.
are not —
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
★ Save all your RUBBER SCRAP for
the Official Collector
.
i
pv
w
CRAVEN
(joull appreciate Mm
E 1869
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
MADE SPEC
64
99
00
mi
The Story of Stalingrad.
“Ek Dum”: On August 25, after a
long but confused struggle, of which the
ins and outs have not been told, the
Germans issued this official report:
North-west of Stalingrad [on Aug. 23]
German infantry divisions and mobile
troops forced a crossing of the Don and,
pressing eastward, broke through strongly
constructed enemy defence positions. On
the rest of the Don front enemy attacks
were frustrated by the resistance of Italian
troops.
The region in which this break-through
was made was Kletskaya, 75 miles n.-w.
of Stalingrad proper. Vichy attributed
it to a panzer division, which drove to
the Volga and established itself at
Dubovka, a few miles above the factory
section of the main objective.
The taking of Dubovka was never offi-
cially denied by Moscow. Its firm occu-
pation would certainly have cut the Volga
north of Stalingrad. The German High
Command waited till October 1 to con-
firm that this had been done; then it
referred to a German armored corps of
“brave bearing” which “already in the
last days of August, by a rapid advance
from the Don to the Volga, had cut
traffic on the river and severed the com-
munications of Stalingrad to the north-
west, thus creating the preliminary con-
ditions for an attack on Stalingrad itself.”
This armored corps, it was declared,
had for several weeks “formed a barrier
of heavy fighting against highly superior
forces.”
With this cover and with that of a
drive which had come up the south side
of the Don bend, and on the Don itself,
from the Tsymlyanskaya crossing along
the Novorossisk railway, the Germans
attacked Stalingrad fiercely. By Sep-
tember 30 the enemy had a clutch on a
large part of the city, and was boasting
every day of his success in bombing the
Volga and destroying shipping upon it.
The Russians indicated that they were
surviving by dint of the existence of a
narrow bridge across the H-mile-wide
stream near the Volga elbow, on which
men and materials crossed at night from
the Asiatic side.
But Stalingrad resisted heroically. Berlin
admitted heavy pressure from relief
armies striking from north and south.
On September 25, a month after the
Germans crossed the Don to the Volga,
Konstantine Simonov, a Russian corre-
spondent with the Red Army, said that
Stalingrad “consisted of a 40-mile belt
along the Volga bend, including Stalin-
grad itself and clusters of satellite vil-
lages, settlements and partly built up
districts.” For a month, he said, “this
entire region” had been “mercilessly
bombed, and now its terraced houses,
piers, embankments and factories are
shattered beyond recognition”:
Fires rage day and night, and from across
the Volga the entire western horizon is
lighted by the flames.
The aged and the young, he wrote,
“live precariously in caves and in ravines,
where with a few rescued planks and
blankets they seek shelter from the wind
and rain and the enemy’s incessant hail
of bombs.” Others had crossed the
Volga in rafts and small boats —“a peril-
ous journey, in spite of the covering
smokescreen,” and many had perished.
“The whole Stalingrad area,” he added,
“has become a battlefield. It has no
inhabitants, only defenders.”
A German military spokesman described
Stalingrad as “a scene of sporadic mobile
warfare over a field of ruins which occa-
sionally assumes the local quality of posi-
tional fighting... .The only objectives in
Stalingrad of moment, the munition and
arms factories, have long since been put
out of operation.”
Then came Hitler on Sept. 30. He
alleged that the High Command’s aim in
1942 had been “to take the last great
Russian wheat area, to take the last rem-
nant of coal suitable for coke, to take
Soviet oilfields or at least render them
unusable, and to make for the district
between the Don and Stalingrad,” be-
cause “the exclusion of the Don, Volga
and Dnieper as traffic arteries means for
Russia approximately the same as or
even worse than if we in Germany lost
the Rhine, the Elbe, the Oder and the
_ „ 5
Danube. „
On “that gigantic stream the Volga,
Hiller declared, approximately 30,000,000
tons of goods are transported in six
months, plus 9,000,000 tons of oil.
This is as much as is transported in a
whole year on the Rhine. All that has
do e „"o“st°Ljrad, will So SfS£
eluded, will become an immense success
You can firm in your minds that nobody
will ever force us out of that area.
. ,
Those sentences committed the Germans
to the maintenance of their hold on Stalm-
grad and the Volga line. To have to come
back from the river and city must then
mea n, for them, a clear defeat, the effects
of which will be felt round the world.


What qualifications
should your trustee
' possess?
He should be thoroughly trustworthy, possess
sound business experience and have know-
ledge of the law relating to trusts. He should
be able and willing to undertake the some-
times very heavy and continuous duties
involved. An individual possessing such
qualifications is hard to find. Moreover, he
must eventually age and his powers decline.
Neither is he immune from misfortune, and
he may die long before the trust is completed.
To vest a trusteeship in an individual is to
leave the consequences mainly to chance and
it is a mistaken compliment to ask a friend
or relative so to act.
It is for these reasons that business men well
versed in affairs have for more than 64 years
appointed The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited to manage their estates.
The company’s services are devoted solely to
the care and management of the property of
its clients. Its Directors have wide experi-
ence and proved capacity and the duties
involved are not vested in one individual—
the company’s service “goes on for ever”.
Consult your solicitor or call or write for
further information.
CggpfgJ
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY. AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled') and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,622,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman, ,
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; 6. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
HEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
. W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder. ;
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French- r_
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughe'
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman; P. R. Baker; F. W. Dues bury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
£t £> £ £ £
1910 . . 121,588 39,352 28,9'61 7,388 45,887
1915 . . 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1920 . . 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1927 ..1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
1930 .. 1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
1932 ..1,316,891 767,756 163,556 762 I 284 817
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO J ’
1933 .. 1,236,329 755,195 149,766 2,700 ) 99S
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO )“ ’
1934 . . 1,039.535 512,522 111,306 8,356 407,351
1935 .. 1,152,200 509,602 134,961 25,700 481,937
1936 .. 1,240,053 519,098 150,892 20,596]
From bonus equalisation account, 1 579,467
£30,000 J
1937 .. 1,290,641 543,115 165,354 11,289 ) KR ,- BS ,
To staff fund, £5OOO ) sCo > B ® 3
1938 .. 1,355,548 600,753 160,031 19,268 1
To bonus equalisation account, £30,000 [ 540,496
To staff fund. £5OOO .. .. ..J
1939 . . 1,368,133 732,398 172,415 21,755 441,565
1940 . . 1,432,037 650,433 188,272 40,698 552,634
Assets written down £557,308 —£322,307 from
visible and £235,000 from inner reserves.
1942 .. 1,457,722 727,279 247,390 11,991 471,062
The present figures were made up just
on a year ago. Their delay in appear-
ance reflects the board’s deferment of
the annual meeting pending adoption of
a modern set of articles. The accounts
now to hand therefore give no inkling
of likely effects on mortality generally of
the fighting in Malaya, Indies and s.-w.
Pacific areas. Australian life offices waived
all restrictive war clauses in existing poli-
cies in September, 1939, and have offered
war - risk cover within Australia on
new policies since without extra loading.
And to the City Mutual “Australia” in-
cludes New Guinea, a benefit not con-
ferred by all outside contracts. A C.M.L.
policy’s terms are generally liberal in
their cover.
Apart from their lateness, compara-
tive value of the latest accounts is some-
what lowered through the backwash,
apparent in exes., of the recent ballots
and litigation resulting from contests for
seats on the board, inter alia. These
other things included an independent in-
vestigation of asset values, following
which mortgages and freeholds were
written down by £557,308—£322,308 from
visible and £235,000 from inner reserves.
Though some of the apparent fat thus
disappeared in the 1940 accounts, soli-
darity hasn’t been impaired, and, the ad-
justments being purely book entries, net
earning power wasn’t effected one way
or the other thereby. Taxation lifts and
the investment controls to which all
offices are subject have done that.
Despite these problems, the expecta-
tion of future interest-earning was
placed on a 3 p.c. basis in 1940, and an-
other reduction in the valuation rate,
thus stiffening the protection for policy-
holders, is within the bounds of possi-
bility. With the necessity to provide
against war contingencies and Govern-
ment interest policy, this has affected
past fat bonuses, of course ; but that has
been an almost uniform characteristic of
Australian life assurance. Provisions
now being made can be expected to bene-
fit future distributions once the delayed
rewards of a more conservative invest-
ment policy begin showing up.
This changed programme, which began
in the ’thirties, has been hastened by war-
time closure of normal investment
channels. Thus Government securities
and mortgages, which respectively ac-
counted for 14.8 p.c. and 55.1 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total in 1930, represented
28.2 p.c. and 30.9 p.c. of the assets at the
end of 1941: —
1940. p.c. 1941. p.c.
Govt, securities. . £2,675,236 24.9 £3,178.796 28.2
Mortgages, etc... 3.404,820 31,8 3,481,096 30.9
Loans on policies 1,259,431 11.7 1,273,200 11.3
Properties.. .. 2,200,714 20.6 2,207,929 19.6
Shares and
debentures, etc. 878,266 8.3 885,570 7.8
Cash and sundries 290,091 2.7 252,200 2.2
Another £1,025,000 has been subscribed
to war loans since those figures were pre-
pared, and Government stock is worth
some £lBO,OOO more than book values.
As for 1941 operations, depletion of
field staffs didn’t prevent new business
(£2,043,411) being slightly bettered,
chiefly by reason of a lift of £4B in
the average policy (£442). Income
(£1,457,722) also improved £25,685;
£957,130 (up £15,086) came from pre-
miums and £500,592 (up £10,599) from
gross interest and rents. A heavy crop
of claims on war account and the un-
recurring outgo mentioned were chiefly
responsible for the contraction of £81,572
in the addition to funds, now £10,795,288,
apart from £230,643 in visible reserves.
Taxation, up from £36,929 to £75,238
because of land-tax revisions, also
played a prominent part. Deducting this
item and depreciation (£28,707 lower),
and reckoning on annuities costing 3 p.c.,
management exes, took £lB of every £lOO
of net premiums as against £l6 4s. the
year before ; as indicated, however, the
figures aren’t strictly comparable.
Cheap Government war-time borrow-
ing and tax influences show up in the
net interest return, which fell from 4.61
p.c. to 4.11 p.c. on mean assurance funds ;
but there is still a comfortable margin
over the 3 p.c. assumed. Indeed, the
actuarial (as distinct from revenue) sur-
plus was £274,154, of which £116,965
was credited back to policies in unstated
rates of bonus and the remaining £157,189
held in hand.
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re— Re—
Sept,, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1932.. 467,474 8 p.c. =449,648 ) „
Employees’ Fund, £9OOO j 92..,093
1933.. 482.204 84 p.c. =477,751 ) 01Q r .«
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO ) Jiy.oin
1934. . 567,119 94 p.c. =533,957 )
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO ) J 47.708
1935.. 628,699 124 p.c. =702,575* 873,832
1936. 696,028 10 „ „ 589,017 1 IQ6 on g 79 -
Employees’ Fund, £lOOO | lub > ull 979,843
1937.. 774,695 104 p.c. =649,179 125,516 1,105,359
1938.. 841,839 114 ~,, 711,005 130,834 1,236,193
1939.. 855,709 12 „„ 741,919 K ns 7Qn , 0,, QK -
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO | 108 ’ 790
1940.. 870,299 12 p.c. =741,919 128,380 1,473,363
1941.. 809,036 12 ~..741,919 67,117 1,540,480
1942.. 763,438 12 ~,,741,919 ) Ifinol OM
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO ) lb ’° 19 1.5f>6,999
* Includes special centenary bonus of 6d. per shave.
Although public financial policy has
curtailed purchase of hotel properties and
improvements thereto competition in
the trade takes the form of buying up
and improving pubs, thus widening and
anchoring turnover —war activities have
stimulated consumption of beer by
absorbing practically every employable
male, and many females as well, in one
or other of the fighting or supply services
or war-production industries. Besides
this lengthening of payrolls there have
been lifts in wage rates, and our fighting
forces, both here and overseas, have not
gone short of the amber beverage.
Between them Tooths and Tooheys
share all but a fraction of the trade in
N. S. Wales, Tooths taking the lion’s
share. The next table shows the quantity
of beer bought from N. S. Wales brewers
and what it cost:
t —Expenditure—Consumption,
Year Per Head Gallons Per Head
Ended Total, Popu- , A N
Dec. 31, £’ooo. lation. Beer. Spirits. Wine.
1932.. 10,380 £4 0 6 6.99 .24 .49
1934.. 11,490 4 7 7 8.22 .27 59
1936.. 13,320 4 19 10 9.83 .29 .62
1938.. 15,870 516 8 12.59 .31 60
1939.. 16,620 6 011 12.87 .32 .60
1940.. 18,230 6 11 6 13.67 .32 64
1941.. 20,970 711 5 13.75 .30 .74
Lifts in expenditure have been due partly
to increased consumption—possibly be-
cause of population shifts, very small last
year—and partly to heavier excise. The
duty is now 4s. Id. per gallon; 2s. lOd.
has gone on since the close of accounts
in 1939, the lifts being 3d. 1939, 9d. 1940,
3d. 1941 and Is. 7d. 1942. These in-
creases have been passed on to hotel-
keepers and then over the counter to the
consumer by a combination of price in-
creases and adjustments in the size of
containers. The gross return to the seller
depends largely upon whether the bulk
of the beer is sold in small or large
containers, the small being the better
revenue-producer per gallon. However,
since March last a Federal edict has re-
stricted production and distribution of
beer to hotels, etc., to two-thirds of the
Jan.-Feb. figures. This, of course, meant
rationing of civilian supplies.
Also, early in August last a fire caused
extensive damage to buildings, plant and
grain at Tooth’s Mittagong malthouse,
and the co. has been a bit short of malt
since. The amount of the damage is not
stated, but it is reasonable to assume that
it was covered by insurance. It was
chiefly the leapfrogging of costs, includ-
ing taxation, that pulled net earnings back
again last year:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Sept., Earnings. etc. Gross. Profit.
1915.. £652,360 £367,566 56.3 £284,794
1925.. 862,934 495,284 57.4 367,650
1930.. 1,593,798 907,406 56.9 686,392
1935.. 1,383,891 755,192 54.5 628,699
1937.. 1,642,657 867,962 52.8 774,695
1938.. 1,819,421 977,582 53.7 841,839
1939.. 2,043,271 1,187,562 58.1 855,709
1940.. 2,251,584 1,381,285 61.3 870,299
1941.. 2.612,593 1,803,557 69.0 809,036
1942.. 2,799,208 2,035,770 72.7 763,438
After allowing £159,921 (up £9615) for
depreciation of plant and rolling-stock
and setting aside something for doubtful
debts, contingencies and probably depre-
ciation of hotel properties, etc., there was
an expansion of £186,615 in gross earn-
ings. But the growth in exes., which in-
clude unspecified taxation, was £232,213.
That left the net result £45,598 lighter at
12.3 p.c. on capital, against 13, 14, 13.8,
13.6, 12.5, 11.8, 11.1, 10 and 8.5 p.c.
back to 1933. The div. was kept at 12
p.c., leaving £16,519 to visibly put on the
shelf after sending £5OOO to staff funds.
Consider the comfortable state of the
finances:
Assets:— 1939. 1941. 1942.
Breweries, etc. £6,544,466 £6,880,511 £6,888,439
Book debts . . 1,158,665 1,298,996 1,002,717
Stock.. .. 370,230 540,282 521,282
Liquid . . 1,060,927 1,328,559 2,060,412
£9,134,288 £10,048,348 £10,472,850
Sundry creditors 1,152,441 1,874,133 2,278,463
Net assets ..£7,981,847 £8,174.215 £8,194,387
Paid capital . . 6,182,657 6,182,657 6,182,657
Breweries, etc. (up £7928), include free-
hold and leasehold hotel properties. The
fine pile of liquids (up £731,853) is made
up of Government securities, deposits
and bank balances. When the books
closed more or less liquids exceeded out-
side liabilities by £1,305,948, an improve-
ment of £12,244.
As for the current term, costs continue
to mount at an alarming rate, beer has
been allotted a minor priority among
coastal cargoes and the full effects of
restricted output will be felt. Still, the co. is
well entrenched, financially and otherwise.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
Dividends* ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 45,061 27,790 7 p.c. = 21,000 56,585
1933.. 47,137 27,790 5 „ „ 15,000 4.347 60,932
1934.. 53,123 27,790 6 p.c. = 18,000 7,333 68,265
Bad debts reserve taken in, £7500 .. 75,765
1935.. 67,105 27,790 7 p.c. = 21.000 18,315 94,080
1936.. 78,228 27,790 8 „ „ 24,000 26,438120,518
1937.. 88,019 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 33.229153,747
1938.. 97,056 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 42,266196,013
1939.. 94,007 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 39,217 235,230
Written off buildings, £20,000 .. ..215.230
1940.. 94,779 27.790 9 p.c. = 27,000 39,989 255,219
Written off buildings, £20,000 . . . . 235,219
1941.. 49,459 27,790 9 p.c. = 27,000 229,888
1942.. 58,571 27,790 71 „ „ 22,500 8,281 238,169
Like most city stores, this Adelaide
arm of the Melbourne Myer business had
its busiest year ever, despite introduction
of clothes-rationing three-parts though.
Fiom now on, however, and probably
for a period after cessation of hostilities,
the business faces greatly decreased sales
and constricted sources of supply, and
the problem will be to reduce overhead
in proportion to the drop in turnover.
A factor here likely to send up the con-
sumption of aspirin is staffing, particu-
larly as Government restrictions, returns,
price-control, etc., have multiplied many
times the work of management. Half
the old male staff of 585 is already in
the fighting services, while the Depart-
ment of Labor and National Service
recently swooped upon 172 girl employees
between 18 and 35 for transfer to war
industry. Replacements must come from
the over-45 group. Rapid industrialisa-
tion, pre-war as well as war-time, has
left South Aus. even more short of labor
than the rest of the Commonwealth, and
Broken Hill is now being looked to to
provide reserves. Also, retail-store space is
being sought for Commonwealth purposes.
Portion of the benefit of last year’s
larger trading was passed back to the
public by reduction of the usual low
mark-up, partly as a result of the Federal
order in April restricting gross business
profits to a fixed money instead of a
percentage addition to cost. “We know
of no organisation of our size or type,
here or overseas, which sells on a lower
margin,” chairman Norman Myer now
claims. Notwithstanding, net earnings
went ahead by £9998, reaching 10.2 p.c.
on the £300,000 of ord. capital after
satisfying the prefs.; still, the parent’s ord.
payment was reduced to 1\ p.c. For
some years previously available ord. pro-
fits had been around 22 p.c. Taxation —
£98,000 in 1941 —isn’t now disclosed.
With imports cut out, local supplies
rapidly dwindling and cotton goods par-
ticularly scarce, increase of stock to over
double the pre-war value is a conspicu-
ous feature. Another is the past three
years’ contraction of £135,500 in the book
value of freeholds:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Capital . . £697,000 £697,000 £697,000 £697,000
Liabilities . . 182,921 329,366 394,497 403,612
Tax reserve . . 30,000 36,000 98,000
Freeholds, etc. 591,892 563,679 506,573 456,388
Furniture,
plant, etc.. . 79,450 64,771 47,894 43,593
Stocks . . 346,950 573,520 705,024 751,046
Book debts . . 129,255 118,410 138,966 63,239
Cash . . . . 26,497 26,099 49,82£ 51,905
Reduction of nearly £76,000 in book
debts is related to a decline of £144,000


few
Wm
1 t-V .V
YOUR ASSETS
YOU never know when circum-
stances may alter the routine of
your affairs. And the threads of
your business, if left in unaccus-
tomed hands, may soon twist into
knotty problems. It is wise, there-
fore, to safeguard your interests by
appointing a competent business
organisation to manage your affairs.
The principals of Smith, Boydell SC
Company act as attorneys, trustees,
executors, and agents under power
of attorney. No detail is overlooked
to render thorough and capable
service in the management and
supervision of the estates and per-
sonal businesses placed in their
charge. Write for an explanatory
brochure.
SmmiBOVDELUCO
Principals: H. Landon Smith, Esq.
F. M. Boydell, A.1.C.A., A.CJ.S.
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
Does Your
Money
Run Away?
’J’HE civilian must practise thrift
in two ways: By saving his
money and by doing without the
things that he used to buy.
Savings that go into the War
Loans help the Nation mightily.
Savings that go into Life Assur-
ance also help, for a large part of
such moneys reaches the War
Loans, yet protects families at the
same time.
The need for savings goes deeper
than money savings. We need to
save In goods that ordinarily we
would consume. The old quatrain
perfectly expressed the spirit of
to-day
Use it up,
Wear it out.
Make it do,
Or do without.
All of us must learn the relation
of thrift to victory. There are a
thousand ways in which, by mak-
ing sacrifices and taking thought,
we can help our country.
The A.M.P. capitalises the thrift of its
members. That is why it is able to
put £ 500,000 a mouth into the IVar
Loans on their behalf.
A.M.P. Society
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman;
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert
Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq., Dr. S. A.
S*mith, Sieptimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
O. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Campordown,
Sydney.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt,
♦ ♦ * ♦
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
Lend your Money to hasten Victory .
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates.
in the co.’s own indebtedness to its
bankers and depositors. The latter move-
ment is obscured in the figures before, tax
provision now being tossed in with sun-
dry creditors. The growth in cash turn-
over is the result of both increased public
incomes and deliberate planning; lay-by
facilities have been practically eliminated
and credit terms shortened.
Apart from the essential civilian service
it renders, the co.’s direct war effort is
apparent in its workrooms, in its active
co-operation with loan-appeal com-
mittees, in the financing and subsidising
of bond subscriptions by the staff and
in the making-up of the pay of enlisted
employees. The management also pro-
vided building, equipment and furnish-
ings for a needed servicemen’s club,
which it manages for the A.C.F. It has
cafeteria accommodation for 200 and is
voluntarily serviced by the staff. All an
effective answer to the charge that the
prime motive of private enterprise is
selfish moneymaking.
Pato Consolidateds used occasionally to
figure in vestibule ’Change dealings, but
local interest is mainly indirect through
Placer Development’s 36 p.c. holding. It
is at present Placer’s main income-
producer. In the year to April, Pato’s
S. American dredges and hydraulicking
units (five each) handled 16,687,000 c.y.
for a cabled profit of 1,580,940 Canadian
dollars, a reduction from $2,262,645
because of lower gold yields. Out of
that have to be deducted depreciation
and depletion, $578,711 in 1941. The big
gravel reserves remain practically un-
changed at 546,000,000 c.y. averaging
14.6 U.S. cents, worth a bit more in
Canadian currency. In the same period
Asnazu, another Placer-Oroville pup,
dug 2,541,200 c.y.; working profit
doubled at $349,356 Canadian, thanks to
starting-up of No. 2 dredge in the lower-
grade section of the property halfway
through the term. There is 66,385,000
c.y. of 12.6-cent (U.S.) wash ahead of
this unit and 26,185,000 c.y. of 30.2-
cent stuff awaiting the smaller plant,
yardage and grade showing minor con-
tractions in each case. Placer’s full ac-
counts may indicate when Asnazu is
likely to begin contributing. They should
also have something to say about the
testing, following conclusion of long-
winded title litigation, of the Nechi
River areas which Placer and Oroville
jointly formed Nechi Consolidated to
exploit—something which may have to
be held over in present circumstances.
* * * *
Fijian goldmines are feeling the pinch
of labor difficulties and scarcity of mining
supplies, and Mt. Kasi is canvassing the
possibility of a caretaker being put in.
On the opposite island. Emperor and
Loloma haven’t distributed anything to
shareholders for over a year. Belated
accounts for the year to Dec. 31, 1941,
show Kasi profits cut in two at £7273
Fijian following a lift from 275. sd. to
325. 7d. in all-in costs ; £1485 more than
was earned was distributed in two
threepenny dividends. After the sharp
downward revision the previous term,
ore reserves dropped again by almost the
amount of the year’s extraction (40,844
tons for 84500 z. gold, or 4dwt. a ton).
The total in sight isn’t much above a
year’s mill-feed at 57,620 tons averaging
sdwt., but recent developments along the
strike of lode are declared “encourag-
ing.” The board has a “substantial” re-
turn of capital in mind.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Corp. records another
small loss of £4843 stg. for the year to
March. It is the London holding co. that
is referred to ; the Australian operating
subsidiary doesn’t pass on any of its earn-
ings these days.
» p m m
Combined cash and bullion resources
of Gold Fields Australian and Moonlight
Wiluna subsidiary were £249,906 stg. at
Dec. 31 last. Outsiders were then owed
£92,094. Difference equals about Is. 6d.
per G.F.A. share.
« * * *
After diamond-drilling to test the sul-
phur possibilities of the sulphide ore at
Burbidge Gold Mines, on the Yilgarn,
Westralian Government is now investi-
gating other deposits; if nothing even-
tuates, Burbidge management says it may
have to go on the dole. Accounts show
a profit of £4305 for the six months to
June, 1941, and of £BO6O, of which £5OOO
was disbursed in a 6d, div., in the next
year—it appears to have been mostly
earned in the first six months. On around
2dwt. heads revenue has barely covered
working exes, on the reduced scale of
operations since. Two leases are owned
—the Great Victoria and, a mile to the
south, the Grand National.
THE NATIONAL BANK
The National Bank is one of Australia’s
leading financial institutions and its
Chairman’s comments on current condi-
tions have always commanded attention
in responsible quarters. In his last state-
ment, made at the end of November, Sir
James Elder draws public attention to
the dangers of currency depreciation and
to the lack of those measures of control,
necessary to save this country from a
rapid inflatory movement with all its
attendant ills. He said:
THE DEPRECIATING ONE
The underlying stability of the Australian
Banking System and its proved adaptability to
changing conditions justify confidence in its
capacity to meet and overcome whatever diffi-
culties lie ahead. There is, however, one matter
over which the System itself has no control
that causes banking authorities and other think-
ing people serious concern. I refer to the de-
preciation of the people’s savings in terms of
goods and services, and more particularly to
the insufficiency of protection against further
and possibly rapid depreciation. There are
clear signs of a continued decline in the already
reduced purchasing power of our £, and —even
more disturbing—there are equally clear signs
that the public does not appreciate the ominous
warning this gives. The fact that no country
has devised methods of financing a war which
completely avoid reduction in the purchasing
power of its money must not blind us to the
dangers of currency depreciation. Present finan-
cial trends in Australia demand that these dangers
must be more clearly recognised and that every
one of us fights with all his might to arrest the
progressive depreciation of the Australian £.
BANK CREDIT FINANCE
Stated simply, this depreciation is a result
of the public retaining the capacity to purchase
a considerably greater quantity of goods and
services than can be provided in present cir-
cumstances. This relationship is being forced
further out of balance by an ever increasing
supply of money, due largely to a heavy ex-
pansion of Central Bank credit at the same time
as goods and services for civilian needs are
progressively reduced. Unfortunately, there are
no signs that adequate steps have been taken
to correct this dangerous state of affairs. No
one denies that war finance requires expansion
of Central Bank credit, but, unless the capacity
of the public to spend be regulated, to reduce
competition between the public and the Gov-
ernment for physical resources, further advances
in prices and costs are inevitable. Already this
competition has brought increased prices, re-
sulting in our today paying £1 for goods which
three years ago could have been bought for
about 16/-.
The complacent acceptance by the public of
methods of war finance which impair the real
value of the currency unit is gravely disturb-
ing. Witness, for example, the shrinkage that
has already taken place in the real value of a
large part of the people’s savings, be they de-
posits in Trading Banks or Savings Banks, Com-
monwealth Bonds or any other claims to money.
DANGER OF “EASY” FINANCE.
The dangers of currency depreciation are so
obvious that one searches for reasons why the
public fails to demand preventive measures.
Possibly the answer is twofold. One reason
may be that the principle that the strength of a
nation’s war effort primarily depends on its
physical resources has been generally accepted.
This has induced the public, or a large section
of it, to assume that finance and financial
methods no longer matter. The other reason
is a widespread belief that our present physical
controls alone —price fixing, rationing and the
like—rare infallible guards against rising prices
and costs. Both these beliefs are wrong and
dangerous. Spending power must be diminished
by all possible means, including limitations on
goods and services for civil use, fixation of
ceiling prices for labor, materials and services,
and lessening the quantity of money in the
hands of the public by taxation and compulsory
loans. Otherwise Australia faces currency de-
preciation and all its attendant ills. Leaders of
all ranks and sections should present this issue
to the community, warn the people against easy
methods of finance, and demonstrate that re-
duced spending power can be obtained only by
a willing acceptance of the necessary physical
and financial controls.
BANKS’ NATIONAL OBLIGATIONS
Reviewing the changes caused by the war on
the work and responsibilities of the bank, the
chairman stated that the fundamental require-
ments remained unaltered. These were clear
recognition of the national obligations borne by
the bank as an integral part of the Australian
banking system, care of money entrusted to the
bank by the public, and its contribution to the
maintenance of the cheque system. These
duties and responsibilities had become greater
and more onerous during the last three years,
adding to the cares of those charged with up-
holding the well-being of the bank.
THE NATIONAL AND ITS SERVICE.
Since the outbreak of war 1046 officers have
been released for war service by the bank.
This involves extra effort on the remaining
male staff, but excellent work is being per-
formed by woman clerks, and the standard of
service to the public is being well maintained.
Sir James gave an indication of the scope of
that service when he said that the trading Banks
handled some 500,000 cheques, representing
£10,000,000 every day, while their new duty
of collecting clothes-ration coupons involves
the receipt of about 3,000,000 coupons daily,
and this on a no-profit Basis. The Bank’s profit
for the six months ended September last was
£137,289 —after providing taxation £131,519 —
and the dividend for the period was 2\ per cent.
—the same as for the previous six months.


Here is
the Solution
TO TODAY’S
GIFT PROBLEM
1 17 r>
. T/
CkJA \
m
i
T°-
’M-
What to give for Christinas or any other
anniversary—is a very grave problem in these days of
coupons and depleted stocks. But why worry? There's
a simple solution. Give War Savings Certificates. They’re
always welcome and appreciated. They cost 16/- each and
are worth £l/-/- in seven years. Or you can give 6d.
War Savings Stamps in a free Gift Folder. Instead of
using up coupons and diverting money into unproductive
channels, you are saving labour and helping Australia’s
war effort. Your gift not only benefits the recipient, but
it benefits Australia, too. Get your War Savings Certificates
from any Bank, Savings Bank, or Money Order Post
Office, and your War Savings Stamps and Gift Folders
from any Money Order Post Office.
GIVE
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
or 6d. WAR SAVINGS STAMPS
and Save Your Coupons
XWS 2-24.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Playing Silly Asses
A glance at Empire war finances will
show Britain and Australia going to the
bad (in debt) at a fast rate, while India,
S. Africa and Canada are in a much hap-
pier position. India, of course, can
hard'y be taken as any criterion; i, is
paying very little more than pre-war
fer its share in the fight, while
doing a roaring trade with the rest
of the Empire and redeeming a lot
of its external debt with its accumulating
exchange balances. Equipment of a large
Indian army is being done, mostly at
Britain’s expense. S. Africa, fine though
its effort has been and will continue to
be, is not so deeply into the fight as Aus-
tralia, and an indication of its participa-
tion is the continuance of its gold indus-
try at near normal pressure. Canada,
while raising very big internal war loans,
is supplying the Empire and its Allies
with such a great quantity of war ma-
tenals that it has been able to pay off
its sterling indebtedness to Britain and
repatriate many British-held Canadian
stocks -
Canada, indeed, is doing a very good
war i ob in a way that will do Canada
som f good at the same time. It has
tbe stage of war dealings with
%£**£££ fnd
dviiian y living requ i r e me „ts. Great in-
dustrial development is taking place in
t h e Dominion, and the cost of war
is being financed much more on a pay-
as-you-go basis than in this country,
Living standards have been reduced
within Canada, and taxation is wide-
spread and heavy, but the industrial and
external financial sinews have been
strengthened greatly for the post-war
re 4 rn °,. rade ' _ , _ inA .
A Australia. Until December 7, 1941,
like Canada was on the side-
"hem &f tteVorld
war Enemy bombers have raided its
outposts, invasion of island territory has
occurred, and submarines have harassed
coastal shipping. From a “two-bob-
in-the-£ war” at the start, almost 50 p.c.
of Australia’s national output has now
been turned over to war purposes, and it
has Allied troops and airmen to feed,
clothe and equip, as well as the hundreds
of thousands of its own men under arms.
With a population only about 65 p.c.
that of Canada it has had to put
most of its fit young men into
uniform, and it has already lost
heavily in action. But in spite of the
realities of its dangers from the enemy,
Australia, as in one major military
matter, has not adopted realistic finan-
cial measures. It doesn’t tax enough in
finding money for war finance. It pays
too lavishly for many services, is inflating
the economy at every turn, and is bur-
dened with biased experimentalists in
the shape of Dedman, Ward and others.
Instead of making best use of recognised
systems of government, finance and in-
dustry there is a strong tide of Govern-
ment activity in favor of socialisation,
which to some Ministers seems to be as
important as the winning of the war.
With this political turmoil and sub-
servience of experts to the manoeuvres of
inexperienced and day-dreaming politi-
cians Australia isn’t quite sure of what
it is supposed to be doing in any direc-
tion. The present Government has gone
on a bender of “social reform” in the
midst of enemy attack. With a war-
finance policy that is weak to danger-
point because of political considerations,
all thought of hard-headed protection of
our post-war future seems to have been
lost in the maze of “new deal” stuff that
aims at a redistribution of “wealth,”
rights and privileges and a cold-shoulder-
ing of responsibilities. Instead of mak-
ing the best of what is an admittedly diffi-
cult position, financially we are making
just about the worst of it. Trade-union
overlordship and civil-service control
have gone to astounding extremes.
While it is not to be expected that we
can plan our war-time economy with
that freedom from immediate danger of
physical enemy assault as in the instance
of Canada, in the majority of cases our
bad planning does not arise from mili-
tary considerations. The major trouble
is political. And it is not merely that
Labor is at odds with Capital; Labor,
as in the case of the Allied Works Coun-
cil and in Caucus, is frequently at odds
with Labor. The result is waste of time,
waste of money, misdirection of effort
and waste of man-power. In the midst
of all the muddle great war work con-
tinues to be done, but much of it is done
in a way that costs us too much now and
threatens to leave us bleary with hang-
over later.
Instead of being able to accumulate
anything in the way of a credit balance
out of its war effort in 1940-41, Aus-
tralia borrowed £l5 million in London.
In 1941-42 we used up all our external
receipts and drew on our diminishing
fund of accumulated credits. As for the
current year, the best Treasurer Chifley
can suggest is that “there is a fair pros-
pect that we shall be able to finance out
of current receipts about £5O million of
overseas war expenditure for 1942-43.”
And Dr. Evatt has arranged with Sir
Kingsley Wood that “any obligations
that we cannot currently meet will be
postponed for consideration after the
war.”
This external position, though not a
pretty one, is not to this country’s dis-
credit. It shows just how widely we
have committed ourselves in this all-
consuming war. But it is high time
we realised how big our com-
mitments are. From several points of
view we are badly placed compared
with some other parts of the Empire.
This, however, isn’t a matter for squeal-
ing or the dropping of bundles. We are
capable of doing a good job—just how
good we don’t know until we try. But
we can’t give of our best while we con-
tinue to play a game of silly asses politi-
cally and financially. Australia, if it
doesn t look out, will be left the mug
of the Allied side when the war is over
largely because its Government refused
to recognise what was what and gave too
much rope to the impulsively greedy, the
mischief-making and the incompetent.
There has been talk of releasing more
Australian wine for sale. Commerce
Minister Scully says on June 30 there
was 16 million gallons of wine in bond.
The industry is in difficulties because of
the loss of the export market, and,
although there has been no cut in the
quota of permitted Australian sales, turn-
over is restricted to last year’s figure.
Average consumption in the Common-
wealth has been about 2,500,000 gallons
annually. Stocks in bond represent about
six years’ normal consumption, but a
policy of free sales now would show a
leap in wine-drinking because of the
shortage of other liquors. Increased
excise on spirits has also affected the
position.
* * * *
The Commonwealth determined a
scale of values for motor-cars sold on a
second-hand basis, and after it had been
pointed out here that cars bought just
before or after the war had generally
done a very low mileage it was decided to
put a higher value on cars up to four
years old. These values were still not
very high—on a £4OO car they repre-
sented about £4O depreciation a year, and
made no allowance for currency in-
flation or the previous level of second-
hand car values, which was high in spite
of severe petrol rationing. Now the
Commonwealth, when it commandeers
a car, treats the scale as a maximum, and
apparently sets itself no minimum—
widespread complaints have been heard
of confiscation without adequate com-
pensation even according to the official
price list. Often the whole transaction
is high-handed and peremptory, with
extremely short notice, particularly in
the case of private cars. Money is being
widely wasted by bureaucracy, and ser-
vice is slow and often inefficient, but
when bureaucracy makes its demands it
gives no concession as to time or fair
dealing. The matter goes far beyond
motor-cars —ships come into the picture
as well. Oddly, where something is hired
or chartered by the Government terms
are usually much more liberal than in the
case of straightout confiscation.
* » * *
Mr. Dedman’s “first-class mind”
(Curtin) is creating first-class problems
for the Government. When he’s not en-
gaged in censoring Father Christmas,
taking the pink out of icing and counting
the buttons and pockets on the civilian’s
clothing he’s mostly either frowning or
smiling at the public from newspaper
photographs that are invariably posed at
an angle for some reason that the Min-
ister alone knows. But in between times
he seems to be remarkably effective in
creating extra work in order to econo-
mise in labor, to waste man-power in
order to save it. He is surrounded by a
sort of brain trust of which his own
“first-class mind” represents the central
force. Many of the efforts in “war organ-
isation of industry” have been childish
in the extreme —theoretical, experimental
or impracticable. It doesn’t seem to haVe
really dawned on Mr. Dedman and his
department that, no matter how much
you organise or reorganise, the thing that
mustn’t be lost sight of is that, in the
long run, the aim is to get the greatest
possible urgent production with the least
disturbance to the community living
standards. Rationing and the policing of
“austerity” regulations are costing this
country dearly in man-power. The Ded-
man system is primitive, and it was
obsolete before it came into operation.
The thing to do is to ration money, by
taxation, at the source of income. Ration
money and you ration nearly everything,
with a great saving in man-power and
printing-paper.
# * * *
Direct Cash Orders, Ltd., a concern
run by Sydney retailers with the help of
£30,000 of 7 p.c. pref. capital (issued in
1934), finds business contracting and pro-
poses to return the pref. money at
225. 6d. per share. Failing acceptance of
the proposal chairman J. Farram says
an alternative will be liquidation and the
return of “all capital so far as the pro-
ceeds of realisation will permit.” How-
ever, the balance sheet to July 31 last
suggests that there should be no difficulty
in returning all the capital, plus a sub-
stantial surplus, to the holders of £34,286
of ord. money, who have averaged 13 p.c.
p.a, since the pref. money was raised.
Return of the pref. money at 225. 6d. is
being opposed in some quarters, and a
suggestion that 255, 3d. should be paid
out has been made, this figure being
based on the market value of other listed
pref. shares, though there are very few
comparable cash-order issues. Opposi-
tion to the scheme also takes the form of
doubts as to whether cash-order trading
has substantially gone for good, in spite
of legislative and other restrictions at the
present time, and as to whether “the
more suitable avenues” for investment of
the returned money mentioned by the
co. can really be found. Legally the co.
is not obliged to pay back more than 20s.
a share. But it is proposing to return
the pref. money on its own initiative, and
up to 245. 3d. is said to have been paid
in the market for the scrip at one time.
The highest price over the last two years
is put by the co. at 21s. 6d.
* * * *
War-damage insurance contributions
by Victorians to Nov. 30 totalled
£2,201,403. Cover granted for these pre-
miums ran to £845.7 million. The number
of insurers was 561,540. Rates of insur-
ance for 1943 will be the same as for
1942.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY, LIMITED.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
With over 90% of the World’s rubber
in Japanese hands a new driving tech*
nique becomes imperative in your
Country’s interests and your own.
Spare your tyres every possible impact
. . corner slowly . . brake sparingly . .
keep speeds down to 30 m.p.h. . . check
inflation pressures daily.
Rubber is far more precious than gold.
Olympic
THE OLYMPIC TYRE
& RUBBER CO. LTD.
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
Pelmanism
for the Scientific Development of
Mind , Memory and Personality.
1943
the end of 1942 the Pelman Institute is in a position
to state that its contribution to effectiveness in all forms
of war effort promises to exceed its contribution of 1914-18,
great as that was.
pROM the desert, the snows of Syria, the jungle, from
the Forces in camp, ship and ’drome, come letters of
confidence and appreciation inspiring the staff of the
Institute to a great intensification of effort. Stimulating,
too, are the letters received from those held to civil life who
seek to get the best from themselves, to do something more
to help the Services and the cause for which they are
fighting.
'Y O its correspondents, men and women, whatever they
may be doing and wherever they may be, the Pelman
Institute sends its best wishes for 1943.
1943. To Victory and Homecomings.
The Pelman Institute,
396 Flinders Lane,
(Corner Market St-), Melbourne.
Telephone : MU 2355.
156
The best defence Australia found it
possessed when war broke out was its
industries. Private enterprise was more
adaptable to war jobs than was the Gov-
ernment. It was attacked and
hindered by political critics, which turned
on increased, world’s-cheapest steel pro-
duction to meet the essential, basic de-
mands of a growing munitions industry.
It was B.H.P. offshoots, plus dozens of
other manufacturing concerns like
General Motors-Holden’s, that first got
into the job of large-scale war-equipment
production. Stewarts and Lloyd’s pipes
became shell-cases, and car chassis be-
came Bren carriers. And during all the
initial groundwork of this great change-
over from civil to military work Labor
politicians yapped their talkative and
parasitical heads off, did little to en-
courage a sensible war effort at all, and
couldn’t see anything in a munitions
manufacturer except a profiteer. When
Labor’s turn for office Came it really
seemed to be in a quandary. But it put
on a bold face, said it was with Churchill,
and suddenly started out on great “social
security” doings. Mr. Ward, who while
an Opposition member had said (in
criticising the £B.B million defence Esti-
mates of 1936-37) “as a matter of fact
the workers of Japan, Germany and
other overseas countries are fighting for
the identical things that the Australian
workers desire,” boasted about the great
“social legislation” his party had indulged
in during the ominous period before the
attack on Pearl Harbor. It was this
same person who had said —
I should not be prepared to take up arms
against the workers of any country whether
they be German or of any other nation-
ality. As a matter of fact, because I am
not prepared to do that, I am not prepared
to tell others to do so—
who became the Minister in charge of
vital man-power. He now, incidentally,
opposes overseas service for the militia.
This party of abstract socialistic philo-
sophy and envy, which had never done a
concrete thing in the way of defence, has
since used Australia’s defence programme
as a cloak for socialisation of industry.
It aims at removing the power and dis-
cretion once possessed by private bank-
ing, for a start, and is over-regulating
everything. National Security Regula-
tions transmit enormous powers to the
civil service, and frequently these regula-
tions go beyond the needs of the war. It is
to a bureaucracy of civil servants that, in
a socialistic state, direction of all indus-
try would pass. The question many
people are asking now is, When the
National Security Regulations expire six
months after the end of the war will they
disappear entirely or will peace bring
wider political interference in our daily
lives? Heaven help Australia if it does.
Just imagine our future “security” if our
banks and our B.H.Ps. become Govern-
ment departments.
* * * *
Australasian Petroleum, before the Jap
attack drilling deeply for oil in southern
Papua, will resume operations “when cir-
cumstances permit.” Steps have been
taken to safeguard the enormously expen-
sive plant—the most up-to-date drilling
equipment in the world. Oil Search, Ltd.,
which possesses the only Australian in-
terest in Australasian Petroleum, has in-
creased its holding to 205,500 £1 shares.
* * * »
One of the few cos. listed on Austra-
lian ’Changes to increase its profits
recently has been the Henry Jones jam
and preserves concern. Total earnings
of the co. and its subsidiaries have gone
up from £249,354 to £272,796. Of the
latest profit £200,764 (£165,530 previous
year) was earned in Australia and £72,032
(£83,824) overseas. Apparently the neces-
sity for feeding troops by means of tinned
foods has given turnover a great uplift
in spite of the threatened shortage of tin-
plate. The dividend remains unaltered at
10 p.c.
Senator Darcey kicked up a bit of a
shindy in Caucus last week when he
pressed for the financing of Australia's
war effort solely by “credit-creation.”
The Senator is one of those unfathom-
able folk who believe that you can pay
for a thing without paying for it. Has
anyone ever tried the thimble-and-pea
trick on him? He should represent an
inexhaustible “market.”
* * * m
Boards under the control of the De-
partment of Commerce are to be allowed
raise salaries and wages of their em-
ployees in accordance with the cost of
living. At present this right is denied
to employers of other “white-collar”
workers unless they are subject to an
award or unless the status of their jobs
is altered by “promotion.” It seems as
though there is one law for the civil ser-
vant and one for the citizen. This
class-distinction was legalised by a
National Security Regulation last week.
Australia every day sees further evidence
of the tyranny of a weak Government
infiltrated and outflanked by bureaucracy
and trade-unionism.
* * * *
A press report says that Australia has
built 22 munition factories and 143 an-
nexes, and their cost, plus equipment and
materials, has been £6O million. There are
100,000 munition workers, apart from
those in industries the output of which
has been largely devoted to munitions.
There was a most impressive “munitions
parade” in Sydney on Saturday.
* * * *
Canadian excess-profits tax is 100 p.c.
of earnings in excess of the 1936-39
standard, with a post-war credit of 20
p.c. of this tax in prospect. Before e.-p.t
operates there is a flat-rate tax of 30 p.c.
of all profits; then, in addition, 10 p.c.
of all profits up to a point where these
are one-sixth above standard. In other
cases, 100 p.c. of excess profits after de-
duction of the 30 p.c. is taken. Australia
so far has no real excess-profits tax,
though companies are taxed heavily if
not rationally. To start with the flat-rate
tax is considerably above the 6s. in the £
paid in Canada. Canadian income tax
on individuals has a far wider range than
in the Commonwealth, and inflation has
been more vigorously controlled in spite
of the influence of the neighboring United
States, where politics enter into finance
almost as vexatiously as in this country.


THE SERVICE MAN
Bloodstained Gona Falls.
“Ek Dum”: With a sigh of relief Aus-
tralia heard that the first stage of the
Buna offensive had closed. Australian
forces held Gona at the week-end and
were menacing Sanananda, on the way to
Buna, which remained the only enemy
stronghold. Attack on this last Papuan
outpost was being delayed by torrential
rains, which have set in for the season.
The first stage of the last phase closed
with the announcement in General Mac-
Arthur’s communique on Dec. 7 that the
lines of the enemy had been penetrated,
east of Buna, isolating one of his pockets
of resistance.
The Japanese were wedged against the
sea in four separate pockets—Gona,
Sanananda, Buna village and Buna mis-
sion, with part of Cape Endiadere, where
U.S. troops had found the fighting especi-
ally tough, and the near-by air landing
strips.
Next day the ground fighting was in-
termittent, but there was a vigorous air
battle, in which both sides used both ordi-
nary bombers and dive-bombers. Some
new Australian Wirraways functioned as
dive-bombers.
Allied losses in the air during a series
of dogfights and bombing raids, which
ranged as far afield as Kavieng, Gasmata
and the Salamaua area, were described as
negligible. On the other hand, six Jap
bombers, seven “O” fighters and five
dive-bombers were shot down, an “O”
and a bomber were destroyed on the
ground at Lae and a fighter intercepter
fell to a Liberator over Gasmata, on the
south of New Britain. The Buna defences
had a bad raking-over.
Next day the enemy lost 10 “Os” in a
running fight over the sea.
On December 8 six enemy destroyers
made the fifth attempt to bring relief to
the beleaguered Japanese. The leading
destroyer was hit by two 5001 b. bombs ;
the remainder fled, one of them listing.
A Japanese barge off the coast was
also hit. At dusk that day supplies were
dropped from the air inside the Japa-
nese perimeter at Buna, where the Allied
air forces continued to harass Tojo’s
troops, who were being compressed day
by day into smaller and smaller areas.
The Gona beach-head, after having
been twice invaded by the Australians,
was at last squeezed down to a space
only a furlong wide and a quarter of a
mile long. Out of this box the Japs
made a last desperate attempt to break,
but it cost them 95 dead. A patrol action
followed, in which 18 more dead were
added to the roll.
Then after all night fighting round the
big pocket in the s.-w. of the village Gona
was all in Australian hands, and the
attackers did not let go.
They were, in fact, unchallenged, for
there were none to challenge them when
they entered the defence positions on
December 9-10 and pushed through the
village, wiping out remnants which refused
to surrender.
Dead in Gona
Gona presented a terrible sight. Every
kanaka track around it had its fresh
dead, every swamp its floating corpses,
and there were more dead caught in the
tangle of undergrowth.
The village itself was found stocked
with ammunition and food. But the rain
in which the fighting had been going on
since the beginning of the week had filled
with water the shellholes which pitted
the landscape, the foxholes under tree
roots and the trenches between dozens
of uprooted trees. Everywhere Japanese
lay dead—here a coolie ; here a lieu-
tenant ; there a high officer, the hand
which still held his jewelled sword cov-
ered in a muddy white glove.
Everywhere there was evidence that the
enemy was as tough as they make them
in Asia. But he met tougher Australians.
The weather had rendered the condi-
tions indescribably horrible. The Jap
had been unable to bury his dead, which
decomposed quickly in the puddles and
the heat. But the defenders had hung on
till beaten by exhaustion and the devas-
tating rush of Australian infantry. Then
many of them destroyed themselves with
grenade and rifle.
The victorious Diggers would be the
last to deny the enemy a tribute to his
skill and doggedness. His dead—of which
638 had been counted round Gona up
to Sunday, while many lay uncounted or
had become the prey of the sharks out
in the grey swell beyond the sand —were
a silent witness to the resistance the
Allies will have to overcome before
Tojo’s forces of evil are beaten, even
though Japanese casualties are certainly
so far much greater.
The price which Australia has paid in
the process of losing almost undefended
New Guinea and Papua and regaining
portion of the land lost is heavy enough
in all conscience, considering how short
a distance we have gone on the road to
victory. Mr. Curtin said in Parlia-
ment that, outside the action at
Rabaul and sickness casualties, fight-
ing in the New Guinea area had
cost 640 lives and total battle casual-
ties of 2190 to December 1. Our
losses have apparently been greater than
those of the U.S. Marines in the Solo-
mons. The Marines’ fine campaign began
on August 7. On December 7 Major-
General Vandergrift gave 7000 as the
total of Japs killed “in purely land
operations on Guadalcanal and adjacent
islands,” and U.S. casualties in these
operations as “about one-tenth of the
enemy’s.”
Unless the enemy can receive further
reinforcements, Papua should be clear of
him so soon as the rain allows a full-
scale attack on his flooded position at
Buna, though he may hold out longer in
the Endiadere area, where the ground is
higher. The Americans have made con-
siderable impression on the enemy posi-
tions. To their weight, after the capture
of Gona, was added that of the experi-
enced A.I.F. and now well-blooded and
seasoned Australian militia ; but over the
week-end the Japs, though continually
plastered by artillery and aircraft, were
still capable of making savage counter-
attacks.
Mr. Curtin’s Review
The Prime Minister disclosed that long
before the enemy landing in the Buna-
Gona area plans had been made to estab-
lish a strong Allied base at Milne Bay,
and that before the opening stage of the
Australian offensive, which began at
loribaiwa on September 28, the south-
west Pacific command had doubled its
earlier strength and multiplied aircraft
numbers, forces and aerodromes.
What may have appeared to be a
period of inaction, he said, had actually
been one of intense activity covered by
a veil of secrecy. Two brigades of the
6th Division A.1.F., on their way home
from the Middle East, had been the only
troops on hand to meet a critical situa-
tion in Ceylon. They, therefore, had
been diverted readily, but if they Jiad
been in Australia they would have been
available for the defence of New Guinea.
Mr. Curtin added that although the spot-
light had been on New Guinea because
of the larger forces involved, “the people
of Australia should not overlook the im-
portance of Timor as a base of operations
against north-west Australia. Japanese
dispositions show that the enemy has
realised this importance as readily as our-
selves. We must, therefore, be prepared
to repulse air and seaborne attacks
against Australia from this direction and
become ready and able to eject the enemy
from his Timor bases as well as from
New Guinea.”
Threat to Supply Lines Smashed
According to Major-General Vander-
grift the main U.S. objectives on Guadal-
canal and the Solomons have been won
and the threat to Australia’s supply lines
has been smashed. He said that 450
enemy aircraft had been destroyed by
forces under his command. The integral
part of the Japanese land force on
Guadalcanal had been put out of action.
The enemy lost 926 men out of 1000 at
the battle of the Tenaruri River
on Aug. 21, and 1500 out of 3000 at the
battle of the Ridge on Sept. 13-14.
He admitted that the Jap might take
advantage of the wet-season weather to
land further troops at distant parts of
the island to infiltrate through it, but
short of this happening he believed that
“all that remains of the present task is
to exterminate the remaining Japanese
on the island.”
Nevertheless, there is still a strong
naval force in the Shortlands area, with
another at Rabaul, which is still strongly
held ; and constant raiding of Kavieng by
General MacArthur’s bombs suggests the
need to administer a salutary check to
enemy operations at the northern tip of
New Ireland.
On Wednesday Fortresses dispersed
an enemy convoy at Faisi. One tanker
was hit three times. An attempt by 11
destroyers to reach Guadalcanal was
beaten off by dive-bombers and warships,
The enemy lost one destroyer sunk, one
set on fire and probably sunk, a third
heavily damaged and five hit by bombs,
The Year’s Casualties
Lists of casualties covering the first
year of the war in the Pacific show that
8192 Americans were killed and 6385
wounded. Army losses were 35,678, of
whom 29,000, including 10,500 Filipino
scouts, were presumed prisoners of war
in the Philippines and East Indies. The
Navy’s quota was 4348 dead, 1434
wounded, 8473 missing; that of the
Marines, 1114 dead, 1370 wounded and
1921 missing.
Heavy as the losses in naval engage-
ments were the enemy’s losses were many
times more,
The Tokyo account is 40 Jap warships,
including a battleship and three aircraft-
carriers, and 65 merchantmen sunk, and
22 warships damaged—the list includes
one battleship and two aircraft-carriers ;
also 556 aircraft “dived into enemy
targets or failed to return for other
reasons.” The semi-official U.S. figures
place sinkings of enemy war vessels at
131, and other types of vessels at 265.
There is no reason to believe that
Japan is pinched for ships either naval
or mercantile. But the time is in sight
when, competing with stupendous Allied
building and faced with the growing
striking power of Allied aircraft, the
enemy in the Pacific may find himself
desperately short.
In North Africa.
“Ek Dum”: Operations in Tunisia last
week were inconclusive. The earlier ones
might be summed up by saying that
Lieut.-General Anderson came out at the
gong with a rush hoping to catch the
enemy in the ribs before he could get
properly on his feet with his guard up.
Met by a couple of nasty blows —one-
two-one at Mateur, Djedaida and
Teburba—the United Nations stepped
back and began to take punches warily
while they got their balance and limbered
up.
The enemy had a comparatively small
perimeter to hold. He had strong forti-
fied bases behind him, stocked with food
and various kinds of ammunition. The
invaders’ approaches to it were restricted
and through difficult country, so that
the defenders had not many ingress holes
to block and could do it with a minimum
of tanks, artillery and men.
The British, Americans and French
were working at the end of hastily im-
provised communication lines, with
limited dumps near the battlefield and
no prepared aerodromes as yet up to the
standards of those 200 miles across the
water, from which the enemy was able
to attack their whole rearward as well
as frontal system.
Every day the enemy was reputed to be
bringing in at least one new battalion,
together with abundant supplies, despite
the continued destruction of transport
and supply shipping by British sub-
marines. Most of the transport job was
being done, after the fashion of the
Crete assault, by ’plane and glider.
It was certain, by the beginning of the
week, that the subjugation of Tunisia
would be a major operation. Before this
can be entered on a foothold from which
to attack will have to be built, supplies
will have to be dumped on a large scale,
and forces strengthened to match the
enemy’s increasing power; and all this
will have to be done during continual
fighting.
The nature of this fighting was illus-
trated early last week by fierce tank
and artillery thrusts. These the Germans
made time and again on the excellently
placed positions which Lieut.-General
Anderson has adopted in the semicircle
of hills through which the approaches
to Bizerta and Tunis must be made.
The Attacks at Medjez-el-Bab
The Allies seem to be strong in medium
artillery, and the 25-pounder has, as
usual, come into its own, while deadly
air battles for supremacy which might
be decisive rage at every opportunity.
The enemy’s air power has been strength-
ened considerably. So has his artillery,
and new tank attacks towards the week-
end were well supported by 77’s ind the
newest types of long-range mortars, with
which he shelled the road junction of
Medjez-el-Bab, s.-w. of Teburba.
On Dec. 10 the bombardment of the
Medjez-el-Bab road was followed by
strong Axis tank attacks between that
town and Teburba against the Allied
bridgehead on the Mejerda River, which
follows the road and rail roughly all
through the 18 miles between the two
towns. This, like most of the rivers on
nearly all the fighting fronts, has been
running a banker.
The attacks were said—though not offi-
cially—to have been pushed back, though
the Germans made claims to have ad-
vanced, captured a strongly fortified
point, destroyed 37 tanks in the day’s
fighting and established air superiority
.over the Allies.
The first attack came on the rear of
the bridgehead and on the western side
of the river, but the second was made
from the east along the road which joins
Medjez-el-Bab to Tunis, 40 miles or so
away. The spearhead used for this
assault consisted of 15 tanks covering in-
fantry. The latter suffered heavy casual-
ties, and several of the tanks were dam-
aged.
The enemy claimed to have captured
the port and railhead of Tabarca, 80 miles
west of Tunis, but this seemed unlikely,
since only air-bome troops could have
reached that point. At the same time he
undoubtedly was reinforcing his small
garrisons at Sfax and Gabes, which, in
common with Tunis and every docking
point where supplies might be landed,
was blasted by Allied aircraft.
Exit from El Agheila
Much of the Tunisian timetable de-
pends on what happens in Libya. Here
again weather had been a deciding
factor in slowing up the British advance,
but at the end of the week the real
fight seemed about due.
There were numerous air attacks,
especially on the German air-base behind
El Agheila, called Marble Arch.
On Sunday the Germans announced
that General Montgomery’s Eighth Army
had launched a tank attack along two
roads on the main front without success,
but that some advances had been made
by a wide sweep to the south. Later a
new Eighth Army division had been
thrown in and at dusk fighting was con-
tinuing.
Cairo’s communique merely mentioned
that forward troops had continued to
probe enemy defences and that air
activity was on a small scale.
Late on Sunday night Cairo announced
that Rommel had abandoned El Agheila
and was in retreat to the west.
He may have another position prepared
nearer Tripoli; but the news advertises
his weakness. With Tripoli only about
430 miles away by crowfly, the Eighth
Army has covered more than half the
distance from El Alamein.
North and South in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Timoshenko’s progress on
the Stalingrad front, as reported by cor-
respondents :
London, Dec. 3: The position of the 22
German divisions encircled west of Stalingrad
is becoming more critical as the Red Army
pushes ever westward, inexorably widening the
gap between the trapped forces and outside
assistance.
It should be noted that a German
division on the average is larger than a
British or a U.S. triangular division —22
divisions would be well over 350,000
men with its supply and transport
services.
London , Dec. 3: The threat of starvation to
nearly 250,000 Germans who are enveloped in
the Don-Volga zone is emphasised by corre-
spondents.
Dec. 5: In the Stalingrad area the
Russians are steadily tightening their grip on
the Axis forces (estimated at 200,000) encircled
between the Don and the Volga.
Dec. 6: At Stalingrad Timoshenko has not
only hemmed in 150,000 Axis troops; he is
chopping up the German rail route to the Cau-
casus.
Dec. 8: The “Times” in a leading article esti-
mates that a belt 20 miles wide separates the be-
leaguered Germans, possibly numbering 120,000,
from the nearest point of the continuous Ger-
man line. The “Times” adds: “It would be
over sanguine to expect an early surrender,
because the German army was presumably
munitioned for a siege of Stalingrad and may be
able to fight for a long time now that it finds
itself besieged.”
Dec. 9: The strength and the disposition of
General von Hoth’s beleaguered army on the
Stalingrad front are still not clear. Some
sources estimate the number of Axis troops
at between 100,000 and 120,000. They are be-
lieved to be operating as a compact whole, with
their eastern defence line in the outskirts of
Stalingrad, and with their western line; based on
low hills a few miles east of the Don.... The
width of the barrier to the west of Von Hoth’s
army is 20 to 60 miles.
Dec. 10: The “Times” Moscow correspon-
dent interprets the new Russian attack on
Stalingrad as a vigorous drive aimed at dis-
organising German preparations for a counter-
offensive to relieve the 130,000 Axis troops still
trapped in the Don-Volga area.
Dec. 11: The British United press corre-
spondent in Moscow says that the Germans are
bringing reinforcements into the Stalingrad
pocket The Germans still control a few Don
crossings below Kalach, but are able to use
them only at night.
This is a fair sample of how the Rus-
sian war is being reported by_ correspon-
dents, the operations being in progress
hundreds of miles from where they write.
In these reports (though not in official
bulletins) the 350,000 Germans originally
trapped have dwindled to from 100,000
to 120,000. The broad belt to the west
of Stalingrad, which was supposed to
hold the enemy hopelessly corraled, proves
to be penetrable by reinforcements —as
it was here said last week that it was
across the area of the main Russian
thrust, where the Red Army was declared
to have carried all before it, even cap-
turing the enemy’s main supply base and
cutting his rail communication. If ODe


vm
Of
interpretation of the situation is valid,
German communications are through 60
miles of solid Russian-held territory!
The Velikiye Luki battle was supposed
10 days ago to be going on well to the
west of that town, threatening Novo-
Sokolniki. The attackers, it was asserted,
were within 55 miles of the Latvian
border. Since then nothing has been
said of a Russian retreat, but all the
fighting mentioned is on the wrong side
of Velikiye Luki, and the Germans speak
of it as in the Toropetz area.
The German Newsagency (D.N.8.) de-
clared on December 10 that the Wehr-
macht had, 30 miles east of Velikiye
Luki, won “one of its greatest winter
successes” pushing the Russians back 10
miles eastward from their original line.
This was followed next day by the asser-
tion of Berlin Radio that the encircle-
ment of 10 Russian divisions (about
150,000 men) north-east of Velikiye Luki,
in the Toropetz region, had begun on
Dec. 8 and had been completed next day.
An official Berlin spokesman alleged the
same day that a German tank spearhead
and motorised infantry had broken
deeply into the Russian rear north-west
of Moscow and captured several locali-
ties, despite violent Red Army attempts
to smash the wedge.
8.8. C. said that the Russians held the
initiative on all fronts and were repelling
“all German counter-attacks”—an expres-
sion scarcely consistent with the Russians
holding the initiative. Moscow officially
reported the continuance of fierce Ger-
man counter-attacks in the Stalingrad
area and on the central front, adding that
all had been repulsed save one in an un-
specified sector on the central front,
where a slight advance cost the enemy
dearly. Both on the central and Stalin-
grad fronts the Germans threw in strong
reinforcements.
Russian communiques for the days pre-
ceding Dec. 12 were concerned with local
operations in and around Stalingrad,
Rshev and Velikiye Luki, on a scale com-
parable with the defensive fighting of
September. At the week-end Moscow
reported fierce fighting s. and w. of Rshev,
and heavy massing of German troops in
the Kotelnikovo region, an apparent
threat to the Russians who had pushed
into the Kalach triangle from the s.-e.
In the first week of the Russian offen-
sive correspondents told the world that
Stalin’s objective was to drive the Ger-
mans out of Russia and especially to take
the Ukraine. In the second week still more
correspondents declared that the Red
Army was driving on Smolensk from only
80 miles away, also on Rostov, having
reached a point 150 miles distant by
dint of hard fighting.
Last week it was stated that the Rus-
sians were bent not on the capture of
territory but upon the annihilation of
Germans and the wearing down of the
German armies. Nothing was said about
a drive to the Donetz coalfields a couple
of hundred miles from the Don front.
Yet Donetz coal and the power to dis-
tribute it would be worth 500,000 dead
Germans to the Red Army.
It becomes more and more evident
that unofficial accounts with which
the public were deluged during the past
three weeks were grossly exaggerated.
While there have been sharp fighting and
sharp losses on the German side, prob-
ably on the Russian side also, there has
been little material change in the terri-
torial position.
The enemy has lost no strong points
of importance. And each day there were
fresh reports of increasingly heavy snow
on all fronts to inhibit large operations.
The German communique of Dec. 8
claimed that, in the Caucasus, German
and Rumanian troops had taken a
number of strong points, that Russian
attacks on the Terek river had been re-
pulsed and 6670 prisoners taken, with
guns, tanks and supplies.
A week-end Moscow communique
claimed 94,000 Axis troops killed and
72,400 taken prisoner (four-fifths Ger-
mans, one-fifth Rumanians) in the Stalin-
grad area (Nov. 19-Dec. 11), 75,000 Ger-
mans killed and 2100 taken prisoner on
the central front (Nov. 25-Dec. 11).
Darwin and Singapore.
“Ek Dum”: At first glimpse, because
of its format, the Australian War
Memorial’s Soldiering On, the Austra-
lian Army at Home and Overseas, looks
like one of the patriotic-fund annuals of
the last war. The title-page states that it
was “prepared by some of the boys.”
The contents, apart from beautiful
color plates and humorous drawings
which are a fine monument to the talent
which has been enlisted in the Austra-
lian Army, include some history appar-
ently so authoritative that the reader is
apt to wonder why this method of issu-
ing it has been adopted, and why it was
not long ago made the subject of
official statements and given the widest
publicity.
It includes, for instance, the first de-
tailed description of the 50 minutes of
hell which Darwin suffered on February
19, after the first bomb to fall on Aus-
tralian soil —a thousand-pounder—hit
Darwin’s peculiar wharf and killed 20
wharf-laborers.
The Japs used 17 bombers, 54 dive-
bombers and 18 “O” fighters on that raid,
and they came down mast-high to wreak
destruction on ships. Later in the
day they used 27 machines. They
wrecked nearly all the shipping in the
harbor apart from the civilian casualties
and damage which they caused, and they
lost only two bombers and three “O”
fighters for certain, though both raids
took place in broad daylight.
The time is rotten ripe for a full offi-
cial statement about the Darwin raid,
comparable with that of the U.S. Gov-
ernment on Pearl Harbor.
Equally interesting and important to
the bulk of Australians are Soldiering
On’s story of the Malayan campaign—the
first credible connected one which has
been written —and the chapter on the
glorious stand of the battalions of the
Muar and Gemas.
The circumstances of the surrender of
Singapore are set out in full.
After the Causeway had been blown
up on the night of Jan. 29-30, the Singa-
pore defences were divided into three
sectors. Changi (north-east), the naval-
base sector, east of the Causeway, was
held by the 11th Indian Division, under
Major-General Keys. The western sector,
from the Singapore pipeline to Sungei
Jurong, on the south-west coast, was
manned by two Australian brigades and
the 44th Indian Brigade, under Major-
General Gordon Bennett. The southern
sector, taking in the rest of the island,
was the responsibility of Major-General
Keith Simmons, who commanded troops
from Singapore defences. In reserve were
the 3rd Indian Corps—lBth British Divi-
sion, newly arrived, and remnants of the
9th Indian Division, which had fought
all the way from the Thai border.
There were no prepared positions on
east or west —the tired troops had to
begin work on their own defences. Some
of them had been fighting for weeks on
end. The coastline was thinly held, but
at least a battalion was kept in reserve in
each sector.
No scouts had been left behind to
follow enemy movements on the main-
land, but on February 4-5 an A.I.F.
patrol spotted concentrations across the
Strait. '
On February 7 enemy aircraft, artil-
lery and mortars began to bombard the
new defences in the Australian sector, the
bombardment increasing to drumfire by
nightfall. The enemy concentrated on
all headquarters in the sector. He cut
all communications in short order and
destroyed all beach lights, beach posts
and beach guns. Later a captured enemy
map showed all these defences and H.Qs.
accurately marked.
During the night a landing against the
A.I.F. was made between Sungei Kranji
and Sungei Berih, and the two battalions
holding the sector were overrun. Only
85 men of one battalion were accounted
for next day. The whole H.Q. and four
company commanders of one battalion
were killed. The reserve Australian bat-
talion was thrown into the fight to fill
a serious gap near Bukit Timah—the
island’s central hill.
The enemy, unmolested in the air—
though Soldiering On doesn’t say so,
our machine strength in the air was never
more than one-twelfth of the machine
strength sent by Britain to Russia in one
year—plastered this position thoroughly,
and followed bombardment with a long
attack. The remnants of the 22nd Aus-
tralian brigade and its supporting Jind
infantry fell back —the Jinds are great
Punjabi fighters, allies of the British in
every war since Lord Lake’s day, includ-
ing the Mutiny; they sent seven men
per square mile to the last war.
The A.A.S.C. company and part of the
gallant 2/29th, which had been in main-
land fighting, and a company of the
gallant 2/19th, in three widely separated
groups, continuously attacked until nearly
wiped out. The remnants within the next
48 hours made their way back to the new
main lines, between Sungei Kranji and
Sungei Jurong.
The 12th Indian Brigade and the 2 / 15th
Indian Brigade were sent forward to this
front, but the enemy in a new landing
found his way through the thinly spaced
posts of the 2/26th Battalion A.1.F.,
which swung back. The 2/30th, holding
the eastern flank of the sector, was com-
pelled to move back in conformity with
this movement or leave its own flank
open. There were no reserves to retrieve
the position.
By February 11-12, the line was about
a mile west of the main road between
Bukit Panjong and Bukit Timah villages
—the sector of greatest enemy concen-
tration. After a consultation with
General Wavcll it was decided to push
this line forward again by easy stages,
but the units were found to be in no con-
dition to attack or even to hold, if hard
pressed.
Though the enemy appeared with
tanks that night and broke part of the
line, the rest of it, with the A.I.F.
brigade, moved forward, but not as far
as intended. The enemy had passed
through a gap caused by the withdrawal
and appeared in the rear at Bukit Timah
village.
An attack by the Thom force—two
battalions and a reconnaissance regiment
of the raw 18th British Division—on the
morning of Feb. 12, designed to drive
the enemy out of Bukit Timah, proved
abortive.
The Australians, with remnants of the
2-15th Indian Brigade, had formed a
perimeter of their own near Reforma-
tory-road. There was a gap between
them and the Thom force on the right at
the racecourse. The Indian 44th Brigade
held the line to the left in extended order.
The line in the eastern sector of the
island had by this time been withdrawn,
and its .remains provided additional
troops to support the Australian sector.
The 3rd Indian Corps and other troops
in the northern sector had been forced
back to the reservoirs near the centre
of the island.
During the next three days the Thom
force had fallen back l\ miles and the
A.I.F. had concentrated all non-com-
batant troops to strengthen its perimeter.
The enemy aircraft meanwhile had torn
Singapore city to pieces, and collection
of civilian casualties had got out of hand.
The armed forces had no effective air-
craft support.
On February 13 Lieut.-General Perci-
val held a conference attended by Lieut.-
General Heath (3rd Indian Corps),
Major-General Simmons (Fortress Com-
mand), Major-General Smith (18th
Division), Major-General Keys (11th
Indian Division) and Major-General
Gordon Bennett (A.1.F.),
General Percival was for attack. It
was decided that the troops were in
no shape for it and surrender was dis-
cussed. The matter being referred to
General Wavell, he counselled fighting
to the last, pointing out that the condi-
tion of the civilian population must not
be allowed to interfere with this military
duty.
On February 15, after matters had
gone from bad to worse and the enemy
had done great damage to water supply
and dumps—the A.I.F. had in the mean-
time collected ample small-arms ammu-
nition, plenty of water and 500 rounds
per gun in this perimeter—there was an-
other conference of generals, who were
joined by the civil administrator and
police head. It is noticeable that no
naval or Air Force men were at either
of these discussions.
The civil hospital had been without
water for 24 hours. Bombing casualties
were occurring faster than they could be
collected. Many buildings had collapsed
on occupants, and no labor was available
to release them. There was insufficient
medical aid or food supply.
Water supply had ceased for the city
and for most of the Army. There were
only three days’ rations, and the troops
were depressed. To save further loss of
life capitulation was strongly recom-
mended. It was decided to send a briga-
dier and the Chief Secretary to meet the
Japanese commander, with the suggestion
that hostilities should cease at 4.30 p.m.
on Feb. 15. It was also decided to sug-
gest that sufficient troops be allowed to
remain under arms to keep law and
order. No other conditions were stipu-
lated. Meantime, arrangements were
made to destroy technical equipment.
There was some delay in finalising
arrangements, since the Japanese refused
to deal with anybody but General Perci-
val. At 8.30 p.m. the cease-fire was
sounded. Units were assembled, and they
stood by for further instructions. The
enemy agreed that 1000 men should
remain under arms until relieved to keep
order.
One thing emerges from the story.
Singapore did not fall because of lack of
courage on the part of its leader or of
its tioops. The disaster can be attributed
almost solely to the Jack of almost every
battle ingredient necessary for victory or
resistance —command of sea and air,
tanks, mobile artillery and automatic
arms.
Even efficient air reconnaissance would
have helped greatly in prolonging resist-
ance, but it was not possible.
Berlin Radio declared on Dec. 9 that
heavy fighting was still in progress in the
Philippines ; American troops were still
fiercely resisting, and fresh Japanese
forces had been landed. When told, this
American campaign and that of the Aus-
sies in Timor (mentioned —too briefly—
by Mr. Curtin) will be among the super-
latively great stories of the war.
* * * *
In the Channel on the night of Dec. 11
the R.N. sank a supply ship and an escort
ship at point-blank range, torpedoed an-
other and damaged the rest of a convoy
of two supply vessels and four escorts.
The Admiralty on Dec. 13 admitted the
loss of a mine-sweeper and trawler.
* He 3|C *
British submarines have destroyed or
damaged eight ships in the Mediter-
ranean in less than a week, including a
merchant cruiser and a tanker.
* * * *
The Germans on Dec. 8 claimed to
have sunk 15 ships totalling 108,000 tons
in the north and mid-Atlantic, including
“the 18,000-ton troopship Ceramic.” The
Ceramic was familiar in the last war as
the largest ship visiting Australia. Berlin
Radio has sunk her three times.
* * ♦ ♦
The R.A.F. has counted 513 ’planes
left behind by Rommel’s air force. Three-
fourths can be repaired.
* * ♦ *
Light raids over Britain killed a few
persons and did a little damage last week.
Over the Continent, British and Ameri-
can heavy machines carried out heavy
operations, despite unusually bad weather,
Naples, Turin, Palermo and Rouen suf-
fering destructive bombing.
* * * *
An Australian Spitfire squadron set
fire to a small merchantman and damaged
an enemy flakship off the Belgian coast
on Dec. 10.
w * * *
An Australian, A. E. Horne, in a Hali-
fax, shot down one of two JUBB’s which
attacked in the Bay of Biscay. The
second Junkers was shot down by the
Halifax’s rear gunner.
* * * *
Chungking reports heavy fighting in
western Yunnan where the Japanese,
heavily reinforced from Burma, attacked
with three columns totalling 6000 men.
* * * «
It is just on a year since the “famous”
John Gordon wrote that Hitler was on
the verge of “the greatest military disaster
in world history.” The “famous” John
has disappeared from the cables, but one
Morley Richards, also of London “Daily
Express,” has bounded into his place.
With a few flourishes of his fountain pen
Morley relieves Stalingrad and Leningrad,
traps whole armies, sentences hundreds of
thousands of Fritzes to death by starva-
tion and “smashes” their whole winter
defence-system. Ordinary people don’t
really expect the Russians to do more in
a winter campaign than maintain pres-
sure on the enemy lines on the chance
of finding a cracking point, in the process
helping General Winter to inflict on them
the maximum of misery. Mr. Richards
will be satisfied with nothing less than
swift annihilation.
♦ * * *
Young Mr. Aldridge’s opinion of the
Tommies is not shared by Gallagher, the
war correspondent. After sliding down the
deck of H.M.S. Repulse and being picked
up black with oil, Gallagher went through
the Malayan campaign and saw every-
thing. Born in South Africa, “the son of
an Anglicised Irishman,” and “writing
without fear, I hope, of being accused of
partisanship,” Gallagher set down this
testimony:
Wherever I have seen fighting soldiers,
heard their tales, known their losses,
observed the results of their victories, I
have found that few men can stand up to
the small-built fighting men from the
British Isles. They are seldom commended,
frequently disparaged, but they fight and
suffer and die as few other men do.
And all without having been taught to
“hate Fascism.”


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Coffee in the Mayoral rooms followed
the parade of mechanised might that had
rolled its thunders past the Town Hall
for over an hour on Saturday morning.
This was heartening to visitors who had
gazed in fascination from the balcony,
or who had stood in the group on top
of the steps where Lord Wakehurst took
the salute. Army Minister Forde and
Munitions Minister Makin were there to
see the good job. Made in Australia, the
ruthless cruiser tanks seemed fit to down
any foe. There were mobile anti-aircraft
guns, death to the maurauder in their
mouths. There were Owen guns, Vickers
guns and Bren guns. In formidable array
the procession rolled past. Here was the
answer that a young nation which had
wanted peace gave to an enemy thrusting
war upon it.
There were lorries on which were
grouped men and girls who help make
the munitions, parachutes, small arms and
such. There was a Red Cross unit
manned by Allied Servicemen. Impres-
sive in its grim determination the five
miles of armor for Australia moved
through the awe-struck, yet triumphant,
crowds. Enjoying civic hospitality, at
the end of the display, were the Governor
and Lady Wakehurst, Rear-Admiral
Muirhead-Gould, his wife, and three
small sons, each dressed as the complete
sailor. Popular Frank Crane, of the
Town Hall, had two small daughters to
hear him company. Miss McMahon,
consistent worker for all good causes
emanating from the I'own Hall, was
there, too. Peter Lubbock was with the
G.H. group.
There was a packed house for two
nights—Monday and Tuesday—in the
ballroom at Government House for pre-
views of the film “One of Our Aircraft
Is Missing.” The Australian Women’s
Land Army will be the richer in com-
forts thereby. Members of the A.W.L.A.,
wearing smart uniforms, were in the audi-
ence. The audience not in the Services
was, by request, in nine-to-six togs.
Nothing is allowed to be said about the
drama of the film as these were very
pre-pre-views. But from it is learned
the great assistance still being given to
the Allied cause by the Dutch.
A third year packed with good work
for the Services has been notched up by
C.U.S.A. Welfare huts at all the military
camps in the State, and canteens in the
city cater for the men of the services.
These in turn are upheld by cafes in city
and country towns 3,nd other money
raisers. Books are sent to army camps
and to the Navy. All in all more than
1000 voluntary workers helped C.U.S.A.
in its good works, which last year cost
the Auxiliary more than £21,000. Particu-
larly is C.U.S.A.’s work for the Apostolic
Delegation Prisoners of War Information
Bureau to be commended. More than
12,000 have been traced by the Bureau,
and through it thousands of messages
have been forwarded by their relations
in Sydney. Lady Wakehurst attended the
annual meeting which was also a conver-
sazione.
When the history of the growth of
craft work in this country is written quite
a ; large chapter will have to be given to
the seed sown by East Sydney Tech. In
the Education Galleries last week five of
the girl diploma students were gazed upon
with the eye of admiration by the visi-
tors to the college end-of-the-year exhibi-
tion. A North Shore Line girl excelled
in pottery and china. Had her exhibit
been limited to one item—the model of
a resting deer —it would have been re-
markable. It took no fewer than ten
moulds to fashion this small piece in
white glaze, and they are on view. How-
ever, this student shows bowl and vase
and dish fashioned from clay dug by her-
self from treasure patches at Turramurra,
French’s Forest and Paradise Beach. In-
cidentally, should not this last clay be
reserved for wedding gifts?
A clever little weaver who shows soft-
as-silk tweeds and linen weaves suitable
for upholstery, specialises in making her
own dyes. These are drawn from the
flower and vegetable gardens. Logwood,
onion skin, fuchsia, mulberry, pea-pods
and red berries have had their juices
compounded by her into coloring for the
fleeces she is weaving and spinning into
suit length or rug. This student’s feeling
for the nuances of colors is outstanding.
In her diploma work is a length of curtain
material of unbleached linen. On it, in
brown, are figures of women at looms
and seated at spinning wheels. Like all
the others she has drawn her own design,
made the block and printed the linen.
Striking piece on the stage was a bed.
And what an excellent hint! Why not
a bed on every stage when speeches are
being made? When utterly bored by
wordy and prosy speakers, the brave list-
ener could just stretch out and have a
siesta. But this bed carried something
super in bedcovers. It was in periwinkle-
blue silk, its borders blazoned with a
design of prancing red steeds that suggest
a cross between hobby-horses and the
chargers on which medieval knights gal-
loped from one damsel in distress to an-
other.
At half past six last Thursday evening
committtee members were walking up the
stairs to the Coronet cafe carefully hold-
ing bowls of hydrangea. This was in
preparation for the Australian American
Movement’s Christmas party. The ball-
room was set about with small tables on
which soft puffs of Christmas bush
gleamed rosy. At one end of the dance-
floor was the buffet, at the other a pine-
tree, glittering with tinsel, gaudy with
colored balls and topped by a silver star.
President Florence Taylor cut the white-
iced cake. Mrs. Roy Harrison arranged
the programme of dancing, sketches and
songs which formed the floor show.
W. R. Hauslaib, pres. American Society,
brought a party. Mrs. White and Mrs.
Ted Scorfield wore hats that had to be
looked at a second time. Josephine
Marks, having secured 1001 b. weight of
sweets for her stall for the United
Nations Fair, sat planning the capture of
at least another 3001 b. weight to see her
through the fair’s four days and nights.
Citizens savoring their apple sauce,
luscious fruit, green peas and new pota-
toes at Christmas-time should think of
girls like Marjorie Craig of this picture.
She is one of the gallant Land Army girls
who have literally gone to the root of
the matter in service to the home front.
Marjorie graduated from a course of
fruit-picking and turnip-pulling to the
Packing Sheds at Batlow. Here, too, the
Land Army girls have learned to make
apple cider, and dehydrate potatoes.
Before her life on the land shorthand and
typing were her jobs. Peter Pan photo-
graph.
Lucky dips at the United Nations
Christmas Fair which opens on Decem-
ber 21 at the Town Hall may secure
beauty treatments, hot-box massage, even
(it is whispered) silk stockings for the
lucky dipper. Mrs. Bertie Kelly will be
in charge. Mrs. F. Passmore is the organ-
iser. The Fair will be open every after-
noon from two o’clock to five, and in
the evening from seven to eleven. On
Christmas Eve, the closing night, mid-
night will still find the lights ablaze and
entertainment in full swing. R.A.A.F.
Central Area Comforts Fund will benefit.
Already the clubrooms of the Friends
of France in Macquarie-place look like
a storeroom of Santa Claus. Toys and
goodies are piling up for the Christmas-
tree planned by president Ivy Moore
and other committee members. The
guests on the great day, December 22,
will be small French evacuees whose
fathers are with the fighting forces.
There will be about 40 in all. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly and Mrs. Florence Taylor
have both been gift-bringers. At the
foot of the tree there will be a crib, and
above it a great star.
Died after a short illness recently.
Da Silva Waugh, who had given almost
uninterrupted service to her fellows since
the 1914-18 war. Then she was one of
a small company of V.A.’s who saw ser-
vice in Egypt. In the present war she
was senior commandant of V.A.’s in
N. S. Wales. Her unusual Christian name
she once told came from a young
Spanish girl who had a romantic wedding
with one of Miss Waugh’s soldier fore-
bears during one of the Continental wars.
Miss Waugh had an indomitable spirit,
and a great capacity for work. Her loss
will be greatly felt by the Red Cross
organisation. The funeral service was
held at St. Thomas’s, North Sydney.
From Melbourne
There is to be a liberal sprinkling of
seasonal dances for services and others
and Christmas parties for children. On
Saturday the Allied Air Services Canteen
put on gala rig for a cabaret supper dance
featuring especially good orchestra and
songsters. The Russian ‘Ball will prob-
ably be the biggest affair —it’s to be
held on New Year’s Eve. Punch at mid-
night and a really hearty supper on the
blow - the - austerity - everyone - will - be
famished principle, will be features. Every
children’s organisation seems to be hum-
ming with Christmas-tree and ginger-pop
activity. All free kindergartens are
having little do’s before breaking up,
Air Force children are having a very
special shivoo, as the Christmas-tree Fair
at W.A.A.A.F. House will have every-
thing a hard-working committee could
devise in six months of planning.
Two Scottish families are linking up
with the engagement of Dorothy,
daughter of the knightly Colin Frasers,
to Lieut. Thomas Scott Cree, D.S.C.,
R.A.N.V.R., son of Capt. Robert Scott
Cree, of Glasgow, Scotland, and Mrs.
Clive Evans, of Cunningham, Queens-
land. Lieut. Cree took a science degree
at Cambridge, garnishing it with a
rowing “Blue,” and won his decoration
with the navy at the Battle of Matapan.
His betrothed, who is a corporal in the
W.A.A.A.Fs., is pictured here by Broo-
thorn. Whernside, the Fraser family
home, is noted for the beauty of its
antique furniture, collated by its chate-
laine with an eye to the “livable” as
well as the archaic. The Fraser lady also
takes an active interest in public affairs.
While school-speech nights are liberat-
ing crowds of young in cheerful mood to
a longed-for holiday there will be some
pupils this year who are just a bit sorry
about saying good-bye to lessons. These
are the boys and girls from schools which
have evacuated their juniors to country
areas. Country resorts have become used
to the sight of small figures in blue shirts
and khaki shorts, the general small-boy
wear, and will miss them during the
Christmas vacation. There is an even
chance that many schools will decide that
Melbourne is safe enough, and reconsider
their decision to evacuate, particularly as
they have been able to return to some
of their buildings previously taken over.
Other services having done well with
appeals to the public for financial aid,
the nursing services intend to put in their
claim. The appeal should be a big suc-
cess, as the nurses are a popular body,
and the Appeal Committee, headed by
the Lady Mayoress, expects an easy task.
The appeal is State-wide, and proceeds
will go to swell the Victorian War Nurses’
Trust Fund, which will provide for dis-
abled nurses and help in the change-over
from war service to peace-time nursing.
Early in the New Year the National
Theatre under Gertrude Johnston’s guid-
ance will put on a play appropriately
titled “The Lady with the Lamp” for a
fortnight for the fund. The Angliss lady
is putting her usual efficiency into Button-
day organising.
New president of the Locker Fund
Auxiliary, in place of Mrs. Dick Wil-
liams, who has resigned, is Mrs. O. R.
Charlton, who started her presidential
duties with a very good speech to
members which left them feeling that
they had made the right choice. Locker
Fund is affiliated to Comforts Fund and
was able to present the major body
(major in respect of size only not of
seniority, as the Locker Fund got going
two weeks after the outbreak of war)
with £4OOO for the year. It was divulged
at the meeting that 2500 garments had
been knitted and that members are now
spinning their own wool, which means
an increase in length of wear and
warmth. Waterproof woollies for mem-
bers of Sunderland crews braving the sea
mists are a special department. The new
president is an Air Force mother, one
of her sons being Wing-Commander
Charlton. With husband Captain O. R.
Charlton back in the army and a second
son with the R.A.F. in Rhodesia, her
family regard her as the “home front.”
Locker Fund duties come easily after
similar experience during last war and
in executive posts with various peace-
time charities.
The usual criticism made against
domestic economy schools, that they
take no cognisance of economic difficul-
ties and are too lavish to be of value as
training for management of a small-
income household, falls back blunted
from Invergowrie, Hawthorn, the only
residential domestic economy school in
Australia. At the distribution of certifi-
cates last week headmistress Miss Mar-
garet Kirkhope told of the economy
courses that had been made a special
feature this year. As many girls will
later be faced with the living-on-mil itary-
pay problems this should be very helpful.
Most students will go into war jobs this
year as there is great need for them.
Among those graduating were Sue
Styles, recently engaged and showing
domestic and artistic skill in arranging a
christening party table for exhibition to
speech-day guests, also Joan Hastie, who
is making Invergowrie training a prepara-
tion for a Social Service course.
Young views on Art were shown at
the Koornong School’s exhibition at the
Riddell Galleries. Some of the work,
all in pastels, showed great talent parti-
cularly studies of prancing horses and
an attacking tank. Warships and tanks
figured prominently among the subjects,
and designs on linen, conceived and
applied by pupils, showed practical and
original thought. Pupils ran the exhibi-
tion and young ladies of 10 or so showed
great poise in showing visitors around
and answering questions.
Members of the Air Force Woman’s
Association should be looking very smart
about the head when they roll up to their
Christmas-tree Fair at W.A.A.A.F. House
on the 19th. If they follow the advice
of Miss Cook, of the Emily Macpherson
College of Domestic Economy, who
demonstrated to them last week, making
the old hat look like a Rue de la Paix will
be just too easy. Using ordinary house-
hold implements, basins and pots for
blocks, a flatiron and a kettle of boiling
water, she showed her audience how to
renovate every kind of hat, as well as
giving instruction in the cutting of pat-
terns and making up of completely new
hats. The lecturer pointed out that
fabric hats are “in” and scraps of taffeta
and like materials can be used. Con-
juring tricks in hats were accompanied
by amusing “patter” about hat stylists.
Contemporary Arts were not showing
anything that could be given to Grandma
for Christmas at their exhibition.
Labelled anti-Fascist, the angel-with-the-
flaming-sword sort of thing was much in
evidence, and there was a good deal of
fierceness about. Apart from the usual
horrid ones that made the un-arty get
into little groups and say they really
didn’t like it, the collection was impres-
sive and forceful. War represented in
air-raid effects was a frequent subject,
particularly well treated by John Bain-
bridge and Eric Smith, and the sufferings
of Europe were given striking expression
in the former’s “Occupied Europe” and
Noel Counihan’s “Heil, Hitler!” Among
the women exhibitors were the Austrian
artist Kathe Kollwitz, with some beauti-
ful pencil studies, and Ailsa Donaldson,
with some attractively peaceful pictures
of peasant women.
Of service interest was the wedding
on Friday at Scots Church of Sister Ellen
Riddle to Arthur Hallam, A.1.F., son
of Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Hallam, of Kia-
Ora, Cavendish. Bride is daughter of the
Rev. and Mrs. T. J. Riddle.
Latest recruit to the Woman for Can-
berra Movement is Helen Maxwell. She
intends to be a candidate at next election
and is considered to have a very good
chance if she stands in her own district,
where she is known as a most efficient
business woman. She has run a real-
estate agency with great success for some
time. Her main plank is housing, on
which she feels and speaks passionately,
having first-hand knowledge of the tra-
gedies of one-room dwellers and mothers
trying to rear families in hopelessly un-
healthy surroundings. She believes that
returned soldiers should be provided on
easy terms with homes in which to bring
up their children decently in the land for
which they fought. Child health and
education are other talking points, and
she is strong on the necessity for moie
adequate funds for scholarship winners.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOSHUA ALFRED HENRY ELLIOTT
formerly of Sydney—TAKE NOTICE that
RUBY EVELINE ELLIOTT has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2195 of 1942 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the First of Febru-
ary 1943 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JOHN BARNETT
GREAVES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY ROBERT GAULD late of
Granville Horse Trainer.—TAKE NOTICE that
GRACE GAULD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 426 of 1940 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards. If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Second of March 1943 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from MAD-
DOCKS, COHEN & MAGUIRE Solicitors 38
Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD GEORGE BISHOP lately of 4
Albion Street Darlinghurst.—TAKE NOTICE
that LENA ELIZABETH BISHOP has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2617 of 1942 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
before First February 1943 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from WILLIAM
JOHN MACLEAN Solicitor 84 Pitt Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MAURICE APPS late of 13 Wellington
Street Newtown and Grafton. —TAKE NOTICE
that FREDA FLORENCE APPS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2183 of 1941 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the First day of February
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from WARRINGTON CONNOLLY
Solicitor for the Petitioner 12 O’Connell Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
dTthe supreme court’ - of new
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EVELYN MABEL LITTLE late of Norval
Street Auburn. —TAKE NOTICE that
ROBERT ARTHUR LITTLE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2704 of 1942 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office King Street Sydney by the
26th February 1942 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from WILLIAM
CHARLES MOSELEY Solicitor 51 Castle-
reagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Rosehili was well patronised on Sat-
urday, and, with runners numerous,
totalisator speculation took a wide range,
the turnover being about £31,400, which
probably meant about £2 per head for
the attendance. Winners included some
well-backed horses, but thanks to Mar-
theus and Dashing Cavalier most of the
books probably came out on the right
side.
The result of the Dundas Handicap
completely upset backers’ calculations,
the place-getters not including one of the
four most fancied runners —Kingsdale,
Merrimba, Hydra and Arahura. The
first-mentioned three were specially dis-
appointing. Lagoon, who commenced
smartly, led at the turn from Martheus
(Cook), Grand Prodige, Battle Dress and
Romero, but, when fairly on the road
home, Martheus quickly disposed of him,
and then held on long enough to score
from Grand Prodige and Romero, both
of whom were closing on him at the
winning post, Arahura also ran on well,
but in that respect Evergreen attracted
most attention. He was one of the tail-
enders for half a mile and then finished
fifth. Kingsdale and Hydra stopped
badly, and after showing up approach-
ing the turn Merrimba suddenly dropped
out.
Dashing Cavalier’s (Terrill) recent
form did not say much for his chance
of success in the December Handicap,
but with a brilliant run be beat Salivant
on the post. At the turn Salivant had
a lead of four or five lengths from Guild
Hall, who was four ahead of his nearest
followers, Stylish and Silverelda. This
will give an idea of the start Dashing
Cavalier gave Salivant over the last
quarter-mile. Widden plugged along to
beat Guild Hall for third. Rimveil was
sixth, and at no part raised the hopes of
his backers; while Amberspear failed to
get near the lead at an early stage, and
was not after sighted. He is essentially
a front runner.
After finishing second to It’s Funny in
the Squatters’ Handicap, Wellesley (Don-
nelly) ran nowhere in the Metropolitan,
but in very much weaker company, and
benefiting by a 71 b. allowance, he had a
comfortable win in the Encourage Stakes
after Gauntlet had made the running
until well inside the last furlong. Casket
King, Brumaire and Lambeth headed
the remainder, but the last-named is
seemingly not improving and though he
started favorite never even looked a
place-getter. Kiaree and Lord Cullen
were prominent to the turn, and that was
the end of them.
In the Nursery Handicap Haddon Hall
(Parsons) scored his third successive win.
The Beacon led into the straight from
Haddon Hall, Denton and Moresby, but
the result was not in doubt over the final
furlong. Haddon Hall has 51b. penalty
in the December Stakes, but will meet
all his opponents so much better than
handicap terms that he should also put
that race to his account. Denton (Mel-
fort-Heroina), who was third to Haddon
Hall and the Beacon, made a good show-
ing for a first attempt, and there are pos-
sibilities associated with Moresby (Picca-
dilly-Soubrette) and Prince Hua (Hua-
Bonheur du Pere).
In the first division of the Three-year-
old Handicap Jungle King quickly set
up a lead that made the race look almost
a certainty for him at the turn, but he
was unable to withstand Modulation’s
(Bartle) strong finishing run. This effort
put Modulation in the light of a poten-
tial stayer. He is by Manitoba from
Vocal, by Thracian. Brinawa had every
chance, being Jungle King’s nearest fol-
lower at the turn, but could not see it
out. Sir Neith, in third place, ran
well after meeting with bad luck. Vanity
Fair, Hauteur, Constable and Courallie
(Brueghel-Europa) shaped fairly, the
last-named after getting away badly.
Katanga’s sister, Hawklet (Mulley),
gave A. Cooper a win in the second divi-
sion of the Three-year-old Handicap. She
finished strongly after being seventh at
the turn, and it is possible she may
prove up to the standard of her brother
at middle distances. Young Valais led
a furlong from home, and Silver Crown
looked a winner a little further on, ,but
was outstayed by Hawklet, Kingston, a
Hall Mark colt from the Hughes’s stable,
ran greenly, but as he finished a close
third, is worth following. Young Valais,
who weakened badly, was fourth, and
then Nobleman —who is another that
should be kept in mind —and High
Flight. Nobleman blundered and lost
ground shortly after the start, owing to
Miss Hua colliding with him. Miss Hua,
Derrydown and Fervent were the leaders
to the turn, and then tired.
Nightbeam (Terrill), who had not
raced since he met with an injury in the
Doncaster Handicap last autumn, was
backed from 20 to 1 down to 4 to 1 for
the Carlingford Handicap, and, after
being some distance back at the turn,
won in convincing fashion. Cadger and
Linemond led into the straight from
Chatham’s Choice and Haran, and the
first-named hung on well to beat My
Friend for second. Tel Asur shaped well,
likewise Aralys, who may yet return to
his best form. Mortine merely ran fairly,
as did Skerries, Haripur and Easter Time.
In such a large field some of the runners
did not have much chance after com-
mencing the back stretch.
Gay Revelry, whose chance on form
looked even more remote than the 50 to
1 at which he started, defeated two other
outsiders, Counsel (33 to 1) and Gay
Invader (25 to 1), in the £2OOO Ascot Cup,
run at Mentone on Saturday. Two weeks
earlier he had finished among the tail-
enders in a field of 26 for the Williams-
town Cup. His win was his first
for about nine months, and, judged
by the betting, he was not fancied as
much as his stable-mate Royal Decree.
While the latter dropped out in the con-
cluding stages. Gay Reveliy finished
strongly to defeat Counsel in the last
stride. A four-years-old entire by John
James from Gay Scene, Gay Revelry
gave first-class promise last season, when
his performances included a close third
to Tea Cake in the Caulfield Guineas.
He was ridden on Saturday by apprentice
H. McCloud, who won the Melbourne
Cup on Colonus.
Counsel was unlucky. He looked to
have the race won when he ran past his
stable-mate. Gay Invader, who had
attempted to lead all the way, but hung
in nearing the finish. In being checked
and straightened he lost more ground than
the head by which he was defeated. Mac
Rob ran on well in fourth position, and
is close to another win, but High Road
(fifth) was not making any impression
right at the finish. Pandect, 7-to-4 favor-
ite, and Great Britain, 6-to-l second
favorite, let their backers down badly.
Pandect looked to be troubled by the
track, and Great Britain, seemingly
knocked out by his race in the Melbourne
Cup, finished last. Great Britain will be
spelled until it is time to begin an autumn
preparation.
Amana, sold recently for 2100gns., re-
corded his first win for his new owner
by defeating Aggressor and Red Flash
in the Cottenham Handicap. Assisted by
a rails-run entering the straight, he won
decisively, and, although the company
was not strong, impresses as sure to im-
prove. Blue Valley resumed after a spell
with a promising seventh, and he may be
about to reproduce his good two-year-old
form.
An outside barrier position did not
affect Reception’s chance in the Holyrood
Handicap. He won easily, but his
apprentice rider, J. Crilley, was suspended
for one month for causing interference
to the second and third horses, Orteli
and Scarlet Toi, among others, shortly
after the start. Reception has been a
splendid bargain at the 500gns. he cost
his present owner. Scarlet Toi, having
his first race for almost a year, made a
creditable showing, but heavily-backed
Chatasan failed after looking to have
every chance.
Gay Gown, a filly by Gay Lothario
from Wrapper, was never actually headed
in the Macauley Handicap, and gave H.
Badger a win at his first ride after sus-
pension. With two wins and a third from
three starts, Gay Gown has been a bar-
gain at her yearling cost of 350gns.
Trainer P. B. Quinlan landed a double
with the Adelaide-owned horses, Chief
Watchman and Athol Belle. Chief
Watchman was the medium of substantial
support for the Norfolk Handicap, but
Athol Belle gave bookmakers a 50-to-l
result in the Lichfield Handicap. She
had run unplaced at Geelong two weeks
earlier.
♦ * * *
Provisions of the new Racing Bill, by
which the Government will place the six
Sydney debenture and proprietary courses
under one control, that of the Sydney
Turf Club as a non-proprietary con-
cern, do not substantiate fears that
the A.J.C. powers might be undermined.
Premier McKell emphasised last week
that the A.J.C. would still be the ruling
body, retaining its present rights of regi-
stration and disqualification, ,and em-
powered to veto or change the race pro-
grammes of the new body. The Premier
said, too, that the Government had no
desire to control racing. Once appointed
the committee of the S.T.C. would be
no more responsible to the Government
for its actions than to the A.J.C.
Directors of the Sydney Turf Club will
be appointed by the Government for the
first two years, and must decide by Sep-
tember 30 next which four of the six
courses are to be retained for racing. The
courses can then be taken over immedi-
ately, or not later than January, 1945.
Compensation for the proprietary clubs
will be based on profits during the past
15 years—dividends, value of improve-
ments, value of land for subdivision and
sale being calculated. Employees who
lose their jobs will receive a month’s pay
for every continuous year of service.
H= * * *
If Dundas Handicap form could be
accepted as absolutely correct most of
the Villiers candidates which started in
that race could be wiped off as having
no chance on Saturday next. These would
include Kingsdale, Hydra, Mildura,
Grand Fils, Merrimba, Don Byrne and
Kimbell, while Whisper Low, Easter
Time and Many Ways scarcely did well
enough in other races to enhance their
prospects.
Dundas Handicap place-getters in
Martheus and Romero may find the addi-
tional furlong a trifle far, though the
former should be helped by his drop of
71b. If the slight injury Grand Prodige
received in the race does not come against
him he must be taken into account, as
must Arahura, who did not have the best
of luck in running. She drops 11b., and
Grand Prodige 21b. Evergreen, however,
did most to advance his position in the
market. Hopelessly placed right to the
top of the straight, he finished fifth, and
though his weight goes up 51b. he will
presumably have the advantage of a
more experienced rider. He never looked
better. When he was beaten a head for
second by Arahura in the Doncaster he
was giving her 171 b., against 141 b. now
separating them. On those figures there
should not be much between them on
this occasion. Nightbeam’s form in the
Carlingford Handicap was excellent, and
he has won at a mile at Randwick and
Flemington.
Of horses that did not run on Satur-
day Freckles and Riverton are doing as
well as could be wished, as is Prince.
Riverton did not come up to expecta-
tions in his couple of runs this season,
but it must not be overlooked that this
time last year he was our best two-year-
old. It is inadvisable to be carried away
by track work, but he is undoubtedly
doing as well as his trainer could wish,
and has less weight than two three-year-
olds —Yaralla and Rimveil —successfully
carried in the last two Villiers.
Freckles, with his great pace, is bound
to be hard to beat, but I have not lost
faith in Merrimba, even though his Rose-
hill run did not warrant enthusiasm as
to his chance. It is some excuse for him
that a beaten horse suddenly dropped
back on him when he was making for
an opening, and he will be meeting
Freckles 61b. better than when he ran
him to a neck in the Epsom.
Rimveil’s form in the Rosehill Decem-
ber Handicap said little for his prospects
of winning the Summer Cup with 9.7.
Dashing Cavalier, a proved better stayer,
beat him pointless at a mile and a
quarter, and at a difference of only 21b.
in his favor, as compared with last week,
probabilities are against Rimveil turning
the tables. Dashing Cavalier won the
1941 Metropolitan with 9.0 in Australian
record time of 2.4 H, and now that he is
evidently himself again this should be
an easier task even with an additional 31b.
Of those Dashing Cavalier defeated at
Rosehill only Salivant would appear to
have a chance, and it cannot be claimed
that it is a good one. Grand Fils will
be better suited by the Cup distance than
that of the Dundas Handicap, but he has
81b. more than when he won the Metro-
politan, and, at that, has no marked pull
over Angus, whom he meets 31b. worse,
Veiled Threat and Dewar are among the
stayers getting through a nice prepara-
tion, and with 8.12 the former is not
badly treated. Panurge is showing excel-
lent track form, but the Cup may be too
far for him, and unless the December
Handicap puts a different complexion on
affairs most backers will want to have
Dashing Cavalier on their side,
* ♦ * *
Ramdin’s 1.354 is the time record for
the Villiers Stakes, but, taking into con-
sideration the difference in weight. Closing
Time’s 1.35| was a better performance
even from a time standpoint. He carried
9.5 to Ramdin’s 7.12. Last year Yaralla
(8.3) won in 1.374. Of jockeys who may
ride in the Villiers Bartle has the best
record, having won on Pavilion, Closing
Time, King’s Head and Rimveil.
McMenamin won on Fakenham and
Yaralla; and O’Sullivan on Golden
Chance and Ramdin. Wish Wynne’s 9.6
is the most weight carried by any winner
in the last twenty years.
* * * *
Americans are good bettors. The
totalisator is the sole racecourse medium
of speculation in their country and the
turnover at meetings in the State of New
York is occasionally an eye-opener. There
was an attendance of 31,800 at Belmont
Park on Oct. 3, when the Jockey Club
Cup and Futurity for two-year-olds were
run. There were eight races, and the
New York “Times” gives the tote figures
as $1,790,807 (roughly £A544,700). Of
this amount $317,347 (£A96,525) was
put through on the Futurity for which
there were eight runners. The figures
given represent about £l7 per person for
the day.
In the second Colteaux-Rivers disagree-
ment at Leichhardt Rivers got the
decision. Following his familiar pro-
cedure, Colteaux landed three or four
low lefts and fought after the bell. Rivers
kept plodding along. It wasn’t a bad
fight, but the verdict for Rivers, though
the crowd cheered it, made boxing-wise
men shrug their shoulders.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Three-year-old Handicap: Hawk-
let, 1 ; Angel, 2 ; Battle Dress, 3.
December Nursery: Haddon
Hall, 1 ; Clarion Call, 2 ; Hecuba
or Van Eyck, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Adjust, 1 ;
Condignity, 2; Lady Hamilton, 3.
Villiers Stakes: Merrimba, 1 ;
Freckles, 2; Riverton or Night-
beam, 3.
December Handicap: Tidemark,
1 ; Panurge, 2 ; Angus, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Wellesley,
1; Plimsol, 2 ; Pinero, 3.


ft s>* p !
iStBV'C*
THRf w ’
FRONT WHEEL
NOW that tyres must last longer, it is wise to include
front wheel "toe-in” among your list of wartime
private owner service inspections. '
A vehicle’s front wheels are set to point inwards very slightly
to the front. This is "toe-in” and, unless correctly main-
tained, tyres will be dragged sideways a little and wear rapidly.
You can quickly make a check by feeling the tyre. With
treads wearing faster at inside edges
—"toe-in” is excessive. If at outer
edges—insufficient "toe-in.”
STEPS FOR ACCURATE CHECK:
1 Car on level ground—wheels straight ahead—front tyre
pressures equal.
2 With a piece of string, accurately measure distance
between front wheels—as indicated by arrows—"A” for
distance between front of front wheels—"B” for distance
at rear. Take measurements at equal height from
ground and at inside edges of tyre walls.
3~ Rear measurement should exceed front by: in 1932-35
model Ford V-8 cars, utilities, A in.; 1936 and later
Ford V-8 cars, utilities and Mercury, tV in.; Prefect,
Anglia, A in. to £ in.
Although the actual adjustment is simply made by slacken-
ing clamp bolts on
the ends of the tie
rod and screwing the
rod itself, settings
are so fine that the
job, if needed, is best
done by your Ford
Dealer, who has special equipment.
fg
S 2
a
r— l D —i
STRING
fgf
This information is published by Ford Company and Ford
Distributors and Dealers to help owners meet their wartime
motoring problems.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F319.22.1R
BECOME AN ARTIST
-QUICKLY!
Let Brodie Mack Teach You at Home !
AT last you are able to learn all branches of art
under the supervision of this famous Australian
artist. Amazing short-cut method simplifies art.
You learn at home.
Make Money In Your Spare Time I
gRODIE MACK has made it possible by means of
this remarkable Course for you to earn money
in your spare hours. He shows you how to “cash
in” on his experience. He teaches you how to rapidly
develop your latent ability so that you are able to
produce striking illustrations and art work. The
fact of your reading this announcement points to
having a desire to be an artist then send for this
amazing book and let us prove that we can make
you a skilled artist.
How To Be An Artist—ls FREE !
before has a book of this nature been
offered free. That is why you should send for
your copy now. It shows you how to draw develop
your talent how to cartoon, the secret of illustrat-
ing, etc. Fill in the coupon and send at once—NOW.
What This FREE Book Tells You !
0 How to Draw Figures.
• How to Become an Artist.
• How to Make Money in Your Spare Time.
0 How to Develop Latent Ability.
0 How to Cartoon.
0 How to Caricature.
0 How to Sell Your Work.
0 How to Illustrate for the Papers.
0 How to Sketch and Draw.
Tear This Out-—POST NOW !
The Brodie Mack
Corresxumdence Art School,
Desk 43, 24 Clarence Street,
Sydney, New South Wales.
Dear Sir, —Please send me, FREE and without obli-
gation, my copy of your famous book. How To Be An
Artist. 1 enclose 3d. in stamps to defray postage.
Name
Address
10/12/'42,
m
SKETCH
ME !
THE BRODIE MACK
Correspondence Art
School,
Dept. 43, 24 Clarence
St., Sydney, N.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
Suitors should realise that marriage
frequently converts an angel into a nark-
angel.
“Don’t rub a heavily-coated powder puff
over your face, and go out looking as though
you had been dipped in a flour bin.”
— “Woman.”
Or your cake will be dough.
•b *b *b 4*
“Drills and other polished tools are less likely
to rust if chalk is kept on the shelves near by.”
The chalk is used to note, on the wall,
which neighbor borrowed the tools last.
•E 4* 4* •b
Quiet Work.
“First-class tailoring is one of the few pro-
fessions in which women have made very little
progress.”—“ World’s News.”
His wife was once a tailoress, and skil-
ful. But now, he says, although she’s
very wilful, more often she is “wont!”-
ful. Circumspectly she suits herself,
although it’s indirectly. She won’t re-
turn his cuffs nor do some patching. So
far as that goes, he’d be better batching.
But (if he knew, he’d register a shock)
it’s quite often she’s at work upon his
pockets.
Looby.
Refined Arts.
“ ‘Even if you do get models, it is un-
patriotic to use fuel to keep them warm,’ says
an English artist.”
When / practised art it wasn’t necessary
to apply artificial heat to models ; they
were naturally of sufficient thermal
quality.
I particularly remember Pert Swyft, a
coppertop who hoped to set the world on
fire with her figure, but merely singed
her lingers while burning the candle at
both ends and finished up an old woman
at 30 playing Sweel Nell of Old Some-
thing or Other in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
This Swyft hussy was the original of my
famous series of nudes which, when hung
on the line in asbestos frames, inspired
one critic to remark that I deserved to
be hung up.
Since giving up art and taking up writ-
ing I have drawn cheques naked and un-
ashamed, cashed them in likely places
and have changed my address at least 45
times.
Pip Emma.
•b -I' 4* *l*
“Women Santa Clauses made their appear-
ances in Hollywood department stores.”
— Woman's paper.
Real Christmas Cards.
“He is the Melbourne Judge who said there
is no hell.”
Perhaps his wife doesn’t insist that he
accompany her to contract bridge parties
and contemporary art exhibitions.
•f* *b *b *b
Gardening Made Easy.
XII.
Annuals.
The term “annuals” is taken by the
average home gardener to mean that you
have the plants only for one season.
Wrong.
Suppose you choose Phlox Drummondi,
an annual type. You start off with a
sixpenny packet of seeds, scatter them in
a box and forget them. Soon a dense
mass of plants will burst up, and in their
second leaf you transplant them into the
beds bordering the lawn, 12 inches apart.
You will have several hundred seedlings
over even after you’ve set them around
the gasbox, under the hedge and, after
scraping out the cigarette butts and
screwed-up caramel wrappers, in with the
aspidistras. So you put one in between
each in the original row and keep on till
you make it one inch apart for them right
round. Anyway, that close together they
can support themselves in a typhoon.
In due course the plants, in response
to the wife’s leaving the sprinkler on half
the day, will become so bloated that, un-
able to support their own weight, they’ll
spill over and sag on to the lawn. As the
season progresses so will their bulk, until
the plants are flowing still further on to
the lawn.
At first you will hold the phlox back
with one boot while you run the mower
over the grass, on top of which the plants
have taken up summer residence. As time
goes on you’ll get tired of trying to hold
them back and you’ll mow around them.
This will be a temporarily pleasing, if
deceiving, work-saver. By the time the
plants have flowered themselves to death
that part of the sun-starved lawn over
which they have encroached will be
brown and withered, and it will take
much coaxing with copious watering,
fertilising and topdressing to restore it
to life. Also, you will discover the hide-
out of the slugs that ate the asters to the
ground.
You’ll just about get it right again
when up through the dark-green sward a
much lighter but heavy growth will
appear, rendering the lawn unsightly.
Constant mowing or treatment with
weed-killer will eventually eradicate these
young phlox seedlings.
By this time it will be the following
spring, and the wife, remembering the
“beautiful show we had last year,” will
come to light with a couple of packets
of phlox seeds. Forget the murdered
bob. Prepare with due ostentation a
seedbox for them, and then surrepti-
tiously toss the contents of the two
packets to the fowls. They’ll enjoy them.
Subsequent failure can be attributed to
that grand old standby, “Crook seed.”
BO.
A Thought.
When I consider how much skite is spent
By armchair critics and Ms.P. with hide
Enough to air opinions far and wide
On every subject, and none worth a cent,
I can’t refrain from ribald merriment.
Bui when I contemplate how these divide
The people until side opposes side,
I needs must for my levity repent.
One well might think that vigorous
action more
Than vapid vaporings would serve the
State,
Now in stark peril, with the foe before
Its very gates. Who knows, though ?
Soon or late —
When the light comes to them, their
blindness o’er —
They yet may serve who now just stand
and prate.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Realisation.
Until these days of wide prosperity
Coupled with shortages of beer,
1 never realised austerity
Could be so utterly austere!
NAT.
What Price Onions?
„ T r f „ . ~ . .
Furf followers coaxed cabbages and carrots
instead of jockeys and horses.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Perspiring, florid and short of wind,
Joe Bloggs, bookmaker, staggered into
the kitchen and emptied from the.bulg-
ing chaffbag a variety of vegetables on
to the floor.
“Goodness gracious, Joe!” exclaimed
his wife. “Where’ve you been? Paddy’s
Markets?”
“No, the boys put in the raceless
Saturday staging the finish of the Vege-
table for Vegetable Stakes down at
‘Hocker’ Kelly’s. Punters went bald-
headed for a new breed of quick-growing
French bean at odds-on, with lettuce and
spinach in keen demand. Apart from
the favorite, I bet three pumpkins to
one on lettuce eight times and seven
swedes to two beetroot in 16 places. Cab-
bage, green peas and marrow were popu-
lar, but carrot, parsnip, kohlrabi and
radish blew to long prices. Anyway,
radish (backers didn’t know Kelly’d
planted that slippery 20-day variety)
won by about two weeks and gave us a
skinner.”
“Well, what are you going to do with
your winnings, Joe?” Mrs. Bloggs de-
manded. “We couldn’t eat all that stuff
in a month o’ Sundays.”
“Dunno, but I think I’ll hedge the lot
on a bag of spuds,” Joe said.
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4 ; 3d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Scientific Politics
When my little son, Pantarkes (Pants,
for short), requires* or seems to require,
an ice-cream, I treat the matter emotion-
ally, and usually get him one. When,
however, the same child develops symp-
toms of acute food poisoning (not neces-
sarily connected with the ice-cream), 1
treat the matter scientifically, and have
recourse to the doctor, being unversed
in medical science myself. As to the
emotional approach, that, of course, can-
not be continued for all time. There may
come a time when Pants will ask for an
ice-cream and I shall reply “What’s the
matter with using your own wages?” or
“No work, no ice-cream.”
It seems to me to be the same with
politics. All political matters seem to be
decided emotionally. The very names of
the parties have an emotional appeal, and
the gent, who gets elected is usually the
one who has promised the most ice-
cream.
We hear a lot about the New Order
but not so much about the New World
into which this war is leading us. The
New Order seems to consist of a lot of
promises of ice-cream, and we are forget-
ful that when the war is over the ice-
cream machinery will probably have been
smashed beyond repair.
Is it not time that we thought of scien-
tific politics? The problem of life after
the war will have to he solved scienti-
fically or not at all. We should drop for
ever the traditional style of politics which
is based on a way of life completely un-
scientific. Every problem of govern-
ment must be solved scientifically.
At the moment we have the spectacle
of unscientific men trying to apply science
to politics—mixed up with the ice-cream
(or emotional) approach. And the result
is Dedmanism! If we don’t do better
than that after the war there’ll be nothing
but a New Disorder.— Pater Unfamilias
(N.S.W.).
A Democratic Constitution
Friends of mine criticise and abuse “the
Government,” but seem to have no clear
idea about how the Government should
tackle war-time problems.
When recently I received a copy of
Dr. Evatt’s “War Aims and Reconstruc-
tion Bill” I imagined that my critical
friends would be anxious to examine it.
I showed it to several, but not one man
read it. All condemned it without having
read the first clause.
This is only one example of the inertia
and mental laziness which characterise
so many of our people, and which is
the reason why we have not a true democ-
racy in Australia. I take it that the best
short definition of democracy is Lin-
coln’s: “Government of the people, by
the people, for the people.” Such a
system does not prevail in Australia. A
truly democratic Government is one in
which every citizen has a share in mak-
ing laws. That’s what Lincoln meant by
“by the people.”
The spirit of public service is dead and
can only be revived by drastic changes.
One of these changes must come in edu-
cation. Children must be trained to meet
the duties and responsibilities that will
be theirs under the new democracy. The
most important change must be in our
Constitution—a change from our present
system of representative government to a
system in which every citizen shall have
a share in the rights, duties and respon-
sibilities of government.
The unit of government would be the
local assembly of the residents in one
townshjp or suburb. These bodies would
have control of matters that concerned
only their area, and each would select a
delegate to the municipal or shire coun-
cil. Each of these delegates would be
instructed by his local assembly and
would report back to it. Each council
would elect a representative to the State
or provincial council. These provincial
councils would elect delegates to the
Commonwealth Parliament. Any one of
these bodies could instruct or recall a
delegate at any time.
Every citizen would have the right to
attend meetings of his local assembly and
to exercise his civil rights not only on
election day but all the time. The pro-
vinces would of course have to be made
smaller and more numerous. They could
correspond, in number at least, with the
present electorates of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
Under such a system, and only under
such a system, is real democracy possible.
—E. P. A. (Q.).
Bigger and Better
The Beveridge social security plan, as
submitted to the Commons, provides for
retirement pensions, unemployment and
disability allowances, free medical and
other benefits, and is to be financed by
weekly insurance premiums from em-
ployers and employees, these being
“heavily subsidised by the Exchequer.”
No sooner did the news reach Aus-
tralia than Canberra hurriedly sent for
the press and announced that it had a
bigger and better scale of benefits,-which
may cost the Government (in other
words, the taxpayers) up to £60,000,000
a year and that “Ministers are opposed
to waiting until after the war to put the
plan into operation.” A spokesman for
the Government said it intended to pro-
vide for maternity allowances, family
allowances, health and unemployment in-
surance, free hospital and medical atten-
tion irrespective of income, a living
allowance on a family basis, the basic
wage for unemployed and retirement
pensions.
Thus a splendid future is planned for
the improvident and the loafer and
7,000,000 people—or rather the small
minority that pays direct Commonwealth
"I wish he could find his ruddy trumpet!”
taxation-—will have to find the money.
Nobody denies that some form of social
security is required, but in a country
like Australia, crying out for popula-
tion and development, it were better
obtained by making every man respon-
sible for his own way of living and what
he makes of his life, coupled with a,
guarantee that reasonable opportunity
shall be available. Any social-security
scheme which falls short of that simple
requirement undermines the character of
the people. Party politics and party
benevolence in this country have done
far too much damage in that direction
already.—C. H. S. (N.S.W.).
Close the State Parliaments
The Canberra Convention is a further
argument (if one were needed) for the
abolition of State Parliaments. The Com-
monwealth being granted the powers it
is asking (and of this there is little doubt)
the State Houses will be obviously un-
necessary. They are in recess for more
than half the year, and are really glori-
fied local councils. Is it any wonder that
we are the laughing stock of the world,
saddled as we are with 600 legislators?
Australians are counselled to practise
austerity. Very well, let us be austere
in our administration. Let the national
Parliament close the State Houses as an
emergency measure. The resultant sav-
ings would be considerable, in addition
to releasing man-power for munitions.
There is only one Australia. There is
only one destiny. There should be only
one Parliament. — A. Daly (S.A.).
Jt
“As Ye Sow”
Your contributor "Avon’ (B.
21/10/’42) seems faintly amused at the
resolution passed by the Mackenzie coun-
try farmers when they met to consider a
campaign for .Christian Order, The
kernel of the resolution was that the
proper use of the soil was first in the
moral and spiritual order and only
secondly scientilic. This idea is not new.
Job in his affliction, searching his con-
science, finds no fault in himself except
that he might have failed in his duty to
his land —“if my land cry out against
me.”
The Fairlie farmers were right anyhow,
because the point they make is that lai m-
ing is or should be a way ol file ratnei
than merely an occupation. If a land-
conscience and a land-consciousness are
not soon developed in Maoriland then
the rehabilitation boards of the luture
will have a problem on their hands.
The rule has been too often general
exploitation of forests and natural te-
scurces, soil erosion and soil deterioia-
tion. It is a very ancient law that we
must work with Nature or we fail.
Stuart Chase, one of the most im-
portant writers in America today, says:
IE we continue our contempt and neglect
ol Nature's land and water, she will exact
a calamitous penally, and all the labora-
tories, all the machines, all the banks will
not offset it.
Well, our national attitude towards our
country in respect to the land in its
broadest sense is none too healthy ; con-
cerning its resources, there is too much
smugness and complacency. Politicians
may skile as they like about “untapped
sources of wealth, etc.,” but thousands
of acres are already out of occupation
through wasteful, get-rich-quick methods.
The concern ol many is immediate
monetary profits ; others look tor a larger
cut either in wages or interest, according
to their class, from these profits. I hen
wild-eyed reformers scream for the aboli-
tion of private enterprise and see Utopia
in their slogan “production for use,”
“planned production” and the like. None
seem to think that production itself might
go out of business. Very few of these
advocates or alarmists are thinking re-
alistically (or spiritually) of the protection
and conservation of the source of all our
wealth and well-being—the land itself.
Ehoa o te Manu (M.L.).
Overdrafts
Many people argue “If we can afford
£100,000,000 for war why can’t we afford
or get, say, £100,000,000 for social legis-
lation.” Amongst many reasons are:
(1) We are still paying interest on
three or four wars.
(2) The present war is overdrawing on
the future. Witness depleted clothes
stocks, shortage of residences, high prices
for commodities, deterioration of money
in hand, in banks and elsewhere.
(3) These accumulated overdrafts will
have to be paid. Repudiation won’t do.
Perhaps it would be a good idea, after
the war, to continue a portion of the
present taxation with a view to the rapid
repayment of debts; then the money
returned to lenders and others will prob-
ably circulate very freely. Locked in
Government loans there is a tendency
for it to stagnate, and the nation will
stagnate with it.—' Taxationist (W.A.).
Australian Films
“D.J.G.” trots out the old fatal recipe
when he says (B. 2 /12 / ’42) that Austra-
lian films must be made primarily with
a view to entertaining audiences.
It has been tried and has always been
a failure. All that Australia needs is
interesting films, and all that is needed
to make films interesting is for the person
who makes them to be interested in
something. If he is sufficiently interested
in it himself he can make it interesting
to other people. If he is only interested
in playing up to his public he will only
succeed in boring them. Shaw wasn t
interested in entertaining the public. He
was interested in certain social problems
and he wrote such plays as “Widowers
Houses” and “Mrs. Warren’s Profession”
to promulgate his view of those prob-
lems. Managers said that the British
public wouldn’t be interested in the in-
tellectual drama, but they misjudged
their audiences.
The curse of the Australian film “in-
dustry”' has always the dufi pot-
boiler compounded on “D.J.G.’s” pre-
scription. — Curtin Raiser (Vic.).
War on the Bookie
“S.T.S.” (B. 2/12/ ’42) misses my
point about banning bookmakers and
restricting betting to the tote. My sug-
gestion called for Federal action and not
legislation by a State Government, which
was apparently the step taken in S.A.
“some 55 years ago.” “S.T.S.” adds
“nobody ever had much difficulty in find-
ing a layer of the odds”. ... Under
strict Federal control no s.p. bookmaker
could have telephones installed in his
office, and “S.T.S.” must agree that that
would slop by far the biggest part of
s.p. betting.
As for his “You can’l enforce any law
in a free country if the great majority of
the public are convinced that it is unjust,”
1 am sure the people's sense of justice
would not be outraged, were they to give
the matter a moment’s thought, if all the
money lost in gambling on racecourses
went into the Federal Treasury instead of
into the pockets of bookmakers. Ex-
Punter (N.S.W.).
Toys
Standing in the toy department of a
Melbourne store the other day I over-
heard another young father swearing
heartily under his breath, and told him
1 fully agreed it was a crimson disgrace.
These are some of the things we saw;
(1) Toy wheelbarrow, all wood includ-
ing the wheel, and as roughly finished as
a fruit-case—l4s. sd.
(2) Toy vehicle (unidentifiable) con-
sisting of a piece of wood four or five
inches long and one inch cross-section,
with four wheels and a slash of paint—
3s. 3d.
(3) Toy locomotive, all wood and very
poorly made and painted, about one foot
long—lBs. lid.
Any of these articles could be made
by the average handyman with a few
tools and some scraps of Wood that
were useless for anything else, and
painted in a few strokes of the brush.
They are offered for sale at exorbitant
prices and women are buying them,
because there is practically no choice,
rather than let their children be dis-
appointed this Christmas.
Why doesn’t the Prices Commission
exercise some control over such obvious
opportunities for profiteering?—Wuss-
lean (Vic.).
Skilled Labor Shortage
If it weren’t so tragic there might be
something humorous about this shortage
of skilled labor for Australia’s war indus-
tries. In 1926 a Tynesider (a first-class
engineer) came to Australia. He brdught
with him two sons and a daughter. His
idea was not only to make a home for
himself and family but also to give his
children a sporting chance. Things were
bad on Tyneside in those days ; there was
only the dole for young people, but there
still appeared to be a chance for them
in Australia.
However, what with union restrictions,
political control and so on, the old Tyne-
sider finally closed down his infant
engineering business in disgust apd re-
turned to England with his family. That
engineer was my uncle. These days he
holds a prominent position in Hawthorne
and Leslie’s yards (Tyneside), his two
sons are engaged in shipbuilding for
H. & L., and his daughter is employed
by the same firm in the drawing depart-
ment.
They are all specialists in their respec-
tive lines, and valuable as their services
are to England in this momentous period,
the chances are their knowledge might
have been of even greater value to Aus-
tralia. If the above were only an iso-
lated case we could refrain from com-
ment, but aren’t there hundreds—if not
thousands —of similar stories? Zend
A vesta (Q.).
Make Use of Schoolchildren
The winning of this war is a question
of man-power. Few people realise the
vast reservoir of would-be workers avail-
able in our schools. The war leaves the
youngsters somewhat out of the picture
but they are more than willing to help.
And they could assist in most of our
essential industries.
Give them something to do! —Jake
(Vic.).


He’s still going
to school
Steel Expert in the making
His day at the Steelworks begins at
7.30 a.m. At 4 p.m. he knocks off,
dashes to Tech, classes. Engineering
Diploma course takes about jour years.
by WILLIAM J. DUNN
Correspondent for Columbia Broadcasting System
of America , now touring Australia.
LAST week, I went to the Front
—the Front o.f Steel. I wanted
to find out how it is that Australia
can produce some of the finest high-
grade steel in the world —at the lowest
price.
I arrived at B.H.P.’s Steelworks.
I can’t tell you where, because of
national security regulations. There
I saw everything from the white hot
furnaces to the finished steel.
As I went through, it was like
collecting the pieces of a jig-saw
puzzle and putting them together one
by one. Every piece fitted perfectly,
but I was still looking for the last
piece when I met a youngster named
Brisbane. Not much more than a
boy, but looking very serious and
earnest as he went about his work in
the machine shop.
You’d never say that young Brisbane
was much of a one for talking, but
bit by bit I pieced his story together.
Here, right before my eyes, was a
steel expert in the making.
Two years ago, young Brisbane was
studying for his Leaving Certificate at
Victoria’s famous Geelong Grammar
School.
To be an engineer was his boyhood
dream, but he had no very definite
ideas on how to go about it until one
of the masters at his school suggested
that he should apply to join B.H.P.
That’s how it happened that young
Brisbane arrived at the Steelworks,
all set to start his engineering diploma
course. His days he spends at the
works, gaining practical knowledge
from 7.30 in the morning till 4 in the
afternoon. Then he’s off to his
engineering classes at the Technical
College. “I’ll only be going to the
Tech, for about two more years,” he
told me. “Then I’ll be through my
engineering diploma course.”
I asked him to give me a line on
the subjects he was studying, and he
dashed off this little list . . . Applied
Maths., Mechanics 11., Heat Engines 1.,
Drawing and Design 11., Chemistry 4a
and 4b, Workshop Practice, Mechani-
cal Lab. Work.
To me that sounded like a lot of
swotting, but to young Brisbane it
was just necessary groundwork. ''After
| get nay diploma I can go on and do
Specialised study,” he confided. His
clear eyes were seeing visions of the
years ahead when he’d really be able
to show what he could do.
I looked around the machine shop.
How many more lads were there like
young Brisbane, I wondered. I asked
questions. And that was how I came
across the missing piece of the jig-
saw puzzle. || s
Every B.H.P. steel-shop, I dis-
covered, is more, far more, than a
place where steel is made or processed.
B.H.P. is a regular training school
for young Australians who want to
“go into steel.”
In no industry will tomorrow’s
experts be more vitally important
than in the steel industry, and Aus-
tralia is raising its own experts right
there on the job. At B.H.P. there is
an entire regiment of cadets, trainees,
and apprentices. All receiving the
training that will fit them for the
responsible jobs ahead of them.
There’ll never be any discontent
among these lads. They’re doing the
job they want to do. They’re getting
every assistance to make progress.
And they know that they’ll get the
opportunity to qualify for an executive
job later.
Without knowing it, that keen-eyed
youngster I’d been talking to had
given me what I think is the reason
why B.H.P. can produce high-grade
steel cheaper than anyone else. It’s
because B.H.P. is producing a future'
for so many of these up-and-coming
Australians. Australia's whole post-
war development is basically linked
with Steel.
Young Brisbane and his fellows will
be ready and waiting to make the
most of that future. They’ll make
the best steel they know how . . . and
that means it’ll be pretty good. If
possible, it’ll be better than the first-
quality steel B.H.P. produces today.
How B.H.P. Trains
Tomorrow 9 s Experts
CADETS are recruited from young
men holding a university degree in
engineering science, or a diploma
gained at a recognised technical col-
lege. They get two years of general
training at the plant, to give them a
practical knowledge to match their
theoretical knowledge.
TECHNICAL TRAINEES, like young
Brisbane, are lads with Leaving Certi-
ficates. Or they may be boys who
are already full-time B.H.P. workers,
and qualified to do the diploma course.
Their Tech, course takes about four
years.
TRADE APPRENTICES are the boys
who “serve their time” in boiler mak-
ing, metal moulding, fitting and turn-
ing, pattern making, and such.
These lads attend trade classes at the
Tech, and, if they show the ability, are
encouraged to proceed further with
their studies and to qualify in the
Diploma Courses. This gives them an
equal opportunity with University men
to qualify for senior and executive
rank.
FOREMEN are encouraged to attend
the classes in Foremanship and Indus-
trial Management, which are designed
to assist them in dealing with the
ever increasing problems and responsi-
bilities of big industry, such as plan-
ning and organization, training and
leadership.
B.H.P. is a publicly-owned Australian
company with over 20,000 share-
holders. The people who founded and
who direct this company have laid
the foundations of a great national
industry . . . Steel. It is a tribute to
the co-operation between management
and employees that steel from the
B.H.P. plant has won a leading place
on the world’s markets.
