

ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.- No. 3277
Wednesday, December 2, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
MERIDEN - THE CENTRE OF ENGLAND.
'"PHIS tiny township, only five and a half miles north-west
■*■ of the venerable and heavily-bombed city of Coventry, has
long been regarded as marking the centre of England, and on
that account possesses peculiar interest, especially for visitors
from over the seas. It is a typical old English village, and the
remains of the ancient cross, in the centre of what may be
called “The Village Green,” takes the observer back to a time
when England, socially, religiously, economically, was a vastly
different place from the England the present generation knows.
There is another centre of England of a totally different nature,
and that is to be found in the hearts of her sons and daughters
and their descendants throughout the world. From this centre
proceed all those influences which have done so much for
civilisation and humanity. Stated otherwise, it is a spiritual,
no less than a national, centre. It is worth recalling that in
the State of Connecticut, some 14 miles from New Haven, is
another Meriden, now performing important work in that
effort to provide the United States material in her fight for all
those liberties of life and commerce of which Old England is
a symbol.


f
This Book FRut to ¥UU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, ns
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Same
My Address
S.B. 142
The Red Page
ESCAPES FROM ART.
(3) The Collapse of the Pinks.
Are we to believe, then, that Auden
and his friends deliberately isolated them*
selves from their own class for the fun
of the thing, and for ten years packed
their voluminous work with revolutionary
ideas in which they did not believe ?
—Francis Scarfe.
Why, I would ask, is most religious
verse so bad; and why does so little re-
ligious verse reach the highest level of
poetry ? Largely, I think, because of a
pious insincerity. The capacity for writing
poetry is rare; the capacity for religious
emotion of the first intensity is rare; and
it is to be expected that the existence of
both capacities in the same individual
should be rarer still. —T. S. Eliot.
When one or other of the eternal
escapes from art —into the personality or
out into railing at life—is carried to its
logical extreme, it passes, for a time, into
limbo. It will reappear in some new
mask, but, temporarily, a “movement”
has ended. There has been nothing as
oddly conclusive as Lionel Johnson’s
tumble from the high-stool in the pub -
the end of the cult of the personality in
the ’Nineties—to mark the dissolution of
the contemporary Freudian cult discussed
in last week’s Red Page, but because in
two ways it has been brought to its
extreme it is likely that its reign is over.
As was suggested last week, both the
surrender to Freud and the desperate
flight from Freud lead inevitably to
obscurantism. If among intellectualist
groups obscurity in a painting, novel or
a poem came to be valued for its own
sake, so that the more a work concealed
its meaning the more it was prized, that
has never been true of the ordinary culti-
vated reader, who from generation to
generation makes the “classics” and who
has a perverse desire to know, when an
artist is talking to him, what he is talking
about. The Ordinary Cultivated Reader
(Jet him have the capitals he deserves)
lias long ago, with every justification,
given up the attempt to read poets who
.set out deliberately to mystify him: and
if, through doing so, he has missed some
good works thrown out in aberrations
of lucidity, the writers have only them-
selves to blame. For the Ordinary Cul-
livated Reader, therefore, the Freudian
movement was dead from the beginning.
It is questionable whether it has ever
been quite so much alive for the intel-
lectuals as they liked to believe! Of all
the hundreds who have professed to
admire “The Waste Land,” how many
really took the trouble to read Miss Jessie
Weston’s From Ritual to Romance to
find out what it was all about? Surely
the majority simply decided that it was
“new,” it was “interesting” and therefore,,
automatically, good. At any rate, if “The
Waste Land” was not too much for the
intellectuals, it has always been obvious
that Gertrude Stein had no great follow-
ing and Pound’s Cantos' and Joyce’s
Finnegans Wake seem to have aroused
more doubt than enthusiasm. Because it
carried Freudian obscurity to its absolute
limit—exploration of the .ineffable in a
private language— Finnegans Wake may
conveniently be regarded as the extreme
and the collapse of the movement. It is
not possible for anyone, even Dylan
Thomas, to be more obscure; conse-
quently, if he wishes to develop from
Joyce, Thomas can only be less obscure;
can only begin the long trail back to
commonsense,
Freudian obscurantism is not yet
recognised to be dead. On the contrary,
Francis Scarfe’s Auden and A fter records
that Dylan Thomas is leading a new
group—“ The Apocalyptics”—in some
direction or other. But whether Thomas
wishes to lead them into or out of the
wilderness, he must inevitably, it seems,
lead them out. With the ingenuity born
of a monumental confusion of mind, Mr.
Scarfe manages to advise Thomas in the
one paragraph to be more Freudian-
He seeks the world in himself, and con-
sequently his work is entirely autobio-
graphical. His future depends on an en-
larging of his simple vision of (lie sexual
basis of life, and it is to be hoped that he
will not abandon his essential subject. That
problem itself, and his evident conflict as
to its solution, should provide him with an
inexhaustible and vital theme. He is poten-
tially the most modern of the young poets
now writing because of his assimilation of
Joyce, Freud and the Bible —
and less Freudian
Technically he has little to do save to
give his verbal inventions a better ground-
ing in reality and in philology, to con-
centrate even more on that “main moving
column” [of meaning] and to concede less
to that delight in a grimace by which every
poet is tempted.
Which, summed up, presumably means
that “The Apocalyptics” should, and
probably will, come to their senses: make
their meanings plain, stop playing fancy
tricks with the language and, having “en-
larged their simple vision,” abandon
nine-tenths of it as arty and trivial.
While the obscurantist aspect of the
Freudian exploitation of the personality
thus came more or less quietly to its
end with the publication of Finnegans
Wake, the “debunking” of the heroic in
man crashed dramatically with the de-
parture of Auden for America upon the
outbreak of the present war. The Freud-
ians were trapped in the tunnel of their
own logic. If the values that had served,
stabilised and inspired mankind for cen-
turies were proved false; if nationalism,
as an enlargement of the ego, was to be
disapproved and patriotism to be de-
plored ; if the mountaineer, the explorer,
the pioneer, the sailor, the soldier and
the young airmen fighting the Battle of
Britain—all men in whom burned the
light of heroism —were merely sublimat-
ing their “complexes,” and if heroism,
whatever its psychological mechanism,
were not to be valued for its own sake
as a contribution to the glory of man-
kind, what could any logical Freudian
do upon the outbreak of war but pack
his bags for what then appeared to be
a neutral and unheroic America?
At this point the Freudian movement
becomes inextricably entangled with Left-
ism in modern letters, for Auden’s de-
parture dramatised not only the collapse
of those who belittled and degraded life
but of those who, unable to accept the
eternal duality, railed and wailed help-
lessly at the fundamental conditions upon
which life is offered to us —at the fact
that all life preys upon other life.
So rigid has the orthodoxy of the Left
become, even in Australia, that merely
to question it invites the accusation that
one is against “Progress” of all kinds.
And yet by what mighty intellects has
the Leftist position been assailed in our
time! Assailed indeed by the only two
poets, W. B. Yeats and T. S. Eliot, who
are universally admitted to have attained
major rank. The world, said Eliot in the
amusingly provocative phrase of After
Strange Gods, is “worm-eaten with
Liberalism.” Attacking Leftism under
its historic mask of “Whiggery,” Yeats
poured his scorn on
A levelling, rancorous, rational sort of mind
That never looked out of the eye of a saint
Or out of a drunkard’s eye.
Why do the two great poets of our day
stand in isolation against the Left? It is
a question, assuredly of the first import-
ance, which none of the Leftist choir
seems to have considered.
In his prose opinions, as in much of
his verse, Yeats appears to stand for
Aristocracy against the mob. Eliot in
After Strange Gods stands for High
Church religion against the Liberal
“heresy.” Consequently both have had
hurled at them, by young men who are
able to imagine Yeats in a black shirt
shouting “Duce!” and Eliot in a brown
shirt crying “Heil Hitler!”, the orthodox
swear-word “Fascist.” But that is rather
too glib a way of disposing of the two
outstanding poets of the century.
AH theorising by poets about their
work may safely be assumed a rationali-
sation, after the event, of the principles
they have discovered in their poetry.
And so, in spite of the fact that he took
delight in drunkards and scoundrels as
well as in aristocratic old ladies and that
--“a blind man battering blind men” —
be loved humanity in the muddiest ditch
it lay in, Yeats discovered that, on the
whole, he was against the perfectionists.
And, in spite of the fact that the choruses
of Murder in the Cathedral are perhaps
the finest statement of pity for mankind
that has ever been written, Eliot dis-
covered that he, too, on the whole, was
against the perfectionists. Obviously
neither of these men would have been
opposed to political reforms that would
have benefited the lot of the humanity
they loved. To be against the Left need
not necessarily imply being against “Pro-
gress”; it is, in the case of Yeats and
Eliot, to be against a sentimental belief
in the immediate perfectibility of man-
kind by way of slaughtering the middle
classes.
But, except as they can be related to
the eternal reassertion of realism against
sentimentality, contemporary politics
have little to do with Yeats's and Eliot’s
stand against the Left. Rationalise the
necessities of their art into what political
principles they may please, they stand
essentially not for the Right against the
Left, not for the Middle against the Left,
not for Aristocracy against the Left,
not for the Church against the Left, but
for Art against the Left. The “suspen-
sion of disbelief” always operating to
make acceptable artistically works that
might politically be unacceptable, there
would be no difficulty in approving
aesthetically of the verses or novels of the
Left if they were written with that “de-
light,” tragic or joyous, which, one agrees
with Matthew Arnold, is the ultimate test
of the excellence of a work of art.
There have been in our time many such
verses, politically debatable, aesthetically
convincing. A good example is Cecil
Day Lewis’s narrative poem “The Loss
of the Nabara”: here is a poem about
a sea fight written with such spirit that
it does not matter in the least that one
may regard as childish Geoffrey Grig-
son’s proclamation for the orthodox on
the proper attitude to the Spanish im-
broglio—“l always judge poetry, first,
by its relation to current speech, the lan-
guage in which one is angry about
Spain.... ” Similarly, the tosh about “vic-
torious Mussolini” into which Roy Camp-
bell was misled by the orthodoxy of the
Right does not prevent one from approv-
ing aesthetically of his spirited descrip-
tions of air battles. In spite of his Left-
ism, Day Lewis saw the heroic in the
“Nabara” episode ; in spite of his Left-
ism, Auden achieved a moving acceptance
of life, reached Arnold’s tragic “delight,”
in such verses as:
Ibis is my birthday wish for you, as now
From the narrow window of my fourth-floor
room
J smoke into the night, and watch reflections
Stretch in the harbor. In the houses
The little pianos are closed, and a clock strikes.
And all sway forward on the dangerous flood
Of history that never sleeps or dies,
And, held one moment, burns the hand.
Yet it cannot be denied that the major-
ity of Leftist writing has been neither a
compromise with Acceptance nor, like
the best of Sheljey, a joyful call to revolt,
but glum, bitter and defeatist. How
exactly the mass of Leftist verse (prose,
too) corresponds to that escape from art
Matthew Arnold described as merely
“painful” “morbid,” “monotonous,”
“unrelieved by hope,” reflecting “a con-
tinuous state of mental distress” —is indi-
cated by the following couplet from
George Barker, a Leftist who joined
Auden in the exodus to America:
How by being miserable for myself I began,
And now am miserable for the mass of man.
If only the Left had been vigorous for
the mass of man!
Why is it that the Left was not able
to state its case with that hope, that
"delight,” that passion which alone can
carry conviction in a work of art? The
answer lies in the quotations from Eliot
and Francis Scarfe at the top of this
page. If the Pink young men had been
sincere and passionate revolutionaries
one would have found their work aestheti-
cally acceptable, if not politically. But
the Leftist position rested on three great
sentimentalities:
That a second world war would be the
end of civilisation ;
That Communist revolution (i.e., the
slaughter of the middle classes) was
desirable;
That, by means of this bloodbath, the
conditions of life upon earth were imme-
diately perfectible.
If the Left did not accept those three
propositions, all Auden’s repeated Warn-
ings about the war, all Day Lewis’s
sinister “overtures to Death” and, all
Stephen Spender’s optimisms about “the
beautiful generation that shall spring
from our sides” were meaningless. ’ The
Left did accept those propositions. And
yet to assume that the Leftists believed
what they preached is to convict them of
an ignorance of history, a ferocity and
a guilelessness beyond credibility. If
these bourgeois young men did not at
heart desire the bloody liquidation of
the bourgeoisie, one must convict them,
Leftism being indubitably a religion to
its devotees, of that “pious insincerity”
which Eliot detects in nearly all religious
verse ; and to Francis Scarfe’s plaintive
query “Are we to assume that they iso-
lated themselves from their own class for
the fun of the thing and packed their
work with revolutionary ideas in which
they did not believe?” one must answer
a plain Yes. Lacking genuine belief,
their work inevitably lacked passion, and
that is why the great bulk of it is artisti-
cally as well as politically unacceptable.
Auden’s departure for America is not
a matter for personal comment. He
cannot have found the decision easy.
But it cannot escape comment as a
dramatisation of the combined Leftist and
Freudian escape carried to its logical
extreme. If Leftism was outside war, it
was outside life; if it washed its hands
of the war, it washed its hands of
humanity. If, when mankind was faced
with the necessity of accepting heroic
values, it had no affirmation to offer, it
demonstrated that it had conveyed no
genuine illumination in the less dramatic
struggle of peace. It had not fought to
improve the lot of man, as it professed,
but had merely been the plaint of weak
spirits against the burden and delight of
existence. In plain words, Freudism
and Leftism failed mankind in its agony.
Since it has reached its extreme, it
would seem that the Leftist escape, like
the Freudian, is due for hibernation.
Auden’s most recent poem, New Year
Letter, too tortuous as a whole for any-
one without access to Auden’s private
library to follow, spoke out plainly
enough of the poet’s desire to “show an
affirming flame”; to turn his back, that
may mean, on the false logic that took
him out of England and out of the life
men have to live. And among the Left-
ists who stayed in England there has
been already a notable change of heart.
The outbreak of war found Day Lewis
admitting (not a particularly inspiring
thing to say to the young men who had
to die for England, democracy and
liberty; but at least a gesture towards
affirmation) “We defend the bad against
the worse.” Francis Scarfe describes
Day Lewis as “the Communist of yester-
day, now rather chastened and a member
of the Home Guard,” and in Tambi-
muttu’s Poetry in War-time he is repre-
sented by a fine tribute to his fellow
Home Guarders, whose lives are “worth
a song,”
Since Auden is seeking to show his
"affirming flame”; since Day Lewis,
always attracted to the heroic, has decided
that England as it stands is worth fight-
ing for and singing about; and since
such new writers as Laurence Whistler are
surrendering neither to the Freudian nor
the Leftist evasions, there is some hope
that the middle-age of contemporary'
poetry will leave for posterity that heart-
ening image of a heroic age which its
asinine youth denied.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Called an Australian work appar-
ently because it was composed in Aus-
tralia, Dr, Edgar Sainton’s Symphony in
D Minor was performed by Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra at the Town Hall
under the composer’s baton. There was
nothing Australian about it if to be Aus-
tralian means to have the notes of bell-
birds and kookaburras in it; but it was
an impressive piece of music. It flowed
tranquilly along between occasional tem-
pestuous rapids and seemed like a com-
pendium of the history of all music. An
andantino was particularly pleasant. The
Sydney conductor got an ovation for it.
Also the ascetic-looking young English
violinist, Thomas Matthews, for his rich,
ripe tone in the Elgar violin concerto.
The Great Leyante is adept at the cus-
tomary conjuring dodges including
getting beer {and wine, and whisky),
despite austerity, out of kettles—but
where he’s decidedly got the edge on
other mystery merchants is in the pro-
duction of pretty girls. He makes them
appear in organ pipes suspended in mid-
air, refrigerators, ovens, Belisha beacons
—so many of them that they flow over
into the second half of Sydney Tivoli
programme in numbers such as even that
institute of feminine beauty has never
seen before. This follow-on to the
Leyante show is in the Tiv.’s normal
mood of vaudeville, best of it one
George Hurd. The Levante is a pretty
line magician, but Hurd’s juggling is
good enough to make any show.
In “Ladies in Retirement” (Sydney
Embassy) Ida Lupino has the advantage,
not enjoyed by Marie Ney in the stage
version here, of acting against a most
realistic background. No pretty tale, it
concerns a determined woman whose
devotion to her two sub-normal sisters
leads her to carefully-planned murder to
ensure their security, Ida Lupino never
once looks like stepping on the wrong
side of the hairline between —with this
set-up —convincing drama and bathos.
Homicide, too, is the theme of “This
Gun for Hire” (Victory), in which Alan
Ladd gives a sound study of a soulless
killer whose mind has been warped
through cruelty in childhood. “The
Courtship of Andy Hardy” (St. James)
provides light “family” entertainment,
and if the Hardy parents are a trifle too
understanding of their son’s escapades
this is offset by pleasing human touches.
“To Be or Not to Be” (Century) is a
sparkling potpourri of domestic comedy
and the secret service in occupied War-
saw, shot through with witty cracks at
Nazism’s holiest mumbo-jumbo. “A
Gentleman After Dark” (Plaza), un-
ashamed melodrama, is barely saved
from the mediocre by Brian Donlevys
bright performance.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— aIways.
For Men With An Eye To
Quality. ..
“THE SENIOR STORE"
Taste . . . and
Discernment
>r Nx
AUSTRALIAN ARMY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
Military Uniforms cut and made by Anthony Horderns' are
correct in detail, perfect in fitting, and flawless in tailoring.
You will get standard guality materials and a quick,
efficient service.
Khaki Drill Uniforms. Price £4/10/-
Lightweight All Wool Tropical Hopsac. Price .... £6/19/6
All Wool Officer's Twist. Price £7/19/6
All Wool Worsted Barathea. Price £9/10/-
English Barathea. Price £l2/12/-
(OFFICERS' UNIFORMS ARE COUPON-FREE)
X Military Tailoring —Ground Floor, George Street.
DR. REED’S “NU-MATIC”
CUSHIONED HEALTH FOOTWEAR
Exclusive to Anthony Horderns'! Featuring right and left
heel "Arch Brace." Long Latex socks that give comfort to
callouses and tired feet. A shape to fit every foot. In Tan,
also Black Calf. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, pair, 37/6
12 Coupons Required
Men’s Pullover
A garment you will find use-
ful to wear with the standard
two-piece suits. All Wool in
a medium weight, with a
V-shaped neck, and long
sleeves. In. plain shades of
Fawn and Grey. Sizes: Men's
and OS. Price 17/6
Size EXOS. Price .... 18/6
9 Coupons Required
8 Sg
Men’s Work Shirts
Men's Work Shirts,
stout weave of Fawn or
Grey slub effect, with
collar attached. Sizes:
15-inch to 17-inch neck.
At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 10/6
5 Coupons Required
“TREE” BRAND WORKING BOOTS
Made of stout Black oiled, grained Leather, sewn and
standard screwed soles. In all sizes. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, pair 23/6
6 Coupons Required
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
PITT, COULBURN, AND GEORGE STREETS
SYDNEY
Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night) Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


S. H. PRIOR PRIZE
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mission of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
The Prize this year (£100) will
be awarded to the author or authors
of the book by an Australian writer
which the trustees consider the most
valuable contribution to Australian
literature published in Australia be-
tween June 6, 1942, and June 6,
1943. (“Australia” and “Austra-
lian” for the purposes of this award
include New Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
JIM
By KYLIE TENNANT.
JIM spent his working life in the B-B-
Camp, surrounded mainly by soli-
tude and mirages. His leisure was
occupied in capturing and taming
little green parrots, which he would pre-
sent to the hotelkeeper’s wife in
Tiburon on his annual holiday. For
Jim’s holidays in Tiburon began in a
scattering of gifts to all and sundry.
He had usually accumulated eighty
pounds, and he spent it all. He would go
into the store and emerge with a load of
little packages, mostly tinned sardines.
Standing on the street corner he presented
one to each woman who passed. A pretty
girl with a pleasant smile might have two
or more gifts thrust upon her. He handed
one to his favorite barmaid with the
advice to “Open it when you’re by your-
self, my girl, and just have a real good
tuck-in and don’t tell nobody.” The
wrappings disclosed a large tin of herrings
in tomato sauce. After a time Jim real-
ised that prettier and more charming
smiles came from the bestowal of new
frocks, and all the girls in the bar of his
favorite hotel had new frocks when Jim
hit town.
He took it as a personal insult if any-
one else shouted while he was about. It
was “Hullo, Jim,” “How are y’, Jim?”
Everybody knew him. Everybody liked
him. There wasn’t an ounce of harm in
him, and his hunger for feminine smiles
after a year of the B-B-Camp was some-
thing anyone could understand.
He liked the people of Tiburon. “Real
ladies and dear, kind women,” he said
solemnly ; “real men and real gentlemen.”
At first he affected a scorn of what he
termed the “white paper wrappings round
their necks,” but he was dying to wear
one himself. One Sunday evening he
drew the hotelkeeper aside. “Got one
of them paper neck wraps you’re not
using?” he asked.
Jim was fitted up with a collar and tie,
and announced that he was going to
church. When he returned from the
adventure, he was brimming with an
almost maudlin affection for Tiburon.
“Them church people,” he said, “they’re
what I’d call real fine people. Why, when
I went in there they gave me a book to
sing out of. How did they know I wasn’t
a robber or a thief? They couldn’t know
that. But they gave me that book just
the way you’d give it to a cove you’d
known all your life. That’s what 1 like.
Real kindness and real nice people.”
He was just a compound of trust,
whiskers and drinker’s breath, but he
was Jim, a solid gold nugget of Jim.
In the dining-room it was: “Give us
anything you’ve got. Just give old Jim
anything, my girl.” If he heard a step in
the taproom next to the dining-room
he would hop up and apply his eye to
the crack in the door. His curiosity was
rewarded on one occasion by the sight of
a young woman drinking alone, so he put
his head around the door. “Don’t take
me wrong,” he urged huskily, “but would
you like some dinner, my girl?”
The young lady seemed quite free and
easy and said she would, so he took her
by the hand and led her into the dining-
room.
Young ladies such as his new friend
were not encouraged in the hotel, but
Jim did not seem to notice the stiffening
of the waitress. Later he went off with
his new friend, and when he had not
returned by closing-time the hotelkeeper
began to worry. “Old fool might get run
over,” he complained. “He oughtn’t to
be let out by himself.”
Just after closing time Jim appeared
full of solemnity and romance. “Where
you been?” the hotelkeeper demanded.
Jim caught him by the coat and led
him to a retired spot. “That poor
woman,” he whispered. “That poor
woman! Her husband hunted her. She
told me she’s got no money, poor girl.
She was trying to make home to her
people in Querima, and she hadn’t her
fare. Of course I gave it to her. What’s
three pounds, when she needs it so bad,
poor girl?” The poor girl was still in
town when Jim left for the B-B-Camp
and another year of the mirages.
JIM might have continued to enjoy the
uproar of civilisation in Tiburon for
many years had it not been for two trav-
ellipg dentists. Jim had at some time in
the distant past lost his two front teeth
and the dentists fitted him up with one
large expansive tooth to bridge the gap.
It fell out on his plate in the middle of
the clatter of the hotel dining-room.
“Stop eating, everyone!” Jim roared.
“You there, stop for a minute. Look!
Look here!” He pointed dramatically
with his fork. “I’ve been robbed by a
set of thieves and robbers. Look! The
tooth I paid good money for! Call that
a tooth!”
“They’re over at the other pub,” some-
one suggested. “Why don’t you go andl
have it out with them?”
“1 will,” Jim roared. “I’ll go over and
tell those thieves and robbers.”
His big bluchers went thundering down
the hall. They could be seen ploughing
through the mud. Mud-laden they
ascended the stair of the opposite hotel
like twin Fates pursuing the twin dentists.
The diners had finished all except the
tomato-sauce stains when Jim burst in
triumphant. “Real gentlemen,” he
shouted. “That’s what they are, real fine
gentlemen. Why, those teeth,” he ex-
plained, “they’re meant to come out.”
It was the two dentists who persuaded
Jim that he must see Sydney. They pic-
tured to him a city of kind smiles, of
easy, pleasant, merry ladies. When Jim’s
next holiday fell due, he could be heard
all over Tiburon: “I’m not staying.
Don’t ask me. I’m on my way to Sydney.
That’s the place for a holiday, and that’s
where I’m going.”
He carried a little straw hamper in
which huddled a most cynical and pessi-
mistic green parrot. “Now, don’t ask me
for it, missus,” Jim urged the hotel-
keeper’s wife. “Don’t ask me, because
you know I couldn’t refuse you. I’m
keeping it to give to the first kind, sweet
girl 1 see when I get off the train in
Sydney.”
The whole town seemed to gather for
a farewell drink with Jim. “You’re sure
to get your money stolen,” the owner of
the Royal told him. “If you’re stranded,
just drop me a wire and I’ll send you the
fare.”
“Now, don’t you worry about me, my
son.” Jim smacked his monitor jovially
on the shoulder. “Trust old Jim, he
can look after himself. Just trust old
Jim.” He leant over and whispered
hoarsely. “These trams now —how do
you deal with them?”
The hotelkeeper did his best, but he
found it as hard to explain a tram to Jim,
who had never seen one, as to describe
a snake to a blind man.
In the train Jim was quiet enough, and
he showed his ticket dutifully to the first
two inspectors who asked to see it. After
that he offered to fight them. “Take off
your coat. What do you think I am, a
thief and a robber? I’ve shown that
there ticket to two of you already, and
I’ll fight the next one that goes doubt-
ing I’ve got it,”
At Central station his first efforts were
directed to making friends. Nobody
returned his “G’day” and “How are
you?” Then, standing near the clock,
Jim noticed a girl—just the kind he had
spent fifty-odd years dreaming about.
“G’day, my dear,” he called, and hitched
his little green bird up under his arm.
The young lady looked through him and
slowly turned away. “I didn’t give her
the bird,” he indignantly assured lis-
teners in later days.
Still in pursuit of the perfect, kind and
loving woman he looked into the cafe.
The sight of the waitress as well as in-
terior urgings sent him plunging in. “Just
give old Jim anything you’ve got,” he
shouted.
“Perhaps a cup of tea and scones?” the
girl suggested.
“Anything you like,” Jim agreed. “I’m
easy. You’ll soon find how easy old
Jim is.”
He placed his little green parrot on the
seat and fed it bits of scone. When the
newness of the cafe wore off and his
attempts at conversation were snapped
at, he decided to stroll out, but was
stopped at the cash register. Paying for
a miserable cup of tea and a scone out-
raged Jim’s sense of hospitality. When
anyone came to his hut the billy went on
the fire at once as a matter of course.
Only come up to the B-B-Camp, he told
them, and they could have all the tea
they wanted. Even in Tiburon anyone
would give you a cup of tea. “You
miserable, mean girl! Fancy asking a
man to pay for that.”
He revived a little in the tram, but
the cruelty of the city reared its ugly
head again. The conductor nagging at
everyone, calling “Fares, fares,” had set a
young woman fumbling in her purse.
“Put that away,” Jim ordered impres-
sively. “You just put that away, my
girl.” He turned on the conductor. “Call
yourself a man, you foundered half-sawn-
off little dingo. Asking a sweet, pure
young girl for a miserable twopence!
You put that money back in your purse,
my girl.”
A FTER that Jim drifted out of the ken
of Tiburon. He was last reported ask-
ing a policeman about a nice place to
board. From his hand still swung the
wicker hamper containing that cynical
little green parrot. Nothing was heard of
him in Tiburon for five days. On the fifth
a telegram arrived at the Royal: “Send
fare. Jim.” There was no address.
Whilst his friends got into touch with
police headquarters, the cook at Jim’s
station rang the boss, who was in Sydney,
and the boss found Jim.
When he set foot again in Tiburon he
roared aloud with relief. “Never again,”
he shouted. “Tiburon’ll do me. That
place down there’s nothing but houses
packed jam-tight and people all with the
same face-hard as the houses. Give me
Tiburon.”
He was more reticent over the mys-
terious loss of his money. No, it hadn’t
been stolen. Certainly not. His friend
the hotelkeeper got the story out of him.
“It was a poor woman,” Jim explained.
“She kept the residential where I was.
She’d suffered, poor thing. Her husband
thrashed her and took her clothes. She
told me all about it. She hadn’t no
money and no clothes —and can you beat
this?—while I was there, a man came to
take the furniture right out of the house.
I had to pay to get rid of him. She
needed that money more than I did.”
“How about the bird?”
“She got that, too,” Jim replied simply,
and simply and happily he departed next
day for the B-B-Camp.
"SHE'S QUIET,
ALL RIGHT."
By PHILLIP M. JONES.
THE black ribbon of road wound
down from the escarpment to the
dusty flat. It was hot, and the
wind from the east carried fine,
irritating dust that collected in the little
hollows on the driver’s face. Sweat from
his forehead ran down a crease and into
the outer corner of one eye, and he
wdped it away with the back of his hand.
“Hell, she’s hot,” he said.
His companion grunted. “Must be hot
for them blokes over there, too.”
To their right the cemetery lay
sprawled over the dusty flat, its boun-
dary marked by empty bitumen drums.
Sun-browned men wearing shorts and
slouch hats were working about the base
of a stone monument which rose out of
the sand austere and terraced.
The driver nodded. “Reckon they’ll
finish her off this month. If things
keep as quiet as they are now there
won’t be many additions to that lot.”
“Yes. She’s quiet, all right.”
The truck clattered on along the road.
Heavy traffic and bombs had broken the
crust of tar in many places, exposing the
stone filling. The road climbed in tight
snaking curves to the crest of the escarp-
ment. Below them the white town shoul-
dered its ruin to the blue water’s edge
and spread out over a narrow spit of
rock encircling the harbor. The harbor
itself was choked with the wreckage of
ships, and their skeletons pointed mute
and pitiful fingers to the sky. A small
vessel was being unloaded at a battered
jetty and men were moving in a thin
stream about her.
The driver eased his foot down on
the brake pedal. He spoke with a sudden
access of enthusiasm. “Looks great,
doesn’t it? How’d it be for a pot and
y’r sheilah handy, eh?”
“Be good, all right.”
They were halfway down the escarp-
ment when the first anti-aircraft gun
thundered. The driver’s mate looked
out from the cab and peered up. He
made an upward gesture with his thumb.
“Better stop,” he said.
The driver jerked the truck to a stop
and they ran for the side of the road.
The Stukas peeled off from their for-
mation at 12,000 feet. By now the
sound of the ack-ack had risen to a tre-
mendous and ceaseless roar. In fran-
tic chorus to the “heavies” the Bofors
sobbed and grunted, and machine-guns
crackled like fire in a pine forest. Over
the harbor the sky was clotted with puffs
of black smoke and white. The first
’plane screamed down in an almost ver-
tical dive, terrible to see in its unswerv-
ing intensity of purpose. At the end of
the dive the bombs fell slantingly away,
seeming no larger than peas. The rumble
of their explosions was lost in each suc-
cessive whine as the ’planes completed
the dive and fled out over the water to
the north-east. Earth and sky seemed
joined in smoke and dust and a crescen-
do of noise.
The driver rolled a cigarette as he
watched the show. Suddenly he heaved
to his feet and his mouth was crooked
with excitement. “They’ve got one!
Yes, by Harry, they’ve got him.”
A Stuka, trailing a black plume of
smoke, crashed on the escarpment to the
east. A burst of orange-colored flame
leaped upwards and in a moment was
gone. A thin blue spiral of smoke rose
from the heap of junk.
The act-ack fire died throatily. A grey
pall of dust drifted heavily over the
town and the water regained its placidity.
The driver and his mate climbed into
their vehicle and moved off down the
road.
The narrow street leading into the
town was almost blocked by fallen
masonry and by a derelict truck that
had been blown over by the blast of a
bomb. The once-neat stone buildings lay
chipped and shattered or heaped crazily
in a confusion of rubble. The shutter-
less windows stared down on the deso-
lation and upon the high-walled streets.
Only at the jetty was there semblance
of life. The driver and his mate loaded
stores into the truck. It was nearly sun-
set when they reached the ridge of the
escarpment and could look back over
the harbor. The flat stretching into the
sunset was dotted with abandoned
vehicles half-buried in the sand, and
figures moved in dark silhouette. As
they passed the cemetery the sun’s last
rays touched the facade of the monument
with gold, and its protecting shadow was
flung far across the shining crosses.
“It’s sort of peaceful now, isn t it?
said the driver.
His mate nodded, “She’s peaceful, ad
right.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3277.
Wednesday, December 2, 1942.
AT (SOMEBODY’S) WATERLOO.
“Up, Guards, and at ’em—if and when our party lets you.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
f*■ H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place ; 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE NOBLE AND THE MEAN.
Concluding his monumental record of
Australia’s part in the 1914-18 War, the
Official Historian sums up in a sentence
that explodes just now like a delayed-
action bomb:
The meaner struggles of politics cannot
erase one tittle of the story of that terrible
but more generous struggle in the holly
scrub of Gallipoli or under the rain-clouds
of France or the glare of Sinai.
Specially apt and significant—as it
should be chastening —coming at a time
when both sorts of struggle are on to-
gether again ; the mean variety a con-
tinuing chapter, the other a glorious re-
newal. Other parts of Dr. C. E. W. Bean’s
last volume are even more to the point
in the current political tumbling, somer-
saulting and manoeuvring, particularly
that describing the angry A.I.F. “revolt”
in September, 1918, and its causes.
There had been an earlier “revolt”
which, in a strict view, might be held to
have deserved the name of “mutiny,”
though, like the other, it occurred among
men who were done in, lack of numbers
having put too great a strain on them.
The later trouble, which holds out a posi-
tive lesson for the present time, had its
origin “in some of the best men and
finest qualities of the A.1.F.” It came
after the “meaner struggles” over con-
scription in Australia, and was directly
caused by the consequent failure to rein-
force the depleted Diggers, who —many,
if not most, of them patched up from
past wounds and sickness ; though still
youngsters in years, lined and worn
veterans of many campaigns—were build-
ing their share of the glory in which Aus-
tralia and Australians (especially politi-
cians) have basked ever since.
With reinforcements (depending on the
“voluntary system”) down to a trickle,
and majority Australia (to take the
straightest meaning of the conscription
voting) prepared to desert the fighting
Diggers to any fate rather than strengthen
them, the Army Council in London be-
came concerned over the depletion of
the A.I.F. infantry. At the time there
were 57 Australian battalions ; they were
8500 men short, and prospective rein-
forcement drafts —including the wounded
and sick being patched up in England—
would be insufficient to keep up even
that strength. Three splendid battalions
had already been disbanded when, in
June, Haig pointed out to the Australian
leaders—what they themselves were only
too well aware of—that of the remaining
battalions five now had fewer than 700
men, 17 fewer than 800 and only 11 more
than 900, the strength then laid dov/n as
the minimum.
Birdwood and Monash realised that
the proposal, which now came, to abolish
more battalions —as the only means left
of keeping the remainder somewhere
near minimum fighting strength—would
cause “intense heartburning.” Monash,
with his battalions going into battle 300-
400 strong, urged a postponement, till
the lew year, of the breaking-up which
he knew could have damaging results.
How serious these results might finally
be even those on the spot could only
guess ; no one back in the Australia which
had brought the situation about by shirk-
ing the reinforcements issue could have
the faintest idea, even given a grasp of
the general facts, which only a handful
of politicians had.
While the “meaner struggles” went on
back at the home front, the sadly reduced
A.I.F. battalions, “entering great battles
with 300-400 rifles, still attacked on fronts
of 850-1000 yards,” even on fronts up to
'a mile. “Carrying parties could not be
provided ; Lewis-gun teams were reduced
to two men, and Vickers-gun crews could
no longer carry full loads of ammuni-
tion.” Only the superb quality of these
men as fighters saved misfortunes that
might even have shocked home-front
Australia out of its indifference to their
whittled strength and its inability to
appreciate what their sacrifices really
meant to itself. Men “almost dazed from
lack of sleep” had to be ordered into the
line. Thus, at Mont St. Quentin, “two
tired battalions, 400 rifles in all, were
ordered to attack by night two objectives
a mile away over uneven country seamed
by old trenches and completely unrecon-
noitred.” They performed the astonish-
ing feat, and more ; though few engaged
in the “meaner struggle” then and since
—some even now —would be capable of
grasping the meaning of it.
On September 23, 1918, the order per-
force went out for the immediate dis-
bandment of seven such battalions. To
their officers and men “the blow was
overwhelming.” In every case they
wanted to know why their battalion
should have been chosen. “Men and
even officers held among themselves in-
dignant meetings.” Men of the battalions
ordered to disband declined to do so.
Extraordinary occurrences followed.
Deprived of their officers and n.c.os. the
men of the 37th
at once re-established strict military form
in the battalion, choosing from their own
number commanders to carry on tem-
porarily the absent officers’ duties. It was
noticeable that those selected were not
the “bad hats” or of the demagogue type,
but the men most fitted to lead in action,
and strict discipline was maintained. The
battalion marched back to its huts; men
already in detention for various offences
were retained under guard; the medical-aid
posts were re-formed by the orderlies, and
church parade for next day arranged with
the padre, who went with the men. The
“commanders” had meals with the men,
rations being obtained through the sup-
port of other units who “lost” occasional
boxes of food from their own wagon loads
as they passed near by.
Other selected battalions took the same
action. Monash, Gellibrand and other
leaders spoke to their representatives.
“The men’s argument was the same in
every case and was entirely sincere.”
We have always obeyed you and we
always will —in everything but what you
now ask. We cannot obey you in this just
for that reason —we would sacrifice every-
thing for the battalion.
The men of the 25th told General
Wisdom that “it was their unanimous
wish to go into the next battle and to be
given the hardest task; there would
either be no 25th left to break up, or
they would leave such a record as would
make it impossible to break them up.”
In the end the disbandment was put off ;
the news of this “was received with deaf-
ening cheers.” The thin faded-green
lines, scattered over fronts that called
for double their numbers, went into the
fighting again, to uphold for Australia
what Australia, by majority vote, had de-
clared itself willing to abandon —its honor
and its fighting Diggers together. No
wonder the Australia-wide ex-service
men’s congress, many of whose members
have bitter personal recollections of all
this, last week supported the proposal to
merge the present C.M.F. and A.I.F.
It has been said—as a means of induce-
ment to those who put party shibboleths
before country always—that the situation
on the front where the “meaner struggles”
take place is different from that of
last war’s conscription days. This is true
for the present. What happened last time
was that war-worn Diggers on distant
battlefields were deserted by their coun-
try to struggle on with their depleted bat-
talions as best they could. This situation
has not yet arisen, but if opponents to
the move for one army had their way it
would arise in time. Their troubles
then about the thin and weary lines fight-
ing to protect them—so long as these
did not fail and the threat come closer!
It could be argued that what happened
last time was largely the result of ex-
ploited ignorance. It might be said that
tnose who, by vote, refused the Diggers
sorely needed reinforcements could have
no real idea of what the distant fighters
were actually going through, what the lack
of reinforcements meant to them, or what
a catastrophe—both to the A.I.F. and to
Australia —this very nearly produced.
This time there can be no excuse. The
past record is written, and nothing can
wipe out either the mean or the noble in
it, though the present one-army move
shapes towards making some amends
for the mean by ensuring—among its even
larger aims—that at least nothing so con-
temptible will be the future lot of this
war’s Diggers.
Paradise for Union Bosses.
These are great days for trade-union
bosses like those who control the Feder-
ated Ironworkers’ Association or Red
racket. Their revenues and powers have
increased enormously. They can and do
“deal it out” to wage-payers and wage-
earners who offend them, and causes of
offences —as numerous as empty bottles
after a navvies’ picnic—they decide them-
selves.
A wage-payer may offend by refusing
to sack a wage-earner obnoxious to the
Red racket; a wage-earner by working
on a holiday contrary to Red-racket
orders or by owing a trifle of Red-racket
taxation or by standing on his rights as
a citizen and a war worker till he is
savagely boycotted and Man-power
“grants” him “a clearance” —a euphem-
ism for a very ugly development of com-
pulsory unionism. To join the “union”
(and you’ve got to join “or else”) costs a
man or serf 2s. on admission and 345. a
year. One of the privileges is a monthly
copy of the “Ironworker,” from which the
man or serf may derive the impression
that everyone and everything in a foreign
country are perfect, and that Australia
is a no-account country run by a “pro-
Fascist” Government when Menzies is in.
Also that, regardless of reprisals on the
defenceless bodies of Australians and
Britons in enemy prison camps, it is
necessary to Hang Hess, and that the
way to beat Japan is to mass. a huge
fleet in the Narrow Seas and hurl a huge
army on the western coast of France, in
spite of Dieppe.
Another privilege consists in paying for
the printing and publishing of pamphlets
such as the one in which “Ernie” Thorn-
ton explained that striking was the in-
dustrial “policy” of the “union,” what-
ever the “union” rules said to the con-
trary (“deliberately and in a planned
way we made strikes our business”), and
that until June 22, 1941, “our Iron-
workers’ Federal Council” was for ending
the “imperialist” war by coining to
terms with Hitler. The member or serf
is also privileged to find the salaries of
a large and increasing staff, every mem-
ber of which, necessary or just another
parasite on industry, is on Minister
Ward’s reserved-occupation list.
The A.W.U.’s revenues were threatened
by the enlistment of A.W.U. members,
great in this war as in the last, so the
A.W.U. bosses welcomed the appoint-
ment of the Allied Works Council with a
former A.W.U. organiser as its head.
Their own organisers soon found their
way to Civil Construction Corps camps,
but, difficulties apparently arising, it be-
came part of A.W.U. “policy” that
“every Allied Woi'ks Council employee
should be compelled [by law] to become
a financial member of the union appro-
priate to his calling” (in most cases the
A.W.U.), “present employees within two
weeks and persons employed in future
within four weeks.” And presumably
Government paymasters are to see that
every man is “financial.”
One of Mr. Ward’s improvisations, the
Federal Wheat Harvest Employment
Commission, like the Women’s Employ-
ment Board set up regardless of the Arbi-
tration Courts, was also hailed with de-
light by A.W.U. bosses. To it Mr. Ward
appointed, as chairman, Mr. Arthur
Blakeley, another former A.W.U. organ-
iser (the same Mr. Blakeley who, at the
instance of trade-union bosses, was de-
puted by an obsequious Government to
“investigate” a Commonwealth Aircraft
Corporation factory and Australian Iron
and Steel) and representatives of the
A.W.U. and the Australian Wheatgrowers’
Federation as members, two each. This
tribunal produced an award against which
the two A.W.F. men protested strenu-
ously, saying that it had been arrived at
by the A.W.U. men and the chairman
“with a total disregard of the capacity of
the farming community to meet the con-
ditions,” and that it established a mon-
strous precedent:
A farmer is compelled to become an un-
paid canvasser for A.W.U. membership.
The normal cost of canvassing 50,000
workers would absorb their first year’s con-
tribution. This expense the A.W.U. can
now avoid, so that when new members pay
the contribution the A.W.U. will be richer
by £lOO,OOO.
It won’t be quite all that unless more than
50,000 farm hands are employed, or
unless the price of an A.W.U. ticket is
increased. The price of an A.W.U.
ticket, good for a twelvemonth or any
shorter period, is or was £1 7s. 6d.
One of the privileges is a weekly copy of
the “Worker,” published in three States. In
the Brisbane “Worker” the ticket-holder
may learn what wonderful people the
Queensland Labor Ministers are —es-
pecially when they abolish the right to
cast a preferential vote because it cost
them a seat in their wonderful “Parlia-
ment,” or they think it did. In the Sydney
“Worker” he could read what wonderful
fellows the Commonwealth Labor
Ministers were until it occurred to the
Prime Minister that, in respect of mili-
tary service in the South Pacific, Australia
could no longer claim exemption from
obligations accepted with the world for
theatre by Britain, America and New
Zealand —little Labor New Zealand, with
barely more than a fifth of Australia’s
population —and imposed on Australians
in the United States. Thereupon Mr.
Curtin and the Ministers supporting him
incontinently ceased to be wonderful.
The A.W.U. ticket-holder is now in-
formed by the Sydney “Worker” that “the
proposal submitted to the Labor move-
ment by Mr. Curtin will not do,” that
“Labor in Australia cannot give way an
inch on this phase of conscription,” and
that, though the P.M. has thrown in his
lot with “body-snatching reactionaries,”
“we’ll have no brass-hats,” no Mac-
Arthur or Blarney, “meddling with our
domestic concerns.” And if he extends
his reading to what is happening in other
unions as well as the A.W.U. he will
find that a handful of persons “on the
executive” are “deciding” whether or not
it is to be a limited-liability war, as if
hundreds of thousands of unionists were
so many head of cattle.
Yes, these are marvellous days for
trade-union bosses. But they are too
marvellous to last.
No Ambush.
Mr. Churchill was very generous to
Sir Stafford Cripps when that Leftist
lawyer fell from the height to which he
had been raised so suddenly, and or
which he failed to sustain himself—fell
out of the leadership of the Commons
and out of the War Cabinet into the
Ministry of Aircraft Production, in which
he will be Senator Don Cameron’s oppo-
site number. Mr. Churchill is always gener-
ous to politicians. It is on record that he
sent the ailing Chamberlain a daily account
of what went on in Cabinet and in the
Commons to the day of his predecessor’s
death. Unfortunately he is not always
generous to fighting men, though he has
said fine things about them.
At Westminster on July 2, after his
return from Washington, he gave his pic-
turesque account of the defeat of the
Eighth Army, and the picturesque
account went round the world. At the
beginning of the campaign, he said, we
had 10,000 more troops than the enemy,
superiority in air-power and artillery,
and “superiority in number of tanks, of
perhaps seven to five.” Rommel (previ-
ously described by Mr. Churchill as “a
great general”) attacked on May 26 and
the Free French had to be withdrawn
from Bir Hacheim. “Here, no doubt, was
the turning point of the battle,” but this
did not immediately become evident. And
up to that time “our tank-recovery pro-
cess had worked well; perhaps our tank
losses were greater, but we had expected
to lose more, as we had more tanks.”
“On June 13 there came a change”:
We had about 300 tanks in action. By
nightfall no more than 70 remained, and
this happened without any corresponding
loss having been inflicted on the enemy....
With this disproportionate destruction of
our armored strength, Rommel became de-
cisively the stronger. His advance enabled
him to repair his wounded tanks, while
our wounded tanks were lost to us.
“Among the evil consequences which
followed” were the retirement from
Gazala, the loss of Tobruk, with its garri-
son, and the successive retreats in Egypt
till the “great general” was held on the
El Alamein line. Other “consequences,”
doubtless felt evil by the parties con-
cerned, were the removal of Ritchie,
Auchinleck and other generals.
After this speech it was concluded
everywhere that our tanks had stumbled
into a trap set for them by the great
Rommel; and many American and all
Communist publications commented bit-
terly on the quality of British general-
ship. Australian newspapers followed
the procession, and one which claims a
British Labor member, a Captain Some-
body, as its London correspondent pub-
lished the captain’s suggestion that Rus-
sians should be sent to Egypt to teach
British generals their job. Naturally the
public of the Empire accepted the story
of the tank trap as an established fact.
Yet it was untrue, and its untruth has
been admitted by Mr. Churchill himself.
But the admission was not made
promptly or spontaneously. It came in
answer to a question asked in the House
of Commons on September 8. Question
and answer appeared in the London
“Times” of September 9, being printed
in small type.
Captain Anstruther-Gray asked the
Prime Minister the number of British tanks
that were destroyed by the Germans in
Libya on June 13, with a view to correct-
ing public misconception on this matter;
and who informed him that some 230 British
tanks were lost on that one day’s fighting.
Mr. Churchill: My statement that 230
tanks were lost on June 13 was based on
a misreading of the terms in a telegram
from the Middle East. According to the
latest information about 200 tanks were
lost over a period of about a week. It is
not possible to say exactly how many were
lost on June 13, but the bulk of the losses
probably took place on that and the pre-
vious day.
It was possible for Mr. Churchill to pre-
sent furious fancies about the tank trap
that was never set and about the losses
that did not happen “by nightfall” on
June 13. It was “not possible” three
months later to get precise information,
based on no misinterpreted telegram and
not sprinkled with a “probably and two
“abouts.” But no member protested that
precise information, if nothing more,
was the due of the living and the dead ;
even the questioner accepted the ‘prob-
ably” and the two “abouts.”
Captain Anstruther-Gray: Is it not a
pity that the truth was not made public
sooner, instead of allowing people for three
whole months to believe that on June 13
there had been a sort of Balaclava charge
in which we lost 230 tanks in an ambush,
because that was a grave injustice both to
our leaders and to the training of the Royal
Armored Corps? (Cheers.)
Mr. Churchill; I always do my best to
give the House the best and earliest in-
formation possible, and on this occasion
I acted in an entirely bona fide manner,
gave the best information in my posses-
sion, and I cannot feel myself as being at
all blameworthy in the matter.
The dismissed generals and the survivors
of the tank battles may have other views.
Australians, for their part, got the untrue
story, with trimmings, in newspapers an
over the air. Only the few who study
the very small number of British jouniai
that publish fairly full Parliamentary re-
ports know that it was untrue.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Palavers at Canberra.
,
It was unfortunate lor Di. Evatt t a
the delegates to the Constitutional Con-
vention, all party men, should have
assembled at Canberra when the Laboi
party had reached another crisis in its
chequered career.
The crisis and its effect on the fortunes
of all parties were in every delegate’s
mind. The Four Freedoms might be all
very well, but they were remote and in-
tangible compared with the grand free-
for-all raging in “the movement.” With
Right-Wingers in fratricidal combat, Mr.
Lang and the Sydney “Worker” group
fighting on the same side, Mr. Ward
breaking from the Left Wing to hit out at
Mr. Curtin and Communists ploughing
through heaps of their own ariti-conscrip-
tion publications to side with the P.M.,
how could party men give dispassionate
consideration to the Attorney-General’s
ideas on reform-for-post-war-reconstruc-
tion?
Mr. Curtin and Dr. Evatt made a brave
show of being unconcerned. The P.M.
produced a post-war reconstruction pro-
gramme which at least had the merit of
indicating some constructive thought. Dr.
Evatt presented, as a substitute for the
Constitution Alteration (War Aims and
Reconstruction) Bill introduced on Octo-
ber 1, a Constitution Alteration (Post-war
Reconstruction) Bill in which, while
freedom of speech and expression and
religious freedom were retained and
made obligatory on Commonwealth and
States, “freedom from want and freedom
from fear” were left out. Left out also,
in deference to champions of the High
Court’s interpretative function, were the
words “the Parliament shall have full
power to make laws....for the purpose
of carrying into effect the war aims and
objects of Australia as one of the United
Nations” and “the power shall extend
to all measures which, in the declared
opinion of the Parliament, will tend to
achieve economic security and social
justice.”
The altered section states merely
that “the Parliament shall have the
power to make laws for the peace, order
and good government of the Common-
wealth for the purpose of post-war re-
construction.” And there have been added
to the October list of subjects for legisla-
tion, very necessarily, “the relations
between employer and employee ; trade,
commerce and industry, companies and
investments.”
But the new bill did not please the
Federal Opposition leaders. Mr. Fadden
—a bit out of his depth and ill at ease —
pronounced it “a party measure,” and
counselled delay and an elected conven-
tion. To Mr. Hughes “the bill, while
affecting to mend the Constitution, in
effect sweeps it away,” though the Gov-
ernment, not being prepared to face the
position, “doesn’t go so far as abolish all
Parliaments except the Commonwealth
Parliament and delegate certain powers
to other bodies.” The veteran allowed that
“a very great number of Australians want
this done.” “Post-war reconstruction,”
Mr. Menzies objected, “is a political ex-
pression. It is not defined in the bill, and
it is indefinable. As something designed
to define power, it is incomprehensible.
It may mean anything or nothing.”
Benevolent support for the Govern-
ment’s proposals came from Mr. McKell
and Mr. Cooper; flat opposition from
Mr. Dunstan and Mr. Playford. Mr.
Willcock was against a referendum ; and
it seemed that everyone was. Mr. Cos-
grove proposed the transfer of “adequate ’
reconstruction powers from the States to
the Commonwealth “for a period of seven
years from the cessation of hostilities,”
with a referendum to follow. And at the
beginning of the week it looked as if
some such inglorious compromise would
be adopted.
Digger Decisions.
If Digger advice—per the Australia-wide
R.S.L. annual congress—is followed, Aus-
tralia will not again be caught in the state
of wide-open defencelessness that pre-
vailed in 1939.
The advice certainly ought to be
accepted. On this matter the advisers,
unlike politicians, are authorities.
The Diggers advise that a permanent
standing army (of, they suggest, 100,000)
for the future defence of Australia should
eventually be established from the serv-
ing forces. Towards the same end, the
re-establishment of compulsory military
training for youths between 16 and 18
is advocated; also restoration of the
senior-cadet system in primary and
secondary schools.
Congress adopted an “Australian
Charter,” put forward by Federal presi-
dent Gilbert Dyett, for post-war recon-
struction. As well as holding out for a
permanent safeguarding army —in which
it differed vitally from other post-war
plans —it advocated a national building
scheme (with a special eye on the certain
requirements of service men now marry-
ing, or who will marry when their
present job is done); railway unification
(war transport troubles make an over-
riding argument); reafforestation ; ser-
viceman-settlement, and other moves
towards bettering Australia and securely
re-establishing members of the fighting
services in civil life.
In the meantime the congress has
urged that the pay of the fighting forces
should be increased by 2s. a day and
their dependants’ allowances by 50 p.c.
Also that all members of the naval
forces, A.I.F. and R.A.A.F. should be
exempt from taxation on their military
pay from date of enlistment till 12
months after discharge.
What seriously discourages Diggers and
their brother-fighters and causes resent-
ment among them is the preposterous dis-
parity between what they are paid for
fighting and what home-fronters like
wharf-laborers and munition workers are
earning. This state of things is a queer
survival from times when the fighting in
wars was done by men who made soldier-
ing a lifetime profession. The quaint
surviving notion is that men entering the
services and going forth to risk their lives
and suffer the harsh conditions of war in
places like New Guinea and the African
desert automatically qualify for a lot
lower rate of pay than that of those who
keep the home fires burning without risk.
Actually, either by the method advo-
cated by the Diggers or some other,
the position should be reversed, as at
some future date, when those who suffer
by it get finally fed up with the joke, it
surely will be.
--
"Siicimeful Cheapfer."
The worst feature of the Queensland
Labor Government’s abolition of prefer-
ential voting, because it lost the Cairns
seat, was the indecent haste with which
the thing was rushed through. Electors
were given no chance of discussing it
or of signifying their opinion. They
were deprived of a right they have en-
joyed for 50 years with a contempt for
their own feelings which will not be for-
gotten.
Unlike electors in other States and
the Commonwealth, Queenslanders could
exercise the preference voluntarily. This
fact was seized upon by the bill’s spon-
sors as indicating that the system wasn’t
wanted. Attorney - General Gledson,
who had charge of the bill, declared that
in the 1941 election only five electorates
exercised preference. He was sharply
corrected by Opposition-leader Nicklin,
who said that it was decisive in five elec-
torates, but had been used in 18. That
mattered nothing to the authors of the
outrage on the people.
As the “Courier-Mail” put it:
The plain fact is that the Government,
disturbed by its recent loss of prestige
throughout the State, decided to use its
servile majority to force through a measure
which it believes will help it to hold on to
power. There has been no more shameful
The Boot for the A.L.P.
The United States has —or had —an
A.L.P. of its own, the American Labor
party. It claims —or claimed —such
notable sympathisers or supporters as
Mayor La Guardia and “the Boadecean”
Dorothy Thompson, and the President
himself was said to have given the
A.L.P. “the go-ahead signal to put
up one Dean Alfange as its candi-
date” for Governor of New York,
remembering that the A.L.P. gave
“419,979 votes to Governor Lehman in
1938 when his plurality over Mr. Dewey
was only 64,394.”
The A.L.P. had some newspaper sup-
port also, but not much. One journal
made some ferocious references to its
description of itself as “the last bastion
of the New Deal in New York State,”
and to its platform, which “praises the
President and abuses the industrialists” —
employers, not trade-unionists, as in Aus-
tralia. Another, foreseeing defeat for
“Dean Alfange, the lawyer and Tam-
many Democrat,” flayed the party on
the score of its “political bumptiousness,”
adding that, having put “service to the
President, including political service, as
its openly avowed first purpose and
aim,” jt had “reared up into a rampant
foreground position where it must face
responsibility, appraisal and strict ac-
count.” Westbrook Pegler went further,
as he usually does:
The so-called American Labor party is
more European than American, does not
represent Labor and is not a party but a
Left-wing annexe of the Democratic party,
with accommodations for a few renegade
Republicans such as Fiorello La Guardia
and his friend Congressman Vito Mar-
cantonio, who follows the Moscow party
line. It claims to have half a million votes,
but has been running a bluff for a long
time The so-called party’s nominee,
Dean Alfange, is very obscure and hasn’t
a Chinaman’s chance and knows it. Not
only is the so-called party’s political line
European, but its membership is a mix-
ture of Social Democrats and Communists,
and the two groups fight like cats and dogs.
Mr. Alfange was defeated —so dread-
fully that America may hear no more
of its Labor party. There may be a
moral in it for the other A.L.P.
ALICE IN ASUNDERLAND.
The Bulletin
chapter than this in the whole political
history of Queensland.
Politicians work on the theory that the
public has a short memory, and so it has.
But it doesn’t forget insults to its intelli-
gence and its rights, a fact which should
be clear the next time a Government
candidate stands for a Queensland seat.


Queensland
insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
As a long satisfying drink, a liqueur, or as a base of your
favorite cocktail.
CIAYTON’S
A KOLA TONIC
Product of CLAYTON BROS., London.
Agents: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £34,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,200,000.
M.
C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
For what it may be worth, Curtin is
getting N.S.W. Left-Wing support for the
xtension of conscription to the South-
west Pacific area. The Labor Council’s
vote was 97 for and 68 against, and that
of the State A.L.P. executive 23 to 13.
The P.M. attended the A.L.P. executive
debate and had an argument with one
of his Ministers, a Mr. Ward, whom the
Left Wing has dropped. It is expected
that this A.L.P. executive vote will “de-
cide the attitude” of A.L.P. executives
in other States. Alteration of the Defence
Act will be necessary, and only Parlia-
ment can do that. But Parliament seems
to have been forgotten.
Ward joined Don Cameron and Hollo-
way in opposing the sending of militia-
men anywhere in the South Pacific. That
same day it came out in the papers that
“well-equipped New Zealand forces have
arrived in New Caledonia,” and that “a
great body of all arms of the U.S. forces
is in Fiji.” There can’t be any Wards,
Don Camerons or Holloways in the
Cabinets at Wellington and Washington.
By Canberra ukase, the Apple and
Pear Board is to go out of the
“acquisition” part of the business in
four States. Constitutional Section
99 provides that “the Commonwealth
shall not, by any law or regulation
of trade, commerce or revenue, give
preference to one State or any part
thereof over another State or any part
thereof.” Won’t freeing Queensland
from the curse of the Apple and Pear
Board be giving that State an unconsti-
tutional preference over Westralia while
Westralia remains under the curse?
With an appearance of being serious,
Menzies predicted that Ward would be
the next Labor P.M. He won’t be taken
seriously if he repeats the prophecy, for,
as he should know well enough, it will
never come to pass. Ward entered Par-
liament as a Langster, and a Langster
he remained until Lang formed his Non-
Communist Labor party. This Eddie
refused to join, for joining it would have
meant a breach with the Left Wing.
Now he has broken with the Left Wing
as well as, with 16 of his Ministerial col-
leagues, and thrown in his lot with Lang
again. It may mean the resuscitation of
“the Non-Communist Labor party,” with
Ward in instead of Beasley.
Minister Scully on the financial record
of the Apple and Pear Board:
In the first year it lost £600,000, in the
second year about £1,500,000. This year’s
loss is expected to be much less than that
of the first year, but this is mainly be-
cause of the comparative smallness of the
crop.
Taxpayers met the losses, growers were
underpaid and consumers had to pay
siege prices for fruit. Certainly a devas-
tating experiment in food control, but all
the political parties were for it.
Britain has had a Woolcott Forbes
case, with differences occasioned by the
Old Man’s vastly superior police methods
and his swift and stern administration of
justice. Called the Porter swindle from the
name of the Liverpool firm concerned, it
was marked by the suicide of Porter while
the detectives were on his track and by the
conviction of six associates, one of
whom, the managing director, was sen-
tenced to nine years’ and fiped £lO,OOO.
The record shows that the managing
director was the son of Heligolanders
named Schultz, who, going to England,
changed their names by deed poll to
Clare. Thus young Schultz, “the master
mind of Britain’s greatest war-time fraud
case,” became Charles Roland Clare. In
Australia, as in Britain, this changing of
alien (latterly often enemy alien) names
by deed poll should have been prohibited
long ago. It must have facilitated the
Schultz swindles, and it is improbable
that Forbes would have caught as many
mugs had he been obliged to look for
them as Louis Brandei.
When Sir Stafford Cripps was named
Lord Privy Seal and leader of the House
of Commons, with a seat in the War
Cabinet, it was taken for granted that he
would become Churchill’s successor.
Now Eden leads in the Commons, and
Cripps is out of the War Cabinet, though
he remains in the Government as Min-
ister for Aircraft Production, same as
Don Cameron, who is No. 18 on the list
of 19 Ministers. Churchill affected to
cushion the shock of Cripps’s fall with
an issue of compliments, but they thinly
disguised his own satisfaction at the turn
of events. The Cripps reputation was
newspaper-made, and, put to the test, the
Leftist lawyer failed to make the grade.
“The historic Constitution Conven-
tion” was the “Age’s” description of it.
Events seem unlikely to justify the adjec-
tive. In any case the thing can scarcely
be compared with the Constitution-
framing Convention for which the
“Age’s” David Syme nominated ten
“outstanding candidates,” and, unlike
the Sydney dailies that flopped at the
last Commonwealth election, saw them
all elected by popular vote. There were
VICHY WATER.
60 delegates from the six colonies, and
they began their deliberations at Adel-
aide on March 22, 1897. Isaac Isaacs is
the sole survivor. When he contrasts the
proceedings of his contemporaries with
those of the party leaders gathered at Can-
berra he must have long, long thoughts.
Dr. Evatt has had to deny that, if the
Constitution is remoulded to his heart’s
desire, his Government will somehow get
the power to stave off a general elec-
tion. The provincial Legislatures already
have this power, and the one in Perth
has twice exercised it—indeed, was exer-
cising it for the second time when the
paltry objection to the national Parlia-
ment having it was raised. Willcock, the
Labor Premier, contended that an elec-
tion would expose people in the north-
west to grave danger, seeing that the
north-west has had bombing raids and
might have more. This consideration did
not prevent his Government from holding
a by-election in the North Province, which
takes in the places which have had bomb-
ing raids, but perhaps the idea is that
Leg. Council electors can look after
themselves.
The troubles of the Curtin Govern-
ment were added to when Lieut. Packer,
Director of Personnel Allied Works
Council, sacked four clerks, all, of course,
members of the union. The union
bosses weighed in with the usual
Demands, and poor old Joseph Silver
Codings was pleading that he couldn’t
interfere when his voice was drowned
by another roar of indignation. Two
brothers who had given themselves
leave from an A.W.C. job in Queensland
“to ventilate some grievance” had been
arrested in Sydney, charged with “con-
travention of works regulations.” A still
louder roar went up from Melbourne,
eight A.W.C. men having been arrested
for “disobedience on a job.” This time
the mountain labored and brought forth
another National Security reg. providing
that any person or persons causing the
arrest of any A.W.C. person or persons
must telegraph all particulars to the
Solicitor-General at Canberra “within
one hour.” Looks as if the Director of
Personnel will have to go back to the
army for safety.
According to “North Queensland
Register”:
Our State Government has been in power
too long. It has enjoyed a numerical
superiority for so many years that it has
assumed a static or arithmetical dignity.
And it tried to square the matter by
abolishing preferential voting.
Australia’s American friends are re-
markably patient and polite. After a
visit to the Commonwealth R jar-Admiral
Young said that he had found wharfies
doing more work than American contem-
poraries and that, while he recognised
the political difficulties, he felt the “re-
moval of the bar to overseas service by
the militia” would be an important gain.
Ward, Lang, the Sydney “Worker” and a
lot of other people, whose idea is that
only trade-unionism should be compul-
sory, thunder that it would be a total
loss.
Nobody except Curtin has a good word
for poor old Dedman. Willcock, the
Westralian Labor Premier, is a bitter
witness that Deddy “wanted to shut
down the mining industry and disperse
its man-power,” and, though restrained
with difficulty from getting all he wanted,
“about three-fourths of those engaged
in it have been called up or are scat-
tered in Civil Construction Corps camps,”
some in other States and in the N.T.
Willcock seems to have carried this griev-
ance with him to the convention at Can-
berra, Anyway he didn’t go nap on the
Government’s proposals, though McKell
and Cooper supported them and Cos-
grove proposed a face-saving compromise.
People who marvel at the large number
of apparently fit city chaps who are not
in uniform cr “munitions” sniffed when
they read that a Melbourne doctor and
two laymen, a barman and a wharf-
laborer, had been found guilty of con-
spiracy to aid men to avoid army service.
Learning something, two detectives,
posing as unwilling recipients of call-up
papers, saw the barman and the wharfie
and were told that the oracle could be
worked if the money was good. The
money being good, the doctor, an A.M.C.
captain, turned up and told the d.’s to
say at the examination that one had a
stomach ulcer and the other asthma.
When he had issued one false certificate
he was grabbed, and the conspiracy
charge was laid. There should be other
investigations on this line, not confined
to doctofs or to Melbourne.
Back on the job after doing something
or other for the Commonwealth, N.S.W.
Police Commissioner Mac Kay wasted
no time in returning to form. For two
months he fought the efforts of three
young detectives, all of whom had trained
themselves to fly, to join the R.A.A.F,
Fortified by the unanimous decision of a
tribunal headed by the annoyingly out-
spoken Judge Clancy, they’ve joined the
R.A.A.F. Called on by a Divorce Judge
to produce a man’s record, Mr. Mac Kay
refused, stating it “was not his policy to
produce such records.” “An imperti-
nence,” snapped the Judge, and ordered
pioduction forthwith. Mr. Mac Kay
obeyed, muttering something about his
refusal having been dictated by Govern-
ment policy.
Earle Page’s similitudes are, as a rule,
surgical. Departing from this practice at
the Canberra convention he described
the two Evatt Constitution Alteration
Bills as “Miss Unification naked and un-
ashamed” and “Miss Unification with a
figleaf.” Doctor, doctor!
British Left-Wingers are wild with the
Americans for availing themselves of*
Darlan’s very useful services, and with
their own Government for (1) accepting
what it could not prevent and (2) refus-
ing to place 8.8. C. at De Gaulle’s dis-
posal for furious philippics. Blended with
their ire are bitter forebodings of frus-
tration. They were looking forward to a
beautiful Communist revolution in
Europe after the Axis is settled, and
Downing-street and the White House
don’t seem to want one,
Dunstan scored over Curtin when he
got a High Court vindication of his re-
fusal to pay State civil servants extra
wages for the abandoned Melbourne Cup
and Melbourne Show Day holidays, as
ordered under a National Security reg.—
a very stupid abuse of the defence
power. The Court held that if the Com-
monwealth could control the pay, hours
and duties of State employees it could take
complete control of all Governmental
administration in Australia. Maughan,
K.C., said the case was the first in which
a National Security reg. had been de-
clared invalid.
Ward, explaining his opposition to his
leader’s militia-service plan:
I say to Mr. Curtin and other members
of the Government that if we were cour-
ageously to take action to remove obstacles
to enlistment on the home front very
few would stand back. One of the first and
essential things for the Government to do
is to begin immediately a programme for
the elimination of private banks and in-
surance companies.
As a recruiting idea, this is original and
unique. And the author needn’t take out
copyright, for no other country will ever
copy it till hell freezes.
While Vichy was broadcasting the
scuttling of the French fleet at Toulon
anti-Darlan interests in Sydney were
holding forth that among the admiral’s
crimes was the double-crossing of the
Allies in respect to those ships. A Darlan
broadcast of May s—“ England betrayed
us in Flanders, attacked us at Oran, at
Dakar and in Syria”—may partly account
for the fuss in the Commons, though the
hand taken in the fuss by the Communist
Gallacher indicates where some of the
breeze blew up from. Anyway, on all
the evidence the admiral, whatever his
past utterances (and past utterances of
other people have had to be overlooked),
has done more for the Allies in two weeks
than his rival in London has done in
two vears.


THE KILLER AND THE
SLAIN
By Sir Hugh Walpole
Walpole’s last novel, which he himself ranked
as amongst the best things he had done. It
tells of the tragic enmity of two men utterly
opposed in temperament. Talbot, the weaker
kills the stronger, coarser Tunstall, and so rids
himself of his persecutor for ever, as he thinks.
But he finds himself gradually invaded and pos-
sessed by the personality of the man he had
killed. In the last tense chapters we see Talbot
as an armed madman, ranging the darkened
streets of war-time London.
Price 11/6; posted 12/-
SCHOOL FOR ETERNITY
By Harry Hervey
This novel has something of the quality of “The
Bridge of S'an Luis Hey.” The background is
an island in the West Indies, w'here Count
Girghiz, who likes to use the scalpel on men’s
souls, has gathered strange guests for a stranger
week-end. He pulls the strings, their pasts are
revealed, and the threads begin to interweave.
Then comes the earthquake.
Price 11/6; posted 12/-
THE LAST ENEMY
, By Richard Hillary
A vivid story of war service in the R.A.F. and
its mental and spiritual effects on the fighting
pilot. Price 10/6; posted 11/-
These books may be obtained from booksellers;
wholesale only from
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON, W.C.2,
5 3
m
£1
YES.TC
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR, family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD. A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Though Isaac Isaacs is the only sur-
vivor of the elected delegates to the
1897-98 Federal Convention, one who
was present in an assisting capacity,
Robert Randolph Garran, was again
present for the current convention at
Canberra. Garran was secretary to the
drafting committee at the long-ago
gathering. In the year it met he pub-
lished his The Coming Commonwealth,
and in 1901 collaborated with John
Quick (one of the original Vic. dele-
gates) in an Annotated Constitution of
the Commonwealth. Subsequently the
g.o.m. of the latest convention was sec-
retary to the Commonwealth Attorney-
General’s Department and Parliamentary
draftsman from 1901 to 1916 and
Solicitor-GenCral from 1917 to 1932,
with a hard-working brief in Australia’s
interest at the 1919 Peace Conference,
By all report the New Diggers are
every bit as good as the Old, and any
one among them will need to be good if,
when it comes to their turn to take over
the running of the R.S.L., he’s able to
smash the record of Digger knight Gil-
bert Dyett, re-elected president for his
25th year by the Australia-wide congress
which met in Sydney last week. The
DIGGER PRESIDENT DYETT.
sittings were held in one of the court-
rooms in the Government Savings Bank
building, and anybody dropping in there
could have quickly gathered why Dyett
has held his Digger-leading job for
quarter of a century. Fairly slight in
build, with white hair going back from
his forehead, he’s an extraordinarily alert
president, with a very sharp brain for
cleaving through flaws in arguments or
proposals. A Gallipoli Digger, he was
wounded at Lone Pine and subsequently
invalided out. Born at Bendigo (Vic.)
and educated at Marist Brothers’ College
there, he’s on a number of Melbourne
trusteeships with Digger interests and a
member of the Vic. Racecourse Licensing
Board. He collected his knighthood in
1927.
S.A. Premier Playford, with Attorney-
General Jeffries and Crown Solicitor
Hannan, “sat up” on their recent night
journey from Adelaide to Melbourne, as
a protest against the reintroduction of a
sleeping carriage, considered unnecessary.
Leader of S.A. Opposition Richards saw
no point in not using it, as it was there
anyway. The P.M., a few nights before,
had had to sit up.
Fighting Lalors:
Peter Lalor, a great-grandson of Eureka
Stockade Lalor, is carrying on the family fight-
ing tradition with the Sherwood Foresters
in Egypt, or wherever the Sherwood Foresters
happen to be at the moment. His father, killed
at Gallipoli, had a picturesque career. It in-
cluded enlisting as a boy in the British Navy,
deserting from that service, joining the French
Foreign Legion, fighting through a South
American revolution, and finally being
appointed to the permanent forces in Australia.
In the Anzac vol. of the Official History
C. E. W. Bean gives a vivid account of Capt.
J. P. Lalor’s last stand. He had gone forward
with his men and taken up a line under fierce
fire from a spur in front. Here he was joined
by a 2nd Batt. party under Capt. Morshead
(now Lieut.-Gen. Morshead, commanding the
A.I.F. in the Middle East, and made K.C.B.
since his men prised open the first crack in the
Axis defences at El Alamein). The responsi-
bilities of that first long day at Anzac, says
Dr. Bean, had lain as heavily upon Lalor as
upon any other officer in the force. “It’s a
,” Lalor said, as Morshead came up.
“The poor colonel was killed. I don’t know
where Whitham is—hope he’s all right. He
and I were pals Oh, it’s a !” Mors-
head moved his platoon to Lalor’s left.
Lalor waved his hand and moved his own
line to join Morshead’s. Fire was coming
from the lower knolls down by the beach.
Lalor stood up to see, and resolved to charge
forward. “Now then, 12th Battalion! ” he
cried; and as he said the words a Turkish
bullet killed him. His son with the Sherwood
Foresters was known as a poet at Melb. Uni-
versity, with radical tendencies like his great-
granddad, and was studying common law for
a degree at Oxford when Hitler erupted.
Kylie Tennant, who has twice col-
lected the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
(with Tiburon and The Battlers), has now
had two more of her novels accepted
overseas. In London Gollancz is pub-
lishing Ride on, Stranger, and in New
York the Macmillan Co. is publishing
Time Enough Later. The first is described
as a long social novel, the other as a
light romance.
Back from U.S.A. with tales of wonder
of aeroplanes coming off the production
line like sausages in a Chicago packing
house and of ships built by mass pro-
duction, Lawrence John Hartnett,
Director of Ordnance Production and
managing director of General Motors-
Holden’s, The son of an English medico,
L. J. Hartnett has crowded a lot of
achievement into his 44 years. An R.A.F.
lieutenant in the last war, he later went
to Singapore as representative of the
engineering firm of Guthries, then to
India-, New York and Stockholm for
General Motors. In 1934 he went to
the U.S.S.R. by invitation, then got his
present job with General Motors-Holden’s
in Australia. He has since seen that
organisation grow to gigantic propor-
tions. He has been a director of the
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation
from its beginnings.
Latest Australian to get the high dis-
tinction of being made a fellow of the
Royal College of Physicians is Frank
Longstaff Apperly, Professor of Pathol-
ogy at Richmond, Virginia (U.S.A.).
Born at Shepparton (Vic.) in 1888, he
was educated at Wesley College, Mel-
bourne, and Melb. University, whence
he went to Oxford as a Rhodes
scholar. „From 1915 to 1918 he was a
captain in the R.A.M.C. and afterwards
held the job of medical superintendent at
the Royal Northern Hospital, London.
He got his American appointment on the
strength of his researches and a mort of
publications on medical subjects which
have a world-wide circulation. His wife
was one of Melbourne’s leading amateur
actresses, and the first to do the smalls
with her own company in highbrow
Irish drama. The middle name of the
professor is a tribute to his late uncle,
the painter.
Reported missing and believed to be
p.0.w., Sgt. T. C. Dickson, one of the
best-known of Melbourne journalists.
A Geelongite, he started as a reporter on
his home city’s “Advertiser.” After that
he was on the “Argus” except for an
interim when he exchanged the type-
writer for the plough. When he enlisted
in 1940 he was “Argus” mining editor.
When he gets to Brisbane, where he
goes from Hobart on Union Bank busi-
ness, keeping O. McK. Birrell out of the
northern capital’s public life will be a
tough job. Aside from his bank duties,
his four years in Hobart were crammed
with such jobs as president of the Boy
Scouts, treasurer of the Chamber of
Commerce, chairman of the Red Cross
appeals committee, councillor of the Red
Cross Society, member of the State Sal-
vage Committee, Red Cross rep. on the
V.A.D. State Council and a deputy
sector warden in the A.R.P.
It would be hard to find a man better
suited for his job than Christopher
Arthur Smith, who has succeeded his
brother, the late T. E. Smith, as chief
inspector and censor of places of enter-
tainment in South Australia. The
CHRIS SMITH.
brothers were pioneers of movies in the
State ; subsequently Chris Smith started
practice as an architect and designed, or
made alterations to, almost every picture
theatre in S.A. Chris has a son in the
A.1.F., while his daughter, the wife of
an air-force pilot, is in the W.A.A.A.Fs.
There is a Gunther who professes to
know all about “Inside Europe” and “In-
side Asia,” but Hugh Phillip of that ilk
knew more about the inside of police
stations. Lately retired after 38 years in
the Victorian police, he took charge of the
entire Gippsland district as Superinten-
dent Gunther in October, 1939. Previ-
ously he had kept an eye on unlawful
doings in the north-east, Goulburn Valley
and metropolitan districts.
Thousands of Australian Rules fans in
Melbourne were familiar with the dial
here sketched by Counihan. It belongs
to Wing-Commander A. E. Chadwick,
who, when Air-Commodore Cobby went
North, became Director of Recruiting,
R.A.A.F., Melbourne. For seven years
captain of Melbourne, Chadwick learnt
football in the first place in 1915-18 with
the No. 1 Squadron A.F.C. team, of
which Ross Smith was a member. At
WING-COMMANDER CHADWICK.
that time he covered much of the ground
the second A.I.F. is on today in Syria,
Palestine and Egypt. Twice mentioned
in dispatches and with an M.S.M., he
was demobbed in 1919 and went into the
oil business, being on the Shell executive
for some years. Then he joined Metro-
politan Gas and was its commercial man-
ager and away on a mission in U.S.A.
when hell broke loose once more in
Europe.
The Army Education Department has
absorbed Melbourne Ward, son of the
Hugh Ward who once bossed theatrical
affairs in Australia. It is using Mel to
teach the army special tricks of bush-
craft and how to “live on the bush” if
necessary. Originally an organiser of
cabaret entertainments, Mel followed
the urge of his hobbies as a naturalist to
break away for a life in the open. On
the business side of it he opened a tour-
ist hostel on the Barrier Reef; to satisfy
his own mental thirst he explored
Australian flora and fauna and became
an active field officer of the Australian
Museum.
Into the silence; —■
At Rotorua (M.L.), at 51, William Francis
Te Aonui Dennan, twice “mentioned” when
he was with the Engineers on Gallipoli and
in France last war. His mother, the well-
known Maori guide Maggie Papakura, died
in England, where he studied engineering, gain-
ing an Oxford diploma. He returned to M.L.
and erected a memorial to his mother at
Whakarewarewa. With his wife. Guide Rangi,
he did much for Maori troops serving overseas.
In Perth, at 76, William Burges, pastoralist,
bank director and past-president of the W.A.
Pastoral Association. Like his father —who
started his flock 80 years ago with merinos
from the flock of the King of Spain —Burges
spent a lifetime on the scientific study of
sheep and development of the pastoral industry.
At 67, at B’urwood (Vic.), Robert John
Wilson, hero of two contests with desperate
criminals. In 1902 a desperado who had
killed a constable in N.S.W. was loose in
Balaclava and Wilson and a mate went to
arrest him. Wilson’s mate was shot dead, but
the unarmed Wilson walked up to the murderer
and overpowered him, whereupon his captive
committed suicide. In 1919 Wilson had a
spirited shooting contest with a shopbreaker.
He earned the Police Valor Badge on each
occasion.
In Sydney, Timothy (Tim) Healy, a world
figure in golf. He put up a record for William
Wrigley’s Catalina Island course (U.S.A.).
Wrigley promised to pay 1000 dollars to charity
if Tim failed to better a par of 66. Tim’s
card showed 62.
In Sydney, at 68, James Horsburgh, a Mary-
borough (Q.) native who was a recognised
authority on northern mining. He was chair-
man of the Commonwealth Commission which
investigated N.T. mining resources, and was
acting for Mt. Morgan in an advisory capacity.
In Melbourne, at 69, Rev. Father Thomas
O’Dwyer, rector of St. Patrick’s College, East
Melbourne, formerly rector of St. Ignatius,
Sydney. Distinguished in his own right, he
was a brother of Sir Michael O’Dwyer, who
was Lieut.-Governor of the Punjab at the time
of the Amritsar rising and was assassinated by
an Indian student in London in 1940. An-
other brother was a rector of Newman College,
Melbourne.
In Sydney, at 62, H. L. Primrose, for 20
years a hard worker in North Sydney’s muni-
cipal affairs, North Sydney’s Mayor for six
years and later its member in the Sydney Par-
liament, ending there as N.E.S. Minister. His
two sons are Squadron-leader Primrose,
R.A.A.F., and Lieut. Brian Primrose, A.I.F.
Lieut. Primrose is missing in Timor.
At Joe Holloway’s:
The art world of Sydney is changing and
passing so sadly, what with the war and the
death of such leaders and teachers as Julian
Ashton and J. S. Watkins, that the annual show
of Joe Holloway’s Sketch Club comes as a
gleam of sunshine. It still lives in its roomy
Parker-street studio, and though the floor has
been scrubbed and scraped in honor of visitors
the splashes of paint and turps and megilp
that have dropped from hundreds of busy
brushes haven’t been quite eradicated, and the
authentic studio smell is in the air. Quite a
lot of well-known names are in this year’s
exhibition—Garrett Kingsley, Eric Langker,
Lance Solomon, monotypist Tom Garrett, H.
Neville Smith, Clif Peir, and, of course, Joe
Holloway himself (now mostly favoring still-
lifes). But these are an old story. Up-and-
coming exhibitors are E. Cramp (some excel-
lent heads), M. Morgan Hunn (a sound etch-
ing), Sergt. G. M. Aldred, A.1.F., who shows
both facility and versatility in water-colors,
T. H. Rayner, a skilful pencil portraitist, Sergt.
Gordon B. Rees, who paints with snap and
style, P. A. Boleyn, who shows a meritorious
nude, and Roy Thibou, successful with “Pretty
Girl.”
“Hamer” among artists: —•
The world has become a better place for Aus-
tralian artists since Jimmy Bancks first launched
Ginger Meggs, whose 21st birthday was honored
the other day, Ginge not growing one day
older in all that time. When Jimmy Bancks
was starting he offered (“to get my name
known”) some free black-and-white drawings to
a small paper I had launched, the inability to
make payments having been explained. The
Bulletin was the only regular market the
black-and-white artists had, and it could not
possibly find space for the full army. Pat Sulli-
van, before he went to Yankeeland to make
a fortune out of “Felix the Cat,” drew pugs
and jockeys, selling the sketches to tobacco-
nists, who resold them to customers with sport-
ing tastes; and there were others who had even
harder times. Commercial advertising work
improved things. Bancks was first to show
what a good hand an Australian could be on
colored comics.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Zake”: The passion for “getting up
a sweep” is strongly implanted in the
Australian breast, and particularly where
the Digger is numerous and in far places
where opportunities to spend accumulat-
ing pay are few it reaches epic propor-
tions. On the Peninsula, Lemnos, Sinai
and on the Canal in the 1914-18 scrap
big sweeps were run on everything from
the number of flies that would fall into a
bloke’s tea to the Melbourne Cup. The
New Digger is keeping up the tradition.
One unit, going into action for the first
time on a Papuan shore, was made hap-
pier by the thought that £67 awaited the
lucky one to kill the first Jap. A “zero”
minute was set before which no man was
allowed to get away for a “grouter.”
When the word was given everyone
moved off, swiftly yet cautiously infiltrat-
ing towards the Nips’ camp. Then it was
that one speedy 18-year-old came with a
burst, dashing in among the enemy with
his tommy-gun blazing. Also-rans allege
that the winner had his claim in before
his first victim had hit the ground.
♦ * * !p
“Merang”: I came on leave to Mel-
bourne. The war news over the last few
days had been exceptionally good and
I had expected to see everybody bright
and smiling. I wandered about the streets
and in and out of shops, arcades and
pubs, and everywhere I found clouded
brows and unsmiling lips. From time to
time I paused near groups of people and
heard them speaking in hushed, worried
tones. “Isn’t it dreadful?” said one. “It
“You stokers have been this Way before —what lighthouse is that ?”
couldn’t be worse!” said another. “You’d
think at a time like this” said a third,
“They couldn’t have picked a worse
time,” muttered a man with a deep furrow
between his eyebrows. “Now, a week
ago” growled a man in an expensive
tweed overcoat. “Yes,” answered his
companion, “if they’d only run it last
week they’d have had perfect weather.
As it is, with all this rain, any blasted
outsider can drag off the Cup!”
“L.L.”: The Sydney newsboys who
write their own posters may achieve
humor consciously, but such efforts are
outdone by the unconscious humor of
one Melbourne daily. After Melbourne’s
latest Cup it ran the headline “Rain
Spoils Austerity Cup!”
* * * «
“Tiki”: A catalogue of the constituent
timbers of a chair presented to the New
Zealand Founders’ Society reads a bit
like the contents of the cauldron the
witches of “Macbeth” watched. There
are a piece of the household of the first
house built by white men in M.L. (1815),
a bit of hardwood from the brig Ben
Boyd, burnt by Maoris in Whangaroa
Harbor (1809), kauri from the oldest
building in Nelson province (1843), oak
from Maoriland’s biggest tree of the
species (planted 1864) and a totara pole
from a Maori pa that was established
Lord knows when and went out of busi-
ness in 1830. A newspaper account of
the presentation describes the chair as
“unique.” For once in a way the adjec-
tive seems to be fully warranted.
* » * *
“S.T.S.”: The Dickens enthusiasts are
keen about “leading to the water” the
youngsters of today, but the actual drink-
ing at that fountain seems to have odd
results. Here are two of them, duly
vouched for as appearing in recent essays
in competition for a prize. Lecturers had
evidently impressed on the young people
that Dickens was a great social reformer,
and so had more practical effect than
any mere dictator can have ; also that his
plot usually matters less than his charac-
ters. The embroidery was put in by the
essayists themselves; (1) “His stories,
which are important parts of the books,
are so hard to find that it is necessary
for people to meet together in clubs in
order to help each other to find them.”
(2) “Dickens was one of the greatest re-
formers of ancient times, and really did
more for England than either Hitler or
Mussolini.”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: My friend Anton, the
refugee, collects idioms with the enthu-
siasm that some people devote to stamps
or antiques, and fires them off at the first
opportunity, to his listeners’ joy. When
someone the day after a spree said “My
mouth feels like the bottom of a bird-
cage,” Anton was delighted. “I feel rot-
ting,” he told me a week later. “Las’
evening I haf what you call an out night;
dis morning my mout’ feels like der
bottom of a caged bird.”
* * # *
“F.S.”: Bendigo Art Gallery is adding
to its art competitions a prize of £75 for
the best oil painting or piece of statuary
and £25 for the best water-color executed
by any artist who has been resident in
Australasia for at least 10 years, the
works having to be submitted before May
16, 1943. The number of such prizes
offered by provincial galleries in Vic-
toria now adds up to a considerable
figure—in fact, Victorian painters regard
these benefactions as an important source
of income.
[t * „ * * *
“Taniwha”; Oratory, an art that
rather flourished in the Maoriland Legis-
lature at the beginning of the century,
now i n poor esteem, raised its head
f° r a moment the other day when Algie,
M.P., told the Reps, that the Overseas
Representation Act, 1942, was “anti-
democratic in character, totalitarian in
operation and a flagrant violation of con-
stitutional principle.” The Act is the
authority under which can happen such
things as the appointment of Frank
Langstone as High Commissioner of
Canada while retaining his seat in Parlia-
ment, and the prolonged absence of
Walter Nash (Finance Minister when
he’s at home) as Minister in Washington.
Nobody has suggested that pay is being
duplicated, but those who argue that pub-
lic interest would be just as well served
if Parliamentarians, Ministerial or other-
wise, resigned their seats before accept-
ing posts abroad are hard to answer.
The O.R. Act, like those in the last-war
period and the present extending the life
of Parliament, is part of the price M.L.
pays for freedom from a written Consti-
tution.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Maoriland bridegrooms
were discussed by Baptist pastors at
Christchurch, and it was gloomily agreed
that they don’t throw their money about.
"Better get them whiskers cut before you go on parade, mate!"
One clergyman stated that Australians are
far ahead of them, for in Australia he
got three guineas for a church marriage
and two at the home of the bride. Re-
cently he thought he was back in Aus-
tralia when the bridegroom handed him
a cheque for £2. Next day came disillu-
sionment —the cheque bounced back.
t * * #
“R.H.P.”; Spoonerisms? (B.
28/10/’42). One of the best was that
credited to Dr. Spooner himself when he
solemnly informed the students of his
history class that, having hissed mystery,
they had tasted a whole worm.
* * * *
“Rotoroa”: The Churchill Auctions in
Maoriland realised about £4OOO. Four
sales were held—at Dunedin, Auckland,
Wellington and New Plymouth, and
Wellington topped the list with over
£l5OO, which included £350 for the
Churchill Book, the highest price paid in
M.L. for a single tome. The
book has been presented to the
Wellington Public Library. Will
Lawson wrote some verses about
it; they were published in many
papers and recited over the
radio, even from Daventry. The
original MS. was auctioned.
When the final bidding took
place, Priminister Peter Fraser
congratulated the organiser,
Bulletin man Pat Lawlor, on
the success of his six months’
campaign. Prices paid for MSS.
of books written by M.L.
writers were high, “Robin Hyde”
(Iris Wilkinson) heading the list.
A bundle of Samoan documents
went to the Mitchell Library for
£3O, and a Henry Lawson MS.
and photograph to the same
place for £4 10s. Top price for
M.L. verse was Dick Harris’s
“Monodies,” £1 10s. ; in the his-
torical section, Angas’s “The
New Zealanders,” £4B. A signed
copy of Norman Lindsay’s Book
(No. 1) sold well. It, with other
valuable Australian books, was donated
by Tom Mills, of Feilding.
* * H: *
“T.”: Following a fashion which
started in S.A. and has spread, the West-
ralian constituency of Yilgarn-Coolgardie
elected an Independent about 15 months
ago. His term, extended for a year
without reference to the electors, was
to have expired on January 31,
but the Labor Government decided to
postpone the general election for another
twelvemonth. Eleven members unavail-
ingly objected. Was the gentleman from
Yilgarn-Coolgardie among them? He
was not. The gentleman from Yilgarn-
Coolgardie discovered that “the entry of
Japan into the war,” the “dire” possibility
of “having to witness the spectacle of
the changing of our horses in midstream,”
the absence of electors, the state of the
rolls, the necessity “to save petrol, lubri-
cating oil and wear and tear on tyres
and tubes,” “the precedent set in Britain”
and a lot of other things would make
“squabbling, at a State election” sinful.
Thus were the grand old principles of
Independence maintained, and the salary,
£6OO p.a., goes on for another year.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: “A plagiarist may be
prosecuted for his theft. What, then, of
the man who steals the music of our
greatest composers and degrades it to
swing? Is there no law to prevent this
sacrilege?” writes a troubled correspon-
dent to the “Argus.” There is none.
Nor is there any law to prevent an
“Argus” leader-writer quoting Shak-
speare or a painter copying the works of
Raphael or Michelangelo. But it may
not always be conscious quotation or
copying. An Australian composer once
told me that he had spent months worry-
ing his head for a motive for a sym-
phony. One night a sudden inspiration
came to him, and he jumped out of bed
and wrote the score of a wonderful
movement. Then he went back to bed
firmly believing that he had been seized
by the divine afflatus. Next morning he
tried out his opus on the piano, only to
discover that he had put down, note' for
note, the score of the second movement
of Beethoven’s Seventh!
1917-1942.
“What is happening to Mr. Curtin happened to
e a quarter of a century ago.”— W. M. Hughes.
How true it is that history repeats
Itself, alike with bitters and with sweets.
You never know
The same dilemma won't face Jack or Bob
Or any other of the ruling mob
As that which met the holder of the job
A quarter of a century ago.
Who hasn’t heard some grizzled ancient tell,
in times of drought or when a rainy spell
Sets creeks aflow,
Tell and re-tell with gloomy emphasis
Until the inference is hard to miss:
“I mind me of a season just like this
A quarter of a century ago.”
These tough political predicaments,
Like earthquakes, tidal waves and such events,
Recur, and so
It’s obvious that Curtin can’t refuse
To fill the part and occupy the shoes
That destiny assigned to Billy Hughes
A quarter of a century ago.
The tumult and the shouting rise anew;
But, though it may be wrong, I hold the view
That time will show
John has a somewhat straighter path ahead,
With fewer stumps and snags about it spread,
Than that which William found he had to
tread
A quarter of a century ago.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
AS OTHERS SEE US.
You couldn’t justly call him vain about his
facial map,
And yet he deemed himself a fairly personable
chap
On whom, although advancing years their mark
on him had set,
A woman's glance might linger with apprecia-
tion yet.
He never in his wildest dreams by idle thoughts
was swayed
Of being the sort of stuff wherefrom our stage-
land stars are made.
But when good looks were handed out from —
who can tell us where?
He reckoned that he’d got at least a reason-
able share.
He liked to think that when he spoke his piece
before a crowd
Twas not his eloquence alone that earned him
plaudits loud,
That voters rallied to his side and trust in him
was bred
’Cause of the figure that he cut as well as what
he said.
A thoughtful brow, a flashing eye, a firm and
manly pose—
He reasoned there were few could miss such
attributes as those;
And, if one’s features indicate the soul that
in them is,
He felt he’d confidently stake a pound or two
on his.
Alack! he’s none so certain now. The dial that
finds a frame
O’ mornings in his shaving-glass no longer
seems the same.
One senses in his gaze a mild perplexity, a hint
Of disillusion due to something lately seen in
print.
“Count no man happy till he dies” —how oft
you hear it told.
The sage advice old Solon gave Athenians of
old.
And I suppose it’s just as true that quite a lot
depends.
In any estimate of looks, on ultra-candid
friends.
Some folk may honestly believe they own the
type of face
To lend a coin or postage-stamp a touch of
added grace,
But I suggest that nobody is competent to say
Till Frith, that ruthless realist, has modelled
him in clay!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bumpkin”: Jupiter Pluvius, Mr. Cur-
tin, the guard of priority officials who
stalled off inter-State visitors, clothes-
rationeers and others conspifed to make
the Melbourne Cup a really inspiring
example of Austerity It used to be be-
lieved in the other States that all Vi
toria went to Flemington for the Cup.
Actually only a small minority of the
population ever bothered about it. Most
took the opportunity of making a day
of it in the country, especially religious
organisations. On one occasion a resi-
dent in an outer suburb, infected with
the national psychosis, listened-in to the
result. When he got it he looked around
for somebody to share the information,
and saw a crowd of men, women and
children sitting on the grass in a vacant
allotment, hearkening to an eldeily
gentleman standing in the middle ot
the circle. Rushing over to the group he
shouted “Dewlap first, Skinanbone
second, Hatrack third! There was a
moment of freezing silence. Then .the
elderly gent, turned round slowly and
gravely said “We are Seventh Day
Adventists.”
* * * *
“D.E.”; No one reading newspapers
and magazines of the Boer War period,
even those which meant to be kind to
the Boers, could possibly have divined
from that pursuit that the small Dutch-
Huguenot community had produced
three exceptional men. Yet an Ameri-
can President (Wilson) was to say of
Botha not only that he was wise in war
and counsel, but that he had made the
most moving speech that President had
ever heard ; a British P.M. (Asquith) was
to write of Hertzog that he was head
and shoulders above the other Dominion
P.Ms., his contemporaries, and Smuts, his
great powers universally admired, has
been near the centre of the stage in two
world wars. Smuts is now left with only
his memories of two great associates,
and, being the man he is, they must be
touching, though he broke finally with
Hertzog on Sept. 5, 1939. For all that
they drifted apart then and in previous
years, their careers were strangely alike.
Both went to Victoria College, Stellen-
bosch, and from there to European uni-
versities —Hertzog to Amsterdam and
Smuts to Cambridge—before practising
at the Bar —Hertzog at Bloemfontein,
Smuts at Capetown. Both married Stel-
lenbosch girls, and left high legal appoint-
ments —Hertzog a Free State Judgeship,
Smuts the job of Transvaal State
Attorney—to take commands in the field,
Hertzog in the South-west Division and
Smuts in Cape Colony. And both were
members of the first (1910) Union
Cabinet; Hertzog was Minister of Jus-
tice, Smuts Minister of the Interior and
Mines. For 14 years after Botha’s death
in 1919 each was either P.M. (Smuts for
five years, 1919-24) or leader of the
Opposition. In 1933 Smuts became Hert-
zog’s Minister of Justice, and he was
No. 2 to Hertzog till the latter’s fall.
And Pretoria was each man’s address till
Hertzog, four years the elder, died.
* H= * *
“Noba”: The pastors and masters who
instructed my youth were assiduous in
holding up to me the evil example of the
Irish M.P. who told the Commons that
“the time is rapidly approaching and is
now here when the population of this
fair country will be decimated by at
least two-thirds.” That never failed to
raise a laugh in the third form, and was
still worth a chuckle in the sixth. And
the innocent slip still hath charms. It
brightened my whole day when the
Challis Professor of History at Sydney
University, in an article in the “5.M.H.,”
discussing the expedients available for
Rommel’s retreating forces, remarked
portentously “if they fail in this, utter
decimation confronts them."
* * * *
“Roia”: “Avon’s” reference to Victor
Grayson (B. 30/9/’42) is supple-
mented in Lord Snowden’s autobio-
graphy. Snowden, who knew Grayson
intimately, says that after his defeat in
the 1910 election Grayson’s popularity
in the country declined and his political
career came to an end. After a few years
he went to Australia, failed to get a
footing in the Labor movement and
moved on to M.L. There he got into some
kind of difficulty, and, the war having
broken out, he enlisted. But his health
broke down and he was invalided out of
the army. He wrote from hospital in
1920 arranging with a friend in Colne
Valley to stay with him for a few weeks,
and fixing the train by which he would
arrive. He never turned up. And from
that day nothing has been heard of him.
Snowden wrote to the M.L. authorities,
who said Grayson had been in receipt of
a war-disability allowance ; that in De-
cember, 1920, a letter to his last-known
address was returned undelivered; that
the disability allowance was not claimed,
and that all subsequent inquiries failed
to elicit information.
“Strict Veg.”: Dropping in at my favor-
ite pub in the confident expectation that,
since the Government had passed a regu-
lation compelling publicans on demand
to serve beer in pots instead of glasses,
I would shortly be holding a handle in
my hand rather than one of those attenu-
ated objects which look as if they had
been brought up in corsets, I was dis-
mayed to see a total absence of pots on
the shelves, the bar or in the fists of
those assembled. 1 swiftly came to the
conclusion that not one devotee of
Bacchus in the place had yet summoned
up the courage to demand his legal rights,
and I determined to be a village Hamp-
den and start the process. Breasting
up to the bar I opened my mouth to ask
for a pot. The words died on my lips
when the six pairs of eyes of Bung and
his family turned on me and signalled the
silent warning “Don’t you dare!” No,
I didn’t ask for a pot, and I didn’t get one.
* sH * *
“Balander”: A young American lately
arrived in this northern outpost was in-
vited to take a share in a “certain”
lottery. “Blow me down,” he was heard
declaring a few minutes later, “I’ve taken
a chance back home in every sort of
racket from Thanksgiving turkeys to
Congressional sweeps, but, boy, this is the
first time I’ve ever had a chance to pass
“Leave THAT to me , sir—I've been navigating these Waters for years."
out in glory. Say, s’pose I’m outed way
out there” —waving towards the Equator
—“how’m I gwine t’ get in that there
glory box?” It took several minutes of
hilarious cross-examination to elicit
from him that in America a casket means
a coffin.
* * * *
“F S”: “Dudley Flats” is no more, its
latest scandal (B. 18/11/’42) having at
length moved Melbourne Harbor Trust
to order its demolition. Its “residences
have been committed to the flames, the
dogs that roamed the area and occa-
sionally fed on incapacitated metho-
drinkers have been shot, and finally the
old iron and junk will be carted away
so that down-and-outers can re-erect a
humpy out of the ruins. What the
“Herald” calls the worst blot on Mel-
bourne’s reputation (though there are
others) will not go completely unre-
gretted, however. Its dreary, wind-blown
flats, with the gulls screaming around,
have been a favorite resort of artists and
the source of many a much-praised land-
scape , such being the magic of the
artistic viewpoint.
* * * *
“T. McNarrk”: Just as a sort of taste
of what this country may expect from its
women once they discover the power
membership of a trade-union gives them,
word comes from Adelaide that a lass,
about to be married, wanted an hour off
to have a look at her new home. She
was refused, so went a.w.l. and on
getting back to the job was sacked.
Whereupon 150 other females on that
job downed tools, and next the entire
place was on strike. After two days the
Industrial Registrar got the thing settled
by persuading the employer to give the
foreman who had sacked the lady a fort-
night’s holiday. This, presumably, soothed
everybody, and work was resumed. Is
that what’s going to happen every time
any of those girls wants to get married,
attend a christening or get in early on a
limited release of new lisle stockings?
» * • •
“Pequena”: That British Information
Department handbook intended to help
Britons to understand Americans contains
this curious chunk of philology:
Don’t try to tell an American that he
ought to pronounce English the way you
doT His tongue is closer to the one Shak-
speare spoke than yours. Nelson thanked
God he had done his dooty, not dewty.
That was an affectation that caught on alter
Beau Brummel had started it in 1810.
But did Nelson?
* * * *
“Another 0.C.”: “School Tie’ (B.
4/11/ ’42) would find it very hard to pro-
duce anything near half a dozen public
schools to beat Cheltenham’s 14 V.Cs.
That school, from Dr. James’s time in
the ’eighties, has specialised in prepar-
ing youngsters for Woolwich and Sand-
hurst, and it has forged ahead since. I
cannot recall Stonyhurst. Cheltenham
was once the butt for possibly a classic
in snobbery from the Eton cricket cap-
tain, who replied to that school’s invita-
tion to a match with “Harrow we know,
and Winchester we know, but Cheltenham
we do not know.”
“Retired Volt”: Mention of the fact
(B. 11/11/ ’42) that S.A. has been cele-
brating the seventieth anniversary of
cable connection with London reminds
me of the day—l forget how long ago—
when the underwater line of communi-
cation was stretched between MX. and
Australia. The cable was dragged ashore
at La Perouse on Botany Bay by the
crew of the cable-laying ship and the
shore staff —brought from England—all
of whom wore beards and top-hats. The
only spectators were abos. from the
Government reserve. It must have been
as astounding a spectacle to them as the
landing of Captain Cook at Kurnell
opposite was to their ancestors.
* 5J 5 ♦
“Bob Punter”: Oddest financial experi-
ences I’ve come across happened to a
friend who, never having lost or mislaid
any coin in his life, started a lively loss-
and-profit sequence by losing two pounds.
Then, as he was going through some fish-
ing gear and clobber, a fiver floated out
from somewhere. He had got through two
pounds of this when, feeling for one of
the other three, he found they’d vanished.
Next he was with a friend in a Sussex-
street pub when they were joined by one
who was to him a total stranger. After
a round or two this chap expressed a
desire to get hold of some whisky for a
fishing-holiday trip, and my cobber,
knowing a pub-keeper personally, under-
took to get it for him. He landed half a
dozen bottles which the stranger paid
for; then, as they were making down
the street, the stranger asked him to hold
the swag —he had to see a chap a couple
of doors back and wouldn’t be a minute.
After nursing the half-dozen on the street
corner for an hour and a half by the
clock without the stranger returning, my
cobber took the bundle back to the pub,
told the pub-keeper what had happened,
and left the stuff there to be given to the
stranger if he should turn up. Months
have gone by with still no sign of the
stranger, and meanwhile the pub-keeper,
only too glad to get hold of the half-
dozen because of shortage, has paid my,
cobber two-bob more per bottle for it
than the stranger paid. All the original
losses and gains happened inside a week.
* * * *
“Pawang”: lam also with Deddy over
the matter of banning Father Christmas
(B. 18/11/ ’42), but for different reasons.
The Christmas-tree beloved of our grand-
mas has been prolific of jealousies,
hatreds and misunderstandings. Daddy
or some adult friend or a relation
dresses up as Father Christmas and
distributes the presents and, his
choice being conditioned by his un-
conscious mind, he can’t help giving
the best present to the child he likes
most. The favored child earns the dis-
like of the less favored, and the friction
that ensues lasts to the following season
of kindness and goodwill. Even families
take part. I know of a feud of 11 years’
standing between the heads of two fami-
lies in Melbourne that had its origin in
the imagined rebuff the hopeful of one
family had received at the hands of
another at Christmastime.
* * * ♦
“Si Anu”: Noting the attenuated com-
bat dress for Diggers in the Middle East,
I was reminded of Sir Walter Scott’s
description of the equipment of a warrior
in the Middle Ages in The Talisman.
He wore a coat of linked mail with long
sleeves, plated gauntlets, a steel breast-
plate and a shield round the neck. On
his head was a barred helmet of steel
over which a hood and collar of mail
was drawn to cover his throat and
shoulders and fill the vacancy between
hauberk and headpiece. The lower limbs
were sheathed, like the body, in flexible
mail, securing the legs and thighs, and on
his feet were shoes plated like his gaunt-
lets, A long, broad, straight, double-
edged falcion with a handle like a cross
and a poniard were slung on the one hand
and a steel-headed lance was held in the
other. Over his armor he wore a surcoat
of embroidered cloth, which at least ex-
cluded the direct rays of the sun from his
steel encasements. Since the crusader
set at defiance the nature of the climate
and the country he expected his horse
to do likewise. It bore a heavy saddle
plated with steel and a breastplate with
more defensive armor behind. The hard-
ware hung about it included a steel axe,
reins of chainwork, a steel-plated bridle
with apertures for eyes and nostrils and
a steel spike that made the beast look
like the fabulous unicorn. And the place
where this human and equine tank oper-
ated was the Syrian desert!
-.]: * * *
“X.S.”: There was a welter of senti-
ment in the Melbourne Criminal Court
the other day when Justice Gavan Duffy
sentenced a wife of 19 to nine month s
imprisonment for having gone through
the form of marriage with a soldier
shortly after she had married a sailor.
Counsel for the accused made the
plea that she had been left an orphan
at five, had been brought up by an
aunt and had lacked the steadying influ-
ence of parents. Then the sailor said that
he had forgiven the girl, was still as fond
of her as ever and proposed to take her
back to his own country when the war
was over. Sentence was suspended on a
bond of two years’ good behavior.
* • * •
“Lao-dah”: That was an interesting
remark of Hitler’s when in his latest
speech he mentioned the Kaiser. A
Freudian psychologist would think that
was very significant. Why did the name
of the Kaiser, who, when he found his
people turning against him, bolted to
Holland, come up in the mind of the
Fiihrer? The prestige of a dictator rests
on his capacity to win battles and can
disappear overnight when he ceases to
win them. A democratic politician can
carry on in opposition when his side is
out, but a dictator can’t because he has
liquidated the opposition. So when one
of them begins saying he will never
desert his people, he must have been con-
sidering the possibility of having to do so.
* * *
“Spokeshave”: What is described as
Britain’s greatest war-time fraud case
has finished at Liverpool Assizes with
the sentencing of a city councillor to
nine years’ penal servitude and a fine of
£lO,OOO. He didn’t profit by the experi-
ence of Horatio Bottomley and fared
worse. Bottomley went to gaol for seven
years for his vast financial opera-
tions, ostensibly patriotic. A former
friend visited him in his cell and found
the onetime darling of the masses busily
engaged with a needle. Hello, Hoi atio,
he said, “sewing?” “No,” said the old
humbug sadly, “reaping!”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ack-ack”: The Great Outback in
which so many Aboliars seem to live
apparently consists of gibber plains,
sand, stations half the size of Europe
and endless quantities of speargrass and
mulga, all infested with rabbits, snakes,
6ft. goannas and swaggies’ dogs, together
with a few strange beasts found in the
purlieus of Mu’rphy’s (or Mulligan’s) pub.
I regret to state that I have had no ex-
perience in such country. The portion
of our continent which 1 inhabit would
doubtless be regarded by mainland out-
backers as a suburb. It is an area of
rolling button-grass plains, rugged quartz-
ite mountains, and with what is un-
doubtedly the wildest and wettest weather
in Australia ; it has no nine-legged camels
with horns and green eyes, owing, per-
haps, to the fact that the nearest pub is
a week’s walk away, but here are found
an abundance of kangaroo, wild duck,
black swans, that strange freak the
marsupial wolf and the most inaccessible
country south of 28. Because of its ex-
ceptionally wet climate, with, perhaps, a
helping hand from the native cats, this
area has never been penetrated by that
curse of all cockies the rabbit, and few
places in Australia can boast as much.
Yes, the south-west was one of the last
places vacated by the Tasmanian abo-
rigine, and his camps are to be found in
this district undisturbed, as he left them
on that last tragic walkabout which ended
in the extinction of the most interesting
branch of humanity ever discovered.
* * * *
“T.P.H.”: At Tooleybuc pub on the
Murray when the punt was there and a
full river, Mallee Joe was in for his
periodical bender. When he became a
sleeping case Bung loaded him into his
cart at sunset, forded his outfit over
the river and started the faithful old
horse off with his snoring cargo, reins
tied on to the splashboard, for the 20-
mile journey home. Late that night the
horse pulled up on the bank of a big
dam full of water just opposite a well-
lighted homestead where a party was in
full swing. Presently life flickered again
within the brain of Joe. He got up off
the floor of the cart, and, mistaking the
lighted house for the pub and the dam
water for the Murray, started a dingo
howl to bring the punt over to him, until
amid laughter and cheers his neighbors
assured him he was home and dried.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; When the river started to
fall it revealed a bobbing log, the kind
that gets hooked up somewhere down
deep so that its other end keeps rising
and disappearing in the play of the cur-
rent. That afternoon we rowed out,
lassoed that log and roped it to the boat
while we tied an old felt hat on it,
wrapped some bagging round for
shoulders and painted the part under the
hat white. Then we turned it loose and
departed. In the moonlight old Frank
came down with his lines and gun and
tucker, baited up and threw in. He’d
been sitting there about 10 minutes
when he looked upstream, to see a white-
faced man wearing a hat bob up out
of the water, look at him and bob back.
Frank went over backwards, grabbed his
gun, backed behind a tree and looked
again. After a debate with himself he
decided no man could do what that man
was doing and live, therefore the thing
was either a ghost or some sort of river
merman. Frank, having no time for
either, opened up with both barrels.
The charge tore the hat away, but the
white face kept on popping out to look
at him, so Frank, keeping the tree be-
tween them, backed farther away until it
was safe to turn and run. Fie burst into
the pub, and the mob, previously wised
up, listened gravely and sent for the
also-wised-up trooper. Frank told his
tale. The trooper pondered, then said
there wasn’t much he could do. The
thing hadn’t attacked Frank and there
was no law against ghosts that he knew
of. “Well, anyway,” said Frank, “y’
could ask it t’ go somewhere else.” The
trooper shook his head and went back to
the station. Frank got wild, recharged
his weapon and surged forth to rid the
river of the menace to peaceful fishing.
We heard one shot. A bit later Frank
came in, very silent and very thoughtful,
called us a lot of silly blankards and went
home.
* * * ;J;
“Piangil”: What I like about Murray
fishing is that, if you know your river,
your fish and your bait, you need never
be in any doubt as to whether they’re
biting or not. A still, warm morning
“Says he turns giddy when he looks down.”
about an hour before noon and a fairly
deep hole off a timbered bank or down-
stream from a tributary mouth, and if
they’re hungry the bait can be anything.
This goes for an hour before sundown
or the quick change any time of day
when a skitter of rain runs along the
river. Don’t be fooled by tugs on a
niudbank ; that’ll be tortoises, and even
if you hook one you gain nothing.
* * * *
“Moe” : Big Fleming rode into town,
leaned his bike against the shop veran-
dah, fiddled momentarily with it and
then went into the store. A couple of
minutes later somebody rushed in yelling
that a stranger was clearing out with the
bike. Big Fleming strode leisurely to the
door. “He won’t get far,” he said ; “I
took the nuts off the front hub before I
came in.” The bush nurse had a new
casualty 20 minutes later.
* * * •
“P.R.T.H.”; The cat stretched lazily
at my feet in the evening afterglow dis-
played a sudden interest when the
golden-bellied tree-frog arrived at a point
four feet north of my left foot, swelled
its abdomen and gave forth the staccato
cry of its kind. The fummy did a sort of
glide into springing position behind my
legs, paused a tick for balance and leapt.
A split second before she arrived that
frog soared upward and a stream of
water ejected from its rear took the cat
in the left eye. She made several fran-
tic dabs at the optic, shook her head,
looked round balefully and departed
inside. On the verandah post old
Golden-belly sang a triumphant war song.
» * * •
“Loo”; Salt-licks (B. 11/11/’42)? A
land girl straight from a city industrial
suburb evinced great surprise when in-
formed, in answer to her question, that
in winter the poor cows weren’t given
nice, warming pepper-licks instead.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Me and the big fellow
were camped just outside a two-by-
four town down in Gippsland and had
just got the billy boiled when a motor-
bike pulled up and a nasty-looking
policeman got off. “Listen,” he said,
“we don’t want any of your sort hangin’
round here, see? Get your things an’ get
out.” “We’re not doin’ any harm,” said
Mat. “Get out or I’ll vag. you,” said
the cop. Mat eyed him and then said
“I s’pose if 1 was t’ tell y’ there’s only
12 adjectival blanks in the world an’
you’re the whole so-and-so 12 y’d run
me in f’r language?” “Too right, I
would.” “Then I won’t tell y’,” and Mat
began getting our swags ready. The cop
hesitated, thought better of it and de-
parted, a baffled look on his dial.
» * * m
“Arev”: Bill Jupp reckoned all the
bother of petrol tickets and producer-
gas units made the truck more of a
nuisance than a convenience. “There was
never any trouble when we had the old
spring dray,” he said to Ma Jupp one
day. “And with old Nugget a man could
go to sleep and he’d land home safe.
Think I’ll sell the truck and buy a dray.”
Next morning Bill drove the truck to the
township. The dealer thought he might
have a buyer for it. He also had an idea
that the very dray Bill wanted was likely
to come in that afternoon. Bill had
other business in town, and it was late
when he turned up again. “I’ve got the
very turnout you want,” said the dealer.
“Only twelve pounds, too. So, with the
thirty I’m giving you for the truck, you’re
eighteen quid to the good.” Bill eyed the
dray and nodded. “I brought in a horse
in case I was suited with a dray,” he
said. As Bill neared his gate he pulled
up as a familiar truck drew alongside.
“Hullo, there!” called Murphy. “I see
you’ve bought my old dray.” Bill stared.
Murphy grinned. “I gave it a coat of
paint before I sold it. I thought I’d get
a truck. Saves a lot of time.” Bill swal-
lowed hard. “It’s my truck,” he said.
‘What did that thieving cow charge you
for it?” “Fifty quid. What did y’ sell
it for?” “Thirty,” said Bill. “And what
did he allow y’ on the dray?” “Seven
quid,” said Murphy. Bill cursed. “Well,
our trip t’ town’s cost us twenty-five quid.
For the love of Mike, Murphy, don’t
mention it when y’re over here! ”
• * * *
“Betcha”: When it comes to dying in
harness, not many dogs have got any-
thing on Whisky. A black-and-white
hound of dubious antecedents, his job
was to block a burrow opening while old
Bill dug out the rabbits. Seldom shift-
ing when once allotted to his post, the
mong. surprised Bill one day by backing
out uncertainly. “Git back there,
Whisky,” his boss ordered sternly.
“Whassamatter with y’?” The dog’s head
disappeared once more, and his warning
growl renewed Bill’s efforts in the expec-
tation of a good catch. Presently a
smothered yelp was followed by a low
whimpering, but, apart from some frantic
wriggling, the little mong. never shifted
position. Ten minutes later the twitch-
ing body attracted old Bill’s attention,
and as he pulled the animal aside to in-
vestigate out slid a sft. black snake,
fighting mad. Whisky’d kept him in sure
enough, but it was the little tyke’s last
burrow.
* * * *
“Solitude”; The day of the cut-out
Seventyfiver arrived at the shearing-shed
with his handful of poddies and began
laying down explicit instructions. 1
called Tim and handed him over to the
big shearer. “I want ’em shore prop’ly,”
I heard as I left the shed to count out.
“Now, I’ll show y’.” Returning some
time later I found the old bloke grasping
a handpiece and surveying his work rue-
fully. ’ “Why, hang it,” he muttered
testily, “that ain’t it, either !” He reached
for another woolly. After his tenth
attempt he grabbed his model and began
jumping round the board like a hobbled
mare with stringhalts. “There she is,”
he crowed. “See that? No ridges, no
second cuts, no laces. That’s how I want
’em shore. Orright, y’ can go ahead
now.” Under a running commentary,
the “gun” took over the machine and
sheared the one remaining poddy up to
standard.
* * * »
“Yorick”: How is this for a record in
timber preservation? In an old W.A.
graveyard I came across a sawn and
dressed slab 2ft. or so wide, 4in. thick
and about 4ft. 6in. tall. Date of the in-
scription, still visible in faded black
paint on a white ground, was 1870. The
slab stood as firm as the day it was
erected. Jarrah, of course. A cypress
pine growing on the grave had evidently
preserved the writing, though it would
have had little effect on the preservation
of the wood itself.
* * * *
“Naturala”; Is “Zake” (B. 28/10/’42)
correct when he credits the sparrow as
the cleaner-up of aphides on his neigh-
bor’s peach-tree? Have always been
under the impression that the spadger
was purely a seed-eater. There are no
sparrows in my part of W.A., and the
ban is against them just for the reason
that they have no insect-destroying vir-
tues. And “Z.” may tell his neighbor
that not only were the ants milking the
aphides, but probably were responsible
for their being on the tree ; for just as
the cow-cocky turns his milches into a
paddock of succulent grass or clover,
knowing that by doing so he will receive
increased milk, so the ants carry sap-
sucking aphides to greener pastures. In
the West we find the greatest destroyer of
the aphis is that pretty little insect the
ladybird.
* * * *
“Louden”; Old Rusty, camped in a
Murrumbidgee bend, was knocking down
a cheque at the 10-mile trough. The
pub wireless was blaring forth a serial
thriller about a hero foiling Jap sub-
marines in a coastal river, and Rusty,
who took it to be real news, went away
marvelling at Jap audacity. Next morn-
ing, back in camp, he he saw a
sub.’s periscope rapidly submerge in mid-
river, and, dropping down, he watched
the river and waited. The day was warm
and pleasant, and eventually he fell
asleep. Two station-hands on their way
to a job getting posts from a fallen red-
gum saw him and went to investigate.
One of them got a bright idea. They
were carrying gelignite, blasting-powder
and fuse, and swiftly they prepared a
charge and, working quietly, placed it in
the mouth of a fox-burrow near by. The
fuse was lit and the jokers made for
cover. As the fracture exploded Rusty,
coming out of the mass of flying red soil
unharmed, grabbed wildly for his hat
and, yelling “They’ve torpedoed us!”
sprinted for the deep flood-cut in the
paddock.
* * * *
“Butcher-bird”: The crosscut was
whining its way through the wandoo-
tree. Bill, a new chap at the game, found
the steamy heat of the timber-clad gully
almost unbearable. At the other end of
the saw, Ted, an old hand, kept him
going at a fast pace. A sudden gust of
wind sent the sawdust whirling. “Nice
breeze cornin’ up!” shouted Ted. “Makes
it better,don’t it?” “Yes!” gasped Bill,
spitting out a mouthful of timber frag-
ments, “it would ... if y’ gave . . . a
chap time . . . t’ breathe the thing! ”
VISION OF DAY.
In all the world I need a lover least. . .
Spring is my lover, Summer is the priest
iu w^om I. m y beads —to whom I pray
Ihe Earth will give me such another day
As this. The birds were busy in the dawn
When Day came up to floursh on the lawn
Her dappled roses round the waking trees.
g rass , dew-heavy, stretched like steely seas
Without a gleam—the sun had yet ip rise
And climb the great blue stairway of the skies.
Soon, with the sun’s warm fingers in my hair,
.1 saw the white-fringed daisies wake to stare
Upon the dazzling world, all wet and sweet
In twinkling circlets round my eager feet.
Today the great priest Summer walked the land.
Obedient to his shining, golden hand
The Earth grew still, and restless Spring passed
by,
Taking his winds to chase across the sky.
1 did not need a path to lead me on.
I followed where the little winds had gone,
Leaving a trail of petals in their wake
Like fairy craft across an airy lake
Where butterflies, with swiftly dipping sails,
Rocked as they rode imaginary gales.
Hour after hour the shadows on the grass
Opened their fragile gates to let me pass.
And at day’s end I found the swimming gold
Ot Earth’s sweet acres stretching fold on fold
Into a dreamlike distance. Rapt and still,
1 waited on a rosy-crested hill.
Darkly behind me soared the silent trees,
Ihe little night-moths rose around my knees.
Day had withdrawn and in the glowing west
Night laid the evening star upon her breast.
1 saw her brightness slowly gathered in
And all the skies’ great pageantry begin,
fhcn, with a blaze of sunset in my eyes,
I ran along the edge of Paradise.
TASMANIA.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.


* % sf: *
“West Coast”; We were caught in a
drenching downpour up in the hills
above Zeehan (Tas.). Cold, wet and
hungry we made for home, struggling
through the scrub, slithering in the slush
and with darkness closing rapidly. Then
I recalled what we’d been talking about
earlier. “Gosh,” I said, “three hundred
years today since Tasman discovered
Tassie.” My mate shook water from
himself, shivered and grunted bitterly,
“I wish I’d caught him at it, that’s all.”
“Esk D.”: Rain kept pouring down.
Our oldest inhabitant had to scratch his
head to remember a wetter spring. The
cockies dragged stock out of bogs—and
cursed ; watched the river rise danger-
ously—and cursed ; pulled into the little
bush pub—and cursed again; but this
time they cursed the drought. The
month’s quota of beer had run out three
days before.
“Coona Charlie”: That whiskered
bloke that “Truthful Murphy” burnt out
of the hollow log (B. 25 /11 / ’42) has been
hanging round the Pilliga for years.
Nobody around here takes any more
notice of him, though his early habit of
knocking up publicans late at night and
demanding accommodation for himself
and his ten goannas (by the way,
“Murph.,” didn’t y’ sight them?) caused
a lot of trouble till a magistrate made it
clear to him that the Innkeepers Act
only made provision for horses. It was
after that he took to living in empty
tanks, logs, wombat holes and so forth.
He used to be a great horseman, they
tell me, but has never been the same since
the day they kidded him on to the War-
rumbungle outlaw mare and she threw
him clean over the Tooraweenah spur
into the Baradine butcher’s brine tub.
That’s how he shrunk and accounts for
his imperviousness to fire.
* * $ *
“Looby”: Dad was trying to explain
to young soldier-son Herb how to write
a telegram if he ever wanted to send one
home. “You say as much as you can in
as little as you can,” he said. “That’s it,”
chipped in Mum. “Now, if you wanted
to say T hope to get leave some time
next week ; I will let you know when I
hear definitely,’ you need only say ‘Hope
get leave next week. Will wire again.’ ”
“That’s right”—Dad took up the theme
again—“remember just to follow your
ma’s example. Take what she said, like,
and cut it down to the bare essentials,
see?” Months later Herb came home
unexpectedly. “Why didn’t you send a
telegram?” Mum asked. “Well,” drawled
Herb. “Dad told me to think of your
example when I wanted to send a wire.
So I pretended it was you talking, just
like you do around the house, you
know. And then, when I cut out what
didn’t sort of count —well, it seemed silly
just to send a blank sheet!”
* * # *
“Two Wells”; The transhippers were
manhandling the luggage from the van
at the Terowie (S.A.) change when a
bucolic youth with chaff in his hair
appeared and said “You blokes be care-
ful when y’ come to a black box, won’t
y’?” The blokes, working against the
dock, profanely assured him they would.
He was back three times in five minutes
with the same request, a fact which con-
vinced us the black box must be of value.
We came on it towards the finish, and
his nibs was on the spot to watch it.
Gingerly we lifted it and carried it across
the platform, whereupon its owner
smiled happily and prepared to join the
Lain. “Eh,” asked Nugget, “what y’ got
in that box, mate —gold?” The bucolic
one shook his head. “Some scones me
mother’s sendin’ down t’ me auntie,” he
said.
H* * Jjt *
“Narrin”: “Talk about shrewd heads
—me old mate Jockey was the boy,” said
Barney Cosgrove. “He’d come down
outa Queensland with a good sort of a
horse carryin’ a pack in his plant, an’
he cleaned up most o’ the picnic meetin’s
"Aw! Y' don't Want to believe them yarns about Aussies eatin' their
prisoners raw—army regulations says We've COTTER cook 'em!”
from Oodnadatta south. But he got a
bit too well known, an’ when the crowd
at Leigh’s Creek was arrangin’ their
Easter races they reckoned they was
ready f Jockey Joe. They left one event
open t’ outside horses, an’ that was a
ten-quid prize f’ the best light-harness
prad. An’ they laughed like hell. Well,
Jockey drifted in an v went round t’ the
blacksmith’s. Next thing they heard was
that he’d borrowed a sulky. Then they
laughed some more. But it turned out
that Jockey’s horse had the best action
of anything on the ground that day—
nice high action was what they went for
them days—and he collected the prize.
A thoroughbred don’t trot like that, y’
say? Well, he did that day, after Jockey’d
nailed a set o’ cut-down draught shoes
on his feet; the weight did the trick.”
ii- * *
“Prop”: Any animal when kept in a
human environment turns out to be more
intelligent than the same animal under
natural conditions. The best subject for
an experiment is a horse. Under station
conditions—a month or two of grass-fed
work and then three months’ spell—the
prad merely learns to tolerate man. He
never becomes really quiet and, generally
speaking, he doesn’t display marked in-
telligence. But take a colt, break him
and, by keeping him in a stable, isolate
him from the equine company for which
as a gregarious animal he pines. Then
substitute your own company for that of
the horses. Your colt will learn to look
out for you and really to enjoy your com-
panionship. Then if you keep him around
near the house or close to where you
are working he’ll pick up more tricks in
a year than the grass-fed does in a life-
“ It'll cost you blokes something this time—yours, and up tuppence!"
time. The reason is, of course, that a
horse is an exceedingly observant animal,
and you’ve given him plenty to observe.
* * * •
“Wippegong”; Learn to speak the
other fellow’s language and you’ll learn
most there is to know about him, for by
dropping the right remark at the right
time you can usually bring him towards
you, be he man or bird. I was rolling a
fag when a peaceful dove lobbed in a
yellowbox across the track and called
to someone he was apparently expecting.
I tossed his call back ; and the conversa-
tion began. He worked warily around my
squat till he anchored in the middle of
the track, about seven feet away, and
there we took stock of each other under
cover of appropriate small talk. While
I can watch ’em that way, the savants
are welcome to their museum specimens.
Boobook owls are co-operative coves,
too. Answer the chap who starts to
“Mopoke” a few hundred yards down
the creek. He’ll reply for a little while,
then stop ; it is important that you keep
going, for he has moved nearer to get
your bearings, and will start up again
closer at hand. Keep this up and you
will soon see a dark, clumpy form arrive,
as silent as a fog, on a branch above your
head. It’s then you use the torch you
brought for this occasion. Spinebill
honeyeaters usually flicker too fast to
allow a close look at their choice color-
ing, but take the trouble to perfect their
particularly rapid unintelligible patter and
they will perform their contortions within
a yard of your head. Rosellas of various
kinds bend a graceful ear to answer the
call of their kind, pardalotes gossip with
gusto, wonga pigeons will come bobbing
cautiously out of the scrub, and even
Kelly himself is not immune from a word
of flattery; but, as with men, the
greatest satisfaction is gained in drawing
conversation from those who are naturally
reticent. Summer is rich in highlights,
and its mornings ring with bird-song good
to hear; but to me no hour is better
that when I ride down the road of red
earth and from the long grass on each
side draw answer from the shy, unseen
stubble quail, whose call is.mostly re-
served for evening, when the day is far
spent.
* * * *
“Long Kit”: Reports had come into
the station that old Jack, who was bound-
ary-jerking at No. 2 bore, was getting a
bit “queer,” so the boss sent me out to
investigate. Old Jack seemed all right to
me, apart from a long dissertation on
Hitler, Musso and so on. When I was
leaving he said he’d ride down to the
creek with me. When he had saddled up
he left his horse, ran back to the hut,
went inside, jumped up and down on the
wooden floor until the whole hut shook,
and finally took a flying leap out of the
door again, slamming it behind him.
“Always do that,” he said ; “it keeps the
flaming ants out.” He got a job in at the
station soon afterwards.
» * * *
“Betcha”: Jim wanted to show Mac
the new line of ewes he’d bought, so,
whistling his dog, he sent him to bring in
the mob. The mong raced over the pad-
dock, crossed in front of the flock, and
began herding them from the wrong side.
Jim whistled and roared in vain. “Just
look at that, will y’?” he snorted. "Talk
about a lazy, good-for-nothing brute! A
bloke deserves all he gets, keepin’ a
worthless, pig-headed misfit like that
about the place.” Mac agreed lazily.
“Yair, he’s stubborn right enough.’ “Eh?
Aw, I reckon he can’t hear me from
here.” “Course he can hear y’,” Mac
said. “He’s plain stupid, that’s all.”
“Oh, he is, eh? That’s all you know
about ’im, then. I bet that dog’ll out-
work anything you can put up—yair, an’
show ’em points in the game, too. Stupid!
Just shows y’ can’t tell a decent animal
when y’ see one!”
V * * *
“A.D.T.”: “Padflogger” (B. 11/11/’42)
evidently hasn’t been north of 28 on
the eastern side of the continent in his
search for flint. Stones will strike a
spark over practically the whole of the
gibber country of W.Q. Up here on
the Barkly we have limitless quantities
of ribbonstone. That stuff is flint, as
any old bore-driller will blasphemously
testify.
* * * «
“Murlonga”: Those hairless abos.
to whom “Zake” refers (B. 11/11/ ’42)
existed right enough, but they certainly
didn’t intermarry with other tribes, for
the simple reason that no other blacks
would have anything to do with them,
looking on them as possessed—“belongit
debbil-debbil.” A nonagenarian, W.
Ross Munro, saw the last remaining
member of the tribe himself and, as a
youngster, had heard his father speak
of them. They never numbered more
than 13 and gradually dwindled away.
* * ' H• *
“Gordon”: Virgil may or may not
have been right in saying that the beat-
ing of cymbals made the bees settle (B.
11/11/’42), but that ancient scribe can’t
be taken as an infallible guide. Seneca
says of him: “Virgil regarded not what
could be said with the greatest truth, but
what could be said most elegantly. He
did not want to instruct farmers, but to
delight his readers.” As an example,
Virgil said: “In spring the beans are
sown. Then, too, the furrows receive
the lucerne and the millet.” Seneca
refutes this: “It is June now, almost July.
Today I saw them gathering beans and
sowing millet.” Either they had extra-
long seasons on the shores of the Middle
Sea or Virgil was a better word-spinner
than nature observer.
“Yuiop”: Twice have I heard radio
quizmasters ask the question; “There
are 20,000 to 40,000 bees in a hive; how
many of them are females?” Each
time the “correct” reply has been given
as “one.” Now if the colony of bees
referred to contained no drones then all
the bees were females. The queen is the
mother of every bee in the colony,
whether worker or drone, but the worker
is also a female, though not fully de-
veloped sexually. If a colony is rendered
queenless under such conditions that a
new queen cannot be raised, many of the
workers will lay and, strangest of all,
will reproduce, but all the progeny will
be drones.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Birds are prompted to flock
to or leave a locality (B. 25 /11/ ’42) ac-
cording to the prevalence or otherwise of
the diet they favor. Thus in grasshopper
seasons come the inevitable flocks of
ibis, though nary an ibis has been seen
in the locality for months. In orchard
districts the ripening of the fruit brings
birds. Similarly, in a drought-stricken
part the feathers are the first to depart,
except the ravens and crows and other
carrion-eaters. Years ago on the Murray
we had to deal with a grasshopper plague
and a few days later with a water-hen
army that followed them. If you’re
camped out, leave plenty of jam around
and watch the minahs gather, or plenty
of fat if you want to attract jays.
*«.<•> *
“Lascelles”; Penetrative power of a
.22 bullet (B. 25/11/’42)7 The toolshed
was built of double sheets of galvanised
corrugated iron. Lofty was in there,
cheerfully working at something, and
Dan, reasoning that the smack of a .22
against the iron would sound like a thun-
derclap, shot at the shed from 20 yards
away. Lofty came out like a redshank,
and in silence we showed Dan how his
.22 long not only pierced the first wall,
but went on across six feet and pierced
the other.
JUNGLE NIGHT.
The evening mist swirls down the wooded steep,
To wreathe its wispy way through the ravine;
Soon range and peak and barren cliff-face sleep
Behind its dense and slowly drifting screen.
The jungle glooms in silence dank and drear.
A bird gives out a startled, joyless note.
Slow moisture drips from leaf to leaf a tear
Whose steady rhythm mutters on by rote.
A frantic bat, anticipating night,
Scuds through the sodden air on brittle wings,
While in the tall grass, moving out of sight,
The sound of many nameless, rustling things.
The last light closes, and the starless night
Supports oppression by denying sight.
New sounds awake: the creak of jarring boughs,
The chatter of the wind within stiff leaves.
Tree leans to tree, grotesquely amorous,
With spindle arms entwined in an embrace.
Tall ferns lift patterned arms of fairy lace
And mourn with slow, sad tears of silver mist
The vanished sun that tipped their spears with
fire,
That gave them life and drew them from the
mire.
A.I.F.
ERIC IRVIN.


The strongest ready -to-use glue for sticking emery
cloth to grinder discs is
DA VIS
LIQUID GLUE
specially recommended for shearing-shed use.
Obtainable in 40z., Boz., 16oz. and I-gallon sizes.
Hardware and general stores.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager. iE
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE.
. CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON. „ ITD
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. Liu.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drenching Troubles.
“R. Ney” r Most troubles with the
nicotine sulphate and bluestone drench
are due to carelessness either in mixing
or giving the drench. Nic. sulph. is highly
poisonous. The dose depends on the
condition as well as the age of the sheep.
Doses recommended by vets, and others
are for sheep of various ages in fair to
good condition; reduce by about a
quarter when the jummies are poor.
Hurried drenching is frequent. It will
send some of the drench into the lungs,
and it doesn’t take much nic. sulph. in
the lungs to settle a sheep. Drenching
guns, used carelessly, may cut or bruise
mouths and throats, and such wounds
absorb the drug readily.
In the wetter sheep country drenching
has become routine practice and sheep-
men are used to it. In drier country,
where a wet season may bring on heavy
worm attacks, the first thing is to have
the worms identified. Kill and examine
an affected sheep, and if you don’t know
the worms yourself get a vet. or depart-
mental officer to name them and the
requisite drench.
Toxaemia of Pregnancy.
“Huxave”: It’s often called twin-lamb
disease, and it mostly occurs six weeks
before the lamb’s dropped. Ewes carry-
ing twin lambs are most susceptible.
Cause is not fully known, but the dis-
ease is not contagious.
First symptoms are general stupor.
The ewe seems to want to separate from
the flock ; it moves about slowly and aim-
lessly and sometimes appears to be blind.
A staggering gait and paralysis in the
hind legs set in. If the animal goes
down, it may lie in a semi-conscious con-
dition till death occurs. When lambing
takes place it often recovers. In violent
attacks there are few early symptoms ;
the ewe falls and dies within a short
time —often in convulsions. Post-mortem
may reveal a fatty degeneration of the
fiver ; contents of the lower bowel may
be hard and dry. Unborn lambs are
mostly healthy.
Eight times out of ten the trouble’s
only noticed in the later stages. Taken
early, or when the animal cannot swallow
well, injections of 10 per cent, glucose
in saline solution (10 to 30c.c.) may give
good results. This treatment needs re-
peating. Drenching’s better, if the ewe
can stand it. Use to lib. sugar and
one pint water, or equal quantities of
molasses and water, and give the dose
carefully. When the sheep finds it hard
to swallow, the liquid may get on to
the lungs and cause pneumonia. Epsom
salts is no use as a laxative. Treacle in
large quantities is the stuff, if you can
get it.
Forward-in-lamb ewes that have fallen
off in condition or are too fat are mostly
the ones attacked. Fact that the feed
is dry but good and that the ewes
appear to thrive on it often means
they’re kept too long on the one pasture.
The same ewes removed to green feed
before lambing would not develop tox-
aemia. Rations of hand-fed ewes should
be kept balanced and too much feed
of the one type avoided. Feeding hay
with grain or other concentrates, a
small quantity of bran with chaff, grain
with scrub and so on gives the necessary
change. Even drought roughage helps.
In-lamb ewes need exercise. Don’t
keep them in small paddocks for any
length of time. Feeding in a different
spot each day stops them hanging round
one place waiting to be fed. If they’re
overfat drive them a little each day.
Paddocks for Pigs.
“Mackay”; In Queensland the pad-
dock system with movable equipment is
best for pigs. When Dennis is bred to
the correct type —if meant for porkers,
from quick-maturing stock ; for baconers,
from late maturers —he’ll do all right
under grazing conditions from birth till
market age. Paddock pigs grow rather
than fatten, and it’s the grower buyers
want.
Grazed pigs fend for themselves in
paddocks containing pasture or a green
crop and there’s not much chance of
their suffering from mineral or vitamin
deficiency. The fodder costs little in
labor or outlay, the pigs do their own
“Say, pardner, how d' y' Want this rootin'-tootin' mustang lined up?"
harvesting and there’s a good return of
manure to the soil. Paddocks that can
be cropped off, fed off and ploughed in
rotation are a sure means of controlling
worm infestations.
The only cleaning up needed for pad-
docks is cultivating or resting and the
moving of sheds or troughs, which should
be built on skids. The cost of establish-
ing them about equals that of the inten-
sive system.
Milk for Cheese.
It must come from healthy
cows and sanitary dairies. Milk of cows
15 days off calving, or fewer than 10 days
after calving, or that have aborted, had
three-day sickness or mastitis is no good.
Failure to wash teats and udders encour-
ages germs. Add chlorine to every
lOOOgal. of the wash water, change regu-
larly and wipe Strawberry dry with a
clean cloth. Cloths should be boiled
daily and sun-dried.
Every dairy utensil needs thorough
cleansing and sterilising after use. Dump
rusty vessels and those beyond repair.
Benches, wash-up troughs, steriliser and
draining racks must be kept clean. Lime-
wash interiors regularly, get rid of spiders
and don’t use the building as a harness-
or storeroom. Daily collection of drop-
pings reduces manure dust. A good dairy
is so planned that milking can be done
quickly and easily without disturbing or
exciting the cows.
Ropy or slimy milk can often be traced
to a dirty trough, swamp or waterhole.
As water tanks at the milk shed gradually
absorb manure dust they must be cleaned
frequently and sterilised with a chlorine
preparation.
Overripe, dirty or churned milk with
free fat in it isn’t acceptable for cheese-
making. Watering lowers cheese yields,
so does skimming ; both can be detected
by the lactometer. Chemical preserva-
tives such as formalin, boric acid, salt-
petre, etc., affect the action of rennet and
acidity and increase losses ; these can be
picked up by chemical tests.
Strong tainting weeds like carrot, mus-
tard, stinking Roger, green lucerne, silage
or mouldy foods will all show up in the
milk flavor. Another cause of “off”
flavor is when cream cans are left close
to strong-smelling substances.
Placing night milk in half-can quanti-
ties on clean stands in a cool, dust-free
area maintains the quality. Aim at early
delivery, and see that the milk is well
protected from the sun while it’s being
carted.
Wounds in Horses.
“Hux”: First clip away hair and
ragged edges of skin with sharp sterilised
scissors, then wash thoroughly with a
warm, weak solution of disinfectant. A
wound heals in half the time when down
drainage lets the discharge out. Then
it only needs keeping clean and open.
If the gash forms a pocket, cut a clean
slit from time to time to get rid of the
discharge.
In nail or stake puncture-wounds
microbes often form a bad-smelling pus-
liquid. When this isn’t drained away
and the fluid gradually rises above the
level of the horn and breaks out over
the coronet where the skin’s soft, the
animal goes lame, and the messy con-
dition of structures within the foot is
serious. Best treatment, if the horse will
stand it, is to clean the whole foot and
hold it in a bucket of warm water for
about 20 minutes. This cleanses it fur-
ther and softens the horn. Then pare
the sole of the foot away and make a
cone-shaped hole at the point where the
pain seems worst. Carry the apex of the
cone right through the horn till you
strike pus or blood, and let the pus out.
To stop the hole closing, plug it firmly
with a pad soaked in perchloride. Bath-
ing and plugging should be repeated daily
till the foot looks clean.
Bug Blitz Likely.
“Big George”: In a season like the
present, weeds growing thick and high
after heavy rains will harbor millions of
Rutherglen bugs. As soon as the weeds
start to wither under summer heat, the
bugs will make for potato crops, seed
vegetable stands and stone-fruit trees.
They’re tiny, less than iin. long, with
narrow, greyish bodies. Have a look in
your weed clumps, and if they’re there
a' good spraying with cheap crude oil
will cause an early-door rush to whatever
paradise insects merit. Another way is
to plough a deep furrow between weeds
and crop, with the sod thrown towards
the weeds. The bugs, crawling for the
crop, fall into the furrow, and can then
be pounced on with the crude oil. Once
they’re in the crop go after ’em with a
24- p.c. nicotine dust, or mix equal parts
of pyrethrum powder and kaolin. Keep
on dusting till the pests disappear.
For fruit trees, make a spray of Hlb.
pyrethrum and l|lb. soap in 40gal. water
or a pint of nic. sulph. and soap
in 60gal. water. Both pyrethrum and nic.
sulph. are hard to get; and, failing them,
try a smudge fire by heaping weeds and
rubbish windward of the crop and set-
ting them alight to cause heavy smoke to
rout out the bugs. In an orchard the
smudge smoke can be made in an old
tank drawn through the rows on a sledge.
The smudge won’t kill, but it will keep
them off long enough to get the fruit
picked.
Carrot Seed.
“H.C.”: Virgin soil and a protected
spot produce the best carrot seed. The
seedbed should be level, moist and fine.
Avoid heavy clays. For fertiliser mix
three parts superphosphate and one part
muriate of potash with one-half part of
sulphate of ammonia and apply at the
rate of 6cwt. per acre. Don’t use organic
manures; they cause the roots to fork.
Under irrigation the seed can be sown
in double rows —with the water furrow
between —18in. apart, about 41b. of seed
per acre. For horse cultivation the rows
should be wider. Chantenay, Manchester
Table, Danver’s Half Long and St. Valery
Intermediate are good varieties.
For-seed choose smooth, well-formed
roots deep orange in color and with not
too much leaf top. Planting should be
done as soon as possible after removal
from the original bed. On the M.I.A.
they often use a plough or cultivator to
open up furrows 3ft. to 4ft. apart. Super-
phosphate at the rate of 3cwt. to 4cwt.
per acre is scattered along the bottom of
the furrows. The roots are then pressed
into the side of the furrow every 18in.
or 24in., and the sprouting point left
just above ground level. Once estab-
lished, the plants can be treated as
biennials.
To prevent cross-pollination grow only
one variety, or separate varieties by at
least half a mile. Carrot seed has to be
gathered piecemeal, as it ripens over two
or three weeks. When it’s all collected,
thresh with a flail and clean by passing
through a sieve. Average yield of seed
per acre is about 4001 b. Summer is the
best time to sow for seed.
Making Charcoal.
“Blowit”: The best charcoal comes
from heavy timber. Use sound, seasoned
stuff with the bark cut off, cut in handy
lengths (say 4ft.); split large logs so that
nothing is more than 4in. thick. To sea-
son, stack in crisscross heaps, leaving a
fair space between each piece.
The vented pit method of burning is
one of the best. It is 6ft. 6in. long, sft. 6in.
wide and 4ft. 6in. deep. In the centre of
the floor is laid a double row of bricks
crisscrossed on their edges, with jin.
spaces between. An air inlet is provided
by running curved 9in. earthenware
drainpipe out from the bricks and then
up to the surface about a foot beyond
the wall of the pit. Two outlets are made
of 6in. earthenware pipes curved out and
up on two other sides in the same way
but rising about 2ft. 6in. above the sur-
face.
The wood is stacked on a couple of
cross-pieces, the fire lit at the bottom of
the space left for it, more loose wood
thrown in to fill that space, and when the
fire has taken hold the pit is covered and
sealed with earth. There’ll be not much
smoke for the first few hours. If then
it seems too little, one end of the cover
can be lifted and a draught allowed to
boost the fire.
After the fire has got well away, both
inlet and outlets can be partially closed.
Dense white smoke shows that things
are right. Let it burn until it changes
to a light blue, hot smoke ; then the vents


Situation Vacant.
WANTED, STATION MANAGER, large
Western District Property; must have full
knowledge of Stock and Pastures, capable of
control, knowledge of Book Work. Good
accommodation. Cottage partly furnished.
Salary £4OO to commence. Partly found. Apply
by letter only, with copies of references, to
Pioneer, care Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
a
E
60
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Rose &. Co. Pty. Ltd., King St, Sydney
CO UGH
REMEDIES -
word's as
good as
TEN
USQ
HEENZO
“BILLABONG”
WINDMILLS
HAVE
%
AUTOMATIC
OILING AND
ENCLOSED
GEARS
THE BASIS FOR
EFFICIENCY IN PUMPING
&19
*O9
. JUT ED.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MAKERS OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT FOR OVER 70 YEARS.
a
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals ala Carte. —■■ " ■— Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines}. Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
should be sealed and the pit left to cool.
Make sure the pit is airtight during the
cooling or there will be some loss ot
charcoa.
Hints for the Farm.
“Canbelego”: Don’t skirt too heavily
to make a free line of burry wool. Skirt-
ing should be light and the fleece pre-
pared as a seedy line. Indiscriminate
skirting loses money.
“LC”: Trust a cow to know how
much mouldy foodstuff is good for her.
Spread out well so that she’s got lots of
room to get at it; she won’t eat enough
to upset her. Horses need more watch-
: p
“Hux”: Buy a boar of good breeding
from a large, thrifty litter. Look for
general quality, an even frame, mascu-
line head, eyes and ears wide apart, jowl
full and good shoulders minus wrinkles.
Heart girth should extend well down to
the bottom lines and be nearly, or quite,
on a level with as deep a flank as pos-
sible. Legs short or medium length,
square, straight and well under him, pas-
terns straight and hooves well set, a long,
wide and deep ham.
“Pat Ater”: Perennial rye has grown
prolifically in suitable N.S.W. districts
after the rains. Along the cooler high-
lands the rye has taken charge of many
paddocks. Some of this grass could be
harvested for certified seed as soon as it
ripens. Inspection and certification can
be arranged with State inspectors. Seed
rye is well worth the trouble of mowing
and threshing at ruling prices.
“L.C.”: Keep a close tab on bushel
weights. Bran, pollard, meals, grass
seeds, paspalum, Rhodes grass, rye
grasses and mangels weigh 201 b., oats
401 b. and barley 501 b. Maize and rape
both weigh 561 b. ; beans, peas, millet, rye
corn, sorghum, soybeans, wheat, tares
and vetches reach 601 b. per bushel.
“Mt. Boppy”: Cockerels bring better
prices if penned up about three weeks
before sale and fed on a fattening ration,
A good topping-off mash is 301 b. fine
wheatmeal, 301 b. pollard, 101 b. maize-
meal, 301 b. bran and 220 z. salt. Another
is 401 b. wheatmeal, 201 b. pollard, 51b.
maizemeal, 101 b. ground oats, 251 b. bran
and 220 z. salt. Mix with skim-milk to
a sloppy consistency and feed, morning
and afternoon, as much as the birds will
consume within about an hour of feeding.
Give limited supplies of succulent green
feed, but allow plenty of hard grit.
“K.0.L.”: Nothing much can be done
when wireworms appear in large num-
bers, except to plant crops such as beans,
peas, kale, mustard or clovers, which are
immune. Don’t plant potatoes or cereals,
On small plots, naphthalene dug into the
soil at the rate of 3oz. a square yard will
keep them down.
“Old Camp”: Fruit-trees just out of
Boulder (W.A.) were planted in holes
about 4ft. deep and 4ft. square filled
with manure and loam. The trees bore
the third year, but within half a dozen
seasons the fruit dwindled and the leaves
grew smaller. The owner sank about
10 feet of fin. pipe down beneath the
taproot of each tree, then dropped in a
plug of fracture to each tree and ex-
ploded it. Trees and fruit improved at
once. The clay subsoil was so hard that
once the roots had eaten the nourishment
out of the loam of the original planting
hole they were unable to spread further,
The explosive broke up the clay and
allowed them to get down.
Outback Occasions.
No. 64.
EVERY DOG HAS HIS DAY.
One fine Sunday morning we all got
in the car and drove over to McClintock’s
for the day. At that time there were a
good few bagmen on the roads in our
district, and though most of them were
honest there were a few crookies among
them. We didn’t fear thieves so much as
the sort of bloke who, when he calls at
a place and finds it deserted, takes it as
a sort of personal affront, becomes venge-
ful and breaks a window or bursts a hole
in the tank or something. So we left
our three dogs loose, having first penned
up the poultry and warned the cat.
We had to imagine what happened
after we left and assume a lot to get some
idea of it. From what we could gather
Bluey and Darkey got under the tank-
stand out of the heat and Ruff, our red
sheep-dog, went off up the paddock on
some business of his own. Thus a couple
of hours passed in peace. Then Ruff
came back, had a good wallow in the
horse-paddock tank, and a little later a
neighbor saw the three dogs heading
west, all wearing looks of anticipation,
Ruff in the lead and the other two close
behind.
About an hour later, old Jimmy Beggs,
reading peacefully outside his hut door,
got the fright of his life as a streak of
grey misery shot between his feet and
into the hut, hotly pressed by three other
streaks, one red, one blue and one
black. Jimmy got to his feet and rushed
inside and got mixed up in a first-class
brawl among yelping, slavering dogs and
spitting cats. He tried to kick the dogs
out, but they dodged him and tried to leap
for the cats, which in turn leapt from
point to point about the hut. Meantime
tins, crockery and other gear went flying
in all directions. Then Jimmy rushed
out, got a bucket of water, rushed back
and whirled it widely over the combat-
ants. The next thing he remembered was
himself upside down in the fireplace in
a dead silence. Blowing ashes from his
whiskers he went to the door in time to
see three dogs ambling up the ridge into
the timber, leaping and barking joyfully
with each other.
Shortly after that a bagman, camped
on Tom’s Waterhole, looked up to see a
fierce blue dog coming at him slowly,
ears back, teeth showing, eyes glaring.
Convinced it was a timber wolf —he was
a city bloke —he did a backleap into the
tree behind and got himself up into the
branches. We could have told him that
Bluey was a born actor and often put
the same trick over us. The timber wolf
seized the bagman’s hat and fled, chased
energetically by a red and a black wolf.
Pieces of that hat littered our district for
years and the band hung for six months
on the Collinses’ gate.
The Collinses had gone fishing in the
lagoon just behind their place. They
heard a terrible squawking up at the
house and sent young Harry Collins up
to see what was wrong with the chooks.
He was so fascinated by what he saw that
he left his return to the family until
nearly too late. The 43 members of the
Collins poultry flock were being driven
scientifically and methodically into the
back-country. Behind them quartered a
red sheep-dog, pushing up the stragglers
and keeping the tail together, on one
wing worked a black Barb and on the
other a blue heeler. The canine drovers
were deadly silent and efficient —young
Harry swears that when a fat old Orping-
ton hen, blown out, sat down and re-
fused to move, the black dog gently
picked her up, dusted her pants for her
and carried her up to the lead and set her
down with a warning. He swears the old
hen gave the dog one startled and out-
raged look and then stepped out without
a backward look. The muscovy ducks
knocked up, and when Ruff tried to hurry
them on they took to their wings and
flew back to the farm. A white rooster
questioned Darkie’s authority, whereupon
Darkie grinned horribly and uttered a
single swear word that set that cock run-
ning round in circles.
Whether our dogs intended to drive
the flock to our place, or to go out west
and set up poultry-farming on their own,
or to kill off the birds and store them for
future use, or were just having fun will
never be known. What is known is that
Mr. Collins, apprised by his astounded
offspring of the doings, grabbed a d.b.
aun from the house and attacked the
marauders with full broadsides. When
the smoke cleared there wasn’t a hound
in sight and not much poultry. It took
the Collinses the rest of the day to muster
and check them.
That, from what the indignant Mr.
Collins told our father next day, appeared
to be the history of our dogs raid on
his place. He wanted the dogs shot, ot
course, but Father persuaded him to see
the funny side of it and everything ended
peacefully. Later, we heard the Gagman s
tale and that of Jimmy Beggs, and Father
remarked that three lively dogs were just
as apt to play up when left alone as three
lively lads. Father /ffways reckoned
there wasn’t much difference between
dogs and men in some ways.


STATE EXPRESS
m
a£umyspieade f
This must be EVERYBODY’S Loan
Buy Austerity Loan Bonds.
18590.i1, 42
REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, IiTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds \o meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin, 26/1/ 38.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J- Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane,
south Australia; Baringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Our Service Department
Wants.
G.P.S. boy, nearly 15, would like to spend
Christmas holidays on station or large farm.
Willing to help if required. State terms. —3325.
Information Sought.
Qualifications necessary for entry into the
Duntroon Royal Military College, and pros-
pects of employment ?
Candidates must be over 16 and under 20,
medically fit, unmarried and British subjects.
Minimum educational qualifications are a pass
or higher certificate for the leaving or inter-
mediate in English, mathematics, physics or
chemistry; one other language; and any one
of the following subjects: geography, book-
keeping or economics. Candidates who have
qualified for the leaving certificate will re-
ceive preference over those who have qualified
for the intermediate. Entry is yearly, and appli-
cations for next year closed on Nov. 15. On
conclusion of the course successful candidates
are appointed lieutenants in the Australian Staff
Corps with a nominal salary commencing at
£297 per annum, with normal increments and
promotion as laid down in the regulations.
On entering the college an allowance is made
for outfit, and a maintenance allowance is also
made to cover the candidate’s expenses, from
which pocket money may also be drawn at a
rate approved by the commandant of the col-
lege.
* * * *
(1) What are the chances of securing employ-
ment as a result of learning a foreign language ?
(2) What language or languages are most useful
in that respect? (3) Is it possible to become
fully proficient by postal study? (4) About
how long normally would it take to learn a lan-
guage by post? (5) Would a person with only
primary-school education but fully proficient
in a language be in line for a position on merits
of language?
(1) Very good chance of employment as a
teacher for one thoroughly proficient in a
foreign language who has a B.A. degree. These
qualifications also ensure some chance of a
commercial or diplomatic appointment. (2)
For a teacher French offers best and Latin
the second-best prospects. German and Greek
are less widely taught. In other fields French
and German are the most important languages,
but after the war Japanese, Chinese and Rus-
sian will very likely offer opportunities. (3)
Possible to a gifted student. (4) Three or
four years if the learner was not only diligent
but also had a linguistic bent and could devote
several hours daily to the task. (5) Probably
not.
S: * sit V
Process for “tinning iron,” as done in com-
mercial tin-plating for all kinds of tins?
Sheet iron, as it comes from the rolling mills,
is pickled in warm dilute sulphuric acid and
scoured with sand and water to remove the
oxide of iron and scale. The sheets are then
heated to redness and slowly cooled in a non-
oxidising atmosphere. A final dipping in dilute
sulphuric acid and a final scouring are neces-
sary to obtain a perfectly clean metallic sur-
face. The sheets are then plunged into baths
containing molten tin, the surface of which
is covered with palm oil or melted tallow.
It is then treated with various mechanical
devices which remove the surplus tin and pro-
duce a clean and perfect surface.
• * * •
(1) History of observed transits of Venus ?
(2) What was the “Great Comet” ?
(1) The first transit observed was watched
by the Rev. Jeremiah Horrox and his friend
Wm. Crabtree on November 24, 1639. The
astronomer-royal Maskeleyne observed the
transit at St. Helena on June 6, 1761. Cap-
tain Cook made his first voyage in the En-
deavour in 1769 to Otaheite to observe a
transit of Venus. The diurnal rotation of
the planet Venus was discovered by Cassini
in 1667. Transits have been observed in
Eastern Europe, Asia, New Zealand, Australia
and the island of Mauritius. (2) The Great
Comet of 1861 was first seen by Mr. Tebutt
at Sydney on May 13 of that year; by Mr.
Goldsmitt and others in France and England
on May 29 and 30 of the same year. The
nucleus was about 400 miles in diameter, with
a long bushlike tail, travelling at the estimated
rate of 10,000,000 miles in 24 hours. It was
suggested by astronomical experts that the
world was “in this tail,” as there was observed
a “phosphorescent auroral glare.”
•* * * ♦
Method of curing snakeskins ?
Soak skin in cold water till soft, then scrape
off flesh and fat, rub with powdered alum,
then put into a solution made by dissolving
--oz. alum and Joz. salt in one gallon of water.
Leave to steep for eight hours, rinse well and
steep eight hours longer in a fresh alum-salt
bath. Press the scales down by passing skin
through mangle or wringer and stretch to dry
on board in cool place, tacking every 2in.
or 3m., flesh side out.
* * * *
Haw to make home-made ice-cream?
Ice-cream (American) is easily made in the
home by mixing together one quart of cream,
j-cup sugar and one tablespoon vanilla, then
reeze. If no refrigerator, use a mixture of
chopped ice and rock salt. To make ice-cream
(English style), mix in large can three pints
‘ ' ?,V gar anc * s * x well-beaten eggs. Add
a little vanilla, then stand can in pan of boil-
ing water and stir custard till thick. Cool, add
tour pints rich cream, and freeze.
* * * *
I put a sack of fresh cow manure in a 40-
galjon drum. How long should it remain
before using? What strength should it be for
roses and pot plants? Can the drum be filled
again with water or will the manure be ex-
hausted ?
The liquid will be ready for use after a week.
Break it down to the color of weak tea for the
wmpV r and *f £ V' pint to the gallon of fresh
wnter for pot plants. The soil should be well
soaked before applying the liquid manure,
btir well before using. The manure in the
bag can be used a couple of times, but it will
need little breaking down on the second occa-
sion.
* * * ,
whiten°U ? c^eanln& preserving tripe to
Wash the tripe well in tepid, salted water,
****** with blunt knife and trimming away
all tat; then soak for two hours in a bucket
(two gallons) water with two tablespoons salt.
Take out, drain, wash in clean water, then put
into boiling water for a few minutes. Take
out and pick off any discoloration and boil
tor one hour in half-gallon water in which two
tablespoons salt have been dissolved. The tripe
is then ready to dress.
* * « *
When is the right time to dig Jerusalem arti-
chokes ?
After the growth has thoroughly died down
(generally in the autumn) lift the soil in the
beds and run it through a fine sieve. If this
is not done thoroughly, and small tubers are
left in the ground, they become a pest in future
years. The wise gardener always reserves beds
loi artichokes so as to avoid such trouble. In
dry weather occasional watering will improve
the size of the tubers. Surplus tubers placed
in sand will keep for months.
* * * *
(1) From whom and where and when did
Joe Louis win the world’s heavyweight boxing
championship? How many times has he suc-
cessfully defended this championship, and who
were the boxers beaten by him in these title
contests ?
(1) He won the title by knocking out James
J. Braddock in eight rounds at Chicago on
June 22, 1937. (2) Twenty-two times, the men
beaten being Tommy Farr (15 rounds), Nathan
Mann (3), Harry Thomas (5), Max Schmeling
(1), John Henry Lewis (1), Jack Roper (1),
Tony Galento (4), Bob Pastor (11), Arturo
Godoy (15), Johnny Paychek (2), Arturo Godoy
(8), Al McCoy (5), Red Burman (5), Gus
Dorazzio (2), Abe Simon (13), Tony Musto (9),
Buddy Baer (6), Billy Conn (13), Lou Nova
OS), Jim Robinson (1), Buddy Baer (1) and Abe
Simon (6).
* * * *
What is the greatest number of wickets taken
with consecutive balls in any recorded cricket
match ?
Wisden records that the greatest number of
wickets obtained by a bowler with successive
balls is nine, by Paul Hugo, a left-hander, in
a school game in South Africa in February,
1931.
Brief Answers.
D.G.: Write to leading chemists in Bris-
bane. Paraffin wax is not particularly scarce.
. ...F.C.: Apply to the N. S. Wales Health
Department, 52 Bridge-street, Sydney, giving
all particulars D.C.: A gigantic white cone
and an enormous white ball near by were
predominant among the buildings of the New
York World’s Fair of 1939-40 and figured in all
Fair advertising. It was suggested that observers
from other planets, should these be inhabited
by intelligent beings, might recognise these
geometrical forms if they had sufficiently
powerful telescopes.., .D.F.: Only first-class
cricketer of that name is Lord Harris, who
captained the English tour to Australia in
1878-79. He lived in England and died there
on March 24, 1932 H.H.S.: Cannot trace
meaning of Burrong. Ask the radio station
concerned W.8.D.: There is no known
deodorant for kerosene. If the garments are
well ( aired, the air should remove all traces
of smell... .K.8.C.: If you were a member of
the A.I.F. Ordnance Section you are eligible
for membership of the Demobilised Soldiers’
Association, of which there is a branch in
South Australia C.C.; Coconuts are not
grown commercially in N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, Brisbane, Q’land, can supply you
with the information you require... J.G.8,:
Best book is Classing the Clip, by C. E. Crow-
ley (out of print and difficult to obtain, but it
might be worth while advertising for a second-
hand copy). An earlier standard work is
Hawkesworth’s Australasian Sheep and Wool,
17s. 6d., from Angus and Robertson or
Dymock’s, Sydney. Textile Fibres, by R. D.
Minter, deals very thoroughly with wool and
other staples, but does not concern itself with
classing.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
W.H.:
So hail the brave Aussie eagles.
Shooting on the Japs like meteors,
Tracking them down like beagles ;
They are our shield and comforters.
T.H.0.:
When the war’s grim toil is o’er
And free men breathe again
Each must pull a sturdy oar
To free the world from pain.
R.F.C.; “My friends tell me I have a flair
for phrase-making.” If “his wildly-beating
heart fluttered furiously to escape this exquisite
torture occasioned by the first thrust of Cupid’s
arrow” is a sample, they’ve been guilty of
grave understatement... .G.D.L.: It’s thin to
the point of emaciation... .H.V.S.: Doesn’t
merit even a grin E.L.M.: Hopelessly senti-
mental... .E.A.L.: Send a copy of “Christmas
Customs in Christian Countries” to Mr. Ded-
man....F.M.: It’s a sermon, not a story....
R.A.J.: It flounders where it should flow
freely T.H.; Sally deserves spanking
L.S.T.: Leave battle scenes to those who’ve
seen them... .C.G.S.: And flappers’ chatter to
flappers... .F.D.; J. H. M. Abbott has already
cropped those fields J.8.M.: “Interlude” is
a relic from a bygone age... .D.J.G.: You
need a lot more enthusiasm... .J.W.; Close,
Tighten it up, cut out the comic Scotchman
and come again... .T.C.: It’s'little more than
a list of nouns and adjectives. If you must
write, use a few verbs.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.N.D.: At your third crack at drawing a
separator you have succeeded in depicting
roughly the thing you spit into at the den-
tist’s. .. .R.V.W.: You draw a lady riding side-
saddle ; is your real name Rip van Winkle?
8.L.5.: Welcome to the first Austerity push-
bike which needs neither spokes nor hub nor
chain!... .R.M.K.: The lopsided lady’s remarks
to the square child with the convex face con-
stitute the nadir in feeble punning.. i .A.T.S.:
The cocky in the cage is approximately seven
times bigger than the door Bob M.:
A duck with a bill like that would starve to
death... .L.C.: It should be worth exhibit-
ing at a modernist exhibition Bert C.: Ex-
cept that the rain seems to be falling sideways,
the river 'is winding over the hills and the
vegetation is indistinguishable from the clouds,
it’s not at all a bad effort... .D.F.R.: A vile
jest, and you handle a brush with the same
facile dexterity as one would toy with a sledge-
hammer... .T.A.E.: If that’s Hitler, then we
are prepared to see a striking likeness between
Emperor Hirohito and Gary Cooper... .C.J.B 1 .:
“My price for the drawing is three guineas”;
sir, if you were to ask three guineas a gross
the Prices Commissioner would be down on
you for profiteering.


m
m
hppp
-
■
m
GrinnelVs record
in the Battle for Britain
This advertisement is one of a series based
on verified records of the performance of
Grinned Automatic Sprinklers in dealing with
fires caused by incendiary and high explosive
bombs during Britain’s first two years of war.
■■■■
» ■
■Pigr
■1: mm
■H ■■
iw
mm
smms
, ■ mm I
■
mm
■
:
.
■
mm 1
in m
■
WKm
mi
m
immv
si--. fell
.
,
A
,-v-
-,
■
a
m
mm
.
■: “•:
■
m.
m
W.* :
/ 4-
: ■
*
m
Two Raids - Five Fires
but Grinnell saved serious loss
A firm of British Home Furnishers supply this
report. Their premises were twice hit during
enemy raids one night during Spring, 1941.
Many incendiaries fell on the premises which
comprised workshops, storerooms, showrooms
and a repository. The first visit was at about
9.30 at night , the second about 4.30 a.m, next
morning.
No. 1. Fire extinguished by 2 sprinklers.
No. 2. Fire extinguished by 3 sprinklers.
No. 3. Fire extinguished by 5 sprinklers.
No. 4. Fire extinguished by 2 sprinklers.
No. 5. Fire extinguished by 7 sprinklers.
Client’s report reads: “The sprinkler system
operated promptly and several bombs were put
out of action before much damage was done.
This was especially noted in the false roofs, the
bombs haying pierced the roof and started
fires in the concealed spaces.”
The reference to false roofs and concealed
spaces will be of particular interest to those of
our readers who question the ability of sprinklers
to operate in these situations .
Records based on a careful analysis
of 250 incidents reveal
★ 82% SUCCESS AGAINST INCENDIARY
BOMBS where premises were fitted with
GRINNELL AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS.
irOf the 18 % of cases where saves were not effected, two-
thirds of these were due to complete breakdown of water
supplies, while remaining third was directly traceable to
inadequate water supplies.
Grinnell
Automatic Sprinkler Systems
Wormald Bros . Pty . Ltd. (Incorp. in N.S.W.)
FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERS SINCE 1889
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
ork
5-4
ey
Of
fst
>fe
*»PI
Ptj
*}}(*
°*jt
e te
r ot
e Cf
?Pd
'Of,
er f*/c
se
7u
f ot
Qr e
e C (
H
e s s
P/'j
JOfj
; )(J
e pt
°fj't
Pe
°rJc
Pe
°fh
%
c °Pd
°Ps


You
cannot bequeath
your Judgment
or experience
The judgment and experience a man accumu-
lates in his lifetime cannot be passed on to
his dependents. For this reason it is doubly
important that he should take the necessary
steps to ensure that his estate is managed with
competence and fidelity.
For more than 64 years The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited has
provided the impartial advice and assistance
of a permanent corporation as Executor,
Trustee, Attorney, Agent, and in other capaci-
ties of a fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the company ensures
continuity in the execution of a trust, which
cannot be provided by a single individual.
Charges are fixed and moderate and ample
security is provided. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for full information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,622 .
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, 0.8. E.; G. S. Colman, 0.8. E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W, Russell French.
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
6en. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, M. Hughes
df
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
.acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Rc- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1932.. 119,427 44 p.c.= 104,631 14,796 450,477
1933.. 126,243 5 „ „ 116,257 9,986 460,463
1934.. 149,489 6 „ ~ 139,508 9,981 470,444
1935.. 149,651 6 „ ~ 139,508 10,143 480,587
1936.. 149,312 6 „ „ 139,508 9,804 490,391
1937.. 173,003 7 „ ~162,759 10,244 500,635
1938.. 182,927 7 „ „ 162,759 20,168 520,803
1939.. 201,610 74 „ ~174,385 27,225 648,028
1940.. 182,815 64 „ „ 151,134 31,681 579,709
1941.. 180,066 6|„ ~151,134 28,932 608,641
1942.. 191,252 64,. ~151,134 40,118 648,759
There are 31 vessels in the fleet —six
passenger and 25 cargo, aggregating
78,073 tons gross—which is the largest
service on the Australian coast. Since
the outbreak of war the Federal Gov-
ernment has taken over the vessels in the
inter-State trade, including the co.’s two
largest passenger ships, and last term
three of the smaller craft on the North
Queensland coast were added to the list.
Control has been vested in the Shipping
Control Board, but management remains
in the hands of the owners. Another
vessel, which left the slips in Scotland
a couple of years ago, was impressed and
is still held by the British Ministry of
Shipping.
Earnings, therefore, are now derived
from charter and management fees, sup-
plemented by takings from coastal
steamers, tugs, engineering workshops,
etc., together with pickings from outside
sources. These sources include a wad of
Government securities, etc. (£948,984 at
June 30 last), over half a million shares
in J. and A. Brown and Abermain-
Seaham Collieries (div. '5 p.c, last term),
Control of the Waratah Tug and Salvage
Co., and interests in Newstead Wharves
and Stevedoring Co. (Brisbane) and
National Airways.
Financial terms of the chartering
haven’t been broadcast, but it is reason-
able to assume that they are in keeping
with the Government policy on profits.
The chairman says the rate makes “no
provision for the accumulation, during
requisition, of sufficient reserve to help
to provide for replacement of tonnage at
what will probably be a very high cost
on termination of hostilities.” This might
be taken to mean that the rate provides
no more than the 5 p.c. allowed by the
taxgatherer for depreciation, whereas the
board considers a higher but unspecified
•figure necessary and makes allowance
accordingly. The difference is, of course,
subject to undistributed-profits tax on
top of ordinary heavy Government
bleeding.
So far no vessels have been lost by
enemy action. Last term more cargo
was offered than could be carried, and
all the tugs, lighters, etc., were kept more
than usually busy, and so were the
engineering shops. Still, a considerable
portion of the year’s profit came from
investments other than shipping, the
chairman says. To these was added the
carrying business of Treleaven and
Brown (Port Pirie), bought at an un-
stated figure. Including £20,000 dropped
into the insurance account (£375,000) and
£20,000 into the repairs, renewals and
replacements reserve (£273,500), the net
result was £11,186 better at £191,252, or
8.2 p.c. - on capital as against 7.7, 7.8,
8.6, 7.8, 7.4 and 6.4 p.c. back to 1936.
That was after making “necessary” pro-
vision for depreciation and “all other
charges”; the amount of the tax bill
isn’t stated.
The already strong liquid position was
further strengthened;
1935. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors.. 74,236 146,363 240,677
Provident fund .. 239,656 96,164 97,614
Steamers, properties,
etc. . . . . 1,322,532 1,559,290 1,450,293
Shares in subsidiaries 136,500 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores. . 42,729 69,038 83,377
Book debts and in-
vestments -. 408,520 745,768 774,411
Consols, cash, etc. 1,279,089 747,087 948,984
There was a net reduction of £108,997
in the book value of fixed assets —only
sale mentioned was that of a small tug.
The money that thus became available,
together with £94,314 added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors, went
into stocks and stores (up £14,339), book
debts and investments (up £28,643) and
Consols and cash (up £201,897). The
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£1,604,981) was £149,115.
Drug Houses of Australia
' Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 60,069 2J p.c. = 63,071 7,881
Unexplained reductions, £1,129 .. 9,010
1933.. 38,133 li p.c. = 30,499 7,634 1,376
Reserves.
1934.. 88,112 3J „ „ 85,397 2,715 1,339
1935.. 123,581 5 „ ~ 121,996 1,585 2,924
Tax refund, £2 ; 332 .. .. .. 5,256
1936.. 147,108 6 p.c. = 146,394 714 5,970
Unexplained addition, £2,187 .. 8,157
1937.. 158,878 6J p.c. = 158,594 284 8,441
1938.. 159,331 64 „ „ 158,594 737 9,178
Drug Houses and Subsidiaries.*
, —s—Dividends 5 —Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- R<>-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.!
£> £* & £ £
1939. .171,552 6i p.c. = 158,594 12,958 399,933
Unexplained reductions, £7556 .. 392,377
1940. .183,001 3000 64 p.c. = 160,891 19,110 411,487
Unexplained additions, £lO2B .. 412,515
1941. .193,818 6000 p.c. = 160,891 26,927 439,442
Unexplained additions, £20,539 .. 459,981
1942. .183,551 6000 6J p.c. = 160,891 16,660 476,641
* After deducting outsiders’ proportion,
t Subject to intangibles.
The figures prior to 1938 are for the
holding co. only. After that they take
in undistributed earnings of the pups,
too, and therefore give a better idea of
the position. It is about 12 years since
half a dozen of the leading drug houses
in the Commonwealth decided to get
together in order to mitigate the effects
of aggressive competition, reduce over-
head and gain advantages on the buying
side. D.H.A. was formed for the pur-
pose, and now has a paid capital of
£2,575,244, of which £lOO,OOO carries 6
p.c. pref, rights.
The trading cos. are:
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney; Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins,
Ltd., Melbourne; A. M. Bickford and Sons,
Ltd., Adelaide and Brisbane; Felton, Grim-
wade and Bickford, Ltd., Perth; Taylors,
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd.,
Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville;
L. Fairthorne and Son Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.
The organisation turns out much of its
requirements in its own factories and
laboratories, thus gathering a wholesale
as well as a retail profit. Slump upset
original calculations, and some of the
properties were a drag for a while. Still,
earnings stepped along as conditions im-
proved, and the div. advanced from \\
p.c. in 1933 to p.c. four years later,
and has remained steady since.
Three years of war, with accompany-
ing exchange-control and growing ship-
ping, import and other difficulties, have
provided the manufacturing side of the
business with fresh opportunities which
the management has not been slow to
grasp. So that not only are many lines
previously imported now being manu-
factured locally, but a small surplus for
export is being produced as well. After
three years’ research, one of the subsidi-
aries has also been successful in produc-
ing a drug “second to none in its mili-
tary and civil uses.” But prospects for
this line in the post-war market are not
considered promising—its production is
one part of the co.’s war effort. Mostly
under war’s stimulus, total Australian
output of chemicals, drugs and medicines
doubled in the six years to June, 1941,
reaching £10,026,000.
Largely owing to the demands of mili-
tary hospitals, sales have stepped along ;
but wages, taxation and raw material
and other costs have quickened their
pace, too. Thus earnings continue
moderate, and are likely to remain so
while the war continues, at least. What
happens after that will depend upon
many things, one of which will be the
extent of economic controls retained by
the Government. In April last the Prices
Commissioner decreed that only the same
money gross profit can be made on sales
as before the outbreak of war. This
means that the co. has to bear the bur-
den of all increased non-manufacturing
costs. Also, sale of some lines has
stopped altogether, the supply of others
has been reduced, and the number of
rationed supplies continues to grow. The
point now appears to have been reached
where a higher ratio of costs to turnover
may gnaw into net earnings.
After heavier taxation and provision
of an extra £3319 for depreciation
(£55,383), D.H.A.’s equity in net earn-
ings of the group last term was figured
£10,267 lighter at £183,551. But that dis-
regards £20,539 dropped from somewhere
into reserves. The £183,551 —£16,346
came from investments —was enough to
pay the prefs. their £6OOO and show 7 p.c.
on ord, capital as against 7.6, 7.2 and 7
p.c. for the three preceding years. The
div. was kept at 6\ p.c., which war con-
ditions have rendered insecure. The
organisation, however, has a tight grip
on the trade.
Outstanding feature of the consoli-
dated financial structure is the extent to
which the business has leant upon sundry
creditors, etc., to finance stocks:
D.H.A. AND Subsidiaries.
•Paid capital— 1939. 1941. 1942.
D.H.A £2,439,912 £2,575,244 £2,575,244
Outside interests 79,111* 4,139* 4,124*
Mortgages . . 75,400 80,688 87,687
Sundry creditors 698,191 1,264,568 1,217,470
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 716,537 706,902 738,091
Plant, etc. . . 152,926 131,615 120,710
S'hares, etc. . . 76,489 79,094 87,052
Stocks . . , . 940,800 1,326,979 1.352,137
Book debts . . 886,355 988,119 948,222
Cash, etc. . . 17,429 70,734 94,018
Suspense account 14,194 118,036 74,254
Undistinguished
assets .. . . 719,772 765,590 770,180
Goodwill, etc. . . 261,937 263,137 263,137
* Including proportion of undistributed profits.
Under existing conditions there may be
little to fear ; the danger lies in the pos-
sibility of being caught on a falling
market. Including stocks, but excluding
suspense accounts, the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,176,272) was £56,602
stronger than at the previous balance.
Peters Ice Cream (Vic.)
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 3,895 Nil 3895 78,795
Intangibles written off, £38,795 . . 40,000
1933.. 8,668 6p.e,= 7,350 1318 38,682
Reserve for depreciation, etc.
(£19,198, up £8403), taken in.. 19,484
1934.. 14,225 8 p.c. = 9,799 4426 15,058
Added io depreciation reserve. £BlOl. . 6,957
1935.. 9,632 6 p.c. = 7,347 2285 4,672
Reserves.
Added sundrv reserves, £7017 . . 2,345
1936.. 10,164 8 p.c. = 9,800 364 2,709
Added sundry reserves, £15,379 . . 18,088
1937.. 20,023 9 p.c. = 13,675 6348 24,436
Added sundry reserves, £15,614 . . 40,050
1938.. 21,793 9 p.c. - 15,078 6715 46,765
Deficit.
Reserves reduced, £65,311 .. .. 18,546
1939.. 22,524 9 p.c. = 15,077 7447 11,099
1940.. 24,272 9 „ ~16,948 47324 3,775
Reserves.
1941.. 23,372 9 „ ~ 17,571 5801 2,026
1942.. 23,838 8.3 „„ 16,270 7568 9,594
The business is now performing in a
manner more worthy of its Sydney
founder, owner of a £20,540 paid-up
share interest. The beginning in 1929 was
auspicious only for the early writing-off
of £82,825 (Bs. in the £) of capital. Then
a modern factory was put up at Rich-
mond, the management reached out to
Tasmania and twice since has called in
more capital to push its product in other
enterprising ways. Liberal depreciation,
which kept the earning assets in fine
nick, helped the rejuvenation, and share-
holders can now see free reserves £9594
in excess of the £40,000 at which good-
will, etc., figures. Consolidation is now
the order of the day ; hence recent con-
servative disposition of surpluses, with
which only the shortsighted will express
disagreement.
In Victoria the ice-cream business has
been undergoing “rationalisation”; but
Peters had already made most adjust-
ments consistent with a war-time
economy. Popular packet lines have
been eliminated, the civilian trade being
practically confined to bulk supplies, and
there have been drastic economies in
man-power, transport and distribution.
Even so, turnover put on weight in Vic-
toria and was maintained in the Speck,
where inwards freighting is apparently
a far easier job than outwards. On top
of this has been a “phenomenal” demand
from the fighting services and munition
canteens, which appear to be introducing
a lot qf new permanent customers.
However, the benefits to income which
swollen outgoings didn’t swallow were


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— -Advt.
HA VIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
IF anything happened to you, is
it fair to burden your relatives
or friends with your business
worries? It is a task that calls for
specialised training and know-
ledge. For your own sake, and
for your dependants, entrust the
administration of your estate to
experienced trustees.
Smifh, Boydell Si Company is an
organisation specialising in the man-
agement and supervision of estates
and personal business. The principals
—H. Landon Smith and F. M.
Boydell, A.1.C.A., A.C.1.5., person-
ally direct all transactions. Special
facilities are available for country
and interstate business. Write now
for free brochure explaining how this
service can assist you.
snimißOVDEiuco
L 58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
d
fd
CRAVEN A mm
nmt mu&~ ibetfte,.
always smctit*flesh!
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
4*
E 1867
SPECIALLY
llliii
pounced upon by the taxgatherer, for
whom £17,000 was set aside in 1941 and
£35 000 last year. That left the net result
little changed at 12.2 p.c. on capital; so
the cut from 9 p.c. to 8 1-3 p.c. m the
div. wasn’t dictated by expediency. De-
preciation charged was £16,426 up
and just short of 10 p.c. on the book
value of all fixed assets at June 30.
Striking improvement in finances over
the past three years will cause the tax
bill to impose no strain when It comes
along:
1935. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £122,505 £107,453 £195,059 £195,059
Creditors .. 25,703 21,206 13,888 10,126
Tax reserve . . 6,000 17,000 33,000
Freeholds .. 58,746 1 180 82 g 176,899 169,496
Plant..- .. 00,215 J
Stocks • • 2,859 10,614 28,378 37,493
Book debts .. 2,087 6,018 11,219 14,118
Cash, etc. .. 18,302 1,173 23,250 34,808
Plant figures at £169,238 and freeholds
at £122,569, both less depreciation of
£122,311 to give the combined net bal-
ance shown. Movements in stock and
debtors indicate the course of trade.
Essences are now the only thing for which
the co. is dependent on non-Australian
sources.
The Loan
So far the Australian people as a body
have not responded to the loan appeal in
a measure sufficient to indicate its suc-
cess. At a stage when there were 14 days
to go only 200,000 subscribers out
of the hoped-for 500,000 had put up
their money, and Treasurer Chifley was
prompted to say that “the loan will only
succeed if all the men and women in
Australia, now in regular employment,
give their complete support. The least
we can expect is that the people will, in
overwhelming manner, lend their money
for war purposes.” If this loan fails it
will indicate that non-subscribers have not
enough sense of responsibility to partici-
pate in any “new order” that it may be
hoped to confer on them after the war.
Perhaps it wouldn’t be a bad idea now to
close down all lotteries and other gam-
bling joints for the duration of. each loan.
Such institutions appear to be submerg-
ing most other Australian traditions even
in times of the greatest national effort.
Unless support is given voluntarily to the
loan, the people will assuredly be com-
pelled to pay for the war in other ways.
Before Bulolo Gold Dredging ceased
to contribute, Placer Development used
to pay 60 cents Canadian half-yearly,
subject to absentee tax. Distributions
are now 25 cents, the latest being due on
December 7. There are other small
Australian investments, but chief produc-
tive interests now are Pato Consolidated
(36 p.c. owned) and Asnazu Dredging
(41 p.c. interest), both located in S.
America. In the quarter ended Nov. 1
Palo’s five dredges dug 4,042,000 c.y. for
20,6790 z. gold and hydraulicking units
recovered another 4018 oz. ; Asnazu
handled 1,030,300 c.y. for 55010 z.
fine. Pato’s latest interim distribu-
tion is 15 cents a share; Asnazu,
which had to borrow to finance its
construction programme, has still to
break its duck. There is almost a life-
time’s gravel —558,000,000 c.y., averaging
14.2 U.S. cents, was the last estimate —
measured up for Pato and 95,000,000 c.y.
of 13-31 cent stuff at Asnazu. War-
damage compensation should later be
available to assist whatever reconstruc-
tion proves necessary at Bulolo.
* * *
While, because of inadequate labor,
most mines have been living on ore re-
serves in part at least, South Kalgurli
(W.A.) actually increased its by 15 p.c.
in the year to March. The total blocked
out is now 181,000 (up 10,100) tons and
probable ore 138,300 (up 34,300) tons.
Values are s.l7dwt. and 4.B9dwt. respec-
tively, against 5.23dwt. and 5.22dwt. 12
months back. But profit margins aren’t
wide, and external difficulties in the matter
of labor and stores are such that “the
possibility” of dividends cutting out for
the duration is officially bruited. Ore
treatment last year wasn’t quite up to the
previous term at 115,600 tons ; still, favor-
able strikes at depth lifted recoveries from
4.96dwt. to 5.33dwt. Deducting Austra-
lian taxes, the surplus declined from
£31,778 to £27,726 stg., from which
further taxation of £2500 has to be
chipped off. The div. dropped sharply
from 2s. sd. to Is. l\d. per ss. share
(£20,313). While the old mine is proving
a hardy stayer, long-term prospects
appear largely bound up with Hatnault
block developments.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia is keeping its payable
head well above water in depth. At No.
31 level 4idwt. to sdwt. ore is being
opened up over a width of Bft. Below
No. 28 and No. 29 levels winze values
average 9|dwt. Ore reserves extend much
farther than the mill can see. Floated in
London in 1898, the “Gwalia” was one
of the very few Westralian goldmines in
which the public was not invited in till
the £1 shares were quoted at £2.
* * *
Freney Oil (W.A.) is anxious to do
some more boring, and has buttonholed
the Federal Government for help. Co.
had to stop drilling earlier in the year
because (1) it was considered too danger-
ous to go deeper with the equipment
available, and (2) because, when Japanese
invasion threatened, the Minister for
Supply and Development cancelled the
order sent to America for new plant and
directed that no more boring be done
for the time being. One director recently
visited Canberra, and the chairman is
stated to have tripped there since.
* * * *
Collie mines are stepping up produc-
tion to cope with the current shortage of
coal in Westralia. Value of present out-
put is about half a million a year. A
local co. owning the near-by Wilga
deposits is anxious to help, but wants
Federal Government assistance to kick
off.
DIE CASTERS WAR-TIME
ACTIVITIES REVIEWED
Managing Director's Speech.
“Since the outbreak of war my annual addresses to shareholders
endeavored to make it clear that the war-time policy of your board was
to plan, tool up, and produce in the shortest possible tune equipment for
the men who fight,” said Mr. R. W. Newton, managing director, at the
annual meeting of Die Casters, Ltd., on November 16.
“Today products of our company are flowing
in such quantities that they are playing a
major part in Australia’s war effort, and output
is being sustained at the highest pressure pos-
sible.
“Particularly over the last year we have had
to embark upon new and intricate engineering
projects, and to speed production we have, with
marked success, experimented in our specialised
fields of die casting and plastics; we have of
sheer necessity solved several manufacturing
problems, the solutions of which we would
ordinarily seek from experts abroad.
“Were I permitted to tell you specifically of
the part we have played, and continue to play,
you would be justifiably proud of your associa-
tions with the company. Meanwhile you must
be content with the knowledge that we have
arrived at a stage in our war programme that
can truly be described as an ‘all-in war effort.’
“Now that we can look back over three years
at war, I propose this year to review the com-
pany’s war-time activities of our Collingwood
works, our Adelaide branch, and our now solely
owned subsidiary, Metalcraft Pty., Ltd., so that
shareholders can gauge the size of our all-in
war effort and its effects upon the company's
general situation.
“Our experiences and record have shown that,
in the manufacture of war equipment, man-
power, machine tools, materials, money and
management must be co-ordinated. In our
company these five ‘M’s’ came in the main from
our own resources and assets, and without
undue leaning upon the resources of the nation.
Our all-in war effort has been achieved in a
manner characteristic of the history of the
secondary industries in this country.
”As the essential points of my review this
year I will speak of man-power, machine tools,
materials, money and management.
MAN-POWER.
“No other subject relating to Australia’s war
effort has called forth so much Government
planning, control and discussions than man-
power. It has affected the entire community.
The spreading of Australia’s comparatively and
proportionately thin veneer of available man-
power over, firstly, our defence services and
then industrial war projects and essential indus-
tries has proven a gigantic problem. How
our company has fared in this man-power
matter can best be expressed by my telling
you that with only a small addition to the com-
pany’s executive force we are handling, organ-
ising and directing 90 p.c. more employees than
the number we had in peace-time, and to
get the utmost out of our man-power the
peace-time working week of 44 hours has been
extended to a minimum of 56.
MACHINE TOOLS.
“Machine tools are inseparable from man-
power for the mass production of war equip-
ment, and distribution of machine tools has for
some time been under strict Government con-
trol. Every machine tool that the company
possessed prior to the war, and those we saw
fit to purchase immediately after the war com-
menced, are now directed and engaged to
capacity on war production. As our engineering
manufacturing projects grew and expanded, and
as man-power was made available to us, the
company of necessity made one of its war-time
activities the actual manufacture of machine
tools. This has proved to be one of the most
vital links in the chain towards the achieve-
ment of our production goal.
“Three years of war are beginning to leave
their mark on our machine tools and equip-
ment, but by rigid maintenance efficiency has
not been lost. As does lighting equipment
change with the tide and the strategy of war,
so have machine tools, especially those made
overseas, changed in design and theory. A
change undoubtedly brought about because of
the necessity for greater and greater production
speeds to overhaul, hold and better war pro-
duction of the Axis Powers.
“The writing is on the wall that when this •
war is through we will find we are in a new
era in so far as machine tools are concerned,
because pre-war conceptions of machine-tool
production speeds will be outmoded.
“Referring to the balance sheet, you will
note that a greater measure of depreciation on
our plant and equipment is being claimed this
year, simply because we have to provide for
the condition that our equipment becomes war-
weary, a condition that will not improve. Rather
it must worsen as the day and night work de-
manded by war production takes its toll of our
machines. It is quite possible that much of our
machinery will be ready for scrapping when we
enter the future phase of our destiny, the win-
ning of the peace.
MATERIALS.
“Availability of materials from which war
equipment is made has given the management
little concern. Not only have we seen our well-
laid-down stocks of strategic materials from
overseas take shape into war equipment, but
we have continued to adapt our production
methods to fit in with Australia’s own raw-
material resources. Development in quantity
and quality of these materials makes me believe
that Australia in this regard has advanced 10
years since war outbreak.
“The dividend recommended by your board
to shareholders this year is the lowest in the
company’s history, notwithstanding that turn-
over reached a record high figure. This turn-
over was, of course, available from defence
work, and from this source profit is still looked
upon as living profits only—living profits which
must carry their heavy burden of taxation. In
our case we pay back to the country an amount
of £27,000 for our tax commitments, and we
retain as our profit £20,964. On the matter
of financing defence projects, our belief has
been firm that we could best serve Australia by
assisting the country’s administrators wherever
possible by using our own finances and resources
in fulfilment of the many tasks entrusted upon
us. This has resulted in a high degree of flexi-
bility in the handling of particularly new and
urgent war requirements.
MANAGEMENT.
“Your board realises that, functioning as it
has done under the unpredictable events of the
past three years, many of its decisions have
been taken at very short notice. However,
management has seen to it that the board has
never been let down, even though work on this
side of our business has been exacting and
arduous. Government regulations alone make
it no sinecure. Our manufacturing activities
have been backed up splendidly by our mana-
gerial side. Whatever the struggle has been, and
may continue to be, I look back with satisfac-
tion knowing that direct defence orders re-
ceived from the Government have been executed
efficiently and cheaply. I make this as a defi-
nite statement, because fundamentally produc-
tion of war goods has been achieved with the
same executive and administrative policy that
gave us our measure of success in peace-time.’’


fy iffWa?
aV)° u ' Y ene v/a\
Hot»ce
**Af
PS r
Renewal notices are now being posted
to all holders of 1942 War Damage
Certificates.
Upon receipt of yours, act at once! The
need to cover your household goods, your
clothes and other personal belongings
against war hazards is just as vital for
1943 as 1942.
Remember, this is the only way to protect
your personal effects against loss by
enemy action. Do it now!
Renew your
WAR DAMAGE
INSURANCE
at yo
Insurance Office
IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going Into middle age note a
Blowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a de-
gree, if passage is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting. Nature
may be warning that there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffl-
ness under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don’t waitl Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are &
special remedy for the kidneys and will give
quick and lasting benefit. Old and young
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE HIDNEY]
FILLS with perfect safety.
BRANDALERS
m
c,**
P-*
PENS
guara
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRAMDAOBB * CO, Ut UIRMISOHAM. EXO
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Price Control
From a very early stage in the present
war price control has operated in this
country. It may be remembered that
Australian Consolidated Industries, for-
merly Australian Glass, on Nov. 3, 1939,
announced a rise of 8 p.c. in the price of
window glass, and that the rise was can-
celled within a fortnight. This was
prompt evidence of price supervision,
Even earlier, shipping cos., which had
proposed to increase freight rates by 20
p.c., were stopped on October 7, 1939,
from doing so by Mr. Lawson, then
Minister for Customs. He fixed the
maximum increase for the time being at
10 p.c. Professor Copland about this
time Was appointed Commonwealth Com-
missioner of Prices.
Price control in war-time, when goods
and labor are both likely to be scarce
and money plentiful, is an essential thing,
All the old natural controls, as of supply
and demand, go overboard when supply
is hampered by transport problems and
loss of man-power and demand is in-
creased by the wastage of fighting a war.
The Government becomes the greatest
sin e le bu Y ef of tbe national output, and,
as waste is inevitable in anyway,
* 18 des ' rable 0 minimise the_ waste of
b Y controlling those things that
ca ". be controlled. Prices are controllable
Wltbln the limits set by costs,
A great strain has been imposed on
price-control in Australia by the present
Government’s way of financing the
cost of war. It is an inflationary method,
and, with its concessions to wage-earners,
such as the 44-hour week in the maritime
industries and payment of penalty rates
for overtime, it has produced an irresis-
tible expansion in costs. In short, the
Government, while expecting control of
prices by the commissioner, has loaded
him with difficulties in every way. It is
becoming a little alarmed with the trui s
of its own behavior after a trifle more
than 12 months of office,
Since Sept. 3, 1939, the cost of living
within Australia has risen by just over
20 p.c. Put in another way, a pre-war
£5-note will now buy only £4-worth of
goods on a pre-war basis. The taxation
and loan revenue raised by Governments
to fight the war has lost value in a similar
proportion. Hence, apart from the need
to make a greater physical effort since
Japan entered the war, the necessity to
make an even greater financial one.
There are elements of real tragedy about
the Government’s impetuous and
irrational financial behavior. Instead of
clearing the decks for action it has
thoroughly, if unwittingly, placed
obstacles and traps all over the ship.
In these circumstances we find the
Prices Commissioner with a most har-
assing problem on his hands. He is prob-
ably too good a public servant to blame
the Government for the mess, which is
still not as bad as it will be by reason
of the intricate and overwhelming arti-
ficial checks on prices, borrowing, spend-
ing and investment. From a purely
prices point of view the commissioner
has done an exemplary job of work, but
as he primarily serves a Government that
is at one time financially obstreperous
and adamant in its demands on industry,
manufacturers and traders reckon they
have come off badly too often in the
squeeze between inflating costs and price
control.
In the beginning it was not uncommon
for prices to be fixed on a unit basis —
unless the percentage of gross profit was
increased there was no official objection
to increased turnover resulting in greater
profits. The same thing applied to falling
turnovers —the margin per unit was the
thing that mattered, and not whether
net profits were less. Now there are re-
peated complaints that the “general pic-
ture” method is being adopted, and that
irrespective of turnover total net profits
have to be kept somewhere near their
former level, and in calculating that
former standard all taxation is ignored,
so that the trader is bound to lose when
recent taxation increases are borne by
him. This is in striking contrast with
the position of munition workers and
wharf-laborers. They get full compen-
sation for increases in living costs, and
receive time-and-a-half and double time
for extra work done —extra “turnover” in
labor, if you like.
Complaints have also been heard that
the Prices Branch has endeavored to en-
force the 4 p.c. profits policy under its
ordinary powers, although an attempt to
legislate in specific terms in this matter
fizzled out. Such complaints, however,
haven’t been frequent lately.
Apart from individual protests about
different effects of price control, it is a
fag); that in April last the Minister for
Customs (Senator Keane) issued an order
restricting gross-profit margins to the
money figure prevailing on April 15.
This works in a most troublesome way.
An importer who landed an article pre-
viously at Id. and sold it at l|d., and
who now finds his landed cost has gone
up to 2d., may only charge 2|d. for the
same thing, which means that his profit
margin drops from 50 p.c. to 25 p.c.
In some types of business, of course, a 25
p.c. margin before administrative exes,
are charged would mean a loss instead of
profit. In the retail trade the “fixed-
money margin” means great additions to
the detail of price-marking. It is against
the law to employ a method of average
mark-up.
It is not difficult to see the problem of
the Prices Commissioner. He is attached
to a Government that insists on giving
inflated war-time pay to the majority of
the people and refuses to take away again
an adequate amount for their share of
war’s cost, while at the same time it is
treating them with kid gloves when it
comes to charging back to them some of
their own inflated labor costs. The em-
ployer is taxed right and left, and he is
roughly handled in the matter of com-
pensation for inflation. Politics rather
than reason or fairplay govern our eco-
nomics.
The Government’s war effort has its
preposterous aspects. While the Prime
Minister recently protested about various
critics’ attitude towards the proposed
amendments to the Constitution, charg-
ing them with political motives in deal-
ing with a national matter, several of his
own Ministers (and they the more active
ones) have made no bones about their use
of the war emergency for the shaping of
our daily lives according to an experi-
mental political plan that has only a
remote relationship with the war. Man-
power that is “saved” by scraping-over
private industry is often wasted lavishly
in Government departments. This sort
of inconsistency is very prevalent; the
economic engine is abused and tampered
with by all kinds of unskilled hands and
is expected to perform better than ever.
At the back of all this are such Minis-
terial catastrophes as Dedman, who is in
charge of “war organisation of industry.”
He is at his happiest when closing down
the branch of a bank, rationalising horse-
shoes or rolling pins or taking another inch
off the tail of somebody’s shirt. Although
in theory a theorist, in practice his “first-
class mind” (Curtin) never seems to be
able to get away from the most involved
and fiddling matters of detail that don’t
amount to a damn in a year’s work,
though full of frustration and exaspera-
tion for those who are “rationalised.”
Mr. Dedman’s operations fit in with no-
body else’s. He always seems to be
trying to do something that nobody else
knows anything about, except in matters
of rationing, and then everybody knows
everything a week or two before.
Budgetary methods and Dedman bias
and lack of commonsense have strained
the Australian economy severely in the
space of 12 months. The Government’s
own economic conduct conflicts with
itself violently, and the Prices Com-
missioner is trying to hold down an in-
flating balloon. The best way of help-
ing him is to stop gas getting into the
balloon by taxing more the great wage-
earning body and setting limits to Minis-
terial experimentation.
A thing that Australia will need to
watch is the possibility of much of its
war-production machinery having never
turned a wheel by the time the fight is
over. No one will object to a speedy
finish to the war bringing such a thing
about, but if the war drags on
and bad planning or lack of co-
ordination results in delays wasteful
in time and money it will mean
that the nation has been let down and
the task made unnecessarily hard. At
present war is costing Australia nearly
half the national income—the estimate of
£449 million this year looks like being
exceeded—and unless the spending of
such a vast sum is done intelligently and
with care it may result in obstruction as
much as help to the big job in hand. The
mushroom growth and unstable political
nature of the Commonwealth war under-
taking should never be forgotten. Going
along at a moderate pace until Japan en-
tered the war, the pressure has been
really turned on over the past 12 months,
and estimates of expenditure have been
more than doubled. In spite of the sacri-
fices endured and to be endured by the
people, some Ministers have spoken and
behaved in a way indicating an astound-
ing lack of a sense of responsibility.
There is an overlapping of departmental
authority with regard to construction,
man-power and materials, and the Allied
Works Council treads on the feet of
others. Then there is disloyal propaganda
and activity from some trade-union and
other quarters, a system of government
being advocated which obviously does
not include the Throne. One big difficulty
in Australia at present is that the middle-
class, though well represented in the
fighting forces, hasn’t enough say in the
administration of the country’s affairs.


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
war won
ignoring it
1
%
. . . real sacrifice and effort are needed
Thinking of the horse you’ll back
on Saturday . . . planning that holi-
day you’ll be taking . . . cursing the
shortage of smokes . . . no, the war
won’t be won by trying to ignore it.
This great conflict not only vitally con-
cerns the fighting forces, but affects
every man and woman, and we all must
immediately change from our easy
peace time life to one of Austerity.
We must do without luxuries and think
all the time how we can cut down our
spending to save for Australia’s War
Effort.
You are nut asked to give but to lend
your savings and invest them in the
£100,000,000 Austerity Loan. Our
fighting men need tanks, planes and
guns and only your money will supply
them. For this reason alone, you should
be proud to buy Austerity Bonds, but
as an investment for the future you
can’t beat them. The interest is good
and your money is safe—it is returned
in full when the Bonds mature.
All about the Austerity Loan
Austerity Loan Bonds are £lO each and in
multiples of £lO. There is no limit to the
number you can buy. Two kinds of Bonds
are available:—
1. Redeemable 1958 interest a year.
2. Redeemable 1947—2 f% Interest a year.
Interest starts on money paid from the date
of lodgment. Bonds are realizable in case
of need. Lodge your subscriptions at any
Bank, Savings Bank, Stockbroker or Money
Order Post Office.
You can buy your Bonds by instalments, too,
by paying 10% down and the remainder
over 3 or 9 months.
LOAN CLOSES DEC. 15, 1942
AUSTRALIAN CONSOLIDATED 3%% CONVERSION
Holders of Australian 3J% Inscribed Stock or
Bonds maturing Dec. 15th, 1942, are invited to
convert them into Austerity Bonds or Stock.
AL.69.17
“Five hundred thousand cheques,
representing approximately £10,000,000,
are drawn on the trading banks every
day, and have to be accounted for to the
last penny. And every cheque has to be
minutely examined to protect the interests
of the people concerned.” This is a
“silent service” rendered by the banks
year in and year out, and it is well worth
mentioning in these times of unacknow-
ledged effort: knight James Elder
brought the matter up at the annual meet-
ing of the National Bank. War bonds
and certificates are sold and serviced, and
no charge made to customers. Over
3,000,000 clothing coupons are handled
daily free of any charge. Mr. Dedman
last week announced the closing of 200
bank branches.
* * * *
Net sales of war-savings certificates up
to October 31 totalled £29.4 million. The
campaign began in March, 1940, and
took on a real impetus during the collapse
of France. Since then interest has not
been maintained at the rate that might
have been expected—certainly not at the
rate Mr. Chifley anticipated in his Budget
speech. There is a suggestion that many
certificates taken out by groups of em-
ployees in a firm are cashed soon after
they are received ; a bank manager has
said that he spends most of Friday sign-
ing them and most of Saturday morning
cashing them. That is liable to happen
in cases where subscription to certificates
is more a matter of group action than
individual initiative. But apparently with
all its drawbacks the group system in the
long run shows a net gain over other
methods. It is a pity, however, that cash-
ing takes place at all. The paper on which
the certificates are engraved is high-
class, imported stuff, and its cost is not
negligible.
During the period in which £29.4 mil-
lion net was subscribed to war-savings
certificates the net addition to savings-
bank deposits was £56 million.
* » * «
In spite of all the fiery talk about
bloodsucking capitalists and so on, the
real reason for most employment diffi-
culties arises from disorganisation of a
country’s working arrangements by
strains and abuses. Prominent among
the contributing factors is political reluct-
ance to do the strong, obvious thing
needed to remedy what is going wrong.
In Australia at present we see post-war
dangers almost deliberately created by a
Government that asks for additional Con-
stitutional powers in order to guarantee
“freedom from want” when the war is
over. Australia’s method of financing
the war is unbalanced and inflationary,
and it works by delusion rather than by
plain, honest dealing with the people.
The idea is being created in many wage-
earners’ minds that war is a profitable
thing because they are paid highly but
not taxed, monetarily, in proportion to
war’s cost, although the incidence of
war’s actual burden is evident in the
shortage of supplies of essentials and
non-essentials at the present time.
Addling the wits of the people by these
means represents another obstruction to
the establishment of an agreeable state
of economic affairs when the war is over.
More addling is evident in the platitu-
dinous phrases used in the Atlantic
Charter and in the speeches of Austra-
lian Ministers. This “freedom from
want” stuff is hollow mockery when con-
sidered in relation to the mistakes and
waste that are occurring now. It
amounts to little more than political
flapdoodle when not preceded by evi-
dence of capacity to govern all the
people, and not only those who are will-
ing to be governed. If there is to be
more widely spread employment after the
war the condition will only arise from
contributions, intellectual and material,
from everyone, and not merely from a re-
distribution of worldly wealth. The “new
order” will finish in utter disorder if its
basis is wishful thinking and political
catch-cries. We have to remember that,
fundamentally, the life of every animal
on this globe, human or otherwise, is
full of difficulties, and it requires know-
ledge, character and skill to surmount
them.
* * * *
Melbourne “Herald” reports that its
size has been reduced from 186 pages a
week pre-war to 52. Advertising has
fallen from 905,000 inches a year to
292.000 inches, and will be further re-
duced. The morning “Sun Pictorial,”
with the highest circulation of any daily
in Australia, has been reduced from 294
to 88 pages a week. Advertising has
come down from 366,000 inches to
118.000 inches, and a forecast of the space
available for 1942-43 is 62,000 inches.
The “Herald” organisation is supplying
other newspapers with newsprint in the
present acute shortage of the stuff. The
Tasmanian mills are a big help, and are
making good progress within their limited
plant capacity.
* * * *
A.C.I. Investments owns 190,000 shares
in J. and A. Brown-Abermain Seaham
Collieries. Other substantial shareholders
include Howard Smith (38,400), Adelaide
Steam (526,874), Stephen Brown (202,463),
Danmark Pty. (24,416) and G. S. Yuill
and Co. (27,266).
¥ * * *
The Prices Commissioner may now
pass on to the Taxation Commis-
sioner confidential information. Taxation
already has power to pass information
on to Prices. The two departments have
in another sense been in conflict—strict
price control has affected taxation re-
ceipts. But it would be a poor sort of
national revenue that arose out of profit-
eeiing, although it must be admitted that
theie a medium in all such things.
Wool appraisements* to Nov. 24
totalled 1,194,256 bales worth £22,903,672,
of which growers had received
£19,370,712, the balance being payable at
“an early date.” Averages: N.S.W.,
13.58 d. ; Vic., 14.23 d. : Q., 14.72 d. ; S.A.,
12.68 d. ; W.A., 13.37(1 ; Tas., 15.52 d. ;
Commonwealth, 13.81 d. There were
18,525 bales of sheepskins appraised,
worth £508,510.
Since June, 29.934 bales of 1941-42
wool have been appraised at £516,775,
and 3828 bales of sheepskins at £79,057.
Dp to Nov. 24 the United Kingdom has
paid Australia £188,449,589 for wool and
£3,704,072 for sheepskins under the two
war-time purchase agreements.
Sales of Australian wine are restricted
to last year’s turnover. A cut in the
quantity of available beer and spirits,
result of a Government order, has been
followed by a greater demand for wines,
and e ff ec t j s seen j n queues out-
sjde of ™«h°P s a ” d bo «'= departments
durln S the , 1 ? our or “ a sla>,5 la > , „ ,n wh, , cl ;
the > are seUtng. Although the regulat
"tne-dnnker is being penalised oy the
Sltua h° n which has arisen, a new school
wine patrons is being created, and even
if its motto is “Anything with a kick in
it” there is a spread of knowledge con-
cerning beverage wines previously un-
known to the majority of people. The
Australian wine industry is one worth
fosterln 8" particularly where vintners set
out to establish a standard high enough
for export. South Australia in particu-
promises to be a great wine State,
but, is one particularly affected by the
recent transport restrictions.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Papuan Epic.
“Ek Dum”: Though at the week-end
boo-boo boys were almost entirely pre-
occupied with Russia, the most impor-
tant part of the war from Australia’s
point of view was happening on its door-
step. The main operations against the
Buna triangle had begun, the object being
to push the Jap off the New Guinea
mainland.
This is a bitter fight in which Austra-
lians have been dying every hour, or
being carried wounded back through the
sweltering, insect-ridden, rain-soaked
jungle on the shoulders of native
ambulance bearers.
Nobody who has not seen this green
tangle or its perspirations and
its itches can even imagine what it is
like to live in during the rains, even
without war. Those who have studied
its possibilities during warfare have
always dreaded what would happen to
unseasoned troops in it.
And most of the troops which are
there are unseasoned to tropic conditions,
though their spearhead of experience
consists of well-stewed New Guinea
marsters and Papuan taubadas. They
have been doing the impossible, Austra-
lians and Americans alike. Time alone
will prove the importance of their job.
As the comparatively small Light Horse
played a part in the last war out
of all proportion to their numbers,
so will the comparatively light forces in
the Solomons and New Guinea, if they
continue to be successful, produce effects
considerably more important to Australia
and the Americas than even a large
winter advance by Russian corps in the
Don Cossack country.
It is time the Information Department
(if it still exists) made the value of the
work and the sacrifice of the men in-
volved a little clearer to the Australian
people and to other peoples.
The American press is doing this for
its own men, but the facts about New
Guinea and Papua are not being fully
brought home to those who most need to
be told. An effect is being produced
that Stalingrad and Tunis are somehow
nearer home than Buna.
Australians Take Gona
Gona was rushed by Australians early
last week ; then the Allied troops began
to close in on the defence triangle which
the enemy had established based on
Sanananda and Buna. Buna from Gona
is eight miles s.-e. by crowfly, three or four
miles more by road. The Allied advance
lines late in the week were not four
miles from Buna itself ; but it is an area
of intensive defence. No feature which
can be used to give protection or cover
has been neglected.
The Japanese Way
The defence is highly systematised and
intelligent, built out of the enemy’s ex-
perience in Malaya and the Philippines.
The coastal jungle is so thick and so
luxuriantly tangled with vine and under-
growth that troops moving forward are
compelled to stick closely to the slippery
paths and kanaka tracks. Even where
there is a bit of open, the waving kunai
gives a lurking defence patrol plenty of
cover.
In the fastnesses of the jungle, just off
the tracks, the enemy laid his machine-
gun nests as an outer covering ring,
some of them in concrete caves.
Efficient in a devilish way, he allows
troops to slip by and makes a dead set
for their officers, using small pockets of
scouts to kick up a maximum bobbery,
so that those advancing to the attack
believe they have been set on by bat-
talions instead of sections. He tries
everything, in fact, to cause initial de-
moralisation.
The only way to beat the machine-gun
nests is to winkle them out one by one
with small attack groups—highly ticklish
and dangerous work, accomplished only
by consistent courage, resourcefulness
and endurance.
The exertion of struggling through that
bush is debilitating enough in itself; to
do it under machine-gun fire tests the
strongest and bravest. The nests have
to be cleaned out by a process which
involves gallant advance sections attract-
ing the Jap fire until the stage is set.
Mortar, tommy-gun and grenade then
blow the nests to glory.
Even then it is not over. As often
as not the foe shins up the nearest tree
with his jeans full of grenades and
tommy-gun magazines and sprays a
savage rain on his vanquishers. Camou-
flaged among the dense foliage, snipers
are difficult to locate exactly and bring
down, and ’planes overhead cannot help
as they did at Milne Bay, because of
the Australian or American boys under-
neath.
The next stage after the machine-gun
outer guard is pierced is a seemingly end-
less series of pits, foxholes, booby-traps,
mines and emplacements over ground
every yard of which has been ranged for
gun and mortar.
All last week the air was full of the
sharp crash of mortar fire and the tat-tat
of Brens and Brownings, punctuated by
the slighter and more muffled staccato
of the “tommies,” occasional bursts of
grenade explosions heard above fearsome
yells and the crackle of the fireworks
which the Japs sometimes let off in their
surprise attacks on columns moving
down the tracks to simulate heavy m.-g.
fire.
Overhead there often have been bursts
of fierce air fighting, while at times it
seemed as if the whole of Papua were
rising skyward as rubble as the heaviest
Allied bombers which have been seen so
far in the Pacific war raced in groups,
sometimes treetop-high, across the Japa-
nese positions. Bombing at times has gone
on from daylight till dark.
The enemy has had every chance to
study British and American aircraft types
at short range. It is something to which
he is little accustomed.
His own sky-meat are the large and
lordly bomber and the high-flying “O”
fighter, which wheels and manoeuvres at
altitudes at which his squadrons look
from the ground like an orderly flurry
of silver leaves.
But the Douglas 20a (Havoc) is
a streak of death which may go past
only a few feet from the ground spraying
lead and nickel and explosive and laying
bombs in devastating profusion. The
Beaufighter, to its objective, is a tearing
gust which shrieks overhead with two
roaring engines at more than 300 miles
an hour, the while spraying at the rate
of anything from 5000 shots per minute
upwards. To these are added Kitty-
hawks, Airacobras, Marauders and the
heavier type of bomber. If life is hell
for the attackers at Buna, it must be
greater hell for the defenders at Buna.
They must have needed the reinforce-
ments which they succeeded in getting
ashore. Those reinforcements proved
to be “fresh and strong” from the Yoku-
suka depot of the crack landing division
which has done the dirtiest of the dirty
work of invasion in Japan’s southward
drive. Specimens captured on Nov. 26
proved to be in good physical condition,
with new uniforms and good equipment.
But the landing of them cost the enemy
two destroyers for certain, probably an-
other, and hundreds of men on Nov. 25
alone, apart from a cruiser, two other
destroyers, a transport and some smaller
vessels in previous recent attempts.
The enemy has artillery of the sorts
most suitable for the kind of warfare
which he is waging—the short-range,
easily transported 75mm. mountain gun,
75’s or 77’s of normal specification and
a prime selection of mortars; but the
American 80mm. mortars have been
doing good work, and 25-pounders and
37mm. cannon were in play in the later
stages last week.
Hospitals Bombed
At the week-end fighting was still rag-
ing gustily but bitterly. Gona in Aus-
tralian hands, the main Buna airfield cap-
tured, depriving the enemy of any chance
of achieving air equality, the Japs late
in the week hurled counter-attacks with
an almost demented fury. But what Gen-
eral MacArthur’s command called “a
step-by-step advance” continued, carried
on under a helpful umbrella of support-
ing bombers and fighters which bagged
“O” fighters at the rate of two to one
Allied ’plane lost, all through the week.
And the counter-attacks were thrown
back with heavy losses.
On Friday 10 Jap bombers, supported
by 10 “O” fighters, savagely attacked an
Australian and a U.S. casualty-clearing
station for 15 minutes. Each was well
marked with Red Crosses and was flying
Red Cross flags, but this made no differ-
ence to the barbarians attacking, and
losses were cruel. In killed they were
20 at the Australian and five at the
American station, and many more were
wounded. Among those done to death
were two Australian M.Os., orderlies and
wounded on stretchers. Among the
wounded were three correspondents—a
London “Times” man and Sydney “D.T.”
and “Mirror” reporters.
The attack did not interrupt the gal-
lant work of the native bearers, who con-
tinued to carry the wounded. These
Brown Brothers will never be forgotten
by Australians.
On Saturday and Sunday new Allied
gains were reported on both sides of the
defence triangle, after the most intense
mortar barrage yet laid down in Papua
had been thrown into the enemy posi-
tions. It brought a reply sufficiently
heavy to show that the enemy was not
short of ammunition, even after nearly a
week of close and continuous blasting
from both land and air, punctuated by
the nightly episode of sporadic fighting,
particularly round a Jap ration dump.
Before Sunday the decisive phase of
the fighting seemed to have begun—that
in which every part of the enemy posi-
tions could be brought under mortar fire.
And the first signs had been seen of a
break in Japanese morale.
Lae and its locality were kept well
stirred up. Raids on the Buin-Faisi area
in the Solomons met with little air
opposition. Enemy submarines, the first
seen in the area, were bombed at night
in the Huon Gulf, not far from Lae. For
on November 29 General MacArthur re-
ported “enemy naval forces” manoeuvr-
ing off the Papuan coast.
General MacArthur’s Nov. 30 com-
munique revealed that pressure had been
maintained in the Buna-Gona area by
intensive patrolling, harassing artillery
and mortar fire and intermittent bombing
and strafing air attacks. Heavy bombers
had attacked four enemy destroyers
attempting again to reinforce Buna, and
had hit two with 5001 b. bombs. Both
were seen on fire and were believed sunk.
The remaining ships fled north. Surprise
attacks were made on Lae aerodrome
and five fighters destroyed. Two others
received direct hits, and bombs burst
in another group of eight.
Quiet in the Solomons
Timor continued to receive attention
from our bombers. Darwin and Moresby
had raids which did little or no damage,
and out of Darwin a heavy bomber with
a crew of nine was brought down.
On Guadalcanal there has been no
major fighting for days, but U.S. Marines
and troops have had a busy time mopping
up newly-occupied areas along the
fringes of their defences. There were
Jap air raids which did little harm.
Washington on Nov. 29 reported a
concentration of all available Japanese
warships in the South-west Pacific.
If the enemy intends to carry on any
worth-while operations against Australia
he must do his best to retake the southern
Solomons and Papua.
The pleasing fact is that everywhere
in the Pacific and Indian Ocean, including
Burma —there the country west of the
Chindwin is gradually being infiltrated
and brought under control by British
patrols—Tojo’s men are on the defensive.
It may be a calculated defensive, and
his trained land forces have scarcely been
tapped, so that there is no room for false
optimism or for any conception of the
situation which does not acknowledge
that the war in the Pacific is only just
beginning.
But the anniversary of Pearl Harbor
will see the Japanese in a very different
position from that in which they stood
six months ago.
Toulon, Tunisia and Libya.
“Ek Dum”: The officers and men of
the French Navy have proved by a
splendid sacrifice, to which there is no
parallel in history, that, whatever Hitler
had succeeded in doing to France’s towns,
to its countryside and to its people, he
has not conquered its soul.
Since the catastrophe of June, 1940,
Toulon has been a point closely and
anxiously watched by Britain. The finest
and best-equipped naval port in the
Mediterranean, with its complementary
bases of Oran and Bizerta it formed a
naval triangle which, equipped with a
fleet better and newer than that of Ger-
many and almost the equal in fighting
power to that of Italy, could long ago
have decided the fate of the Mediter-
ranean in the present war.
Had the French yielded Toulon,
allowed North Africa to be fortified
even in a moderate degree by the Axis
Powers and handed over the ships in
French Mediterranean and African ports,
there would have been no Eighth Army
victories, no landing in Algeria or
Tunisia, nor any Allied control of Casa-
blanca or Dakar. Long since the British
might have been driven out of the Medi-
terranean. Africa and the Middle East
might have become German. Russia
might be suffering attack from the rear
as well as from the front. Gallant little
Malta would be flying the Italian flag.
Toulon harbor forms a great naval
anchorage under the shadow of hills which
bristle with fortifications. Lying in this
anchorage were the two new battleships
Dunkerque and Strasbourg (26,500 tons,
13in. guns), the old battleship Provence
(22,000 tons), the heavy cruisers Colbert,
Foch, Dupleix, Algerie and Duquesne
—all about the same size and fighting
power as H.M.A.S. Australia and Can-
berra the medium cruisers La Galis-
sonniere, Jean-de-Vienne, Marseillaise and
another—all about the same strength as
the Sydney-class ships—the seaplane-
carrier Commandant Teste (26 ’planes),
18 destroyers—some of them in the 2500-
ton class and of 45 knots speed —10 minor
destroyers and 20 submarines.
Strasbourg had escaped from Oran
during the British attack in July, 1940,
and Dunkerque, which had been badly
knocked about in that affray and in a
subsequent bombing, had followed some
time later. She was still under recon-
struction.
Some of the cruisers were in Bizerta
at the time of Somerville’s bombard-
ment of Oran, but were then ordered
to metropolitan France. They lay in
Toulon under the terms of the Armistice,
which (Clause 8) stated that “the French
fleet, except that part of it free for safe-
guarding of French interests in the colonial
empire, shall be collected in ports speci-
fied, demobilised and disarmed under
German and Italian control.” The Ger-
man and Italian Governments “most
solemnly” declared that they had “no in-
tention of using for their own purposes
during the war the French fleet stationed
in ports under Axis control, except those
units necessary for coast supervision and
minesweeping.”
When, after the Allied landings in
North Africa on November 8-9, Hitler
occupied unoccupied France, his forces
did not enter the Toulon zone.
The reason apparently was that the
Germans knew that any attempt to take
over the port and fleet would probably
be resisted and cause an explosion in
France, finish their relations with the
Vichy Government and destroy the fiction
that Marshal Petain, the defender of
Verdun, was their hearty ally—a fiction
which has been of enormous use to them,
especially as every boo-boo boy of Leftist
tendencies the world over has been de-
lighted to make the most of it.
Vichy’s Story
The first news of the happenings at
Toulon came from Vichy Radio, whose
tale was altered after the station had been
briefly off the air.
Its earlier versions were that at 4 a.m.
on Friday German columns poured into
Toulon, motorised troops armed with
tommy-guns making for the Vauban
basin, where the Dunkerque was under
repair and in front of which all the heavy
cruisers and several light cruisers were
moored with destroyers and smaller ships.
Tanks and armored units rushed to the
Strasbourg at the Milhaud Dock, and
entered the Arsenal.
The Germans captured all the public
buildings, climbing through the windows
with the help of ladders. But before
any of the ships could be reached an
explosion from the Strasbourg gave the
signal. Deafening reports from all over
the harbor were echoed from the land as
the coastal batteries blew themselves up.
Most of the ships (Vichy said) were
beyond rescue by the time the Germans
were on the docks, but in some the pre-
parations for scuttling were not com-
pleted and the Germans were held off
with firearms until the charges could be
set off.
The report added:
There were many casualties among the
defenders and scuttling crews who sacri-
ficed their lives to prevent the ships falling
into German hands. All the captains stood
on their bridges until the ships sank.
Most of them lost their lives.
Two submarines were said to have
escaped. One reached Barcelona, where
it was interned.
Later Vichy Radio, while admitting
the general scuttling of ships, surpris-
ingly announced that the author of the
suggestion that members of the French
Navy on board ships had perished was
being prosecuted for spreading false news.
Casualties in Toulon were now declared
to be only two killed and 27 injured.
Instructions for the scuttling of naval
units rather than let them fall into the
hands of any foreign Power had been
issued at the Armistice. Admiral
Abrial, French Naval C.-in-C., failed, be-
cause of the cutting off of communica-
tions, to make touch with the Maritime
Prefect at Toulon until the scuttling
had taken place, the navy “having in
accordance with its traditions complied
with standing orders issued previously.”
In contempt of the Armistice terms the
Germans are now in complete control of


France. Marshal von Rundstedt is its
Governor and tyrant, though Hitler in a
letter during the week-end did his best
to maintain the cunning impression that
the Petain Government is still collabora-
tionist. French military and naval officers
obnoxious to the German regime are
being taken into German hands, which
still clutch 1,286,000 of the prisoners
who have been Berlin’s most potent card
in the game of blackmailing Vichy. The
small army of unoccupied France is
being completely demobilised. But it is
no longer possible for the enemy to use
occupied France as a hostage Power to
sway the rest of the country.
In North Africa
The whole of French North Africa,
save for a little of Tunisia, plus Dakar
and West Africa —an area two-thirds the
size of Australia, with a population of over
25,000,000 —is once more in the war on
the side of the United Nations.
Meanwhile the Eighth Army, hampered
by unfavorable weather, has been mar-
shalling its weight for the final battle
with Rommel’s remains at El Agheila.
They are still powerful remains, and
the forces which the Axis have succeeded
in landing at Bizerta and Tunis are not
negligible. No chances are being taken
on either African front.
At the week-end it seemed as if the
main attack on Rommel would soon
begin between Jedabaya and El Agheila,
where Berlin reported that a fierce and
dispersed tank assault had been made by
the British, backed by wide-flung air
attacks on rearward German communi-
cation lines. This looked like a feeling-
out movement to test the Axis strength,
and the reopening of full-scale hostilities
was obviously not far off.
Advances in Tunisia
The Germans claim to have landed
a full division by air in Tunisia, apart
from large forces taken by ship and num-
bers of Italians. To transport troops
they are using some huge Bv 222’5, which
have a 150 ft. wingspread—half as much
again as the Sunderlands and Fortresses.
These can carry 80 fully-equipped troops,
and are the only six-engined ’planes
owned by either side for the moment.
One, the first bagged in the Mediter-
ranean, fell to an Australian aircraft.
In any case, the defences of Bizerta
and Tunis have been sufficient to call for
a cautious advance.
By Nov. 28 the Allies had reached a
point north of Terburba, 15 miles north-
west of Tunis,, and a point only 20 miles
from Bizerta ; also they had taken Mejez,
25 miles s.-w. of Tunis. Next day they
were 12 miles from Tunis and had cut
the railway between Tunis and Bizerta.
French forces, newly armed, are mov-
ing up from the south to protect the
British right flank. Enemy airfields are
being bombed incessantly, as well as the
naval facilities of Bizerta. The enemy
retaliated on Bone and other Allied-held
ports.
At sea British submarines sank nine
enemy supply ships in recent days, in-
cluding a landing-tank carrier.
The shipping balance sheet of the cam-
paign is highly satisfactory. Mr.
Churchill announced on Sunday night
that the vessels secured for Allied use in
French North African harbors much
more than compensated for losses in-
curred in attacking North Africa.
Bravo, Ivan!
“Ek Dum”: The important fact about
the offensive on the Volga-Don and
Kalinin fronts is that it is a Russian
offensive. Coming after three dreadful
campaigns in which the army suffered
terribly, and the people still more ter-
ribly, it is a living and noble example
of the spirit of patriotism which
served the Russians so well in past in-
vasions, especially that of Napoleon’s
mixed hordes, and which —to the ill-
concealed chagrin of Reds and Parlor
Pinks in other countries —has been in-
voked once more, with sterling results.
The vigorous Russian attacks coincide,
and were doubtless planned to coincide,
with the great operations in North Africa,
which have obliged Hitler to withdraw
cne-fifth of the Luftwaffe from Russia.
In effect, the United Nations have passed
to the attack almost everywhere, and it
is the attack which will bring them final
victory. And though the Russians have
not achieved all that has been attributed
to them by correspondents and radio
spouters, whose prolonged exertions in
the domain of wishful thinking have had
the effect of making plain people in-
credulous, their gains are altogether
creditable to the stout warriors engaged.
It is a pity that Australian papers do
not follow the salutary example of the
New York “Times,” which every day
publishes the war communiques of every
combatant in full, thus allowing the
public to form its own judgment on the
facts. Australians are allowed to read
only a few mangled fragments of the
official statements.
The enemy must have had some notion
of what was coming. On November 22
Berlin spokesmen said Stalin had given
the signal for the first winter attacks “in
areas of deployment already well known
to the German High Command.” The
attacks, which had “become a veritable
offensive,” were on both flanks of the
Stalingrad front. They were being made
in the Serafimovich region, 110 miles up
the Don, and at Krasnoarmesk, which lies
on the Volga just below the southern end
of Stalingrad and near where the Ergenni
Hills finish. About Serafimovich “several
rifle divisions and tank brigades” were
being employed. Bitter fighting had de-
veloped. It was admitted that a Russian
cavalry regiment had penetrated to the
rear of the Axis troops, but Berlin
claimed that it had been “wiped out.”
The Germans had remarked on activity
in the hills behind Serafimovich as early
as Nov. 17. Nearly a fortnight before
that it was mentioned from several Euro-
pean sources that the Luftwaffe had dis-
covered large bodies of Russian troops
gathering on the eastern bank of the
Volga, about 75 miles s.-e. of Stalingrad.
Berlin could not have been happy
about this. At the end of last winter
the enemy had his pick of areas on which
to build winter positions, well served
with roads and with perpendicular rail-
ways. All the features desirable for estab-
lishing extensive defence positions over
a wide front are lacking around the Don
bend and the southern Volga. The near-
est natural line was 180 miles to the west
along the Voronezh-Kremensk-Rostov
railway.
News from Moscow
The first Moscow communique which
revealed an offensive was issued at mid-
night on November 21:
During the past three days the Russian
forces in the Stalingrad area have passed
over to the offensive. The advance took
place , from two directions —north-west and
south of the city. Our troops broke
through the enemy defence lines along a
stretch of 20 miles in the area of Serafimo-
vich and on a front of about 15 miles south
of Stalingrad. During three days of in-
tense fighting our troops overwhelmed the
enemy resistance and advanced 42 miles,
capturing Kalach, on the eastern bank of
the Don, the railway station at Krivono-
ginsk and the town of Averenovo.
In this way both the railway lines supply-
ing the enemy forces on the eastern bank
of the Don have been cut.
It was added that the Russians had
routed six enemy infantry divisions and
one tank division, and had inflicted heavy
losses on seven more infantry divisions,
two tank divisions and two motorised
divisions.
The front thus attacked was in two
pieces which together were the same
length as the El Alamein front. The two
sectors formed the wings of a strong
centre through which the enemy’s main
communication line from his rear bases
passed.
On the two attacked wings the enemy,
according to Moscow, had 18 divisions,
three of which were tank divisions and
two, being motorised, highly mobile.
Within 72 hours of the beginning of the
fight 10 per cent, of the enemy force in-
volved had been killed or captured and
the rest engaged in saving their skins.
Next day brought an official announce-
ment that the Russians had advanced
six to twelve miles north and south
of Stalingrad and taken the towns
of Tundutova, Aksai, Chernyshka,
Perelasovsky and Pogodinsky. The bag
of prisoners was 24,000, and the
booty 557 guns, 2826 lorries, 1200 rail-
way trucks, 2625 machine-guns, 35 tanks,
with 157 tanks destroyed. On Tuesday
(the following day), “the enemy left on
the battlefield more than 15,000 officers
and men killed and we took another 12,000
prisoners. We now have captured 1164
guns, 431 tanks, 88 ’planes, 4000 lorries,
more than 5000 horses, 3,000,000 shells
and 18,000,000 cartridges. Our troops
in the Don elbow advanced another mile
and captured five inhabited places. And
south-west of Kletskaya, 75 miles north-
west of Stalingrad, we captured three
surrounded divisions and three generals
and their staffs.”
A Moscow Radio broadcaster said that
these divisions had been surprised, their
corps commander having fled. Their
numbers at full strength would have been
round 45,000.
Next day Moscow officially set the
Axis losses at 51,000 prisoners, 1300
guns, 5518 motor vehicles and be-
Tween 50 and 60 stores of war material.
The territorial results, going on Russian
accounts, were that a vast area shaped
something like a snail shell, and 90 miles
from cone to lip, had been sketched by
the Russian spearheads. The northern
or outer lip had been curved right
across the Don bend to within 30 miles
of the southern Don. The southern lip
had cut both the Novorossisk line and
the Rostov line and had taken the heart-
depot of the German communication
lines—Kalach. The only enemy outlet
could be southward and then westward
through a rapidly closing gap between
the thickening lips of the shell. On Nov.
25 it seemed only about 20 miles wide.
Up to midnight that night the Russians
claimed 63,000 prisoners, having taken
another 12,000 on Wednesday. A full
count of German killed was not given,
but inside Stalingrad itself about 2000
were mentioned as having been destroyed
in local fighting.
By the night of Nov. 29, according to
Moscow, the Red Army had broken
through a new line .of defence along the
eastern bank of the Don ; prisoners had
increased to 66,000 and booty to 2000
guns, nearly 4000 m.-gs., over 1300 tanks
and 122 stores of war material. Further
captures of tov/ns s. and s.-w. of Stalin-
grad were mentioned.
This suggested to correspondents com-
plete encirclement of the Stalingrad
region.
These constitute all the official facts
thus far stated in the communiques. All
the others, including the ballooning lists
of killed, trapped and fleeing, have eman-
ated from the usual batch of radio uncles
and correspondents in Moscow.
Enemy Accounts
The Germans have had remarkably
little to say about the attacks, and they
have not shown the same concern about
them as they did about El Alamein. They
allowed that “small wedges” had, “by
greatly superior forces used recklessly,”
been driven into their flanks, but after-
wards alleged that these attacks had been
repulsed. They denied that Kalach had
been taken. They affected to laugh at
the casualty figures given by Moscow,
and asked how the Russians had found
time to count the dead in the midst of
a seething battle of fog and smokescreen.
They claimed to have introduced new
weapons on the Stalingrad front a
machine-gun firing 3000 rounds a minute
and a flame-throwing tank alleged to be
capable of blasting out a city block and
of enveloping itself in a smokescreen
for camouflage in a few seconds.
On Friday a German military spokes-
man let himself go to this effect:
Fighting of extraordinary intensity con-
tinues between the Don and the Volga.
Front lines have become so interlocked that
neither side at present is able to obtain a
clear survey of the exact position. In Stalin-
grad itself the Russians attempted to join
up with the Russians attacking from the
north and south of the city, but all these
attempts were repelled. The situation m
Stalingrad has not changed since the Rus-
sian large-scale offensive began. The big
Russian attack from the Kalmyk Steppes
and from a northern and north-westerly
direction on the Stalingrad front can, on the
whole, be considered to have been definitely
checked.
On Sunday afternoon the Germans
claimed that they had restored their posi-
tions, despite new heavy attacks between
the Don and the Volga, that the Russians
had lost 319 tanks and huge numbers of
men since Nov. 20, that the offensive
had “totally collapsed,” that the traffic
of the Volga was still blocked and two
motor vessels which had attempted to
cross the river had been sunk. Also that
a force of Russian cavalry had been sur-
prised north of Astrakhan and the bulk
of it captured.
If Hitler can be prised off the Volga
4t will be a heartening event for the
Allies and a devastating event for Ger-
man morale.
In the Kalinin Sector
On Nov. 28, after German spokesmen
had mentioned attacks on a heavy scale,
a Moscow communique reported that an
offensive on the central front had begun.
We broke the German front in the area
of the town of Velikiye Luki along a dis-
tance of 19 miles, and also broke the enemy
front in three places west of Rshev. We
advanced between eight and 20 miles on
the Rshev front. Enemy counter-attacks
were repelled with heavy losses. We have
liberated so far more than 300 inhabited
places and have routed four infantry divi-
sions and a tank division. The enemy
left about 10,000 officers and men dead
on the battlefield.
Both Moscow and Berlin reported
heavy snow in the fighting area.
, For what it is worth, Berlin’s version
was that on November 22, frost
having made the ice on the swamps hard
enough for traffic south of Kalinin and
south-east and west of Toropetz,
Russians made an advance which “did
not come as a surprise.”
Berlin admitted “temporary” breaks-
through, but claimed that in tank battles
the Russians lost 305 tanks between
November 22 and 27. The 9th, 11th
and 18th Russian Tank Brigades “lost
about half their tanks” and “left their
infantry in the lurch,” and the 88th,
118th, 130th and 148th Russian infantry
brigades were “practically wiped out.”
In the end, Berlin declared, all Russian
attacks were repulsed with heavy losses
and the “position restored.”
Berlin prophesied another Russian
drive in the Voronezh sector.
Casualties in Egypt.
The Ninth A.I.F. Division, to its great
chagrin, was not in the Eighth Army’s
drive on Tobruk and Benghazi. It was
judged that the officers and men of the
division had done enough and suffered
all that it was fair to allow them to
suffer. Engaged in furious fighting for
ten days they have since been substan-
tially reinforced.
Army Minister Forde announced on
Nov, 25 that they had lost 619 killed or
died of wounds or missing and that 1800
were wounded and in hospital.
Kenneth Slessor, the official Australian
war correspondent, says that eye-
witnesses of the fighting, many of them
veterans of the last war, agree that the
struggle around El Alamein, and particu-
larly around Thompson’s Post, was one
of the fiercest and most desperate in
which an A.I.F. formation ever took
part. A.I.F. veterans of other Middle
Eastern campaigns declared that they had
“not believed it possible for men to sur-
vive such an inferno.”
All A.I.F. men have a warm word for
the Highlanders of the 51st Division,
with whom they were linked on their
left flank during the battle.
The end of two enemy raiders is re-
ported. Mr. Curtin announced with
pardonable pride that the Indian mine-
sweeper Bengal, built in Australia and
launched by Mrs. Curtin early this year,
had, with the help of a Dutch tanker,
the Ondina, sunk a 10,000-ton Jap raider
between Fremantle and Cocos. The
Bengal rushed two enemy ships to give
the tanker a chance to escape, but the
brave Dutch captain of the Ondina (he
was killed) joined in the fight, and
after many hits had been scored on the
Kikokumaru she blew up. The two Allied
vessels reached port, scarred and with
some casualties. And General Mac-
Arthur reported that naval forces in the
west intercepted a German auxiliary of
8000 tons, which was scuttled by her crew
after she had received hits. Seventy-
eight Germans were captured,
* * * *
“The largest contingent of R.A.A.F.
men to arrive in Britain” got there after
a 13 weeks’ voyage. They arrived to see
an Australian squadron graduated to the
super-heavy land bomber brigade in Lan-
casters —the 10th Sunderland Squadron,
which has been operating since the out-
break of war, put Australians in the
pioneer class among the heavies at sea.
* * * *
The Japanese evidently found life dur-
ing the rains in the Burma-India border
country not to their liking. British patrols
have infiltrated large areas of western
Burma as far as the Chindwin. British
Blenheims spent the last week battering
airfields adjacent to India, while heavier
craft played hell with Jap-held ’dromes
of Central Burma. For the most part no
fighter opposition was encountered, but
once or twice night fighters appeared,
and had the worst of it against British
heavy bombers.
* * * *
General Chennault’s “flying Tigers,”
now officially part of the U.S. Expedi-
tionary Forces, raided Haiphong, main
port in the Gulf of Tongking, last
week. They made three direct hits on a
12,000-ton ship, which was left sinking,
and badly damaged two others of be-
tween 6000 and 8000 tons. Haiphong
dock area was machine-gunned. Berlin
Radio reported that 40 were killed and
40 injured during the raid.
* * * *
On Nov. 23 the U.S. Navy reported
that Axis submarines had sunk four U.S.,
two British and two Norwegian mer-
chantmen in the western Atlantic, with
the loss of 18 lives. Four of the ships
were lost off S. America, where sinkings
have increased. Since Pearl Harbor 523
ships have been sunk in western Atlantic
waters.
K * * *
There was some bad news for the
Germans last week—the arrival of the
Seafire, a slight modification of the Spit-
fire, in sea warfare. The new machine
operates from carriers and is probably
the first naval aircraft capable of hold-
ing its own with the best land-based
fighters. It should be good ; the original
Spitfire was born as a sea machine on
floats—the Vickers Supermarine, which
won the Schneider Cup outright in three
successive bouts against the world.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The American Red Cross Service Club
has taken over the old Rugby League
clubrooms in Castlereagh-street. There are
five floors of them, and by five o’clock
last Wednesday hordes of visitors, given
the freedom of the lot, were wandering
up and down the stairs as continuously,
if not so gracefully, as the angels on
Jacob’s ladder. Everywhere were great
bowls of lily, hydrangea, and generally
imposing horticulture. There are billiard
rooms, reading and writing rooms, a gym-
nasium, a snack bar and one big room
on the fourth floor that looks so com-
fortable with its deep leather chairs that
a tired man could easily pitch camp there
for a week. The rooms are large, light
and airy, and capable of extending hos-
pitality to two hundred service men at
one and the same time. The beds in
the dormitory at the top of the building
are two-decker —spring mattress a few
feet above spring mattress.
Last Wednesday’s party concentrated
in the ballroom. This is like a small-size
Town Hall, and overlooking the dance
floor, reached by a graceful stairway, is
a gallery. Looking down on the opening
scene guests noted deft-handed girl
helpers, in the lettuce-green apron of the
club, juggling trays of cool drinks and
sandwiches; a stage festooned with
the fruits of the earth and a turkey in
cardboard ; U.S.A. officers in smoothly-
tailored uniforms; Sydney men and
women as smart as coupons will
allow ; and Miss Helen Hall (who repre-
sents the American Red Cross) in her
horizon-blue uniform, with its peaked
cap, rather like that of the French poilu.
On the lapel of her coat was an aristocrat
of orchids, very mauve-blooded. Among
women guests wearing the Red Cross
medallion that betokened them helpers
at the club was Mrs. C. L. Jones. Noted
were the Halse Rogers lady, the Chief
Justice Jordans, Mrs. Bernard Muscio,
knight Tom Gordon and his wife, Noreen
Dangar, the Owen lady, of the Australian
Red Cross, and Major-General R. J.
Marshall, of the U.S. Army, who de-
clared the club open. A girl band, white
and silver, tipped with a red flower in
the hair, added decoration and music to
the afternoon.
Pat McGirr and Grevor Molyneux
were married at St. Mary’s, Ridge-street,
North Sydney, on Thursday, pretty Pat
wearing all the bridal trimmings of pre-
coupon days. Three years ago the lame
that was fashioned into the wedding-
dress was bought in Paris when father
Greg McGirr and his young daughter
were making a world tour. Schooldays’
friend Mrs. Peter Vesper lent the veil,
and clever sister Gwen (she’s studying
medicine at Sydney Uni.) bridesmaided
in the frock she had worn when she
attended sister Bea at her wedding to
Dr. Tom Bateman. ’Groom Grevor
Molyneux, big and handsome, is an
engineering student at Sydney University.
Pat’s subject is occupational therapy, and
she hopes to help invalided soldiers in
their quest of health.
An easy friendliness was in the air at
Ball Green last Saturday. The home of
General and Mrs. Anderson at Turra-
murra was a community rallying point
for the Prisoners of War Fund, and seem-
ingly all the neighborhood turned up,
small girls and small boys spending as
freely as any. Lady Gowrie came on
from Bonnie Brae and made the opening
speech. Walter McNicoll, from New
Guinea, made introductory remarks, and
contrasted the scene and its personnel
(artists, musicians and writers thick
among them) with one amid the tribes of
the far, far north at which the Governor-
General and Lady Gowrie had been
present. The cochineal-red frocks of a
group of dancers from the Bodenweiser
ballet, dancing on the emerald green of
the lower lawn, was a colorful incident.
The McNicoll lady, Mrs. Walter Swinson,
Mrs. Adams and her daughter Margaret,
graceful Mrs. Scott-Waine, Mrs. Harold
Bott with two small daughters, Mrs.
Rodney Dangar and Treania Smith, in
mignonette green (her display of paint-
ings was one of the afternoon’s specials),
were a few of the noted.
Brewster is just the right name for those
delightful spinster ladies of Brooklyn in
“Arsenic and Old Lace” who spend their
time concocting death potions for the
flies that walk into their spider’s parlor.
Their pet brew is elderberry wine laced
with arsenic and a pinch of cyanide. The
murder play with a difference that ran a
hilarious course on Broadway opened at
the Minerva midway through last week.
Brownout or no, the Potts Point theatre
had a first night to launch the show. An
audience mostly in its nine-to-six
apparel comfortably filled the house.
There was a smattering of evening
clothes, and quite a few in the styles they
will wear for the duration.
The Red Cross has gained one of the
most beautiful houses on the North Shore
line in the loan, for the duration, of
Bonnie Brae. This is the home of the
Sydney Snows, and its gardens are famed.
It will be used as a convalescent home
for soldiers. Lady Gowrie, very slim in
her Red Cross uniform, declared Bonnie
Brae open last Saturday, and Red Cross
chairman Wilfrid Johnson told of the
generosity of the owners in leaving their
de luxe curtains and carpets to adorn the
home. A fair in the grounds netted a
shoal of silver for the H.Q. branch of
the Red Cross.
The Florence Nightingale pageant was
a terrific hit at the annual meeting of the
Australian Red Cross in the Town Hall
last Friday. The stage was banked and
massed with V.As. and Red Cross workers.
Annette Kellerman’s concert girls
were smart in their blue frocks em-
blazoned with a silver cross. The touch
of red was in the dashing little one-
shoulder cape that they wore with such
an air. French girl Marie Brial was the
Florence Nightingale, dignified in brown
taffetas. Margaret Lamont sang the
words of Annette’s song “The Lady of
the Lamp.” A right touch was the
composer’s reciting each verse. Her frock
was buoyant, of a shade lighter than
horizon blue, and glittered with beaten
silver. Final touch was the flashing, on
a darkened stage, of hundreds of torches,
their glow pale pink, as the characters in
the pageant made gentle exit.
The limelight was on this lady last
week. As wife of America’s Consul-
General in Australia, Mrs. Ely Palmer
was, naturally, the personality in Thanks-
giving Day functions. Since their arrival
in Sydney just one year and a month ago
Mr. and Mrs. Palmer have endeared
themselves to a wide circle of friends.
A rich and pleasant speaking voice and a
far-flung experience of men and women
and their interests over half the world
account for the throng two and three
deep that gathers about Mrs. Palmer at
every party. The Consul-General and
his wife came here from Beirut in Syria.
They have been a part of America’s
Embassies in Beirut, in Madrid, Mexico,
Jerusalem, Paris and Vancouver. Other
Legations over which the Stars and
Stripes flow are old friends, too.
Queen of the Red Cross Papier-mache
Auxiliary Edith Armstrong well deserved
the silvered papier-mache trinket box
and the basket of honest-to-goodness
flowers she received at the opening of
the Auxiliary’s exhibition. Anthony Hor-
derns’ art gallery holds the display,
which was declared open by chairman
of the Red Cross Wilfrid Johnson mid-
way through last week. Numerous in the
display are articles of hospital equipment.
Here are shallow foot baths, instrument
trays, bowls, even buckets and basins.
These are sent to hospitals in all parts of
Australia. Indeed, papier-mache equip-
ment from the Auxiliary went with the
men building military roads in the North.
Very light and easy to arrange are the
curved splints. An arm splint invented by
Edith Armstrong during the 1914-18 war
looks very effective. But the exhibition
is not only useful —it has its ornamental
side well developed. Gay trays, waste-
paper baskets, powder boxes (with a puff
inside the lid), ash trays and all dressing-
table gadgets, carrying bright designs,
are to be admired. Later they will be
sent to various Red Cross nurses’
recreation rooms. A life-size head of a
sheik and some baby dolls drew the
crowd. There are sets of draughts, a
bread crock, a tray covered with postage
stamps and another tray, very royal, with
pictures of every English monarch since
the founding of this country. There is
even a saucy little hat in brown and gold
on view.
Bruce Cotterill, of the R.A.A.F.
(known on the air as Robert Bruce), a
tall, good-looking baritone who recently
won six first prizes and the men’s cham-
pionship at Wagga Eisteddfod, is com-
ing to Sydney on Saturday, December 5,
to appear at Roland Foster’s Conserva-
torium concert in aid of the Red Cross.
Mrs. Fielding Jones is president of the
concert committee and Mrs. Colin Wyatt
is the active hon. sec. Many well-known
artists will take part, supported by a
chorus numbering 60.
From Mefbourne
Sales in aid of good causes are helping
to smooth a few of the wrinkles that
must be thick on Santa’s brow when he
ticks off his Christmas list from Mel-
bourne; Local shops are pretty well de-
nuded of the toy tribe, and the lovely
cuddly animals of other years are par-
ticularly scarce. So the old gentleman’s
blessing will rest on the many “oppor-
tunity shops” around the city and suburbs
where amateur toymakers are producing
the most delicious koalas, teddies and
rabbits. He’ll have to arrive early at the
Silver Door on Friday if he wants to
carry away any of the toy collection the
Door’s silver-paper sorters (turned needle-
wielders) have made. A blue flannel
Dumbo and a brer rabbit in “Dutchman’s”
pants are really cuddlesome, and little
carts and riding horses with wheels should
get the male vote in the nursery. Also
available is the local version of the Eng-
lish “blitz-basket” —canvas bags on
wheels which help with the shopping in
these days when tradesfolk don’t deliver.
A.R.P. women do a sound job of
work. Many of them are girls who work
in shops, offices, factories or schools all
day and spend laborious evenings at the
A.R.P. centres. Some have put in a
night a fortnight since the war came near,
roof-spotting and building-guarding in
the city. Their great day is Saturday,
and for weeks they have been holding
demonstrations in one big suburban
centre after another. On these occasions
the most joyful are the children roped in
as casualties. Last week the two small
sons of a distinguished soldier were
rushed to a suburban clearing station —
“only survivors of the family, home de-
molished.” Their joy was twofold when
cards with the words “Issued with Fresh
Clothing” were pinned on them, but,
a!as! they were realists, and were deeply
disappointed when new clothing failed to
appear.
The second generation of a family’s
public service is represented by Mrs. Nor-
man Harris, here pictured by Broothorn.
The former Rita Moss, elder daughter
of Mrs. I. H. Moss, received early and
thorough training in executive work on
committees from her mother, and has
been a tower of strength to kindergarten
activities and the Women’s Hospital. Her
preoccupation at present is the Silver
Door Christmas shop, which opens on
Friday and will, it is hoped, rake in
shekels for the kindergartens, which
always want money and need twice as
much in war-time. The greatest problem
of kindergartens nowadays is to keep
sufficient young women in training for
directorships.
The Concerto Festival promoted by
A.B.C. and University Conservatorium in
conjunction came off in the presence of
about 3000 eager souls. The festival
was a kind of competition with 56 en-
trants, who were gradually eliminated till
seven were left. One of these, Linda
Vogt, could not appear, so there were
six on the great night at Melbourne Town
Hall. The evening’s great success was
scored by Mary MacLeod, and this was
real justice at last, for Mary, after reach-
ing the finals in a similar contest last
year, had to stand down because orches-
tral scores for her concerto, Dohnanyi’s
“Variations on a Nursery Theme,” were
not complete. The year’s waiting had
not staled Mary. She played the con-
certo, with its “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little
Star” introduction which is so startling,
with great aplomb. It was fun to watch
the grim faces in the audience relax and
mouths turned down at the corners turn
up as the joke went on, wood-wind, strings,
brasses and drums all entering into the
jest.
Girls of the moment are the V.A.Ds.,
who are receiving some of the spotlight
heretofore turned on other services. One
set of them began a new school in cook-
ing last week, and are up to their eyes
in it now. Their lessons coincided with
the installation of a new kitchen outfit
at a big hospital^
Pumpkin pie and turkey were main
menu items in the Thanksgiving Day
dinner at the American Red Cross Ser-
vice Club. Australians were at the dinner
as hostesses to the American boys who
were dining at the club to celebrate the
Pilgrims’ first good harvest in their new
American home. There was fun of the
sort that is easily accomplished after a
hearty meal, and the American Women’s
Auxiliary Corps had put its hand to the
plough and produced excellent games
and dances for the occasion. Mrs. Erie
Dickover, wife of the U.S. Consul, and
Mrs. Jandrey, wife of the Assistant Con-
sul, were conspicuous among the helpers.
The postponement of the open-air con-
cert at Kooyong was a great disappoint-
ment, particularly to those girls and
others who sighed when cooped up for
the afternoon in Melbourne Town Hall
with the sun shining outside. Kooyong
promised to be all they wanted. Exer-
cise in walking there (quite a few planned
to walk from town after a quick lunch),
then the show and finally a pow-wow
with the other girls who had a bit of
gossip to impart. However, the rain,
which seems to always hit Kooyong
tennis courts harder than anything else,
was on all Friday night, and the weather,
in spite of clearing up early on Saturday,
was threatening enough to stop the show.
The man who said that this city’s summer
consisted of eight or nine days in late
February wasn’t far short of the truth.
Something out of the box were the
prizes given by the Ladies’ Kennel Club
at its most successful dog show (which
incidentally helped the war effort). Time
was when the proud owners of doggies
who came first or nearly so were re-
cipients of cups, so that in the course of
years the mantelshelves groaned under
a weight of metal not so very ornamental.
At the show on Saturday the prizes were
all sorts of china and other articles dear
to the feminine heart, some of them
almost unprocurable in the shops at the
moment. What a moment for Flossie the
Peke or Marylamb the foxie when mis-
tress takes the rose bowl she won off the
table and says “Our Flossie won this”
or “Marylamb’s contribution to our fur-
nishing scheme.”
Miss Stewart was the winner of the
Popular Girl contest for the Prisoners of
War Fund. The contest raised a worthy
sum, and the girls who worked hard for it
got some fun out of the various shows
they put on, besides plenty of experience
in running such things—experience that
may prove useful later. Miss Stewart
has a job with J. C. Williamson, Ltd., and
all who come in contact with her endorse
the decision of the Popular Girl contest
judges.
Many a maiden is wrinkling her brow
over the Federal Government’s question-
naire on the subject of war work. Statis-
tically there are countless thousands of
women between 16 and 40 not “gainfully
employed” and therefore eligible to take
up some of the jobs that call for doing.
But the blue-book figures were compiled
some years ago, and hundreds of these
girls and women have since gone to
work. Others are below the normal
health standard, and still more are doing
their bit by housekeeping for war
workers.
One of Victoria’s women Parliamen-
tarians has had the idea of a “Women-
to-Canberra” movement, on the lines of
the “Women-to-Westminster” one .which
is being led by women members of the
British Parliament. Mrs. Ivy Weber has
been communicating by letter or word
of mouth with many leaders among
women with a view to stirring up some
of them to stand at the next Federal elec-
tion. The idea has not yet had its 1 s
dotted nor its t’s crossed, but the notion
that the women of the services will need
representatives of their own sex to see
they gain post-war privileges appears to
lie underneath it, together with a sup-
posed desire on the part of women to
play a larger part in politics.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts ot
ALBERT JOSEPH BARRETT, aged, if living
now, about 69 and last heard of at Bulls, near
Palmerston North, in the North Island
of New Zealand, in 1911, please communicate
with THE TASMANIAN PERMANENT
EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES’ ASSOCIA-
TION, LIMITED, of 23 Paterson Street, Laun-
ceston, Tasmania?
TOM MUIR—WiII THOMAS MUIR, son of
the late JAMES B. MUIR, jeweller, Glasgow,
who recently communicated with RUSSELL
& DUNCAN, solicitors, 105 St. Vincent Street,
Glasgow, from an address c/o P. 0., Canning-
ton, Western Australia, kindly send his new
address to his mother or to the said RUSSELL
& DUNCAN?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN CYRIL RUSSELL also known as
CYRIL J. THORNTON late of Ballarat Vic-
toria.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY EMMA
RUSSELL has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1609 of 1942 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance by the Thirty-first of Decem-
ber 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. ABRAM
LANDA BARTON & CO. Solicitors 9-13 Bligh
Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Phocion, a maiden performer who was
graded out of the Caulfield Cup when
the field for that race had to be reduced
to the safety limit, justified his favoritism
for the Williamstown Cup, run at Flem-
ington last Saturday. Assisted by a pro-
nounced pull in weight, he won by half
a head from Pandect, with Sir Romeo
third. A day earlier the V.R.C. com-
mittee had decreed that backers of Pho-
cion and four other horses eliminated
from the Caulfield Cup did not lose their
money.
Elimination of a five-year-old maiden
from one of Australia’s greatest races
seemed justified at the time, but Phocion,
with subsequent seconds in the Cantala
Stakes and Melbourne Cup, proved much
better than his previous form had indi-
cated. But for severe injuries which pre-
vented his racing more than once as a
three-year-old and once as a four-year-
old he may have made a name for him-
self earlier. According to his trainer,
L, Robertson, he was cast in his box,
and in addition to back injuries fractured
two or three ribs,
Phocion’s race on Saturday was his
fifteenth, and after Pandect had headed
him a furlong from home he came again
to worry that horse out of the prize. A
gelding, he is by Manitoba from La
Ballerina, and gave Robertson his fourth
success in the corresponding race. His
earnings total £3840, of which £1990 has
been won in minor places.
Melbourne Cup winner Colonus again
attempted to lead all the way, but Gay
Invader, a stablemate of the winner, gave
him little peace, and headed him near
the five furlongs. He was beaten before
the turn. Heart’s Desire, fourth, looked
to have every chance, and no excuse was
possible for Dark Felt, who finished
seventh. Both might have been feeling
the effects of recent hard racing. Skip-
ton was never dangerous, and Tranquil
Star’s chance was settled when she almost
fell going out of the straight.
A betting drift from 7 to 2 to sixes
preceded Scottish Maid’s defeat of
Crow’s Nest and The Vanquisher in the
Rawdon Stakes. A plunge on Maemanto,
who firmed from 2 to 1 against to 10 to 9
on, was partly responsible for the drift,
but, while Maemanto showed little fight
and missed a place, Scottish Maid won
well, if not easily. She has raced only
three times for two wins, and as she is
improving is to be kept in work for an-
other £5OO race at Mentone next Satur-
day week.
El Reo, who veered from near the
inside rails to the grandstand side of the
track, gave bookmakers a 33-to-l result
by defeating Amana and Star Simon in
the Strand Handicap. It had been in-
tended to race El Reo at Geelong on
Saturday, but while trainer S. Masters
visited Geelong with other members of
his team he left El Reo behind for the
more important race. His decision netted
£350 in stakes. Winterset carried 12.10
to an easy win in the Cup Steeple, but
his task would have been harder had
Lord Jevington (second) not “turned in-
side out” when in the lead at the fence
opposite the judge’s box the first time.
With nine wins and £5460 in stakes,
Winterset has been a fine bargain at the
350gns. he cost his present owner.
Cloudless took his record to two wins
and a third from five starts when he just
outstayed Clayton in the Seddon Handi-
cap. Owned by A. McLean, who did
so well with Lucrative and Laureate, this
Spearfelt gelding looks like developing
into a really good galloper. The Decora-
tion, ridden by Sydney jockey W. Cook,
and Sunrocks recorded easy wins in their
divisions of the Ozone Highweight.
* * * *
An attendance of 23,500 —apart from
soldiers —at Randwick on Saturday was
satisfactory, and there was a tote turn-
over of a little more than £58,670. Four
winners were well backed, but most of
the books finished on the right side,
thanks to the respective successes of
Angus and Haddon Hall,
Freckles, with an allowance of 71b.
for G. Price’s apprentice, T. Clarke, car-
ried only 61b. more in the Camden Han-
dicap than when he won the Epsom.
Jumping away smartly, his rider let him
slip along, and at the half-mile he was
four lengths ahead of St. Elmo and John
Halifax. When Hydra made a run in
the straight he appeared like overhauling
Freckles, but though a hundred yards
from home he was within three-quarters
of a length of him he could not get any
closer. Rimveil came from a long way
back to finish third, and may again play
a big part at Christmas. Merrimba and
Riverton finished together next to the
placed horses, and they are others with
prospects in the immediate future. John
Halifax tired over the last furlong after
being third into the straight, and is prob-
ably better suited by welters than ordi-
nary scale handicaps. Freckles did the
seven furlongs in 1.22, an Australian
record.
Angus (Doon), who was having his
twelfth run since the commencement of
this season, demonstrated that hard work
agreed with him by leading from the first
furlong in the November Handicap.
Haridelle and Gundagai were almost level
with him entering the straight, but over
the last furlong Angus’s only danger was
Panurge, and in the final 50 yards he did
slightly better than the last-named to win
by a head. Enderby finished well in
third place, and War Trophy, who headed
the remainder, was always fairly promi-
nent, Gundagai and Haridelle dropped
out in the run home, but Anpapejo’s fifth,
after meeting with interference that cost
J. Thompson (Guild Hall’s rider) a
month’s suspension, did well enough to
give him a look-in for a middle-distance
handicap.
Haddon Hall’s chance in the Kirkham
Stakes was discounted by many backers
because of the belief that he had all the
luck on his side when he won at Rand-
wick the previous week. The result
further proved that “winning form is
good form,” no matter what excuses may
be made for beaten horses. When Clarion
Call disposed of Estborough over a fur-
long from home he looked a winner, but
at the finish he had no chance against
the strongly-finishing Haddon Hall (R.
Parsons). Macarthur, who was slow in
finding his legs, made up leeway in the
straight, but never looked like beating
the first two. Fine Art’s track work has
seemingly caused him to be somewhat
overrated. He was never a possibility.
Cockcrow’s chance in the Hoxton Park
Juvenile Stakes was supposed to be out-
standing, but, running greenly, he could
not quite overhaul Belle Pomme
(Hughes), who disposed of the pace-
maker, Water Hazard, opposite the leger.
Water Hazard finished third, with
Frontier a fair fourth, and the remainder,
headed by War Eagle, well beaten. First
and second are by Beau Pere. Craglia
and Highgate were outclassed. The time
was 1.1, against 59| recorded by Haddon
Hall in the Kirkham Stakes.
In the Farm Trial Handicap Tidemark
(McMenamin) overcame a bad position
half a mile from home, and got up in
time to win by a neck from Kiaree, with
Dinkum Aussie half a neck further off.
Dinkum Aussie led along the back, and
was followed into the straight by Plimsol
and Kiaree, Weakening over the last fur-
long Plimsol was fourth, followed by
Picaroon, Sir Tennyson and Lord Cullen,
who were almost in line. Easter Time
was well backed, but did not act up to
his recent track form, and in adding to
his failures Brumaire was not sighted
near the front at any part. Several run-
ners started at forlorn odds, and the re-
sult proved that the books had correctly
summed up their chances. Tidemark,
with 9.5, ran the mile and a quarter in
2.4|. He is not to race again until the
autumn.
Rathlin (Knox) must have experienced
a lot more bad luck than generally noted
when, starting at an outside price, he
beat two or three in a field of 23 in the
Leumeah Handicap at Randwick the pre-
vious week. Heavily backed for the
Welter Handicap he upheld the judgment
of his supporters by taking the lead at
the start and retaining it to the finish.
Goonee and Whisper Low were his near-
est followers most of the way, but in the
run home Pinero worked into second
place, though without being able to
trouble Rathlin. Pinero pulled up lame.
Little Gundi came home well to cut
Silverelda out of third money, and, while
Pall Mall and Gauntlet shaped fairly, Sir
Wyvern was one of the tail-enders most
of the way to the home turn. Haripur
also ran indifferently, as did Cadger.
With the consent of the stewards a spot
of olive oil was administered to Rathlin
shortly before he went out for the race.
It certainly proved the “right oil.”
* * * *
It is hard to visualise a Melbourne
Cup paying attendance of only 35,000 —
about 9000 more than at an ordinary
meeting at Randwick the same afternoon.
Randwick was not crowded, and, com-
pared with past Cups Flemington must
have looked deserted. Of course, the
wet weather kept many local people
away, but the tremendous drop from
90,000 or 100,000 gives an idea of the
extent to which the Melbourne Cup meet-
ing owes its success to inter-State visitors.
A tote turnover of £30,000 on the Cup
was the lowest on record for that race,
and, apart from stakes, it was a thorough
“austerity” meeting. As the V.R.C. gave
£24,000 in prize-money for the two days
it would lose, but as it still receives
entrance and acceptance fees, it is better
off, as bearing on future prize-money,
than the A.J.C., whose revenue will be
reduced several thousands this season
consequent on the reversion to the sweep-
stakes system. It is to be hoped the
A.J.C. will be able to keep its distribu-
tion nearly up to its past standard, but
the loss of entrance and acceptance fees
will make that difficult, even though its
contribution to patriotic funds will be
lessened. No doubt fair-minded owners
and trainers will make allowances for
any decrease, though, as always, it will
be impossible to satisfy some.
* * * *
Rimveil, third with 9.11, a length and
a half behind the winner, Yaralla, in last
year’s Villiers Stakes, has 9.9 this time,
and as in his finishing run in Freckles’s
race last Saturday he showed his old dash
he is bound to be a strong fancy
again. Freckles is up 61b. on the weight
he carried in the Camden Handicap, and
at that he is not badly treated seeing
he will meet Rimveil 21b. and Hydra
only 31b. worse. In Bst. Bangster has
3ib. less than Yaralla successfully carried
last year, and other three-year-olds in
Riverton (7.10) and Grand Prodige (7.9)
should run a smart mile. It is too early
to attempt anything in the way of a selec-
tion, but Rimveil, Freckles, Merrimba
and Hydra are likely to be among double-
backers’ fancies.
Rimveil also has the place of honor
in the Summer Cup, but the mile and five
furlongs with 9.7 is likely to trouble him.
Dewar has 9.1 against the 7.12 he carried
last year. Starting at 5 to 4 on, he finished
fifth. His form since then entitles him
to the additional weight, but it will prob-
ably stop him. Grand Fils, Veiled Threat,
Amberspear, War Trophy and Angus can
be included among the possibilities. Last
year Santa, ridden by A. Knox, won
from Buzalong and Grand Fils.
* * * «
Instead of having its customary two
days’ summer meeting at Randwick, Tat-
tersall’s Club will have only one —Jan-
uary 9. The Carrington Stakes and
Tattersall’s Cup will be run that day.
Prize-money for those races has not yet
been announced, but it is improbable
there will be any reason for fault-finding.
* * * *
New Zealand Cup, run at Christchurch
last Saturday, was won by the six-year-
old gelding Royal Lancer (Irish Lancer-
Winsome Sister), who carried 8.11 to the
8.12 of Gladynev, second. Rakanui (8.12)
was third, and they were three of the five
topweights when weights were issued.
Kindergarten, who headed the list with
10st., did not run. The time, 3.23|, though
good, was not a record for the race.
Rink, winner of the N.Z. Derby, is by
Ringmaster from Impetuous (Limond-
Pennon), most of whose progeny are
good winners. Elanage (V.R.C. Bagot
Handicap) and Tohunga, who, racing in
South Africa, won the Durban Gold Cup,
are of the number.
* * * 9
It is pleasant to read that Bangster,
the Ma State’s crack two-year-old of last
season, has gone on the right way and at
the Christmas meetings promises to be
quite as good as when he easily won the
A.J.C. Champagne Stakes, for which Hall
Stand started at 9 to 4 on and missed a
place. Each carried the same weight
(9.3) on that occasion. Breeding does not
point to Bangster making a stayer, but
there is no doubt about his sprinting
ability. It can be pointed out that he
did not beat a high-class field in the Fly-
ing Handicap at Newcastle on Saturday,
and that he was in receipt of 51b. from
Belisha and 31b, from Sir Andrea. How-
ever, both those horses are good on the
Newcastle track, and Bangster defeated
them in fine style. The last two Villiers
Stakes were won by three-year-olds—
Yaralla 8.3 and Rimveil 8.2. Yaralla
was also second in the Carrington
Stakes with 9.0. It may be worth noting >
that The Miller was a runner in Bang- ’
ster’s race, and, though he missed a place,
the way he was backed pointed to his
being forward in condition.
* * * *
Tote betting has been heavy at most
meetings in Maoriland this season. At
the recent Wellington R.C. meeting the
total for two days was £211,732. On
the second day £121,495 went through the
machine. That was a record for the
course, the previous best being £111,872.
The fact of the weather not being favor-
able made the turnover even more re-
markable. In a two-year-old race on the
recent occasion the favorite, Soncy,
carried £2560 10s. for a win and £1792
fcr a place. The payout staff was de-
cidedly pleased when she did not even get
a place. The greatest amount that ever
went on a horse for a race at Trentham
was £10,122 on Gloaming. He paid a
record small dividend. The recent heavy
speculation would be pleasing to owners,
as the tote turnover has a direct bearing
on stakes in Maoriland.
* * * *
Some N.S.W. breeders are perturbed
because of the fact that there will be
a reduction in the number of two-year-
old races this season, and 1943-44 is not
likely to see the position greatly im-
proved. That may tend to lower prices
at the next yearling sales. However, with
racing days so greatly reduced it is diffi-
cult to see that they can look for prefer-
ential treatment for two-year-olds. The
yearlings they sold —many to advantage
—prior to the 1942 sales must be given
full consideration. Breeders, as much
as owners and trainers, must expect to
feel the pinch of austerity, though some
of the late-comers, who have put a lot
of money into the business, will not have
memories of past profitable seasons to
console them.
* * * *
In some of the Sydney double lists at
the commencement of October Tranquil
Star and Colonus were quoted at 4000
to 1 for the two Cups. A fortune for
£i for anyone who thought the success
of that combination possible, but even
dreamers could not claim it entered into
their calculations at that stage.
* * * *
When the remarkable racehorse Whirl-
away retires at the end of this year, it
will be as America’s greatest earner.
After he won the Jockey Club Cup at
Belmont Park on Oct. 3, his total was
$511,486 (roughly £A156,000). In the
race mentioned there were only four
runners —first $18,350, second $5OOO, third
$2500, fourth $1250 —and Whirlaway
(8.12) won comfortably from the three-
year-old Alsab (8.5) in 3.21| for the two
miles.
America’s richest two-year-old race,
the Belmont Futurity, was run the same
afternoon at Belmont Park, and the
favorite, Occupation (by Bull Dog), won
from nine others in the fast time of I.lsJ-
for five and a half furlongs. He carried
9.0, inclusive of a penalty. First money
was $57,800 (approximately £17,580),
second $5OOO, third $2500 and fourth
$1250. Nowhere in the world is there
more money in the ownership of a high-
class horse than in America.
For a wonder A 1 Walker did not lose
his temper when he fought Ron Mc-
Laughlin at Leichhardt; but he lost the
decision. Inches shorter in height and
reach, McLaughlin dominated the pro-
ceedings throughout, and only cheers
were heard when he was proclaimed the
winner. That also is unusual at Leich-
hardt.
The situation on the Melbourne front
demanded the presence of Pte. Cook (his
third response to the emergency) and Pte.
Vic Patrick on Saturday. Patrick settled
the enemy in about 25 minutes. The
enemy was a welterweight, Sloane.


Ho#- s
fbr/Syears
o
m
■
K
r. * :
ssss
M
HM
as
' o * Mo >i
Wob
m
ass
1
' x m wm?m
ZZ rnperty >f Vit Uwk [f^T
>»
This SPANKING TEAM advertised our harness oil way back in the
IB7o’s. It was a good oil too —the best of its day.
Then horses gave way to horsepower. The makers of Mobiloil
created a new lubricant... helped make possible Selden’s first car,
the first Diesel, the Wright Brothers’first aeroplane.
Today, Vacuum, an important factor in Australia’s Defence, helps
harness horsepower on the sea, in the air and in every industry.
THE WORLDS QUALITY OIL
VACUUM
DUALITY PRODUCT
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
{lncorporated in Australia)
/A 24
- I£**4HL
People scoffed, but George
Selden’s horseless carriage
worked! He used an oil made
by the makers of Mobiloil.
1900—Dr. Diesel's Engine
The first Diesel was a failure
until a new oil, made by the
makers of Mobiloil, assured
depenclabl • lubrication.
1903—first Plane Flight
The Wright brother*’ first
flight we* made possible by a
lightweight gasoline engine-
lubricated by Mobiloil.
1941 35% of Shipping
Mr
Ocean traffic is vital today. And
over Vi of all merchant ships
rely on the makers of Mobiloil
for dependable lubrication.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HENRY HANSON formerly of
Sacramento California and Sydney New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that IRIS EMILY
HANSON has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2533 of 1942 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney New South Wales
by the Nineteenth day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-three and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. BOWMAN & MACKENZIE Solici-
tors 133 Pitt Street Sydney aforesaid. — (1.5.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDNA FLORENCE MAY ABDULLAH.
TAKE NOTICE that ALEXANDER ABDUL-
LAH has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1308 of 1942 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance by the 19th day of February
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from PARKER KISSANE &
EDMUNDS Solicitors Casino or their Sydney
Agents FREEHILL HOLLINGDALE & CO.
Solicitors 44 Martin Place Sydney. —(1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SMOKE-OH!
•b *b *b 4*
“Hamerton’s rifle, lying on the floor, told
the story of the tragedy.”— Magazine story.
It must have been a repeating rifle.
•b *l* *b *b
“Women are now allowed to enter St. Peter’s
Cathedral in Rome without stockings.”
— “World’s News.”
Hose restrictions have been lifted in
Sydney also.
•b *b *b *b
“In Italy it is legal only at railway stations
to kiss in public.”— “World’s News.”
This will train the people to guard
against departures from decorum.
*•*
“Is there_ anything I can do to have a dazz-
ling smile?” — Letter to woman’s paper.
Certainly, Maggie. Have your front
teeth stopped with first-water diamonds.
•b *b *!<
“Lovely Evelyn Keyes has an important part
as the country wrench with a talent for amorous
mischief.” — Film review.
The way she puts the screw on a tight
knut would raise the admiration of any
mechanically-minded critic.
•b *b >;•* b
Gardening Made Easy.
X.
Fruit-trees.
Fruit generally falls into two categories
—evergreen and deciduous.
The chief difference, so far as the
backyard fruitgrower is concerned, is
that the fruit-fly favors deciduous types
such as peaches and nectarines, and not
until these are exhausted will it attack
the evergreen (citrus) family. For this
reason it is as well to grow both types.
Depredations by birds constitute the
small gardener’s chief worry. Whilst the
emu, reputed to be flightless, may
seemingly be ruled out, you can’t be too
sure. A shearer out Tullibigeal way was
prepared to swear he saw a large flock
of emus winging their way over the
scrub, apparently heading for a lofty
pomegranate vine in a clearing behind
the shanty pub ; in fact, his amazement
was so great that he actually did swear.
A flock of, say, 100 emus, landing on a
couple of borer-riddled peach-trees,
would mean not only that they would
skin the crop in about ten seconds, but
that the stability of the trees might even
be in jeopardy. Should this happen it
were best to retire indoors and ring up
the Inspector of Nuisances, your lodge
secretary or someone.
Similarly, although the wedge-tailed
eagle favors carrion, you never know
when a shortage of this diet may force the
bird to turn vegetarian—after all, a vege-
tarian vulture is causing widespread
damage in Europe at present. Should a
covey of these fowl suddenly appear
hovering over your trees, take the baby
inside, put on a strong bowler hat and try
shooing them away. If you have a spare
machine-gun about it will enhance your
chances of dispersing them.
For all other birds, from the sulphur-
crested cockatoo to the bulbul, steps
must be taken to frighten them away.
Waving your arms and screeching at
them is simple, cheap and effective, but
it is only good for the week-ends. It is
to keep them off while you are at work
that you have to devise a permanent
frightener. Hanging an enlarged photo,
of the wife’s mother between the trees
is good, and if this is supplemented by
a sound-making gadget the dual effect
on eye and ear will be too much for the
birds.
Erect a windmill, and on each sail
nail a kero.-tin half-full of stones. As
familiarity breeds contempt, the sound
should be varied by substituting, say,
broken-up bricks. On other days it can
be varied by half-filling the tins with
horsehair, fowl feathers or old corl<s.
Not only will this give the wife a break
from the usual racket, but the birds,
seeing the windmill going round and
hearing nothing, will suspect a trap and
depart. The few birds that persist will
be those with either defective vision or
hearing, and these can be discouraged
by spraying the fruit with strong arsenite
of lead solution. This is best blown on
with the mouth through a T-shaped
atomiser such as you buy with bottles of
mosquito-killer, but be careful not to
draw too much back into the mouth, as
it may slightly discolor the teeth.
As there are many arguments against
both summer and winter pruning, it
boils down to a question of convenience.
The simplest method of all is to break
off a branch of the ripe fruit. This kills
two cats with one brick, as it were. It
facilitates picking, and the pruning is
done without having to do a freeze up
the tree in July while trying to juggle a
pair of secateurs and a pruning saw and
knife.
Counter measures against the fruit-fly
can be limited to tying a few empty
corked beer-bottles on the trees. The
fruit-fly, coming straight from a bath
and a drink at Next-door’s fruit-juice-and-
ammonia-filled trap bottles, will lob on
the beer bottles, greatly intrigued at the
new type of trap. Soon this curiosity will
attract its fellows ; the bottles will be
black with them. Eventual wonder as
to what on earth they are all doing there
will induce a torpor, and they may even
absentmindedly fly off without bothering
about what they originally came for. In
any case it will probably be no less in-
effective than Next-door’s traps.
Finally, pick up daily all fallen fruit.
There will come a morning when you
rush off to work without time to do this.
That day the fruit inspector will make his
first visit along the street for 12 years.
Ten bob and costs.
80.
The Too, Too Solid.
A U.S. Appeal Court ruling has upheld a
claim by Mrs. Jean Forsyth (20st. 51b.) for
±.7815 damages against a San Francisco theatre,
where she had fallen through a seat.”
Among the questionable joys
Of overgrown avoirdupois
One must enumerate the shame
Of easing one’s abundant frame
Into a tempting easy chair
And finding on arriving there
That it, through some defect perhaps.
Is promptly stricken with collapse.
Though salves and embrocations may,
When rapidly applied, allay
A battered lumbar region or
A black-and-blue posterior,
The portly will be glad to read
How learned Judges have decreed
There is, unsettled nerves to calm,
A much more efficacious balm.
P. M. L.
Too Bad.
“Give an example of an anti-climax.”
— Short-story course.
Gloria Potts de Point bathed in pine-
needle-scented water, luxuriously relax-
ing her beautiful white body. After-
wards she dried herself on a mono-
grammed pale-pink towel and dressed in
a lilac chiffon nightie trimmed with apple-
green satin bows. Yawning delicately
behind her tapering fingers, she touched
the lobes of her shell-like ears with
“Spring Dream” perfume, tied a silken
ribbon on her golden curls and slipped
in between pale-blue sheets. Gently she
rested her head on the lace-edged pillows,
closed her cornflower-blue eyes—rolled
over, let her mouth drop open and snored
like hell.
EVE.
The Full Account.
“Asked in court whether she had any
comment to make about the raid, respondent
replied ‘lt was a pink nightdress. I don’t like
blue.” — Divorce report.
“Doesn’t that show what terrible liars
they are? They’d swear away a poor
woman’s life. There wasn’t a thing
wrong between me and Roy. It was
just that I happened to be going to visit
my sister down at Kiama. Roy offered
to run me down from Sydney in his car.
If it hadn’t broken down at Katoomba
we wouldn’t have stayed at that place.
Anyway we had separate rooms ; at least
we would have if we had known that
raid was coming. It was terribly bad
luck.
“Yes, of course I booked in as his
wife. But, really, people would have said
all sorts of things if they’d seen us
together and we’d had different names.
So for appearances’ sake I let them think
we were married. There was nothing in
that, except for people with evil minds.
“And they said they found me there in
the room in a blue nightdress! The liars!
Everybody knows 1 simply detest blue
and would no more think of wearing a
blue nightdress than fly. But that hor-
rible old Judge wouldn’t listen to me
when I told him that; instead of sentenc-
ing them all to seven years for perjury
he gave Jack his divorce. It’s disgrace-
ful!”
H. M.
Frustration.
I couldn’t sleep. “Dull reading seems the
cure,”
1 told myself, and chose an old school
prize,
A book of poems that had served, I’m
sure,
Except that one began “Awake,
arise !”
B. B.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Too-simpie Addition
We hear a lot about plans for a new
order, but until we improve our arith-
metic we have not much chance of get-
ting any improvement on the order we
already have. We keep adding a bit here
and adding a bit there, and think we are
making things better. We certainly suc-
ceed in adding to the load we have to
carry. We keep changing it from one
shoulder to the other, and if it gets too
heavy we pass it on to our children, poor
kids!
We add to our wages, and add to our
costs, and add to our prices, going round
and round and up and up, like the spiral
staircase.
We’ve given farmers apple and pear
boards, wheat boards, potato boards, pea-
nut boards, flax boards, barley boards,
onion boards, canary-seed and ginger
boards. And, of course, we add regula-
tions, inspectors, controllers to try to
make the blessed things work. All add,
add, add till a chap’s brain gets addled.
We forget that all the things we add
have to be paid for out of income from
industry. They do not fall as a gift from
heaven.
We should push on further with our
arithmetic. Why not have a go at sub-
traction? Raise wages by cutting costs
and cutting prices. Make the standard
of living higher by cutting out all the
useless things. Get our “austerity” by
simplifying our wants.
I commend this higher branch of
arithmetic to our Prices Commissioner.
He has been on the job for about three
years, and, though he has certainly
checked the pace of rising prices, the
old method of add, add, add goes on.
The sky may be the limit, but what a
bump when we come back to earth!
Farmer John (Tas.).
Teachers and the New Order
A lot of nonsense has been talked
about the new order, but the limit has
been reached by the N.S.W. Teachers’
Federation, which proposes, among other
things, to give public-school children un-
limited quantities of milk and free
dinners, with monetary subsidies for
those between the ages of 14 and 16. All
this is to be paid for by a grant from the
Federal Government, which really means
by parents in the form of taxation.
Teachers should read an elementary
book on political economy, and learn that
heavy taxation crushes industry and
ruins the nation, that a country can dis-
tribute only what it produces.
Parents used to take a pride in sup-
porting their own children and scorning
to have them depend on the charity of
others. Our State education bill is
already very heavy. To those of us who,
in addition to paying their share of it,
send their children to non-Government
schools, it is not pleasing to know that
they may have to pay for the food bill
and for subsidies for children who re-
ceive their schooling for nothing.—
Veritas (N.S.W.).
For a National Government
The refusal of Labor to pool the best
brains from both sides of both Houses
in the formation of an all-party National
Government shows plainly that Labor
stands for party before country. Mr.
Curtin should now, even at this late hour,
rise to the occasion and ask his supporters
to follow him into a new Government
having one plank—“win the war.”
At present two so-called Independents
have the power to guide the destinies of
Australia. Even one can upset the Gov-
ernment. Is that a healthy state? Would
any real statesman tolerate it for one
moment? It means anaemia, vacillation
and weakness —a shameful state.
No party political election or referen-
dum is wanted now to distract the people
from a hundred per cent, war effort. The
Parliament has sufficient material if prop-
erly marshalled. Likewise sufficient power
if backed by a stable Government. Public
opinion is focused along these lines, but
requires to be roused and crystallised in
order to force Parliament to act accord-
ingly. If Mr. Curtin still refuses, I am
prepared to travel Australia to assist an
approved movement in this direction. I
suggest the Australian War Service
League (S.A.) take the initiative and act
promptly.— Herbert Yeates, M.L.A.
(Q-)
The British Soldier
As a disabled English soldier, em-
ployed on war duty, I have had to listen
for more than a year now to a continu-
ous stream of abuse of Britain, British
generals, British soldiers and specially
of Mr. Churchill, often from ignorant
louts who have never been a mile from
a pub.
Since the victory of the Eighth Army,
which is composed mainly of troops
from England, I have not seen a single
line of appreciation, much less of praise,
of English troops in an Australian paper,
nor a word in recognition of the correct-
ness of Mr. Churchill’s appreciation of
the situation. All we get is a
monotonous glorification of the part
played by the Australians who took part
in the battle. Are Australians always so
ungenerous? — Havash (S.A.).
“Breathes There a Man?”
Joe, a lovable old chap, hails from the
same part of England as I do. He got
hurt badly in the depression; was left
with only half a business, and his wife
died before he could get things
straightened out again. So he’s been
bitter ever since. So deluded was Joe
by Red literature that the time came
when even England, the land of his birth,
“Manoeuvres nothing! You've been Week-ending with some hussy."
was referred to sneeringly as “no good” ;
“England is letting Russia down,” and
all the rest of it.
Last night he came to our place for
his weekly game of cards, and when we’d
finished playing I yanked out my latest
Bulletin. “I want to read you an article
before you go, Joe,” I said. He hates
The Bully, but he listened attentively
because he’s a fine old fellow at heart,
and wasn’t he my guest? I read him the
Plain English article “Four! ” (B. 4/11 / ’42)
right through, and I read it slowly, too.
I concluded on a high note: “John Bull
came in fighting.”
For a long moment Joe didn’t say any-
thing, then all of a sudden he jumped to
his feet. “And, by crikey, he’s still fight-
ing!” he shouted, “Fight—he’ll lick the
world!”
He didn’t say much while we were
having supper, but I knew he was think-
ing hard. He left shortly after and I
saw him to the gate. He limped slowly
down the browned-out street and soon
was out of sight, but I’m prepared to
swear he was whistling “There’ll Always
Be an England” as he turned the corner.
Moral? Perhaps it is that once John
Bull’s got his brand on a man that man
belongs to John Bull for life. — Zend
Avesta (Q.).
Equality of Sacrifice
From amplifiers, from public plat-
forms, in the press and on the radio
I am being asked, nay implored, to
subscribe to the War Loan. Wherever I
walk I hear the dulcet tones of some offi-
cial propagandist telling me it is my duty
to invest my savings in war bonds. As
investments go these days the interest is
good and the security is the best available,
because it depends on the efforts of our
army, navy and air force. After the war
I can get my money back or continue
to draw interest and I can leave the
heritage to my children. This is called
sacrifice on my part, likewise Austerity.
But the soldier can’t save and can’t
invest in war loans. He is being
asked to sacrifice his life if necessary,
and if austerity isn’t his portion I wonder
what is. I am merely being asked to
lend money which I can’t spend nowa-
days, because there is nothing to spend
it on. And the soldier, if he returns from
the war, will be one of those who will
have to work to pay me interest. Cock-
eyed, I call it.—L. L. (Vic.).
The Old Diggers
So we failed the returned soldiers after
World War No. 1 (B. 21/10/’42). How?
Pensions were given the incapacitated
and the widows of ex-service men. The
fatherless also were not neglected. Prefer-
ence for returned men in employment for
which they were qualified was enacted,
and was still effective when the present
war began. As well, they could enter
the public services by means of special
exams., and opportunity was provided
for them to fit themselves for various
vocations. I know one man, a black-
smith when he joined up, who thus be-
came a dentist. Many were placed on
the land.
That numerous Diggers did not prosper
in the post-war years cannot be justly
held to the discredit of their country. An
ex-soldier who secured a farm and
couldn’t make it pay, or failed in busi-
ness, or years after the war found work
hard to get, was not shamefully treated
because special Governmental assistance
was not available to enable him to make
a fresh start. The Government’s obliga-
lion to him ended with seeing that he
was able to re-enter civilian life to the
best advantage.— Lyle (N.S.W.),
Australian Films
“Gip” (B. 11/11/ ’42) reels off the
usual examples quoted when Australian
films are under discussion—bushranging,
big timber, the Great Barrier Reef, the
pearling luggers of Broome, etc.
If there is any single cause for the
present position of our moving-picture
industry it is the belief by Australian film
producers that the things mentioned by
“Gip” form the basic material for good
pictures. They are nothing more than
the background. Films based on the
idea of bringing out scenic effects of out-
back occupations in Australia have little
more than newsreel value.
Australian films must be made primarily
with a view to entertaining audiences.
This doesn’t mean they must be
lowbrow stuff, full of sex appeal and
cheap wisecracks. The most successful
British and American films succeed
because they are first-class drama or
comedy, rich with the interplay of charac-
ters ; the background, scenic or histori-
cal, is never more than subsidiary to the
story.—D. J. G. (Vic.).
Gallup Polls
Touching the statement that “one of the
casualties at the U.S. election was the
prophetic soul of George Gallup, of the
Polls,” who, “writing in August, pre-
dicted that the Democrats would gain
eight seats in the House, giving them
274 out of 435,” it was unsound to base
your article on a pre-election forecast
made in August. Public opinion changes
with events.
Some time will elapse before we re-
ceive conies of Gallup releases in the
weeks immediately preceding the Con-
gressional elections. The attached clip-
ping, however, states that the Gallup
estimate of the nation-wide Republican
vote was accurate within 2 p.c., and that
Mr, Dewey, the successful candidate for
Governor of New York, congratulated
the Institute on its “phenomenal accu-
racy,” its final forecast of the Dewey vote
being out less than half of 1 p.c.
We have not received copies of August
releases, but the enclosed release of Sep
tember 8 shows that Dr. Gallup detecte
a strong swing toward the Republicans
two months before the election. — Roy
Morgan, Director Australian Public
Opinion Polls (Melb.).
Stock Lick Ban Defended
Let me say at least one word in favor
of the much-abused Dedman. By his ban
on stock licks he has enabled owners of
sheep to save money which they can put
into austerity bonds. Experts have been
telling them for years that mixed licks
are of little or no value, and that it is
much more effective to supply mineral
needs of stock by improving pastures
and topdressing grasslands with super-
phosphate.
The super, is rationed these days, but
that’s not Dedman’s fault, and if stock
are running under conditions making it
really necessary for them to get salt the
owner can buy it if he consults an
approved veterinary authority.'
Extensive trials and experiments by the
C.S.I.R. and State Departments of Agri-
culture have exploded the belief, which
appears to have been founded mainly on
habit, that sheep need lots of salt. One
flockowner will say that salt is necessary
and his neighbor, whose sheep never get
any, will say just the opposite. There is
nothing to choose between returns from
the flock getting salt and the one that
gets none, other things being equal.
No, Dedman has done stockowners a
good turn and they realise it, as there has
been no organised opposition to the ban-
In fact, the only strong protests made
have been from people who have been
making something out of the sale of pre-
pared stock licks. —Cow Time (N.S.W.).
Prohibition of Bookmakers
Odd that half Australia doesn’t know
how the other half lives. “Ex-Punter” of
N.S.W. (B. 28/10/’42) wants us to settle
the betting question at a stroke by just
delicensing every bookmaker in Aus-
tralia and retaining the totalisator.
“Readily workable,” he calls the scheme.
He has an awful example ready to hand
in S.A.-, which tried exactly this plan
some 55 years ago, only to find it just as
unworkable as the other Prohibition
proved later to be in America. Under it,
illegal betting was rampant for half a
century. Nobody ever had much diffi-
culty in finding a layer of the odds, and
the law fell into contempt, and worse.
At long last the impossibility was
recognised, and all betting was legalised,
the popular fancy coming out again into
the open—till the war stopped horse-
racing itself in S.A.
You can’t enforce any law, in a free
country, if the great majority of the
public are convinced that it is unjust.—
S. T. S. (S.A.).
Wasted Trees
Contemplating the trees coming into
full leaf in Collii»s-street the other morn-
ing, it struck me that there must be mil-
lions of elms and planes and other de-
ciduous examples throughout the country
which have been planted with public
money and on which a vast amount of
labor is expended so that they may not,
by following their natural habit, threaten
telephone, telegraph and electric power
wires. They make a mess of the streets
in autumn and a fresh lot of labor has
to be employed to collect the rubbish.
If the councils had planted fruit-trees
they would now be helping to relieve
the food shortage. Such trees would be
ornamental and would diversify the
scene, since they blossom, bear fruit and
change the color of their leaves in
autumn. They would be live times more
interesting than the drab plane and elm
and they wouldn’t interfere with the
electric-light wires. A council workman
could spray them for pests and keep them
pruned, and the cost would be no more
than the pruning of the plane trees which
distorts the tree and makes it look so
unnatural that most city-dwellers, when
they first see a plane tree that has not
been interfered with, don’t recognise it.
What would it matter if children could
then get cherries, plums, lemons, oranges,
peaches, mulberries, apples and figs for
nothing? What would it matter if the
industrious housewife became indepen-
dent of the whims of boards and com-
mittees and could get as much material
for jam-making as she wanted? — Lord
Luvus (Vic.).


BLUESTONE
“E.S.A.”
BRAND
for Spray Mixtures for Fruit Trees and Vines; for
Treatment of Footrot in Sheep; for Wheat Pickling.
Our Booklet “Better Yields by Spraying” has been
of great assistance to Farmers and Orchardists. Copies
will be sent gladly on request.
AGENTS IN ALL STATES:
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.
BEARING METALS
“GRAPHINE”
BRAND
The Graphine series of standard alloys consists of a well-
balanced range of tin-base and lead-base bearing metals, with
cadmium-nickel and cadmium-silver for extra-heavy duty. The
Company’s expert metallurgists have had extensive experience
in the manufacture and applications of high-grade alloys. Their
advice is at the disposal of customers.
The Company’s Antifriction Alloy Booklet will provide much
useful information on the handling and uses of bearing metals.
Copies will be sent gladly on request.
AGENTS FOR BEARING METALS:
MELBOURNE Mr. H. B. Barker, c/o The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Co. of Australia Pty., Ltd., 360 Collins Street. M 4381.
SYDNEY . . Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd., O’Riordan Street, Alexandria.
MX 1091.
ADELAIDE . . A. Noble & Sons, Ltd., 79 Grenfell Street. C 2231.
BRISBANE . . Bell’s Asbestos & Engineering (Aust.), Ltd., 156 Edward Street.
B 5025.
PERTH . . Bell’s Asbestos & Engineering (Aust.), Ltd., 336-340 Murray
Street. B 9791.
The Company Purchases Ores, Concentrates
• and other material containing
GOLD, SILVER, COPPER
We settle promptly at the best available rates.
WRITE TODAY TO OUR
Registered Office; 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Office; 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
■ Works; Port Kembla, N.S.W.
B 6371.
M 4381.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
