

UR
Hme -ofWie melloumeUamllouqmi'
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/’ Vol. 63. —No. 3233.
Wednesday, January 28, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
WINCHESTER CATHEDRAL.
Towards the end of 1940, when the possibilities of the damage aerial bombs were a pablc eccfesias'uca^ 0 and' Y otherwise, so, if they fell
started, as no building was sacrosanct to the Luftwaffe, ton preserving illustrations of histo ‘ familiarised with the appearances these then “past
victims to the Hitlerian war technique—“destruction totaled complete”—future generations would be ianubansedl w, tn thg appea , R
treasures” bore. This movement, understandable enough, developed with the 10^^ °: r W hous iir thoC!zh 'pa st presented by Old England,
made to members of the British race, who cherish the outward and TOiJble mementoes ’me B which dates from the seventh century, the
Take Winchester Cathedral, the largest mediaeval church m Europe, and head of the d, °““ 9 J ea " * Q S { the original edifice being embodied in it. The
first Cathedral being completed in 648. The present Cathedral, dlustmted was_ bu wbo OC o Ll p iet i lhc se e of Winchester from 1366 to 1404. He converted
architect and builder of a second restoration was the famous William of Wy , nd 35 fjet broad. Here are the chantries of several of the
the old Norman nave into Gothic, making it one of the finest m Eur pP®» „■ ® " rhem f or t i, e delicacy of the tracery of the beautiful tomb
bishops who contributed to the building or renovation of the Cathedral, «^ S P> C » entered through a screen. One eminent art critic
is that of Wykeham himself. It is considered to be scarcely equalled m the Kingdom I he choiris eniereu inro g work to be found in a
has declared: “The great architectural feature of the choir is the magnificentof richly canopied niches.” The
similar structure in England It .rises to a great height, and the tower 08 feet high. To the architectural
entire length of the Cathedral is 545 feet; the choir is 40 feet wide, _ j t { P Gothic incidentally, it may be recalled that at one time Winchester
student the Cathedral is instructive, presenting every style from eaily Noiman to latest uotnic.
was an important seat of the woollen trade.


Learn
Story Writing
v 3 UJ* \l ot HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin.”
My Same
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
A MAN WITH A VISION.
Poems are written, make their mark
in their day, and then lie fallow ; for
ten years, twenty years, sometimes for
centuries. If they’re no good at all,
merely the fashionable verse of their time,
the weeds grow over them and they’re
forgotten. But if they have the quality
of genuine poetry, minor poetry though
it may be, sooner or later they come to
a second crop.
Donne, overshadowed by the great
Elizabethan dramatists and the rich
Elizabethan lyrists, lies forgotten until an
age of intcllectualism in poetry finds sym-
pathy and sanction in his vigorous com-
plexities ; whereupon Ernest Hemingway
calls a new novel “For Whom the Bell
Tolls” and Donne becomes the , rage in
America. Matthew Arnold, excusing the
meagreness of his output, complains that
a man can’t write
between two worlds; one dead.
The other powerless to be born;
modern defeatists seize on that as an
excuse, and Matthew comes into vogue
again.
Something like that appears to be hap-
pening to the Australian Bernard
O’Dowd. Because he has become an
Australian classic in his own lifetime, his
Collected Poems could have appeared at
any time during the last 30 years. At
any time during those years The
Bulletin could have quoted lines from
his patriotic verses for the basis of its
Norman Lindsay front-page cartoon. At
any time an Australian Prime Minister
could have quoted those same lines —
That reddish veil which o'er the face
Of night-hag East is drawn . . .
Flames new disaster for the race?
Or can it be the Dawn?
as Mr. Curtin did a few days after The
Bulletin reprinted them.
These things, which point to the recog-
nition of O’Dowd as a national poet,
could have happened years ago. But
O'Dowd has had to wait for the estab-
lishment of the Commonwealth Literary
Fund (itself a sign of reviving national
vigor) for Lothian to bring out the
Collected Poems; he had to wait for
Japan to make war upon Australia’s
national existence for a Prime Minister
to quote him.
These poets who suddenly come into
prominence again after years of com-
parative neglect come up because they’re
needed. Donne was needed to justify the
intellectual movement ; Arnold to justify
the meagre men ; now that the white
ft*an is indeed compelled to assert his
superiority over the “lesser breeds” of
the East, the derided Kipling will very
likely come up again as prophet and
trumpeter. O’Dowd, or the national spirit
to which O’Dowd gave expression, is
needed in Australia now.
And it's not just because he asked
couple of apt rhetorical questions about
the future of the nation that O’Dowd is
being quoted. Matthew Arnold could
have done that. O’Dowd never for one
moment allowed himself to think that
the “reddish veil” portended disaster. It
was the Dawn; he never doubted it.
Clearly, burningly, passionately, without
apology and without fear of ridicule, he
saw Australia—with all its faults—as the
hope of the world. Australia was “a
prophecy to be fulfilled” and he saw
himself as the prophet:
All that we love in olden lands and lore
Was signal of her coming long ago!
Bacon foresaw her, Campanula, More,
And Plato’s eyes were with her star aglow!
Who toiled for Truth, whate'er their countries
were.
Who fought for Liberty, they yearned for her!
No corsair’s gathering ground, or tryst for
schemers,
No chapman Carthage to a huckster Tyre,
She is the Eldorado of old dreamers,
The Sleeping Beauty of the world’s desire!
Astonishing stuff to read today, after
the 20 years of disillusion, defeatism and
apathy between the two wars. Naive
stuff, in its way. But it’s not meagre
stuff, petty stuff, defeated stuff, dead stuff.
It’s alive, flashing with faith and courage,
big in the way Walt Whitman’s vision of
America was big. Paterson had the same
spirit; so did Lawson at his best. It
speaks again in Robert D. Fitz Gerald’s
“Essay on Memory.”
Whitman’s vision became an actuality.
The United States became a great nation.
Australia is still undergoing its pro-
tracted “dawn.” Until Japan came into
the war, the Sleeping Beauty was snoring.
But that’s not O’Dowd’s fault. He tried
40 years ago to wake it up. He has
written verse that will survive to have
its vision realised in the immigration anc
national resurgence that must follow this
war:
And if that awful whisper should be true
That Europe’s gloaming thickens to the murk,
that Hun shall stable in her shrines anew,
\i/t? r . star^cr wan * his deadlier havoc work,
knows but, in her happier lineage,
Europe, reborn, her social crime shall mend,
And on this vast and unpolluted stage
Behold the New Jerusalem descend,
And build the dramas of the Golden Age.
The extracts from O’Dowd’s poems
that have been quoted in this article are,
it’s obvious, pretty good verse. A poet
doesn’t need to have done wonders to
get a second curtain call for patriotic
reasons, but he does need to have per-
formed fairly well. One wouldn’t describe
these passages as great poetry ; but, com-
pared, say, with Wordsworth’s political
and patriotic sonnets, they are more than
adequate.
Yet O’Dowd is poetically as well as
patriotically important in Australia. His
best poem, “The Bush,” is chiefly im-
portant as a national poem ; but it is
also important because O’Dowd had the
courage and staying-power to write a
long poem—67o lines of serious poetry
in the high style— at a time when the
ballad and the lyric were all that Austra-
lians would attempt. Then, in rare amaz-
ing flashes, are patches of the sort of
clear, pure, realistic, wholly Australian
poetry which a few young poets are try-
ing to write today and which, judging by
those attempts, by its resemblance to the
verse produced by Vachel Lindsay and
others when the Americans began to deal
confidently with their own scene and
their own history, and by its close affinity
to the most significant recent development
in English poetry—Louis MacNeice’s
simple observation of the world about
him will be the Australian idiom of the
immediate future. Australia and Aus-
tralia’s history accepted and cherished,
used without hesitation ,as the subject
matter for poetry, expressed in a wholly
Australian idiom—a whole cycle of
poetry could, and probably will, spring
out of a few stanzas of “The Bush” :
The miner cradling washdirt by the creek,
Or pulled through darkness dripping to the
plat:
The navvy boring tunnels through the peak:
Ihc farmer grubbing box-trees on the flat:
Ihe hawker camping by the roadside spring:
Ihe hodman on the giddy scaffolding;
Moths that around the fashion windows flutter :
The racecourse spider and the betting fly
Here, though O’Dowd hardly knew it,
were the Australian images, the Austra-
lian pantheon, the “myth” (in Jung's
sense) in which the Australian nation
lives and in which Australian poetry
moves.
O’Dowd, it is true, saw that these
simple images would become the Aus-
tralian myth, the subject of Australian
poetry ; but he did not see that all he
had to do to make them the myth was
to sit down and write about them. He
felt he had to dress them up, dignify
them by relating them to the great myths
of the world cultures; be pugnacious or
apologetic, erudite or profound about
them, anything but simple or natural.
“Paterson’s swan,” he said, “draws
Amphitrite’s car.” Poor old “Banjo 1 '!
Paterson’s swans, black Australian swans,
flew over Australian bush and Australian
mountains to their distant Australian
lake, and that was enough to say about
them. They drew neither Amphitrite’s
car nor Henry Ford’s.
Other Australian poets have sinned
mightily before the “miner cradling wash-
dirt by the creek” by importing Pan to
prance about under the gum-trees, but
none ever sinned like O’Dowd. All the
Greek gods, the Egyptian, the Hindu,
the Norse, the Chinese, the Hebrew, the
English Fairies, a hundred gods and a
thousand Personifications—he found ’em
all in “The Bush,” under the astounded
gum-trees. Even the innocent kookaburra
had to become “feathered Pan.”
Yon regal bustard, fading hence ere long.
Shall seem the guide we followed to the Grail;
This lyrebird on his dancing-mound of song
Our mystagoguc of some Bacchantic vale.
Where feathered Pan guffaws “Evoc! ” above,
And Masnad curlews shriek their midnight love:
That trailing flight of distant swans is bearing
Sarpedon’s soul to its eternal joy:
This ibis, from the very Nile, despairing,
Mcmnon our own would warn from fatal
Troy.
The epigram was always his downfall,
and too much of “The Bush” is merely
the click and clack of mechanical
epigram. One would like to send his
Greek gods packing to Hades, his Norse
gods back to Valhalla and his Orientals
back to the East to contemplate their
navels, so that Australians could contem-
plate his Australian images in all their
native vigor:
A gunshot startles dawn back from the sky,
And mourning tea-trees echo Gordon’s sigh:
Nardoo with Burke’s faint sweat is dank for ever:
Spectral a tribe round poisoned rations shrieks:
Till doomday Leichhardt walks the Never
Never
Perhaps O’Dowd, at the time when he
wrote these poems, could not have written
them differently The balladists were
writing a purely Australian verse, but
the serious poets still needed some sort of
bridge between the traditional European
images and the native myth, between
“feathered Pan” and the simple kooka-
burra. “The Bush” was that bridge.
O’Dowd heard Roland’s horn among the
gums, but he also heard Gordon’s gun-
shot. Poets after him no longer needed
to hear the hom.
Poetically, as well as patriotically,
therefore, O’Dowd, like Whitman, is a
forerunner. He is not of Whitman’s
stature, but he fights by Whitman’s side
in the ranks of the “poets militant” and,
because Australia needs his vision, his
reputation will grow with the years.
"Japan Unmasked."
Hallett Abend, for many years New
York “Times” representative in the Far
East, has over the past few years re-
peatedly told the U.S.A. and others
directly interested just what was to be
expected of Japan. Events have taken
such twists that even the Recording
Angel has probably got some of the
entries tangled ; and there are minor slips
in Abend’s Japan Unmasked (Bodley
Head). But, writing a full year before
Japan justified his opinion of its inten-
tions, he hits the nail accurately much
more often than not.
Abend holds that Japan was ready and
even eager to go to war on the side of
the totalitarian States as long ago as the
Munich Pact signing in October, 1938.
This readiness to light side by side with
Hitler and Mussolini continued through
the summer of 1939, and there is no doubt
that Japan would have struck against
Britain at Hong Kong and against France
in Indo-China in September, 1939, except
for the shock of surprise with which she
received the news of the Berlin-Moscow
agreement concluded in August.
That agreement “produced a violent
but brief emotional reaction in Japan.”
The British in Japan suddenly found
themselves being courted for a change.
Japan felt betrayed and helpless. Finally,
two developments determined Japan’s de-
cision to join the other two aggressor
nations—first, the collapse of France and
the overwhelming of Holland, and,
second, the clear line of American policy
siding with the anti-Axis forces.
Quoting “censored and approved”
statistics, Abend gives as the U.S. naval
strength at Hawaii: Battleships, 12;
aircraft-carriers, 4; heavy cruisers, 10 ;
light cruisers, 15; destroyers, 70; sub-
marines, 35—a total of 146 ships of war.
“At the end of 1940 army personnel on
Oahu numbered more than 30,000,” with
another 5000 on the way there.
One seemingly unanswerable question
continues to disturb the minds of those
who are responsible for the safety and the
perfect functioning of our titanic war
machine in Hawaii. That question is: how
extensive would fifth-column activities be
in time of actual war; how loyal to the
United States is the Japanese population
of the islands? The last census revealed
that 155,042 persons out of a total popu-
lation of 414,991 are Japanese or at least
half-Japanese... .If 10 per cent, of them
were to turn out to be fifth columnists the
danger would be appalling.
In this book, written about a year
ago. Abend trenchantly criticises what
he calls the then prevailing “amazing
complacency” of Singapore. He severely
criticises the censorship by local authority
there which at the time prevented him
from broadcasting his attack on that
complacency. Singapore, as he then
wrote on it, was not only “ignoring the
war as a reality” but seemed “to take
no count of the fact that the trend of
events” was “likely to bring enemy
bombers overhead and shells from war-
ships showering round its defences.” He
likened Singapore as he then saw it to
“the core of deep calm which scientists
say exists in the centre of every gather-
ing hurricane.”
As for the war which he all along
expected: “If it comes, it will be a long'
struggle, in spite of the optimism of
those persons who say we [the U.S.A.]
could destroy the Japanese Navy in short
order.”
Not for Love: Alice Duer Miller
(Methuen). She went and married the
Italian Prince when she loved someone
else. So the Prince went and locked her
up in his castle, and by-and-bye she loved
the Prince.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
On record that Queen Victoria thought
the plot of “The Mikado” “rather silly” •
that Gilbert, relentless at rehearsals, was
so severe over this piece that he drove
George Grossmith (Ko-Ko) to taking
drugs ; also, of course, that Japs officially
objected. One account, given in the pro-
gramme for the current Sydney Roya
revival, is that objection was not to the
libretto, but to Sullivan’s innocently asso-
ciating a bawdy Jap tune with the Mikado
m the mistaken belief that it was the Jap
national anthem.
Eric Blom, in A Musical Postbag
(iJent), states that Sullivan’s copyright
’ does not expire, presumably, until 1950
a nd Gilbert’s not until 1961.” Mean-
while, aspiring Gilsullivan entrepreneurs
can call at the Royal, inspect Bernarc
Manning’s performance as the Mikado
and bottle it for future use. As Gilsulli-
van it is a synthesis of tradition. In the
prevailing remarkable circumstances it is
something more.
On the opening night Ivan Menzies
anC * co - groped for an answer to the
paradox of play-acting the pretty roman-
ticism of this particular piece against the
grimly realistic mental background that
haunted everybody—the A.I.F. in Malaya
engaging in their first major clash with
the Japs. Advertisements had estab-
lished precedent by openly labelling the
piece as satire. If the idea was to uphold
that, the result wasn’t even a near-miss.
Topical impromptus were few and funny
—not biting. The Menzies quip on the
heavy entry of Pooh-Bah, “Here comes
the A.1.F.,” was next door to a faux pas.
There were excuses for the company.
With such pure charm to contend with
as the Three Little Maids from School
and their musical, lyrical and silken wrap-
pings ; the chocolate-box love story
which not even Gilbert’s ghoulish mind,
revelling in a swill of decapitations, could
make otherwise ; the idealised represen-
tation of the Mikado’s son ; the child-
world pantomime of Katisha’s role—it
would take a company trained by Dean
Swift to make satire of all this. The
Dean being under contract elsewhere, it
remained its old self —one of the most
charming operettas in any language.
Enter in due course Bernard Manning,
clad in black kim. with gold dragons on
it, his facial make-up, astonishingly, a
severe but unquestionable caricature, not
of any possible Oriental emperor, but of
none other than the late President Wilson.
Despite this, and the preceding pretti-
ness, he strode straight into the job of
making the punishment fit the crime, in
an entirely new sense. He made the
role panto.-Mephistophelian—a satire on
the sinister. It not only stole the show,
but completely changed it. After the
smart but unsmarting quips and the
pretty procession of charms and graces
in Japanese dresses, here was at last the
direct satirical touch which alone could
justify the production. It left hardened
deadheads trying to recall when they had
last seen such faultless acting.
Inspected at Sydney Mayfair, Basil
Rathbone in a pretty fair spy thriller,
“International Lady,” Ilona Massey as
the lady vaguely resembling the Dietrich,
but with slightly less histrionic ability;
at Sydney St. James, Robert Taylor look-
ing like the Black Prince in technicolor
in “Billy the Kid,” splendidly photo-
graphed Western,
More acutely than ever this year’s
Archibald Prize award raised the ques-
tion as to what the canons of portrait
painting ought to be. William Dargie’s
winning canvas is the answer to the
prayer of a committee of average busi-
nessmen entrusted to spend £lOO on a
portrait of a prosperous associate. The
artistic eye may note that the pose is
that of a straw-stuffed Guy Fawkes and
that the drawing, especially of the head,
is wonky, but the reproduction of clothes
is wonderful, and anybody can see that
it is knight James Elder’s features that
have been limned. There are better
portraits on show —Lyall Trindall’s per-
haps idealised “Artist’s Wife” is one of
the most beautiful things ever done in
Australia ; Hanke, Buckmaster, Leist and
Max Meld rum have slicker or more
effective work to show, and William
Dobell (who will never satisfy any aver-
age committee) brings wit and fantasy
into the portrait-making game.
For the Wynne Prize the selectors
passed over sound if not particularly
novel or inspired landscapes by well-
known practitioners to fasten on an un-
distinguished but very neatly painted
little canvas by Miss L. Nimmo. What
the selectors’ landscape canons are
nobody can guess.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the foundation of confidence
Anthony
“THE SENIOR STORE”
HORDERNS'
vjAii
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Smart colourings
British Seamless Axminister Squares.
and now designs.
FINE QUALITY — Replacement Price
9ft. Oin. x 7ft. 6in. £l6 17 6
9ft. Oin. x 9ft. Oin. £l9 19 6
10ft. 6in. ,x 9ft. Oin. £23 10 0
12ft. Oin. x 9ft. Oin. £26 19 6
12ft. Oin. x 10ft. 6in. £3l 10 0
13ft. 6in. x 10ft. 6in. £35 10 0
Sale Price
£lO 2 6
£l4 7 6
£l7 5 0
£l9 12 6
£22 19 6
£25 10 0
t:
m
n
m
M
MEDIUM.QUALITY —
Replacement Price Sale Price
Pi
mm
w
m
i
m
m
m
m
Hii
m
m
m
m
You, too, can serve by
saving Buy and hold
War Savings Certificates
BRITISH
AXMINSTER
RUGS
I***
j™
Mg.
W
isj; •*
•v.'
S3
m
is
m
ai
Ml
mm
as
I
M
psp
a?
»
USE
Bis
■■::■
m
No. 1 Quality.
4' 6 x 2' 3
5* 3 x 2' S
6' 0 x 3’ 0
Rep’rrtent
Price SALE
56/- 39/6
79/6 49/6
89/6 58/6
d
★ Carnet with Thick Pile for Wall-to-wall Covering
m*
m
M
ft
m
m
%
WJ?
#
#
in
*
m
rim
s JIJL
■:Sfc>
«r
British Imperial Axminster Car-
pet by the yard for wall to wail
covering. Squares and Hall Run-
ners.
27in. Body
27in. Stair
36in. Stair
Replacement Sale,
Price Yard
.. . 34/6 23/6
.. . 34/6 .23/6
... 52/- 35/6
British Axminister Body
Carpet, in a smart range of
new designs. Replacement
Price, yard 29/6
Sale Price, yard .... 21/-
ii
M
> (
« V
] < M
kr
m#,
t& 'g. '**** ■■s £»*£
British Axminster Body and
Hall Carpet by the yard.
Replacement Sale,
Price yard
27in. Body
1 Sin. Hall .
22-Vin. Hall
27in. Hall .
B6in. Hail .
24/6
14/3
20/9
24/6
34/6
17/9
12/6
15/3
17/9
24/9
Stipple Wilton Body Carpet
by the yard for wall to wall
covering. In Rust, Blue, Rose,
Brown, Honey, Burgundy and
Green. 27 inches wide. Re-
placement Price, yard, 13/9
Sale Price, yard 11/6
'PHONE: M 2401 (Day and Night)
• Carpet Department— Fourth Floor. Delivered free within our delivery area.
Post to BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


“BUSHMAN”
By ALAN MARSHALL.
MY father is eighty years old now,
but he walks with a spring in his
stride. When he goes out on the
sunny days he holds his head like
the brumbies he tamed in his youth. He
is thin and straight as a sapling and he
carries with him, like sunshine, the atmo-
sphere of the wide plains he wandered
over when he was young.
I have never seen the saltbush plains,
the myall clumps and the claypans he
talks about, but they are in my blood.
When my father spins his yarns I hear
the sighing sound the wind makes in the
belar trees ; I see the distant pines knee-
deep in liquid heat ; I taste the dust of
north winds that hide the leaders of his
four-horse team in swirls of stinging
sand.
He was a hawker. “Bushman,” they
called him.
[— I E. tells of a late autumn in the
1 1 ’eighties. The saltbush leaning over
the sunken tracks crackled with frost in
the morning as the heavy wheels of his
wagon crushed it into the sand. In two
days he hoped to make Wanganella, where
a convoy of bullock teams loaded for
the north would camp for the night.
The Old Man Plain lay behind him ;
the sun and the silence were around him.
On the seat of the lurching wagon he
heard only the creak of harness, the soft
plodding of his horses’ hooves in the
centre track, the knocking of the wheels
on the worn axles of his big van.
Next day he crossed Black Swamp,
and in the evening he pulled into a clear-
ing on the banks of Billabong Creek.
Stunted box and redgum skirted the
water. In the half darkness he could see
bullocks grazing among the trees. A
thick-necked poler moved slowly out of
his way, the bell on its neck toning soft
sounds of nightfall. The enormous
broad-wheeled wagons stood motionless,
heavy with stores. Campfires flung robes
of smoke across them. Before the fires
the bullock-drivers squatted, unpacking
tucker-boxes and brewing billy tea.
“Good day, Bushman.”
“How are yer, Bushman?”
They all knew my father.
“There’s whips o’ feed here,” cried
Queensland Harry of the red beard and
moleskin waistcoat, “Hobble ’em out
and come an’ hop into these chops.”
My father turned his horses out and
joined the big man. Michael O’Callaghan,
bent like a swamp box, came over to the
fire. Paddy the Fox was there bending
over a damper. There were others.
“How far did you come today?” asked
Paddy.
“Far enough,” said my father. “Thirty
mile or so. I been on the Old Man
Plain for a fortnight,”
I can see his lean face, half-turned, lit
up by the firelight; the red beard of
Queensland Harry made luminous by the
flames ; and back in the darkness I can
hear the jingle of hobble chains and the
tearing sound of grass and scrub break-
ing between the bullocks’ muzzles and
the damp roots clutching the soil.
Above the heads of the seated men the
white limbs of the red gums seemed to
bear the weight of a great, overhanging
darkness heavy with stars. The trunk of
a Jow grey box behind the fire broke the
darkness in two. Other bullockies, their
meal finished, walked into the hollow of
light and joined those around the fire.
“Got any white moles with you this
trip, Bushman?” asked Jack Tyne.
“Yes,” said my father. “I’ll show them
to you in the morning. I got some good
stuff this trip.”
“Any of you coves cornin’ up to the
pub?” asked a dark youth, pausing on
the rim of firelight.
“Ted and The Groper are going up,
I heard them saying,” said Queensland
Harry.
“The Groper has broached a case of
whisky,” said the youth. “He’s well into
a billyful. He shoved a knife into the
case and smashed a bottle, then caught
the whisky in a billy.”
“He’ll be after broachin’ one case too
many, that cove,” muttered Michael
O’Callaghan.
“Well, if there’s no one cornin’ I’m
off,” said the youth.
“He’s trying to do a bit of a spar with
the tea-slinger up there,” said Jack Tyne,
nodding after the youth.
“Why aren’t you married, Bushman?”
asked Queensland Harry. “You got a
turnout there any woman would be proud
of. Don’t you ever get lonely?”
“It’s pretty lonely by myself some-
times,” said my father, “but I’ve never
had time to play up to women.”
“Do you know the tart up at the pub?”
“Yes,” said my father.
Know who?” bellowed a man emerg-
ing from the darkness and kicking
a log beside the fire. He carried a billy
half full of whisky, and as he seated
himself he peered across the fire towards
my father. “Hell! It’s Bushman.”
“How are yer, Groper?” said my
father.
“What do you know about women,
Bushman?” went on The Groper as he
settled himself more comfortably on the
log. “You haven’t got enough guts to
make a pass at the filly up at the pub,
and everyone knows you’d like to put
your brand on her.”
He turned to the other men, holding
the black billy aloft. “Who wants a
swig?”
“Where’d you get it?” asked Michael
O’Callaghan sourly.
“I brought half a dozen bottles with
me.”
“Every second man you meet these
days is a liar,” said my father softly.
The Groper became very still.
“A-a-ah!” he exclaimed menacingly. He
thrust his face towards the fire, across
which my father sat with his unlaced
boots pushed before him and his hands
clasped across his knees. “Have you met
another man before you met me, Bush-
man?” he snarled.
“Yes,” said my father.
“I’ve a mind to cross the fire and hop
into you,” said The Groper through his
teeth.
“I’ll meet you halfway,” said my father,
and though he sat quietly his voice was
as hard as mulga.
“It’s what I said about the little slut
up at the pub that’s got his goat,” guf-
fawed The Groper, addressing the silent
men and delighting in the possibility of
a fight.
Father sprang to his feet then. “It’s
a friend you’re talkin’ about,” he cried.
“Come out on the grass.”
The Groper roared with delight and
rose heavily. “I’ll see what kind of
gristle is in your nose,” he bellowed.
Queensland Harry had risen with him.
“Keep cool, now. Keep cool. Bush-
man’s no match for you. Sit down.”
The Groper shook off the hand that the
red-bearded man had laid on his shoulder.
“I’ll have a lash at him, runt or not!”
“Let him go, Harry,” said my father.
“I’ve locked horns with better men than
him before today. I’ll keep him honest.
Come on, you groping dingo,” he shouted
to the big bullocky, who was tightening
his belt.
Michael O’Callaghan straightened his
stoop to reach my father’s ear. “I’m
tellin’ ye, Bushman, this big feller can
go. Ye’d better take to the water. Climb
down.”
“It’s all right, Mick,” said my father.
“I’ll keep him workin’. He won’t have
anything up his sleeve when I’m done
with him.”
“Into him then,” said O’Callaghan,
“and I’m backstoppin’ ye, be Jasus.”
"P HEY cleared the lighted space of
1 bark and sticks. They piled more
wood on the fire so that the flames
colored the red-gum trunks a hundred
yards away. The hobbled horses stopped
feeding and, with their heads held
motionless a few inches from the ground,
looked towards the excited group of men.
The frosty air swayed back from the heat
and retreated to the shadows behind the
silent trees. Bullock bells rang from
the billabong edge where the darkness
sat secure.
The men gathered beside my father,
and when The Groper advanced upon
him there was only The Groper’s enor-
mous shadow stretching behind him on
the ground.
“Hop in low, I’m tellin’ ye,” said O’Cal-
laghan as he stepped back, “and, for the
love uv Gahd, keep out from his thir-
teen stone.”
The Groper came in with his big fists
weaving before him like mallets. Bush-
man moved back so that the big man
faced the fire, then sprang in savagely and
drove a right deep into the broad body
that grunted an answer to the blow. The
Groper staggered, but recovered and
charged in for a clinch.
“Fight him off! Keep out!” yelled
O’Callaghan, but Bushman had leaped
back, dodging a wild swing that sheared
his head and swung The Groper in a
half-circle. Bushman saw his chance and
drove a right to The Groper’s jaw, but
he lacked the weight, and The Groper
closed with him grunting his satisfaction
in a swaying grapple that flung the
lighter man into the dark obscurity of
his big shadow as they staggered to and
fro, each seeking to keep the firelight
at his back.
Bushman sank his chin deep on his
chest and took uppercut and hook in
silence. His lithe, tough body braced
itself; his legs, widespread, took from
the earth on which they were planted some
of the strength that passes to trees. He
tore loose in a sudden flood of power,
hitting with hard, straight blows as The
Groper followed him, roaring for closer
contact. The Groper’s weight smashed
through the piston-like uppercuts Bush-
man drove to his open chin in an attempt
to keep him off. Breathing loudly he
slogged back with a tornado of blows
that staggered Bushman back to the
fire’s edge,
“Keep your hands up.”
“Ride them out, Bushman.”
“Get him underneath.”
“Slip your knee into him.”
All the bullockies were there now. The
bloated campfire lashed the dark with
flame. There was a savage joy in the
darkness that closed in on the shouting
men when the exhausted flames died
down, and was flung back to the trees
when dried gum-leaves were tossed on
the burning wood.
The fighters were slogging toe to toe.
The red blood was on the Bushman’s
lips. The Groper swooped on him,
smashing at his face with powerful lefts.
Bushman went down and, as he fell, The
Groper twisted, bringing the smaller man
beneath him so that he fell upon him
with all his thirteen stone.
The Groper would have savaged him
then, but they pulled him off.
“Let up on him.”
“Come on —give him a chance.”
“Sink a boot into the big cow.”
“Stand back, Groper.”
There were shadows of men that pulled
and parted; there was a red firelight on
the trees and a shouting and swearing.
But my father could hear only the savage
barking of his dogs, he said. Then the
cold night stung him clear, and he got
to his feet and cried out to Queensland
Harry, who had both his powerful arms
wrapped round The Groper: “Let him
come, Harry.”
“Have a blow, Bushman.”
“I’m all right.”
“For the love uv Gahd, spell awhile,”
pleaded Michael O’Callaghan, his voice
shaking as with sobs. “Ye’ll be the dith
uv me with y’r guts.”
“Three minutes then,” said Bushman.
“It’s me wind that’ll beat him and I’m
not lookin’ for a blow.”
He sat down on a log with his elbows
on his knees and his head in his hands.
Ted the Swell brought him The
Groper’s billy from beside the fire. “Take
a swig. Here —get some of this into you.”
“Wipe his face, Harry.”
“Fetch that billy here,” roared The
Groper.
“Take it and be damned to ye,” cried
Michael O’Callaghan, and he seized the
billy and hurled it at the seated man. It
collided with the hand The Groper raised
to protect himself, and its contents spilt
to the ground.
The Groper leaped to his feet cursing.
“You’re next, O’Callaghan,” he cried.
“I’ll towel you up when I finish off this
runt.”
He strode forward and Bushman rose
to meet him.
O’Callaghan whispered the lesson of his
experience in a hurried parting: “Trip
the cow and, as he goes down, slip your
knee up into his belly and take his wind.”
“Hop in low,” growled Queensland
Harry under his breath. “Go for his guts.”
“Into him, Bushman,” yelled Ted the
Swell.
Bushman met the big man a flame’s
leap from the fire. The open plains had
hardened him, the clean wind was in his
lungs and plenty of it. He made the
pace a cracker.
He stood off and hit out with straight
blows that bent the ribs of The Groper,
who swung haymakers over his ducking
head. He kept on the move. He pun-
ished him with more body blows; then
The Groper, suddenly desperate, came in
and drove an elbow into Bushman’s side.
Bushman faltered. The Groper shinned
him, then raked his knuckles in a glanc-
ing blow across his face. It tore the lobe
of Bushman’s ear. Blood flowed down
his neck,
Bushman dropped his code then. He
brought his knee up into The Groper’s
belly with a powerful heave. As the big
man gasped and doubled he uppercut him
with a left and a right that pounded the
soft mouth into crimson.
“Paint him afterwards if you want to,”
yelled Queensland Harry. “Keep at his
guts.”
The Groper’s nose was spouting blood
and he wavered.
“He’s got a tail,” exulted O’Callaghan.
“Finish him, Bushman. Into him, you
beauty.”
Bushman yelled an answer and threw
in everything he had. He sprang for-
ward and met the panting bullocky
square. He slugged and smashed him,
diving in and put like a kangaroo-dog at
an old man ’roo. He sent him reeling
back among the yelling men.
“Slash the cow.”
“Did you see that?”
“Jasus!”
“Hop into him, Bushman. Rip him
wide open.”
“Now!”
Bushman’s right hand flashed to The
Groper’s jaw. The weight of his driving
body was behind it. The Groper’s eyes
swivelled like marbles. In the firelight
the whites showed bare to the stars above
his back-flung head and he fell like a
cross to the ground,
Bushman bent over him for one savage
second, then the fire left him and he
staggered to the log and sank there beside
it, trembling like a boy.
“You bloody beauty, you.”
“Good on yer, Bushman.”
They thumped his aching back. They
yelled so that the horses behind the light
plunged wildly and wrenched at their
hobles in panic. The bullock bells were
suddenly still as if listening.
“Come up to the pub. Come on now.”
They persisted he drink with them.
“Bring me back a bottle, boys,” he
said. “I couldn’t walk twenty yards if
you paid me. All go up and have a drink
on me,” and he handed O’Callaghan a
note. “Let The Groper in on it,” he
added.
The Groper was sitting up, with Ted
the Swell bending over him.
“You can go a bit, Bushman,” he said
painfully. “I feel like I been through a
threshin’ machine.”
“Just luck,” said my father. “I had
the best hand on the night, that’s all.”
THEY went away then and he was
alone. He rose stiffly to his feet and
walked to the rear of his van. He pulled
out some bags to make up his bed, but
he had to stop and rest awhile. The
night was cool on him like hands, and
he stood there in the aching silence grate-
ful for its comfort.
He did not see the girl run out of the
darkness. She paused uncertainly at the
firelight’s edge, then came over and stood
behind him. He heard her and turned.
They faced each other, and the campfire
lit up their faces.
“You’ve been fighting, they tell me,”
she said, her voice shaking.
My father’s face was crow-picked and
swollen. One eye was almost closed.
The girl’s lips were apart and her eyes
were frightened at what she saw.
“I had a go with The Groper,” said
my father apologetically, and he looked
at the ground.
“It was over me, they say,” said the girl.
“A man must fight for his women,”
said my father, and tried to smile at her.
The girl caught her breath.
“I mean no offence,” said my father
hurriedly. “I like you well,”
“I don’t mind,” she said softly. “A
man needs a woman to stick up for.”
“Yes, that’s how it is,” said my father.
“I get lonely—the plains an’ that”
He looked out into the night as if the
loneliness was there waiting for him and
he would look at it again.
The girl looked too, and she said:
“It’s dark at night. You got hurt for
me,” she said gently, looking at his face.
“He was tough,” said my father. He
straightened the bags he was preparing
for his bed. “I’ll be moving on
tomorrow.”
“I won’t like you going.”
“No,” *said my father, confused.
“When you come back I’ll be gone,
too,” she said. “I get tired an’ that here.”
“I been often goin’ to say,” said my
father, taking a breath, but he stopped
and looked helplessly at her. “I get
lonely,” he ended lamely.
“I do, too,” she said.
My father placed his hand on the
strong trunk of a grey box as if for sup-
port. “Will you marry me and come away
in my wagon?” he asked desperately.
She stared at him, then clutched his
hand. “Yes,” she said.
“I have some rings here,” he said
shakily. “They wear them an’ that.”
He climbed into his van and returned
with a tin box. He opened it beneath
her bent head and the firelight shone on
the rings it contained.
“Take one,” said my father.
She took one with a red stone, and it
was not the firelight that lit her face
as she slipped it on her finger.
“Look,” she said, and she held her
hand up to the light, but it was her face
that held my father’s eyes.
They heard voices, and she turned and
looked back in the direction of the hotel.
“They’re coming,” she said quickly.
She looked anxiously at his face. “I
wanted to bathe your face,” she said.
“It’s all right,” said my father.
She lifted his hand and pressed it
against her cheek, then darted away from
him. He watched her go ; and it was
my mother that ran away from him
beneath the trees,


THE OTHER PERIL —ALSO YELLOW.
“Another serious matter which calls for immediate action is that of war-time strikes and stoppages in vital industries."-Opposition Leader Fadden, 25/1/'42,
when Jap invaders were on Australian territory.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
CURTIN TO CHURCHILL.
“Mr. Churchill is the Dangerous Dan Mc-
Grew of imperial politics, and he is far more
dangerous to us than to the enemy. He can’t
help meddling and muddling. He and his
supporters are obviously working for the placing
of the Navy, the Army and the Air Force under
the control of one Minister —himself. It would
be an act of madness.”
—The Bulletin, Jan. 31, 1940.
At the beginning of the gravest week in
Australia’s history—a week which saw
the Japanese surround, though they failed
to annihilate, two heroic Australian bat-
talions in Malaya, move closer to Singa-
pore, substantially increase their gains in
Burma, and, after bombing nearly all the
New Guinea settlements and Tulagi, in
the Solomons* invade Australian-con-
trolled territory—Australians learned that
Mr. Churchill had returned to England
and were regaled with the familiar sugges-
tion that everything would be all right
now. Perhaps by way of fixing this im-
pression a photograph of the Prime
Minister, complete with cigar, at the con-
trols of his flying boat was radiogrammed
from London.
The House of Commons, it was re-
corded, found the returned wanderer in
“a buoyant mood.” Though not, perhaps,
quite as carefree as when his jokes and
quips kept the reporters at Ottawa
amused, unquestionably “buoyant.” But
the “buoyant” mood changed to one of
defiance when freelance members tackled
him about the fate of Hong Kong, the
situation in Malaya, the peril to Australia,
and the admission of the Dominions
to British war councils. He curtly
intimated that he would speak in a full-
dress debate the following week, after
which his critics might vote the Govern-
ment out of office —if they could.
This attitude was not to the taste of
some of the newspapers. To these prints
Mr. Churchill is a genius surrounded and
shackled by nincompoops, and they had
spent a congenial fortnight blaming the
latter for Malaya—indeed, almost every-
body except Mr. Churchill and the press
—and urging him to get rid of them as
soon as he returned. A cool suggestion
that Mr. Churchill’s speech and no other
should be recorded for broadcasting
brought objections in the House which
were echoed by writing boys. But the
sharpest note of criticism was struck by
Conservative members who belong to the
1922 committee, formed when the Con-
servatives, led by Mr. Bonar Law, gave
the Lloyd George-Churchill Government
notice to quit. The 1922 committee sig-
nificantly declared that it would not be
a party to stifling criticism by placing
members honestly dissatisfied with
features of the war effort and with the
course of events in the Pacific zone in a
false position.
Two institutions which have failed the
Empire in its need are British Intelli-
gence and the British Commonwealth
press. From the very outset of the war
they have been proved wrong about
nearly every country directly or indirectly
concerned in it, from “united” France,
with its “impregnable” Maginot Line, to
“exhausted” Japan, with its “lousy” air
force ; and their imbecilities have been
repeated and added to by broadcast-
ing stations. Never was so vast an
amount of money spent for so poor a
return in precise and detailed informa-
tion. Here and there a Ward Price or a
Sisley Huddleston has written with the
knowledge derived from years of intimate
study of foreigners and of foreign coun-
tries, but for every such sober observer
there have been scores of credulous
and cocksure reporters, many of them
parlor Pinks, whose wanderings in regions
where crafty legpullers abound have pro-
duced only a vast accumulation of mis-
leading rubbish. The good faith of these
innocents is not questioned, even in cases
where they have shown an obvious ten-
dency to believe what they wanted to
believe. There is neither good faith
nor common decency in editorial writers
and commentators who have attributed
all Mr. Churchill’s mistakes to subordi-
nates. On the contrary, they have been
guilty of intellectual dishonesty in
cowardly forms.
In the fierce hunt for scapegoats “the
men of Munich” have always been the
quarry. Yet only four of Mr. Churchill’s
28 Cabinet Ministers were Chamberlain
Cabinet Ministers who supported the
Munich policy. Two, the Lord Chan-
cellor, Viscount Simon, and the Minister
of Health, Mr. Ernest Brown, are not
in the War Cabinet. The others are Sir
John Anderson, Lord President of the
Council, and Sir Kingsley Wood, Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer, both members
of the War Cabinet and, judged on what
they have done and what they have said
—and haven’t said—the ablest of Mr.
Churchill’s servants. Indeed, if Mr.
Churchill ceased to be Prime Minister, an
event which to the still-doting “S. M.
Herald” is “unthinkable,” Sir John
Anderson would most probably suc-
ceed him. It is “unthinkable” that the
succession would fall to Mr. Anthony
Eden—the unluckiest, if not the worst.
Foreign Secretary Britain has ever had,
who still draws his inspiration from the
worst day’s work it ever did, which was
to make the Covenant of the League
“the cornerstone of British foreign policy”
—or Mr. Duff Cooper or Mr. Amery
or Lord Cranbourne or Mr. Brendan
Bracken, all of whom were brought into
the Cabinet by Mr. Churchill as parti-
cular friends.
True, Sir John Anderson and Sir
Kingsley Wood have to bear their share
of responsibility for the position in
which their Government finds itself, and
for what has happened to Hong Kong,
the Malaya Peninsula, Burma, Singapore,
British Borneo and—to the extent to
which their Government may be fairly
charged with responsibility—Australia.
But they cannot have had any active part
in the performances of which the present
evil situation is an outcome.
Mr. Churchill, like the Turk, “bears no
brothers near the throne.” He even ex-
cluded from his War Cabinet the three
service Ministers and the tongue-tied lord
who is Secretary of Dominion Affairs.
His ideas of strategy are his own. All
his campaigns, from Gallipoli to Malaya,
show not the John Anderson or Kingsley
Wood touch, but the Churchill touch.
They have all been marked by imperfect
appreciation of vital mechanical factors,
by failure to realise the strength of the
enemy and the value of time, by in-
feriority in numbers and equipment, by
impetuous meddling, by costly sacrifices,
and by resounding rhetoric which events
have made ridiculous in a tragic way.
Mr. Churchill never changes. “He thinks
he is Napoleon,” Lord Esher wrote 35
years ago, and a press enthralled by his
eloquence has encouraged him to think
it still. He has no regrets for his last
campaign and is always going to win the
next.
While Mr. Churchill was away, two of
his Yes-men indulged in the sort of absur-
dities to which thickheaded servants of
Napoleon were addicted when their
master was not on hand to keep them in
check. When things in the Pacific zone
were going from bad to worse, Mr. Alex-
ander, titular First Lord of the Admir-
alty, blithered that “if We knock out the
Axis Powers in Europe we will be able
to do what we like with Japan after-
wards.” This rankled in the minds of
Ministers at Canberra, and at the week-
end Dr. Evatt exploded to the effect that
Mr. Alexander and those other British
politicians who “think” like him “will at
long last learn the lesson that the defence
of Malaya and the Netherlands East
Indies is in truth the defence of Britain,
as well as the defence of Australia.”
It is a pity that so much will have to
be suffered by gallant soldiers and innocent
people to prove that Malaya is not a side-
show but a primary and vital struggle be-
tween the democracies and the three Axis
Powers Australians refuse to believe that
the people of Britain are blind to the
immediate peril in the Pacific to their own
and the Allied cause.
In an equally fatuous moment, Lord
Moyne, the Colonial Secretary, bleated
that the “vastness of the aid we have
given Russia will be known some day.”
“The vastness of the aid we” haven’t
given the Pacific countries is known
already. Did nobody put in a word for
the Empire when “the vastness of the
aid we have given Russia” was decided
upon? Did nobody?
Lord Moyne’s words and those of Mr.
Alexander came home bitterly to Aus-
trahans when the Prime Minister of
Japan had an outpouring of insolence,
born of temporary success, last week.
After threatening to beat the British and
Americans to their knees, General Tojo
offered Australia and the N.E.I. “our help,
with full understanding,” conditionally
on their giving up the fight, failing which
unspeakable surrender, “we will show no
mercy in crushing them.” In the same
speech he declared that Russo-Japanese
relations were “regulated” by the Molo-
tov-Matsuoka neutrality agreement, and
that Soviet conversations in Britain and
America had had no effect on them at all.
When this compound of brag and insult
was published the papers were carrying
columns about Russian victories over the
Germans, and crediting the Russians with
superiority in equipment on the ground
and in the air. Presently a languid
8.8. C. voice was heard declaring that
the dispatch of Anglo-American war
materials to Russia, via the Persian Gulf,
had reached such enormous proportions
that a commission had been set up to
regulate discharges and deliveries. Sir
Stafford Cripps declared with exultation
—which commanders in Malaya, Burma,
the N.E.I. and Australia will find it diffi-
cult to share—that “the Russian generals
are very pleased with the Valentine tanks
which Britain sent them, and with the
operations of the R.A.F. wing”—presum-
ably three squadrons—“in Russia.” The
bewildering story was rounded off by a
Tokyo Radio statement: the Foreign
Minister had informed a party of news-
papermen that Japan, at the outset of
the war in the Pacific, had received assur-
ances from Russia that Russia would
observe the neutrality pact “to the letter.”
Mr. Curtin gave the Japanese war-
lords their answer in one word, which
will be the only word spoken by any
Australian whatever may befall —No.
His Ministers for the Army, External
Affairs and Supply told the British
Government plainly that Australia ex-
pects all the reinforcements and equip-
ment that Britain can furnish without en-
dangering the homeland or the Middle
East, and that there is not a moment to
be lost. Nobody said, what should have
been said long ago, that strategy and the
disposition of forces, machines, weapons
and munitions should be removed from
political control and placed under the
direction of war-wise men; but Mr.
Curtin, speaking in Perth —to which he
made a strange and untimely journey—
came out with a forthright declaration,
“as supplementary to the numerous direct
communications of the same nature which
the Australian Government has been
making to those concerned” —which
means to Mr. Churchill, above all:
Australia’s position in regard to the
higher strategic direction of the war is clear
and decisive. We make it plain that we
claim representation on an Imperial War
Cabinet so that Australia’s voice and
counsel may be heard directly.
We also claim that a Pacific council should
be established on which the countries par-
ticularly concerned with the Pacific may col-
laborate in the most effectual way in deal-
ing with the problems of war in that theatre.
Our airmen, naval forces and military
forces have been engaged with the enemy
in distant theatres and have comported
themselves with great gallantry and distinc-
tion. What they have done and are doing
is evidence that Australia’s fighting calibre,
tested on many fields, should be available
also in the highest councils for the strategic
disposition of the total forces to which
Australia has been so considerable a con-
tributor.
The Pacific struggle obviously calls for
proper machinery for the mobilisation of
the forces resisting the enemy.
I make this statement knowing that the
dangers facing us have increased the de-
mands upon us, have become greater, and
the obligations devolving upon our people
are now immeasurably greater.
It now becomes imperative that the
9,000,000 Britishers in the Pacific should
have a direct say in the direction of the
total resistance which the democracies must
invoke against the enemy as the indispens-
able requisite for victory.
At the same time he addressed another
appeal for assistance to the President of
the United States. In the attitude he has
adopted he has the full support of the
Australian nation.
Meanwhile Australians must be pre-
pared to fight for very existence on their
own continent, as well as in parts neigh-
boring and remote. In order that the fight
may be victorious, and the victory last-
ing, the Government must take and exer-
cise promptly all the powers that the
British Government took and exercised
when Britain was in imminent peril of in-
vasion. What the British people did in
that heroic period of their history (and
Mr. Churchill’s part in it can never be
forgotten) the Australian people can do
and will. What General MacArthur’s
soldiers are doing without air or sea sup-
port against superior numbers Australian
soldiers can do, and more.
Menzies Pleads a Case.
In one of his broadcasts Mr. R. G.
Menzies worked on a theme that will be
familiar enough to Bulletin readers:
that it is a shabby, not to say cowardly,
resort when people and their newspapers
now try to shift on to past politicians
the whole blame for disastrous cheese-
paring defence policies. “We are all in
this, he said, “and we need not be too
self-righteous about it.”
In Australia in 1935 a Defence
Budget, not of £250,000,000 as in this year,
but of £20,000,000 would have been re-
garded as a piece of war-mongering hysteria.
Why on earth shouldn’t we be honest with
ourselves about these matters?
It is true enough, and it is sufficient
answer to those who seek to escape their
own share of blame by putting all blame
on past politicians. At the same time,
politicians cannot escape all blame,
either. Of every political color, they,
too, are all in this.
The politicians could have done what
this paper alone constantly advised them
to do that is, place the ideal of a safe
country before the ideal of a safe seat.
They could have acted like statesmen,
instead of like politicians. It is true —
and a sufficiently harsh criticism of the
electorate at large—that had they done
so they would have been kicked out; but
one who had had the courage then to
place country before personal political
safety would now have had unassailable
prestige. The sum of that past collective
weakness is the position Australia faces
today.
Mr. Menzies confessed that he and his
colleagues “always felt that the view taken
on Singapore [in Britain] was too dis-
tant, and that ‘optimism increased with
the distance.”’ He did not indulge in
any cheap scapegoat-hunting over this,
but pointed out that “no nation can start
four years behind its rivals and in a
couple of years provide adequately, not
merely for its own defence, but for the
defence of places scattered all over the
world.” This neatly put the responsibility
back where it originally belongs—on the
shoulders of all who, whether they have
the courage to admit it or not, in the past
voted for and insisted on policies that
made a virtue of defencelessness. But
it does not make the position facing Aus-
tralia as a direct result any less disagree-
able.
It is another matter to ask who should
take the blame now for the sickening
muddle in air-raid precautions in the big-
gest city in Australia. Mr. Hughes put
his finger on the single cause of the
muddle: “Warden service, any more than
other war service, should not be left to
individual or voluntary action.” Yet
another, and one of the most needed, con-
demnations of the “voluntary system” to
which Australia, in the third year of a
war in which it has delivered declara-
tions of war right and left, and with in-
vasion a probability and air raids a prac-
tical certainty, is still “committed” a
spectacle to convulse the gods.
The people at large have the unanswer-
able excuse that they cannot know, as
the Government does, what the A.R.P.
position really is. If the full truth were
given to them they would insist on a
drastic change.
For past sins politicians and Govern-
ments have the excuse that they did what
the electorate insisted on their doing.
But their position then was a peace-time
position, based on the peace-time con-
ception of Parliamentary government that
it is the duty of elected representatives to
reflect the popular opinion of the elec-
torate, never to mould or lead it. That
is a misconception for which democracy
is paying dearly ; but, in any case, the
position for the time being has completely
changed.
Government, under special national
emergency regulations, now has over-
riding power. For this reason it cannot
seek to share the blame equally with the
electorate if preventable disaster occurs.
The electorate must always deserve some
of the blame for not demanding action in
advance ; but the Government has power
to take that action now, without refer-
ence to the electorate. If it fails, because
of a sickly inversion of loyalty to an out-
moded “voluntary system,” it will require
a better pleader even than Mr. Menzies
to absolve it from the full share of guilt.
It can be no excuse that it has handed
over A.R.P. (and evacuation) to provincial
talk-shops masquerading as Governments.
It alone has the full power to enforce
compulsion, and in regard to every aspect
of Australia’s defence position it should
do so at once.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Enemies of This Country."
A poor opinion of the national-security
regulations designed to prevent N. S.
Wales coalminers from adding to their
damnable record of war-time strikes and
local stoppages was expressed in B.
14/1 /’42.
A fortnight after the regulations were
issued they had broken down completely.
Strike after strike was held in contempt
of them. While Japanese bombs were
falling in New Guinea and a Japanese
fleet was about to land soldiers in that
country five northern and two southern
mines were idle, pretexts for the stop-
pages ranging from the employment of a
man who had many years ago been a non-
striker, though he has a certificate from
the union executive, to alleged failure to
promote a wheeler. In no case did “the
duly constituted committee of manage-
ment” send a report to the Coal Com-
missioner, much less expel anyone. And
although a director of one of the com-
panies asked the Commissioner to take
action, pointing out that single men in
their' twenties had worked up the strike
in his mine, the Commissioner’s hands
were tied by the procedure laid down.
The Prime Minister, for his part, had
said that “men who are not in the fight-
ing forces and who at the same time will
not work are as much the enemies of
this country as the directly enlisted
legions of the enemy.” Strong words,
but words only, and those for whom they
were intended ignored them.
At the week-end, Mr. Curtin had gone
to Westralia for nine or ten days, and
three of his Ministers were attending a
conference asked for or ordered by the
bosses of the Miners’ Federation. That
sort of thing is at the root of the whole
trouble. The coalminers have been
allowed to behave as a privileged caste.
They work on their own terms and strike
when they please. In everything th£t
relates to their occupation they are a law
to themselves. They insist not only that
they have a right to strike, even when
the nation is in the direst peril, but a
right to prevent other men from doing
for the nation what they refuse to do.
Small as their numbers are relatively to
the general community, and wholly de-
pendent as they are on the general com-
munity for almost everything except coal,,
which they can’t eat —and in the last
resort the coal belongs to the Crown
they look upon themselves as constituting
a State within a State. And when they
condescend to treat with the Govern-
ment, whether it be the Government of
N. S. Wales or the Government of the
Commonwealth, it is as one power treat-
ing with another.
This can’t go on. The rights and the
interests of the whole people are greater
than those of any part, whatever airs it
may give itself and to whatever extent
its unconscionable claims have been
weakly conceded in the past. The safety
of the nation is the supreme law, and
this supreme law must be enforced with-
out any more parleying with those who
dispute it.
N.S.W. coalmines should be placed
under industrial conscription. And while
the country is in peril the penalties for
refusal of duty should be as swift and as
relentless in their application as those
prescribed for mutiny and desertion in the
face of the enemy. Enforced in that
spirit, Mr. Curtin’s list of punishments,
provided the regulations are made water-
tight and union bosses are held as ac-
countable as mineowners, might fit the
crime. But in every case conviction should
carry a further penalty of disfranchise-
ment for at least three years.
"Wow! Wow! Wow!"
Soon after he was appointed N.S.W.
Minister of Education Mr. Clive Evatt
decided to “abolish corporal punishment”
in Government schools, getting off some-
thing about better methods of understand-
ing and training “anti-social” children.
Teachers and parents, fully aware of the
prevalence of “anti-social” ideas in the
average healthy youngster and also aware
of the speed with which the primitive
mind takes advantage of milk-and-water
discipline, arose in alarm. Some of the
youngsters arose, too, but were quickly
suppressed. Mr. Evatt later made his
decision “final,” though his leader hur-
ried into the debate with a statement that
it would be “reviewed.”
Mr. Evatt had meanwhile viewed with
some pain the “wards of the State.”
“Most of them,” he sobbed, “feel they
are a forgotten legion.” He would cure
that with “study of the individual,” even
to the extent of inviting some of them
to his office to “talk things over.” A little
later he hoped to “remove all bars and
locks” from reformatories place the
inmates on an “honor system.”
Then Mr. Evatt appeared in Newcastle,
where he asked schoolchildren to look
on him as “daddy” and a couple of
embarrassed colleagues as “uncles.”
Going to a girls’ reformatory concert at
Parramatta, he advised the young women
to live their “own lives ; be individualists.”
Some report of this advice possibly
reached the Gosford boys’ reformatory.
Anyway, “individualists” broke out of
Gosford and Parramatta in waves and set
forth into the big world to “live their
own lives.” There is no report of the
boys’ remarks, but police had to toil
through the Hawkesbury scrubs after
them, taking some in the commission of
“anti-social” acts. The pursuit extended
even unto Sydney’s outer suburbs,
Parramatta girls screeched “Wow!
Wow! Wow!” as they scrambled over
roofs and walls to “develop their charac-
ters,” after smashing institution crockery
and furniture. They chanted “Wow!
Wow! Wow!” again as they bombarded
police with handy missiles before Black
A/Jarin partod tbpm back Thp
Maria carted them bacK. me super n
tendent of their institution, ted with
this violent enthusiasm for the Minister’s
precepts, is “reliably reported” to have
Z. ant u:- A i~ Mr
sent in his resignation. A lead which M .
Evatt might well contemplate after a
review of six months of educational
Qrhlpvpmpnt
1 u *
JfiVtt 1 * Millions.
_
From “Feng-Shui,” who lived among
<• ,
them lor years.
Armchair military experts and “famous
correspondents have been notably wrong about
Europe and Asia. As soon as Borneo was
invaded they started babbling about the dread
headhunters of Sarawak, and referring to the
immense populations in our northern neighbors
as if they were a positive advantage to a
defender.
Java, for instance, contains something like
45 000 000 people on an area about the size
of’ Tasmania. A few thousands are white,
160 000 are Eurasian, and there are 2,000,000
Chinese Arabs and representatives of other
Asiatic races. The rest are a more or less
homogeneous population of hereditary peasants
who have ploughed the same ricefields with their
pointed stakes and water buffaloes and fed
from the product for untold generations. They
have been lorded over by Hindus, Arabs, Portu-
guese and Dutchmen, and for a short interrcg*
num were under an Englishman (Raffles ); and I
doubt whether they have ever been aware
of any change of rulers in any fundamental
fashion. . . ... ~
During the depression most of the whites
were t^rown out Q f employment and many
were reduced to destitution. They were corn-
pletely dependent on their own economic
system. But the natives weren’t. White-
collar native clerks disappeared from the haunts
of commerce in thousands and went back to
their families. Standards of living changed the
world over, but they scarcely changed in the
kampong. The native had his bit of sawah,
his grove of bananas, coconuts and mangoes.
Between the Dutchmen and the English under
Lord Minto there were bloody battles on the
plains around Batavia; but it is doubtful if
the native at Bondowoso ever heard about them,
jf the all-pervading depression made so few in-
roads on the life of the native it isn’t likely
that many would be made either by an invader
or a defender, however energetic,
Hence the Pacific conflict will have to be
viewed in a perspective very different from
the European conflict. It took years of
organisation and propaganda for Stalin and his
associates to galvanise the Russian peasant,
and he had first to be turned from an
individualist into a collective farmer and then
into an industrialised cipher. Even the greatest
of leaders could not galvanise a people who
were not aware of his existence. The only
Asiatic leaders who have done it to date are
Chiang Kai-shek and Gandhi; but it took them
a lifetime to do it.
THE WINNAH!
"We are gratified that our allies, Germany and Italy, are also winning victories for the establishment
of a new world order.” —Tojo.


QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request,
Directors;
0. E. FRIEND P. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND P. W. HIXSON
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman); P. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq.; H. 0. Morrow, Esq.
General Manager —D, S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Sydney-
North
&
vt%
S.C.E.G.G.S.
RIVER ROAD,
GREENWICH
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
Boarding & Day School for Girls
* Situated in about 10 acres of bushland
grounds on the North Shore Line, with beautiful
Harbour views. Curriculum from Kindergarten
to Leaving Certificate Honours, with oppor-
tunities to specialise in Business Principles and
Domestic Science. Staff of graduates and trained
teachers. Spacious grounds and tennis courts.
New terra commences 11th February, 1942.
An emergency Boarding and Day School has
been established in Leura and will open on the
same date as usual for boarding and day girls.
Excellent air-raid shelters have been provided.
Full particulars from :
Mrs. E. M. Arundel, M.A. (Syd. Uni.),
River Road. Greenwich.
POLITICAL POINTS
Ministers came out with “appeals” to
bosses and workers not to take the
Anniversary Day holiday. In these mat-
ters Maoriland Labor doesn’t believe in
appealing to anybody. Before the Japs
started bombing Rabaul it cancelled the
Anniversary Day holiday.
Army Minister Forde has announced
that, “if necessary,” he will conscript
aliens for labor battalions, including
aliens formerly interned. His Govern-
ment still shies at all-in conscription of
its own nationals.
Curtin’s private opinion of election of
Ministers by party majority would be
worth hearing. In 1929 Caucus left him
out of the Scullin Ministry, though he
was streets ahead of at least six of the
gentlemen preferred to him. In 1941 it
thrust Ward on him, and last week, in
silent consternation, he heard Ward per-
forming on the need for “taking over
many basic industries completely.” After
that the P.M. discovered an urgent need
for his presence in Westralia.
Whyalla (S.A.) is not only increasingly
important to the war effort but it repre-
sents the greatest and most successful ex-
periment in decentralisation of essential
industries that this country has seen for
many a long year. It is the pride of
Premier Playford’s heart, and he expects
that it will transmit his name to posterity,
associated with that of B.H.P. Judge of
his feelings when Brown, the Common-
wealth Co-ordinator of Works, put it
to him that work on the Morgan-Whyalla
pipeline should be stopped so that the
material might be transferred to Sydney
for use by that city’s No-Water Board.
Playford, an Old Digger, was hard put
to it to express his refusal in terms which
the papers could print.
Adelaide “Advertiser” points out
acidly to “amateur strategists” and others
who are “squealing because Singapore
is threatened” that they never suggested
that Australia should share in the cost
of and assume part of the responsibility
for the Singapore naval base. On the
contrary, “if they had had their way there
would have been no Singapore,” What is
more:
No voices were more clamorous for “All-
Aid to the Soviet” than some of the voices
which have since been loudest in protest
about the shortage of equipment in Singa-
pore and its approaches. Little Australians
and fanatical pro-Russians should be
ashamed to say a word on the subject of
Malayan defence.
And so they should ; but these squealers
have no sense of shame.
As soon as Churchill returned to Eng-
land it came out that U. Saw, Premier
of Burma for three years, had been “de-
tained by the British Government because
of his alleged association with the
enemy.” U. Saw visited London in
October to ask Churchill for a definite
promise of Dominion status, and was
sent away with a flea in his ear. On his
return journey he said he was coming to
Australia, but he turned up in the U.S.A.
instead. In view of the situation in
Asia, which is worse than at any time
since the Indian Mutiny, no risks can be
taken with Burmese or Indian National-
ists, but it is a pity that Halifax or Hoare
hasn’t had the handling of these persons
instead of “the One-man Band.”
Churchill’s opposition to Hoare’s Federa-
tion of India Bill is sourly remembered.
The Sydney Premier promised to
abolish the wages tax and said the price
of milk must be reduced. Alleging that
he was doing away with the wages tax,
he made most of those liable to income
tax pay nearly double. Now he has
allowed Sydney-zone dairy farmers an
extra 4d. a gallon and passed it on to
the consumers. The Milk Board remains,
to “control” something or other—
salaries, no doubt.
The Victorian “Government” has re-
plied in the negative to Curtin’s sug-
gestion that motor registration fees be
reduced. “Reasons”: (1) the Dunstans
feel they have a “definite obligation” to
maintain roads; and (2) “most of the
other States are not reducing fees.” Play-
ford (S.A.) and Willcock (W.A.) knocked
25 p.c. off months ago and their roads
appear to be as good as ever they were.
From the annual report of the Aus-
tralian Teachers’ Federation:
The A.T.F. has striven throughout many
years to obtain Federal recognition of edu-
cation as a national responsibility.
Unfortunately the A.T.F.’s idea for too
many years was that the national Gov-
ernment should tax the people and hand
over the proceeds to provincial Govern-
ments with six Ministers of Education
for expenditure without responsibility.
Now it refers to “the great need for Aus-
“Monday, the fourth day of the Japanese invasion of New Guinea, was a public holiday
m Sydney—for State Government offices the third idle day in succession—and the N.S.W.
Government Transport Department ran special services for holidaymakers. But men in war
industries worked.”
“ALL TO YOUR BATTLE STATIONS!”
tralian education to be conducted
nationally”; and that is infinitely better.
Indeed, if the A.T.F. keeps going in that
direction it will get what it wants, and
that perhaps sooner than it expects,
Mr. Brown, the Commonwealth Co-
ordinator of Works, “is expected to
recommend a cut of at least £8,000,000
in the £20,000,000 loan programme fixed
by the Premiers last August.” What is
wanted is a recommendation to reduce
the number of State Premiers by at
least six.
It seems only a few months since Reds
and others were uttering hoarse cries of
“Boycott the National Register!” and
scrawling the words on footpaths and
pasting them on posts; but we are now
to have another —register, not boycott,
though possibly that will come. Under
the new man-power regulations “national
service officers are to be set up in each
State,” and they are to “compile a new
national register immediately.” Why the
old one can’t be used only politicians and
Government employees know.
In Mackay (N.Q.) last week a man
charged with wife murder hanged him-
self in his cell. Had he been convicted
he wouldn’t have been hanged, so per-
haps scragging himself was his way of
protesting against the abolition of capital
punishment.
From a 1942 Year-Book:
The garrison at Hong Kong is facing the
future with confidence and fortitude.
Hong Kong has more guns of its size than
any other part of the British Empire
Japan Bogged In China: it has lost over
a million in dead American journalists,
after a recent tour of Malaya, reported that
the defences of the peninsula are now as
formidable as those of the island fortress
of Singapore. Great camps have been built
under cover of rubber-trees, and bomber
and fighter aircraft are now using aero-
dromes on spots which a few months ago
were covered with dense vegetation.
London “Daily Mail” vouched for all of
it, and more.
The Sydney Government has passed
the buck again. It has appointed another
committee to “investigate” the milk busi-
ness —the third in a few months, and
there were two royal commissions pre-
viously. And it never needed costly in-
quiries to establish what has been known
for years—that there’s too great a spread
between producer and consumer prices
and that the board system of “control”
is a washout.
In the Defence estimates for 1941-42
the G.O.C. Eastern Command is listed
at £1519 p.a., the G.O.C. Western Com-
mand at £lll9 and the Adjutant-General
at £1269. The editor of the “A.B.C.
Weekly,” which has lost barrels of
money, gets £l5OO.
“Feng-Shui”: It seems, according to
some Australian newspapers, that we are
fighting to restore the independence of
the Filipino, but when did he have any?
Never under his native rulers nor under
the Spaniard. As for the Americans,
they taught the Filipino mass production,
which has destroyed his native arts and
crafts, and permitted him to copy
American democratic institutions with
Oriental trimmings, which duly developed
into party government on Western lines,
with a few extra absurdities of local
manufacture. They also got him to build
a new city outside the old Intramuros
with ice-cream parlors, milk-bars, cinemas,
skyscrapers, just like Chicago on a small
scale; and they taught him lawyering
and stockbroking, at which he turned
out to be even more adept than his
exemplars. But they haven’t given him
independence.
Dedman, now a Minister, on the
Fadden Budget (Oct. 2);
If the hon. member for Henty supports
the amendment moved by my leader, I
shall think that he is one of the greatest-
hearted gentlemen I have ever met.
Coles supported the amendment and out
went the Fadden Government. Partly in
consequence of the Chifley taxes the
market price of ordinary shares in the
Coles concern has in three months or so
fallen from 645. 6d. to 525. With
unconscious humor, Chifley named “one
of the greatest-hearted gentlemen” chair-
man of the War Damage Commission.
When the howl for a second Euro-
pean front was at its height (rumbles
are still heard), Wickham Steed, some-
time editor of the “Times,” said
it was sheer presumption for news-
papers to demand any particular mili-
tary campaign or adventure, since they
could have at most only that modi-
cum of knowledge that was dangerous.
For himself, he knew nothing of military
science, much less strategy, and every
journalist he had known was in the same
boat. A Mr. Holt, a Sydney leader-
writer, demurs. Mr, Holt handsomely
admits that it would be “inadvisable for
a journalist to lay down the law about
the disposition of troops and material in
an actual battle,” but he insists that
“strategy is not exclusively a soldier’s
problem.” It may be inferred that, in
Mr. Holt’s opinion, Holt, Penton, Baume,
Gordon and Owen know all about it.
There is no evidence that the enemy has
made it a newspaperman’s war, but then
the enemy isn’t blessed with geniuses
like Holt, Penton, Baume, Gordon and
Owen.
Disraeli, in his Rectorial Address to
the students of the University of Glas-
gow, delivered in 1873:
If it be true, as I believe, that an aris-
tocracy distinguished merely by wealth
must perish from satiety, so I hold it is
equally true that a people who recognise
no higher aim than physical enjoyments
must become selfish and enervated. Under
such circumstances, the supremacy of race,
which is the key of history, will assert
itself. Some human progeny, distinguished
by their bodily vigor or their masculine
intelligence or by both qualities, will assert
their superiority and conquer a world which
deserves to be enslaved. It will then be
found that our boasted progress has only
been advancement in a circle, and that a
new philosophy has brought us back to
that old serfdom which it has taken ages
to extirpate.
It is pasted in Hitler’s scrapbook, no
doubt.
From “After Munich”;
A Sydney newspaper article which has been
reprinted in other States asserts that if Curtin
had had his way at the 1937 election he would
have saved us from the present troubles and
perils. His idea then was that £7,500,000 should
be spent in buying 300 ’planes for the R.A.A.F.
It is taken for granted that the machines would
have been the best that money could buy, that
the right numbers of bombers and fighters
would have been chosen, and that Jack would
have stood up manfully to the annual cost
involved, which in all ways would have been
substantial. But for £7,500,000 voted in 1937-38
he would have got, not Spitfires and Hurri-
canes, but Fairey Battles and the like. Would
he have realised their deficiencies in time and
taken the heroic resolution to scrap them
and spend £10,000,000 or more on better
machines? It is improbable. On November
29, 1938, he described the proposed expendi-
ture of “about £16,000,000” on all the fighting
services, equipment, maintenance, everything,
as “colossal” (used three tunes), “tremendous,”
“stupendous.”


v'
-51:^211
m
rt\S e^C ’
p° u , »^f^ ii ' s -
■*s***
les
I
**
Melbourne!?
Most Popular Motel
Next Town Hall - Little Collins Street
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of jour
W % ZLWTour
Assurance Co. f Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
worm can ucai
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., ITD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney. Managing Director-
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria • A O.A Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Oueensi and- A.C.A. Building. 270 Queen Street. Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace. Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
JUST PUBLISHED
s°
rf?
">of
26 OHTMM j
OLD AND NEW
HUMOUROUS
SONGS,
PARODIES,
LIMERICKS,
NAVAL & AIR
FORCE DITTIES.
Words and music of 43 songs, in-
cluding ' There’ll always be an Eng-
land,” “Darwin.” Piano and ukulele
or accordeon.
PRICE 2/6, POSTED 2/9.
ALLAN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne, Adelaide.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The silence of Dean Maitland was
deafening compared with that of Major-
General Gordon Bennett, A.I.F. leader
in Malaya, when the Japs were for days
reporting him both captured and killed.
It was nothing remarkable to anyone who
ever knew him as a first-class soldier,
capable of the traditional soldier’s taci-
turnity. It may have surprised those who
knew him only as a civilian between the
wars. Then, missing his natural vocation,
he could be as voluble as Macaulay him-
self on anything on which he held strong
views. One of the most friendly of men,
he never forgives anybody who tries to
put one over him. His facial appearance
is a study in contrasts —what two wars
have left of the sort of red thatch that
usually goes with a lively phiz surmount-
ing, in his case, granite seriousness.
The Bulletin talked to Sydney’s
Public Librarian W. H. Ifould for half
an hour and came away with the impres-
sion of a spark-plug: not very large but
immensely alive, set exactly in the right
place, and crackling with energetic
opinions on books (the necessity for a
librarian to be well-read in applied
optics or fretwork) ; sculpture (the ex-
cellent work of Ralph Walker and
Daphne Mayo for the new library’s
W. H. WOULD.
bronze doors); art (Mary Edwards’s
lovely self-portrait in the Archibald com-
petition) ; and architecture (domes,
knobs and whirligigs, from all of which
excrescences the librarian saved the new
library, the large, light and airy reading-
room of which is in striking contrast
with the old kennel of a place). On
February 3 his deputy, J. W. Metcalfe,
succeeds W. H. Ifould, who is then due
to retire after 30 years’ hard work.
A. K. Reid, secretary of Tasmania’s
Transport Commission, who goes on loan
to the Federal Department of War
Organisation of Industry (phew!), was in
his pre-Speck days a N. S. Wales public
servant with a Sydney Uni. diploma in
public administration. He kept Tassie
afloat in the shoals of Federal coal and
transport legislation, and found time for
the Wheat Committee, Civil Defence
Legion and Evacuation Committee —of
course, only ignoramuses with poisonous
minds ask where on earth Tassies would
evacuate to.
Visits to England as manager of Aus-
tralian Elevens (1921 and 1926) helped
N. S. Wales Cricket Assoc, president
Syd Smith to acquire the authentic
Marylebone touch that came out in his
obit, tribute last week to a cricketing
celebrity: “Although at no time a mem-
ber of the association, Mr. Gascoigne
was widely known as a patron of ‘The
Hill,’ and was famous throughout the
cricketing w0r1d....” That is to say,
“Yabba,” who would have been auto-
matic choice as captain of any represen-
tative side of barrackers. Like wit from
the Bench, his choicest comments sound
flat away from their setting, but there they
could be devastating. “Yabba” has been
credited with coining “Johnny Won’t Hit
Today” for J. W. H. T. Douglas, Prince
of Stonewall Fielding on the fence,
Patsy Hendren nearly acquired the Aus-
tralian lean from resting on the palings
yarning with “Yabba” when things were,
as cynics said, more dull than usual
On generals and the makings thereof:
General Wavell’s selection of five active-ser-
vice Australians for his staff in the Near North
was more than a gesture pleasing to Australia:
it was an expert’s recognition of the least-pub-
licised side of Digger fighting quality—a
natural talent for all branches of the game,
from shocktroop-scrapping to the administrative
end. Choice included a brigadier of 42
(C. E. M. Lloyd, a Duntroon product) and
a major of 25 (M. Austin, another from the
school which a few years back was treated by
politicians as anybody’s Aunt Sally), and
Colonel Durant, 42, a further ad. for Dun-
troon. The other two, Majors T. P. Sellers
and F. A. Woods (both 31), have learnt their
active-service job well over the past couple of
years. Brigadier Lloyd, who was also one of
General Blarney’s special selections, was General
Morshead’s chief of staff right through Tobruk.
Two others well in the spotlight at highly
important points are the former brigadiers
D. V. J. Blake and B. M. Morris, both made
major-generals, in command respectively at
Darwin and Port Moresby. Both were soldiers
last time, Major-General Morris winning the
D.S.O. and Major : General Blake the American
Distinguished Service Medal —one of four Aus-
tralians to get that decoration.
The name has to be unofficially cen-
sored, but it is , a returned
Maori, relating his war experiences: “I
chase that German two miles at the end
of my bayonet. Then I get too tired, so
I pull the trigger.”
Ex-Sydney City Alderman Sloss —now
Private Sloss, of the A.I.F. —started as a
’Loo newsboy, got a municipal street-
charing job, and was alderman inside 10
years. Trying to win the (for Labor)
almost impossible Macquarie Ward at the
last municipal election, he gave out that,
win or lose, he intended to enlist. He
missed by six votes, and before the ink
on his George-street hotel license transfer
was dry he was a Digger.
George V. Syer, the R.A.A.F. bomber
pilot who clipped half an hour or so off
the Atlantic record, was trained as a sky
pilot. An Anglican Bush Brother on the
job in Queensland when war came, he
joined the R.A.A.F. in August, 1940, and
got his wings in Canada. Born in Surrey
(Eng.), he is now 30. Of his three
brothers on active service, one died in
Greece.
One of those steady-looking chaps with
little to say and as much talent for
settling arguments as most people have
for starting them, Victoria’s new Secre-
tary for Labor and Chief Factories and
Shops Inspector has as an added virtue
the cheerful name of R. H. Beers. A
P.M. in Melbourne city courts, he was
chairman of the Metropolitan Industrial
Court and the Fair Rents Court since
their inception and has presided over
many wages boards.
Major-General F. A. Maguire, Director-
General of Army Medical Services since
March, 1941, telephoned the Sydney book
house of Angus and Robertson mention-
ing that he was going to hospital for a
few weeks and would they send him out
a couple of thrillers. Handed the order,
without being told anything of the cir-
cumstances, the firm’s Book Club con-
scientiously forwarded its two current
masterpieces, The Devil Is Sick and Let
Him Die. Anything less Mephistophelian
than the General’s cheerful phiz would
take finding. The little war in New
Guinea (1914-15), winning the D.S.O. in
France in 1918 and a first-hand taste of
the present war all failed to alter that
cheerfulness; not surprising, seeing that
it also survived his becoming an out-
standing gynaecologist, with stretches at
Sydney University as acting-professor of
anatomy.
Now 86, Adelaide’s veteran botanist,
J. M. Black, who received an M.B.E. in
the New Year issue, is still
contributing botanical articles
to the Royal Society of S.A.
A Scot (frae Wigtown), he
came to S.A. in 1877, and
was in turn farmer, journal-
ist and botany lecturer at
Adelaide Uni. Author of the
standard Flora of South Aus-
tralia, he is entitled to wear
on his watchchain both the
Sir Joseph Verco Medal and
the Ferdinand von Mueller
Medal.
Rugby Union is building up
as good a name on the fight-
ing side of this war as it had
in the last. For his fine work
with the New Zealanders in
the Middle East, A. W. Wes-
ney (in Australia with the
1938 All Blacks) was raised
to captain’s rank only shortly
before being killed in action
in Libya. In Maoriland
Rugby he was for years the
mainstay of Southland, and
a day or two before going
in for the last time he was
co-star with Sullivan, of
Taranaki, in an M.L. XV
which dished a Springbok
team, 15 to 8.
There are all sorts of
people in it. J. C. Bower,
of Heidelberg (Vic.), finished a bril-
liant course at Melbourne University
in 1935, got his Master of Science degree
and a science scholarship at Cambridge
(Eng.). In 1939 he obtained the degree
of Doctor of Philosophy. Then followed
scientific work for the R.A.F. in Britain.
Now he has turned up as a squadron-
leader at British H.Q. in the Middle East.
Herewith (per Counihan), Brigadier
“Bill” Pascoe, who handed over his now
defence-manufacturing business —Pascoe
and Co,, engineers, Adelaide —to a com-
mittee of five of his employees to con-
trol for the duration. As D.A.Q.M.G.,
he has the senior administrative job in
the Southern Command. Adelaide-born,
he was 20 when he started making a dis-
tinguished career for himself with the
9th Light Horse in the earlier Palestine
and Syria. Wounded four times in one
day at the second Gaza battle, he was
sent back to base and got the job of
BRIGADIER “BILL” PASCOE.
organising transport from camel to horse.
Himself a horseman all his life—steeple-
c H h™et hunter po.o-he was on Harry
Chauvel’s staff and then brigade-major
of an Indian brigade. After the Armis-
tice, as staff officer of Daquhalia Pro-
vince (Lower Egypt), he found himself
charged with the responsibility of admin-
istering the penal code of Egypt when
that country was under martial law.
The rev. visage limned here by Frith
is better known in Sydney’s Surry Hills
REV. GEORGE COWIE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
and Pyrmont than at Potts Point, its
wearer, Rev. George Cowie, having put
in 17 years helping those in need in the
Hills before taking on the hostel for un-
employed which he has run for four years
in Pyrmont. Business is now so slack that
the hostel, which catered for 160, has
only about 40 unemployed ; the space has
been filled by making it also a hostel
for sailors and soldiers. Rev. Cowie took
a leading hand in bettering the lot of the
depression-time victims whose collection
of makeshift humpies at La Perouse bore
the ironical name of Happy Valley. A
Hielander, he attended Aberdeen Gram-
mar, then had the great good fortune to
learn his golf at the Royal and Ancient
without it costing him a bawbee, free play
there being a privilege of St. Andrews
University students.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 38, Sydney-born Dr. Alan
Hill Kelvin Petrie, chief plant physiologist at
the Waite Agricultural Research Institute, edu-
cated at Sydney Grammar and Sydney Uni.,
where he graduated in science in 1925, he was
at the time of his death engaged in research
on the effect of climate and soil on Australian-
grown tobacco. , _
At Gladstone (Q.), at 85, Joseph W. Coase,
whose Oddfellowship record was unique in
Queensland, and probably in the Common-
wealth. Five generations of his family, ranging
from his father to his great-grandson, were
members of the Order.
In Melbourne, Frank Edwards, of the noted
rowing and sculling family. It is close on 70
years since the father, James Edwards, set up
his boatbuilding establishment on the banks
of the Yarra. Of the seven sons, all helty
oarsmen and most of them world or .inter-
State champions as well as expert builders,
four are still living.
At 94, in Melbourne, Harry Brown, till his
last day reputed the oldest soldier survivor
from the last war. He fought in the Crimea,
the Indian Mutiny, France (as a volunteer
against Prussia in 1870), Somaliland, the
Sudan, the Boer War, the Boxer trouble and
the 1914-18 war, for which last he dyed his
mo. and hair and passed himself off as a
young man. He had more scrap in a Mexi-
can rebellion, and even offered for the
present war, but recruiting officers told him to
call it a day. In his non-martial moments
he was an Essendon bootmaker and a verger
at St. Paul’s Cathedral.
In his day Melbourne photographer George
Rose trekked through Russia, Siberia, Turkey,
Japan and every part of the Commonwealth
making stereoscopic slides which had such a
vogue that he had a selling depot in London.
A son was Herbert Rose, that brilliant young
Victorian artist who went to an untimely death
in Delhi.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Either of you gents seen a coupla suspicious-looking coves round here?”
“Wagga Rugger”: A story of the bad
time some Malayan planters had at the
hands of Japs interested me. “One in
this district,” it goes, “was surprised in
his house by a Japanese patrol. They
tied him up and proceeded to get very
drunk on his whisky.” I believe it, hav-
ing noted the penchant of Japanese for
the stuff. At Albury (N.S.W.) wool sales,
the Jap buyers always had a bottle of
mountain dew on the table at their hotel
and it was always emptied, even at
breakfast. Which sort of suggests that
if our aircraft dropped whisky instead
of bombs on the Japanese army the rest
would be easy.
* # Hi *
“Foolscap”: A chap who appealed
against a conviction for using double-
faced coins in a two-up match with
soldiers was unfortunate in having to
face Judge Storkey, V.C. Storkey is an
ex-Digger with a respect for a “fair
spin” and a hatred of “greys,” and he
dismissed the appeal with costs against
the appellant. Counsel for the appellant
did his best. “Not too many men would
have known that double-headed coins
were being used,” he suggested. Obvi-
ously not, or worse might have happened
to the artist who used them than three
months’ gaol.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: I have a bet on with
myself that within two months Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” will begin or end an
editorial with “Our patience is exhausted.”
Why should I bother to bet with myself
about the “D.T.”? Because it is giving
me some amusement to watch it sur-
rendering to the “tyranny of words”
against which, following Stuart Chase, it
has many times shrieked, and surrendering,
above all things, to the jargon of Fascism,
Hitler’s stock expressions; “leader,”
“purge,” “ruthless,” “cannot tolerate,”
“my patience is exhausted.” Remember
when the “D.T.” “demanded a purge” of
the generals, and then the diplomats?
When it shrieked for “leadership,” “a
leader” and a “supreme Commander-in-
Chief”? When, only the other day, it
yelled “The Government must do these
things—and ruthlessly. It cannot tolerate
resistance....”? I don’t suggest that the
Government shouldn’t do these things—
and firmly; but, all the same, I shall pay
up to myself with unholy delight when
the “D.T.’s” “patience is exhausted.”
* * «
“Van Winkle”: I know that the paint-
ing of female fingernails and toenails is
no new thing. Cleopatra probably in-
dulged in it, and Lalage and Lilith and
other hussies beloved of the poets, but
that doesn’t make me any fonder of the
habit in its latest renaissance, and I’m
glad to hear that acetic ether, main com-
ponent of nail enamels, is going off the
market, owing to war needs. My favorite
evening newspaper interviewed a chemist
who corroborated the awful tidings.
“Vivid red lacquer, in particular,” he
said, “is getting very scarce. All shades
will soon be hard to obtain. I do not
know what will happen when I order
more.” I trust that the worst (from his
point of view) will happen, and that I will
no longer be reminded of “Nature red
in tooth and claw” when the young woman
in the tobacco kiosk hands me my Cap-
pies. Laurence Hope (abetted by Miss
Woodforde-Finden) initiated the modern
style of nail finish when he wrote of
“Pale hands, pink-tipped, beside the
Shalimar.” Now, thank the Lord, they
can still be a bit pink-tipped, but they
can’t be scarlet, purple, green or gamboge.
» * *
“Dhas”: In war-time it gives me great
pleasure to be able to maintain both the
State and Federal Governments in the
style to which they are accustomed;
nor do I mind paying the extra pounds,
shillings or pence the Prices Commis-
sioner declares are necessary to save
my fellow-Australians —if not myself—
from bankruptcy. But upon my heart
and upon my soul, it makes me bub-boil
with rage when an alien gentleman in
Sydney, cashing in on a shortage of
matches, demands tuppence ha’penny for
one box. There seems to be some sort
of fatal insensitiveness that makes these
gentry unable to understand that it’s the
petty offences against good citizenship
that become utterly outrageous to the
rest of us.
* * * *
“Fanny Featherbrain”: Of all the
absurd things Beryl told me they’d put
in the paper that they were calling for
all the blonde and red hair they could
get because it’s supposed to be needed
for making some munition instruments
or something well I came over all
patriotic and sparked up to the Comforts
Fund Depot there’s a fellow there with
the dinkiest little Errol Flynn moustache
and a most exciting cleft chin anyway I
told him to go ahead and reverse the
Delilah act and I’d put up with an Eton
crop until the crowning glory sprouted
again and what do you think he just ran
an eye under my toque and said look
miss if that coconut fibre was wound on
a precision instrument it would curl up
through homesickness if there wasn’t a
bottle of peroxide kept permanently
within sight of it the hide of him but
what made me mad just as I’m coming
away if that silly looking Mavis Williams
with her carroty hair she fancies herself
because some boy told her it looks like
Jeanette MacDonald’s comes prancing in
and the boob with the silly looking
moustache nearly falls over her wouldn’t
it make you sick really I don’t think these
army heads know what they want.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: “Highbrow-ism,” said a
writer in the “S, M. Herald,” “is a super-
cilious attitude in art or literature.” Cer-
tainly an inadequate definition ; there is
highbrow-ism in everything. In a Chess
Association report I read a condemnation
of players who “are contented to be mere
movers of pieces of wood across a
chequered board.” In cricket, “Oh,
Bradman can make runs; but he’ll never
be the artist Trumpet - was,” is a sample
of the highbrow attitude. And a cracks-
man of my acquaintance, discussing a
payroll robbery, said it was “a rough
job. The young fellers was armed,
which no man ’oo knows ’is job ever is ;
it means too long a stretch if you’re
copped, as these smart alecks always is.
Nothing neat about it.”
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland, nothing if not
practical, is supplementing its rather
slender metal resources by melting down
trophy cannon. A pleasing find was a
couple of bronze naval guns which for
donkey’s years have ornamented Timaru’s
picturesque Caroline Bay. They are
Crimean War relics, and bear the motto
Tria Juncto in Uno —which sounds as if
someone had anticipated the modern mili-
tary doctrine of land, sea and air force
co-ordination. One gun bore the date
1842, the other 1853. Alloy proved to
be 88 p.c. copper, 10 p.c. tin, 2 p.c. zinc,
and the smelters reckoned there was £76
worth in 25cwt. of it. Nothing is known
of the guns’ history—Maoriland (as was
the fortune of other colonies) got a ship-
ment of such relics about 1860, with no
records attached. The Dominion’s 1914-
18 war and South African artillery
trophies, being steel, are safe for a bit.
They cost rather more to break up than
they are worth as metal.
* * * *
“Chev.”: The Myer store in Melbourne,
with its acres of floorspace and its 6000
employees, staged an unheralded rehear-
sal of its A.R.P. system the other morn-
ing when the beauty parlors and the
bargain counters were in full blast.
Everything worked like clockwork the
moment the air-raid warning sounded.
Eighty-five wardens took control, cus-
tomers were escorted to the nearest safe
spot, upper-storey windows were thrown
open, outside doors slammed shut, lifts
made for the ground floors and halted,
first-aid posts appeared as if by magic,
and, last but not least, shoppers in the
act of receiving change were hustled off
in the comfortable assurance that the cash
register would hand them their balance
when the raid was over. Everything
was in order within 15 minutes,
even the old ladies having hairdos being
out of those strange contraptions in the
beauty parlors and well on the way to
a place of safety.
* * * »
“V. Cluse”: Our drunk and some of
his mates, enjoying the extra hour of
daylight with a few bottles in one of the
parks, began to drift homeward just on
dusk. From somewhere or other they
acquired a hilarious acquaintance with
a motor-car, who insisted on driving them
round the city at a snail’s pace to view
the brownout. Some time during these
proceedings our drunk fell asleep and
stayed asleep while the motorist headed
for our suburb, dropping his freight at
appropriate spots. Our drunk was left
till last, and on arriving outside his home
the motorist couldn’t wake him, so
dragged him forth and made him com-
fortable on a heap of sand left by the
local N.E.S. Later, reviving in the dead
of night in a blacked-out street under
a starless sky, he felt round him in the
sand, listened, felt again, then sank back
with an alarmed “Marooned on shome
lonely beash! Wharra y’ think orrat?”
* * » *
“K.”: The staff (mostly middle-aged
men) of one of Sydney’s biggest Govern-
ment departments does the building's
roof-spotting, and has found it not so dull
as might be expected. Arthur, the
oldest inhabitant, volunteered. Arthur had
oscillated for 45 years unvaryingly be-
tween home and office, his main recrea-
tions gardening and bowls and his maxi-
mum excitement a bid of four no trumps.
On duty for the first time, he was roused
at 5.30 on a Sunday morning by Willo,
who knows his way about. Nonchalantly
they strolled around the parapet and
Arthur’s cicerone stopped opposite a
boarding-house below them on the
other side of the street. He noted
Arthur’s eyes pop out like quan-
dong nuts as he caught sight of
a young thing doing her daily dozen
clad only in a pair of briefies. The lady
disappeared a few minutes later, came
back and had a brisk rub down by the
window. Willo nonchalantly gazed across
at the gum-clad hills towards the zoo.
“Marvellous view from here, Arthur,” he
said. “My word it is,” agreed Arthur,
his attention now transferred to a hotel
window where a blonde was sitting at a
window brushing her hair, “Mr. Jones
told me about it the other day, but it’s
even better than he described it.’ 1
“He’s taking no chances. He sits like that all night.”
ANOTHER REASON FOR WATER
RESTRICTIONS.
“Mr. Upton, president of the Sydney Water Board,
said that it took ten gallons of water to make one
gallon of beer.’’
It wasn’t among the knowledge
I got before youth had fled;
Neither at school or college
Was it hammered into my head.
Yet I count him as undiscerning,
Stiff-necked and stubborn, who fails
To welcome a thing worth learning
From wheresoever it hails.
Upton is one who oughter
Know—and he states it clear:
It takes ten gallons of water
To make one gallon of beer.
What measure of aqua pura
To a two-pound loaf must go
I wouldn’t like to be sure. A
Baker perhaps would know.
You may guess—but I wouldn’t risk it —
How much is used of the stuff
For a single packet of biscuit
Or a decent helping of duff.
Yet Adam’s wine they must slaughter
In every industrial sphere.
And it takes ten gallons of water
To make one gallon of beer.
Remember it when you’re slinging
The soda into your tot,
Likewise when the kettle’s singing
And the tea or the coffee’s hot.
And when with your frame a-tingle
Under the shower you go
Beware of wasting a single
Noggin of H2O.
Tighten your house-taps tauter,
For it’s Upton’s voice that you hear:
It takes ten gallons of water
To make one gallon of beer.
N.S.W.
IFORD.
A WAR-TIME ECONOMIST.
“Customs Minister Dick Keane has cut down his
nine pipes a day to eight, on war-economy grounds,
and calls on cigarette smokers to reduce their con-
sumption of tobacco in the same ratio.”
Time was the clouds that swirled about his boko
And pleasantly perfumed the ambient air
Set fellows thinking of a fussy loco.
Or of a chimney with the soot a-flare.
His day was almost a continuous smoke-oh,
Tobacco was a thing he couldn’t forswear.
But now the Jap is getting near the gate
He’s cut his pipefuls down from nine to eight.
Time was he reckoned nine were hardly ample
To keep a smoker in content serene,
Enabling him on petty cares to trample^
But now —you devotees of nicotine,
Consider, please, the precept plus example
Set by the sturdy and devoted Keane!
And where nine gaspers you were wont to puff
Retrench by making eight your quantum suff.
You coves to chains of cigarettes addicted,
Heed this reminder that the time is ripe
For such indulgences to be restricted
As rigorously as the blackened pipe
Wherewith Stan Baldwin used to be depicted
As emblematic of the bulldog type—
A reputation that our Customs man
May obviously claim to share with Stan.
Some people have it that we’re always waiting
On Downing-street and London for a lead
On various matters to the war relating.
I reprobate such notion —yes, indeed!
Now that each morning I’m anticipating
In overseas intelligence to read
That, influenced thereto by Keane (and Mars),
Winston’s economising on cigars.
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


“When I give an order, say 'Ay, ay, sir! Not 'Good-oh, cobber.'"
“Cauboy”: I see that Columbia Pic-
tures has signed up the year-old wonder
baby Corey for 21 years, the longest-
term contract in Hollywood’s history.
Such a sublime faith in the future and
in ability to control human nature and
destiny impresses me no end. I am re-
minded of a contract between F. W.
Thring and an infant prodigy of Albury
(N.S.W.). The future film star was
brought to Melbourne and put through
his paces, and it was confidently expected
that after he had been drilled and dis-
ciplined for five years become
the Mickey Rooney of Australia. He
might have, but both the Thring film
enterprise and its founder predeceased
him.
» * * ♦
“Lao-dah”: A tall, athletic-looking
youth from Walwa, after he had been
accepted for the A.1.F., embarrassed offi-
cials at Melbourne Town Hall by hand-
ing over £4O for his equipment, explain-
ing that the cheque had been drawn by
his Digger father. The incident reminds
me of when I was a member of the volun-
teer section of the Royal Engineers in
Singapore in the good old laissez faire
days when it was only the Kaiser who
talked about the Yellow Peril. I remem-
ber little of the military science I
absorbed at the hands of the bored
British officers detailed off to instruct
us civilians, but I do remember the
two pairs of stout, beautifully-made
boots, the eminently serviceable helmet,
puttees, uniform and other equipment
with which I was issued. After a couple
of months I was transferred by my firm
to Java, and 1 piled the barang into a
rickshaw and tooted it down to the bar-
racks to return it. The sergeant nearly
fell off his chair with astonishment,
mingled with disgust at having to fill in
five forms and a receipt. I subsequently
learned that nobody ever returned volun-
teer equipment.
* * * *
“Lawnston”: An elderly Jay Pay in
Tassie has fallen foul of daylight saving.
Scheduled to attend the annual meeting
of Jays Pay at Kempton, he arrived
when the meeting was over. “I don’t
understand this new time and I think
the whole affair is a disgrace,” he snorted.
What a wonderful audience he would
make for an offender against all these
new laws regarding A.R.P., petrol ration-
ing and whatnot who wanted to make
ignorance the excuse!
* * * ■
“Rudolpho Rattlebrane”: The inepti-
tude of the War Inventions Department
is borne out by the cavalier treatment
my own suggestions have received. Take
the refusal to try out my “bomb-
bouncer.” The idea has that beautiful
simplicity which marks all great inven-
tions. A huge, hollow rubber sphere
would be embedded at road intersections.
Attracted by a powerful magnetising
force, the bomb would fall on these
spheres. They would immediately bounce
back and, exploding in the air, destroy
the enemy ’planes. Although I gave the
WJ.D. full freedom to work out the
details, which I had not had time to
finish off myself, and merely suggested
a modest half-million for my idea, my
offer was ignored. My “warship-sinker ’
was similarly spurned. The apparatus
was to be carried by a submarine which,
sneaking under an enemy battleship,
would anchor it to the rock bottom and
attach magnetised grapples to the bottom
of the warship. Then power would be
laid on to strong windlasses. Either the
solid rock would have to give way or
the battleship would be dragged under
water. This was cold-shouldered as
lously as my “round-the-corner gun” a
device with a double advantage. Not
only did it enable the soldier to shoot
from behind cover, but, owing to the
curved barrel, the bullets travelled in a
circle, which brought them back, spent,
to drop at the soldier’s feet, thus saving
wastage of bullets, if they were not
stopped by enemy bodies. It is heart-
breaking to have ideas like these pushed
aside without proper consideration.
♦ * * ♦
“C.R.”: Time was when Socialist
orators on Melbourne’s Yarra Bank used
to draw tears from the eyes of their
hearers by picturing the foul slavery of
the women chainworkers at Cradley
Heath in England. For the first time in the
history of Victoria women are to be em-
ployed in brickworks, manufacturing
goods essential for military purposes,
because of the acute shortage of male
labor, and that with the endorsement of
the Brick, Tile and Pottery Union. The
work will be no harder than that done
by female hands in a score of munitions
factories, but such are the prejudices sur-
rounding some kinds of labor that it
has taken a world war to overcome them.
* * * *
“Southerly”: The worst feature about
the Sydney climate, in my opinion, is the
moist nor’-easter that is liable to blow
steadily from early spring to the end of
summer. “Enervating” is the word
associated (by many people) with it;
others prefer it to the dry westerly or the
boisterous southerly. But the nor’-easter
was apparently debated in days even 'be-
fore most of us were born ; Sir Charles
Dilke, M.P., who visited these parts in
1866, wrote of Sydney Harbor “rippled
with the cool wind, intensely blue, and
dotted with white sails: the brightness of
the colors that the sea-breeze brings
almost atones for the wind’s unhealthi-
ness.” For several summers now the nor’-
easter has held sway at the expense of the
southerly, and until the order is reversed
I’m tipping that things will continue to
be dry in Sydney’s catchment area.
* * * *
“The Skeleton”: At field practice the
other day a team went out to deal with
a case requiring instant resuscitation in a
spot where bombs were reported to be
dropping thick and fast. They were a
long time getting back, and we at head-
quarters, aware of the trenchant criti-
cism awaiting from the well-trained
disciples of St. John who infest all
mining towns, held our breath. But
criticism was disarmed when we saw two
diminutive bearers bending beneath the
weight of a heaving stretcher containing
both patient and operator. Bill, our
most expert resuscitator, was taking no
chances. He applied the treatment en
route, straddling patient and stretcher
and maintaining a precarious balance.
* * *
“Tuart”: Time was when you bought
house property on the Blue Mountains
you couldn’t hope to sell it again. You
had to look upon it as a life purchase. I
have heard of cases in which houses were
actually given away conditionally on the
“buyer” paying all overdue rates in
Leura at that. And outside Katoomba and
Blackheath there was small chance of let-
ting a place for more than a few weeks
in the year. Now, agents tell me, there is
not a house to be rented on the moun-
tains, and if you want to buy you have
to be prepared to put up a fancy price.
Owners of weatherboard houses are ask-
ing four figures with a lofty take-it-or-
leave-it air. That is what the evacuation,
such as it is, has done for the moun-
tains. The only people not sharing in the
boom are drivers of taxis and service
cars, who, because of petrol rationing,
have to turn money away.
* * * *
“A.J.W.”: Has “Colonel Bungstarter”
(B. 17/12/’4l) considered the significance
of the number seven? It makes his
forty an also-started. Seven is mentioned
no fewer than 500 times in the Bible, be-
ginning with the Creation, which took
seven days. Admiral Noah received a
seven days’ tip that it was going to be
wet, he received his living freight in
sevens, and on the seventh day and in
periods of seven days he released his
doves. Every seventh year the land had to
lie fallow (something we have forgotten).
Jacob had to serve seven and yet seven
more years before he could claim his
Rachael. Pharaoh’s dream predicted
seven years each of plenty and famine.
For the benefit of Shadrach, Meshach and
Abed-nego the furnaces were made seven
times hotter than usual. We are com-
manded to forgive our brother 70 times
seven. Seven priests caused Jericho to
capitulate by trumpeting for seven days.
Queen Sheba’s boy friend was seven years
building the Temple, in which seven
lamps burned. Seven altars burned before
the Persian god Mithras. The Goths had
seven deities, from which we get the
days of our week. The musical scale is
of seven notes, and man’s span of life is
ten times seven. Finally, when he has
reached the end of his journey he chucks
a seven.
* * * *
“8.P.”: “Cauboy” misses the point
about most of the opposition to
8.8.C.’s broadcast of Dorothy Sayers’s
Nativity play (B. 21 /1 / ’42). What is
objected to is not the mere presentation
of such a play but the woman’s render-
ing into modern slang of some of the
purest passages of the English language.
Even atheists, who appreciate the New
Testament for its literary value, are
objecting. If “Cauboy” needs an example
to help his understanding of such indig-
nation let him imagine Shakspeare re-
duced to modern English-cwm-American
idiom.
« * * *
“P.”: It took a war to elevate the
growing of veges. in the backyard, in-
stead of ordering them at the backdoor,
into a solemn patriotic duty in Mel-
bourne, but, however it came about,
it is a good thing. I know a profes-
sional man with a practice in the city
who can go to his distant property down
the coast only at week-ends. He keeps
fowls, ducks, geese and turkeys, culti-
vates a vineyard, grows fruit and vege-
tables. His farm is a perfect picture, his
flowers would all win prizes if he both-
ered about prizes, he keeps a more luxuri-
ous and varied table than the best hotels
in the city, he is still, at 60, intensely in-
terested in a new dish or a new process,
and what, he doesn’t know about the
culinary and viticultural sciences can’t be
found in textbooks. He does it because
he likes good food and good wine. If
you told him that planting kohlrabi was
“a solemn dedication,” as the “Age” put
it in a leader, he would say: “Nonsense!
They’re damn’ good eating.”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Melbourne “Argus” may
have hesitated to shock its readers with
the frank details of how to provide
against gas (B. 21 /1 / ’42), but an A.R.P.
lecturer in Sydney’s toniest suburb didn’t
even hesitate as he said—no. I’m not
going to report what he said. It was
a mixed audience, but the lecturer’s grim
voice and ruthless expression forbade
any irruption of either levity or horror,
though one lady got up hurriedly and
carried her little doggie outside.
* * * *
“D.E.”: The craze for syndicated jour-
nalism has its comic side. For example,
the same gentleman is Our Military Cor-
respondent in Sydney (“S. M. Herald )
and Our War Commentator in Brisbane
(“Courier-Mail”), so it is possible for
him to be wrong in two guises and two
places at once. And a London message
from the great Keith Murdoch wound
up with these words:
It is no good standing on top of
and saying “London and Washington know
our views.”
As it appeared in Melbourne Herald,
which circulates in Victoria and the
Riverina, it was “no good standing on
top of a Melbourne lamp-post or even
the Albany War Memorial.” In the
“Courier-Mail,” “standing on top of the
Brisbane Town Hall” was deprecated.
* * * *
“Zake”: A feature of Sydney since the
Pacific war opened is the rapid develop-
ment of protection of big buildings
against air raids. You still see modest
piles of bare sandbags, but more favored
now is the hardwood framework built
around sandbags covered with weather-
proof paper. Entrances are receiving
special attentionan elaborate one in
Park-street (it belongs to the T. and G.
Building), with its high stacks of sand-
bags in “trench-bay” style behind a heavy
timber barricade, would win the approval
of a military engineer. Passing the No-
Water Board’s temple I noted no sand-
bags. Instead, a small army of brickies
were building bays every few feet.
Don’t ask me why —the ways of the No-
Water Board pass understanding.
« * * *
“Craiser”: An electric train toting
morning shoppers into Melbourne paused
at a station in the outer suburbs. The
attention of the compartment was sud-
denly focused on a string of first-class
corridor cars drawn up on a siding. A
man in shirtsleeves was leaning against
the guard’s van and inside was a woman
cooking in what appeared to be a well-
appointed kitchen. Further along the
line a couple of children emerged from
a carriage doorway, a good-looking girl
conversed with another from a window,
a broom and a dustpan leant against a
footboard, towels and other domestic
objects were hanging out drying and
strains of what sounded like a ukulele
came from a compartment with blacked-
out windows. “Goodness gracious, said
a woman. “The Japs are here and the
evacuation’s started.” A wave of alarm
swept through the compartment and
hands closed nervously on satchels ana
handbags. Then the train continued its
way into the city and the last van, gai y
painted, came into view. On it flourished
the legend familiar to all Australia:
“Wirth’s Circus: The Greatest Show on
Earth.”
“I lost me teeth last time I travelled in one of these."


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Euston, oldest town on
the Murray, lay somnolent in the January
noon, even the dogs taking no interest
in the weary emu that drifted across the
flat below the store towards the river.
Up the Balranald road appeared a little
cloud of dust that drew steadily on and
edged in on to the verandah of George
Medley’s pub. It got to the bar door,
and from its nucleus came a croak,
“Boss, f’r Gawd’s sake, spring us a beer.
I’m broke, an’ I’ve tramped from Tolpra
t’day.” Said George, “You can have
tucker and as much beer as y’ can earn
on the woodheap at two bob an hour.”
The apparition shook off some of its
dust, moaned, grasped at its indepen-
dence, picked up its swag, said “Y’ stingy
ol’ so-and-so,” and stepped out into the
blazing sun. There it hesitated, turned
round and asked “Where’s the next
stop?” “Gol Gol,” said George, “about
fifty mile.” “No pub between?” “No.”
A pause, then the independent one shud-
dered slightly, turned and went round to
"Ain't you lucky — you're mentioned in dispatches!”
Smedley’s woodheap. Every time he
swung the axe he muttered “Fifty mile!
’Struth!”
V * * *
“Padflogger”; I like the way some of
my fellow-Aboliars tell about big mos-
quitoes. But, actually, the big mossie is
comparatively harmless. It’s the little
fellow that gets in the real nasty work.
Have camped on a south-west W.A.
billabong where the mosquitoes were
nearly an inch long, but a few srpudges
of cowdung smoke kept them easily at
bay; and even when a few broke
through the barrage their nips weren’t
much more troublesome than the tickling
of a house-fly. But the worst insect Blitz
I was ever subjected to was in a Darling
Range gully 40 miles out from Perth ; a
couple of hundred feet deep, with a slow
creek at the bottom, the air brewing
up for thunder, I was bitten several
thousand times by mosquitoes so small
as to be almost invisible, but carrying
manyfold more irritant to the sting than
the biggest mosquitoes ever hatched.
* * # »
“Sur Cingle”; I’ve had the term “roller”
interpreted as part of a girth-buckle, a
mangle, part of a gardener’s outfit, a
mounted and panelled surcingle with dees
for reins and lunging ropes worn by a
colt in the breaking-yard, and the busi-
ness portion of a spur. Struck a fellow
the other day who used one of those
rounded pads that some riders tie round
the cantle of a saddle in an optimistic
endeavor to oppose the effects of sudden
equine acceleration and he called it a
roller. Any more?
* * * *
“Marmalade”: The shed hand was
growling. “That’s the ’undredth ticky
fleece I’ve slung on the table this mornin’.
Ain’t there no way of gettin’ rid of the
blankers?” Sam the woolpresser chipped
in. “Back on the Burgoo in ’O5 we had
a simple way of dealin’ with ’em. We’d
stand a stick upright in the fleece.” The
shed hand was interested. “Why?”
“Well, the ticks up that way was curious
beggars, an’ they’d climb up it till they
reached the top,” drawled the old fellow ;
“then them as hadn’t a head fer heights
’ud fall down an’ break their necks.” The
other stared at him; then he guffawed
with heavy sarcasm. “An’ the rest ’ud
sprout wings and fly away, I s’pose?”
“That was the idea,” agreed the veteran
solemnly. “But the sudden climb into
the rarefied air suffercated ’em. Yair,
rarefied, for the picker-up’s language had
burned all .the oxygen out of the atmo-
sphere.”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Australia’s only staff of
unpaid volunteer street-cleaners is at
Cunnamulla, in s.-w. Queensland. Num-
bering well over 300, they keep the streets
clear of every leaf and particle of vege-
table litter—grateful residents even credit
them with disposing of tins and old
papers—by converting it into meat and
mutton. They never trespass on grass
plots or gardens, but it has to be admitted
that the proprietor of the picture show is
obliged to stick his posters at least 7ft.
off ground level. Also, one athletic
cleaner was seen on the roof of a parked
car nibbling the leaves of a shade tree.
But these are very minor debits against
service rendered by the town’s gallant
band of duly registered goats.
# * * *
“Wang”: “One afternoon, with Matilda
up, I strike a little one-horse town an’
make f’r the pub,” related Dan. “I’m
well cashed up, havin’ been paid orf that
rpornin’ be a cocky some miles out f’r
a three-months’ clearin’ job. As I make
f’r the pub I see some blokes movin’
that way too. When I get inside there’s
about a dozen or so fellers there, talkin’,
I order a pot an’ yank out me roll. The
blokes give a sorta garsp at the size of
it; s’pose they ain’t used to seein’ a
swaggie flashin’ so much dough. Then
a whiskery ole coot ses, ‘Put it back,
mate, an’ have one with me.’ I do, an’
then, damme, ev’rybody else insists on
shoutin’ in turn and won’t let me spend
a bean. This goes on f’r a coupla hours
and by then I’m just about shot. Then
two well-dressed but tough-lookin’ coots
walk in, grab me an’ are yankin’ me
towards a car outside when the cocky
I’d been workin’ f’r happens to drive
up. ‘Hullo! ’he says, surprised. ‘WhatTe
they doin’ with you, Dan?’ The blokes
ask him does he know me, an’ then, o’
course, he tells ’em all about me. They
curse an’ tear back to the pub an’ start
kickin’ up hell’s delight with the rest of
the mob. Then I gets the inside of
things. That mornin’ the bank teller had
been found trussed up an’ the bank
robbed. The ds. are sent f’r an’ the
populace, meantime, do a bit of sleuthin’
on their own. My roll convinces ’em I’m
their pigeon. But, darn it, I never bore
’em no illwill f’r their mistake.”
“Might as Well pack up, Joe — they've frightened all the fish away."
“Feathers”: Will someone tell me, and
produce proof, how a duck enters its
nest in the hollow limb of a tree a dozen
or more feet from the ground? I’ve
often found nests in that position, have
repeatedly seen the duck leave, but never
witnessed one approach or enter.
* * * *
“Propalong”: After having had his
new gas-producer fitted, Dad Sinclair
left the township on his 40-mile home-
ward drive. He took two tins of his
favorite delicacy, pork and beans, and a
couple of bottles of beer to celebrate the
occasion. About midday he pulled up,
opened the producer and popped the
tins in on top of the charcoal. Consump-
tion of the beer left him with holding-
room for only one tin of beans. Feel-
ing comfortably elevated, he drove off,
making a steady 35 m.p.h. It was hot,
the scattered trees drowsed over the road,
and, soothed by the purr of the engine,
the old chap was half-asleep when there
came a violent explosion from the rear
of the car. Immediately the machine
leapt convulsively forward, and the
speedometer needle went mad as the
car missed a mallee-tree by inches, flew
across a flat, soared over a rise, skimmed
the ensuing creek and dived hilariously
into a clump of prickly acacia. Dad
switched off the engine, scrambled out
and set off for home, looking over his
shoulder as if afraid the possessed
machine would chase him. It took the
agent half a day to explain to Dad’s
satisfaction that when a forgotten tin of
pork and beans explodes in a producer
it drives the gas into the engine with
something more than full-throttle effect.
Even now the old chap won’t allow a
tin of food within a chain of the car.
« « « *
“Splodger”: Peculiarly, man’s derision
for the credulousness of foster-parents
among lower animals and birds is reserved
for those small birds who work overtime
to satisfy the Gargantuan appetites of
cuckoo nestlings. Yet no wonder will be
expressed at the clean-bred mare foster-
ing her affection on the mule running at
her side. Similarly, the domestic hen
does not show the door to the brood of
ducklings she has adopted when they
take to the water where she can’t follow,
I know of one outstanding exception,
though: the merino ewe will have no
lamb but her own. And even if the off-
spring happens to be black the color is
no bar. If it is the right smell that is
sufficient.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; Me and Mat were toil-
ing for a young bloke down the Murray
one time. This cove hadn’t long been
married, and one night he blew down to
our camp, pretty surly and savage, so
we gathered him and his bride had had
a -barney. After a bit, it being warm,
him and Mat goes for a swim. Presently
Mat comes back and says the bloke is
staying in a bit longer. Just then the
bloke’s missus comes sort of sidling along
to the camp. She’s red-eyed from cryin’
and manages to ask if we’d seen her
husband. “Well,” says Mat, winking at
me, “last X seen of him most o’ him was
bangin’ on a tree down be the sandspit.”
She goes sorta green and hurries off to
the river, “Wotcher tryin’t’ do?” I says.
Mat grins. “I meant his clothes was
bangin’ on the tree,” he says, “but she
took me up wrong, thinkin’ he’s hung
hisself.” A little while after we hears a
woman’s screams, and Mat jumps up,
dead white. “Blime,” he says, and legs
it for the river, me after him. He out-
paces me, and when I get near the sand-
spit I meet him coming back. “What’s
up?” I says, as she was still screaming.
“Most of her is bangin’ on the tree now,”
he says with a grin, and I gathers the
screams is because the happy pair is
frolicking in the water together. Me
and Mat goes to our camp and I say,
“Gripes, it must be all right t’ have a
girl to romp around with.” Mat looks
me over hard, then he says, “Listen, y’
can have a girl or y’ can have beer, but
y’ can’t have both; an’ beer don’t bite
y’r head off one minute an’ come round
all syrupy the next, see. I’m stickin’ t’
beer.”
* * * ♦
“The 0.D.”; More than one Aboliar
have claimed to have shot a fish in the
water as did that bloke who shot the trout
(B. 21/1/ ’42), but what I want to know
is, what sort of rifle did they use? In
my river-roaming days I had a positive
armory, ranging through all calibres
from an ancient muzzle-loading monster
to an automatic Luger .32 pistol. Tried
pretty well all of ’em on water: at the
slightest angle the bullet always rico-
chetted to a greater or lesser extent, and
fired straight down the velocity was
checked the instant the lead struck the
liquid cushion. If shooting fish under
water is so easy, why can’t ’planes bomb
submerged subs, or man-eating sharks
be shot from boats?
* * * »
“0.U.”: “Apple-gum” (B. 7/l/’42)
has given an alibi to jacaranda when he
says that the tree was borrowed from
Southern Africa. Birth certificates of
rosewood of Brazil, alias jacaranda, and
the rubber-tree (Havea braziUensis ) bear
the same name —South America. The
handsome tree is able to put out its beau-
tiful flowers well outside the latitude of
its natural region.
TO THOSE WHO SERVE ABROAD.
From those exhausted sleeps you snatch, you
cry
Like homesick children for the things you
knew—
The forests cool beneath a drowsy sky,
The opal dawns, the slow noons and the dew
Drifting at dusk like whispered words of prayer
Across the altars of your native land.
Now waking to the brain-benumbing glare
Of molten sunlight blazing on stark sand
You question dully, “Is there such a place
As this we dream of? Here the birds have
wings
Of steel that bear death like a pestilence;
But we have dreamed of parrots poised in grace
Above bronze ferns that clustered by bush
springs,
Where cattle moved among mauve-shadowed
glens.
Here armored herds of iron, man-controlled,
Crush shuddering trees beneath their mad
stampede;
But we have dreamed of pasture grass that
rolled
Back from a homestead to a sunny mead
Where clover crept and blossomed, and the cud
Lay honey-sweet upon the tongues of sheep.
Does it exist, this land unstained by blood
That gleams like water through our fevered
sleep?”
Does it exist? O sons of men who hold
The torch of Anzac, I shall be your eyes!
See with what tenderness the scrub-mists fold
The red hearts of the heath along the rise.
Look! over yonder ridge a boomerang
Of light is thrown by some ghost hunter, still
Pursuing the warm wind that lately sprang
Swift as a kangaroo across the hill.
High above these the larks hang like sun motes,
Trilling until their rapture brims the blue
Deep bowl of heaven with enchanting notes.
Under curled whips of bracken, gleaming
through,
The green flames of young grasses flare and leap
Guttering in the sweet sly airs that creep
Among the stems like field-mice. Daisies thrust
White as a hound’s tooth where curved wattle
pods
Spill amber peas along the silken dust.
Over the scrub where, fearlessly as gods.
The black swans swept at midnight, the ripe
sun
Drops fragile yellow parings, little hoops
Of gold that roll and lie among the dun
Frost-bitten leaves. The wild boronia loops
Gay spicy garlands where the sword-edged sags
Cherish their lovely pearl-pale iris blooms;
A pallid cuckoo passing lightly drags
His shadow after him among old tombs
Of broken branches. Down in gully gums,
Deep where the umber shadow lies crypt-cool,
A skirl of kookaburra laughter comes
Joyous as shouts of boys released from school.
The poignant crying of bush water makes
A magpie music where each sapling stem
Is daubed with primrose, and pale blossom
breaks
On boughs so smooth the wind’s hand slips on
them.
All this exists, a glory that unrolls
Before my eyes, and you afar who roam
And die that right may live bear in your souls
The beauty of this land that is your home!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Avon”: If the wild animals in Wel-
lington (M.L.) Zoo think they are going
to get in any fifth-column work during
an air raid they have another think
coming.
Keepers in charge of carnivorous animals
will shut the beasts in their pens before
taking shelter themselves, and at the sound-
ing of a preliminary all-clear the men,
armed with rifles and provided with special
nets, will patrol the park. Any dangerous
escaped animals they fail to capture will
be shot.
Said the curator of the Zoo to a wide-
eyed reporter; “The animals will be
dead before they get out of their cages,
and if one did escape it would never get
out of the grounds.” He added that iron
bars three-quarters of an inch thick were
fitted to cages, and a bomb-blast power-
ful enough to break them would kill the
animals behind them. Oh, yes, they have
“Kindness to Animals Weeks” in M.L.
“Spasebo”; Melbourne Zoo is offer-
ing a high price per foot for venom-
ous serpents to people its new snake-
pit. The Zoo authorities say that
if the Zoo is endangered all peaceably-
inclined animals will be released, and
lions, tigers and other feral creatures will
be shot instanter. Presumably the rep-
tiles in the snake-pit will be similarly
dealt with. But citizens who have been
advised in the event of air raids to lie
down where they stand and bury their
faces in the ground are asking whether
the time is opportune to increase the met-
ropolis’s uninstructable population.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: A man out Coonabarabran
(N.S.W.) way swears that a snake struck
at a tyre on his car, hit it in a thin place,
and the fangs penetrated the inner tube,
from which the air rushed into the snake
until it was like a balloon and Joe burst
into pieces. Now, wait a minute —I’m
only telling you what the man out Coona.
way swears to.
* * * *
“2.L.X.”: Talking of night calls in the
bush, the best to keep a newchum awake
is the roar of bleatings from a few thou-
sand ewes and lambs yarded overnight
for marking in the morning. The camp
is usually right beside those yards, with
swags spread only a few feet away. It
will usually be a few nights before the
new hands, if they are fresh from the
city, get a wink of sleep. Yet the hard-
ened sheepman goes to sleep in that
bedlam as if it was a mother’s lullaby,
even though it may have been six months
or more since last he camped beside a
yard. The only thing which will wake
him is a new note in the calls: the un-
mistakable bleat of sheep finding an
opening and stringing out, the call of
fear (different from any other) and, that
alarm clock to his sleeping senses, the
sudden cessation of noise, which brings
him to his feet with a jump.
“Fitzjay”: When the race gate was
accidentally left open about 100 big cross-
bred ewes broke through into a pen
where there were half a dozen scraggy
rams. Dad in a flurry called to Choom
to help pick the ewes out. They made
a quick job of lifting them over the fence,
Dad hoisting two to Choom’s one. When
they were finished Dad leaned against
the fence with sweat rolling off him,
whilst Choom looked thoughtful a
“Blime, them Russian blokes are doin' good-oh!"
moment, then remarked softly, “Perhaps
it ’ud been better to uv picked the rams
out.” “You stupid blankard,” yelled
Dad, “why didn’t you think of that at
first?”
» * * ♦
“Fishist”: “M. U. Ray’s” questions
about the dependence of fish on water
(B. 21/1/ ’42) are, of course, very easy
to us ichthyologists. To put the matter
into simple, easily understood terms, the
fish’s gills are a sort of carburettor which
extracts air from the water and applies
it to the fish’s lungs. If you take the
fish out of water he gets too rich a mix-
ture and sooner or later expires. And
so would anyone if entirely cut off from
liquid refreshment. Apropos, this drought
coastal N. S. Wales has been experienc-
ing has, I reckon, cut down the fauna
population of my bush garden by 90 p.c.
You can upend a flat stone and find no
slaters under it; strip a tree of bark and
find no spiders. In happier times a score
of varieties of birds would salute the
dawn. Now all I see is one old crow.
The ’possums no longer caper gladly
over my roof at nights, and the owls
which used to give imitations of a worn-
out self-starter have taken their talents
to a wetter spot. This drought is a fair
cow.
* * * *
“Q.A.Z.”: Where did “Calos” (B.
17/12/’4l) get the idea that the sea
anemone is “half plant, half animal, and
a kind of parasite”? Actually, it belongs
to the same phylum (Ccelentera) as the
jellyfish and to the same class as some
corals. That it even possesses a crude
nervous system was proved to the satis-
faction of a learned professor. He
gave the tentacles on one side of an
anemone a piece of blotting paper
soaked in beef juice; it was duly
enfolded. After several attempts, how-
ever, the tentacles detected the subterfuge
and rejected subsequent offers. But ten-
tacles on the other side were not aware
of the ruse until they, too, had been
fooled several times. After a brief spell,
though, both sides forgot their lesson
and could be taken in again.
“Drosera”: True parasites are uncom-
mon in Australian plant life, although
there are several “hemiparasites”—plants
which obtain their own tucker provided a
“host” supplies water and mineral salts.
They fall into two groups: those which
attach to the stem of the host e.g. A
mistletoe and devil’s twine and those
which attach to the roots, like native
cherry, quandong and the Westralian
Christmas tree. The sundew (B.
17/12/’4l) is not even a hemiparasite ;
it comes under the heading of insecti-
vorous plants. Although it does better
on that food, it is not wholly dependent
on an insect diet and can, at a pinch, do
without it.
* * * *
“Aratta”: “A bloke on the tramp has
to be pretty careful of his boots,” said
“Gundy” Gardener, “so ev’ry night when I
pulled ’em off I’d give ’em me own special
treatment. One winter’s night I made
camp in an empty house, I lit a fire in
one of the rooms, had tea, an’ after
fixin’ me trilbies up I stood ’em in front
of the fireplace an’ turned in. The place
is lousy with rats, but after a bit I get
used to their squealin’ an’ scamperin’
an’ I doze orf. Some time later I’m woke
up by an extra big bloke duckin’ across
me dile. I light a bit of candle an’
gawp around. Then I nearly chucked a
sugardoodle as I see me boots movin’
acrorst the room on their own. I lie
there watchin’ ’em f’r about five minits,
me hair standin ’on end. Just as one of
’em is disappearin’ out the door I ups
with me tommyhawk an’ shied it at one
of the boots. It jumped about a foot
in the air an’ outa it scurried a rat as
big as a half-grown rabbit. An’ another
hopped outa the other boot. It wus me
patent boot-preservin’ dodge that had
caused the trouble, a lump of taller I
alwus shoved inter the toes to keep the
insides soft. Ever since then I sleep with
’em on.”
* * * *
“Jurumudi”; Every day some flapper-
press pundit rises in his wrath to ask why
the scorched-earth policy has not been
applied to Malaya. The most depressing
railway journey I ever made was one in
that sodden green land between Penang
and Singapore. After leaving Province
Wellesley, which is largely ricefields, the
train meandered alternately through
dense jungle and rubber plantations. The
landscape shook in the heat, the carriage
creaked and rumbled and the only in-
ternal object of contemplation was a
then world-famous billiardist, on a tour
of Asia, who spent his time grizzling
about the effect the tropics would have
on the implements of his profession,
which he regarded with the same rever-
ence as a violinist does his bow and
fiddle. So I resorted to looking out of
the window. After a while a strange hal-
lucination attacked me, J fancied that I
must count the rubber-trees advancing
in serried ranks, changing front and re-
treating on each side by algebraical cal-
culation or something dreadful would
happen. By the time I reached Johore
Bahru I was halfway to feeling batty
about it when the counter-irritant of
malaria saved me. I predict that long
before the Japs get within cooee of Singa-
pore the monotonous passing of those
millions of silent* unburnable sentries
will male them gibbering maniacs.
» * » *
“B. A. Ker”: I’m convinced that many
of our bush remedies originated in China.
No other race could have devised such
scientific torture. I remember my initia-
tion to the cure for boils. With the fool-
hardiness of youth I had placed myself
in the hands of three alleged cobbers.
Stretched out on a bunk with the back
of my thigh exposed, it wasn’t until a
rope drew tight around my ankles and
another around back and arms that I
began to realise something unpleasant was
going to happen. It did. A pickle bottle
was filled with boiling water, allowed to
stand for several minutes, then the con-
tents poured out and the bottle-mouth
placed over the boil. I won’t enlarge on
the agony, but after the operation the
torturers undid the top rope and bolted.
By the time I’d freed my legs and charged
limpingly out of the hut the Ford was
vanishing in a cloud of dust. An hour
later it returned, turned ready for instant
flight, and three cautious figures alighted.
But by then I felt more like shouting
for them than slaughtering ’em.
» * * *
“7346”: In between spells of fighting
bushfires, droughts and floods on his
bachelor selection, Barney O’Sullivan
built a rough hut and cleared a few acres
for cow-feed. After years of battling
there was enough in kitty to pay for
glass for the hut windows, and the great
day arrived when the panes were brought
out from town, puttied into the frames
and polished clean and bright. That
night the Queensland heeler came home
by his usual route straight through the
window to the accompaniment of a
shatter of glass and a surprised yelp from
Bluey. In the pandemonium which fol-
lowed Barney aimed a boot at the vandal,
who promptly took off and went clean
through the opposite lustrous pane. The
windows are still covered with hessian.
* 4 * *
“Simon Crusher”: I’m fast wearying
of these blokes —“Mat’s Mate” (B.
17/12/’4l) is the latest—who talk about
gelignite as though it were something to
be handled more delicately than great-
grandmother’s china vase. Gelignite, as
any miner will testify, is not a touchy
material; it needs the severe shock of a
detonator to fire it, I’ve carried up to
three dozen sticks of the stuff in my shirt
while shinning up a rise, dropped a
packet of it down the same rise on to
broken quartz, used a lighted stick of it
to light my fuses when firing out, bitten
it, trodden on it and even hit it with a
hammer; and I’ve sat on top of a truck-
load of it in a drive over one of the
roughest tracks in Australia. Yet fellows
who will doze off in a haystack with a
lighted bumper between their lips and
camp on the very edges of dry creeks with
thunder rumbling in the distant hills
will mizzle off into the scrub at the
sight of a case of “jelly.” It doesn’t
make sense.
* * * *
“Yangardook”: Apart from carrier
pigeons, I’ve had a go at training various
animals as night carriers. The dingo-
proof fence, plus its proclivity for sport-
ing around with others of its kind, rules
the dog out. Cats, despite a strong hom-
ing instinct, will fail either through being
treed by dogs or foxes or through yield-
ing to temptation when a quail or a
rabbit is sighted, and thereafter snoring
the feed off in a hollow log. But fences,
dingoes, dogs, cats, even acts of God
will not delay the brush-tailed possum.
Let anyone set my fellow free from up
to five miles away and I will find him
asleep on my pillow before daybreak.
And the b.-t.p. is easily trained.
“Cover up candle , boay! Don't 'ee know blackout's on?"
KIANGA.
When old Kianga’s day was done and all her
glory gone.
And settlers flocked to claim the run, the white-
faced herds moved on;
Bht there were old Kianga cows who loved the
scrub’s dark ways,
The whisper of the wilga boughs on sunlit
windy days.
And there were bold Kianga bulls whose
heritage had been
The nectar of the tree-fringed pools, the gilgais
deep and green;
And back into the timbered waste at the last
mustering
The brave old stragglers went in haste, the
plains behind to fling.
And there was never stockman born to ride
with stabbing spur
Could keep a sight of head or horn where
the dank shadows stir,
And interlaced in endless hosts the thorny
thickets grow,
And tree-pears loom like silent ghosts amid
the brigalow.
Lost in a fastness, locked and barred,
outlawed beyond reprieve,
They heard no clamor of the yard nor
saw the big mobs leave
On the long trips to other runs; clasped
to the scrub’s dark breast
They scarcely knew when the red suns
went flaming to the west.
The shrouded miles gave ample room; where
trees met overhead
Deep in the everlasting gloom the forest calves
were bred;
Unmarked of ear, unscarred by brands, all
tall and gaunt they grew,
Wild as the wind in nomad bands roaming
the jungle through.
With axe and fire the settlers came, the grass
waves to the trees.
But still at dawn the scrubbers pass, close by
the boundaries;
Mild milking cows, with lifted heads, throng
in the dim half-light,
Aghast with wonder at the spreads of long-
horns wide and white.
The flood swirls on the Dawson toss and still
the flame-trees burn,
As in the years that went across the range
of no return.
The spirit lives, but, oh, so slow the pulse that
once beat high,
And when these wild red cattle go, then will
Kianga die.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


PREVENT BONE CHEWING
Tri-cal: Remember that your pasture must
be deficient in those essential minerals
which stock require if you are finding
evidence of bone chewing. I have found
that regular use of Tri-cal-os Bone Flour
is the most effective calcium phosphate
supplement for this condition. Tri-cal-os
contains a guaranteed minimum of 33%
phosphoric acid and 40% lime and it is
specially processed to ensure maximum
digestibility. These mineral deficiency
troubles can be corrected and avoided
with Tri-cal-os.
Old Farmer.
P.S.: I obtained particulars about Tri-cal-os
from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Syd-
ney; the folder also mentions Davis Gelatine,
G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box
712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane;
G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
fd
f
d
fd
f
d
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE MANAGER: A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES', LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Oats and Sheep.
“A 1 Gerian”: Oats are useful for the
fat-lamb raiser because the lambing can
be arranged to coincide with the growth
of green feed. On a mixed farm, though
prime fat lambs be not possible, good
marketable sheep can be grown by using
oat crops and the self-feeder.
Specific grazing oats are not always
suitable for bay and grain, but if one
kind of oats will grow so will others, and
it isn’t hard to vary the crop so as to
get oats for all purposes. Any excess
can always be conserved and will keep
many years—as hay, grain or silage.
Too many mixed farmers still regard
hand - feeding as a purely drought
measure. It should be practised every
year. By that means the farmer can put
his surplus feed back into the sheep and
reap the profit. If he still has feed left
it can be conserved for the following
year. Properly managed, hand-feeding
means that the farm can carry a fair
number of sheep all year round, and it is
sheep returns per acre that count in
mixed farming. C. J. King, a N. S. Wales
Department of Agriculture officer, says
there are still too many “properties where
the land is devoted exclusively to wheat,
to fallow and to grass, and where the
sheep are regarded as little better than
necessary evils to keep down grass and
stubble.”
Graze oats in winter, self-feed all the
time with chaff and grain, use lucerne to
hold land liable to erosion, and most of
the troubles peculiar to farming in the
inner wheatbelt will disappear. The
most stable land-produce market is that
for sheep—wool and meat are always in
demand—but ill-fed sheep can produce
payable quantities of neither meat nor
wool. Feed them well and they pay well.
The Mules Operation.
“Bungaree”: A C.S.I.R. experiment to
compare incidence of strike in plain-
breeched merinos with Mules-treated
sheep was a win for the treatment. Dur-
ing the severe fly period less than 1 p.c.
of crutch strikes occurred in the Mules
group, while the plain group had over
8 p.c. struck and the control sheep over
30 p.c.
All the sheep had been crutched, but
the difficulty of cleaning up sheep with
breech wrinkles, no matter how small,
explains the increased strikes. It was
found that the Mules operation and one
crutching almost entirely prevented crutch
strikes in sheep that were naturally
wrinkly-breeched. Sheep which had not
been treated and which were subject to
strike had to be much more heavily
culled.
Though the best time for the Mules
operation is when sheep are at least five
or six months old—so that breach
\frinkles will have developed—lambs
may be done at marking time. Opera-
tors should have had considerable experi-
ence on weaners or grown sheep before-
hand. Use of lamb-marking cradles is
not recommended, as they tend to stretch
the skin unduly. Treated lambs may
have to be done again later.
The best time to operate on sheep is
shortly after shearing or crutching, as
wool-growth on the breech area adds to
the difficulties and blunts the shears. This
must be expected in lambs, many of
which carry a heavy birth coat of hair,
making it hard to determine the shape
of the folds.
In flocks showing wrinkle develop-
ment, all ewe lambs should be operated
on at marking time. A strip of skin
should be removed, starting about fin.
above the butt of the tail and continuing
well below the vulva. Width of the strip
should be from Jin. to 2in., according
to degree of development. Lambs should
go to the Mules operator first and then
to the markers.
Lambs which begin apparently plain-
breeched often show a lot of develop-
ment round the breech by weaning time,
and the season and feed influence wrinkle
development very considerably. The test
lambs were not adversely affected by the
extra operation at marking time.
Operating on the lambs should result
in a large decrease of fly trouble, and
would help solve existing labor problems.
Meal Fodders.
“Mackay”; G. L. McClymont, of
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, holds
“I’d feel happier if you an' the kids evacuated t ’ somewhere more outa
the Way.”
that, while peanut, cottonseed and copra
oil meals are all great milk producers,
linseed leads the lot. Any of them can
be fed up to 41b. a head. As linseed has
a high fat content larger quantities in
the ration cause soft butter. Same with
peanut meal, but increased quantities of
cottonseed and copra oil meals firm up
the butter. All are valuable for calf
gruels and fodder. At the start feed Joz.
to loz. when the youngsters are put on
skim milk, and gradually work up to
-Hb. to 11b. All the meals have a high
protein content and are good supplements
for drought conditions. Mixed with oaten
chaff they provide a well-balanced ration.
Queensland farmers stick to meat- and
bloodmeals. A high-grade meatmeal con-
tains up to 65 p.c. crude protein, which
means that 11b. of good meatmeal has
the same feed value as 21b. of linseed or
cottonseed-meal. Cost of meatmeal is
Is. 9d. per pound against Is. 6d. for
linseed- or cottonseed-meal.
Only underfed cattle take to meat-
and bloodmeals. Normal dairy cows
have to be coaxed to eat them by mixing
with grain and molasses, grain and salt,
linseed- or cottonseed-meal.
Overgreasiness makes the meal less
palatable. Any meatmeal containing less
than 50 p.c. of crude protein is poor
stuff; bloodmeal should show a mini-
mum of 75 p.c. and be practically odor-
less. Store in a dry place, and remove
excess from the feed boxes each day.
“Fouled” meals are dangerous and only
good for fertiliser.
Fish Oils and Vitamins.
“Bahb Dwyer”: With supplies of cod-
liver oil virtually cut otf the C.S.I.R.
has been looking into possible substi-
. T wi k r
lutes. Shark liver oil is being produced
commercially, though in limited quanti-
ties. Other Australian fish don’t yield
much oil, and unless there is a spectacu-
lar expansion of the fishing industry the
chances of producing anything like the
quantity of oils formerly imported are
remote.
The virtue of fish liver oils is their
vitamin potency—vitamins A and D par-
ticularly. Under natural conditions,
vitamin A is abundant in greenfeed; in
times of drought, well-cured lucerne or
clover hay win supply it. It must be
J J
s ~ , , , . , , .
ltan } lJ ? ne . ed not be abundant in
the feed itself, since it can be manufac-
tured in the animal s body tissues pro-
vided there is ample sunlight. Small
quantities are present in well-cured hay
—formed during exposure of the hay to
the sun’s rays. Artificially-cured grass
and hay contain almost no vitamin D.
Animals in a country of ample sunlight
su f. b - a n ustr^. ia , have little need for
artificially supplied vitamin D.
Vitamin-deficiency troubles begin only
when animals are on restricted or pre-
ponderantly artificial diets. The only
Australian farmer who should really need
artificial supplies of vitamins A and D
is the poultryman. Even he can keep up
the supply of greenfeed so that vitamin A
is abundantly supplied. Milk, meatmeal
and green lucerne meal Will supply some
vitamin D ; sunlight (though not through
glass) will help, too. If you have to buy
fish oil, buy only on guaranteed vitamin
potency—it must be fish liver oil to have
such potency. The man who tells you
that whale, dugong, seal or other blubber
oils have vitamin potency is a liar.
Westralian Wheats.
“Vann”: “Brecko” (B. 26/11/’4l) is
a bit mixed about W.A. wheat-yield
trials. The figures given were not the
average for ten years but the results for
the drought year 1940-41 at the Wongan
Hills (light lands) Research Station,
Six widely-separated research stations at
first conducted trials, but two in the
marginal areas have been closed down,
and the one at Merredin had to be aban-
doned owing to drought in 1940.
Avondale, about 60 miles s.-e. of Perth,
conducted a yield trial sown in May,
Bencubbin, with 21 bushels 341 b. an acre,
being best. The late-maturing crossbred
W 4 (Wilfred x Sutton) yielded well with
20 bushels 451 b. Bungulla is not grown
at Avondale.
Chapman station, 25 miles from
Geraldton, had a May-sown trial which
Bencubbin won with 23 bushels 151 b.,
Bungulla being a close second with 22
bushels 461 b. The rust-resistant, late-
maturing Fedweb yielded 20 bushels
381 b.
Trials have convinced W.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture that the best late-
maturer is Sutton —though W 4 may re-
place it—-the best mid-season is Ben-
cubbin., best early is Bungulla and best
very early is Noongaar. Baroota Wonder
is recommended for hay. In districts of
less than 15in. annual rainfall late-
maturing varieties should not be grown,
all varieties may be sown under 15-20 in.,
and where there is more than 20in. annu-
ally very early-maturing wheats should
be omitted.
Hints for the Farm.
“R. Ney”: Sheep with foot lice must
be treated at least twice, at intervals of
from 10 to 14 days. Keep them in the
bath at least five minutes. The bath may
be made from any of the recognised
sheep dips containing derris or rotenone.
It’s not necessary to dump the entire
sheep under unless the lice are detected
on the body. In Victoria you can be
fined for failing to notify the appearance
of foot lice.
“Bahb Dwyer”: Good succulent feed
does not lessen the call for salt for dairy
cattle —in some cases it actually increases
it. The most satisfactory method is to
feed the salt ad lib. Any form of salt or
any kind of trough, hollow log, drum,
etc., will serve so long as it is easily
accessible to the animals. And always
leave salt troughs in the same place.
“Mullengah”: When cows wade
in stagnant water, their bodies and
udders are fouled and it is difficult
to keep the milk free from con-
tamination. Keep them out of it.
“Sailor Bill”: If there are white-ant
beds on the place, dig them up, break
them down fine, exposing the ants and let
the chickens at ’em. Don’t break up too
much bed at a time, else the chickens
may not be able to deal with the ants
quickly enough to prevent some of them
re-establishing themselves. White-ants
won’t evacuate the bed until it is broken.
“5.8.”: Heat apoplexy in fat pigs may
be caused by driving them in the sun or
by allowing them to roast in overheated
sties. If there is no natural shade wooden
sheds should be built in the sties ; iron
sheds become too hot. First indication
of heat apoplexy is usually collapse. Drag
the unconscious animal to a shady spot,
and splash cold water on its head and
snout, afterwards dosing it with a stimu-
lant —a dessertspoonful of brandy or
whisky will do.
“Val. E.” : You can pick the Crusader
bug by the St. Andrew’s cross on its back
and, if you neglect control measures,
you’ll pick it easier by the damage it
does on the citrus trees. The bug may
be any size up to that of a small cock-
roach. The effective spray is a kerosene-
pyrethrum emulsion. Steep lib. of
pyrethrum in igal. of kerosene overnight.
Strain through muslin. Dissolve ylb. of
hard soap in a gallon of heated water,
then stir in the kero.-pyr. solution until
it emulsifies. Use 2gals. of emulsion
with water to make 40gals. of spray.
“Strawb’s Valet”: Victoria, world’s
oldest milking cow, has died at 29. She
was 18 when Korff Bros., of Campbell-
town (N.S.W.), bought her, and that year
she produced 15,5951 b. of milk and
473.351 b. of butterfat. At 20 she was
Ayrshire champion at Sydney R.A.S. and
was reserve at 24, when she gave 13,3131 b.
of milk and 5421 b. of butterfat. Her
one son, Glengowan Victor, sired some
great producers, and a daughter, Glen-
gowan Joyce, won the Australian record
for two-year-olds.
{Continued on page 16.)


DEDUCTED
FROM
VOUR BILL
QJ
9
♦
6y\
G.
m
m
&
USUAL PRICES*.
£12)121- £l4/14/- £l5/15/- £17)17/-
ALL LESS
in
CRAFTSMAN
TAILORED
IN
LONDON
Take advantage of
this unique offer,
which includes
Greys, Fawns and
Navy English
Worsted in a large
number of fittings,
and each garment
is in perfect con-
dition.
Without Exception !
THE ENTIRE RANGE OF ENGLISH
CRAFTSMAN TAILORED CLOTHING
IS SUBJECT TO THE 10% DIS-
COUNT. THIS INCLUDES: ENGLISH
DRESS WEAR, TOPCOATS, RAIN-
COATS AND LOUNGE SUITS,
WHICH ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
FAMOUS 131 FITTING RANGE.
i
i
i
Wm
v ':
■ .... :
%
mm
mm
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD., BROADWAY. SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 6506


A FACTOR OF VITAL IMPORTANCE
EFFICIENT COMMUNICATION |
BETWEEN SEA, LAND AND AIR.
AUSTRALIAN MADE
RADIOTRON
Valves . . . Always Available
STANDARD TO AIR FORCE TRANSMITTERS AND RECEIVERS
- J
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Fty., Ltd.
“ BILLABONG ”
TROUGHING
“ANKs
£ m «ke« s *
Stable Door
«.V
2176
Cattle
|fyv7 E:NT N? 2176.
II X^AEi,
f
Sheep
A GOOD SUPPLY OF PURE WATER IS
ESSENTIAL FOR YOUR STOCK.
Write for Prices and Particulars to
mANK&
&9
°\d
L.TED.
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
For Inflamed
SOLD E 1
H. A. Rose & Co. P'
Eyes and Eyelids
r E R Y W HER E
v. Ltd.. King St.. Sydney
STRIKE IN
SHEEP
Now Easily Prevented
Latest veterinary research has discovered that
effective strike in sheep can only occur when
bacteria are present. The fly may deposit its
eggs and the eggs may hatch, but unless food
in the form of bacteria is present the maggot
quickly dies. Destroy bacteria and you prevent
strike.
Way-Bio strike preventive is the most powerful
anti-bacteria preparation known to science. It
is the result of scientific treatment of many
different species of Eucalypts in a specially-
designed plant wherein the compounding of their
active principles has produced the most positive
of all blowfly strike preventives. Unlike ordi-
nary remedies which may rapidly evaporate,
Way-Bio gives lasting protection because its
viscous components prevent evaporation and
preserve its highly antiseptic properties for long
periods. Order supplies from your regular
wool-house or station supplier, or write to the
Manufacturers, W. K. Burnside Pty., Ltd., Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Trial 1-gallon tins, 13/6.
9S®Sf»
a
3m
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11/-
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. ■ ■ Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
“C.S.”: Border authorities have power
to enforce dipping of clean cattle in
declared tick areas:
The Minister may by notification direct
that all stock within a quarantine area or
within some specified part of a quarantine
area shall be treated by prophylactic or
curative methods for the disease in respect
of which quarantine is imposed whether the
stock are diseased or infected or not.
The penalty for a first offence is
up to £5O, and for a second or subse-
quent offences not less than £3O nor
more than £lOO. Better dip or quaran-
tine if the inspector says so.
“H.C.”: The Katahdin potato has
given excellent results in the light, sandy
soils of the Gosford (N.S.W.) district
and may replace Factor. In the Windsor
district, where Factor was not satisfac-
tory, Katahdin is doing well. Katahdin
matures two weeks earlier than Factor.
It produces short, oblong or roundish
tubers with few eyes. Its skin is very
smooth and pale and it grows a large
percentage of commercial tubers, thus
reducing grading costs.
“M.U.Y.”: The world’s sheep popula-
tion for 1940 was set down as 740,000,000
head, growing 4,010,000,0001 b. of wool.
The Australian portion of that was
1.036.000. South American
606.000. U.S.A. 487,000,0001 b.,
Maoriland 330,000,0001 b., South Africa
261.000.
Outback Occasions.
No. 20.
UNDER THE TERROR.
Like most of the other districts in Aus-
tralia we had an escaped tiger, or leopard,
or pterodactyl or something round our way
one time, and* it marked an occasion we
aren’t likely to forget. Four or five sheep
were found dead and torn about three
miles from our place, near a swamp ; and,
though it was first put down to dingoes
or town dogs on the loose, somebody saw
some tracks in the mud which he’d never
seen before, and it soon got around that
a terrible beast was at large.
Two or three nights later old Schultz,
who lived on his own near the Dog-and-
Duck, left the pub and made for home.
He rounded a turn in the track to see
something with a single glaring eye rush-
ing silently at him. Schultz dropped his
week’s tucker and bolted back to the pub.
The policeman and some others got shot-
guns and went back but couldn’t find
anything, though they hunted round till
nearly daylight.
It came out a good while afterwards
that what old Schultz saw was a road-
mender riding home on a bike with a
carbide headlamp, but that wasn’t until
and almost everybody be-
lieved for the time that Schultz just
missed being eaten alive.
By the time we got to hear of the beast
the police had ordered people on farms
to lock their doors at night. Fellows
used to go into town on business and
gather at the pub to discuss the latest
news, be held up until dark and then ring
up home and say they’d been advised to
stay until morning, which worked in
some cases but not with Mrs. McPhayle.
When her old man tried it she yoked a
pair of horses in a double-seater buggy,
loaded the seven kids in the buggy and
drove the lot at breakneck speed to the
pub, where she seized McPhayle, heaved
him into the buggy and raced home again,
barricaded the place and sat up all night
armed with a pitchfork and a prayer-
book. Her theory was that she could
handle anything physical with the fork
and the book could take care of anything
unearthly.
These and some other incidents soon
had the district in a mixed state of terror,
hilarity, alarm, disbelief and hysteria.
You can imagine how our brother and I
felt one afternoon when we heard three
shots down at the house and saw our
father up on the tankstand waving to us.
We broke evens across the fallow and
galloped in the back door. Father fol-
lowed us, slammed the door, jumped to
the kitchen window while shoving cart-
ridges into the breech of his d.-b. gun
and peered anxiously forth.
“I was up on the hopbush ridge,” he
said, his voice full of excitement. “Heard
somethin’ grunt, looked round and sees
a red face with two big teeth lookin
at me.”
“Gripes,” we said, and went and looked
out the other window. Our mother made
some tea and said perhaps we ought to
ring the police, but Father said the police
were out searching anyhow. After a while
we calmed down a bit, and Father and we
boys—we had our .22 rifles—got some
dog-traps and went up in the hopbush
and set ’em, keeping our eyes open and
listening to everything. We didn’t see
anything, so we came back and had tea.
Then the ’phone rang, and Father talked
to it, and after he’d hung up told us
two calves had been killed on Booberol-
lup, which was behind our place, and
there was a reward of £5O for the scalp
of the beast. We boys thought of our
traps in the hopbush in a hopeful sort
of way and went to bed.
In the middle of the night our mother
woke us up and said in a funny voice
“Listen! ” We listened and heard some-
body yelling up in the hopbush, then
there were two shots and some more yell-
ing and another shot. “Gripes,” said our
brother, “did you wake Father?”
Our mother said in an awful whispery
sort of way “That’s your father!” and
we shot out of bed, grabbed our pants
and boots and our rifles and headed for
that hopbush. We were running before
we hit the ground. As we got near we
could still hear yells, and there were
two or three more shots. We cannoned
off stumps and caromed off wire fences,
fell into gilgais and plunged into
bushes, but we charged onward,
till our brother grabbed my arm and
panted, “Wait. We better sneak up and
pop a coupla bullets in. Y’ know, we’ll
have t’ get close with these twenty-twos.”
I wished he hadn’t stopped running,
because now I was going cold and the
darkness was peopled with all sorts of
phantasms and every sound was like the
Last Trump. We got down on our
hands and knees and crawled forward.
There were burrs on that slope, and once
I put my hand on something slimy and
let out a scream, whereupon our father
started yelling “Who’s there? Help,
help! ”
Well, after crawling about 100 miles
we came round a patch of hopbush and
we could just make out the dim outlines
of a struggle going on at the crest of the
ridge. We stopped and tried to sort it
out, but it was too dark. Then we de-
bated whether to put a couple of shots
into the dark, heaving mass. Our brother
said wc ought to, just to make sure, and
I said we might hit Father. But he said
it was better to take a chance of hitting
Father than losing that £5O reward.
About then we lost sight of the
struggle. We strained our eyes and
listened, but everything was still. “I
dunno how Mother’ll take it,” our
brother said sadly when we saw a light
and realised it was Father lighting his
pipe. So we ran forward, anxious to see
the beast, but all we saw was Father
caught by the ankle in a dog-trap. He’d
come out because he’d heard something,
he said. So we untrapped him and
helped him home, and Mother bathed his
ankle and cried, and our brother and I
went to our room and picked burrs out
of ourselves.
Two days later some bloke caught a
staghound killing sheep 10 miles north
of us, shot him and got the reward.
Father always said the real killer was
never caught.


T^'^Sullc&n-
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Aus
tralasia, weekly: 12 months, £1 45.;
6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s. ( Ex-
change must be added to Country ana
inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas
(British Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 165.; 3 months, Bs. To
members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any Address Overseas
(Foreign): 12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6
months, £1 25.; 3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua,
Fiji, New Hebrides and other places
within the British Empire, Hd. per copy.
United Kingdom, 2)d. per copy. To all
other places, 4|d.
KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
Leather Portfolios
For those bulky papers in Black
and Brown Seal Grain Cowhide:—
Ideal for Military Requirements.
16in. x llin. —with 3 divisions.
Price: 57/6
Others: 84/-, 100/-, 105/-.
C. E. KUCHING III:
"For Everything in Leather .”
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(near Wynyard Stn.). ’Phone; 8W7133
And MOM
CA
s
Post the coupon for illustrated brochure.
To HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
Please forward me your illustrated
Brochure on Modern Ticket and Show- |
Card Writing. I
Nam* -
Address - I
Age.
Hemingway & Robertson have pleasure in
announcing the first complete, thorough
training in Modern Ticket and Show-Card
Writing, prepared and printed specially for
Australian conditions.
Printed texts, profusely illustrated, com-
plete, graded exercises give you the most
up-to-date tuition. A most comprehensive
Ticket Artist’s equipment is supplied Free
to each student.
t
Department of Distribution
Hemingway & Robertson
38a Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney.
Olfiees in all Capital Cities. N’castle & L’nceston
FIND NEW HEALTH
You cannot enjoy good health if you
suffer from constipation. To-night,
before retiring, chew one or two NYAL
FIGSEN TABLETS. Figsen is so easy
and pleasant to take; no nausea, no
griping pain. In the morning Figsen
acts thoroughly, effectively, yet so
gently and mildly. Figsen helps to re-
store a natural bozvel action. Equally
good for young and old. Figsen is one
of the 168 dependable NYAL FAMILY
MEDICINES. Sold by chemists every-
where. 1 13 i a tin.
The next "best thing to Nature . ~
Nyal Figsen
FOR CONST MP RT JON
Our Service Department
Wants.
Well-educated woman, travelled, writer, private
secretary, accountant, nursery-school teacher,
would supervise correspondence lessons, teach
small children or do clerical work as part pay-
ment for board or accommodation for self,
boy (7) and girl (3) in N.S.W. country home-
stead. —3229.
Position wanted by carpenter, enginedriver,
three tickets, own repairs, blacksmith, painter.
Ex-AJ.F—3228.
To buy or hire course of Chandler system
of Morse code. —3223.
To buy books on short-story writing and free-
lance journalism, particularly American publica-
tions. State price, condition, date of publica-
tion, author and publisher.—3222.
Meaning of abo. word “bullaburra.” —3227.
Meaning of abo. word “tooloogan.”—3226.
To buy handbook for 1930 model 501 8-h.p.
Fiat car. State price and condition. —3220.
Information Sought.
(1) Method of awarding ranks of sergeant,
pilot officer and flying officer in the R.A.A.F. ?
(2) Are the commissioned ranks supposed to be
more highly qualified than the non-commis-
sioned? If not, what is the distinction?
The R.A.A.F. sponsors this reply: (1) Con-
ferring of rank is determined by a selection
committee of experienced officers which is
guided in its choice by a man’s educational
standard, power of command, general bearing
and professional ability in the job in which
he is employed. Competitive examinations are
held, results closely scrutinised and used by the
committee, which has power to recommend the
award of commissioned and non-commissioned
ranks. The final award of commissions rests
with the Air Board. (2) Yes. Qualifications
required of an officer include not only academic
ability and ability in his particular branch —
flying, administrative, etc. —but qualities of
leadership and power to command. Bound up
with those qualities are self-discipline and set-
ting at all times a high standard of conduct
and bearing. It sometimes happens that men
deficient in these latter qualities may, for in-
stance, be quite sound pilots and have obtained
good results at examinations. They may, for
this reason, be appointed, in the first instance,
to non-commissioned rank, but subsequent pro-
motion to commissioned rank is always open
to them provided they improve in the qualities
in which they were deficient.
* * # *
(1) A number of girls have been elected to
serve in the quartermaster’s department of the
army and are given the rank of lieutenant,
captain, major, etc. Are they really commis-
sioned officers? (2) Would they be entitled to
a salute? (3) What pay do they get? (4) Are
they members of the A.l.F. ?
(1) and (2) There are no women at present
actually in the army, but women are being
enlisted for the Australian Women’s Auxiliary
Service, which will be under army control.
Some of them will be commissioned, and, in
uniform, would be entitled to a salute when
being addressed or on parade. (3) Pay ranges
from 3s. 6d. to 6s. 4d. a day according to work
(technical or otherwise), plus 2s. 5d. a day sus-
tenance allowance. (4) No. Further particulars
and application for enlistment should be made
through the Women’s Voluntary National
Registry, 19 Bridge-street, Sydney.
* * * «
When were the Australian twopenny stamps
changed from red to lavender ? Any other
changes?
On December 10, 1941. Stocks of the red
variety were overprinted 2|d. and released for
sale on the same day. The increase in the over-
all postage charge necessitated several changes
in the colors of other existing stamps to comply
with the regulations of the Universal Postal
Convention: Id. greens are now printed brown,
Hd. browns green, and 3d. blues dark brown.
Stocks of 3d. blues were overprinted 3^d.
* * * *
Any advice on laying my car up for the dura-
tion ?
Here is the advice of the N.R.M.A. (N.S.W.):
Wash and polish the car thoroughly and allow
it to stand in the sun until all moisture has
evaporated from crevices, etc. For a black top,
clean and polish with boot polish. Grease and
oil all parts in the usual way and wipe away
the surplus; paint any damaged parts to pre-
vent rust; drain cooling system, radiator, water
jacket, etc., flush out all sludge and sediment
and refill with clean water treated with soluble
oil or some suitable rust-preventive com-
pound. Drain the sump oil when the
engine is hot, refill to full mark with new
oil and run engine to circulate new oil
thoroughly. Hypoid differentials which have
been using compounded (special hypoid) lubri-
cants should be drained (preferably after a long
run) and flushed with flushing oil only, then
filled with gear oil (mineral) S.A.E. 90 or
similar; run the car or turn the wheels and
differential to distribute the new lubricant.
Through the spark-plug opening pour into each
cylinder about loz. of upper-cylinder oil mixed
with a little colloidal graphite; crank engine
by hand to distribute; clean plugs, dip ends
in same oil, replace and screw up finger-tight.
Remove battery and arrange for disposal
(recommended) or maintenance; when remov-
ing the battery in a magneto ignition job fasten
the battery cable terminals together to prevent
damage to the generator should engine be
started while battery is removed; treat battery
cable terminals with vaseline to prevent cor-
rosion. Clean nickel and chromium parts and
smear with vaseline or rust-resisting oil. Clean
upholstery with vacuum cleaner or have it done
by a car laundry; genuine leather upholstery
(not American cloth or similar material) may
then be treated with pure neatsfoot oil, any
surplus being carefully removed; if upholstery
is other than leather remove grease stains and
treat with a suitable preparation to keep off
silverfish and moths. Jack up all wheels, de-
flate tyres to about 51b. and paint them with
a 50-50 mixture of glycerine and water. Re-
move all petrol from tank, carburettor, vacuum
tank, etc. Cover car completely with a dust
cover. Turning the engine by crank handle,
with the gear lever in low gear, and inspection
of the car at regular intervals are also recom-
mended. But you should first consider whether
the car is usable for a national purpose in an
emergency.
* « « •
Newchum wants to know how to kill, skin
and cut up a sheep for household meat ?
Assuming the sheep has been selected from
the flock, take it alive to the gallows with its
legs tied together, lay it on one side and, hold-
ing the head back, drive a sharp knife deep into
the throat under the jawbone and slash out-
wards, at the same instant snapping the head
back to snap the spinal column. After a
minute or two, when the first gush of blood is
past and struggling has ceased, turn the carcass
on its back and open up the skin across the
hind legs, across the front legs, along the belly
and throat. Break the hind legs at the knee and
cut them away, leaving hoofs attached to the
skin. Insert the gimbal ends in the tendons
of the hind legs and hoist the carcass on the
scaffold. Next, clean away the skin from the
four legs. Then, gripping the edge of the skin
firmly in the left hand and keeping on a pres-
sure, punch or push the skin away from the
stomach, brisket and flanks and up over the
hindquarters. Then take it by the back ends
and peel down over the shoulders, leaving the
forearms and head attached. Skin the head
afterwards, and hang the skin, fleshy side
out, on a convenient rail or fence. To empty
the carcass, open above the paunch and cut
downward dead centre, keeping the knife at an
angle to prevent cutting into or bursting intes-
tines or paunch. Most of the entrails will fall
slowly outward and you steady the fall with
one hand. Find the alimentary canal, hold
tight and cut through it close up to the anus.
Still holding it, or, better still, knotting it,
allow the entrails to come clear away and
shove them aside. If you intend keeping liver,
lights and heart, have a bucket of clean water
handy to drop them into when you cut them
out. Now insert the knife in the orifices under
the tail and cut round to clear out any re-
mains. Then open the front of the body right
to the crutch. Next, open the brisket right
down to the throat, using a bit of wood to
tap the knife down through the gristle and in-
cipient bone. After that, wash the carcass
thoroughly with fresh water, wipe down, then
transfer to meathouse or some flyproof spot
where it can hang all night. Dispose of offal
and skin. Cutting is simple. Split the carcass
from tail to neck down the middle of the back-
bone with a sharp tomahawk. Cut the neck
off, then the flaps, then the quarters and ribs —
all these parts should be self-evident. Allow
your sheep to calm down in a yard for some
time beforehand, and don’t kill till after sun-
down.
• ♦ * •
I’ve tried unsuccessfully to kill a “tree of
heaven” by ringbarking and various tree-killers.
Any advice?
Make an axe-cut frill in the live portion of
the stump as close to the ground as possible
and pour into the frill the following solution at
the rate of loz. of arsenious oxide to each
inch diameter of the stump: 11b. of arsenious
oxide and 21b. of washing soda boiled sepa-
rately in a quart of water each and the solu-
tions mixed while hot. Add water to make
the solution up to four gallons. If the stump
has already been killed and the trouble arises
from root suckers, only repeated slashing of
the suckers close to the ground will be ettec-
tive.
Does Anybody Know?
i
Was C. J. Dennis’s “Austral- aise” set
to music? If so, by whom? —3225.
Brief Answers.
T.P.: “Capital levy” is confusing. It might
mean a levy based on the value of one’s assets,
less liabilities, or it might be on lines similar
to Maoriland’s compulsory loan. “Conscrip-
tion of capital” could mean heavy taxation,
such as is now in force in Australia and M.L.
The State has the largest share of profits in
most enterprises today... .R.L.T.: State schools
in Australia comprise all schools directly under
State control, in contradistinction to schools
privately managed... .W.D.; Peru has a popu-
lation of 6,672,881 T.H.N.: A Panzer
division consists of motor-cycle units armed
with machine-guns; armored cars; light, medium
and heavy tanks; artillery, anti-tank, A.A.
units; engineer and signal units; and lorry-
carried infantry. It has a flight of 12 recon-
naissance aircraft and about 40 Stuka dive-
bombers W.L.P.; At the year ended June
30, 1940, there were 17,598 cars, 3351 cycles
and 5235 lorries registered in Tasmania....
H.McD.: By the solar constant is meant the
rate of receipt at the earth’s surface of heat
from the sun, after allowance has been made
for absorption in the earth’s atmosphere. The
rate of receipt of heat is 1.94 calories per
minute per square centimetre, and although
the best measurements seem to show small
fluctuations in the amount they are not
seasonal in character P.H.: Excise duty on
beer was last increased on October 30, 1941;
the increase was 3d. a gallon, bringing the
present excise duty to 3s. a gallon P.R.:
To clean alabaster wash the article with hot
water and white Castile soap applied with a
clean rag, then rinse in clean warm water and
dry with clean white cloth... .R.F.; For cross-
cut saws get in touch with Henry Disston,
Vine-street, Redfern, N. S. Wales... .C.HJ.:
Flints for cigarette lighters are not yet being
manufactured in Australia S.M.McK.: The
1914-15 Star was authorised for issue to H.M.
Forces by the War Office for all those who
served on the establishment of a unit in a
theatre of war between August 5, 1914, and
December, 1915 H.M.W.: Apply to the sec-
retary, Temora sub-branch of the R.S.L
8.N.; The Emperor Maximilian of Mexico was
shot in 1867 and Juarez was re-elected Presi-
dent P.T.L.: There were 346 death sentences
carried out in the British Army during 1914-18
for various offences. The death penalty did
not apply to the A.I.F. —those offending under
various headings were sentenced to various
terms of imprisonment, and the great majority
were released, sent back to Australia under
escort and pardoned shortly after the armistice.
L.R.: In 1940 19 persons born in Germany
were naturalised in Victoria.... A.8.D.; Pelsart
was wrecked on Houtman’s Abrolhos in 1629.
J.E.G.: It is a matter for investigation by
the District Finance Officer. Many factors
affect the position. Place all the facts before the
D.F.O.’s investigation officer and get a ruling.
B.Y.: Warrimoo is aN. S. Wales abo. place-
name meaning “eagle” Free Trade: Many
people would like to know the answers to those
questions J.A.W.: (1) It is an independent
State under the temporal sovereignty of the
Pope. Area about 108.7 acres, population 1025.
(2) Worth one-fortieth of a rupee—about -jd.
at present rate of exchange F.C.R.: Your
husband is liable for taxation on all income
earned before his enlistment in the air force.
C.G.S.: Militia pay for a married man is
6s. a day, of which he must allot 3s. 6d. to his
wife. In addition, the wife is allowed 3s. 6d.
a day, plus 2s. 6d. for the first child, 2s. for
the second and Is. 6d. each for any further
children... .H.G.L.: The following extract from
Lloyd’s Register, 1853, has been provided by the
Royal Australian Historical Society: “Ship John
Gray, 487 tons, Captain McDonald. Built at
Greenock 1842. Owned by Dunlop and Co.,
of Greenock. Destination, Colony of Port
Phillip.”
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no M.S. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —•
C.N.:
My God! are you human or minus brains,
Solely enwrapped in your sordid gains.
Insuring your lives for a future day
When there’s no insurance to pay ?
Better a cork sea-borne by the stream
Than a senile content to lie and dream.
With wait, wait, wait!
N.C.:
Herr Hitler sent a card to hell
To bid the devil dine.
Said Satan, “Pray hold me excused,
E’en / must draw; the line.
“For if the news was noised abroad
—l’d have you know, mein Herr —
That 1 had made a pal of you,
I’d lose my character!”
T.I.P.: Forced rhymes and clumsy inver-
sions spoil it. “From Nature new secrets
wresting,” for example R.L.S.: Both the
Muse and the Religious Editor fainted at your
first rhyme T.T.S.: Too murky J.W.:
If it’s true, it’s too good a story to be buried
in bad verse L.M.L.: Diffuse Stone:
There’s nothing compelling in that flat realism.
G.R.: What on earth makes you keep
referring to “the manhood of Australia” as
“she”? M.H.S.: For a woman’s paper
M.L.: Thanks; but a new verse on that theme
would suit us better than to reprint the old
0ne.... J.MacF.: Both fledglings... .W.A.E.:
Trees-breeze; dog-fog; knew-hue: all the old
favorites! C.M.L.: A cheer for Mary, even
though on the last page she suddenly becomes
“Maisie” J.W.G.: Feeble P.R.: It’s a
sermon, not a story... .L.P.: No help for
“Archie’s Dilemma”... .R.H.: Try that one
elsewhere; and read more of the type of thing
we publish... .V.P.; We always shy clear of
“the eternal mystery of life” J.F.: Arti-
ficial..R.B.McD.: Begins well, but it fades
away K.R.: Flapper fodder H.K.C.:
Not for us P.M.: You can’t dump that
here M.R.: No 8.C.: Nearly T.1.P.;
Much too long-winded.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.P.: We have no quarrel with your Zulu
warriors out on the Burnett River, but you have
unaccountably failed to give their lubras lips
like soup-plates C.L.M.: Shapely damsel,
passable bloke, witless remark G. 8.: Look
like a couple of figureheads from old hulks
V.G.: Your history is more muddled, if pos-
sible, than your ideas of art C.W.: That
jest has been raising faint titters at church-
wardens’ meetings for decades L.S.J.: Posing
rather too photographic, but, for the rest,
promising E.O’S.: The gent, who tripped
over the cat seems to be falling upwards....
F.T.H.: A few more years and you might
start hoping to get your foot on the lowest
rung... .F.W.H.; The whole family’s leaning
over at angle of 30deg. would indicate that a
strong wind is blowing; but the trees in back-
ground belie this.


What are the
Oijties of
Executor V
s
S 2
YOUR Executor should assume control of your Estate imme-
diately and take measures to safeguard your assets. He
must manage the assets and deal with the problems of
claims, debts and taxes, including Estate Duties and
Income Taxes, and in general, substitute his business
Judgment for yours. He must administer the Estate as the Will
directs and the law provides, and account for his acts to your
beneficiaries, and to the Court.
The foregoing is only a brief outline of his duties, but it suggests
the reason why those versed in affairs appoint an experienced
Trustee Company as Executor or Co-Executor with a friend or
relative rather than place the entire burden on a single
individual.
The services of The Trustees Executors & Agency Company
Limited with more than 63 years’ experience as a corporate
Executor and Trustee are available at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your Solicitor or call or write for further
information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS'.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyoe;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir I.ennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S'. Oolman.C.B.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS':
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ; W. D. Stewart; R. T. IDlder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager; K. M. Hughes,
m
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers;
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
r —' Dividends x
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 38,075 27,790 Nil 10,285 60,314
1932.. 45,061 27,790 7 p.c. = 21,000 56,585
1933.. 47,137 27,790 5 „ „ 15,000 4,347 60,932
1934.. 53,123 27,790 6 p.c. = 18,000 7,333 68,265
Bad debts reserve taken in, £7500 .. 75,765
1935.. 67,105 27,790 7 p.c. = 21.000 18,315 94,080
1936.. 78,228 27,790 8 „ „ 24,000 26,438120,518
1937.. 88,019 27,790 9 ~ „ 27,000 33,229153,747
1938.. 97,056 27,790 9 ~ „ 27,000 42,266196,013
1939.. 94,007 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 39,217 235,230
Written off buildings, £20,000 ... . . 215.230
1940.. 94,779 27,790 9 p.c. = 27,000 39,989 255,219
Written off buildings, £20,000 . . • • 235,219
1941.. 49,459 27,790 9 p.c. = 27,000 229,888
Last term’s profit (down £45,320) was
less than half that for the year on whose
heels it trod. The slip was due entirely
to provision for taxation —£98,000 (up
£62,000), or 66.4 p.c. of the pre-tax profit
claimed. The previous year’s allowance
for the taxgatherer was £36,000, or 27.5
p.c. of profit claimed, and fell short of
requirements by £7257. Actually busi-
ness was brisker than ever, thanks partly
to rapid expansion of war and other in-
dustries in S. Aus. and partly to defence
expenditure, wage lifts and lengthened
payrolls, etc. The growth in turnover
outstripped the growth in costs, and after
allowing for depreciation and other con-
tingencies the board figured-the year’s
profit £16,680 better at £147,459. The
heavy provision for taxation brought the
net figure down to £49,459, which was
sufficient to pay the prefs. their 7 p.c. and
show 7.2 p.c. on £300,000 of ord. capital,
held by the big Myer Emporium (Mel-
bourne), which took over from the Mar-
shalls in 1928. After allowing for pref,
requirements, the previous year’s net
earnings were 22 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 22, 23, 20, 16.8, 13.1, 8.4, 6.4 and
5.7 p.c. back to 1932. The div. was kept
at 9 p.c., though reserves were tapped foi
£5331 for the purpose.
The outstanding feature of balance-
sheet figures is the consideration given
to stocks as a safeguard against rising
prices and costs:
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital .. £697,000 £697,000 £697,000 £697,000’
Liabilities ■., 262,317 182,921 329,366 394,497
Freeholds, etc, 598,169 591,892 563,679 506,573
Furniture,
plant, etc... 88,492 79,450 64,771 47,894
Stocks . . 340,406 346,950 573,520 705,024
Book debts . . 132,065 129,255 • 118,410 138,966
Cash .. . . 46,092 26,497 26,099 49,822
Over the last two years the book value
of stocks has more than doubled, having
increased by £358,074, of which £131,504
was in respect of the last term. Such a
policy can hardly fail to spell good earn-
ings on a rising market, with costs on
the up-grade and goods, especially fashion
goods, becoming increasingly difficult to
obtain. The problem comes with the
turn of the tide, and it may be an acute
one if the ebb proves sudden and swift
and then drawn out. To finance the extra
stocks and add £20,556 to debtors’ bal-
ances the board increased the outside
debt by £65,131. The sharp reductions of
£57,106 in freeholds and £16,877 in
plant, etc., were the result of liberal
allowances for depreciation, etc. Con-
sidered in conjunction with the heavy
allowance for taxation, the suggestion is
that earnings were by no means over-
stated in the published accounts. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£499,315) was £110,652.
What the future holds for Adelaide’s
biggest department store, and other
traders, too, nobody can say at the
moment. Apart from the fortunes of
war, it remains to be seen to what extent,
if any, the principles of price control will
be relaxed after the conflict is over. The
parent organisation, Myer Emporium
(Melbourne), has been “declared”
under the National Security (Prices)
Regulations, after “exhaustive inquiry by
the Prices Branch into the firm’s opera-
tions, into the prices charged by the co.,
and the profits it was making,” says
Senator Keane. This means that the
co.’s margin of gross profit, which is
derived from the value added by the co.
to its goods for sale at retail, will be
controlled by the public price-fixing
authority. The idea is to prevent both
the cost of living and co. profits from
rising too rapidly. In determining the
margin of gross profit to be allowed, “con-
sideration will be given to the pre-war
gross profit earned, the gross profit earned
since the outbreak of war and the level
of net profit,”
There are 100,000 A and 297,000 B
prefs., both 7 p.c. cumulative. The well-
held As are sought after by buyers at
28s, 7d. At 295. the yield would be 4.9 p.c.
The market prices the Bs at 275., at
which figure the return is 5.2 p.c. The
net tangible cover is £9 ss. 4d. As and
£2 15s. Bd. Bs. The ords. are not listed.
Hoffman Brick (Melbourne)
To Re-
Sept., Loss. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 8,267 Nil 61,651
Written off, £6383 .. .. .. 55,268
1932.. 4,088 Nil 51,180
Profit on sale property, £6301 .. 57,481
Profit.
1933.. 184 2£p.c. = 4,813 52,852
1934.. 3,054 24 „ ~ 4,813 51,093
1935.. 9,944 5 „ „ 9,626 318 51,411
1936.. 9,188 5 „ „ 9,626 50,973
1937.. 13,690 6t .. „ 12,033 1657 52,630
1938.. 11,887 6i ~ ~ 12,033 52,484
1939.. 15,669 7| , ~ 14,440 1229 53,713
1940.. 14,479 74 „ „ 14,439 40 53,753
1941.. 11,8X9 61 ~ ~ 12,033 53,540
Manufacture of stoneware pipes, sani-
tary fittings and other forms of pottery
help, and so do returns from share-
interests in brick-and-tile works at
Auburn, Oakleigh and Blackburn and
from £37,758 of Government securities.
But earnings depend mainly upon making
bricks for home-building. There are some
14 brick cos. in the Melbourne metro-
politan area, and delivery charges, which
are on a mileage basis and form part of
the cost to the customer, practically
restrict the co.’s sales of ordinary build-
ing bricks to areas north of the Yarra.
The value of building permits for
dwellings issued in Greater Melbourne
has stepped along in this way:
Year to
Oct. 31, Value. Index.
1929 . . . . £4,362,262 . . . . 100
1,932 . . . . 889,937 . . . . 20
1935 . . . . 3,419,145 . . . . 78
1938 . . . . 5,067,434 . . . . lie
1940 . . . . 6,004,207 . . . . 138
1941 . . . . 7,234,168 . . . . 166
Last year’s figure reached the highest
level yet, and Hoffman appears to have
got its fair share of the trade.
The slip of £2660 in net earnings was
due entirely to a contraction of £4287
in returns from investments (£2882). The
profit from trading was £1627 better at
£8937 —that was after providing for de-
preciation (£3464, up £2753) and taxa-
tion (£6170 ; amount for previous term
not disclosed). The £11,819 of profit
shown was 6.1 p.c. on capital as against
7.5, 8.1, 6.1, 7.1, 4.7 and 5.1 p.c. back to
1935. The div. was lowered from 7-\ p.c.
to 6£ p.c. and visibly reserves were tapped
for £214 to make the payment. The
average distribution over the last nine
years was 5.4 p.c. Since reserves are not
large in relation to capital, much depends
upon what has been spent on repairs and
maintenance of plant (chief earning asset)
and charged against takings.
Finances are comfortable enough:
1936. 1938. 1940. 1941.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital . . 192,528 192,528 192,528 192,528
Liabilities . . 8,354 6,542 11,222 14,837
Freeholds .. .’. 75,767 75,017 77,721 77,004
Plant, etc. . . 71,839 64,878 61,272 57,601
Stock . . . . 21,169 27,396 26,412 27,003
Shares other cos. . . 41,821 44,321 44,321 44,946
Book debts .. 18,695 19,729 21,834 20,799
Cash, etc. .. . . 28,536 29,157 35,974 41,176
When 'the books last closed, outside
liabilities were nearly three times covered
by cash, etc., alone. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£74,141) was £1143.
Since the close of accounts the tax-
gatherer has asked for more, costs have
continued to rise and building activity
has slackened.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the f.-p. pound shares, covered by
255. 7d. in net tangibles, at 17s. 6d., at
which figure the return would be 7.2
p.c. on a 6} p.c. div. basis.
Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Ee-
July, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 16.260 4,000 6 p.c. = 12,000 260 40,882
Loss.
1931.. 6,027 2,000* Nil 32,835
1932.. 9,040 Nil Nil 23,795
1933.. 3,316 Nil Nil 20,479
1934.. 2,395 Nil Nil 18,084
1935.. 3,161 Nil Nil 14,923
Profit.
1936.'. 3,527 Nil Nil )
Written off stock, £12,299.. ) ~ 0,151
16 p.c.
1937.. 10,908 8,000 Nil 2908 9,053
20 p.c.
1938. 10,000 Nil 4001 13,060
1939. .12,319 10,000 Nil 2319 15,379
1940 . .16,384 10,000 2* p.c. = 5,000 1384 16,763
8 p.c.
1941. .18,951 4,000 6 p.c. = 12,000 2951 19,714
* Half-year.
Easily the best showing since the tide
began to run out just over a decade ago.
For 13 years to the close of accounts in
1925 shareholders got a steady 10 p.c.,
with a bit extra in the fattest years, and
£40,000 of bonus scrip was scattered.
Then extensive alterations were made to
premises and the co. went into debt for
the purpose. Also there was a swing of
the shopping centre north from Flinders-
street to Bourke-street. The div. dropped
to 8 p.c. for the four years to 1929 and
to 6 p.p. for the following term, after
which a five-year patch of rough weather
was encountered and the co. made lee-
way. Then, following changes in both
economic conditions and the manage-
ment, things began to improve. The
prefs.’ slate was cleaned in 1940, when
the ords. got into the picture again—
after a nine-year drought—with 2\ p.c.
Although war conditions have bumped
up costs and the taxgatherer continues to
make off with an increasingly large slice
of takings, defence expenditure has
lengthened payrolls, lifted wage rates,
swelled the volume of money in circu-
lation and so increased spending power.
Official inquiry has disclosed that, be-
tween August, 1939, and August, 1941,
the value of retail sales increased by 45
p.c. Melbourne, 35 p.c. Sydney and 26
p.c. Brisbane. Over the same period in-
creases in the official retail price index
numbers, on which basic-wage rates are
adjusted, were 9.9 p.c. Melbourne, 10 p.c.
Sydney and 11.1 p.c. Brisbane. Since the
rise in the value of retail sales has far
exceeded what could be attributed to the
rise in costs, it is plain that there has
been a substantial increase in the physical
volume of turnover as well. Moreover,
spending has been greater in Melbourne,
where a lot of defence contracts are let,
than in either of the other two centres.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, Mutual Store’s turnover
was the best since the co. set up in busi-
ness 69 years ago. After setting aside
an extra £3500 for taxation (£10,000) and
allowing an additional £2224 for depre-
ciation (£5982), the net result was £2567
better at £18,951, which was sufficient
to pay the prefs. their 8 p.c. and show
7.5 p.c. on ord. capital, and the div. was
lifted from 2\ p.c. to 6 p.c., leaving £2951
to put on the shelf.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1936. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 183,352 208,521 231,776 246,10/
Property . . 250,675 250,675 250,675 250,675
Plant, etc. , . 45,350 48,600 50,650 52,000
Stock . . . . 100,3 0 3 132,62 9 1 57,4 9 6 170,625
Book debts . . 42,976 53,221 60,342 67,623
Cash . . . . 200 821 877 900
Last year £13,129 was added to stocks
usually regarded as a sound investment
these days —a,nd £7281 to debtors’
balances. To meet the outlay the amount
coming to sundry creditors (£131,107)
was increased by £14,331. Mortgages
(£115,000) remained unchanged. When
the books closed outside liabilities ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £6959, an
improvement of £7102 over the twelve-
month.
How the current term will pan out no-
body can say definitely. Much will
depend upon the course of the war with
Japan. Defence expenditure will con-
tinue on a still larger scale, but further
stinging increases in taxation, direct and
indirect, and the continued rise in costs


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated ny
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
offers all facilities for the transaction of every class
of Banking business. Since 1854 >-> over a century
ago <-< the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
has maintained the confidence of its depositors and
the community alike.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
|jr CAPSTAN
CHANTIES
The Shellbacks said, when I was a lad
(With a heave-ho, for Rio)
If you wants to return to your Mum and
Dad—
(With a heave-ho, for Rio)
Better not sauce a heavier bloke:
Better not steal his girl for a joke—
Better —oh certainly, very much better.
Better buy Capstan —
(they’re blended better)
I
' 1
CAPS
f
Time iot a
CAPSTAN
"THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURITE
CIGARETTE"
1589-12.41
Capstan Special Mild . Red Packs * Capstan Medium . Blue Packs * Capstan Full Strength . Brown Packs
can be expected to take a still bigger bite
out of earnings and may have some effect
on turnover.
Also, since the close of accounts 25,JuU
£1 6\ p.c. cum. prefs. have been issued
for cash, A full year’s div. for botn
classes of prefs. will call for £5625, Last
year’s earnings were sufficient to pay this
amount and show 6.6 p.c. on ord. capital.
Mt. Morgan (Q.) has declared its first
ord. div. (of 4d. a share) since May 15,
1940, when 6d. was handed out. The
co. has been putting money into Mt.
Chalmers lately, a potential producer of
substantial copper, plus gold as a sideline.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield for 1941 at
1,109,318 fine oz. was 82,1630 z. below
the 1940 total and the lowest since 1937,
when output passed a million ounces for
the first time since 1916. Decline in
1941’s production is mainly attributed to
shortage of labor, which affected pro-
ducers both large and small, and also
prospecting. No new finds of import-
ance were reported. Dividends were down
about a third. One mine, Mt. Magnet,
passed away. Old gold, including coins,
trinkets, etc., valued at £20,701 was sold
to the Perth Mint, which has paid out to
date a considerable sum in the aggregate
for such odds and ends.
* * * *
Three months ago Swan Bitter (W.A.)
predicted crushing on a “highly-payable
commercial scale” before long and an-
nounced the conclusion of arrangements
to finance fairly heavy expenditure in-
volved and so obviate the need for share-
holders to fork out. Later shareholders
empowered directors to borrow up to
£7500 upon such conditions as they
deemed fit. Now, to enable a “more
vigorous development policy to be car-
ried out and to purchase additional plant
to deal with a greater production ? than
was at first considered possible,” the
board has made a call of Is. on contribut-
ing scrip payable in February. Manage-
ment estimates that there is 25,000 tons
of ore ready , for sloping.
* * * *
An analysis of Lake View and Star s
accounts to June 30 last shows a fall of
£126,900 in the net profit of £465,300
(subject to taxation), but this, it is pointed
out, is partly due to an accounting
change which charges the whole of de-
velopment expenditure to p. and 1. The
true comparison shows a reduction of
£86,300, a movement which is said to be
partly because of the rising trend of costs
and partly because of the lower net yield
of gold. On the costs side both labor
and supplies have risen, while taxation
reserve gets £230,000, which this time
covers tax on dividends charged gross in
earlier years.
* * * *
London, Australian and General Ex-
ploration’s sole Westralian mining in-
terest, Sons of Gwalia, was praised by
chairman W. M. Kirkpatrick at the co. s
annual meeting. He said that recent
development results had fully maintained
the satisfactory ore position, and geologi-
cal features showed no reason why the
ore-body, already followed down a few
thousand feet on a steep underlay, should
not persist to much greater depth. He
said nothing about the bottom (No. 31)
level, where exposures have so far been
poor, and if duplicated in winzing below
that point may have a bad effect on the
market, which has already fallen several
shillings.
* * * *
South Kalgurli’s latest interim divi-
dend is 9d. sterling, not lOd. as pre-
viously announced. Management says
that the mistake occurred in postal trans-
mission from London. Rate of settle-
ment per 100 shares is £A3 ss. 5d., and
not £A3 12s. Bd., as calculated on a lOd.
dividend rate.
DC * * *
Youanmi is about to be added to the
list of deserted Westralian goldmining
camps. Mine workers are moving to
other fields where, because of shortage
of man-power, jobs are to be had for
asking. Pub-, store- and boardinghouse-
keepers are getting ready to go, and the
clergy and the starting-price bookmakers
are packing up. Homes and furniture
are reported to be changing hands at
bargain rates.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie (W.A.) pays
on Feb. 2 an interim div. of 3d. sterling
a share, less British income tax of 10s.
in the £l, subject to Dominion relief of
Is. 4d. in the £l. What with one demmed
thing and another that the Westralian
gold industry is at present up against,
G.M. of K. is not doing badly, and has
surprised many with the results it has
got from what was previously regarded
as a worked-out or not-worth-bothering-
about section of the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile.
» * * *
Pomme d’Or (W.A.) is to wind up.
Formed in 1934 to acquire a goldmimng
venture near Wiluna, it soon began to
blow about its prospects. Some tipsters
predicted a good rise, and at the first
annual meeting someone told share-
holders that he could see nothing to stop
regular dividends being paid in the imme-
diate future. Reports of gratifying de-
velopments, considerable tonnage assured,
regular monthly clean-ups, etc., were
broadcast, and then there was a long
silence broken by the announcement that
liquidation was proposed.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C S.: (1) Sell now and invest in Australia. (2)
8.H.P., Bradford Cotton, Adelaide Steam, Aus-
tralian Consolidated Industries. The present
looks a good time to buy. (3) J. T. Vinton
Smith; Clark and Co J.F.: Difficult to
advise you, but if you have more than £lOO
still to pay suggest you cut your losses.


jExa £iX
fe' A
i [Air*
Forging a Nation’s
Destiny
In tine great industrial workshops of Australia
the forces of industry are hard at work . . .
engaged in a herculean task . . . the forging
of a nation's destiny! In their hands lies
our strength and our hopes for the future
. . . and they shall not fail!
Night and day, for example, the huge New-
castle and Port Kembla works of John
Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd., capable of
producing over 200,000 tons of sheet iron
per annum, are maintaining a ceaseless flow
of steel sheets for defence requirements . . .
of prefabricated air raid shelters ... of the
world-famous Red and Blue Orb Galvanized
Iron for water conservation ... of terne-
plate and black iron tor essential building
and manufacturing purposes.
And as long as sufficient supplies of raw
materials are available this output will con-
tinue unabated . . . until Australia becomes
in truth one of the "great arsenals of the
Empire."
ORB
JOHN LYSAGHT (Aust.) Pty. Ltd
AUSTRALIA
SYDNEf*. BRISBANE MELBOURNE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
TMCMPSOW I AJCTC.
55 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE AS EXECUTORS
In these swift, moving times it is a good plan to read over your Will now
and again. Be sure that it includes provision for an Executor with long
experience and sound judgment (born of that experience) to deal with any
difficult situation that may arise. If you wish to appoint a friend or relative,
appoint him in conjunction with Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. The
business of a Trustee is highly technical and should be performed only by those
qualified for the task. “Your Executor and Trustee,” a book that explains
the Company’s service and charges, will gladly be sent to you on request.
It will be helpful.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED,
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY
FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
Trust Funds under administration exceed £59',000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. CURETON, Manager.
Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone; 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Business, Rollery, etc.
Placer Development
Although the co. has its registered
office in Vancouver, British Columbia,
the shares of Placer Development were
excluded from the call-up of dollar
securities during 1941. The co., in fact,
is substantially Australian-owned, and
Sydney lawyer W. A. Freeman is presi-
dent. Freeman had wide experience in
Malayan tin-dredging before he became
interested in Placer. The sharemarket is
worried about the scrip at the moment
because of the co.’s large interest in
Mandated New Guinea, where three
Junkers freight ’planes belonging to
Bulolo Gold Dredging have been bombed
and destroyed. But the large S. Ameri-
can interests, only now reaching full
development, should not be overlooked.
Placer was formed in 1926 as a pros-
pecting and gold-dredging concern, and
it investigated areas in Alaska and S.
America, but until attention was given
to New Guinea nothing of much conse-
quence turned up. A subsidiary, Bulolo
Gold Dredging, was formed in June,
1930, to work 4\ miles of river flats on
the Bulolo. Though only 40 million
yards of ground was talked about at the
flotation, it is a matter of history that
over 107 million c.y. has been treated
since operations commenced in 1932, and
1,194,7250 z. fine gold had been recovered
to May 31 last, plus 529,4420 z. silver.
The increase in yardage beyond pros-
pectus estimates is the result of additions
to the area (chiefly the Bulowat-Burnside
leases) and the working of deeper
ground and yardages previously regarded
as unpayable. The prospectus spoke of
values of 25d. a yard with gold at 845.;
at that price for gold last year’s re-
coveries were worth only Byd. Bigger
dredges and greater all-round efficiency
have worked wonders in the matter of
costs. Aerial transport was largely re-
sponsible for the initial success in open-
ing up the almost inaccessible dredging
areas.
At the present time Placer owns 300,000
of the million one-dollar shares issued by
Buloio and draws SO p.c, of its income
from the co. This chief subsidiary estab-
lished its own air service between Lae and
the goldfields, and last year 3739 tons
of machinery and supplies was trans-
ported. The eight dredges at work
dug 19.5 million c.y, (up 1.1 million) for
167,4620 z. gold and 72,5210 z. silver, com-
pared with 185,0160 z. gold in the pre-
vious term and 81,5670 z. silver. Aver-
age recoveries were worth 4.1 grains of
gold, including the gold value of the
silver, compared with 4.9 gr. in the preced-
ing term and from sgr. to 7gr. in all
the previous years. Average working
costs, including four cents for the New
Guinea 5 p.c. royalty and Common-
wealth gold tax, ran out at 12.44
Canadian cents. Average recoveries were
worth 33.26 cents, leaving a working profit
of 20.8 cents. In the previous term the
working profit was 26.4 cents a yard.
Net profit last year was $3,935,021, com-
pared with $4,806,408. Out of the latest
year’s earnings $394,393 was appropriated
for amortisation and $22,350 donated to
the war services. Dividends at the un-
changed rate of $3 on each of the mil-
lion Bulolo $5 shares called for
$3,000,000. Dredging reserves are put
at 140 million c.y., plus 21 million re-
served for hydraulicking. Surplus liquids
on May 31 were equal to just under $5
a share.
Of the other strings added to Placer’s
golden bow during its romantic 15
years, Pato Consolidated, operating in
Colombia, South America, is the most
immediately useful to shareholders. Out
of this co.’s issued capital of 3,200,000
$1 shares, Placer owns 1,150,000. Pato
last year treated 16.9 million c.y. in its
five dredges and five sluicing plants, com-
pared with 16.7 million c.y. in the pre-
ceding term. Average recoveries were
worth 25.8 cents, against 17.2 cents. In-
cluding taxes, exes, (excluding deprecia-
tion and amortisation) ran out at 12.5
cents, compared with approximately 10
cents in 1939-40. By virtue of the increase
from 7.2 cents to 13.3 cents a yard in the
working profit, net earnings rose from
$1,199,258 to $2,262,644, being equal to
about 70 cents a share. Dividends, in-
cluding an “extra” div. after the close
of accounts, totalled 32 cents a share,
against 20 cents in the preceding period.
Surplus liquids, allowing for the Sep-
tember div., amount to 50 cents a share.
Dredging and hydraulicking reserves are
“conservatively” put at 558 million c.y.
averaging 14.2 cents a yard. Drilling of
“large areas of potential dredging and
sluicing ground” is still going on.
Adjoining the areas of Pato Consoli-
dated are some dredging areas in which
an associate co., Nechi Consolidated, is
interested. Placer and Oroville (London)
acquired a working option on a 7 p.c.
royalty basis over these areas about five
years ago, but title litigation was not
settled until recently. Testing is now
proceeding on the properties, and if results
are satisfactory they will be transferred
to Nechi Consolidated for development.
Asnazu is yet another Colombian ven-
ture, not yet so advanced as Pato. On
April 30, 1941, gravel reserves were cal-
culated at 95.8 million cubic yards aver-
aging 18.3 U.S. cents a yard. Of the
total yardage, 26.8 million averages 31.25
U.S. cents, and the remainder goes 13.3
cents. During the financial year the small
dredge worked on rich but difficult
ground, turning over 860,300 c.y. for
12,7670 z. fine gold, average recovery
being 57.1 Canadian cents a yard. Only
half the capacity yardage was worked
owing to the bouldery nature of the bed
of the swift Cauca River. Net profit was
$176,183, against $156,671. No div. was
paid, funds being retained to finance
construction of the new 4,000,000-yards-
p.a. dredge that started on Oct. 28 and
the hydro-electric plant that is an in-
tegral part of it. This big new dredge is
treating the lower-grade area of gravel.
Most of Asnazu’s life still lies before it,
and it has not yet accumulated anything
in the way of surplus liquids.
In Australia Placer has interests in
Rutherglen Gold Dumps (64 p.c.), Gold
Dumps Pty. (83.3 p.c.) and Clutha De-
velopment. Small but handy profits are
earned by the first two from re-treatment
of old dumps. American Placers, Inc., is
an investment co. in which Placer owns
nearly all the 534,000 shares issued.
Placer has other minor American
interests.
Placer itself has an issued capital of
$744,000 in dollar shares. Last year
income from Bulolo and Pato was
$1,130,000, an unchanged figure. Net
profit was also unchanged at $1,101,750.
The div. ($1.20 a share) was the same
as in the preceding year, calling for
$892,800.
Apart from the mining and other in-
terests, Placer’s liquids and its equity in
the surplus liquid assets of its associates
amount to nearly $4 a share, Canadian
money. Last week Placer shares could
be bought at the depressed price of
38s. in Australia. The market has
been affected in particular lately by
the imposition of State income tax on
divs. received by N. S. Wales residents
from the co., by the operation of the new
Federal income tax, and by the proximity
of the Japanese activities to the co.’s
New Guinea interests.
The Commonwealth basic wage has
again been raised. That for Sydney goes
up by 2s. to £4 11s. a week, by far the
highest wage rate in Australia’s history;
in Melbourne the lift is Is., to £4 9s'.
In Brisbane, Adelaide and Hobart the
rises are 2s. a week, to £4 65., £4 6s.
and £4 7s. respectively. In Perth the lift
is Is., to £4 6s. The average rate for the
six capitals becomes £4 Bs., compared
with £4 7s. on Nov. 1. On Sept. 1, 1939,
the rate was £3 195., so that an inflation
of 9s. has taken place in average weekly
wages since war started, the equivalent
of 11.4 p.c. In Sydney the inflation has
been 10s. a week.
• •*•••
In matters relating to taxation and
wage rates the Australian wage-earner
gets off lightly compared with the New
Zealand worker. In Maoriland there is
certainly no State taxation to worry
about, but everyone pays a minimum of
2s. in the £ for national and social
security, and recently the Court of Arbi-
tration refused to grant an increase in
wages in accordance with the cost of
living. In Australia we see that wages
are kept strictly in step with increases
in living costs, and on a wage of £4 11s.
a week in the highly-taxed State of N. S.
Wales the total weekly taxation deduction
in the case of a single man is now Bs.,
with the average for the seven months
of the current year rather less, even
making allowance for the war tax re-
cently imposed. The married man gets
deductions for his dependants in Aus-
tralia, whereas there is no such allowance
so far as M.L. flat-rate taxes are con-
cerned. On over £2OO a year the New
Zealander pays ordinary income tax, too ;
the weekly deductions made in the Com-
monwealth are intended to cover all
income-tax levies.
* * * *
Canada, which has seen the handing-
over to the Federal Government of all
provincial and municipal authority to
levy income tax, has got down to the
economics of war much more quickly
than Australia, though it has regis-
tered a slightly greater increase in
the cost of living, probably due in part
to the charging of discouragingly high
prices for goods in short supply. Canada
is financing the waste of war out of taxa-
tion to a greater extent than the prac-
tice in this country. Stable government
may be a contributing factor, but in any
case Canada hasn’t lost its business head
while getting on with its job of war; it
should see the end of hostilities with a
clean sheet so far as the Government
debt to Britain is concerned. Industrial
development has been amazing, espe-
cially in regard to production of alumi-
nium and munitions. Australia’s develop-
ment in some regards has also been re-
markable, but the job being done by
various Government workshops is not
nearly so satisfactory as it should be. The
official mind in most cases in Australia
is a non-productive mind, and for really
worth-while results we have to iootc to
private enterprise, which has a back-
ground of economical manufacture.
There is too much job-filling and poli-
tical expediency about Government
undertakings even in the urgency created
by war. The labor position is almost in-
variably difficult. Labor very soon spoils
itself in Government industries.


BRANDALER*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKANDADItE * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
Personal and Missing Friends.
SYDNEY THORNTON AKEROYD.—Anyone
knowing whereabouts of Sydney Thornton
Akeroyd, son of John Akeroyd, deceased, late
of East Brunswick, Victoria, last heard of 1921,
communicate or ask him to communicate with
MESSRS. COY & ENGLAND, Solicitors, 352
Collins Street, Melbourne.
MISSING BENEFICIARY.
WOULD JAMES RAYMOND GIBSON, last
heard of in Northcote, Melbourne, and Beech-
worth in 1933-36, or anyone knowing whether
he is alive or dead, please communicate with
the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Christ-
church, New Zealand?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO AGNES BELL late of Wallsend New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that RONALD
CHARLES BELL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2082 of 1941 on the ground of
desertion without reasonable cause or excuse
for three years and upwards You may enter
an appearance before the 6th April 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MERVYN A. DOYLE Solicitor of 133
Pitt Street Sydney.—C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM RUDOLPH BENNETT late of
Marrickville New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MAVIS .BENNETT has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2265 of 1941 on the
ground of desertion without reasonable cause
or excuse for three years and upwards You
may enter an appearance before the 13th April
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MERVYN A. DOYLE Solicitor of
133 Pitt Street Sydney—C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
f k£fcea4o
INTELLIGENT
Au s
CARE MEANS
LONGER
WEAR
*
c 2
m
■
m
vwv««^SSs
SSS
Rubber is one of the strategic war materials vital
to National Defence. A few common sense rules
of Tyre Care will conserve rubber for Australia,
and save money for you.
UNDERINFLATED TYRES
PROPERLY
INFLATED
UNDER
INFLATED
Improper inflation is the greatest
cause of rubber wastage. Over-
inflation is almost as bad. Save
Rubber. Save Money. Have your
tyre pressures checked regularly .
Olympic
w TYRES
S 3
This is a time for the bending
of every effort to the common
cause of winning the war.
Australia is up against its greatest crisis and only
if every citizen restricts his or her spending to
absolute necessities, and saves every possible
penny, can victory eventually be won.
As never before. Saving is of national and most
immediate importance. You can do your bit, as
every Australian should and as every true Aus-
tralian undoubtedly will—Save for safety.
A Commonwealth Savings Bank
account provides the easiest, most effective way.
>j'lT IS OF THE UTMOST
IMMEDIATE NATIONAL
IMPORTANCE THAT EVERY
CITIZEN SHOULD SAVE...
Only
one WAY
TO BE SURE
OF THE
FUTURE
X
10 for ll d 20 for 1/10
Also in Fifties
Far greater
smaking enjagwnent
CRAVENA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
ipiv
- V ?v
r
2817
Ideas of Eddie Ward
Edward J. Ward, M.H.R. for East
Sydney and Minister for Labor, who
has had a long experience in the matter
of guiding workers in their e-
havior towards fct the bosses, would a
this critical stage of the war appear
to have had some difficulty in get-
ting many of them to behave decently
towards their country. The behavior
of Mr. Ward himself, as a Minis-
ter, is at times as exasperating as it is
inexplicable, even allowing for his oft-
expressed dislike for the way Australia s
chief industries, however efficient they
may be, are conducted. On June 18,
when a member of the Opposition,
the ever-critical Eddie said, “The only
way in which to organise the national
effort properly is to eliminate private
profit entirely.... I would support the
nationalisation of the Australian iron and
steel industry, and would limit the in-
comes of all individuals, including mem-
bers of Parliaments, no matter from what
source the income may be derived, to
£5OO a year during the present war.”
The £5OO mentioned was that decided on
by Eddie’s old leader Jack Lang, but the
Minister for Labor apparently hasn’t
made allowance for the increase in the
cost of living since 1932,
In the same debate Mr. Ward said, “I
believe that a Labor Government alone
is the only kind of Government that can
organise the national war effort without
showing special consideration for par-
ticular interests involved.” A few months
afterwards, now a Minister, Mr. Ward
told a King’s Cross (Sydney) audience
that “in the last two months the Federal
Government has done more to protect
the social interests of the people than any
other Government, Federal or State. We
have now tremendous powers, and we
will use them.” He added that the Gov-
ernment was not afraid of an election,
but did not say whether he thought the
country was any better equipped to fight
the war. (Japan came in a few days
later.) He graciously admitted that
his Government had made a mistake in
not taking over Cockatoo Dock again.
The Bulletin told Mr. Ward at this
juncture that “too much preoccupation
with the idea of gaining social advan-
tages over the other fellow isn’t part of
a war-winning programme.”
About this time Eddie’s Government
introduced its rent legislation. Rents
under £4 4s. a week, where lifted, had
to be put back to August, 1939, levels.
Said Eddie: “It is hoped and believed
that from these regulations fair tenants
will have much to hope and fair land-
lords nothing to fear.” Always “show-
ing no special consideration for the par-
ticular interests involved,” Mr. Ward
didn’t worry a scrap about the fact that,
though basic-wage-earners had had their
wages lifted by 10 p.c. or more since war
broke out in accordance with living costs,
the houseowner would now be denied any
chance of equal compensation. When
the holiday ban came, boardinghouse-
keepers were picked on to take the knock.
According to a Sydney “Herald” report,
Mr. Ward said that “people who had
paid a deposit for accommodation during
the Christmas holidays, and now were
unable to take holidays because of the
Government’s ban, would receive a full
refund.” No “equality of sacrifice” about
- t But Mr Sard’s idea in this connec-
tion was not universally assented to by
landladies who had made preparation for
guests. Landladies in a body would prob-
ably have been too much even for Eddie,
L as t week the Minister for Labor, fol-
lowing on the decision to “control” man-
power, expressed his belief that, “as the
Government had taken steps to organise
labor, steps should be taken to organise
apd regiment cap j ta k The only way this
cQuld be achieved was by complete
liationalisation » He said “the proper
tb j ng wd j be to take complete control of
bas j c industries, allowing those who have
capital involved Commonwealth-bond
rate of interest.” Most industries are
taxed? controlled and conscripted to an
extreme degree already. And none of
them haye held up essential war produc-
don on utter j y frivolous and stupid
grounds hk e the striking coalminers,
Mr Ward doesr p t know that divi-
dends from basic industries have been
reduced ra ther than increased, in spite
tbe f a ffi n g value of money, since war
oub his ignorance is amazing con-
sjderjng his j ob< jf he j s unacquainted
wdb tbe comparative futility of Govern-
ment-managed workshops alongside pri-
vate enterprise he has only to -study the
past history of Cockatoo Dock in com-
pariSon with results achieved by the
presen t management. And if he is still
unC onvinced, let him have a look at
ex i s ting Government war workshops and
compare results with work done on con-
tract by private cos.
]yf r . Ward is not as ignorant as
m tght appear, the question of political
opportunism arises. Is his proposal just
some more class-conscious “social
po licy”? If so, does he think the time
prQ pitious to introduce an industrial revo-
iution that cannot but embarrass the war
effort at a moment when the enemy is
attacking Australian-controlled territory?
And does he think that the U.S.A., to
which Mr. Curtin favors strong ties, will
co-operate readily with a country that
talks of “nationalisation,” which is next-
of-kin of socialisation? It seems that
the absurd but disturbing Minister has
been mG re or less sat upon by his own
fellow-Ministers, and his proposal for
“complete nationalisation” has dropped
out of the news. But Mr. Ward is still
j n the Ministry,


TEH SERVICE MAN
The War Reaches Australia.
“Ek Dum”; While Australian bat-
talions in Malaya have been fighting for
their lives, holding their own front and
stopping leaks in other fronts, events
have brought the war to within 300 miles
of Australia proper.
Up to the week-end it had not reached
Papua, but it had arrived in the man-
dated territory, for which politicians and
newspapers believed the Covenant of
the League of Nations to be a sufficient
shield. Military, naval and air leaders
and The Bulletin for years pointed
out the danger of the policy which forced
New Guinea to go unfortified —in vain.
Yet with its fine harbors, its armies of
compellable labor, its timber, gold, oil
and coconut products it was an Achilles
heel through which an enemy might pierce
the very flesh of the Commonwealth and
spread the poison of war throughout the
continent.
Strategically considered, the operations
in New Guinea are a reaching south-
eastward to form a new joint of action
(B. 21/1/ ’42) from which two move-
ments could begin.
One of these would swoop westward
across Papua, seeking to take control of
the four dozen or more aerodromes and
landing grounds on the main island,
mostly within 700 miles, the nearest 200
to 300-odd miles, from the Australian
coast.
From there the Japs might establish
control of all through direct routes from
North Queensland ports to their man-
dated islands, and of Torres Strait,
thus forcing all sea traffic for Darwin
and to Sourabaya to travel round by
Westralia. They might also prevent shel-
tered ports within the Barrier Reef from
being used as bases for operations in
the Arafura and Timor seas.
The westward movement from the
Japanese-occupied Bismarcks and Papua
might link up with an encircling drive
round the Indies which would aim to
control, if not the North Westralian coast
itself, at least all the approaches to it, as
well as Java, Sumatra and the main ap-
proaches to Singapore from India and
Suez.
On the west side again the conquest of
New Guinea would have other effects on
the Netherlands East Indies and the
main naval and air campaign. Though
Japan owns islands all the way from
Nippon to south of the Equator, none
of them has a harbor fit for battleship
bases. In any case, they are too far away
to create a big-ship zone which could in-
clude east-coast Australia within its
ambit.
The limit operating distance of battle-
ships from their base would be about
2500 miles in any type of decisive war-
fare. Occupation of Mandated Terri-
tory harbors and of Port Moresby would
in time bring the whole of the Arafura
Sea within battleship range from the east
as well as from the north. It would also
put the whole of the waters south to
Maoriland within battle-fleet reach, and
give Honolulu another direction in which
its eyes must continually watch.
So soon as enemy bases were firmly
established at Madang, Kieta, Rabaul and
some other well-sheltered spots, raids by
aircraft-carriers along the whole north
from outside the Barrier Reef, and even
by battleships as well as carrier craft
south of the reef, would become an im-
minent possibility, though it might take
time before stores were accumulated in
conquered territory in sufficient quantity
to operate on any large scale.
From New Guinea, too, the drive, un-
less arrested, will almost certainly con-
tinue in time towards Samoa and the
Society Islands, to cut off communication
between Australia and America and
establish military bases in New Guinea
itself, the Hebrides and the Solomons
and Noumea from which invasions of the
Commonwealth and Maoriland could be
attempted.
The New Guinea area, therefore, if
Japan is allowed to get a grip on it, will
be converted into a vast corner depot on
the east of the enemy’s equatorial octopus
body from which scissors can be
developed
(a) to join with the Celebes-Amboina
drive to engulf Papua, the Dutch East
Indies, the Arafura Sea and the North
Australian coastline;
( b ) to join with the Indies, if and when
conquered, to close in on the eastern and
northern coasts of Australia;
(c) to form the striking-out point from
which a new sector of approaches con-
verging on Hawaii could be built. These
would run roughly from Japan itself
through Saipan, the Bismarcks, Samoa and
Fiji to the Society Islands.
The attacks on New Guinea are no
feint. Japan cannot spare aircraft-
carriers and risk three or four cruisers
and a dozen or so merchantmen so far
afield for anything but a serious opera-
tion connected with the vital strategy of
the war. On the manner in which this
particular invasion is handled a great deal
more than the mere fate of New Guinea,
the adjacent islands or even Australia
might depend.
This viewpoint cannot be represented
too strongly to London and Washington.
From Land, Sea and Air
After a number of sporadic raids on
burnt-out Rabaul, the former capital of
what was once German New Guinea, the
Japanese attacked New Guinea mandated
territory in earnest halfway through the
week. The pivot of the attack was some-
where in the great oval of the Bismarck
Sea. This is fenced in by the Admiralty
and other islands on the north, by long,
thin New Ireland on the east, by New
Britain, which curls itself across the south
like a fat caterpillar with its head tucked
inside New Ireland. The western fence
is formed by the New Guinea mainland.
January 19 saw particularly fierce raids
on Rabaul. About 100 machines were
used, bombers and fighters. Some of
the ’planes must have been shore-based,
which showed that the enemy must
already have a foothold somewhere in
the vicinity. A medium-sized merchant
ship caught fire, the wharf was damaged
and 11 were killed and six wounded, in-
cluding some civilians.
A.A. fire brought down three Japanese
machines. Five R.A.A.F. aircraft were
destroyed, but the crew of one was saved.
Early next morning a series of attacks
was made all round the Bismarck Sea
oval. They could come only from a con-
centric source. The operation was so
large as to suggest that more than one
aircraft-carrier must be employed, and
that, whatever enemy expedition was in
the vicinity, it was big and well
enough supplied to risk being en-
trapped in waters 1000 miles and more
from the nearest workable Japanese
naval base, which even inferior naval
and air forces could make precarious for
invaders.
The onslaughts were made with a far
better knowledge of geography than
Nippon showed at the opening of the last
war, when Japanese ships, bent on reach-
ing the Bismarcks first, went to Madang
under the impression that it was the
capital. All over the Pacific zone the
enemy has been well served by his fisher
fleet, Australia could have had one com-
parable in size and better in quality, but
politicians have never been interested in
fisher fleets.
In the Admiralties, Lorengau, on
Manus, the district station —a regular
anchorage and source of the best and
fiercest fighting “boys” in the Mandated
Territory—was visited. Almost simul-
taneously Kavieng, district H.Q. in New
Ireland, from which Bulowinski’s road
was pushed down the narrow island in
the old days, was blasted by 20 fighters
and 40 bombers. It is on the extreme
northern tip of the island. Afterwards
Jap marines landed and destroyed every-
thing which the evacuating Australians
had not wrecked.
Kavieng is a pretty little township along
an open waterfront, a calling-place for
copra steamers and rendezvous of planters,
a channel through which tourists circu-
lated round the islands on B.P. boats in
peace-time. It is gay with “boys” who
powder their hair like eighteenth-century
wigs and wear hibiscus behind their ears.
The wildest imagination in normal times
could not imagine any military need
which could justify its being savaged by
60 warplanes.
At noon three ’planes arrived over
Madang on the island mainland. Madang
was once Kaiser Wilhelmshaven. It lies
on low land in palm-shaded streets on a
fine, large anchorage and is a district
capital.
Finally, Lae, the new capital, and
Salamaua, port of the goldfields, were
visited by small fighter forces on Wednes-
day. Later in the week Lae was savagely
bombed and had to be abandoned.
Lae lies on the north side of the Huon
Gulf, near where the Markham River
flows to the sea. It is on a flatfish
promontory on which New Guinea
Airways has its hangars and head-
quarters. Salamaua is e.-s.-e. across the
gulf, mainly on a spit which runs out
into the ocean but with a passenger land-
ing ground on the mainland which carries
a very large quantity of the goldfields
traffic. There is still no road to the gold-
fields. The people there, in case of in-
vasion, are cut off from the outside world
save by ’plane. Three large Junker trans-
port ’planes were destroyed on the ground
at Bulolo,
Salamaua is under 200 miles by air
from Moresby, almost due south of it,
across ranges which run into peaks from
10,000 to 13,000 feet odd high. Sala-
maua to Madang is another 200 miles.
Madang to Lorengau, the nearest large
station to Japanese possessions, is be-
tween 250 and 300 miles; Lorengau to
Kavieng, 250 miles; Kavieng to Sala-
maua, nearly 400 miles.
And Salamaua is only 300 miles from
the Queensland border in a direct line
which, takes in various groups of islands
off the Fly River mouth, Papua ; only
400-odd miles, or \\ hours’ air distance
for a medium-fast bomber, from Thurs-
day Island and Cape York.
New Guinea’s Gallant Women
So soon as the raids were reported
evacuation of women and children from
all outlying stations which could be
reached began. New Guinea understands
the air. It has tough, experienced pilots
and is used to big ’planes, of which plenty
were forthcoming from the south.
Residents were told to report at aero-
dromes with 301 b. of luggage. They came
with their children gallantly and laugh-
ing, women who have braved malaria,
blackwater, the continual day-and-night
humidity, the native smell, the insects,
the snakes, the thousand illnesses and
pests and the monotony which beset the
tropics.
They were packed, 30,40 and 45 women
and youngsters, into straining fuselages
which were flung daringly across the
peaks to Moresby. Many left their hus-
bands behind. Many more, the last
holders of family tropical fortresses, had
their men already away in the Middle
East and Malaya.
Some had sacrificed the accumulations
of bitter years, momentarily. But they
landed still gallantly, still ready to laugh
it off. Their attitude was in happy con-
trast to that of some shrieking editors
2000 miles further south.
The exodus was made none too soon.
It was carried out almost literally under
shadow of the enemy bombers.
All day on Thursday new attacks, each
seemingly fiercer than the last, continued
to be made throughout the Mandated
Territory. They ranged to the circular
harbor of Kieta in the formerly-German
Solomons across Buka Passage.
’Planes even swept as far south as
Tulagi in the British Solomons, over 600
miles south-east of Rabaul.
On the west they penetrated to the
highlands at Bulolo, the main centre of
capital investment on the mainland New
Guinea goldfields. At 9.20 a.m. on Jan.
23, Bulolo Radio closed down because of
raiding, but news was still coming in
from other centres.
Rabaul Blacks Out
Rabaul had suffered two more full-
scale raids during the morning. The
first came about 9 a.m., and lasted 20
minutes ; the second an hour later. The
enemy dropped bombs and machine-
gunned the ground defences. At 4 p.m.
all communication with Australia ceased
with a message that about 1 p.m. five
transports, three cruisers and three
destroyers had been seen off Watom
Island and about 40 miles from Rabaul.
They had obviously come straight
through the archipelago from the north.
The civilians of Rabaul had been
largely evacuated some time ago. Even
before the Pacific war broke out many
of its citizens had been driven out by
the constant rumbling of Matupi and
other volcanoes and by the showers of
ash. Many civil servants had gone to
Lae. Chinatown, once the hub of social
life, had become a mere spectre of its
former fatted self.
The bung or native market had lost
its animation. The “opulence” of the
Rabaul Club—which one Sydney Sabbath
scribe seems to conceive as something
on a Malayan scale, filled by rich, pahit-
swilling planters—had become the sad
resort of a race of undertakers. All the
tall trees of the casuarina avenue and
the vast jacarandas which had looked
down on Rabaul when missionaries across
the bay carried rifles and the most popu-
lar society rejoiced in the name of Die
W under kindchen were weighed down
with volcanic ash. The ash had pene-
trated even into the natural cathedral
formed by a fold in the hills behind the
town, in which, in an uncanny stillness
broken only by the chic-chicing of little
lizards, Australia’s first dead of the last
war rest side by side with some of their
enemies.
Still, Rabaul, controlling St. George’s
Channel, main gateway of the Bismarck
Archipelago, is important. Its harbor
Blanche Bay, is formed by a 1400 ft. high
ribbon of volcanoes. Southward, behind
it and Kokopo, where Australians had
their first fight in the last war, lies the
high, wet, tangled land of Toma and the
Bammgs. Some of it, only a few miles
from the capital, is as primitive as in the
days of Adam. Much is like the jungle
country of North Queensland, as difficult
to negotiate as some of its names—Gnas-
sianakassika, Ataliklikun. But the shores
are low. There are easy landing places
all round the peninsula, and, while the
entrance to Rabaul faces east, there is
an easy approach across the narrow neck
to the west, where a road runs through
the hill to Natava.
It was off here at 1 p.m. on January
22, and 40 miles to sea, that Japanese
ships were first sighted within the archi-
pelago. They evidently had come right
across the British seas from the north
without being discovered.
On Friday night both Tokyo and the
Australian Army Minister, Mr. Forde,
announced that a Japanese landing had
been made at Kieta. Mr. Forde said
it was not important.
Kieta is about 270 miles direct airline
from Rabaul, over 300 miles from where
the Japanese flotilla had been sighted.
Time and distance made it certain that
the Kieta expedition was an independent
affair.
The double operation also made it cer-
tain that control was being established
over the approaches to Rabaul and the
stations beyond by sea and air from the
south, while the way also was being paved
for a direct hop to Samarai at the ex-
treme south-east tip of Papua.
On Jan. 25 and 26 there was still no
word direct from the Rabaul garrison,
save the news that the A.I.F. and militia
forces had formed a line across the west
end of Rabaul Peninsula and in two days
had defied 11 Japanese attempts to over-
whelm them.
The information was vague. If the
defences were merely on the west of
Rabaul Peninsula itself, the forces were
in a sandwich between naval fire from
the harbor and the sea, and subject to
outflanking from the Kokopo road oppo-
site Rabaul, which runs right round
Blanche Bay on the west and south-west.
But it seems likely that they have been
flung widely across the Gazelle Peninsula
heights covering the farther shores of the
harbor and with the Toma heights
behind. If there are men enough to
cover the whole stretch of country back
to Open Bay and the neck between it
and Wide Bay on the other side of the
island, the enemy may have a tough time.
In any case, the Toma country is full of
good holding positions as is some terrain
nearer Rabaul; and Monday brought the
news that our men were putting up a stiff
fight.
Evacuation of Rabaul itself was inevit-
able. The narrowness of the peninsula,
the adjacent active volcanoes and other
features, including water-supply problems,
would make it untenable against a naval
and air force.
In Rabaul harbor the R.A.A.F. found
11 merchant ships, presumably Japanese.
These were bombed. Direct hits “on the
target area” were reported. The R.A.A.F.
command believes that one ship was hit.
Five miles off the harbor three
Japanese cruisers, an aircraft-carrier and
a destroyer were discovered, and to the
north-west there was another motor-ship
out to sea.
The forces used in all operations in
New Guinea by the enemy have been
estimated by Defence H.Q. at three
aircraft-carriers, 200 to 300 ’planes, three
cruisers, three destroyers, 12 transports
and several thousand troops. But the main
operations had still to develop on
January 26. It is the mainland of New
Guinea, with its ports and numerous
landing grounds, which is immediately
most vital. Control cannot be established
fully by the enemy without them.
Heroism in Malaya.
The main struggle has not yet de-
veloped in Malaya, fierce as the fighting
has been. The enemy’s plan still seems
to be conceived on three fronts stretch-
ing across the peninsula over from 150
to 200 miles of country.
The eastern and central drives follow
the German plan in Crete. A dribble
of enemy troops comes in and is wiped
out. Immediately there is a fresh one.
To the defenders it seems easy at first;
but against a force which has not
specially designed tactics to meet this
type of war it has the effect of the


ceaseless gentle tap of the bastinado.
Defence calls for as many fresh troops
as the enemy’s attacks.
Fortunately, British generals now know
a lot about this way of fighting, but
they are hampered by lack of reserves.
Because of Japanese command of the
sea and partial though lessening com-
mand of the air, the whole rearward
coastline has become a potential area of
attack, and troops must be strategically
placed to offset the enemy’s advantage
of initiative.
Coasts are hard to defend. The
waters for miles together run out shallow
to beyond destroyer range of the shore.
Shores are covered with wide forests of
mangrove, standing knee-deep in mud
and sea. To the edges of these, small
native vessels can sneak in while British
naval captains gnash their teeth on the
horizon.
By the week-end infiltrations of
bicycle patrols on the east coast had
been reinforced by heavier metal. On
January 19 heavy pressure already had
been infused on the centre against the
A.I.F. in the Gemas area, so that the
line had changed its position.
The previous week had shaped the
front into a roughly irregular curve
from the Singapore side of the Muar
River, passing south of Gemas —there
was a northward dint approaching the
neighborhood of that town, where Aus-
tralians had held up the advance. The
front passed east to the region between
Merchong and the Rampong river.
The enemy was most distant from
Singapore on this eastern side —about 100
miles ; he was nearest in the Muar region
—about 80 miles. The A.I.F. fell back very
slowly before the enemy in the centre,
past Segamat, Labis and Bekok towards
the central aerodrome of Kluang. The
R.A.F., now armed with 12-gun Hurri-
canes among its fighters, and with more
bombers, pasted each Japanese position
as it moved forward. Late in the week
Mr. Forde received a cheering message
that A.I.F. air support was much
strengthened.
The western front moved gradually to
the region of Batu Pahat directly across
the peninsula from the area to which the
British had retired south of the Mersing
River. By Jan, 25 the enemy was no-
where more than 85 miles or so from
Singapore. In some places he seemed to
be closer than 70 miles, but he was pay-
ing for every inch of his drive, and moral
ascendancy over equal forces was being
fast established, mainly through the gal-
lant conduct of the Australians.
Their greatest deeds were on the west.
Here overwhelming forces of Japanese
broke through the tired Indians who had
been holding the pressure all the way
down the coast. The break was along the
Muar-to-Yong Peng road, 80 to 100 miles
north-west of Singapore. It had to be
plugged at any cost; otherwise enemy
tanks, with infantry on their tails, could
pour behind the British lines in a head-
long rush to the gates of Singapore itself.
Two A.I.F. battalions, one from
N.S.W., the other from Victoria, were
sent to plug the leak. They found them-
selves 1800 strong arrayed against 15,000
heavily - equipped Japanese Imperial
Guardsmen largely massive Hokkaido
men, often six-footers.
The Australians clamped down like
iron on the road. They were pressed on
the front. They were taken on both
flanks. Presently they were assailed in
the rear and found themselves sur-
rounded. For more than 100 hours the
attacks closed in on them on every side.
They suffered bayonet assault, followed
by tank attack. But, supported by the
tired Indians, they pushed off wave after
wave. From January 17 to January 19
the varied onslaughts came in furious
gusts. Ten tanks had gone under in the
first blast. The enemy continued to pay
heavily.
On January 19, between 5 p.m. and
6 p.m., the Australian commander de-
cided that withdrawal was called for. The
infantry moved back, keeping in front of
its transport until it encountered five
enemy machine-gun posts. The transport
was now isolated. A Victorian infantry
unit broke up into small parties and took
to the jungle. It lost its colonel, who
was picked off from a flank.
First named casualty in the A.I.F, in
Malaya, Lieut.-Colonel J. C. Robert-
son, was an M.C. —he won it with the
23rd at Second Bullecourt. Robertson
joined the first A.I.F. as a private and
was commissioned on the field at Pozieres
and twice wounded. He was well known
in Geelong, where he was in the fuel
and petrol business. He was a Geelong
College boy. Last year he had been 30
years in military service and had earned
the V.D. Before the war he commanded
the 23/21st Battalion, the reconstruction
of his Great War unit. He joined the
young A.I.F. late in 1940 as a battalion
C.O. His battalion was one of those
which made themselves immortal holding
back the Japanese on the west flank. And
in the thick of that fight he was mortally
wounded.
Next day many of the Victorians
joined a N. S. Wales unit which had
eased its way back fighting for 11 miles
on Monday, January 19. They were
then four miles off the Parit Sulong
bridge. On January 21 the Australians
attacked the bridge, but were taken in
the rear.
It was then decided that the whole
formation should break into small par-
ties again and escape as best they could.
On January 22 at 11.5 a.m. Major-
General Bennett sent a message by radio
advising that an attack designed to bring
relief to the surrounded men between
the 70- and 80-mile posts had little
chance of success. He knew the plight
of the battalions because a few men had
already filtered through to his lines. The
message ran:
You may at your discretion leave the
wounded with volunteers, destroy your
heavy equipment and escape. Sorry I am
unable to help after your heroic effort.
Good luck!
It was never received ; the radio truck
had been blown up. But that morning
three R.A.F. ’planes dropped food. An
attempt was made to get ambulances
away with seriously wounded, but the
Japanese refused their passage, demand-
ing unconditional surrender.
The casualties must be heavy how
heavy remains to be seen. On January 26
Australians from both battalions were
still drifting back, exhausted from 100
hours’ continuous fighting and the long,
hungry, dangerous trek to follow.
“Never in the last war did I see such
examples of sustained courage as have
been displayed in the last few days,” said
Major-General Bennett. He praised
Lieut.-Colonel Anderson, of the N.S.W.
battalion, for his heroism and devotion
to duty,
Berlin Radio alleged—on Tokyo’s
authority—that troops of the Australian
15th, 25th and 29th brigades and of a
British brigade, 5000 in all, had been
wiped out in the Parit Sulong-Yong Pen
road battles.
Over the week-end the fighting con-
tinued fiercest on the west of the penin-
sula, in the Batu Pahat coastal area,
about 70 miles from Singapore, where
the enemy was held, despite continuous
bombing and tornado attempts to break
through, always made by superior forces.
In the centre, the line covering Kluang
aerodrome, 80 miles from the central
fortress, attacked the Japanese “with
some success” on Jan. 24. Though the
Japanese claimed to have destroyed 46
’planes, sunk an auxiliary cruiser in port,
fired a hangar and done other damage in
Singapore, for the loss of one ’plane, the
real story seems very different.
On Jan. 21 90 heavy bombers raided
Singapore, killed 64 and wounded 154 ;
but on Thursday morning raiders found
themselves up against 12-gun Hurricanes
which brought five down and damaged
several others, bursting open the for-
mations. By the week-end, raids had
lightened considerably. One large attack
on southern Johore had been foiled com-
pletely, and an attack on Singapore on
Jan. 25 did only light damage.
Meanwhile formations of British
bombers were persistently blasting Japa-
nese-held objectives along the central
Malayan railway. At Labis several tons
of explosives were dropped, a bridge
apparently demolished.
Burma in the Front Line
Early in the week a serious penetra-
tion of Burma was reported. Capture
of the Tavoy aerodrome helped the Japa-
nese to establish conditions for an ad-
vance. They crossed the wide Salween
River further north. By Jan. 22 fierce
fighting was reported to be taking place
only 45 miles s.-e. of Moulmein, on the
Gulf of Martaban, and 20 miles s.-w.
of Myawaddy. British and U.S. ’planes
supported the British and Burmese
troops. Berlin reported that the resist-
ance of 40,000 British troops had been
broken, and Tokyo persistently asserted
that the Burmese had gone oyer to the
enemy and had taken the British in the
rear. The Burmese Premier, U Saw, had
been arrested during the week for fifth-
column activity.
It was announced that British forces
were withdrawing east of Moulmein but
slowly. Nevertheless Japanese infiltra-
tion along the rough Tenasserim coast
continued.
In the air the enemy has not been so
successful. Early attacks on Rangoon,
which cost the raiders a third of their
machines, had been followed by a lull.
On Jan. 24 the enemy came again in day-
light. Out of 67 machines 19 were shot
down and seven more probably damaged.
The British and Americans lost only two
pilots. Not a bomb was dropped on
Rangoon.
Next morning seven big Jap bombers
were destroyed with four fighter escorts
without the loss of an Allied machine.
The total bag for two days was 32 Japa-
nese ’planes. And there were Blenheims
to spare to raid Bangkok, where a power-
house was blasted in low flying attacks
and other damage done. This was by
way of recognising that Thailand has
become an enemy.
MacArthur and the Dutch
General MacArthur continues his gal-
lant fight in the Philippines, though he
and his men face continual Japanese re-
inforcements. The Japs made a new land-
ing at Subig Bay, and they are gradually
squeezing their way by sheer weight of
numbers and metal into parts of the
Bataan Peninsula. But the Philippines are
still a long way from being theirs.
So are the seas. They succeeded in
making new landings at Kendari, in the
s.-e. Celebes, and at Balikpapan, from
which Australia has drawn much of its
oil; but Balikpapan’s facilities, valued at
£A25,000,000, like those of Tarakan
further north, had been wiped out by the
prudent Dutch, and every convoy move-
ment has been paid for dearly.
General Wavell announced in his first
communique that a convoy of 19
Japanese ships had been attacked by
Dutch and U.S. naval and air forces in
the Macassar Straits. Three ships were
sunk, four were probably sunk and 12
damaged.
The Dutch declared that their aircraft
had left eight ships burning and had shot
down two fighter ’planes in the Strait.
The U.S. Navy announced that several
of its destroyers in a night attack had
blown up one enemy ship and severely
damaged others for the loss of four men
and slight material damage.
Some of the enemy ships hit in the
attacks included a large warship, one
heavy cruiser, a lighter cruiser and a
transport.
U.S. Flying Fortresses shot down five
enemy fighters and the Dutch bagged
three.
Japanese ’planes ranged the Indies
generally from Amboina to the north of
Sumatra, where they attacked the Palem-
bang oilfields, within 300 miles of
Batavia, on January 22.
Their policy in the Indies seems to be
directed as much towards demoralising
the population in the outer isles as to
doing material damage.
But much of the bombing seems, also,
to be incidental to reconnaissances in
advance of operations which —if they suc-
ceed —may develop in establishing control
over the Philippines, Celebes, Borneo and
New Guinea.
Towards the completion of that objec-
tive the enemy has a long, long way to go.
Mojaisk and After.
“Ek Dum”; In Russia, the tempera-
ture was reported last week as having
been “between 20 and 40 degrees below
zero Fahrenheit” and still falling.
Newspapers and radio reporters had
taken Mojaisk, 68 miles west of Moscow,
so often that it came as a relief when the
Russians took it and the enemy began
a retreat down the Borodino-Viazma-
Smolensk road. 8.8. C. reported on Jan.
23 that “the well-equipped Red Army is
pursuing the shivering Germans,” that the
“Russians’ great counter-attack against
the battered Nazis is developing,” and
that thousands of fresh Russian troops
were being poured into the lines.
The enemy pictured as at the beginning
of the week was in a deep scissor—l2o
miles of Russians apparently were on
their southern flank from 15 to 50 miles
of the road. And the northern wing was
supposed to be making fast progress
southward in the longitude of Viazma, far
behind the rear of the main spearhead.
Yet the Russians had been unable to
close the pincer. However, “S. M.
Herald’s” man in Kuibyshev, while ad-
mitting that the foreshadowed encircle-
ment of 100,000 Germans in Mojaisk
had not come to pass, reported:
The German defeat disposes once and
for all of claims from Berlin that the re-
treat which began with the Russians’ winter
offensive is merely a strategic German re-
treat designed to establish a satisfactory
winter front. No commander in his senses
would abandon a series of key towns —
particularly a town as strategically impor-
tant as Mojaisk—if he had any choice
in the matter.
The enemy’s version of the fighting
along the whole front is that it is hard
though not heavy. Encounters are men-
tioned daily in which single battalions
are engaged. The capture of Mojaisk
was not acknowledged in Berlin.
Before Mojaisk was regained, the Ger-
mans claimed the recapture of Theo-
dosia, in the Crimea, with over 10,000
prisoners, Hopes that the Perekop isth-
mus might be blocked have not so far
been realised. The Germans claim to
have smashed a small landing attempt
by the Russians in 80 rowboats on the
Tongue of Arabat, along the western side
of Azov Sea.
Sevastopol is still locked up, but fight-
ing. At the week-end the Germans on
the Azov coast were still within 20
miles of Rostov, and held the head
of the oil pipeline near Stalino and
virtually the whole of the Ukraine.
Any advances between the Rostov
front and the Moscow sector have
been purely local on either side. North
of that the Russian communiques speak
of an advance towards “an important
objective west of Kalinin” —they reported
having taken positions near Lake Seliger,
100 miles west of that town a week ago.
They claimed later an advance to
Kholm, 100 miles n.-w. of this and on a
line running directly from Schlusselburg,
on Lake Ladoga, to Smolensk.
There is no great alteration in the
Leningrad position. Such changes as
have occurred have favored the be-
leaguered Russians. If they can break
out a victory of the first importance will
have been won.
Moscow has been the crucial area.
Here the last German spearhead is
being withdrawn. Behind the retire-
ment are at least 10,000 miles of
military railway laid down and repaired
by the Germans after their conquest of
the country. Somewhere in advance of
this, perhaps on the Donetz-Dnieper-
Dvina-Lake Ladoga line, the enemy must
come to rest if he intends to winter in
Russia.
It remains to be seen whether he can
do it. Meanwhile no independent ob-
servers —not even from Britain —are
allowed near the Russian front lines. The
German front is similarly closed. No-
body save the Russian and German High
Commands knows what the real posi-
tion is. Even Sir Stafford Cripps, re-
turning to London full of admiration for
the Russians and their achievement, has
to admit that it was “difficult to find out
things in Russia.”
Rommel Attacks Again.
“Ek Dum”: Libya has been having its
share of bad weather. At the first lift
Rommel, from his lair in the El Agheila
wadi, poked an exploratory armored
finger northward.
His thrust was not heavy and British
light forces warily absorbed its strength
till it came to rest and ebbed at Mersa
Brega, about 20 miles up the coast.
It was followed by a strong enemy
attack which developed into a fluid con-
test for position on a large scale. This
overflowed from a triangle between
Jedabya, Antelat and Saunnu. The
enemy claimed to have encircled and de-
stroyed several British armored for-
mations and captured 80 guns and 143
There was no British confirmation, but
the enemy must have been strong. His
furthest penetration is over 60 miles. A
main battle seemed to be developing on
Jan. 26.
On Friday an incessant attack lasting
for hours was made on three enemy
merchant ships, including a 20,000-ton
liner, which was sunk, on the way to
Tripoli. The escort was a battleship, four
cruisers and 15 destroyers. A bomb hit
a destroyer and a cruiser was believed
hit. The battleship was attacked with
torpedoes, but the result is not known.
Report on Pearl Harbor.
“U.R.” dissects it:
The U.S. inquiry committee headed by
Justice Roberts of the U.S. Supreme Court
made a prompt and commendably frank report
on the Pearl Harbor attack. Rear-Admiral
Kimmel and Lieut .-General Short were con-
victed of dereliction of duty and failure to co-
operate. This may have been anticipated, but
the report contains one astonishing statement
the U.S.A. fired the first shot in the war.
A destroyer sank a Japanese submarine oft Pearl
Harbor mouth an hour before the Japs struck.
Of course, the Japanese attack must have been
in preparation long before that. _No alert
orders were given in consequence of the sinking.
The commander of the Jap air squadrons
which raided Pearl Harbor insisted that his
bombs were the-first missiles aimed in the war
and that Hawaii and Pearl Harbor were
“asleep.” However, the Roberts commission
says that an n.c.o. reported a large flight ot
’planes 130 miles n.-e. of Hawaii 45 minutes
before the attack. An inexperienced lieutenant
failed to take action because he believed the
’planes friendly. “Available information
places the forces used by the enemy at four
aircraft-carriers, a number of surface craft,
several small submarines and 150 to zuu
assorted ’planes, including torpedo planes,
which did most of the damage to ships in
harbor. And the Japanese apparently knew
everything—locations of airfields, hangars, ships
and the patrol habits of the air force.
The muddle does not seem to have been all
at Hawaii, however. The War Department had
failed to reply to one important message from
Hawaii and the commanders there did not re-
ceive a warning sent just before hostilities began.
But Admiral Kimmel and Lieut.-General Short
did not use the emergency plans which were
in their possession, and there were no patrols,
no A.A. detectors or A.A. guns manned as they
should have been.


Women’s letters
From Melbourne
A busy time has been enjoyed by all
the members of the Australian Women’s
Army Service in school at Merton Hall
or at Presbyterian Ladies’ College. The
former were really in residence, but the
latter went daily to and from their homes
or boarding-houses, lunching only at the
college. It’s a real change from rather
a humdrum life for some of them, and
they are pleasantly surprised at the
brighter side of their studies. Lectures,
which they approached with a shudder,
turned out to be much more exciting
than the weekly novel they had sought
escape in, and when Lieut.-Col. Sybil
Irving at last turned up in the new uni-
form their joy was unbounded. It had
been hard before to see the W.A.A.A.Fs.
going round in their nice navy blue and
to be just in overalls. But now the out-
look is much brighter, Melbourne
schools are all seemingly full of trainees
of one sort and another. At Scotch the
broad acres of the playing fields are two
days a week alive with children released
from the industrial centres, and Y.W.C.A.
girls are in sundry large homes.
The staff of the Waste Products Depot
in Lonsdale-street is heartily cursing the
eager seeker for news (or would if it
were not a singularly polite and tolerant
body) who mesmerised a harassed helper
into saying that the depot was appealing
for more human hair to help some great
effort in the war. The truth is that a
certain kind of very blond hair is used
in bomb sights, but these delicate things
are most particular and will work only
with this color, which is due, it is said,
to the “roundness” of the strands. Any-
way, the depot is now coping with a ter-
rific response to its appeal, and the secre-
tary’s desk is piled high with parcels of
hair, red, brown, black and even lus-
trous Oriental locks, while a continuous
stream, mostly of elderly ladies with
Edwardian “whisks” and young maidens
with the discarded school plait, have to
be gently undeceived and thanked for
good intentions. The depot staff shows
a most forgiving spirit and hopes that
at least one parcel will prove to be the
right kind of hair. Incidentally, same
staff shows charming hopefulness no
matter what junk is brought to the depot.
Grandma’s oldest hat is received like a
Suzy model, and, as a Curiosity Shop has
an almost fatal lure for most women,
sales of the junk are amazingly good and
raise valuable funds for troop comforts.
Aren’t the Dunstan girls at Frankston
proud and happy? Brother Roberts Dun-
stan, back from the war and now fitted
with a wonderfully light aluminium leg,
is again for it, this time he hopes as a
flier. Mother, “Dorrie” Dunstan to her
friends, is a great worker for Minton
Boys’ Home, among other things, and
has encouraged her brood to plenty of
outdoor sport, her training now showing
dividends in nerve and high spirits. The
three sisters of Sapper Dunstan are all
good at something. Lynette, who is mar-
ried to David Kirton, played polo and
hopes to rear horses; Dymetha, now an
ex-schoolgirl, was always a good sports-
woman ; and Ann, still at Girton, Ben-
digo, can hold her own in the playing
field. Roberts, now 19, was one of Gee-
long Grammar’s star athletes, powerful
swimmer and all, had his 18th birthday
in Palestine, and was wounded in Tobruk
a year ago. Father Jack Dunstan went
to the 1914-18 war, and was in the tor-
pedoed Ballarat.* Popular Mrs. Alex.
Hunter, of Northwood Park, Seymour,
and Mrs. L. J. Clendinnen are aunts, and
Dr. Hedley Dunstan is an uncle of the
Frankston girls and their brother.
Although the Dunlea girls are up to
their eyes in war work, Hilary, a group-
leader in Red Cross transport work, and
her younger sister, Irene, Volunteer Aid-
ing and working at Kurneh convalescent
home, Domain-road, the older sister
found time to declare her intentions with
regard to John Dwyer, and the usual
congrats, are flowing in. It is one of
those cases where the fiances have known
each other for donkey’s years, and all
the bosom friends who didn’t guess keep
on saying “You never told me,” as
though they expected a private commen-
tary on the progress of true love. John
Dwyer is the popular manager of one of
the best known sports stores and intends
to join the Air Force, Hilary has
been a leader since her schooldays at
Mandeville Hall, and just naturally rose
to the group-leadership as soon as she
put her hand to the Red Cross plough.
The gentleman who numbered the
tribes of Israel had nothing on the Regis-
trar of the Nurses’ Board, Miss Pitchford,
who has sent out a clarion call to all
nurses in the State to enroll for a pos-
sible emergency. Trained nurses, for
obvious re f son * are her first care , for
can be t cbarge Q f sections and
* 81 / she want f even the t .
f rained t 0 send j n their names and their
place of residence, for she finds that
nurses have the itch to travel, and that
over tb y ears they have wandered far
and wide / Such a y number of tbemj too>
bave aC q U j red matrimonial responsibili-
tjes, including, says the board with pride,
man y little Australians. There’s no doubt
tbat Miss Pitchford will make an ex-
cellent job of her work and that the
trained J nurses will> t oo, for, although
wben nurses ga ther together they groan
over tbe r j gors Q f t heir hospital training,
they always end by handing out credit for
- y b we J done ( Q the st | lwart matro ns
wl } o m]ed with rods
of iron but brought
tbe j r troops well up to the best standards,
. TT A, . .
Here is Hazel Goddard, daughter of
Major Goddard, D. 5.0., and Mrs. God-
dard, of Armentieres, Caulfield, one of
Melbourne’s promising young painters,
Product of the National Gallery, Hazel
bas lately finished two portraits of George
V f ° r Cer ‘ am °, f S m
also , a ™mmced m “ H T
Arnold Hector Calder - son o£ the H ’ T ’
Calders. Hazel tells that the portraits
of the King gave her many a wrinkle of
the brow, for, of course, with no personal
sittings, she had to collect everything
there was that showed the monarch’s
features, including newsreel and press
photographs. Most helpful of all, she
said, was a London journal’s full page of
him. Hazel hopes to hold an exhibition
of her portraits some day, when things
tone down. Meanwhile, she 'paints on
and teaches clay-modelling at Melbourne
Technical College, and painting else-
where. Jack Cato made this portrait of
her.
Most musicianly were the preparations
of Bonnie Surridge, the pianist, for her
nuptials with Captain Keith Daubert
Anderson, A.A.M.C., at St. John’s, Cam-
berwell, on Saturday. Her picturesque
former teacher and guide in pianistic
matters, Edward Goll, the Czecho-
slovakian virtuoso, came back from the
Noske-Brians’ station home, Myrniong,
outside Hamilton, to give her away, and
from Adelaide came Charles Barton to
play the organ for the bridal progress
down and up the aisle. Captain Ander-
son and Bonnie were fellow-students —
she at the Con., he at Medical School.
Then their paths separated, for he special-
ised at the “Kids” while she followed up
her Mus. Bac, with appearances aplenty
as solo pianist. Like everyone else, they
will live where Providence and the Army
Minister ordain, probably in the vicinity
of Victorian camps for a while, but any-
where is a home of music for Bonnie,
whose career will go forward steadily
wherever a piano can pitch its legs.
That up-and-coming worker for war
funds Mrs. Oswald Gibson says her Lilli-
put Arcade is now ready for anything
the enemy may do, the A.R.P, post and
shops being sandbagged against the worst
and air-raid shelters provided for the
diminutive arcade dwellers. This arcade,
made entirely by Mrs. Gibson, is a minia-
ture marvel with its 57 tiny doll-shoppers,
its library with 500 microscopic books, its
greengrocer’s, florist’s and butcher’s
shops, and even a pets shop and an
oyster bar, all on the scale of one inch
to the foot. This delight of the young
and of the not-so-young has come back
to Melbourne for its positively last ap-
pearance prior to being raffled, after pro-
ducing nearly £lOOO for war funds. This
time the exhibition is being arranged to
benefit the Royal Australian Naval Relief
Fund.
From Sydney
The first day of the A.J.C.’s Anniver-
sary meeting did not play to a crowded
official stand. In contrast to its sparse
population, the members’ stand was more
crowded than usual. There were uni-
forms of all descriptions, including those
worn by the nurses and the V.As. Dresses
were thin and summery as befitted Satur-
day’s hot sunshine. Hats were small or
large according to taste ; the small ones
were often bunched with veiling. Glamor
veils sprayed from many a brim, and Mrs.
H. D. O’Connell’s face looked as though
it were caught in a bit of wind-blown
cloud. Her frock was of green and white
silk. Mrs. Roger Forrest Hughes was
with brother Dr. Weston Maher and son
Roger, who has just received his wings.
One of the prettiest girls at Randwick
was Margaret Longworth. Margaret, in-
cidentally, is a budding public speaker.
Her pale-blue straw hat matched her pale-
blue printed frock. Sister Jean was in
grey and white printed silk, and her white
hat was small. Mrs. Alan Oxenham’s
prints were petunia and white, Rowena
O’Gorman Hughes was fresh-looking as
a pink carnation in her printed crepes.
Mrs. Ralph Raymond assembled her
patriotic notes in a white suit, a white
hat banded in royal blue and a large red
bag. A corn-colored frock and a poppy-
red bag attracted the gaze to Molhe
Brearley, Smart as paint was Mrs.
Leonard Johnson in her tan and almond-
green suit. Mrs. W. Rofe was trig in
grey, and Margery Templeton in blue
and red, worn with a large white felt hat.
All newspaperwomen of this genera-
tion knew Helen Bennett, Small, dark
and vivid, she brought a crisp intelli-
gence to bear on matters of the day,
social and political. Her burning desire
was for the betterment of social condi-
tions for the under-privileged. She loved
good books, good company and her
own land. That is a characteristic
of her family. Three brothers have
fought and one has died for Aus-
tralia. But the expressive and fine
eyes no longer look with laughter on this
comedy of everyday. The newspaper
world as well as her immediate family
mourns her passing, for Helen died, all
too young, during the week-end after an
illness of two days.
This is a Dorothy Welding picture of
the good-looking wife of Major-General
Morshead, commander of the A.I.F.
garrison during the siege of Tobruk.
The General was created a knight in the
New Year’s Honors list. Probably no
more hearty and sincere congratulations
came to her than those from the
members of the A.I.F. Women’s Club,
which meets at the Y.W.C.A., of which
she is a vice-president.
As the women and children from the
Near North are being driven from their
homes by the war in the Pacific, some-
times being given no more than an hour’s
warning, many of the poor things arrive
with only bare necessities for the voyage
to Australia. The Federal Government is
taking them under its wing and bearing
the brunt of the expenses of getting
them settled, but the women of
Sydney, headed by Lady Wakehurst,
feel that they would like to show active
friendship to the new arrivals. To the
meeting called by the Governor’s wife,
Sydney’s representative women war-
workers went last Thursday afternoon.
A sign of the times was that most of
them came in taxis.
Mrs. Ely Palmer, representing the
U.S.A., was there, and the Netherlands
found a spokeswoman in Mrs. Elink
Schuurman. Mrs. Thomas and R. F.
Gunn were Malaya’s ambassadors, and
Mrs. Mo-lan Tuan was China’s. Hong
Kong’s Government was there in the
person of S. B. Maughan, while Mr.
Bellemore linked the Federal Gov-
ernment (Department of Labor and
Industry) and the auxiliary. The Tony
Horderns have handed over Retford Hall
as a hostel, and there are to be offices
in Ocean House, Martin-place, where all
women who need help or advice will be
welcome. Ruby Storey, on behalf of
the Red Cross, and others speaking for
the Empire and suchlike societies
promised gifts of clothes. Money, of
course, is needed to carry out the good
work. No doubt, by the next general
meeting on February 26 a scheme to raise
funds will have been planned. Lady
Cowrie is the patron, Lady Wakehurst
the president. The Anderson lady is the
chairman, banker Alfred Davidson the
treasurer and Miss Kidd, of domestic
science fame, the secretary.
The Navy, the Army, lots of small
boys, rows and rows of attentive women
and girls filled the Minerva on the
four afternoons that “All Clear” held
the stage. The play was written
by Alec Coppel, the Minerva’s co-
director, and was a complete lesson
in how to blackout the home, save it
from incendiaries and keep the roof
free from danger. There was a lot of
fun about the flat where the friends of
the earnest visitor were living in fine, free,
careless rapture, following the races and
keeping themselves cool with beer since
the water tap had been denied them.
It was a bit hard to convince them
that danger lurked around the corner, so
to speak. Yvonne Banvard was the
mother who liked her spot of movies,
Aileen Britton the daughter who couldn’t
be dragged from the piano. But when
the intelligent friend had shown them, by
medium of firemen and an active and
good-looking flock of N.E.S. girls, how
to creep stealthily upon the merry little
incendiary in the home and slosh hes-
sian bags filled with sand upon it, and
how to drag anyone overcome with
fumes from danger, the family of care-
frees had a change of heart. Not only
the actors determined to be more active
in helping the general good. People in
the audience made silent vows to join the
N.E.S. and the roof-spotters’ union.
Mrs. Ben Edye was at the A.R.P. play
last Thursday with daughter Stephanie.
She was one of the eager who went along
after the play to ask where the all-impor-
tant stirrup-pump could be bought.
One thrifty urchin was worried over
the hessian sandbags. He said to his
grown-up neighbor: “The bomb burns
the hessian to let the sand come out. So
you’d never be able to use the bags
again! ”
The feminine hand that has not had
or is not in the process of entertaining
at least three blisters from camouflage
netting is hardly considered worth the
shaking in friendship these days. Camou-
flage-netting centres are sprouting in
every suburb, so that the women of the
neighborhood can save the time they
would spend in the journey to city rooms.
Some big flat buildings always have a
net in process of making in their en-
trance hall, and the tenants spend their
spare time busily knotting. Another new
address for this industry is Cheriton, 51
Darling Point-road, the home of Mrs.
Whiteman. The Anzac Buffet Women’s
Auxiliary has started net-making at
headquarters in Hyde Park. The Bulle-
tin, too, houses a busy net-making
group on its second floor. Here all are
welcome. If you are a businesswoman,
come and help make nets in your lunch
hour.
Australia Day, Anniversary Day, call
it what you will, did not go unhonored
and unsung just because there’s trouble
brewing on our boundaries. The regatta,
for the first time in over 100 years, was
not held on the harbor, but there was the
big A.J.C. race meeting at Randwick on
Saturday and last Monday, and yesterday
the Women Pioneers celebrated the day
with a reception in their clubrooms in
Market-street.
Barbara Sisley, founder of the Bris-
bane Repertory Theatre Society, has been
in Sydney spending a holiday in the way
all good Repertorians would spend it.
She has visited almost every little-theatre
group of this city. Of course, she saw
Gwen Meredith’s new play “Shout at the
Thunder,” the Independents’ current show.
Speaking of Australian playwrights, Bar-
bara said she considers Betty Davis s
“Touch of Silk” one of the best plays
written by an Australian. Her Repertory
Society produced this in Brisbane. It has
also put on some of Queenslander Dann s
plays and some of Vance Palmer’s. The
northern visitor has a rich and vibrant
speaking voice. It would be a splendid
medium for Lady Macbeth, though,
strangely enough, considering her looks
and her voice, Barbara has never played
this part.
Another link with Sydney of the
’nineties snapped last week when Mrs.
Julius Caro, of Potts Point, died. Mrs.
Caro had been a noted beauty of her day,
and to the end retained her distinction
and her charm. Even a year or so ago
she was a fairly regular attendant at sym-
phony concerts in the Town Hall.


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There were 19,500 people at Rand-
wick on Saturday against 20,900 on the
corresponding day last year, but the tote
turnover was £37,879 ss. for eight races
against £31,399 10s. for seven.
A small but exceptionally strong field
contested the Challenge Stakes, and, in
winning. High Caste put up what must
have been nearly the best performance
of his career and brought his earnings
to £33,000. As generally anticipated he
was slow in finding his legs, and, last
after going a furlong, was still in that
position at the turn. Then he started
his run on the outside, and though
Trimmer, Panchio and Evergreen, in
turn, looked winning possibilities after
Freckles, who did the pacemaking, had
collapsed when tackled, High Caste kept
coming, and defeated Evergreen by a
head, with Panchio a similar distance
further away.
Sir Andrea, third to Freckles and
Trimmer at the straight entrance, was
fourth, and then Yaralla, whose 9.2
always had him in a backward position.
Session was never dangerous, nor was
Soho, though whatever chance he may
have possessed was lost when he blun-
dered in the straight. Prior to Saturday
the last winner of the Challenge Stakes
with over 10.0 was also a Maorilander,
The Hawk, who had 10.3 when, ridden
by J. Pike, he won in 1.1 If in 1925.
Consistent Beau Frere won the January
Handicap, in which, after leading from
the start, he finished better than Mer-
rimba, who, getting through on the rails,
looked a winner 50 yards from home.
Jymjon, who was always in the picture
and was alongside Beau Frere at the top
of the straight, weakened slightly in the
final furlong, as did Haridelle, who
moved up very smartly approaching the
turn. Rylstone, the popular selection,
would temporarily appear to have had
enough racing. Never nearer the front
than fourth he finished last. As this was
Beau Frere’s third win in a little over a
month he has done good service for
owner F. H. Hatfield and trainer W.
Chaafe.
Whisper Low’s recent deeds were so
indifferent that at one stage she was at
12 to 1 for the Adrian Knox Stakes, but
running up to her best two-year-old
form she drew away from Triad at the
straight entrance and, stalling off another
challenge by the latter at the leger, went
on to win by nearly three lengths.
Arahura, who did not gallop kindly,
looked a possibility for last at the three
furlongs, but made up some leeway in
the straight, and cut Rosa belle out of
third money. Nothing is gained by mak-
ing excuses, but Arahura’s form was
below that shown by her at her previous
runs. When Adrian Knox retired from
racing he passed his colors along to “Mr.
Constable,” and Whisper Low carried the
green hoops and red cap on this occasion.
Fervent appreciated her light weight of
6.10 in the Valicare Handicap. Hugette
was second to her turning for home, but
nothing was equal to troubling Fervent
in the run to the winning-post. Era and
Hawklet were the minor-place getters,
then Lady Hamilton, and the time was
a second and a half faster than Strood
recorded in the colts and geldings’ race,
the Widden Handicap, later in the after-
noon. Display and Contender both made
an indifferent showing. Hawklet, a sister
of Katanga, is sure to improve. She
was a 450gns. yearling.
Odds were laid on Mon Pere for the
Widden Handicap, but though, after he
and Roman Law had settled the pace-
maker, War Effort, in the straight, he
appeared sure to dispose of Roman Law,
he did not finish strongly, and Strood,
who slipped up on the inside half a fur-
long from home, beat both. Strood, who
is owned by Hunter White, is a medium-
sized, evenly-made colt by Chatham
from Split Ear. Niagara, a good-looking
half-brother, by Midstream, to Feminist,
showed form sufficiently good to make
him worth keeping in mind, and that also
applies to Mannawonga.
For the first division of the Novice
Handicap Brumaire was heavily backed,
but though halfway down the straight he
was a place possibility he could not see
it out. Line, a Limarch mare, did the
pacemaking, but though she was first
into the straight from Gauntlet the finish
was fought out by Pall Mail, Gauntlet
and Sir Tennyson. It ended in favor of
Pall Mall by a head from Gauntlet, who
beat Sir Tennyson a half-head. The last-
named was scarcely as lucky in running
as the other two, or he might have just
won. Barrenjoey ran fairly, as did Sir
Galahad and Adjust, but Ron Rico was
again disappointing, though it must be
added he met with interference.
Dundalk, who shifted about a lot in
the second division of the Novice Han-
dicap, got a lucky run inside the last half-
furlong after being pulled out from the
rails, and beat Panabil in the last stride.
In fact, it was so close that the hoisting
of a dead-heat would not have surprised.
As a vigorous finisher Munro was seen
at his best on Dundalk. Turmoil, who
was not favored by luck in running, was
a close third, and the fourth horse,
Mutineer, was one of the last two for
more than half the journey. Lure and
Addition led into the straight, but found
the mile a little beyond them.
Broadcaster, who has lost his two-
year-old dash, but is now a finisher, came
from a long way back at the half-mile
to win the Paddington Handicap from
Rathlin, who, after being prominent early
in the piece, beat only one in Insignia’s
race at Rosehill the previous week. This
time he went to the front at the start,
but then was joined by Sir Amyas, their
nearest followers being Mandowie and
Willie Green. A furlong from home
Rathlin had a lead that made him look
a sure winner, but Broadcaster, with a
long-sustained run, had his measure a few
strides from the post. Willie Green hung
on well to get third, followed by The
Squire. Mandowie and Sir Amyas tired
badly in the straight, but the former will
improve with racing. Bonny Loch, who
was backed as if he could not lose, did
not give his supporters a look-in.
High Caste’s performance in the Aus-
tralia Day Handicap (7 furs.) on Monday
was even better than his Challenge Stakes
win. Giving the leaders 15 lengths as
they took the turn, he came with a mag-
nificent run to dead-heat with Mildura.
Yaralla (third) looked the winner with
less than a furlong to go. Another splen-
did finish saw Dewar very narrowly
defeat Grand Fils in the Anniversary
Handicap (Um.), with Gundagai a dis-
tant third. The corresponding event at
the Flemington meeting on Monday—
the Australia Day Cup—-also went to a
powerful finisher, topweight Sir Romeo,
with St. Warden second and Throttle
third.
* * * »
Chatasan won the best race of his
career and recorded his fourth win from
his last six starts when he defeated Con
Naru and Orteli in the £750 William Reid
Stakes at Moonee Valley on Saturday.
He closed on the pacemaker. High Title,
rounding the turn and demonstrated for-
cibly that he is one of the most improved
sprinters in training. His win will
earn him extra weight for the Oakleigh
Plate and Newmarket, but if he continues
to improve at his present rate he may
have to be considered for those races no
matter what he receives.
High Title lost caste after his failure
in the William Reid Stakes. Backed
from 4 to 1 to 9 to 4 he set up a lead of
four lengths at the end of two furlongs,
but was beaten at the turn and finished a
very tired sixth. High Title is brilliant
for a few furlongs, but seemingly cannot
run six furlongs right out in good com-
pany at the weights allotted him. Gold
Salute, who received a knock in the
Tooronga Handicap a week earlier, and
was examined by the club’s veterinary
surgeon on Saturday before it was de-
cided to start him, was never dangerous.
He finished second-last in a field of 14,
and either was feeling the effects of his
leg trouble or has lost form.
Apprentice R. Finger, one of the light-
est boys riding, notched his first win on
Joie de Vivre in the first division of the
Niddrie Handicap. Assisted by a lucky
inside run rounding the turn, Joie de
Vivre, who started at 20 to I, finished
too well for the Debutante Stakes winner
Abound, with Law Hall a somewhat un-
lucky third. An inside run also con-
tributed to Lady Kuvera’s defeat of the
warm favorite, Blue Valley, by a head
in the second division. Lady Kuvera,
one of the first of Kuvera’s stock to win
in Melbourne, has raced only three times
and seems sure to improve.
Lord Windburra, who shines under
weight, followed up his Mentone
win by carrying 10.3 to success in the
first division of the Caldermeade Welter.
Retnuha looked all over a winner at the
turn, but Lord Windburra, carrying 221 b.
more weight, wore him down to win by
a head. Cavallo, third at 33 to 1, may
be a better proposition at his next appear-
ance. Rex Buzz, racing for the first time
for about four months and starting at
10 to 1, ran right away from The Decora-
tion and Tunic at the finish of the second
division of the Caldermeade Welter.
Haakon, a brother to the smart
juvenile Attorney, gave bookmakers a
25-to-l result by defeating Aperitif and
Manito in the second division of the
Tweedside Handicap. Centenary scored
a narrow win from Starsimon in the first
division, but his full brother Regency,
also owned by W. R. Kemball, missed
a place in the first division of the Niddrie
Handicap, for which he started favorite.
Regency, however, struck trouble imme-
diately after the start and made up con-
siderable ground.
* * * *
The reduction of the autumn meeting
to three days has caused the A.J.C. to
lengthen programmes on the first and
second days, cut out the Hurdle Race on
the third day and the La Perouse Han-
dicap on the second day, the C. W.
Cropper Handicap (previously “Plate”)
taking its place. The Biraganbil Handi-
cap is to be open to all ages, and, while
the Cumberland Stakes has been dropped,
the distance of the A.J.C. Plate has been
reduced to a mile and three-quarters. The
prize-money for the meeting has not suf-
fered.
* * * *
At the end of March at latest the
Army authorities will return Ascot
(Brisbane) to the Q.T.C. That is some-
thing for which owners and trainers in
the northern capital are thankful,
especially as there is the possibility of
the B.A.T.C. (Doomben) also holding
meetings there. Queensland’s Acting-
Premier is seemingly unaware of the fact
that racing is in the main supposed to
be for the improvement of the thorough-
bred. Otherwise he would scarcely talk
of the Government practically forcing
clubs to put on races for poor-class
horses.
♦ * ♦ *
No fault can be found with the de-
barment in Sydney of greyhound pro-
grammes that would last from morning
until nearly night. Many of the grey-
hounds now in training will have to join
the “out-of-work” division, and it is hard
to say what will become of them. They
are useless apart from giving people a
chance of winning or losing—principally
the latter —a few shillings at the much-
stressed “workingman’s sport,” Played-
out horses can be eaten —horseflesh is
selling in England up to Is. 4d. a pound
—but dog steaks would never become
popular in Australia,
• * * m
“Forty systems for a dollar” was an
advertisement I once noted in an Ameri-
can sporting journal. At an early stage
it is probable the originator of each of
those systems believed in its infallibility,
but it eventually reached its true value —
less than twopence. It is surprising, how-
ever, the number of people to whom sys-
tems appeal. Australia has its share, and
awareness of this fact is responsible for
an enterprising Melbournite issuing a cir-
cular in which wonderful results are
claimed for nine different systems. Every
phase of betting is covered, and you
simply cannot lose. You might think the
possessor of such remarkable knowledge
would keep it to himself and break the
ring, but, being a philanthropist, he will
allow you to come in at 10s. a time.
Strange as it may seem, men and women,
intelligent in other respects, fall for this
sort of stuff.
* * * *
High Caste’s two-year-old brother
Nizam has proved himself a galloper
above the average. He won the Cri-
terion Stakes, 6 furlongs, at the Auckland
Cup meeting with 8.7, and then at Well-
ington showed improvement by easily
winning the Wellington Stakes in the ex-
cellent time of Imin. for five furlongs.
Owned by A. J. McGovern, he is a pos-
sible visitor to Sydney in the autumn. He
is in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes and
Champagne Stakes, and the A.J.C. Derby
next spring.
* * * «
In discussing the cost of racing in
South Africa a Durban writer claims it
is cheaper in Natal than any other part
of the world. To start a horse for a
race of £5OO costs only £1 10s. and £1
for galloway races of £275 or £2OO.
Furthermore, a refund of 15s, is allowed
in galloway races for each non-acceptor.
An owner is certainly being well treated
when it costs him only ss. to see his
weight for a race up to the value of £275.
Racing is not dear for owners in Sydney,
but they would appreciate Natal liber-
ality.
• * * *
The announcement that transportation
of racehorses by train in Victoria after
February 9 is to be banned came as a
shock to horseowners in that State and
N.S.W. It means that up to the date
mentioned horses can get from here to
Melbourne by train, but they cannot
return by similar means. That also stands
in the way of Melbourne horses coming
over for the A.J.C. meeting. High Caste’s
chance of winning the valuable Futurity
Stakes is particularly bright, and as that
horse may have better prospects at the
V.A.T.C. and V.R.C. meetings than at
the A.J.C. meeting it would not be sur-
prising if his owner decided to take him
to Melbourne and trust to luck in getting
him home in time for Randwick, It has
appeared in print that, despite transport
difficulties, Freckles and Beaulivre are to
race in Melbourne.
The absence of Skipton and Laureate
from the A.J.C. autumn meeting, conse-
quent on the Victorian railway transport
ban, has to be reckoned with. If they
do not come over it will be a throw-in
for some N.S.W. owner. It cannot be
claimed that any of the N.S.W. three-
year-olds are well-credentialled as stayers;
therefore, with Melbourne’s best out of
the way, the A.J.C. St. Leger may be
won by something that is really out of
its distance at a mile and three-quarters.
» * * *
Speed is the first essential in a race-
horse, and in that respect there has been
no lack of improvement in Australia of
comparatively recent years. Twenty-five
years ago the Australian record for six
furlongs was Balarang’s 1.1 If at Rand-
wick. It is now Aurie’s Star’s I.Bi at
Flemington, while Gold Salute leads at
Randwick with 1.10. The following
figures from a mile up to two and a
quarter miles should interest those racing
men inclined to harp on the alleged de-
terioration of our stayers. In the period
covered our principal tracks have not
greatly improved nor have riding
methods changed:
Records up to 1917.
One Mile. —Montcalm, 1.37 f, Randwick;
Amata, Rathlea and Wolaroi, 1.381, Fleming-
ton.
Nine Furlongs.—Perkeo and Woorak, 1.52 J,
Randwick.
Mile and a Quarter. —Woorak, 2.5 J, Rand-
wick.
Mile and a Half. —Comedy King, Flemington,
and Cagou, Randwick, 2.311.
Mile and Three-quarters.—Scoutmaster, 3.0,
Randwick.
Two Miles. —Prince Bardolph, 3.24 J, Rand-
wick; Kingsburgh, 3.26, Flemington.
Two and a Quarter Miles. —Harriet Graham,
3.53 J, Flemington.
Records up to 1942.
Mile.—Amiable, 1.34 J, Flemington; Mildura,
1.35 J, Randwick.
Nine Furlongs.—Fujisan, 1.49 J, Brisbane;
Marengo, 1.50, Randwick.
Mile and a Quarter. —Beau Vite, 2.1 J, Rand-
wick; Manolive and Remarc, 2.2, Flemington.
Mile and a Half. —Palfresco, 2.27 J, Caulfield;
Beau Vite, 2.29, Randwick; Prince Ariel,
Flemington.
Mile and Five Furlongs.—Dashing Cavalier,
2.41 J, Randwick.
Mile and _ Three-quartfers.—Young Crusader,
Randwick; First Acre, Flemington.
Two Miles.—Lucrative, 3.20 J, Randwick;
Wotan, 3.21 J, Flemington; Spear Chief, 3.19 J,
Ascot, Brisbane.
Two and a Quarter Miles. —Marauder, 3.47|,
Flemington.
* * * *
The Earl of Glasgow, who used to
shoot his racehorses when they fell short
of his expectations, put six in match races
at Newmarket in 1852. He publicly de-
clared that all losers would be shot. The
horses must have known they were run-
ning for their lives, as five won, and the
other had a walk-over.
“Things have changed for jockeys of
recent years,” remarked a successful old-
time rider the other day. “It was not
unusual for a jockey to get very little
even for a winning mount in the ‘good
old days,’ ” he said. “The trainers col-
lected the punters in those times. It is
different now. The jockey looks after
himself, and directly contacts punters. If
so disposed he is often in a position to
make a present to the trainer instead of
waiting for one from him. The present-
day jockey is in a wonderful position
compared with the old-timer.” He may
be right, but when there’s a punter in
sight jockeys do not find it easy to beat
some trainers to him,
* * * m
Up to November 1, English-bred Blen-
heim II was an easy first in America’s
winning sires’ list of last year. He had
20 winners of 60 races, their total value
being £A101,950. Second and third in
the list up to the date mentioned were
also imported sires. America, like Aus-
tralia, gains by imported blood.
* * * *
Indian trainer A. Higgins will be
strong in Australian horses when he adds
Lucrative and Evergreen to his team.
Towards the end of last year the 27
horses he had in training included a dozen
from Australia and Maoriland. Among
these were Let Slip, Panaster, Moorsotis,
Synagogue, Levant and Certus Devitae.
* » * *
M.E.B. (Tent Hill): You are correct.
It was a slip. Waireka started at even
money, and Climax at 20 to 1.


Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL
3400 feet above sea level.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL situated
in the country.
Spacious buildings and grounds—4o acres of
playing fields.
Well-equipped Junior House separate from the
rest of the School with its own playing fields
and tennis courts.
Matrons are trained nurses.
School prepares boys for the various Public
Examinations.
Boys are trained for Professional, Commercial
or Pastoral careers. A Special Agricultural
Science Course is offered.
Arrangements may be made for boys during
the short holidays.
Illustrated Prospectus on application to the
Bursar.
G. A. Fisher, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
9i
■
°t>/.
hi*
%
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
df
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,900,000.
M. O. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
ECZEMA
Sensitive people fed eczema
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic, early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN’S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin where
the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and
healing and quickly allays the irritation.
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the relief
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
d
SMOKE-OH!
“The human ear contains 24,000 nerves.”
— “World’s News.’ 1 ’
So you’ve 48,000 good reasons for
objecting to next-door’s pianola.
4- -2- 4* 4-
“There are more hotels in this diocese than
in any other in the world.” — “D.T.”
Its bishop is surrounded by a see of
beer.
•J*-
“The old man was born and roared on the
South Coast. He had a family of 14.” — “Sun.”
No wonder he roared.
4* 4- 4- 4*
“It is a quaint story about the business
premises of a company being haunted.”
—Book review.
By a skeleton staff?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some women entirely without experience
attempt to run guest-houses and inevitably meet
with failure.” — Woman’s paper.
Even with experience they still make a
hash of things.
4* 4* 4* 4»
Ornithological.
“Crow had been left £15,000 by an uncle,
but spent it in riotous living and gambling.”
—“D.T.”
Crow had a vision somewhat blurred.
The hawks he tried to vie with
Made him their pigeon—now this bird
No feather has to fly with.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Nocturne.
“The semi-blackout at King’s Cross has made
that gay district almost unrecognisable.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
“Splurge” Garson crouched in the dark
laneway as the staggering pedestrian
approached. Fingering his jagged razor,
he waited until the victim came within
striking distance, then leapt out. There
was a horrible gurgling sound. The victim
tottered for a few moments, then slumped
to the pavement. But as Splurge bent to
go through the fallen man’s pockets a
revolver barked from a near-by doorway,
and he, too, dropped.
As the gunman gave vent to a harsh,
grating laugh a window was flung up
in a near-by block of flats and a demi-
john of plonk crashed down on his skull.
Another shot rang out, and a figure
sprawled grotesquely out of the open
window. Mr. Antonio Gloato pocketed
his automatic with grim satisfaction.
The vendetta was complete. He stole
down the shadowy laneway and into the
thoroughfare. There he stood, gazing
around at the Cross that was once bathed
in neon light but was now dark and
melancholy. Sentiment surged over him
and he dashed a tear from his eye.
“Ah!” he muttered. “The old Cross
ain’t what it useter be!”
T. W. N.
*1- -I* 4* 4-
“Young lady, attractive, wishes to meet sea-
faring engineer or mate.” — View mat. ad.
Not the engineer’s long-haired male,
surely!
“you idiot! THEY'RE not the sandbags!”
“Alderman said he had greatly regretted
having been unable to attend the meeting, but
he trusted the beneficial results would be
appreciated by ratepayers.”— Suburban paper.
They would, undoubtedly.
•*- ■Ji
“For Sale: Well-built S.F. W.B. dwelling,
two badrooms, dining, lounge, kitchen.” — Advt.
No crook verandah or rotten bath-
room?
•I*
“Mussolini’s Staff Train a Complete Entity.”
— “World’s News.”
Perhaps they got tired of training
nonentities.
♦ + ♦ +
“Man Hits Woman in Library.”
— “Sun” heading.
He was, of course, brought to book.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The average Australian woman is naturally
good-rumored.” — Woman’s paper.
It’s the bad-rumored ones that are the
trouble.
*l* T 4* *l*
Prohibition in Common.
“Workingman, non-drinker, like to meet
working woman, non-dancer. View mat.”
Whate’er the world may say of them
When he to her the question pops.
From this their future’s hope will stem :
They both must be averse to hops.
MB.
Sedative.
“This hot weather, when you get into bed,
put worry from your mind and think only of
peaceful things.”— Woman’s paper.
My dear, when January heat
Makes slumber hard to snare
And pressure of a single sheet
A misery to bear,
I never tally kine or sheep
— Don’t reckon me unkind —
To coax or trick myself to sleep
I put you from my mind!
P. O. M. C.
Utility.
“Even burglars can be useful.” — “S.M.H.”
I discovered that last week when Soake
and I left the lodge meeting at 2.30 one
morning. I got him to act the burglar
and so get me out of an awkward
situation.
The diversion was successful, although
Soake made a mess of my flower beds
while trying to keep upright. There were
a few nasty moments later when the
police, whom Maria insisted on sending
for, started firing questions, and I’m glad
they didn’t follow up my rough descrip-
tion of the Sunday School superintendent.
However, it was not unpleasant to hear
Maria telling her friends how I had
fearlessly fought three burglars.
A couple of nights later I was awakened
by Maria’s hoarse whisper, “There’s a
burglar in the house!”
After my previous exploit I had to
get up and see. It proved to be a rat
dragging around the trap in which it was
caught.
Maria didn’t seem at all surprised
when I told her. “Well, now that you’re
up,” she said, “you can make me a cup
of tea. I’m dying for one.”
She is another who has found that
burglars can be useful.
H. M.
On a Bender.
“Wanted, man for bending cycle handle bars.”
— “S. M. Herald” advt.
I was thinking of taking the job, but
since I tried to show a farrier recently
the proper way to shoe a vicious draught-
horse I have found that it is most diffi-
cult to whistle with five front teeth miss-
ing, and if there is one thing that stimu-
lates me while doing brain work it is
whistling. Anyway, I answered a similar
advertisement once before, and the work,
I found, was not without its drawbacks.
He was a manufacturer in a small way
—as a matter of fact he was an Irish-
Swede named O’Jorgensen, a peat-fire
trimmer by birth but a litmus-paper-
taster by apprenticeship. Coming to Aus-
tralia, he happened to visit a stadium
expecting to see a wrestling match. It
turned out to be a six-day bike race. A
very short-sighted man, O’Jorgensen didn't
know they were the same fellows who kept
flashing past him. Convinced that with
such a large proportion of the populace
awheel there was a fortune to be made,
he set up a workshop.
When I applied for the position he
asked me had I ever bent handle bars
before. To me that was a stupid ques-
tion. However, I replied with quiet dig-
nity that I had probably bent more
handle bars than any man in Australia.
“Ay ban t’ink dat goot, ay ban,” he
said ; “ye can shtart roight aware.”
I had no sooner hung up my grey
bowler and silk scarf and rolled up
my overcoat sleeves when my employer
wheeled a bicycle in. It was one with
handles of the early Edwardian fashion,
going straight out for about three feet
and curving back. He wanted them
altered to the Major Taylor style. 1
asked did he have a double-faced
hammer. He didn’t seem to understand,
and after about quarter of an hour’s
endeavor to make it clear I got slightly
heated. “Don’t you understand —two-
faced?” I shouted.
“I ban t’ink dat what you call insult,
ye omadhaun,” he said.
When I came to I drew on a sheet of
paper the implement I required, and he
apologised and went and got one. Within
an hour I had effected a change in the
contour of the bars, although perhaps
they may have approximated the shape
of Marshal Budenny’s moustaches rather
than the handles favored by the great
negro cyclist. Instead of being grateful
for the good work I had done, however,
my employer, who I could now see
was of the cavilling, nil admirari kind,
roared about all the dents.
It was enough! Pride in the artistry
of my work has ever been my creed, and
I was determined to show him what I
could do when I was really pushed.
Getting on the bike I rode it out of
the workshop into the heavy city traffic.
I was determined to leave nothing to
chance. Sidling up against a lorry loaded
with steel bars I let the handle bars go
and started to light my pipe. There was
a light crunching sound, and as the mud-
guard hit the bike seat I fell gracefully
one way while the bike went the other.
Although one side of the bars was bent
too far the offside was not bent enough.
The weight of the falling bike itself
wasn’t sufficient to bend it.
Getting aboard again, I pedalled furi-
ously after a double-decker bus. Just as
I caught up with it I spun the handle
bars violently. As the rear platform
struck the bike I went with it. Though
it meant a bruised elbow and gravel-rash
I was overjoyed to note that the offside
bar had assumed almost a perfect Major
Taylor shape. Gathering up the good
spokes, hub and what was left of the
chain and sprocket I limped back with
the frame over my shoulder.
Triumphantly I showed O’Jorgensen
the bars. The idiot absolutely ignored
this part of my work but started roaring
and pointing to the back wheel, which
was shaped like the figure 8.
Convinced that I could never get on
with a fellow who knew so little about
handle-bar-bending, I left to go back to
my old job of wheeling canisters of
fumes out of a chemical factory.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d, per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Our Lords and Masters
I have just received my N. S. Wales
State income tax assessment. Among
other things it requests me to “report
for correction any errors discovered.”
The document, however, does not pro-
vide the means whereby the correctness
of the department’s calculations may be
checked. In former years the method
of computation was explained on the
back of the assessment. Though com-
plicated, it was quite clear to anybody
who took the trouble to read it carefully.
This courtesy to the taxpayer has now
been discontinued, although a large blank
space is available.
To the best of my knowledge the new
tax schedules were never published in
the daily or weekly press. All that I
could find were tables showing the taxes
on certain selected incomes, without any
information as to how they were com-
puted. After long search, extending to
financial journals, I eventually had to
borrow a copy of the relevant Act from
the local C.P.S.
It is unreasonable that people should
be asked to pay out large sums without
having easier access to the means of
testing whether the amounts demanded
are what they should really pay. It is, in
fact, a typical example of the increasing
contempt with which Governments and
departments are treating the public.—
A. R.C. (N.S.W.).
Noe! Monks
From his criticism of Noel Monks (B.
14/1/ ’42) “Requete” evidently refuses to
accept anything written to the discredit
of General Franco.
Mr. Gerahty, author of Spanish Arena,
held the same views as “Requete,” and
found himself faced with a libel action
because of a statement in his book to
the effect that Noel Monks’s report of
the bombing of Guernica was false. He
was forced to withdraw the chapter from
his book, and had to give a public
apology through the London press —the
apology appeared in the London “Times.
If “Requete” would read Nothing But
Danger he would gain a broader view of
the Spanish situation. It is the work of
nine well-known journalists who experi-
enced much in Spain. There he will find
the truth about the bombing of Guernica.
Noel Monks interviewed the victims
who were bombed and machine-gunned
by German ’planes in an open square at
Guernica —one of them a priest—within
an hour or two of the outrage. The
“skilled observers” visited Guernica some
days later. “Requete” has certainly been
misinformed about this little Basque
town —it was not a military objective
but an open town. —B. M. (Vic.).
More Opposite Views
It is almost two years now since the
R.A.A.F. squadron to which I belong left
Australia, and during that period many
cwts. of newspapers have been received
by members. Most of the daily rags are
opened once and then used to light fires
in the barrack blocks. You blokes might
like to know that your work is appre-
ciated and the paper you turn out re-
garded as something typically Australian.
Your cartoons are tacked up on the
notice-board —Scorfield’s page usually
written up into a squadron comic strip.
An argument is as good as won with a
Bulletin statement to back it up. You
give us a clear account of affairs back
home that we cannot get in the rags full
of ads. Best wishes. —I. A. P. (Abroad).
What sort of people would you have
us be? We are to grudge materials being
sent to help Russia. Then we are to
complain that they do not immediately
declare war on Japan.
Truly, prejudice is a poison both of the
heart and the intelligence. Must we suffer
the anguish of bombardment before we
can be purged of the wretched thing?
By some miracle of miscalculation
Hitler attacked Russia in June instead of
Britain, and backed the first loser of his
career. If that hasn’t saved us, we don't
deserve to be saved, either physically or
politically. The miracle of the destruc-
tion of vast German forces has been
worked; the miracle of a real under-
standing with Russia has been begun.
I am happy to be in the company of
Bishop Burgmann, whom you politely
call a “pink bishop.” I can imagine no
greater wickedness than for a responsible
newspaper to increase the volume of
doubt and distrust among allied nations
just when the springs of goodwill and
understanding are beginning to flow.—
Deluded Cleric (N.Q.).
Gold
A question keeps nagging at me every
time I read the controversy in Australian
dailies on the pros and cons of the value
of goldmining in this national emergency.
How is it that Japan and Germany,
whjch have none of the gold, have done
so well, and U.S.A., which has most of
it, has —well, yet to do well?— Feng-Shui
(Vic.).
Quinine
Von Mueller may have grown cin-
chona in Melbourne, but “Puyyaka” (B.
14/1/’42) will find it more profitable to
stick to lettuce and tomatoes.
Some years ago I met a very worried
expert from Kew Gardens. He had tried
—and failed —to establish plantations in
India and was making a last attempt to
cultivate the bitter herb on the border
of Siam and Burma. Three things, he
told me, were essential —volcanic soil,
an altitude of approximately 2000 feet
above sea level and a rainfall of 100 to
150 inches a year. He had finally selected
a spot which complied with these condi-
tions ; but to reach it all stores had to
come by boat to Mergui, were then taken
80 miles uo the Tenasserim River to
"If you must cry, go an' stand over the bean patch.”
Nyaunbankiwin and then carried by
coolies along a jungle track for 10 miles
to the plantation. Would he have gone
to all that trouble if he could have grown
the stuff in Melbourne?
It has, however, often occurred to me
that the requisite conditions may exist in
New Guinea, and, as “Puyyaka” suggests,
the matter appears well worth the atten-
tion of the C.S.T.R.— Harap (Vic.).
Timber
In comparing the timber industry of
the ’eighties and ’nineties with that of
the present day (B. 31/12/’4l) “D.
Inkum” does not mention that, in those
days, the faller could pick the eyes out
of the timber, whereas today he has to
cut down every tree marked by a Gov-
ernment forester, whether the tree is
sound or not. He does not state the
number of men employed in his 60-load
mill, but implies that the same mill today
cuts only 25 loads, which is absurd.
Tally and percentage of timber cut
in the mills today in a 44-hour week are
equal to, if not better than, in the 53-
hour week. There is much more small
timber cut in the way of parquetry, fruit-
cases, etc. How many mill sites could
“D. Inkum” find in the jarrah forest
today that would feed a 60-load mill?
And surely the fact that a man can
take a billy of tea to work shows that
times have improved, and that the em-
ployee does not have to jump every time
the boss looks his way, as in the old
days. As for his burly Irishmen, I had
one for a mate in 1905, and had to carry
him on the end of the crosscut. The
Australian is the better man in the timber
industry at any time.
Prices of timber today cannot be com-
pared with those ruling 50 years ago.
The royalties that have to be paid today,
the increased cost of machinery and in-
creased cost of production generally
make this impossible.—W. B. (W.A.).
Ghosts
Because the telephone posts outside my
house occupy what military men would
call strategic positions, they have been
much used by billstickers for displaying
their posters. It is seldom that anyone
bothers to take down an old poster, and
these tattered reminders of old contro-
versies, lost causes and ancient grudges
hang on the posts like ghosts round the
scene of a crime.
Thus on my way to work in the morn-
ing I am confronted with:
“Fight and Work Against the Crimes
Act!”
“Oppose the National Register!”
Coming home at night I am reminded
from the other side of the posts that:
“Menzies Is with You, Churchill!”
“Fight Conscription! ”
“Protest Against the Public Safety Act! ”
“Demand Another Front Against Hitler! ”
This evidence of so much energy dissi-
pated in so many lost causes cannot but
make the thinking man gloomy. Applied
to the single purpose of making Australia
safe for the white man it might have
made this country invincible. There
must be a lesson in it somewhere. Democ-
racy’s free right to argue, debate and agi-
tate seems to have got us into a mess ;
to survive it may have to substitute dis-
cipline and singleness of purpose for some
of its cherished privileges.— Smilax (Q.).
Tea
“Bill Ding” (B, 31/12/’4l), who wants
to know what has happened to all the
second-grade tea, previously obtainable
“at many pence per pound cheaper than
first-grade teas,” evidently refers to special
so-called “blends” —cheap bulk tea im-
ported by big retailers and sold loose or
under their own packs. This seldom
proved to be an “economical” tea, and is
no doubt pretty well unprocurable now,
the general state of importations of all
sorts being what it is.
I am wondering what sort of a busi-
ness attracts “Bill Ding’s” patronage, with
its “shop-faded” and “fly-specked” goods
and the “stony silence” in response to
inquiries.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
“Drastic”
Reporting that new National Security
(Coal Control) Regulations had been
drafted by the Prime Minister against
New South Wales striking miners, the
Brisbane press had this comment:
The Coal Commissioner may direct that
the exemption, under the reserved occupa-
tion list, of any miner refusing to work
may be cancelled.
This drastic order means that any mirier
of military age who fails to report for
work on Monday will become immediately
liable for military service and the Govern-
ment will take, action to see that he immedi-
ately fulfils his obligation.
Yes, the word used was “drastic!”
Thousands of Australians, of all ages
and classes, brought up to believe that to
serve one’s country when it was in danger
is an honor and a privilege'’, have been
rushing to join the forces. It appears
that they were misinformed. To serve
one’s country is not a privilege ; it is a
punishment to be hung over the heads of
mutineers and to be inflicted upon the
lawbreaker.—W. K. D. (Q.).
Bligh and Flinders
Apropos of your review of Ernestine
Hill’s My Love Must Wait (B. 7/I/’42),
the novelist’s picture of Bligh sug-
gests that she has been unduly im-
pressed by Charles Laughton’s travesty
of a great sailor in the film “Mutiny of
the Bounty.” On page 41 the reader is
told that “six men and boys swung at the
yardarm of the Brunswick.” Three only
of the murderers suffered death—Burkitt,
Ellison and Millward. Then on page 69
Bligh is described as “the silly old man” ;
but if my memory serves me right*he
was about 38 years of age when he was
in charge of the Providence on the second
breadfruit voyage. And to contrast
Bligh with the suave, middle-class Cook
is absurd all the early advantages, if
“class” must be introduced, were with
Bligh, the son of a farmer in his own
right, as against Cook, the son of a
farm laborer on 12s. (or was it 155.?) a
week.
Now turn to page 460, where we are
informed that the Flinders statue in Adel-
aide was erected in 1925 by Lord Tenny-
son. The statue in question was un-
veiled by Sir Alexander Hore-Ruthven
on April 12, 1934, more than five years
after Lord Tennyson’s death. The Flinders
column on Mt. Lofty was erected in 1885,
and on March 22, 1902, Lord Tennyson
unveiled a memorial tablet, which is quite
another matter.
“Oaks,” as your reviewer says, “are
a phlegmatic lot,” but I’d like to have
seen Black Dick Howe when his face
was “adamantine with the iron rigidity
of the guns.”—N. F. (S.A.).
Capital Punishment
Victoria’s latest lethal ceremony has
brought the usual crop of public and
private discussions. Perhaps the fact that
it is a “ceremony” arouses the protests.
I am not an abolitionist, but have won-
dered if the problem could be met by
a change of method. Modern science
has many effective drugs at its disposal
that might well replace the rope, and
the prison hospital might take the place
of the gallows. Shaw once suggested that
a condemned man be given the option
of paying his debt with some retributive
dignity by means of a lethal drug self-
administered. Should he not be man
enough to accept that way out, then the
executioner —whatever the method em-
ployed—would be called on. .Some such
variant of the present method, to pre-
serve the deterrent and spare sensitive
public feelings as well, should not be
beyond our wits to devise.
I have often wondered that the ex-
treme penalty should be enforced against
the “sane” killer, though provocation
may have caused complete temporary un-
oalance, while the “insane” one, no matter
Low crafty, dangerous and capable of
deep plotting, is spared to be a costly
charge on the country for a lifetime.
Worse than the fruitless cost of his main-
tenance is the constant threat of a clever
and determined escape. If any case
logically calls for humane dispatch, it
is surely that of the “insane” killer.
Preservation of his life on the grounds
of moral irresponsibility is a quixotic
anomaly.
Psychology has progressed in seven-
league boots since such laws were
enacted, and cut a lot of ground from
under former ideas of what is and is
not sane. The temporarily unbalanced
murderer would stand a much better
chance of rehabilitating himself after the
shock of his experience than the homi-.
cidal maniac, possessor of “ungovernable
•impulses,” who while he lives can only
be a source of apprehension to the public
that keeps him alive. — Vouvray (Vic.).
Country Doctors
So “Elm” (B. 24/12/’4l) would send
young doctors to country districts where
there are no doctors. Then we country
people would be the material on which
the budding medico would learn how not
to do things. If the young doctor en-
countered a difficult case he would have
no option but to “have a go.” If he
missed, he’d know how not to do it next
time, and there’d be no real harm done
anyway —the doctor would have gained
“experience” and the victim a harp.
“Elm’s” suggestion should be reversed,
and hone but experienced and competent
doctors sent to the country, where a
medico often has to work alone and with
no associate to consult in time of diffi-
culty.
If “Elm” wants proof of the weakness
of his 'scheme, he need only turn to the
schools for an example. Young students
just out of training college are
sent out to the country, very often to take
charge of small schools. Often there is
no teacher near enough to appeal to for
guidance, so the youngster plods along
as best he can, often with almost tragic
results.
If those young teachers were kept in
the city under the eye of an experienced
man for a few years, there would be fewer
“Daves” and “Sarahs.” Whether the
same practice obtains in other States I
do not know, but it certainly does in
Queensland. —R. H. (Q.).


ON THE INDUSTRIAL FRONT!
■I
• -..V
'
laiiiSil■*
■ :
w^m
- 1’
mm
Blast Furnace Tapping, B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works
more
m
F ATISFYING the fighting forces* demand for
munitions places a heavy responsibility on the Australian
iron and steel industry, which by virtue of its operations
provides the basis of the nation’s armament effort.
In addition, supplies of steel for the maintenance of
essential civil undertakings must be made available.
Facing up to this situation, the industry’s 33,000 employees
are steadfastly serving in the industrial front line maintaining
maximum production of Australian steel, which incidentally
is marketed at the world’s lowest prices.
Twenty-four hours per day production of this vital key
%
material goes on at the B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works, at
Whyalla, South Australia, and at the Kembla Works of
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
As a result, production of tanks, aeroplanes, guns and
ships, with a wealth of other munition requirements—and the
machines that make them—is steadily mounting in volume
and variety.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Go. Ltd.
Iron and Steel Masters, Colliery Proprietors, Ship and Mine Owners, Ship Builders
STEEL HELMETS.
* *****
ANTI-AIRCRAFT GUNS,
Head Office: 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne. • Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W. • Iron Ore Deposits, Iron Knob, S.A.
