

There Is No Substitut
for QUALITY
DOWN through the centuries the Imperial Spirit
has advanced with ever-increasing strength,
inspiring the pioneer and transforming the wilderness.
As an all-Australian link in the Imperial chain of
industrial achievement stands the wonderful success of
WILLIAM ARNOTT PTY., LIMITED. An out-
standing success, too, based on the highest standards of
integrity and efficiency ... National standards, unaltered
by time or distance.
It is therefore an inspiring thought to Australians that
the rich yield of their own fertile countryside can be
converted into a perfect product with a world-wide
demand, and that the process of manufacture is
unsurpassed in efficiency and hygiene.
-*
IT
SST '&C.
« *
m
Lend to Defend
'
m
! ■-.'“‘“'i.-tiA
:. V
mm
>m*s
r%%
, l '(‘| i »| i .i* 'Jr
-■ "'' '~ "~ ■<', *■ *' v;
h5W*
grvjfc
ri: i
* f »
'n! ** $ JL_ |
-;v
kfc*
. 1 • * t » V'WHJMN
1. . *
/ ’ f .* : *.: • ~
;*'vJ
r - rt •
iw-W^ ^l3B^1
V'-^^SE 5 ®
VX^;^
f ! lUe „
v _*, d
x>-
! <o&>*
t*.
Arnotfs Factor/
at Homebush. Mew South Wales
i
L-*\ CfiPe
ARNOTTS FAMOUS
BISCUITS
ALWAYS ASK YOUR GROCER FOR ARNOTT’S "THEY ARE BETTER THAN EVER"
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63,—N0. 3230.
Wednesday, January 7, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
free 1
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
s.H. M 2
The Red Page
TWO HISTORICAL NOVELS .
It is reliably reported by Ernestine
Hill, who has read all the authorities
and made a study of unpublished docu-
ments in the Mitchell Library, that when
Bennelong, the aboriginal whom Phillip
took to England, returned to Sydney, he
greeted his friends and relatives with the
remarkable utterance:
“Odd bodikin! Begone! Hab at thee,
wretch! Ye bloody blackfella, belay!”
Eleanor Dark, on the other hand, hav-
ing likewise read all the authorities and
the unpublished documents in the Mit-
chell Library, reliably reports that what
Bennilong (same gentleman, different
spelling) said was:
“You all dirty fellow! No good dirty
blackfellow, not come here along Benni-
long, along Governor ”
It is authoritatively reported by
Ernestine Hill that Bennelong had a
whale of a good time in England:
Three years the darling of London and
Bath society, friend of the Prince of Wales
no less, his family appalled him.
On the other hand, it is authoritatively
reported by Eleanor Dark that the black-
fellow was extremely miserable in Eng-
land: —
He had lived in uneasy apprehension,
but they had not used their magic against
him —at first. They had been kind; they
had given him food such as he had never
tasted before, and much wine. They had
given him fine clothes so that he might be
fittingly clad to go and see the King. The
King, also, had been friendly, but Benni-
long, though impressed by the splendors
of his house, had been secretly disappointed
in this great man. He was fat; he did
not look like a warrior Yes, in London
it had been pleasant enough at first. But
Sometimes it had flashed into his mind
that the smiles which everywhere greeted
him were.... Was there insult in them?
There had been things which happened,
too. Even now, thrusting them away
into the background of- his thoughts, Ben-
nilong felt a hot flush of resentment
prickle over his skin Day after day there
was no sun, and Imraerawanye coughed, and
Bennilong said truculently to anyone who
would listen: “Go home. Go home,
quick. England no good.”
All of which, though illuminating his-
torically as showing the widely different
interpretations two writers can place on
the same facts, is quoted here not for
the purposes of historical debate, but to
show the difference between the novelists’
approaches to fiction. At this one point
where Ernestine Hill’s story of Flinders
— My Love Must Wait (Angus and
Robertsonp-eovers the same ground as
Eleanor Dark’s story of Phillip— The
Timeless Land (Collins; Angus and
Robertson) —the novels are, as it happens,
in substantial agreement on the historical
facts. If one spells the aboriginal with
an “i” and the other with an “e,” one
says he said “Odd bodikin!” and the
other gives him something less exquisitely
improbable to say; if one reports that
Bennelong’s dear old mother wept tears
of mud down his shoulder and the other
has not found that in the record, all that
is unimportant—even historically—beside
the fact that they agree that rum and the
trip to England ruined the black man.
If one spells Bennelong’s wife “Goo-
roobarrabooloo” and the other “Gooroo-
barooboolo,” no one but the bitterest and
boldest of historians will quarrel with
either of them ; for, apart from the pro-
bability that even Gooroobalooballoo
herself couldn’t have sworn that she really
wasn’t Hullaballoobalabalay, they both
agree on the important fact that she was
unfaithful to Bennelong while he was in
England.
Like most of the other Australian his-
torical novelists, these two take great
pains to be accurate. Behind all Austra-
lian fiction of this kind there seems to
lie a patriotic impulse as well as an
artistic. The novelists are trying to
create a nation as well as a novel. The
effect, like the intention, is both good and
bad. Good, because these writers are
unquestionably responding to a national
need ; there must be, within the Austra-
lian consciousness, a deep hunger for
some seer or prophet, disguised as a
novelist, to state what this country Aus-
tralia is, what this creature an Austra-
lian is, so that what is dimly felt to be a
new creation on the earth’s surface may
be known and understood. That need, if
such matters went by logic, should have
been satisfied years ago ; over and over
again, Australian authors have written
the historical novels that give the
nation rock to stand on and build on.
But the need, as the mere continued pro-
duction of historical novels indicates, still
persists, and so the novels —from the
patriotic and national viewpoint—do
good by satisfying it.
But fiction —the art of the novel—has
nothing to do with patriotism: its aim
and province is the study of character.
From the standpoint of pure art, his-
torical accuracy or inaccuracy doesn’t
matter. Who cares if Cleopatra was
really as Shakspeare painted her? So
that when My Love Must Wait and The
Timeless Land are both accepted as
nationally valuable, it remains to be de-
cided whether or not they convince as
fiction: whether, in fact, they are poli-
tical treatises or novels.
That is where the staggering difference
between Ernestine Hill’s method and
approach and Eleanor Dark’s is of vital
importance. On the quotation about
Bennelong, Eleanor Dark’s realism seems
more convincing than Ernestine Hill’s
romanticism. Even in a novel, one can’t
believe that Bennelong said “Hab at thee,
wretch! ”
From the first page of her introduction,
Ernestine Hill makes it clear that she is
going to offer Romance with a capital
“R,” something larger and fluffier than
life:
Dawns he had known of leaping flame
that kindled sea and sky; still island dawns
with a black frieze of palm-trees; pirate
dawns stabbing at the heart of night and
routing the wheeling stars, burning the
veil on lands unknown.
Even in construction as prose, that is
melodramatic: the thundering noun be-
ginning the sentence (one of Ernestine
Hill’s favorite tricks); the conventional
romanticism of the “lands unknown” in-
version. Another piece of stage scenery:
Sun struck the chimney pots, ghastly as
tombstones in a graveyard of the living
dead.
There are times when Ernestine Hill’s
prose wings away from her like a flock
of birds into the metres of poetry, hor-
ribly out of place. Take the last words
of this paragraph:
The villagers of the whole county were
for ever gossiping of the great Revesby
parties, when the gentry came from London
in coaches with long-tailed horses all the
way, with bands of fiddle and hautboy
and flute to play for their May-day revels,
and mummers, morris-dancers and jugglers,
races and cricket matches, fishing and fowl-
ing in gay marquees on the banks of
Boston Scorp—
and, apart from the improbability of any-
one fishing or fowling in a tent, the
metre is poetry:
Fishing and fowling in gay marquees
On the banks of Boston Scorp,
Their dresses began to fly in the breeze
And their wooden legs to warp.
Alliteration, that would be unpardonable
even in poetry, lends its awful aid ;
The melancholy of that browbeaten shore
preyed on Flinders’s mind. Those lowering
ranges were stupendous works of nature....
awful effigies of peak and pylon defied in
diabolical majesty the siege of wind and
sea.
Alliteration and a verse rhythm at once :
A lacemaker’s pattern of figures and
faces that girdles a globe of the world.
Flinders’s chance of coming to life as
a convincing fictional character must in-
evitably be lessened by such extrava-
gances. Not with all the goodwill in the
world can one believe that his kisses
“stirred a rustle of apprehension, as a
wandering breeze, in the old oak itself.”
Oaks are a phlegmatic lot.
Just as it’s difficult to recognise Aus-
tralia under the mask of the “awful
effigies,” it’s difficult to reconcile the
Flinders of this sort of writing:
Drowse over the village—nobody know-
ing. While Mrs. Tyler and the girls pre-
pared the wedding feast, the lovers were
lost in the young green shade of the old,
old Partney oak —
with the Flinders who appears in his
own letters: —•
I get some speed out of her, but of all
the filthy little things I ever saw, this
schooner, for bugs, lice, weevils, mos-
quitoes, cockroaches (large and small) and
mice, rises superior to them all.
Yet, when these lapses are allowed for
(and to drag them out into quotation may
emphasise them unfairly) the floral clock
with which Ernestine Hill measures Aus-
tralian history is more truly an instru-
ment of art than the cold, rarely chim-
ing timepiece of The Timeless Land.
“My aim,” says Eleanor Dark,
has been to give a true picture of the
first settlement of Sydney, which is always
true in broad outline, and often in detail,
but I make no claim to strict historical
accuracy either in my dealings with the
white men or the black.
Is that the proper aim for a novelist?
“A true picture of the first settlement of
Sydney.” That’s the historian’s aim ; the
political writer’s aim. The novelist’s pur-
pose should be stated: “My aim has been
to give a true picture of that interesting
character Phillip, of the personal drama
that sprang from his character ; and, in-
cidentally, this novel gives a picture of
the settlement of Sydney.”
Ernestine Hill does, in fact, say almost
that in her epilogue:
Matthew Flinders, long dead, became to
me as a friend....As the history was
pieced together in the jigsaw fragments of
manuscript and memoir, my eyes opened in
wonder. The figure of a woman came into
the picture, a childhood sweetheart lost in
long roving, a beloved young wife re-
nounced through the lonely years. Their
reunion was but the final chapter of
supreme sadness, for to his life’s work
the lover gave his life.
Ernestine Hill has dropped upon some-
thing that should become a canon of
Australian criticism: that there is no
longer any need to create in fiction the
Australian historical scene —it has been
done, time and again ; the emphasis can
now be placed on the characters of that
history. Novels like Ernestine Hill’s
about the man Flinders, not about the
country Australia, are on the right track ;
novels about the colony New South
Wales, not about the man Phillip, are
on the wrong track. The first ships, the
convicts, early Sydney, the homesickness
for England, the gradual acceptance of
Australia all this in Eleanor Dark’s
book, though finely done, is old stuff:
worked out as fiction, even if the national
need for it still lingers.
It would be unjust to convey the im-
pression that The Timeless Land is only
history, only politics. There is, of course,
a picture of Phillip and his colleagues ;
and, of greater human interest, there is
a most courageous attempt to portray in
intimate detail half a dozen aboriginals,
Bennelong conspicuous among them.
Eleanor Dark follows them into their
own wild life of courtship and corrobo-
ree, then brings them out into contact
with the whites, whereby Bennelong’s per-
sonal disaster after the trip to England
becomes a symbol of the degradation and
destruction of the race.
The attempt would be more successful
if only Bennelong hadn’t had to become
a symbol. When he is making cave-man
love, when he is boasting, singing or
fighting, he is real and likeable. But he is
not Bennelong, he is only a mouthpiece
for the expression of a political philo-
sophy when he reflects on the hanging
of a convict after this fashion;
The man obviously had been a male-
factor, a transgressor of some law, and his
strange death, no doubt, was justly im-
posed upon him. But, surely and effort-
lessly, the black man saw to the heart of
the problem, knew that while execution may
be lawful, serving the only good, which is
the welfare of the group, humiliation and
indignity will recoil upon the heads of
those who inflict them, warping and flaw-
ing their image of themselves. For a
man, looking into the eyes of another man,
sees himself therein; to Bennilong that was
more than a matter of reflection —it was a
symbol of the truth.
It may be historically true, or it could
be maintained as symbolically true, that
the spectacle of public hangings degraded
the blacks: but it cannot be maintained
as fictional truth that Bennelong, stand-
ing by a gallows in early Sydney and
watching a convict being hanged, thought
to himself “A man, looking into the eyes
of another man, sees himself therein.”
That is the novelist thinking, not Benne-
long.
Phillip, too, is sometimes Phillip the
man, and sometimes Phillip the symbol,
or Phillip the historian’s mouthpiece:
Suddenly illumination came to him, and a
deep relief. Here, buried in him and un-
suspected till now, was the knowledge
which had lent him that seemingly irra-
tional confidence. He was a practical man,
a stranger to all mysticism and intro-
spection. He believed, as all good English-
men did, that his race was Heaven-favored,
Heaven-guided, sent to be a builder in
strange lands and a teacher of strange
peoples. But now he felt a power which
was even stronger than the power of his
race, an influence from the land itself —
the strange land, the terra incognita —which
human folly and human brutality could not
harm, could not even touch. He saw now that
they had delivered themselves up to it, that
no word or deed or authority of his could
stay its quiet, unhurried processes of en-
velopment and absorption. “Acquisition!”
The ageless silence swallowed the pre-
sumptuous word. What had been thrust
upon it as shame and degradation and
hypocrisy became merely human life; the
overlying, man-made creeds and customs
and conceptions fell from it, leaving it
nakedly reborn.
Good political theorising, good sym-
bolical history, but as a matter of fic-
tional truth a man who is a stranger to
all mysticism and introspection doesn’t
raysticise and introspect for five pages of
solid type.
Eleanor Dark has much greater con-
trol over her prose than Ernestine Hill.
The Timeless Land is beautifully written.
There is one flaw, a minute one, but sig-
nificant: the continual use of the tag
“was conscious of.” “They were con-
scious of a sense of excitement and
climax.” “They were conscious of a
confusion in their thoughts.” “She was
conscious of a deep hidden fear of him.”
Apart from the fact that “was conscious
of” is generally used to imply the exact
opposite of consciousness—feeling with-
out thought or analysis—the phrase is
always a remote and circumlocutory way
of expressing an emotion. There is much
more drama, much more life if, instead
of being “conscious of excitement,” a
man is simply “excited.” It is one of
the dangers of the analytical method that
the story tends to remain in the author’s
mind ; it is not dramatised in action and
dialogue and so is never quite real.
Ernestine Hill’s people may be all
somewhat larger than life-size, but at
least they are lively;
He knew he had always loved Ann
most dearly, had always loved her, much
as he loved Betsy and Sue....but was he
what the poets call “in love”? Romeo
and Juliet died for each other—he wanted
to live. He wanted New South Wales.
Wheeling, he cleared a hedge in exultation.
Even if one suspects that it is only
dream lovers who jump over hedges, the
extravagance is nearer fictional reality
than to say “he was conscious of exulta-
tion.”
An incident from The Timeless Land:
No, fine as their possessions were, Ara-
banoo had no wish to share them any
longer. He could feel the joy which was
his heritage being squeezed out of him by
the intolerable awareness of their misery.
He waited, watching the headland come
nearer, motionless, intent, and when they
were abreast of it he broke from among
the group, ran to the rails and dived over-
board.
And an incident from My Love Must
Wait : —
As Bligh shouted the order to load the
swivel guns, “Shoal water!” screamed the
man at the masthead, and “Hard aport!”
yelled Bond. They swung her about in
time, scraping the reef with a churn of
coral and foam. Her broadside of round
and grape shattered the nearest canoe.
How much more lively is the second
quotation. Those two scraps of dialogue,
“Shoal water!” and “Hard aport!” bring
the scene to life. Nobody shouts when
Arabanoo goes overboard; there is not
even a splash ; and so, however accu-
rately his state of mind may be analysed,
he slips away unnoticed.
In many places that remoteness blurs
the impact of Eleanor Dark’s writing:
emotions conveyed indirectly, sifted
through the author’s mind; incidents
without dialogue ; events which, because
they do not flow inevitably from charac-
ter but are part of the elaborate picture
of early New South Wales, fall into the
“And then they had adventures” cate-
gory. But often enough, too, when the
writer is sufficiently exalted by her vision
of “the timeless land”—particularly when
she is seeing the blacks in relation to it
—the prose catches fire and the story is
alive with the intensity of her imagina-
tion :
But after all no words had come to
Wunbula that day. For he had been only
a few moments on the cliffs when he had
seen something which made his heart leap
in his chest and his pulses hammer with
excitement. It was a magic boat. At first
only a drift of white to his far-sighted
eyes, he saw it come out of the south,
and he was afraid, believing it to be a spirit
sent by Turong, who rules the water; and
he had crouched behind a rock watching it
come nearer and nearer until he saw that
it was in the likeness of a boat, but that
it had great white wings which bore it
along over the ocean like a bird. Fear
was still strong in him, but stronger still
was that quality which had made him a
maker of songs, and he had felt himself
shaken and enraptured by the beauty of this
marvel, by the grace of its movement, and
the billowy curves of its wings. He stared
and stared hungrily while it passed, and
then, fearful of losing sight of it for
ever, he had leapt to his feet and hurried
along the cliffs. But gullies and indentations
had so delayed him that it was soon out of
sight, vanished around a headland. Pres-
ently he had fallen in with the hunting
party, and he had told them, wild-eyed,
what he had seen. At first they had stared
—then laughed—then stared again, but
finally they followed him, and when they
reached the camp they found it seething
with excitement. For the magic boat had
flown into their harbor, and, folding its
wings like a seagull, had come to rest.
Behind such flaws as have been ob-
served in My Love Must Wait lies the
essential weakness that Ernestine Hill has
tried to write a highly-colored romantic
tragedy about a plain man whose love-
story was not high tragedy but long-
drawn pathos: not disaster but decay.
The weaknesses of The Timeless Land
—as fiction; though not as an essay-
are due to the dethronement of charac-
ter i v favor of history and political
analysis. But to make such criticisms of
these two fine books is to pay them the
compliment of an examination that
wouldn’t be given here to nine out of
ten of the ordinary run of novels, Aus-
tralian, English or American. These are
outstanding books, and the writing and
publication of them in war-time is a sign
of true vigor in the Australian culture.
Specially attractive in Australian gift
books for very small folk. The Adven-
tures of Cuthfjert Caterpillar and Wilfred
Wasp (Marchant and Co., Sydney),
written and engagingly illustrated in
color and wash drawings by D. H. Gil-
more ; an excellent job. Another very
good one, with plenty of dog story in it,
Scotty in Gumnutland , by May Gibbs
(Angus and Robertson.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —business sincerity
J
: ~
AT
hn e*
X. "
IX
m
m
1
*
rs$P' *p
X 'X; - ..X' :
k I
MK
“THE SENIOR STORE”
m
CONSTANT READINESS
DAY AND NIGHT . . .
Be independent of emergency measures
with an Esse Heat Storage Cooker!
Continuousburning, ready for INSTANT
action, day and night, Esse Cookers
make you completely independent of
public power supply services. So long
as you have supplies of the necessary
fuel charcoal or coke you are
immune from trouble should public
services break down. Fuel economy is
outstanding, too —fuel consumption
never rises—and stoking is necessary
only once every twelve hours.
Ovens evenly heated, yet providing three different
cooking temperatures (automatically controlled) together
with grilling, toasting, and boiling at the one time for
less than Two Shillings per Week!
The whole body of the cooker is beautifully porcelain
enamelled in cream with black and chrome relief, and
is always in sparkling condition!
The heat is conserved within the cooker, which enables
the kitchen to be kept at a beautifully cool temperature
on the hottest days—yet can be reversed for winter
needs!
PREMIER ESSE
With Auxiliary Oven
The Premier ESSE can be supplied with Auxiliary Oven,
which gives extra cooking space as well as ample hot-
cupboard” room.
A PRACTICAL COOKER, EVERY FACILITY
The three roomy extra high ovens are evenly heated and
give three different cooking temperatures, maintained
automatically by a thermostat. They provide healthy,
fume-free cooking, and conserve the essential juices and
flavour of the food.
BETTER, EASIER, SAFER COOKING
The Premier ESSE is simple and safe in use. It is always
ready for service at correct cooking temperature, and is
so flexible under thermostatic control that it will respond
quickly to exceptional demands. Chefs and cooks all
over the country express delight with the ample accom-
modation and improved flavour of food.
DEMONSTRATIONS Given on
Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street,
or Fullest Particulars will be sent on
Application.
SOLE N.S.W. AGENTS
mm
WSWSWS
mm WB&.
H
m .
: * i
... M
VICTORIAN AGENCY
T. S. NETTLEFOLD & SONS Pty. Ltd.
GOLIATH HOUSE
189 KING STREET, MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'PHONE: M 2401
(Day and Night}
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Post to BOX 2712 C.
G.P.0., SYDNEY


Seppelt's
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
THE GREEN MAN, PUTNEY HEATH.
On the Surrey side of the bridge crossing the
Thames from Fulham stands a well-known
tavern, the White Lion, at the foot (if the
long, steady, uphill road passing through
Putney and leading to Putney Heath, where
another tavern, not so well known to over-
seas tourists as the White Lion, but de-
cidedly preferable in many ways—the
Green Man—stands. In athletic circles it
looms large, being a starting-place for cross-
country races over Wimbledon Common,
which adjoins the Heath, and the surround-
ing district. It is a tavern possessing many
old-time amenities, as the illustration sug-
gests. War conditions from 1914 to 1918,
and a quarter of a century afterwards, de-
prived the Green Man of much of its
sporting patronage; still, that will return
with more peaceful times. Putney Heath
is a delightful place, one of the most favored
heights along this section of the river, of
which it commands a fine view. On the
Heath an object of peculiar and unique
interest is an obelisk built in 1776 with an
inscription imparting that it was erected 110
years after the Great Fire of London, on
the anniversary of that event, to commemo-
rate an invention “for securing buildings
against fire.” On the side of the obelisk
facing Putney is recorded a resolution of
the House of Commons in 1774 granting
£2500 to David Hartley for this invention.
On the side of the monument towards
London is a resolution of the Court of
Common Council, “assembled at the Guild-
hall,” granting the Freedom of the City to
Mr. Hartley in consideration of the advan-
tages likely to accrue to the public from
this invention, and on the Kingston side
is the resolution of the council ordering the
obelisk to be erected. Near to the obelisk
was a house three storeys high, with two
rooms in a floor, built by Mr. Hartley, with
fire plates between the ceilings and floors,
in order to try his experiments, of which
six were made in 1776. These excited tre-
mendous interest, as may be gauged from
the fact that at one of them the King and
Queen, members of the Royal family, several
of the nobility and the Lord Mayor and
Corporation of London were in a room
under the ground floor, while the rooms
above them were “furiously burning.” So
favorably impressed were the authorities that
Mr. Hartley was allowed £l5OO a year from
the public exchequer, the equivalent of at
least £3OOO or £4OOO to-day, for his inven-
tion. Mr. Hartley lived long before aerial
warfare, as now practised, was thought of,
though his invention marked a distinct
advance in domestic structural arrange-
ments suitable for the “piping times of
peace.” Mention of the Green Man and
White Lion taverns recalls the curious fact
that the naming of public places of refresh-
ment, licensed of course, which sets natural
history at defiance, has always been popular.
A list of tavern names in “the circuit of
London” published in 1854 shows there
were 26 White Lions and 29 Green Men.
F


The Bulletin
Vol. 63. —No. 3230.
Wednesday, January 7, 1942.
CO-PROSPERITY SPHERE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man."
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P, H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
W ellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (.Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) :
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
1\ per copy. United Kingdom, 2\ per copy. To
all other places, 4\.
HISTORY IN THE MAKING.
When Mr, Curtin drew up the statement published
in the morning papers on December 29 he was obvi-
ously a worried man, and in some of the paragraphs —
notably “We know that Australia can go and Britain
can still hold on,” and “Without any inhibitions 1
make it quite clear that Australia looks to America
free of any pangs as to our traditional kinship with
the United Kingdom”—he. chose his words unwisely,
as worried men are apt to do. And he forgot one
thing of which he was soon pointedly reminded —that
he was asking for a full measure of support from
countries which have conscription in all things with-
out geographical limits when his Government’s
measure of conscription is limited to military service
within Australian territory. All the same, it was his
right and duty to tell the gentlemen engaged in the
Washington discussions that Australia’s existence is
at stake in the war in the Pacific, and that in the
direction of that war the United States must take the
lead, as it took the lead in the policy that preceded it;
and to the extent to which he did this —though he
used inappropriate terms and expressed doubtfully
realisable aspirations —he did well.
’ The Prime Minister seems to have been actuated
by a lively fear of Mr. Churchill’s attitude at Washing-
ton and by a natural concern for the Australian fight-
ing men in Malaya, where —though General Pownall
may have something up his sleeve —the new enemy has
thus far been superior in the air, as his Axis partner
was in Greece and Crete. Mr. Churchill has been
accused by Mr. Keith Murdoch —very belatedly in his
case —of being “Atlantic-minded” and of running not
only the politics but also the strategy of the war ; and
Mr. Murdoch is a press baron-in-the-making to whom
Australian politicians of all party colors pay a good
deal of attention. It was suggested that Mr. Churchill’s
attitude at Washington was or would be that the
Allies should concentrate on smashing Hitler, leaving
the Japanese to be polished off afterwards. However,
a few days after Mr. Curtin erupted he received from
Mr. Churchill what was described as “very good
news,” satisfactory not only to Australia and invaded
British possessions, but to the Netherlands East Indies
—whose Commander-in-Chief has asked Australia for
“all possible aid,” mentioning in particular that he
was short of ’planes. About the same time Mr.
Churchill, speaking to a party of Canadian news-
papermen, “expressed confidence that Singapore would
be held.” In answer to a question he added that he
thought it “impracticable to have the Dominion Prime
Ministers in London at the same time for too long a
period sitting as an Empire War Council” —which,
as an indication of his disclination to surrender a jot
of his exorbitant powers until surrender is forced on
him, is not so good.
Mr. Curtin has—or had —great hopes of Russian
aid in the North Pacific. In his December 29 state-
ment he referred with complacency to the Govern-
ment’s “record of realism in respect of foreign affairs,”
instancing its “forthright declaration in respect of
Finland, Hungary and Rumania, which was followed
by a declaration of war by the democracies.” The
U.S.A. has not joined in that declaration of war, and
it is difficult to see what any part of the British Com-
monwealth has gained from it; but Mr. Curtin has
no regrets.
We felt that there could be no half measures in our
dealings with the Soviet when that nation was being
assailed by the three countries mentioned. Similarly, we
put forward that a reciprocal agreement between Russia
and Britain should be negotiated to meet an event of
aggression by Japan. Our suggestion was then regarded—
wrongly, as time has proved—as premature. Now, with
equal realism, we take the view that, while the determina-
tion of military policy is the Soviet’s business, we
should be able to look forward with reason to aid from
Russia against Japan.
All of which is extremely naive. Particularly the
suggestion that the Curtin Government was first in
with the proposal for “a reciprocal agreement between
Russia and Britain” in case of “aggression by Japan.”
Though the Foreign Office has a very poor latter-day
record, if it had thought there was the slightest chance
of signing up Stalin for a war against Japan it would
have asked for his signature months ago. As it is, Stalin
holds to his non-aggression agreement with Japan,
which was signed for that country by Matsuoka
with the knowledge and approbation of Hitler and
described by the Japanese pilgrim to the Axis capitals
as “advantageous to both sides.” And both sides still
profess to see advantages in it, while keeping their
weapons well oiled.
In Washington at the week-end, Russia, as one
of 26 countries, became a party to a Solidarity Pact,
by virtue of which each signatory Government sub-
scribes to the Roosevelt-Churchill Atlantic Charter of
August 14, 1941, and gives two pledges.
(1) Each Government pledges itself to employ its
full resources, military or economic, against those
members of the Tripartite Pact and its adherents with
which such Government is at war.
(2) Each Government pledges itself to co-operate with
the other signatory Governments, and to continue the
war against and not to make a separate armistice with
the common enemies or any of them.
Russia is at war with two members of the Tri-
partite Pact and with three, perhaps four, of its
“adherents.” But it is not at war with the third
member, and the clause was obviously so worded as
to exempt it from any obligation to help its allies and
associates against that third member, which a hundred
editors and famous or infamous correspondents were
positive it would do from the moment the Japanese
started careering round with what these simpletons
styled their top-heavy warships, their laughable air
force and their exhausted army. It is a dreadfully dis-
appointing sequel to a very black chapter in the his-
tory of British, American and Dominion newspapers,
a chapter in which thousands of writing boys who
reckoned themselves smart were the victims of a
gigantic Oriental hoax, without ever once suspecting
that they were having their legs pulled.
Of course, if the Japanese consider it expedient
to attack Siberia, they will have no more respect for
the instrument signed by Matsuoka and Molotov than
the Germans had for the one signed by Molotov and
Ribbentrop. And if they attack Siberia, as they prob-
ably will, Moscow will make no bones about asking
for British and American assistance, nor will it be
refused. Meantime Stalin has such confidence in
Japanese good faith or forbearance or something that
he permitted his “Pravda” to shoot venom across the
Atlantic and the Pacific:
Failure to transform Manila into a Tobruk, a Lenin-
grad or a Moscow constitutes an act of cowardice.
What can be said of an armed man who lies down on
his back as soon as the enemy appears? Such people
are called cowards. This also applies to a nation
imitating the ladybird dr an individual city dignifying
the position of the ladybird with the high-sounding
name of an open city.
That appeared a few hours before the Solidarity
Pact was signed, and it must have made the Americans
hopping mad. And there was not the slightest warrant
for the repeated insult. Frightfully unprepared as
they were, the Americans put up a very good defence
of the Philippines, and they have a bold and capable
commander in General MacArthur. Few competent
military observers expected his troops to hold out as
long as they have done, and they are still carry-
ing on. And it is a feather in their nation’s
cap as a guardian of Asiatic peoples that it should
have retained the devotion of the Filipinos in evil
hours. When the position of Manila became hopeless
General MacArthur had every right to try to save the
city and its inhabitants by appealing to the enemy’s
oft-proclaimed respect for civilised observances,
though the enemy chose instead to go in for sheer
savagery. Protection of the Manila people at the cost
of pride was assuredly one of the responsibilities which
the Americans accepted when they took up the White
Man’s Burden.
Another outcome of the Washington discussions
can be praised without reserve. Unity of command,
which was not achieved in the last war until it seemed
almost too late, has been set up in the Pacific zone.
General Wavell has been named supreme commander
of “all the anti-Axis sea, land and air forces in the
south-west Pacific,” with Major-General Brett, Chief
of Staff of the U.S. Army Air Corps, as his deputy and
General Pownall. as his Chief of Staff. Subject to
Wavell’s supreme direction. Admiral T. C. Hart, Com-
mander of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet, will be in charge of
all naval forces, and the command in China, “includ-
ing such portions of Indo-China and Thailand which
may become available to troops of the anti-Axis
nations” —words which may be taken to indicate an
offensive from Burma —has been given to General
Chiang Kai-shek. At Pearl Harbor and Hong Kong
and in Malaya, the Philippines and North Borneo
defeats have been suffered, and there may be worse
in store. But in the fullness of time the unified com-
mand will go forward and give us victory.
Where Blame Belongs.
Official Australian Labor, through its various mouth-
pieces, talks as if the war effort of Australia over the
past couple of years were its own achievement and dis-
cernible weaknesses in this the fault of others, as to
which it has been trying to warn and advise Australia
all along. If there is one sectional group of this
democracy that should be humbly silent when defence
is mentioned it is official Australian Labor.
This is not a political statement. The record is
there for anybody to consult.
Even now, with the war brought to the front door
by Japan, which has conscription, with implied criticism
of Britain and open appeals to America, and with
Russia, China and Maoriland in the picture-all with
conscription —official Labor clings to the bedraggled
remnants of the so-called “voluntary” system.
What has the record to say of the rest—of many
others who are strutting about like inebriated peacocks
when they should be shuddering at their past? Did the
Opposition make the suspension of compulsory train-
ing, the near-abolition of the whole defence estab-
lishment, an issue of national importance? No ; it
said, in effect: What this Labor Government has done
is sacrosanct; we will not meddle with it—indeed we
will not do anything.
Again, this is not a political statement. Unfor-
tunately, it is cold fact. In the decade that followed the
last war non-Labor steadily whittled down the Defence
vote, consistently upheld the alleged importance and
value of the League of Nations, until, when Labor
eventually came in for its brief reign, the way was
prepared for it to slash at Australia’s defences. Then,
following that brief and, for Australia, disastrous
interlude, non-Labor won election after election on
parrot cries that are now tragic to think about: Tune
in with Britain . . . The League of Nations the Corner-
stone of Our Foreign Policy . . . and, most insistently
of all, We Will Not Bring in Compulsory National
Service.
For one reason only Labor had nothing with
which to counter those election-winners—it was in
entire agreement with them! From time to time it
even tried to frighten votes its way by darkly suggest-
ing that the other crowd intended bringing in com-
pulsory service, but the repudiation of this by the
other crowd was so vehement that the bogey failed
to work.
With one exception that need not be named in
The Bulletin, the Australian press was in virtually
unanimous agreement also. When today these organs
of “leadership” and enlightenment bellow to have this
and that defence need supplied overnight, hail with
delight the “sackings” of brave men who served Aus-
tralia well in evil times and search in every likely
quarter for more to add to this mess of sops for a
bad conscience their own files are there to expose and
shame them. The best they have ever done all through
this long and pathetic period has been to sit tight on
the fence on every defence issue. Now they are hop-
ping off and unblushingly saying, as entirely new and
original, what only one Australian paper has been
saying for years.
With scapegoat-pelting the popular sport of the
moment, it already begins to appear that if all deserv-
ing candidates for the role are to get their due there
will not be enough stones in Australia to go round.
And the candidates indicated so far here are merely
the obvious ones. There are many others. For the
pelting of these others what is called for is not a
supply of stones but a supply of boomerangs. This is
a democracy, with a Parliamentary system of govern-
ment by elected representatives. This means that Gov-
ernments do here what the people insist on their
doing. The people, therefore, are responsible ; and,
this being so, each and every one who wants to have
at a deserving scapegoat should throw a boomerang
to come back and whack himself.
It is useless for the present, and would be dan-
gerous for the future, to put the blame for Australia’s
position on to any of the personnel of past Govern-
ments. Everybody in the community must individu-
ally and collectively share in the blame. To appreciate
this properly now is to safeguard against a repetition
of past follies in the future. The prevailing concep-
tion of Parliamentary government is that politicians
elected to serve under this system must reflect, rather
than mould, the public will; that their part must be
that of actual servants, not of leaders. This may be
considered a false conception of democracy and the
Parliamentary system, but it cannot be questioned
that it is the prevailing conception, and one that has
now long prevailed. In view of this, to talk of Aus-
tralia’s trouble as being the fault of “reactionary
politicians” is plain nonsense. Whatever may be lack-
ing in Australia’s present position is no one man’s
fault —it is every man’s.
There is another, and creditable, aspect to all
this. It would be a damaging criticism of democ-
racy and the Parliamentary system if there
were not. When the war at large broke out the
Government which, up to then, had been pledged,
along with its predecessors, not to reintroduce com-
pulsory service did so at once. It also energetically
tackled the tremendous job of getting Australia on
to an all-in war basis. It did not introduce conscrip-
tion, and the measure of public share in the blame on
all counts is that, had it attempted to do so—even
after the fall of France, even after Dunkirk—Labor
would have forced it to the country and beaten it
hollow. This being nothing more than the bare truth,
it is plain that everyone who feels the urge to whack
a scapegoat should select a boomerang warranted to
come back and clout himself hard.
It would be better, though, if Australians, instead
of indulging in this futile business of scapegoat pelt-
ing, pondered on their separate and collective share
in the running of this democracy, and made resolu-
tions now for the future. What a Government under
the Parliamentary system can accomplish when the
public will is backing it is clear from what has been
achieved from scratch in the past two years. This has
been no mean achievement. In the face of threat and
amidst the hysterical bowlings of the scared-stiff what
has been accomplished is overlooked, but it is some-
thing that history will write to the great credit of
Australia and the justification of the democratic way
of life. It and what Mr. Curtin’s Government is now
vigorously doing stand for what can be done by a
democracy inspired by a realistic conception of demo-
cratic leadership, instead of being obsessed by the
slavey conception that holds elected leaders to be
mere servants of an uninformed and consequently un-
trustworthy popular will. If Australians fail to grasp
this now, so that in the future they fail over again to
demand leadership from those they elect to lead, they
will then, as now, have to share in the blame for all
shortcomings. And in regard to this, it would be as
well not to overlook that two years’ start was a most
generous gift from the gods, and one that will never
again be repeated.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
McKell, Man of Destiny.
Sydney University has a professor, F. A. Bland, who
takes a morbid delight in dissecting N.S.W. Budgets
for the instruction of “S. M. Herald” readers. He
had the McKell Labor Budget (“the first since the
frenzied finance of 1931-32 sent the party into the
wilderness”) under examination at the end of the year
and pronounced it a bad case.
Mr. McKell promised in his policy speech that
Labor would so “reform the budgetary system as to
make it possible for any member of the community
to see how his money is spent,” mainly by presenting
estimates “in a form understandable by the layman.”
Quoting this undertaking, Mr. Bland mordantly
declared that “Mr. McKell has yet to honor his
promise: there has been no notable alteration in the
form of this year’s estimates” and no disclosure of
“how he intended to finance his proposals.” Above
all, Mr. McKell “made no mention of the relief the
Treasurer would gain by the Commonwealth assum-
ing responsibility for family endowment.”
Here was a major development in Commonwealth-
State relations vitally affecting the N.S.W. Budget, and
yet there is not a word about the change.
In 1940-41 family endowment cost the N.S.W.
Government £1,337,000, and the saving this year, less
payroll tax of £260,000, is reckoned at £1,077,000.
In addition food-relief expenditure is diminishing at
the rate of just on a million a year, so many unem-
ployed having found Commonwealth work in one
form or another, so for the current year the Govern-
ment will be over £2,000,000 better off. Mr. McKell
undertook to abolish the unemployed-relief tax. This
he did by tacking so much of it on to his income tax
that he put his yield from income tax (£17,000,000)
at £314,500 higher than the 1940-41 yield from both
income tax and unemployed-relief tax. Quoth Mr.
Bland dryly:
It was expected that a substantial remission would be
made. Having in view reduced commitments and
buoyant revenues, an increase of £314,500 in income
taxation is a novel way of honoring a promise to
abolish a tax.
Especially when Commonwealth Labor, driven by
necessity, has in the course of three months made two
increases in the income tax levied for war purposes.
Mr. McKell has not replied directly to Mr, Bland.
However, he has stated that he is “not giving any
consideration at present to the question of reducing
State taxation,” asserting that “we have some great
and grave obligations resulting from the war.” What
these “obligations” are he does not choose to state.
His main duty these times is to help in every
possible way the Government responsible for the safety
of the country ; but he seems to think he discharges
it by writing flowery newspaper articles and making
vague speeches on the need to be up and doing, put-
ting shoulders to the wheel, giving a long, long pull
and a strong, strong pull and never doubting clouds
will break. The necessity for leaving income tax to
the Commonwealth is obvious to anyone who can take
an unprejudiced and national view, but Mr. McKell
won’t have it. And, to put it mildly, he has not
helped the Commonwealth in its loan operations by
squealing persistently that N.S.W. is not getting its
fair share of loan money, by suggesting that the Com-
monwealth should tax loan interest, expressly exempted
from taxation, and by going as far himself in the
direction of taxing interest on Commonwealth securi-
ties as he could go.
And that is by no means the whole story. In
case large-scale evacuation should be necessary, the
national Government has asked motorists to keep
their vehicles in running order, and at least two gallons
of petrol in the tanks. This very laudable policy is
being defeated in N.S.W., the State with two-fifths of
the Australian population, because car taxation and
insurance are maintained at rates which have become
scandalous. From the average car-owner the McKell
Government exacts £lO p.a., and with, say, £7 insur-
ance added and petrol allowance limited to five gallons
a month (it will be four gallons from February 1) the
average car-owner finds himself in a position where
it would pay him to put his car on blocks. He would
have a different feeling if motor taxation were
reduced in proportion to the service that can be got
from the car, and this has been done in other States.
But not in N. S. Wales ; Mr. McKell prefers to write
newspaper articles calling on the public to rise up
and do something and look for the light to break
through the dark clouds which overhang our destiny.
Apropos of these pious injunctions, “Truth,” a Labor
paper, testily records that, on a day on which all
hands and the cook had been asked by the Prime
Minister to work, it tried to get in touch with Mr.
McKell and 12 of his 14 colleagues, and failed.
But don’t imagine that the McKell Government
has no ideas of its own about large-scale evacuation.
After a mortal struggle with its mental processes it
announced last week that it “believed” that “parents
who were able to do so should transfer their children
from Sydney, Port Kembla and Newcastle to country
districts.” And with the Railway Department rolling
in money, the Government has “authorised a reduction
of 75 p.c. in children’s single fares from Sydney and
other vulnerable areas to the country,” except in cases
where the parents sign a declaration that they are
paupers. It had previously “authorised” the Railway
Department to cut out the years-old week-end conces-
sion in children’s fares.
What a Government!
Up to Date.
A kangaroo and a wombat happened to come across
a peculiar animal one day in July, 1941, They had
encountered many things in their walks abroad, both
common and uncommon, and had had full many a
discussion thereon, but never had they seen anything
like this before.
They made bold to address the apparition, which
looked at them superciliously and answered their query
as to its identity with the statement that it was a
public enlightener. On seeing their somewhat blank
faces it fished into a bag it was carrying and said,
“See, here is an example of my work.” The kan-
garoo, bending down so the wombat could see, read
the printed extract:
Wavell carried out a brilliant campaign against the
Italians in Cyrenaica. Later he allowed [!] the Germans
to take back all the territory he had gained. And
recently he led a spectacular abortive counter-attack
in the Solium sector. As a result his prestige has
suffered. A brilliant general without prestige is not a
winning general. Churchill knows that. He is realistic.
The friends understood that the message had
something to do with the transfer of the man Wavell
to India, and the kangaroo could not help remarking
“But this doesn’t seem dinkum. I had the idea this
Wavell was the goods.” Whereupon the strange
creature gave them both a supercilious look and
departed.
Then it happened that a period passed until the
friends were once more abroad together in January
of the year 1942, when they again encountered the
same strange animal. “What ho, Dig.,” hailed the
kangaroo, “still enlightening the public?”
The stranger gave them the same supercilious
look, and in silence handed them another printed
extract. It had to do with the same Wavell, and read:
Wavell, who, it has been reported, will be Supreme
Commander of British and U.S. land forces in the Far
East, has been Called a military genius. He is generally
regarded as a strong leader and superb strategist
He became “Wavell the Wizard” after his defeat of the
Middle East Italians a year ago. His methods were
regarded as unorthodox, unconventional, effective.
The friends looked at each other in bafflement. They
looked after the stranger, who was departing. “Hell,”
said the wombat, who hitherto had not spoken, “now
I know what that fellow is.”
The kangaroo said “He carried a card with the
words ‘Sydney Daily Telegraph’ on it.”
“Yair,” said the wombat, “it’s just another name
for chameleon.”
“Chameleon?”
“Yair. It’s a lizard that can change its color to
suit its moods or surroundings.”
And, thinking hard, they went their way.
The Austral- -aise.
(From The Bulletin of 12/12/1912 —reprinted in response
to requests which have come from people in all the States
and from fighting men abroad.)
Fellers of Australier, Support a fam’ly an’
Blokes an’ coves an’ coots, Strike fer yer rights.
Shift yer carcasses, (Chorus.)
Move yer boots.
Gird yer loins up, When the bugle
Opf V pr onn Sounds “Ad- vance”
yer gu , Don’t be like a flock of sheep
Set the enermy in a trance.
An’ watch the run. Biff the foeman
Where it don’t agree.
Chorus. Spifler -cate him
Get a move on, Eternity.
Have some sense. (Chorus.)
Learn the art of „
e Fellers of Australier,
e " - e c . Cobbers, chaps an’ mates,
Have snmp brains he Hear the enermy
Have some brains be Kickin’ at the gates!
Neath yer hds. Blow the bugle,
An’ swing a sabre Beat the drum,
Fer the missus an’ the kids. Uppercut an’ out the cow
Chuck supportin’ posts T° Kingdom- come!
An’ strikin’ lights, (Chorus.)
victoria. C. J. Dennis.
An Unfortunate Fizzle.
The idea was minted in the brain of Sydney’s Lud
Mayor Crick. Mr. Crick suggested it to Mr. Curtin,
who, doubtless harried by many things at the time,
gave his consent; and so a “New H.M.A.S. Sydney
Fund” was launched. Mr. Crick got off the inevit-
able pomposity:
We look upon this as a challenge from the enemy
which will be taken up determinedly and with patriotism.
The generosity of the people of Sydney and N. S. Wales
is proverbial, and we must let Hitler know that we are
prepared to have another and more powerful Sydney
at the earliest possible moment. It will be a proud day
for Sydney when the new H.M.A.S. Sydney steams
through the Heads I feel certain the funds will be
available to order the new H.M.A.S. Sydney before
the end of this year.
Quotas set were: N. S. Wales, £1,000,000; Vic-
toria, £500,000 ; Queensland, £250,000; S, Australia,
£125,000 ; Westralia, £85,000 ; Tasmania, £40,000. On
31/12/’4l it was announced that, whereas Victoria
had raised or was assured of £125,000, N. S. Wales
had collected only £87,108. S.A. had subscribed
£14,000, Westralia £12,015, Queensland £4734 and
Tasmania £5300, the total being £248,160. That in a
month when enthusiasm could be reckoned as at its
keenest.
Regrettable as it may be, it is evident that the
fund will fail. Mr. Crick greatly underestimated the
amount required and greatly overestimated the capa-
city of his own community to support his notion at a
time of stringent taxation and deepening anxiety. The
appeal should be called off till after the war. Mean-
while, with the consent of the subscribers, portion of
it might well be devoted to the construction of a
Sydney bomber and fighter, the best that money can
buy.
A.R.P.—Air Raid Politicians.
Victoria’s fighting Premier has gone into action. His
Order-of-the-Day has been issued; “Because of the
serious war position it is now absolutely necessary to
proceed speedily and efficiently.” That was quoted in
the “Age.” The “Argus” put it in its own words,
saying that Mr. Dunstan stated that “when action was
needed it would be necessary to cut routine and that
war had been declared on red-tape.”
So as “to proceed speedily and efficiently” and to
“cut routine” and war on “red-tape” Dunstan’s Gov-
ernment “considered the formation of special sub-
committees, each under a Minister with executive
power, as a necessary step to enforce measures for
civilian defence.”
What that means isn’t hard to imagine. Any-
how, it was too much for old John Harris, Dunstan’s
Minister for Education and Minister for Health and
Chairman of the State Emergency Council, which was
running Victoria’s A.R.P. He turned all his jobs in,
and the Cabinet began “discussing a reshuffling of
portfolios.” Dr. Harris’s plaint is that he wasn’t con-
sulted —“it came like a bolt from the blue” —though
he’d been A.R.P. boss from the beginning.
It ought to be too much for Canberra, which
surely didn’t expect the “formation of special sub-
committees, each under a Minister with executive
power,” when it handed civilian protection over to
the States. Britain, with a much vaster and more
complex A.R.P. problem than Dunstan ever dreamed
of, gets along with one A.R.P. boss, Herbert Morri-
son, Secretary of State for Home Affairs, who is also
Minister for Home Security and Minister in Charge
of A.R.P., and who has found time to give Australia
A.R.P. advice which looks very useful. But then
Britain isn’t plagued with “sovereign” States and petty
politicians, all jostling for their “rights.” Australia
is, though Darwin has had two alerts and enemy
’planes have bombed Dutch New Guinea and Rabaul.
A Chance for Senator Ashley.
“0.T.”: If ever there was need for the Department
of Information to justify itself it is now, when prac-
tically every skirmish is magnified into a “turning
point,” and every time we suffer a reverse there is a
howl for somebody’s head.
It is a time when even authoritative statements
are likely to become confused in transit. Thus the
four Sydney papers reported the losses in personnel
at Pearl Harbor, on figures issued by U.S. Secretary
for the Navy Knox, as follows;
“S. M. Herald”: Navy, 2729 killed, 656 wounded;
no army figures.
“Sun”: Navy, 2789 killed, 656 wounded; Army,
168 killed, 572 wounded.
“Daily Telegraph’''’: Navy, same as “S.M.H.”;
Army, 1587 killed, 423 wounded.
“Mirror”: Navy, 2799 killed, 1666 wounded; Army,
168 killed, 423 wounded.
Plainly the Department of Information has a duty
to the country other than the mere suppression of
reports of troop and ship movements —a duty to see
that newspapers and radio stations publish official
news with due prominence and are prevented from
publishing scare stories based on scraps of rumor
and opinion picked up by correspondents abroad.
Mr. Keith Murdoch, when Director of Informa-
tion, evidently had something of this in mind when
he tried to have a regulation passed compelling news-
papers to publish Government statements. Newspapers
howled him down and defeated the move. The need
now is for the Department of Information to issue
a daily and accurate report on the war and insist on
its publication. Otherwise some “authoritative source”
may set the coastal population racing for the interior
some fine morning.
A Larder in the South.
“8.C.”: There has, as yet, been no sign from Can-
berra of any awareness of the effect on Australian
agriculture of Japan’s entry into the war. Australia
is the nearest purely white country to the arc of
defences against Japan, and, since that arc must receive
huge reinforcements of white fighting men, Australia
is the logical supplier of the white man’s food they
will need.
There will be a mounting call for flour, • meat,
fruit, butter, cheese, vegetables, both in the raw and
preserved state. White men can’t fight on rice. The
United States and Canada, though feeding Britain
and British forces in Europe and Africa, could also
feed British and American forces in the Pacific as
well, but getting the stuff to them is another matter.
Japan has sufficient hold on the north-west Pacific to
make it necessary for ships from the American con-
tinent to describe a huge half-circle through the south
Pacific to reach places like Malaya, Sumatra, the
Philippines and the thousands of islands around them
where allied forces will be fighting.
Given the ships—and there seems no reason now
why American ships shouldn’t be placed on the ser-
vice—Australia should be able to maintain a vast
rationing scheme from Australian ports through the
Timor Sea and northward, a run much shorter than
that from America. At the least, this country could
maintain a very considerable supply as a supplement
to material travelling longer distances.
All thought of restricting production of food-
stuffs should be dropped. Australia itself will need
vast stores as a safeguard against the raids and in-
vasions which Mr. Curtin has hinted at. Queens-
land is the source of much of our meat and butter
and all our sugar. Sugar production has been
restricted. We can’t process and store too much of
any commodity now, and for preference the main
stores should be far in the south.
Earlier in the piece there was grandiloquent talk
about fodder conservation and food storage by
storekeepers.
All that is past. This country can become the
storehouse of the Pacific for the battling whites.
Beverages will be required as well as foodstuffs.
Apples, destroyed by the ton last year under board
control, are needed now. Dehydrated and stored
they’d have a big value. Which is one example of
the change of outlook that is necessary.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE; 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WAR’S DIRECT THREAT TO AUSTRALIAN
SHARE PRICES
LABOR’S HAPHAZARD BUDGETING
January Issue on Sale Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 Shiles
of tiny tubes or filters which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blood
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging back-i
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head-*
aches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty S pints a day and
jget rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don't wait 1 Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . , used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at you? phemist
pr store,
POLITICAL POINTS
Here and there in Sydney, on street
hoardings for which there is no great
call, you can still see that U.A.P. elec-
tion poster with the counterfeit present-
ments of two preternaturally grim faces
and the legend “Menzies Is With You,
Churchill!” Now Menzies seems to be
trying to explain that when he learned
what had been done or left undone in
Malaya he wasn’t With Churchill at all.
There also exists still a mass of Labor
election stuff certifying that Curtin was
a Churchill in an Australian setting. It
would have been unsafe to recall it to
the P.M. on any of the recent occasions
when his anger with Churchill could not
be concealed.
At a time when every pound is precious
the victorious Tasmanian Government
has thought up another way of wasting
money. It is sending a Minister to
Canberra for the duration, and in the
pride of invention it expects the other
Tribulations to follow suit. If the Tribu-
lations really required liaison agents at
Canberra they could ask Senators to
undertake the trifling addition to the
duties for which they are paid so hand-
somely, and which occupy so small a
portion of their time.
True-blue Laborites in Queensland are
grumbling at Forgan Smith’s disrespect
for the traditional party ban on titles.
Former Chief Justice Jimmy Blair,
though created a knight in Moore’s time,
was named K.C.M.G. in Foghorn’s con-
sulship. Now, at Foghorn’s instance,
Webb, C.J., has been made a K.B.
Anticipating the critics. Foghorn averred
that it was “the practice to grant a knight-
hood to the Chief Justice because of his
office.” But, as the true-blues recall,
McCawley was C.J. for three years when
Labor was in office and died plain
Thomas William McCawley.
It was very clever of Churchill to
address the French-Canadian members at
Ottawa in their own tongue, but some of
his historical allusions were unhappy. He
referred to France as “the cradle of
revolutionary liberty,” and to France as
the Great Nation. That was a Napoleonic
term, and the French-Canadians of the
period hated Napoleon as the child of
a detested revolution. They were royal-
ists to a man. And the feeling against
anti-clericalist French republicanism is
by no means extinct. It was so strong
in the last war that it affected recruiting.
And in refusing to countenance the De
Gaullist seizure of Miquelon and St.
Pierre, Washington assuredly had French-
Canadian opinion in mind.
There were some beautiful specimens
of Spanish architecture in Manila, among
them churches containing priceless relics,
and the University of Santo Tomas.
According to Washington, they were
“deliberately selected as special targets”
when the undefended capital was sub-
jected to “senseless and savage bombing
by 63 aircraft.” Hitler’s agents in Spain
and Latin America will now have the job
of reconciling this barbarism and the
accompanying atrocities with Hitler’s pro-
fessions of devotion to religion and culture
which bombed Europe has found so
hideous a mockery. In Franco’s armies
were volunteers from all the Latin Ameri-
can countries and the Philippines.
Belligerents in the last war were the
British Empire (counted as one), France,
Belgium, Russia, Serbia, Montenegro,
Italy, Japan, Rumania, U.S.A., Portugal,
Greece; San Marino, Panama, Cuba,
Siam, Liberia, China, Brazil, Guatemala,
Nicaragua, Haiti and Honduras also
issued declarations of war. The enemy
Powers were Germany, Austro-Hungary,
Turkey and Bulgaria. Now Germany has
for allies Italy, Japan, Finland, Hungary,
Rumania, Bulgaria and—for what they
may be worth—San Marino, Manchu-
kuo and Thailand: at all events, Thai-
land has been declared enemy territory.
On the other side “in the struggle for
victory over Hitlerism” are the U.S.A.,
the U.K. (Great Britain and Northern
Ireland), Russia, China, Australia, Bel-
gium, Canada, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czecho-
slovakia, the Dominican Republic, Sal-
vador, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Hon-
duras, India, Luxembourg, the Nether-
lands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,
Panama, Poland, South Africa and Yugo-
slavia.
“Free France” is listed as a British
Commonwealth ally, but —doubtless be-
cause it offended Washington by seizing
St. Pierre and Miquelon—it was not asked
FROM A FLAPPER-PRESS STRONG POST.
“Major Cameron, M.H.R., has been appointed Intelligence Officer on General Mackay’s
staff.”
“Take a letter for the Minister for the Army. ‘Dear Forde, you know my
opinion of Cameron. Sack him at once.”
to sign the Solidarity Pact. And Russia is
freed from any obligation to go to war
with Japan.
John Harris, Victorian Minister of
Health and Education, has resigned his
offices and his chairmanship of the
State Emergency Council because Premier
Dunstan wants to split its functions up
among sub-committees under Ministers
with executive powers. Harris is an old
man, somewhat irascible and inclined to
be overbearing ; but at least he did get
something done in organising Mel-
bourne’s preliminary A.R.P. system while
his colleagues were talking. His objec-
tion to the splitting up of functions has
some basis in past experience. Dunstan
is merely following a time-dishonored
practice on which an awful judgment was
pronounced by the 1939 bushfires,
Queensland’s Webb, C.J., has become
chairman of the new Industrial Rela-
tions Council on his own conditions ; and
they were worthy of him. There were
to have been four chairmen, Ministers
Beasley, Ward, Makin and Dedman, with
his Honor as permanent deputy-chair-
man. His Honor turned that proposition
down flat, pointing out that he must be
free of even the appearance of political
control. His other condition was that
his services should be free.
Sydney’s No-Water Board is out with
new restrictions on the use of water,
though it admits the difficulty of polic-
ing most of them by placing the city’s
If million citizens on “their honor” to
obey. The housewife is expected to stop
using water between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m.,
and domestic hot-water systems and baths
in more than 4in. of water are prohibited.
The city’s supply is down and drought
still rules. After the drought breaks the
No-Water Board should be called upon
to explain why there wasn’t sufficient
storage, though it could build a palace
for itself that was quite unnecessary.
In the production and use of charcoal-
gas units for cars, lorries and farm imple-
ments, as in recruiting for the fighting
services, Westralia has led all the other
States. Said Minister Hawke recently,
with pardonable pride, “There are in
Westralia approximately 4000 persons
who use gas-producer units on their
motor vehicles” ; and the most popular
unit is a Westralian invention. As a field
for secondary industries Westralia has
been foolishly neglected by those who have
had the placing of Government contracts.
Foolish also was the abandonment of the
Henderson naval-base idea—if Cockburn
Sound was unsuitable Albany should have
been ideal for the R.A.N.’s purposes.
Though Curtin is supposed to be a
unificationist, he seems to think it is
expected of him at times to talk like a
State Righter, For instance:
I pay tribute to the Premiers of the States
who attended the Premiers’ Conference.
The seven Governments know that Aus-
tralia is the stake in the war.... They
showed a speedy realisation.... their de-
cisions were in accord with the attitude
of realism... .close co-operation on vital
phases of the war effort....
But how much more smoothly and in-
expensively and with how much more
force and authority could such things be
done by one Government, as they are in
Britain and in Maoriland and in South
Africa!
Victoria’s Premier, replying to a sug-
gestion that all registered schools should
receive financial support from the State,
said that at the present time all available
finance must be concentrated on the war
effort. After which he did not telephone
Prime Minister Curtin and invite him to
take over the Victorian income taxes.
It came out last week that Britain had
an army in the Caucasus, where there is
nothing for it to do, and that Anthony
Eden had been seeing Stalin at Moscow.
The conversations were “cordial,” and
seem to have turned mostly on the recon-
struction of Europe after the war. There
is no mention of Stalin’s agreeing to a
British withdrawal from the Caucasus,
or of his undertaking to hurl his Vladi-
vostok subs, and ’planes at the Japs.
Nevertheless, Anthony is alleged to have
brought off in some vague way a Great
Diplomatic Coup.
A full-page advt. in New York
“Times,” sponsored by Clarence Streit’s
“Federal Union Inc.,” requested Mr.
Roosevelt to submit to Congress at once
a programme for “full union of the
United States with Canada, Britain, Aus-
tralia, South Africa, New Zealand and
Eire.” Mr. de Valera is agin it.
“Fact,” an “up-to-the-minute Austra-
lian news-review,” written in the jerky
American style and issued as part of Syd-
ney “Sun’s” Sunday paper, has discov-
ered that Russia can muster “1,500,000
trained men to fight 350,000 to 500,000
Japanese in the Far East.” All this out
of a Siberian population of less than
12.000. scattered over 1,730,900 square
miles of country, whereas there are about
75.000. Japs in Japan proper (147,702
sq. miles) —the population of the Japanese
Empire (260,770 sq. miles) is round
100.000. For “Fact” read “Fancy.”
In respect of national origins, the poli-
tical leadership in this war is very dif-
ferent from what it was in the last. Cook,
Fisher and Hughes came from Britain.
Menzies, Fadden and Curtin are native-
born Australians; and so is Page, the
stopgap. Curtin’s friends think it has
made a lot of difference in Curtin’s case.
Sydney “D.T.” on the campaign in
Libya, December 6:
It looks as though once again someone
has blundered... .After a fortnight’s costly
and inconclusive fighting we learn that
. the Empire Army went into action in-
adequately informed as to the enemy’s
strength and insufficiently equipped and
organised... .There has been a breakdown
in army-air co-operation.
Same paper, same subject, December
27:
The Libyan campaign was carefully
planned. For once the British deliberately
set out to build up superior armament
before striking. That’s why they suc-
ceeded. That’s why Cyrenaica is in British
hands again, the threat to Egypt removed.
... .The British Empire prepared scientifi-
cally for the second Libyan campaign
and scored a first-class victory.
So much for squealer and twister journal-
ism. And the twist was preceded by the
heaving of dollops of mud at “British
military pundits,” who were scornfully
bidden to learn their jobs from the begin-
ning, and with “humility,” from Russians.
Already Director-General of Muni-
tions Essington Lewis has been named
Director-General of Aircraft Production,
“and will have some of the widest powers
ever conferred by an Australian Govern-
ment on an individual citizen.” So Forde
can’t be going to “nationalise” B.H.P.
During his long tenure of office and
in the piping times of peace Premier
Dunstan never did anything much to
restrict the orgy of mid-week sport, in-
cluding dogracing. Now that he has
the authority of the Federal Government
under War Emergency regulations he is
going round Victoria like a raging lion.
He has announced that the State will
“fully implement” any regulations the
Commonwealth likes to impose, but if
midweek dogracing is an evil in war-time
it is just as much an evil in peace-time.
Mr. Dunstan has only provided another
argument for the superfluousness of State
Parliaments.


A HATCHET IS SHARPENED.
Big words do not smite like war-clubs,
Boastful breath is not a bow-string,
Taunts are not as sharp as arrows,
Deeds are better things than words are,
Actions mightier than boastings.
Longfellow’s “Song of Hiawatha.”


D
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
14 Castlereagh St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL.
3400 feet above sea level.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL situated
in the country.
Spacious buildings and grounds—4o acres of
playing fields.
Well-equipped Junior House separate from the
rest of the School with its own playing fields
and tennis courts.
Matrons are trained nurses.
School prepares boys for the various Public
Examinations.
Boys are trained for Professional, Commercial
or Pastoral careers. A Special Agricultural
Science Course is offered.
Arrangements may be made for boys during
the short holidays.
Illustrated Prospectus on application to the
Bursar.
G. A. Fisher, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandulai
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
F
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
__ <^'S'«''
(inly
a scrap of paper
. . . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
ANO GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD J
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St.. Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The crowded career of James Bristock
Brigden, M.A., born at Maldon, Victoria,
July 20, 1887:
Kitchener Memorial Scholar at Oriel,
Oxford; 29th Battalion Digger in France,
where he was wounded; Tutorial Class Lec-
turer in Sheffield, England, and Tasmania;
Pitt Cobbett Lecturer and Professor of
Economics at Tas. University; member of
Queensland’s Basic Wage Commission;
member of the Tariff Committee; Chair-
man of the Overseas Transport Associa-
tion ; Director of the Queensland Bureau
of Economics; Commissioner of the
Queensland Industrial Court; member of
the Commonwealth Wool Inquiry Commit-
tee ; Director of the Queensland Bureau
of Industry and State Statistician; Chair-
man of the National Insurance Commis-
sion ; Secretary of the Department of
Supply and Development; Secretary of the
Department of Munitions.
Now this Admirable Crichton among
economists is going to Washington as
economic adviser to Casey ; and Casey
couldn’t have a better man.
William Flood Webb, Chief Justice of
Queensland, who became a K.B. and
accepted the Deputy-Chairmanship of the
Industrial Relations Council on New
Year’s Day, was born in Brisbane, and
will have a fifty-fifth birthday this month.
He was called to the Queensland Bar in
1913, entered the public service and has
been Crown Solicitor and Solicitor-
General of his native State. He was
appointed a Judge of the Supreme Court
in 1925 and has been C.J. since June,
1940. Queensland’s high estimate of him
is shared by Dr. Evatt.
Major-General A. C. Fewtrell, base
commandant at Victoria Barracks, Syd-
ney’s citadel, is in civil life the very highly
qualified Chief Civil Engineer of the
N. S. Wales Railways Department. In
the 1914-18 war he held various com-
mands and won the D.S.O, After the
war he maintained his connection with
the army, commanded the Ninth Infantry
Brigade, 2nd Div., N.S.W., for several
years, and when the present war broke
MAJOR-GENERAL FEWTRELL.
out was Chief Engineer of the Eastern
Command. He’s 56, married, with two
sons.
Knight John Richards Harris, who,
because he doesn’t share Premier Dun-
stan’s enthusiasm for committees, has re-
signed his portfolios and the chairman-
ship of the State Emergency Council in
Melbourne, is an unusually active man
for 73. Besides being Minister for
Health and Education, he has run his
own vineyard at Rutherglen, Victoria’s
great winegrowing centre, where he
bottles a wine known as “John’s Port.”
Since 1920 he has represented the North-
east Province in the Leg. Council and
was Unofficial Leader of the Council
from 1928 to 1935. During the 1914-18
war he served in the No. 1 Australian
Flying Corps in Palestine. He was
knighted in 1937. It was under E)r.
Harris’s direction that Melbourne built
up its A.R.P. equipment and had its
blackout rehearsals.
Albert John De Baun, named chairman
of the just-set-up Maritime Industry Com-
mission (a sort of conciliation council
on which employers and workers are
represented, to keep peace in the ship-
ping industry), was born in Menindie
(N.S.W.) 47 years ago, and spent his
youth in Westralia. He qualified in Law
at Sydney Uni. and was called to the
N. S. Wales Bar in 1920. Three years
ago he became Justice De Baun, of the
N.S.W. Industrial Commission, in which
capacity he has earned a reputation for
fairness and tact.
The new Auditor-General of N. S.
Wales, Edmund Harold Swift, who . suc-
ceeds John Spence, retired, was born at
Balmain (Sydney), has been a civil ser-
vant all his working life, and in addition
to high qualifications as an accountant is
an M.A. of Sydney Uni. His appoint-
ment as Under-Secretary of Public Works
seven years ago was his first big upward
step. He’s 48, and addicted to tennis
and bowls.
Recently appointed Australia’s buying
agent in the U.S.A. —the official title is
Director-General of War Supplies Pro-
curement—is Lewis Richard Macgregor,
a 55-year-old Scot, who got banking,
commercial and law experience in Glas-
gow, and came to Perth for Westralian
Farmers. Then Queensland snapped him
up as Director of Agricultural Organisa-
tion. Since 1930 Macgregor has repre-
sented Australia abroad, mostly in
Canada and the U.S.A., with a term in
S. Africa, and last year he was appointed
Australian Government Trade Commis-
sioner in North America with an office
in New York.
Harris Henry Marks, 82, tailor, dealer,
machinist and ex-comedian, who died in
a benevolent asylum with nothing but
rags on his back, a ticket for a free
Christmas dinner and 20 tickets for free
outpatient treatment at a hospital in his
pocket, plus bank deposit slips for £3378,
was one of the strange identities of Mel-
bourne. He was born in Russia, grew up
in England and in 1902 came to Aus-
tralia. He was a British Army reservist,
and at the outbreak of the last war re-
turned to England and served on air-
raid defence. Then he came back to Aus-
tralia, a widower with eight children.
Marks never travelled in a tram unless in
pouring rain, and lived on cakes he
bought in shops, except when relatives
gave him a dinner. Although his bank
account for most people would seem a
fortune, he died of starvation.
“Uramao”: Rev. Arthur Sewell, an
English parson who recently celebrated
his 100th birthday, is a nephew of that
Henry Sewell who 85 years ago was
Maoriland’s first Premier. He held office
for only a fortnight, and died in Eng-
land in 1879.
Eric Millhouse, new president of the
Returned Soldiers’ League in S.A., is a
well-known Adelaide lawyer. Born at
Mt. Gambier (S.A.) in 1891, he was
educated at Prince Alfred’s College and
Adelaide Uni., where he took his LL.B.
in 1915. On his return from the 1914-18
war—he was in the Bth Battery —Mill-
house rejoined the Crown Law Depart-
ment, becoming Crown Prosecutor in
1923. He retired five years later. In
May, 1940, he was appointed to the
Army Legal Department.
Squadron-Leader Derrick Jack French,
of Melbourne, who is serving in England,
has a first-class record already be-
hind him. He won the D.F.C. for gal-
lantry in Norway—the first Australian to
win it in this war. He is 26 and a Uni-
versity High School old boy.
Brigadier Colin Hall Simpson, M.C.,
awarded the C.8.E., is a Brunswick (Vic.)
chemist who specialised in signals in the
1914-18 war and at the beginning of this
one was made Chief Signals Officer of
the Ist Australian Corps, A.I.F. He has
since done valuable work in Greece,
Crete and Syria. A motor accident sent
him back to Australia. He is chairman
of Allied Master Chemists of Australia,
Ltd.
Flight-Lieutenant Harold Cecil Durant,
commanding officer of the South Aus-
tralian R.A.A.F. depot which was previ-
ously St. Mark’s College, is a South
African by birth. He had his first taste
of soldiering at 16 in the infantry and
transferred to the S. African Light Horse.
At 19, in the middle of the 1914-18 war,
he got his wings in the R.F.C. He came
FLIGHT-LIEUT. H. C. DURANT.
to Australia 15 years ago, took up com-
mercial flying and for many years did
aerial photography for the Sydney “Morn-
ing Herald.” He was first instructor in
Kingsford Smith’s flying school (Nancy
Bird was a pupil). In late years Durant
has been managing director of a Sydney
printing firm, but joined the R.A.A.F.
when war came.
Dr. James Patrick O’Collins, Bishop of
Geraldton (W.A.) since 1930, now named
Bishop of Ballarat in succession to Dr.
Foley, is in his fiftieth year and is a native
of Melbourne. After completing his Aus-
tralian training at St. Patrick’s College,
Manly, he passed to the Urban College
in Rome. He was ordained at the age
of 30, and was assistant priest of a Mel-
bourne suburban parish when he received
a mitre.
Posted missing after an aircraft acci-
dent, Flying-Officer F. F. H. Eggleston,
the determined younger son of the Aus-
tralian Minister to China. After Wesley
College he got his B.Sc., first-class honors
in natural philosophy and M.Sc. at Mel-
bourne University, became a Dixon and
Kernot research scholar and in 1937 went
abroad for two years to study metalli-
ferous mining in Germany and Wales.
Rejected for service in England, he came
home in 1939, took flying lessons in S.A.
at his own expense and was in the
R.A.A.F. before the Empire Air Scheme
was launched.
LT. A. R. CUTLER, V.C.
(The giraffe neck is Frith's way of
suggesting unusual tallness.)
Into the silence:
Prince of good fellows and writer of Capital
sporting stories — The Bulletin published many
-—Con Drew, at 67. Queensland-born, Con
was a philosopher who could raise a smile
in bad times as often as in good. His tall
figure and ready grin reflected his character.
Easygoing and kind, he gave away much of
what he earned when he was in the money.
In Dunedin, M.L., aged 60, Maoriland-born
Dr. Arthur Robert Andrew, Director of the
Otago School of Mines and prof, of mining at
Otago Uni since 1923. Till the early nineties
he was associated with the Dunedin institution,
then undertook research work at Birmingham
Uni. Mineral surveying for the Nyasaland Gov-
ernment, petroleum geologising in South
America, and work for the Shell Oil Co. m
Sarawak, Sinai, Yugoslavia and The Hague
preceded his return to MX. Many works
concerning geology and mining stand in his
name.
In Adelaide, Sidney Ayers, of one of S.A.’s
oldest families and grandson of a long-ago State
Premier; himself a noted Clare sportsman and
one of the S.A.J.C. committeemen.
In Brisbane, at 62, Major Edward Henry
Petre, D. 5.0., D.S.M., graduate of Sandhurst,
veteran of the Boer War and the 1914-18 con-
flict, and instructor at Victoria Barracks until
his health failed a few weeks ago. Also, during
an adventurous and varied life, a District
Police Commissioner in South Africa, a n.c.o.
in the Canadian “Mounties,” tin-miner, rab-
biter, bush-worker, shop-assistant in Australia
and M.L., and a modest, kindly gentleman
always.
In Melbourne, at 68, George Kermode, ex-
chairman of the Melbourne Harbor Trust and
one-time chief engineer of the Public Works De-
partment. He was born at Queenscliff, was
educated at Williamstown and Wesley College
and half a century ago entered the P.W.D. He
had an intimate knowledge of the port’s require-
ments and made a lot of improvements during
his term of office. Seamen call the fog signal
on Gellibrand Light “Kermode’s Cow,” though
in no ungrateful spirit. It has mooed many a
ship out of the way of destruction.
In Invercargill, MX., Reginald G. Hallamore,
aged 68, formerly Southland manager of the
N.Z. Shipping Co. He was born in Cornwall,
but had lived in MX. since the age of 12.
Represented MX. in cricket against “Plum”
Warner’s eleven in 1903, and was in the
Elingamite wreck the previous year.
In Melbourne, at 54, Detective-Sergeant
Arthur Lonsdale Lee, who had the longest
service and widest experience in crime investi-
gation in the Vic. C. 1.8. He joined the force in
1909, and his work as a plainclothes man on
the wharves earned him a transfer to' the C. 1.8.
before the present era of scientific crime detec-
tion. He had a finger in the solution of most
of the State’s big murder, gold-stealing, safe-
blowing and counterfeiting problems for 25
years.


BEECROFT GRAMMAR SCHOOL
A Preparatory for day boys and boarders —in a safe district —away from all military
objectives. Effective AIR-RAID SHELTER. Next term commences February 4, 1942,
but if desired care of pupils accepted earlier.
For Prospectus and particulars, apply the Principal—
REV. A. BOOTH, 8.A.,
Tel.: Epp. 151. Copeland Road East, Beecroft, N.S.W.
HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
A
K
n
n
?r
ft
v it
0»
r, <
IS
ir/
H
pibbibb
ej| [N ■owdllH
S'
fl
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G. Bulfm
SMOKE-OH!
“Our Pacific missionaries are facing appal-
ling difficulties and perils.”— Chirch paper.
Their outlook always was black.
-I* 4' v 4*
“Firms systematically plundered by night-
watchmen.”— Paper heading.
Sheer nightlight robbery.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sarah sat down at the table to swallow a
scalping cup of tea.” — “Sunday Mail Mag.
We’ve had ’em like that —so hot they
seem to lift the top of your head off.
4. 4» 4* 4*
“Minister Needed Urgently in Malaya.”^
— “Sun.
What! Another of those shotgun wed-
dings?
ill
A New Quiz.
1. Who said “Come up
and see me some time”:
Madame Pompadour, Mrs.
Pankhurst, Moll Flanders,
Aldous Huxley?
2. One of the following
names is probably familiar
to most Australian readers;
Shakspeare, Beethoven,
Thackeray, Lord Lister,
Phar Lap?
3. Australia was dis-
covered by Ludwig Leich-
hardt, Rufus Dawes,
Neville Card u s, Noel
Coward?
4. Who said “Music
hath charms to soothe the
savage breast”: Sir
Thomas Beecham, Bing
Crosbie, Adolf Hitler,
Darby Munro?
5. Australia has been
called the land of living
fossils. This refers to its
flora, its fauna, its poli-
ticians?
(The answers to the
foregoing will not appear next week.)
Dougal.
Bad Break.
“When she started her own business she left
her husband, but went back later, having no
money.”— “Sun” report.
She left him, nose in air. She spurned
Him and the cash he had about him.
She broke with him ; but she returned
Because she was more broke without
him.
Percy Pawnticket.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If a wife in the first instance impresses her
point of view upon her husband, the rest is
plain railing.”— Woman’s paper.
True, true.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A man might have the key to a
woman’s heart, but that won’t stop him
from making a bolt.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Oak D.B. and wire waitress, four-ply, cheap.”
—Geelong “Advertiser” “for sale” advt.
We know those wire waitresses —no
spring in them, but they snap easily.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Manhood at Stake.
“Now, girls,” boomed Commander
Lily Pillie to the W.A.N.T.S. drawn up
on parade. “You may find at some time
when there are no men about that your
tyre has gone flat and you will have to
pump it up yourselves. Now, you all
have your bicycles in front of you. I
want to see you pump the back tyre up
now, doing it by numbers. Now make
it snappy. Feet apart at an angle of 90
degrees, chests up, hips out, shoulders
drawn well back, the left hand holding
the pump connection against a spoke,
the right hand firmly grasping the top
of the pump. Now have you all got the
flexible nozzle screwed to the valve on
the wheel? Well, then —one, two . . .
one, two.”
Soon there was a more or less con-
certed hiss as the pump tops rose and
fell. Suddenly there came a squeal from
one end of the line, and a bike crashed
over as Flag-Private Alma, grasping her
left hand, burst into tears. The com-
mander strode down the line. As she
caught sight of the few drops of blood on
Alma’s handkerchief she turned a deathly
white ; then, quickly recovering herself,
she asked “Wha-what is it, dear?”
“I —I jammed the pump against the
spoke, and it lifted the skin.”
Commander Lily patted her subordi-
nate on the shoulder ; then, looking stern,
she drew herself up to attention and ad-
justed her collar and tie. “Come, it will
be all right,” she said. “Just grit your
teeth —remember, don’t want to
appear unmanly !’
K.
“ This's better than payin' two bob a pound for flathead!"
“Packed paper at Government printing works,
Canberra, is proof against anything but a direct
hit from a very heavy high-explosive bomb.”
—Daily paper.
“Hansards” may become of some use,
after all.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The hairspring of a watch was originally
a dog’s hair.” — “World’s News/’
Then they tried using the hair of a
peroxide blonde, but the watch was
always too fast.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There’s your bird, inspector,” said Pendle-
ton Knox, indicating a well-dressed man sitting
at the restaurant table. “He’s just in the
middle of his soup.”— Detective story.
A wading bird, probably.
4* 4* 4* 4*
School Report.
Pupil’s Name; Adolf Hitler.
Arithmetic: Good at division, subtrac-
tion, addition and multiplication.
Composition : Patchy.
Grammar: Shows total misapprehen-
sion of English.
History: Apparently has not learned
lesson.
Geography : Inclination to draw maps
to suit himself.
Sports: Cannot play cricket.
Conduct: Awful.
Remarks: Adolf is not a nice type of
scholar at all. We hope, however, to
be able to teach him a few lessons in
the near future.
W. Churchill, Headmaster.
Doug.
“Women who have dieted since they were
married may find that their wedding rings have
become too large. Don’t have them cut. Get
a keeper.”— Woman’s paper.
If it isn’t a rude suggestion, wouldn’t
a tamer be better in some cases?
-I- 4- -I- -!•
“These machines have been rebuilt by skilled
technicians with old, worn-out parts replaced.”
—Advt.
The monkey-nut gland treatment?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Napoleon when thinking out big military
schemes used for hours to immerse himself
in hot water up to his chin.”— Oddity.
It is to be hoped that with his desire
to outdo the Corsican in every way Adolf
will before his spring campaigns immerse
himself up to an inch above the nostrils.
4« 4* 4* 4*
Helpful Advice.
“In the construction of the backyard air-
raid shelter small comforts must be considered
in case it has to be occupied for several hours
at night. Here is where the housewife’s co-
operation and advice can be invaluable.”
— Woman’s paper.
“I think we should have some sort of
shelter in the garden,” said Merle. “It
needn’t be anything elaborate.”
We live in a gum-tree suburb a half-
hour’s run by train from the city, and
the nearest important objective seems to
be a fairly large poultry farm about a
mile away. Patiently 1 pointed this out;
but to no avail. The Bateses along the
road had built one ; Jim Bates had will-
ingly sacrificed a part of his garden and
his golf to give protection to his family,
and if he could do it, etc.
That’s how I came to be lashing in
with mattock and banjo on a Saturday
afternoon, with the sun a fierce molten
ball overhead. By dusk I had hacked
out of the iron-hard clay a slit trench
about 3ft. wide by 4ft. deep, long enough
to allow the family to crouch in it.
It was not without some justifiable
pride that I pointed to my handiwork.
“What’s the good of a thing like that?”
asked Merle. “We’d all be buried alive.
There’s no overhead protection at all.”
“You don’t need any,” I pointed
out. “It’s only to stop flying bits in the
remote contingency of a bomb dropping
within ten miles. If you’re below ground
level you’re safe enough.”
“Well, Jim Bates doesn’t think so.
He’s made a proper shelter, with sand-
bags on top and everything. I suppose,
though, that anything’s good enough for
your family so long as it gets you out
of a bit of work.”
That’s how I came to continue excava-
tions until I had a hole about 6ft. deep
and Bft. square.
Having shored it up with a few struts,
put galvanised-iron across the top and
packed it with sandbags 1 naturally
thought that it was finished. But I had
reckoned without that “invaluable house-
wife’s co-operation.”
During the next inspection Merle
pointed out that should it rain just before
or during a raid the children would have
to kneel or sit on wet clay. “I should
have thought that drainage would be one
of the first questions to be considered,”
she observed.
Having no spare ship’s or mining
pump outfit around the place, it followed
that I had to install a system of agricul-
tural pipes and take the run-off into a
trench which had to be lower than the
bottom of the shelter, which by now had
assumed the proportions of a dugout
which could have housed a brigade head-
quarters. Then duckboards had to be
run up to save shoes being ruined on the
damp clay. After that I leaned back
contented.
Again I had reckoned without the
housewifely advice. It appears that I
had quite overlooked the necessity of
light. How could I expect the whole
family to sit there, perhaps all night,
crouched in the darkness and having to
grope around for anything they wanted?
That meant running a lead from the
house and installing a transformer to
take a weak globe. It was then dis-
covered that the whole thing would have
to be treated with blackout paper, be-
cause the slightest chinks of light would
be visible far up in the heavens. Merle
also helpfully suggested that as first-aid
equipment would have to be kept there
shelves would be needed. Also, in case
the alert lasted all night, a couple of
bunks, one above the other, would be
necessary for the children.
It was about the fourth week-end after
1 started the thing that I put the finishing
touches to the gas-proof chamber which
Merle said should be at one end of the
shelter, stacked the spare sand and made
a hardwood shovel, and was just finishing
the laying of a brick pathway to it from
the kitchen door when Merle called to
me from the house. She was in the
dining-room struggling with the mattress
from the spare bedroom.
“I wish you’d give me a hand to move
the table over against this wall,” she
said, “but well put this mattress against
it first. Then we can move the lounge
suite against this end of it and one of
the lounge chairs against that end, and
if there’s an alert we can get the big
mattress from our bed and put it on top
of the table.”
“Whatever for?” I inquired. “What
about the dugout?”
“Oh, that,” she answered. “We won’t
bother about that now. I just saw in the
paper that under the dining table, pro-
vided it is protected from flying glass,
is as safe a place as you can get. Now,
come on, don’t stand there staring!”
80.
Accomplishment.
This 1 1 evening I feel really great!
thish New Year celebrationsh
Hash made me mashter of my fate ;
I’ve conquered all temptationsh.
To prove myshelf a super-man,
Determined to the core — hie —
I’ve made more resolutionsh than
I’ve ever made before — hie!
T. W. N.
Emergency Regulation.
Once rats in ballet dresses danced
While phosphorescent lizards pranced
A hideous quadrille.
What time fat toads were wont to fight
With elfin fiends at dead o’ night
Upon my windowsill.
But I’ve hit on a simple ruse
To stop their little caper —-
Instead of swearing off the booze:
I’ve bought some blackout paper!
P. O. M. C.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Zake”: New Year’s Day on a Sydney
beach. A party of elderly garrison sol-
diers, in shorts and turned-down hats,
“ Well, George, if YOU Wont, I'll bury it myself!”
filling sandbags, assisted by willing civi-
lians, many of them shapely damsels.
Not far away comes from a carnival
stand the amplified voice of the conduc-
tor of a housie-housie as he calls the
numbers. Though “99 —top of the Wazir”
is missing from the familiar ritual —it has
ceased, it seems, to have significance for
a new generation—“ Kelly’s eye,” “medi-
cine and duty” and others haven’t lost
their popularity. Then the voice drones
“Legs eleven, one, one.” Evidently some
seeker after prizes, his attention wander-
ing, has missed it and demanded a recall
of the number. “Legs eleven,” again
booms out the voice. Just at that instant
a portly sandbag-filler, whose wide-
legged shorts flap around incredibly thin
shanks, happens to look along the beach
towards the carnival stand. “Blime!”
says a shrewd-looking ten-year-old near
by, “ ’e knows ’is name orright!”
* * * *
“Delsarte”: Commentators on this page
who have allowed “Esquire’s” pronounce-
ments on fashion in the “S.M.H.” to rile
them have perhaps misjudged the gentle-
man. I suspect that he’s a humorist.
Take a recent encyclical of his (we’d
been at war with Japan for three
weeks) imploring our young men to get
into colored evening jackets, in eight-
ounce hopsac or an Irish linen, tailored
on American lines with a double-breasted
shawl collar, at prices ranging from five-
ten to eight guineas. But stay the rush
of indignation. Among the colors he
advocates are “gun-blue and sandstone.”
Of course the joker means Air Force blue
and khaki.
* * * •
“Wodgil”: The noble army of radio
commentators has a new recruit
Menzies. A commercial station has signed
him up to do a weekly talk on current
affairs, and he will give the old unreii-
ables a run for their money; in fact, he
has it in him to beat all those now in the
business, and that goes for the English as
well as the Australians. Though tem-
porarily out of favor at Canberra, Bob
as a platform speaker can still command
a bigger audience than any of his candid
friends or open opponents—he drew
2000 people to the Sydney Lyceum on a
recent Pleasant Sunday Afternoon —and
the new venture will bring him political
benefits if he doesn’t weaken. Roosevelt
and Churchill owe much of their vogue
to their work at the microphone. Vernon
Bartlett won a seat in the House of
Commons, and that as an Independent,
chiefly because his 8.8. C. performances
had made him known to the electors.
Menzies is without the fire that the Presi-
dent. and the P.M. can put into their stuff,
but he has a good voice and style, a
talent for exposition and a pretty wit
when he cares to exercise it. Certainly
he is streets ahead of Vernon Bartlett.
» * * *
“V. Cluse”: Our subbub’s drunk got
a bit mixed in his buses and found him-
self dropped off at a point about a mile
from his home just after dark, the way
home being a tortuous one through
streets of deceitful angles and arcs. He
was doing pretty well and had got along
about halfway when somebody instituted
a “brown-out” by switching off part of
the street lights. The drunk navigated
a careful course through the gloom until
he reached the place where one street
suddenly becomes five. After a sortie
into two of them he backwatered to the
junction and tried a third, the blackest
of the lot since it faced the sea and
patriotic residents had eliminated front
lighting altogether. Where the street
dips sharply into a gully, our drunk was
forced to feel his way along, and his
searching hands encountered a picket-
fence, He felt along this for a time,
paused, felt some more, then felt his way
back. Seemingly that fence had no end,
and he hung on to it, pondering. Then
he set forth again, picket by picket, and
it dawned on him that something was up.
He put his hat on top of a picket and
set off again, only to come back to the
hat. “Fenced in, by gosh!” he ejacu-
lated, slammed the hat on his head and
sank down at the base of the tree-guard
to think it out.
* * * *
“James W.”: Undoubtedly the Chinese
equivalent, at least in Canton, of “drink-
emupandaveanother” is “Yam Seng” (B.
15/10/’4l), but the accompanying ges-
tures of slamming the glass down, bottom
up, can be dangerous in open company.
In a far North Queensland pub, the com-
pany variegated and adequately beered,
five sons of Canton were at one end of
the bar, interfering with nobody. The
bloke in the middle, who seemed to be
the treasurer, “Yam Senged.” Down
went the beer, over went the pots and
round came two roaring Irishmen, ready
by their own say-so to belt the hide off
every Chinese from Peiping to Penang.
Amid excited whaffors and what was
probably the battle bellow of Brian Boru,
Bung hoofed the warriors out, and the
doings finished with hard feelings all
round. The Chinese didn’t know that to
a son of Erin to invert your pot means
“I’ll fight the best man in the bar.”
“Nakhoda”: These commentators spend
their time trying to cheer themselves up,
so they never come to understand any
situation. They announced as if it were
a military triumph that the garrison and
the women and children had been evacu-
ated from Penang. They had forgotten
the natives altogether, and it turned out
that Eurasian, Malay and Chinese com-
panies of volunteers had been left behind,
as well as native women and children.
Naturally this raised questions in Singa-
pore, where there are close on half a
million people. Malay, Chinese and
Eurasian volunteers would scarcely like
to think that their European mates were
only fair-weather companions, and the
civilian natives would hardly like to think
that they were in the same position. So
it came as somewhat of a relief to hear
Sir Shenton Thomas, the Singapore Gov-
ernor, giving the assurance that in the
event of any evacuation of people from
any area there would be no discrimina-
tion of race, creed or color, and that
European officials would be left behind
in any yielded district in Malaya to look
after the needs of the native population
as far as possible, even if they were in
Japanese hands. Although this means
that, in effect, there can be no evacua-
tion whatever, since it would take weeks
and half the fleets of the world to lift
500,000 people out of Singapore, the
Governor’s announcement will do more
to maintain European prestige than all
the romantic ga-ga about native devotion
to Britain.
♦ * * *
“Oliver Filter”: I see that Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” has been misled or
something by someone or other and is
howling for swords to flash and heads to
roll, or something. Hear, hear; and too
right. There’s a fellow who’s been mis-
leading me. He assured me again and
again that the Japanese Air Force was
second-rate. And on November 29 he
demanded that we
all show Japan that there isn’t one weak
chink in our armor, no little gap through
which the Tokyo militarists can push their
war-weary battalions. And how weary they
are....never a first-class Power by Euro-
pean standards, Japan has been weakened
by four and a half years of inconclusive
struggle in China she is cut off from
essential war materials desperate her
oil reserves may last for a few months
Japan is still bluffing.
On December 2 the cocksure fellow told
me that the Japanese
won’t attack the Dutch East Indies. Not
now, anyhow. Let’s tell Tokyo the game
of bluff is over.
And on December 4 this incorrigible
person asserted that
Japan is now in a very tough spot
opposed to the two strongest naval Powers
in the world would force main Japanese
fleet into a defensive role Japanese naval
strategists know exactly what they would
be up against in a naval war.
And so X hand this misleading counsellor
over to the “D.T.” and suggest that he be
liquidated with that paper’s bluntest and
rustiest chopper. Who is he? The editor
of the “Daily Telegraph.”
* * ♦ *
“V.C.”: If “Pawang” misses his
“melancholy duty” of perusing head-
masters’ speeches (B. 31/12/’4l), I recom-
mend him to attend any lecture to A.R.P.
wardens in Sydney. If he has gone along
on his first night, enthusiastic about his
new service and filled with visions of
himself retrieving bombs, rescuing citi-
zens, putting out fires, dealing with
parachutists and generally being the hero
of his locality, I’ll guarantee him a cure
with one lecture. A headmaster has the
advantage of knowing something of his
subject, however dreary he make it.
When to the dreariness is added a know-
ledge gained only from pamphlets, news-
papers and books without any practical
experience, the result is apt to be dread-
ful. And when an A.R.P. “expert” is
turned loose on the radio the effect is
even worse. Luckily a twist of the dial
brings instant release.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: The Lyceum, Sydney, re-
clothed in splendor, has had a mixed
career. It took its name from Irving’s
London headquarters when George Rig-
nold, annoyed at a rise of rent at Her
Majesty’s, went there to stage Shak-
speare. It was at the Lyceum that
George’s voice was heard, as the curtain
rose on a recall in “Henry the Fifth,”
booming, “Put the limelight on me, you
blasted fool, not on the blasted horse!”
It passed to melodrama and Bill Ander-
son. When Bill went, a series of shows,
mostly unsuccessful, followed one an-
other. Afterwards Ebenezer Vickery
bought the place and handed it over to
the Methodists. A few years later, how-
ever, Tom Spencer’s cinema show got a
lease for 49 weeks in the year—for the
other three the theatre went back to the
Methodies for their annual, conference.
That agreement still holds, though Union
Theatres now has the lease.
* * * *
“Bo”: Time was when the Sydneyside
swain observed an unwritten code of
manners, applicable alike to the chap from
Killara who “escorted his young lady” and
to the bloke from Darlington who “carted
his clinah.” “Elbow-steering” in city
streets was permissible and skilfully prac-
tised, but only in densely-crowded sec-
tions or when a change of direction was
desired. For a fellow to walk along the
pavement hand in hand with his girl was
just not done. It would bring a rebuke
such as a chorus of “00-hoos” from
passing bucks; and far gone in calf-love
indeed was he who didn’t shamefacedly
unlock hands on hearing it. But other
times, other manners ; and I sadly con-
template the many pimpled gallants
who drift dreamily along city streets,
digits interlocked with their starry-eyed
flappers, and none to give them a “hoy”
about it, or gently to remind them that
they have gone all sissy. Nor is the
outbreak limited to adolescents. The
other day in King-street I struck —or
nearly struck —two elderly couples with
hands so entwined that busily rushing
men had to walk round instead of
being able to tear straight between them.
I call for a crusade to stamp out this
effeminate importation from Hollywood!
“J.H.M.A.” recalls the Sydney of 70
years ago:
When Joseph Conrad first visited Port Jack-
son as one of the afterguard of the Duke
of Sutherland in the eighteen-seventies, the
place impressed him greatly, and he gives a
picture of its shipping in The Minor of the
Sea. “These towns of the antipodes,” he says,
“not so great as they are now, took an interest
in the shipping, the running links with ‘home,’
whose numbers confirmed the sense of their
growing importance. They made it part and
parcel of their daily interests. This was especially
the case in Sydney, where from the heart
of the fair city, down a vista of important
streets, could be seen wool clippers lying at the
Circular Quay—no walled prison of a dock
that, but the integral part of one of the
finest, most beautiful, vast and safe bays the
sun ever shone upon.... The general cargo,
emigrant and passenger clippers of my time,
rigged with heavy spars, and built on fine lines,
used to remain for months together waiting
for their load of wool. Their names attained
the dignity of household words.” Conrad had
another reference to the friendly ways of young
women who went to see sailormen in ships—
an old Sydney custom, he declared.
* * * *
“Seamus Dhu”: Has anyone ever col-
lected Botany Bay ballads, the songs of
the involuntary immigrants? Fifty-odd
years ago our home in Glasgow was a
clearing-house for Fenians, and I then
heard many Irish songs of exile, but,
with the exception of “Willy Rieley,”
none worth remembering. Does anyone
remember it now, or has it died with
Lawson’s bushmen? The best song of
this class that I know is the old Scots
ballad “Jamie Raeburn.”
* * * •
“Looby”; There’s a terrific heart-throb
in a slip of paper I picked up recently
at our vegetable markets. There were
these pencilled notes:
Swedes, about 81b. left. Complain about
last lot.
Pumpkin, 7 left.
Get pakapu ticket for Jack.
Sweet spud, O.K.
Then followed some unknown item
heavily scribbled over, as though the
writer had looked sourly at the sweating
tomatoes on the shop-shelf, mentally calcu-
lated the number of people in the suburb
who wouldn’t be wanting them and then
scratched “tomatoes” off his list with
malice. The list proceeded: “Spuds, 0.K.,
but check price. Onions, too many left.
Lettuce, 3 left.” But marrows were
apparently the biggest flop in that shop-
keeper’s career. For next to the word
“Marrows” was written in big letters, all
underlined so that he could read them
in the dingiest corner: “Blasted things.
Don’t get any”
THE JINGLER.
The poet’s eye in a fine frenzy rolls
What time he frames a lilt or pens a lay.
The lowly jingler merely trills or trolls
Or pipes his artificial staves for pay.
No precious inspiration comes his way;
He never quests for “jewels five-words long ’
Or metaphors which make such brave display
Handled by real dinkum sons of song.
The poet sings because he has to sing,
Same as canaries must, or nightingales;
He seldom thinks of what his verse will bring,
He’s not, as one might phrase it, out for
The jingler weighs his product in the scales,
Trusting thereby to gather in the dough
For rent and meat and raiment, cakes and
ales,
And any other sort of quid pro quo.
Up slopes Parnassian the poet climbs,
Leaping from crag to crag with airy grace.
The jingler wrestles with his hackneyed rhymes
And mouldy metres at the mountain’s base.
One forges to the front and fills the place
That only well-supported favorites can;
The other’s sorry showing in the race
Proclaims him but a blinking “also ran.”
Yet even jinglers serve one purpose well,
However sloppily they do their biz.
For how, do you suppose, could highbrows tell,
Save by contrasting it with doggerel,
What real, undiluted poetry is?
N.S.W.
JFORD.


“Observation post—good morning !”
“Colonel Bungstarter”; Can’t these in-
fernal doctors leave us even a few decent
illusions about the world’s great histori-
cal figures? Only today I was regarding
the fine mezzotint of Napoleon which
hangs in the club smoking-room and re-
calling the mess he made of the contem-
porary Huns when a three-starred young
sawbones in khaki happened along.
‘ D’you know why old Nap, always has
his hand stuck inside his vest like that,
Colonel?” he asked. I ventured to pre-
sume that so great a man as he could
carry his hands as he jolly well liked.
“Not on your life!” chirped young Pills,
“He’s scratching himself. Suffered from
scabies for years, poor old devil. That’s
the itch, y’ know —mites burrowing into
the skin—French army was full of it.
That Italian quack who looked after him
at St. Helena described the itching
attacks he used to get and how he’d
scratched big scars all over himself. I
always think that Josephine was pretty
lucky not to catch it from him.” Imperial
Caesar stopping a crack to keep the wind
away is pathetic enough, but Napoleon
with the itch!
* * * *
“Casey N.”: Invocation of Ferrell’s
Law by “W.C.R.” (B. 17/12/’4l) to ex-
plain the alleged left-turning tendency is
too far-fetched. Effect of the earth’s
rotation is felt only in a moving body of
size reasonably comparable to the earth’s
dimensions. Cyclones—bodies of air
hundreds of miles in diameter —always
rotate in a definite direction (clockwise in
the Southern Hemisphere), but local
eddies like tornadoes or whirlwinds
choose either direction at random. There
could be no influence on a person mov-
ing in small circles at walking pace. If
the tendency exists it is of physiological
origin, as suggested by “K.P.” (B.
12/11/’4l). Normally, the left half of
the brain, which governs the right half
of the body, is better developed, causing
the phenomenon of right-handedness.
This asymmetry, extended to the direction-
finding mechanism in our inner ears,
could cause an unconscious bias to the
left, showing up in the absence of con-
scious correction.
“Looby”; We always knew old Bert
had a bit of a temper, but we thought he
took all his spite out on the bacon-cutter.
Yesterday, in his ham-and-beefery, re-
membering Bert’s sour dislike of New
Year and all festive occasions, the cus-
tomers got a bit jovial. “Made your New
Year resolutions yet, Bert?” said one,
sneaking a pickled onion from the
counter jar on the quiet. “My oath!”
said Bert, buttering slices of bread with
an air of hatred and, here and there, a
bit of butter. The inquirer followed up
with, “You have, eh? Well, what is your
resolution, Bert?” Bert just leaned
quickly over the counter, punched the
questioner on the jaw and snapped to
the other hangers-on: “There! I re-
solved to dong the first silly cow who
asked me that!”
**« • ■ •
“Colonel Bungstarter”: I agree with
those critics who maintain that Australian
poets and writers of today lack the guts
of their forerunners of a generation or
two ago. Ted Dyson has recorded how
Victor Daley, asked to get himself a bit
of supper in the kitchen while Ted fin-
ished an article, consumed two buttered
fire-kindlers and a cup of clove-infusion
under the impression that they were rusks
and tea. When Henry Lawson was doing
his best work his favorite dinner con-
sisted of six long beers with a pie be-
tween each pair. For a small wager he
was willing to do the entire job within
six minutes. Then there was the occa-
sion when Harold Grey fell off a table
at the Puzzle Club while he was lighting
his pipe at the chandelier and demolished
the proprietress’s bowl of goldfish. Dur-
ing the ensuing turmoil he and Victor
pocketed four, which they toasted over
a gas ring (without removing the interiors)
and enjoyed for supper. A week ago I
held converse with a poet who shuddered
at the mention of beer and seemed in-
terested only in vitamins.
* * * ■*
“Clooter”; An aspect of Hollywood
life not played up in the flapper press
came out in the trial of Willie Bioff, boss
of the International Alliance of Theatri-
cal Stage Employees,
and George E.
Browne, president of
the outfit. They were
charged with extor-
tion by threats of
500,000 dollars from
four big movie con-
cerns. Bioff was re-
vealed as a gangster
with a long record
in Chicago, an asso-
ciate of A 1 Capone
and one who had
served gaol sentences
for vice rackets. The
movie concerns
alleged that the
money was got
under threats to
foment strikes and
labor troubles, while
the I.A.T.S.E. itself
accused the employ-
ers of using Bioff to
intimidate labor.
Bioff and Browne, it
seems, had assumed
complete control of
the union, banning all meetings and
elections and conducting all nego-
tiations themselves. Bioff tried to
absolve Browne from complicity, blandly
asserting that the film magnates gave him
money “because they liked him and
wanted to see him make plenty.” Both
were found guilty on all counts. Bioff
got 10 years’ gaol and was fined 20,000
dollars, Browne got eight years’ and a
fine of 10,000 dollars.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: A London letter brings
the good news that bombs have failed to
reach the old Cutty Sark in the berth
where she acts as training ship for the
Thames Nautical Training College. Of
921 tons register, 212 ft. long, 36ft. beam
and 21ft, draught, she was small compared
with some of her rivals of the ’seventies
and ’eighties, but her mainmast was 150 ft.
from deck to truck, the other two to
match, she carried a tremendous spread
of canvas, and was built for speed. In
a strong quartering wind she could log
16 knots for hours together. Yet she
was a splendid sea boat, and was hove-
to only once in all her service under
British colors. In 72 years the Cutty
Sark has never sprung a leak, so sound
and truly set are her teak plankings.
* * * -K
“L.L.”: Winning the war is a serious
business with the Melbourne dailies and
scarcely a day passes without their bring-
ing forth some constructive proposal.
The best to date appears in the “Sun-
Pic.’s” Fifty-Fifty column:
Women in today’s circumstances cannot
afford the frequent discarding of otherwise
useful stockings because of ladders. Start
a crusade to ignore ladders; let them run.
Women have always been brave enough
with styles—here’s a new one. Millions
of pounds would be thus saved, and much
of it could be invested in War Savings
Certificates.
The idea is a good one, but, if I know
the women, the difficulty will be that
when laddered stockings become fashion-
able the firms will start manufacturing
them for gals impatient to be smartly
patriotic,
* « * * i
“K.P.”; Accidental contamination by '
mould of a cultivation plate in an Eng- 1
lish bacteriological lab. 12 years ago now i
seems likely to result in a new antiseptic
“We give a guarantee with this blackout paper, Jacky. Money back
if you re bombed !”
of great value. The mould prevented
growth of a culture of pus-producing
germs in its vicinity on the plate, and
this action was found to be due to a
substance in it which was christened
“penicillin” after the species of mould
which produced it. Though not followed
up at the time, recent work at Oxford
has shown that it entirely prevents
growth of many other disease germs, both
under laboratory test conditions and in
actual cases, and is non-poisonous. A
remarkable feature is that it can be re-
covered after injection into the circu-
lation and used again. The catch at
present is the technical difficulty of pro-
ducing it in large amount on account of
risk of contamination during large-scale
cultivation of the mould, but this is likely
to be overcome before long.
* * ne #
“Hamer”: W'c H.CGocher, \wh® fought
in the courts for and won rights for
surfers, has his memorial in the Manly
Surf Club, as is right; one is surely due
to the just-dead Lyster Ormsby, who put
up a similar battle at Bondi and, more-
over, formed the first surf club in Aus-
tralia there. The big chap, although he
served with the A.1.F., was blocked, when
about to go to France, by doctors who
said his heart was not good enough ; but
a couple of burglars Ormsby found in his
house shortly afterwards had no reason
to complain that their reception lacked
heartiness. Ormsby with his wife had
unexpectedly returned from a theatre,
and, although the housebreakers were
armed, he bogged into them. One jumped
through a window and Ormsby sat on
the other until the police arrived. “Blime,”
• wheezed the half-dead victim ; “I never
, thort I’d ever be glad to see you blokes
’op in.”
# * * *
“Bohemian” remembers some Maori-
land history:
The 199th anniversary of Tasman’s sighting
of M.L. got a passing reference in some of the
Dominion’s newspapers. In every case it was
stated that landings were effected. Not so. On
December 4 Tasman’s navigator was taking the
bearings just close to midday. His lookout
man caljed the attention of the captain to a
tiny white cloud on the south-west horizon.
Tasman fixed his on it, and gave his
opinion that it was the top of a snow-capped
mountain, but the other officers pooh-poohed
the idea. Tasman was right. It was the tip
of Aorangi, “the cloud-piercer.” Cautiously
proceeding, Tasman followed the rugged
west coast of the South Island, finding no
favorable anchorage. He followed the coast-
line and, rounding the Cape, came across the
sheltered bay spanning the whole of the north
of the South Island. He sent two boatloads
of his crew in the direction of a small cove,
now known as Golden Bay. Out came a flotilla
of natives in dugout canoes, who speared four
of his men to death. Guns were turned on the
hostile savages, and the two boats returned.
The statement that Tasman landed with several
of his men in the vicinity of the Three Kings
is also untrue. Boats went off in search of
water, but the gigantic cliffs afforded no land-
ing-place. Cape Maria Van Diemen was called
after Tasman’s ladylove. Over 100 years
ago a Dutch historian mentioned how severely
the great Dutch navigator had been repri-
manded for not landing and taking possession
of the new land —he had been instructed to
take possession of any new land worth pos-
sessing. The Dutch chronicler says that Tasman
was madly in love with Maria Van Diemen,
and knew if he landed it would be years
before he would again see his sweetheart.
* * * *
“Clooter”; The inaccuracy of the
globe-trotting journalist isn’t peculiar to
this war. One of them, writing in
October, 1931, of the gentleman who is
now Governor of the Bahamas, the
medium being the “New Yorker,” assured
his readers that “If he ever had a notion
of abdicating he has given it up ; and
when he ascends the throne it will be
with a characteristically nervous, enthusi-
astic leap. He will be a good king.” The
forecaster was Anthony Gibbs.
A MUZZLED METEOROLOGIST.
In days like these I know full well
That there are things—who doesn’t know? —
Once reckoned indispensable
We now must cheerfully forgo.
Some must endure the loss of this,
And some of that, which erst was theirs;
And, for myself, I own I miss
The meteorology of Mares.
Those prophecies that put us wise,
On waking to another day,
To what was waiting in the skies,
If storm or shine was on the way,
They brightened up the morning tea;
One glimpsed a seer with knitted brow
And wealth of weather wizardry.
Where are they now? Where are they now?
’Tis true he wasn’t always right.
What prophet ever is or was?
He claimed no gift of second sight.
Like Highland maids or him of Oz.
And often as his tips went west,
Belying scientific lore,
We know he’d done his level best,
And even angels do no more.
In days like these I need no hint
That Jots of things we’d like to know
Are purposely withheld from print
Lest they should help a scheming foe.
A salutary rule, no doubt,
Applied to various affairs,
But what’s bureaucracy about
That we should have to go without
The meteorology of Mares?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
TRINITY
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
SUMMER HILL
A Church of England Boarding
and Day School for Boys.
(One of the Associated Schools of
N.S.W. )
Separate Preparatory School at
Strathfield.
New Term Commences on
Tuesday, February 10, 1942.
Illustrated Prospectus will be for-
warded on application.
Headmaster—
V. S. Murphy, M.A., Oxon.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929. .528,646 424 p.c - 297,500 231,146 2,138,992
1930. .275,663 50 „ „ 350,000 2,064,655
1931. .103,571 8f„ „ 61,250 42,321 2,106,976
1932. .205,752 25 „ „ 175,000 30,752 2,137,728
1933. .196,565 15 „ ~ 105,000 91,565 2,229,293
1934. .303,355 274 „ ~ 192,500 110,855 2,340,148
1935. .420,683 40 ~ „ 280,000 140,683 2,480,831
1936.. 666.940 70 „ „ 490,000 176,940 2,658,771
1937. ,940,628 105 „ „ 735,000 205,628 2,863,399
1938.. 505.153 90 „ „ 630,000 2,738,552
1939. 40 „ ~280,000 76,841 2,815,393
Shares written up, £246,576 .. 3,061,969
1940. 40 p.c.= 280,000 240,388 3,302,357
1941. .575,052 40 „ ~280,000 295,052 3,597,409
The higher profit is attributable to
better metal prices, increase in metals
recovered and a lift in investment income.
It was offset to some extent by a rise
in mine expenditure. So says the board.
But other details are scanty. Ore
tonnages and grades aren’t published,
nor are production figures. The North
report is now little more than a bare
recital of a few isolated facts.
Here are more of the revenue figures:
Revenue:— 1933. 1940. 1941.
Mine production. . £619,822 £1,540,041 £1,741,318
Investments .. 111,584 155,638 184,786
£731,406 £1,695,679 £1,926,104
Expenditure:—
Mine .. . . £493,157 £1,024,501 £1,054,658
P. and 1. items .. 71,684 273,760 378,821
Loss investments.. 598
£564,841 £1,298,261 £1,434,077
Net profit .. .. 166,565 397,418 492,027
Mine return advanced by £201,277. In-
come from investments was up £29,148.
Expenditure at the mine increased by
only £30,157 —indicating very economical
running, considering higher prices for
chemicals, etc. After debiting sundry
exes., the surplus from the mine works
out at about £650,000, more, than
£lBO,OOO up on the previous year, before
charging the unaltered rate of £75,000 for
depreciation. These are excellent results,
despite the uncertainty surrounding the
reasons.
Taxation, however, takes off a lot of
the gilt. It was up £120,000, total provision
being £266,000. Net final income as
claimed by the board is £492,624, equal
to 70.3 p.c. on capital, compared with
56.7 p.c. and 47.1 p.c. previously. The 2s.
dividend (40 p.c., as in the previous year)
absorbed £280,000. The profit figure of
£575,052 in the opening table is calculated
after taking into account all reserve
movements in the accounts. The balance
sheet is the usual wealthy affair of liquid
assets and investments extending far be-
yond those industrial concerns associ-
ated with the company’s business:
1939. 1949. 1941.
Shares in other cos. £1,044,908 £1,313,637 £1,423,415
Stores .. . . 82,570 90,008 105,099
Concentrates on hand 80,257 12,514 19,434
Debtors . . . . 360,159 443,837 569,327
Cash, etc 128,167 187,196 159,245
Liquid assets .. £1,696,061 £2,047,192 £2,276,520
Less liabilities .. 440,426 325,220 222,557
Liquid surplus . . £1,255,635 £1,721,972 £2,053,963
The investment portfolio is an impres-
sive one, and is continuously growing.
Shares and Government loans stand in
North’s books at £1,511,464 —more than
double the company’s share capital.
The mine, the co.’s most valuable asset,
has been an extraordinarily successful
producer, and the end of its capacity to
earn profits ranging from a quarter-
million upward is not yet in sight.
Known ore reserves are stated at
5,232,000 tons, and whether what lies be-
yond them is as much again or many
times more is only guesswork. The
North has full mining rights over all the
country for miles by an average width
of approximately half a mile north of
No. 2 shaft, with the exception of a block
of 40 acres over which it has part rights,
At this end of the field the ore-bodies in
the channel pitch downward to the north.
Concerning them, the chairman says
they are responding well to development
as increased depth is attained. At No. 2
shaft the lowest plat yet excavated is at
2770 ft. In the levels just above the sills,
openings continue to give satisfaction,
and work on the new ventilation system
is nearly completed down to 2000 ft. level.
Reasons for richer grade of ore extracted
this year are the smaller percentage
mined from the lower-grade British sec-
tion and less dilution of clean ore by
country rock. Extraction methods show
evidence of progressive improvement.
Mill efficiency appears to be definitely
on the up-grade as regards percentage of
metal recoveries:
_ 1939. 1940. 1941.
Lead • • • • 94.6 p.c. 95.5 p.c. 96.2 p.c.
Silver . . . . 87.4 „ 88.1 „ 90.5 „
Zmc •• •• 83.2 „ 86.5 „ 86.0 „
In 1938, the last full year before the new
concentrating mill got to work, the lead
and silver extraction figures were a shade
lower than those of 1939. How much
of the improvement is directly due to
the new treatment and how much to
the natural consequence of a higher ore
assay is yet to be learned.
Metal prices last year may have
averaged the company a slightly higher
return, owing to extension of markets
and to slight variations in British Gov-
ernment contracts. But it is doubtful
if the lead and zinc price increases were
substantial. Silver, however, advanced
by 2d. an ounce. The North usually
produces 1£ to two million ounces of this
metal. Total advance in silver since the
war is 7d. per ounce.
Lead and silver stocks (up slightly) are
valued at the usual £l2 10s. a ton and
Is. Bd. an ounce. The greater portion of
the lead sales is handled through the B.H.
Associated Smelters, mostly under con-
tracts with Britain. Increasing quantities
have been finding their way to U.S.A. at
a slight premium above the equivalent
Australian price, but well below the
average level ruling in that highly pro-
tected country. The balance of the lead
is sold locally or in permissible neutral
markets.
The usual nothing at all is said about
zinc concentrate stocks. The silence
about this particular branch of produc-
tion by the Barrier mines, after reach-
ing the stage of zinc concentrate, has
been for many years an effective blank
against the inquisitive. It is known, of
course, that the output is sold to
Electrolytic Zinc for treatment in Tas-
mania and to the Imperial Smelt-
ing Corp. in U.K. The steadily
increasing munitions demand for zinc,
both here and abroad, has necessi-
tated rationing for civil requirements.
Zinc is sold in Australia at a far
lower price than in any other country in
the world. During the last war the Im-
perial Government paid over £lOO per
ton for zinc in neutral markets ; today
it is buying from Australia on the basis
of pre-war quotes, paying under £l9 Aus-
tralian, f.o.b. Risdon.
Supporters of North shares have always
paid a lot for the mine’s future beyond
the known ore reserves. Since the
change in share denomination to ss. in
1936, sales have ranged from 925. 9d.
down to 295. 9d. At, say, 345., the yield is
under 6 p.c. at present rate of distribu-
tion. Though last year’s profit was well
above the dividend, advancing costs are
hardly likely to be met by further rich-
ness in the grade of ore.
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (M.L.) 1
Writ- :
ten To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931. 10 p.c. = 9,538 5,000 1,877 54,789
1932. 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 2,287 57,076
1933. 19.3„ ~18,470 5,000 50,901
1934.. 16,204 10 „ „ 9,538 4,000 2,666 53,567
1935.. 15.636 10 „ ~ 9,538 4,000 2,098 55,665
1936.-18,121 10 „ ~ 9,538 4,000 4,583 60,248
1937.. 17.203 10 „ „ 9,538 4,000 3,665 63,913
1938.. 14.898 10 „ „ 9,538 4,000 1,360 65,273
1939.-15,293 10 „ „ 9,538 3,000 2,755 68,028
1940.. 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 5,093 73,121
1941.. 28.051 10 „ „ 9,538 8,104 10,409 83,530
This co., founded in 1871 by a grand-
nephew of Bobbie Burns, turns out wool-
lens, including rugs and blankets which
have won awards all over the world.
Divs, have averaged over p.c. since
the beginning, and only once (1876) has
the board failed to make an annual dis-
tribution. The comfortable position in
which shareholders now find themselves
is due partly to the care with which the
management has preserved the earning
capacity of the plant. The co. is well
equipped, financially and otherwise, to
gather whatever profits are to be had
from the trade.
In common with other Maoriland
manufacturers, the co.’s biggest problem
at the moment is mounting costs,
especially taxation. Import restrictions,
exchange control and the natural pro-
tection which war has provided have
practically given Dominion textile manu-
facturers a monopoly in the home
market. Here, with employment at the
full and large orders rolling in on defence
account, demand has continued to run
ahead of plant capacity, preference being
given to defence requirements, of course.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the improvement in gross
earnings (£97,076) was £15,329. After
providing for taxation (£49,000, up £4000)
and allowing an extra £3104 for depre-
ciation —shown as written off in the table
—the net result was £5316 better at 20.9
p.c. on capital as against 15.3, 12.8, 11.4,
13.8, 14.8 and 12.2 p.c. back to 1935.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and less
than that has not been paid for over 20
years. The £10,409 put on the shelf lifted
the visible lay-by to within £11,850 of
paid capital.
Here is the position looked at from
another angle:
1930. 1937. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £95,380 £95,380 £95,380 £95,380
Liabilities* .. 13,011 19,561 64,086 102,942
Plant & property 44,006 35,071 41,184 40,173
Stocks.. .. 49,341 36,024 46,235 57,746
Book debts, etc. 26,281 22,410 23,428 26,410
Cash and in-
vestments .. 61,813 106,280 142,998 178,986
* includes amount for taxation.
When the books last closed, property
and plant figured at £11,778 less than
they did 18 years earlier, despite substan-
tial additions and improvements mean-
while. Of the £102,942 of liabilities, only
£9463 was coming to sundry creditors,
the balance (£93,479) being provision for
taxation, about two years’ requirements.
Taking this into the reckoning, the year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£160,200) was £11,625. The
strong holding of cash, etc. (up £35,988),
together with other features already re-
ferred to, adds to the attractiveness of
the scrip as an investment.
As for the future, the outlook bristles
with so many possibilities at the moment,
owing to war with Japan, that he would
be a bold man indeed who would ven-
ture to predict.
The market expresses its high opinion
of the scrip by pricing the £5 shares paid
to £4 at £lO 155., at which figure the im-
mediate return is 4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The net tangible cover is 375. 6d.
per pound of paid capital.
Hordern Bros., Ltd. (Sydney)
f Dividends N Towards
Prefs. Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9& 8 p.c.* Ords. sti ves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 17.319 17,000 Nil 319 23,995
1932.. 28.231 14,291 6 p.c. = 13,500 440 24,435
1933.. 30.207 13,175 6 „ „ 13,500 3,532 27,967
1934. .31,007 13,175 6 „ „ 13,588 4,244 32,211
1935.. 34.860 13,175 6 „ „ 13,669 8,016 40,227
1936.. 39.048 13,175 6 „ „ 14,124 11,749 51,976
1937.. 42.313 13,175 6 „ „ 14,530 14,608 66,584
1938.. 44.497 13,175 6 „ „ 14,530 16,792 83,376
Written off buildings, £20,000 .. 63,376
1939.-42,087 13,175 6 p.c. = 14,811 14,101 77,477
Written off buildings, £lO,OOO .. 67,477
1940.. 45,710 13,175 6 p.c. = 14,986 17,549 85,026
Written off buildings, £lO,OOO .. 75,026
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1941.. 51.778 16,000 8 p.c. = 19,982 15,796 90,822
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October, 1931.
Last term the national war effort length-
ened payrolls, lifted wage-rates, swelled
the volume of money in circulation, and
increased the public’s spending power.
Portion of the increase in national income
was taken back again by the Government
in taxation, direct and indirect; but the
taking was mainly from incomes in
excess of a thousand pounds a year. One
result has been persistent expansion of
retail sales ; another has been climbing
costs, including taxation. Still, most re-
tailers gained in one way what they lost
in another.
After making an unspecified but larger
provision for taxation, allowing £6114
for depreciation, paying bonuses to man-
agement and staff and meeting all other
exes., the board figured net earnings
£6068 stronger at £51,778, the best since
the public became interested nearly 20
years ago. That leaves out of the
reckoning £lO,OOO taken from visible re-
serves and struck off the book value of
premises, to which extensive improve-
ments were made a few years back. The
£51,778 was enough to pay the prefs.—
100,000 9 p.c firsts and a like number of
8 p.c. seconds —their full contract rates
and then show 13.8 p.c. on the £249,775
of ord. capital as against 11.4 p.c. and
10.5 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
The board’s policy is, and has been for
some time, to strengthen the co.’s shock-
absorbers, visible and otherwise ; a policy
with which discerning shareholders are
not likely to quarrel. Still, the position
was considered good enough to warrant
a lift in the div., and an all-round 8 p.c.
was paid, comnared with 6 p.c. to the
ords. and 6.9 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. to the
firsts and seconds respectively for the pre-
vious term. The prefs. are subject to the
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act, which
has long outlived the conditions it was
originally intended to meet.
Outstanding feature of balance-sheet
figures has been the big increase in stocks
over the last couple of years:
1935. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £427,825 £449,775 £449,775 £449,775
Mortgage 1 f 100,333 100,333 100,333
Overdraft, etc. [ 193,614 ] 22,986 63,514 98,713
Sundry cred.* J [ 97,038 126,637 183,621
Premises 1 l7a ( 290,561 283,064 273,064
Fittings, etc.) 10 ’ 1 ' 8 ! 88,380 86,550 83,872
Stocks .. 160,441 173,688 300,553 399,408
Book debts .. 55,920 88,903 98,951 119,683
Mortgages, etc. 7 comnl 67,912 60,034 57,834
Cash .. 08>iuu 7 47,007 4,874 5,965
* Including tax provision.
Last term £98,855 was added to stocks
—usually regarded as a sound investment
these days—and £20,732 to debtors’ bal-
ances. To meet the outlay the overdraft
was increased by £35,199 and the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., by
£56,984 —the etcetera includes an unspeci-
fied provision for taxation. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£200,223) was £26,295.
What effect war with Japan will have
upon the business remains to be seen.
Much will depend upon the course of the
conflict and upon the method by which
the Government finances Australia’s
rapidly expanding war expenditure. Con-
tinued rise in costs and taxation, especi-
ally indirect taxation, can be expected to
retard the growth of turnover and profits
too.
Doubtful whether the board will lift
the ord. div., and therefore the first
prefs., to 9 p.c., the market prices the
firsts at 245. 6d. as against 255. a year ago.
At the higher figure the return is 6.4 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. distribution. The seconds at
245. (21s. a year back) yield 6.6 p.c.
on the basis of last year’s distribution.
The ords. are not listed, being mainly
held by the family. The net tangible
cover is £5 Bs. Id. firsts and £4 Bs. Id.
seconds.
Kcuri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 1,201 Nil 11,601 206,005
Loss.
1932.. 14,700 Nil 11,250 180,055
Profit.
1933.. 22,095 2 p.c. = 15,000 11,159 175,991
1984.. 31,978 3 „ „ 22,500 11,429 174,040
1935.. 52,604 5 „ „ 37,500 12,692 176,452
1936.. 63,576 5 „ „ 37,500 21,107 181,421
1937.. 67,772 6 „ „ 45,000 22,434 181,759
Goodwill disclosed, £12,000 . . 169,759
1938.. 70.696 6 p.c. = 45,000 20,407 175,048
1939.. 65.227 6 ~ „ 45,000 19,421 175,854
Goodwill written off, £2,000 . . 177,854
1940.. 70,335 6 p.c. = 45,000 23,166 180,023
Goodwill written off, £1,988 .. 182,011
19-41.. 67,550 6 p.c. = 45,000 20,731 183,830
Those who look for fat returns from
timber won’t find much encouragement
in the earnings of this well-handled and
strongly-ribbed business over the last
dozen years. Certainly two-fifths of the
; £750,000 of capital is bonus scrip ; but
the gift dates back to 1919, when £135,000
■ of capital was also returned. Since 1929
1 shareholders have averaged only a wink
i under 4 p.c., and reserves were tapped


• H**®
to attain the
things you want
most in Life . . .
MOST of the achievements and satis-
factions obtained in Life are gained through
other people's reactions to your wants —
either specific or implied—a sound, prac-
tical knowledge of how to influence other
people provides the quick, direct route to
achieving your aim.
You gain this knowledge and the power
it brings, through the New H. & R. applied
Psychology Course and Training Service.
It teaches you real Psychology in such a
manner that you can quickly understand
the subject and easily apply it to your
everyday problems.
H. & R. applied Psychology is the first
planned training that teaches you true
Psychology, gives you the ability to under-
stand Human Nature, and teaches you
how to apply your knowledge.
Complete details and illustrations of the
Complete Training Service, together with
specific information of how it benefits You
personally, will be sent post free upon
request. Cut out the coupon and post.
Department of Distribution
Hemingway & Robertson
Founders of Commercial Education in Australasia
38a Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney.
Offices in all Capital Cities, N’castle & L’nceston
To HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
Please send me details of the H. & R. applied
Psychology Course and Training Service.
Name Age
Address
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated hy
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOD HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
Security
Economy
Service
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
3 O'Connell Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE; Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ; Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G. }
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway,
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
A THOROUGH, comprehensive and
efficient service—founded on traditions
of more than a century of sound bank-
ing combined with a progressive
policy and extensive organisation,
enables THE COMMERCIAL BANK-
ING COMPANY OF SYDNEY,
LIMITED, to offer every facility for
the transaction of all classes of Banking
business.
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend: Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.;
Robert Vicars.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE ST. s SYDNEY
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
F
FOR MODERN
BEARING PROTECTION
AND...
LUBRICANT RETENTION
No modern mechanical equipment is complete without adequate bearing protec-
tion. Where oil has to be kept in a bearing and dust, mud and foreign matter ex-
cluded, there is no better way of achieving this than fitting a Fla-Seal oil retainer.
In equipment such as aircraft engines, gun carriers, tanks, tractors, earth moving
plant and similar machinery, the Fla-Seal has completely superseded obsolete
methods of oil retention and bearing protection.
1. The sealing member of the Fla-Seal is moulded under high pressure from
a leather specially tanned and treated for oil seal requirements.
2. The sealing lip of the leather is smooth and accurately finished, ensuring
good sealing properties with low spring tension.
3. The tension spring holds the leather sealing lip against the shaft preventing
the escape of lubricant and automatically adjusting the seal for wear.
4. The leather seal is prevented from rotating in the casing by projections
stamped into the metal case and washer.
5. Dimensions are all carefully checked to conform to permissible limits of
accuracy.
In the construction of an oil retainer, two vital factors have to be considered: Firstly,
the leather seal must prevent the leakage of oil and, secondly, the retainer, as a com-
plete unit, must be of the correct shape and dimensions to be effectively fitted. To
achieve this the resources and experience of J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd., who have
manufactured leather packings for over 80 years, and A. Flavell Pty. Ltd., die makers
for a quarter of a century, were co-ordinated and pooled. The result is a product
that is eminently satisfactory in every particular.
WHOLESALE FACTORY SELLING AGENTS
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET (near Market St.). SYDNEY, 20-26 QUEEN'S BRIDGE ST., STH.MELB .
as
uinnimngn
Obtainable from
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
and APPOINTED AGENTS
for £32,760 net to pay it and cover trad-
ing and other losses.
The co.’s freehold and leasehold tim-
ber stands are mainly in Maoriland,
where it also has large subsidiary milling
interests, and in Westralia and the Solo-
mon Islands. It was to handle logs from
the Solomons, as well as Victorian and
Tasmanian hardwoods, that the co. put
up a mill and drying kilns at South Mel-
bourne some seven or eight years ago.
Later it bought a Melbourne plywood
and boxmaking business. Earnings are
also assisted by a wad of other invest-
ments and cash, totalling £144,195 at the
end of August.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, turnover appears to have
been well maintained, thanks largely to
the high level of building activity in Aus-
tralia and difficulty in securing imported
timbers. In Maoriland building activity
decreased, despite the Government’s ex-
tensive housing programme. After pro-
viding for depreciation (£20,731, shown
as written off in the table) and making
a bigger but unspecified allowance for
taxation, the net return from trading was
£28,199 (down £1802). The return from
subsidiaries was £11,217 (up £1291) and
from general investments £7403 (up
£161), making the net return from all
sources £46,819 (down £350), equal to 6.2
p.c. on capital as against 6.3, 6.1, 6.7, 6,
5.6 and 5.3 p.c. back to 1935. The div.
was kept at 6 p.c.
Combined accounts for the co. and its
subsidiaries claim a profit of £59,278
(down £276). Allowing for outside in-
terests, Kauri’s proportion is £49,000-odd.
So the position is a bit better than the
co.’s own accounts claim.
How the current term will pan out re-
mains to be seen. War with Japan can
be expected to interfere with timber sup-
plies from the Solomons, as well as with
building activity in both the Common-
wealth and Maoriland, while costs remain
on the up-grade and the demands of the
taxgatherer grow rapidly on account of
mounting war expenditure.
At 225. the 255. shares return 6.8
p.c. so long as the 6 p.c. distribution con-
tinues. The cover is 295. lid. in net
tangibles.
Finances are comfortable enough:
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,04)0 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 38,134 70,868 45,853 59,331
Freeholds .. 52,741 ) ...
Leaseholds .. 29.053 K 69)644 70,634 142,574
Plant, etc. . . 116,381 152,880 142,203 152,061
Stocks, etc. . . 215,340 336,577 322,718 318,720
Book debts .. 117,908 214,811 204,181 137,892
Shares other
cos 160,922 178,969 173,969 123,969
I n v e stments,
cash, etc. .. 303,797 75,091 88,421 144,195
To meet a net outlay of £71,940 in re-
spect of freeholds and leaseholds and add
£9858 to the book value of plant and
£55,774 to investments and cash the
board reduced shares in other cos. by
£50,000, debtors’ balances by £66,289
and stocks by £3998. The growth of
£13,478 in outside liabilities appears to
be on account of provision for taxation.
The more or less liquid surplus (£531,476)
was £37,991 less than at the previous
balance.
Youanmi’s days are numbered. Its
Westralian goldmine has never come up
to expectations formed when the old
workings were reopened a few years ago,
and in view of a drastic falling-off in
values at depth the co. has decided to
give up as soon as the best of the ore
has been extracted and go into voluntary
liquidation. Shareholders were told at
a recent meeting by the chairman that
there could be no return on the 3,493,000
ordinary 2s. issue shares, but it was hoped
that the cash immediately available would
provide Is. to Is. 6d. sterling each for
the 700,000 10s. prefs. He added that
there might be a further 3s. or 4s. for
the latter if the machinery, etc., realised
satisfactory prices.
$ * « «
Great Boulder Proprietary (in volun-
tary liquidation) treated 98,718 short tons
during the September quarter for a net
return of £A224,392. Costs, including
ordinary developmental expenditure, took
£169,318, leaving an estimated working
surplus of £55,074. Outlay on special
development mopped up £22,503, and
expenditure on plant and machinery
absorbed £1507. Developmental footage
totalled 5273 and diamond-drilling 4491 ft.
Results from development in the main,
Edwards, Lane and Hamilton workings
show that the mine is steadily adding to
its already great intrinsic value.
* * * *
Gold Fields Australian Development,
Ltd., whose biggest Westralian gold-
mining interests are at Wiluna, and Asso-
ciated Northern Ora Banda, Ltd., which
is domiciled on the Broad Arrow field,
were among applicants for exemption in
the Kalgoorlie warden’s court the other
day. The former wanted respite from
labor conditions on portion of a recently-
purchased group at Mt. Ida, and the
latter sought a spell of operations on its
Gimlet blocks at Ora Banda, for which,
owing to war conditions, finance for their
essential development cannot be pro-
cured. Both applications were granted.
* * * *
Ora Banda South struggles on. After
writing off old Westralian goldmining
leases (£1664) and preliminary expenses
(£204) it shows a loss of £2559 from
July 1, 1940, to Sept. 30, 1941, against a
profit of £45 earned from April 1, 1939,
to June 30, 1940, when similar amounts
were written off the same leases and
development and kicking-off expenses.
In a circular dated July 25 last the
directors stated that they intended to dis-
pose of the co.’s mine at Marble Bar.
A report by the chairman issued the other
day says that the property has been sub-
leased and that returns from such sub-
lease should be sufficient to meet the
co.’s actual needs and enable it to carry
on until a sale is effected.
* * * •
A report that the Federal Government
was thinking of shifting a lot of miners
and their dependants from Kalgoorlie
and employing them in base-metal mines
in the eastern States gave the Westralian
gold industry a Christmas shock. The
reason given for the alleged intended
transfer was that in the Government’s
opinion the production of lead, copper
and zinc was more important at the
present time than gold. Later, after the
Minister for Mines had made a hurried
visit to Canberra, it was announced that
there was nothing in the yarn. Some of
the big Westralian gold-producers report
a further shortage in labor owing to addi-
tional enlistments and call-ups. Sons
of Gwalia says that because of this its
four-weekly tonnage will come down by
about 2000 to 9500, with a corresponding
reduction in revenue. Lake View is
stated to be better off than any other.
It is credited with having over a year’s
supply of broken ore and a big reserve
of oil fuel.
* * * *
Freney Oil (W.A.) is again in trouble.
This time the cause is hostilities in the
Pacific, which is delaying the oversea
transport of essential Yankee-made drill-
ing equipment. Co.’s field superintendent
has gone east to see if he can get plant
to enable operations to be resumed and
carried on until the Yankee supplies
come to hand. The secretary announces
that requests for additional subsidies are
receiving consideration by the Federal
and State Governments.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Taylor Ville”: This daylight-saving
stunt reminds me of old Johnny, who
could read the time from the sun better
than any man I ever knew. I checked
him often, and he was never more than
four minutes out. Then one blazing
afternoon we had a mob of ewes in a
fence corner going through ’em for flies.
After a while I asked the time. “Twenty-
five pas’ four,” snapped Johnny. I pulled
out my watch. “Go on,” I told him,
“you’re exactly 28 minutes out.” “Well,
ain’t I got a right t’ be?” he snorted.
“Any other flamin’ timepiece that was as
dry an’ full o’ dust as me’d be a blasted
hour out.” We headed for the township
that week-end,
* * * *
“Calos”: It is open to doubt whether
the young cuckoo’s heaving out the
rightful occupants from the foster
parents’ nest is deliberate (B. 24/12/’4l).
The intruder possesses remarkably long
and strong claws with which it grips the
bottom of the nest as if in danger of
being evicted. Having secured its posi-
tion it rolls from side to side until a
young bird is manoeuvred into the natural
hollow about the region of the cuckoo’s
shoulders, then it rises, slants its body
and ejects the weakling. This can be
managed even when the opening to the
nest is merely a window, as in the case
of blue wrens. The bronze cuckoo fre-
quently chooses these frail birds as foster
parents for her young, as they are insecti-
vorous. When her choice is made it is
almost impossible to drive the obstinate
creature afield, and when the wrens are
working overtime to feed the monstrous
and vociferous baby the mother fre-
quently calls to it from a tree. Other
birds answer the querulous begging by
feeding the young cuckoo —even spar-
rows, which live on grain.
* * * *
“Propalong”: He brought the bay colt
home with the coat black with sweat.
His excuse was, “Aw, y’ goiter lap a
colt along a bit t’ take the wire edge orf
’im.” More grass-fed youngsters are
ruined by that particular superstition
than by any other invention of the devil.
A breaker puts in five or six days’ skilled
work on a colt. A station-hand comes
along, and for two or three weeks rides
him hard “f keep ’im quiet.” At the end
of that time, if the baby hasn’t been
knocked up and thereby ruined for work
for ever, he has to be turned out for a
spell—a colt is always “soft.” In an
ordinary season in saltbush country that
youngster won’t be fit to ride for three
months. When he is brought in again
he’ll have forgotten all he ever learned;
he’ll have to be taught to stand, to be
caught, to allow his feet to be handled,
to answer to the bit all over again. And
the chances are he’ll pigroot, A colt
should be treated as a Sunday hack.
When you take him from the breaker
give him one good 25- or 30-mile day
in company to teach him that there is
such a thing as work. After that give
him only an occasional light day of 10
to 15 miles. Catch him every morn-
ing when the horses are brought in, talk
to him, handle him all over and pick up
his feet. Keep him in without a spell for
just as many months as you possibly can.
He’ll be stauncher, quieter, more friendly
and a thousand times more reliable than
a misused youngster. And in the early
months of his career don’t ride him be-
hind horses, and never behind sheep till
he is thoroughly used to work.
♦ * * •
“The 0.D.”: Sandworms for bait, eh
(B. 24/12/’41)? Sam went down from
Tibooburra (N.S.W.) for a holiday at
Tuggerah. On his first day, walking along
the beach, he spotted a cove wiggling a
bit of very dead fish on the water’s edge
and inquired about it. “I’m after worms
f’r bait,” said the cove, and explained how
it was done. Then he bent down, said
“Watch,” got his fingers round a worm
and drew it from the sand. Sam with-
drew quietly up the beach and made his
way back to the pub. “Listen,” he told
his eldest son, “there’s a few leg-pullers
about here. If y’ see a bloke dragging
flamin’ great lumps of window-sash cord
outa the sand an’ tryin’ t’ kid they’re
worms, shy off him. It’s bait, all right,
but f’r fish like you an’ me, down fr’m
the bush.”
* * * *
“M. U. Ray”: “Sou’-west’s” mention
of long tramps before the days of the
“ Listen , darling: I'm Working back tonight!"
motor (B. 24/12/’4l) set me wondering
if country kids these days ever walk the
distances to school they did in my genera-
tion. Seven miles there and seven back,
five days a week for 18 months, was one
of my own efforts, and plenty of kids in
those days covered greater distances.
Don’t rush in with tales of distances
covered by bush kids per horse, car, bus,
train or ’plane to school; I want to hear
of footsloggers, and anything over a
couple of miles can enter.
* * * *
“Archbell”; Kicking guns, is it? I
remember my grandfather, a big, dour
Scotsman who used to spend a lot of his
spare time roaming the South Gippsland
hills with my father, each armed with
an old double-barrelled muzzle-loader.
One day father by mistake rammed two
charges into one barrel; having no par-
ticular desire to test the recoil himself,
he suggested to his sturdy sire that they
exchange weapons for the afternoon.
Later on grandpop rejoined him after
stalking a hare for about half a mile.
“Hoots, Alec!” he said. “Your gun’s
a de’il of a thing. I lay on ma belly
to take a shot at a hare, and when I
pulled her she stood me up on ma feet! ”
■* * * *
“Timberloo”: Here are a few more
uses for the forked stick. When rigging
a shadoof, or mickery, as some call it —
that device of the balanced pole, the
water bucket on the short end and a big
stone for counterbalance on the longer
—what better as an upright and a pivot
than a stout forked stick? Again, when
catching a crocodile in the Cambridge
Gulf (Wyndham) we used a stout forked
tree over which the rope connected with
the noose was run, the end having tied on
it a big stone which, on being tripped
by a trigger, tightened the noose around
the croc.’s body. A short stick lashed
across the fork prevented the stone being
pulled right over when the captive
struggled in his efforts to break loose. In
building a small boat, too, a well-
matured fork, sawn and neatly fitted,
makes the ideal knee for right-up in the
bows, strengthening both gunwales where
they spring from the stem. And I’ve seen
impromptu paddles made from a light
forked stick with a blade of strong sheet
bark lashed on. Their maker with them
propelled a dugout canoe for hundreds
of miles up and down a North Australian
river.
* * * *
“Mac J.”: There is one fisherman,
whose habitat is a northern N.S.W. beach,
who will heartily agree with “Tolliver”
(B. 26 /11 / ’4l) that there are things better
calculated to promote ease of mind than
angling on one’s own while facing the
dark, murmuring sea in the small hours.
As he was standing immovable holding
on to his cutty hunk he suddenly found
his hair, literally as well as figuratively,
standing on end. A large sea eagle had
mistaken his head for a post. But prob-
ably an eagle can also get a fright when
the post it lobs on lets out a fearful
shriek.
* * * *
“Dan’s Dad”: “I’m not goin’ down
t’ Paddymelon Joe’s any more,” said
young Dan, dumping a bag of sweet-
bucks viciously on the kitchen floor.
“Why, what’s the matter?” Mum asked
mildly. “Asked me t’ have a drink o’
tea,” Dan spluttered ; “everything in the
camp was that flamin’ dirty I reckoned
I couldn’t wait. Never took no notice
of me, just gets the pannikin—only had
one be the look uv it; was soakin’ his
whiskers in it when I got there—swills
it round with a drop o’ tea, grabs an old
sock off the floor an’ wipes it out. Soon
as his back was turned I chucked the
tea under the bunk. He wheeled round
like lightnin’ an’ says ‘Gripes, finished
that already? You got a good swaller,
boy. Fillerup ageh!’ The old cow
watched me drink the next lot,” Dan con-
eluded savagely.
* * * *
“Me.”: He was one of those pests who
could have made a much better job of
things if the arranging of the universe
had been left to them. And his questions
seemed to accuse genial, slow-spoken Big
Joe of being the fellow who bungled the
whole business. Why couldn’t we have
spring weather throughout the year ; why
not high tide at the same time every
day ; why not always full moon at night,
the same as full sun every day; why
should strong sunshine blister human
skin or medicinal herbs be unpleasant to
the palate? And so on. Big Joe couldn’t
tell him. Then, flushed with success,
his interlocutor ventured too far. His
next was, “Why should timber shrink
and warp?” Joe thought for a minute,
then drawled; “Aw, I know the answer
to that one. Me wife ain’t tall enough
to see over a 6ft. fence. How could she
watch what the neighbors were doin’ if
there weren’t any openings between the
nalines?”
1 & * * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Bert was going home
for Christmas, but after buying his rail-
way ticket he succumbed to the tempta-
don to have “just one more with the
boys.” The result was that he just man-
aged to pile into the last box-carriage as
the train steamed out from the little sta-
tion. A glance around revealed one seat
filled With sitting passengers, while the
other was entirely occupied by two re-
cumbent figures. Bert gently shook the
sleepers and politely suggested that they
give him room for a seat. The reclining
ones eyed him bleakly, “Got a first-class
ticket?” they demanded in unison. Re-
ceiving a reluctant negative—“ Well,
you’ve no right in this carriage at all!”
For a minute Bert contemplated direct
action ; but, realising the elementary jus-
tice, finally parked himself amid boots,
foot-warmers and luggage on the floor.
Several uncomfortable hours passed
before the train slid to a halt, the door
opened, the light snapped on and a voice
rumbled “Tickets, please!” Magically
the sleepers came to life, and in a
twinkling vanished through the opposite
door and window respectively. Potent as
Bert’s vocal effort was, it paled to medi-
ocrity compared with his remarks when
the “snapper” demanded excess fare for
“first-class accommodation.”
» V * ♦
“Nor’-west”: One thing about Binghi,
he tolerated no arguments about con-
scription. In his wars—and most tribes
were almost always on that footing, there
being endless disputes about the stealing
of women, trespass on tribal territory
and the balance of power—he believed in
the marshalling of all man-power avail-
able ; any shirker met with excommuni-
cation and, if he wasn’t a speedy
runner, sudden death. To Binghi com-
pulsory military ser-
vice seemed abso-
lutely unassailable
logic. The trjbe
brought each mem-
ber into existence,
fed and protected
him, guaranteed him
a livelihood and even
provision in his old
age ; so it was un-
thinkable that any
man should fail to
fight to maintain
such privileges when
the hour of need
arrived. Without
kings, princes or
even an aristocracy,
Bin g h i was the
world’s original
democrat. His tribal
rule was by the
Council of Elders, to
which every man
might ultimately at-
tain. Life was really
one long battle. The
weakling and the
shirker invariably
died under the stern
initiation tests and
ceremonies. With
these left behind the
warrior was men-
aced with death in
battle, or by ambush
should some other
tribe decide that he
or his tribal brothers had been guilty of
witchcraft in causing the death of a
member of their tribe. Or, again, he
might be simply wiped out to maintain
a balance of power should a neighboring
tribe have met defeat in battle. So when
the message stick went round telling that
the hounds of war again were unleashed,
he took kylie and spear and set off for
the trysting place without thought of
being either a conscientious objector or
an anti-con.
» ♦ * »
“A.N.S.”: “It’s them darned frogs,”
growled old Tdm when we pointed to
his dog still curled up on a chaff bag.
Tom had been ski ting about his mong
for weeks. The first day’s muster for
shearing was to prove it. The rest of
us had saddled up in spite of doubtful
weather and our dogs were half a mile
ahead. “If it was sheariri weather,” old
Tom mumbled, “my dorg’d have them
sheep rounded up an’ in the yards be
now —lambs, rams an’ all. But with them
frogs croakin’ he won’t budge. He knows
darned well it’s goin’ to rain.”
* * * *
“Übisco”: The Murray River area
seems to be a favored abode of the tiger-
snake. Knew a charmer bloke who had
a fine Murray River tiger in his serpent
pit, and reckoned it quite the nastiest
bit of stuff in his whole serpentine
colony. Once helped the same cove to
go snake-catching on W.A.’s Garden
Island, off Fremantle. By the time he’d
made four captures this charmer reckoned
the island tiger-snakes were nearly up
to the Murray River jokers in nastiness,
though lagging a bit in the length of
fang. But there are no tiger-snakes on
near-by Rottnest, though there are black
snakes closely allied to the 6ft. dugite of
the mainland, venomous but not par-
ticularly anxious to bite.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN WAG.
When the heroes in Valhalla meet to fight their
battles o’er—
The warriors of yesterday, and a thousand
years before —
There’ll be one seat of honor ’neath the highest
floating flag,
A place reserved unchallenged for The Great
Australian Wag.
His parents hailed from Mosman or the other
side of Bourke;
He might have been “in business” or he merely
“went to work”;
Perhaps he drove in taxis —if he didn’t hump
a swag;
And his name was Brown—or Beauchamp,
when it wasn’t just “The Wag.”
He’ll wear no wreath of laurels —just his bat-
tered Digger’s “lid.”
And it mightn’t sound heroic when they tell you
what he did —
If you’ve never been in corners when your
courage starts to lag
And the pendulum is balanced on The Great
Australian Wag.
The crisis always found him; through the
sand or snow or mire.
The racking waits for “zero” or the hours
of hellish fire,
When things looked bleak and blackest, with
a wit no force could gag,
The man who broke the tension was The
Great Australian Wag.
And his soul will live undying while there
breathes a loyal son
To wield a shining bayonet or lay a crippled
gun.
Till our continent subsiding dips its final
mountain crag
—And not till then —he’ll grin for us, The Great
Australian Wag!
N.S.W.
B. A. KER.


“Jeff”: We gaped when the big bloke
drifted in for a job on the farm. There
seemed to be yards of him, shaped like
a hairpin. The boss was short of labor,
but the size of the codger worried him.
Scratching his head, he told the appli-
cant that he’d find things awkward at
first. He’d have to stoop whenever in the
farmhouse because the ceiling was only
six-foot-six; he’d have to sleep with his
knees up; and he’d strike trouble in the
cowshed, where conditions were against
his height. This didn’t damp the cove’s
ardor for the job. “I’ll take it on,” he
said resolutely. “I’ve always wanted t’
be a six-footer. Stoopin’ most of the
time should fix it.”
* * ♦ •
“Mat’s Mate”: A mob of us went
swimming in the river and the usual bet-
ting went on about diving, staying under
water and so forth. Mat, who never pro-
fessed much ability in the water, was
challenged by a skinny little cove to a
staying-under-water test, but declined.
The skinny coot stuck to him and, en-
couraged by Mat’s refusals, stepped the
odds up until at last he offered 10 to 1
in deeners. Both dived and we waited.
Presently the skinny bloke shot up, shook
the water out of his hair and looked
round with a triumphant grin. It faded
as he saw Mat was still under. Our grins
faded, too, as Mat continued to stay
under. A couple of us dived in and
found the big fellow hooked by the belt
of his trunks to a snag. We tore him
loose and got him up. As his head broke
surface he took a great gulping breath
and gasped “Did I win?” “Win be jig-
gered,” we retorted, our alarm still sim-
mering, “y’ blanky near drowned.” After-
wards he confessed to me that, always
frightened when his head got under water,
he had hooked himself on the snag to
make himself stay down, but the current
had swung him so he couldn’t unhook.
“Gosh,” I said, “didjer have the wind
up?” “Well, no,” he drawled, “not until
a blasted yabbie came and looked at me
an’ licked his flamin’ chops.”
* * * *
“Pooncaira”: Struck Banjo Paterson’s
lines “The reed beds sweep and sway...
It is the land of lots-o’-time along the
Castlereagh.” Now I have observed that
N.S.W. river for years both in dry
weather and in flood, but have never
been able to locate any reed beds. A
year ago the Castlereagh came down in
flood, but I doubt if it reached its
affluent in the 300-mile jcAirney to the
Barwon even then. The river is now
where it spends 99 p.c. of its time —
underground. Only for a few miles after
it tumbles from the War-
rumbungle Mountains,
where this lost-world river
has its birth, does the
Castlereagh flow on the sur-
face of its bed. Such towns
as Coonamble, Gilgandra
and Gulargambope draw
apparently inexhaustible
supplies of water from its
earthy depths, and good
water, too. “Banjo” also
sang “The sleepy river mur-
murs low and loiters on its
way.” Poetic license, per-
haps, but the fact remains
that this freak river only
flows when in flood ; reed
beds are consistent only with
sluggishly-moving or stag-
nant water.
• * ♦
“Sailor Bill”: For a
couple of days the highly
realistic scarecrow I’d built
in my watermelon patch
kept the crows on the trees
around the field. When on
the third day the figure was
still there they came to the
tree in the centre of the
field. Then one of them
cautiously circled round and
settled on the scarecrow.
After that the whole bunch
proceeded to make up for
their two-and-a-half melon-
less days. I climbed out of
bed before the jackasses began laugh-
ing next morning, and with a double-
barrelled shotgun want to the melon
patch. Daylight found me crouch-
ing inside the despised scarecrow
grimly waiting the arrival of the crows.
They came, settled on the distant trees,
argued loudly for some time and then
flew away. I waited for an hour and
then returned home in disgust. As I ate
a belated breakfast I glanced towards
the melon patch. It was black with feed-
ing crows. My neighbor’s theory is that
they caught the smell of the gunpowder
as I lay in wait.
• ♦ * •
“A. Perist”; It’s curious how the insect
world settles its disputes and gets along
with its affairs. Last season I was given
a run-down colony of bees. Putting
these in a new hive well away from the
main apiary I gave them a tending eye.
Being few in numbers the honey-gatherers
were soon plagued with ants, A four-
legged stand, legs in tins of water, gave
respite. But did the tins run dry,
or even gather a heavy film of dust, the
ever-watchful ants were across and into
the hive. Winter passed ; the hive grew
stronger. Then came summer, and I
was absent for a few weeks. I returned
to find the guardian tins all dry, but not
a single ant on the stand. And, stranger
still, whereas the ground around used to
be alive with ants, all waiting for some
luckless bee to fall, there now isn’t one
to' be seen, though there are thousands
only 30 feet away. How that now-strong
colony dealt with the ant menace should
form an interesting treatise on the art
of war.
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”: I fancy “Eseph” (B.
10/12/’4l) is right in his diagnosis of
“bubbles of air rising through the water.”
Fishing on a W.A. estuary I was doing
well with a school of sizable pilchards
that kept passing up and down, at the
same time finding interest in the air
bubbles breaking the surface, which I
had been told were a sign of crabs. The
"Well, it says to bring enough for two lunches!”
“When siren go you black ’em out, pretty darn quick!"
actual result was a splitting headache
which for the two following days refused
to yield to any and all known remedies.
Now, on seeing bubbles rise, I lift the
pick and get.
* * * *
“Apple-Gum”: “This eucalyptred
cloisterdom is anything but gay,” wrote
Brunton Stephens of the bush, and the
same reflection seems to have occurred
to the early denizens of Sydney when they
surveyed the overwhelming preponder-
ance of gums among the local flora. They
did something about it. Red-tiled roofs
helped immensely, but it was the garden-
minded folk who did most towards trans-
forming the Sydney scene. I’m no his-
torian or botanist and I don’t know where
they got the coral trees (in Ceylon they’re
called daddups). The jacaranda, of
course, was borrowed from southern
Africa—in recent months it has glorified
a dozen suburbs —and everywhere, in
season, there are the fine splashes of color
made by bougainvillaea, wistaria and such,
not to mention the big flowering bushes
—hibiscus, waratah, oleander and azalea.
About this time of the year what the
Westralians prosaically call “red gums”
are in vermilion flower, rivalling the
Illawarra flame-tree in brilliance of hue.
And, despite water shortage, most of these
rebellions against plain gum-tree have
done splendidly this summer. Suburbs
that plant their streets with flowering
trees and shrubs have had reason to
rejoice.
* * ♦ *
“Fern”: Some recent yarns on this
page about outback and old-time pedes-
trian prowess remind me of a legend of
my Maoriland home-town —one which I
suppose has many parallels the world
over. It concerns a certain Captain
Blenkinsop, a very sporting cove, who
made bets that he would cover, on his
own two feet, 100 miles in a day. There
were plenty of
takers, the feat being
regarded as impos-
sible, and the super-
vision of the gallant
captain’s perform-
ance was very thor-
ough. In our town
we have one street
which, in the early
sixties of last cen-
tury, was exactly
four miles long (a
railway bridge bisects
it now), and on this
stretch, watched by
hundreds, the
doughty Blenkinsop
did his stuff, com-
mencing at midnight.
Sometimes he
trotted, sometimes
he walked, some-
times he cantered
and every few hours
he had a bit of shut-
eye on a stretcher
at the roadside. His
eyes gave out (so
local tradition has it)
when he had cov-
ered 75 miles at
6 p.m. He carried
on sightless and won
his bet with a quarter
of an hour to spare.
“Old-timer”: Old Mac had been
1 warned off the booze by his wife and
, eldest son, both of whom swore to destroy
: every bottle he brought on to the place.
On his trips to the 12-miles-distant town
Mac was always escorted by the son and,
[ though permitted a pot or two, was
; supervised as carefully as a cow turned
; into fresh lucerne. Then one night he
broke away from the homestead, but the
son ’phoned ahead to the pub and Mac
returned, baffled but unbeaten. The next
Sunday was hot, and Mac retired to the
coolness of the chaff-shed. Two hours
later he emerged, hilarious. A frantic
search revealed only three freshly-emptied
bottles, and they concluded he’d finished
off all he had. Mac grinned expansively,
and just on dusk he came from the chaff-
shed again, happier than ever. This time
the place was combed, without result.
Mac slept. Late that night he slipped
from the house and spent another joyful
period in the chaff-shed. At intervals
this sort of thing went on for months, till
the big rains came and the 4in. galvan-
ised iron downpipe on the chaff shed
flooded. The eldest son found two full
bottles in it and the secret was out, Mac
had had the stuff brought to a neighbor’s
and paid the hired man to come over at
night and poke the bottles one by one
up the pipe. As Mac withdrew one from
the bottom, another slid down to take
its place.
* * *
“Atrax”; Whenever I come across
some particularly revolting Australian
place-name Hike Hivesville or Smithton
I unfold an old map of south-east
Queensland and linger lovingly over
Hoothalucodinnyamungo. That is the
original abo. name for the junction of
the Great Dividing Range with the
Grafton Range some 30 miles north-east
of Roma. A lazy-minded Survey Depart-
ment has left it out of recent maps
because of some alleged difficulty in •
printing and pronouncing, but it should
be restored. Fortunately, they still over-
look Barnabiwonnanagy, Dangarabun-
garagay, Micannannanagay, Boogooroo-
tommey and the mellifluous Wahginerra-
anaganga. It is a marvel to me that they
are not all in more favor with house-
proud suburbanites —any one of them
would put all the Emoh Ruos and Pine
Lodges into the discard as a house-name.
* * * *
“B. 4”: It was a sweltering afternoon
in the little outback Queensland school,
and the inspector was trying to elicit the
meaning of “evaporation.” Calling a
nipper, he ordered him to half-fill a
dish with water, place it in the sun and
watch what happened. An hour later
Tom was told to bring in the dish, and
returned holding a heated empty tin dish
in his hat. “Ah!” exclaimed the inspec-
tor, seizing the dish but suddenly drop-
ping it on the table. “Now you realise
the meaning of ‘evaporation,’ don’t you?”
“Yessir!” “Of course you do! Your
teaching should be more practical, Mr-
Smackem. Now you, boy, tell me the
meaning of the word.” No answer. “Tut,
tut! You try, girlie.” Still no answer.
“My word, you children must be dense.
Here, Tom, you tell them.” No reply.
“Well, we’ll find out. You put the dish
out in the hot sun and watched, didn’t
you?” “Yessir!” “Well, what caused
the water to disappear?” “Please, sir,
teacher’s goats drank it!”
HARVEST.
The sun burns down from flawless skies,
Ardent and strong as flame.
And the good brown earth yields up its prize
To the greedy headers’ claim.
All dav long is the tractors song,
All day the peg-drums beat,
But never the day is overlong
Taking off the wheat.
Our sons go out in foreign skies
Where the fell bombs fall and flame,
And the ceaseless fight is for the prize
Of the age-old freeman s claim.
All night long is the engines’ song,
All night the air-crews beat.
And here in the dust old men belong,
Taking off the wheat.
The stars hang low in harvest skies,
Golden and pure they flame,
So man may know the promised prize
And the end his life may claim.
All night long is the crickets song,
All night the strong hearts beat,
And work comes with the dawn along,
Taking off the wheat.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
COMMANDO IN ACTION.
[This description of Britain’s commandos —small
bands of specially-trained volunteers who raid Axis-
held territory—and account of a night raid on Bardia
by one commando unit is from a “Life” (U.S.A.) article
by Evelyn Waugh, the novelist. An Oxford graduate and
son of the British publisher Arthur Waugh, the writer
belongs to the commando whose raid he describes.]
In the days between Dunkirk and the first air
battle of Britain half-trained battalions suddenly found
themselves first-line troops. The bulk of the regular
army was reorganising and rearming. The Home
Guard was untrained and short of equipment. Inva-
sion was expected daily. In Poland, Norway and
France we had found that one of the chief dangers
to a defending force was the breakdown of communi-
cations between its large units. The need of the
moment was for small bodies of picked fighting troops
who, in the event of higher commands being paralysed,
would be able to carry on independently and, with-
out the machinery of full-scale operations, mount
sharp little counter-attacks on their own. This was the
original idea of the formation of commandos. They
were literally picked men. First the commanders
were chosen. They were all young men of an age
when, normally, they would have had companies and
squadrons. They were now given the task of raising
their own forces.
My own commander, who eventually came to
command the force put under him in the Middle
East, was the commander par excellence. He had suc-
ceeded in combining life in the most fashionable
cavalry regiment with a brilliant career at the Staff
College, and such feats of toughness as sailing round
the world as an ordinary seaman in a Finnish wind-
jammer. An order was circulated in the army asking
for volunteers from officers and men for hazardous
service. The supply greatly exceeded the demand.
The commanders picked their officers and left them
to pick their men.
There is a universal danger in all armies that,
when volunteers are called to leave their regiments
for special service, the worst get sent. No company
commander wishes to lose good men ; they all have
some troublesome fellow they are glad to pass on.
To avoid this our troop leaders visited the regimental
depots, saw each man individually, looked up his
records, talked to his former officers. The qualities
they were seeking were simply the qualities of any
good soldier —physical strength and endurance, fighting
spirit, knowledge of his weapons, enterprise. There
was nothing peculiar about our men. They were
simply the best types of the regiments from which
they came.
The officers were mostly from the Household
Brigade. They got the reputation of being exclusively
recruited from the very rich and very gay, but there
was a fair proportion of industrious professional sol-
diers to preserve the balance. I remember well my im-
pression on first joining. The commando was at that
time living in Scotland and the officers’ mess was at a
seaside hotel. I had come from the austerity and
formality of the Royal Marines. In a Marine mess it
is thought disgraceful to sit down before six in the
evening ; those who have nothing to do must pretend
that they have. I found a young troop leader wear-
ing a military tunic and corduroy trousers. He was
reclining in a comfortable chair, a large cigar in his
mouth. Then I noticed above the pocket of his coat
the ribbon of the Military Cross, and later when I
saw him with his troop I realised that his men would
follow him anywhere.
The names among our officers of Jellicoe, Keyes,
Beatty and Churchill showed how the sons of the last
war’s leaders saw in the commandos the chance of
reliving their fathers’ achievements. There was some-
thing of the spirit which one reads in the letters and
poetry of 1914. We had a more elastic system of dis-
cipline than is possible in an ordinary battalion. There
was none of that daily succession of petty charges
and petty punishments. If a man was a nuisance he
was simply sent back to his regiment. All were volun-
teers and all proud of the additional rigors of their
training. So as to cut down administration to a mini-
mum and to have no one with us who was not a
fighting man, we were simply paid a subsistence
allowance and, ashore, left to find our own food and
lodging. Troops were taught to live on the country
and hunt for their food. A book could, and no doubt
will be, written about the commandos in their aspect
as an experiment in military organisation.
We formed a pool from which detachments could
be drawn when there was a special job for us. We
had parties in Tobruk, in Crete, in Syria and another
detached for special reconnaissance with the Navy.
We had our full share of medals and casualties. The
following is an account of one small operation, typi-
cal of the special tasks for which we trained.
British G.H.Q. wanted a raid on Bardia. They
wanted information —were the enemy garrisoning the
town or encamped some distance away (i.e., was it
worth-while shelling and bombing it any more)?
Were Germans or Italians there? Were there coast
defence guns? Was it being used, as was reported,
as a transport depot? More important than the in-
formation was the need to draw off enemy mechanised
troops who were pressing uncomfortably on our front
line. The enemy must be made to “look over his
shoulder” and withdraw men from the front to guard
his lines of communication. If possible he must be
made to think that a full-scale attack was being
attempted in his rear and to rush large mechanised
forces to Bardia that were needed elsewhere. As a
minor consideration any damage we could do to roads,
bridges or stores would be welcome. A single com-
mando was chosen for the job. As things turned out,
it could have been done by half the number, but we
expected to find at least two battalions of enemy
troops in possession of Bardia.
Our parent force had another job on that night—
-250 men on a destroyer raiding farther up the Libyan
coast. We could see them embarking at the quay
opposite ours, while we stood waiting in the fast mer-
chantman that had been fitted out for our purpose.
The Bardia attacking party was under the command
of its own colonel. We had been at work for a week
on the details of the plan, gazing, until we squinted,
at air photographs, checking and rechecking the time-
table.
The secret had been well kept. I do not believe
that a word of our intention got to the swarm of spies
which infest Alexandria. Had the cat jumped out of
the bag, our raid would not have gone as well as it
did. We got away in cover of darkness, as we had to
arrive at our station, four miles off the coast, at 11
p.m. Then we had to leave again in the darkness,
with at least two hours’ sailing time before dawn, for
all the coast around Bardia was patrolled by enemy
aircraft. This meant that allowing an hour each way
between ship and beach we had just three hours ashore.
It was not long, but it was long enough if everything
went right. Everyone understood that the timetable
was inexorable, that if he was late on his beach, or if
he went to the wrong beach, he must look out for
himself. There was a sporting chance of being able
later’to get through the enemy line and join up with
our troops near Solium.
Bardia is on a small promontory where the cliffs
rise up sharply from the seashore. There are four pos-
New York “Sun.”
THE BED HE MADE GETS UNCOMFORTABLE.
sd) i e i anc jing places where wadis (watercourses that
are usuady dry) break the face of the rocks and leave
a jjtHe half-circle of sand. A party was to land on
ea(dl Q £ tli ese beaches simultaneously. Each troop had
ds own task From the moment they left the ship
untd the moment they returned aboard, they would
rece i ve no further orders. Each had his objective. One
und was to the road against the arrival of enemy
reinforcements. One unit was to cover each beach.
Another was to blow a bridge on the road, while an-
other unit destroyed stores and so on. Each troop
h ad t 0 tackle in its own way whatever opposition it
found . These orders were kept ent.rely secret until
we were at sea>
xhe only un happy people on board were the half-
dozen or s 0 who had been detailed to remain on
board as rear party, the orderly room clerk, the
quartermaster’s batman, the rear signalling party, and
on . During the day each of them came to me
an d sought to be allowed to go ashore. I managed
to fit most of them in under one excuse or another
There was a suggestion that we should get some
sleep between dusk and the time for manning the
boats, but everyone was too cheerful to rest. Ihey
were sharpening bayonets, disposing grenades aDout
their persons, blacking gym. shoes.
Toward evening the breeze began to freshen and
we grew anxious, for we had been turned home once
before by bad weather. It is a ticklish business land-
mg in the dark on a strange beach in any kind of surf.
It is seldom really dark in the Mediterranean but
tonight the stars were overcast. Standing to on deck,
we could barely see the guard rail or distinguish
between the sea and sky. We were in position at our
boat stations half an hour before the ship reached
her destination. Then we heard the engine stop and
we silently manned the boats. One sits m these boats
m three fines, astride low seats. The bows have a
ramp which lets down so that all three lines can pull
out togethei. u *
The boats were lowered, formed line abreast and
made for the shore. Our heads were all below the level
of the armored sides. It was impossible to move a
muscle.
At last a whisper passed back from the bow:
“Stand by to land,” and we felt the bottom scrape on
the shingle. The ramp went down. We pressed for-
ward into knee-deep water and up the steep ledge of
beach. There was a minute on the beach while the
section leaders collected their men behind them. Then,
without a word spoken, they were off to their objec-
tives. The boats were out of sight in one direction
and the men out of sight in the other within a few
seconds.
Something is wrong up front, however, and I go
forward to find what it is. I find three parallel lines
of men crossing a deep, waterlogged anti-tank ditch
that had not been visible in any of the air photo-
graphs. No tank could conceivably climb the opposing
wadi. It seems an odd place for a ditch, but there it
is and crossing it cost us 20 minutes, for in the dark
we cannot let men scatter as we would in daylight.
They must keep within touch of one another, and the
first must wait for the last to come up with them. It
was a beast of a ditch.
After the ditch was crossed, the climb started. We
had studied it in the spectroscope, but comforted our-
selves with the reflection that everything looks steeper
than it is through this device. Our wadi was pre-
cipitous and composed of loose stones. All through
our training we had practised moving at night, and
on roads or solid rock we were almost noiseless, as
we wore rubber- or rope-soled boots. Now, however,
the din of 150 men scrambling up in the darkness
seemed deafening. Stones came
thudding down from above,
gathering little avalanches as
they came. Suddenly there were
three rapid shots and bullets
sang out overhead. The line
paused for half a second and
then pushed on. In the lull I
thought “That’s bitched it.
They’ve let us get ashore and
now they have caught us very
nicely on the cliff face. We were
not as clever as we thought at
keeping the secret.” But when
we pushed forward again there
were no more shots and I
thought “It was a single sentry.
He’s gone back to raise the gar-
rison. But we shall be on the
top by the time they are in
position.”
In spite of hard training the
climb took it out of us. We
were rather behind our time-
table. It was now a quarter to
one and at a quarter-past two we
should begin withdrawal to the
boats. That did not allow much
time for delay, but the forward
parties were already well on
their way into the town. No
sound came from them and we
suddenly realised that the place
was empty. Force H.Q. set up
as an observation post near a
great assembly of derelict motor-
lorries. Behind us a troop was
searching for a transport unit
which had been reported there.
In front another troop was
entering the former Italian bar-
racks. Further on again the
other troops which had landed
lower down were pushing up
into the further side of the town.
There was complete silence for
about half an hour. We knew that the various parties
were getting to their objectives and setting their
demolition charges. Suddenly from all sides the
detonations began. At the same time a splendid red
fire mounted and curled half a mile away in the old
barracks. They had found a store of new motor tyres
—a precious thing in the desert —and it blazed
gloriously.
There was still no sign of the enemy. At last a
patrol of two motor-cycles, driving all out and with-
out lights, came roaring down the main road. Every-
one near had a shot at them with tommy-guns and
grenades, but they somehow got through. They were
not an easy target. It was very lucky really that they
did escape, for it was through them that the enemy
learned, as we particularly wanted them to learn, that
a landing was taking place. Had they merely seen
the blaze and heard the demolition charges from a dis-
tance they might have taken us for an air raid. As
it was, the impression which these men carried away
was of a town strongly in enemy hands and it was
due to their report that our major success was achieved.
They did exactly what the British Higher Command
wanted and sent a strong detachment of tanks and
armored cars to repel the imagined invasion.
The work finished, we returned to our beaches.
The way down was lighted by the burning stores,
where flames now mounted high into the sky. The
boats had been lying off and now came into the
beaches. The wind had risen. There was a heavy surf
pounding the shingle and washing over the ledges of
sand. The naval party had a job to keep the boats
head in to shore and one boat got her propeller screw
fouled in the kedge anchor, broached to and was
thrown up on to the shelf of sand. They destroyed
her with a grenade in the petrol tank and the little
bay was lit up by this second fire so that we should
have made an easy target for an enemy on the heights
above. But no enemy came. The sea was a great
deal heavier than was healthy for these flat-bottomed,
rather awkward craft and all had difficulties of one


■ ■
Mi
:
v:
.
NAVY, THE ARMY,
THE AIR FORCE use
B ATT E RIE S
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
kind or another getting away. I was in one of the
large M.L.Cs. Her ramp got jammed, and for half
an hour we floated in the bay while all the other
boats disappeared back to the ship. Finally two men
cut through a steel cable with a bayonet and we
eventually got her going and came alongside the ship
just as they had despaired of us. One boat failed to
find the rendezvous, but sailed safely into Tobruk next
day.
As we sailed we saw parachute flares dropping
over the town from enemy reconnaissance ’planes.
The timetable had worked out right to the minute,
with nothing to spare. The only misadventure which
marred the success of the night was the loss of a boat-
load of men who took the wrong wadi and found
themselves on a beach where there was no boat wait-
ing. But we had made all our objectives.
British-U.S. Future Collaboration.
(Condensed from an article by Dr. Felix Morley
(president of Haverford College) in the Philadelphia
“Bulletin.”]
The developing Anglo-American alliance cannot
with any safety be limited to war-time collaboration
only. Contingent in any tacit alliance with Great
Britain is the absolute necessity of following through
in close co-operation with that nation during an in-
evitably chaotic and dangerous post-war period.
The wholly disastrous mistake of the United
States after the last war was to refuse for peace-time
purposes any effective measure of that war-time co-
operation which was enthusiastically extended to the
Allied Powers in 1917-18. By its isolationist reaction
the United States unquestionably then did much to
produce conditions which made the rise of Hitler and
his effort to unify Europe by brute force natural if
not inevitable. If this second intervention is followed
by a second withdrawal, the natural anticipation will
be a third and even more disastrous European war.
As Mr. Roosevelt has emphasised, the winning of
the war, let alone the securing of the peace which he
proposes to underwrite, is likely to be a “Jong and
arduous” task. This grim prospect, however, makes
it more and not less desirable that American col-
laboration with Great Britain should be viewed as
much more than a war-time enterprise. In the event
of victory this collaboration must be continued as per-
manent policy, otherwise the victory will be mean-
ingless and of short duration. And in the event of
relative or absolute defeat, which wise statesmanship
must always consider even though it is impolitic to
mention the thought, such permanent Anglo-American
collaboration would be, if possible, even more
imperative.
The foundations of enduring Anglo-American col-
laboration are now being laid along two wholly dif-
ferent but perhaps mutually complementary lines. The
less realistic of these efforts is the popular movement
for political union, whose adherents advocate a pre-
cise and formal merger of the United States and the
members of the British Commonwealth of Nations.
The other movement, official but much less advertised,
is that continuous, detailed, informal, executive co-
operation which is being steadily and rapidly developed
under the elastic sanction of the Lease-Lend law.
The British Supply Council in North America,
which now employs in the neighborhood of 4000
persons in the United States, is in reality an overseas
extension of the British Government operating in
America in close co-operation with the executive arm
of the U.S. Federal Government.
Governmental contacts between the two nations
are no longer limited, as in normal times, to arrange-
ments between Embassy and State Department offi-
cials. Direct, daily and continuous contact is estab-
lished between the various technical agencies of the
British Supply Council and the appropriate board,
commission or bureau of the United States Govern-
ment. Daily developments attest the energy and speed
with which the programme of continuous executive
co-operation with Great Britain is being pushed. There
is no question of the political significance of the
development. The only question is whether all this
is to be merely “for the duration.”
It is important, in that connection, to realise
that the genius of British statesmanship has always
centred in the severely practical solution of specific
problems, maintaining improvisations which work well
and discarding those which fail to meet the test. The
British Commonwealth of Nations has no written
Constitution, no common Parliament, no formally
unified direction of foreign policy. But the Common-
wealth is unquestionably united and its unity is made
effective primarily through a well-established network
of technical executive contacts.
It is certainly suggestive that this identical type
of co-operation should now be developing so rapidly
between Great Britain, the self-governing Dominions
and the United States.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
The reserve of young boys, 16 to 18, who have
banded together into Britain’s Air Training Corps, are
being taught navigation, radio and Morse code, engine
maintenance, theory of flight. A little more than eight
months ago, when the plan was announced, it was
hoped 100,000 would enlist. Today there are 1013
local squadrons scattered over England, and 371 school
units, making 209,000 total. How practical the plan
is you can gather from the single isolated fact that
5000 boys who joined the Air Training Corps when it
was first announced are now air cadets in the R.A.F. —
New York “World-Telegram” London correspondent.
• * * « «
Late in September, Bulgarian cruelty against the
Greek civilian population provoked food riots and
risings among the unfortunate Greeks. The punish-
ment came swift and horrible. Bulgarian bombers
that had never fought an enemy did in Thrace what
German ’planes had done in Serbia. Seven Greek
villages have been wiped off the face of the earth,
Pentapolis, Aghion, Pnevma, Nea Sikhni, Protostani,
Gazaros and Doxato are no more and their people
have been killed by bombs and machine-gun bullets or
sent away to do forced labor. Doxato had already
been pillaged and its population massacred by the
Bulgarians in 1913. According to figures received by
the Greek Government in exile, 15,000 Greeks are
victims of the 1941 massacres. — New York “Herald
Tribune ”
* * * * ♦
The ever-rising tide of distaste on the part of New
Yorkers for rich foreign refugees has reached a point
where even Manhattanites are getting cross with the
absconding boodlers in their civic midst. The astound-
ing arrogance and effrontery of these run-out tramps
Columbus “Dispatch,” U.S.A.
BUBBLE REPUTATIONS.
who are well heeled with American currency is the
leading topic of angry conversation on every hand,
but for some obscure reason few reporters make men-
tion of it. The wealthy nuisance values from over-
seas are taboo in print, but the general bad feeling
they engender is going to explode socially and pohti-
cally one of these days with a resounding bang. Eng-
lish, even the Bronx or Brooklynese versions of it is
a dead anguage in New York. The tongues of Babel
have taken its place, and the loudest talk of all is
United States banknotes earmarked, secreted and put
away in strong boxes by Continentals who sold out
their countries in advance and now are showing off
their monocles, poodle dogs and incredibly bad
manners in every super-costly joint in town. Inter-
mixed with these discredited nationals is a mangy ad-
mixture of American expatriates who lived in Europe
until times got too hot for them, and now are whim-
pering into their champagne with the refugee counts
and barons whose principal conversation topic is how
vulgar are their American hosts who have jobs and
pay taxes. —New York “Herald Tribune” columnist.
* * * * *
Without the use of South African ports it would
have been impossible for Great Britain to have con-
ducted her campaign in Ethiopia, to reconquer British
Somaliland, take Syria, hold Iraq and Iran and save
Suez and Egypt for the Empire. Italy’s entry into the
war, which Marshal Smuts foresaw and prepared
against long before Mussolini openly declared war,
virtually closed the Mediterranean, the British Empire s
“short” lifeline, which formerly supplied its forces
Sn pS.stVbSrrtanri° U o„ *
refitting and reprovisioning havens, Great Britain
simply could not have maintained her “long” lifeline
around the tip of Africa and her struggle in the Middle
East. A “Cape-to-Cairo” railroad, as envisioned by
Cecil Rhodes, would have changed the whole picture
of strategy in the present war in Africa and the Middle
East. Many times General Sir Archibald P. Wavell
and other British and South African strategists have
sighed for it. It is only the half-dozen good harbors
in South Africa which have compensated for the lack
of good transport highways or the Cape-to-Cairo rail-
road and prevented the Empire from being cut in half
at Suez. — Hiram Blauvelt, New York “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * * *
Much of the materials they needed the Nazis
secured from nations with which they could barter
and whose economic lives they could control. But
England and the United States together sold them
enough iron and copper and scrap metals to carry
them through months of warfare. Some of their
purchasing was done through Japanese firms which
bought from the U.S.A. 4,350,000 tons of scrap iron
and steel in the two and a half years before these
were embargoed. Japan’s purchases of mercury in the
U.S.A. in 1940 jumped 240 times over the amounts
acquired in 1938, and her purchases of zinc increased
60 times. — U.S. Vice-President Henry A. Wallace, in
an article in “Collier’s.”
*****
Two years of blockade has exerted such pressure
on Germany’s supply of textiles that the effect is at
last beginning to show in the German Army and Navy,
in the opinion of the British Ministry of Economic
Warfare. “It has taken a long time, but then this is
a long-term Ministry,” it was explained. Signs indi-
cating that the German Army and Navy are running
short of wool are a cause of optimism. The armed
forces would be protected against hardship of this
kind long after the general public had suf-
fered. —A/>h> Fork “Times” London corre-
spondent.
* * * *
Churchill’s most famous phrase, and most
memorable because most true, was “Seldom in
history have so many owed so much to so
few.” The old school ties in the Foreign Office
are no particular badge of nobility in Britain
today, but the R.A.F. wings are. — Dorothy
Thompson, New York “Post.”
* * * *
The most significant fact of the war to
date, which may be decisive for the final out-
come, has been the qualitative superiority of
British aviation. R.A.F. ’planes were, are, the
best. The margin of superiority and personnel
over German aviation enabled the R.A.F. to
retain control of the skies over the British
Isles, wrecking Hitler’s invasion. The British
edge in speed and fire-power was such that the
R.A.F. could cancel a Nazi numerical advan-
tage of more than 4 to 1. — Major Alexander
P. de Seversky, New York “Daily Mirror.”
* * * •
Until recent months Japan traded freely
with most of the outside world. In man-power
and economic resources, Japan has suffered a
tremendous wastage as the result of over four
years of warfare in China. Her casualties, esti-
mated at 1,500,000 men, and her war expendi-
ture, more than twenty billion yen, are on a
scale ten times that of the Russo-Japanese
War of 1904-05. (The population and eco-
nomic strength of Japan, of course, have increased
greatly during the intervening generation.) Her gold
reserve has disappeared. The economic pinch, ex-
pressed in rationing of foodstuffs and ordinary con-
sumption goods as well as strategic commodities, has
beeh far more severe than in 1904-05. There is an-
other side to the picture, however, which has not
been sufflciently stressed. Up to the middle of 1940,
boomed. The democracies saw
5 * , ~ r f m
"« need to withhold supphes from a Japan merely
engaged in war with China. From 1937 to 1940 her
aggregate foreign trade stood at record levels, with
the “adverse” excess of imports paid for by gold-
transferred at a fancy price to the Treasury at Wash-
ington. Out of this excess of imports, Japan set aside
her reserve stocks of war materials. There should be
no occasion for surprise that China’s stubborn resist-
ance did not prevent the accumulation of these reserve
stocks for the Japanese war machine. We [the U.S.A.]
gave Japan plenty of advance warning—by abrogating
our trade treaty in July, 1939, and not applying an
embargo until two years later. —“ New Republic,”
U.S.A.
*****
Certainly those Britons who were appalled at
women in Soviet Russia doing what was traditionally
ma n’s work can find small comfort at home now. In
t he f ac t o ries, in the services and on the land, women
are (j o j n g heavy jobs. You can argue that this
was true - n tbe j ast war an( j that, with the peace,
took their old habits But there are many
««. women vitally affected by this war than by the
las k You dldn 1 see husbands and wives, both m
uniform, on the streets then. Now ll $ not an un-
common sight; for women with husbands also in the
services are granted leave, whenever possible, at the
same time as their husbands. It’s “compas-
sionate leave. ~A London correspondent in Look,
U.S.A.


HTS
LYS
£
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
n-
**<*■' ■ ' , , v ,,'li 1' »
m
< '■■ •■
mf.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "IYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Prophet Without Honor.
“K. and G.”: After Dad came back
from the 1914-18 war he got a block in
the Victorian Mallee west of Ouyen. It
was 880 acres, the best part about 320
acres of flat, with rises on three sides,
the other side facing the road. The flat
had odd patches of bull-mallee, but we
soon knocked them down. Two of the
rises had a heavy growth of mallee and
hopbush and the third, at the back, a
thick stand of Murray pine.
Dad didn’t know much about wheat-
growing, but it was obvious that the flat
was ready for working and sowing, and
we got into it with a four-furrow plough.
After that was done we hopped into the
Murray pine and cut enough posts to
fence the place, and we ran up the fence
after seeding the flat. Along the road
on the flat we had trouble. There was
a heavy table of limestone about six
inches below the surface, and we had to
belt through it with cold chisels and
blasting powder for many of the post-
holes.
About this time we acquired a hired
hand, fresh from an English farming dis-
trict. We had great fun with “our
Pommy,” who took it well and was a
good worker; if he didn’t work as
shrewdly as we it wasn’t for the want of
trying.
We got a good crop off the flat. Wheat
was 9s. a bushel that year (1920-21), and
we hopped into the scrub and pine on
the rises to make room for more. One
day “our Pommy” asked Dad if he in-
tended clearing all the scrub and pine.
“Too right,” said Dad with a grin—we
mostly grinned when “our Pommy” asked
questions—but the blue eyes looked wor-
ried, and he said that in England they
always left a few trees for breakwinds.
He hesitated, then said with a rush —
probably fearful of our laughter—that
the Mallee was a lot windier than where
he’d come from, and he’d never seen
little willy-willies of dust as thick on a
ploughed paddock as they were on our
fallowed flat. Dad told him not to worry ;
he ought to go out to Broken Hill if he
wanted to see a real willy-willy.
After the rises were cleared Dad was
in a hurry to get in more wheat. We
bought a big stump-jump disc and ripped
into the new country quick and lively,
“our Pommy” expressed his awe at the
way we went at it night and day and
himself toiled manfully, being “on” a
percentage of the crop as a bonus.
But he didn’t like the disc. Thought
it fined the ground too much. Where
he’d come from they used mouldboards,
and somehow he felt a fallow would be
better if left rough and cloddy than
chopped up fine by discs and scarifiers.
We hooted with* derision. Fancy wast-
ing time with a mouldboard when the
disc or scarifier could rattle through twice
as much country in the same time. You
had to have a good tilth for wheat; a
close, fine mulch was necessary in dry
farming. He’d better forget England ;
this was Australia, and farming was dif-
ferent here.
Yes, this was Australia. We don’t
know where “our Pommy” is. Dad has
been dead five years. Down on the flat
the bed of limestone sticks out in big
patches ; up where the pines were the
rise has melted ; what hasn’t blown away
was washed out in the scouring rains
three summers ago. There’s a bit of a
crop on one of the other rises; on the
other we’ve got a mixture of oats, thistles,
marram grass, a small native bush—any-
thing that will grow—and a few sheep drift
round on it. There isn’t much we can
do, because we’ve worked hard for over
20 years and the banks have shut down
on us and they say you can earn good
money in Melbourne. We don’t want
to go to Melbourne, but the place won’t
keep two of us going.
We can’t help thinking of “our
Pommy” and his queer notions about
windbreaks and the effect of fine-cutting
implements on sandy loams.
Milk for Cheese.
“Mackay”: For cheese, milk from new
cows should not be included for at least
ten days after calving or until milk is
normal. Aborting cows should be isolated
and their milk discarded. Dry off milking
cows at least six weeks before calving.
Milk of unhealthy animals is no good
"Out o' step, ain'tcher, Ma?"
for cheese. Worst of the lot is from
cows suffering with mastitis.
Any uncleanliness in the dairy, un-
satisfactory dairy buildings and impure
water supply are sure breeding grounds
for bacteria. Result is “off” flavors,
overripe, fermented, yeasty, cheesy,
tallowy and gassy milk.
Cut out wet-hand milking. Washing
the udder and teats before milking cleans
away manure, dirt and dust. Use clean
water and add a chlorine preparation.
Wipe dry with a clean cloth. Chlorine
rinse should be changed frequently.
There’s a big possibility that all fresh
milk is contaminated. Milk the first three
or four squirts from each teat into a
separate vessel. Every utensil should be
thoroughly cleansed and sterilised, all
must be kept in good repair, rusty ones
should be dumped if re-tinning is im-
possible. Interiors of dairy buildings
need limewashing regularly. Droppings
should be removed from the yards daily.
Impure water —swamps, dams or boggy
waterholes —is the main cause of ropy and
slimy milk. Water troughs need sys-
tematic cleaning. Where water used for
washing utensils is suspect, treat with
chlorine.
If milk be placed in any area close to
strong-smelling substances it will rapidly
develop an “off” flavor. Odorous disin-
fectants used for washing udders, pungent
cleansers, all oily smells are quickly
absorbed by milk.
Fodder Crops.
“Ex-Vic.”; A. Morgan, of the Vic-
torian Agricultural Department, looks at
five fairly popular fodder crops like this:
Jap. millet is of quick and early
growth, is always safe to graze except
for ravenous stock, is palatable for sheep
and cattle when kept short, is easily cut
for hay and the seed is cheap. It goes
under quick in a dry spell, won’t stand
frost and becomes rank if allowed to
grow too long.
Sudan grass will grow rapidly and
early, will stand up to a dry spell and is
easily harvested for hay or seed, though
the hay isn’t as good as cereal hay. There
is risk of it poisoning stock at certain
stages and, like millet, it becomes rank
when getting near ripeness.
Ambercane, saccaline and imphee give
bulk, hold their palatability to a late
stage, resist dryness fairly well and miss
frosts because of their lateness. But they
won’t be available for grazing—in Vic-
toria—until February, are costly to har-
vest for seed and don’t suit hay- or
silage-making.
Morgan points out that all five are
mainly grazing crops, and much better
hay or silage can be made from cereals,
lucerne and the rye grasses mixed with
sub. clover.
In north Victoria summer rain may
bring away good natural feed in outer
paddocks, whereupon it is usual to take
sheep off the irrigated districts and agist-
ment profits vanish. So will the millet
and Sudan, the ambercane, the saccaline
and the imphee unless attempts are
made to conserve them. The sorghums,
of course, are useful in silage, and if it
is decided to harvest millet or Sudan for
seed it can be done by cutting and stock-
ing for threshing or by using a mower
and rake. But the implements won’t
face ambercane and saccaline.
Oats Under Test.
“A 1 Gerian”: Tests at Dookie (Vic.)
were aimed at finding out the grazing
possibilities of oats and their ability to
recover, also the effect of the seeding
rate.
Algeribee, Dawn and Mulga were
chosen, sown in two lots each of 601 b.
and 901 b. of seed and |cwt. of super, an
acre, and managed in three sections:
Eaten right out over August, September
and October; grazed in August and then
cut for hay; ungrazed and cut for hay.
Over two years Algeribee gave 38.2 cwt.
of green feed an acre when eaten out,
11.2 cwt. of greenstuff and 10.8 cwt. of
hay when grazed once, and 15cwt. as hay
only. Figures for the others were:
Dawn, 30.4, 7.9 and 8.8, 15.7 ; Mulga,
27.2, 7.9 and 7.6, 15.1. The yields were
averaged from both rates of seeding.
The seasons, 1938 and 1940, were both
dry, hence the low yields. Algeribee is a
late maturer, Dawn a mid maturer and
Mulga an early maturer, and they yielded
in that order. None of the plots grazed
once recovered sufficiently to equal the
hay yield of the ungrazed plots.
The higher-seeding rate gave a higher
yield, indicating that, when eating-out or
a single grazing and cutting for hay are
sought, higher seeding is necessary. If
the season should be good a gain all
round would probably result from heavier
seeding.
“Big Scrub” Soils.
“L. S. More ”: Dr. Parbery, soil
chemist of the N.S.W. Agricultural De-
partment, has
drawn attention to
the difficulty of
formulating a satis-
factory fertiliser
treatment for the
red volcanic “Big
Scrub” soils of the
N.S.W. Far North
Coast. Normally
soils respond to
any fertiliser which
contains an agent
in which they are
deficient, but,
though lime and
magnesium are the
outstanding defi-
ciencies in the “Big
Scrub”—sometimes
so marked as to
cause noticeable
symptoms of defi-
ciency disease a
satisfactory
response to lime or
magnesium -lime
topdressing is sel-
dom obtained.
Phosphate, too, is
low, but super,
rarely does much
good.
At Bangalow, W. J. Rankin has a
system of grassland management close
to the ideal for such country. More than
half his 192 acres has been improved
by renovation, topdressing and sowing
of winter-growing grasses. Subdivided
into 32 paddocks, averaging three acres
in size, none larger than six acres, pro-
ductive capacity of the dominant pas-
palum-white clover pasture has been
greatly increased by mowing, harrowing
and topdressing with lime and super, at
Bdwt. and 2dwt. an acre respectively.
Rankin is testing dolomite against lime
to see if its magnesium content will help
the magnesium-deficient soil. As a winter
dressing, sulphate of ammonia at lewt.
per acre is used as a stimulant on rye
grasses and Phaiaris tuberosa. N.Z. and
Italian rye and prairie grass are used for
annual pastures, and phaiaris has proved
to persist much longer when sown with
red and white clover in the permanent
pasture than perennial rye.
Rankin is a prominent Jersey-breeder,
and the condition of his stock at home
o Continued on page 22.)


“ '
i u
>5
.. ;i v. ..
r * :
HL...J
■
'■z.
s i m i
if... /
*t J
'
-
V
ipijjiww.' w"»*-wr
Is l\ I
A ill
w
i
m i
m k-
a:.
L
.
■
f
I
i
*
mmUMB fe
. Jr
; •••
m.
M
V \
m
<? «
y
e
Hi
o x
IP
b*
Ji
*
£j|
* a.^
>
prr.
v
m
%
<c
%
r-r ■ S 3
«JE
r m;. mp
v*
53:
iiJM
■m
K
us
m
H
n
I
1
III 1 1
Tj.lt i! Pi
<8
Ft
h h
z I
■I
V\J
i
\
lw\4&m rl
of*
*S
t
’y %
s
m
■ : m
V
-x;
**Sb '*m
mmm
f // ? 4
v I lid
I
i i
rich, sustaining value of sun-ripened
Oats —that is what you get in every health-bringing
glass of Tooheys Oatmeal Stout. It nourishes —it
strengthens without fattening.
TOOHEYS
om stout
“ There's New life in Every Bottle
'
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY,
Agents:
VICTORIA*
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, PKilp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA!
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Ply., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE MANAGER: A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA. HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES', LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM
PROVIDES THE SAFETY AND COMFORT OF A
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
F
NO SMELL, NO FLIES, NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 1700 in use.
Health Comfort Economy.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
£l7/17/6 f.o.b. Sydney, including 10% Sales Tax, plus
20/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency and
mechanism.
It is not just a
.modified closet
pan.
It displaces pans
and saves sanitary
rates.
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
ANY HANDY-
MAN CAN IN-
STAL IT.
MARSDEN
CHURCH OF ENGLAND SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
BATHURST
MERRICK HOUSE,
Showing view of Bishop Long Memorial
Clock Tower.
Primary to Leaving
Certificate Honours.
Full Commercial
Course.
All Cultural Subjects.
Spacious grounds of
100 acres with
splendid facilities for
all sports.
A liberal education in
a bracing climate
amidst beautiful sur-
roundings.
MISS B. R. WHYSALL,
Headmistress.
Illustrated Prospectus on Application to: —
THE BURSAR, DIOCESAN REGISTRY,
BATHURST.
Smokers are saying—
“l’m not cutting down
my smoking, I’m smoking
‘Hillmans,’ ”
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia—Specially Cut
for slow smoking— therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked.
LOOK AT THE PRICES,
TOO! From Manufacturer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.”
PRICE LIST as from Ist Dec., 1941.
Per lb.
Four Square 10/-
First Crop, mild 10/-
AII British, mild 10/-
Riverhead Gold, medium ... 10/-
Old Peter, dark 10/-
Cavendish, strong 10/-
Beech Nut, medium 10/-
Africanda, mellow and mild . . 10/-
Soldier’s Own, mild 10/-
Normandie, medium 10/-
Winning Post, medium 10/-
Three Bells, strong 10/-
Bird’s Eye, medium 10/-
Nigeroid, in pipe only 10/-
Barlock, pipe only mixture . . 11/-
Latakia, in pipe only 11/-
White Lodge Medium 11/-
White Lodge Light 11/-
Cahill’s Special 11/-
Union Leader, medium 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium 11/-
Imperial 14/-
Premier 16/-
Postage Extra.
When ordering please state whether
for cigarette or pipe smoking.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY
Tobacco Blemlers,
Box 6, P. 0., Valley Nl, Brisbane.
Telegrams, “Comgrow.”
’Phone No. 84587.
ROSE c
eEfIHBB
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
M. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St.. Sydney
The Man on the Land— Continued
and in show-rings testifies to the success
of his soil management,
Kurrajongs.
“K.J.G.”; H. S. Henley has over 4000
kurrajongs on his Cowra (N.S.W.) farm.
He gets the seeds from the pods in winter
and plants them in a finely-worked seed-
bed in rows 6in. apart. A year later the
best of the seedlings are transplanted 3ft.
to 4ft. apart in nursery beds, top growth
and lesser roots being cut away.
Henley found that young kurrajongs
grow rapidly in cultivated beds, and after
six to eight years, when they are up to
6ft. high, they are transplanted to their
permanent stands, the roots and top again
cut away. The spot is Well cultivated
beforehand, and when the trees are
planted they look like rows of thin posts.
When they start to shoot the new growth
is severely thinned out. Thenceforth,
until they are established beyond doubt,
the kurrajongs get as much attention as
would orchard trees.
This district is one with a pretty high
and assured rainfall, and its summers are
not as severe as in parts close by in the
west and north. But kurrajongs grow
well at Condobolin and Mendooran, dis-
tricts not up to Cowra in either rainfall
or general soil quality, and Henley’s
methods are worth trying in any part
where an occasional kurrajong flourishes
naturally.
Hints for the Farm.
“Brecko”: R. C. Scott, Chief Agricultural
Adviser in South Australia, says that the
high food value of rye is overlooked be-
cause the grain lacks palatability. Its
food content is higher than that of wheat,
oats or Cape barley, and sheep do well
on it even when it forms the whole grain
ration. To make it palatable for other
stock and poultry rye should be broken
down at the rate of about one-third rye
and two-thirds wheat, oats or barley.
Tests will prove what is the best pro-
portion.
“H.C.”: When weekly soaking of the
vegetable garden is impossible, build a
small earth wall around the base of each
plant and fill two or three times with
water as the soil dries. Evaporation is
a heavy loss during dry periods. A mulch
of animal manure or grass cuttings
around plants holds the moisture. When
mulches are not available, scuff up the
surface with a hoe.
J. F. Guthrie remembers:
M.O.L. references to the success of Ben-
cubbin wheat remind me that I brought the
first bag of Bencubbin to N.S.W. in 1929. My
son, the late James R. Guthrie, who with C.
Pratt had a long lead in the East-West Air
Race, crashed near Kellerberrin (W.A.) and was
severely injured. I flew from Geelong to his
bedside, and during my stay at Kellerberrin
I was motored to the Merriden State Farm.
I asked to buy some Nabawa seed and the
manager said, “I think we have something
better, we are calling it Bencubbin.” They
let me have the first bag they could spare, and
it was sown on my property, Bulgandra, near
Rand (N.S.W.), and yielded 30 bags an acre.
I was able to sell 50 bushels for seed, the
first sale of Bencubbin in the east.
“Natrax”: Frank Leggo, a Uranquinty
(N.S.W.) man, is trying flax on his
Riverina farm this season. It was sown
in early June and got a little extra water
by irrigation. Early this month it had
started to flower and was 3ft. 6in. high.
Leggo is satisfied that flax is a commer-
cial proposition in Riverina.
“Melonkin”: Three specified crops,
Chantenay carrots, Detroit Dark Red
beet and Hollow Crown parsnips, are
being eagerly snapped up by canneries
for military contracts, but there is little
seed for future crops and imports are
cut off. In the seeds a good general
standard of quality and trueness to type
are demanded. Selection work can be
done during harvesting and selected roots
planted as soon as possible for seed-
production. Growers should plant as
many seed roots as possible.
Outback Occasions.
No. 17.
RUNNING THE BARB.
The occasion of running the barb
along a boundary fence deserves a good
deal more notice than it generally gets. In
war-time, people in the cities see pictures
of tattered and bleeding men making
their way over the landscape ; the back
country has been seeing such things in
the flesh these many years.
The barbed wire, of course, is run
along the top of the fence. Why it isn’t
run along the bottom isn’t explained;
probably it would be just as difficult,
anyhow, and there is a possibility that
nobody has thought of the bottom be-
fore. Few people who have had any ex-
perience of barbed wire ever wish to
think about it at all.
Before running the barb it is necessary
to have a fence upon which to run it.
Any fence will do, though preference
should be given to one that bounds your
own property. Indiscriminately running
barbs around other people’s fences is
likely to lead to unnecessary expense and
upset those harmonious relations which
should exist between people in isolated
districts.
Having selected the fence, you have
next to decide how to affix the wire.
Simply running it along the ground and
then lifting it up and letting it lie along
the tops of the posts isn’t sufficient.
Stapling is a popular form ; another is to
drill a hole in the post and slip a bit of
fine wire through the hole, tying each end
round the barbed wire. Personally, we’ve
never been sure whether this is to hold
the barbed wire firm on the post or to
keep the tie-wire from slipping through
the hole.
One of our neighbors decided to save
money and time by boring one-inch auger
holes in the tops of his posts. He then
attempted to pull the barb through them.
But of course the points caught on the
hole edges and stuck him up. He fixed
a horse on the end of the barb and tried
that. No good. So he tied a tractor on,
first easing the barb through about ten
posts. He got on the tractor, let in the
clutch and pulled the entire ten posts out
of the ground Then he sent for his eldest
son and said, “Look, I’m a bit sick of
you loafin’ round here. Fix this fence up
an’ get that barb on. Looks like some-
body’s steers or somethin’ knocked it
down.”
Easily the simplest way to run the
barb is to tie it to the strainer, then, with
a mate and yourself holding the coil be-
tween you on a bar, walk steadily to the
next strainer, reeling the barb out behind
you along the fence line. Then fix a bit
of plain wire to the strainer, get a firm
grip on the ground and begin to take up
the slack. After a bit you’ll see that the
tenseness is about right, so you give her
an extra twitch to be certain and the
barb snaps at the other strainer, races
along the ground and wraps itself around
you.
(Query: What is it about the points
of a new galvanised barbed wire that
stings so painfully?)
Presently your mate unpins you from
your wire cocoon and you make an-
other attempt. This time you’re more
careful about the strain and get it up
nicely. Then, while your mate goes along
stapling or wiring the posts, you go along
and gather the strips of skin and flesh
hanging from the barb at various points.
With a small pang of excitement you
recognise the wart that has lived on the
back of your neck for 32 years, and you
disentangle it from the barb, feeling that
you’ve put part of yourself into that
fence.
After the running of the barb is
finished you patch up your wounds with
sticking-plaster and ointment—this part
of the work cannot be done until the
barb is run because you never know how
much sticking-plaster you’ll need until
then —and go about your more normal
avocations. Six weeks later a grassfire
sweeps along that bit of fence and burns
out 15 or 16 posts.
You survey the damage, get the neces-
sary posts and wire and grimly repair
the break, enduring the additional cuts
and scratches stoically. Then you write
to the shire council pointing out that the
fire began on the water reserve and
wouldn’t have got to your place if the
council had the gumption to plough a
firebreak, and it was a pity the shire
clerk and engineer didn’t look round the
district occasionally instead of making
silly reports to council meetings, and at
the next shire elections you’ll see that the
ratepayers get some consideration or
there’ll be trouble.
Three weeks after this a letter comes
from the shire office informing you that
at its last meeting the council had dis-
cussed the matter of outstanding and
overdue rates and had decided that no
further leniency could be extended to
the more serious cases, in which cate-
gory your own was listed, and unless
some effort was made to liquidate the
debt of £2B 18s. 9d. now owing proceed-
ings against you for recovery would issue
out of the Small Debts Court within 14
days’ expiration of the receipt of the
enclosure.
Somehow you feel that the barb is at
the back of it, and you sit out on the
verandah after tea vaguely wondering
who invented the blasted stuff anyhow,
and planning some sort of way to per-
suade your bank to honor a cheque for
rates sent to the council. Worried, and
wishing you hadn’t got so excited over
the fire, you step off the verandah and
are seized round the ankles by some force
that trips you into the dust and tears
at your knees and hands. Picking your-
self up, you take hold of the bit of
barbed wire some fool left lying there
and whirl it madly into the darkness.
The last barb on it catches your shoulder
and it whips back and clamps all down
your arm. Racked by sobs, you sit down
and as calmly as possible detach the
thing.


Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— W. H. Hart. Esq. (Chairman) ;M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Win. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G. ; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra. Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
Does you car jerk and
straggle on the hills?
Even the best spark plugs,
after a certain time, become
worn out and inefficient.
Then they should be re-
placed because weak spark
plugs cannot produce com-
plete combustion; conse-
quently, fuel is wasted and
power is lost. Install new
Champion
Spark Plugs,
the only plugs
with the Silli-
manite insula-
tor and the
Sillmentseal,
Factories,
Fe Itha m,
Eng. Wind-
sor, Can.
Toledo,
USA.
srr
V\V
i
A
m
mi
mm
Ml nil ii
ii Will
Will
Install new
Champion Spark Plngsl
CONTAINS SILLMENT-r-
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals Cham-
pions against trouble-
some leakage, at the
shoulder and past the
center electrode, com-
mon to ordinary spark
plugs. This patented
feature corrects rough,
uneven and wasteful
engine operation
caused by leaky, over-
heated spark plugs.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. . .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy miniature camera, Perfex, Foth Derty,
or similar make, with lens about F 2.8, ana
accessories. —3197.
Information Sought.
lam enlisting in the R.A.A.F. Enlistment
will mean reduction in wages and c( f nsld .
expense. I shall be unable to meet instalments
on car (which, of course 1 cannot use at
present). What is the legal position /—iUl.
Before the vendor can exercise any ot his
rights he must obtain the leave of the Cour ,
which has many powers, including Power to
postpone payment of capital instalments. Con
suit the vendor and see if you can t come to
some arrangement.
« * * *
My wife and I have just about sufficient
to buy a little shack to end our days in, but
none to spare to give to lawyers. What would
be the safest and cheapest way to get the title
deeds fixed up in N. S. Wales?— 297B.
Get the assistance of officers of the Registrar-
General’s Department, who will readily help
you. But don’t try to do the job yourselt.
4= * * *
(1) In a book I read some years ago there
was a character whose face was badly dis-
figured and who wore a mask, having obtained
police permission so to do. Any foundation
for the implication that it is illegal to wear a
mask in the street ? —3154.
Know of no direct legal ban on the wear-
ing of masks but it would probably come
within the definition of offensive behavior. Ihis,
of course, could not apply to the wearing ot
gas masks as a war-time precaution.
* * * *
(1) Is H. L. Mencken, editor of the "Ameri-
can Mercury,” still alive ? (2) Did he write any-
thing on the Nazis? (3) Any studies, biogta-
phies, etc., on him besides that by George Jean
Nathan? (4) Did he write any long study on
anything musical? —3017.
(1) Yes. (2) No particular book. (3) There
are pamphlets by Rascoe and others. (4) No.
* * * *
In a N.S.W. country town recently I missed
the train because it left before the scheduled
time. It meant a considerable loss of business
to me. Have I any redress? —3219.
There’s a by-law that covers such happenings:
“The times stated in the official timetables are
those at which it is intended, so far as the
circumstances will permit, that the tram should
arrive at, and depart from, the various stations;
but the Commissioner does not guarantee the
departure or arrival of trains at the times
stated, nor to be responsible for delay or
any consequences arising therefrom.”
# * * *
How to treat cabbage and other brassica
plants affected with club-root and fly? —3228.
Club-root is a soil disease' which forms
lumpy sections on the fibres and soon destroys
the vitality of the plants. Pull up all affected
vegetables and burn them; then give the beds
a heavy dressing of lime (11b. to the square
yard), mixing it thoroughly through the soil
with a fork. Dip the fork in kerosene after
use to kill spores. Do not plant brassicas in
these beds for at least nine months. For the
cabbage fly spray the young plants in the early
stages with a mixture of arsenate of lead (one
part) and water (20 parts), or dust with
derris-root powder. This treatment should be
stopped when the hearts form, and the vege-
tables must be washed thoroughly before being
used.
* * * *
(1) Can blotches on a mirror caused by the
mercury peeling off be removed with fresh mer-
cury, and, if so, how ? (2) How is “sour
dough” made and used in breadmaking instead
of baking powder or yeast? —3l44.
(1) No job for an amateur. Any furniture
firm can do it for you. (2) “Sour dough” is
merely “leaven” or “starter” left over from
previous batch, and yeast must be first used.
Boil \oz. hops in one quart water for half-
hour, strain and, when lukewarm, add two level
teaspoons salt and four tablespoons sugar.
Beat with one cup flour, mix well, leave two
days, then add one cup freshly-boiled and
mashed potato. Keep near fire and bottle when
it has almost ceased to work. Keep corked.
This will keep four weeks in a cool place.
A friend, discussing the frequency of letters
in written English, argued that it is impos-
sible to compose a stanza of of average
length without using the letter “e,” and simi-
larly without using the letter “s.’ Any ex-
amples to disprove this? —3212.
There are examples of both; in the case of
the letter “e” the following:
A jovial swain should not complain
Of any buxom fair
Who mocks his pain and thinks it gain
To quiz his awkward air.
A jovial swain may rack his brain
And tax his fancy’s might;
To quiz is vain, for ’tis most plain
That what I say is right.
The following effort serves to illustrate that
the letter “s” is not indispensable: —
Tonight! Tonight! my gentle one.
The flower-bearing Amra tree
Doth long with fragrant moan to meet
The love-lip of the honey-bee.
But not the Amra tree can long
To greet the bee at evening light
With half the deep, fond love I long
To meet my Nama here tonight.
Then come, love, come.
« * * •
What are the methods used in saddle-graft-
ing on fruit trees and ornamental shrubs ?
—3198.
Cut back the limb of the shrub to be treated,
wash it clean with nicotine and soapy water,
then shape the end to a wedge. Cut the piece
to be grafted tongue-shaped to fit tightly over
the wedge, then bind firmly with tape and
cover with grafting-wax or mud to exclude air
for a while. In windy areas a splint over the
completed job will save damage. Allow only
two buds on the grafted wood, and give the
shrub plenty of water to promote quick-moving
sap. The saddle-graft should take in about
two months; but where there are signs ot
yellowing and decay, tackle the job again.
* * * *
During a holiday cricket match played with-
out boundary flags the ball was lifted into
scrubland and eight runs were scored before
“Lost ball” was called. Should those runs
have been allowed or is six the maximum
number when “Lost ball” is signalled? 3210.
M.C.C. Rule 34 is definite: “If a ball in play
cannot be found or recovered any fieldsman may
call ‘Lost ball,’ when the ball shall be ‘dead,
and six runs shall be added to the score; but
if more than six runs have been run before
‘Lost ball’ has been called, as many runs as
have been run shall be scored.”
* * * *
(1) What were the full figures of the first
tours of the All Blacks (M.L. ), Springboks (S.
Africa ) and Wallabies ( Australia ) Rugby Union
teams in England? (2) Test match results? —
3209.
’ (1) Tour figures: —
--Points—'
Pld. W. L. D. For.Agst.
All Blacks, 1905-06.. 33 32 1 868 47
Springboks, 1906-07.. 29 26 2 1 608 87
Wallabies, 1908-09.. 31 25 5 1 438 146
(2) Test results: All Blacks defeated England
15-0, Scotland 12-7, Ireland 15-0, and defeated
by Wales 3-0. Springboks defeated Wales 11-0,
Ireland 15-12, drew with England 3-3, and lost
to Scotland 6-0. Wallabies defeated England
9.3, and lost to Wales 9-6.
* * * »
(1) Some particulars of the 1888-89 Maori
Rugby Union team and its match figures? (2)
Result of the Test matches in the United King-
dom ? —3130.
(1) Their record is the most extensive of
any touring football band, as these figures
show:
Points.
Before tour— Played. Won. Lost. Drawn. For. Ag’nst.
In Australasia 10 8 2 46 21
In U.K. 74 49 20 5 394 188
After tour —
In Australia. . 14 14 255 60
In Maoriland 8 7 1 76 29
106 78 23 5 771 298
(1) Defeated Ireland 13-4; defeated by Wales
5-0, and England 7-0. Owing to friction between
England and Scotland R. Unions no Test was
played against Scotland.
4= * * *
A batsman running between wickets loses
his bat, but dives for the crease and gets his
hand over the line. Bails are knocked off by
ball. Is batsman out or not out? —3104.
The batsman is “not out.” M.C.C. Laws of
Cricket No. 19 states that “a batsman shall be
held to be ‘out of his ground’ unless his bat in
hand or some part of his person be grounded
within the line of the popping crease.”
* * * *
(1) Where and when did Ambrose Palmer
and Ron Richards have their last fight ? (2)
In which round did Palmer knock out
Richards ? (3) What was the punch he used ?
—3125.
(1) Sydney Sports Ground, April 12, 1938.
(2) Thirteenth. (3) A short left hook to the
chin.
♦ * * *
(1) Details of Andrew Charlton’s swimming
career, particularly his matches with Arne
Borg? (2) General description of the respective
swimming styles of these two ? —3247.
(1) In 1922 during the carnivals in Sydney
Charlton at the age of 14 won the 440yds.
first-class race in smin. 45sec. He was picked
out as a likely champion and coached by
Tommy Adrian till the following season. On
Boxing Day, 1922, he did 440yds. in smin.
16sec., an unofficial but authentic performance
which was the best recorded in Sydney. He
also covered 880yds. in llmin. ssec. Borg, who
had been carrying everything before him in
Europe, was asked to visit Australia in 1924,
Charlton having meanwhile easily defeated an
Hawaiian visitor, W. W. Harris, in a 440yds.
championship. Borg and Charlton first met at
the Sydney Domain baths in January, when
Charlton won the 440yds. race by 20yds., equal-
ling the world’s record time of smin. Ilf sec.,
and the 220yds. race in 2min. 23fsec., an Aus-
tralian record. Over 880yds. there was a great
tussle, but Charlton shook oft his opponent in
the last 50yds. and won in lOmin. slf sec.
Charlton swam no more that season but Bprg
did, suffering only one defeat, by Beaurepaire,
over 1320yds. At the Olympic Games in Paris
in July Charlton met Borg in the 1500-metre
final and defeated the Swede by 45 metres in
world record time of 20min. 6fsec. During
the race he also established a new world’s
record for 1000 metres. The meeting of Weiss-
muller, Charlton and Borg in the 400-metre
race was the event of the games; Weissmuller
won by two metres from Borg, with Charlton
a similar distance away third. Later the Aus-
tralian team took part in the Irish Tailteann
sports, where Charlton won the 200, 400, 800
and 1500 metre events. In 1925 Charlton re-
tired. (2) Charlton swam a stroke moulded on
Ross’s trudgeon crawl. He swam on his right
side, making the trudgeon-kick with his knee
straight just as his right arm was pulling and
keeping his feet moving with short beats until
it was time to make the trudgeon-kick again.
He used the full reach in placing his arms for-
ward and only when sprinting shortened his
strokes and quickened his kick. Charlton was
of heavy build, with a long reach and powerful
shoulders and legs. Borg swam a crawl stroke
in which he kicked his right leg at the same
time as he pulled with his left arm and his left
leg when he pulled with his right arm. He did
not extend his arms to their full length until after
they entered the water, cutting his arms in short
in front of his head and extending under the
water in the direction of his opposite shoulder.
He had no trudgeon kick but kicked twice with
his right leg and once with his left leg, using
an up-and-down kick. Borg was tall but not
heavily built, weighing only about 11 stone.
Brief Answers.
M.J.M.: (1) You cannot dispute the will but
if on your mother’s death you were left with-
out sufficient means for your maintenance or
support you could apply to the Court for an
allowance out of her estate. (2) No E.H.:
Take proceedings against the person to whom
you sent the watch for detention of property
in the Petty Sessions Court J.E.8.: (1)
Money could not be transmitted from England
to Australia in those circumstances at present.
See your bank. (2) Special provision would have
to be made A.T.: No. The disqualification
you have in mind only operates on the accept-
ance of an office of profit under the Crown.
Holding a brief on behalf of the Crown by a
barrister does not constitute the acceptance of
an office of profit... .R.L.A.: The Malta
stamp is No. 20 in Gibbons’s London cata-
logue. Date of issue was January 8, 1885. It
was in issue for eight years. Value of perfect
specimen 3d S.A.A.F.: Luminous paint is
obtainable from Lewis Berger and Sons, Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (.except of a hostile character ) wih
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
M.C.:
Nazi Propaganda,
Whither dost thou wander ?
Over neutrals’ borders,
Causing world disorders.
S.A.T.:
Oh, breeders of horses, your horse has won ;
The breeding completed, the job is done.
Come! Join now the colors (they are white and red).
Come! Gallop like hell, now give him his head.
D. 8.:
England, oh, England,
They’ve battered thee unfair.
....R.S.: Pretty enough to be promising....
E.E.: Worth trying elsewhere... .G.R.McC.:
Are you really trying to rhyme “worn” with
“gone”? P.Y.: Keep at it M.C.: Nearly.
I.M.P.: No “doths,” please G.L.: One
among dozens... .R.F.S.: There are few more
blameless pastimes than “scribbling for your
own amusement”... .J.P.: Good enough, but
it’s all been done before... .G.A.M.: Not even
a Magpie card M. 8.: The actual accounts
are better than any fictional handling of it....
P.S.: Piffling J.A.G.: It’s only a synopsis.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.L.: That frightful jowl! L.C.H.: As
full of inconsistencies as a flapper-press
leader C.G.: You are particularly adept at
tangling up your figures; send us in a wrestling
joke N.D.: Banked masses of oblique
shading kill the linework Bert C.: If you
give a man limbs like Hackenschmidt for
heaven’s sake don’t give him a neck like a
gaspipe E.C.S.: An Australian who doesn’t
know how a fellow leans against a pole? You’re
hopeless! M.M.: Illustrations of watered-
down smoking-room yarns find no market
here N.S.: A bloke in the horrors using a
fork dipped in molasses would turn in a
miracle of neatness compared with your effort.
T.L.B.; Hospital joke proved a cot-case.
A.P.: Your sketch of A.B. holystoning
skipper’s boots goes back with a true sailor’s
farewell 8.R.P.: Welcome to the parrot
with scales and a rriarcelled topknot! We now
await sketch of a furred goanna S.L.:
Viewed from a low-flying ’plane, a skyscraper
does not look smaller at the top than at the
base.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
,U The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
tia. per line.
First place for a Queenslander’s tribute to a very fine Australian enterprise
ot great and increasing value in war-time. The writer is a doctor.
Wogs and War
From a big block of buildings and
assorted detachments set in the wide park
lands which zone Melbourne to the
northward a notable but mostly unrecog-
nised contribution goes out to the Empire
war effort. They are the Serum Labora-
tories of the Commonwealth Department
of Health, largest and most comprehen-
sive institution of its kind in the Southern
Hemisphere and amongst the largest now
in operation anywhere.
They have made Australia indepen-
dent of all outside supplies of biological
and biochemical products used in civil
and military, human and veterinary medi-
cine. Not only do they perform this vital
service for Australians at home and over-
seas, but they also relieve Britain of the
heavy task of performing it in Empire
possessions and friendly non-British
countries in the Western Pacific and
Indian oceans. They have, too, carried
out an immense amount of original and
applied research which has added sub-
stantially to the world-stock of medical
and veterinary knowledge and are still
adding more. With all this they have
maintained a level of commercial success
extremely rare amongst Government
undertakings.
The origin of this laboratory dates back
to the early days of the 1914-18 war,
when shortage of supplies of vaccines and
sera from overseas created a grave emer-
gency. Dr. J. H. L. Cumpston, then
Director of Quarantine, now Director-
General of Medical Services for the
Commonwealth, placed before the Gov-
ernment of the day a comprehensive plan
for extending the Commonwealth Calf
Lymph Depot at Royal Park to a fully-
equipped manufacturing laboratory which
would eventually supply all Australian
needs of the kind in war-time and there-
after.
It was a bold scheme, especially in time
of war, and a costly one, but its Origi-
nator had convincing replies to all objec-
tions and it went through. Buildings were
put in hand, Dr. W. J. Penfold, a fine
research worker from the Lister Institute,
was selected as technical director, and an
extensive plan of work outlined in ad-
vance. Gloomy prophecies that it would
be swamped out by peace-time products
from abroad proved groundless. The in-
stitution produced as good or better pro-
ducts at lower prices and used the profits
to make those prices lower still and to
extend research which continually im-
proved its own standards.
For 23 years its history has been one
of uninterrupted scientific and commer-
cial progress. It has become an essential
and unreplaceable part of Australian
national economy. But for it the serum
necessary to save the life of a diphtheria-
smitten child would not be certainly
available, diabetic sufferers could not rely
on supplies of the insulin which prolongs
their lives and makes them bearable, our
men overseas could not have been
proofed against smallpox, typhoid and
cholera before they departed, many of
them for the very homes of such dis-
eases. These are a few only of the
benefits that have come from that idea
of a quarter-century ago, and more are
yet to come. — Puyyaka (Q.).
Banning of Sport
The ban on midweek sport is to be
commended, but it doesn’t go far enough.
All Saturday race-meetings should have
been included until such time as the
danger to this country has been removed.
All the bosh about workers requiring
some amusement in their relaxation
periods doesn’t carry weight, because
horseracing, which interests most work-
men, doesn’t amuse them. It encour-
ages them to spend money that the nation
sorely needs. Ask any punter who’s
done his dough whether he’d been enter-
tained !
Saturday afternoons could be spent in
a profitable way, not only to the country,
but to every individual within it. Teach
every workman how to use a rifle. The
Japs are gradually nearing our continent.
Soon we may experience what others
have experienced—invasion.
Compulsory parades for every man,
whether in a reserved occupation or not,
should be held each Saturday afternoon,
to teach them to shoot. Then the men
overseas will be content, knowing that
their folk on the home-front are ready
to resist to the last any act of aggression
on our shores.— Jeff (Vic.).
“Ships and Mr. Curtin”
The majority of Australian seamen are
heartily in accord with the views ex-
pressed in the article “Ships and Mr.
Curtin” (B. 17 /12 / ’4l). England intro-
duced compulsory measures for the man-
ning and conduct of her Merchant Navy
shortly after the outbreak of war, but at
the same time recognised merchant sea-
men as men on active service.
It is regrettable that the antics of a
minority should bring seamen into dis-
favor. As a body they are ready and
anxious to play their full part in Aus-
tralia’s war effort, and full recognition of
the vital importance of their work would
provide tremendous encouragement.
The conference of shipowners, mari-
time union representatives and Govern-
“Put him in the Air Force — he's a fledgling already .”
ment officials in Canberra will, I hope,
introduce drastic measures to prevent
any repetition of the recent shipping
delays.— Steamship (N.S.W.).
No Second Front Now
A few weeks ago, while the Russian
armies were steadily being driven back,
our local Communists, supported by
Labs, who had felt the expelling lash of
the Q.C.E. and a few misguided clerics,
endeavored to create a rumpus in
this State over the issue of more aid to
Russia, Just what aid we could give
Russia was never made clear. The Rus-
sians have since shown that they were
fairly well able to help themselves.
The real effect of the moves was to
create dissension.
Britain had her back to the wall in
the battle of the Atlantic, and the fact
that we in Australia were faced with
perils to meet which we needed all our
resources was apparently of no great con-
cern to these gentry. The safety of their
spiritual home transcended all other con-
siderations. Today they are strangely
silent.
A few weeks ago they were screaming
nightly from our million-pound Town
Hall and suburban street corners that
sorely-tried Britain should hurl her
British armies at the coast of France or
Belgium, regardless of losses in men or
ships, to relieve the pressure on Russia.
Today Russia has been relieved. Re-
lieved by the courage of her people, the
skill of her armies and the materials
which Britain denied her eastern forces
to afford her.
Today the gravest peril is ours. The
very existence of Australia and the
British Empire is endangered. A second
front by Russia against Japan would
materially assist our position. But our
local Communists and their heelers are
silent. —T. G. M. (Q.).
Unhonored and Unsung
It was stated (B. 17/12/’4l) that if the
successful Libyan campaign had been
fought by foreign, instead of British,
troops our papers would be singing its
praises instead of damning it with faint
praise as they are now.
This is only another way of stating the
disquieting fact, which most people must
have noticed, that, although we pride our-
selves on producing the finest fighting
men in the world, our armies are alto-
gether without honor in their own coun-
tries.
The German has been taught to rever-
ence the German soldier as the Father-
land’s protector; the Japanese believes
an insult to the army is treason to the
nation ; but in this country sneers at the
army’s supposed lack of organisation
and its blunders are the accepted thing.
How often we hear of the army’s
alleged mistakes, and how seldom we
hear a word of praise of the organisation
which in less than three years, and start-
ing from scratch, has trained and
equipped a formidable defence force and
at the same time trained, equipped and
sent into battle a magnificent expedition-
ary force.
A little more admiration for the grand
job it has done is the very least Australia
owes to its army.—D. (Q.).
Protest
A non-Aryan, a refugee and a
Christian, I have been trying for four
years to become a good Australian and to
forget all about the old country. The
task has not been made easier by per-
sistent contentions in some quarters that
people like myself could be Nazi in out-
look and feelings—which would sound
absurd even to a Nazi. Nor do I and
other refugees feel happy that we are
not allowed to take an active share in
the war-effort. Still, we hope that Aus-
tralia will soon follow the example of
other parts of the Empire and the U.S.A.
and utilise refugees for some sort of
service.
After this confession, a complaint. In
“How Sydney Took It” (B. 24/12/’4l)
“0.T.” quoted “S.M.H.’s” mention of
“European refugees leading the exodus
of bomb-scared Sydneyites to mountain
resorts,” Then he referred to the state-
ment of the secretary of the Migrants’
Consultative Council, who said that
National Security Regs, made it impos-
sible for refugees to evacuate Sydney
without permission of the police and mili-
tary authorities—to which could be added
that hardly any have cars or driving
licenses. But on page 10 were that car-
toon “Postscript to Exodus” and a
Political Point which mentioned the
“S.M.H.” report on the exodus without
the rectification—merely a reference
to “S.M.H.’s” “post-scriptural authority”
having been questioned.
I do not want to question your right
to criticise refugees, but attacks like the
one described seem unfair. I think
most refugees would welcome construe-
tive criticism, directed to showing how
within the scope of National Security
and other regulations they could adapt
themselves in a more satisfactory way to
the economic and social conditions of
their new home country, and what they
could do to give all possible help to the
war effort. These comments are offered
as the expression of a somewhat bitter
and frustrated feeling about certain
attacks and prejudices created mostly by
ignorance of our position and disabili-
ties and by the fact that we are used by
some people as tools for other purposes.
I gratefully acknowledge the friendly way
in which we have been welcomed by
many people in Australia, N. A.
(N.S.W.).
Moaners and Groaners
I’ve been surrounded by them during
the holidays, in clubs and other places,
and the extraordinary thing is that the
moaners and groaners are composed
almost entirely, if not entirely, of those
who failed to do their duty in the last
war. The younger generation and the in-
betweens are O.K. and mostly reason-
able—as, of course, are the Diggers. But
the squibs glory in the scare news of our
yellow press with its cheap headlines
and dangerous criticism. They are appar-
ently the only semblance of a Fifth
Column class we have. Canberra
(A.C.T. —sent by urgent wire).
Publicity
I, for one, am fed up with reading
such items as these: “Bill Soanso, the
prominent cricketer, enlisted today in the
A.1.F.,” or “Ikey Odds, the famous book-
maker, has applied to join the R.A.A.F.”
I admire Bill and Ikey, but can’t help
remembering that when pals of mine
joined up, some of them with wife and
family and in pretty good jobs, there
wasn’t a word about it in the papers.
It can’t be said to be good
recruiting publicity either.
The only effect on most
people is to make them
imagine that “sports” and
“sportsmen” are not expected
to enlist, and that when they
do it is so unexpected that it
is good copy.—W. K. D. (Q.).
Profanation
Sheer profanation of a Vic-
torian temple was the raid,
made without fair and decent
warning by the Gaming
Police of Melbourne, on the
Victorian Club on Cup Eve.
The coarse-fingered image-
breakers found 600 to 700 of
the sporting elite assembled,
giving it lip in voices that
could be heard halfway down
Queen-street. For there was
in progress the “calling of the
card,” a ceremony that has
been performed on the same
date annually from time im-
memorial. The shudder that
went through the portly
frames of the members at
this invasion of insensitive
official vandals almost
wrecked the building, and in
the wave of indignation that
swept through the land the war was
almost forgotten.
In the midst of invasion alarms a Mel-
bourne Court found time to try the case
of this privileged priesthood, and there
was some interesting evidence. The extent
to which these worshippers of their horse
god can carry their excesses of holy ardor
was shown by the betting book (pro-
duced) which registered a total of 245
wagers; £104,010 to £4413.
In defence of the outraged parties
counsel remarked that the function had
been sanctioned by many years of usage,
that there had been no warning of official
disapproval, and that the raid had been
made not under the new Betting Act but
by virtue of provisions almost as old as
the club itself. He added that the out-
rage to the susceptibilities of the club was
such that a former president was taken
ill the following day and never recovered.
But a hard-hearted Bench was so lack-
ing in reverence that it fined the secre-
tary £5O for permitting betting on the
club premises.
Let the thing be placed on record as
a unique war episode.—X. S. (Vic.).
University Scholarships
“Paddy M.’s” condemnation of the
apprenticeship system (B. 17/12/’4l) is
timely. But that is not the only system
which is hard on those participating in it.
The system of university scholarships is
most unsatisfactory in many cases. These
scholarships usually consist of exemption
from class fees during the course, to-
gether with a cash payment of four or
five pounds a year to cover the cost of
books. (Very often one book costs as
much as £3!)
The holder of the scholarship receives
no money to cover the cost of living. For


NOTICES.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents tor any
goods or property within the Sydney Fire dis-
trict, and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in respect
of which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State, are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New south
Wales returns showing the amount or such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1941.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1942; subject
to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day for every
day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the pro-
portion of the premiums properly chargeable
in respect of the Fire Risk during the time such
property was in any Fire District under the
Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies,
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1941, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1942; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
MADE IN
Australia
AND NOW READY
1
*
r
3
\
r
R
ELUCTANTLY, throughout the democracies,
free men are setting aside the tools and
instruments of peace and are grasping the weapons of self-defence
and victory. (J The tools of victory are now made in Australia;
they are already on active service abroad; but let us not forget that
the speed of victory will be as the speed of our production of
weapons. On then, to work with a cheerful will to win a world
for peace-loving men.
i i
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS
KEMBIA ROAD. PORT KEMBIA
PTY.
LTD.
THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION MANUFACTURERS OF STEEL SHEETS
this, he has to rely on his parents. If they
are too poor or dead he has no alterna-
tive but to earn his own crust. This is
made harder by the fact that the terms of
the scholarship usually stipulate that a
full-time course is to be done. He there-
fore has to find work that can be done
in the evenings and on week-ends.
As scholarships are awarded only to
persons of above average intelligence it
seems a pity that these should be made
to suffer in some instances through
poverty and other causes. There are, l
should mention, some scholarships which
do make allowances for living expenses.
—Tonsi (Tas.).
One Coghlan
When I and Australia were younger
New South Wales had a statistician, one
Coghlan, to whom figures on every con-
ceivable aspect of Australian life were as
meat and drink. A tradition grew that
Coghlan lived for statistics alone, though
in the evening of his days it was dis-
covered that he was also mildly addicted
to the writing of verse.
How in these days I yearn for Coghlan,
or someone upon whom his statistical
mantle had fallen, just so that someone
might tell me the aggregate cost to the
Australian people of all these boards and
committees which at present infest our
collective life. It must be prodigious.
Back in more individualistic days the
outcry of both the producer and the con-
sumer was of the predacious profits of
the “middleman.” But was the much-
abused middleman’s toll on industry ever
as great as that now extorted by boards,
with their high-salaried members, their
hosts of clerks, typists and inspectors?
And what an enormous aggregate of non-
productive futility to be carried by the
few actual wealth-producers.
If only a Coghlan would arise and give
us the cost in one lump sum! —W. C. C.
(W.A.).
“The Poor Politician”
That Westralian contributor (B.
31/12/’4l) who wonders how long it will
be before his local politicians raid the
Treasury for a more than pound-for-
pound contribution to their proposed
superannuation scheme for local poli-
ticians is a fair representative of the
popular Australian attitude towards poli-
ticians.
For this, blame must be laid on both
politicians and voters, as well as on the
system that allows anybody, without re-
gard to his intellectual qualifications, to
stand for a seat. Pre-election speeches
are usually flowery and full of promises,
the stock-in-trade of everybody who has
something to sell, as the would-be poli-
tician tries to sell his services.
That the candidate himself honestly be-
lieves, within the limits of his intelli-
gence, that those services will be valuable
to his country is beside the point, which
is that as long as selfishness and credulity
rule the populace so long will the popu-
lace vote for the man who offers plenty
of money and a general good time to be
had by all.
H. L. Mencken, one of the few Amen-
cans of this day and age whose writings
on common topics will endure, ticked oft
the professional politician thus:
j n a jj these countries [Europe and
Russia], as in the United States, politics
has resolved itself into a wholesale bribery,
at the general expense, of eager minorities
of stup i(j vo ters the end-product is
always ruin and chaos, and out of chaos
flows some form of despotism. There then
begins anew the long and painful process
of recovering the common rights of the
individual.
j agree with the Westralian in his cyni-
c j smj bu t the voter is more to blame than
tbe politician. Especially is this so in
us t ra lia, where concentrations of popu-
lation i n or three spots in an area of
3 square miles must lead, not
only to t h e emergence of the professional
politician, but also to the dominance of
a ma j or ity of stupid voters and to the
determination of the professional poli-
to keep the population concen-
trate(j 5 as j s clearly shown by the general
i eg i s i a tion of the six Australian State
p ar ]i amen ts.
To expect re f orm i s hopeless until a
ma j ority G f the electors is capable of see-
. througb charlatanism in every form,
current exhibitions of faith in every-
tj. from the stars to teacup reading
aren , t con d U cive to optimism. All the same,
a y considerable step forward lies in
abolish j ng s [ x Q f tbe seven Parliaments,
wh}ch wou id reduce “wholesale bribery”
and - ye tbe peop ] e a chance to pay more
atten * ion to their votes .
Ac it is fpw men in anv one State can
offhand the names of the leading
politicians in tbe state across the border,
though their legislation can and does
directly affect all Australia in the form of
transport and marketing legislation, to
mention only two items. Tummas
McNark (A.C.T.).
Allegory, Parable or Fable
Saali Mohammed was called to his
fathers, and in that hour he entered into
a strait path which presently divided.
At the bifurcation were two signs. On
one he read “Paradise —as per Koran” ;
and on the other “Paradise Revised
Version. New and Modern Attractions.
One Week’s Trial.”
Being an adventurous old bird, Saali
took the second path, and almost imme-
diately came to a building labelled
“Department of Reincarnation.” Inside
its doors he found the Information Desk
and a nice, shiny Clerk.
“What manner of place is this new
Paradise?” he inquired.
“It is called Australia,” replied the
Clerk, “and I can assure you that it is
the latest thing in Paradises. The blessed
work only six hours a day in this place,
and the lowest wage for a man is
£8 17s. 6d. per week. It is a country
whose especial virtue is that one does
as one likes. No man need strive for
himself ; it is done for him by men called
politicians, and even these, being of that
class which is under the special provi-
dence of Allah, toil not, neither do they
think. In fact, it is considered by many
that thinking should not be done in this
Paradise, but should be imported in bulk
from a place called America. Moreover,
there are seven Governments to look
after the politicians, and to make laws
to suit all men.
“The diversity of pleasures obtainable
at lowest prices is unparalleled in any
Paradise. And an exclusive virtue is that
if any one pleasure be threatened the
newspapers raise a howl until it is re-
stored.”
“How can this thing be?” marvelled
the venerable Saali.
“If you care to take a week’s trial,”
pursued the Clerk, “I can recommend
you a reincarnation in the body of a
young workman of 25, married to a
young wife, and in a comfortable home
with all mod. cons.”
“But” began Saali.
“Not at all,” antopated the young
man who, being a Celestial Clerk was
* W of J“ “
of ‘MTu one should
dccjdc Qn £ami|y [he Government will
support it at—ah, I’ll look up the files
pr^ en(|y The o|d rate was flve bob
head, but ”_h e no dded confidentially—
“you know how these things change in
* Progressive Paradise. Oh. and there’s
a on, he a e ‘ whose
. But —— Saab, whose
the Clerk. “No trouble.
as stated and
and Imbbies^nd'things
** >;» la remained for her to fuss
over the reincarnation of a husband ot
seven wives. However, he was a sport-
wf sa-ttsr s=
“m with *"exS nt.
He had become a munition worker,
equal in honor to a front-line soldier,
but in receipt of much higher pay in
safer place. , f
The price of bread at is 2d a
was a bit of a shocker, but entrance rates
at the dogs were low, and on £8 17s._6d.
a week it didn t matter if a shirt cost 255.,
a pair 0 f boots 305., and a nobbier of
red wine Is. 3d. In fact, things looked
distinctly good.
Saali paid the rent at the week-end
with a ha’penny to spare, and at the
same time he remembered that his seven
days’ trial was at an end. He had to
choose, but £8 17s. 6d. for a 36-hour
week, free strikes and cheap dog races
really left no choice. Saab became an
Australian. D. R. H. (S.A.).


THAT-
'H E
RELIEF FROM PERSONAL WORRIES
Two special books are available, free of charge, from Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd.
The first, entitled, " The Task That Few Men Want," deals with the Company's
special service in connection with the execution of Wills and the administration
of Estates. The second book (" Hand Over Your Worry ") tells how Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd. can assume responsibility for your personal business affairs during
your lifetime. It has special appeal to those living in retirement and to those
whose professional activities are of an arduous character.
These publications will gladly be forwarded on request. Both are of particular
importance in current circumstances.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
T BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 7901 Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
AN INEXPENSIVE STATION SADDLE
THE
STOCKRIDER”
,*■ • ♦
9/9L/93
(COMPLETE)
This saddle is
exceptio na 11 y
good value for
the money and
suitable for
station work.
It has a com-
fortable pigskin
seat with a
narrow waist, firm capped
pads and raised thigh pads.
N.S.W. Freight on Saddles
paid for cash with order.
WALTHER*. STEVE HSOHB
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY]
39S CEORCE ST. SYDHEY
i 1 j>v
ryTr
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
■s
SWN
Established 1808 in Keign of George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
(England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.B.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Emperor Mine
A number of things have lately
happened to affect the market for
Fiji gold shares in Australia. Selling
activity has been increased by reason
of the imposition of Australian taxation
on all income received by Common-
wealth residents from such enterprises as
Fiji goldmines, and on top of this the
activity of Japanese raiding forces in the
Pacific has had a shattering effect.
Future divs. have been “postponed.”
Production figures for the year are not
available, but throughput of- ore is stated
to have been “satisfactory,” and “results
obtained compared favorably with the
figures budgeted for at the beginning
of the year.” The mill carried on with-
out any major stoppage, no abnormal
weather conditions affecting the extrac-
tion of ore or removal of overburden.
Tavua Power, all but 1000 of the 93,000
shares in which are owned by Emperor
and Loloma, found its plant taxed, and
rationing of power and air supplied to
mines on the Tavua field has had to be
resorted to. Thus the Fiji goldfield, of
which Emperor and Loloma are the lead-
ing lights, enters its fifth year of large-
scale production.
In Fiji money, financial results of the
mining co. were as follows last term:
Income —
Bullion sales £506,062
Rentals and other revenue 11,962
£518,024
Outgo—
Mining 43,329
Milling 102,314
Administration 27,902
Depreciation 38,904
Development 51,470
Royalty and realisation .. 37,997
Amortisation 4,999
Income tax 16,200
323,115
£194,909
Revenue was altogether up £15,989 ; the
growth of £27,979 in exes, was principally
due to a rise of £21,456 in milling costs
and a lift of £7897 in depreciation allow-
ance. Taxation was actually lower a
contrast with the present-day Australian
experience. Net profit was down £11,990
at £194,909.
Fiji currency is £lOO to £ll2 Austra-
lian. Costs of the mining co., including
mining, milling, general exes, and de-
velopment (7s. a ton, against 6s. 5d.),
but not including income tax, Melbourne
and London office exes., depreciation or
amortisation, ran to 295. lOd. a ton last
year, compared with 235. lid. in
the preceding term. Mining was up lid.
a ton, milling 3s. lid., general exes.
6d. and development 7d. a ton. The
higher milling costs are due to treatment
of a larger proportion of sulphide ore and
to dearer chemicals.
The mining co. paid Emperor Mines,
Ltd, —the listed public co. —£151,875 Aust.
in divs. during the year. Tavua Power
handed on £3720. Net profit of the hold-
ing co. was £153,521. Shareholders were
handed three divs. of 6d, each, compared
with four in the preceding term and two
of 6d. and one of Is. in the year before
that. Distributions in 1940-41 were
£11,021 less than the divs. received, allow-
ing for exes. The liquid position is com-
fortable, without a great deal in reserve.
The mining co. has found it necessary
to use much of its undistributed profit
to finance additions to plant and build-
ings, on which £107,740 has been spent
over the past two years.
Since the beginning there have been
many revisions of estimates in regard
to the Emperor mine. Ore-reserve
values have been well below original
anticipations, and costs have been
much above forecasts. The irregular,
fissured character of the ore has sur-
prised and exercised the minds of those
in control, especially as the first small
bodies near the surface have been worked
out. Worked originally as an opencut,
the plant started on oxidised ore, which
was comparatively easy to treat. The
bulk of the ore now remaining is semi-
oxidised and sulphide ore averaging
about 7.7dwt., though ore reserves aren’t
given this year. The opencut is expected
to provide diminishing quantities of ore
for another three years, after which the
mill will depend entirely upon ore won
from underground. Because of this, a
main shaft is being sunk to 750 ft. At
present it is down to 650 ft. During the
last two years in which mine figures were
published, the proving of additional gold
value did not keep pace with extraction.
In April, 1940, the new flotation and
concentrate-treatment plants began work
on the sulphides. Fine-grinding, primary
cyanidation and an elaborate system of
treating the concentrates and residues was
the new method decided on for the sul-
phides. In the flotation section at the
beginning of operations results weren’t
up to expectations owing to the mixed
nature of the ores, but by sorting out
oxides, semi-oxides and sulphides better
results were said to be obtained. The
sulphide ore, however, required particu-
larly fine grinding, and an additional ball
mill was installed.
In the latest report the following in-
formation is given:
Operations throughout the treatment
plant continued to function without serious
mechanical interruptions. The third ball
mill and additional flotation equipment
were installed during the period.
During the year several plant-scale tests
were carried out on the treatment of semi-
sulphide and sulphide ore—that is, flota-
tion followed by fine-grinding and pro-
longed cyanidation of concentrates. As
yet neither the results in the flotation plant
nor in the concentration-treatment plant
have come up to expectations.
The rate of dissolution is much slower
than results obtained in experimental work
—possibly the calcining of concentrates be-
fore cyanidation may be necessary to
achieve efficient extraction.
Although further dissolution tests are
now being carried out in the concentrate-
treatment plant, serious consideration must
be given to the early treatment of all-
sulphide ore, as only a limited amount of
oxidised ore remains in the opencut.
From a shareholder’s viewpoint the
fact that mining will later on have to be
carried out wholly from a shaft, com-
bined with the treatment difficulties loom-
ing ahead, may mean a great deal to
eventual returns from the mine. All
these factors have been stressed in The
Bulletin in years past, also the point
that, in addition to greater working costs,
plant cost may have to be increased in
coping with the situation. Probable out-
lay on plant is one reason for the div.-
postponement announcement.
Emperor’s manager has found the ore-
body in its present stage of development
unusual in its characteristics and expen-
sive to work in some respects. He is
more hopeful lately, announcing that in
the lower levels the ore has a tendency
to split into more definite channels. The
possibility of encountering a flat make
as in the upper levels is also mentioned.
The high-grade shoot worked in Loloma
No. 3 south drive has been followed into
the Emperor lease for 38ft., values
exposed being 24.8dwt. over 15in.
During last year Emperor and Loloma
took a joint option over an area on
Vanua Levu, about 40 miles north-east
of Mt. Kasi. A lode near the surface
has assayed 7dwt. over 36in. Diamond-
drilling is proceeding. The two cos. also
control Solomon Gold Exploration, Ltd.,
formed last year to prospect areas on the
island of Guadalcanal British Solomon
Islands.
Minister for Munitions Makin has
been talking of duplicating Australia’s
steel production capacity and establish-
ing a “wholly Government-owned” alumi-
nium industry. On his own estimates
Mr, Makin says it would cost £2,500,000'
to duplicate our steel-producing plant and
£1,500,000 to set up an aluminium in-
dustry. The first figure seems a modest
one. The written-down value of the
B.H.P. works alone is in the vicinity
of £8,000,000. This includes plant used
for processing steel as well as making it,
and the shipbuilding enterprise figures in
it also, but the many subsidiary indus-
tries are included among shares, not
plant. The A.I. and S. undertaking is
separate, too. In present circumstances
Mr. Makin will do well to duplicate the
industry for an outlay of £2,500,000.
Even if it costs a great deal more, there
is no doubt about the importance of get-
ting more steel production. The best
job in this direction would certainly be
done by the 8.H.P., whose men have been
called in repeatedly both by the U.A.P.
and Labor Governments to get them out
of their munitions difficulties. If dupli-
cated, Australia’s steel industry on a per
capita basis would be almost as great as
that of the U.S.A.
So far as aluminium is concerned, the
position has been an extraordinary one
for some time. No satisfaction could be
got out of former Governments about
the commencement of an industry to ex-
tract alumina from bauxite, though a
plant had been set up to turn out alloy
sheets from imported ingots. This was
owned by overseas interests and Electro-
lytic Zinc. Canada was a source of sup-
ply for ingots, but Canberra announced
some months ago that it was proposed to
set up a factory for making alumina from
bauxite shipped from Borneo and to
establish a smeltery to produce alu-
minium. Electric power is a great factor
in producing aluminium. Shipping facili-
ties with Borneo must now be precarious,
to say the least.
M. J. Martin, of Sulphates, Ltd., a con-
cern that has been treating Australian
bauxite ores for a number of years,
Malcolm Newman, the mining engineer,
and L. J, Hartnett, of General Motors
and Commonwealth Aircraft, were keenly
interested in the possibility of turning
Australian bauxite into aluminium on a
large scale. Sulphates, Ltd., and White
Metals, Ltd., between them retained the
services of an aluminium expert who was
engaged in ferro-alloy work for the
B.H.P. These people intended to form a
£1,500,000 co. to make aluminium at
Port Kembla from bauxite mined at Mt.
Tamborine (Q.), Boolarra (Vic.), Win-
gello (N.S.W.) and elsewhere.
Dr. Bradfield has taken a keen interest
in the Mt. Tamborine (Q.) field. Alunite
as well as bauxite is a source of alumi-
nium. Sulphates, Ltd., worked deposits of
this stuff near Bulahdelah (N.S.W.). West-
ralia’s Government estimates there is
1,666,000,000 tons of alunitic clay at Mt.
Campion, containing 60 p.c. alunite,
which, after treatment, will yield
1.750.000 tons of potassium sulphate,
3.250.000 tons of alumina and 750,000
tons of sulphur. If treated primarily for
the potash content, it has been said that
the residues obtained in making 11,000
tons of potash a year would yield 18,000
tons of alumina—enough to produce over
8000 tons of metallic aluminium. In
South Australia there are at least five
known deposits of alunite as well.
* * * *
Essington Lewis, formerly managing
director of the B.H.P. and at present
Director-General of Munitions, is to have
added to his responsibilities the job of
Director-General of Aircraft Production.
When it found itself in a hole, in other
words, the Government has turned to a
man trained by private enterprise. It is
proposed to give Mr. Lewis “most exten-
sive powers,” if necessary under the
National Security Regulations, so that
he will have quick access to any materials
or labor necessary in either of the depart-
ments under his control. Australia has
a lot of confidence in Mr. Lewis. In
peace-time he was associated with what
is now the greatest material factor in
turning out munitions. Without B.H.P.
and its associated enterprises Australia
would be in a far greater spot of bother
than that in which it now finds itself.
* * ♦ *
At the time Japan entered the war the
Commonwealth was spending at the rate
of £2O million a month on defence.
From July, 1939, until October, 1941,
total expenditure on war was £290 mil-
lion, of which £lB9 million was borrowed
and £lOl million came from revenue. The
recent rate of spending is above the
figure budgeted for—about £220 million
a year was Mr. Chifley’s last estimate.
In the first two years of war it was found
difficult to keep production up to the
figure allowed for, which indicated,
amongst other things, that there was no
need for any inflationary stimulant in the
money machine, seeing that there was
more money than production. Now the
position seems slightly different—produc-
tion may be running ahead of the
Budget’s money appropriations. But there
is still no need for inflation in any of its
guises. The Government has been dis-
creet in its action in asking for more
taxation revenue now that the pressure
is on in earnest. Some of our national
spending power has to be turned toward


PRELUDE
POWER
Before the shell can wing its way on
Its deadly mission—before the magneto
can produce the spark to tire the engine
or the starting motor whirl the sleeping
engine into life—before power may be
loosed—there Is a prelude.
:
v. -
m
i
The prelude to the power of active warfare is in the factory and as surely as the front
line of warfare is within range of the enemy's guns, so as surely does the front line pass
through the factory.
Here on the industrial front, the genius of the engineer is translated into steel, or to the
thousand substances which go into the instruments of war.
And in the factories of E.T.C., men of industry take their place on the factory front, pro-
ducing the essentials of war: from the finely machined "eccentric" to the rugged "hous-
ing"— each to its part each to its place in the finished product.
Where lives depend on efficiency, error has no place; built with extreme precision and
accuracy, each product must be worthy of the company's hallmark—"A fecnico Product."
lecnico
■'
E. T. C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. AND RENW I C K ST., MARR CKVILLE, N. S. W.
» 2-33-4 \
m
m
mm
SS ®
CRAVENA
are so muehlsinootlier
|iO for lU.
30 lor 110
7
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
V
iSSs* ''
r
production of war-time nature. The
first step in getting that production is
to get hold of the spending power by
levying increased taxation. In short, in
order for the nation to get something,
that something has to be taken from
someone else. It is not a case of creating
the something out of idle men, money
and materials because there is little idle-
ness in any of those three factors at the
present time. Unemployment is down to
near 3 p.c.
• * * *
The new year opened in Australia with
share prices generally below the lowest
level reached in 1941. Burns Philp was
particularly weak at 435. 6d., and
breweries were down. B.H.P. at 31s. 6d.
isn’t as low as it was when London sell-
ing crashed the market to 295. 6d. a few
weeks ago, but it has receded from the
point to which it recently recovered.
Woollen textile cos. have stood the
market shock well, but cotton-spinners
and -weavers have been in poor demand,
Bradford and Bond’s in particular.
Davies, Coop, which is Melbourne-listed,
has held its position better, suggesting
that the market for cotton-co. scrip is
confused more than anything else. The
real danger is the question of raw-cotton
supplies.
* * * #
Broken Hill Prop.’s magnesium plant
is now in full production. “Ample sup-
plies” of the metal are said to be avail-
able to Australian industries. Magnesium
has a density two-thirds that of aluminium
and one-quarter that of steel. It is used
extensively in aircraft production. B.H.P.
has been developing magnesite deposits
in the Hundreds of Davenport and
Crozier, near Port Augusta, S.A. They
have been claimed unofficially to be the
largest in the Southern Hemisphere.
Derivatives of magnesite go into mag-
nesia, Epsom salts, incendiary bombs
and tracer bullets.
* * * *
Shale yielding up to 105 gallons of
crude oil per ton has been taken in
samples from three shafts in the Drum-
mond Range, near Alpha, Q., by L. C.
Ball, Government geologist. Total proved
and probable shale reserves are put at
1,500,000 tons. Thickness of the shale
in one shaft was 4ft. In a 40-acre area
the average thickness was 3ft., but in
other areas the seam appears much
thinner. The seams are associated with
coal layers of varying thickness, and it
has yet to be determined whether extrac-
tion from coal and shale in one operation
is feasible. Low-grade shale deposits
occur at Plevna, back of Mackay, and
some activity has been noticed there this
year.
* * * *
Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum, drilling on
the Oiapu structure in New Guinea, has
suspended work until the conflict in the
Pacific takes a more favorable turn. This
action has been taken at the request of
the Commonwealth Government. Can-
berra recently advanced “up to a further
£20,000” to push drilling operations for-
ward.
* * * *
A new co. is seeking permission to
establish a fish-canning factory on the
Tasmanian coast. It is the East Coast
Fish Canning Co., which proposes to
raise £60,000. Fish-canning has been
developed notably in the Speck of recent
years, and there has been some activity
also at Narooma (N.S.W.). It is officially
claimed that unemployment has virtually
disappeared in Tasmania.
* * * *
The suggestion that the States should
cut motor-car registration fees in view
of the small mileage possible on present
petrol rations has not so far been re-
ceived enthusiastically by Premiers and
Treasurers as a whole. Some such
move is considered desirable from a
national emergency viewpoint as well as
from the angle of equity; the Govern-
ment apparently relying on services of
the private motorist to some extent for
transport in a crisis. Motorists have
been very shabbily treated in this
regard in some States, as have taxpayers
generally in view of the Commonwealth’s
increased responsibilities and the reduced
commitments of the provincial Govern-
ments. Insurance offices in N. S. Wales
have reduced motor-insurance rates
generally by 10 p.c., and make provision
for refunds in the event of a car being
laid up. They are not prepared to go
further at present,
* * ♦ ♦
The File Reconditioning Co., Foster-
street, Surry Hills, is a small N.S.W.
industry that is performing a useful ser-
vice at an appropriate time. It restores
to sharpness worn or “filled” files at a
comparatively small cost, and files are
now difficult to get from overseas. The
co. gets a large proportion of its work
from Government departments.
* * * *
The Apple and Pear Board, which lost
money so startlingly, has been “re-
organised,” and took over the Common-
wealth’s acquisition scheme on Jan. 1.
It will have its own floor at markets and
will sell direct to retailers. Granny
Smith apples are now costing about sd.
each in Sydney.


HOT NUMBERS
TO KEEP YOU COOL
'*4
HERE’S just one of the
new Soltine Cloths that
your tailor or store is dis-
playing with immense
pride. It has a Bowater
Brown ground with double
silk hair-line, featuring a
group of very subdued
brown cluster stripings.
And these handsome, style-
right Soltine suitings
actually '"breathe” keep
you "air-conditioned,” cool
and comfortable always.
SOI.
m
Born, Shorn. Woven and Worn in Australia
// unable to obtain, write to P.O. Box
J/S9G, Melb., or 301/2NN, Syd., and we’ll
advise you where you can get Soltine Cloths.
fPATONj
ST. PATRICK’S COLLEGE
GOULBURN, N.S.W.
CONDUCTED BY THE CHRISTIAN BROTHERS.
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL FOR BOYS
ESTABLISHED 1874.
Full registration under Bursary Endowment Act.
Approximately three and a half hours from Sydney by car or train, this college
is beautifully situated 2355 feet above sea-level, overlooking the town of Goulburn.
WmMmrn
i mi mi mill in
it Smmmm s» turn w m&mm imun mm m» tm> «y» * :> *gr”yJM
|i»
fi||
«WSS®» m IlSl I
p 55i m || imm jimj j
1
. ■
VIEW OF ST. PATRICK’S COLLEGE SHOWING NEW TENNIS COURTS.
Fifty Acres of Playing Fields, Coaching in Athletics, Cricket, Tennis, Football,
Swimming, Boxing.
EXAMINATION RESULTS, 1930-40.
Leaving Certificate (Matriculation)
Intermediate Certificate
Public Service
University Bursaries
St. John’s College Scholarship
University Exhibitions
Training College Scholarships
Chamber of Commerce Gold Medals
TOTAL VALUE OF THE ABOVE, £5200.
Boys prepared for all branches of professional and commercial life.
Needs of country boys given consideration.
Wool-classing, Farm Mechanics, Book-keeping and all commercial subjects taught.
Juniors are cared for by a Matron and Trained Nurse.
Record Enrolment for 1941, 265; 180 Boarders drawn from all parts of the State.
’PHONE: GOULBURN 74. For Prospectus apply: THE PRESIDENT.
154
388
42
9
1
14
15
17
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Horsetralyer Redivivus
In these days of tanks, dive-bombers
and mechanical detector eyes and ears
which a youth can wangle after a few
hours’ instruction, it is like stepping back
into the Australian Middle Ages to drop
in at Tex Morton’s show at Olympia,
Melbourne.
Present writer has a friend who used
to drive a high-powered car at 60 m.p.h.
along a busy highway and would have
been astounded if told there was anything
dangerous about it. Petrol-rationing has
forced him to acquire a horse, as quiet
a moke as it is possible to imagine. He
approaches the beast as if it were an
unreluctant dragon, and if it twitches an
ear he feels an intense desire to bolt to
the other side of the sliprails. Having
conveyed his nervousness to the horse, it
is rapidly acquiring all the vices he
ascribes to horses but which it didn’t have
before he got it, and before he has
finished it will probably have qualified
to be one of Morton’s wildest barbarians.
This will no doubt confirm him in his
belief that horses are desperately danger-
ous creatures, and he will long for the
day when he can get an accelerator under
his foot again and whizz on two wheels
round hidden corners.
The straight, lithe, long-limbed, narrow-
hipped young men in American som-
breros who throng Mr. Morton’s arena
move about in a mist of flying
heels and gnashing teeth with a con-
fidence in their skill which, to the
amateur, looks like criminal indifference.
When a red-eyed outlaw, screaming like
an insulted politician, leaps out of the
horsebox, then arches its back, soars up-
wards and outwards three times in a
second and then abruptly stalls with its
four feet together, the rider’s reflexes
work as automatically as the motor
speedster’s do in a sideslip. The in-
stinctive thing most people do is try to
drive out of a skid, which is why cars
capsize so often. He drives into a skid
just as automatically as the tyro drives
out of it, but it takes years of practice
to replace one automatic action with
another.
It is the same with Tex Morton’s riders,
who come from Westralia, S.A, and
Queensland cattle stations where people
who keep horses naturally expect to have
more trouble than people who live in
suburban villas. The instinctive desire of
the mug riders who step out of the
audience to earn the two quid offered by
the management for sticking on the
notorious Blackout for four seconds is to
cling to the saddle. They land with
their heads in the tan with monotonous
regularity. Mr. Morton’s coves merely
use the saddle as a sort of mobile aero-
drome for their amazing aerobatics,
and rather than discourage the horse
they step off halfway through without
batting an eyelid. Their confidence is
conveyed to the attendant small boys,
who pour into the ring to try conclu-
sions with a particularly vicious mule and
a bad-tempered donkey.
The only part of the proceedings
which doesn’t smack of the outback is
Tex Morton himself, described by the
announcer as a poet, philosopher, com-
poser, singer, dead shot and Australian
radio favorite. He accompanies himself
on' a guitar, and if his philosophy is on
a par with his singing and composition it
ought to earn an honored place in the
radio journals which give his movements
bigger headlines than Marshal Timo-
shenko gets in the daily press. On the
other hand, if he could write a fugue
with the same calm, mathematical pre-
cision with which he can lift the ash off
a cigarette held between the lips of a
young lady with a rifle he would be a
Mozart.
* * * *
“Rud'digore”
If any bouquets are to be chucked
about during the current Gilsullivan
season at Sydney Royal a large one
should go to Evelyn Gardiner for her
singing of “There Was a Little Flower”
in- Saturday night’s performance of
“Ruddigore.” Miss Gardiner, as Hannah,
seemed a little off her customary good
form for most of the show, but with
Bernard Manning in the “Flower”
number she turned on some warbling as
pretty as the current season has offered,
and which deservedly brought the house
down. Peggy Shea, too, as Mad Mar-
garet, gave the show a good lift and
proved that she has more histrionic ability
than some of her roles in the Gilsullivan
repertoire permit her to show.
Ivan Menzies, as “the bad bart.,” was
not as cocky as usual, though it’s a pity
some of the cast —Maxwell Oldaker in
this case, for instance —don’t approach
his almost perfect enunciation of every
syllable, which is so essential to Gilbert’s
dexterous polysyllabism. Viola Wilson,
as Rose Maybud, good; also Richard
Watson, as another “bad bart.” Sara
Gregory as pretty and pert as ever.
* * * *
Sydney Tiv. is running a panto. —
“Mother Goose” —in the afternoons, and
its new show, “Full Speed Ahead,” at
night. Joe Lawman is the main come-
dian, and as good a one as there is at
large at the moment —the best act in
the show is quartet Lawman, Alec Kella-
way, Alan Eddy and Eric Valentine in
a very bright song number, “On the
Banks of the Nile.” When the audience
isn’t laughing at Lawman its attention
is held by the Kwan brothers, “Chinese
equilibrists”; the adagio dancing of the
Atlas brothers ; juggler Phil Lopaz ; the
musical clown Jandy and sundry other
vaudevillians ranging from fair to good.
An f.a.q. Tiv. show.
AT THE TALKIES
“Burma Convoy”
To hangovers, stomach-aches and other
scourges which afflict the populace in
the few days immediately after the
Christmas and New Year binges can be
added an acute shortage of anything re-
motely resembling a new talkie —the film
houses let fly on Boxing Day with every-
thing they have and, generous as that
may be, the ensuing two or three weeks’
drought of films is enough to make any
film-taster with a column or two to fill
rush out and throw himself on a rusty
billiard cue.
There was, therefore, a collective
bellow of delight from sundry Sydney
film-tasters when the old reliable Syd-
ney Capitol came to light last week with
“Burma Convoy,” a film which, in normal
circumstances, would be described as an
f.a.q. melodrama about the hazards that
confront truck drivers who take supplies
along the Burma Road to China. Since,
however, circumstances aren’t normal and
new flicks are as scarce as fleas on an
egg, it must also be remarked that the
main character is a tough American who
is fed-up with the Burma Road and
wants to go home and run a garage in
Kansas City, but who remains to clean
up a gang of saboteurs after his young
brother has been shot by a colorful
Asiatic assassin.
The truck-driver is played by Charles
Bickford, whose massive frame, forceful
personality and histrionic ability give the
role more color than, might have been
expected. Frank Albertson, who plays his
brother, fills the part well enough, but
no better than it could have been filled
by any of the hundreds of other young
men who seem to hang about Hollywood
taking minor roles and wondering
whether a moustache or a different hair-
do would bring them in a voluminous
fan-mail or whatever it is that makes a
great actor or actress in Hollywood.
What can be said about the inevitable
girl in the film has already been said
about Mr. Albertson, so all that can be
recorded for posterity is her name—
Evelyn Ankers.
“F.S.”: Victorian Nat. Gallery trus-
tees have long memories. When Bernard
Hall died, after holding the directorship
for 30 years, they made Hardy Wilson,
the recorder of Early Colonial architec-
ture, their choice as a successor. Chief
Secretary Bailey overruled them and ap-
pointed J. S. MacDonald, then director
of the Sydney institution. The trustees
rose in a body and said, in effect, that
MacDonald would enter the sacred por-
tals only over their dead bodies. Subse-
quently, however, they had another think
about it and decided to put up with Mr.
Bailey’s selection. Jimmy MacDonald
had an uneasy five years of office, and
when his reappointment came up for con-
sideration the Chief Secretary still
Mr. Bailey—informed him that the trus-
tees had decided against renewal and the
Government, after prolonged delibera-
tion, had abided by the recommendation.
* * * *
“A Major”: New York Metropoli-
tan’s 1941-42 opera season (which opened
on November 24) provided for the em-
ployment of 101 singers, of whom three
—Marjorie Lawrence, John Dudley and
John Brownlee —are Australians, and five
—Lotte Lehmann, Maria Markan,
Richard Crooks, Lawrence Tibbett and
Alexander Kipnis—have recently been
heard on the Australian concert platform.
Flagstad, brave lady, has gone back to
her sad homeland —Norway. Beecham
and Bruno Walter were to be guest con-
ductors. Only unfamiliar items in the
programme for the season are Bach’s
“Phoebus and Pan” and Menotti’s “The
Island God.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
' Dewar duly won Tattersall’s Cup,
atoning for his failure in the Summer
Cup, in which he had an unfavorable run
for over nine furlongs. It was no easy
victory, however, as after Grand Fils had
taken charge at the half-mile, and led
into the straight from Malagigi, Buzalong
and Abspear, it was only in the last few
strides he succumbed. Bad luck for his
owner that he did so well in each Cup
without winning either. Grand Fils will
pay for it in the autumn handicaps.
Dewar, as usual, was near the rear of
the field until commencing the last half-
mile.
Santa led at the mile post, but that was
the end of his chance, as Yours Truly
quickly took his measure. Buzalong and
Abspear ran well, without either ever
quite looking like winning. There was no
dawdling at any part, the first half-mile
being run in 51*, mile in 1.40*, and the
2.30 was a record for the race. Dewar’s
first win this season was on November 15,
and with some hard runs subsequently
E. Hush did well to have him in such
good trim on Thursday. Sold as a year-
ling for 120gns., Dewar developed slowly,
his first win being as a four-year-old in a
mile Novice Handicap at Randwick. He
is the best yet sired by Madagascar, and
his dam, Repetition, is a Windbag mare.
In expressing opposition to “reversal
of form” inquiries, I have often pointed
out what a bearing luck, or otherwise, in
running has on the result of a race.
Gundagai, favorite for the Pace Welter
at Randwick the previous Saturday, was
in trouble almost from barrier-rise, and
ran nowhere. He was not dropped in the
weights to any extent in the Alfred Hill
Handicap, but, always in a good position,
he won nicely from the consistent Ryl-
stohe, Maorilander Sir Amyas had
another run in this, but, though he could
not have looked better, has not returned
to his home form. Never further back
than fourth in the early part, he was
second or third into the straight, and
then stopped to nothing.
Soho’s New Year’s Gift win confirmed
the belief that he was above the average.
He was in receipt of a lot of weight from
All Love, Whisper Low and Astrid, but
from the top of the straight he did not
give them a look-in. His time for seven
furlongs was 1.23*, which is only a
quarter-second outside the Australian
record. Mean-looking Haridelle, in the
same ownership as Soho, made a rather
remarkable showing in the Alfred Hill
Handicap. Though a long last at the
five furlongs, she then unwound such a
burst of speed that she narrowly missed
third place. Despite her appearance
Haridelle is a good feeder, and will yet
win a middle-distance handicap.
* * * *
Moorefield attracted a fair attendance
on Saturday, though, as was only to be
expected, a greyhound meeting the same
afternoon told against it to some extent.
Nightbeam, favorite for the Peter
Moore Clip, struck trouble and was never
going comfortably, with the result that
he missed a place. Approaching the turn
Sir Amyas, Rylstone and Breeze were
close together, with Petruchio next, and
it seemed almost certain the winner would
come from one of those four, but, though
Rylstone had the other three settled at
the leger, Panurge, with a fast run on
the outside and vigorously ridden by
Wilson, beat him in the last stride.
Panurge, after getting away badly, was
fourth in Soho’s race at Randwick, but
it was not a run that said a great deal
for his chance in this race, and he started
at double figures, the tote paying 6d.
short of 14 to 1.
Aristocrat likes Moorefield, and, after
being a long way from the leaders —
Gallop, Beau Frere and Rhythmic—three
furlongs from home in the Moorefield
Handicap, finished strongly to beat
Angus, who is improving with racing.
He is a brother to Remarc and may yet
stay as well as that horse did last season.
Rhythmic was beaten a long way from
home, and Kestrel, who gallops well in
private, added to his many poor runs.
Sir Amyas, as at Randwick, stopped badly
over the final furlong.
Cacique, whose owner refused 425
guineas for him at auction on Friday,
was too good for Plimsol and Joseleta
in the run home in the Three- and Four-
year-old Handicap. In finishing fourth
Rapture did better than at Randwick on
New Year’s Day, but she was never dan-
gerous, nor was Haran. Cacique is by
El Cacique from Native Bee, whose previ-
ous winners included Maybe, Bush Bee,
Bombus, Theban and Tactician.
Freckles, who had not been long up
after a spell, opened at a short price for
the first division of the Flying Welter,
drifted to 10 to 1 and shortened in a
hurry to 2 to 1 when a bet of £7OO to
£lOO and a few others at that price were
taken about him. Despite his 10.5, he
quickly took up the running, and at the
turn had other fancied horses in Escut-
cheon and Meneen fairly off their legs.
Freckles won at his ease from Diadem,
who, however, is worth following. Elson
is another improver. The time, 1.15, was
only a quarter-second outside Pentheus’s
course record.
The other two divisions of the Flying
Welter were won by Belle Rose and Cable
respectively. In the second division half
a dozen horses were possibilities in the
straight, these including Marcoperi, who
started near the outside. However, Belle
Rose finished resolutely to win from
Aren’t We All and Blue Gala, with
Glamour Star, Penny Tan and Marcoperi
on top of the placed horses.
In the third division Cable led soon
after barrier-rise, and then hung on well
to score from Taurus, who, half a fur-
long from home, appeared to have a good
chance of beating him. Panette, a three-
year-old filly by Pantheon from Magnet
(dam of Telergy), was a fair third, and
will be useful. Cable is a half-brother,
by Marconigram, to Soho. The time for
the second and third divisions was a
second and a half slower than Freckles
recorded. Unplaced horses in one or
other of the divisions likely to improve
are Elson, Southerly, Glamour Star,
Chatudo and Penny Tan.
* * * ♦
A horse is only as old as he feels, and
Prairiedale, now in his tenth year, com-
pensated for four successive minor plac-
ings, including a second in the £l2OO
Bagot Handicap two days earlier, by win-
ning the Cumberland Handicap at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. His suc-
cess represented a nice wedding present
for his soldier jockey, H. Mornement,
who was married several hours later.
Prairiedale, who is described by his
owner-trainer, J. Hayward, as a particu-
larly hardy gelding, had to be “tough”
to win Saturday’s race. He had the job
of taking the field up to the tearaway'
Keelie, who set up a lead of about 15
lengths at one stage, and was unbalanced
when taken wide by the tiring pacemaker
entering the straight. Pannade shot
through the opening and momentarily
looked like winning, but 8.13 pulled him
up toward the finish of \\ mile, and first
Prairiedale and then Rippling Avon
passed him in the last few strides. Prairie-
dale won by only half a head, but would
have been unlucky in defeat. There was
a distinct war-time flavor about the finish.
Mornement attended the meeting in his
militia uniform, while Rippling Avon was
saddled by her soldier-trainer and part-
owner, C. Masked, a member of the
transport section of the A.I.F,
. • • • • •
Late scratching of Phildoll caused a
good deal of confusion towards the close
of betting on the Coburg Welter. She
went to the barrier with other runners,
but returned to the enclosure to be in-
spected by the club’s veterinary surgeon,
and permission for her withdrawal was
given by the stewards. As she was not
in the starter’s hands, all bets on her
were returned. Backers of the winner,
Bluebeard, however, protested against
the rather belated decision of the stewards
that all bets made .before Phildoll’s with-
drawal be paid at tote odds and those
made later be paid at the full odds
marked on the ticket. Bluebeard started
at 3 to 1 and returned a tote dividend of
slightly better than 9 to 4. His early
baSkers pointed out that bookmakers
held very little money for Phildoll, who
eased from fives to tens.
Bluebeard is one of the most versatile
horses in training, his last five starts
having yielded two wins over hurdles and
two firsts and a third on the flat.
The Seafield Handicap was almost a
repetition of the Beaumaris Handicap at
Mentone a week earlier, with Grand
Legend again defeating Cornfield in a
close finish. Both, however, were lucky to
finish ahead of the second favorite, Busy-
body, who ran a close third and must
have won had she not lost many lengths
at the start. Red Flash ran a promising
fifth, and might repay following.
Reg, a Lo Zingaro colt now racing in
the colors of his trainer, S. Murphy,
recorded an overdue win in the Glen-
bervie Handicap. Backed from sixes to
favoritism at fours, he escaped interfer-
ence which prejudiced the chances of
several runners, and, third for home,
won decisively from Happy Go Lucky
and Phratry. Happy Go Lucky ran well
under difficulties. Her rider’s offside
stirrup-iron snapped and fell to the
ground halfway up the straight. Kala-
pani looked like winning when he dashed
to the leaders rounding the turn, but he
veered right off the course and finished
under the judge’s box. His rider was
struck in an eye, probably by a clod of
earth thrown up by another runner,
immediately before the escapade, and
seemingly lost control of his mount, who
finished fourth.
El Reo revealed improved stamina to
defeat Spain and Citadel in the first divi-
sion of the Dunalister Handicap. He was
backed from sixes to 9 to 2, and backers
were also well on the mark with Operatic
in the second division. The class horse
of the field, Operatic was ridden a well-
judged race by Creighton, and won easily
from Vale and Ngapuna.
* * * »
Horses beaten during the four days of
the Randwick meeting, but likely to win
shortly, include Bonny Loch, Shining
Night, Mabson, Yarrawonga, Rodrigo,
Sir Tennyson, Mutineer, Dark Warbler,
Adjust and Southerly. Some of these
gained minor places, and improvement
in most is certain.
* * * *
The loss of a day at the autumn meet-
ing will probably cause the A.J.C. to
drop one of its longer w.f.a. races. As
runners for the Cumberland Plate and
A.J.C. Plate are invariably few, and an
exciting race for either rarely results, one
or the other may be cut out. The club
is already committed to five races —the
Doncaster Handicap, Sydney Cup, St.
Leger, Sires’ Produce Stakes and Cham-
pagne Stakes—and they make a hole ir
a three days’ programme.
Last year there were two days on which
there were seven races, and presumably
there will be that number on each of
this year’s three days. Perhaps divisions
may mean at least eight each day. There
may be no necessity for suburban clubs
to issue programmes of more than sis
races for their coming meetings. Entries,
especially for the shorter races, are likely
to be so numerous that even three divi-
sions will not be unusual.
* * * *
Early impressions for A.J.C. Anniver-
sary meeting: Challenge Stakes, Freckles.
Trimmer, High Caste, Soho, Panchio,
Session; Anniversary Handicap, Gun-
dagai, Dewar, Grand Fils, Aristocrat
Mabson, Mildura.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Cabinet has definitely
decided to confine racing, trotting and
greyhound meetings in the Sydney area
to Saturdays and holidays. This works
out as follows in respect of horseracing:
Randwick, including City Tattersall’s and
Tattersall’s Clubs, 16 (previously 17);
Warwick Farm, seven (against 13); Rose-
hill, seven (nine); Canterbury Park, six
(eight); Moorefield, six (eight); Hawkes-
bury, two (four). Kensington, Rosebery,
Victoria Park and Ascot drop from 12
to four. On four days clubs racing under
A.J.C. rules will clash.
Trotting will clash with galloping meet-
ings all the time. Harold Park and Vic-
toria Park (trotting) have 13 meetings
each, and have not fared badly by com-
parison with some of the horse clubs.
The greyhound tracks, Wentworth Park
and Harold Park, have been reduced
from 26 to 13 days each, and, though
some of the supporters of those clubs
reckon they are unfairly treated, it must
not be overlooked that greyhound racing
is the least valuable of the sports affected.
In the main, it merely gives something
to bet on. A played-out racehorse or
trotter can be used in some other sphere,
but that cannot be said of a greyhound.
One cannot help wondering what will be-
come of the 5000 greyhounds referred to
by the N.C.A. representative if by any
chance that sport should be dropped.
* * * *
Yaralla’s defeat in the Carrington
Stakes did not affect his status in the
least. As he was never further back
than third, his chance was evidently not
affected to any extent by the track being
soft for a couple of furlongs. He con-
firmed his superiority over the others of
his age, but his 9.0 was the trouble when
trying to beat The Miller at 261 b. and
Trimmer at 61b. worse than weight-for-
age. Yaralla’s owner was wise in not
starting him for the Peter Moore Cup
with 9.10. The chestnut might have won,
'but the Moorefield mile is not an easy
one, and success under that weight might
have settled his chance of winning one
of the principal handicaps. In mile w.f.a.
races the older horses will find him a
tough proposition.
# * * m
Last week it was decided by the Vic-
torian State Cabinet that from the com-
mencement of this year until the end of
July all racing and trotting meetings
within a 30-mile radius of the Melbourne
G.P.O. should be confined to Saturdays
and public holidays. This reduces the
number of meetings to 34 against the
57 for which dates were originally issued
during that period. As the decision
stands, the V.R.C. will lose Tuesday and
Thursday at its autumn meeting.
* * * ♦
If clubs clash on Saturdays the com-
petition for the good offices of big
punters will be keener than ever. When
a new one comes to light nowadays it
is amusing to note some trainers, jockeys
and urgers who are prepared to supply
him with the latest information. Bear-
ing on this, I recently heard a trainer
laughingly remark: “If you are lucky
enough now to get a punter you have
to run barbed-wire entanglements round
him in order ,to keep him. If you don’t
someone is sure to sneak him away from
you.”
* * * *
Kindergarten may be in Australia in
the autumn. He has been doing easy
work at Gisborne, and it is said that the
reason for his withdrawal from his en-
gagements at the recent Auckland meeting
was lack of transport.
* * * *
In these troublous times even racing
pressmen are allowed to express them-
selves concerning the war. Having
listened and read, the following is my
idea of: —
HOW TO WIN THE WAR.
A conference of pressmen
Seems our last resort.
Boil down their joint opinions
And Japan becomes a wart.
Get columnists from London,
And don’t forget New York;
Add radio commentators —
Then we’ll win it in a walk.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Maiden Handicap: Dundalk, 1 ;
Adjust, 2; Mutineer or Dark
Warbler, 3.
Nursery Handicap (colts and geld-
ings): Takarangi, 1; Yarrawonga,
2 ; Kiaree, 3.
Nursery Handicap (fillies); Angel,
1 ; Belle Desiree, 2 ; Easy Mark, 3.
Sefton Handicap: Broadcaster,
1 ; John Halifax, 2; Forward or
Skerries, 3.
Farm Encourage Handicap:
Montfort, 1 ; Approbation, 2 ; Tur-
moil, 3.
Warwick January Handicap :
Buzzal, 1 ; Patrician, 2 ; Sedunum
or Mabson, 3.
Berala Handicap: Cacique, 1 ;
Levraut, 2 ; Brazen Boy, 3.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
(Be fore acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Normanby Trial Hurdle: Turn-
coat, 1 ; Windjammer, 2 ; Donifex,
3.
Effingham Handicap: Koono-
moon, I; Attorney, 2; Grand
Legend, 3,
Anglesey Trial Handicap: Darra-
weit, 1 ; Radama, 2 ; Son o’ Val, 3.
Chesterfield Handicap: Phoines,
1 ; Orteli, 2 ; Law Student, 3.
Inverness Handicap: Heart’s
Desire, 1 ; Saint Warden, 2;
Rippling Avon, 3.
Sandhurst Welter: Iridium, 1 ;
Bluebeard, 2 ; Pauline, 3.


THE SERVICE MAN
Japanese Brag.
“Ek Dum”: If the Japanese people
believe their radio announcers and news-
papers, they must by this time be in an
hysteria of triumph.
Tokyo’s Radio and press patrons have
been told that the Bth A.I.F. Division,
under Major-General Gordon Bennett,
has been “completely annihilated,” that
all U.S. industry is being removed from
the Pacific coast, that the U.S. has be-
come “a fourth- or fifth-rate naval Power
at the mercy of the powerful Japanese
Navy,” that the sultans and the
bulk of the population in Malaya are in
revolt against British “brutality,” that
Indian soldiers have deserted because of
the “beatings” administered to them by
British officers, and that Britain had
100,000 troops along the Thai border but
the Indians and Malayans among them
fired their guns in the air and deserted
in masses when possible.
The facts are that the Japanese made
no great headway last week except in
the Philippines. There was no evidence
that they had pushed their attacks on
Sumatra beyond their initial raids round
Medan aerodrome—where they destroyed
32 bags of A.I.F. mail—and a series of
other air raids which ranged over the
whole of the territory of their enemies
from the Timor Sea to Malacca Strait.
The report that parachutists had been
landed near Medan in Sumatra was
denied. Singapore had light bombings
which did comparatively little damage,
since they were directed rather against
the city and its military and port ameni-
ties on the south and south-east than
against the naval and air bases along the
Johore Strait to the north.
Port Swettenham and various small
places in the Dutch East Indies were
attacked ; some damage was done and a
few people were killed.
British and Dutch air operations were
widespread, and one correspondent men-
tioned meeting a wounded Australian
from a Catalina flying-boat which had
been destroyed “over the Timor Sea.”
If that report was true, the enemy must
have ranged to the very fringes of the
Australian far northern coast.
The crucial fighting was in the Philip-
pines-Borneo area. Tokyo early last week
claimed the capture of Kuching, capital
of Sarawak, adding that two British or
Dutch submarines had been sunk and
10 large ’planes destroyed off the Bornean
coast. Miri, the oilfield centre at which
the Japanese landed in Borneo, is on the
north-west coast. Kuching lies on the
south-west near the base of the island,
n.-e. of Pontianak, the capital of Dutch
Borneo, which already has been severely
bombed, and north-west of the valuable
Balik Papan oilfields, which are on the
s.-e. central coast. Capture of these, if
the oil could be taken from them, would
secure a valuable prize for the Japanese,
but they are strongly defended.
From Kuching, the small British garri-
son withdrew “almost intact.” A further
landing north of Brunei was made at the
week-end.
Manila Lost
The Luzon fighting represented a major
campaign between great forces of Japa-
nese conscript troops, trained to the
minute for the job, against inferior num-
bers of U.S. and Filipino troops working
under the great disadvantages of extreme
distance from their main supply bases
and inferior air and naval cover.
Manila from December 27 was an open
city, with lights on and any military in
its environs withdrawn to outer lines.
Stalin’s organ “Pravda” declared that the
“failure to turn the city into a Tobruk
was an act of cowardice.” It is not pos-
sible to turn a city of 600,000 into a
Tobruk without causing the loss of the
lives and homes of tens of thousands of
innocent non-combatants, including
women and babes in arms. “Pravda”
will be in a better position to criticise
when—if ever—the U.S.S.R. declares war
on Japan.
Few people who know Manila are
likely to disagree with Douglas Mac-
Arthur’s course. It has thousands
of huts and houses of bamboo and nipa
thatch, a crowded, simple native popu-
lation which could not be submitted to
the same sort of discipline as a London
or Sydney crowd, and priceless ancient
relics. With its tropic heat and various
other peculiar local conditions, Manila
and similar cities in the Near North are
a special case.
Thousands of bombs might be dropped
on London or Sydney without doing deci-
sive damage to the population. With the
right wind blowing a few hundred incen-
diaries might burn a large proportion of
Manila’s 600,000 alive.
In any case, MacArthur is thousands
of miles from his arsenals and with a
very limited force has held out against
200,000 Japanese longer than the two
Russian central armies in Poland did
against the armies of Germans their own
size, though the Russians had arsenals
and the Stalin Line and abundant rein-
forcements just at their backs.
Luzon was easier to attack than to
defend. There is a ring of landing places
in sheltered bays at five points 50 to
120 miles from the capital, allowing an
enemy to converge from several direc-
tions.
The defence of Luzon, as of the other
Philippine islands, is basically a naval
problem. Had there been a substantial
navy capable of intercepting the neces-
sarily slow and congested Japanese con-
voys and dealing with them through sub-
marine, aircraft-carrier and destroyer
attack along the route, the Japanese in-
vasion fleet might have gone the way of
the Spanish armada. Strategists always
had considered, having in view the poten-
tial strength of U.S., that the fate of the
islands would be decided far out to sea.
There appears to have been little U.S.
naval activity. Admiral King took over
the Naval Command of the combined
U.S. Fleets and Rear-Admiral Chester
Nimitz that of the Pacific Fleet early in
the week. Tokyo Radio remarked for
the severalth time that other British
naval forces, including a battleship, had
passed Capetown and that they would
“meet the same fate as Prince of Wales
and Repulse.” But it is fairly safe to
say that the initial mistakes will not be
repeated; that when the combined
Powers begin to use their navies it will
be on a carefully-thought-out plan, with
no dispersion of valuable strength.
Distribution of forces at likely points
of attack in the Indies and elsewhere
must be making a heavy call both on
naval ships and aircraft for the moment.
The seas being patrolled intensively are
ten times the size of Australia.
When the initial adjustments have been
made, the second stages, which include
the settlement of the shape of the war on
the vast frontier of the Indian Ocean, will
begin.
Corregidor Holds On
So soon as Manila had been militarily
evacuated and Cavite, the naval base,
which lies several miles away round the
bay to the south-west, had been dis-
mantled and wrecked, General Mac-
Arthur’s troops began to withdraw to the
hills, on a previously arranged line along
the strategic railway which runs up the
eastern side of Luzon.
In closing the approaches to their rear
from the south, the Philippine armies
opened to the enemy the road from
Lingayen to Manila, and a section of the
Japanese formations was enabled to
reach the suburbs, outside which it was
compelled to break through a last cordon
of defenders.
The city was by this time on fire, and
Japanese bombers kept up a frequent
bombardment, though not on a very large
scale. They gave more attention to the
defensive lines east of the capital and to
Corregidor Island, which, heavily forti-
fied, acts as a stopper at the mouth of
Manila Bay, with the help of two small
fortified sister isles which look like
destroyers escorting a battleship. Corre-
gidor’s batteries drove the raiders off.
It was raided again by 60 bombers
at the week-end —casualties, 15 killed, 35
injured.
Corregidor’s resistance will be an in-
teresting experiment. The world is once
more beginning to revise its opinion of
the value of strong fortifications. It is
now known that the Maginot Line was
not broken—the Germans made no
attempt to capture it until the French
had been forced into evacuating it by the
break-through at Sedan, which enabled
the Hun legions to shoot down the
Meuse behind the French defences.
Tobruk, with its star-perimeter of under-
ground defences, laid down under the
worst possible conditions, held out against
air and land forces almost as heavy as
those which the Japanese are using in
Luzon, and better based. But it had
naval succor. Malta remains a British
possession.
Corregidor is a problem by itself. The
Japanese will be able to reach it by rifle-
shot across North Passage. It is six miles
long, two miles wide. Its sides rise up
in sheer, almost unscalable cliffs for
much of its girth and climb into a
wooded ridge 650 feet above the sea.
Unlike Hong Kong, it has no civil popu-
lation to bother it, and it is honeycombed
with rock tunnels and used to be brist-
ling with well-concealed guns.
Well provisioned, it could be stormed
only by force of sheer numbers. Until
it is stormed Japan may own Manila,
but it doesn’t own Manila Bay. Not a
ship can it bring into or out of that wide
stretch of water. It will be surprising if
valiant attempts are not made to hold
Corregidor as long as possible. Posses-
sion of Manila Bay may mean much in
the fight for the Indian Ocean. It would
certainly mean much indeed in the
organisation of an expedition against the
Indies and North Australian shores.
The fight for Manila continued until
8 a.m. on Friday morning, January 2.
Then the city gave in. Three days before
U.S. Commissioner Sayre told the
islanders in a broadcast that “help” was
“coming”—help “of such magnitude that
the Japanese will be driven from the
Philippines.”
Whatever plans are incubating for sal-
vaging the Philippines, however, it is
obvious that MacArthur is organising to
fight a delaying action. One of his last
communiques emphasised that the roads
from Lengayen to Manila were con-
trolled from the air by the Japanese.
Yet U.S. ’planes have been in use in
Burma, and their pilots were specially
thanked for their efforts in helping to
ward off the attacks on Rangoon on
Christmas Day, when according to
Burma Radio—thousands were killed or
injured, and the Allies lost 12 aircraft
against 40 Japanese,
The fact that U.S.-Filipino forces are
operating over something like 220 miles
of straggling fronts shows the nature of
the fight. Had there been any intention
to make a last stand and evacuate, there
would have been closer concentration by
this time.
Pause in Malaya
The Japanese Malayan drive paused
on all its three toes when the western
one settled down on Ipoh, which is at
one end of the long, broadish valley
which runs from the north-east and the
Thai border to the west coast.
Down this valley the central drive had
been trying to make its way to the heart
of the mountains of Pahang. The third
drive, generated from the first landing
on Dec. 8 at Kota Bahru, has been try-
ing to trickle down the east coast. At
Kuantan, 180 miles from Singapore—
halfway up the east coast—there have
been alarms and excursions ; but Lieut.-
General Pownall, the new C.-in-C., arrived
without any major developments having
taken place. The Japanese on Jan. 4
declared that the coastal armies were
“thundering towards Singapore and
irresistible.”
Ipoh fell when the Japanese made a
strong attack on Monday, Dec. 29. It
cost them heavy casualties. The same
evening Singapore was lightly raided four
times. Most Malayan airfields and mili-
tary centres, including Kuala Lumpur,
also were attacked during the week.
Martial law was imposed in Singapore
and the censorship was tightened up. It
needed to be, especially as Singapore is
full of boo-boo boys, some of them
scarcely trained to tell a rifle from a
popgun, but all full of strategic notions
and desire for “scorched earth.” Also,
there seemed to be some division of
authority between civilian and military
which called for settlement.
The official communique .issued on
Dec, 31 recorded only slight enemy
activity on the Perak (west) front, enemy
dive-bombing of British communications,
and some patrol fighting also in the
Kuantan (eastern) area. The R.A.F.
bombed Singei Patani, the Japanese air
headquarters in n.-e. Malaya, on Dec. 31,
for the second time in four nights.
On Tuesday night, Dec. 31, Tokyo
Radio, soaring to its highest flights
of fancy, recorded the “collapse of the
11th Malaya Division,” and said Aus-
tralian forces were retreating without
fighting, save for some who were sur-
rounded. It spoke of raids at Singapore
doing “vast damage.”
From a mere infiltration, however, the
Japanese formations below Thailand
were by now being built into an army
with tanks and artillery and an efficient
air force and engineering cofps which
astonished the British by the rapidity with
which it reconstructed wrecked bridges.
The enemy obviously had fifth column-
ists at work. This was not remarkable.
The vast majority of the Malayan popu-
lation is Chinese in many districts; and
some sections of both northern and
Kwang-tung Chinese are of the Wang
Ching-wei persuasion. Moreover, many
Japanese so closely resemble Chinese that
even a Chinese needs to hear them speak
to make sure of their race. There was
also some talk of disaffected Tamils
helping the Japanese forces. Maybe. In
the Orient there is always somebody to
be found in a crowd, especially where
there are half-bloods, who has no sense
of nationality or allegiance strong enough
to resist a tossed rupee or dollar.
On New Year’s Day, General Pownall,
issued a communique from Kuala Lum-
pur saying that “it was intended from now
onward to fight for every inch of ground
down the Malay Peninsula,” and that
“substantial help” was on the way. The
Japanese declared that day that they had
made a surprise attack on British rein-
forced troops south of Ipoh, adding
picturesquely and untruthfully:
After occupying a swampy area south
of the Perak River our forces attacked
an Australian army of 8000 under Major-
General Gordon Bennett. They resisted,
concentrating fierce cannon fire upon our
dauntless men. But brave Japanese human
bombers dashed in among the enemy and
completely annihilated them.
All, of course, except the inevitable
prisoner who always falls into the hands
of Nipponese victors. This phantom
Digger, Tokyo announced, had told his
captors they were “irresistible.”
The Army Minister, Mr. Forde, gave
an assurance that, save for a few trans-
port men, none of the A.I.F. yet had
been in action.
Towards the end of the week there
were signs of a renewal of fighting, par-
ticularly in the west. Parties of Japanese
appeared to be making their way down
the coast from the direction of Penang
on rafts and native boats, of which
there are hundreds among the islands of
the Tenasserim coast, attempting to land
in the British rear, but they had little luck.
On the whole, the situation, though
anything but good, could be worse. Time
is the essence of the contract. British
casualties have so far been small. Light
as the air cover may be and stringent
as may be the manner in which it is
being conserved for the big test, there
are still machines enough to allow heavy
bombing of Japanese basic aerodromes
of Singei Patani and Gong Kedah in the
north-east and in Thailand, and to pre-
serve Singapore from major raids. The
Japs are hampered by lack of night
fighters.
Further withdrawals were made after
three attacks by Japanese armored forces
on January 2, when the enemy was
believed by the Singapore command to
have lost 300 to 400 men.
Japanese Gains in Malaya
They may be summarised as follows.
They have got Kedah, a strip of un-
federated territory, joining Burma on the
north and sandwiched between Thailand
and the west coast. Its area is 3660 square
miles; its population is about 500,000
Malays, Chinese, Indians, and 1000
Europeans. Its principal export is rubber,
of which it turns off about one-eighth
of the output of British Malaya.
Wellesley province and Penang Island,
Britain’s oldest possessions in Malaya,
about 400 square miles, secured origi-
nally from Kedah, are gone. Their
European population was about 2500,
their total population 415,000, of whom
225,000 were Chinese and 60,000 Indians.
On the west, about a third of Kelantan,
another unfederated State, is in Japanese
hands, though the extent of the penetra-
tion is somewhat vague. Kelantan is a
wild State full of swamp and jungle and
containing only 100 Europeans. Its capi-
tal, Kota Bahru, has a population of
14,000. It produces about 5 per cent, of
Malayan rubber and small quantities of
gold and other metals, but it has heavy
iron-ore deposits yet to be reached.
Perak has been penetrated to the level
of the Dindings. Of this Federated State
the enemy on January 5 appeared to hold
about 4000 square miles; but here again
the breadth of his penetration is nebulous,
and it was not clear on Jan. 4 whether
he controlled Dindings, Perak produces
a very large proportion of the rubber
and tin exported from Malaya, The
main tin areas seem to be in Japanese
hands. One landing has been made in
the Pahang Federated State in the east —
at Kuantan.
The area of British mainland Malay
Peninsula and Straits Settlements is
roughly 51,000 square miles. At a maxi-
mum on Jan. 4 the Japanese held 10,000
square miles, including 2500 square miles
of the most productive part of the penin-
sula. At his furthest penetration on the
west the enemy is still nearly 350 miles
by road from Singapore.
In the Northern Air
Darwin had two air alerts last week. It,
enjoyed a laugh at the Jap. claim (the


Germans repeated it) to have severely
bombed the military objectives m the
town, played general havoc and reduced
Australia to a state of “consternation.
Almost since the beginning of hostili-
ties there have been Japanese recon-
naissances over Mandated New Guinea
and R.A.A.F. patrols over the 600-mue-
width of sea between the northern Bis-
marck archipelago and the Japanese
Carolines.
The southernmost Japanese outpost is
the sentinel Greenwich Island, which lies
between 300 and 400 miles north of New
Ireland. Greenwich is capable of being
turned into a dangerous raiding base
which would halve the distance or
bombers from the Japanese islands.
R.A.A.F. ’planes bombed it early in De-
cember and again towards the end of last
week.
On Sunday morning the Japanese paid
a return visit with long-distance bombers,
which twice dropped bombs some distance
out of now ash-strewn Rabaul which
ceased to be the capital of the Mandated
Territory early in September. One
native adult and two children were killed,
two natives and two native children were
seriously injured, 10 others were slightly
injured; but no European received a
scratch. At 8 p.m. there was a second
raid by 11 aircraft, which achieved no
damage.
In each case the Japanese scattered
after dropping their bombs, and though
the R.A.A.F. sent up machines there were
“no observed results.”
"Hawaii Was Asleep."
“Nobby II”: An “official” account of
the bombing of Hawaii was given over
Tokyo Radio on Jan. 2. The narrator,
who commanded the first formation to
attack, described the unspeakable affair
as “a great victory.” It wasn’t even a
“great” murder.
According to the air-squadron com-
mander, when preparations for the attack
were made the sea was rough. As the
carrier raced through the water the
signal which Admiral To jo used at
Tsushima was hoisted: “The destiny of
the Empire hangs on this one battle —
Victory! ”
The carrier increased her speed hour
by hour. At the take-off clouds hung
1500 to 2000 metres (roughly 5000 ft. to
6500 ft.), and the ’planes soared into
safety above them, hiding from the un-
suspecting and anxious-to-be-friendly
Americans. The commander likened
his flight to that of a seagull as he set
out to carry out the specific order to
“blast Hawaii.”
Presently he had an attack of “un-
easiness.” Normally, from their posts
high on the hills of Oahu the lookouts
could see 30 to 40 miles out to sea, and
“What if they should spot us?” But no ;
he looked down suddenly and “through
the cracks in the clouds directly below
us I could see Hawaii.”
“Now scatter.” I gave the order. Some
soared up; some dived. We circled round
the west coast of Oahu behind the hills.
Below us through the rift the sun showed
us the island like a great bowl surrounded
by high hills. It must have been God’s
hand which pulled aside the clouds directly
over Pearl Harbor for us.
We power-dived. In this manoeuvre we
had been undergoing vigorous, intensive
training year after year. Into this split-
second attack we were determined to put
everything we had learnt. It only lasted
three or four minutes.
Water shot up from the stern of a battle-
ship where a torpedo had struck her. I
looked round for enemy ’planes; there
were none. And there was no A.A. fire.
Hawaii was still asleep. The enterprise
was a great success.
Then A.A. fire broke out. It was
“scattered and ineffective” ; the gunners
seemed “excited,” as well they might
be in the circumstances.
A second dive was made on another
battleship and heavy explosive bombs
dropped directly on her magazine from
less than 5000 metres. Bullets began to
find marks on Japanese ’planes—one had
a wing perforated, another had its re-
serve oil tank hit. Wheeler Field and
its hangars and ’planes already were
smashed or afire.
Retiring to height, the visitors spied
two battleships together. “What a
target!” After the dives upon them one
ship (the tale declares) burst in two ; the
other heeled over and sank.
The squadron stayed over Hawaii for
some time waiting for the ’plane with the
damaged oil tank, and returned to the
aircraft-carrier as a second squadron of
machines was about to take off.
The teller of the story reflected that
“the task of these new attackers would
not be easy, as all the A.A. guns would
be ready for them.” But he felt that he
had taken part in a “glorious victory.”
He explained how the glorious victory
came about. The rough weather —there
was a 40 m.p.h. gale “in which no air-
craft would normally be allowed to take
o ff” —the clouds which shielded the
attackers down to 15,000 feet, from which
height the bombs were dropped, all were
in the favor of the aircraft, apart from
the infamous fact that there was no
declaration of war.
Under such conditions, unready A.A.
guns, firing at widely scattered craft
appearing for a matter of seconds out
of clouds and then disappearing again,
would have Buckley’s chance. So would
fighter ’planes. But the turn of both
came later, when the bombers were com-
pelled to fly low and lost 40 more
machines.
Bardia Fails.
“Ek Dum”: Rommel and his men in
Libya are a tough lot, and it will be an
achievement well worthy to be recorded
in history when they are finally defeated.
No battle of this war has been fought
anywhere with greater forces on an equal
length of front. Even now, with the
Italian armies, which were larger than
the German, scattered piecemeal all over
the landscape, the German command is
said to have 60,000 men at its disposal,
despite 70,000 casualties, among them
30,000 captured. The enemy formations
included 20,000 enclosed in the Halfaya-
Bardia fortress positions until the new
year.
It is incorrect to say that Rommel’s
own army near Jedabya is “caught in a
trap.” It is encircled, but the encircle-
ment line is long—so much so that it
is possible for the Germans to break
through and escape unless they are peril-
ously short of fuel and the requisites of
battle, which they do not seem to be.
The enemy has made several stabs at
the British lines, apparently to test their
strength, and on Dec. 30 claimed the de-
struction of 74 British tanks. In one
engagement 40 tanks were destroyed by
the British.
The R.A.F, and strong raiding parties
from various directions have been
nibbling at the Axis flanks while the two
main forces circle on each other’s outer
rims looking for an opening. Britain,
however, owns the air, as the enemy very
well realises.
Fighting became more intense towards
the week-end, though capital operations
were prevented by bad weather. The
Germans offered a “desperate resistance
to every attempt to split them up.”
The new year brought bad news for
them, for the assault, begun early on
Dec. 31, on their border stronghold at
Bardia had succeeded. After a prepara-
tive bombardment backed by bombing,
S’African sappers blasted a track through
the wire and minefields. The tanks, with
their sheltering tail of infantry, followed
at 6.30 a.m. Sixty hours later the town
was finally occupied.
About 1150 of our troops, including
Maorilanders, were released from con-
finement, and 7000 enemy prisoners were
taken —among them was Major-General
Schmidt, of the German Afrika Korps.
Moreover, the German dead were found
to include two major-generals who had
lost their lives earlier. The town was a
complete ruin. British casualties were
about 60 killed and 300 wounded.
The S’Africans were in action virtually
without a break for the whole of the
attack, which was a ticklish business,
slowed up because the approaches were
an almost solid minefield and because
of the underground and hillside strong
posts, which had to be cleaned out with
bayonet and grenade.
After their drive the tanks formed up
on the low country on which Bardia lies,
to assault the escarpment above and push
into Halfaya and Solium, On Jan. 5
they commanded the heights over Solium,
from the lower parts of which the Ger-
mans retired after blowing up stores and
ammunition dumps. The same slow pro-
cess of mine-digging had to be gone
through as at Bardia before the 6000 of
the 'enemy who, on January 5, still re-
mained in the border positions were
winkled out. This nasty job was in pro-
gress at the time of writing.
Axis shipping has less chance every
week, and the rule of the guardians of
the sea routes seems to be “a warship a
day.” On New Year’s Day the Admiralty
announced the sinking of five enemy
schooners in Mare Nostrum by British
submarines. An Italian destroyer also
was torpedoed.
Considerable movements along the
Axis coasts to the north suggest that
Hitler has not yet done with North
Africa. Axis submarines were reported
last week to be passing Gibraltar in
Spanish waters. The R.A.F. bombed
Grecian aerodromes. And the Luftwaffe
has returned in force to Sicily and has been
bombing Malta on an almost hourly time-
table. Between Dec. 19 and Jan. 2 the
invincible little island had 52 day and
47 night attacks, and British aircraft was
scarcely ever out of action. The raids
are rarely pushed home, but the Hurri-
canes and A.A. guns have bagged their
bomber or so a day average, with a few
Messerschmitts for makeweight. The
Germans claim that in the last week of
December the R.A.F. lost 33 machines
in the Mediterranean and Libya.
In Russia.
“Ek Dum”: There is encouraging
news from the Crimea, where two
large Russian forces landed in a
storm at Kerch and Theodosia on
the Kerch Peninsula, driving the Ger-
mans out of both places. The Germans
admitted the landings, declared they were
made by overwhelmingly superior forces
and added that “effective counter-
measures are being taken.” The Russian
version is that the landings are major
operations which threaten to cut off the
Crimean Germans from the Ukraine and
place them in a state of siege. In any
case they were spirited performances,
though the enemy has not given up his
attempt to take Sevastopol.
The other fronts divide into their three
natural sections. In the southern one
the position is virtually unchanged since
the first three or four days of December.
Further north, the two long German
spearheads round Moscow have,
according to the German story, been
drawn back to conform to the con-
tour of the German line from the
Ukraine border to Schlusselburg;
but the Russians insist that they
were pushed back with bloody losses.
On Dec, 27 it was announced without
any flourish of trumpets that Kaluga,
100 miles s.-w. of Moscow, had been
retaken by the Red Army. On New
Year’s Day a communique issued from
Kiubyshev proclaimed the rout of Ger-
man armies consisting of six corps—
about 250,000 men —under command of
General Guderian, and the capture of
the town as the crux of a great victory.
Kaluga, it was said, had changed hands
“several times” in the few days that had
elapsed since its first recapture by the
Russians. There was no reference to
prisoners, and there was some mystery
about Guderian’s command of so large
a force as 250,000 men —a marshal’s army
group. Guderian, when last heard of,
was merely one of five generals under
the two marshals —Bock (central c.-in-c.)
and Von Kluge.
The Germans seem to have made no
move to extricate themselves from the
results of the reported disaster, which, by
Russian accounts, should leave their
Ukraine armies with a badly smashed
joint within their centre.
North-west of Moscow, the Russians
are moving forward towards Rshev, the
capture of which was reported on Jan. 2
to be imminent. But here again the
northern German curtain line, whose
southern flank is in dire danger if the
Germans do not command the initiative,
seems to be maintaining its position, with
disregard for its peril.
The German central position now, on
Russian accounts, seems strongly to re-
semble the Hindenburg Line of 1918,
when Foch cracked its jointure.
The next few days should develop a
crisis which will show for certain which
way the wind is blowing.
The Russians cannot continue to push
the centre between Rshev and Kaluga
only without putting their heads into a
pocket or pockets. To secure a real ad-
vantage, they must definitely begin to
break up the German forces on the
northern and southern flanks of their
central armies, and release Leningrad and
invade the Ukraine. On their ability to
do these things, the estimate of their
real strength must depend.
There are persistent reports of large
assemblages of German troops in the
Balkans and along the Thracian and
Aegean coasts, which lend some color to
the suggestion that Hitler, now believed
to be near Smolensk, contemplates some
sort of a drive through Turkey or across
the Eastern Mediterranean.
Home Army Changes.
“Ek Dum”: When Japan came in the
focus of the war, from Australia’s view-
point, shifted suddenly from the defence
barrier of the Middle East to the home-
land. Hence it was certain immediately
that tried officers with actual fighting
experience in the Middle East would be
called to head the new Commonwealth
defence general staff, and to organise and
direct district commands. The peahen
press took advantage of its knowledge
of what was about to take place to
“demand” changes which had been in-
evitable long before “famous” editors
ever thought of the matter and to repre-
sent them, when they came, as the fruit
of its own prompt victory over an in-
efficiency and laxity which never existed.
One choice specimen raised a tri-
umphant scream of “Four Generals
Sacked.” All that had happened was that
older men with splendid records, three
of whom had given up important posi-
tions in civil life to which they were
anxious to return, had been replaced by
men whose age advantage had made it
possible for them to gain 1941-42 war
experience.
How far newspapers had any influence
in the matter can be gauged from the
fact that one of the returning generals,
Major-General Vasey, who is to become
Lieut.-General Mackay’s Chief of Staff,
was scheduled to come home to take up
his post before the squealing started.
Major-Generals Plant and Robertson, for
their part, were actually back in Mel-
bourne when the changes were made.
Army Minister Forde declares that the
new appointees from Palestine are “some
of the cream of the men selected by
General Blarney,” And he has empha-
sised that there has been nothing in the
nature of the “purge” alleged by a paper
which is rather mad about purges: “the
Government appreciates the sterling work
and long and honorable service of those
officers who are being replaced.”
The returned officers have all been pro-
moted in rank. The versatile Vasey
served through the last war and was on
General Cannan’s staff before Amiens in
March, 1918, being then a 26-year-old
major. He was senior administrative officer
during the 1940-41 training period and in
the advance as far as Tobruk, after which
he became 6th Div. C.O.S. In Greece,
his men —A.I.F. and British —took the
first German shock at the Monastir Gap.
He commanded in Crete, and his work
there and in Greece sealed his reputation
both as a commander and staff man.
Major-General Cyril Clowes, D. 5.0.,
M.C., was one of the four specialist artil-
lery officers who were chosen as forward
observing officers at Gallipoli. In this war
he commanded Corps Artillery in Greece ;
had previously held commands at Dar-
win and had acted as chief artillery in-
structor in Sydney. He will command
the Ist Infantry Div., N.S.W.
Of Major-General J. J. Murray, one of
the most adventurous and dashing of his
officers wrote only two or three weeks
ago:
You have no idea what kind of a
brigadier we have. He is almost super-
human.
Murray’s name appears on page after
page of 1914-18 war history from the time
of Fromelles (July 19, 1916). He com-
manded a brigade during the Tobruk
siege.
Major-General Savige is another original
of the present A.1.F., a versatile, hard-
bitten Victorian, recommended for decora-
tion seven times in the last war. Some of
his war experiences sound like extracts
from The Arabian Nights. Savige finished
that war with the Dunsterforce. He
commanded the 17th Brigade—Victorians
—at Bardia, Tobruk, Derna and in
Greece.
Major-General Robertson —he is a Dun-
troon man organised the Darwin de-
fences, and has a specialist knowledge of
our northern lines. He led Mackay’s 19th
Brigade in the Libyan advance at the
beginning of last year, took Tobruk in
the first advance and applied his experi-
ence as a cavalry leader to produce the
swift movement which marked the pro-
gress of the Australian advance to Derna.
Major-General Plant was commandant
at Duntroon for a little while after the out-
break of war; then for a time commandant
in Queensland. He came back in 1919
with a D.S.O. and bar, some other
decorations, including the Croix de
Guerre, and six mentions in dispatches.
Other changes have been made, and
there will be more. The defence job is
being tackled with an energy and deter-
mination consonant with the fact that
the Commonwealth has become a war
zone.
A long list of New Year honors were
granted in British and Commonwealth
lists to A.I.F. men. Lieutenant-General
J. D. Lavarack, Corps Commander of
the A.I.F. in the Middle East, becomes a
K. Ten C.B.Es., 15 0.8.E5., 12
M.B.Es., three bars to the D. 5.0., 20
D.S.Os., 17 M.Cs., five D.C.Ms. and 42
M.Ms. completed the issue.
» * * *
After a long interval without serious
attacks on convoys, U-boats dogged a
British convoy for several days, with the
support of long-distance Focke-Wult
Kuriers overhead. Three U-boats were
known to be sunk —one rammed and it
was possible that the depth charges
bagged others. British losses were the
former U.S. destroyer Stanley, H.M.S.
Audacity, an auxiliary vessel, and two
merchantmen totalling 6000 tons out or
30 ships in the convoy. In the Mediter-
ranean, H.M.S. Neptune (7175 tons),
sister ship to Maoriland’s Achilles, and
a Javelin destroyer—sister to Lord
Mountbatten’s valiant Kelly, which was
sunk off Crete —ran into a minefield and
were lost.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The small boys thought of it first, or
so it seems; they are all wishing one
another an un-Jappy New Year!
Touching the turmoil in the Pacific, a
certain Darling Point matron, asked if she
was moving to the mountains, replied:
“Certainly not! If I’m to be bombed,
1 might as well be bombed at a good
address. Anyway, I am much too heavy
to be pursued from gum-tree to gum-tree
by either maddened Japanese or soldier-
ants!”
New Year’s Day, 1942, may not have
spread such a peacock tail as those of
former years, but it still had some plumes
of glory. One, flaunted in the sun at
Henson Park, Marrickville, was the High-
land Gathering. It would take more
than a war to induce the Scots to cancel
that. Not so big and with far fewer
men competitors than in peace-time years,
the gathering was just as stirring, with
kilts and pipes, with tartan and with
heather.
Among the lassies who wore their
plaids with an air, and who danced with
amazing vivacity, were Joy Cross, Jean
Mackenzie and Lynette Finnic. Among
the pipers the white woman’s burden was
blithely carried by lassies who could
make the pipes skirl as dashingly, as
lamenting!y as men. Indeed, the march
of the combined pipe bands was led by
drum-major Mrs. Alec Cunningham, fly-
ing the Royal Stuart tartan.
Tomorrow in the early afternoon Mary
Regan will add still another to the num-
ber of St. Mary’s attractive brides. Her
wedding at the Cathedral is timed for
the early afternoon. Her bridegroom will
be Sergeant Vernon Cracey, of the
R.A.A.F. Her attendant will be Elizabeth
Kemp. Mary is one of the well-known
Tamworth family, and mother Mrs.
Charles Regan will give a small party at
the Macquarie Club following the wed-
ding. But there are to be no bridal
trappings, just afternoon frocks and hats
for bride and ’maid.
One of the favorite books with women
during the last week or two has been
Virginia Cowles’s Looking for Trouble.
Virginia, as an American roving jour-
nalist, was footloose over Europe through
the Spanish war, and after that she just
seemed born to trouble as the sparks fly
upward. Czechoslovakia, Russia, London,
Hitler Germany in the years just before
and the year after war were Virginia’s
workshops. Her pen paints wide rather
than digs deep, but in a series of scenes
reproduced from a sensitive brain she
gives a graphic resume of the world
drama as produced by showman Adolf
Hitler. An unusual glimpse or two of
Unity Mitford, scraps of conversation
with Winston Churchill, Chamberlain and
her inimitable daily help, Mrs. Sullivan,
help with atmosphere.
Mrs. Sullivan’s “What do these dic-
tators think they’re up to? My old man
says the trouble is, they’re common. He
says they’re no better born than me!”
and again: “My old man says now as
we can’t trust Ttler any more there’s
no use arguing with him ; now we’ve got
to give him a licking” stick in the memory
even longer than the sayings of the
fashionable and the powerful who crowd
the pages.
Elsie Chen Kaw became Mrs. Shu
Yao Lee in St. Andrew’s Cathedral on
the afternoon of New Year’s Eve. Bride
and ’groom are members of two
well-known Chinese families. The tradi-
tional ivory satin, tulle and orange
blossom were worn by the bride ; and
following the gleaming folds of her long
and flowing frock were sisters Margarita
and Ruby. Their frocks were of jacaranda
blue, and they carried apricot-shaded
gladioli. Her elder brother Alex, gave
Elsie away ; another brother, Dr. Julian
Chen Kaw, was best man. The reception
was in the Gloucester room of the Aus-
tralia,
Frocking, at any rate, was carefree and
blithe for New Year’s Day at Randwick.
Prints flowered gaily ; white frocks and
hats were in rhyme with the breeze-
crisped sunshine ; the blue of delphinium,
of the waves off Manly, blue as pale as
plumbago, as deep as navy, was back-
ground for spots, for stripes, for all heard-
and unheard-of flower designs. The
wedge shoe brought comfort to many,
and the stockingless leg appeared at
frequent intervals.
Mrs. Whittingham. was with Mrs. E.
J. Watt, and both wore flowered dresses
and shady hats. Daffodil-yellow linens
were worn by Mollie Brearley and Joan
Lamb. Althea Drake-Brockman and
Nancy Baldick tracked luck together.
Newly-engaged June Bracken (young man
is Sergeant-Observer Alan Ritchie,
R.A.A.F.-ing abroad) was demure in grey.
Mrs. Arthur Cobcroft, of Armidale, and
Beryl Osborne were others at this
first daylight-saving (well, the punters
saved that, at any rate) Tattersall’s
meeting.
Mrs. Reed, elder sister to Virginia
Cowles, whose Looking for Trouble
seems to be Sydney women’s Book of
the Week, has a speaking voice with a
lilt in it. She wears her hair (it is brown,
like her sister’s) in the type of longish
bob adopted by the writer. They are a
Boston family, and .she has travelled
pretty widely in Europe. She is staying
with the U.S.A. Consular Hawkins
couple, and she dropped into Sydney by
way of Sourabaya. Her husband is a
captain in the U.S.A. Marines ; her home
is on Long Island, New York.
When victory is eventually grasped, the
V.As. will come in for a special share
of thanks. Here’s pretty Rosemary Laur-
ence, V.A., of the Feminist Club detach-
ment 805. Since last Monday she has
lived in her job, which has to do with
the blood bank of Royal North Shore
Hospital. After that the blood bank at
the Sydney will know her enthusiastic
labors. Rosemary has been V.A.-ing since
the outbreak. At first the Lady Cowrie
Red Cross Home was her sphere of
action. She is a Kirribilli girl, and her
father is N. C. Laurence, a member of
the city’s well-known legal family. Nor-
ton Trevaire photograph.
The audience coming out of the Royal
last Saturday was caught in the full blast
of the new blackout lights. In the
mauvy-blue haze they had a slightly dis-
interred look. They might, indeed, have
been part of that ghostly company of
ancestors who had stepped from their
frames to goad Ivan Menzies, the pre-
tender baronet of “Ruddigore.” Inciden-
tally, why does Ivan Menzies drag in
topical allusions, such as petrol-ration
tickets? Most Gilsullivan enthusiasts
must prefer W. S. Gilbert as a humorist.
Everybody was relieved to see the chorus
in full sail again. The endowed brides-
maids, all Alice-blue muslin and floating
veils, made delicate background for Rose
Maybud’s (Viola Wilson) apple-green
wedding array. Peggy Shea and Evelyn
Gardiner, as well as Viola, won the
applause of all. When Bernard Manning
grows tired of G. and S. he’ll be able
to scoop in the doubloons giving mere
women lessons on how to manipulate a
cape.
Betty Maxwell is among the newly-
engaged. Betty, small and pretty, is the
eldest daughter of the Justice Maxwell
couple of Woollahra. Her young man
is Bill Kendall, only child of the E. J.
Kendalls, of Woollahra. He is a gradu-
ate of Harvard, and his job is in muni-
tions. He represented Australia at the
Olympic Games in 1936.
The Geoffrey Marquis couple came
down from Calcutta recently. The city
of palaces was looking magnificent in
the clear winter sunshine when they left.
There life was going on almost normally
(Mrs. Marquis left two days before Japan
got busy), except for the semi-blackout
which had enveloped the city for some
months. The women were busy learning
all the types of voluntary war work in
which Australian women are becoming
so adept. Mr. Marquis arrived in Sydney
a few days after his wife. Her journey
had taken six days, his four. In the
Netherlands East Indies Mrs. Marquis
experienced her deepest blackout. “Hardly
enough light to see to powder one’s face,”
she said, and added, “Rightly so.” Mr.
Marquis, an Englishman, has been in
Calcutta fey: 20 years. Mrs. Marquis, a
Sydney girl before her marriage, is de-
lighted with the healthy looks of her two
sons, who have been pupils at “Shore”
for the last 18 months.
Two members of the Sydney P.E.N.
Club now in London are Jessie Urquhart
and Kathleen Moneypenny. Jessie has
been representing Australian interests at
a recent conference. Kathleen is busy at
social service.
Women who would like to be trained
as canteen cooks are asked to call at
W.A.N.S. headquarters. This training
in canteen cooking will make those
who undertake it eligible for work
in Army or munitions factory cook-
house ; or for jobs as matrons for
the Land Army, or for evacuated groups.
W.A.N.S. headquarters also sounds the
tocsin to women who have technical col-
lege diplomas in domestic science and to
any who were formerly teachers of cook-
ery in domestic science schools.
From Melbourne
When Mrs. Frank Getting gave a little
party to say thank you to naval wives
who had helped with Navy Day (which
has been the hugest success, raking in
something in the vicinity of £10,000),
Admiral Royle’s lady not only said
“Thank you all” prettily, but saw to it
that the ticket was drawn which was to
give its holder the traycloth autographed
by the visiting Americans of the U.S.A.
Fleet a little time back. Winner’s
name was not available, but tea-table
gossip disclosed that for once Dame
Chance picked a winner appropriate
enough for the inkstand made from bits
of the old Sydney which sank the Emden.
It was won by Captain Parker, of this
city. For this relic of a brave past day
sailors had sold tickets in the streets,
and the response had been magnificent,
as it well might be. With quickened
sympathy for brave men it is easy these
days to raise money for naval relief, and
naval wives are seizing time by the fore-
lock, knowing well that all the funds
they can gather will be needed in days
to come.
A Melbourne girl who will not let
herself be robbed of the romance that
is a bride’s due is Gabrielle Hill, staff
nurse with A.I.F. For her wedding with
Warrant-Officer “Ted” Cunningham on
February 13 she has already collected
her wedding dress, and her family has
sent her from South Yarra the “some-
thing blue” to bring good luck. It is
one of the real-life stories that O. Henry
would have loved that these two, living
within a few hundred yards of each other
in Melbourne, never met till they were
both serving in the Middle East. Bishop
McCarthy will perform the ceremony in
Egypt on the bridegroom’s birthday, and
Dr. John Gray, of Kew, will give the
bride away. Nurse Hill was at Royal
Melbourne Hospital when war broke out,
and was sent to Puckapunyal in the early
days, after which she went off to Eng-
land with reinforcements and then to the
Middle East, meeting the bridegroom the
day after he landed there. Athol Shmith
made this picture of her.
Possessors of parquet floors are find-
ing themselves in the boom. It’s so easy
to roll up the carpets or the rugs and
let the boys on leave and their girl pals
slide on the floor to the music of the
“Box.” Mrs. David Nicholls, “Joy” to
her intimates, had to thank her foresight
in having all her house parqueted for
the 100 p.c. success of her New Year’s
Eve gathering to help the Convoys,
workers who had pledged themselves
to raise money for service ambulances.
White/ woolly rugs were easily put aside
and rare china packed in cupboards at
the Nicholls home while those people
who have to stay put indulged in a little
recreation. Quite a number of friendly
allies and well-wishers were on the floor,
including several Swiss and not a few
Russians. Verna Shmith was one of
the energetic organisers of the evening,
her cry being “The Convoys have
promised to raise more money for mili-
tary ambulances, and raise it they must.”
Lorna Salisbury is the Convoys’ presi-
dent.
It’s a weary war-worker who cannot
enjoy a laugh against herself, and last
week’s laugh was on the enthusiast who
decided to give the children of men on
auxiliary ships a treat. She arranged for
all men to be informed, and for a list
of wives and children to be made at
the depot where collection of them was
easy. Then she engaged two merry-go-
rounds in a spacious park, and was start-
ing to cater on a generous scale, when
she called for the numbers to be fed.
And these were precisely six, two
children and four adults. Hastily calling
off her commitments, she took the bunch
to the pantomime.
Australian Women’s Legion members
have been taken into the City of
Melbourne’s A.R.P. section, and night
after night they go through all
the tactical and disciplinary drill,
plotting and roof-spotting, telephone
attendance and first-aid and message-
carrying. The belief in their effi-
ciency is so great that women who are
still needed for A.R.P. work in the city
are being advised to enrol and train with
the A.W.L. This is the highest com-
pliment these women have had paid them
since they began training under a steady
and depressing downpour of criticism
from all and sundry who had found an
easier form of war work than attending
nightly drills and study.
The collecting craze has had solicitor
Bill Purves in its grip since he was a
small boy, and one of his earlier collec-
tions of stamps was sold by him to
George the Fifth, who was a philatelist
also in the spare moments a monarch
has. Now Bill has collected something
more exciting than stamps, to wit, Patricia
Warford Mein, whose graceful figure and
red-gold hair have added to the decor
of Melbourne’s best-knowns’ parties since
she was a schoolgirl. Their engagement
will be a short one, for Bill, who was in
the army till his father’s illness called him
back to the city, hopes to return to
active service soon. Bill is as witty as
sister Valerie, and they both inherit the
wit for which their paternal grandparent,
J, L. Purves, a barrister of the ’eighties,
was famous.
Like most busy people, Mrs. E. C.
Veitch, of Camberwell, has found time
for more work. Before the war she was
to be found often at Arts and Crafts
Society’s rooms and shop, where her
hand-made gloves were the admiration
of all beholders. Then the C.W.A. called
on her to aid with its glovemaking,
which has developed mightily, and
is practically ready to become a cottage
craft like Harris tweeds and Irish lace.
The other day, when wanting her advice
on the delicate question of suede gloves
and how to cut them out, friends dis-
covered Mrs. Veitch at the Flinders-lane
depot of the C.W.A.’s camouflage net in-
dustry, where she puts in two full days
each week. The nets were growing under
nimble fingers like magic weaves.
Another busy woman, Mrs. R. T. A.
Macdonald had charge of the room,
and the atmosphere of quiet, tense de-
termination was a benediction to all who
came to gaze on the weavers.
What with its president sharing in
her husband’s new honor, its secre-
tary welcoming home her brigadier
now major - general and lots of
members reporting that their men-
folk have returned from distant battle-
fields, the A.I.F. Women’s Associa-
tion has had a really happy New Year.
Its president, the wife of Lieut.-General
John D. Lavarack, is a full-time worker
for the association, and Mrs. Vasey, as
secretary, has put up a record of service.
The rank and file, wives, mothers and
sweethearts of men on service, find that
assembling themselves together has a
cheering effect, and that as a body they
can command the friendly offices of good
speakers among returned officers and
men. The Lavarack family evidently be-
lieves in an “all-in” war, for as well as
father two sons have seen active service
and the third, now in camp, is changing
over from the militia to A.I.F. or
R.A.A.F. as soon as he can. He is still
only in his teens.
Regarding drama, it’s an interesting
point that the Little Theatre, which used
to run seasons of a week’s duration, has
extended them to a fortnight. The last
show, Ben Levy’s “Mrs. Moonlight” (a
bit too whimsical for the materialists),
produced good houses and a number of
red eyes at the final curtain. Thus imagi-
nation can lift an audience out of itself
during an hour as black as this one.


HOW TO INCREASE
YOUR HEIGHT!
6FEET
5 FEET
4 FEET
SFEET
2 FEET
FOOT
Which One Represents You?
YOU CAN BE TALLER
IN JUST 14 DAYS
FROM NOW!
IN your own home you can increase your
height by a Simple, Natural method.
There are no drugs, nothing to get out
of order; there is no risk, everything is
simple and straightforward.
This wonderful new method will add to
your stature, improve your health and
appearance.
500 TREATISES TO BE
GIVEN FREE!
HIS remarkable literature will amaze
you. It will show you the short cut to
a tall, commanding personality. Through
reading this wonderful literature hundreds
have already increased their height, hun-
dreds are doing so at this moment. For
a short while you can get one of these
Treatises Free —if you SEND AT ONCE.
Get this coupon in the post NOW!
SEND NO MONEY!
5 SYDNEY PHYSICAIi INSTITUTE,
2 Dept. 94, Wayne House,
m CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
T
NAME.
■ ADDRESS I
b Enclose 3d. in stamps for Postage. 7/1/42. g
BHMHHHMBHIBMIHBIgaBIMBHggHimI
Educational.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY
CORRESPONDENCE.
The DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
offers through the SYDNEY TECHNICAL
COLLEGE the following courses by correspon-
dence :
ENGINEERING COURSES: Motor
Mechanics, Fitting and Machining, Engineer-
ing Trades Drawing, Engine Driving, Boiler
Attendants, Diesel Engine Operation, Suction
(Producer) Gas.
TRADE COURSES: Electrical Trades (Elec-
trician’s License), Carpentry and Joinery,
Building.
PRINTING COURSES: Composing, Printers’
English and Arithmetic, Linotype Operation.
SANITATION COURSES: Sewer Plumbing,
Water Plumbing, House Drainage.
RURAL COURSES: Agriculture, Care of
Animals, Wool Classing, Station Bookkeeping,
Farm Science, Farm Arithmetic, Farm
Mechanics.
COMMERCIAL AND SECRETARIAL
COURSES: Accountancy, Auditing, Commer-
cial Law, Bookkeeping, Business Principles,
Shorthand, Commercial Correspondence.
ART COURSES : Ticket and Showcard Writing,
Dressmaker’s Art, Elementary Art.
HOME HANDICRAFTS COURSES: Dress-
making and Millinery.
CERTIFICATE COURSES; Health, Meat and
Food Inspection, Local Government and
Shire Clerks.
PUBLIC EXAMINATION COURSES: Nurses’
Entrance, Police Entrance, Telephonists and
Intermediate Certificate.
SECONDARY COURSES: English, Mathe-
matics and Mechanics (to Leaving Certifi-
cate standard).
OPEN TO ALL WHO CANNOT PERSON-
ALLY ATTEND EVENING CLASSES AT
SYDNEY OR COUNTRY TECHICAL
COLLEGES.
FEES
25/- a year or 10/- a term: Single subjects.
Half fees to students under 21 years and
receiving less than 30/- weekly.
P. D. RIDDELL,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
MAIL COUPON FOR SYLLABUS.
TO The Secretary, Correspondence Teaching
Division, Sydney Technical College, Ultimo.
Please send me, without obligation, full details
of the. correspondence
course.
Name
Address
Personal and Missing Friends.
LOVELL.—WouId WALTER GRAHAM
LOVELL, formerly of 32 Childers Street, Kew,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with his wife, MRS. A. E.
LOVELL, of 37 Peel Street, Kew, as she is
anxious to hear of him?
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
COLIN RONALD THOMAS please ask him to
communicate with his people in S.A.?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1873 of 1941.
BETWEEN MARY HELEN HENNESSY Peti-
tioner and CARL EDWARD HENNESSY
Respondent.
TO CARL EDWARD HENNESSY formerly
of 235 Glebe Road Glebe New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
HELEN HENNESSY has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years, and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twentieth day of March
One thousand nine hundred and forty-two and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Thirty-first day of December
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
BASIL HILL, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2242 of 1941.
BETWEEN EVELINE HALE Petitioner and
FRANCIS HENRY HALE Respondent.
TO FRANCIS HENRY HALE late of Lakemba
Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EVELINE
HALE has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twentieth day of March
Ope thousand nine hundred and forty-two and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of December
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
OSBORNE M. ALLEN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1831 of 1941.
BETWEEN ENA MYRA GRACE THORN-
TON-BETHELL Petitioner and
JOHN THORNTON-BETHELL Respondent.
TO JOHN THORNTON-BETHELL late of
Glen Street Milson’s Point Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ENA MYRA
GRACE THORNTON-BETHELL has com-
menced a suit against you in this Court applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Twenty-third day
of March One thousand nine hundred and forty-
two and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the Petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Second day of January, a.d.
1942.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
R. D. MULRAY, Solicitor for Petitioner,
Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Ketail and
Air Lists —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
food flavour ...
with new-style efficiency ..
IW
V
*4*
. when you cook with an AGA
It wasn’t milch fun .. . cooking in the
good old days , . . too grimy, too tiring,
too wasteful of fuel for modern tastes.
But what delicious flavour old-time
cookery gave!
You can prepare delicious old-time meals
without hours of drudgery in a hot
kitchen simply by installing the most
efficient, economical, easiest-to-use cooker
ever invented ... a beautiful, modern, in-
sulated AGA. The AGA Cooker burns
continuously. Hot plates and ovens are
instantly ready for scientific flavour-
retaining cooking ... fast or slow ... by
STORED heat.
An AGA Cooker requires very little atten-
tion. A rub with a damp cloth keeps its
beautiful, vitreous-enamelled surface clean
as a china plate. And the AGA’s insula-
tion keeps the kitchen cool.
The A(iA is almost unbelievably
economical. For instance, fuel cost of the
AGA Model C (illustrated) for city or
country homes is guaranteed to be less
than £3 in a whole year (with coke at
30/- per ton) in the city. (Freight in-
creases price in country, but annual con-
sumption is so low that amazing economy
is possible anywhere in Australia.)
Now, let us show you an AGA Cooker, or
if you cannot call, write for illustrated
AGA Catalogue 8.l
ACA
7fa (bifflnd PatStanm
COOKER j
U I M MITMK
LEVIN & CO., LTD.,
Bst. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King: Street, Sydney, and
433 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and at Wellingrton, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd.. Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. Gr. Webster & Sons, Ltd.. Hobart.
Agent for Western Australia; Malloch Bros., Ltd., Perth.
Agent for Queensland: Queensland Primary Producers’
Co-operative Association, Ltd., Brisbane.
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
“Darwarb”: Darwin found itself well
in the news by the time it had welcomed
the New Year. It learned from Tokyo
Radio, which had it from Lisbon Radio,
that it had been “the target of Japanese
bomber formations for two hours on
Friday,” harbor facilities being “fatally”
damaged. Then Berlin Radio informed
the outpost that it had been raided twice.
However, a cheery message came from
Army Minister Forde, who said that he
knew of no raid and “certainly would
have been informed” of any. There was
also an enemy that the Govern-
ment of the Philippines was shifting from
doomed Manila to Darwin. This no-
body was concerned to deny.
* * * *
“Towner”: First violent reaction
against the Japs came when an aero-
drome worker went into Townsville to
buy Christmas. toys for his youngsters.
He picked up a toy car, discovered that
it was branded “Made in Japan,” threw
it on the floor and put his foot on it.
Two more toy cars suffered the same
fate. Dragged before a sympathetic
Beak, the patriot pleaded guilty and got
off with a compensation order —3s. 9d.
He doubtless thought it was worth it.
« * * *
“Brisser”: There is still a howling need
for a single transport authority—the new
Commonwealth assumption of powers
notwithstanding—since in Queensland the
State Controller of Transport has taken
it upon himself to wipe out all road
transport between Brisbane and the
Downs, the upper and lower coast, inter-
state and even to Beaudesert. Only gas-
producer vehicles are to be allowed on
main arterial roads. More than 100 long-
distance carriers are affected, and appar-
ently service cars are to go as well. It
may all be necessary to save fuel and
man-power, but Queenslanders would
feel better if the same rule ran in the
other States.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: The North is apparently
aware of the virtue of the old axiom
to beware of the Greeks when bringing
gifts. Townsville City Council recently
received two letters from Sydney, a
coastal town in N.S.W., stating that in
the old Balmain cemetery is a “fine
monument” to Robert Towns, after
whom Townsville is named. It is “built
in a style that would adorn any public
park or reserve” and if Townsville wants
it the Sydney bodies would “co-operate,”
but could not undertake “any financial
responsibility.” After an alderman had
pointed out that if the trophy were like
the usual run of tombstones in Sydney
it wouldn’t be worth having, it was
cautiously decided to get a photograph of
it before “contemplating further action.”
* * * *
“B.”: One of the virtues of living in
Mt. Isa is that if you don’t like one of
its horizons you can choose another to
gaze upon. At least, that is implicit in
a correspondent’s statement that “storms
have shown up on the various horizons
since my notes of last week.” It must
be nice to have a variety of the things.
* * * *
“Balander”: For “Hamer’s” informa-
tion (B. 31/12/’4l) “Bill Bowyang” is still
going strong and evidently as prolifically
as ever. He does a full page of closely
printed stuff each week for the “North
Queensland Register,” headed “On the
Track.”
* * # *
“23-4”; William Flood Webb, Chief
Justice of Queensland, chairman of the
Commonwealth Industrial Relations
Council and K. 8., was one of Tom
Ryan’s young men. He was in every law
case Ryan’s Ministry had —and it had
many—and he went with T.J. to England
in 1924 as one of the counsel in the
Privy Council appeal over the acquisition
of Brisbane’s tramways. He did a lot
of work on sugar affairs as chairman of
the Central Cane Prices Board, was made
Senior Puisne Judge in 1940, and six
weeks later became Chief Justice after
Macrossan’s death. Queensland wishes
him the length of days that was denied
to his close friend and predecessor as C.J.,
Tom McCawley.
* * * »
“Fi. fa.”: A case which seems to have
no Queensland precedent has resulted in
Kingaroy (Q.) Shire Council being non-
suited with costs. A property was
auctioned for arrears of rates amounting,
with interest, to £8 6s. The owner attended
the sale and bought the property for £l,
whereupon the council took proceedings
to recover arrears and interest. The S.M.
ruled that the council could have sued
for these before the sale, but that by
electing to sell the property instead it
had freed the purchaser from any liability
incurred during his previous ownership
of it. So outski council, which pays
£3 14s. 6d. costs for establishing a much-
needed leading case.


“SITUATION UNCHANGED"
By GEORGE MULGRUE.
HE was awakened by the buzzing of the flies about
his head. Although the thick woollen army
blanket was pulled up right over his face their
noise made further sleep impossible. He pushed
down the blanket and slowly opened his eyes. The
sun was up. It shone through the piece of mosquito
netting that he had tacked over the dugout entrance
in a vain attempt to keep out the flies and it made a
pattern on the things at the far end ; on his pack and
kitbag ; on the folding-map case that he and Ethel had
bought on his final leave ; on the shining surface of
one of the pairs of boots and upon the dusty surface
of the others that he’d worn the day before. The dust
seemed to get on to everything. There was no escape
from it. He’d have to clean the rifle again this day. A
hell of a lot of trouble for nothing. There wasn’t
much sense lugging it round. And yet a man might
get it home one day and a nice German Mauser
wasn’t to be sneezed at.
By this time the flies had realised that his face
was bare and were making the most of it. He reached
up and took down the home-made swatter that hung
from the roof a couple of feet from his head. When
his batman came to call him ten minutes later, he was
lazily killing any that settled on the walls within reach.
While his batman filled his kerosene-tin wash
basin and cleaned the dirty boots, he got up slowly
and pulled on a pair of shorts that hung on a line
above his feet. Then a pair of long stockings, the
clean boots and a pair of short puttees to keep the
dust from the top of his boots. He had to bend down,
half-sitting, half-kneeling, to shave. The shaving
mirror rested on a narrow shelf that jutted out from
the wall at ground level. There was just room between
it and the roof for a bottle of whisky to stand. Other
things, too. Some limejuice that the batman had
made by boiling down some of the limes that were
an issue. It was bitter, for he hadn’t bothered to peel
the limes, but it disguised the salt in the water. Some
foot powder, razors, soap, his wife’s photograph in a
folding frame, a pair of binoculars, a cup, some
pencils and the last canteen issue of chocolate, in a
tin box to keep it from the mice.
When he had dressed he took out a spring folder
that contained some sheets of paper and entered up
his diary for the day before. Diaries were taboo,
but you had to keep some sort of check on the days
or they’d get out of hand altogether. And anyhow,
if you were careful not to write anything that could
possibly be of value to the enemy He wrote
“Nothing to report. Some shelling in the evening, but
fortunately no one was hurt. Decided to try a new
camouflage on Smith’s gun, but the experiment wasn’t
a success.”
Afterwards he clambered out of the dugout and
walked a few yards to where a man, wearing only
shorts and boots, was bending over a small fire.
There was a rattle of machine-gun fire from away in
the distance, and a few small puffs of dust two hun-
dred yards away showed where the bullets had landed.
He laughed and said “Morning, George. Spandau
seems to be getting on the job early this morning.”
The man grinned. “Yeah. Must be trying to
make up for yesterday. Not a shot out of him all
day. Must have had a day at the beach or some-
thing!”
The troop commander nodded. “Wouldn’t be sur-
prised. I suppose they go for a spell just the same as
we do. And Joe and Pete deserve it. They don’t do
at all a bad job!”
“Spandau Pete” and “Spandau Joe” were the
almost affectionate nicknames the troop had for the
two machine-gun snipers who lived across the way.
He went on: “What’s for breakfast? Biscuit-
porridge as usual?”
George shook his head. “No. A bit of a change.
Got some sausages in the rations last night. They’ll
be ready in half a jiff. And the tea’s on the boil.”
AFTER breakfast he put on one of the little woollen
hats that some soldiers’ comforts organisation sent
out in the belief that they’d make the wearing of a steel
helmet more comfortable. No one used them for
that, but they did keep the dust out of your hair.
Then, slinging his binoculars round his neck and tak-
ing a notebook, he set off round the guns.
On the way he passed the command post of the
near-by infantry battalion and waved to the adjutant,
who sat on a sand bay outside, picking his teeth and
contemplating the morning. “Hullo. How’s tricks?”
The infanteer removed the toothpick and grinned.
“Not bad. Nice quiet night for a change. I suppose
he’ll bring over some rubbish today to make up for it.”
The subaltern nodded. “I suppose so,” he called,
and went on.
The first gun was eight hundred yards or so away.
If it had not been for the top of a dugout sticking
up and a man shaking a blanket outlined against
the ridge in the background, no one would have
guessed that there was anything human among the
tussocks of camel grass in the place.
The sergeant, a little, stocky, dark lad, climbed out
of the dugout and came to meet him. There was
no saluting, but there was remarkable respect in the
man’s attitude. The troop commander stopped and
looked round him. “Morning, Jonesey. What’s new
today?” . , ,
The sergeant turned and pointed. “We finished
off that new gun pit this morning. Like to see it?”
“Yes. Let’s have a look.”
They walked about a hundred yards to where an
anti-tank gun sat in an emplacement, covered with a
camouflage net. One look at the place told of almost
loving care. Everything was neat and tidy. Sand-
bags carefully laid. Ammunition stored carefully
away in a shallow trench. A crew of sailors would
not have done better. The subaltern stood and smiled.
“It’s perfect, Jonesey. That’s the trouble. It’s too
darned perfect. Just like a copybook. You know
what I mean? Plate A. Gun pit mark IV. Just
imagine Herman coming over with his Henschell.
Why he wouldn’t have to use his camera even! He’d
just look over the side and what would he see? A
beautiful symmetrical gun pit, with a lovely clear-cut
edge, two nice slit trenches, all built up with sandbags
and set just in the right place. Why, you wouldn’t be
in the race. You’d just be a sitting target!”
The sergeant nodded. “Suppose you’re right, sir.
I hadn’t thought of it that way.”
“You’ll just have to muck it about a bit, that’s
all. Knock out a sandbag here and there. Dig away
the sides so that they don’t throw a regular shadow.
And cover up those slit trenches with brushwood.
You’ll only need them against dive-bombers, and, if
it comes to that, you won’t be worrying about camou-
flage any more!”
As he moved off the sergeant was calling men
over to get on with the job.
At the next gun a busy sergeant was superintend-
ing the digging of new trenches. Latrines had to be
moved every few days and food tins must be burned
and buried. There was a short discussion as to the
relative merits of two positions for latrines, then the
subaltern asked: “Who are you sending to the beach
tonight? I haven’t got anyone from this gun on the
list.”
“Thompson, I think.” He turned and shouted at
one of the digging groups. “Hey, Bluey! Here a
minute! ”
A short, red-headed boy threw down his pick and
walked across. The sergeant said “It’s your turn to
go to the beach, isn’t it?”
Bluey nodded. “Yeah. Chris went yesterday and
all the others have been since me.”
“I thought so. Well, you can go tonight on the
ration truck. See that you’re ready on time.”
“You’ll be away for two days this time,” said
the troop commander. “We’re trying out two-day
spells. Give you a decent go while you’re at it.”
“I forgot to tell you, I always take milk and
sugar in my tea.”
The sergeant grinned. “That’ll give you plenty
of time to design that wine bar you’re going to build.
Bluey’s going to have a wine bar after the war
down in Campbell-street.”
“But aren’t you the bloke who sings all the defeat-
ist songs?” the subaltern asked. “If they’re right
you’re not going to be buying any wine saloons. You 11
be making roads in Poland or somewhere.”
Bluey grinned. “Don’t you worry, sir. They’re
only songs. We’re going to win this show all right. I
tell you what, I’ll stand you a plonk and metho. any
time you care to come around.” He grinned again
and walked back to his digging.
BY the time he had visited the remaining two guns
the sun was high and he was wishing that he’d
worn his felt hat. At the fourth gun he d met his
battery commander on his rounds. Together they dis-
cussed camouflage and the best treatment for desert
sores, and then they parted, each going in a different
direction. There was no need to return to the guns
he’d visited. In fact, the major preferred to do his
rounds alone.
When he got back to his troop headquarters, there
was an hour to go before the midday meal and he
spent it lying in his dugout alternately dozing and
lazily killing flies. It was too hot to write letters or
read. Too hot for anything but just lying still.
Lunch was simple. Cold bully beef, boiled
potatoes, tea. There was no point in cooking a hot
meal. No one could have eaten it. Besides, the flies
made anything but the shortest meal impossible. It
was a case of getting it down before the flies had it.
After the meal he lay down once more and tried
to sleep. But it was no good. The flies and the heat
kept him from doing anything but doze at intervals,
and at last in desperation he took up a magazine that
his batman had lent him. There was an article about
the living conditions of the troops in Libya—“living
in cool Italian bungalows, with plenty of beer and
wine. Australian bands played every evening, and
the troops even engaged in cricket matches.”
After five o’clock when the sun was going down
in the western sky the air was cooler. He threw the
dirty water from his washing tin and drew some more
from a drum standing near by. The sun had warmed
it until it was just right for a bath. He laid a water-
proof sheet over the foot of his sleeping-bag and put
the tin of water into it. He soaped and sponged him-
self down, letting the water run off him and gather
round the tin on the rubber sheet. When he was
washed and dried, he removed the tin and, taking up
the groundsheet by its edges, ran all the spilt water back
into the tin and put tin and sheet outside. He got
some clean clothes from his kitbag.
The evening meal was morq imaginative. Fried
potatoes and pumpkin and onions ; tinned salmon ; a
tin of apricots amongst six of them. He ate with the
crew of the nearest gun. Afterwards he sat on a
sandbag watching the sun go down over the German
lines. Behind him, field artillery batteries were put-
ting on their evening show, and the shells whistled
overhead regularly. He watched them burst on the
side of the hill that the Germans occupied—the hill
that overlooked his own gun positions—and, as the
black bursts sprang up with their streaks of red earth
and small spurts of flame, he muttered “Share that
out amongst you!” But the German gunners were
busy, too. To his left, the next post was receiving a
salvo every two minutes or so, and away to the right
he heard the rumble and saw the puffs of enemy shells.
Gerry’s counter battery troops had found the sixty-
pounders, apparently. .
Presently he walked off on the evening round
of the guns. This time he went round in the other
direction. Between the first and second guns a burst
of machine-gun fire put him to earth for a minute or
two —some Hun machine-gunner testing his gun on the
night’s “fixed lines.”
At the third gun he found Bluey Thompson
with his blankets rolled, ready for his spell at the
bc^ch
“If you’re ready, Blue, you’d better come with
me,” he said. “Here, give me your haversack. You
carry your blankets.” Together they set off for the last
gun. When they had gone a couple
of hundred yards there was a
whistling sound and a sharp crack
and a puff of red smoke appeared
above their heads. Then a buzzing
sound like a swarm of bees and
small puffs of thrown-up earth
appeared all round them. In a flash
they were both on the ground, lying
flat.
Bluey turned over and grinned
at the officer. “Chucking some
ironware at us, the dirty”
As he spoke there was another
crack and some more red smoke
appeared overhead.
The subaltern rose to his feet.
“Come on, let’s get out of here.
That’s shrap. they’re putting over and gomg to ground
won’t do us any good! Let’s get going!”
Together they broke into a trot, making for Ser-
geant Jones’s gun. After a while they began to walk
again. No more shells had come over and all was
quiet.
Bluey began to sing:
“Eleven thousand were in Greece,
Why don’t the people sue for peace ?
Auf Wiedersehen, my dear!”
The subaltern laughed. “D’ye hear him, Jonesey?
What would you do with him if you had him on your
gun? 'Make him permanent latrine orderly?”
The sergeant began, “I don’t know. Perhaps ‘
Suddenly there was a whine and a crash. The
earth seemed to rock. They were all lying on the
ground and around them was a cloud of dust. Small
pieces of metal were flying everywhere. When it
cleared the subaltern looked over at the sergeant, sit-
ting up on the earth, his face covered with dust, and
laughed. “Well, what do you know about that/
Gerry put a quick one over on us!”
The sergeant didn’t answer. He was looking
beyond, staring vacantly. The officer turned and
looked. “Christ! Bluey! ”he said. “Come on, don t
sit there staring. Give us a hand! ”
Together they went over and picked the boy up-
There was little they could do, but they patched him
up with field dressings and had him carried to the
nearest aid post. No one seemed to realise that shells
were still falling. When they arrived at the ambulance
the subaltern said “You go back with him to the
dressing station, sergeant, and when he’s been looked
after come back and report to me. I’m going to fix
up for someone else to go to the beach, but 111 be at
troop headquarters by the time you’re back.”
When the sergeant got back the subaltern was
sitting on the top of the dugout. He looked up in-
quiringly, “Well?” , tt
The sergeant shook his head. No good. He
died before we got there. Tough! He was a good
kid.” He poured himself a drink from the bottle
the officer handed him.
NEXT morning, when he had shaved and dressed
and while he was waiting for his breakfast, he
entered his diary as usual. “Situation unchanged.
Some shelling in the evening. Gnr. Thompson, J. K.,
killed by shell splinter. Otherwise O.K.


Mainly Mail-Order
FD
CYPRUS
DE LUXE
The ideal watch for
the Service Man.
Waterproof, Shock-
proof, Dustproof,
Anti - magneti c.
Stainless steel case,
£7.
Fully Guaranteed.
Regimental Colour
Patch Brooches,
2/6 each.
I DIAMOND
S- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
F
112 M
SY
OPP-D,
112 MARKET ST
SYDNEY.
DAVID JONES
D
ACCUMULATOR
HANDLAMPS
Ideal for farm use, the Block
plateless lead-acid accumulator
is a revelation in efficiency 1
• No plates to buckle
• No sul pirating
• Won't run down.
Extra powerful bull’s-eye gives
70 hours’ continuous light.
Strong bakclite moulded case,
chrome plated fittings. Light-
weight, lasts for a lifetime,
almost unbreakable. Capacity 2v. 80 a.b.
Suitable for use by Fishermen, Campers, the
Man—on-the-Land, etc.
Complete outfit, including Block Plateless
Accumulator, supplied dry, uncharged, 19/6.
Freight extra. Weight when packed, 91b.
F
382 Kent
St., Sydney.
p
elmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
The Pelman System develops per-
sonal attributes and qualities such as:
Self-confidence Decision
Concentration Will Power
Judgment Social Ease
and a Beliable Memory.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describ-
ing Pelmanism, are posted free on request.
The Pelman Institute,
Sa Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Or.
Market St.), Melbourne. Telephone: MU2356.
LAMBS SAVED
DF
By Using the
DAROUX
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane—Safe —and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback —fatten
weeks earlier. No risk of Infection—No
losses. Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DB-TAILER, £3/5/-. From
all agents or the distributors; HAIN &
SEARIGHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney
SANI-LID
lavatory.
0 No caustic
used.
0 >'o water
supply needed.
• Costs nothing to
instal.
• Self-closing lid.
• Positively destroys
flies, mosquitoes,
etc., and banishes
ail odours.
PRICE £5/5/-
Compiete with six
months’ supply of
chemicals.
***
mm
QUIRK’S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
329 CASXIKBEAGH ST., SYDNEY
If any illustration in “THE
BULLETIN” lakes your
fancy, write to the
MANAGER, who will quote
you price for the original.
*
m
— I ■—u
%
&•&:'
■■
Mi
•"• ***-<• * ! -
ffirjfck'V
x»<4e->.
s
There goes the siren, Bert, We'd better get up to the air-raid shelter!'
noA sv
Utti j: 01 SI AVM
'G'fntorpyygfy*
R!
GDITARS m> 3/- weekly. '
SAXOPHONES 3/6 WEEKLY.
PIANO ACCORDIONS,, 3/6 WEEKLY,
TRUMPETS 3/- weekly.
BANJO MANDOLINS „ 3/" WEEKLY.
UKULELES 10/6 e»c«
Write for free catalogue
of instrument you prefer.
D
E|2
EBsl
F
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It costs you nothing to try the
“Century” Kadio. You can have
FREE TRIAD in your own home.
Century Kadio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (40% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
7VJNCHHUR
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
FOR THE BLACKOUT.
fZ
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 17/6
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 19/-
Complete with Batteries.
Postage Extra Outside N.S.W.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
TILLEY LAMPS
DF
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
Save your eyesight with Britain’s
best Lamp. 300 c.p. of steady
brilliant light at a cost of id.
□per hour using only kerosene.
Stormproof, insectproof and
easy to operate. Used by
Navy and Army. Model EXIOO
illustrated may be used as a
storm lantern or as a hanging
lamp or table lamp. May be
carried around, set down or
hung up. Price, 80/-.
Write for Tilley Lamp catalogue.
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
380 Kent St., Sydney. MA6836.
Country Agents everywhere.
D
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
F
D
AT ATTRACTIVE PRICES
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
:ouce
__ __
WAIST
The GOVERN A BELT win reduce
your waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make. «
7 DAYS' TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will be
Sin. smaller . , . Sin. of bulge
and strain gone . . . OR NO
CO«ST ! Write for full' illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
F
SERVICE FOR
THE DEAF!!
Mr. R. A. Noedl, L.1.8.5.T., wishes to announce
that he is able to render a most efficient service
to all afflicted with Deafness, no matter what
type or style of Hearing they may be using.
"ELECTRAVOX" SUPREME
The sensational Hearing and small, compact and
of amazing clearness. Batteries used in the
Electravox are obtainable anywhere.
R. A. NOEDL L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MA3774,
Ventriloquism
D
FD
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the YENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
fIDRR Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
I- I'LL Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
373 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
fuf*
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Rouss*»l
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE BOUSSEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 8t Pitt Street, Sydney.
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON!
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR,
Hawaiian Guitar,
F
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 MINUTES!
Uet Norm. Scott, the singing stockman,
teach you!
His simple but complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 2/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 296 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 2GB every Sunday 9.45 a.m.
s Get rid of
HomsBBFORE
they start!
One application of
HATES CHEMICAL,
DEHORNEK
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
0/6. Large size for 210 to 800 calves, SO/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
$
'■
QUICK and DEADLY
CYANOGAS, quickly, cheaply, cleanly and
safely destroys rabbits and all vermin. Econ-
omical. easy to use. No' waste. ITS THE
GAS THAT. KILLS THEM.
PROTECT THE SHEEP
OanogaS
U
Obtainable from all Storekeepers in Australia.
ill
DF
If your dog’s coat is dull, j
loose or ragged—if he is listless, won t
eat or is out of sorts —start him now
on a course of BARKO Condition
Powders. He will soon be lively and
eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole
system and benefits his coat;
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4£in. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4jin. to sin.- dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OP RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2/12/-and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
DF
J. P. TALTY
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney^
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
*252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy cf The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers Uving outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.) ______
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
*For local office
address, see Page 6.
“BULLETIN" SERVICE COUPON
71t1’42 (See Page 23)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss ..
Cut this out and send with your "Wants’' to The Bulletin Service Department.
For local office address, see Page 6.


PETROL RATIONING...
CREATES MANY NEW
POSITIONS
FOR DIESEL
OPERATORS
For several years now, the number of Diesel engines being installed has been
growing bigger and bigger each month as thousands of truck, bus and tractor
owners, power plants, mines, ships, etc., change to Diesel, the more economical
and more efficient engines. Now the war is making still more power users
Diesel-minded, for Diesel fuel is not only more economical but safer and
easier to transport when shipping space is restricted. The result is that there
are more positions for Diesel operators than there are trained men to fill them.
Why shouldn t \OU have one of these jobs that bring you six, seven or
eight pounds a week? Don’t go on envying those who have a trade in which
there s always plenty of well-paid work! Become a Diesel operator and you
will always be able to command higher pay yourself.
D
CAN QUALIFY AS A
DIESEL OPERATOR IN YOUR
SPARE TIME AT HOME
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering and you don’t need any high
educational standard. The Diesel Engineering College course teaches you the whole
subject in your own home, covering both transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and
stationary Diesel (mining and other power plants). The course has been prepared with
the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the Diploma awarded you on
completion is recognised by employers all over Australia. Post the coupon below and
full details will be sent you by return.
'On
*
i
■-V
7^to
V **Vi
'
WHAT THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE HAS DONE FOR OTHERS
IT CAN DO FOR YOU
£9 PER WEEK AND KEEP
File No. 52. This student says in a letter dated
9/7/ 41 : “I wish to thank the College for having
taught trie so thoroughly, enabling me tQ pass
the Government Examination. This has enabled
me to obtain a very good position, which I
would not otherwise have been able to apply
for, as a Diesel operator ”
GENEROUS INCREASE IN PAY
File No. 51. This student says in a letter to
the Chief Instructor of the College : “It is owing
to your method of teaching that I have been
transferred to a better position at work, which
is working on Diesel trawlers and colliers. This
transfer naturally provided a generous increase
in pay.”
£7 PER WEEK
File No. 34a. Received his diploma seven
months after commencing training, and obtained
a position as Diesel operator at £7 per week.
Scores of other coses like these .
NEW SIMPLIFIED SYSTEM MAKES LEARNING DIESEL EASY
This College does not sell you a pile of textbooks and leave you
to wade through them, nor does it fill you up with a lot of compli-
cated mathematics. By a simple home-study course, the Diesel
Engineering College teaches you just what you need to know to
operate and service Diesel engines efficiently. As soon as you enrol.
practical coaches take you in hand. You are guided step by step
with the aid of easily-followed instruction papers and diagrams.
Everything is made clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly
you become familiar with the workings of the Diesel. Many
students have qualified for positions in as short a period as four
months. The fees are low and payments easy.
RESULTS PROVE OUR TRAINING THE
SURE WAY TO SUCCESS IN DIESEL
A wonderful future lies ahead in Diesel engineering for ambitious
men who get in early with the proper training. But you must be
properly trained. The success of Diesel Engineering College students
at Government examinations tells its own story of the thoroughness
of training at this College.
PRACTICAL TRAINING FOR GOVERNMENT
CERTIFICATES IS GIVEN TO STUDENTS
RESIDENT IN SYDNEY.
Send tie 3u.
A/oty/
M3TMOOa 33HJ S!HI 130 QNV
m
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation,
so don’t put it off! The best intentions in
the world are useless if you don’t ACT!
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 7/1/42
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
