

GRAPE VINEGAR
No Finer Vinegar For All Usage
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3242.
Wednesday, April 1, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
TRAFALGAR SQUARE FROM COCKSPUR STREET.
MANY affirm that no completely
satisfactory view of Trafalgar
Square, London’s “War Memorial
of Nelson’s Time,” being laid out
between 1829 and 1841, has ever been
produced. As the question is en-
tirely one for, individual opinion it
is fairly certain it will never be
settled in form and manner calcu-
lated to give “universal satisfaction.”
The trouble is that this, “the noblest
square in Europe,” presents so many
angles which appeal to the artist and
photographer to represent the finest
scenic reproduction. The view illus-
trated certainly brings out certain
prominent features. There is the
Nelson monument, 184 ft. nin. in
height, including the figure of the
Great Admiral. This is of colossal
size, its height being 17ft. 45111.,
while the width across the shoulders
is sft. sm. The weight of the statue,
composed of three blocks of stone, is
16 tons and the diameter of the
cocked hat is, approximately, 4ft.
The granite column is a replica of
one of the Corinthian Pillars at
Rome of Mars Ultor, the avenging
God of War. The church is that of
St. Martin-in-the-Fields, of which
George I was Vicar’s Warden for
a short time, but in more recent years
celebrated as the centre of the minis-
tration of the late Rev. “Dick”
Shepherd. The large building below
the church is South Africa House,
where the High Commissioner for
the Union and his staff have their
headquarters. For years a portion of
the building, retained when exten-
sive alterations and additions were
made, housed Morley’s Hotel, a lead-
ing caravanserai in Victorian and
Edwardian days.


L Storu Writing
ot HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. '
M y Name
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
CHARLES MORGAN AGAIN.
Because his greatest virtue as a writer
is also his greatest defect, it’s unlikely
that Charles Morgan will ever go down
with Fielding, Balzac or Dickens as a
giant among the novelists. Words and
works do not flow from him in the care-
less torrents of greatness, but are held for
a long time in the mind, released with
caution and precision; so that each
novel, when it appears, is within its limits
a perfect work of art but, because of its
very perfection, cold.
Portrait in a Mirror, The Fountain,
Sparkenbroke, The Voyage —each is a
beautiful iceberg. How good they have
been in their icy depth and sparkle is
indicated by the prizes they have won:
Portrait in a Mirror, the Femina;
Sparkenbroke the Hawthornden; The
Voyage, the James Tait Black Memorial:
the three major prizes for the English
novel won by a writer who had produced
only four novels.
Usually it takes Morgan about three
years to turn out a new book. His latest,
The Empty Room (Macmillan ; Moore’s
Bookshop), has arrived only about a year
after The Voyage, but that doesn’t mean
that Morgan’s Muse has decided to shake
a leg, for it’s a very short novel. It is
one of those contes of from 40,000 to
50,000 words which, though they’re not
to be compared in weight of artistic
achievement with the full-length novel,
are nearly always a delight to read
because of their freedom from padding,
their integrity of form. Theodore
Powys’s Mr. Weston’s Good Wine; The
Bridge of San Luis Rey; or, to take an
Australian example, Man-Shy.
Somebody once said of Morgan that
his great problem as a novelist was how
to get his characters from the library to
the bedroom, and even within the strict
limits of the short novel that difficulty
remains with him. Like his other works,
The Empty Room is primarily a love
story, yet at least ten thousand words of
it are unnecessary introduction. The
novel’s set in an English country house
round about the time of the fall of
France, and the opening chapters, largely
irrelevant to the love story, are a philo-
sophical discussion of the war.
This does, in a way, serve as prologue
for the story by stating Morgan’s under-
lying theme, the continuity of life —
And yet to permit in his mind a block
in the continuity of the human race was
irrational; it was, moreover, contrary to
the faith by which he had lived; and he
was glad to escape from the darkness, to
find himself in a lighted passage, to see
men passing across its farther end into the
ante-room, and to hear their voices—
but the story is well able to convey its
“message” without a prologue. A pas-
sage against revolution is an excellent
piece of thinking—
The world is very sick, Mr. Flower, but
you won’t cure the patient by kicking him
out of bed. And it’s not the men of
violence only or the greedy men only who
have brought him to the state he is in but
the impatient humanitarians... .And, like
it or not, the System you hate is the father
of any system that can follow it. Why do
you speak of history as if it were a series
of disconnected cataclysms? Do you
imagine that the Almighty will serve your
turn by creating a fresh Adam and Eve
every 30 years? There have been revolu-
tions which, though accompanied by
violence, have been part of the process of
breeding, but the violence has never been
the essential and fruitful part of them.
Nothing new and enduring comes except
out of "the old by unbroken inheritance —
but this, too, has little relevance to the
story.
Once the novel does start, it has a speed
and suspense which suggest that Morgan
has learned something from the detective
novelists. One of the reasons that move
bishops, lawyers and others who should
know better to turn to crime novels is
that detective writers, instead of always
trying to improve the reader’s political
morals, as do most of the “serious” con-
temporary novelists, recognise that the
storyteller’s job is to tell a story. Morgan,
once he has analysed England and liqui-
dated the revolution, beats the crime fie-
tionists at their own game, and at the
same time offers a fine drama of character.
Only one person in the novel is of
real importance as a fictional creation.
First a portrait on the wall, then a ghost,
then a brandy-drinking trollop, she is
quite strong enough to hold the stage on
her own, with her husband and a visitor
shadowy in the background and her
daughter merely a walking portrait of
herself when young.
Henry Rydal, the husband, lives with
his daughter and a mystery: the mystery
of the portrait, of the wife who is sup-
posed to have died when the daughter
was a child. Though he appears to
idolise the dead wife, she is rarely men-
tioned. He lives quietly and does not
talk about the past. Then something
happens to disturb his calm routine. He
makes mysterious visits to London. The
daughter comes to believe —and Morgan
makes it most plausible—that he had
murdered his wife and is now being
blackmailed. The trouble mounts to a
crisis; Rydal appears to be on the verge
of suicide. He goes to London for the
last time and brings back-with him the
“dead” wife. She had been unfaithful
to him in the early days of the marriage
and, divorced, has become melodramati-
cally coarse and dissolute. Rydal still
loves her.
From one aspect, the novel is thus a
restatement of the philosophy of accept-
ance Morgan developed in The Voyage.
At the same time, it’s a powerful analysis
of the impulse to self-dramatisation. The
wife’s infidelity was capricious and, fun-
damentally, unimportant until she so
dramatised her “sin” that she forced her-
self into divorce and into marrying the
nonentity who had seduced her. Con-
tinuing to dramatise her “fall,” she forced
herself into the status and half into the
mind of a “fallen woman.” When Rydal
brings her home again, she does not her-
self know when she is posing and when
she is sincere in her drama of degeneracy.
She was a woman still conspicuously
beautiful, but the sag of ill-health had
loosened the flesh of her cheeks, her eyes
were heavy, their lashes greased together
into little black curving sticks, their upper
lids shiny; her slim body was not fattened
but it was blunted, its suppleness was gone/
there was a harsh glitter in the show of her
teeth when she laughed. And now, at some
thought within her, she laughed a thick,
gusty laugh; then ceased, frightened, and
there crept into her expression the absurd
pathos of a 'clown denied her applause.
At the end of the story, she makes her
peace with her daughter; symbolically
with her hidden self. That’s a neat piece
of psychology and craftsmanship on
Morgan’s part, for without the mother-
love motif he’d have found it impossible
to make such a confirmed self-dramatiser
effect a lasting reconciliation with the
husband, and without that reconciliation
the story could never have been com-
pletely rounded off.
For the pace and compelling interest
of the story, this is the best thing Morgan
has yet done. Mrs. Rydal, subtle, strong
and completely convincing, is a rare
achievement in characterisation. And
Morgan’s most familiar virtue —distinc-
tion of style and intellect—is just as pro-
minent here as in the slower, colder
novels that have made his reputation.
Lynd's Little Oddities.
Once upon a time when Robert Lynd
(who is now a grandfather) was a child,
he listened to the Scriptures in a Presby-
terian church in Ireland, and just as the
minister got to “Some said it thundered
and others that an angel spake,” a
donkey brayed in a near-by field.
The memory of that bray in so sacred
an atmosphere has remained with me
through life, imparting something of the
bliss that Wordsworth got from his daffo-
dils.
Which is one of the most pleasing
moments in Lynd’s new essays Life’s
Little Oddities (Dent).
The most pleasing thing about the
collection as a whole is that, though
plenty of the items are concerned with
the war, the book’s neither frivolous nor
another darned sermon about what won-
derful people we all are. Lynd has kept
both his humanity and his irony unim-
paired through the bombing, with the
result that such a light-hearted offering
as his description of the village pub and
the village barber-shop during an air-
raid alarm (the customers sat unperturbed
in their chairs and the barbers flashed
their razors with mercifully steady hands)
is as fine a piece of social history as any-
thing that has so far been written of
England under the bombs.
Other writers would preach a sermon
on that theme ; Lynd makes a work of
art of it —a perfect light essay. A lament
for the passing of a parish magazine is
another gem. Likewise the essay written
around the fact that everybody likes
facts:
All facts, I imagine, are interesting.
There are wise men who say that they
must be co-ordinated to be worth know-
ing. But to me every fact is worth know-
ing for its own sake. 1 like to read of
the distance of Jupiter from the earth, even
though it slips from my memory as swiftly
as water from the back of a duck. 1 like
to be shown an early edition of Sir Thomas
Browne, from which I learn that his sur-
name was sometimes spelt without the final
“e.” I like to know that Shelley for some
time lived in unreasonable fear of con-
trading elephantiasis....
Life’s little oddities, like life’s little
oysters, are not for all palates; and
Lynd’s supply of vinegar and pepper, by
comparison with his previous offerings,
seems to have been not too generously
rationed this time. But what’s trivial
among the essays is at least pleasant;
and what’s good is very good.
"Likes Cats.”
Miss Blank, interested in facts and
theories, especially about people and
social conditions, dislikes insincerity and
smugness. Hates fascism, capitalism,
war; has never been further from Bris-
bane than Cairns and Sydney.
Mr. Dash wanted to join the Inter-
national Brigade in Spain but was pre-
vented ; loathes Jingoism, Wowserism,
Pseudo-Modernism and all forms of
hypocrisy.
Miss Asterisk is interested in literature,
ballet, walking; fond of antique furni-
ture, chintz, dogs, cats and most
children ; dislikes the present system of
education, women’s magazine short
stories, popular films, commercialisation,
astrology and surrealism.
And who, in this callous and irreverent
world, cares about all that?
Which means that the seven Australian
versifiers who had the excellent idea of
clubbing together to make book
called Dawnfire (published by John
Cremin, 9 Speight-street, Thornbury,
Vic.) would have been wiser not to have
dimmed the dawnfire with trivial per-
sonal details in imitation of English
magazines and anthologies.
The short plain biographies that some
of the writers submit are all right; but
examples like those quoted, being
Bloomsbury Leftism superimposed on
Sitwell showmanship, are a sign of pro-
vincialism, not of up-to-dateness, in an
Australian book.
The verse is what matters; not the
writers’ politics. The writers represented
are Myall O’Mallee, Goola Hartstein,
Kathleen Watson, Garry Lyle, Mona
Brand, Flexmore Hudson and Harry
Hooton; of whom Lyle, Hudson, Mona
Brand and Hooton are the most interest-
ing. Lyle’s contributions include two
outstanding poems, “Song of Doomed
Youth” and “To My Brother in the
Navy,” the latter reprinted from The
Bulletin. From “Song of Doomed
Youth”;
Because, while others planned and built, grew
strong,
we sang round happy campfires in the hills,
played ever, danced too gaily, laughed too long,
we did not hear the ghostly tongues that cried
warning from battle-graves of other years.
“Poetry,” Flexmore Hudson’s quar-
terly, has changed its address to Lucin-
dale. South Australia. The latest number,
though thinner than the first, offers a
good selection of Australian and New
Zealand verse. A newcomer is the Lieut.
A. G. Austin whose fine war poems have
appeared in the Red Pages of A.I.F.
verse. Brisbane “Meanjin Papers” (Janu-
ary number) has grown fatter instead of
thinner; considerably improved by the
inclusion of reviews and criticism.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
'To make a play such as Shelley’s “The
Cenci” fit into the one hour allotted by
the A.B.C. means that its three thousand
lines have to be reduced by at least half.
There are two ways of cutting: one, to
drop speeches*, whole scenes or even
whole acts, introducing prose narration
to summarise what has been said and
done in the passages excised ; the second
—which was the method adopted for its
performance as the second of the A.B.C.’s
“Poets’ Plays” series—is to write in lines
of verse here and there to conceal the
breaks and to make the play flow
smoothly. The first method appears to
have the advantage that no injustice is
done to the author, no liberties are taken
with his text: explanation and apology
are made whenever there is a cut. But to
introduce prose narration must inevitably
interrupt the flow of the verse and, what
is worse, temporarily destroy the illusion
of dramatic reality; so that to have
adopted that method would have done
Shelley the dubious service of presenting
a bad play.
“The Cenci” lent itself particularly well
to the second method because, once
Shelley’s three opening scenes had been
blended into one —calling for the writing
in of some 50 or 60 lines —very little
writing in was needed. Shelley’s sub-plots
—the Count’s tormenting of his son
Giacomo, Beatrice’s vague love affair
S* th i P A ieSt orsin Giacomo’s plot-
lings with Orsmo against Cenci’s life, and
Orsino s betrayal of Giacomo—could thus
be eliminated with the positive advan-
tage for radio production that the real
th u e drama ’ Cenci ’ s destruction
of his daughter Beatrice, stood out all the
more clearly.
“ The Cenci” is an odd play. Shelley
never attempted to show why Count
Cenci should have been such a monster •
he is never analysed and made psycho-
logically credible as Lear is. In Beatrice’s
case, Shelley shows still less understand-
ing of his own creation, for, though he
does at least know that Cenci is a mon-
ster, he gives such a contradictory por-
trait of Beatrice that it’s obvious that he
never stopped to consider what sort of
person he was portraying. For the first
half of the play, Beatrice is the Romantic
Heroine, all pure and noble; but when,
with every justification, she has had her
father murdered, and is brought to trial,
she lies like any little vixen in the Divorce
Courts of today and is actually indignant
when the assassin she had hired doesn’t
take all the blame himself. When he is
tortured and when he dies, she has not a
word of sympathy for him. If Shelley
had treated her with that realism through-
out, she might have been as memorable
a character as Cleopatra, or Lady Mac-
beth.
So much of “The Cenci” is rhetoric
that it is not usually counted among
Shelley’s more important works. Yet it
contains some of the loveliest, purest
poetry he ever wrote, notable for its firm
simplicity in contrast to his usual cloudi-
ness. Here, the influence of Euripides has
clearly been at work to bring his verse
to earth:
Lucretia:
Trust in God’s sweet love,
The tender promises of Christ: ere night,
Think, we shall be in Paradise.
Beatrice :
Tis past!
Whatever comes, my heart shall sink no more.
And yet, I know not why, your words strike
chill:
How tedious, false and cold seem all things. I
Have met with much injustice in this world;
No difference has been made by God or man,
Or any power moulding my wretched lot,
’Twixt good or evil, as regarded me.
I am cut off from the only world 1 know,
From light, and life, and love, in youth’s sweet
prime.
You do well telling me to trust in God,
I hope I do trust in Him. In whom else
Can any trust? And yet my heart is cold.
And here’s a piece of pathos (Beatrice's
concluding speech as she goes to her exe-
cution) as fine as anything in literature;
fit to stand beside the passage on the
murder of Hector’s son in “The Trojan
Women”:
Camillo : . ,
Oh, Lady Beatrice!
Beatrice :
Give yourself no unnecessary pain,
My dear Lord Cardinal. Here, Mother, tie
My girdle for me, and bind up this hair
In any simple knot; ay, that does well.
And yours, I see, is coming down. How often
Have we done this for one another; now
We shall not do it any more. My Lord,
We are quite ready. Well, ’tis very well.
As good a selection as any of the most
sensitive, the most graceful and the most
powerful actors on the screen would be,
respectively, Laurence Olivier, Leslie
Howard and Raymond Massey, with,
possibly, Walter Huston contesting
strongly with Massey for his place.
“Forty-ninth Parallel” (Sydney Mayfair)
would, therefore, be worth seeing on the
sole count that Olivier, Howard and
Massey, together with other able players,
including Anton Walbrook and Eric Port-
man, all figure prominently in it. It is
an excellent film on several counts: a
good story —of six German refugees from
a sunken U-boat who try to find then-
way through Canada to the safety or
American neutrality; the right kind of
propaganda firmly and naturally em-
bedded in it; splendid Canadian scenery.
First of a series of loan exhibitions of
the work of living painters at Sydney
National Gallery is that of works by
Margaret Preston and William Dobell.
Miss Preston has made a well-fortified
niche for herself as a painter of flowers,
with occasional excursions into landscape
and portraiture. She has an infallible
color sense, and some of her designs are
strikingly beautiful. Her latter-day ex-
periments with the Australian abo. s
idiom, however, are more interesting than
aesthetically fruitful.
William Dobell is the enfant terrible
of Australian portraiture. To a gift for
ruthless caricature he adds a strongly
individualistic manner. He has been
compared by an admirer with both
Hogarth and Sickert, a very fine compli-
ment to his independence and originality.
As his portrait subjects (with the excep-
tion of “Scotty” Allan) are not very
widely famous, the justice of the claims
made on his behalf cannot fairly be
judged by observers unacquainted with
the sitters.


•TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" — always.
df
Wrn,.
Sill
pPI
■m.
UNDERWEAR.
Underwear for Autumn and Winter . . .
"Jumbuk" Brand is consistently chosen for
its quality and texture. Made from selected
long staple pure woollen yarn, which is
faultless and will not irritate the tenderest
skin. "Jumbuk" Underwear is stocked in a
wide range of sizes, but owing to the great
difficulty in obtaining supplies from the
Mills, we cannot guarantee that all sizes
in every weight will always be available,
however, every possible endeavour will be
made to fulfil all orders. Order as early as
possible.
■
m
/
■j
*
-V :
MAJI
1
lii
■
'
■
wm
t
TALL SUM SHORT STOUT FOR MEN OF AVERAGE BUILD
220. "Jumbuk" All Wool Light Underwear.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48
Shirts, short sleeves 8/6 9/3 10/- 10/9 11/9 13/- 14/6 16/-
Pants 9/9 10/3 11/- 11/9 12/9 14/- 15/6 17/-
Trunk Drawers 9/3 9/9 10/6 11/3 12/3 13/6 15/- 16/6
330. "Jumbuk" All Wool Medium Winter-weight Underwear.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48
Shirts-, short sleeves 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/6 18/ 19/6 21/ 23/
Pants 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/9 19/3 20/9 22/3 24/3
440. ''Jumbuk'' Natural All Wool Heavyweight Underwear.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48
Shirts, short sleeves 16/- 16/9 17/9 19/- 20/6 21/6 22/9 24/6
p ants 17/6 18/3 19/3 20/6 22/- 23/- 24/3 26/-
• Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the. Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


A POUND OF STEAK
By "V. CLUSE."
JACKSON, domesticated chief clerk,
small of stature and mild of mien,
was asked by his wife per telephone
to bring home a pound of topside
steak and to seek it early, else the
butcher might have sold out. Jackson
dutifully left the office, bought the steak
and returned. He put the meat on a
shelf and resumed his work. That was
10 a.m. on Saturday. He couldn’t know
that that butcher had been glad to get
rid of that steak, which had been several
times that morning inspected and re-
jected and could not possibly last an-
other 12 hours.
At 1 p.m. Jackson closed his books,
washed his hands, hatted and coated him-
self and departed to catch his train. On
the corner a large, hearty person named
Morrisey fell upon him, thumped his
back, pumped his right hand violently
and shouted “Strike me blue, it’s Jacko!
Y’ do come out sometimes, eh! On y’r
way home? Well, we just got time ferra
quickie.” He seized Jackson forcibly
and pushed him into a hotel.
This Morrisey lived a few doors below
Jackson. They had not met officially
until they became A.R.P. wardens. Jack-
son had frequently observed Morrisey
and had sometimes winced at the man’s
obvious lack of polish. Morrisey was
known to roll home as often as he
walked ; he talked to all sorts of people
and he had a loud voice. He knew bus
conductors by nicknames and brought
home beer in identifiable wrappings. One
night, on a practice patrol, when it was
hot and everyone tired, Morrisey had
vanished for a few minutes and returned
with beer. Undoubtedly a fellow of
dark knowledge and strange associations.
Still, war was war and we were all in
it together, reflected Jackson, holding a
glass of beer in the hotel. Why, if the
real thing came he might have to depend
on Morrisey to get Mrs. Jackson out of
a wrecked home —or something. He
downed the beer and ordered a return.
After that he murmured something about
getting along, but Morrisey insisted and
there were more drinks. “Do y’ good,”
boomed Morrisey. “Give y’ an appetite
for lunch.”
This reminded Jackson that he had
forgotten about the steak. With Mor-
risey he headed back to the office, found
the caretaker, retrieved the meat and
found himself on the street again. Four
quick drinks, a warm noon and an
empty stomach were doing things to
Jackson. He gave his hat a light tap,
grinned dashingly and followed Mor-
risey. Morrisey knew everybody. Jack-
son found himself standing in a half-
circle of strangers, shaking hands, drink-
ing beers, talking and laughing. He began
to expand. Somebody brought hot
sausage rolls and he ate them and en-
joyed his beer the more. Changing the
steak from arm to arm bored him, so he
shoved it into his hip pocket.
JACKSON never remembered just
where he lost Morrisey, but sometime
that afternoon he encountered a person
near the Quay and said “Look, ’ave you
seen Morrishon? Big feller, large feet,
most ’stremely frienUy type. Likes beer.”
The person eyed Jackson and backed
off.
“Don’t be ’ffended,” said Jackson win-
ningly. “Not m’ habit speak t’ total
shtranglers—pardon, strainers —but really
mush fin’ Sorenson. Musht! Got some
steak f’r him.” He made vague passes
with his hands in search of the steak,
but gave it up and stared thoughtfully
along the street. Then he felt in both
coat pockets, thought hard and frowned
at the pavement.
“When did you lose it?” inquired the
person facetiously.
Jackson frowned. “Can’t shay,” he
said doubtfully. “But ’m sure it was
about the time we firsh noshished the
shmell.” He sniffed. “There you are,”
he added triumphantly.
The person gave Jackson a suspicious
look and backed out of Jackson’s vision.
Jackson leaned against the window of a
small grocery. “Shorenshon? Mori-
shon?” he murmured. “Where’ve I heard
that name before?” His nose twitched
and he straightened up and looked in-
dignantly at the window. “Mosh care-
less,” he said. “What’sh Health Depart-
ment paid f’r? Place needsh thorough
disinfact —dishin —wansh cleanin’ up.”
He moved off and sat down on the kerb,
being in need of rest. He sniffed again,
made a wry face and glared at the
grocery. “Terrible thing,” he accused
it. “Pollutin’ whole atmoshphere.”
A small grey dog came and sniffed
eagerly at Jackson. Jackson liked dogs.
He talked to the small grey dog, which
was mighty interested in Jackson’s hip
pocket. Jackson patted the dog and
pointed at the grocery and said “What
do you think orrat shtinkin’ place, ol’
ferrer?” The small grey dog sat down
and asked Jackson to stop wasting time.
Jackson dozed in the sun.
He awoke and made an ineffectual
swipe at something tugging at the seat
of his pants. “Gerraway,” he said
vaguely, erecting himself. Seven various
and assorted hounds capered about his
feet, Jackson peered at them, much
struck by their expectant expressions.
They peered back at him, cocking their
heads from side to side, looking at each
other warningly. They trotted round
Jackson in little circles ; some sat on
their haunches, one raised a paw in sup-
plication, all smiled ingratiatingly at
Jackson and frowned at every other dog.
A large, bumbling sort of dog cantered
up from somewhere, wiped its mouth
enthusiastically on Jackson’s boots and
tried to kiss him.
“Gerraway,” said Jackson, hanging
tightly to a post to maintain his balance
against the persistent rolling of the foot-
path.
A POLICEMAN arrived and said
“Here, y’ can’t have these mongs gal-
livantin’ about the streets. G’wan now,
take ’em home.”
“Gerraway,” said Jackson. The police-
man eyed him and growled. “Look, y’
can’t run a lost dawgs’ home in public.
Y’re a nuisance, see. Now, I don’t want
t’ run y’ in, but”
A rank smell had hit Jackson’s nostrils,
reminding him of certain neglected duties.
“Cummere,” he said, grabbing the aston-
ished policeman and towing him to the
grocery door. The dogs tumbled after
them. “Shmell somepin’?” said Jackson.
The Law’s face contorted.
“There y’are,” said Jackson. “Washt-
in’ y’r time directin’ traffic an’ orderin’
m’ around with thish goin’ on! Disgust-
in’. Man ought t’ be kicked outta bish-
nesh.” And he frowned severely at the
grocery. An excited look came into the
policeman’s face. He made a rush at
the dogs so that they fell back, then he
gripped Jackson’s arm and said “Gripes,
must be somebody—something—dead in
there. You wait here. Don’t move till
I get back.” He ran along the street.
Some of the dogs ran after him, but soon
gave him up as a trickster and returned
to Jackson and eyed him with antici-
pation.
Jackson placed his back against the
door. One or two people who’d seen the
policeman run gathered round Jackson.
“Shtand back,” he said importantly.
“Name of law. Dead man. ’Streme case
o’ neglect. Here, keep back, you.” This
to a lout who tried to look through the
door-window. Impatiently the lout shook
Jackson off, and Jackson was whirled
among the growing crowd and the dodg-
ing dogs.
The crowd asked questions, stood on
tiptoe, pushed, pulled, shooed the anxious
dogs. Jackson was manhandled and
shoved outside the ring, the sure fate of
any man who comes between a curious
crowd and the object of its curiosity, so
he attached himself to a post. A police
car rushed up and three large men got
out and pushed through the crowd. Jack-
son became interested. He jumped up
and down, trying to see. “Wash the
matter? Wash goin’ on?” he demanded.
The police attacked the grocery. Every-
body ignored Jackson. He unwrapped
himself from the post and wavered along
the street. One by one the dogs got
themselves out of the crowd and followed
the scent. “Hullo, pups!” said Jackson.
HE sighted a hotel, licked dry lips and
pushed into the bar. There was a
crowd of seamen in there. Jackson
burrowed through them to the bar and
bespoke refreshment.
“Cor bloomey,” said a voice, “what’s
that stink?”
Jackson downed his drink and turned
round. A dreadful gust swept upon his
nostrils. He shuddered. Nudging a big
blonde man next to him, he said “Phew!
Somebody needsh a wash.”
The big man glared. Jackson said,
“Don’t look at m’ like that. ’S aggrav —
aggavrat—don’t like it. Here, harrer
drink.” The big man lunged at Jackson
and fell over a couple of dogs. Jackson
was shocked. “Look at that!” he cried.
“Feller’s got no shenshe. Dogs only
wanner play an’ he falls on ’em. Don’t
he like dogs?”
The seaman got up. He roared and
swept his arms out, demanding freedom
of action for the killing he was about to
enjoy.
The crowd backed away, leaving Jack-
son and the seaman fair room. “Give
it t’ him, Yawcob,” somebody howled.
Jackson said, “Here, you be careful,
oF feller. Failin’ about like that. Hurt
y’rself?”
The Norwegian, flames in his eyes,
sprang at Jackson. At that instant a
beer-mug, hurled from heaven knows
where, sailed past Jackson’s left ear and
met the oncoming destroyer between the
eyes. He threw out his arms and fell on
Jackson, both going to the floor in a
welter of dogs and sawdust. Vastly an-
noyed by this treatment, Jackson
squeezed out from under, got himself
on the other’s chest and pummelled him.
Somebody dragged him up and stood
him against the bar. Others bent over
the Norwegian. “Good on y’, boy,”
howled a fat man at Jackson. “Y’ laid
the blanker out cold.”
Comprehension dawned on Jackson.
He doubled his right fist and looked at
it with some awe. Then he swelled
visibly, looked round the bar and said,
“M’ principles!! ish mindin’ m’ own
bishnesh but I won’t be inter-inter”
He put his hand to his hip pocket for
his handkerchief, pulled forth a red pulp.
An awful odor surrounded him. Men
pushed back, making faces. Jackson
dropped the mess on the floor and stag-
gered back to the bar, but a barman
grabbed him, picked up the mess and
shoved it back in his pocket and then
pushed Jackson out on the street. Out
of the bar behind him tumbled the
assorted dogs.
I ACKSON and his canine troupe swag-
gered along the street. The afternoon
was almost done, and somewhere down
deep in Jackson arose a desire to get
home. He’d won a big victory, and he
wanted to savor it in familiar surround-
ings. He swaggered to a taxi, climbed
in, mumbled his address and was carried
away. Behind him, dropping back and
out of sight, careered the dogs.
The taxi travelled swiftly. Every now
and then Jackson, a glow in his eyes,
leaned forward and said to the unheed-
ing driver, “Nobody can bounsh me, by
crickety.” When the taxi reached home
and the rush of wind stopped, the driver
nearly fainted, recovered himself and
growled, “Whadda y’ mean, foulin’ up
me cab? What’s that muck all over
y’?”
Jackson eyed him severely. “Thash,”
he said, “ish bitsh o’ the lasht feller tried
t’ get fresh with m’. He’s in a mesh,
I can tell y’. Teach him.” The driver
wasn’t impressed, but since Jackson
handed him half a note and dismissed
him with a lordly wave of the hand he
didn’t pursue the subject.
K / RS. JACKSON, mistress of her own
home for 18 years, was awaiting
the wanderer. She had alternated between
wrath and anxiety hour by hour through
the long, hot afternoon, and when Jack-
son came in she prepared to fall on him.
She met him in the hall, a figure of
feminine anger that would have daunted
him at other times. But Jackson, con-
queror of Norse seamen, placed a smelly
hand on her bosom and pushed hard.
Then he stepped over her and went
to the kitchen in search of something to
appease a ravening hunger. He burst
back into the hall, grabbed his wife and
dragged her to the kitchen. There he
flung open the refrigerator door, shoved
her head into the opening and, thrusting
his awful hand past her nose and point-
ing into the interior of the machine,
shouted, “Shmell that! Man comes home
from his work worn out an’ starvin’ only
f find house reekin’ with horrible stink.
’Sno good. ’Sgotta stop. Won’t have
the place like pigsty.” Then he dropped
the poor woman on the floor and flung
outside to the back lawn, where he col-
lapsed and slept.
Mrs. Jackson sat on the floor and
wept, fearing her last matrimonial bas-
tions had fallen. “Oh, thank heaven,”
she blubbered, “we never had any
children to witness this sight.” After a
time she ceased lamenting, having no
witnesses, and straightened herself up.
Then she made herself a cup of tea and
peeped cautiously through the front win-
dow. The street was its decorous self,
and there weren’t any neighbors looking
at the Jackson home. She took heart and
another cup of tea. Then she remem-
bered that there had been a smell and
made a minute search of the kitchen.
It’s air, save for the usual domestic
flavors, was innocent. “Him,” she said
and flounced into the living-room and
a book.
ON the back lawn Jackson slept. Night
came and with it came hunting cats,
drawn by that smell. The air throbbed
with feline challenge and answer, with
spitting, clawing and fury. Heavy snores
mingled with the cat sounds. Inside the
house Mrs. Jackson heated a pot of
water, crept to the back door, snatched
it open and heaved the water into the
night. There was a scatter and the wail
as of a distracted banshee, and out of
the night rushed a bedraggled, smellful
wretch. She slammed the door in its
face and went round and locked all the
other doors and got into her bedroom
and sat and listened.
Outside Jackson tried to clear his
brain. Memories of policemen, dead
bodies, battle and murder and dead and
dying sailors chased through his mind.
He shivered, crept into the garage and
sat hunkered among old boxes and bags,
dreading every sound to be the feet of
the Law. It took sunlight, a hot bath, a
close perusal of the Sunday paper and
a reconciliation with a wife now more
relieved than angry to convince him that
all was well.
BREAKING.
(Greece, 1941.)
Where shall I hide my head and my face?,
The rocks are about me: between them
I have wormed and lie prone,
While over me, sheering through shot-riddled
space,
Engined vultures of doom —I have seen them —
Swoop avidly, peer and depart.
My heart is as cold as the stone
Which shelters my dread and my heart!
I know, while I cower, the fear of the fox
Cut off from his earth by the hounds of the
pack—
The fear of the cony turned doubling back
To the hope of a hole in the rocks!
How long since I scrambled and lay—
A year—or a day?
I am fighting the terror that laps
My bones and my body in ice!
A tremor of prayer, perhaps ...
A whisper to Him —would a whisper suffice?
(For the ghost of a sound would betray me!)
“I have lifted up mine eyes....”
“Father, God, I shall arise” —
“Now I lay me —now I lay me....’*
Vain, but all I know —
Shreds of things I used to patter.
Lost —forgotten (will it matter?)
Years and years ago!
High on the hillside the thread of a road
Climbs down to the pass; and below me
The utter ravine.
Far east, in the hamlet, the faces that glowed
At twilight, in doorways, to know me,
Shall know me not ever: they lie
Where the shocked olives listen and lean,
Black, twisted and turned to the sky.
The charred faggots shrink from their bomb-
splintered hearth,
The Christ at the crossroads hangs cleft on the
Cross,
The greybeard lies clutching two handfuls of
moss,
The goatherd sprawls torn in the garth:
And Godhead and beauty are trampled in mud
And blackness and blood!
The death that strikes slantingly down,
The shrieking crescendo therefrom,
Rent earth and wrecked wagon bestrewn
With the spattering vomit that spouts from the
bomb!
Machine-guns that cackle and slaughter...
Rede me, time and space and sun —
Shall I meet that flute-voiced one,
Old Larissa's dove-eyed daughter?
Or, far out to South,
Where our breaths were wont to mingle.
Lies she dead athwart the ingle —
Blood upon her mouth?
Hunted and breaking, alone with the dead —
Where shall I hide my face and my head?
Middle East.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


The Bulletin
VoL 63.—N0. 3542.
Wednesday, April 1, 1942.
“WOODMAN, DON’T SPARE THE RED-TAPE SCRUB!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for tjhe White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
JBox 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
? ioria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
ensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
tralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
, ' Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
DON : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
"This" May "Please Doug."
Before General MacArthur went to
Canberra, the Prime Minister gave him
a pledge. The House heard it, “Han-
sard” took it down and it has received
a nation-wide circulation in newspapers.
I wish to record here that General
MacArthur may count to the limit on the
co-operation of the Australian Government
and people and of all Australian war-time
authorities in the great task assigned to him
by President Roosevelt.
Provided the words “to the limit” are
strictly and sternly construed this is
splendid. But in the newspapers which
reported Mr. Curtin there were certain
references to N.S.W. coalminers, who
have been short on “co-operation” even
since the enemy began killing Austra-
lians in Australian territories and on the
mainland, which engendered doubts. Mr.
Curtin told these miners three months ago
that “Australia’s position” was “so grave
that if coal is not available for essential
war purposes I must take steps to get it,
and will do so: any Government that
allows essential production to suffer be-
cause men will not work when provision
exists for the speedy settlement of dis-
putes would be traitorous to Australia.”
He forthwith issued a bushel of regula-
tions designed to “get it,” but non-co-
operators took no notice and the
January regulations were not enforced.
N.S.W. coalminers are supposed to
work a 40-hour week in five days of
eight hours, which means 36 hours from
face to face. Output has been reduced
and strikes have increased because the
State Government introduced a beautiful
scheme for pensioning coalminers at 60
—General MacArthur is 62—which took
effect in January (without legal warrant)
and in February. Hours of labor in all
industries and wages, except as to cost-
of-living increases, were pegged by the
Commonwealth Government; but before
this happened the Miners’ Federa-
tion contrived to get in with an
application for extension of the 40-hour
week to surface hands on the mines, en-
gaged for the most part on repair and
maintenance work, whose working hours
were 86 a fortnight. On the day Mr.
Curtin came out with his pledge, this
application was granted by Judge Drake-
Brockman, chairman of the Central Coal
Reference Board, who also prescribed
overtime pay at time-and-a-half for
Monday-to-Friday exertions, double pay
for Sundays and holidays, and a day’s
pay, plus contract earnings, for any con-
tract worker employed on a “day of
annual leave.”
The announcement of these Presents
for Good Boys was followed two days
later by strikes of “about 1400
miners on the northern and western
coalfields” —in one case because the
bathroom attendant had not turned up,
in another because “second-class shift-
men” had not been “promoted in their
order of seniority,” and in a third be-
cause a wheeler had protested that “a
horse was going too fast.”
The queer thing is that these very
miners exhibit noble unselfishness and
the highest quality of two-o’clock-in-the-
morning courage when danger or
calamity comes in their own calling. The
behavior which enrages fellow-Australians
proceeds from lack of imagination—an
Australian characteristic —from the reck-
less gambling spirit which dangerous or
supposedly dangerous occupations engen-
der, and from a defective education in
politics and economics.
Reds have plied the miners with propa-
ganda and formed a powerful “Militant
Minority Movement” on the coalfields,
unsettling young minds—and failing to
settle Jjiem when it became expedient for
the Reds to change their war policy.
And the Labor party has taught most of
the miners and most of their fellow-
unionists to believe that the community
is divided into two classes, the bosses
and the workers, who are robbed by the
bosses of most of the fruits of their
labor. Ten minutes’ reading of standard
publications would demonstrate that this
is pernicious nonsense. Taking the coal-
mining industry alone, Stock Exchange
records show that shares in 12 of the 13
N. S. Wales listed cos. could be bought
below par even before September 3,
1939, and the thirteenth derived part
of its income from brickworks. As for
the distribution of wealth, it has been
shown in Taxation Department returns
that incomes under £4OO a year
accounted for £517,000,000 out of a total
of £745,000,000.
In point of fact, many a “boss,”
especially in N. S. Wales, regards the
application of the term to himself as a
cynical jest. He himself has many
bosses; at least two Parliaments and Gov-
ernments and Taxation Departments
(seven of each if he operates in six
States), a swarm of wage-fixers called
Wages Boards, Reference Boards, Indus-
trial and Arbitration Courts, and an army
of Government inspectors, walking dele-
gates and regulation-issuing departments,
boards and commissions. He has been
forced to become an unpaid assessor and
collector of income taxes from em-
ployees whose pay may be determined
in scores of “awards.” He has lost even
the old hiring-and-firing privilege. And
if he contrives to triumph over all these
handicaps the Labor party may decide
that he is a fit subject for “nationalisa-
tion” —its remedy for all industrial ills
or what it is pleased to regard as such.
“Nationalisation” means Government
ownership. Government ownership has
failed expansively in every field, with
a loss of untold millions, from railways
to pubs. And because there are seven
Governments, all devoted to what they
call “a vigorous borrowing policy,” and
all experts in passing the buck, there
were on June 30, 1939, 388,857 Govern-
ment employees, exclusive of those on
the payrolls of a multitude of boards
and commissions, out of a population
reckoned at 6,950,000, Apropos, “S. M.
Herald,” which supports the Government,
notes that “the vested interests of the per-
manent public service have suffered less
in this war than those of any other sec-
tion of Australians.”
From Canberra General MacArthur
may possibly have carried away the im-
pression that some of our politicians are
recruited from reformatories and others
from homes for the feeble-minded ; but
this would be unjust. Our politicians
mean well, and the noisiest and the most
irrational specimens are not nearly as
black as they paint themselves. Even
when they storm at one another like
stokers or fish porters, they are merely
illustrating their notion of what consti-
tutes good clean fun.
It is important that the general should
be under no illusions about the public
men with whom he will have to deal.
He should be informed that none of the
five members of the Advisory War
Council who are not in the Ministry
and only one of the 19 Ministers—
and he was in the British Army—served
in the last war. During that war, when
the losses suffered in the Somme and
Flanders campaigns were telling heavily
on the A.1.F., conscription was twice put
to the vote. The present Labor Ministers
were all anti-conscriptionists, and they
and their associates then derived the im-
pression, which they have found it very
hard to overcome, not only that they
had done the nation a signal service,
but that to oppose military compulsion
in any form (though compulsory trade-
unionism they have always regarded as
just and necessary) was democratic and
even heroic.
One result was that as soon as their
party returned to office, which was not
until the end of 1929, it abandoned com-
pulsory training, which a Labor Govern-
ment itself had introduced. For this de-
mented proceeding Australia has paid in
many ways, some of which the general
may have seen for himself. The first
bills came in during the Great Depres-
sion, when scores of thousands of young
fellows who would have been glad to
serve in the army for a few shillings a
week, and who could have been very
profitably employed in putting the
northern points which have been bombed
by the Japanese in a state of defence,
were turned loose to line up for the dole
or to becomd half-timers on donkey work.
The defeat of conscription had a bad
effect on the other party also. In 1932,
as in 1917, it took its leader from the
Labor party, and partly because of that
gentleman’s influence it became satu-
rated with the belief that support for
any form of compulsory service was a
certain election-loser. Mention of the
distasteful subject was left to the leader
at election-time, and the leader’s refer-
ences had the desired effect on votes.
This U.A.P. attitude persisted until after
the present war broke out, and so did
that of the Labor party.
In the third month of the war Mr.
Menzies, then Prime Minister, said; “We
have decided to keep our militia forces
at an adequately trained strength of not
less than 75,000 men, and for this pur-
pose compulsory military training will
be reintroduced in January.” But he
added: “I once more emphasise that
there is no question of conscription for
overseas service; we are definitely
pledged against that.” Mr. Curtin, for
his part, protested that “there is no justi-
fication for compulsory military training.
I see no necessity for it; indeed, the
Government has been turning away
volunteers for the militia forces.”
In a biff introduced by Mr. Curtin in
the second war week and then handed
over to Mr. Ward, now one of Mr.
Curtin’s 18 Ministers—the one who
decides who shall go into the fighting
services and who shan’t —an attempt
had been made to provide (1) that
conscripts enrolled in the Common-
wealth for home service should be
required to serve only within the Com-
monwealth, and (2) that conscripts en-
rolled in the territories which have been
bombed and invaded by the Japanese
should be required to serve only in the
particular territory “of which they are
inhabitants.” These precious proposals
failed of a majority. But the measure
was not wholly lost: as a concession to
Mr. Curtin and Mr. Ward “persons
with conscientious objections, whether the
ground thereof is or is not of a religious
character,” were excluded from liability
to compulsory military service.” Thus
Communists might be excluded, as well
as Quakers.
A great deal of water has run under
the bridge since then. Events have forced
most of the members on both sides of
the House, Mr. A. G. Cameron excepted,
to change the views they once accounted
popular, and the Labor Ministers have
been obliged to do things they never
dreamed of doing in 1939. The old anti-
conscription feeling still shows out in
appointments like those of Mr. Theo-
dore and Mr. Garden, two defeated
Labor politicians. But it may be fairly
said that Ministers are, for the most part,
grappling energetically, and in some cases
successfully, with a job for which they
were never trained, and the week-end
saw Mr. Curtin standing up manfully,
though tardily, to the striking coalminers.
“And now, with a brave army and a
just cause, go forward and give us vic-
tories.” These words, addressed by Lincoln
to Grant, exactly express the Australian
nation’s adjuration to General Mac-
Arthur and its faith in its cause, its fight-
ing forces, their leader and the Aus-
tralian generals who will work with
him. The hero of Bataan has
made it refreshingly plain, somewhat
to the confusion of amateur strate-
gists, that he will not go forward till he
is ready, it being no part of his plans
for the defeat of the enemy to waste
men and material in ill-prepared offen-
sives. He may rest assured that the Aus-
tralian nation will support him “to the
limit,” whatever interpretation he chooses
to place on the Prime Minister’s words.
Case of the Twenty.
It was revealed in the House last week
by Maurice Blackburn that the “Aus-
tralia First” movement had been sup-
pressed and a number of its members
“detained.” The member for Bourke
protested, saying he could see no reason
why such drastic action should have
been taken, especially if it was true that
no charges had been made against the
persons under detention. He could not
imagine that they were agents of Japan,
nor could it be said that they were spies
for Germany. He refused to believe that
there were any vocal enemy sympathisers
in the movement.
This attitude was highly creditable to
Mr. Blackburn. He risked the displeasure
of his Labor associates and was actually
put under an A.L.P. ban for going on
platforms to speak for Soviet Russia.
He must have known that his action in
the present case would not 1 only annoy
the Government but infuriate the Soviet
Russia mob, whose relations with the
anti-Communist “Australia First” concern
were marked by a series of fights in
public halls until the N.S.W. police
banned further “Australia First” meetings
(they never now ban meetings at which
Communists are the heroes); but he did
not hesitate for a moment. Such broad-
mindedness and moral courage are all
too rare.
On the face of it the “Australia First”
programme is harmless enough. Pub-
lished at the foot of a protest against
the Police Commissioner’s refusal to
permit a public meeting to be held at
Manly, on the ground that a breach of
the peace would occur if it were held —
this was characterised as a surrender to
“our political opponents, a lawless
minority”—it ran as follows:
(1) National non-party Government and
no party legislation during the war-
emergency.
(2) Active defence against air raids by
fighter ’planes rather than passive defence
by “blackout.”
(3) Fighting spirit instead of “deep
scorched earth,” ''evacuation ”
Magmot mentality” and retreatism.
(4) Courageous and positive war leader-
ship, instead of “scare advertising ”
(5) Public inquiry into Ministerial respon-
sibility for the insufficient defence of
Rabaul.
(6) No formation of irregular “People’s”
Army.
(7) Recall, when practicable, of the A.I.F.
ar) d the R.A.A.P. for Australia’s defence.
(8) Aid for Australia first (i.e.. before
Russia).
(9) Independent voice for Australia in
Pacific War Councils.
(10) Immediate transfer of all Common-
wealth Government departments to Can-
berra,
There is nothing seditious in any of
these points. Each of them has indeed
been championed by most respectable
persons: (1) and (10) by a flock of daily-
paper editors ; (2) by General Blarney;
(6) by Mr. Forde ; (7) by Mr. Lang; (8)
by Mr. Keith Murdoch; and (9) by Dr.
Evatt. And it is certainly not subversive
to call for an inquiry into the Rabaul
business or to question the quality of
the war leadership or to oppose deep
shelters, evacuation, “Maginot mentality,”
“retreatism” and “scorched earth”—
which last was denounced in good set
terms by a Sydney University professor.
If the Government had had nothing more
against the persons who put forward such
a programme, it would have had no right
to outlaw their organisation and intern
the principals.
But, taking up the subject a day after
Mr. Blackburn had broached it, the
Minister for the Army declared that the
authorities had a great deal more against
the organisation and 20 of its members
—l9 men and a woman. He told the
House that the military had “investigated
the activities of the so-called Australia
First movement for a considerable time,”
and that the 20 persons had been arrested
and interned “as a result of those inves-
tigations.” Documents and papers had
been seized—in what part of Australia
and on whose premises the Minister did
not say—and they pointed to “Fifth
Column activity of the worst kind by a
very small band of people.”
The documents set out elaborate plans
for sabotage at vulnerable points in this
country, and describe methods calculated to
make resistance to the Japanese impossible.
Plans for the assassination of prominent
people are set out.
One document purports to be a pro-
clamation with the heading “The Australia
First Government welcomes to this country,
as friends and liberators, the Japanese
leaders and army.”
This naturally startled the House, and
the public when they read it in the even-
ing newspapers, which requisitioned the
services of their most eminent headline
artists (one effort, spread across the front
page, was “Spy Murder Plot Alleged;
Gang of 20 Caught, Says Forde”). “We
shall stand no Quislings, whether they
come from the highest or the lowest,” Mr.
Forde declaimed. Excellent, and a pre-
vious Ministerial remark that “before
they associate themselves with any move-
ment people should assure themselves
that it is bona fide and does not, under a
pleasing name, act as a cloak for sub-
versive activities” is very good advice,
applicable to innocents invited to join
organisations springing from the extreme
Left as well as the extreme Right.
But the matter could not end with a mere
Ministerial statement, however warranted
by facts in the Government’s possession.
Neither Ministers nor the military are
infallible, nor when they cause private
citizens to be arrested on grave charges
and held without trial are their proceed-
ings to be accepted as having the force
of laws against which there can be no
protest or appeal.
In Sydney, where the Australia First
movement originated, its members were
popularly regarded, except by Commun-
ists and their friends, as being at the worst
well-meaning cranks. Members of the
executive committee are still free to ex-
press their opinions as private citizens, and
one, a lady, has stated that all the in-
terned persons are Australian-born;
some are third- and some fourth-
generation Australians. It is exceedingly
hard to believe that any group of native-
born Australians, bred to the White Aus-
tralia tradition, would engage in a plot to
“welcome to this country, as friends and
liberators, the Japanese leaders
army,” much less plan to sabotage “vul-
nerable points” and assassinate fellow-
Australians. It is possible that the evi-
dence on which the authorities rely was
concocted and “planted” by some enemy
or enemies. Be that as it may, if prose-
cutions will lie, the 20 should be charged
in a court of law, where they can be
represented by counsel, and where
the evidence, subject to the Judge’s right
of rejection and interpretation, can be
presented to a jury, and if one or more
are found guilty of high treason the
punishment should be death.
The Government, it seems, intends to
send them to trial, as a Labor Gov-
ernment should. So far it has acted


under National Security Act regulations,
which regulations, when invoked by the
Menzies Government, were so obnoxious
to the Labor Left Wing. It moved first
under Regulation 13, which empowers the
authorities to hold disaffected or sus-
pected persons in custody for 10 days
without laying a charge. When the 10
days were up it issued an order under
Regulation 26, which admits of the de-
tention of any person in the interests of
national security for the duration of the
war. These statements were made by a
Sydney barrister, quoted by “S. M.
Herald,” who went on to say that, “if
the charges made in the Minister’s state-
ment are correct, then it is a matter of
treason, and the men should have a
chance of defending themselves in the
Criminal Court.”
At present the only right they have is an
appeal to an advisory committee. If the
committee so desires, an appeal can be
sent on to the Minister, who is not bound
to release the persons detained. There is
no right of appeal to any court of law.
So far have we travelled backward
from even the days of Horne Tooke!
The Government may be pertinently
reminded of the action taken in the
case of Thomas and Ratliff. Thomas and
Ratliff were charged in a court of sum-
mary jurisdiction, and the evidence
showed that they were members of the
Communist party —then an illegal body
campaigning surreptitiously against what
it called “the imperialist war”—and had
made a house they occupied in the bush
at Como a propaganda factory. One of
the documents found on the premises
referred to a competition for the recruit-
ing of members from “war industries and
other key industries, other factory and
mental and professional workers not en-
gaged directly in war work, housewives,
artisans, unemployed, etc.: this,” it was
stated in a document, “has been worked
out in accordance with the decision of the
State Committee meeting and on the basis
of Lenin’s slogan ‘Every mine, factory
and workshop a fortress of revolution.’ ”
Another document produced in evi-
dence detailed “methods to be employed
to carry on the activities of the [Com-
munist] party in such a way as to render
it extremely difficult for the police to
trace such activities to their source.” And
there was mention of “a guerrilla move-
ment, growing in space and time, to
undermine the war-effort propaganda
until preparations are made for some-
thing big Influencing the youth
against the war and for the fight against
conscription and compulsory military
training is an immediate question.” The
men were convicted and sentenced to a
term of imprisonment.
Finding them impenitent when their sen-
tence expired, the Menzies Government
refused to release them, but, the familiar
Left-Wing row breaking out, it appointed
a tribunal, headed by N.S.W. Justice Pike,
to go into their case. The tribunal re-
ported that “both the objectors up to I he
time of their arrest were actively engaged
in deliberately hindering, by every means
in their power, the war effort of this
country, and this was admitted by their
solicitor.” It expressed “very considerable
doubt whether any undertakings given by
the men would be carried out.” Before
long the Government itself was “carried
out,” and, the Left-Wing agitation
having been renewed (the men had gone
on hunger strike and there had been
“nation-wide” sympathy strikes), the
Curtin-Forde Government set the men
free, accepting guarantees of good be-
havior given by them and by the Sydney
Labor Council. Mr. Forde signed the
necessary order (as he signed the deten-
tion orders in the present case), and had
it carried to the internment camp by a
military dispatch rider. In words which
he will not be permitted to forget he said
“the release of Ratliff and Thomas will
remove what might have been otherwise
a source of serious industrial friction and
will promote production in war industry.’
PLAIN ENGLISH
Home Again!
strength. The mere sight of the hard-
bitten warriors is heartening, and grati-
tude is due to the officers and men of
the stout ships, British and American,
which bore them home in safety.
General Blarney and Lieut.-General
Lavarack —he had been back some
weeks, quietly and swiftly shaping the
reorganisation of the army—have had
over two years’ close and practical study
of modern war. As C.-in-C. of the Allied
land forces here, General Blarney will be
a tower of strength to General
MacArthur.
He has never had any illusions about
the enemy. In January, 1940, when it was
popular to call it a “phony war” and
amateur strategists and other knowalls
had already forgotten the still-flaming
lesson of Poland, he warned his country
that “This war is not going to be a walk-
over: it is going to be the most terrible
thing the world has ever seen.” Yet he
returned from Africa in November, 1941,
“astounded at the complacency with
which people in Australia viewed
the war.” That was after Greece and
Crete, after the German armies had
begun to roll across Russia, only a month
before Japan burst into the Pacific.
I have had a look at the Australian way
of living and now I want to get away from
it. It sickens me. Australians are living
in a fool’s paradise. Everything out here
shows a spirit of carnival. When will Aus-
tralians realise that we must fight or perish?
As the general himself has testified,
realisation has come at last.
MacArthur and the Press.
With a somewhat pathetic eagerness
Australian newspapers of the knowall
order went to great pains, not only to
publish General MacArthur’s “off-the-
record” talk on what he thought of the
Australians had scarcely stopped cheer-
ing the advent of General MacArthur
and his Americans when they learned
officially what many had seen with their
own eyes, that part of the A.I.F. had
returned from the Middle East, together
with its Blarney and its equipment.
Coming at a time when the country
was already fighting off Japanese attacks
on its northern coasts —so far limited
to forays by air, Japanese occupation of
New Britain and parts of north-eastern
New Guinea —it was a magnificent de-
velopment. The direction of the army
of defence by war-wise leaders and the
presence among the A.M.F. forces of
veterans of the first and second Libyan
campaigns, of Greece, Crete, Syria and
Tobruk, add tremendously to our
press and what he expected from it, but
also to thank him in the leader columns.
But after the first flush of enthusiasm
there must have been a little uneasiness.
“It is of prime importance that the
public be instructed so that they can
summon all their confidence, all their
determination and all their purpose in
the support of the war effort.” Weighed
and urgent words ; and so were these:
When you start to tear down, you de-
stroy public confidence in the leaders of a
military movement.
You practically destroy an army.
“S. M. Herald” entered the confessional:
There has been too much criticism
from which the public might infer that the
fighting services are in the exclusive charge
of “Blimps,” and which construes every
reshuffle of leadership as a “purge.”
“In democracies,” said General Mac-
Arthur, probably with a meaning missed
at first glance, “it is essential that the
public should know the truth.” Prac-
titioners of the New Journalism should
take a copy of the general’s remarks to a
quiet place and give them close and care-
ful study with a view to providing that
help without which “we cannot get the
maximum out of the situation.”
"Very BodSy Advised."
In the report of the Joint Parliamentary
Committee on Broadcasting there are 71
recommendations, and 50 deal specifi-
cally with A.B.C. One is that listeners
should be charged £1 Is. p.a. instead
of £1 as at present. That would mean
about £50,000 p.a—just about the
amount needed to cover the annual loss
on the “A.B.C. Weekly.”
References to that publication made
startling reading. On being told that
Sydney newspapers intended to charge
advertising rates for insertion of pro-
grammes, the Commission decided that
the Australian cost would run to £90,000.
Newspapers said £25,000 would cover the
cost. Even this sum, however, would have
been a sufficient argument for the Com-
mission to embark on the publication.
“Sufficient” is characteristic. But, “in
view of subsequent events,” it appeared
the Commission was “very badly
advised”:
It made a number of serious mistakes....
accepted a highly exaggerated estimate ot
sales. These were only 170,000 out of
350.000 copies of the first issue, 76,000 out
of 290,000 in the second and 55,000 out of
236.000 in the third. Since then, circula-
tion has fallen gradually, and for the
quarter ended November, 1941, vvas
approximately 37,000 copies a week, which
represents a loss of about 4d. a copy. The
advertising estimates also proved over-
optimistic The Commission has now
reduced the running loss to about £30,000
a year.
In the committee’s opinion, “the Syd-
ney newspapers must bear the responsi-
bility for precipitating an action which
was to result in a very serious financial
loss of public money.” A fatuous con-
tention, but not so fatuous as the proposal
that publication of the “Weekly” should
be continued, with the
Government and the Department of Infor-
mation supplying “all possible advertise-
ments.”
A.B.C. is described as “too optimistic.”
Anyone can be “too optimistic” who
isn’t restricted in lashing money about,
who can cheerfully lose “about £30,000”
a year on an unwanted activity and who
can find a sympathetic committee to
recommend an additional Is. per license
to its revenues as well as an extra 10s.
6d. from anyone who happens to have
two radio sets in the house. The 8.8. C.
charge for a much better service is 10s.
Spend, spend, spend the people’s
money! What is the people’s money for?
EASTER EGG—NOT FOR EXPORT.


a
I®®
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
KEEPS HIM FIT
You can’t keep fit if you suffer from
constipation. NYAL FIGSEN-— the
gentle, natural laxative —is dependable,
thorough and non-habit forming because
it is made from three of Natures own
laxatives —figs, senna and cascara. Try
Figsen Tablets yourself and slip a
tin regularly in your service parcels.
Figsen is one of the 168 dependable
NYAL FAMILY MEDICINES and
suits every member of the family. NYAL
FIGSEN is sold by chemists every-
where.
The next ’best Wind 'Nature. *«■
Nya!Figsen
THE GENTLE LMXMTIVE
POLITICAL POINTS
General MacArthur was a visitor to
the House of Reps, on Thursday, when,
as “S.M.H.” put it, “the spectacle was
witnessed of the fiercest political battle
since the present Government assumed
power.” When Ward rose to reply to
Holt, James beefed out, “You’ll enjoy
this, Doug!” It is unfortunate that
Canberra should have announced next
day: (1) The bar at Parliament House
will not be open until noon in future ;
(2) on non-sitting days it will close at
4 p.m. ; (3) on sitting days it will be
closed between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
It was here mentioned (B. 11/3/ ’42)
that Burke, Brennan, Corrigan, Katz and
four other gentlemen were after the
Labor nomination for the Port Mel-
bourne Assembly seat, of which death
deprived Murphy. With an unexpectedly
strong run, Katz finished second, but
Murphy will be succeeded by Corrigan.
Menzies would be worth hearing on
“S. M. Herald’s” abandonment of its
national Government notions and its
forcible-feeble acceptance of Labor poli-
tics with Curtin in control (“Calm, judi-
cial, determined; Australia could not
choose a better leader”). He has seen
Melbourne “Argus” go the same way,
and, the Chief Publicity Censor being
referred to in the House, he said, with
mordant irony, that the gentleman
“worked for the ‘Argus,’ which is the
chief Labor newspaper in Victoria.”
What nasty things Bob can say when he
is in the mood!
New York Budgets are framed by
Governor Lehman, a very able Jew. In-
troducing on January 26 what he called
“the Budget of a State dedicating itself
completely to the successful prosecution
of the war,” and anticipating a decrease
of $60,000,000 in motor-vehicle and
motor-fuel revenues, Lehman announced
that he proposed to knock $40,600,000
off the taxes by—
Repeal of the State’s 1 p.c. emergency
tax. A 25 p.c. cut in tax on individual
incomes “this year and next year,” taxes
to be paid in four equal instalments.
He added that expenditure would be
reduced by $5,000,000 and that there
would be “an embargo on non-defence
capital-outlay borrowing for the dura-
tion of the war.” What a lesson and an
example to our State Premiers!
According to Sydney “D.T.,” “the
clamor for a Second Front in Europe has
become a people’s crusade in Britain.”
Yes, but what sort of people?
From yesterday employers in non-
specified industries must get the consent
of man-power authorities before putting
a man on. But State Governments can
go gaily ahead setting up boards and
commissions and getting staffs for them.
Senators in Canberra had worked
themselves into a fine state for over an
hour on a motion for the disallowance
of a regulation concerning the employ-
ment of women. Senator Cameron, who
is Minister for Aircraft Production, was
explaining it when Senator Collings,
Minister for the Interior, appeared with
a dazed look and asked leave to make
a statement. Leave was refused, as he
had already spoken. Then an adjourn-
ment was moved and Senator Collings,
still dazed, managed to get out that the
regulation had been repealed eight days
before. In the awful hush that followed
the Senate took till April 29 off to
recover or something.
McKell, the Sydney Premier, after
weighty consideration of the P.M.’s order
for the curtailment of boozing, ordered
his State’s pubs not to open until 10 a.m.
Whereupon a mighty howl arose from
Labor voters who demanded beer when
coming off night shifts. Mr. McKell
doesn’t seem able to please anybody.
The Commonwealth Government has
ordered the Victorian Government to
lift the idiotic ban on beef from the
Werribee farm. All hell will roar for
this!
Stockowners in coastal N.S.W. got
orders to evacuate —or prepare to
evacuate —their cattle inland, ostensibly
from a State authority. Scully, Can-
berra’s Commerce Minister, counter-
manded the orders, adding that the State
had exceeded its authority. There was a
flurry in State offices and presently
Scully was heard announcing that the
State Government was not responsible:
but that a “subordinate authority” had
“The Parliamentary Committee on Broadcasting, while admitting huge losses on the
‘A.B.C. Weakly,’ recommends continuance and a shilling on the annual charge for a
listener’s license, now £l.”
“Yes, Mr. Curtin, I admit he isn't much to show for the hundred thousand or so
he's cost; but try what another hundred thousand or so will do.”
acted precipitately. He regretted “criti-
cising” the State Government. Up rose
Premier McKell:
I am extremely surprised to note that
the veto action.... has been taken by the
Production Executive presided over by Mr.
Dedman. It would appear that the I* ro “
duction Executive has been the victim or
incorrect information supplied by somebody
associated with the Ministry of Commerce.
Call Mr. Scully again.
Announced on Monday that Regula-
tion 77 had been invoked against coalies
at Hebburn No. 2 and Richmond Main
(N.S.W.), who stopped work on the
usual childish grounds-—at Richmond
Main a wheeler said his horse walked
too fast. Commonwealth officers
swooped on the men, serving notices
requiring them to return to work or take
the penalties provided. Some of them
returned to work.
An anguished cry in Melbourne
“Age”;
In desperation the payers of unemploy-
ment tax ask, “What are we paying for?
Where are our unemployed? This tax has
become a travesty. When will the Gov-
ernment lift it or give it another name?”
It will give it another name.
In a fatuous attempt to justify his
pensioning of N.S.W. coalminers {“only
1500 or 1600”) at 60 in the second and
third months of the war with Japan,
Minister Badly asserted that “the last
fortnight’s production” was “the best
for many years.” This brought Norman
Mighell, the Commonwealth Coal Com-
missioner, down on him like six feet of
chain. Production for Badly’s last fort-
night, Mighell said, was 475,476 tons,
“exactly 51,643 tons less” than the
figures for the fortnight to December 14
before Badly began paying
pensions without Parliamentary authority.
And Australia needs an output of at least
a million tons a month.
Over a great part of N. S. Wales the
drought broke last week. Sydney’s catch-
ment got up to 12in., and by the week-
end 10,000 million gallons had flowed
into the dams, which with the run-off to
follow would assure the city of at least
a year’s supply. Yet all that the Water
Board president could say when the glad
tidings were brought to him was: “We
do not know yet whether it will be pos-
sible to lift any restrictions”!
Keith Murdoch bombinating again:
It has been whispered at Canberra that
Mr. Churchill should never have dared to
mention Mr. Menzies for the [Washington]
post. Why not? Is it a crime that the
British Prime Minister in a personal inter-
change with Australia’s Prime Minister
should discuss the merits of some appoint-
ment?
Churchill recently made changes in his
Cabinet. What would the great Mur-
doch have said if Curtin had broken in
on the Churchill meditations with the
suggestion that Sir Samuel Hoare should
be recalled from Spain and sent to India
to take up the work he began in the
Federation of India Bill? Ten to one
he wouldn’t have defended Curtin as
he has defended Churchill.
Calwell, M.H.R. for Melbourne, who
asks most awkward questions:
How many publicity officers, press-rela-
tions officers and the like are employed by
this Government?
The answer was “Sixteen employed full-
time ; two employed part-time” —and
Fadden has a seventeenth. Salaries range
from £826 p.a. for the full-timers and
£260 p.a. for the part-timers. The
number is exclusive of “journalists or
broadcasters employed in the collation
and dissemination of news for the De-
partment of Information,” of the A.B.C.
litter of newsgatherers and of private
secretaries, of whom each of the 19
Ministers and the Opposition-leaders in
both Houses have at least one apiece.
Still no end to the setting up of com-
mittees ! Every blessed thing eaten or
drunk has a Federal committee and six
State committees to “control” it. The
latest thing brought under this “control”
is tobacco. One commodities board to
handle all commodities ought to be suf-
ficient for 7,000,000 people.
Bertie Johnson, the Westralian Senator,
entered politics as a Labor M.L.A. Fall-
ing out with Labor, he turned Ind. Lab.
for a season ; then, after denouncing the
Country party as “the Bulgarians of
politics,” he joined that party. Now he
is talking just like a Labor man again
Bertie morosely admitted last year that
the Commonwealth and State taxation
departments had been at him with writs
claiming £91,939 ss. Bd., “of which
£75,493 7s. lid. is for Federal taxes.”
That, of course, has nothing to do with
his seeming return to the per-inciples of
his youth, or with his scornful reference
to an unnamed non-Labor author of
“certain waterside regulations” as “me
Vicar or Bray.”
C. Evatt, the N.S.W. Minister for Edu-
denies that he is in difficulies
with hxs Government and that too many
individualists” are escaping from refor-
matories and says he intends to supply
about 40,000 sixth-class children with free
dictionaries. They should pay special atten-
tion to the word “individualistic.”
This, said Mark Twain, “is the day
upon which we are reminded of whal
we are on the other 'three hundred and
sixty-four.” And it is a suitable day for
a conference of persons like Landa,
M.L.A., and the editor of Sydney “D.T.
who demand a Second Front in Europe.
The St. Nazaire affair suggests that a
landing in force on any part of the
French coast or that of the Low Coun-
tries or Norway would be a bloody mass-
acre. But, of course, neither Landa nor
the editor of the “D.T,” would be in it.
“Is it a fact,” asked Rosevear, M.H.R.,
“that Mr. Frank Packer has been re-
leased from service to act as offsider to
Mr. Theodore on the Allied Works Coun-
cil?” Forde replied that “Mr. Frank
Packer was temporarily seconded from
the Armored Division to the Allied
Works Council on the application of the
Director-General, who said he urgently
required the services of Mr. Packer
because of the latter’s great experience
and ability as a business organiser,” blah,
blah, blah.
It is Mr. Packer’s desire to return to his
unit as soon as possible; the C.O. of the
Armored Division has a high opinion of
Mr. Packer’s ability.
But with an invasion cloud hanging ove.
Australia has any other C.O. seconded
an officer from a combatant unit to a
non-combatant show?
When Minister of the Army Spender
proposed to send ladies to the Middle
East to exercise a “softening influence”
on the troops. An unknown Digger shat-
tered the plan with a sentence —“We
didn’t come here to be softened; we
came here to fight.” Archbishop Duhig,
of Brisbane, borrowed the expression by
way of expressing his hostility to the
hasty marriages of American soldiers to
Australian girls, saying “The Americans
didn’t come here to marry ; they came
here to fight.” Melbourne “Herald” is
dreadfully angry with the Archbishop,
though it seems to be astonished at its
own intrepidity in tackling him.
There is some criticism of Australian
Labor policy in American newspapers.
The Chicago “Daily Tribune,” for
example;
No one in the United States regards
conscription as anything but a necessary
evil. Men are torn from their families and
jobs and great economic dislocations re-
sult. The United States has made these
sacrifices, and men who were assured when
drafted that they would not be sent outside
the Western Hemisphere or American terri-
tories or possessions are now being sent to
posts far from home. Australia, with this
example before it, can certainly bring itself
to make comparable sacrifices.
It’s a thing Australia will have to do.
Churchill’s finest effort in the phrase-
making line was his tribute to the R.A.F.
after the Blitz: “Never in the field of
human conflict was so much owed by so
many to so few.” London “Daily Mail
turned it against him very neatly in a
post-mortem on Malaya: “It is heart-
breaking to reflect that so much might
have been saved by so little.” Now a
British worker with a good memory and
a fine wit has scrawled on a war factory
wall: “Never was so much paid to so
many for so little.”


BRITISH NAVY’S TRIBUTE
“Submarines using your batteries
averaged 10,000 miles per month, and
there is no recorded instance of your
batteries failing.”
This striking tribute was received from
the British Admiralty at the conclusion
of the World War, 1918. Needless to
say, Exide Batteries are again playing
their part in the present war. You,
too, can depend on Exide.
batteries
KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED,
Mi
mm
mmmmm
s
;;
: I
40 '
I I
PERSONAL ITEMS
It is fitting that, with Mars in the
ascendant, Melbourne’s new Anglican
archbishop, Joseph John Booth, should be
a man who has been associated with sol-
diers almost continuously since 1916. In
that year he left the curacy of St.
Stephen’s, Richmond, under the late
Archdeacon Lamble, to go abroad with
the A.I.F. as a chaplain. He returned
with an M.C., ministered at Fairfield,
then went to St. Paul’s, Geelong, where
he served at the camps of the 23rd Bat-
talion. In 1934 he became Archdeacon
Booth of Melbourne and Vicar-General.
When the new war started he was
released by the army to the air
force to organise the C, of E. padres.
When Bendigo’s Bishop Baker left as
senior chaplain to the overseas forces
Booth took over the Chaplain-General’s
department. Then he relieved Bishop
Baker in the Middle East and stayed
there until the death of Archbishop Head
brought him back to Melbourne. He was
bom at Middlesborough, Yorkshire, in
1886, came to Australia in 1910 and en-
tered the clergy in 1915 after passing
through Ridley College with honors.
McKell, the Sydney Premier, com-
pleted his 25th year as M.L.A. for Red-
fern on March 24. Redfern’s first mem-
ber was Jimmy McGowen, a boiler-
maker, who became the first Labor
Premier; McKell, also a boilermaker,
born three months after McGowen en-
tered Parliament, unseated the ageing
Jimmy, who had turned conscriptionist.
McKell was 25 then ; he was a Minister
at 28 and Premier at 49. He reports
himself “fighting fit,”
“El V.” welcomes a distinguished
visitor:
Manuel Quezon, President of the Philippine
Republic, who was assassinated by Tokyo Radio
early in the week and ascended into Australia
immediately afterwards, looks delicate in repose
but like a steak off a streak of greased light-
ning in action. He is 63, and his life has been
divided almost equally into halves. In the first
half he went to San Tomas University, spent a
couple of years in the Philippine Assembly, and
for the next seven was a little-appreciated
commissioner to U.S. Congress. But he came
home with the seeds of the free Philippine
Commonwealth in his pocket, for 19 unbroken
years was President of his country’s Senate,
and in 1935 was elected first President of the
Commonwealth, which was largely the child of
his negotiation and which had become actuality
in May, 1935, after the passing of the Tydings-
McDuffie Act in the U.S. Congress. One ot
the provisions of the arrangement is that the
Philippines becomes automatically free of
Uncle Sam’s control at the end of 1945, so
that the President is one of the few men ot
his generation who can justly call themselves
fathers of their countries. He has given loyal
support to General MacArthur throughout the
war and will remain with his headquarters until
the Philippines are free of Japanese.
Back in Melbourne, knight Albert
Bussau, Agent-General. Dunstan wants
to draw on his experience of A.R.P.
acquired in London and the provinces in
the Blitzkrieg year, as well as food ration-
ing in war-time. This model Agent-
General was born at Natimuk (Vic.) in
1884. It is doubtful whether he ever
imagined that Natimuk would some day
become vitally interested in such things.
The juice of the juniper should flow
strongly in the veins of Crosbie Hucks,
who takes over as g.m. in Australia of the
Gilbey gin business (not an ad., Mr.
Curtin) —his father was with the same
concern for 46 years and his father for 35
years. Crosbie Hucks’s first six years
with Gilbeys were spent in charge of
the London laboratory; then he took
charge of the London distillery until
1927, when he came to Australia to see
about a bottling establishment in West
Melbourne to handle gin shipped from
England in casks. In 1932 he returned
to London and then went to Toronto,
Canada, to provide that country with
a very modern distillery; from there he
went to Cincinnati, U.S.A., and worked
in conjunction with National Distillers
in building a distillery which probably
broke the hearts of all prohibitionists—
the bottling line was made to cope with
1,200,000 cases a year. From Cincinnati
Hucks went to London again, and then
came to Melbourne to look after the dis-
tillery at Moorabbin, erected in 1937.
In 1939 he became second in command
to Teddy Collins, whom he now succeeds
and who has been associated with
Gilbeys for 46 years —his uncle first intro-
duced Gilbey lines to the Australian
market.
“M.G.S.”: When 3LO was a private
concern run mainly by theatrical entre-
preneurs and only a few months old it
startled Melbourne by announcing its in-
tention of sending a diver down to the
bottom of the Yarra with a microphone
in his helmet to broadcast its wonders
to a listening world. It was the first
stunt of its kind in Australia. The diver
descended, but the result was poor,
the treasures discovered being what one
expected—tins and dead dogs. The diver
was J. E. Johnstone, hero of the Niagara
salvage affair.
At 47 Clifford Henry Book, K.C., Senior
Crown Prosecutor in Melbourne, has be-
come Grand Master of the Victorian
Masons. Among the 1000 at the instal-
lation ceremony was Lord Gowrie. Book
is a Liverpudlian and his father was
language master at Liverpool University
for 35 years. The son is a master of
forensic rhetoric, and his oration on the
Empire’s crisis so impressed the Gover-
nor-General that his Excellency asked for
a copy. The new G.M. saw his bit of
fighting in the last war —he served with
the 23rd Battalion.
E. J. McMahon, N. S. Wales Commis-
sioner of Taxation until last week, need
no longer fear seeing his features mangled
by cartoonists or his name used by
rhymesters when the annual taxation
season opens. He has retired. He got
the job in 1928, succeeding W. J. Whid-
don, who opened up as a lottery syndi-
cate, a precedent McMahon is unlikely to
follow, though he admits to a little
flutter on the neddies now and then.
Before becoming a public servant he
had owned a Paddington pub, but his
cherished hobby is music—he has been
a chorus master and was once offered a
job by J. C. Williamson.
A good deal of the patience exhibited
by N. S. Wales taxation officials can be
BERTRAM O. PERRIN.
put down to the beliefs of Bertram O.
Perrin, Assistant Commissioner since
1938 and now Commissioner on the re-
tirement of Ernie McMahon. Perrin be-
lieves that active sport makes good
workers, and is president of pretty well
every tennis, football, cricket, golf and
hockey club in his department. A Rugby
Unionist once—he refereed games in the
City and Suburban competition—he in-
dulges in tennis these days. He is 56
and confesses to a love of his work.
Latest Australian war correspondent
to turn up in Japanese hands in Java is
Rohan Rivett, who was covering the
Malayan campaign for the Melbourne
“Argus,” as well as broadcasting. He
was one of three who volunteered to
keep their station on the air until it went
up in the air, which it did when Singa-
pore surrendered. Young Rivett made
a precarious voyage to Sumatra and then
got to Java. He is a son of knight
David Rivett, deputy chairman of the
C.S.I.R.
“Feng-Shui” makes a comparison:
The careers of Sir Stafford Cripps and
Mahatma Gandhi, who talked things over
last week in India, have at least some things
in common. Both belong to the higher castes
in their respective countries —Sir Stafford is
the son of a lord and Gandhi was born a
Hindu of orthodox pattern. Both studied the
law and both became barristers in London.
Both made legal fortunes, the one at the
English Bar, among great businessmen and
merchants, the other in Africa, among poverty-
stricken Indian immigrant coolies. Sir Stafford
gave some of his fortune to the starting of a
semi-Socialistic Sunday journal; Gandhi relin-
quished all of his for the ricebowl, because he
believed that great possessions stand between
people and thinking clearly. Both entered poli-
tics, Sir Stafford as a British Labor member and
Gandhi as the leader of the passive-resistance
and non-co-operation movement in India. At
this point their paths lie in opposite directions.
Gandhi keeps his position at the head ot his
party by argument and persuasion. The enor-
mous power he wields with the masses is spiritual.
Sir Stafford believes that battleships will defend
British freedom; Gandhi believes, with equal-
sincerity, that they will only destroy it, and
points to his own freedom, which depends on
nothing but the prestige he has with the Indian
people. A transcript of their conversation
would be 10 times more interesting than the
columns of political speeches with which news-
paper correspondents load the cables.
Brigadier-General J. H. Casey, who
was Chief Engineer Officer in the Philip-
pines, and who travelled in the dramatic
speedboat dash from the islands with
General MacArthur, received a shock
when he saw his first Australian news-
paper. “Why,” he told pressmen at Men-
zies Hotel, “I thought I’d got myself a
new job.” The headlines
“Important Middle East Post for Casey.’
On a name in “the news”:
Axis reports allege that “an Australian, Allan
Raymond,” has become president, in Shanghai,
of an “Independent Australia League,” which
declares that “Australia has been dragged
into the war by Britain.” I knew an Alan W.
Raymond from Shanghai. In his thirties when
I met him in Sydney in 1940, he had spent many
years in China, Japan and the Malay Archi-
pelago, and had conducted a broking business
in Shanghai, where he found that Australians
had nothing on the Chinese as gamblers. A
keen businessman who talked like an intellec-
tual cosmopolite, Raymond wrote a newspaper
article or two when in Sydney. After a period
with a sharebroker he found Australian business
too slack and returned to Shanghai before
the end of 1940. He liked the Chinese and
their cities of mixed nationalities, and considered
that Shanghai would be the safest place in the
Pacific in the event of a spread of the Euro-
pean war.
Bushmen in his part of Queensland
knew Henry James Lamond as well as
The Bulletin knows his father, Henry
G. Lamond, for his excellent
short stories, for many
authoritative paragraphs and
for his embracing knowledge
of central and western
Queensland. So they will be
saddened to hear that the
young man has been posted
“missing, believed killed.”
Enlisting in the R.A.A.F.
soon after war started he
completed his training in the
Middle East and was trans-
ferred to the R.A.F. as sergeant; he was
awaiting gazettal of the commission for
which he had qualified when he was shot
dowji over the N.E.I. A brother, Bill, is
an artillery lieutenant.
Turned 80 on Feb. 27, James Barrett,
K.8.E., C. 8., C.M.G., M.D., M.S.,
F.R.C.S., LL.D., C.M.Z.S. and Mel-
bourne’s leading heavyweight committee-
man. Retired from the job of Chancel-
lor of Melbourne University, he still sits
on a dozen presidential chairs and 14 coun-
cil and board benches, holds numerous
honorary secretaryships, practises his pro-
fession of oculist and fights the cause of
the Bush Nursing Association in the local
press. In the 1914-18 war he was Lieut.-
Colonel in the A.A.M.C. and R.A.M.C.
and Consulting Oculist and Aurist to the
troops in Egypt. He has a passion for
“opening” things. On one occasion a
newspaper critic hurrying to an art
show ran into the knight hobbling
in the opposite direction. “Thought jou
were going to open Dauber’s show,” he
said. “I’ve been and come and gone,”
said S’James, not pausing in his stride.
“I’m opening Palette’s in another part of
the town.”
William Stix Wasserman, head of a
U.S. Lease-Lend mission to Australia, is
a genial Philadelphian, though not un-
critical of people who haven’t wakened
to the seriousness of the situation, in his
own land as well as in Australia. Member
of a multitude of boards in the U.S.A.,
he runs a couple of what he calls small
investment trusts in his hometown. His
Australian mission isn’t his first time
abroad. He was American delegate to
the World Economic Conference in
Berlin just before Hitler came into power,
and employers’ delegate to the Inter-
national Labor Office at Geneva in 1938.
Besides being a banker, he has written a
LEASE-LEND WASSERMAN.
good deal for American periodicals on
problems of political economy. An ama-
teur explorer, too, he has been in the
Gobi Desert and China and was the first
American to visit the little-known and
roadless republic of Swanetia, which lies
at the back of three ranges of mountains
in the Caucasus and is accessible only
for six weeks in the year. That was in
1925, after its accession to the U.S.S.R.
It was noted of Jack Lusby, the
Bulletin artist who dropped his pen a
while ago to join the R.A.A.F. (he is now
sergeant-pilot), that he had the lean,
strong jaw and wide, easy grin of a good
fighting Australian. That quality seems
to run in the Lusby family: young
brother Bob was with the first Australian
troops to meet the Japs in Malaya;
another brother, Maurice, goes to Wash-
ington as scientific research officer for the
C.5.1.R., to be attached to the Australian
Legation ; and a sister, Gwenneth, is an
army doctor with the rank of captain in
the A.M.F.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 76, George Frederick
Molony, mining man (he was interested in the
Mt. Hector, Glassford Creek, Targinnie, Back
Creek and other fields), pioneer of the export
of horses from C.Q. to India, Java and Japan,
and stock and station agent. He was tor
many years district secretary of the Central
Coastal Graziers.
Dr. C. N. Finn, C.8.E., in Melbourne, at 62.
An eye specialist, whose hobbies were the drama
and music—his wife was Dolly Castles, of the
singing clan —Dr. Finn was a medical major
in the last war and was mentioned in dispatches
several times. A grandfather, Colonel William
Thomas Napier Champ, brought out the first
convicts to Norfolk Island.
In Adelaide, E. H. Fromen, who came from
Sweden as a youth and was at Broken Hill in
its earliest days with a fruit and vegetable
business which developed into the B.H. Ice
and Produce Co. A manager in the S.A.
Farmers’ Co-op. Union, he was an authority
on all poultry and dairying matters and Consul
for Finland in S.A. until the war


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“D.E.”: On Sunday, March 22, a
Sydney paper which circulates in New-
castle came out with a juicy account of
how a taxi-driver from Mackay (N.Q.)
had taken a Beautiful Blonde (with por-
trait) in a car to a Brisbane outer suburb
and destroyed her and himself. That
very night a Newcastle taxi-driver took
a young woman out in a car to Lake
Macquarie and destroyed her and him-
self. The means of destruction were dif-
ferent, but the connection is only too
obvious. At Kingaroy (Q.) next day a
ward of the State, 17 years old, got a
life sentence for murdering the middle-
aged wife of the farmer who employed
him. Found with a rifle after the
discovery of the
body, he said “a
masked rider was at
the house and the
missus told me to
get the rifle and go
after him.” Counsel
pleaded that his
mental age was
about eight, and that
his mind was so
affected by a murder
serial he had heard
on the radio that he
had no conception
that he was doing
wrong. How about
an embargo on
murder reports and
murder serials for the duration of the
war? It would be much more sensible
than the idiotic bans on the advertising of
this and that, imposed by a Government
with a fatal weakness for half-measures.
* * * *
“Blue P.”; It’s when our flapper press
reporters really let themselves loose that
descriptive writing comes into its own.
I’d been studying pictures of General
Mac Arthur, trying to form an idea of
his map, when the whole problem was
solved by this printed description: “In
profile, close up, he looks a bit like an
American eagle and more than a bit like
the old cowboy film star Bill Hart.”
Now 1 know.
* * * *
“Clooter”: It is reported that playing-
cards issued to Germans bear caricatures
of Allied politicians instead of kings and
queens, with Churchill as the jack of
diamonds and Eden as the queen of
hearts. Jack of clubs is a serpent —the
British press—with three London papers
as its fangs. Very few Australians could
be expected to fight better or work them-
selves into a passionate hate with that sort
of spur; they’d more likely regard the cards
with tolerant grins. But Goebbels must
be credited with knowing his Germans.
* * * *
“23-4”: Man-power problems have
drawn attention to the jury problem in
two States, and there are proposals to
reduce juries from 12 to six. In Bris-
bane the other day no fewer than 72
men were called for jury service, and it
was found that many had a claim to be
exempted so that they might perform war
service. It is being suggested in Queens-
land that women can now have their
chance —the law there permits it —but on
the rare occasions when women have
been called none ever got on the panel
because every darned one was challenged.
This a local feminist regards as dreadful
male prejudice, and she hails the present
situation with optimism—probably un-
justified.
* * * *
“Uncle Tom”: There are a lot of things
that peeve me about the new sort of
fiction a desire to outdo the out-
spokenness of Rabelais is one of them —
but my pet abomination —shared, I find,
by most readers of my generation and
many Of later birth —is the story that
starts at the end and thereafter switches
backwards and forwards in an erratic
fashion till it gets back to its starting-
point in time. The trick has been found
attractive not only by the authors of a
host of recent novels, but by the film
studios —“All This and Heaven Too,”
“Kitty Foyle” and “Cheers for Miss
Bishop” are examples. lam aware that
J. W. Dunne and other writers, inspired
apparently by the Einsteinian convention
that time is a dimension, have endeav-
ored to convince themselves and their
readers that the sequence of time is an
illusion, but I have yet to meet a genuine
convert to that way of thinking. Why
then write as if we were all agreed to
disregard chronology? In a romance
I recently endeavored to get interested
in, a character endeavoring to escape
from implacable foes, hemmed in in all
“Sorry We're late.”
directions, with one forlorn hope of
escape, sits down to think about his past
life. At page 343 the reader has been
introduced to 73 other characters, mostly
dead, the hero is still in the same parlous
plight and the exploits of his great grand-
dad in the American War of Independ-
ence are under consideration. That sort
°f thing seems to me to hold up the
development of the plot rather unduly,
1 shall never know if that hero escaped
or not. 1 lost interest in him.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”; On the Saturday which
ushered in the new booze restrictions half
Melbourne seemed to be obsessed with
the problem of “getting a bottle” and
the Japanese menace had sunk into the
background. In the afternoon, although
there was an official absence of liquor,
twice as many drunks rolled about the
streets as on any previous occasion in
my memory. A young woman dashed
into the bar of a leading city pub and
asked for a bottle. “Don’t you know
that’s against the law, and that there’s
a war on?” said the barman. “How can
I think about the war? My old man
will bite my head off if I don’t bring
home a bottle.” The roar of laughter
that went up from a barful of martyrs
to Mr. Curtin’s notion of how to orien-
tate the nation’s war effort unmistakably
showed where their sympathies lay. It
was the same in the country. Farmers
who were ploughing the recent rains in
left their ploughs early to get to the local
pub lest their neighbors should get in
ahead of them. Possibly Mr. Curtin has
some notion of inculcating the ascetic
quality of Cromwell’s Ironsides. But
even the Roundheads liked their beer
and would have been mighty sour if
deprived of it.
“Listening Insect”: The broadcast of
Wells’s War of the Worlds, which caused
a widespread panic in the United States,
had to have its local imitators. The
A.B.C. recently put over a description of
an air raid (in the public interest, of
course), and the ingenuity it displayed
in making it realistic was positively awe-
inspiring. Unfortunately, it didn’t take
into account the fact that people often
switch on their sets in the middle of an
item. To add to the realism of its pic-
ture, the station threw in an urgent
appeal from the Melbourne Hospital for
bandages so that it might cope with the
sudden rush of victims. Just at this point
an elderly widow in a house where the
only other inmates were two maiden
sisters plugged in to the A.B.C.’s amaz-
ing performance. She promptly jumped
to the conclusion that Melbourne was
being raided. One of her sisters fainted,
the other got hysterics. The widow
rushed to the telephone to get confirma-
tion, and was asking the exchange what
had happened when soft music started
to come over and she recovered her
equilibrium.
* * * *
“British Warm”: It has frequently
occurred to my more or less childlike
mind that those “Crime Doesn’t Pay”
fillums contain, in addition to their
cautionary moral, a good deal of instruc-
tion in the technique of criminal enter-
prises. A movie of that character that
had a very wide circulation in Australia
concerned the efficacy of a systematised
slander campaign. Agents were sent out
to destroy the character of a politician
by whispering a libel about him in places
where the whisper would be overheard by
many. Now comes the news that a
particularly dirty slander reflecting on
Australian soldiers has been perturbing
certain districts in N. S. Wales. Says
a report in the “S.M.H.”:
The rumor-spreading was so systematic
and effective that Army intelligence officers
do not class it with most rumors, which,
when traced, turn out to be based on a
mishearing or a misunderstanding some-
where on the “grapevine” along which it
has travelled. It is regarded as significant
that a similar rumor has been circulated at
two important and widely-separated mili-
tary stations in Australian territory.
Of course, the moral is obvious. Don’t
help to circulate stories that foul this
country’s own nest.
* H 1
“Oddsbob”; One of those smart adver-
tising stunts bounced back on its author
in the U.S.A. A Michigan man got a
postcard bearing the message “You must
meet Claudia. She’s the most fascinating
girl in the world. John Golden will intro-
duce her to you, I’m sure. In haste,
Helen.” The recipient guessed it was an
advertising stunt for a stage show, but
his missus guessed something else, in the
immemorial way of missuses, with the
result that the harried husband is now
suing the producer of the show for 5000
dollars damages.
* V * *
“Nakh”: Medical judgments are by no
means infallible. When the Japanese
started intruding in New Guinea a young
planter who offered himself for enlist-
ment was rejected as physically unfit.
After the Japanese landed he walked with
several others for 30 days through
swamp, jungle and over precipitous
ranges, subsisting on the products of the
forest, then helped to sail and row a
nalivc b ° at some 500 miles to Port
Moresby, being several days without food
and with very little water. A good deal
ot the time he was being pursued,
bombed and machine-gunned by Japa-
nese raiders. He looked none the worse
when he arrived in Melbourne.
* * * «
F l?' am . coming to the conclusion
that the Victorian Nat. Gallery trustees,
despite their official pronouncements,
don t really think that art is of any more
importance than do the lowly individuals
who flock to the trots and football
matches. The trustees announce that
they have found that ten times as many
visitors inspect the pictures on a Sunday
afternoon as on weekdays, so they have
decided to close the galleries on Sunday
afternoons for the duration, because, if
they don t, it will be necessary to provide
air-raid shelters. But isn’t art worth the
few pounds that it would cost to dig slit
trenches if the few hundreds of people
involved could not be accommodated in
the enormous basements? What an in-
spiring example it would be for the
nation if the trustees rolled up their
sleeves and dug the trenches themselves.
* * * *
Bo ’; Some suburban train travellers
develop a sixth sense whereby they are
enabled to become engrossed in book or
paper, depending on the train’s move-
ments over bumps, bends and cuttings to
determine exactly where they are ; others
have to keep peering out at the station
names. lam numbered among the latter
group. Gazing out on a recent after-
noon through streaming windows when
the train stopped, I looked for the
familiar and comforting sign of the station
name, only to see two upright posts.
Panic-stricken, I sought wildly for the
recognition of any familiar landmarks
and, sighting a tree whose shape I thought
I knew, I scrambled out just as the train
moved off. Still somewhat uncertain as
to whether it was the right suburb, 1
took a look around. Reassurance came
instantly. There right opposite the sta-
tion was the cream-stuccoed flea-hatchery,
with its 4ft.-high-lettered Rosehurst
Theatre visible for miles. Next door to
it is a bank, with Rosehurst Branch on
every window. Then comes the Rosehurst
Hotel, similarly emblazoned. Follow in
turn the Rosehurst Pharmacy, Rosehurst
Estate Agency, Rosehurst Hardware Store
and so on right until the street drifts into
paddocks. Then I thought of that beauti-
ful word “co-operation” and went home
strangely uneasy.
* * * *
“Cook’s Mate” recalls an unfavorable
first impression:
It is curious that the man who has been
called “the father of Australia” —Sir Joseph
Banks —had so little good to say of the country
as a first impression. In the journal kept during
the voyage of H.M.S. Endeavour (1768-1771),
the original of which is in the Mitchell Library
at Sydney, his description of the shores he
skirted for 2000 miles is wholly unfavorable. It
would almost seem that he wanted to warn
Englishmen to keep away. “In the whole length
of the coast we sailed along,” he says, “there
was a very unusual sameness to be observed in
the face of the country. Barren it may justly
be called, and in a very high degree, at least as
far as we saw.... Water is a scarce article, or
at least was so when we were there (April to
August), which I believe to have been the very
height of the dry season. At some places we
saw not a drop. This drought is probably
owing to the dryness of a soil entirely composed
of sand in which high hills are scarce.” And
yet no one ever did more for the infant settle-
ment in N. S. Wales than Banks, who was
almost literally a patron'saint of the first four
Governors. He must have had many second
thoughts to qualify those pessimistic first ideas
about Australia.
A BIT MIXED.
“It is not Labor men who frighten men with
the boot. We do not hang the Damocles sword of
the sack above men’s heads.” —Prime Minister Curtin.
Come, here’s the sword of Damocles
Which, at a dinner session,
Grim Dionysius caused to swing
Above a smoodging underling
To teach him more discretion.
And yet “the boot,” “the sack,” “the kick,”
These modem designations,
They somehow hardly seem to click
With all the aids to rhetoric
In classic illustrations.
A quaint array, a curious blend
Of figures metaphoric,
Like some of those aforetime sent
Forth to the Irish Parliament
To make Boyle Roche historic.
A sword suspended by a hair,
A boot that looks offensive —
Well, I suppose you might declare
They’re pretty much the same affair
When one is apprehensive.
Who doubts that any luckless wight
Would feel his plight acutely,
A blade that typifies the sack
Above his nob, and at his back
A boot that threatens mutely.
The good old sword of Damocles
Fulfils a new objective,
Backed with colloquial similes
Less educated tastes to please
And make it more effective.
N.S.W.
I FORD.
THE LURE OF THE FORBIDDEN.
“Nine—tenths of the excessive drinking in Melbourne
is a desire not to drink beer but to defy Authority.”
— “Pawang” (B. 25/3/’42).
To rule that some specific act
Is wrong, and further to enact
That those who disregard the fact
Are like, if caught, to rue it,
Is quite sufficient to attract
A multitude to do it.
Some student of the traits we show
Epitomised it long ago.
Of all the proverbs that I know
The pithiest and neatest
Is that which says—and isn’t it so? —
That “stolen fruit is sweetest.”
To ban a book or bar a play
As apt to lead young minds astray
(Although I wouldn’t care to say
There are not some that need it)
Has always been the surest way
To make one want to read it.
Does Uncle Sam’s experience
Not make it clear to commonsense
That keener lures and more intense
Lurk in the pot and flagon^
When Law has made it an offence
Not to be on the wagon?
Full many a chap who sinks with glee
His pint is merely doing, you see,
With no idea of a spree,
Much less of getting blotto,
Something a crass bureaucracy
Has ukased that he’s not to.
Ah, me! It cuts one like a knife
To think that Adam and his wife,
Who doomed their race to toil and strife,
In Eden's garden hidden.
Would ne’er have touched the Tree of Life
Had it not been forbidden!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Loo”: Bill’s idea of Good Music is
that joyous hiss which announces the top
is coming slowly off the bottle. Being
forced to listen to other music is, to him,
like being held face down on prickly-
pear. As soon as the music starts, Bill
therefore bolts if he possibly can, the
first few notes being his signal to depart.
In rather musical company the other
night, however, he was anxious not to
appear a dope, so when the radio slid
soulfully into something deeply classical
he said knowingly “Ah, I love that bit
at the start!” “You mean the Introduc-
tion?” said a female, edging her eye-
brows upwards. And Bill replied absently
“Yair, that’s it —the warning.”
« * * *
“Listening Insect”: One of the defects
of radio entertainment is that the larger
the audience the more prejudices the enter-
tainer has to defer to, so it is not sur-
prising to learn that new 8.8. C. orders
ban the mention of drink and prohibit
swear words like “damn” and “hell.”
Our own A.B.C. bans “blast,” “hell,”
“twirp” and “ruddy.” 8.8. C. prohibits
“heavens” and A.B.C. permits “lawks-
a-mercy.” This nursery censorship is
theoretically supposed not to extend to
acknowledged literary classics such as
the plays of Shakspeare and Shaw, but
practically it does. “Pygmalion” has
never been broadcast because G.B.S.
won’t allow it to be bowdlerised, and
there are plays of the Bard which the
A.B.C. will never muster up courage
enough to put over. It once broadcast
“King John,” the play in which one of
the most vital and important characters
is the Bastard, a title of nobility regu-
larly given to the natural sons of kings
in those days. Next day the station’s
mailbags were bursting with protests from
old women of both sexes.
* « * *
“Henare”: At a military appeal board
in M.L. one appellant, asked how he
would get on if his employee was sud-
denly attacked with appendicitis, sup-
posed that he would manage without him
somehow. A dairy-farmer followed,
applying for exemption for his son. He
was asked what he would do if his son
said he had appendicitis. “I’d call him
a liar.” “Oh, and why would you?”
“Because he had his appendix removed
last year.”
* * * *
“Notaden”: Comparative philological
observation has shown that Frenchmen
are the world’s fastest speakers, with an
all-round average of 350 syllables a
minute. Italians spill their lingo at 320
syllables a minute, Japanese at 310, Ger-
mans at 250, English at 120. The
world’s slow-speaking record is credited
to Polynesians—72. But I’ll wager on
the real outback Aussie for record slow
speech and the minimum use of words.
Also, my money is on our Mrs. Bung to
leave at the starting-post any Frenchman
that ever waved a gesticulating hand —
but, of course, she has the overwhelming
advantage of belonging to the sex that
can talk.
« * * «
“G.G.”: “K.’s” claim (B. 18/3/’42)
that no taxpayer in captivity has had
the experience of reduced gas or elec-
tricity bills on account of absence re-
minds me of Dad’s experiment. For three
months the long-suffering family endured
kerosene lamps and candles, but the quar-
terly gas bill (lighting only) amounted to
the usual fiver or thereabouts. When con-
fronted with the fact that the gas had
never even been turned on, the company
sweetly explained that when the meter
showed an appreciable loss in consump-
tion it was the practice to average the
corresponding quarters for a year or two
back and charge accordingly.
# # *
“Galenus”: Analysis by a Sydney
psychiatrist of 523 cases of attempted
suicide occurring during three years
brings out some curious facts. The peak
period for such attempts is 10 a.m. for
women and 10 p.m. for men. More than
twice as many attempts are made after
midday than before. December is the
favorite month. In 70 p.c. of cases the
ages of the suicides were between 20 and
50. Women tend to poison, men to cut-
ting instruments, but, poisoning is the
most frequent of all agencies used. Jump-
ing from heights has decreased markedly
since the Sydney Bridge was fenced. Of
motives, love troubles bring about the
majority of attempts between 15 and 20,
domestic worries those between 20 and
30, alcohol those between 30 and 40 and
mental disorders those from 40 years
onward. Widowers are less likely to
attempt suicide than either married or
single men, but succeed more frequently
in the job. Financial worry and unem-
ployment play only a small part and
then mostly in males between 20 and 30.
Few make a second attempt, and fewer
still have relatives or friends who have
attempted or committed suicide.
* * * ♦
“Caballer”: Even in “Hamer’s” “good
old days” (B. 4/3/’42) sensitive souls
“Would you move over to the left , please—you're right in line with my
telescope!"
blushed for relatives who had been
turned off by Jack Ketch and were
ashamed of kinsmen who were not sen-
sitive on the subject. When horse-
drawn buses jogged along Sydney
highways I rode each morning on
the box seat of one driven by
a “character” whose backchat was the
terror of rival drivers. All quailed
before him except one cheery indi-
vidual who simply twirled a loop in the
end of his whip and held it so that the
lash dangled in the air as we passed. The
storm of profanity this action evoked
both awed and mystified me, and one
day I asked the reason for it. Pointing
to the other driver, my chap
the explanation in four words: “Ts
father was ’ung.”
* * * *
“Faber”: One American sailor had a
go at settling the language difficulty
before he got shore leave. Chatting with
a sentry on the wharf he asked “Say,
Buddy, have you got any dialects here?”
“Dialects?” replied the Aussie. “No
fear. If you call a man a blankard in
Victoria, he’s still a blankard in Queens-
land, No dialects.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: Minister Ward’s idea of send-
ing inspectors round to factories, work-
shops and business houses to see that the
bosses are working doesn’t seem to make
sense. The only thing a boss can be
judged on, whether he is a factory mana-
ger or an orchestral conductor, is his
results. When he punches the time-clock
doesn’t matter. Imagine an inspector
going around to see if Sir Thomas
Beecham was working! What Mr. Ward
hasn’t yet discovered in his brief official
life is that some individuals can inspire
others and some cannot. A Toscanini
may seem, from Mr. Ward’s point of
view, the laziest of men, but the moment
he picks up the baton he gets magnifi-
cent musical results. Another conductor
gets poor results out of precisely the same
collection because he doesn’t feel music
to be of as much importance as a Tosca-
nini does. It is the same with other sorts
of bosses.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: There was possibly
some justification for Australian news-
papers publishing the lucubrations of
London military “experts” when the fight-
ing was in Europe and Africa. True, the
“experts” were usually wrong, but at
least they were nearer than we were to
the subject they were discussing. But
now that the fighting is on our very door-
step my morning informer still publishes
columns of opinions on what is happen-
ing and will happen in New Guinea and
the N.T., not only from these same mili-
tary correspondents but also from the
leader-writers of the London dailies. It
would be expected that, if a military
expert is capable of forming an opinion
of any value at all, the expert most likely
to be right would be the one nearest to
his subject-matter. But no! Such is the
prestige of these distant “authorities” that
Captain Moke and Major Bunkum are
quoted at length on the tactics and
strategy of armies operating in places
they had never heard of until the places
were bombed or invaded, and on which
their only information is what they can
extract from the World Gazetteer or the
Encyclopaedia Bntannica.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: One of the oddest fifth-
column suggestions to date comes from
a Melbourne “Age” correspondent. He
says that Japanese munitions were re-
ported to have been unearthed in the
cemeteries of Manila by the American
defenders, and thinks it would be a good
idea if the large Japanese cemetery in
Broome were officially inspected. I don’t
know whether the graves of dead and
gone Nipponese divers have been used as
dumps for ammunition, but it was on the
Westralian coast that one of the smartest
devices for smuggling contraband I have
ever heard of functioned for several
years. A liner trading between Singa-
“How did that happen?"
“ Cannonball. Inkerman."
pore and Fremantle had ai
fine array of potted plants
decorating the first saloon,
table. The head steward took
a meticulous interest in see-
ing that the plants didn’t
suffer too much from the sea
air, and every time the boat
reached the Australian port
the pots were hurried ashore
and a fresh lot substituted.
On one trip a retired member
of the Singapore opium pre-
vention service was much
struck by the extensive nature
of the table decorations. One
day after dinner he shoved a
fork into a pot and found
buried in the bottom several
ounces of the purest opium.
Nothing was said about it,
but when the ship got into
Fremantle there was a strong
force of policemen waiting.
“V. Cluse”: The driver of one of the
buses plying to our suburb, coming from
the city just after dark with a heavy load
of passengers and straining his eyes on
the browned-out road, heard a woman
scream and shoved his brakes on hard.
His conductor climbed out, went for-
ward and found a woman wringing her
hands beside a recumbent form on the
road. “YT husband, missus?” “No,”
she gasped, “I don’t know him. But I
happened to see him just as the bus
came.” The conductor bent and investi-
gated the inert mass, which emitted a
strong spirituous odor. A finger poked
in its chest caused it to sit upright, where-
upon the conductor inquired, with some
heat, “Whadda y’ mean, lyin’ on the
road?” Our tame drunk rose with
wavering dignity, reeled to the rear of
the bus, climbed aboard and said “Tha’sh
a way t’ stop ’em. Teach the blankersh
t’ go pash me, be cripes. Lerrer go, boy.”
Then he fell asleep, held erect by the
press of bodies in the perambulating
sardine-tin.
=£ * , * *
“Bumpkin”: The war is bringing many
changes to Victorian country districts,
but their adaptations to the new condi-
tions aren’t always endowed with intelli-
gence. Before there were motor-cars and
macadamised highways, every little town-
ship had its coachbuilder and wheel-
wright, its cabinetmaker, often its brick-
works and stone quarry, sometimes
even its brewery and winepress. And it
usually had its local market. Good roads
made it possible for all these things to
be got from the city, and the use the
pioneers made of the local material were
so completely forgotten that if somebody
came along and suggested local stone for
building a shire hall he was told he was
barmy. Now petrol rationing has driven
the township back to its old isolation,
but it has lost the art of living on its
surrounding country. As an example, I
saw our township’s greengrocer the other
morning tootling home from the Central
Markets in Melbourne loaded with cab-
bages and caulies. They may have been
the very same ones the vegetable farmer
who is his next-door neighbor pulled out
of the ground and tootled into the city
the previous morning. It hasn’t entered
anybody’s head yet to open a local market.
“Bounty Jack”: Mention of Captain
Cook’s call at Batavia in 1770 recalls a
later visit to the Dutch East Indies by
another celebrated navigator. Eighteen
years afterwards, when Captain Bligh
landed on Timor at the termination of
his record-breaking boat voyage after the
mutiny in H.M.S. Bounty, he was hospit-
ably received by the Dutch and assisted
to get on to Batavia and thence to Eng-
land. A race of navigators like the Hol-
landers may well have been filled with
awe and admiration at Bligh’s remark-
able performance. Cast adrift by the
mutineers on April 29, 1788, in an open
boat 23ft. long, with a freeboard of not
more than 7in., he sailed his 17 com-
panions in misfortune 3620 miles across
unknown and dangerous waters to the
safety of the Dutch settlements, taking
just six weeks to do the job. One or two
notable boat voyages have since been
made, but “Breadfruit Billy’s” feat of
navigation and endurance still remains
unrivalled.
» * * *
“Oxmead”: As a humble poetaster—
one of the fraternity which “W.M.” re-
proves for finding the “dawn”-“morn”
rhyme atrocious (B. 11/3/ ’42) —may I
point out that the sounds of the two words
are not, as he asserts, identical? If they
are to be presented as rhyming, either
“dawn” must be pronounced “dorn” or
“morn” “mawn.” There is no middle
way. Hence this is what English critics
have stigmatised as a Cockney rhyme,
or, to borrow an expression from Pro-
fessor Saintsbury, “a bad and vulgaf
rhyme, a rhyme that sets the teeth on
edge.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “I’m sittin’ on me swag on
the side of the road opposite a pub,” Dan
said, “when along comes a buggy with two
thin-faced, vinegary-lookin’ judies in it.
They pull up in front of me, an’ the one
nearest me ses Ts your soul thirstin’, my
good man?’ I looks up an’ says ‘Well,
I dunno ’bout me soul; it’s the whole
of me, I reckon.’ With that she fumbles
about in a handbag an’ drags out a paper
an’ shoves it in me hand, sayin’ ‘Here,
my good feller, this will quench that
thirst,’ an’ they drive orf. With a curse
I crumple that flamin’ paper up—l knew
what it wus without lookin’ at it—an’
toss it amongst the scrub on the bank
of the creek behind me. A coupla hours
later, I’d just got a fire goin’when the judies
come rattlin up in their buggy agen.
They seem t be in a bit of a fluster,
My good man, ses the ole girl who had
given me the thirst-quencher, ‘have you
still got that tract I gave you?’ Across
the road I see Bung closin’ the bar door,
an „ s *S bt upsets me. ‘No, I ain’t,’
1 beller ; Ive just lit the fire with it.’
They let out a shriek, an’ start slang-
whangin me proper. It turns out a five-
pound note had somehow got slipped
between the pages of that tract. They go
orf, wailin’ orful, an’ in two ticks I’m
down that bank searchin’ fer the paper
ball. I find it at last, caught in some
twigs a foot above the water, an’ open
it out gentle. Yair! The fiver’s there all
right. I’m just about t’ throw the paper
“ Eyes, brown —what color Was your hair ?”
away when some writin’ on it catches me
■eye. Well, y’ can call it what y’ like ; but
the title of that tract wus ‘He that
thirsteth shall drink!’”
* * * ♦
“Golden Mile”: I once had the job of
carting loads of “green” sand to a Kal-
goorlie foundry. This we dug from
banks and ridges along the claypans and
dry lakes a few miles out from the town,
and often we turned up a couple of sealed
frogs. About the size and shape of a
tennis ball, they were just leathery globes
of enclosed water, eyes, mouth, ears
grown over as though they had
never existed. Occasionally Toma-
hawk would happen along. Sardoni-
cally viewing the labors of plurry
silly white pfeller, Tomahawk would
spring into action when a frog flopped on
to the load. With a long lancelike finger-
nail he would slit up the belly and with
gusto let the enclosed fluid gurgle along
his windpipe. Then, the drink enjoyed,
he would send the rest of the frog the
same way. So, with all due deference to
“The 0.D.” (B. 4/3/’42), I suggest that
Albert R. Wetjens had quite a sound
natural history basis for that yarn in the
“S. E. Post.”
* * * *
“J.M.C.”: Our new abo. wood-and-
water joey answered to the name of Alby
Ward and reckoned he had high-class
relatives. One of the mob asked him
whether he was any relation to Eddie, the
Man-power Minister. “Oh, cripes, no,
boss ; that pfeller different ’lation alto-
gether. Us pfeller all plurry horse-power
men.”
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”: Read a yarn in a high-
grade magazine where a 20ft. shark was
supposed to have swum around for about
five years with a 6in. hook embedded in
the flesh of its jaw. Asked Old Bob,
who has hooked hundreds of sharks,
for his opinion. “Rot,” he said.
“For one thing, iron rusts quickly in sea
water, especially if kept moving so that
the rust has no chance to form a crust.
Again, a fish’s jaw, even a shark’s, festers
very quickly—maybe the rust helps it—
so between the rust and the fester it’s
not long before a fish has a jaw abscess
big enough and soft enough to enable it
to cast a hook, no matter how deeply
embedded.” My own experience sup-
ports this. Often when deep-sea fishing
I have lost hooks and wire bottoms,
usually through using tackle that was
due for an overhaul. Returning to the
same spot or thereabouts weeks later I
have lifted fish with lost hooks still in
their jaws, though just about on the
point of dropping out, and others which,
by the signs of healing abscesses, showed
that they had cast the encumbrance.
* * % Jp:
“Pinjarrah”: The oddest all-wire fish-
ing tackle I ever struck consisted of about
six feet of stout fencing wire, six inches
of tilers’ tiewire and one large hook,
rigged in the order mentioned. Its
owner sat under the buttresses of a south-
west W.A. bridge and prodded with the
hook among the dark tangle of big loose
stones, weed and driftwood that made
the spot impossible for anything in the
nature of an orthodox outfit. Almost
immediately he got a bite and, hauling
in the fencing wire hand under hand,
landed a cobbler (catfish) nearly the size
of his arm. “They’re down there in
dozens,” he explained, “sheltering away
from the sunlight, cobbler being a night-
swimming fish, and they just can’t resist
a bait shoved right under their nose.”
He then hauled up a couple more,
“Sport! ”he scoffed indignantly. “I ain’t
fishing for sport—they’re out of snapper
up at the big boarding-house and the city
crowd won’t know the difference when
they get this cobbler done up in a bit
of batter.”
“ RT * . 0ur * lads * had * nnP
RL • ° ur . , jads had only one
r fle ' Thecaptain rniade wooden rifles
from old bits of timber, some of it white-
ant-mfected. During night manoeuvres a
sentry, posted with his wooden rifle,
heard footsteps approaching He dial-
lenged. Halt, who goes there? No
reply, and the footsteps still advanced.
“Halt, you! ” he shouted, “or I’ll fill you
full of white-ants!”
“What Would you do in an air raid ?”
“Put me tin hat on !”
“Jayem”: Long Harry was getting a
bit sick of Vic’s borrowing habit. Asked
for a trifle on account, Vic said he’d been
unable to get to the bank, and gave a
long description of all the work he’d had
to do, “I’ve been busier than a bee,” he
protested. “Bee be blowed!” the long
’un said. “That inseck can only sting a
bloke once.”
* * * *
“Cokey”: I am the sole support of a
Labrador-Springer spaniel cross, ten
months old, weight about 301 b. Further
down the terrace is a spindly-legged, rat-
faced Pomeranian-Pekinese-cwm-Portu-
guese-Pumpernickel, by courtesy called a
dog. On sighting this canine-rodent
travesty, the first action of my Labrador
is to sneak behind me for protection;
then 301 b. of canine bone and muscle
retreats in abject terror from an animated
black-pudding weighing possibly 15oz,
complete with collar. Can any Aboliar
advise me as to how to partially restore
my shattered morale?
* * * m
“Ngaduri”: “Jim Bourke and I had
been breakin’ horses into harness for a
cocky at Coonalpyn on the Ninety-mile,”
Old Blinker confided, “and one half-
draught we put in the trolley hits the
collar so hard he breaks the traces. We
get a new pair of greenhide ones, and
start out for a 10- or 15-mile drive round
the paddocks. But we’re not out long
when it starts to rain heavy. We get wet
as shags and soon the old trolley sticks
in the sand, with a big sandhill in front.
We whip up the moke till he starts mov-
ing, but we don’t allow for the wet, and
there we are stuck at the bottom while
the horse is up at the top of the sandhill.
While we’re arguing about what to do
it stops raining and the sun comes out
and dries the traces. As they start to
shrink the moke digs his toes in to stop
himself bein’ pulled down the hill again.
O’ course, the ole trolley has to go, and
when the horse looks round and sees it
cornin’ up after him fast he orfs for his
life. We was back at the house before
we got close enough to him to use the
whip.”
* * * *
“Ouaco”: On a Pacific island I kept
rabbits (B. 11/3/’42) inside a galvanised-
iron fence. Here a buck and two does,
descendants from a long line of hutch-
dwellers, dug their burrows. The first
mother-to-be started it and worked muni-
tion-worker hours, assisted by her girl
friend on civil-service hours —until her
time came. Father worked like a mem-
ber of Parliament —a lot of labored think-
ing, short spells of feverish work un-
doing what the others had done then a
long adjournment. This is what I saw •
the doe came up stern first, kicking the
earth out between her back legs then an
about-turn and the loose earth was spread
as far as possible by pushing with the
front legs and chest. After three or four
d ays’ rest she began to select mouthfuls
G f dry grass to line a hole dug from one
side D f the burrow, finishing it with fur
p l uc ked from her coat. The kittens were
fed twice a day and their hid
after sealed with loose earth Any hair-
ieSs kittens left outside were killed by the
o j d ma n. y
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: My first attempt at
smoking half-dried grass and newspaper
ended painfully because of Dad. I next
tried puffing at an old pipe stuffed with
dried tea-leaves. Then I joined in an
orgy of “jigger” smoking—“jigger,” for
the benefit of the blameless, being a
porous root. Unfortunately my young
brother had been an eyewitness, and the
first thing that kid said on reaching home
was “Puddin’ wasn’t smokin’, Dad.” Ive
never smoked since.
* * * *
“Notaden”: During the tick season it
pays to give the faithful tyke a lookover
every three days or so. Serums, though
sometimes effective for tick-poisoning,
are expensive. Apropos, the adult female
Ixodes holocyclus, which causes paralysis
in dogs, does not develop her salivary
poison until four d f ays or more after start-
ing operations. Her life history is a pecu-
liarly complicated affair. It begins with
her mother’s honeymoon, usually on a
bandicoot. When gorged, mother drops
off and lays her eggs on the ground.
From them hatch “seed” ticklets which
attach themselves to any passing warm-
blooded animal, feed for a few days,
drop off and moult into nymphs. These
go through the same procedure with some
other animal and moult on the ground
into the adult, sexually-mature stage.
Then they again get aboard some pass-
ing animal, the males wandering round
on it after the females and not feeding,
the females selecting a sheltered bit of
soft skin and digging in the proboscis to
suck blood.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Marauding pigs had found
Skinner’s patch of ripening maize a treat,
but Mullins got the blame. Words almost
ended in blows, so Skinner decided to
finish the argument and the porkers with
the old double-barrel. In the first streak
of early dawn gunshots blazed in the
corn paddock, an old sow and three
young pigs being the tally. Mullins
heard the commotion and, puzzled, went
to inspect his pigsties. A slow smile
lit up his face as he found all present
and correct, his precautions justified.
Skinner was seen later that morning
mending the hole in the rusted netting
of his own pig-yard.
* « * *
“Peg”: A Taranaki (M.L.) farmer had
a 40-gallon drum of petrol, saved up
against rationing. Feeling it ought to be
in a safer spot, he told Hori to bury that
petrol under the trees.” Half an hour
afterwards Hori turned up, grinning as
usual. “I’ve buried the petrol, he
said; “what’ll I do with the drum?
MINESWEEPERS.
The old ships are sleeping
The" '
And What do they find,
In deep, weed-grown meadow,
By dark ocean river?
And what brings that shadow
Where “otter-boards” quiver?
Have they found the sea graves
Where the old ships’ lost glory goes?
’Mid the bones ’neath the waves
Have they found the old Warrego s?
The “sweeps” never falter,
Their “kites” they still drown,
Tl 'n! h up W t rf P t sters !l lter
The depths they are down.
Where the white horses
Go galloping seaward,
Will they alter their courses
WhfreX dawn" Sows sail
In the morning’s regalia
Will the “sweeps” pick a rail
From old first Australia?
They are sweeping deep water,
Where brave ships, once cherished,
Were towed out to slaughter
mu An rL llke th s easts perished—
Takapuna Culgoa
Penguin, Innamincka,
Cahors, Rakanoa. ’
Do the lookouts still hail
DoeTthc 4!sde St still waiT ‘
On the dying Port Kembla?
When the “sweeps” stream out taut
As the nerves from a ganglion,
Have the sweeper lines caught
On the Gabo or Anglian?
With signal-flags swinging,
tur / 1 , l ov “’•
Will they start the bell ringing
Of a sunken sea-rover?
When searchlights are sweeping
The dim, morning sea,
fhe se\ eP cha S nS r els
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


SONG OF THE MOSQUITO.
Come on, you blokes,
Hurry up, folks!
Here’s the man-moun-
tain,
A living fountain
Of blood, blood,
Hot, red and good!
Now you’re thirsting,
Soon you’ll be burst-
ing
With blood, blood,
Rich, red and good.
Come on, missis,
You’ll say this is
Better than crumpets,
Better than kisses!
Puff out the chest,
Sound the trumpets,
Blow, blow,
Blow the revelly.
Haste to the feast,
Ho, ho, ho.
Come, come,
Fill up the turn,
Fill up the belly
With blood, blood,
Hot, red and good.
Come on, you chaps;
Never you mind
MX.
His clumsy slaps;
Stiff as a statue
He’ll never swat you!
Don’t stop to think,
Sit you and swill;
Drink, boys, drink,
Drink till you’re blind;
Drink your fill
Of blood, blood,
Rich, red and good.
Dig in your trunk
Under his skin,
Stick it well in,
Drink till you’re
drunk;
Take a long pull,
Drink till you’re full
Up to the chin
Of blood, blood,
Red, hot and good.
Hi, here you are!
This is the bar,
Open all day.
Nothing to pay.
Suck away, suck
away!
Come on, you Japs,
Roll up the maps,
We’ve come to stay.
ARNOLD WALL.
“Old-'imer”: The jackeroo had no
sooner hit the place than he was skiting
about his knowledge of horses. He did
know a fair bit about them, and the mob
had quietened down a bit when old
Jimmy piped up with “Hey, are y’ any
good at estimatin’ a horse’s weight?” The
jacky looked a bit startled, but couldn’t
resist the bait and came back, “I daresay
I could guess a horse’s weight as well as
the next man.” Up rose Jimmy and de-
parted, to return with Mick, the station’s
big Clydesdale stallion. “Here y’are,”
said Jimmy, “have a go at this bloke.”
The jacky walked round, patted Mick’s
flanks, stood off and eyed him, looked at
his teeth. Finally he said “I’d say he’d
go about 12501 b.” Mick was a mighty
horse and the guess was fair enough, but
old Jimmy burst into sneering laughter.
“Y’re only about 9001 b. out,” he chortled;
“he won’t go more’n 350.” A dead quiet
fell on the mob as Jimmy and the jacky
began betting. Next day a procession
led Mick into the Government weigh-
bridge. The scale registered 34741 b. The
jacky rushed into the weighing office, but
the cold official there assured him that
the scales had been tested only a week
before. “What did y’ expect the nag t’
weigh, anyway?” he demanded. Later,
as we downed the benefits of our con-
spiracy with the weighbridge man in the
pub, the jacky was observed gazing
thoughtfully through the door at the stal-
lion. “Well,” he said, slowly, “I thought
I’d seen all kinds of horses, but that’s the
first I’ve seen that was entirely hollow.’
We gave him a cheer as he turned back
to the bar and ordered another round.
» » * •
“E.H.S.”: I saw “the quaint old Ameri-
can custom” (B. 18/3/ ’42) of stick-
whittling in operation at a country show
in Victoria long ago. A spruiker was
exercising his profession outside a mar-
quee bearing the strange device “The
Great None Such. Proceeds in aid of
local charities.” I bought a ticket, stepped
in and found a tidy crowd surrounding a
grave-looking individual who was perched
on an upturned cask with a softwood
lath in one hand and a clasp knife in the
other. He took no notice of the crowd,
but at regular intervals he slashed a
sliver off the lath and delivered himself
of this sage advice, “Whittle-/rom-you-
and-you’ll-never-cut-yourself.” Recognis-
ing that the hoax was worked in the
cause of charity, the mugs took it in
good part.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: This is the season of
greatest mortality in the Joe Blake family.
All our larger venomous snakes, brown
excepted, produce their young alive,
“ Hey! Don't stand there—jump in an help the others!"
and they certainly don’t go in for
birth control. Tiger snakes often run to
50—one expectant mother carried 109
black snakes 20, and death adders up to
15. The youngsters can look after them-
selves quite effectively from the time
they are born, and only their attractive-
ness as tucker has saved Australia from
becoming a crawling mass of serpents.
Jacky Kookaburra —though he gets more
than his share of credit eagles,
hawks, owls, butcher-birds, magpies,
ravens and currawongs all put in useful
work. So do goannas and other monitor
lizards, native and domestic cats,
pigs and even rats. Man, too, does his
bit—a month ago I killed 13 death adders
at one shot, 12 unborns travelling inside
their mother,
ne v # *
“Bughouse”; Though I don’t forget
that Golden Bough Frazer and others
preached that primitive man discovered
methods of making fire by accident (B.
4/3/’42), I just don’t agree with them.
Having tried it, I can’t swallow the idea
of primitive man amusing himself by
rubbing two sticks together and so learn-
ing that he could make fire. And even
if he discovered the saw method that way
it still leaves the drill method unex-
plained. For that as a means of making
fire is an application of pure science. My
belief is that primitive man once
attained to a fairly high degree of cul-
ture, along Stone Age lines, and that he
had a brain quite well enough developed
to enable him to invent things. This
culture, too, was world-wide, the con-_
tinents then being all connected by land
bridges. Then somehow he slipped back.
As for man using fire for ages before he
learned the art of cookery, that’s an-
other Frazerism. Right from the first,
man used fire to burn the hair off small
animals, just as our abo. still does, so he
got the taste of heated meat, scorched
hair and hide —and so the cult of cooking
began.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was
having a mild bender while staying at a
* boarding-house and confining his acti-
vities to legal hours. Then a heat-wave
hit the west, and by nightfall the male
portion of the town was exercising its
strategy against that of the sergeant and
his two constables, rigidly policing the
6 p.m. closing laws. Mat, on whom the
heat acted badly when he was taking it
easy, was by 9 p.m. happy, hail-fellow
and persistently thirsty, which is why he
was among those present when the force
invested the Bullocky’s Arms. All except
Mat were locals, and on him the sergeant
fastened. “Who are you? Where do y’
come from? How long you bin here?”
he demanded. Mat, desperately trying
to keep everything clear, got out his
answer. “Me name’s Mat. ’S good
’nough f’ me an’ it’s good ’nough f you.
Come from West Bidura. Bin here —bin
here” He hesitated, pondered, then
finished triumphantly, “Well, I dunno
what day it was, sarge, but it’s since last
month.”
* * * *
“Flight”: It is a puzzle where the
swarms of quail come from at odd periods.
A district which rarely sees a quail
other than a little button bird will be
visited by endless thousands one year,
only to be as barren of them the follow-
ing season. Saw that happen on the
Barkly Tableland one year, the only
other birds around being an occasional
turtledove where odd ti-trees grew in
the river. During a 100-mile ride along
the Georgina, which isn’t usually remark-
able for its dove population, each step
the horse took sent hundreds hurtling
away. Feed, or lack of it, is probably
at the base of it.
“Wester”; Out our way lives a
squatter who once thought he was king.
He was also a wowser, and if there’s
anything worse in an isolated district than
a wowser who has weight to throw about
I’ve yet to hear of it. Small selectors
found that he ruled the bank, publicans
that he ruled the police force, Govern-
ment and quasi-Government employees
that he ruled the local member. He was
president of everything from the shire
council to the Sunday school, he scourged
the lanes for lovers after dark, and woe
to the wight who sought a drink after
hours. Then one day a new sergeant of
police arrived. At dusk that same day
the king, whirling into town to honor his
“If you're Tootsie Wootsie , you're wanted on the 'phone!”
new vassal, misjudged the turn and
wrapped his car round the public gate.
He was half-unconscious when a bagman
found him, and the bagman, a generous
soul, poured half a flask of brandy down
the king’s throat. It revived him. He
thrust the bagman aside and stalked into
town. The new sergeant, having been
tipped off not to let drunks roam the
streets, promptly lumbered him. There
was a wild argument at the lockup. The
sergeant refused to believe that the dusty,
battered, incoherent object reeking with
brandy fumes was the man it claimed to
be. In the end he yielded to its entreaty
to be allowed to ring his solicitor. Butin
the little post office was one who’d hated
the king for years. This regicide had
already heard the news. He dallied about
connecting the number. The king raved,
“Do you know who I am?” “Yair,”
said the king-hater calmly, “and I know
where you are. A night in the cooler
and a charge of drunkenness won’t do
you any harm.” There was nothing to be
done. That night the entire district re-
joiced. As I said, out our way lives a
squatter who once thought he was king.
A
“Zake”: Most of the stingrays caught
around Australia’s eastern coast are of
moderate proportions, which, judging by
their barb-jabbing capacity, is just as
well. Few of them go more than five
feet across the flappers. But occasion-
ally an outsize comes along. One re-
cently caught along the N.S.W. North
Coast topped eight feet across. But that
was a baby to one hauled in by a fisher-
man on the long beach at South Keppel
Island (Q.) when I was a kid. The Brob-
dingnagian horror was 13ft. long and lift,
in the beam and dropped the scales at
a fraction over the ton.
* * * . *
“Bo”: “Yairs, mister,” the long, gaunt
man said as he draped his frame over
the tumbledown fence surrounding his
shack, “rabbitin’ is on’y fit f’r niggers.
Nothin’ but work, an’ a man can never
git a chance to let up. A coupla years o
this game an’ a bloke’s wore out an’ on’y
fit f’r the bone orchard. I dunno why
I ever took it on.” He turned as a trap
in which two boys and a girl were seated
appeared over the rise. With a supreme
effort he detached himself from the sup-
porting fence and roared out: “Hey,
git a move on there, can’t y’? Y’ got to
skin ’em before y’ go to school. Did
y’ reset the traps?” Affirmation coming
in a concerted yell, the overworked one
raised sufficient energy to sing out:
“Well, don’t git dawdlin’ home
from school this afternoon or y’ll
never git around the traps before
dark, an’ y’ got y’r homework to
do!” And he resumed his vertical
near-slumber against the fence.
“And where do you come into the
outfit?” I asked. He missed the
irony, eyed me in a tired way and
said “Gorblime, haven’t I got to go an’
cut the trap papers?”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Bill Barbwire “had
a case on” with Molly Harrigan and,
rain, hail or shine, he rode over the six
miles of bush track to Harrigan’s four
or five times a week, seldom returning
before midnight. Dad B. had no objec- ■
tion to his son’s courtship as such, but
when late hours resulted in later rising
he said Bill would have to do “a
damn’ sight less courtin’ an’ a damn’ sight
more grubbin’ an’ burnin’ orf” if he
hoped to stay on the selection. Bill’s
visits continued; One morning at
breakfast the family was discussing the
case of a wanderer who had been found
dead beside his swag on the roadside,
and Bill seemed to be deeply a icctea y
the derelict’s fate. “Gripes! he ejacu-
lated. “Wot a mis rable end fer a bloke
t’ come t’, t’ die alone be the road-
side like a blackfeller s dawg. Pursuing
the same line of thought, he continued,
“ ’Struth, I wonder where ? 111 die/
“Somewhere between ere an Arngan s,
yer snivelling coot, roared Dad, and
closed the debate,
* * * *
“Tracechain”: Old Bill was giving me
a hand for a few weeks, and while fixing
a gully crossing he drew my attention
to two litigating neighbors ploughing
towards each other along a greasy bush
track. “Duck,” he said. “Y’ don’t want
to get mixed up in a court case, do you ?’
I ducked, but Bill stayed to see which, it
any, would strike the flag and give right
of way. At seven-and-six an hour, the
damage was reasonably heavy and the
language was extensive, I arrived in time
to help prise the tillies apart. For about
a fortnight old Bill had more rum than
he could drink and much more tobacco
than he could smoke; then he became
a philosopher. “Ethics,” he said, “is a
f a j r C ow. Here’s me having to tell the
truth, the whole truth and nothing but
the truth because it’s the only thing I can
remember —that is,//there’s to be a court
case.” There isn’t any talk of one now,
and Bill j s going snaky at the prospect
Q f losing witness’s exes.
* * * *
“B. 4”: “N. Sylvester” (B. 4/3/’42)
rem j nds me . i n the stagnant pools in
n _ w Queensland creeks fed by the arte-
sian bores sluggish bream, perch and
cod are a fi ec t e d by a wiry, pinkish,
needle-pointed worm about 2in. long.
Salting
T runni streams and you may
without misgiving
wire m wltoout miSglVl " g ’
* u
A.H.C.: In my Strange New World
I perforce followed accepted authorities
(notably Jose’s History of Australia) m
attributing the founding of the Port
Essmgton settlement of !83*! to tear, or
French intrusion. Charn (t>. / / -
is correct in describing this as ai slight
error, but he, too, has erred mildly in
stating that the settlement ? arose out ot
the "Charles Eaton affair. e
riding consideration was fear of the Dutcn
George Windsor Earl, who is mentioned
in the book as an interpreter and atrer-
wards Crown Lands Commissioner at
Port Essington, strongly impressed on the
Colonial Office the potential value ot
the tropical Australian port as an era-
porium of trade,” Earl was in fact a
very distinctive figure in Te early his-
tory of Amtraha He died at
Penang (aged 52) in 1865—Frank Clime
saw his grave there a year or two ago.


i as
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
r.
Jm
n
mm
m*
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S” WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lime in the Ration.
“Rom Ney”: A ration of cereals
and their by-products isn’t sufficient for
sheep. The C.S.I.R. killed almost all of
a group of ewes and lambs when it fed
them for about years on wheaten chaff
(44 parts), bran (25), oats (25), linseed
(five) and common salt (one). There was a
general falling-off in condition, develop-
ment failed and wool growth was poor.
Another notable result was the failure
of teeth to grow. The only lamb which
survived the test had no permanent teeth.
Another group of ewes and lambs,
given the same ration but with 1 p.c.
of finely-ground limestone added, went
along normally and only one died. It
doesn’t mean that sheep shouldn’t get
cereals, but it does mean that lime must
be added to a cereal ration such as is fed
in drought time or to stud animals.
It has to be understood, too, that the
experiment sheep weren’t allowed any-
thing else. Sheep getting a cereal ration
in drought would, of course, get some sort
of roughage off the paddocks—they fre-
quently lick the earth for salt—and from
that would get some calcium to counter-
act the all-cereal ration. All the same,
the test shows how essential lime is.
Hay or silage from leguminous crops
will go far towards correcting a lime de-
ficiency. If they’re not available add the
1 per cent, ground limestone to the cereal
ration to be safe. When whole grain is-
fed in troughs or trailed on the ground,
mix the lime with an equal amount of
salt as a lick. If they won’t come at it,
mix in some molasses.
“Mackay”; Stock continually excrete
lime and it must be replaced. About 4
p.c. of the body weight of a fat ox is
made up of 40 p.c. phosphoric acid and
44.6 p.c. lime.
Calcium is lacking in Australian soils
and in plants growing upon them. Best
way to ensure the animal’s supply of cal-
cium is in the lick. A good lick is equal
parts of limestone and salt, with a dash
of molasses to make it tasty. Another
lick which contains a relatively heavy
proportion of limestone includes one part
of sterilised' bonemeal or dicalcic phos-
phate to four parts of salt.
In Queensland, lime in home-made
licks is supplied from wood ash. Stink-
ing Roger contains 27 p.c. and blue
gum 19 p.c. lime. Ashes from belah,
tallow-wood and gidya trees contain 50
p.c. Fresh ashes are caustic in nature
and should be stored for several weeks
before being fed to stock. They must be
free of dirt and coarse charcoal. There is
no set rule for mixing—ashes may repre-
sent as much as two-thirds of the lick.
Pig Mange and Lice.
“Toiler”: Dipping of pigs by the
method outlined in B. 4/3/’42 may be
useful for small pigs, but for all-round
purposes a knapsack spray holding four
gallons of fluid is best. A light spraying
is sufficient to kill tick, and if pigs are
sprayed just before settling down for the
night any patches missed will be smeared
by other pigs.
Light spraying has the advantage that
the pig’s hair and skin return to normal
much quicker than when dipped. Oil
will not destroy mange. Lime-sulphur
mixed at the rate of one gallon to ten
gallons of water and sprayed on to
affected parts is a good cure.
Not only is it an offence to offer a
mangy pig for sale, but it is a poor
grower and an eyesore. Every pig-raiser
should bring his pigs to bacon weights
in the shortest possible time. Only cor-
rect feeding and continual attention will
do this. Every breeding sow should be
treated before farrowing to ensure that
young pigs do not contract mange.
Poultry Selection.
“Barolin”: Too much emphasis is laid
on high production and too little atten-
tion given to the vitality of the future
breeder. A 300-egger, unless she can pro-
duce good healthy chicks, is no use as a
breeder. The ideal is a cockerel from a
hen capable of about 280 eggs mated to
"Tea will be a little late, dear—I burnt the chops!”
hens of about 250 capacity. If the parents
were from strong stock the progeny has
a good chance of combining vitality with
high egg production.
Be careful of the high producer. Most
poultrymen’s troubles are caused through
using as breeders birds whose only attri-
bute is eggs. Faulty rearing, or breeding
from stock lacking in vitality and too
close in relationship, will produce an
abnormal number of birds of this class.
They are not valuable for market and
are useless as laying stock. When inspect-
ing hens it will be noticed that a high
producer will forage and scratch although
it is given all the food it can eat. The in-
ferior birds will remain on the perches
for a large part of the day or stay in-
active in the yard. “Why work?” is their
attitude; “we get well fed just sitting
here.” A wrung neck is the best cure for
that kind of dishonesty.
Handling Eggs for Market.
“Old Bungeye”: A lot of country egg-
raisers are growling about grading down
and low prices from the various egg
boards. Some people don’t like egg
boards, but in this case the fault often
lies on the farm. E. Hadlington, of
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, says
so and suggests that a few simple rules,
closely followed, will get better prices.
Eggs must be collected regularly at
least once, and preferably twice, a day.
They should be kept in the coolest pos-
sible place before cleaning and packing.
Don’t include eggs found in stray nests
with the regulars. Eggs should not be
washed for at least five hours after being
laid. If there are rot-causing bacteria
present, premature washing helps them.
Hand-washing should be done under
rigid hygienic conditions, the water should
be changed frequently, the eggs dried
quickly with a towel and not allowed to
stand in the open air to dry. On no
account soak them or wash them with
dirty cloths.
If a machine is used it must be kept
sanitary by daily cleansing and disinfect-
ing with a non-tainting disinfectant.
Sodium hypochlorite preparations in
about a 2 p.c. solution are good ; so is
household soap or soap powder used
liberally with vigorous scrubbing.
Lightly-stained eggs can usually be
cleaned by rubbing with a wet rag on
which powdered washing soda has been
sprinkled and then washing. Slightly
soiled or stained eggs in a pack mean
that the lot is graded as “reject hen” or
“case eggs,” with a resultant price drop.
If possible, get along to the local board
floor and see the kind of eggs that are
rejected or marked down.
Victorian Pastures.
“Ex-C.G.”: Compared with subter-
ranean clover and superphosphate, other
methods of pasture improvement in Vic-
toria appear to be insignificant. This is
probably the reason why the average
Victorian farmer, having seen the spec-
tacular results of sub. and super., is con-
vinced that there is no need to go any
further.
But as R. L. Twentyman, State Agros-
tologist, points out, in many districts
pasture improvement, having once been
started, can’t be left at that. In such dis-
tricts, where rainfall is favorable, sub.
and super, almost always bring a marked
growth improvement. Rarely is it neces-
sary to introduce lime or any fertiliser
other than super. All the same, it isn’t
long before specific differences in pas-
tures and districts begin to show. In
some parts, for example, good rain and
perennial rye persisting with the clover
make better pastures with each top-
dressing.
This isn’t general, however, and in
most districts good management is neces-
sary to get the best from the pastures.
Management must be dictated by soil
fertility and climate,'also the kind of
other species growing with the clover.
In drier districts it is necessary to con-
serve part of the lush spring growth for
the later lean periods. There, as well
as on warm, well-drained lands, increased
fertility from sub. and super, may en-
courage unwanted annuals, and to keep
them out it may be necessary to intro-
duce other useful grasses.
Early spring cutting for silage will
sometimes check undesirable growths.
So will Wimmera rye or Phalaris
iuberosa. It should be remembered that
on such soil the trouble is likely to come
not from lowered but from increased soil
fertility.
On poorer soils in wet districts there
may be a lowering of fertility from the
sub.-and-super. treatment. Potash may
fail. Too frequent mowing and failure
to return animal droppings to the soil
must be avoided. Once potash fails only
a potash fertiliser will restore it, and the
cost of that is pretty high. Potash losses
have been observed, says Twentyman, at
places as widely separated as Cobden,
Lilydale, Colac and Warragul.
These and other things have to be
considered in the sub.-and-super. pro-
gramme, and, provided they are, there is
no reason why a good pasture should
not be built up, with resultant checks to
erosion, improvement of fertility and pro-
duction and increased value of the farm
itself.
The Vegetable Front.
“Long Arm”: The Department of
Supply is still calling for vegetables and
contracts are available for at least seven
specified lines at fixed prices. This isn’t
to encourage anybody with a bit of land
to rush in and plant things, but it does
offer chances to farmers who have the
soil, water and knowledge of growing
things. As to the finer points of vege-
table growing, free advice is to be had
from local agricultural departments.
On the N.S.W. Murrumbidgee Irri-
gation Areas there are vacancies for
sbout 50 men with vegetable-growing
experience as share farmers. The need
is so urgent that no effort is being spared
to make it easy for the right men to get
going.
Here are the seven lines already
selected, with fixed prices per ton free
on rail at country centres and what is
considered a good average yield— i.e.,
yield got by the right soil, right methods
and right man—per acre: Swedes, £5, 10
tons an acre; silver beet, £10, eight
tons; beetroot, £9 10s., five-six tons;
parsnips, £11, nine-ten tons; cabbage,
£10, 12 tons ; white turnips, £7, 10 tons;
carrots, £11, eight-ten tons.
Labor shortage is likely to interfere
with vegetable production, and the
authorities hope to overcome it. Any-
body wanting . to grow vegetables and
doubtful about getting labor should
send to the local Department of Agricul-
ture particulars of the vegetables he in-
tends to try, area and irrigable possi-
bility, number of permanent and/or
casual hands wanted, particulars of ac-
commodation and if female labor could
be used.
Hints for the Farm.
“Ninety-nine”: Horns are unnecessary
and dangerous. When a calf is about
three weeks old and the horn buds just
formed, the hair should be clipped off
about them and slightly damped. Then
apply a little caustic potash to the pans.
One application will prevent further
growth. Caustic potash is cheap ; when
not in use it should be kept in a stop-
pered bottle.
“Goulburn”: Cracks in dairy floors
breed bacteria, causing contamination and
poor cream quality. Wash the floors
with clean boiling water and soda and


BRONCHIAL
COUCH !!
Just a Few Sips and—
Like a Flash Relief!
Get to-day at any chemist or store
a bottle of BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL
Mixture (triple acting)—take a couple
of sips and sleep sound all night long
—your irritating cough or bronchitis
is under control. Buckley’s is by far
the largest-selling cough medicine in
all blizzardly cold Canada—one little
sip and your cough is quieted. Use 2
or 3 days and you’ll hear no more from
that tough old hang-on cough that
nothing seemed to help.
Sluckleifi
CANADIOL
MIXTURE
A SINGLE SIP PROVES IT
IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note a
Blowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this la to be expected to a de-
gree, If passage is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting, Nature
may be warning that there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffl-
ness under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don’t waltl Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a
special remedy for the kidneys and will give
quick and lasting benefit. Old and young
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS with perfect safety.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK.
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY. HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN' NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
EGELABRA
Merinos
WILL RAISE THE WEIGHT
AND QUALITY OF YOUR CLIP.
EGEEABRA Rams inherit high yield of
wool of splendid spinning quality. They
pass this inheritance on to their progeny.
By using EGELAHKA Rams for a few
years you can greatly improve your flock
and the income from it.
Rams have now been classed and are ready
for delivery.
PRICES: 5,6, 8, 10, 12, 15 guineas.
H. E. KATER & SON,
Egelabra, Warren, N.S.W.
fd
Four times Winners
of Stonehaven Cup.
Tel.: Warren 10.
HILLY GUARANTEED AS TO LONGEVITY, EFFICIENCY AND MECHANISM.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF, AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
„ IT DISPEACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off into
f
an underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT
Approved by the Board of Health—over 2000 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Ltd. Telephone 81053.
Price, £l7/17/6 1.0. h. SYDNEY, including 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 20/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
Obtainable direct, or from all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
10 for ll d 20 for no
Also in Fifties
For greater
smoking enjoyment
CRAVENA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
28 n
scrub with a broom. Keep shelves, tables
and stands scrubbed and scalded.
“Feline”: Dennis won’t be troubled by
constipation on good grazing. Exercise
and green stuff will keep him in good
nick. Don’t graze him on lucerne until the
latter has got a good hold, or his rooting
will ruin the roots and shoots in no time.
“W.C.”: The bean-fly won’t touch
young French bean plants if they are
sprayed about three times a week with
cold water and Condy’s crystals sufficient
to color the water nicely.
“Ninety-nine”: With autumn, stock get
a greater proportion of dry feed. In the
absence of lucerne and other green feeds
a little linseed cake, well soaked or
boiled, mixed up in the feed is good.
Stock molasses dissolved in water and
mixed with the feed is also good. A table-
spoon of dicalcic phosphate in the
milkers’ feed twice daily is a payable
proposition.
“Plane Creek”: Guinea grass is very
useful for planting along sandy stream
banks in warmer parts. Once established
it will check erosion permanently and
withstands intensive grazing and cutting.
Tussocky, it is easy to cut. Stock thrive
best when it is a few inches high—after
a fire. A free-seeder, it grows to Bft. in
height. We propagate it by digging up
whole tussocks by the roots, breaking
them into sections and planting them
during the wet season.
“Sailor Bill”: Wear rubber gloves when
dusting poisons on growing vegetables.
Some poisons, like lead arsenate, will
give you a bad headache if they get on
your skin.
“H.C.”: Periodical overhauling of
farm machinery forestalls breakdown in
the field. As well as making leather-
work pliable, castor oil is a good lubri-
cant for a bearing that tends to run hot.
An assortment of bolts, nuts, spring
washers and lubricating oils should also
be kept on hand. Graphite’s a good
standby. Mixed with water it is superior
to oils for painting sprockets, chain belts
and cogs.
“Sailor Bill”; Mulberry cuttings strike
best when they are 12in. long, have all
but two or three of their upper leaves
removed and are planted slantingly to a
depth of 6in. in moist sand during
summer.
“B. Cubbin”: Victoria’s wheat harvest
for 1941-42 panned out at 47,000,000
bushels. Previous season, one of the State’s
driest years, yielded only 13,000,000
bushels. General quality of the new
crop is good, the f.a.q. standard has been
set at 63| to the bushel, and there is a
lot of wheat stored at farms owing to
silo congestion. Meantime, Commerce
Minister Scully has announced that the
Australian Wheat Board will shortly take
over bulk-handling throughout the Com-
monwealth.
Outback Occasions.
No. 29.
THE NEW BIKE.
Our brother was rising 16 when he
suddenly stopped wanting to go to town
on Saturdays, put in a lot of time scour-
ing the surrounding paddocks for dead
wool, was up all hours of the night going
round rabbit-traps and generally con-
ducted himself in a manner that led to
pressing inquiry from the rest of the
family.
He gave out that he wanted a bike for
his sixteenth birthday, and was sure that
if he didn’t have enough money by then
our father would make up the balance.
“Well,” said Father, “it’s certainly a
change to see anybody else but meself
worried about money on this farm, and
I’ll do it.”
On the Saturday before the birthday
our brother reminded our father of the
promise, and Father, grinning, said,
“That’s right, me boy. Well, how much
am I up for?”
Our brother said, “The bike will cost
eleven-ten. I’ve got thirty-two bob meself,
so that leaves you nine-eighteen, Dad.”
Our father stopped grinning, said some-
thing about being got at. At this our
mother said Father should not have
promised so readily if he hadn’t meant
all he said and a sort of row got going.
Anyhow, the next Saturday Father came
from the town and dragged a bike out
of the car and stood it carefully on the
verandah. He said to our brother,
“Mind, I’m only letting you have it on
condition you pay half. So be darned
careful with it.”
Our brother’s eyes were shining, and
he was feeling the bike all over. I don’t
think he even heard Father. He called
me over and went over that bike inch
by inch, pointing out the astonishing
properties it possessed. He knew how
many times the wheels had to go round
to make a mile and how the size of the
driving sprocket affected the rate of
pedalling and so forth. You’d have
thought he was Hubert Opperman or
somebody. Presently we got it down on
the ground and he tried to ride it.
We found that learning to ride a bike
was a lot harder than learning to ride
a horse. A good horse helps a learner;
a bike seems to want to do everything
it can to make you fall off. My brother
sat on the seat and put his feet on the
pedals, and then I held him and the bike
up and pushed them along. After a bit
I got tired and said I wanted to have a
go, but our brother said it would be best
to wait till he learned first, and he took
the bike and brooded over it.
We spent all next day learning to ride.
Our brother would get on and I would
hold the bike and then push them both
along, and presently he’d reckon he had
the idea and I’d give him a hard push and
let go. Then the bike and our brother
would run forward, wobble, try to fold
themselves up and there’d be a flurry
of dust and over they’d go. Our brother
finished up in Mother’s geraniums twice,
and once he went shooting straight into
the back door—the bike stopped at the
step but he went on.
Father came out and laughed at us
and said there was nothing hard about
it. He got on the bike, pushed himself
along the verandah edge with one foot
for a bit then rode off like a veteran,
After he’d gone about 25 yards he saw
he was heading for the big box-thorn
and threw out both hands and yelled,
Next minute he and the bike were in the
box-thorn. We spent the next hour pick-
ing thorns out of Father and the bike;
our brother, being 16, couldn’t let on he
wanted to cry, but he took his tattered
bike and went round behind the shed.
Mr ii 4 , ,
Well, we got the punctures patched and
resumed our lessons but I was worn out
with pushing our brother, and he did
what he could by shoving off from the
verandah. Our sister wanted to have a
go, but we sneered at the idea of a girl
riding a bike when we couldn’t learn to
do it. She poked her tongue out and
said she’d wait till we went to work next
day, so there, and our brother promised
to skin her alive if she ever so much as
touched the bike.
That night, after we put the bike away
and covered it well with bags, our
brother talked about it till I fell asleep,
I remember he got up once or twice to
make sure nobody had stolen the thing,
(A few months later you’d find that bike
lying anywhere round our place.)
He was up at dawn having another go
at riding and not doing any better,
After breakfast Father took us with him
up to the pine hill to cut rails, and about
11 o’clock our brother looked back ai
the house and let out a cry and started
running. I looked down and saw oui
sister with the bike. Father and I
watched. Our brother raced across the
burr paddock and up the horse wing, but
° ur sis j e [ u hea [ d hl ™ comm 8 and she
dropped the bike and ran msi e.
He came back about an hour later,
limping from some burr pricks that ha
festered in his knees, and when we as r e
irn wliat he d done with the bike e
showed us the valves from the tyres an
sa i d he d taken them out and let t e
wheels down. He d tried to get at ou
sister, but Mother had said t at 1
did anything to his sister she wou n
| et i lim ee P , ur r 9,
brooded over this lor a bit and sai
Father, What good are women any-
F her .* inned and we all
. was si (, for a bit o£ a kid to
t|l|||k she could smash up a good bike
i earn i n g f 0 r i de it.
That nigllt when we got home our
sister didn ’ t s h OW up, and Mother said
s h e ’d gone over to Riley’s with Emmy
Riley." After tea our brother went to get
his bike and let out a wild howl. It was
gone. There wasn’t a sight of it any-
where. “What’s all the fuss?” Mother
demanded. “Emmy Riley and your sister
rode it to Riley’s. Your sister sat on the
handles.” Our brother gave her a stricken
look, drew the valves from his pocket,
opened his mouth, shut it and then went
blindly out into the night.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
d
SNAPSHOTS
JOB /
' i *
Keep
your Kodak
busy...
Like rays of sunshine in war-time—
the personal snapshots of home,
family and friends! Enclose ‘snaps 5
in letters to friends, to distant ones,
to the boys abroad. All Kodak Dealers.
KODAK (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.
Branches in All States.
.Load with
KODAK
FILM
Kodak'
print
WE USE i
k VELOX A
Ask for
KODAK
PRINTS
c TH [AT A
Sr '• -H 'K
i:h e 'S-
Above all—
PEACE OF MIND
A visit or a brief note to the offices of this Company will bring you two special
booklets setting out a plan for assuring peace of mind in connection with the
efficient conduct of your affairs during lifetime, and the administration of your
estate after death.
Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. undertake the supervision of investments and
property, the preparation of income tax returns, collection of rents, payments of
rates, taxes, etc., thus providing relief of mind and assurance of conscientious
administration for those who desire a greater degree of equanimity in these
anxious days. This service is additional to that whereby the Company under-
takes the administration of estates under wills.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
$ BRIDGE STREET,. SYDNEY''
PHONE: 87901. Box 543 Sydney.
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy or borrow MacDonald’s The Bush
Boy’s 800k. —3260.
To buy L. Stoddard’s Rising Tide of Color.
—3258.
Words of verse “Murphy’s Brindle Cow.”
—3258.
Information Sought.
What is the cost of Parliamentary govern-
ment in Australia ?
Figures are given on pages 67, 68 and 69
of the Official Year-Book of the Commonwealth
(No. 33, 1940), but they are incomplete. No one
has ever calculated the cost resulting from
having 76 Ministers with 76 secretaries (some of
the secretaries have secretaries, if not depart-
ments, of their own) and staffs. The adminis-
trative expenditure, for instance, on seven taxa-
tion departments and six departments of edu-
cation is, on the face of it, largely superfluous,
though not easy to reckon. On June 30, 1939,
there were 388,857 Government employees in
Australia. That number, in a country with a
population of just over 7,000,000, is obviously
an effect of over-government associated with
the existence of seven Parliaments, seven Gov-
ernments and seven Government Houses and
duplication of effort almost everywhere. Aus-
tralia has 609 members of Parliament; the
House of Commons, which is directly respon-
sible for the Parliamentary government of, say,
48,000,000 people in the United Kingdom, and
concerned in some way with the welfare of a
large proportion of the world’s inhabitants, has
only 615 members.
* * * *
What were the casualties in the 1914-18 war to
the British Empire, France, Belgium, Italy,
U.S.A., Germany, Austria and Hungary and
Turkey?
These figures are taken from Whitaker’s
Almanack, 1941:
Mobilised. Deaths. Wounded.
British Empire 8,904,000 1,089,919 2,400,988
France .. 8,410,000 1,393,388 1,490,000
Belgium .. 267,000 38,172 44,686
Italy .. .. 5,615,000 460,000 947,000
U.S.A. .. 4,355,000 115,660 205,690
Germany .. 11,000,000 2,050,466 4,202,028
Austria and
Hungary .. 7,800,000 1,200,000 3,620,000
Turkey .. 2,850,006 300,000 570,000
What is the wording on the obelisk in Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney, from which mileages are
reckoned?
On the southern side: “This obelisk was
erected in Macquarie Place a.d. 1818 to record
that all the Public Roads leading to the Interior
of the Colony are Measured from it. L. Mac-
quarie, Esq., Governor.” On the northern
side: “Principal Roads: Distance from Syd-
ney to Bathurst, 137 miles. From Sydney to
Windsor, 35|- miles; to Parramatta, 15| miles;
to Macquarie Tower and the South Head, 7
miles; to the North Head of Botany Bay, 14
miles.”
* * * *
It was stated (B. 11/3/ ’42) that “Cherra
Poonjee, in Assam, is generally recognised as
the wettest place in the world; it has an
official annual average of 424 inches.” My
schoolboy friend challenges the statement,
quoting Brooks’s Queensland School Series
“New Syllabus Geography,’'’ which states that
the wettest part of India is Assam, where the
rainfall is more than 600 inches a year. Which
is correct?
Whitaker’s Almanack was the authority for
the statement. On the other hand, The Indian
Year-Book (1934-35) records that “the maxi-
mum [rainfall] is reached at Cherrapunji in the
Khasi Hills, which is one of the wettest places
in the world, having a rainfall of 520.09 inches.”
No doubt the “official annual average” quoted
in Whitaker’s Almanack is the average taken
over a number of years.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of James Joyce? (2) Was
“UlysseS” banned from Australia? (3) Was it
banned from any other countries?
(1) He was born in Dublin in 1882 and edu-
cated at Clongowes Wood College, Belvedere
College and Royal University, Dublin. He
lived in Paris, Rome, Trieste and Zurich, and
died in Zurich in January last year. His work
included Chamber Music (verse), Dubliners
(fiction), A Portrait of the Artist as a Young
Man (fiction), Exiles (play), Ulysses (fiction),
Pomes Penyeach (verse) and Finnegan’s Wake
(fiction). (2) and (3) When Ulysses was pub-
lished there was an uproar in literary circles, the
book was burned in Dublin and banned in
various countries, including Australia. It was
in the news a while ago when the then Aus-
tralian Minister for Customs, Mr. Harrison,
refused to lift the ban, saying, among other
things, that the book “made his hair stand
on end.” The present Minister for Customs,
Senator Keane, decided that the ban should
remain. Ulysses was banned in the U.S.A., but
the ban was lifted.
* * * *
Is it correct to say “It’s more quick” or “It’s
more slow” ?
“It’s quicker” and “It’s slower” are less
clumsy and in accordance with established
usage. One-syllable adjectives generally form
their comparative and superlative degrees by
adding -er and -est to the positive degree (the
adjective in its simple form), not by placing the
adverbs more and most before the positive:
as, positive, quick; comparative, quicker;
superlative, quickest. Occasionally, however, a
monosyllabic adjective, for the sake of euphony,
is compared by the use of more and most: as,
“Sidney is the most apt pupil.” It may be
added that adverbs not formed with ly from
adjectives, but identical in form with them, use
-er and -est naturally ( runs faster, hits hardest ).
» « « *
In what sports did A. E. Stoddart ( England)
play in Australia ?
Stoddart played in 16 Test cricket matches:
11 in Australia —the first at Sydney, February,
1888; the last at Melbourne, January, 1898.
His highest score in Tests was 173 at Mel-
bourne in January, 1895. Altogether in Test
matches for England v. Australia, Stoddart had
30 innings, two not-outs, for 996 runs, aver-
aging 35.57. Stoddart was also in the first
Great Britain Rugby Union team which toured
Australia in 1888, and when R. L. Seddon (the
captain) was drowned in the Hunter River
(N.S.W.) took over the leadership. Against
N.S.W. on that tour he scored a try in the first
match (June 2) and two tries and a goal in
the second (June 9).
* * * *
When were the alterations made in the
number of balls to the over in cricket?
The number of balls to the over in Eng-
land was incfeased from four to five in May,
1889, and from five to six in May, 1900. In
Australia the number was increased from four
to six in December, 1887, and from six to eight
in December, 1919, and reduced to six in
1928. In 1936-37 season eight balls were again
reverted to, and are still used.
* * * *
Correct diet for a kelpie dog over 12 months ?
He needs to be fed only once daily, prefer-
ably at night. The diet should be mainly raw
beef, to which add a little broken and crushed
wholemeal dog biscuit and a little scraped raw
carrot. Best drink is water. A large shin or rib
bone once or twice weekly helps to supply cal-
cium and acts as a toothbrush.
* * * *
Method of removing a stain apparently caused
by standing a glass on the top of a piano ?
Into a quart bottle put half a cup each of
limewater and raw linseed oil, shake till
thoroughly mixed, then add half a cup of pure
turpentine and shake again. Apply liberally
with cotton wool, rub well and wipe off with
clean rag. Make a pad free from creases,
sprinkle with methylated spirits until moist (not
wet) and with this give the surface a smart
polishing, pressing a little as the spirit evapo-
rates. Finish with a fluffless rag pad, burnishing
well. Furniture polish may then be applied,
but should not be necessary.
* * * *
I wish to make floor rugs from long-wool
sheepskins. Any information as to tanning
skin, dying wool, etc. ?
To clean the skin, melt half a pound of
laundry soap in hot water, add enough cold
water to cover the skin and soak it for 12
hours. Remove, wring out dirty water and re-
peat with fresh soap, water, etc., for another
12 hours. Rinse skin in warm water. Melt one
pound of alum and one pound of salt in a
little hot water, add cold water to cover skin
and soak for 12 hours. Remove, wring out
and drain. Make up boiling dye (several good
brands are obtainable from most chemists),
and cold water to cover and soak for six hours,
turning occasionally. Before rug is dry (about
a day and a half after taking out of dye)
rub into back of skin with equal parts of salt-
petre and alum, well mixed, working in until
the skin is like soft leather. Dry thoroughly
and comb with hair-comb.
* * * *
Method of removing wool from sheepskins?
Here is the advice of the Lecturer-in-Charge
at Sydney Technical College Tanning School:
To one gallon of water add one pound of
sodium sulphide (commercial, as used by
tanners, and obtainable from James Hardie
Trading Co., 43-45 Macquarie-place, Sydney)
and thicken with lime. Paint this mixture on the
flesh side of the skin with a vegetable fibre
brush —a piece of hessian wrapped round a flat
piece of board and slashed with a knife to make
it usable as a brush would do. If skins are
dry they should be soaked in water to make
them pliable, as in their natural conditicpn.
After brushing on the mixture fold the skins
flesh to flesh and leave for some hours; then
throw the skins over a beam and wipe off the
wool, which should come off easily.
* * * *
Method of laundering men’s collars to make
them stiff and shiny?
Put one ounce of starch into a basin and
add four drops of pure turpentine. Dissolve
half a teaspoon of borax in one tablespoon of
boiling water, add half a pint of cold watef,
pour the mixture on to the starch and mix
all to a smooth paste. Strain through muslin,
cover and leave for half an hour before using.
Stir well, knead and squeeze the dry material
into the starch, squeeze out and then wipe
off surface starch with muslin wrung out of
cold water. Iron immediately with clean hot
iron used quickly and with even pressure.
.** * *
Berley recipe for black-bream fishing? Best
lines for general use? Any hints?
Mix 31b. each bran and pollard, a little boiled
potato peelings and stale bread, one salt herring,
bits of seagrass and mullet gut, crushed bones
and pieces of fried fish to a firm consistency
and place in a close tin. Berley the spot with
half the mixture two hours after the tide begins
to “make”; two hours later begin to fish until
full tide. The balance of the berley should be
thrown out from time to time during the fish-
ing. Use No. 2 gut lines and No. 1 hooks,
weighted with sufficient lead to take the bait to
the bottom (no lead if the stream is slow-
moving), and throw at least 30ft. from the
boat, allowing for another 20ft. of “play.”
Fresh or preserved prawns, worms, oysters,
nippers, cockles, cungevoi and pipis are suit-
able for bait.
* * * *
Method of growing bulbs in jardinieres with-
out drainage holes? Suitable tubers for the
job ?
Fill vessels to within two inches of the rim
with fibre (sold by seedsmen), place the bulbs in
position, allowing two inches apart, then pack
in more fibre to within -)in. of the top. Keep
the fibre damp. In case of accidental over-
watering, lay the jardiniere on its side and
allow surplus to run off. Place the bowls in
a warm dark corner to force quick growth.
Bulbs suitable are lachenalias, hyacinths, mus-
cari, jonquils, daffodils and freesias.
* * * *
My nine-year-old cattle-dog suffers from (1)
canker in the ear and (2) a sough, said to be
caused by lungworm, which eventually kills
dogs in the tropics. Any remedy?
(1) For ear canker use two drachms of oxide
of zinc ointment and one ounce of almond oil;
apply with a camel-hair brush two or three times
a day to all the red parts and as far into the
canal as it will go. Clean out each 24 hours
with almond oil on a cotton-wool swab tightly
twisted round the end of a bodkin or manicure
stick. (2) In an old dog a cough, once settled,
is difficult to remove. Try the following:
Hypochlorate of morphia one grain, powdered
ipecacuanha six grains, powdered rhubarb 12
grains, compound squill pill 20 grains. Mix
and divide into 24 pills, one to be giyen each
night and morning.
Information Supplied.
It was not A 2 battery of the R.A.G.A. (B.
25/2/’42) which fired the first shot of the
1914-18 war (at a German freighter trying to
pass through Port Phillip Heads); it was Al,
Fort Nepean, which fired the shot. I was a
member of the relief crew of that gun (not,
unfortunately, on duty at the time), and we’re
all rather proud of that particular gun.
(The information quoted in The Bulletin
was taken from the Official Year-Book of the
R.S.S. and A.1.L.A., 1941.)
Brief Answers.
T.H.C.: Wash and wipe the ebony, then mix
rock-hard water-putty with lampblack and very
little water and rub into cracks in ebony till
surface is smooth. Leave 48 hours, then polish
ebony. The putty (any oil and color shop will
supply it) dries harder than flint. Ebony should
frequently be rubbed with raw linseed oil and
polished....B.H.: Your best plan would be to
visit the museum and study the details of an
Indian papoose pack, then make one yourself
with a three-ply base and canvas R.D.:
Heat olive oil in container deep enough to


Missing Friends.
WILL THOMAS B. KERIN please communi-
cate with Sister? Sad news.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM FREDERICK SWEENEY late
of Armidale New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MURIEL GLADYS SWEENEY
has hied a Petition for Divorce No. 277 of
1942 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause and excuse for three years and upwards
You may enter an appearance before the Fifth
day of June 1942 ana obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from JOHN CORCORAN
AND CO. Solicitors 2 York Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ELLA RITA MURRAY late of Waterloo.
—TAKE NOTICE that GEORGE WILLIAM
ALBERT MURRAY has hied a Petition for
Divorce No. 368 of 1942 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards It you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance on or before the 12th
June 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MADDOCKS COHEN
AND MAGUIRE Solicitors 38 Martin Place
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO LARRY RONALD DEANE late of Bap-
tist Street Redfern and King’s Cross. —TAKE
NOTICE that DOROTHY BLANCHE DEANE
has hied a Petition for Divorce No. 69 of 1942
on the ground of desertion without reasonable
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
You may enter an appearance before the 17 th
June 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from DENSLEY & DOWNING
Solicitors 39-49 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO EVAN THOMAS MORGAN late of Un-
employment Camp Casino. —TAKE NOTICE
that THELMA MORGAN has hied a Petition
for Divorce No. 2290 of 1941 on the ground
of desertion without reasonable cause or excuse
for three years and upwards You may enter an
appearance before the 17th June 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from ROBERT A. PATRICK & SON Solici-
tors 39-49 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
No. 125.
-GOONDI
SADDLE.
MADE IN ALL KIP
LEATHER. A
*
£9/17/-
This saddle has
a deep seat, kip
flaps, with ex-
tended panel
points, wide
Victoria facing,
and is fawn-serge
lined.
Our
Catalogue
is Free!
Send for
one.
“GOOD SULKY
HARNESS” from £B/17/6
WALTHER & STEVENSON
PTY.
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
ltd.
am
3 3
m
—V->0 f3CC\
d
YES:.Tk7 y
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
k AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD.
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V, PERKINS, General Manager.
t!
THERE IS
URGED! WORK FOR
VOUR IDODEV TO DO . . .
Employ it in the vital fight for
liberty. Invest where it is best
for Australia and you for
every pound you put into War
Loans brings Victory closer.
• • • •
SUBSCRIBE
TO THE
e *f
/
WAR LOAN
APPLY
THROUGH ANY BANK
OR STOCKBROKER
4//
INTEREST COMMENCES IMMEDIATELY
fd
DESIGNED FOR
-the Best Watch fop
all 'Ac&vM*,
f
—now available from PROIJDS
r PHE reliable performance of “Lavina” Watches
- 1 - has been proved under the severe condi-
tions of Active Service. They are precision
timekeepers, with a 17 Jewel Swiss lever move-
ment.
This 17 Jewelled “Lavina”
Watch has been specially de-
signed for use by airmen. An
ideal watch for all men In
Chrome case with stainless steel
M°PROUDS . £6/10/-
LM
Mi
to.
df
22 ru r^ ed 17 JeweZ-
led Watch, thanks to “IncaUoc”
—the patented shock protector
Waterproof, too. Chrome case
with stainless steel
At PROUDS .. ....£6/10/-
Waterproof and shockproof—
with “Incdbloc” patent shock
protector. A very handsome 17
Jewelled Watch—the perfect
present . In case of stainless
At e pROUDS £B/4/-
r A
a
W/.
d
A 17 Jewelled “Lavina” at a
very modest price. See it at
PROUD S’ Watch Department —
Ground Floor, where you may
choose from hundreds of fine
watches. cc / /
At PROUDS *«/■/"
Country readers please write for new, finely-illustrated catalogue.
P R O B D S ss;
Jewellers, Watchmakers, Silversmiths.
THE CLOCK CENTRE OF SYDNEY CNR. KING & PITT STS.
take three-quarters of the length of the bristles
and suspend brush in hot (not boiling) oil so
that the oil does not touch the brush itself,
Leave lor six hours, reheating oil occasionally,
then leave, bristles down, to dry... .C.L.L.:
Use paste. Mix rye flour with a little cold
water, then add boiling water, stirring well until
tl \® P a ste thickens. Melt some glue-size and
add to paste when both are hot; stir well. The
more size the stronger the paste. Add a little
alum to preserve it... .M.R.: Haven’t heard of.
uncorked yeast,” but there is a quick, easily
made and reliable recipe for hop yeast: Into
i9 uart ,P ut one ounce of hops and one
tablespoon of sugar ; add three cups of boiling
ater and leave. When cold strain, add one
easpoon of flour, put into a bottle and cork,
eady in 12 hours. Allow one cup of yeast
o nine cups of flour... .T.G.L.: To make a
o ue tor sticking tortoiseshell bake a smajl
quantity of Canada balsam in an oven until
len cold it is brittle and hard. Then melt
A k j eat i a PPj y P ar ts of shell
be joined and bind with wire or cramp.
day remove binding and shave off excess
u s^ar P .... R.J.P.: Bondi is
■ N-.b.W. abo. place-name meaning “water
breaking over rocks . ...C.S.-B.: Yes, Krupps
has been bombed many times by the R.A.F....
A. 8.: It would be quite plain from the air;
you d have to camouflage it to merge with the
surrounding scenery... .F.R.: Theodore was
born at Port Adelaide on December 29, 1884.
• i’td'A.McC. : Burns was born in 1759 and died
m 1796. C.M.: A hygrometer is the instru-
or ! n ? asuri j)S relative humidity; you
L yy °? e fa,rl .y cheaply with full instruc-
tions how to use it G.A.T.: Spikenard and
Bayonet, by Shawn O’Leary, was published by
the Bread and Cheese Club, Melbourne, and
should be obtainable from any large bookseller.
So should Eric Knight’s This Above All; if
you can’t get it nearer home, try Angus and
P°( b |Vi rt n"’ T 9 Castl T e r agh ‘ Street ’ f Sydn ® y ’ • •
/xr ciim ’ Tommy Uren came from Manly
(N.S.W.), and was a member of the permanent
forces before he began boxing. He
is now in the army, but has not given up boxing
—he won a few military contests a little while
ago... .P.G.S.: Jerry Jerome was born at Jim-
bour (Q.) on May 24, 1874... .R.W.T.H.: Write
to the Australian Society of Genealogists, 91a
Phillip-street, Sydney R.A.C.: Try the Public
Library, Adelaide P.R.N.: (1) No. (2) and
(3) A predominant influence on military and
naval operations. (4) First Lord 1911-15, Min-
ister of Munitions 1917, Secretary of State for
War 1918-21... .D.C.: Why not write to Miss
L. M. Montgomery? Her address is 210 a
Riverside Drive, Toronto, Ontario, Canada....
R.R.: Brewer’s Dictionary of Phrase and Fable
attributes the words Perfide Albion to Napoleon
I (1769-1821) V.H.: Information not avail-
able ; perhaps the Queensland Police Depart-
ment could help you D. 8.; Regret unable
to obtain instructions for working Beehive knit-
ting machine... .W.S.: To make soft soap put
three gallons of water into a boiler or kerosene-
tin, add eight pounds of potash and stir until
dissolved. In another pot melt three pounds
of clarified fat. Put three gallons of hot water
into a clean barrel or earthenware crock and
add fat and lye alternately, stirring all the time
until the mixture is a creamy mass. Store for
three months in a cool place, when it will be
ready to use.
Answers to Correspondents,
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
T.D.S.:
Boys, the navy’s here!
Greet it with a cheer,
For Hitler’s leer will disappear
When, boys, the navy’s here.
T.R.:
To Japan’s unspeakable crimes the whole world jars ;
Their symbolic emblem, the “Rising Sun,”
Commenced its fall when approaching Mars,
Will finally set when this war is won.
Death, the grim Reaper, will reap many more
Ere the harvest of dead the fe'cythe will bring;
Japan will collapse about 1944,
“O grave, this is thy victory; 0 death, thy sting!”
... F.W.: The subjects are timeless, yes; but
the spirit and language are echoes... .T.8.H.:
“Greetings and partings mark ever Life’s way.”
. ...L.H.C.: Swamped in the stream....
J.P.W.; Advise Youth to turn its clear, un-
biased ears on the “saw-war” rhyme... .8.E.:
Prosy G.A.T.: You speak for thousands:
“Better than town, do you like the farm,
Where cows do moo and dogs do bark ?”
He stared at mo with a pitying look.
“Like hell I do!” was his remark.
. ...W.H.: The basket yawns... .N.H.C.: We
have no corner for the Tiny Tots G.8.M.:
Another storm in an inkwell... .L.M.: We
don’t reprint... .A.R.W.: A radio station
might be interested... .F.H.D., R.H., E.S., R.S.
and E. 8.: Missed M.1.D.: Try again; if
possible rejecting the assumption that hell and
life outside a city are synonymous terms....
J.V.N.: Doesn’t make a story L.A.; Shows
promise; try again in a year or tw0....J.R.:
Don’t like the flavor... .R.C.H.; Very obscure.
... .J.A.T.: Not convincing... .M.T.: Frustra-
tion is such an arid theme... .C.M.M.: Find
it impossible to sympathise with your hero’s
agonies.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.M.G.; One pictorial nightmare to hand,
also a badly-drawn replica of a Bulletin joke
block... .F.A.: Jokes about pimples, no matter
how illustrated, have no appeal at this address.
.. . .P.G.C.: You try to hang an army gag and
drawing on an atrocious pun... .Leon H.: Your
boozy funeral drawing constitutes a double-
barrelled insult —to the dead and to beer....
K.M.S.: A top-hatted drunk in a city horse
trough! This is 1942 —and , war-time!....
M.McK.: Is it a small, short-legged horse or an
enlargement of a dachshund? ... .E.H.H.; The
wheeze was ancient when sidelevers were the
coming fashion, and the drawing seems to have
been perpetrated with a tarbrush... .V.B. : The
female might have been imagined by Edgar Allan
Poe after a heavy supper of prawns and beer.
....A.L.W.: The wooden puppets say nothing
funny C.T.H.: You have a flair for
the grotesque, but the situations and
gags need strengthening C.S.E.; The moke
has reversible joints and the “stockman”
is a libel on his calling... .R.S.; So you are
14 and would like to do a front-page car-
toon!.... Bert C.: Little Jimmy has feet like
a traffic cop’s and a face like Bill the Basher’s.
TJ.: Your boneless wonder earns a high
place in our “Gallery of Horrors”... .C.A.L.:
Rest assured, imitators will never plague you
with their flattery N.M.: Draggletailed art
and depressing humor.


.
! :
★ POWER
TRANSMISSION •
E N GINEERS
Ludowiei’s engineering work-
shop — largest of its kind in
Australia—produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment.
f
Since 1858 IUDOWICI’S
have provided Australian Industry
with the finest leather belting.
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only our Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys, Bearings, Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
11Z YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET), SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * m
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated ny
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street. Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & CdLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Producers and Citizens’ Co-op. Assurance
Industrial
f —Ordinary Dept,
income. Claims. Exes.- Surplus. Funds.*
Aug., £ £ £ £ £
1932.. 143,238 50,791 63,839 2,367 458,150
Written off, £4834 453,322
1933.. 147,281 47,371 66,436 1,338 488,134
Written off, £6371 .. .. •• 481,763
1934.. 157,314 56,331 62,018 900 521,628
Written off, £7322 514,306
1935.. 151,952 46,265 60,104 1,230 561,119
Written off, £4974 .. .. .. 556,145
1936.. 157,771 45,755 65,486 4,706 607,881
Written off, £4779 602,602
1937.. 152,314 58,018 56,527 628 640,999
Written off. £4207 636,792
1938.. 150,993 64,995 40,586 3,516 685,720
Written off, £3221 682,499
1939.. 145,171 64,727 36,403 3,202 729,742
Written off, £2717 727,025
From Accident Dept., £l5O . , . . 727,175
1940.. 148,928 48,631 36,611 3,472 794,333
Written off, £2683 791,650
I.D.
Deficit.
1941.. 154,304 50,945 35,675 1,572 857,760
Written off, £2636 855,124
From Accident Dept., £ll6l . . . . 856,285
* Net funds apart from capital, contingencies
provision ( £5365) and Accident fund ( £2478).
Diagnosis of the early backwardness of
this 21-year-old led to the Industrial
section. But new business here has been
practically discontinued since 1938, and
more discrimination in selection of Ordi-
nary risks is also evident. This concen-
tration on the most profitable type of
cover to the assurer, cuts in expenses
and a policy of remunerative property
and mortgage investments have re-
sulted in large paces towards redeeming
initial prodigality. Actuarially, the co. is
now solvent, bonuses have started to flow
and the deficit on shareholders’ account
is being gradually pruned back.
The last annual valuation by actuary
Bremner showed “a satisfactory surplus.
During the past few years substantial
sums have been allocated to strengthen
reserves and bases on which the actuarial
liability has been calculated.” Unfortu-
nately, policy-holders aren’t taken into
the board’s confidence with full details.
Since 1937, however, aggregate income
has exceeded outgoings by £219,842, of
which £64,634 was in the year under re-
view. Of this, £30,821 was required to
meet the term’s growth in liabilities under
life policies, £14,589 was written off
establishment charges (now £102,000) and
£17,248 distributed as reversionary Ordi-
nary bonuses at similar rates as for 1940
—2ss. to 295. p.c. on whole-life and 20s.
to 245. p.c. on endowments.
Source of these bonuses lies mainly
in the earning power of invest-
ments. The management assumes these
will net 4 p.c. Actually, assisted by a
light scale of taxation, last year’s return
on mean assurance funds in the O.D. was
5.5 p.c., against 5.3 p.c., a contrast to the
experience of most offices. Moneys that
became available were split between
property, first mortgages and Govern-
ment securities in that order: —-
1937. 1940. 1941.
Government securities £149,600 £110,970 £121,070
Mortgages . . . . 182,591 337,809' 362,036
Loans on policies . . 88,751 67,702 68,450
Book debts, cash, etc. 72,260 42,886 41,885
Equipment . . . . 13,024 9,782 8,897
Freehold .. .. 252,363 374,983 432,321
Total tangible assets £758,589 £944,132 £1,034,659
Liabilities* . . . . 5,947 33,799 56,632
Net tangibles .. £752,642 £910,333 £978,027
Assurance funds . . 768,773 892,238 940,307
Paid capital . . . . 108,475 108,475 108,475
* Apart from premiums paid in advance.
Investments are declared of the “soundest
form and under constant supervision and
control.” Obviously everything depends
upon that and the extent to which
property has been maintained, etc., out
of earnings. Net tangibles cover the life
funds, which exactly equal the liability
against which they have been accumu-
lated, with £37,720 to spare. So on paper
shareholders can see that much of their
capital intact, as against £18,095 a year
ago.
New Ordinary business contracted last
year, both in volume and the average
per policy (£296, down £25):
1939. 1940. 1941.
Policies issued . . . . 999 1,287 1,281
Assuring . . . . £324,169 £413,200’£380,165
First premiums . . 7,626 9,754 9,159
Renewal premiums . . 100,592 99,645 100,437
Interest, and rent . . 36,953 39,529 44,717
Here expenses, less taxes and deprecia-
ation, etc., bit off 31.2 p.c. of net pre-
mium income, as against 32.8, 33, 33.9,
41.9 and 47.5 p.c. for the five years that
went before. They are encouraging move-
ments that need to be carried further.
Meantime, through the low-cost facilities
of associated co-op. concerns throughout
Australia and Maoriland, the board is
looking for expansion of the volume of
new business.
Huddart Parker. Ltd.
, Dividends ; —^
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 70,644 30,000 5 p.c. = 37,500 3,144 757.914
1932.. 71,860 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 4,360 762,274
1933.. 73,078 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 5,578 767,852
1934.. 85,740 30,000 7 ~ „ 52,500 3,240 771,092
1935.. 78,059 30,000 7 ~ ~ 52,500 766,652
1936.. 91,108 30,000 74,, „ 56,250 4,858 771,510
1937. .116,468 30,000 11 ~ „ 82,500 3,968 775,478
1938. 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 772,642
1939. .139,216 30,000 14 „ ~105,000 4,216 776,858
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.t
Surplus sale investment, £6450 . . 2,028,157
1940. .128,634 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 8,634 2,036,791
Adjustment of Huddart Parker and
outside interests, £9986 , . . . 2,046,777
1941. .140,213 30,000 12 p.c. =90,000 20,213 2,066,990
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..2,056,990
* Excluding specific reserves until 1940.
t After eliminating outside interests.
The accounts claimed a less-favorable
year; but taking reserve additions into
account- —£19,295 last year, including
£15,000 for contingencies—the “Wild
Cat” figures Huddart Parker’s equity in
group earnings £11,579 higher at 14.7 p.c.
on ord. capital, compared with 13.1 p.c.
in 1940. And that after reserving £116,915
(against £93,272) for depreciation and
£92,053 (up £53,750) for taxation. So
the 12 p.c. ord. div., which represents less
than 4 p.c. on shareholders’ funds, proved
an easy matter. After passing £lO,OOO to
the staff fund, the pile of reserves bene-
•fited by £10,213. They also scored by
£9986 as a result of adjustment of parent
and outside interests.
Government regulation of shipping and
coalfields production has therefore left
little mark on earnings. Those units of
the fleet —it comprised three passenger
and six cargo vessels, etc. —not requisi-
tioned straightout by the Government are
on time-charter to the coastal Shipping
Control Board, for which shipowners act
as managing agents. Thus the knotty
problem of operating costs has become
primarily a Government responsibility.
A condition of Navy requisitionings was
that, in event of loss, compensation
would be paid equal to replacement value
at time of that loss.
But its own shipping activities contribute
roughly only a quarter of H.P.’s net
revenue ; the bulk comes from a swag of
Government securities and a strongbox-
ful of subsidiary and other holdings, in-
cluding Hebburn (a £400,000-owned pup),
Tasmanian Steamers, Bay Steamers, I. and
A. Brown Abermain, Amalgamated Wire-
less, Melbourne Steam, Australian
National Airways and Metropolitan Coal.
The black mineral is now paying much
better. Hebburn doubled its earnings last
year and made a start on clearing pref.
arrears, while J. and A. Brown sent along
7j p.c., against 5 p.c.
Finances present a bulwark of soli-
darity against emergency:
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1939. 1940. 1941.
Huddart Parker . . £1.250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Outside shares* . . 418,529 432,959 423,635
Sundry creditors). . 278,029 231,294 301,645
Inter-co. balances! 13,161
Freehold & leasehold 521,250 528,569 536,127
Ships, plant, etc. . . 1,156,457 1,078,751 1,009,800
Government sec. . . 1,281,935 1,301,011 1,327,730
Shares . . . . 764,975 734.809 772,041
Stores . . . . 77,223 69,313 81,924
Sundry debtors . . 200.485 217,075 284,539
Cash . . . . 56,601 67,578 82,798
Inter—co. balances! 21,438 4,811
* Including proportion undivided profits, f Including
taxation. ! Due to variation in balance dates.
Shareholders can see the whole of their
capital and more besides in Consols
alone. Heavily-depreciated ship property
accounts for little more than half the
plant, etc., item, and similar conservative
valuation can be taken as extending to
other assets.
Buyers hopefully offer 38s. 6d. for the
pound ords. At 40s. yield would be 6
p.c. on last term’s 12 p.c. div. basis, a
rate that, subject to taxation or serious
mishap to the fleet, may not be greatly
disturbed by present profit-limitation
proposals. Net tangible backing is
£3 14s. lOd. ords., and for the half million
prefs. £6 12s. 3d.
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
f—> Dividends N
Year, Pref. Towards Dc—
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. Reserves, flcit.f
Added intangibles, £846 . . • ■ 306,739
’39..389,099 48,293 6 p.c.= 241,870 98,936 207,803
Added intangibles, £12.947 . . 220,750
’4O-404,491 50,000 6 p.c.= 242,118! 112,373 108,377
Added intangibles, £163 . . . . 108,540
’4l-354,981 50,000 5 p.c.= 213,940! 91,041 17,499
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. t Deducting
intangibles. ! Paid in scrip.
Imperial Chemical Industries (Eng.), one
of the principal factors throughout the
Empire in the heavy chemicals business
(and therefore our fighting power and
industrial strength), is the controlling
shareholder; also prominent on the
share-register are such Australian names
as 8.H.P., A.C.1., North and South 8.H.,
Zinc Corp., Electrolytic Zinc and Com-
monwealth Fertilisers. The co. is itself
interested in some of these and a string
of other Australian ventures to the extent
of £951,847, excluding investments in
subsidiaries, four of which were
liquidated last year for administrative
convenience and their activities incor-
porated with those of the parent.
One way and another the organisation
has £7,604,264 invested in the manufac-
ture and distribution of products essential
to primary and secondary prosperity
alike:
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £4,639,409 £5,036,675 £5,278,793
Outside interests*. . —■ 15,553 15,825
Sundry creditors. . 271,271 846,593 999,551
Taxation & conting. 213,247 311,286 443,807
Freeholds, etc. .. } , f 1,057,474 1,089,031
Plant, etc. .. I | 1,536,270 1,529,781
Stocks . . .. 1,090,747 1,677,400 1,851,417
Debtors .. .. 511,987 644,814 1,132,155
Investments . . 857.859 982,688 1,062,828
Cash . . . . 1,106,483 4A3.535 277,533
Rights, etc. . . 647.563 661,356 661,519
* Including proportion reserves..
Most of the expansion in the period
traversed there was in respect of the
ammonia synthesis and alkali plants in
S. Aus., for which the public put up a
million in 5 p.c. prefs. in 1938, and all
possible has been done to speed the Com-
monwealth’s independence of vital im-
ported war and industrial materials in
other ways. Further steps in that pro-
gramme envisage manufacture of elec-
trolytic caustic chlorine and ancillary
products, organic chemicals for rubber
manufacture and potassium chlorate (for
match-heads). To help things along, the
ord. div. is being again capitalised.
The contraction of £49,510 in last
term’s exhibited result was more
apparent than real. Apart from intensifi-
cation of trade demand, there was a
steady flow of explosives, chemicals,
ammunition and other war materials
from both the co.’s own factories and
those erected for the Ministry of Muni-
tions, and group earnings (£821,650) ex-
panded £163,853—£753,746 (up £160,076)
from trading, the rest from dividends, etc.
But the quickened pace at which plant is
being worn out caused the board to
double depreciation (£132,438), and
the expectation of the taxgatherer's
appetite (£324,030, against £176,870)
showed a similar trend. Directors’ fees
(£6595) and outsiders’ share of profits
(£3717) left £354,981 available for this
Australian co.’s shareholders —after satis-
fying the prefs. 7.1 p.c. on the £4,278,793
of ord. capital. Defence work, consider-
ing its volume and intricacy, is being
transacted at small profit, which is as it
should be.
Secured 5| times as to capital, the
5 p.c. prefs. are strongly entrenched in
public fancy. The rate should be little
affected by profit limitation, if at all.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 28,739 6 p.c. = 24,298 4,441 61,693
Reduction in reserves, £4026 .. 57,6)57
1932.. 10,470 6 p.c. = 10,200 270 57,937
Reserves disappear, £l6OB .. .. 56,329
From inner reserves. £10,408 .. 66,737
1933.. 4,666 6 p.c. = 10,200 61,203
Reserves disappear, £lO6B .. .. 60,135
1934.. 5,901 6J p.c. = 11,050 54,986
Reserves disappear, £1204 .. .. 53,783
1935.. 11,151 7 p.c. = 11,900 53,034
From tax reserve, £5258 .. .. 58,292
Written off, £3258 55,034
Insurance claims, £2300 ~ .. 52,734
1936.. 12,956 7 p.c. = 12,495 461 53,195
Share premiums, £752 .. .. 53,947
Insurance claims, £2107 .. .. 51,840
1937.. 13,771 7 p.c. = 15,258 50,353
Share premiums, £O5 .. .. 50,418
Insurance claims, £1279 .. .. 49,139
1938.. 13,505 6 p.c. = 14,963 47,681
Insurance claims, £1202 .. ~ 46,479
1939.. 14,807 6 p.c. = 14,963 46,323
Insurance claims, £1224 . . . . 45,099
1940.. 18,604 6 p.c. = 14,963 3,641 48,740
Share premiums, £45 . . . . 48,785
Insurance claims, £1053 . . . . 47,732
1941.. 14,635 6 p.c. = 15,000 47,367
Chief runs are Mosman, Cremorne,
Athol, Neutral Bay and Lane Cove, and
when the books closed there were 34
vessels in the fleet, of which 28, includ-
ing two showboats and a tug, were in
commission. Two of the idle hulks were
sold during the year 1 at “a satisfactory
figure” and another was converted into
the tug referred to. A fire destroyed
the shipwrights shop at Balmain, but the
loss was covered by insurance.
Revenue was buoyant, thanks to
favorable seasonal conditions assisting
tourist traffic, to more severe petrol
rationing, which restricted use of private
cars, and to defence activities. The two
showboats again contributed substantially
to the pool. But bigger bills for wages,
fuel, stores, repair supplies and taxation
bit deeply into earnings, the net profit
claimed (£13,582) being £3798 short of
the previous year’s. In the table profits
include transfers from the insurance
fund, which are then charged against re-
serves. The £13,582 was 5.4 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 6.9, 5.4, 4.9, 4.6 and 4.2
p.c. back to 1936. Still, the div. was
kept at 6 p.c. On capital and reserves


PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE..
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
Security
Economy
Service
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
3 O’Connell Street, Sydney. ,
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE : Hon. Sir Henry Bracldon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ; Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C. ; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.Q.;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
•fes?
m
\VvVC
Vvvas*^
m
ut
DEPENDABILITY
TO THE RESCUE . ,
RICHARDS
Homing through the gather-
ing dusk, a friendly recon-
naissance plane spots the
survivors of an Axis pirate
attack adrift in overcrowded, water-
logged lifeboats. Before summon-
ing help, the pilot drops R.I.L.
flame floats. They strike the
water, burst into vivid flame, burn
brightly in howling wind and storm-
lashed sea—unfailing, dependable
beacons to guide the rescue ship.
Tens of thousands of flame floats
are but a trickling tributary to the
vast stream of munitions flowing
from the hands of R.I.L. craftsmen,
who, conscious of their vital role,
are ever ready to give their sterling
best to equip the fighting forces with
reliable tools to "finish the job/*
RICHARDS
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
KESWICK AND MILE END, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
'IP*
5p; : ;V
Fitting protecting guards
to the sensitive nose-caps
of R.I.L. Flame Floats.
R& M c R 3
combined 4 p.c. is equal to 4.7 p.c. on
capital alone. So, when it comes into
force, the Government restriction of earn-
ings may cost shareholders 1.3 p.c. on
the basis of last year’s distribution.
Earnings of the wholly-owned sub-
sidiary, Harbor, Land and Transport Co.
(paid capital £107,008), aren’t disclosed,
but practically all distributable profits are
handed to the parent. Here are combined
balance-sheet figures for the parent and
its offshoot:
Sydney Ferries and Subsidiary.
1936. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £201,155 £249,387 £249,387 £250,000
Net reserves*.. 62,276 52,309 64,959 53,319
Creditors! .. 25,092 33,540 32,694 32,470
Landed property 107,286 95,182 88,146 89,609
Ship property 131,904 202,852 202,843 178,318
Plant & wharves 12,949 9,750 8,697 8,217
Stocks & stores 8,227 9,542 10,646 14,075
Debtors . . 20,230 17,610 27,092 25,369
Cash, etc. .. 14,481 7,790 7,105 27,710
* After final divs. f Including’ taxation.
During the year the pup sold portion of
its plant (lighters, hoppers, tugs, etc.) to
the Government. This, together with
£9822 written off for depreciation, is re-
flected in a contraction of £24,525 in the
book value of ship property and an ex-
pansion of £20,605 in cash, etc. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£34,684) was £22,535,
Premier Willcock on March 24 told a
deputation representative of the Cham-
bers of Mines and Commerce and Perth
Stock Exchange, which feared that man-
power requirements would mean extinc-
tion of the goldmining industry, that the
position was tremendously serious. From
an economic viewpoint, stoppage of even
portion of the gold industry would be
to Westralia. He understood the
Federal Government hadn’t any definite
proposals, but wished to prepare the
public for something which might happen
rather than strike a sudden blow. Min-
ister of Mines Panton said the State Gov-
ernment was anxious to keep the mines
going, and wasn’t leaving any stone un-
turned to stave off anything that could
be staved off. Johnson, Federal member
for Kalgoorlie, said the Allied Works
Council wanted 60,000 men immedi-
ately, and the Westralian goldmining in-
dustry would be asked for a fair share.
A new argument in justification of
Federal proposals is the long train
haul to Westralian fields in these
times of strained transport. Admittedly,
too, the 13,000 mineworkers in the West
contain a large quota of chemists,
metallurgists, draughtsmen, surveyors,
electrical engineers and other skilled
tradesmen, who could be quickly absorbed
in other national work. But though the
war effort is our first consideration, the
economic and social costs cannot be alto-
gether dismissed.
* * * *
From Senior Inspector Winzar’s 1941
report on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile;
Lake View and Star. —Fair- and high-grade
ore exposed in various parts and on a number
of different levels. Some of the exposures were
in virgin ground. In the Lake View, prepara-
tions are being made to open up, from an
internal shaft below No. 23 level, the 60ft.-wide,
24dwt. lode exposed some time ago in an east
crosscut from Great Boulder No. 26 level. On
June 30 broken ore had increased to 831,200
tons, for 14 months’ supply for the mill.
Average stoping width was Bft. Re-treatment
on the Associated block ceased temporarily,
owing to shortage of materials from overseas.
The Chaffers plant was in continuous operation,
treating approximately 60,000 tons a month.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie. —Good develop-
ments reported at a number of points in new
ground. Co. recently took up a group of old
leases about a mile from its present holdings
and some distance south of the Golden Mile. A
borehole was put down under old workings,
but no payable values were encountered.
Another hole is to be drilled.
Great Boulder Proprietary.-— Much of the
development in the main-shaft workings was on
caunter and minor lodes. Good widths and
values were shown. Deepest work was at
2600 ft., where 300 ft. of driving was done in
ore of improved value. In the Hamilton
(north) workings a lot of extensions to known
ore-shoots were exposed. At Lane (south)
shaft, 1000 ft. level east, good-grade ore was
opened up over a length of 200 ft. and width
of 6ft.
North Kalgurli. —Development in the Kal-
workings proved the continuation of
exposures on the 13, 14 and 15 levels of good-
grade ore. Work was also done on the Last
lode series at the 5 to 8 levels of the North
Kalgurli shaft. Valuable blocks of pay-ore
were opened up. Principal payable develop-
ments in the Croesus workings were on the
smith end of the 4,5, 7, 9 and 10 horizons.
South Kalgurli. —Principal developments Were
on No. 2 cross-lode on the western side. Lengths
were short, but values good. As inducement
offers, preparations are being made to deepen
the main shaft when labor is available.
Paringa. —At the 520 ft. north level, a lode
was opened for 120 ft. and stripped for a width
of 20ft. A big tonnage of ore is expected to
be extracted. Ore mined averaged 40dwt. The
lode is probably a south-pitching shoot. De-
velopment is in progress to locate it at the
640 ft. and 800 ft. levels.
* * * *
Holder of a quarter-share in Cox’s
Find mine, at Erlistoun (W.A.), Central
Gold is to be wound up. A first liquida-
tion dividend is expected shortly. Like
lots of other auriferous deposits in the
West, Cox’s Find was all right on the
surface, but didn’t continue so in depth.
Western Mining Corporation is the other
shareholder.
* * * #
War in the Near East and the Pacific
has practically cut off ex-Australian
receipts from dividends, which came
principally from the tinmines of Malaya
and Thailand and, in lesser bulk, from
the goldmines of Fiji, It was Australian
initiative that sponsored tin-dredging in
Malaya, and though properties have been
lost for the time being many cos. have
substantial credits in Australia. Apart
from small amounts due from the buffer
pool, these amount to £124,368 in the
case of Tongkah Compound, £71,369
Kuala Lumpur, £52,980 Rangeng Tin and
£53,400 Tongkah Compound No. 3. In
some cases these amounts are in excess
of maximum market valuation of the
scrip. Tongkah Compound, for instance,
is assigned to a price range of ss. 6d.-
7s. 6d. as against liquid resources of
10s. per share. That excludes its equity
in the cash assets of the other Tongkah
floats.
* * * *
There is a communal touch about the
prospectus of National Liquid Fuel
Society, Ltd., which has arranged for the
leasing of 320 acres in the centre of the
Alpha oil-shale leases in Central Queens-
land. The society is receiving applica-
tions for membership at a quid, and extra
units of £1 value each can be purchased,
The shale is stated to yield up to 180
gallons to the ton.
* * * *
Dissatisfaction amongst miners in
North Queensland wolfram camps over
the price of concentrates should be
unmoved by the improved price of 90s.
stg. per unit—at place of production —
arranged with the U.K. Ministry of
Supply. Wolfram Camp, Koorboora and
Mt. Carbine all come into the picture,
Some of the mines in these groups were
the best producers in the world during
1914-18. For example, the Neville, at
Koorboora, won something like 600 tons
of wolfram from a corkscrew pipe down
to a depth of only 150 feet. Concen-
trates want to be clear of the 65 p.c.
grade or there is a penalty.
* * * *
Star Explorations, Ltd., onetime owner
of mining property and tailings dumps
at Boulder (W.A.) and now conducting a
financial and mining exploration business
in London, earned £793 for the year to
October. For years it paid 10 p.c., but
hasn’t distributed anything since 1936.
Balance sheet shows a 40 p.c. shrinkage
in investments and a bank overdraft of
£36,700.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS; HOT & COLD WATER,
, PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
m
w*
m
m
a
in
iia
whiise
is
s*
it
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
'Manager W. G. Bulfm
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
“Heaviest in the Empire”
The report of the joint Parliamentary
committee which inquired into the pro-
posed 4 p.c. profits limitation was tabled
in the Senate last week by Senator
Spicer, chairman of the committee.
Its other members were Treasurer
Chifley, Dr. Evatt, Ms.H.R. Spender
and Anthony and Senator Arm-
strong. The report said that the 4 p.c.
limit would mean “an imposition heavier
than has been imposed in any other part
of the Empire.” It was further com-
mented that “the objections to such a tax
as a deterrent to efficiency cannot be
lightly disregarded. Such legislation
must, we think, also lead to a reduc-
tion in total taxable income, and the re-
sult might necessitate extensive super-
vision.” The report also suggested that
it would be impossible to limit profits to
4 p.c. on capital by price control.
The actual regulation which has caused
all the commotion is No. 5 of the
Economic Organisation Regulations, and
reads as follows;
5. Except in the case of unavoidable ex-
penditure or under process of law, a person
deriving profits from the carrying-on of a
business shall not part with such assets as
will preclude his paying to the Commis-
sioner of Taxation (in accordance with
legislation to be enacted by the Parlia-
ment) so much of those profits as are in
excess of an amount equal to four per
centum per annum of the capital employed
in the business.
Early in March the Prime Minister said
he would welcome “suggestions for deal-
ing with some of the complicated prob-
lems arising from the 4 p.c. profits
policy.” But “the Government will not
entertain any proposals for whittling
down the basic features of the an-
nounced policy of the Government,” and
he added that, though the regulations do
not legally limit profits, “they provide
that industry must retain sufficient liquid
assets to meet additional taxation when
Parliament approves the Government's
tax proposals.” As regards the taxation,
“these proposals will not operate until
the financial year commencing July 1,
1942, and they will be put into force
on exactly the same principles as ordi-
nary amendments to company taxes. In
the meantime, however, prices of com-
modities will be pegged, and no increases
in prices will be permitted by the Prices
Commissioner that would bring profits
on capital, after paying taxation at the
current rates, above 4 p.c,”
It appears that the committee is not
in agreement with the Prime Minister’s
emphatic views. In suggesting that it
would be impossible to limit profits to
4 p.c. by price control, it seems to indi-
cate that the taxation alternative would
have to be resorted to exclusively, which
would mean that the promised check to
price inflation would not be guaranteed.
The committee does not consider that
there has been any marked rise in profits
since the outbreak of war, but that, on
the contrary, profits in relation to share-
holders’ funds employed had kept re-
markably steady. This is in contrast to
workers’ wages, which have risen sharply.
The Bulletin, which condemned the
Government’s proposals from every
point of view from the week they were
published, has been in the habit of look-
ing to Canada in support of its opinion
that the regulations were not only en-
tirely unnecessary in a total and equitable
war effort but extremely dangerous as
well, and is pleased to find that the New
York “Times” has something to say on
this point:
Canada has gone through her second year
of war with her financial and economic
structure intact and unshaken. It could
be argued that the country is now on a
more solid foundation than it was at the
beginning of the war. There is no unem-
ployment, and although employment is
largely for war purposes there is an
immense amount being done in the expan-
sion of existing and the creation of new
industries that will remain of permanent
value after the war.
The basis of this success has been, and
is, first, the pay-as-you-go principle which
the Government adopted at the beginning
of the war, and, second, the almost equally
important decision to keep profits under
strict control and preserve a fair balance be-
tween wages and prices.
The manner in which this pay-as-you-go
policy has been observed has resulted in
this really amazing accomplishment that the
total war expenditure for the year of more
than Sl3OO million will be more than
covered out of revenue Business income
is subject to a minimum 40 p.c. tax, and
794 p.c. of all excess profits is taken by
the Government. The provinces have sur-
rendered the taxation field to the Federal
Government.
Australia’s Federal Government con-
tinues to waste month after month with
fancy, class-biased financial schemes that
are impracticable and dangerous. The
message from Canada (and common-
sense) is clear; Abolish State taxation
levies, institute one comprehensive
Federal tax, levy as much properly-
spread taxation as the country can stand
for the successful prosecution of the war,
and rigidly enforce price control. But
never destroy initiative through unimagi-
native and inelastic earnings-limits and
red-tape.
A document that calls itself a “memo-
randum” of Shale and Oil Products Co-
operative, Ltd., is in “private circulation
only” in Sydney. The co. has been
formed to “obtain for its members sup-
plies of shale oil as a substitute for
petrol.” “It is not primarily intended
that the society make profits, but that
the benefit to members will be the right
to obtain their proportion (on a capital
basis) of the shale oil produced at its
lowest possible cost.” It is suggested by
the “memorandum’* that “on the basis
of a holding of 1000 shares each, each
member will be entitled to purchase 400
gallons of shale oil per week ” The
oil is used in motor vehicles through a
vaporiser. “An offer has been received
from the Standard Oil Co. of Australia,
Ltd., to supply oil-yielding shale from
that co.’s Baerami leases,” which leases
are said to be “in production,” and “a
continuity of supply of shale of even
quality is assured.” It is reputed to be
60-gallon shale, “average width 42
inches.” The cost of shale delivered at
the retorts at Denman (N.S.W.) is put at
365. 6d. a ton. “This price will enable
shale oil to be produced at 2s. per
gallon.” (In 1940 Standard Oil, Ltd.,
estimated that, mining on the basis of
821,500 tons a year, mining costs would
be 11s. 6d, a ton.) Shale and Oil Pro-
ducts proposes to raise £25,000 in £1
shares and to erect a unit of 40 retorts
at Denman (“35 miles from the Baerami
shale mines”) and to treat 200 tons a
week for 10,000 gallons of shale oil.
“No difficulty should be experienced in
obtaining the necessary plant,” and “it is
estimated that plant can be erected within
a period of 12 weeks.” One A. H.
Watson, variously described as “com-
mercial consultant” and “broker,” says
that Tooth and Co., Malleable Castings,
Rogers Meat Co. and Albert G. Sims
Pty. are “numbered amongst the mem-
bers” of the “society” for 1000 £1 shares
each, and Grace Bros, for 2000 shares.
The Standard Oil Co. of Australia, said
to have offered to supply the shale, is
an Adelaide flotation in which J. H.
Moate has been prominent.
* * * *
Mr, Dedman, who has been trying to
closp down trading bank branches to the
advantage of the Commonwealth Bank, is
upset because the private banks have in
some cases beaten him to it. In the
House last week the Minister for War
Organisation of Industry said that at the
conference with banking authorities he
had said he could see no reason why
there should be several private trading
banks in one town. The banks, said Mr.
Dedman, had promised to prepare a plan,
but without getting his approval had
taken action “which was seriously incon-
veniencing the public.” There are people
who won’t take much notice of Mr.
Dedman’s version of the case. The so-
called “agreement” with the banks repre-
sents them as being more agreeable than
they actually were.
* * * *
Though the trading banks have lost in
some cases as high as 52 p.c. of their
male staff by enlistments and call-ups,
there is talk that the Commonwealth
Bank will be drawing on them for trained
men. There is growing resentment among
bank officers. The attempt to crush the
activities of the trading banks, so long
part and parcel of Labor politics, is going
to have unpleasant repercussions when
the war is over. Most of the banks have
promised to keep jobs open for men who
enlisted. They may find it difficult if
they are forced by Government decree
to curb their activities drastically.
* Hi Hi Hi
Senator Arthur, discussing Senator
McLeay’s motion to disallow 27b of the
Coal Control Regulations, said:—•
The coalminers are just as anxious to
produce coal for the war effort as others
are to assist in other ways; in fact, they
are probably more concerned than those
persons whose chief interest lies in profits.
The Honorable the Senator during
the same debate emphasised that he
was a certificated mine manager (first
class), “so I know what I am talking
about,” but didn’t offer evidence of quali-
fications on the subject of profits. Yet
Senator Arthur, as a director of Pro-
ducers’ Oilwell Supplies in 1939 and 1940,
held himself out to be an authority on
profits, at least so far as oil was con-
cerned. The prospectus of this concern
—Arthur spoke at meetings on its behalf
over a wide area of country —said that
“small investors after investing in the
oil industry, have received profits which
have amounted to a life independency
from merely a few pounds saved and so
invested.” Instead of profits, share-
holders in this co., which appears to have
escaped adequate attention from the com-
pany-law authorities, inherited an awful
mess of “oilwells” that didn’t gush and
in some cases didn’t even belong to them,
books and affairs in a chaotic tangle,
legal actions arid disputes and black-
guarding among the directors. The co.
ran five cars during its expensive and
reckless life. Prior to its sensational col-
lapse Arthur was voluble about its
affairs in Parliament and elsewhere. He
appears to prefer talking about almost
anything else nowadays.
* * * *
Actil, Ltd., formed in 1941 in Adel-
aide by S.A. collaborators with the
Calico Printers’ Association of Man-
chester, has begun production of cotton
yarn. Weaving, bleaching and dyeing
are contemplated later.
* * * *
The new mill at Snuggery, near Milli-
cent, of Cellulose (Aust.) has had its
trial run. Cardboard from waste paper
will be the first item on the production
list.
ak H* Hj H*
As from April 1 “all employers, except
in specified industries, will be obliged
to obtain the consent of the man-power
authorities before engaging any male em-
ployee.” The “specified” industries are
the munitions industry, what are known
as “protected industries” under the regu-
lations, and others specified by the Min-
ister (Mr. Ward). The Director of Man-
power is W. C. Wurth.
* * * *
Canberra continues to chalk up on the
quiet as much of the cost of war as it
possibly can. The Commonwealth
Bank’s holding of Government securities
on March 23 had risen to a total of
£97.5 million, a lift of over £3 million
compared with the previous week and up
£56 million on the figure of a year
earlier. Much of the money has been
found from deposits commandeered from
the trading banks, some of it from
liquidation of London funds and some
from plain credit expansion. In the
latter case the expansion is not so notice-
able in the figures of the Commonwealth
Bank alone, since what has been ad-
vanced to the Government has been
largely taken from banks or industry or
found by realisation of other assets. The
figures of the entire banking system have
to be studied for the extent of this infla-
tionary force to be judged properly. The
trouble is that the banks are not lending
the money to the Government on good
economic security. War waste is no
basis either for credit or currency. War
waste is a tax, and it should be treated
as such. The Australian Government is
afraid to tax the voters to the extent
necessary to finance the war. But what
the Government fails to do in this regard
will not be overlooked by time and con-
sequences. We are only faking the books
by not paying in monetary taxes what we
are paying in taxes on our production.
* * * *
The Australian note issue goes on soar-
ing. On March 2 the public held £6
million more than a month earlier. The
total issue on March 2 was £B7 million,
of which the public held £73.2 million
and the banks £13.8 million. A year ago
the public holding was £48.3 million and
the bank holding £14.1 million, total
£62.4 million. Nearly £25 million has
been added to the public’s holding of
notes over the last 12 months —an indi-
cation of abnormal circumstances. This
hoarding of notes is partly due to a
primitive war-time “security” instinct,
partly to the desire to have a fund of
ready money in the case of an emer-
gency, partly to a fear of the present
Government and partly to attempts by
some people to avoid income tax.
H* * * ♦
The eventful life of the Australian-
owned Raub mine (F.M.S.) has come to
a close, for the time being at any rate.
Through war-shattered lines of com-
munication word has just been received
in the Australian head office that the
mine was flooded at the beginning of
January after part of the stores and
machinery had been removed and the
remainder immobilised or destroyed. The
manager and his staff were taken
prisoner by the Japanese at Singapore.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Statistician notes
that, after several months of consistent
rises, deposits in Australian savings banks
fell by £5.9 million during February.
“It is believed,” says one authority, “that
most of the decrease represents savings
withdrawn for investment in the war
loan of £35 million, which was over-
subscribed by more than £l3 million.”
The drop also occurred during the month
in which the Prime Minister, following
an announcement of his Government’s
wild new economic regulations, found it
necessary to state that there would be
no interference with deposits in savings
banks. It was a month in which the
trading banks generally were in the gun,
and in which Mr. Theodore was
appointed to the “Allied Works Council.”
Since the end of February there have
been further heavy increases in the total
of Australian notes taken out of banks
and retained by the public. March
figures should be interesting.
« * * *
Allied Works Council? Yes. It seems
that this body, which nobody had heard
of until E. G, Theodore was said to
be taking charge of it, is to take over
“works” that disobey the directions of
the various Ministers and directors of
the committees and departments that are
supposed to be helping the war effort (or
something). Others say that it’s on the
party line.
* * * *
The flat-rate allowance of 4 p.c. on
capital and reserves in lieu of usual
profits is going to place the hoi polloi
of investments up among many of the
aristocracy so long as the remarkable
regulations governing this matter remain
in force. Overcapitalised and badly con-
ceived undertakings, together with the


LET
CARRY THE
BURDEN
s
%
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS. 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY 11. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
iliii
for 75 y
ears
>ss,
iM
o
m
m
siss
o kM<»3
A
mm
Mobil
Oil
SBS
zz Property Vi Cum, Q ,f
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
This SPANKING TEAM advertised our harness oil way back in the
1870’s. It was a good oil too —the best of its day.
Then horses gave way to horsepower. The makers of Mobiloil
created a new lubricant.,. helped make possible Selden’s first car,
the first Diesel, the Wright Brothers’ first aeroplane.
Today, Vacuum, an important factor in Australia’s Defence, helps
harness horsepower on the sea, in the air and in every industry.
9
THE WORLDS QUALITY OIL
1877 Selden’s First Car
People scoffed, but George
Selden’s horseless carriage
worked! He used an oil made
by the makers of Mobiloil.
1900—-Dr. Diesel's Engine
The first Diesel was a failure
until a new oil, made by the
makers of Mobiloil, assured
dependable lubrication.
1903 —First Plane Flight
The Wright brothers’ first
flight was made possible by a
lightweight gasoline engine
lubricated by Mobiloil.
1941 35% of Shipping
-Ar
Ocean traffic is vital today. And
over of all merchant ships
rely on the makers of Mobiloil
for dependable lubrication.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
I Incorporated IQ Australia)
M 24
plain unfortunate, will in many cases be
able to look after their shareholders
better than the keenly-managed and
soundly-financed company. There are
cos. on ’Change that (before the close
of dealings) were valued on the market
at below the par value of their
shares, and where 4 p.c. divs. have been
possibilities in the past that rate should
be maintained, which, where the shares
were bought at a discount, means more
than a 4 p.c. yield. But where a good
stock has been bought at a price equal
to more than the net tangible asset back-
ing of its shares, a 4 p.c. return will not
be a possibility. Never have efficiency
and industry been so lightly dismissed as
in the present instance at Canberra. Per-
haps it is because Canberra knows so
little about efficiency and industry.
* * * *
The limitation of profits to 4 p.c. on
capital and reserves, if continued with,
is going to affect principally small share-
holders. And the average shareholding in
most concerns listed on the various Stock
Exchanges would be in the vicinity of 500
£1 shares. A rough estimate admittedly,
but in the case of one big co. —Meggitt,
Ltd.—the average is nearer 300. Where
a shareholder represents “big money” he
will be affected very little by a 4 p.c.
limit on profits, since he may already be
paying 18s. in the £ in taxes, and a cut of
half in his income would make only slight
difference. But a person once deriving
an income of £2OO or £3OO a year solely
from shares is going to suffer bitterly if
a 4 p.c. limit on profit halves his income
—it will do worse than that in some cases.
CHEMICAL INDUSTRY
PLAYS VITAL PART
I.C.I.A.N.Z. MEETING.
At the shareholders’ annual meeting
of Imperial Chemical Industries of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, Limited, the re-
tiring directors, Lord McGowan, Sir
James Grose and Sir George Julius, and
the auditors, Flack and Flack, were re-
appointed, In view of the capital ex-
penditure needed for the expansion of the
company’s activities, the shareholders
agreed to the capitalisation of the divi-
dend of £213,940, equivalent to 5 p.c. In
a supplementary report the directors
stated that it was not generally known
what a vital part the chemical industry
plays in the economic life of Australia,
either in peace or war.
NATION’S ESSENTIAL NEEDS.
The main products of the company and
its wholly- and partially-owned sub-
sidiaries provide essential requirements
for the pastoral, agricultural, fruit-
growing, dairying and mining indus-
tries (gold, silver, coal, iron, lead, copper,
zinc), and for Australian manufactures
of a general character, most of which
could not operate without them. These
products permeate the whole field of the
primary and secondary industries, and
the growing industrialisation of Australia
due to war needs has made a consider-
ably increased call on the company’s fac-
tories, technicians and employees.
The chemical industry is the keystone
to the comforts and facilities of civilisa-
tion in peace. By adaptation it becomes
a vital element in the sinews of war.
BUILDING THE INDUSTRY.
The companies which merged into
1.C.1.A.N.Z. in 1929 were concerned prin-
cipally with distributing the products
manufactured by the parent companies
in the United Kingdom Imperial Chemi-
cal Industries (England), but recognised
from the start a responsibility to develop
the chemical industry in Australia and so
assist in making the country self-sup-
porting, and to enlist the financial par-
ticipation and support of Australian
interests.
In conformity with that policy,
1.C.1.A.N.Z. started some years ago a
gramme of development which was well
under way when war broke out, and
which has been accelerated considerably
during the last two years. As a result,
by adapting its products, the company
was able promptly to help to cope with
Australia’s vital war requirements,
COMPANY’S PRODUCTS.
In the last 10 years manufacture of the
following products has been undertaken
by the company or its wholly-owned sub-
sidiaries:—
Ammonia synthesis, ammonia oxidation
to nitric acid, ammonium nitrate, ammu-
nition —shotgun cartridges and rimfires—
black powders, calcium chloride, caustic
soda, clay targets, detonators —plain and
electric-dyestuffs blending, lead azide,
lead nitrate, lead styphnate, lightning
fasteners, nitro-cellulose, refined bicar-
bonate of soda, soda ash, safety fuse
powder, tetryl.
During the period 1.C.1.A.N.Z. has also
been a co-partner in the establishment of
the following industries in Australia:
Albright and Wilson (Australia) Pro-
prietary, Limited, food phosphates and
phosphorus.
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation
Proprietary, Limited, aeroplanes and aero
engines.
Newcastle Chemical Company Pro-
prietary, Limited, ammonium chloride,
galvanisers, crystals, hydrochloric acid,
phthalic anhydride.
The programme has been enlarged by
the necessities of the war, and prepara-
tory work for the construction of the fol-
lowing factories has been started:
An electrolytic-caustic chlorine and
ancillary plants at Botany, N.S.W.
An organic chemical plant to provide
at the outset chemicals required by the
rubber industry.
For military reasons no details can be
given of the work which has been under-
taken at the request of the Ministry of
Munitions. Up to the end of December
25 projects had been undertaken, and the
company had been commissioned to de-
sign and construct further important
plants to assist m the all-in prosecution
of the war.
BRITISH ASSISTANCE.
In all this work the technical assistance
of 1.C.1. (England) has been of great
advantage both to Australia and to the
company. It has meant that manufac-
tures new to Australia could be under-
taken confidently and quickly on the
basis of experience, and urgent war needs
have been met without the long prelimi-
nary investigation which otherwise would
have been necessary.
This assistance has been given unre-
servedly by 1.C.1., despite the heavy de-
mands made on it by the British Govern-
ment to undertake the erection of many
large plants for war purposes.
COMPANY’S GROWTH.
During the last 10 years the company’s
employees have increased from 427 to
2908; land, plant and buildings from
£258,266 to £3,100,513 ; while the value
of raw materials and services of Aus-
tralian origin used in manufactures have
increased from £159,589 to £1,710,871.
This development called for consider-
able expansion of funds, and in conform-
ity with I.C.L’s policy Australian invest-
ment has increased from .6 p.c. in 1931
to 36.6 p.c. in 1941.
HOW THE MONEY IS SPENT.
An analysis of the figures for the 1941
financial year shows that the apportion-
ing of the money received by the com-
pany for its locally manufactured pro-
ducts was as follows:
P.c.
Raw materials.. .. .. .. 49.04
Outside services (power, light, trans-
port, etc.) .. .. .. .. 9.44
Wages and salaries .. .. .. 23.36
Trading expenses .. .. .. 1.87
Depreciation .. .. .. .. 4.17
Taxes .. .. .. .. .. 5.68
Profit 6.44
EMPLOYEE CO-OPERATION.
It has always been the aim of 1.C.1.
(England) to cultivate a sympathetic
understanding between the management
and the employees, with the object of
making the latter feel they were working
with the management and not for it. The
principal medium for this has been the
works council at the alkali works at
and consisting of equal representation of
management and employees.
1.C.1.A.N.Z. has recently established a
works council at the alkali works at
Osborne, in South Australia, and there
is a works council in all but name at
Yarraville. It is proposed to extend this
system to other factories as and when
the strain of war production makes it
possible.
In the meantime other established
methods of co-operation are: The
pension fund, the provident fund, safety
committees, welfare committees, and sug-
gestion boxes. Employees also have their
own clubs, which are constantly doing
valuable patriotic work.


THE SERVICE MAN
"Not Second—Decisive."
“Ek Dum”: There are plenty of indi-
cations that this will be a dreadful spring
in Europe and on the African fronts,
Mr. Churchill has admitted that the
battle of the Atlantic has taken a turn
for the worse. That is a serious de-
velopment, having regard to the fact_
that there is strong U.S. reinforcement
for the British Navy, with additional
American and Canadian shipping carry-
ing on between the Old and the New
World. It is more serious because of
the necessity to assure that German
capital ships and heavy cruisers are
bottled up in their own waters and not
allowed to escape to join Japanese units.
It puts a further load on the R.A.F.
and F.A.A. by making constant attacks
on the German naval ports a prime neces-
sity. Heavier and heavier burdens have
been loaded on the broad but bending
shoulders of the Allied, and particularly
the British, mercantile marine and navies.
The outbreak of war in the Pacific cut
naval strength and cost many mercantile
ships—the Japanese officially claim to
have destroyed 136 to March 25, and if
that is halved it is substantial.
In the Middle East the great joint plan
for turning Eritrea into a production base
which will supply the armies of that
region is taking shape. Temporarily, this
again increases the load on all services.
Suez and the Mediterranean are precari-
ous routes at best, if not completely
closed, and, with the Indian Ocean and
Pacific routes menaced by Japanese
strength, stronger guard has to be kept
over the Red Sea approaches both by
land and ocean. All shipping to the
west Indian Ocean ports has to make
the long voyage round the African coast
or into the extreme south of the Pacific,
thus reducing the carrying capacity of
any given ship for any given period enor-
mously.
The defence of India calls for vastly
more shipping, since India cannot yet
produce all the materials it needs for war.
The loss of the Dutch East Indies oil-
fields and the threat to the limited
Burma oil supplies add to the import-
ance of holding the Middle East with its
Anglo-Iranian-Iraqian wells, on which
the armies of Iran, India, Ethiopia, Syria,
Palestine and Africa depend, as well as
some of the Dominions and the Navy
and Air Forces in the Indian Ocean-
Mediterranean areas.
It can be taken for granted that Hitler
will not, if he can help it, allow the con-
solidation of the Eritrean production
scheme, and will try to smash it before
it reaches maturity. This eventuality
must be met by the transport of more
man-power, guns, ’planes and acces-
sories to the Suez zone. Every man trans-
ported thither, apart from initial effort,
adds to the load which must be carried
again and again to feed and munition
the region. Supply pyramids in propor-
tion to effort.
Russia’s Position
The weakness of Russia is another
factor in putting a back-breaking strain
on the shoulders of the sea and air
forces. With the new Tirpitz, sister-ship
to the Bismarck, and her heavy cruisers
in Norwegian ports, no escort that is
not fast and heavy and well guarded from
the air is any use to cover convoys by
the northern route to the U.S.S.R., which
itself can give little aid, since it had less
shipping in proportion to its require-
ments than any other great nation when
war broke out. A desperately large pro-
portion of that has ceased to exist or be-
come immobilised through blockade.
Escorts for convoys to the U.S.S.R. via
the Persian Gulf also are being called
on for long voyages and for greater
strength. And they must be kept up in
an ever-increasing flow.
No real authorities seem to share the
belief of Moscow, uttered on March 27,
that “every one of the dozens of locali-
ties recovered from the Germans is being
turned into an impregnable fortress
which the Fascist beasts will never see
again except as prisoners,” and that the
“policy of the Red Army is to make the
present advance continuous and unin-
terrupted.” General Wavell recently
stressed urgently the necessity to support
Russia. Uncle Sam’s public has been
lukewarm on Russian support—largely
because of the operations of the Com-
munist gentry, who since Dec. 14, by
an Act of Congress, have been compelled
to report to the Attorney-General’s De-
partment as “agents of a foreign Gov-
ernment.” But the danger of the situa-
tion to American and British interests has
moved President Roosevelt to order that
supplies to Russia must be kept up fully
to the promised level, and that goods
and armaments for the Red Army must
have priority. A break through the
Caucasus would, since Japan came in,
intensify a hundredfold the dangers to
the Allied cause of such an event pointed
out on this page at the end of the Ger-
man autumn campaign. It would mean
the loss of Caucasian oil for good and
throw on the Allies the need to increase
help to Russia on an almost impossible
scale if its armies were to be kept fighting,
India saved from danger of assault on
both sides and the Red Sea area from
attack on the north.
No Second Front!
The popular remedy for Russian weak-
ness or stimulant to Russian strength is
a second front in Europe. No worse
expedient could be suggested.
More than half the trials and prob-
lems of the Allied war plan arise from
the necessity to disperse forces and re-
sources, which is one of the burdens of
world-wide empire.
The one policy that will succeed is
concentration to correct this dispersal
tendency. The power which the Red
Armies have found to hang together in
the face of a terrific onslaught is based
essentially on the fact that they are not
compelled, like their allies, to fight piece-
meal in a dozen regions spread over a
whole globe. They have been able to
group all their strength on one front
from which their supply bases are easily
accessible.
It seems commonsense that limitation
of fronts should be the Allied objective
in actual strategy. Existing communi-
cations should increase in volume of car-
riage rather than in number of lines. The
greater the restriction in number and the
greater the standardisation of routes, the
easier the job of the navies, the fewer the
ships needed. The more concentrated the
flow of men and arms in each channel
the heavier the blows which can be given
or taken.
Help Russia in Russia
The place to help Russia is in Russia,
through the communications already
established, but the plan must be oriented
to place British Commonwealth and
American territorial interests first.
Thus, the first objective of the war
should be to assure that our soil remains
our own, our women and children are
protected, our industries expand, our
transport facilities grow. These measures
are the best insurance both of morale
and of growth of strength.
The second should be aid to Russia,
which is an ally only for war purposes
and in one war zone, to the limit of our
capacity, but short of endangering our
own defence. The most aggressive fighter,
if he is scientific, does not neglect his
guard while waiting for an opening.
It is to our and everybody’s interest
to keep Russia on its fighting feet. But
Russia could fall —as it did in 1917 —
India could be vanquished, and so long
as the productive centres of the Anglo-
Saxon race could maintain themselves
clear or nearly clear of the enemy, they
must in time achieve superiority of war
output over the enemy. Every new con-
quest costs the foe dearly, and his burdens
will soon be much more heavily increased
by his quarrel with the Americas than
ours would be by anything he might
achieve in Russia, even if the worst came
to the worst.
The Final Phase
The last step in policy should be the
creation of an Allied offensive front. But
when it can be constituted it will be
no second front but a decisive one. It
might not even be a land front.
The fact is inescapable that if the war
goes on three or four more years the air
may cease to be accessory to land fight-
ing. With the large numbers of pilots
available the Allies should be able to
put into the air armadas of such size that
they will be a peril to the very existence
of German cities.
The Allies always will have the advan-
tage that so long as U.S., Canada and
Australia are free from invasion their
large-scale training of pilots, and pres-
ently their largest-scale ammunition and
airplane building, can be carried on re-
mote from any danger of attack. But the
swift growth in size and speed of
bombers, the quickly-increasing range of
fighters is assuring that it will not be long
before there will be no corner of Ger-
many —no corner even of European
Russia —in which German air training
headquarters and personnel will not be
in serious daily danger of being blown
to glory by raiders from Britain.
The hysterical demand for “offensive
from the word go,” “second fronts” and
whatnot sounds like the injunction of a
ring second to his bruiser to rush in head
down with whirling arms in the hope of
connecting somewhere.
The good fighter in a knockout bout
measures his strength and that of his
opponent and lays down a programme
which, if he is fighting somebody of fairly
equal calibre, and has confidence in his
own superior stamina, rarely envisages an
attempt at a decision in the first or second
round.
Every battle has three stages —the mar-
shalling of strengths, combatants and
their resources, which is not yet complete,
the testing of strengths and weaknesses
and the decisive round in which every-
thing is staked on the issue.
In the first two stages, coolness and
the nursing of resources count above
everything.
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: The thunder peals nearer,
though not so loudly as a fortnight ago.
Above the babble of exhortations from
politicians and squalling radio uncles can
be heard the tramp of men and the
rumble of troop and lorry trains moving
to the danger points.
The announcement of the presence of
U.S. troops in Australia was followed by
the news of the return of a large number
of Australians from the Middle East.
Most people had known they were here
or coming. Bronzed figures with hats
worn in a characteristic way, figures filled
out into hard, well-rounded brawn and
muscle, chins which had achieved the
firm line of the old A.I.F. were to be seen
in the streets of southern cities, Lieut.-
General Lavarack, who commanded in
Syria, had been in the Common-
wealth since March 11 organising an
overall command-in-chief to replace and
absorb the Military Board.
A.I.F. Men Return
General Blarney now arrived to take
over. Within the structure of General
MacArthur’s Anzac Area command he is
supreme commander of the Australian
forces.
That Japan does not yet command the
oceans was shown by the fact that —
thanks to the Royal Navy and the Mer-
chant Navy and valued American assist-
ance —his men crossed the sea without
casualty or interruption from the enemy.
Their return is extremely important.
No matter how far Uncle Sam can go in
operations in the Anzac zone, the bulk
of the man-power must be provided by
the Commonwealth. Generals Blarney and
Lavarack, their divisional, brigade, bat-
talion and company leaders and the rank
and file have had actual battle experi-
ence, and it must be seen that it is used
to the fullest advantage. Our armies,
also, will be fighting on their own ter-
rain ; a great moral advantage.
•The division of labor in the develop-
ment of this war seems likely to be
that the greatest weight of defence will
be built of Australian man-power ; the
greatest weight of subsequent offensive
outside Australia will fall on the broad
shoulders of Uncle Sam, who will provide
naval cover and the bulk of aircraft
and materiel for both phases. Britain
will help where possible, and her de-
fence of the Indian Ocean will be linked
with our western defences.
General Blarney remarked on returning
that the setting up of an Allied com-
mand in the Anzac area was “just what
we need —the only workable arrange-
ment.” So it is. General MacArthur’s
greatest strength is as a commander in
the field. General Blarney is adjudged
one of the best staff generals in the Anglo-
Saxon world.
On his first day in the Commonwealth
General Blarney said;
We have got to expect the danger of in-
vasion. We must work so that we are
prepared to meet it. But we must not fear
it. We are certainly in for a tough time —
tougher than anything we have ever
imagined—but there is another side to the
story. We have the men who came back
from the Middle East —the finest fighters in
the world —with us. We have greatly in-
creased numbers in the Australian army,
we have our allies and, as well, I believe
that all people now realise that this is a
total war.
The Army Board —Lieutenant-General
Sturdee (C.G.S.), Major-General V. P. H.
Stantke (A.G.), Major-General Jim
Cannan (Q.M.G.), Major-General E. J.
Milford (Master General of Ordnance)--
has been absorbed into the general
structure of the supreme command, but
names of corps and divisional commands
have yet to be announced.
The organisation has been well founded
in the local zones of operation by the
six senior field officers who returned
from overseas to make the advance
preparations after the outbreak of war
with Japan. It is a huge task. No army
has ever before, with limited man-power,
been asked to place a whole continent
at once in a state of defence against an
external enemy.
If invasion on a serious scale is
attempted, the campaign will have a
place apart in history,
Japan’s Gigantic Job
Various Japanese writers have toyed
with the subject for years, and more
than one has estimated that it would
take 500,000 men to subdue this con-
tinent. That, however, was before the
development of modern German mechan-
ised technique. But as a transport and
naval and air problem it is a question
which scheme contains the greater head-
ache —a five-army invasion by teeming
man-power or a large-scale mechanised
invasion with all its accessories of giant
machines, bombers, ammunition and
mechanical, motive and other supplies.
Certainly, the operations in New
Guinea and over North Australian ports
are not part of the main phase of a
Japanese major attack.
The invaders so far have worked
towards two preliminary objectives only.
The first is to obtain suitably situated
harbors where goods and men can be
landed and depots where men and arma-
ments may be assembled for the grand
drive. The second, comprised in the per-
sistent attacks on northern and New
Guinea ports, is designed to burn the
eyes out of our outer ring of reconnais-
sance posts by destroying Australian
aerodromes, ’planes and other communi-
cation facilities.
They have accomplished the first objeo
tive. They hold Rabaul, tucked away
across several hundred miles of sea, and
Buka; apparently, also, Santa Cruz and
Tupua, in the Solomon-Hebrides groups,
and the ports of Lae and Salamaua and
the land inward from there to the foot-
hills. They have laid a screen of depots
across the south of the Bismarck Sea,
down the whole breadth of which they
can move ships and ’planes from the
north, out of the range of substantial
air attack from Australia.
Behind the existing lull large-scale
preparation must be in progress in the
Mandated islands and in the East Indies,
for something much bigger. Both sides
are working against time. But it must
not be forgotten that before long the
enemy must turn his attack on the Burma
front into a major operation, which it
is not at present, regarded from the
standpoint of the resources available on
both sides. The break of spring must
also increase his responsibilities in Man-
chukuo.
Hit-run Raids
The appearance of the words “in Aus-
tralia” at the head of casualty lists dur-
ing the week brought the nearness of
the war vividly home. Raiding con-
tinued, though on a lighter scale than
hitherto, except early in the week.
Moresby was blasted by machine-gun fire
on the afternoon of March 23, and 60 or
70 bombs, mainly aimed at the aero-
drome, were dropped by 19 bombers.
There were no R.A.A.F. casualties, but
two enemy O-type fighters crashed,
brought down by the ground defences.
The same day Wyndham suffered its
second blast —the first had been on
March 3. Only one inhabitant was in-
jured—slightly.
The R.A.A.F. was not idle. It con-
tinued its reconnaissances over Timor
and made a bombing attack on Dilli.
A Japanese O-type fighter which sought
to interfere was shot down.
Moresby Hits Back
After three successive days on which
there were light raids on Moresby, there
was a lull there till Friday, March 27,
when a pair of bombers escorted by three
fighters dropped a few bombs and power-
dived and machine-gunned objectives
until they were chased off by R.A.A.F.
fighters. At the same time Kokoda, a
base under the shadow of and south of
the Owen Stanley Range, was heavily
iittcickcd
The Moresby raid was accompanied
by a dogfight outside, which began at
20,000 ft. and ended at 10,000 ft., during
which one R.A.A.F. ’plane was shot
down in a battle with three O-type
fighters. Two enemy machines were de-
stroyed—a bomber by the a.-a. fire and
a fighter in the air battle. The R.A.A.F.
men engaged were fresh from the Middle
East and knew all the tricks.
The raid was Moresby’s 20th. It was
no more lucky than previous ones. In


all his visits, during which he used
190 aircraft and dropped between 1500
and 2000 bombs, the enemy had killed
only two men and done little damage, a
fact more easily understood when it is
realised that the bombers usually operate
above the 20,000 ft. line.
The 21st raid came on March 28. It
was made by three heavy bombers and
seven O-type fighters, which were chased
all over the sky by an inferior force of
R.A.A.F. men. No damage and no
casualties were listed, except to the
enemy, who lost one fighter and probably
another. An Australian pilot who dived
fairly into the fire of a Jap fighter which
he was intercepting came down with a
badly-mangled tail.
Darwin’s seventh raid also happened
on Saturday morning. Seven bombers
made it. Two were shot down ; another
was probably shot down and another
limped off in a way which suggested that
its crew would never see home again.
The Timor Sea is becoming an un-
healthy spot for Nipponese. Apart from
this warning of growing Australian
strength, the enemy had to suffer a bad
battering at Koepang on the previous
day, when a 7000-ton ship was hit and
left burning and a large flying-boat was
probably destroyed. All the R.A.A.F.
raiders made the 450-mile return voyage
to the Australian coast.
Uncle Sam takes an increasing part m
the amenities round and northward of
our shores. Washington communiques
have made it plain that last week’s attack
on Lae was mainly his affair. The raiders
consisted of four Fortresses, nine Toma-
hawks and two R.A.A.F. Hudsons. And
among other destruction wrought they
smashed up 10 O-type fighters, three
heavy bombers and an ammunition
dump, beside damaging two more fighters
and two bombers.
On March 24 the Japanese celebrated
their second monthly anniversary in occu-
pation of Rabaul. Their losses have been
heavy. Both A.B.C. and 8.8. C. reported
that Japan was unofficially “believed to
have lost” over 50 ships and over 100
’planes in the New Guinea area, and at
Rabaul 1000 men.
All the North stands waiting. From
March 24 onward A.R.P. wardens in
Townsville were required to attend busi-
ness fully equipped for service.
Mr. Curtin has announced that during
the first raid on Darwin on Feb. 19 “the
number of people killed on land, sea
and air did not exceed 240.” And the
number may be reduced when some sur-
viving waterside workers make their
whereabouts known.
The Philippines and Burma.
“Ek D.”: Outside the Australian zone
fighting last week was confined to the
Philippines and Burma. Tokyo Radio
announced exultingly that General Mac-
Arthur had “assassinated” General
Manuel Quezon “in the same brutal way
as the British assassinated General Met-
axas in Greece.” On the following day
President Quezon arrived safe in, Australia.
Japanese forces in Luzon continuously
bombed Corregidor, but the results have
been unprofitable. The island is made of
the same stuff as Malta —rock. Corregi-
dor guns smashed up a concentration of
Japanese small boats late in the week.
On March 25 Tokyo announced that
Toungoo, which lies about 150 miles
north of Rangoon, had fallen and that
its air force was operating from the aero-
drome against the Burma oilfields, which
produce about 1,500,000 tons a year,
most of which goes to India. They
claimed that the Chinese forces at Toun-
goo had been surrounded and that
their destruction was inevitable.
This the Chinese denied, but the fall
of the town seemed inevitable over the
week-end, despite a British assurance on
Friday night that the situation had im-
proved and that defence lines had been
strengthened. The Chinese forces seemed
to be separated from the British and
surrounded.
There were dreadfully familiar com-
plaints from Chungking about Japanese
air superiority.
British H_Q. reported on March 28
that there was intense patrol activity
south of Prome and the oilfields, and
that 4000 to 5000 Japanese and Burmese
insurgents were west of the Irrawaddy.
The Japanese edge every day closer
to India. Tokyo blared news of the
arrival at Rangoon of a strong naval
squadron, and the enemy has occupied
the Andaman Islands, only 850 miles
from Ceylon, slightly more from Madras
and sligntly less from Calcutta.
From Murmansk to Mekili.
“Ek Bum”: Bulgaria’s declaration of
war on Russia seems to mark the
awakening of the Axis spring offensive.
A correspondent recorded that “hun-
dreds” of pro-Russian secret societies
had sprung up among the Bulgars to
sabotage the war effort. As the popula-
tion is only 5,000,000 or so they may
be very small efforts. In any case King
Boris is the focal point and not too much
need be expected from revolutionary
movements.
Early in the week the turnover of the
season on the central front was reported
as beginning, though snow still lay three
feet deep along the roads.
Moscow reports were tidal in nature.
On March 27 it was announced that the
Russians had advanced eight miles along
the whole length of the Leningrad front,
and that further progress had been made
in the squeeze on the imprisoned Ger-
man army at Staraya Russa and on
Rshev, where the German position was
declared to be “precarious.” The con-
dition of the Staraya Russa
described as “desperately precarious,” the
besieged as starving and under ceaseless
aerial bombardment.
But next day the Moscow communique
mentioned that the “first heavy German
offensive thrust for months” between
Smolensk and Kalinin had been repulsed.
“Izvestia” claimed that 10 populated
places had been recovered in the centre.
In the south Moscow Radio declared
on March 27 that one of Timoshenko’s
armies had broken through the German
lines and now threatened the whole of
the German Donetz defence system.
The Germans admitted two heavy Rus-
sian thrusts at Stalino and further north,
but asserted that the Red Army had
been forced back to its original positions
with great loss.
While the Russians mentioned fierce
attacks on German lines round Mur-
mansk in the Far North, to inhibit a
German-Finnish offensive, the enemy an-
nounced that the frozen port was being
bombed from the air day and night.
There was little moving in the Crimea
outside back-and-forth skirmishing and
air-fighting in the Kerch Peninsula.
The most important happenings were
behind the lines. Other movements of
troops in Europe and Africa, combined
with the entry of Bulgaria into the war,
suggest at least a concerted attempt at
offensives in Africa and against Russia
within a few weeks or days.
Brauschitsch, the German C.-in-C., has
been in Greece; Keitel in Bulgaria.
Ankara reported—for what it is worth —
the presence of massing German para-
chute troops on Rhodes. Some color is
lent to the news of developments there
by the British naval and air raid on
Maritza and Calato aerodromes the
previous week.
Malta has had almost non-stop raids
on a scale comparable with the attacks
on England during the intense period of
the German offensive. Harbors and ship-
ping were the main objectives, and the
Germans claimed to have damaged a
couple of cruisers and left the water-
fronts strewn with wreckage.
The little island holds on grimly. Its
experience has been without parallel in
this or any war. It has shown what can
be done in a well-organised fortress with
a stalwart population and proper shelter,
naval backing, artillery and air cover.
It seems very likely that Rommel will
soon try to make a substantive move,
if he is not forestalled.
The preliminary phase of larger opera-
tions is already in being. Berlin has
daily mentioned attacks on Tobruk from
the air and has become excited about
the operations of a Saharan Desert corps
far on the south of the British lines
beyond Mekili, and about an alleged
main advance from Martuba, where, the
enemy declares, his artillery is “follow-
ing up the retreating British.”
British reports speak of patrol acti-
vity, but mainly of the operations of
S. African bombers, which on Saturday
raided Martuba, wrecked several aircraft
on the ground and badly knocked about
a formation of Me 110’s sent out to inter-
cept. On Friday Benghazi and adjacent
ports and camps had been well strafed
by the R.A.F., and an 8000-ton ship had
been sunk in the Mediterranean by a
torpedo bomber.
British volunteers are operating
through the loosely-held country behind
the German lines, and have raided and
explored the country as far back as the
environs of Tripoli.
A Daring Raid.
“Nobby II”: In the early hours of
March 28 British combined units de-
livered an attack on the German-occupied
naval base at St. Nazaire, at the mouth
of the Loire. Newspapers described it
as “another Zeebrugge raid,” but it was
scarcely that.
H.M.S. Campbelltown, one of the 50
over-age U.S. destroyers acquired by
Britain, had a leading part. Her bows
were stiffened. She was loaded with
delayed-action explosive charges and left
by her crew ramming herself against the
St. Nazaire dock gate. A heavy explo-
sion was heard and seen. The raiders
had met heavy fire ; the destroyer was
burning when abandoned.
Meanwhile special demolition crews
had been landed, and, against heavy
opposition, they carried out prearranged
wreckage in the dockyard. Beaufighters
and Hudsons covered the return of the
attackers, which was not complete on
Sunday. , ,
The official communique, however,
stated that there was every hope that the
objective of the expedition —the destruc-
tion of the gate of the only dock on
the French west coast capable of accom-
modating the new German battleship
Tirpitz —had been accomplished, “though
not without some casualties.”
The German story was that the raid
began with diversionary bombings, fol-
lowed by attempts by large naval forces
to enter the Loire estuary. They were
sighted and “developments occurred with
great speed.” The enemy declares that
the explosive destroyer was blown up by
the naVhl batteries before it reached its
objective, and that almost simultaneously
the British assault and torpedo boats were
sunk under a heavy fire.
Some men, they admitted, were landed,
but these were dispersed. The remnants
took refuge in houses and finally sur-
rendered.
German torpedo boats, it was alleged,
engaged the “fleeing remnants of the
British force and sank most of them. One
destroyer, nine speedboats and four tor-
pedo boats were destroyed and over 100
prisoners taken. Berlin Radio described
the result as “the complete wiping out
of the attackers.”
All that is certain is that it was a
gallant effort, fully in keeping with the
Nelson tradition.
It is to be hoped that a few London
Second Fronters were taken along so that
they might have a grandstand experience
of what would be involved in a large-
scale invasion of the French coast, for
which they and a lot of non-combatants
in Australia —editors, politicians and
clergymen among them —are so eager.
Another Italian "Victory."
“Nobby II”: According to Rome
Radio, the British Navy suffered another
of the many stirring defeats inflicted upon
it by the admirals of Mare Nostrum.
Italian submarines traced a large,
strongly-protected convoy bound for
Malta. Throughout March 22 the Italian
Navy dingoed after the British, who
loomed against the horizon as large as
an Italian victory in the Libyan war —20
ships, including (said the Italians) five
cruisers and seven destroyers. At a
later stage, as Rome mustered interest in
its feats, the seven destroyers grew to 15.
Berlin Radio unfortunately disagreed
with its confreres in Rome —its estimate
of the size of the convoy (based on infor-
mation from Stefani) was that it was
made up of six transports, one cruiser and
four destroyers. The Admiralty reckoned
its force at one 6in.-gun cruiser, several
a.-a. cruisers and 16 destroyers.
The Italian version of the battle was
that, as soon as the Italian ships were
sighted, “the cowardly British, with their
usual precipitation, retired behind a
heavy smokescreen,” which was at once
penetrated by the Regia Aeronautica and
destroyers. When the Italian battleship
Littorio came on the scene, the balance of
the British ships fled after a cruiser and
a 10,000-ton transport had been sunk and
two other warships and two transports
damaged.
It was not explained why the battleship
did not finish off the cripples, or why it
did not polish off a few more members
of the convoy, which could match its
32-knot speed with not more than 16 to
18 knots at the outside.
The Admiralty had a different version.
Rear-Admiral Vian, of Cossack fame,
covering a convoy, was in holts with
Italian formations from Sunday, March
22, to March 24.
An attack by four Italian cruisers was
beaten off without casualties or damage.
The cruisers were supported by heavy for-
mations of bombers, including torpedo-
bombers.
Next, a 35,000-ton battleship turned
up, escorted by two Bin.-gun and four
light cruisers and a screen of destroyers,
all under a bomber umbrella which
blackened the sky—lso were in the air
at one stage.
Out of the resultant melee, through
running their guns hot, clever use of
smokescreens and steady seamanship, the
British flotilla came safely, somewhat bat-
tered, minus a merchant ship, and with
a light cruiser and four destroyers
damaged. The casualties were light. One
Italian cruiser was damaged and another
hit —the presence of a 15in.-gun battleship
keeps a fight at some range, especially
when there is a convoy to be shepherded.
The Italian battleship was made a
target for “a most gallant and deter-
mined daylight torpedo attack.” A few
torpedoes were distributed to her escorts.
The big Italian ship was hit by one
torpedo. There was a flash of flame and
her rear turrets stopped firing.
Delayed by a fierce gale, the convoy,
loaded with supplies for harassed Malta,
steamed into the Grand Harbor of
Valetta, while its escort, bombed all the
way, made back to Alexandria.
Bombers Over Germany.
One of the stories not yet fully told
is that of last year’s air attacks on Ger-
many. German newspapers don’t pub-
lish it, and the R.A.F. doesn’t want th,e
enemy to know that it is aware of the
extent of the damage it has done.
British policy is precision bombing of
military objectives. Civilians are not
bombed except where bombing is
directed specifically at dislocating the
personnel of some important factory or
factory city.
The last official report on the bombing
of Germany was published on Feb. 1,
1941. It detailed that 1500 raids had
been made on Germany since the begin-
ning of the war from the Baltic to Swit-
zerland and from the North Sea to Berlin
and beyond.
The bulk of the raids of that period
were with bombs averaging 2501 b. With
the advent of machines like the Stirling,
Halifax and Manchester bomb-loads
have pyramided tenfold. A metric-ton
bomb is now “medium.” The largest are
in the two-ton range. A ton was a fairly
heavy normal load early in the war.
Seven-ton loads are not unknown today.
The 540 raids made on the Ruhr up
to November, 1941, were successful in
bringing about a hasty retreat by large
sections of German war industry to
Eastern Germany, as far away from the
habitat of the R.A.F. Bombing Command
as possible.
Fortunately for the Germans, the big
bombers only began to come out of
the bays in bulk late in the year ; and
a record for bad visibility gave German
cities a respite during the winter.
Mannheim was attacked 51 times up
to November. Some of its damage in-
cluded six solid acres razed to the ground
in the Neckarstadt region. This was in-
flicted on a day when the whole city was
reported to be burning from end to end.
Naval and commercial ports and dock-
yards had a fair share of the assaults —
Bremen 88 raids, Hamburg 84, Emden
60, Kiel 60, Wilhelmshaven 58. Travel-
lers report that scarcely a district in Ham-
burg has not suffered heavily, and that
the centre of Bremen has “simply ceased
to exist.”
Information about Kiel is harder to
come at. It is a closed naval area. But
a dozen other cities received souvenirs
the arrival of which they are not likely
to forget. About a third of Aachen
and Munster, invasion points from which
blows were struck at the Low Countries,
are estimated to have been destroyed.
And one 1941 raid wiped out the main
power station at Essen —400 were killed
and 1800 injured in the blow-up.
A good starting point for inspection of
Berlin is the Potsdammer Platz, where a
triangle of three railway stations nestles.
Here, a U.S. correspondent reported re-
cently, “the scene compared with the
worst parts of Blitzed England.” Other
parts of the capital and the industrial
suburbs have been badly knocked about,
and Cologne’s experience makes Jap
bombing sound like popgun play.
The raids of the past three weeks sug-
gest that what the Germans have suffered
is nothing beside what they may expect
this year. Essen was attacked on March
9 with 100-machine formations, which
dropped 4000 bombs, each capable of
wiping out whole blocks. Parts of Essen
were wrecked. Cologne had a similar
sad experience on March 13 —two fac-
tories covering between them about nine
acres were a mass of fire and rubble
afterwards. The railway yards, which
compare in size with the Redfern yards
in Sydney, were disorganised.
Bad weather delayed further large-scale
action till March 25, when over 200
machines devastated sections of the Ruhr.
The loss of 11 British aircraft was
reported.
On March 26 the experience was re-
peated. At the week-end Liibeck, main
port for the shipment of war material to
the North Russian front, was caught in
the blast. It cost 12 machines but was
worth it. And daily throughout the week
there was incessant patrol fighting along
the Channel and over French ports.
Seine shipyards were heavily attacked.
The Luftwaffe’s attempts to hit back
have been feeble. Even Berlin Radio is
not enthusiastic about raids on Wey-
mouth and Portland Bill and on Dover,
where 10 persons were killed but damage
limited. Elsewhere, casualties and damage
were slight.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The cattle show at the Commonwealth
Wool and Produce Co.’s store, Pyrmont,
found country well-knowns seated on bales
of wool to watch the judging of Here-
fords and Shorthorns and their brethren.
But even the fascination of watching these
prize citizens of the pastures did not
crowd out the war atmosphere. Union
Jacks, Australia’s flag, the Stars and
Stripes were hung about the store. The
show was arranged by the Stud Beef and
Cattle Breeders’ Association to fill the
void left by the cancelling of the R.A.S.
owing to war conditions. Today is the
last appearance of the champions, includ-
ing the youthful Aberdeen Angus bull
shown by Mrs. G. T. Reid, of Narran-
gullen, Yass. Other women exhibi-
tors were Margaret Doyle, of Bogga-
billa, and Mrs. Eric Killen, of Pine Park,
Wellington. Mrs. Douglas Munro, of
Merriwa, Mrs. Cliff Minter and daughter
Diana were among the interested.
On its opening night Noel Coward’s
“Point Valaine,” now showing at the
Minerva; presented tropic rains on the
stage to an audience that had just left tor-
rential downpours behind them. The play
presents against the bright shawl of burn-
ing blue sea and sky (when not obscured
by curtains of rain) a story of tropic emo-
tions raging in the bosom of the heroine
Linda Valaine (Marie Burke), with a run-
ning commentary on all things under the
sun by a playwright named Quinn. Roger
Barrie, streamlined by Malayan illness,
is the playwright, and both he and
Marie had a great following in the
audience.
Miss Burke, a trig figure in navy
linen and white linen, in long and sway-
ingly full evening frocks of flowered
cotton in tones of wistaria-grey, went
through the changes from wallflower
guest-house proprietor to warmly-bloom-
ing hibiscus of woman in love, and
finally, as it were, a blossom in the dust.
Opening-night applauders included the
Gordon Bradys, he in Air Force blue,
Colonel John Pye, Alison Bowman, the
Charles Lloyd Jones couple with Mrs.
Meyer from Melbourne, the Bertie
Kellys, the H. Bradys and all the
first-nighters who have cars, and coveys
of others who waded through the wet as
smilingly as though they had web feet.
Helene, youngest daughter of the Dr.
Walter Burfitt couple, of Elizabeth Bay,
wore white lace frock, tulle veil and car-
ried flowers when she went to St.
Canice’s last Saturday to marry L.A.C.
Noel Westcott, only son of Mrs. E. West-
cott, of Potts Point. Mrs. Murray Evans
and Mary McTiernan were bride’s atten-
dants. Corporal Paul Lawrence and
Private John McQuillan stood by the
’groom.
Dodging around the sandbags at the
entrance of the Prudential in Martin-
place raincoated figures by the dozen
made for the America-Australian Co-
operation Movement’s party last Friday.
This was a nice, friendly get-together of
the members. The entrance was domi-
nated by Flynn of the Inland, big physi-
cally as he is mentally. He suggests
that the American-Australian forces
should be called “Aanzacs.” Beside him
was president of the women’s committee
the Halse Rogers lady, and near by was
Mrs. White, wife of the chairman of the
society. Mrs. Ted Scorfield on her pretty
blonde head wore a turban of striped
silk that might have served for a Hassan
illustration.
A pretty girl was Babette White. Other
guests were Sherman Parker, American
newspaperman, crowds of business and
professional men between the forties and
fifties who are active members of the
movement, the object of which is to pro-
mote even closer friendship between us
and our cousins in the States, a number
of well-dressed women, among them Mrs.
Don Service, who is joint secretary with
Mrs. Ted Scorfield of the women’s com-
mittee. Mrs. Simmons and her pretty
daughter, bright-faced Aileen Fitz Patrick,
of Social Study and Welfare fame, were
there. A stirring passage from the New
York “Times” on the epic of Dunkirk,
a photograph of the King and a picture
of Abraham Lincoln are among the club’s
decorations.
The blue-eyed, alert and graceful
widow of Littleton Groom, the length of
whose Speakership of the House of Rep-
resentatives was probably a record, died
last week in Canberra. Up to the time
of her final illness, which lasted only a
few days, she was an interesting com-
panion. No one in Australia had met
and known more celebrities, for not only
her husband but his father had been
a noted Parliamentarian. The final work
of her career was the publishing of a
Life of her husband. She was in Sydney
shortly after the book was written last
year, and spent a happy holiday renew-
ing old friendships. The Y.W.C.A. and
the Victoria League were two absorbing
interests. Daughter Mrs. Cecil Pearce
lives at Southport, Queensland.
When some of our lads come home
from the wars they will sometimes have
to pinch themselves to believe the plenty
of even a post-war Australia is true.
Here’s an extract from a young Queens-
land A.1.F.-er abroad;
At present I am living in a house, and
the owner does my washing for a very
reasonable charge (approx. 3d.), and she
makes a very good job of it. The people
here are very poor, dressed in rags and
patched-up clothing, and they often wait
around the kitchen for the morsels of bread
that are given to them. A person cannot
but be sorry for them, for they are a fine
race of people. If I am invited to one of
their homes they give me the best they have
to offer, which sometimes embarrasses me.
The men eat first, the women after, and it
is a bit hard to sit down and eat while the
women look on.
No war group is busier than the Red
Cross, and of that society no one is more
engrossed in duty than Mrs. W. P.
Minnell, the Divisional Commandant of
Women Personnel of the Red Cross
(New South Wales), Photograph is from
Talma.
Lute Drummond, who was tenor Ken-
neth Neate’s first opera coach, has just
received news, by way of the singer’s
parents, that Ken is now in Montreal
singing at orchestral concerts and taking
part in a broadcast opera season. His
stay in New York was bright with suc-
cess and friendships renewed. John
Brownlee and John’s teacher predict a
future for the Australian. He passed
the semi-finals of a Metropolitan audi-
tion. After his Canadian tour he was
entering for the finals. The successful
competitors scoop up a thousand dollars
and a Metropolitan contract. Ken also
understudied Kullman at the Metropoli-
tan as Tamino in “The Magic Flute,”
taking rehearsals with the celebrated con-
ductor Bruno Walter.
All Saints’ Church, Woollahra, blessed
a bride wearing something new in wed-
ding garments last week. Bride was Air-
craftwoman Molly Joyce, and in her
W.A.A.A.F, uniform she looked both
workmanlike and dashing. All the prin-
cipals of this wedding were in uniform.
The ’groom, Lieut. A. J. Parsons, had
for best man Captain Keith Phillips.
Aircraftwoman Shevauneen Joyce, who
attended her sister, also wore W.A.A.A.F.
uniform. Joyce’s parents were the Edgar
Joyces, of The Overflow, Beaudesert,
Queensland, Lieut. Parsons is the treas-
urer of the Overseas League, and his
parents are the A. J. Parsons couple, of
Woollahra.
Everybody remembers the fair at the
Lady Gowrie Red Cross home at Gordon.
This was one of the highlights in fetes last
year. This year the committee is out to
make an effort so shining as to completely
blackout 1941’s taper. Good news to
mothers and fathers who wish to take
the family to enjoy an afternoon in a
perfect garden setting is that railway
fares have been reduced. ' Last year’s
attendance was 4000. This year it is
expected to mount beyond the 6000. The
Snow lady is again president of the com-
mittee. Mrs. G. Strachan is the secre-
tary and Susan Spencer is the organising
secretary.
Anyone willing to lend the W.A.N.S.
a sewing machine? They need machines
to help make up palliasse covers for use
by the Land Army girls and for use in
First Aid and Emergency Posts. Please
’phone W.A.N.S. Headquarters, 8W7566,
and ask for Mrs. Howarth, or call at
Headquarters, 6th Floor, Sirius House,
Macquarie-place, Sydney.
From Melbourne
Olga, as the wife of General Blarney is
known to her friends —and they are a
large crowd —has been kept pretty busy
saying “Oh, it’s you, dear,” to the hun-
dreds of women who have rung her up
at her city hotel since she blew in last
week. She never wore much make-up
and now less than ever, but looks
browned and out-of-doorish, which suits
her frank face mighty well. It should
be placed on record that her khaki uni-
form is one of the neatest yet seen here.
Red Cross workers on the whole rather
inclining to loose-fitting garb. She is very
emphatic that Australian men want to see
their own countrywomen as hospital
visitors, which should stir quite a number
of girls to make a bigger effort so that
no sick Digger misses a friendly smile.
Olga Blarney was mildly surprised at
Melbourne’s blackout after the far-from-
complete ones she had encountered in the
cities of the Middle East. She’s all for
giving the boys plenty of sport and danc-
ing, and made the locals envious with the
story of the out-of-door dancing under
Egypt’s moon, with blue arc lights play-
!ing on the dancers.
Opinion on gaiety, in a very mild
way, it’s true, has undergone a change
in Melbourne. Even the vice-regals, who
sternly frowned on it last year, have been
saying how-d’ye-do to visiting Americans
and busy businessmen who stand up
to a sandwich and cuppa at the large
cream house on the hill. And in the
suburbs the “brunch” party —breakfast
and lunch combined at about 10 ack
emma —is quite the thing. Often the
guest of honor has come off his ship on
leave at about midnight, taken to his
host’s home on the last tram and tucked
into a bed with real feathers in the mat-
tress, and the family has gone off to
work on tiptoe the next morning, leaving
mother and auntie to cope with the
sleeper when he awakes. The nearest
nice girl unemployed—not many of them
now —is called in to lend glamor, and all
goes well till the guest says “Sorry, folks,
leave’s up,” and goes back with promises
to come soon if leave permits.
Ann Purtell, here pictured by Jack
Cato, will leave an interesting job, in
which she helps to produce the Educa-
tion Department’s school paper, when her
engagement, announced the other day,
results in matrimony. Her betrothed is
Kevin McDermott, who has finished a
Commerce course and is waiting his call-
up for the Navy. Ann has wide artistic
interests and plays with skill that de-
lightful instrument the harp. She also
tries her hand at story-writing, and three
years ago, at 16, produced an operetta
in collaboration with her not-much-older
brother. She is well known at Tay
Creggan, the centre of the Ladies of the
Grail activities, and lends a hand in
producing the Grail paper “Torchlight.”
Ann is waiting on war events before com-
pleting marriage plans.
Conferring of degrees at Wilson Hall
on Saturday was shorn of much pomp,
but somehow, as happens with all war-
time ceremonies, the lack was all to the
good. Among the graduates was Mary
Petherick, of the family which numbered
among others the donor of a library to
the Federal Government. Running true
to form, Mary is not Bachelor but
Master of Science at 21. The number of
graduates was smaller than usual, many
of those who were entitled to take 'de-
grees being too busy otherwise to spend
an afternoon at the old shop. They
will have another chance to bow to the
Chancellor in May.
Holding the baby while mother goes
off to her munitions job is no longer
regarded by local bluestockings as en-
couraging bad habits in the not-so-
privileged. The women of the University
are even talking of extending their effort
in this direction to helping with the
establishment of creches for the children
of munition workers near all the factories.
Fact is that some married women, per-
haps because they’re stickers at any job
they undertake, are among the best war
workers, and the reasoning is that the
kind of girl who has only a few hours
at a time and is not particularly expert
at camouflage net-making should hold
the munition baby as a duty to her
country. However, not all girls shine at
rocking the cradle. One says that she
has been gently pushed out of quite a
few creches because the babies see her
coming and make shrill protest as soon
as she shows signs of yearning towards
them, A course of strap-hanging in our
most erratic trams, in which the feeling
is that of being on the ocean wave, has
been taken seriously by her, as likely to
make her a more poised and gentle
cradle-rocker.
Having the various girls’ schools in
the country is a boon to country host-
esses with an appeal for a charity or
war fund lurking behind their party
schemes. At Berwick, where St. Mar-
garet’s town school has joined its country
branch since it ceased to inhabit the
stately halls of Stonnington, there are
bunches of nice girls ready to help a
hostess with the sideshows and games.
Mrs. J. E, Grice, who lives near by,
made her party for the Chinese Relief
a few days ago ever so bright with the
aid of St. Margaret’s lassies. One of the
amusing results of the exodus of schools
to the country is that girls who never
knew how the housemaid earned her pay
are finding out by practical experience.
All the schools are letting the girls help,
some even in the kitchen, which prob-
ably won’t hurt them, and will save
much talking through the hat about the
domestic problem.
The usual problems which peace-time
brides of the Navy have to face —how to
get over the awkwardness of the full-dress
sword on the groom’s right side, where
it is liable to bruise the lady’s ribs, and
how she is to cur the wedding cake with
the same doughty implement—did not
worry Joan Donaldson when last week
she became Mrs. J, S. Parsons, for Sub-
Lieutenant Parsons, R.A.N.R., on service,
didn’t carry a sword, and the time to
spare for preparation did not permit of
a wedding cake. The wedding was an
extremely quiet family affair, with dinner
at the Windsor to follow. The bride,
who has been on war work at Fisher-
men’s Bend, snatched leave for the honey-
moon at Mount Buffalo. When husband
is on service she will keep house with
mother, widow of H. C. Donaldson, one
of Melbourne’s best-known insurance
chiefs some years ago.
Melbourne friends have been hearing
cheerful news from the wife of the
former First Naval Member, Admiral
Colvin, in a letter from Curdridge House,
Botley, near Southhampton (Eng.). The
Admiral is well again, and has been
heartened by the announcement that mid-
shipman son, who was in Repulse and
escaped, has been promoted to sub-
lieutenant, The schoolgirl daughter,
about whom her mother could be jocose,
still keeps her schoolgirl appetite, says
her mother. Altogether the letter sug-
gests that there’s many a haven of peace
and happiness in old England yet.
Barbara Newman, Betty Paterson’s one
ewe lamb, has been gathering congratu-
lations. She was the judges’ choice for
the Waddy prize for design, which is £5,
gift of the National Gallery Trustees. As
the judges were leading artists, Barbara
feels proud, and rightly so. This lass
has shown all along the line evidence
that the Paterson mantle has fallen on
her, and in some ways her drawings recall
that pioneer painter of the bush Ford
Paterson, who would be her great-uncle
were he still in the land of the living.
Barbara’s design was an affair of dol-
phins. She had already won a drawing
prize, and three years’ tuition, with her
pencil.
Formed to help next-of-kin of prisoners
of war with advice and information about
parcels and to enable them to meet and
swap news the A.I.F. Women’s Associa-
tion Prisoners of War Auxiliary, now in
its fifth month of life, has a good score to
its credit. Every month there is a get-to-
gether of anxious relatives whose men
are in prison camps. They talk and read
letters from the men in their prison
camps, and it’s heartening for a woman
who hasn’t had a letter to hear from
another woman, whose man is in the
camp from which she expects to hear,
that things are going on as they should.
This general sharing of news tells the
woman whose man isn’t much of a fist
at writing so much more, and there is
also a general sharing of clothing and
knitted garments from the Auxiliary’s big
cupboard, which means a whole heap to
the woman struggling along on small pay
and striving to send a prisoner’s parcel
off to her man each three months.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID THOMAS EDWARD SMITH
otherwise known as DAVID SMITH formerly
of near Palm Beach. —TAKE NOTICE that
MARY AGNES SMITH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 173 of 1942 on the ground of de-
sertion without reasonable cause or excuse for
three years and upwards You may enter an
appearance before the 23rd day of June 1942
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from GREGG & MILNE Petitioners Solici-
tors 4 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
A lucky oversight in the matter o
nominations meant that Tranquil Star
remained in Melbourne to win the first
division of the Alister Clark Stakes at
Moonee Valley on Saturday instead of
being idle at Randwick because of the
abandonment of the Warwick Farm
autumn meeting.
It had been intended to send Tranquil
Star to Sydney to run in the Chipping
Norton Plate last Saturday and in the
Autumn Plate next Saturday, preparatory
to the Sydney Cup, but the Chipping
Norton entry was overlooked. Connec-
tions of the mare, deeming that she might
need two more races before the Cup, de-
cided to leave her at home for the Alister
Clark Stakes and send her to Sydney on
Monday of this week. Now the Sydney
trip is off altogether. According to part-
owner T. G. Jones cancellation of plans
in that respect Was due not so much to
the drastic cut in Cup prize-money as to
the unsettled state of racing generally.
Tranquil Star must be regarded as an
autumn mare. She struck a patch of
first-class form last autumn, went through
her spring campaign without a win, and
has won her last two races in brilliant
style. Starting equal favorite at 5 to 1
with Burrabil and Tea Cake on Saturday,
she was always within striking distance
of the pacemaker, Kelos, and won de-
cisively from that filly and the outsider
Watch Guard. Burrabil finished strongly
in fourth position, but Tea Cake was
beaten some distance from home, and
well-backed Phoines failed to flatter his
supporters,
• ••••*
Improving on his form at Ascot a week
earlier, when seventh to Silver Light in
a much weaker field. Prince Ronald gave
bookmakers a 33-to-l result by beating
Fur Trader and Wheat Sheaf in a close
finish for the second Alister Clark Stakes.
He ran to the front soon after the start
and was not headed. Trainer T. Brad-
field attributed the difference in Prince
Ronald’s form to his drop in weight and
to the fact that, having shelly feet, he is
partial to a soft track.
Saul recorded his first success since the
Australian Cup last year when he de-
feated the favorite, Mabson, and the fast-
finishing Similar in the Moonee Ponds
Handicap. Bleeding attacks interfered
with his preparation last spring, but,
although there has been no recurrence
of the trouble this autumn, latest form
said little for his chance on Saturday.
Starting at 12 to 1, he ran to the front
five furlongs from home and won deci-
sively. Saul looks sure to develop into a
good hurdler when tried at that branch
of the game. He has not raced over
hurdles, but showed a lot of promise
when schooled about a year ago, and,
like most of David’s stock, is a natural
jumper.
• •••••
Saul’s win completed a double for
owner Mrs. J. Falkiner and trainer D.
Mcßae, who had been associated with
St, David’s success in the Woodlands
Hurdle earlier in the day. St. David, who
has raced over hurdles only four times,
has won his last two races, and his
trainer hopes he will develop into a
National proposition next winter. Earlier
in his career SL David won hack prizes
at Melbourne and country shows.
Queensland-owned Audacity was a sur-
prise packet for backers in the first
Hollymount Handicap. He started at 33
to 1 and returned a dividend of £36 11s. 6d.
for 55., but the stable did not allow him
to run unbacked. The Brazen gelding
had not raced previously in Melbourne,
and it was only after the race that most
backers learned he had been placed at
Brisbane at his only other start in a race.
Audacity made an exhibition of the field,
streaking away to a long lead early and
winning easily from Portsmouth and
Haros. Bobby Pearce justified his favor-
itism for the second Hollymount Handi-
cap to the tune of a five-lengths win
from two 50-to-l chances in Dennis
James and Malt Brew, while Jameson, a
20-to-l chance, recorded an easy win
from Hellesina and Piccadilly Rose in the
third division. Jameson, who cost only
80 guineas, is not very big, but is smart
and game.
*•••••
Cloudy Bay, who lost form when taken
to Sydney last spring for the A.J.C.
Derby, finished strongly to defeat Silver
Light and Art Union in a close finish for
the first division of the Sherwood Han-
dicap. He should continue to improve.
Spearmain recorded a remarkable per-
formance to win the second Sherwood
Handicap, for which his price eased from
threes to fives. Chopped right out at the
; start, he was a long last going out of the
straight and still seemingly hopelessly
placed halfway through the race. Un-
winding an electrifying run which had
the crowd on its toes, Spearmain mowed
down the opposition in the straight and
won by half a neck from Foxhow, who
had looked all over a winner 100 yards
from home.
* * * *
Racing is having a bad run in Sydney,
even the weather conspiring against it.
On Saturday last rain made it impossible
for the A.J.C. to hold its £3300 meeting
at Randwick, and, though its autumn fix-
ture is to take place at Rosehill, the
£31,750 originally allotted for three days
has been cut to £7OOO for two. The Don-
caster is down to £lOOO, Sydney Cup to
£l5OO, Sires’ Produce Stakes and Cham-
pagne Stakes to £750 each, and each of
the minor handicaps to £3OO each. Can-
terbury Park has also cut out its big
prizes of last autumn.
* * * ft
Many people are decidedly pessimistic
as to the future of racing in N.S.W., but
unless the war position becomes worse
it Is doubtful whether there is as much
to fear in the way of curtailment as they
believe. Last week Prime Minister Curtin
stated the Federal Government did not
intend at present to interfere with the
control of racing and sport in the vari-
ous States, because it was considered that
each State Government was most com-
petent to decide whether any sport was
being carried on to excess. So long as
war effort did not suffer the Federal Gov-
ernment would not interfere. A sound
decision, and, as Premier McKell does
not regard racing with an unfavorable
eye, it is reasonable to assume that
further reduction in N.S.W. is unlikely,
unless it is absolutely unavoidable.
Racing is a big industry, and is entitled
to consideration.
Chatham’s Choice was third in the
A.J.C. Derby, but his St. Leger chance
does not read better than that of It’s
Funny. The latter was fourth in the
Derby, and at the recent Rosehill meeting
was well ahead of Chatham’s Choice in
the Rydalmere Handicap, Victorian colt
Liege would not be here unless his owner
thought he had bright prospects, but, as
with most of the others engaged, public
form has not thrown much light on his
ability to get the St. Leger distance.
Lambeth might stay, likewise Dark
Warbler and Whisper Low. The Epsom
will presumably be Yaralla’s mission, and,
in a field in which so few have ordinary
staying pretensions. It’s Funny may pull
through. Last year Tranquil Star, at 7to
4 on, finished last.
A furlong shorter than the seven fur-
longs of the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
might be to Hesione’s advantage, but it
is difficult to select anything likely to beat
her. It is probable that her stable com-
panion Battle Dress will be one of her
most dangerous opponents. The latter,
who carried 9st. and got within a quarter-
second of the Randwick five-and-a-half
furlongs at her last start, is working well,
and, though in the Fairfield Handicap the
handicapper put 71b. between them, the
difference may be scarcely so great. In
the Fairfield Hall Stand was rated the
best of the colts, but though he was
placed 21b. above Battle Dress that merely
represented sex allowance at this time of
the year.
Takarangi and Double Birthday are
smart, but their best form leaves them a
long way behind Hesione, as does that
of Main Topic and Niagara, though I
expect both to stay. Hesione looks like
winning, but, even though the shorter
distance may help her, she will find Battle
Dress and Hall Stand troublesome in the
Champagne Stakes when meeting them
on 101 b. worse terms.
If Beau Vite had done any racing re-
cently the Autumn Stakes would have
been soft for him, but though he will be
at a disadvantage in that respect he
should win. On the second day Beau-
livre, Yaralla, High Caste and Rimveil
will make the All-Aged Stakes a most
interesting race, and Yaralla’s drop from
9.0 in the Doncaster to 8.6 should make
a lot of difference to him. On handicap
figures High Caste, if himself, would have
a pull over all those mentioned, but it re-
mains for the Doncaster to show how he
really is. Doncaster form will decide
favoritism for the All-Aged Stakes. Last
year the result of the race was an upset,
as though High Caste, at 5 to 4, headed
the quotations he was a poor third, Gold
Salute winning from Beau Vite.
An additional hundred yards in the
Doncaster Handicap, consequent on the
race being run at Rosehill, will not ad-
versely affect the chances of many horses
fancied for that race. Topweight High
Caste has had an easy time since he re-
turned from Melbourne, and, though he
looks bright enough, it is doubtful
whether he will be in the same trim as
on most previous occasions. On the other
hand Beaulivre appears to be at his best,
and will probably prove equal to giving
a pound to Rimveil, though the latter
has a lot to recommend him. In addition
to his Epsom win with 9.2 his minor
placings this season include seconds with
8.12 in the Caulfield Cup and 9.7 in the
Cantala Stakes and third in the Villiers
Stakes with 9.11. Those performances
put him in a good light, but though he
will meet Evergreen, better than in the
Cantala Stakes I incline to the latter
on this occasion, in the belief he has
made the greater improvement. Admit-
tedly, recent Rosehill running did not
uphold that idea, but Evergreen has
worked brilliantly since, and is on his
own track.
* * ♦ *
Yaralla has a lot of weight and the
last bit may find him out. Merrimba has
shown himself better at the welter than
the ordinary scale, but could not be
better, and has a weakness for Rosehill.
Gundagai lacks nothing in condition, and
Tuhitarata, who is back to form, has only
21b. more than when second in Geebung’s
Epsom. If High Rank should be one of
the field he has a chance, and Hydra, Sir
Andrea and Soho are brilliant enough
to play a prominent part. After easily
winning a seven furlongs race in the fast
time of 1.23 f, Soho was well beaten in
the Challenge Stakes, but was very un-
lucky in running. Sir Richard has been
backed, but his Melbourne form does not
suggest that his chance is exceptional.
«•••••
Post positions may have considerable
bearing on the result, and any horse that
happens to be on the outside at the first
turn will be set a difficult task, but, given
ordinary luck, I think the winner will be
Evergreen or Beaulivre.
Beau Vite, with only the Autumn
Stakes on Saturday next to help him in
his preparation, will need to prove him-
self a truly great horse to win the Syd-
ney Cup with 9.11. Whether the going
is firm or otherwise, it is questionable
whether he will be equal to conceding
291 b. to Pantler, who is also a stayer.
Dashing Cavalier is another that may
be short of a run, but we shall know
more on that score after the Autumn
Stakes. Dewar is solid, but it is prob-
able the handicapper has taken his
measure. Velocity, as a result of his re-
cent racing, is in great trim, and Badger
will be on him. Veiled Threat’s form
in the Autumn Stakes may be a guide to
his chance, and though he could only
get seventh when, with 7.12, he started
favorite for the last Sydney Cup he may
be more solid now, and is up only 31b.
compared with the 121 b. improvement
allowed by the w.f.a. scale.
• • • • •
Although I expect It’s Funny to win
the St. Leger, success in that race would
send his weight up to 8.2. If he runs
well in the St. Leger, though without
winning, 7.6 may give him a good Cup
chance. Below 7st. there is nothing
specially attractive. Jymjon may be as
good as any, though Lambeth, Liege,
Wellesley and Addition may be possible
stayers. Still, on recent form, it is hard
to go beyond Pantler, who with 7.10 has
the same weight he carried when third to
Beau Vite (9.4) and Reading (9.0) in
the 1940 Metropolitan.
« ♦ * •
Business on the Doncaster and Sydney
Cup double has been of the lightest. On
Monday the order of the most fancied
horses was as follows:
DONCASTER HANDICAP.
Rimveil.
Beaulivre, Soho.
Evergreen, Tuhitarata, Yaralla.
High Caste, Nightbeam, Sir Richard.
Amiable, Hydra.
SYDNEY CUP.
Pantler.
Beau Vite.
Dashing Cavalier, Dewar.
It’s Funny, Velocity.
Veiled Threat, Beaulivre, Triggerman,
Moondarewa.
* * * *
William Inglis and Son will hold their
customary sale of yearlings at the New-
market Stables, Randwick, next Tuesday
and Wednesday. Among the youngsters
likely to attract particular attention be-
cause of their relationship to winners are
brothers to Panchio, Arahura, Kingsdale,
Henchman, Royal Prince, Hedonic,
Adios and Beau Port; half-brothers to
Mohican, Homer, Valmiki, Maid of
Orleans, It’s Funny, Dashing Cavalier,
Inspector Scott, Prince Ariel, Hall Mark,
Othello, Martheus, Feminist and Pan-
nade; sisters to Trimmer, Asitid and
Hydra; and half-sisters to All Love,
Flying Knight, Chatoona, El Golea, All
Veil, Tel Asur, Panax, La Chelone and
Hua. Everything in the catalogue comes
from good winning families, but still the
buyer who gives a high price for any-
thing that turns out really well will be
lucky.
* * * *
In spite of the ban on all racing in
S.A., M. J. Hogan’s post as chairman of
stipendiary stewards for racing in that
State is renewed for another year, though
at a reduced salary. His understudies,
Harold Rowell and Drage, have been
given a month’s notice. Hogan moved
to Adelaide from N.S.W, nearly 30 years
ago,
« * * *
The Calcutta “Statesman,” recording
the arrival of Lucrative in India at the
commencement of last month, said that
“he looks a really great racehorse.” He
was bought by A. Higgins before he won
the Eclipse Stakes in Melbourne and
afterwards sold to the Maharaja Scindhia
of Gwalia, who intends to run him in
Calcutta’s most important races next
season.
Conceding 461 b. to Abe Simon (18st.
31b.) in a return match at New York,
Joe Louis administered the knockout in
the sixth round. Simon took his punish-
ment stoically, but was too slow. Joe’s
share of the “gate” was 45,000 dollars,
and he gave it all to the Army Fund.
After the fight he sent a cheerio message
to his fellow-soldiers in Australia.
♦ * * *
One more Hockey Bennell mill has
ended disappointingly —his match with
George Elliott for the Australian welter-
weight championship at Leichhardt, Syd-
ney. A short right to the chin floored
Bennell in the seventh, and Elliott, losing
control of himself, got home blows while
Bennell was on his knees; result, dis-
qualification. Like Jack Carroll, Bennell
does not deliver punches with the
knuckle part of his glove, and of this his
opponents’ faces show painful evidence.
Before the first round was over Elliott’s
nose bled badly, an accidental butt
gashed his right eyebrow in the fourth,
and his left cheek was scraped in the
sixth. The eye-injury bothered him and
his judgment of distance became bad.
Bennell was on the offensive in the fifth
and sixth, but in past contests he wilted
under punishment, and experts won-
dered how he would have fared on aris-
ing from that knockdown if Elliott
hadn’t thrown the fight away.
sp Hf * *
With rain washing out play on two
consecutive Saturdays, the Sydney grade
cricket season has closed, St. George,
O’Reilly’s team, won the premiership for
the third year in succession, and Mos-
man, McCabe’s side, was second. With
108 wickets at 8.92, O’Reilly headed the
bowling averages for the fifth successive
year.
FOR A.J.C. MEETING.
(At Rasehill.)
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOTS."
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Hesione,
1 ; Battle Dress, 2 ; Hall Stand, 3.
Autumn Stakes: Beau Vite, 1 ;
Veiled Threat, 2 ; Velocity 3.
Doncaster Handicap; Evergreen,
1 ; Beaulivre, 2 ; Soho or Merrimba,
3.
St. Leger: It’s Funny, 1 ; Liege,
2 ; Chatham’s Choice, 3.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
(At Flemington.)
( Before acceptances .)
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Hurdle Race: Harley, 1; St.
David, 2 ; Xanthia, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Bobby Pearce,
1 ; Great Britain, 2 ; Nalong, 3.
W.R.C. Easter Cup: Wise Coun-
sel, 1 ; Mercury Bay, 2 ; Saul, 3.
Easter Steeplechase; Brightello,
1 ; Giant Killer, 2 ; Victory March,
3.
Seaside Handicap: All Veil, 1 ;
Zonda, 2 ; Fur Trader, 3.
Federal Handicap; Lugano, 1 ;
Neutron, 2 ; Sun Flash, 3.


BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE....... .
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
d
WRITE
TO-DAY
T.JONE S E CO.
g wr»j«mjn»»»wnnnrTnnnnirra 11.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sidney.
REDUCE
YOUR
WAIST
The GOYERNA BELT will reduce
your waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make.
7 DAYS' TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will be
Sin. smaller . . . 3in. of bulge
and strain gone . . . OR NO
COST! Write tor full illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
OFFER, I
GOYERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
fd
f
df
Are you
watching
his health?
If your dog’s
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —
start him now on 1
course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole system.
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARGERY HUBBARD.—TAKE NOTICE
that NOEL HERBERT GEORGE HUBBARD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 40 of 194-
on the grounds of desertion without any just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
You may enter an appearance on or before
the 23rd June 1942 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MR. ALLAN
E. CUPIT Solicitor 129 Pitt Street Sydney
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE DENNIS PEARCE.—TAKE
NOTICE that CAROLINE DORIS PEARCE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2051 ot
1941 on the grounds of desertion without any
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
You may enter an appearance on or before the
23rd June 1942 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MR. ALLAN E.
CUPIT Solicitor 129 Pitt Street Sydney.—
(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN ANDRE LOUIS DAUDET late of
Chez Nous Station Street Woy Woy.—TAKE
NOTICE that VALMAI ALMA DAUDET has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 495 of 194-
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards It
you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance before the Nineteenth day of June 1942
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from J. P. METCALFE & CO. Petitioner’s
Solicitors 185 Elizabeth Street Sydney. — (1.5.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/*
100 Australians, all different V-
-40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
\Ve buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., II
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (fist. 56 Years.)
SMOKE-OH!
Proverb Justified.
“She had taken ail her clothes, but left a
note. ‘Will is taking me with him. Good-
bye,’ it said.” — Divorce report.
There’s often, in these little bits
Of proverbs, naught in what they say ;
But here is one that aptly fits:
She’d found a Will and got away.
P. P.
“The second movement of this work inclines
to monotony, and is too long drawn out.
After the andante a quick one would have been
welcome.”— Musical critic.
Even musical critics feel the need for
a stimulant now and then.
•b *b *b . 4r
“He told the chemist that the ointment he
had given him had made the rash get worse,
and came out on his ear.”— “D.T.”
It couldn’t have been the only thing
he told him.
•b *b *b *b
“Deirdre arched her brows as she frowned.
‘Don’t come at that stuff, Gerald,’ she said;
‘what do you think 1 am?’ ” — Serial.
A contortionist, it seems.
*b *b *b *b
“The master spy quickly decoded the message
and turned to the agent. ‘One thing only re-
mains,’ he said. ‘Can B'B get there in lime! ’ ”
—Magazine story.
It’s a soda!
•i* *2* *s*
“A newly-invented dog whistle is pitched so
high that it is virtually inaudible to the human
ear. ’’—-“World’s News.”
The Burglars’ Association is hard at
work trying to'breed a watchdog whose
bark is the same.
“The bride was charmingly attired in an
ivory Chantilly tulle veil* and carried a bou-
quet of frangipanni.”— Balonne ( Q .) “Beacon.”
Let’s hope it was a long veil,
v *b *b *b
“The man who stays too late often spoils
his own chances. The girl gets tired of him.”
-— Woman's paper.
And feels, of course, that there is no
go in him.
“Since normally any oyster spawns several
times during the summer, a single female may
produce several hundred million eggs.”
— “World's News.”
Married ones are even more prolific.
"Call me what you like. Surge, but you cant say I haven't got guts."
“The main feature of the evening was a talk
by a well-known nudist.” — Society gossip.
A star attraction without supporting
shorts.
4* 4* 4*
“Home dictators are home-wreckers.”
— “World's News.”
And yet some people still think that
women aren’t fitted for heavy work.
“Summer married Winter on the first day of
spring, Ruidoso, N.M ."-^Ripley.
Many people break out in hives at
spring, so to two such seasoned people
marriage was only another rash idea.
*l* *2*
“A husband’s love should remain the same
even when his wife’s hair has turned grey.”
—Sunday magazine.
Or even henna, ash or platinum.
•b »b *b
“When asked what they want to do next,
three Australian armies back from Russia
chorused —‘Japs.’ ” — “Sun.’ 1 ’
Must be those ghost armies we hear
so much about.
•b *b *b 4*
“Wore mother’s wedding gown.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
The ’groom wanted to wear his father’s
wedding suit, but father was still wear-
ing it.
Just Picture This!
Pink elephants! Wide-eyed he stared.
Whatever could it mean ?
He saw an abo. scarlet-haired,
And snowflakes spotted green.
Bright purple snakes and pigs with wings.
And then he loudly cursed,
And growled, “Of all the tripy things
This modern art’s the worst!”
E.
By Specious Arrangement.
“Most women have a flair for arrangement.”
— Woman’s paper.
True! In particular a man has to
beware the woman who arranges his tie.
Little attentions such as this give a man
an absurd gratification and pave the way
for the young woman to arrange to go
to lunch with him at his expense. Then
if he’s not careful she’ll shortly be arrang-
ing something with a minister, then
arranging to spend his money for him,
and finally arranging what hour he shall
come home or go out, and what friends
he shall—or shan’t —have.
And heaven help him if he disarranges
anything in the house after she has
“arranged” it.
HAMER.
Safety First.
“Matrimonial agencies in London report men
in search of wives have indicated a preference
for plump women.”—" World’s News.”
They plump for plumpness every time.
Because —or so ’tis said —
As fat ones love to eat and sup
He’ll still be fed, not just fed-up,
If lean times are ahead.
ELM.
Exaggeration.
“Woman’s tendency to exaggeration is itself
exaggerated.”— Woman's paper.
Maria had described the new place as
“the most delightful little flat in the
world.” So we moved in.
“Why, the place is simply overrun with
ants,” she declared two days later in her
vehement manner —she had seen three —
“and it’s infested with mice.”
“You said that yesterday. I set th>
trap last night and. it wasn’t touched.”
“Don’t be ridiculous,” snapped Maria.
“It looks a place where there would be
mice. It’s a hovel. As for that Mrs.
Grabrent, the grasping old”
“An exceptionally charming woman
you said she was.”
“That was when I had only met her
once. It shows what a hypocrite she is
to have given me that impression.”
“Oh, well,” I said wearily. “I sup-
pose that means another shift.”
“There’s nothing I hate more than
moving,” said Maria. “We’ll just put
up with this dump, I suppose.”
Knowing Maria, I wasn’t surprised
when that evening she took me to a place
becoming vacant at the week-end.
“It’s the most entrancing flat!” she
asserted.
H. M.
Camouflage.
“It was time to think about Darwin and that
other front door, Townsville. The front porch
was always a better place to fight than in the
hallway.”— “Sunday Sun:”
We disagree. If you must fight
Avoid the threshold. After all,
It’s sensible to keep from sight
When tantalised into a brawl.
We are convinced, my wife and I,
That public gaze on private fuss
Is something none can justify —
The kitchen’s good enough for us!
P. O. M. C.
Trouble.
That eyes are windows of the soul
Is true without a doubt.
The trouble is, the other day,
Mae’s husband, seeing me with Mae
Blacked both my windows out!
NAT.
“You Are Listening To”-
“The Joint Parliamentary Committee on
Broadcasting has recommended open competi-
tive examination for recruitment of A.B.C.
staff.”
The Bulletin has been fortunate in
securing a draft of the written questions
for the first examination. The oral por-
tion, of course, will be judged by an old-
time melodrama villain, and all candi-
dates will have to have plums in their
mouths as they speak.
1. You are in charge of the studio.
You have just finished playing the record
“My Marne’s a jitterbug for sure ; her
tutor was St. Vitus,” and there is still
a couple of minutes to fill in before the
reading of extracts from Lord Sardine
—His Life and Times. You, therefore,
bring the glockenspiel into play. During
the seventh repetition of the noise it emits
the studio ’phone rings. It is a listener
furiously demanding to know “when the
hell are you going to shut the musical
abortion up and get on with the pro-
gramme?” Bearing in mind that as a
license-payer he has certain rights, would
you (a) chop him off; ( b ) play the thing
a few more times ; or (c) request him to
submit to the Complaints Sub-committee
of the Commission his complaint (wit-
nessed by two Js.P.) on Form 248, which
can be procured on application to the
Commission?
2. Assume you are arranging a pro-
gramme. You have the choice of fitting
in a ten-minute talk with alternative
subjects: “Vivid recollections of a secret-
service man” and “The influence of com-
mercial law on modern industrial prob-
lems.” Give no fewer than ten reasons
why you would select the latter subject.
3. In the items to be read during an
overseas news session appear the place-
names Kharkov and Staraya Russa.
Explain fully why these should be pro-
nounced. “Harkiff” and “St’rya Roozer.”
4. Expound the thesis that a passion-
ate plea to listeners to save being fined
by taking out licenses for their sets should
always be preceded by the playing of a
delightful classic, such as Brahms’s
Waltz in A Major, which should invari-
ably be cut off halfway through to give
emphasis to the veiled threat.
5. You have to arrange the sound
effects for a broadcast play. There is the
purling of a mountain brook over
pebbles to be simulated, and for this, of
course, you will have a man standing
with a glass of water by the microphone
ready to gargle at the right moment; for
the speeding train there will be sand-
paper to be rubbed together. But one
of the characters has to leave the room
and angrily slam the door after him.
State how you would set about devising
a gadget which would faithfully imitate
the slamming of a door.
6. You may have to conduct the early-
morning exercise session during a winter
morning. Discuss whether the reading
out of “Ar-r-ms, swing! Right, left —
c’mon, put more life into it! Now
right, one, two ; now left, one, two. Ooh!
Now then, bend into it more!” is best
performed while huddled up in a lounge
chair with hands in woollen gloves (bear
in mind that the pages of the script have
to be constantly turned over), or would
you depend on hot rum and breathing
on the bare hands to keep warm? Also,
state what steps you would take to have
reproduced the strenuous-sounding grunts
with which the readings must be liberally
salted.
7. You have to compere a show. The
yawns of the audience facing you are
non-stop, and you feel an overpowering
desire to follow their example. Detail
the various methods you would adopt to
prevent your own indulgence in this
luxury.
8. A performer appears at the studio
to do a one-man-band turn. He is to
be on the air twice during the evening.
After the strenuous efforts of his first
performance you note with horror that
his starched batswing collar (which is,
incidentally, only l|in. in height) is
slightly limp, and that his boiled shirt
has become crumpled. The ethics of
the profession demand, of course, that
he appear at his next session sartorially
immaculate. You tactfully point this out,
and he replies that as nobody is there
but the “mike” what does it matter?
Marshall the arguments you would em-
ploy to convince him of his erroneous
thinking.
9. Your job as the funny man is to
keep the audience amused between
records during an “off” session. Explain
why you should use a talking voice
pitched between a boy soprano’s and
an old-time vaudeville comedian’s, and
whether you would rely for your gags
on Joe Miller or early-talkie wisecracks.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
I Common Ownership”
Almost everybody can observe, at first
nd and on a small scale, how “common
nership of the means of production
irks in practice.
Consider how office equipment is
ated. Paper, pencils, erasers and blot-
's arc rarely half-used before being
warded. Lights are left on unneces-
rily. Typewriters and other valuable
ichines are roughly handled, and
nhods of operation designed to pro-
;t them from wear are disregarded it
ey involve the slightest trouble. In
ort, waste, neglect and destruction to
y nothing of petty pilfering—are the
te of materials made available tor
mmon use.
In a competitive system the employer
n maintain his profits only by fighting
is natural tendency of human beings to
: careless with all but their own per-
nal possessions. Yet socialists want
>th to eliminate the profit motive and
extend “common ownership.” It
ould then be in nobody’s interest to see
at materials and equipment were used
ith care. Those who would brush aside
is problem should ask themselves why
ic Russian Government has found it
;cessary to inflict savage legal penalties
»• waste and neglect, which it classes
i sabotage. —Col (N.S.W.).
ree Intelligence
Isn’t it high time irresponsible voices
a the air were gagged? Free speech is
ne thing; telling the world (and the
lemy) items of news which for security
masons responsible Ministers desire to
e kept temporarily or permanently
ecret is another.
Axis methods generally make no
ppeal to the free peoples of the earth,
ut one sometimes wishes we had the effi-
acy of Axis control of press and radio,
m convinced that this freedom of the
poken and printed word places the
emocracies at a disadvantage, the
eriousness of which cries for prompt
nd drastic attention.
And, as if to lend weight to my argu-
lent, 8.8. C. is at this precise moment
aforming the Japs (if they are listening)
hat General MacArthur plans to use
aratroops extensively in his mooted
ffensive against them. —P.O.M. C.
N.S.W.).
'or the Defence
Blimp-baiting has gone beyond a joke
nd will endi in tragedy. A sort of
cense has been given to caricaturists,
writing boys and politicians posing as
atriots —nearly all non-starters in the last
/ar —to incite popular contempt for
lonorable naval and military officers as
i class by dismissing them as Blimps,
iven if it were true that Tom Wintring-
lam and his friends who were on the
osing side in the Spanish civil war would
nake better leaders, their numbers are
nsignificant and they would not be
olerated by the services.
The limitations of the Blimp—that
peculiar mixture of honor, courage and
itupidity—are well known, but no satis-
factory substitute has ever been found
:or him in British military and colonial
idministration. Blimps made the British
Empire. Especially among British and
[ndian soldiers the Blimp has inspired a
respect and affection that would have
been denied to more complex but less
noble characters.
Sir Stafford Cripps, on the eve of his
mission to India, joined in the howl of
the mob against Blimps. Folly, because
it is only Blimps who so far have held
India together. —J- W. R. (Tas.).
Rural A.R.P.
All the A.R.P. instructions I have seen
are drafted for brick or concrete dwell-
ings or business premises. What about
country towns and outer suburbs where
buildings are of weatherboard, thin iron
or fibro? We should be able to have
by now some data as to how the Darwin
w.b. buildings stood up to the Blitz-
Another thing. Winter is “icumep
in,” and we in the country will soon
have log fires going in open-topped
chimneys. How should we black these
out? Moreover, open trenches may be
all right in Sydney, where it rarely rains
now, but in country areas where heavy
frosts and cold winter rains are preva-
lent special treatment is necessary.
Again, A.R.P. codes provide for so
many wardens to a block in cities where
there may be several hundred people to
each beat. In country towns, inhabitants
are more scattered, but the establishment
is supposed to be the same. Why don’t
the A.R.P. authorities realise that there
are people living beyond Strathfield or
Caulfield?— Arbeep (N.S.W.).
A National Government
In August, 1914, Andrew Fisher
cleared the decks for action with his
famous and statesmanlike announcement
that Australia would be with Britain to
the last man and the last shilling. All
political parties were with him in this
attitude and our war effort in those years
is a memory of which we are justly
proud. . ,
This war found things vastly different,
with confusion of thought and policy.
Representative of less than half the poli-
“Done camouflage Work before?"
“Cripes, yes. Many's the time I've made a quid look like nothin' ."
tical thought of the country, Parliamen-
tary Labor has consistently refused to
co-operate in an all-party Government.
In ordinary times, when the worst that
can be done merely results in an increase
in taxation, that may be all right. But
in time of war and, perhaps, invasion it
is the height of folly.
It is not the prerogative of any poli-
tical party to call upon us to make the
sacrifices which we are now making and
which we have yet to make. C>nly a
truly national Government, owing no
allegiance to any section or party, has
the moral right to demand the uttermost
service. And only a truly national Gov-
ernment can enjoy the confidence of all.
—T. G. M. (Q.).
Teachers’ Holidays
Will someone kindly give “Macßopus”
(B. 25/2/’42) 500 old cull ewes just after
a weaning draft and full of feed and
water, 500 mixed hoggets which have been
yarded for 12 hours and 500 six-tooth
wethers, wild from an 80-square-mile hill
paddock, all together in one mob, and,
giving him a leg-weary horse and no
dog, tell him to drive ’em 12 miles across
country? He’d then have a job which’d
be almost a sinecure compared with teach-
ing a school of seven grades on a hot
day towards end of term with the work,
say, a week behind schedule.
Nobody objects to “Macßopus” criti-
cising a provincial Government provided
his criticism is constructive. But when
he talks of reducing teachers’ holidays he
displays a colossal ignorance of the net-
vous strain imposed on anyone who, while
trying to keep up with a set curriculum,
endeavors to educate in the real sense
of the word. That sort of criticism is
wholly ridiculous and, in that it reveals
to the teacher the vast lack of under-
standing and sympathy which he has to
face, wholly destructive. — Taylor Ville
(S.A.).
Lottery Prizes and Taxes
In these times of stress, with poli-
ticians so frequently referring to “an' all-
out war effort,” and big and small in-
comes alike feeling the strain of seveie
taxation, why should winners of lottery
prizes be exempt? These fortunate indi-
viduals rake in anything from £5 to
£30,000. They risked a very small sum
and no personal merit and no effort of
either mental or physical power was re-
quired.
Wage-earners, tradesmen, property-
owners and businessmen must toil with
brain or body, or both, to make a living,
yet they are (unavoidably) taxed on
profits which they have deservedly won.
Would it not, therefore, be but common
justice to levy a charge on the easy
money acquired in Government-sanc-
tioned games of chance? A good stiff
tax on lottery wins would help to buy
badly-needed aircraft, for the want of
which so many of our Australian heroes
have been sacrificed. —M. H. (Q.)
State Housing
Despite previous disastrous housing
schemes, S.A. persists in dabbling with
I ricks and mortar. For some time a so-
ailed Housing Trust has been erecting
roups of attached houses to be let at
ents which give a private investor finan-
ial shivers.
The Federal Government, faced witn
he problem of housing munition workei s
n S.A., talked of getting 500 homes
milt by the Housing Trust, which
iroudly pointed to its record and bragged
>f things to come. A dead silence fol-
owed—then an announcement that the
-lousing Trust would have nothing further
o do with the Federal Government be-
:ause of a refusal to relieve the Trust
>f its obligation to pay sales tax on
naterial used, which every other builder
las to pay.
No self-respecting builder, if lie could
jet materials —which he can’t —could
jrect a pair of four-roomed houses under
£1350, plus cost of site which may be
reckoned at £l5O. These houses let at
30s. per week each, a gross return
of £156 p.a. Rates, taxes, maintenance,
sundry repairs, agents’ fees, etc., mop
up at least £52 p.a., leaving £lO4 ’
senting the net return on £l5OO ot
approximately 7 p.c.
After providing sinking fund to cover
possible future loss of rents and depre-
ciation spread over years, the private in-
vestor may eventually get 4 p.c. on his
money. And yet the S.A. Housing Trust
can let its homes for 12s. 6d. per week.
—lnko (S.A.).
Post-mortems
A large section of the public dislikes
the idea of post-mortem examinations
being performed on themselves or on
their relatives. They must realise that it
a death certificate were refused the law
would override any objections they could
make and a post-mortem would be
ordered by the coroner. All agree that
this is right, but many cannot imagine it
happening to themselves or to those
whom they have loved.
What is it that makes people shrink
from this examination? We do not reject
the knife of the surgeon when we feel or
know that it will lengthen or make our
lives more comfortable. Is it reasonable
that we should withhold from our fellow-
men any help which an examination on
our own or a loved one’s dead body
might make possible? From a purely
selfish aspect we ourselves may benefit
from discoveries made at a post-mortem.
There is nothing revolting or dis-
respectful about a properly-conducted
post-mortem. It is as quickly and cleanly
done as is an operation during life. There
is no sign that the restful sleep of death
has been disturbed.
I am sure that persons who object
have no idea of their responsibility
toward their fellows in this matter, nor
have they any idea of the simplicity and
lEfensiveness of post-mortem work. —
VI. W. (Vic.).
trology
H.M.” (B. 18/3/ *42) is justly indig-
it about the flood of astrological
iddle. The Romans were much more
iservative in such matters than the
sent-day generation, and yet during
Second Punic War, 219-211 8.C., Livy
es that “such a wave of superstition
cpt over the State that either men or
gods seemed to have suddenly
inged completely.”
However, this superstition is not of
:h a serious nature as to warrant the
ps suggested by “H.M.” To introduce
ronomy into schools would be a step
the wrong direction, even in the post-
r period. It is to be hoped that educa-
n will be reorganised on a more utili-
ian basis than at present. Astronomy
mid be used only by the comparative
v who intended taking up navigation
er on. Thus it would become another
lite elephant subject like algebra, trigo-
metry and Latin, all of which are of
tie use to the majority of students who
ce them.
As to the attendance of the public at
tronomical lectures, it is doubtful if the
eat mass of the people would even
iow a lecture was on. The right ap-
oach in the education of the public on
e matter would be newspaper articles
id radio talks replacing the present
trological nonsense. —J. W. (N.S.W.).
roperty Sales
The relaxation by the Commonwealth
overnment of its regulations banning
e sale of freehold property and shares,
ock and debentures was an act of
juity, not a weak compromise with sec-
anal interests (B. 11/3/’42).
In their original form these regula-
ons were grossly unjust. Complete pro-
ibition of traffic in shares or real estate
ould have occasioned serious hardship
> many thousands. Such drastic inter-
jrence with the rights of the individual
not necessary to the proper conduct
f the war. As The Bulletin has more
aan once pointed out, in Canada a
igger war effort has been achieved with-
ut anything like it. .
The revised regulations are as effective
curb to speculators as those first pro-
lulgated, while they allow such as wish
3 dispose of or acquire shares or prop-
rty for genuine purposes to do so. —
.yle (N.S.W.).
'Jew Language
When Harold Nicholson wrote Diplo-
nacy, he explained the meaning of cer-
ain phrases that recur in diplomatic cor-
espondence, i.e., “.... cannot remain m-
lifferent to” meant “will certainly inter-
vene” ; “... .would feel bound carefully
o reconsider their position meant
‘would change from friends to foes.”
We now have another language, origi-
lated by special correspondents and
fiaborated by the pundits of the
fir waves. Here are a few phrases
md their translations: “The situa-
ion is well in hand,” the enemy has
control of the situation ; “The situation
is obscure,” we don’t yet know for cer-
tain what advances the enemy has made
or what destruction he has wrought ;
“But there is no confirmation of this
from London” (or Moscow or Canberra),
this is almost certainly true, but we aren’t
acknowledging it yet; “There is no
change on the front,’ the enemy
has made progress, but not as much as
he expected ; “Considerable damage was
probably inflicted on the enemy,” fl is
possible that the enemy suffered losses,
but we did not observe any.
I suggest that a full glossary, con-
taining these and other expressions, with
their translation into the real meaning,
be printed in every issue of every radio
weekly. This would remove the danger
of simple souls accepting the anMunce-
ments as literally correct. —C. H. H. (v-fi


d
m
e
1 1
m
fd
sag 6 : y=
Cheerful but def
e ''mined, t yp ; ca/ A ,
*• men
fd
f
R.A.A.F. fliers
superiority.
who are establishing air
m
df
m
;
:S-i ■
?S>sisjsSSS
A typical fighter pilot in the cockpit of a
"Buffalo".
We MST BACK THEM UP
Tf l? en * n un^orm are our brothers. Let us then, whatever
the difficulties, use every endeavour in the workshop, in the
home, in our spare time, to make each action and word part of
a great forward movement that will aid and encourage these our
kinsmen who hold our front-line.
We must ...we must back them up.
Inserted as a tribute to the fighting services bv
THE BROKEN HILL ASSOCIATED SMELTERS Pff. LTD.
mm
m- >: *«
-*
mm
Bearded, warmly clad gunner on Australian
warship.
d
fd
AssZ^ LI AMA Ke s
e ' T 'bl, n a d
■ L ’ A MAKES r
"■* ££** *a.r«
■
■M
ass
AUSTRALIA MAKES 3" TRENCH MORTAR
BOMBS Machining castings for mortar bombs
f
Bren carriers under construction.
i
4
i service fine
df
