

The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3261.
Wednesday, August 12, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
GRAND STAIRCASE, CHATSWORTH HALL, DERBYSHIRE.
AMONG the stately homes of England
few can vie with Chatsworth Hall, the
seat of the Duke of Devonshire, located in
the beautiful Peak district of North Derby-
shire. The hall stands on the left bank of
the river Derwent, and as viewed from the
west presents a magnificent facade in fine
relief against the wooded ridge of Bunker’s
Hill. The building is in the lonic style, and
the principal part is composed of four
nearly equal sides, surrounding an open
quadrangular court, with a fountain in the
centre. Chatsworth contains some beautiful
wood carvings by eminent artists. The grand
marble staircase is justly admired. There
is a rich collection of sculptured figures in
marble from the chisels of many of the
greatest men. In the picture gallery are
original drawings and paintings of priceless
value, such old masters as Titian, Rubens,
Rosa, Raphael, Claude and Lorraine being
well represented. The estate of Chatsworth,
or, as it is called, the Park, is upwards of
11 miles in circuit, and the gardens, among,
the most celebrated in the Kingdom, cover 12
acres. The grand conservatory, an acre in ex-
tent, created by the great Sir Joseph Paxton,
is unequalled by any in Europe, and the
waterworks, which include one fountain with
a jet 260 ft. high, are not surpassed by those
of Versailles. The domain of Chatsworth
is mentioned in “Domesday Book” as
Chatesvorde. In the sixteenth century the
estate was purchased by Sir William Caven-
dish. The mansion he erected afterwards
served as a place of confinement for Mary
Queen of Scots from 1570 to 1581. That
structure has entirely disappeared and the
existing one was commenced in 1688 by the
first Duke of Devonshire and completed in
1840 by the seventh. For reasons that will
be fully understood, Chatsworth in recent
years has lost many of “the social glories
which once were Chatsworth. How the
present grim struggle for Empire existence
will affect its furture remains to be seen.
Visitors from all parts of the world when
in England inspect this superb ducal abode,
and the successive owners ever displayed
a willingness to view the countless treasures
of Chatsworth and the wonderful beauties
of the gardens and grounds to all who de-
sired to see them, in which respect they
displayed a public-spiritedness not seen as
possessing the owners of other great country
seats who could be named.


Learn - i. _
Fredance Journalism
This Book FREE to YOU’
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street. Melbourne '
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Pr**
Booklet explaining how to Write V tor ProAt Z
advertised tn the Sydney “Bulletin” ’
My Name
My Address {,
S.B. 142
The Red Page
Mr. Sitwell and the Dodo.
Does it matter that in his Primitive
Scenes and Festivals (Faber), attempting
to paint living pictures of the remote
past, Sacheverell Sitwell disdains a
meticulous accuracy? That he declares
the Norse settlers in Greenland “became
small and puny till they perished to a
man” when most of the authorities now
agree that the settlers disappeared
through intermarriage with the Eskimos?
Preferable though it would be always
to be able to rely on Sitwell’s facts, even
in minute particulars, it doesn’t on the
whole seem of vital importance that he
sometimes errs and often guesses. Primi-
tive Scenes and Festivals is not a Golden
Bough for the student, but a series of
imaginative word-paintings, correspond-
ing in form most nearly to the essay;
vaguely attempting to present to a
bombed England images of a lost “golden
age,” more seriously and more success-
fully presenting a historical pageant, a
Russian ballet in prose, for no other pur-
pose than to intrigue by odd facts, lull
by rhythms and delight by colorful spec-
tacle. It is on its intrinsic accuracy that
Sitwell wishes it to be judged:
We are a disembodiment; and write of
what we see with the eyes of the poet or
the artist, having all antiquity for our
journey here, until the recent past. It is a
subject for a composition, to be judged
by intrinsic, not by literal, truth.
If that is accepted—and it is reasonable
the error about the Norsemen is unim-
portant beside the intrinsic truth of Sit-
well’s observations on the dwarf Piets
who evoked the dwarf Norsemen and who
are undoubtedly most interesting gentry:
There were dwarfish inhabitants who came
up out of burrows or pit chambers, Piets
or the “painted people,” of whom the
Kings or Queens, who ruled a few families,
were often more diminutive than their sub-
jects, of true “faery” or dwarf blood,
whether by inbreeding or because such was
their aboriginal type. Prognathous, with
something of the ape, or circus dwarf,
black-haired, with beetling brows, but dwell-
ing in a proportion or canon of their own,
in underground chambers closed at the en-
trance with a flat slab of stone It is
probable that they had their own breeds
ot diminutive cattle, and dwarf sheep and
ponies. The black Kerry cattle are of
this type, and may have an ancestry as dis-
tant as that to account for them.
If the Piets can be confirmed in their
herds of dwarf animals, and credited to
most of the peninsulas and islands of Celtic
Britain, then the proving of many legends
and much will have been achieved.
They had been driven by their conquerors
into the waste places, but still retained their
family or tribal organisation They had,
almost, some of the qualities of invisibility,
owing to the speed with which they could
vanish, as it were, into the ground; while
this, together with their small stature, and,
we may think, a corresponding or propor-
tionate smallness in their cattle, or their
sheep and ponies, caused them to be
looked upon as magical or inhuman
What is remarkable about them is the ugli-
ness of their children.
The quotation is typical of what is
best in Sitwell’s latest experiment in
word-spinning—the elaborate ballets of
a poet who has thinned and widened his
range in prose.
The “intrinsic truth,” or at any rate
the fascinating oddity, of his re-creation
of the Piets \ the note (with an extraordi-
nary photograph of the lady) on the
dwarf Queen of Tory who (a Pictish sur-
vival, Sitwell suggests) reigned in exile
from the mainland over the island of
Tory, off-the coast of Donegal, in 1934
and had a brother who was a dwarf in
a circus in America; the story of the
rediscovery of the prehistoric Druid lan-
guage called Shelta,” still spoken in re-
c®n*- tinies by Irish tinkers in the slums
of Liverpool; the history of the pre-
historic white cattle, a few surviving yet
in English parks; a description of the
costume of a Red Indian chief:
His shirt was made of two skins of (he
mountain sheep, beautifully dressed. The
bottom of the dress was bound or hemmed
with ermine skins, and tassels of ermines’
tads were hung from his arms and
shouJders. His leggings were of deerskin.
Both his arms and legs had bands down
their entire length worked with porcupine
quills of the richest dyes, and fringed down
their whole length with the scalp locks
3" fr ? m ,enemies. His necklace was
made of 50 huge claws or nails of the '
grizzly bear, worn, like tire scalp locks,
in trophy of personal combat. His shield
was made of the hide of the buffalo’s neck,
hardened with the glue that was taken from
tts hooves; his mocassins were of buck-
skin, covered with embroidery of porcu-
pine’s quills. His bow was of bone, but
as white and beautiful as ivory; the string
being three-stranded and twisted with
smews.
But the most magnificent feature of his
apparel was his headdress. This was a crest
of war eagles’ quills falling from the back
of his forehead quite down to his feet.
This .was set, the whole way, in a profusion
of ermine. And the sides of his forehead
were surmounted by a pair of buffalo horns,
shaved thin and highly polished He took
his attitude before the painter, and with
the sternness of a Brutus and the stillness
of a statue he stood until the darkness
of the night.
The description of a chief of the Crow
Indians on horseback, his black hair, ten
feet in length, flaring in the wind above
the flowing mane and tail of the horse.
A picture of the dodo, by a man who
saw one (in London!) in 1638:
“It was kept in a chamber, and was a
great fowle somewhat bigger than the
largest Turkey cock, and so legged and
footed, but stouter and thicker, and of a
more erect shape, colored before like the
breast of a young cock fesan, and on
the back of dunn or deare color. The
keeper called it a Dodo, and in the end
of a chymney in the chamber there lay
a heape of large pebble stones, where of
he gave it many in our sight, some as bigg
as nutmegs, and the keeper told us she
eats them (conducing to digestion).”
And another of the great extinct flight-
less pigeons, the temperamental “Soli-
tary”:—
“The females are wonderfully beautiful;
some fair, some brown; I call them fair,
because they are the color of fair Hair
As soon as they are caught, they shed Tears
without crying, and refuse all manner of
Sustenance till they die.”
All this and some of the passages on
Stonehenge and similar places; on blood
sacrifice in South America; and on the
Areois of the Pacific Islands who wan-
dered from island to island, dancing and
miming and “spreading a moral con-
tagion throughout society”—is fascinat-
ing stuff, either for its rare facts and in-
formation or for the “intrinsic truth” of
the pageantry.
But because its “intrinsic truth” fails,
as a whole, to convince, Primitive Scenes
and Festivals can never be completely
satisfying. Sometimes the writing has the
barbaric magniloquence of Flaubert’s
Salambo; sometimes the pastoral charm
of Dapknis and Chloe ; sometimes the
rococo ornateness of Sitwell’s Valse des
Fleurs; rarely is it realistic, rarely is it
convincing ; rarely has it either the simple
naturalness of, say, Robert Graves’s re-
constructions of ancient Rome or the
humorous factuality of Sitwell’s own
Poltergeists.
It is too highfalutin; there is too
much word-spinning for the sake of
word-spinning; there is too much of the
false poeticism that has to drag in a
“poetic” thought about violets when the
theme is the vast stone monoliths of
primitive man:
The standing stones would lose their
drama if violets grew against the monoliths.
In the first place, they wouldn’t; and in
the second place, if the violets aren’t
there, it’s mere preciousness to drag them
in. A queer book ; weak in many ways ;
but worth reading. The method is as in-
teresting as the matter: take a theme,
digress, digress from the digression,
digress from the digression from the
digression, digress again and again, and
that’s a chapter. It is a variation of the
method of progression by association
which Eliot used in The Waste Land and
which in Joyce's Finnegans Wake led to
the most unintelligible mumbo-jumbo that
ever got into print.
The Friendly Visitor .
Dr. Halliday Sutherland, his tribute ;
In (he metropolitan dailies the standard
of journalism is as high as in Britain, and
there is one Australian weekly to whidrthe
world ol letters has been indebted ever
since it was lounded in the ’eighties—the
Sydney Bulletin.
This is a national newspaper with the
motto ‘Australia for the White Man.” In
politics it is democratic but independent of
alt parties, m style it is racy, and in scope it
seeks to encourage literary talent in Aus-
tralia. On Our Selection first appeared in
us pages, and among writers and artists
whose genius was fostered by The Bulle-
tin and whose reputation is now world-
wide are Henry Lawson, “Banjo” Pater-
son, Phil May and David Low For its
services to literature and art such a paper
,s worth more detailed consideration
Dishonest politicians and shady financiers
wherever they may be, do not fear God •
but m Australia they fear The Bulletin.
Moreover, all authors writing in English
have a salutary respect for the “Red Page.”
Fhere you will find criticism without fear
or favor; and there (he target is held as
high as in any literary paper in Britain.
After which pleasant words, Dr. Suth-
crland goes on to say that “a remarkable
feature is the amount of matter contri-
buted by readers.” He quotes a typical
weeks “Answers to Correspondents,”
and comments:
| these examples because this first-
aid to beginners is apparently unique, apart
from the firms in Britain who advertise —
“How to Earn Money by Writing.” Indeed,
the success of The Bulletin suggests that
the general standard of culture in Australia
may be higher than in Britain.
Ihere seenrs to be no reason why anyone
should go into mourning over the present
state of literature in Australia.
So far, there doesn’t seem to be any
reason why The Bulletn should go into
mourning over Dr. Sutherland’s South-
ward Journey (Bles; George Jaboor),
from which the quotations are taken.
But it must be said (alas!) that the book
is not as good a survey of Australia as
Paul McGuire’s Australian Journey ;
certainly not as good as M. Barnard
Eldershaw’s My Australia.
Having failed to perform the impos-
sible— to make a few months’ visit the
same thing as a lifetime’s residence —Dr.
Sutherland has turned out a bdok about
on a par with Arnold Haskell’s Waltzing
Matilda : pleasant, friendly, highly suit-
able for an English audience ; having in-
terest for Australian readers in its politi-
cal, literary and social criticisms, in the
color of the author’s personality, and in
the fact that the visitor usually sees a
good deal more of the country than most
Australians are ever likely to ; but always
savoring of the guide-book, always trying
to make too much of thinnish material.
Dr. Sutherland’s comments on con-
temporary Australian literature, for in-
stance, were hardly worth making. They
are well-meant, they can do no harm ;
James Devaney and Flexmore Hudson
collect a friendly notice. But obviously
the author has no real knowledge of
what has been written over the past few
years.
Where he may do a good service, as
far as his Australian audience is con-
cerned, is in his praise of Steele Rudd.
Rudd’s “Dad” and “Dave” and the rest
have become so much a part of the
national consciousness that they’re almost
tribal deities at this date. But for every
person who knows that they were created
by Arthur H. Davis for The Bulletin
there must be ten who imagine that they
are recent creations of the radio. While
Lawson has come into ever greater
prominence as an interpreter of the Aus-
tralian character, Steele Rudd seems to
have receded from literary notice. He is
due for a revival. This is Halliday
Sutherland’s opinion of On Our Selection,
quoted in a reprint of a newspaper inter-
view in which he laughed at the notion
that the Australian climate would prevent
the creation of great art in this country;
Australia has already produced one great
piece of literature —On Our Selection.
In that book Arthur H. Davis (“Steele
Rudd”) tells of a family who made a home
and created a farm in the wilderness, of
their toil, sweat, laughter, tears, courage
and stupidities. The Australian scene is as
vivid as in a great landscape painting;
the characters as in Jife—Dad, Mother,
Dan, Joe, Dave, Sal and Kate, each with
a distictiye personality. I know them well,
also their neighbors. In this humorous
book the characters reveal themselves with
an economy of words, and the writing
appears to be effortless. It is therefore com-
parable with The Diary of a Nobody.
Both are outstanding masterpieces of the
last century and may be destined to sur-
vive the years to come.
It is for such valuable pieces of com-
ment as that that Southward Journey is
chiefly interesting to an Australian
reader. The travel notes —when they get
away from Adelaide parks and Sydney
Harbor—range widely, and are always
enlivened with anecdote. Dr. Sutherland
takes a healthy interest in incendiary
bombs, Australian licensing laws, ghosts,
the Flying Doctor, the possibility of
making the inland rivers flow again, lon
Idriess, Earle Page, wowsers, mayors and
the Pyjama Girl,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
One of these days the Borovansky
Australian Ballet may be able to dance
the theme of the Girl Who Saved Ned
Kelly and be hailed as an innovator,
but the time is not yet. In the
meantime, at the Princess, Melbourne,
the ballet did “Les Sylphides” very
nicely. Martyn Borovansky’s fan-
tasy on Grieg’s Concerto in A
Minor was the most ambitious effort.
Man’s struggle with temptations and
desire was depicted by the powerfully-built
director, the temptations by a posse of
nimble damsels, desire very skilfully by
Miss D. Stevenson, and true love rather
like a high school young lady by A.
Mackintosh. Grieg was again the inspira-
tion for the ballet “Sigrid,” in a rustic
setting wherein Miss E. Basse, having
died of a broken heart, returned to dance
very blithely with the village maidens.
To mention Tivoli ballet after “Rus-
sian” is counted almost as much of a
faux pas as asking a chess-player if he
has ever tried draughts; but what swoon-
ing and admiration there would be, what
yards of impassioned praise would be
written, if the choreographers thought up
an thine as beautiful in concention as
Lady ol the Mist” in the current Syd
”5 y f lv ; Programme, wherein, in a lovely
effect ot wings, shadows and rapid danc
mg, dream-women seen behind gauzy cur
tains, move in the mind of a sleeper
And as for comic ballet, nothing in the
classics could ever approach in uproari
nmn , ess the Egyptian burlesque of
the Marcella Trio. It’s a fair average
i iv. bill on the whole, with George Wal-
lace and Jenny Howard doing their
tammar acts with their familiar spirit
and Fred Brown juggling with much
humor as well as skill.
I here were two first appearances in
Australia at the fourth symphony con-
cert at the Melbourne Town Hall. One
was an Adagio for strings by Samue
Barber, one of the younger generation
ot American composers, and if anybody
expected anything alarming or revolu-
tionary from it he was disappointed. It
was calm and collected, melodious anc
pleasant. Not so the Concerto in D
Minor for violin and orchestra by Igor
Stravinsky. If soloist Jeanne Gautier
had been invited to swallow a sword and
juggle five bottles while walking a tight-
rope, she would have probably found it
easier than driving her bow through this
tempestuous music with its switchback
rhythms, extraordinary changes of tempo
and strange gurgling noises, interspersed
with passages of melodious charm which
showed that the composer could do that
sort of thing as well as the other. It
says something for the French violinist’s
technical skill and powers of concentra-
tion that she never gave the effect of
being at a loss for a moment.
Good voices, young and comely sin-
gers, the evident enjoyment of the per-
formers and the services of a competent
orchestra made Sydney Con. Opera
Class’s production of “Don Giovanni” a
pleasant afternoon. Lily Kolos (Elvira),
Isolde Hill (Donna Anna) and Sydney
de Vries (Don Juan) sang well. But most
of the roguishness and sparkle, as well
as the deeper emotions Mozart wrote
into the score, failed to get across the
footlights, perhaps because the acting was
so stiff. Admittedly there is nothing more
difficult in stagecraft than to appear easy
and natural while holding up the action
of the piece to deliver a long aria, but
it can be done, and the Con. should gel
hold of some old pro. who can impart
the secret.
There never was an Australian artist
who better deserved the honor the N. S.
Wales National Gallery is doing Lloyd
Rees (and itself) by holding a loan exhi-
bition of that painter’s works. Better
known in his earlier years as a master of
pencil and pen, Rees is one of those
painters to whom form is tremendously
important. He feels it, one would say,
much more intensely than he does color.
Rees’s style, utterly his own, is not an
affectation, but a necessity. Within its
range he manages almost always to
achieve the beautiful, and to reveal his
affection for those features of a land-
scape which are characteristic rather than
those that are universal. The sandstone
formations round about Sydney have
been studied by Rees as no other painter
has studied them, and he has been well
rewarded for that study.
The show of 46 canvases and 69 draw-
ings that the Gallery has been able to
get together very fairly epitomises the
development of Rees’s talents. Old friends
among the oils are “Road to the Moun-
tains,” “The Valley,” “Spring at Hunter’s
Hill” (a magical quality in this), “Summer
in the Bush,” “Northwood Point,” and
“Hills Near Terrigal.” More recent is
“Cloudy Afternoon, Gerringong,” mel-
lower in mood, more resourceful in treat-
ment of light than earlier essays. Among
the drawings stands “The Bridge, South
Coast Landscape,” the property of the
Gallery, and quite the best pen-and-wash
Australian landscape ever achieved.
“The Chocolate Soldier” (Sydney
Liberty), based on Ferenc Molnar’s “The
Guardsman,” calls for spirited acting.
Nelson Eddy, as the jealous musicomedy
star who tests his wife’s fidelity by woo-
ing her under the guise of a Russian
singer, gives easily his best performance
to date. His resonant baritone takes on
an almost bass quality in a rendering of
Moussourgsky’s sardonic “Song of the
Flea” which would not have disgraced
Chaliapin himself. Rise Stevens, his vocal
vis-a-vis, is a laughing-eyed beauty who
sings effortlessly over a range that takes
her from “My Hero” down to the nether
notes of Saint-Saens’s “Softly Awakes
My Heart.” Also she acts intelligently.
“Sullivan’s Travels,” at Sydney Prince
Edward, is chiefly remarkable for a
blonde glamor goil (Veronica Lake) who,
lurking behind a veil of hair like an
Australian terrier’s, whispers bitter wise-
cracks in a husky monotone.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the foundation of confidence.
0
And Time
Spent on Your Home Is Well Repaid
‘THE SENIOR STORE’
ms*.
m
r :
-
ZM
M
wm
m Wh.
m
mm
<
r
m '
£
ssaP
P:?* /^f
V: :;>»
W: i
ms
j
V ,
I■■ mm I ■ im
**" < jgtt ’v I I s: '
, i. •> • !i!
wm
X.
sfe.'"'
PW
11*
6- structural
PAINT
ft
-** *«* »** **%*a*%*|;:‘**
******. .*»•
S
light oar*
,M ** •••**.— •♦ ♦VMf'fi
i/l
TAUBMANSi^
£
w
/ Mmm
%
■ G
n
m
&
m
£>
// /
j ■;:
I/ II II
m
►S'*
£5
r-y//
X
M
m
m/i
Wj
w.
00m
\ V -
\ ' J
PW
m
y/
w
PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TO PROTECT
ROOF AGAIJVSX THE
RIGOURS OF WINTER
High Grade Red Roof Paint
Easy to apply and quick drying, Red Roof
Paint will help to preserve your home from
the ravages of the weather. It s ideal tor
galvanised iron roofs, gutterings, etc. At
Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes 1 Gall. iGall. Quart
Prices 15/6 8/3 4/9
Dulsetta Semi-Flat Enamel
For all interior Walls and Woodwork, there
is nothing superior to Dulsetta Semi-Flat
Enamel. At Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes IGall. iGall. Quart Pint
Prices 33/- 17/5 9/2 4/9
Tauhman’s Dynamel
Taubman's Dynamel comes to you in
gleaming colours. Create a cheery atmo-
sphere by repainting your Bedroom and
Verandah Furniture, Kitchen ( Chairs,
Tables, etc. At Anthony Horderns .
Sizes .... Quart Pint
Prices 10/1 5/6
i Pint
3/1
FPint
1/8
“Kilrat” Raits
Certain death to Rats is assured by using
"Kilrat" Baits, made up in the form of small
baked biscuits, ready for use. Packed in
tins containing 30 baits. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price
Rrush Cleaning Compound
Make dried and dirty brushes like new by
using Paint and Varnish Brfush Cleaning
Compound. At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
per packet


OPERATIONAL FLIGHT
By PILOT-OFFICER T. L. DUIGAN.
THE blues and purples of late after-
noon masked the savage hills. The
waters of the harbor twinkled in
the soft wind, and lakatois under
rich brown sails came sliding home from
the reef to the absurd little village on
stilts in the shadow of a green-crowned
chalky headland. They contrasted
strangely with the five great flying-boats
lying at their buoys.
A squat bomb scow edged itself alongside
one of the boats. A refuelling barge backed
away from another, five tons lighter than
when it started pumping. The crews
slept in the bunks or lolled on the main-
planes. The blue shadows became purple,
the purples black. Ashore, in operations
room, the pilots were politely attentive
while an officer of the Intelligence sec-
tion described their target. Afterwards
they went down to the slip and crowded
on board a waiting motor-boat, which
took them out to their aircraft.
An incongruous spurt of sound broke
from one of the flying-boats as the one-
and-a-half-horse two-stroke which started
the big motors was touched into life.
A pause while the inertia starters wound
up, and then the airscrew on the port
engine began to turn. A few muffled
bangs and the engine was running
smoothly. As the mooring pendant was cast
off the starboard motor started, and the
stutter of the two-stroke was replaced by
the deep, uneven note of the idling engines.
The aircraft taxied in close circles
while the oil temperature mounted, then
straightened up and roared as the captain
tested the switches and pitch controls.
He spoke softly into the intercom. :
“Hello, engineer. Hello, engineer. Ready
for take-off” ; then turned to the second
pilot, “Full bore for this one. Bill.”
The boat turned into wind, the note of
the idling engines rose quickly to a surg-
ing bellow and the nose came ponder-
ously out of the water as the motors
struggled to get the big load of fuel and
bombs up on to the step.
She went slowly across the harbor; a
sheet of spume whipped back from the
props, and the great bow wave spurted
up to the elevators. A slight change of
attitude and she was on the step, hydro-
planing, no longer a wallowing hulk shov-
ing its weight through each wave. The
staggering volume of sound bellowed and
throbbed and clanged, and then hushed.
“One minute dead,” said the captain as
he trimmed the boat for climb. “Not
bad with this load.” The second pilot
fiddled with the pitch controls, trying to
eliminate the persistent beat from a
slight difference in revs.
The captain hopped down from his
seat. “Keep her climbing to about five
thousand ; I’ll get a course.” The second
pilot trimmed the boat and engaged
George. The captain leaned through the
bulkhead from the navigating compart-
ment, turned the compass grid ring,
pointed and inspected the boost gauges.
Behind them was the velvet-black land
and the harbor, cut by the white wake
of the second boat’s take-off.
At five thousand feet the second pilot
twiddled George and the nose came
slowly down to the horizon. He waited
while* the speed built up and then pulled
the pitch controls sharply back, then
the throttles, and the noise and vibration
became less insistent. Behind his head
the big props spun effortlessly, and the
exhaust stacks belched their pillars of
blue flame against the darkening sky.
‘T WO hours into the sou’-easter and
* there was still a red streak in the
west as they turned north. The captain,
sitting sideways in his seat, chewing his
meal of M and V, was dimly aware of
this incredible drama —the roar of the
exhausts, the stark silhouette of the great
mainplane against the towering luminous
clouds, and under it the tangle of bomb
racks with their deadly load sliding
serenely through the biting air. He was
calm and above confidence, one with the
tremendous night. He wondered why,
when he was not flying, he would lie for
hours at night, sweating and turning, tak-
-1 ing off big loads in pounding seas, land-
ing on nights when the sea was blacker
than the land, hit by ack-ack fire, chased
by fighters, and yet once in the air he
didn’t give a damn if it snowed.
Four hours of heavy idleness, broken
only by the occasional sudden impact of
fierce storms; then he looked into the
nav. compartment again. “I got a fix on
the cape, Bill,” he said when he came
back. “We should be there at twelve-
fifteen ; you’d better check over your
bomb switches.” He switched on the
intercom.: “Pilot to all guns—pilot to
all guns. We’ll be over the target in fif-
teen minutes.”
The moon was well up, nearly full; too
much light, if anything. The surface of
the, sea stood out clearly from the land
and the shape of the coast became steadily
more familiar. The second pilot’s voice
came through the intercom.: “Everything
hunky here. Hear me all right?” The
captain snapped on his mike. “Yes,
good. I can see the harbor now; we’ll
get down moon, and only make one run,
if you caif see the ships.”
Searchlights suddenly came feeling up.
Showers of tracers floated silently into
the night. As one gun the ack-ack bat-
teries on ships and shore opened up. The
captain could not see where it was burst-
ing, and the aircraft was so steady that
it couldn’t be close. “I’m turning on
now, Bill,” he said. “I’ll make a bit of
an S-turn up and you steer me on when
you reckon we’re close enough.”
The boat came round in a wide sweep,
and there was the harbor, black land and
silver seh, and scattered on its burnished
surface were the ships. The searchlights,
pale against the intense moon, fingered
the sky.
“Turn about twenty degrees left,” said
the second pilot. “Steady!”
The captain sat well down in his seat,
keeping his eyes away from the search-
lights and his mind on his instruments.
“Ten degrees left.” Hell, he thought,
must have the wrong wind. “Ri-i-i-ght,”
said the second pilot, drawling the
syllable. The captain watched the D.G.
move through five degrees in a skidding
turn, and edged the nose down as the
speed dropped a couple of knots. The
little aeroplane on the false horizon was
perfectly aligned ; speed and height were
right.
“Steady!” said the second pilot.
“Steady! ”
The captain was vaguely aware of tracers
streaming past the starboard window, and
the aircraft twitched under his hand.
“Bombs gone,” said the second pilot,
and the captain realised that his guns
were chattering out the back. He pulled
the boat into a tight climbing turn, and
a black shape swept past, gleamed, clear-
cut to the last rivet, as it turned in the
moon and then flicked back out of sight.
“Hell!” said the captain. He cut the
throttles, put the aircraft on to its side
and then dropped it in a steep dive for
the nearest cloud. He heard the guns
again, but did not see the fighter. The
searchlights were on him; most likely
they could see the flashes of his guns.
The cloud came swinging up, towering and
luminous and infinitely attractive. The next
moment they were tossing in its middle.
The second pilot had scrambled back
into his seat, and the front gunner was
swinging his gun eagerly from side to
side. The captain edged on the motors and
slowly turned ninety degrees to starboard.
He picked up his microphone. “Cockpit
to all guns,” he said. “Anyone hit?”
The earphones crackled. “No, sir, not
back here. We collected a lot of holes
all the same.”
“O.K. We can plug them up. Did
anyone get any hits on him?”
“Dunno. I got off a couple of drums.”
The boat popped suddenly clear of
the cloud.
“Should have lost him by now,” said
the captain. “I don’t think those boys
like to go too far from home at night.
Hold her while I get a course. Bill.”
He went down the back and spoke to
the port gunner. “You can shut up shop
now; we’re going home. Did you see
the bombs?”
The gunner took off his helmet. “Yes,
I saw them ; the stick went across the
third ship from the south end. The fifth
one lit up his masts and superstructure.”
Looks like we hit him,” said the
captain.
He walked back to the nav. compart-
ment, turned the rheostat on the chart-
table lights, got the course and made an
entry in the log ; then he turned down the
lights and climbed forward to his seat.
“Got a hit, Bill,” he said. “You can
go back and have a snooze if you like. Tell
Blue to stow his gun and get stuck into
mending those holes.” He pulled back the
revs, and boost and peered into the night.
They were sailing smoothly over the
tops of ghostly clouds, the prop bosses
gleaming in the centre of shimmering
circles. The brilliant moon dimmed the
stars, and a silver road marched before
them to the rim of the world. The cap-
tain sighed contentedly and settled further
into his seat. The compass grid-ring
glowed cheerfully up at him.
IT was morning when the fantastic hills
1 of home swam over the horizon, and
the aircraft was a reptile bird from the
world’s beginning, sliding out of the
dawn over a slate-grey sea.
They crossed the harbor and came into
wind in a wide sweep, and then down
in a long slant. * She kissed the water
lingeringly; the captain, hands firm on
the wheel, pleasantly aware of his skill.
He cut the engines as they neared the
buoy, and the bowman neatly gathered
the mooring pendant and dropped it on
the bollard. They were back in the
world of reality and breakfast, and the
night flight seemed less real than a dream,
except for a number of holes in the hull
at which the motor-boat crew were gaz-
ing admiringly.
THE GREAT HOP
By PHIL FREEDMAN.
GRANDPA came out
of the bathroom
into the kitchen,
said the bath she’d
got for him had been
stone cold and hopped on
one leg to shake the water out of his
ear, a habit Grandpa valued.
Mrs. Briggs was at the oven, baking
her face and a cake that skulked at the
bottom of the tin. She squealed through
an irritable nose “Don’t do that, Pa!
You knock the plaster off the walls, you
loosen the floorboards and you shatter
my nerves.”
Grandpa was now convinced that there
was no water to shake out, but he got
going harder, rising eighteen inches each
hop. And he muttered while he did it,
“A man can’t go round carting a gallon
of water in his head, can he? Suppose you
want me to get water on the brain, eh?”
Mrs. Briggs slammed the oven door
on the cake, spun at him and yelled
“Stop hopping!”
Grandpa snapped back “I’ll hop as
long as I darn well like.”
“Not in my house you won’t!”
That always maddened Grandpa.
“Hoh, won’t I? Try and stop me. Just
try and stop me. I’ll stand here hopping
for the rest of me life if I want to.”
Mrs. Briggs was half-beaten. “I’d
like to see you,” she sneered.
It’s hard to look really nasty while
you’re hopping up and down in the air,
but Grandpa did it. “All right—sit down
and watch me. You’ll sit a long time.
Unless I change me mind, I’m going on
hopping till the day I die.”
“I just will,” she spat back at him,
pulling a chair from the wall. “You’re
like a child ; I’ll treat you like one. I’ll
just sit here and see how long you go.”
THEY had often had clashes of obsti-
nacy, but this was their best. Mrs.
Briggs sat there with’ her eyes fixed on
him and her well-baked face split by a
supercilious leer.
Grandpa went on—up and down, up
and down, like a vertical piston rod. His
chin was stuck out and his underfitting
plates rattled like castanets. After a
while Mrs. Briggs had spots before her
eyes, but she wouldn’t give in either.
The situation was unaltered when the
old man’s grandson came home from
school. He stood in the doorway with
his mouth open. Without taking her
eyes off her father-in-law, Mrs. Briggs
waved the kid out. He backed out slowly,
ogling ; then he ran like mad to tell his
pals.
He came back with half a hundred of
them, and they fought and squabbled
outside the window to get a look. They
had nothing but admiration for the old
boy, but even their cheers and encour-
agement did not make Mrs. Briggs break
down.
Briggs himself came home to find his
backyard occupied not only by_ young-
sters but by parents who had come look-
ing for them and stayed to see the hop-
ping marvel.
Briggs cleared the pack off and went
in to break it up. “What’s all this?” he
asked. “Where’s my tea?”
Without shifting her eyes, Mrs. Briggs
told her tale.
Briggs never worried much about their
battles, but this one affected his stomach.
“I want my tea,” he said, and he meant it.
“You can get back to this after. I’m going
out, anyway. Come on, Pop. Half-time.”
“If a man wants to hop,” Grandpa
puffed, “he can hop.”
“All right. But a woman can’t always
sit,” Briggs said, and pulled his wife to
her feet, “Come on, Ma, get the tea on
the table. He’ll stop then. You know
what the greedy old dog is like.”
She scowled at her husband and
sneered at her father-in-law, yanked out
a cake the size and color of a gramo-
phone record, then dumped a scratch
tea on the table.
Grandpa’s plate was filled more or
less invitingly and put in his usual place.
But the old boy wasn’t going to be beaten
as easily as that. He moved over to the
table, swiped up his plate and ate with
his fingers, still on the hop.
Briggs gestured to his wife to take no
notice but she began irritably, “You’re
mad, Pa. You know you can’t take
chances with your digestion. I suppose
I’ll have to nurse you all next week”
Grandpa’s eyes sparkled delightedly as
he watched her and listened and filled
his face. “Good for me digestion,” he
said. “Gets well shaken down.”
Mrs. Briggs savagely gobbled her own
food down, and was further annoyed by
her young son, who left his chair in
favor of Grandpa’s more exciting fashion
of eating. Ma shrieked at him so
violently that he dropped his plate and
broke it. She made a homicidal rush at
him, but slipped in the spilt salmon. The
kid raced out of the kitchen, and
Grandpa laughed so much he could
scarcely hop. Mrs. Briggs sat in the mess
and abused him.
After she had washed up she said to
Briggs “If you’re going out I’m going
with you. I’m not going to be stuck
here with this silly old man. The noise
is driving me mad.”
Briggs said amiably “All right; hurry
up and get ready.”
But Grandma spat at them; “You can’t
leave a helpless old man in a house on
his own. Fine son you are. If she goes
with you I’m hopping along.”
They stared at him in complete per-
plexity, then Briggs drew his wife into
the pantry. His eyes were lit by the glow
of an idea. “Well mimic him,” he said.
“He used to do that to
me when I was young.
It’ll make him feel silly.”
They walked out and
without a word began hop-
ping. Briggs had a proud
paunch and was soon puffing from
exhaustion, but Mrs. Briggs’s hop was a
poor, perfunctory thing.
“Bah,” said Grandpa. “Call that a
hop? Thirty years younger than me
and that’s all you can do.”
“I’ll tire him,” muttered Briggs. “Here,
watch this! How’s this for a hop?”
“Bah, it ain’t nothing,” Grandpa said,
and got going with renewed vigor. He
found time to puff. “Huh—look at her,
as much bounce as a cow in calf.”
“Come on,” Briggs hissed at her. “Make
it good. Don’t let him ridicule you.”
She shrieked at them in sudden exas-
peration; “What are you talking about?
I’m still young—l can hop better than
both of you. Look at me! Look at
me! ” And she began irate leaps that
lifted her table high,
Briggs himself was irritable now. He
yelled “No damn’ woman can beat me!”
and threw himself into a truly terrible
series of hops.
“Nothing!” grunted Grandpa. “No-
thing. I’ll show you what hopping is.
Anyhow, I bet neither of you keep it up
as as I do.”
“I’ll bet I can go all night,” Mrs.
Briggs flared back at him ferociously.
“Ha, look at me! Look at me!”
Briggs yelled. “Beat these, beat these! ”
“Easy,” snorted Mrs. Briggs.
“Tripe!” yelled Grandpa.
THE battle went on. Up and down,
up and down, with the three of them
giving everything they had. Crockery
rolled off the dresser, the windows rattled,
the house shook, the noise was deafen-
ing. The man next door thumped on the
fence, yelled at them —without effect.
Then suddenly he came stalking in, a big
man, a very big man. “Have you all
gone mad?” he roared. “Hopping around
like kids!”
“Try it yourself,” Grandpa blazed, and
landed fair on his foot. Then the neigh-
bor was hopping, too, holding his toe.
Grandpa chortled happily, but the next
moment he was pushed on his back. The
fnan-next-door turned to Briggs. “Now
you,” he said.
Briggs pulled up and look placid and
friendly. “Not me,” he said. “You’ve
done it, pal; you’ve stopped him.”
Grandpa lay on the ground puffed out.
“Have some hops of another kind,”
Briggs said, and whipped out a bottle of
beer and looked for an unbroken glass.
“I’ll be in it,” Grandpa panted, strug-
gling up. , J , „
“You know you mustn t drink beer,
said Mrs. Briggs.
“Do you want me to start hopping
again?” Grandpa asked belligerently.
“Give Grandpa a drink,” she said.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3261
Wednesday, August 12, 1942
INVITATION TO SUTTEE.
“You will oblige us. Mother India, by reverting to the custom of our ancestors.”
“What, Mahatma, with the Old Man alive—and kicking!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
IF THE JAPS WON.
“United States aid to Australia so far little
more than compensates for Australia’s contri-
bution in other theatres of war since 1939.
The number of Americans here roughly equals
the number of Australians who have gone
abroad to fight. For every American ground
soldier there are at least five Australian soldiers.
American war equipment in Australia represents
only about three days’ production from United
States factories at their present rate of output.”
The foregoing statements were made last
week by way of answer to some clamor-
ing for immediate offensive action in
Papua. They were virtually admitted by
Mr. Curtin. The public took them
calmly, but the reactions of newspapers
which had tried to keep the minds of
Australians focused Vm Europe—and
hence away from the main, urgent task
of defending Australia —bordered on
hysteria; and when these newspapers
learned of the attack in the Solomons
they must have felt almost as ridiculous
as they looked. And amateur strategists
of the “pressure group” variety went on
with their campaign for the opening of a
second front in Europe, which, by obscur-
ing the grim seriousness of Australia’s
own position, and encouraging the falsely
comfortable belief that the Pacific front
is, after all, only a secondary considera-
tion, has done Australia an extremely
dangerous disservice.
In Sydney, particularly, newspapers have
been singularly free with their space, and
commercial radio with its time, and the
City Council with its hall for this damaging
propaganda. On the other hand, attempts
by one or two thinking Australians to
wake their fellow-countrymen up to the
realities of Australia’s true position have .
been given a comparatively poor run.
A striking instance of this occurred
when Chief Justice Latham took the
opportunity in Brisbane to warn Austra-
lians of what they could expect if the Japs
won. Sydney newspapers gave the warn-
ing from this highly qualified authority
brief space and no comment. “S. M.
Herald,” with two adjoining columns
under feature headlines on the European
front clamor, gave out as Chief Justice
Latham’s qualification to speak that he
had “visited Japan in 1940-41.” He was
Australia’s specially appointed Minister
to Japan in that period. That alone,
apart from any matter of intellect and
position, entitled him to a careful and
respectful hearing above all the tribe of
correspondents or little editors put to-
gether.
Declaring that “if Japan should be
victorious the best that Australia could
hope for would be Japanese advisers in
every Government and other depart-
ment,” Latham, C.J., filled in this picture:
Australians would provide unskilled labor
for the Japanese conquerors. There would
be free immigration, and, if the Japanese
realists had their way, it was probable
that there would be no Australians in Aus-
tralia, but there might be Australians work-
ing as slaves in Asia.
He added that the Japs, when they
made their pact with Italy and Germany,
had a vision of a vast empire, a large
part of which the/ have since taken and
now hold. The vision included Australia
and New Zealand, as well as Fiji and
India. “The Japanese are prepared to
fight to the death for victory, and if we
are beaten there will be no mercy.” The
Japs’ own Premier had made that clear:
“Japan will show no mercy in crushing
Australia.”
It would be a very optimistic Aus-
tralian who would expect any mercy.
The way of the Jap in war has been made
only too clear. Nanking—the full story
of which has never been told in Australia
-—was evidently nothing out of the ordi-
nary, The stories of hideous treatment
told by Americans who, as physical
wrecks, got back to their own country
from Japanese clutches have been so
detailed and explicit that they leave no
doubt about what could be expected.
This is the enemy that threatens Aus-
tralia’s very existence. In his timely
speech Latham, C.J., mentioned having
told Japanese and other diplomats that
“Australia would and could defend her-
self against any foreign country that :
attacked her.” True enough ; but realism
insists that, if it were not for American
assistance, the chance of Australia doing
that successfully must have been slight.
And it is now evident that, for one
reason and another, the extent of Ameri-
can aid in Australia itself (during the
hectic period nothing was said about
American aid in New Zealand and other
most important islands in the South
Pacific) falls short of what most people
had believed.
In the position as it has developed
much more than defence is now neces-
sary. It is now the vital concern of every
Australian that Japan should not merely
fail to invade and conquer Australia, but
that Japan must be beaten.
In the most favorable view, that is an
enormous contract. It is both so vitally
necessary and so huge that for Aus-
tralians any aspect of the war in
Europe must for the present remain
of academic interest only. For Aus-
tralians to turn their minds away
from this one (to them) major aspect is
to indulge in luxury thinking. To en-
courage Australians in this, in such cir-
cumstances, is criminal folly. The whole
of Australia’s thought needs to be
directed to the urgency and the immen-
sity of the job right on this country’s own
doorstep. In places it has come indoors.
It has come steadily closer and closer
from the moment Japan entered the war.
It will not be finished until Japan is
knocked into a condition that will prevent
this happening again.
Latham, C.J., had the right view of
the possibilities: “It is probable that
there would be no Australians in Aus-
tralia.” This is something that actually
could happen here, and in New Zealand,
as in few other countries. It has to be
kept in mind on this issue that, for all
that can be said of their fighting qualities,
the peoples of these countries are com-
paratively few. Against the teeming
populations to the north of them they
are together a mere handful. They are
as yet merely at the threshold of nation-
hood. In the realistic view their popula-
tions only barely warrant the name of
nations. Because of the truth of this,
they could conceivably be obliterated.
They could be wiped into the company
of the Spartans and other small bodies
of brave people who exist no more.
That, and nothing less, is what is at
stake for both Australians and New Zea-
landers facing today the true realities of
the Pacific front. If it were realised as
it ought to be there would be no room
’ for luxury thinking. One great thing that
can be said of the present Australian
Government is that it, at least, has no
illusions about which front is of major
importance to Australians. Its spokes-
men should express its views on this much
more than they do.
The war here, to Australia and New
Zealand, is one of survival. It is a throw
with Destiny, There is no room at this
board for luxury thinking. The whole
national mind and the whole national
effort need to be fixed on this one thing.
Other countries may be defeated and sur-
vive. If the Japs won there would be no
longer Australians and New Zealanders.
They would have had their brief day.
That —no other —is the issue for Austra-
lians and New Zealanders both.
Fixing the Blame.
The Japanese movement in Papua gave
newspaper strategists another opportunity
of airing their ignorance and imperti-
nence ; and this time Mr. W. M. Hughes
joined the screeching procession. In fact,
he put himself at the head of it. Assert-
ing that “our policy is following blindly
the track which led to the downfall of
Malaya,” the leader of the U.A.P. said
it was marked by “a lamentable lack of
vision, of initiative, of co-ordination of
control,” imputing the “lamentable lack”
—to politicians? No, “to our military
leaders.”
Much of the Hughes indictment was
presented in the form of questions:
Did those in control of our military de-
fences not know that Buna and Gona were
of strategic value? If they did, why did
they not occupy and defend them? Were
they not warned by their reconnaissance
’planes that the enemy convoy was approach-
ing? When they were informed of the
enemy’s landings, why did they not immedi-
ately concentrate an air force of over-
whelming strength? Why was not a
powerful land force dispatched forthwith?
Can’t we beat the Japanese, even though
we have superior land and air forces?
As a member of the Advisory War
Council, the gentleman should know all
the answers. One, obvious enough to
outsiders, is that we do not possess an
air force “of overwhelming strength.”
Another, even more obvious to outsiders,
is that the enemy is immensely superior
to us in sea-power. While he possesses
this superiority, plus great air-power and
land-power, he can land forces where he
pleases, save in North America and in
islands where American power is strongly
concentrated.
Mr. Hughes had the face to mention
Rabaul, “Rabaul,” he said, “w>«- a
bastion of Australia, yet it was defended
by a mere handful of men and allowed
to fall almost without a blow.” And this
from the politician who was a respon-
sible Minister at Canberra for almost
seven years (1934-1941), and for two of
those years (1937-39) was Minister of
External Affairs! Has he forgotten what
he said at Rabaul itself on June 1, 1938? ;
We have got our Mandate. On this rock
we have built our church, and all hell is
not going to take away what we have.
It was an empty vaunt. Mr. Hughes
bragged and promised and threatened;
and did nothing. Yet during the two
years when New Guinea was his respon-
sibility, and before and afterwards, The
Bulletin published article after article
urging the Government to place it and
Papua under one government and put
the united territory in a proper state of
defence, whether the League liked it or
lumped it. The last Administrator of
New Guinea revealed in Sydney last
month that he had made the same repre-
sentations again and again. “Since 1933,”
General McNicoll said, “there have been
nine different Ministers in charge of the
Mandated Territory.”
Frequently in my reports I advocated the
discontinuance of the Mandate and the in-
corporation of New Guinea with Papua as
a dependency of Australia. So anxious
was the Australian Government not to in-
terfere with the delicate position of the
Mandated Territory that it was not until
March, 1941, that Australia took any active
steps to defend New Guinea, and then it
was “too little, too late.”
In September, 1939, Mr. Hughes was
No. 2 in the Menzies Ministry. In Sep-
tember, 1929, he was a disgruntled
Nationalist, looking for a chance of get-
ting home on a Nationalist-Country-
party Ministry which, unlike Mr.
Hughes for four years after the last
war, had done something for the
R.A.N., to the extent at least of building
two 10,000-ton cruisers and putting
an end to the “policy,” practised in Mr.
Hughes’s time, of encouraging officers
and men to leave the service. It had also
kept in being a citizen army, based on
compulsory training. In that month of
September the Government was defeated
on an amendment to the Maritime Indus-
tries Bill moved by Mr. Hughes, and a
Labor Government came into office. The
first thing it did was to suspend compul-
sory military training, and the suspension
remained for ten years, during most of
which period Mr. Hughes was a Minister.
With the permanent staff retrenched,
warrant officers “rationed,” training cur-
tailed and funds for equipment refused,
the army was reduced to a shadow force
of ill-trained and ill-armed militia, in-
capable of protecting a single southern
city, let alone any part of the territories.
Immediately before the citizen army was
disbanded it had a training strength of
just on 48,000. On April 30, 1930, the
training strength of the militia was
27,454. On March 31, 1933, it was
27,963. Even on December 31, 1935,
the “sanctions” year, it was only 28,080.
In effect, the measures which led to
the territories being left almost naked to
the enemy were supported by or
acquiesced in by Mr. Hughes. Yet he
has the effrontery to blame “our military
leaders.”
When “our military leaders” are
attacked, whether by politicians, news-
papers or Communists, it is well under-
stood in Australia that Australians are
meant, Australian generals being regarded
as fair game. But criticism of General
MacArthur was implicit in the latest
issue, and one hysterical Sydney paper
indulged in criticism of President Roose-
velt. This sort of thing is not only unjust
(and if it were just it would be un-
generous) but dangerous.
Wards of Mr. Ward.
A study in various forms of aid:
The N.S.W. part of the Second Front thermal
region was more active than ever last week,
eruptions of hot air and printer’s ink coming
thick and fast. A motor van with a “spruiker”
traversed Sydney streets summoning comrades
and comradesses to a meeting at the Town
Hall —always placed at the service of such
people by the Crick regime, though city hall
authorities in other capitals raise objections.
And the Town Hall was crowded with the sort
of persons who, being without shame, would
condemn British soldiers, seamen and airmen to
die like flies in a probably useless sacrifice to
mob strategy while their own hides remain safe.
A Second Front in Europe was demanded in
a resolution which was rounded off with the
brazen lie that it would be “in the interest of
Australian safety.” About the same time word
came from London that “the Australian miners”
—presumably the miners who, by strikes and
absenteeism, reduced their output of coal from
11,300,000 tons in 1939 to 9,600,000 tons in
1940, and who in three months of the present
fateful year, by the Prime Minister’s own
testimony, achieved by the same methods a loss
of 600,000 tons —had “urged an immediate
Second Front in Europe” on the British nation,
hard-pressed everywhere.
All the same, some of the ladies and gentle-
men in the audience must during the week have
had moments of deep depression, for facts
about Second Front finance had come out. Not
all the facts, but enough to make the dispassion-
ate reader marvel and the cynic grin. And
i ke n r f c . w a s . no deputing them, for they had been
b . y r e °t t , he Second Front concerns,
sell-labelled the N.S.W. Aid Russia Committee,
to me State Labor Government, previously
supposed to be friendly.
A glance at the figures for six months (Janu-
ary 1 1 . to • fiine 3°) exhibits the “Aid Russia”
part of the charity” (it is called that) as the
poorest sort of joke. On a list of expenditure
totalling £2132 (shillings and pence here
omitted) the only item suggestive of direct assist-
ance to Russia is “Russian Medical Aid, £93.”
Against that “Russian Medical Aid, £75”
figures as income; so out of the £2132 Russia
f?!L a l most £lB. But £333 went in salaries,
£269 in stamps and telegrams, £ll7 in printing
and stationery, £B5 in rent and £B3 in travelling
expenses, while the telephone bill came to £57.
lrJcn rature • and Propaganda” swallowed up
£lO5O receipts from all sources were reckoned
at £2436.
In deference no doubt to the clergymen
among the office-bearers (eight, with Bishop
Burgmann at their head) 500 Christmas cards
were printed and posted. It is not stated
whether Stalin or Losovsky got any, nor is it
clear whether they were charged up to Printing
and Stationery or to Literature and Propaganda.
That most elastic term was stretched to cover
the purchase of books and pamphlets, as well
as the publication of 238,000 copies of works
with intriguing titles, such as “Christian Aid for
the Soviet Union” (35,000 copies, £32 55.),
“Sport in Russia” (20,000, £110), “Timoshenko”
(10,000, £55), “Invade Europe!” (100,000,
£212) and “Why the Red Army Is Winning”
(1750, £l5). Whether the writers received any-
thing for their lucubrations or gave all to the
Cause is not mentioned, but one, Mr. R. Lock-
wood (“Invade Europe!”), figures among the
receivers of travelling expenses paid “in re-
spect of organising work performed outside
Sydney.” And in November the accounts were
debited with £2O, cost of transporting Katherine
Susannah Prichard to and from “conferences.”
The committee went in for “functions” in
a large way. A rather amazing proportion
showed losses. In this category were a physical
culture show (£18), Function for Soviet Crew
(£23), Week-end School (£10), Women’s Rally
(£8), Congress for National Unity (£7), Citizens’
Lunch (£l2) and Red Army Day Dinner (£l6).
And all in the name of Aid to Russia!
On the list of Aid Russia vice-presidents,
and presumably an enthusiast for a Second
Front in Europe, is Mr. E. J. Ward, M.H.R.,
Minister for Labor. If any of the companies
he detests so much weighed in with a financial
statement a tenth as shocking as this Aid
Russia production the Minister’s denunciations
would split holes in the atmosphere. Perhaps
Mr. Ward makes no deep scrutiny into Aid
Russia affairs. He was very active in a case
which has been the subject of a very long and
costly inquiry by Mr. Commissioner Blakeley,
a former Labor Minister, who had another
former Labor Minister, Mr. Lamaro, to “assist”
him as counsel, instructed by the Crown Solici-
tor. Two other counsel were briefed and
members of shop committees appeared in
person.
The case concerned one Edward John Rice,
employed as machinist in a Commonwealth
Aircraft Corporation factory, and the kind of
employee who in ordinary times would be lucky
to hold his job for two consecutive days. Com-
plaints about him were many and various. He
was given to arriving late, absenting himself
from his bench without permission, distributing
Aid Russia Committee pamphlets, spouting
at factory meetings naturally forbidden by the
company, and issuing threats to others on the
staff. To one, an inspector, he said, “If
you don’t alter your methods we will deal with
you—we will have you before the Man-Power
Board before you are much older.” And some-
thing was said about his trying to form a
V.D.C. unit composed of Communists.
Nowadays wage-payers can’t sack even
chronic nuisances without risk of being en-
gulfed in a sea of troubles, so this sort of thing
went on till a detective from Military Intelli-
gence arrived at the factory with pertinent in-
formation about Rice. That person had a police
record. And, interrogated on a complaint that
he had alleged to a soldier’s wife that aircraft
production had been kept down because the
management was Fifth Columnist, Rice, after
denying the impeachment (he denied almost
everything), exclaimed “The writing is on the
wall. This is an attempt to get me out of
C.A.C. I must go and see Eddie Ward on
Monday.”
The subsequent proceedings were crowded
and confused. C.A.C. was informed by letter
that the Security Department recommended
Rice’s dismissal, on the ground that he had
been convicted in 1938 and sentenced to three
years’ imprisonment on a charge of having de-
manded money with menaces. Dismissal was
also in effect recommended by Mr. Bellemore,
Deputy Director of Man-power, who said it
would be in the national interest. Greatly re-
lieved, the management presented Rice with his
walking ticket and his money. He refused both.
The union (Australian Society of Engineers)
whirled itself into the picture. Mr. Connors,
the secretary, another defeated Labor member,
remonstrated with Mr. Bellemore and with Mr.
Taylor, the Deputy Director of Security, a
defeated Labor candidate. A strike was threat-
ened, Rice being a shop steward, and therefore
untouchable.
A union deputation surged into Mr. Ward’s
office. “I told Mr. Ward,” Mr. Connors
related in the box, “that he was the man who
controlled man-power and that the union de-
manded that he see that the regulations were
carried out and Rice reinstated.”
Mr. Ward promised to “look into all the
facts and give you a ring.” The “ring” came;
it was to the effect that Mr. Ward had been
“in touch with the Security Department,”
which had withdrawn “the order for Rice’s dis-
missal,” and that “everything will now be 0.K.”
It wasn’t quite like that, for when informed
of the new development by Mr. Bellemore
the management objected. This it intimated
with some force at a conference with officers
of the two departments concerned, and it re-
fused to have anything to do with a Bellemore
“investigation” at the factory. Backed by its
directors in Melbourne, to whom a special visit
had necessarily to be made, it refused the
reinstatement “demanded.” Hence the Blake-
ley inquiry, which, when the commissioner re-
served his decision, had lasted eight days.
Mr. Bellemore and Mr. Taylor were among
the witnesses. Mr. Bellemore said that Mr.
Ward had instructed him to order Rice’s re-
instatement and would take full “responsi-
bility.” Said Mr. Taylor, “The fact that Rice
was convicted of demanding money with
menaces while an arbitration inspector was a
good Security reason for making my recom-
mendation”; and he still believed that ‘Rice


should not be employed at a vital defence
works.” He had withdrawn the recommenda-
tion solely to avert a strike.
Another witness was Wurth, Hirector-
ovemding unions
Mr. Wurth said that if Security issued an
instruction that a man should not be employed,
Man-power should “automatically'accept .it
realises is that persons making
war machines should be above suspicion will
agree with the Director-General who disagrees
with his extraordinary Minister.
Mfwaid°r r a“htag CO tS t a!! with “ 'such™
the kind of unionism which Mr. Ward and some
of his fellow-Ministers and the whole body
of so-called industrialists would impose on the
ernment wZ^ot'k.dus'tS™ S'Lord
liver cis! °
PLAIN ENGLISH
In a Bitter War.
It is related that Lieut-Commander
Beattie, V.C., commander of the de-
stroyer Campbelltown, which, in the raid
on St. Nazaire, rammed the dock gates
and was blown up to destroy them, was
accorded a special parade in his honor in
a German prison camp. The full citation
of his award was read out, the prison
camp commandant saluted him, and then
joined in the cheers.
The day before this was cabled a Syd-
ney artist gave The Bulletin an account
of the experience of a fellow-artist,
Arthur Nichol, who contributed drawings
during the few years just before the war.
Posted missing in the course of the fight-
ing down through Greece and Crete,
Nichol described in a letter how he
and several other artists, prisoners of
war together in Italy, had been allowed
to hold an exhibition of their work.
Such occurrences are all the more
worth recording because they are so rare
in the pattern of modern total war. Apart
from such rare happenings, that pattern
is composed of such evil as the almost
incredible German brutalities in Poland
and elsewhere, the machine-gunning of
fleeing civilian refugees streaming out of
Belgium, the indiscriminate bombings of
little rural villages and suchlike, the shoot-
ing down of parachuting airmen, the
wholesale murder of ordinary men,
women and babes, without hint of mercy.
The news of the honoring of Lieut.-
Commander Beattie appeared in news-
papers side by side with an opposite ex-
ample reported by fishermen survivors of
a trawler shelled and machine-gunned by
a Japanese submarine off the Australian
east coast. The shout of the fishermen’s
skipper, “Don’t fire! WeTe only a harm-
less fishing boat!” made no difference.
After a dozen shells had been poured
into the trawler, the submarine came to
within 100yds. and opened fire with
machine-guns, killing two and wound-
ing four of the crew of 12.
There should be no mistake about it.
The chivalrous instances are pleasant to
read about, but this other is the true pat-
tern. It’s a bitter war, and nothing is
more certain than that it will become
more so before the end.
Aftermath of Boloney.
Proof of this paper’s suspicion that the
old mildewed boloney was being served
up in reporting of the fighting in Papua
has since been only too abundant.
Papers that had been heavily jocular
about the Townsville and Darwin raids
and had implied that the Japs landed in
Papua were only a small force that didn’t
amount to much came out with some-
thing nearer the truth of the matter, under
such headlines as “Danger in North,”
“Japanese May Move Soon,” and
“Serious Threat to Moresby.”
On Monday of last week there was
mention of Kokoda:
It appears that the skirmishes between
advanced patrols are still being fought
around Kokoda village, with its aerodrome. .
On the Tuesday there was another
mention, still tending to represent the
Jap force as trifling:
The estimate of the total number in the
Gona landing is still 1500 to 2500, and,
allowing for base protection and the main-
tenance of supply lines, it is reasonable to
assume that fewer than half that number
are in the front-line scouting parties near
Kokoda.
Then, as continued on the Wednesday:
Japanese troops now hold the aerodrome
at Kokoda, which is only 60 miles from
Port Moresby.
The only result of the palpable boloney
reporting of the invading of Papua was
a keener edge to the disappointment
generally felt. If the aim behind
boloney was a belief in cheer-up P r °P '
ganda, it miscarried, as it always must ao.
From the moment it happened the Jap
intrusion into Papua should have been
sounded as a serious warning to Austra-
lians. The actual reporting and general
home-front treatment of it contrasted
oddly with the serious view of it taken
all through in America.
The time for belittling the Japs and
treating their direct threats to this coun-
try as a joke is long past. America gave
up that silly practice some time back.
Australians, helped by plain truths from
those with reporting jobs on the Pacmc
front, should follow suit.
/Esop in Australia.
A Kookaburra who could frequently be
heard laughing cheerfully and bore all
the appearances of a humorist, but who
for all that was capable of deep thought,
was civilly accosted by a crow and asked
for his view of things.
“I am somewhat dismayed,” was the
answer, “by the words I hear on every
hand. They are noisy and meaningless,
as are the tongues of the Parrots that
utter them. These birds clack in flocks,
gathering and scattering without mean-
ing. ‘New order,’ they chortle, and
‘Democracy’ and ‘Freedom.’ 1 cannot but
wonder how such words will sound on
the dark wall of a Gippsland range, far
out on the Paroo or on the long brown
waters of the Riverina if the Parrots be
not there to hear them.
“And they will not be there if there
is no meaning in words like Darwin and
Townsville, Hedland and Moresby, and
no echoes from the Leeuwin to the Gulf.
Tonight sheep will be going out among
the white frosts on high New England.
The wheat will whisper south of Wongan
Hills. Township lights will be put out
along the Ninety-Mile. The still darkness
will come and words will die and there
will be nothing but the North,
“Nothing but the North, where for all
these Parrots lies the beginning or the
end, as sure as God made little apples.
Yet to bear them chatter one would think
there was no North. ‘Racing as usual,’
‘stop profits,’ ‘raise wages,’ ‘strike, strike,
strike,’ ‘strike for more tea, more tobacco,
more everything,’ ‘open a second fr
in Europe,’ ‘Fashions for Victory .
“What victory is this?” asked the
Kookaburra. “Who has victory? Not
we I say, while there remains the dread-
ful’North. The Swans flee from alien
wings in their age-old skies and om s
fall in the sugarcane, but the Parrots cry
for their rights and on high perches the
elected Parrots answer, fearful of the Vote.
“Only the sworn, the true, the uni-
formed and grim, from Cootamundra and
the hills of Oregon, ponder their Duty
and face their Duty’s voice, answering
true, up in the dreadful North.
“Whoso stands deaf to the silly
words,” said the Kookaburra; whoso
stands blind to everything but the
common weal, let him beware of
Parrots and their clacking tongues and
empty words.” The Kookaburra turned
his sardonic eyes on the Crow and said,
“Pray, if such as you can pray, for eyes
to see and ears to hear only the North.
The Crow stretched his wings and
crbaked, “The North. That should be
the place for birds like me.”
“I think I’ll come with you, said the
Kookaburra. “There won’t be Parrots
there.”
A Second-Front Peer.
Before he turned Second-Fronter in
alliance with Communists, Lord Beaver-
brook admitted that “five tons of ship-
ping are needed to keep one soldier over-
seas.” As for fuel and other require-
ments, “a single a.-a. battery requires
three tons of ammunition for one
minute’s action,” and “each division car-
ries 1000 tons of ammunition and con-
sumes two tons of petrol for every mile
it travels.” How it would be possible to
collect from the overtaxed and suffering
Royal and Merchant Navies ships enough
to land and maintain 30 or 40 divisions
on a hostile coast in the teeth of pre-
parations that the enemy has been making
for two years the flapper-paper peer has
not tried to explain—obviously because
it is beyond his capacity or that of any
other man. He talks only of the “advan-
tages” that a Second Front would bring.
He has not imagination enough to realise
the terrible risks it would involve or the
ghastly sacrifices it would entail —none
of which would be borne by the Beaver-
brook press or its allies of the Communist
party.
“I ACCUSE!”
(Though Billy didn’t put it that way).


With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES &. CO..
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.,
f
In Sydney stay at the WENTWORTH
■n
m
I® fe;,-
IPs
.I : f’!i - v ' .i
. i'’Ual
Mv.SL
4sv
H^pl
R ' S
■
I*} -< i ? • iii'i
* 44,
it ‘I
:
PSipil
-■■■
.4
fM s»
■
The Wentworth Hotel, noted for kindly hospitality, combines
a full measure of courteous service with modern appointments
that make for your comfort. Bedrooms with telephones,
private bathrooms and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-.
Our tariff remains constant the year round.
C. D. MACLURCAN: Managing Director
I
SYDNEY
BRANDALERS
if*
m
mm
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BSAHBAOKK * CO. Ud. BIKMISQHAM. ENG
POLITICAL POINTS
Bertie Johnston’s financial troubles, like
those -of Mr, Micawber when Copper-
field was his lodger, have come to a crisis.
And the Westralian Senator’s creditors,
unlike Mr. Micawber’s, are implacable,
being two taxation departments which
have signed judgments against him for
terrific amounts. If Bertie can’t find the
money or stave off proceedings somehow,
he will lose a seat with a cash value of
£5OOO. Canberra and Perth are follow-
ing the case with an interest never previ-
ously aroused by the affairs of an embar-
rassed politician, for somehow the im-
pression has been formed that if Bertie
is forced into retirement he will Tell All.
It seems strange that, while a lot of
people raise their voices against race meet-
ings, booze and other pleasures or vices
in war-time, not a voice was heard
against the Premiers travelling to Mel-
bourne for their conference last Monday.
If there is anything this country can do
without it is a Premiers’ Conference.
Bailey, the Victorian Chief Secretary,
talks of “compelling” men of 60 to
“volunteer” without pay for roofspotting
and bomb-disposal. How would Bailey
like it if he were “compelled” to be a
volunteer Chief Secretary?
F. Ehrenfried Baume once more from
London:—
Egypt is off the front pages here. That
would v not be a good sign if the British
press was consistent. As they are not, and
their news valuation gyrates....
Ehrenfried himself is a miracle of con-
sistency. Witness his criticism of the
Second Front in Europe, followed by a
somersault in which he “argued” that,
since 300,000 Tommies were carried from
Dunkirk to England in “small boats,” the
same number —no, it was double the
number—could be carried from England
to Calais “in the same small boats” —no
doubt to fight with fists and feet.
“At a meeting of Cabinet it was stated
that, of £2400 collected by the Aid
Russia Committee, Russia had received
only £93.” This charming intelligence
appeared in “S. M. Herald,” along with
something about a lady asking for per-
mission “to hold an art union to aid
Russia.” Wouldn’t it be better to make
it a guessing competition, the prize to
be a copy of the pamphlet “Invade
Europe,” and to go to anyone making
the most accurate stab at Russia’s cut?
When some of their organisations (not
all) were outlawed. Communists began
calling themselves Independent Socialists.
Then, emboldened by Canberra complais-
ance, they shot up as Leading Leninists.
Now, confident that all nominal restric-
tions are to be removed, they are boister-
ously sporting the old label. They
joyfully announced that legal status was
to be restored to the Canadian brother-
hood. A recommendation to that effect
was issued by a Parliamentary Com-
mittee, but it left the Attorney-General
unmoved. He doubtless recognises, as
Canberra should, that the effect on
American opinion, as expressed in nation-
wide hostility to the release of Browder
and applause for the decree expelling
Bridges, would be extremely bad.
The internment of the 16 Australia-
Firsters by order of Minister Forde,
liberator of the two Corns, who ran the
“anti-imperialist-war” propaganda fac-
tory, looks stranger than ever in the
light of a judgment delivered by Clyne,
J., at General Sessions. A Victorian was
convicted of having asked people to sign
a petition to the Prime Minister and
other members of his party for a nego-
tiated peace with Japan. He appealed,
and’ Judge Clyne ruled (1) that the
evidence was “not sufficient to justify an
adverse finding” ; (2) that National Secu-
rity Regulation 42 referred only to the war
against Germany, and (3) that even if it
meant any war he would not be prepared
to find that appellant had contravened it
Conviction quashed ; no order as to costs.
One of the grounds of appeal was that
the sentence was excessive. It was four
weeks !
Fears for the safety of Sydney “D.T.’s”
Raving Reporter were allayed on August
4, when the R.R. bobbed up at Stalingrad
with a profuse account of its history,
name, flatness, “small goats” and so on.
The young gentleman was persuaded that
Stalingrad would be stubbornly defended.
At least all that I have seen in the brief
visit I am making indicates that this is so.
An event which will make successful de-
fence certain will be the timely launching
of a Second Front.
In Western Europe, of course. There
was no mention of the Raving Reporter
making even a “brief” visit to the Second.
Front. The only personal use Second-
“The attack in the Solomons was a well-kept secret.” —Prime Minister.
"And, my dear, we didn’t expect a thing!”
Fronters have for a Second Front is to
put as many thousands of miles between
it and them as geography and transport
will permit.
T ., . _ .
urging the a Second°Front 1 in
Europe “If we can send shins thousands
of mules to Eevnt surelvwe S S
°hipT 22 miles Across
nel P > Name of logician?
tQ Na ™ momnaJ ’ Son’
according to th?otber § P P ’ ° gston ’
N.S.W. Chief Secretary Badly, blunder-
about with the liquor problem, gave
11 °F} tbat among other things police
w 9, be entitled to enter private houses
wlttlout warrant if they suspected liquor
was being supplied to girls under 21. Then
somebody pointed out that this was over
the fence, and Mr. Badly hurriedly de-
clared that the police wouldn’t be given
such power. It’s just as well for Mr.
Badly.
A Victorian M.L.A. got off a neat one
during an acrimonious debate on the
Dunstan beer laws. He said “we are
losing the war, bottle by bottle.”
The Miners’ Federation is concerned
because some miners are missing a drink
or a smoke and “cigarettes, tobacco and
beer are being supplied to non-essential
localities.” It’s enough to make a man
stop striking.
With sixpence a day as the b'asis for
a private, all Australian service men’s pay
has been increased. There is to be an-
other shilling for wives and another six-
pence for the first child, with pro-
portionate increases for enlisted women.
Rates for dependants are now claimed
to be higher than in Maoriland, Britain
and U.S.A, And there is to be exemp-
tion from taxation of all service incomes
under £250 a year, including service pay
and allowances, with “some smoothing
off above that amount to prevent anom-
, Meant ‘ me ., a tbat should
beeded 18 comi ng from 1914-18 pen-
sloner8 > who are struggling along on the
same old rates against H CL ” thou § h
old ’ age P ensions have been increased
and there are Commonwealth child en-
dowment and widows’ pensions. These
1914-18 folk are “the forgotten people
of this war.”
The council of the N.S.W. Teachers’
Federation did a foolish thing when it
demanded two immediate appointments
to the Sydney Law School, irrespective
of the claims of two Australian candi-
dates on service overseas, when students
were about to disappear in large num-
bers. In throwing its weight behind the
Aid Russia (Second Front in Europe)
Committee, especially when that con-
cern’s finances are under fire, the Fed-
eration has done an even more foolish
thing. Similar imbecilities in New York
prompted hundred-per-cent. Americans
to start investigations which had nasty
results for Red teachers in New York
State schools.
With potential invasion at Australia’s
back door, the State “Parliament” in Vic-
toria has seen fit to get hysterical about
Drink. A Mr. Hollins made assertions
tantamount to charges of collusion be-
tween police, publicans and others. Mel-
bourne’s drinking habits are a direct
result of Melbourne’s restrictions. One
section, and that the best organised, wants
the State to abolish liquor altogether.
Sometimes people get killed on the rail-
ways, but the State doesn’t abolish the
railways.
Hearing that a Mortgage Bank Bill
would arrive for sure during the coming
session at Canberra, some nark suggested
that a loss of at. least £6,000,000 could
be looked for. It seems a big price to
pay for “Wheat, Wheat” Wilson’s sup-
port.
A British Labor member asked Mr,
Attlee whether he’d arrange for a group
of members to visit Australia and Maori-
land during the summer recess. Rather
should Mr. Attlee arrange for groups ot
aircraft and tanks to visit us. We’ve seen
all we want to see of politicians.
Shortly after General MacArthut
arrived in Australia he made some re-
niarks to newspapermen and others;
It is of prime importance that the public
be instructed so that they can summon all
their confidence, all their determination and
all their purpose in support of the war
effort. When you start to tear down
you destroy public confidence in the leaders
of a military movement. You practically
destroy an army.
These wise words were soon forgotten
by persons in a position to influence
public opinion. They should be heeded
now and in the future.
The N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers want
compulsory unionism for farmers—a
National Farmers’ Union. If the graziers
come in it will be beautiful to observe
the welcome extended to A.W.U. organi-
sers by fellow-unionists of the N.F.U.
“Exdig”; Having for my sins to go
through each issue of the “Common-
wealth Gazette,” it has frequently struck
me that pages which are boring to most
Australians must be intensely interesting
to Australia’s enemies. Those pages con-
tain a complete record of land resumed
for Commonwealth military purposes,
with a minute description of the location,
the size and shape of each block. For
the Law says that all resumptions must
be gazetted, with full details. Obviously
war has made such “safeguards of the
public interest” perilous, and they will
have to go.
All the Left Wing papers have been at
Lady Astor, M.P., for saying what
said about the Russians:
I am grateful to the Russians, but they
are fighting not for us but for them-
selves To hear people talk you would
think the Russians came to us in our
dire need. Nothing of the kind; they were
then allied with Germany. It was America
who came to our aid, and don’t you for-
get it.
“S. M, Herald” joined in, after the lady
had defiantly added to her remarks:
Russia, Russia, Russia, that is all we
read in the newspapers or hear in broad-
casts! Americans resent very much that
they hear nothing, except about Russia,
in England. I am tired of hearing it.
Granny asserted that Lady Astor was
“the leader of the Cliveden Set, which
showed pro-German sympathies.” Rather
dangerous, for the lady, in a “Satur-
day Evening Post” article, denied that
there ever was a Cliveden Set, and de-
clared that all manner of people, Leftists
as well as Rightists (notably Anthony
Eden), were guests of the Astors at
Cliveden.


lA
I
CLYDE J. ABIGAIL.
fixed place of abode. Some of his travel
has been done looking after the industrial
interests of Nestle’s before Arbitration
Courts and wage tribunals in various
States, He had charge of the same firm’s
Sydney Show exhibiting for 18 years,
and for many years has been president
of the Show Exhibitors’ Assoc. Last war
he was associated with price-fixing and
profiteering-prevention under both Fed-
eral and State Governments.
KEEPS HIM FIT
You can’t keep fit if you suffer from
constipation. NYAL FIGSEN— the
gentle, natural laxative —is dependable,
thorough and non-habit forming because
it is made from three of Nature’s own
laxatives—figs, senna and cascara. _ Try
•Figsen Tablets yourself and slip a
tin regularly in your service parcels.
Figsen is one of the 168 dependable
NYAL FAMILY MEDICINES and
•suits every member of the family. NYAL
FIGSEN is sold £y chemi r.+s every-
where. 1/3 a tin.
The next Vest thins id 'Nature. s .
Nyal Figsen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. e
office directs attention to "The Bulletins criticism (26/1/ 3b). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria; A.O.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide,
Western Australia : Warwick House, St. George s Terrace, Perth,
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
ffl-SSSr
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Air Vice-Admiral Keith Rodney Park,
who succeeds Air Vice-Admiral Hugh
Lloyd as Air Officer Commanding the
R.A.F. in the Mediterranean, is a New
Zealander, son of Prof. James Park, for-
merly Dean of the Mining Faculty of
Otago Uni. An old boy of Otago Boys’
High School, he first smelt powder in
Gallipoli, where he won a commission.
In France he joined the Royal Flying
Corps, and when the curtain was rung
down on the 1914-18 war remained with
the fliers. He organised the R.A.F,
pageants at Hendon in 1939 and 1940,
and was one of four aides-de-camp
selected by King George VI after his
accession.
Melbourne will greet an old friend
when Dr. Walter A. Foote takes up his
appointment as U.S. representative with
N.E.I. officials established in Australia.
Foote was its American Consul when
called to a similar job in Batavia before
the Japanese invasion of Java. Before that
he consulled in Port Said, Prague, Ham-
.burg and Medan (Sumatra). When Mes-
sina was rocked to its foundations in
1908 he was a snottie —or whatever Uncle
Sam calls them —on a ship that played a
big part in rescuing the thousands of
Italians from the jaws of their earth-
quake.
Elected to the council of the N.S.W-
Royal Agricultural Society, Clyde J. Abi-
gail has moved so much about Australia
that an also-itinerant N.S.W. police head
thought it a fair enough joking comment
to clap him on the shoulder in Collins-
street, Melbourne, and threaten to lug
him under the Vag. Act for having no
First Australian to receive an American
gallantry decoration in this war was Lieu-
tenant-Colonel W. T. Owen, of Victoria.
According to the citation, he was awarded
the Amercan Distinguished Service Cross
by General MacArthur for “extraordi-
nary gallantry in action in New Guinea,”
He “was mortally wounded while heroi-
cally leading his men in the Kokoda area
fighting.” Born at Nagambie (Vic.) he was
a teller at the State Savings Bank at Leon-
gatha before he enlisted, was stationed in
the Pacific islands with the rank of major
when Japan entered the war, was at the
Rabaul fight and, after escaping, was
given command of another battalion.
Champion of Australian-made:
In Melbourne, at 76, Made-in-Australia
James Newton Haxton Hume Cook. Actu-
ally the man who labored so fiercely for 20
years for the Australian Industries Protection
League was made in New Zealand. At 25 he
migrated to Victoria, and three years later was
in the Leg. Assembly on a big majority to
represent Bourke. As an original member of the
first Federal Parliament, he was Whip to the
first Deakin Ministry, an hon. Minister in
the second, and chairman of the royal commis-
sion on postal services in 1909. But it was as the
protagonist of Australianism that Hume Cook
came into his own. He held the record for
membership of the A.N.A. directorate—4B
years—and was president during the campaign
for Federation. Tireless battler for recog-
nition of Australian industries he wrote millions
of words to the papers, spoke more millions
and ate his way through thousands of ban-
quets in order to air his views in after-dinner
speeches, which he did trenchantly and wittily.
He was an author as well; apropos of which
an importer who had listened to a speech of
his on the future of home manufactures, one
got up and prefaced his reply with the remark
“As you all know, Mr. Hume Cook is the
author of Australian Fairy Tales.” That im-
porter lived to sea, the “fairy tales” come true.
“0.P.H.”: James Newton Haxton Hume
Cook was a great citizen who could pass hence
knowing that he had done a grand job for his
fellows. The way in which the Commonwealth
has been able to turn its machinery, set up
under a Protection policy, from peace produc-
tion to war production is ample proof of his
foresight. His real public service began with his
enforced retirement from politics (he was de-
feated by the brilliant Frank Anstey). To-
gether with Ambrose Pratt he founded the
Australian Industries and Protection League,
and he retained the active direction of its affairs
till his death. Australian manufacturers have
a lot for which to thank Hume Cook, and so
have all Australians.
D. A. R. Moloney, one of the best of
Maoriland cricketers, has been posted
missing in the Middle East, where he
was an N.Z. infantry lieutenant. He cap-
tained the Maorilanders against Holmes’s
English visitors in 1935-36, and led the
M.L. side that toured England a year
later, himself finishing high up in the
averages both in batting and bowling.
On the way back he played in several
matches in Australia.
Queensland State and Municipal Choir,
left without a conductor by the death of
E. R. B. Jordan, has put Australian com-
poser George English in the job by a
unanimous vote. Sydney-born, English
has done a large swag of his conducting
in Victoria, mainly with the Postal Insti-
tute Choir, which won the Ballarat choral
championship six times under his leader-
ship. Two of his symphonies were per-
formed under his direction by Melb. Sym-
phony Orchestra at the Yarra city’s* cen-
tenary, and the A.B.C. has put over his
oratorio “Armageddon.”
Lent by the British Government to
his native Maoriland as adviser on civil
defence, Conrad Hamann graduated at
the School of Engineering in his home
city, Christchurch, and, heading for
London 10 years ago, helped place the
Trafalgar-square firm of Helsby and
Hamann in the front rank of structural
engineering. One of the firm’s big jobs
was the new Brighton West pier. At
Bexhill it put up a hall designed by-
Erich Mendelssohn, who planned the
Einstein Tower at Potsdam. Before
making back to M.L., Hamann was ad-
viser on A.R.P. at Birmingham. He is
joint-author of a three-volume work on
engineering and architecture.
As well as the victories over various
brands of enemy he has had a hand in
on sundry fronts, General V. A. H. Stur-
dee, who goes to Washington to head the
Australian Military Mission there, scored
a decisive one when Frith went out to
“set” him. The caricaturist had to
Australian Military Leader in Washington.
(Modelled by Frith.)
admit that his victim was absolutely
uncaricaturable. Hence the accompany-
ing “straight” depiction of the General’s
very neatly constructed features. He
would have been a better subject as seen
round about Russell’s Top, on Gallip.
There Sturdee dressed so much after the
popular ragtag mode of the place that
Americans who greet him now in all his
red tabs and braid could think that the
camera that snapped him at Anzac
must have been personally malicious.
After Gallip. he was picked for a British
general staff h.q. post with Haig, and,
with experience in India, the War
Office and the Imperial Defence Com-
mittee, he was one of Australia’s out-
standing soldiers when the present war
started. Born at Frankston (Vic.) in
1890, he had a commission in the old
A.M.F. in 1911. From 1933 he was for
five years Director of Military Operations
and Intelligence and for another two years
Director of Staff Duties. As well as being
one of the best and most respected of
Australia’s military leaders, he is also
one of the most popular with the Diggers.
Sydney gets a first-rate parson, David
Morgan, from Adelaide, where he has
had 20 years in one church. Before that
he worked among the many Welsh people
in the old S.A. coppermining town of
Wallaroo. Earlier he was chairman of the
Congregational Union in N.S.W. and in
Victoria, as well as latterly in S.A.
A talented Victorian who continues
to make good abroad is pianist Noel
Newton Wood, who a year or two back
was given a benefit concert at Melbourne
Town Hall. He has made a big name in
London, where his playing of Weber’s
Second Sonata has lately been recorded:
it fills seven sides of 12in. records.
All Brisbane needs is a nice big fire
now that it has acquired a couple of top-
flight fire-fighters from other States. J. E.
C. Stephens is to become Chief there at
42. English-born, he was a musketry and
drill instructor with the Devonshires from
1915 to 1921, got the Meritorious Service
Medal, came to Australia in 1926 and
joined the Adelaide fire brigade. A year
later he held the London Fire Engineers'
diploma and got an associate diploma in
1938, two years before being made
Deputy-Controller of Emergency Fire
Services for S.A. His deputy will be
George Healy, who comes from the
famous old Eastern Hill station in Mel-
bourne after 15 years’ battling against
Victorian fires. Like
his chief, George has
had a lot to do with
the fire aspect of
A.R.P. since the war
began. He is 37,
Appointed to a lead-
ing post in the M.L.
Home Guard, T. E. J.
(“Tommy”) Seddon,
second son of the
great “Dick” Seddon.
Unlike his father, he
never took kindly to
politics, though he had
a good stretch of it.
Just turned 21 when
his father died, he was
chosen to contest
Westland, and the
mana of the name of
Seddon proved too
good for the extra
strong and able oppos-
ing party. At the next
election young Seddon
just scraped home with
a majority of 100, and
he held the seat from
1906 to 1928, with one
break. He was de-
feated by G. James
O’Brien, now chief
Government Whip.
His brother. Captain
Dick Seddon, was killed in the 1914-18
war, in which he also served.
Into the silence:
At Echuca, at 89, Hugh McKenzie, in his
day one of the most notable of Victorian poli-
ticians, known well beyond his State’s borders.
As Minister for Lands in 1910 he went to
Britain and America, telling the world of
Victoria’s closer-settlement virtues, and then,
and later, as Minister for Railways and Water
Supply with the Peacock Government, he took
a leading hand in establishing the State’s closer-
settlement policy. He was in Victorian politics
from 1904 to 1917.
In Melbourne, after a long illness, Ernest
Fysh, Melbourne’s most prolific newspaper
controversialist. For many years his letters on
art, ceramics, the mistakes of the National
Gallery trustees and similar matters were a
regular feature of the dailies. He worked
his way through Melbourne University on
scholarships, and during the depression of the
’nineties organised a soup kitchen at his Alma
Mater. He came of one of Victoria’s earliest
families; Philip Fysh, one of the first Com-
monwealth Ministers, was an uncle.
In London, Lady Dunhill, wife of Sir
Thomas Dunhill, the King’s surgeon and a
graduate of the University of Melbourne. Lady
Dunhill was the daughter of the late Thomas
Affleck, of Kybybolke (S.A.). Her husband is
a Harley-street man, one of England’s leading
surgeons. He was formerly surgeon to St.
Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne, and served as
colonel, A.A.M.C., in the last war.
At 85, Harriet Eliza Randell, of Wellington
(M.L.), one of the Dominion’s most noted lyric
sopranos. She toured M.L. years ago with
Bessie Doyle, violinist, and filled many Austra-
lian engagements in oratorio in the ’nineties
and earlier.
At New Plymouth (M.L.), at 75, Irwin Paris,
an ex-civil servant whose hobby was the colla-
tion of Maoriland history. As an officer of the
Railway Department he had charge of accom-
modation arrangements when Edward P. toured
the Dominion. A few months before his death
he published Charleston, the story of the rise
and decline of a once well-known town.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“B.B.”: Our middle-aged bookkeeper
is known as “Mint-sauce” because he in-
variably seasons his conversation with
quotations from the writings of his
favorite author, Charles Lamb. The other
day, considering himself due for an in-
crease in screw, he bearded the boss .in
his den and began: “After thirty years
of ‘dreary drudgery at the desk’s dead
wood,’ sir, I respectfully request
that” “Damitall!” cut in the boss.
“I get you. But why don’t you say
straight out in decent blanky English that
you want a glass-top desk?”
* * * m
“Hamfat”; Maoriland’s latest war-
time liquor restrictions recall the trouble
actor Victor Fitzherbert met when he
landed in the Shaky Isles on tour in 1919.
Anti-shouting laws had been brought into
effect. Strolling into the bar of Welling-
ton’s Midland Hotel, Fitz ran into four
friends and scoffed when told of the ban
against buying drinks for them. “I’m
calling for five pints, anyway,” he said
breezily. “There’s no law against me
ordering five pints if I feel thirsty.”
The mugs having been dumped before the
mummer, gloom fell on the bar and a
look of horror appeared on the barman’s
face, for a police inspector who knew
Fitzherbert had entered. Fitz, seeing that
“ It's my turn to wear it.”
it was up to him, stammered that he had
just stepped off a ship and was very
thirsty ; he had ordered the pints for
himself. “Orright; I’ll watch you drink
’em,” said the Law firmly. Fitzherbert
got through the five, but he told me that
for the first time in his life he realised
that beer-drinking could become a pen-
ar>r ather than a pleasure.
“Mac Hoots”: “Like “Cauboy’’ and
like “A Major” (B. 5/8/’42), I, too, have
found myself listening to music with my
eyes fast shut. And, like them, and like
all music-lovers, I have always tried to
find a good excuse for it. Sometimes I
say with “Cauboy” that it is due to the
long years I spent in the tropics ; some-
times I say with “A Major” that it is
because I do not wish to see fat sopranos;
often I explain my trance as a swoon
of ecstasy and the noises I make, so much
like gentle snoring, as a symptom of
approval, comparable to the purring of
a tomcat. But I have not yet managed
to believe myself. Closing one’s eyes at
a concert is exactly comparable to “skip-
ping” while reading. Music, like litera-
ture, has its swamps, and between peak
and peak of Beethoven I nod as I nod
when Wordsworth is offering his “Ecclesi-
astical Sonnets” or when Dickens is
maundering about Tom Pinch and his
sister.
* # ir
“Bo”: My morning sheet, instancing
the hostility between Japs and Italians
who languish in durance vile together,
says there is no conversation between
prisoners of the two races. Such racial
and natural antagonism is no uncommon
thing between allies. I recall an occasion
when, on leave in a French town, I sat
at the same table as a Portuguese. Will-
ing to promote the entente cordiale, I
said “G’day, Dig., how are y’ burling?”
He just stared at me, and there was
venom in his eye. But I persevered. Per-
haps he might thaw if I couched my
conversation in a polyglot tongue, so I
said “Guten jour, amico, nichivo mowgii
himehy, kwice kateer inta magnaon
pronto /” He remained silent till I
politely passed him the salt, when he
made a noise like a buffalo with a bad
cold. It was my turn to maintain a digni-
fied silence. Who could doubt, looking
at us impartially, that the Portuguese and
myself were not on speaking terms?
* * * *
“Zake”; I once walked through some
Sydney slum streets with a doctor friend
and, noting some barefooted kids playing
in the gutters and sunless lanes, I re-
marked that the environment seemed to
breed them tough. My companion nodded.
“Those who survive, yes,” he said
drily. “You don’t hear about the others.”
“Craiser’s” nonagenarian dame (B.
5/ 8 / ’42) who, scorning oculists, selected
a cheap pair of specs from a bargain
tray half a century ago and (presumably)
still reads with ’em to no ill effect is one
of the ocular tough survivors. He who is
his own lawyer has only a fool for a
client; the self-oculist’s customer is a
half-wit. I know a man who laughed
at a suggestion that he should have his
eyes overhauled. He got a pair of specs
for a bob at a store. Two years later he
groped his way to a specialist. He sees
now moderately well, but with eyes
which, the eyeman informed him, are
approximately ten years older than the
rest of his body.
“Strict Veg.”: Victorian prohibition-
ists have been arguing that one glass of
whisky affects the marksmanship of a
soldier, two suspend his judgment and
three make him completely valueless as
a fighter. They are at variance with the
viewpoint of Major Oliver Stewart, an
English aviation expert. Remarking on
reports that German pilots carry a drug
which stimulates their truculence and
aggressive spirit and arouses their fight-
ing instincts, he says the effect of such
drugs has been studied in England, and
authorities are inclined to think that a
similar dosage might help the airman
through the terrific stress and strain of
aerial combat, just as the extra tot of
rum at zero hour before the hopover did
in the last war. As the Victorian Cold
Tea people insist that alcohol is a drug,
they could not logically object to the one
without objecting to the other.
* # * *
“Lao-dah”: People were rather aston-
ished when it was disclosed that prisoners
of war in Victoria had dug eight tunnels,
varying in length from a yard or two to
240 ft. and in depth from 4ft. to 10ft.,
electric-lighted and with bays to admit
of two-way traffic, but there is nothing
unique about it. Boredom is the chief
enemy of prisoners of war. One of the
most effective antidotes to boredom is the
hope of escape. Colonel T, W. White,
who was captured by the Turks when he
landed a ’plane to cut a telegraph line
in Mespot, told me that if he had
" Did I marry you or your mother?”
not been obsessed with the idea of escap-
ing from the moment he was captured
in November, 1915, till he eventually
reached Russia just before the Armis-
tice he would have gone mad. As it
Z; T!L” 0 £
iIZ ’.T l interested. A man in
guards^ 6 White’Vould Sometimes’ spend
he found it ended m a dead end he would
start off with monumental patience on a
fresh line. Yeats-Brown spent 18 months
trying to convince his Turkish gaolers
that he was insane, and he told the Aus-
Italian that his niton dread was that in
the process he would really go mad.
Nevertheless, he lived, like White, to
or. oviLrriinorii,
™‘ut 1? eX,ra ° rdmanly “S book
1 * * *
Ernest Wunderlich writes concerning
an old friend:
Sir Flinders Petrie, who died recently in har-
ness, at 89, was one of the greatest of English-
men, one of the foremost intellects of this
century. 1 used to visit Professor Petrie in
Egypt, on the sites of his excavations, the last
time early in 1914. Petrie was the first to intro-
tori t irae SCi '"was Bh &
lift Favrfi ifh^ r'iLmlt
left Egypt wnen the Government of thst country
laid down unreasonable laws for excavation
which he could not accept, and tor the last 10
or 15 years he had been excavating at Gaza,
in Palestine. There he discovered the ruins of
the ring of David’s fortresses and even the
names of David’s generals, which correspond
with those mentioned in the Bible. Lady Petrie
has been actively engaged with her husband in
all his excavations, and being a competent de-
lineator has been of great help. Besides this she
has had to forage for funds to carry on, as
the British Government contributes nothing.
Petrie’s complete works, which I collected over
the years, are now the property of the Aus-
tralian Museum, Sydney, together with some
hundreds of other leading works on archaeology,
photographs of temple sculptures, tomb paint-
itigs, etc. All these are incorporated in the
library of the Museum, where they are, or
should be. open to inspection by the public.
• * * •
“Avon”: After 11 years of compara-
tive tranquillity, seismologically con-
sidered, the Shivery Isles are once more
living up to their Bulletin cognomen.
On June 3 and 24 came ’quakes that
affected the Wairarapa district particu-
~, F F
larly and Wellington province generally.
Despite precautions that were written
into the building regulations of the
Dominion after the Napier ’quake, 3500
dwelling houses in the capital were dam-
aged, in addition to hundreds of other
buildings. Brickwork toppled everywhere
and 10,000 Wellington chimneys fell.
There have been small tremors in the
North Island almost every day since. On
August 2 came another severe ’quake in
Wellington province, and buildings in the
capital, strained and weakened by the
earlier shocks, were further damaged.
A great deal of the destruction is caused
by the collapse of heavy pediments and
ledges on the summits of walls. These
were removed from all Wellington public
buildings after the 1931 shake that practi-
cally razed Napier, but private owners
were not so forethoughtful. Luckily, so
far as reports to hand at time of writing
go, no lives have been lost in the latest
disturbances.
“R.S.H. ”: It was just before the war.
The latest Australian inter-State liner was
steaming through the Heads. Her master
was conning his ship from the lower
bridge. He wished that every eye in
Sydney could see his vessel; he was even
hoping something would cross his course
so that he could draw more attention to
bis ship by sounding her deep, throaty
s j ren< He glanced up at that magnificent
brass instrument and choked at what he
saw. Calmly polishing the whistle was
h Before he had time to
that his shi P ca ™ d P asse ”'
, ■ ’
, ‘ . . ; ~ ,
ba ™ b “" sca “ ad Ef
whlstle? . 1 ,T “Z ™
answered the deckboy calmly The cap-
sh?.?k. h ‘ s ban above hls baad “
ra « e - u ~W ha, ‘ d ? 5™ meao , , N “. J
Y ouldnt ’ f 1 T *'
Any minute I was liable to blow that
whistle and steam you to death” “Oh,
no, you wouldn’t, sir. I’ve lashed the
whistle lanyard 80 that she won,t blow ”
THE VANISHING WAISTCOAT.
Farewell, the waistcoat! Articles luxurious
In times like these must, so to speak, go west,
Including that which, for some reason curious,
Tailors insist on labelling a vest.
The garment Joseph Sedley set such store on.
And Tony Weller with some effort donned,
Is relegated, now that there’s a war on,
Into the Great Beyond.
In two-piece suits, part of the ration racket
For all our country’s male inhabitants,
It’s obvious that one must be a jacket
And just as sure the other must be pants.
That’s the association immemorial,
The partnership that none may come amid,
And Dedman rules the waistcoat a sartorial
Kind of a tertium quid.
No more may affluent gents who’ve cut their
notches
In trade, or chaps with Ministerial berths,
Rely on aureate chains to moor their watches
From east to west across their widening girths.
The background for such ostentation flickers
And fades. Necessity will soon exist
To hit on other spots for parking tickers,
Inclusive of the wrist.
You sleeveless articles of male apparel,
For many a century you’ve served to drape
The portion horsy men would term the barrel,
The part amidships in the human shape.
The snips, I’ll bet, would like you to remain on
The roster of the garments .they display.
But it’s decreed you’re not a sine qua non —
In war-time, anyway.
Farewell, the veskit ! War, grim war has
killed it.
No more, the frames of customers to deck,
Will patient craftsmen, sitting cross-legged,
build it
Till Adolf Hitler gets it in the neck.
Along with spats and suchlike things it’s booted
Out, with its handy pockets four or live.
What one might aptly designate “non-suited”
Till brighter days arrive.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
PASSING THE BUCK.
“The Commonwealth Government is charged with
trying to ‘pass the buck’ to the States on the ques-
tion of liquor-law reform; the same accusation is
levelled against State Premiers by Federal Ministers."
Each crowd would gladly “pass the buck”
To fellows in the other joint
And save themselves from further truck
With such a sorely ticklish point.
The side that liquor laws amends,
However gingerly it goes,
Is bound to lose a lot of friends
And make a new array of foes.
With wary eyes they count the cost,
The heads of Commonwealth and State,
And vision votes which may be lost,
Whichever way they legislate.
The shelter of a plebiscite
Either would welcome, we’ll allow,
But patently it isn’t quite
The time for referenda now.
Perplexed, irresolute they stand,
Loath to offend what’s called the Trade
Or nark, upon the other hand, •
The doughty Temperance Brigade.
While rival factions raise their cries
And sturdy claqueurs cheer and stamp,
Your cautious politician tries
To keep a foot in either camp.
All past experience goes to prove
He’s pretty safe to raise a storm
Who takes a step or makes a move
Regarding licensing reform.
And those who frame our laws, I wis,
Would verily be tempting luck
If, in a quandary like this,
They didn’t seek to “pass the buck.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“T. McNark”: Look at it how you
will, there is something dashed intriguing
about jockeys and their military service.
Ever since the sporting scribes head-
lined their call-up and showed pictures
of them in uniform, it’s been puzzling
me why Private Cook and Private Munro
and others are allowed to appear out
of uniform. And, in view of the new
saluting law, what happens if Private
Munro, a length in front rounding the
turn, is suddenly confronted by his com-
pany commander? Does he cut his
officer dead or give the salute? And
should an enemy land at Coogee, must
the war wait while Private Cook changes
from silks and spurs into khaki? Yet,
again, if Private Munro comes down in
a race and breaks his arm, does the
A.J.C. or the military assume responsi-
bility for hospital treatment?
® » * *
“M.C.”: Bulletin artist Percy Leason
has hit the top flight of illustrating in the
U.S.A. —a recent “Saturday Evening Post”
story carried a two-page double-spread
illustration of his in color ; a good job,
though very unlike what would have been
called a typical Leason drawing when
Percy was in Australia. Incidentally, the
“Saturday Evening Post,” which formerly
always ran its full name in letters of even
type, has subordinated the “Saturday
Evening” part to small type, and in effect
made its label “Post” only. In conse-
quence of the publication of a series of
articles on the Jewish question, one of
which drew protests from many Ameri-
can Jews, it has had a change of editors,
and looks like a new publication.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Having taken up the fountain-
pen again after long years of dictating
letters and minutes to his staffs, Keith
Murdoch is writing war articles reminis-
cent of his lively and trenchant accounts of
the Flanders campaign of 1917, and with
riper judgment. In one he suggested that
there is no love lost between the Japanese
and the Germans, from whom they took
the Marshalls and the Carolines, and
whose dictator made no flattering refer-
ence to them in Mein Kampf. In an-
other, he hazarded the opinion that the
quality of Japanese soldiers is very un-
even. Too young to remember the
Russo-Japanese War, he would find that
highly competent observers of that
struggle came to the same conclusion,
and gave it as a reason why the Japs,
their best fighting men having been killed
off and the gaps filled by coolies, made
a not particularly favorable peace. But
the “Herald” chief insists that the best
Japanese troops —and only the best have
been employed in their southward drive
—are first-class, and complete fanatics:
I have not heard of a dozen unwounded
Japanese taken prisoner. Those who were
taken have begged for weapons with which
to kill themselves. Wounded and starving
have all fought until dead or powerless;
powerless,-they seek death.
And such soldiers are not to be beater
on a five-day-week regime for workers
and revellers alike.
* * # *
“Cauboy”; Melbourne Philharmonic
Society, the most austere musical asso-
ciation in the city, issued a brochure
decorated with a Babylonian wall
painting to advertise its production of
William Walton’s “Belshazzar’s Feast.”
Those imaginative lads who write ads.
for the movies have nothing on the author
of this outburst. After announcing that
no words can do justice to the music,
its force and power, its unhesitating
rightness, etc., the booklet invites the
music-lover to “read the Biblical ac-
count of this Fantastic Affair.” Follows
the relevant passage from the Book of
Daniel about the King and his thousand
lords and his wives and his concubines
and the great guzzle they had and the
sad consequences that ensued therefrom.
Reminds me a bit of the cable sent to
a Hollywood newspaper by its London
correspondent when Thomas Hardy died:
“Thomas Hardy, author of Tess of the
D’Urbevilles, starring vehicle for Doug-
las Fairbanks, died this morning.”
* * ♦ *
“P. 8.”: A reference to Brendan Finu-
cane (B. 22/7/’42) mentions that he, like
Richthofen, was shot down by gunfire
from the ground. It seems to have been
pretty definitely established that Richt-
hofen was accounted for by Roy Brown,
a Canadian, flying a Camel. According
to Floyd Gibbons in Red Knight of
Germany : —
As the Australian machine-gunners
claimed at the time that the red ’plane had
been brought down by fire from the ground,
a post-mortem examination was held by
army and air medical officers, who agreed
that Richthofen died from a single bullet-
wound which had traversed his breast from
the right to the left side. The air medicoes
probed the wound and stated that “the
situation of the entrance and exit wounds
are such that they could not have been
caused by fire from the ground.”
This finding is borne out by a friend of
mine who helped to lift Richthofen out
of the red triplane.
“Strict Veg.”: Franpois de Castella,
Victoria’s veteran viticulturist, has been
taking up the cudgels for Australian wine,
a case which has been sadly mishandled
in the liquor controversy raging in Mel-
bourne. He argues that “pinkie” and
“plonk” are bogeys, conjured up by
morbid prejudices and deplorable ignor-
ance, and that new wine, contrary to
popular superstition, is not more intoxi-
cating or hurtful than old. Some wines
improve with age; others are best drunk
new. An old wine, owing to its higher
ester content, is more potent. In De
Castella’s view, the crux of the question
is the distinction between use and abuse.
This statement of the case by Australia’s
greatest expert isn’t likely to alter Mel-
bourne’s drinking habits, however. I saw
a citizen the other evening, frustrated as
to beer and with only ten minutes to go
in which to get his usual skinful, ask
the barmaid for sherry. She planked
down the orthodox wineglass. “What!”
he snorted, throwing down half a dollar
and grabbing a beerpot and the bottle.
“Do you take me for a sissy?” Filling
the pot he drained it in one lightning
movement and then filled up again. I
daresay he landed in the watch-house.
❖ * * *
“Loo”: Mac, of the corner grocer’s
shop, says “a man’s crazy to be in busi-
ness these times.” Last Friday he did
a roaring trade—roaring the same type of
remark to almost every customer: “Got
any cocoa?” “No.” “Box of matches?”
“Sorry.” “Washing blue?” “Don’t be
silly.” “Six pounds of sugar.” “I’ll give
you one pound next week.” Any
cream biscuits?” “No.” At last in came
“In launching our 1943 naval programme. We signify our ability to stand
against any aggression."
two colored seamen. With rice-
hungry eyes they approached the ex-
hausted and disgusted Mac. “You got
lice?” they asked politely. “No!” roared
Mac. “Bats!’'
* » * *
“Vacco”: “Pawang’s” assertion (B.
22/7/’42) that there can be scarcely any
immunity against smallpox in Australia
is questionable. Does he know just how
many people in Australia have been
vaccinated? Has he forgotten about that
portion of the population which immi-
grated from the UK. prior to the 1914-18
war? All of them whom I have met
were vaccinated. Is he forgetting the
services of the 1914-18 war and the
present one? Every manjack has his
vaccination scars.
* * * *
“Visitor”: S.A. has suddenly dropped
the hooding or blackening of motor-car
lamps, except for any standing on the
seafront. The six months’ experiment in
semi-darkness has seen a big list of
casualties, serious and even fatal. The regu-
lation is now lifted with Federal approval.
In fact, the Canberra authorities tell
Adelaide that it is “rated as the least
liable to attack of the Australian capi-
tals.” Yet since January it has been,
some people say, the most blacked-out
or browned-out of the lot.
* * *
“Morimoto”: An American eyewit-
ness of the Tokyo bombing says that one
of the bombers flew over the Imperial
Palace and, without dropping, bombs,
created a political crisis resulting in
sweeping changes. Even without the
Emperor’s life having been endangered
there would have been a crisis. One of
the most universal beliefs about Asiatic
rulers is that their heads are sacred, and
any commoner who places himself above
such heads runs into danger, since unseen
forces will smite him with smallpox. Some
years ago the Sultan of Djokja, in Java,
was up against a knotty problem, A
misguided Dutchman presented him with
a replica of the Lord Mayor’s coach in
London. No native sais could drive it
because the driver’s seat was higher than
that of the Sultan, whose daulat would
instantly have struck the driver dead or
given him a painful skin eruption. The
question was finally settled by the em-
ployment of a European driver, on the
hypothesis that the unseen forces would
be impotent against the prestige of the
white man.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.” on young Sydney;
Although Sydney in the eighteen-thirties, de-
spite its being the capital of a. continent, was
merely a sort of clearing-house for convicts,
it did not lack citizens with advanced ideas.
Take the formation of the Australian Gas Light
Company, incorporated 7, 1837.
Lighting by gas had been in vogue in England
only for a score of years or so, and Sydney
then possessed fewer than 30,000 inhabitants, so
the promoters of the company must have been
pretty game. The gas was first lit on Queen
Victoria’s birthday. May 24, 1841, and the
directors, in order to celebrate the occasion,
presented the town, for that night only, with
free gas. In the decade between 1831 and 1841
eight banks and 13 other companies functioned
in Sydney, whilst six newspapers were published
there, and at the end of the period 11 steamers
were navigating Port Jackson and its neighbor-
ing coasts. So there was something doing
in the capital of N.S.W. even before convict
transportation ceased and the gold discoveries
began a new era.
¥
“Bumpkin”; The most persistent
hoodoo in Melbourne’s maritime history
still roosts on the Kakariki, sunk in a
collision off Gellibrand Light in 1937.
Ships have been sunk all over the world
in the meantime, and many have been
recovered, but the old Kakariki still sticks
firmly to the bottom, despite repeated
efforts to bring the obstinate wreck to
the surface. On several occasions success
has seemed to be in sight. Then a chain
has broken or a storm has arisen and
down the ship has gone into mud
that holds a world’s record for
powers of suction. Now fresh tenders
are to be called. Experts of the
Ports and Harbors Department believe
that the only way to break the old hulk’s
indomitable spirit is to split her into
sections and drag her into the light of
day in pieces.
V * * *
“Yeth”; That A.B.Thee announther
from Canberra with the lithp charmth
me. t I heard him on the newth thethion
on Thunday night. Hith thrugglth with
Duththeldorff and “The Marthellaithe”
were heroic ; hith thorieth of the deedth
of the thquadronth and the conthentra-
tionth of the Nartheeth were thtirring.
Alath! when he thed “And that endth the
Thtate thethion,” he cut thhort the
brightetht item thince broadcathting
wath inithiated.
» * ♦ *
“Canner”: The niceties of journalism
make an interesting study. Should any
person in the business world strike trouble
his name goes in the headlines ; so does
the name of a woman caught kicking
over the traces. But a Great Daily,
reporting the case of an embezzler who
got away with £25,670 from a charitable
institution and lost over £15,000 of it to
one bookie, concealed the name of the
odds-caller. He was in the witness-box
quite a wfcile, and presumably he wa t s
asked whether it never, occurred to him
to suspect a punter who played up £3OOO
p.a. in wagers on a salary that a wharfie
in good standing would despise. But in
the report he was just “a bookmaker.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Hasn’t the time come for
adopting a new word—or abbreviation —
“factures”? “Manufacture” obviously
means, anyone who understands its
L a (i n derivation, something made by
h anc j • anc j since the spread of machinery
j t now isn > t true of one per cent Q f t h e
t hi ngs turned out. Within my own
memory, the corresponding “manufac-
tory” was o ffi c i a u y usec j b ut has long
since been dropped. Acts of Parliament
recognise “factory” as sufficient and cor-
rect, no matter what is made inside it.
And that precedent seems to settle the
other word. Further every worth-while
writer now speaks of change of creed
merely as “ Verting,” the controversial
“ per ” or “con” (according to individual
taste) being dropped. “Bus” and “plane”
and phone, too, are all convenient
relics of old longer words ; and this is
tori* and not because the dropped
syllables were m any way unsound. One
may put up with the cumbersome for the
sake of correctness or perhaps the mis-
i eaf n n „ f nr t j, p u rpv ; t ,, Rnt whv
n S , Sa brevity. Z” 1 y
cling to the long-Winded cmet untruthful
“manufacture”?
* * * *
.a r ~
ng-Shui According to a dispatch
trom New Delhi, India s enormous
woman-power is to be mobilised for the
war front, and the Begum Shah Nawaz,
w h o has taken a leading part in the
Indian suffragette movement, will be
appointed leader. In
the light of my ex-
perience of Indian
women I would be
amazed if the move-
ment immediately re-
sulted in an over-
whelming force of
sari’d war workers
being recruited, Hindu
or Moslem. Kemal
Pasha succeeded in
getting T urkish women
out of the harem and
in tearing the veil
from their faces, but
he was of the Hitler
sort, and the Begum
is no Hitler. The
greatest upholders of
the zenana are the
Indian women who
are imagined by Brit-
ish social reformers to
be craving to be
rescued from it. Tradi-
tion in India is as
strong as or stronger
than it is in other
countries. It was in
1829 that the British
raj prohibited widow-
immolation, but a
hundred years later
the authorities were
still keeping watchful eyes on the funeral
pyres of Hindu husbands to prevent
widows throwing themselves on the
flames.
* * * *
“Cook’s Mate” discourses on some
long-lost arable soil:
On the 4th of May, 1770, Captain Cook took
the Endeavour’s pinnace and went exploring
along the south shore of Botany Bay almost to
the head of the big inlet, where he landed and
walked some distance inland. “I found in many
places,” he says, “a deep black soil, which we
thought was capable of producing any kind of
grain. At present it produceth, besides timber,
as fine meadow as ever was seen.” Eighteen
years afterwards Captain Phillip’s people looked
everywhere for this meadow land but couldn’t
find it, and concluded that Cook had made a
mistake. Captain Tench, in 1790, thought that
it was the bog at the mouth of Cook’s River,
up which the great navigator rowed to a point
near the present Tempe railway station, but it
is unlikely that an observer of Cook’s quality
could fall into such error. Some years ago
C. H. Bertie, one of Sydney’s soundest his-
torians, hazarded an opinion that it was on
George’s River that the “fine meadow” was
found, and such a notable authority as the late
Professor Wood agreed with him. He thought
that it was a patch of good soil near Sans Souci.
Captain King noted there, in 1788, “an exceed-
ingly fine black mould, with some excellent
timber trees and some very rich grass.” It is
strange that Tench didn’t conclude that the
‘‘very rich grass” was more probably Cook’s
meadows than the “rotten spongy bog” he de-
scribes.
* * * *
“Left Chop”: Further to the adven-
tures of the hero of my morning daily,
Joe Palooka (B. 5/8/’42), I have to
report that Joe has cast up in Australia or
in some other country where Australians
are present. I was somewhat doubtful of
it at first, not being dead sure that the two
blokes in riding pants, puttees, shirts and
slouch hats cocked at the right side were
Aussies, but Joe’s creator makes one of
them say “I sye—tyke it heasy, lad.”
Probably one of the obscurer dialects of
the Footscray hillbillies.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bohemian”: Henare was doing sentry
duty, and his instructions were that after
a certain hour no one must be allowed
to pass. When his C.O. came along
Henare refused his passage. “But, dam-
mit!” said the C. 0., “I’m your com-
manding officer, and surely you recognise
me.” “Well, boss,” said the adamant
Henare, “I got te instructi’n, an’ I no
allow anyone in te gate.” “And what
do you expect me to do?” asked the
officer. “Stay out in the cold all night?”
“Py korrie, boss,” said Henare, “you can
just go t’rough te hole in te fence like
te other fellers did.”
* * « *
“J.H.M.A.”: Bourke (N.S.W.) and the
Khyber Pass, between India and Afghanis-
tan, are pretty Wide apart; but Victor
Bayley, M.1.C.E., connects them in his
book Permanent Way Through the
Kyber, which describes how its author
built a railway through the rugged defile
two decades ago. “One day
Akbar Khan came to see me and said he
wished to introduce his friend, Abdul
Wahid Khan. I said I should be delighted
to see him, and in came another Shin-
wari dressed just like the Malik. I gave
him the customary salutation and offered
him a chair, and was staggered to receive
a reply in English—‘Pleased to meet
you, boss.’ And then, seeing my astonish-
ment, he explained: ‘You see, I went as
a little boy of ten years old to Australia
with my father, who was running a camel
train.’ ” There are still people on the Dar-
ling River who will remember the hand-
some “Afghan” who had charge of the
camel camp at Bourke early in this cen-
tury as Abdul Wade.
.** * *
“Blue Gum”: I’ll wager my old
cabbage-tree hat that in all the feathered
world there’s not a more vicious swain
than Bill Dove. In the big Phoenix syl-
vestris palm at the back door the banns
have been announced, and between coo-
ing and bowing Bill has started to belt
Bella from fence to telegraph wire and
from housetop to clothesline, and there’s
scarcely left any time to pick at the crusts
I throw out. This assault and battery
will go on for weeks until i the building
plans are decided upon. Whenever I
hear those charming phrases “the dove
of peace” and “gentle as a dove” I now
unleash a cynical guffaw.
v * * *
“Solitude”: We were heading along
the flat, but Seventyfiver wasn’t taking
much notice. His faded optics were look-
ing back down the years and seeing again
through the trees the fleeting patches of
red and white as the huge bullock wagons
with their colorful strings hove in sight
down the winding track. And he was
listening to old Bullocky Ned’s sing-song
voice calling lazily to Jerry and Red and
hearing the echo of his enormous whip
as it crashed encouragement, “Them was
the days,” he murmured wistfully. “No
bustle, no ear-splittin’ engines, no stench
o’ bumin’ petrol, no worry—jus’ the
bush track an’ the birds an’ a bed under
the wagon, with the bell on the old
leader clinkin’ a man t’ sleep. It’s these
rip-tearin’ machines what’s ruined this
country. Why, when these here flats
were nuthin’ but marshes, an’ that there
puddle” The silence was abrupt and
pregnant. “Stone the crows!” exploded
the old bloke. “If that ain’t one o’ them
prize heifers bogged!” “Stuck pretty
deep, too,” I volunteered. “You’ll have
to get a horse and rope to move her.”
“Horse!” came the excited snort. “This
ain’t no time t’ be messin’ round with
a horse! She’ll smother in that slime!
You tear back an’ get that big bus o’
yours. That’ll shift ’er, I bet. What!
Strike me, don’t say y’ got no flamin’
petrol!”
tK * * ♦
“Kulkyne”; The northern abos. must
have differed greatly from the southern
if they were unmoved by the new things
of the white man (B. 5/8/’42). It’s just
on 90 years since W. R. Randell took the
first steamer up the Murray. All along
the river ahead of him news of his com-
ing had stirred the whites, most of whom
got ready to watch him pass. Below
Swan Hill (Vic.) there was a big abo.
camp. Whether or not they knew of the
coming Mary Ann, it is legend now how
the boat’s thumping paddles first alarmed
the camp one night, and then as she
appeared in sight, with smoke and sparks
flying from her stack and her two head-
lamps gleaming, every abo. in the place
took to his or her scrapers and headed
for the Boga swamps. One of the
pioneering Beveridges is said to have got
his first news of Randell’s coming from
a wild-eyed native who stopped long
enough to gasp “Old-man debbil-debbil
longa ribber,” and then hurried towards
Tasmania.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: The kookaburra might,
as “Zake” says (B. 5/8/’42), confine his
snake-killing to those of the tiddler class ;
nevertheless he puts in good work by
worrying the big snakes into betraying their
presence and thus allowing man to com-
plete the work. The sight of a swarm of
butcher-birds, magpies and jackasses
hovering over a patch of paspalum near
my stable led to my discovery of a
couple of brown snakes. And I grate-
fully remember the jackass that dived
“Pure swank! He can't read.”
down just in front when I was plodding
along behind the disc-plough, thus draw-
ing my attention to a red-bellied black
which had been almost cut in two by
the disc and was writhing angrily just
where my bared legs would have gone.
* * * *
“Fernland”: An Australian visitor
amused me the other day (just before
the recent earthquakes in M.L.) by telling
that she had been advised to stay at
the Pig and Whistle in Wellington rather
than at the Spotted Cow, because the
latter is “on the earthquake line.” There
are, of course, according to the geolo-
gists, various “fault lines” passing
through the Dominion, but none of them
is quite as well localised as my Aus-
tralian friend seemed to suppose. The
best known is what is called the “Rimu-
taka fault,” which lies between the Rimu-
taka-Tararua range and the Wairarapa
lowland. This is very well defined, but
it is either paralleled or is shifting, be-
cause the centre line of the shakes of
June 24 last runs 10 miles to the east
of the Rimutaka fault. The “faults” are
somewhat hazily explained as areas of
stress occasioned by the weight of masses
of above-the-water land in close prox-
imity to great ocean depths. Whatever
forms ’em they have given some very
terrifying proofs of their existence.
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”: For weeks a mysterious
tapping sound coming from the front
room, always between the hours of 8
and 9 a.m., had Mum puzzled ; but when
she began to draw comparisons with the
Guyra ghost mystery realisation came to
me that a decent little orchard would be
for sale at a pretty low figure unless!
could produce a simple and satisrac y
explanation. During my Y 1 ® 1
wet day—no tapping occurred, ihe next
day I heard it, rushed into the room but
discovered nothing more tangible than a
few dirty marks on the window pane
The following day I stationed myselt
behind the drawn blind, determined to
solve the mystery. Suddenly there came
a succession of violent raps on the g as .
Instantly I released the blind and foun
myself staring straight into—the bea y
eyes of a peewee! I think the bird go
as big a shock as I, but next day he was
back again at the same time—vigorously
fighting his reflection in the glass.
* * * *
“Wang”:. “I’m workin’ one time on
a road construction job,” related Dan.
“The ganger’s a loud-mouthed, bullym
coot, an’ he seems t’ have a dead set on
my mate Joe, a big burly bloke with an
easygoin’ nature. One night Joe an me
is on our way home from the billiard-
room in the township when we hear a
hell of a row cornin’ from a house we re
approachin’. It’s built right on to the
street, with a two-foot verandah. As we
come opposite the front door opens, an
in the light shinin’ out we see a big
bloke come staggerin’ backwards, an
behind him a hefty female. The gent,
is our noble ganger. He continyers stag-
gerin’ back, an’ is almost on top t of Joe
when the female lets fly with something
she has in her hand; there’s a smack,
and he flops down, groanin’. The woman
comes rushin’ out an’ asks us t’ give her
a hand t’ get him inside. We lumber
him in an’ put him on a chair the
kitchen, where he sits tenderly feelin’ his
chin, which has a coupla inches of hide
knocked off it. Joe ducks out an’ come
back, an’ hands the woman a flat-iron.
‘Y’ might want it agen sometime,’ he
ses significant. ‘Yes,’ she ses, eyein’ her
ole man vicious, ‘an’ I’ll use it agen if
I’m given occasion t’.’ ‘You win,’ ses
the ganger, an’, turnin’ to us, ses in a
subdued voice ‘Yous blokes’ll keep mum
’bout this bizness, will y’?’ We say we
will an’ clear off. ‘Well,’ I ses as we
move homeward, ‘that’s one woman, any-
way, what hit what she fired at.’ ‘Get
out!’ ses Joe ; ‘she missed him be a yard.
But hurry up; I wanter get this fist of
mine into some hot water —it’s beginnin’
t’ swell a bit.’ ”
♦ * * »
“Bo”: “Jindabyne” Jimmy, on his
way out to Simpson’s place at Galah
Flat on a fencing contract, was a mile
beyond Billygunyah when his utility hit a
rut and snapped the back axle. He trudged
back into the little township and sought
accommodation from mine host of the
Rouseabouts’ Arms. Bung scratched his
whiskers forlornly. “Fact is,” he said,
“I’ve on’y two beds, an’ they’re occu-
pied.” “Yairs, I know,” came back
“Jindabyne” ; “they were the last time I
dossed in one of ’em a few years back.
But I can put up with that —it’s on’y fer
one night, an’ I’ve got a pretty tough
hide.”
* * * *
“Arev”: Mrs. Jupp had long protested
about the load of logs dumped in the
yard near the kitchen door. Bill would
promise that he’d chop and stack it next
day, but somehow other jobs would get
priority and the stack remained uncut.
One day Mrs. Jupp went into the township
for the weekly order. When she returned
she rested her basket on the woodheap
while she led the horse to the stable. Bill
came up from the paddock, his eyes
alight with anticipation. “Did you get
my tobacco, Mum?” he asked. “Yes.
light plug, wasn’t it? I’ve got a two-
ounce packet—here it is.” She dived
her hand in and pulled out a packet, but
it slipped out of her fingers and fell into
the centre of the woodheap. Bill made
a grab for it but succeeded only in send-
ing it further down between the logs.
He tossed the logs right and left, chasing
the elusive packet right to the ground.
As he dived triumphantly on it, Mrs.
Jupp was starting to wield the heavy axe.
“I want some wood, Bill,” she said.
“While you’ve got the logs down I may
as well cut a bit, but your tea’ll be a
bit late.” A minute later Bill was slog-
ging into the stack.
* * * *
“0.T.” : Michael Muldoon, a notable
performer on the banjo and the Mad
Mick, was helping a plumber lay pipes
round the homestead. Mike persisted in
digging the trenches too deep, being un-
able to control himself when once he got
the “insthrumints” in his hands, with the
result that the plumber, working on con-
tract, was paying for the time taken to
fill them in again. They argued about it
till Mike lost patience and said “There’s
only wan thing t’ do, me mahnny. Cut
tray or fower inches from me pick-end
t’ shtop me droivin’ it in so far.” It
looked silly at first, but the plumber did
it and it worked.
H* 4*
“J.D.P.”: If “BL3” (B. l/7/’42) grabs
Kelly or Plumb and frills the offending
suckers and saplings just below ground
level, and into the cannelure pours a nip
composed of arsenic and caustic soda
mixed with tar and boiling water, I’ll
guarantee his plants not to register or
strike. If he can’t arrange the cocktail
recommended, let him bathe the wound
with dip fluid. The result will be equally
pleasing and perhaps cheaper.
m * * *
“Betcha”: That “Outback
Occasions” bloke questions
where or how the tin-kettling
tradition got into the Aus-
tralian bush. It came, of
course, from the Mad Con-
tinent, the home of super-
stition and ignorance. When
witchcraft was prevalent,
friends descended upon
newly - married couples at
night and serenaded them
with as much hideous noise
as possible, for the purpose
of driving out evil spirits.
These spirits usually lurked
within the bride, and by
frightening them away she
was prevented from doing
her husband any supernatural
harm. Marital troubles—yes,
they had ’em, too —were all
laid at the door of super-
natural elements, and noise
was considered the most effec-
tive weapon of combat. In
later years an alteration in
the nature of the spirits has
helped to prolong the ancient
practice, though the divorce
court has just about run the
kerosene-tins off the job-
Nevertheless, we must hand it
to these old customs—they die hard.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat and me were
camped for dinner on a Goulburn Valley
road one day when a bloke drifted up
and asked us if he was right for Tatura.
“Yair ,” said Mat, adding, “if y’ cut the
paddock here an’ cross that channel over
be them poplars you’ll chop off about a
mile an’ a half.” The bloke had a drinK
of tea, picked up his swag and got
through the fence. About three minutes
later we heard the wires ana
looked up to see him coming back. “Lose
somethin’?” asked Mat. “No,” he said;
“but I don’t like the look o’ that flamm
bull. See him?” He was a big Guern-
sey, and he was looking towards us and
throwing dirt over himself and blaring
Mat studied him carefully, then he
drawled, “Well, mate, I don’t reckon you
got that on y’r own. He don’t like the
look o’ you, either.” The bloke grinned
and said, “That’s what I thought, but d
y’ reckon he’d be safe t’ pass in th e
paddock?” Mat thought it over. “Well,
he decided, “I reckon he’d be a lot saier
than you’d be,” The bloke kept to the
road.
* * * *
“Muscovy’s Nephew”: Let me assure
“Yokel” (B. 5/8/’42) that the “yellow
exudate” from the oilcan on the ducks
tail does contain-a grease with which the
bird anoints its fur in order to keep afloat
Saw the thing proved in a talkie short.
The duck was first placed in water,
whereon it floated happily, though obvi-
ously slightly puzzled at the doings. Then
its feathers were degreased, and, put baa
in the water, it promptly sank up to its
neck. Its look of avian astonishment »
the best thing I’ve seen in years.
IN SHADOW.
'Neath a moon that chilly shines,
Sheen and shadow interweaving,
From yon house set round with pines,
Western pines that sombre stand.
Comes the sound of someone grieving.
Lightlessly its windows peer
Through the dark pines, mutely warning
Those who chance to wander near
Hence to hasten, since within
All is drear with hopeless mourning.
Now and then from oak and gum
Calls a mopoke or, forlorner.
From some creekside curlew come
Notes that dirge in fittingly
With the heartache of the mourner.
Whoso mourns mourns not alone,
For the earth is wet with falling
Tears and tears, from zone to zone;
Hearth and hearth that home-mirth knew
Now know only gloom appalling.
Coldly drifts the moon above,
Sending down no ray to soften
War’s assault on Peace and Love;
Callous ’tis through having seen
Earth blood-drenched too oft and often.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“New recruit, eh? Had any previous military experience?”
“Aratta”; “I put it on that cocky
fer a job,” said Joe the Snorter. “ ‘Yes,’
he ses, eyein’ me over steady ; I reckon
I can fix y’ up. What wages do y’ want?’
I tell him. ‘Righto,’ he ses, ‘that’ll do
me. But before we finally decide there’s
one thing I’d better warn y’ about. If
I fly off the handle an’ start swearin’ at
y’ don’t take no notice of it. It’s just
a way. I have, an’ there ain’t no harm
meant, see?’ I run me eyes over him;
he’s about the same age an’ build as
meself. ‘Goodo!’ I ses. ‘An’ I s’pose
I’d better do a bit of warnin’, too. If,
when y’ start flyin’ off the handle an’
start swearin’ at me, I up an’ lands y’
a wallop on the jaw, don’t take no notice
of it. It’s just a way I have an’ don’t
mean no harm, see?’ The cocky’s wife
has been standin’ there while we’ve been
havin’ our chinwag. She’s a big, pleasant-
faced woman with a determined-lookin’
chin, an’ she pipes up ‘Well, I might as
well be in this,’ she ses, quiet like. ‘So
if yous two men get swearin’ an’ fightin’
an’ then come in lookin' fer tucker I
won’t have any ready for you. But don’t
take no notice of that; it’s just a way I
have, an’ no harm meant, see?’ An’,
smilin’, she walks inside. The bloke looks
after her an’ grins. ‘I reckon we’ll get
on well together, without no-trouble, eh?’
he ses. T reckon we will,’ I replies em-
phatic, grinning back, an’ we did.”
* * * *
“R.N.”: Give me the sheep hound that
can think for itself every time. Old Bob
had been left to bring in a mob of mixed
aged ewes and got them to the yard gates!
There a skittish miss turned and faced
him, stamping her front hooves and toss-
ing her head. She got backing from a
couple of others, and it looked as though
Bob was about to lose his sheep. He
knew it was no good barking, he
knew he wasn’t allowed to bite, though
it was clear that he’d flave loved to take
that ewe apart. He squatted, rolled his
tongue and considered. Then he sidled
forward. The ewe stamped. Suddenly
Bob shot forward like a streak of light,
dived under the ewe’s belly and out the
other side. She rolled tail over tip in the
dust, and the others found a menacing
Bob between them and the heroine. They
turned and bolted through that gate, and
the tossed ewe, picking herself up and
with all the stubbornness knocked out
of her, bowled old Bob over in her rush
to join them. Bob went and wallowed in
the tank, unable to drink for laughing.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: When they sent the long
bloke out to share the hut with me on
Moonlight I noticed that he wore all the
evidence of one who has been on the
scoot for weeks. Later, sorting out the
stuff from the ration cart, I came across
a couple of bottles of whisky and made
inquiring noises. “It’s for me,” said the
long ’un ; “I’m sufferin’ a bit o’ recovery.”
Next morning, being Sunday, I was up
and about, but didn’t disturb my new
mate. About dinnertime I got back to
the hut, just as he burst from it with wild
hair and starting eyes, yelling “Snakes,
big ’uns!” I backed away from him,
hurriedly considering whether to knock
him out or heave him in the tank. He
grabbed a big stick and dived back into
the hut. I waited, listening to a great
thumping and yelling. When silence came
I went in, expecting to find some wreck-
age, a prime example of d.ts. and a
couple of empty whisky bottles. But there
were two dead snakes on the hearth and
another on the table. In a corner, cold
sober and white, was their destroyer. “No
more booze f’r me,’ he said quaveringly.
“I never thought they was dinkum;
thought I was seein’ ’em again.” I didn’t
tell him how I felt.
% % ♦
“Ophir”: What is the time goannas
and lizards can stay submerged? I’ve
chased an old-man go. into a clear water-
hole, and he lay on the bottom for the
best part of two hours. Then, when a
ridden horse went near him, he came to
life with surprising suddenness and
scuttled up the bank. I’ve repeatedly seen
carney lizards asleep in boredrains, lying
below six inches of water. I’ve had one
under observation for the best part of an
hour. The only time he moved was when
I prodded him.
sjc sfc MP *
“Hors Doc”: No doubt Kipling got
his ideas about the “conversational
voices” of horses (B. 29/7/’42) from the
Bible, where, in the Book bf Job, all
may read of the redoubtable warhorse
“He saith among the trumpets, Ha, ha ;
and he smelleth the battle afar off, the
thunder of the captains, and the shout-
ing.” Doubtless the modern warhorse
indulges in a little gentle irony (“Wouldn’t
it chaff you?”) when he smelleth the
thunder of the commentators.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Since Japan first started
on her career of world domination I
have, at the instance of my sapient morn-
ing mentor, successively pinned my faith
in her imminent destruction on (a) the
fanatic zeal of the Moros of the Philip-
pines, ( b ) the flickering creeses of the peas-
ants of Malaya, (c) the deadly blowpipe
of the Bornean Dyak, id) the rice swamps
of Java, which were to bog the invader
while the volcanoes covered him with
lava, and (e) the swift and silent spear of
the Binghi of Melville Island. Now,
according to an “Argus” war correspon-
dent, an even deadlier peril ‘awaits him:
In the hidden valleys of this Alpine
[Papua] jungle country is the home of the
semi-nomadic Kukukuku tribe, deadly
“silent killers,” who are pygmies living in
a strange jungle wilderness of almost per-
petual mist and rain. Headhunters and
cannibals, the Kukukukus have defied every
attempt to civilise them, and many white
patrol officers with armed bodyguards and
large escorts of natives have entered the
Kukukuku country never to be seen again.
Over a huge area of Alpine jungles,
ravines and swamps, I am informed, these
pygmies for decades have conducted a reign
of terror.
I can well believe it. In pre-war days 1
met a Kukukuku at Hanubada, the native
suburb of Port Moresby, where I had
gone on a Bulletin mission, and we got
into a conversation on his favorite topic,
fighting. When I explained to him that
the collapse of the Germans in the last
war was largely due to the British block-
ade, which prevented sufficient supplies
of food reaching Germany, he simply
could not understand me. “German
soldier killem plenty English soldier,
English soldier killem plenty German,”
he remarked in the Kukukukuan lan-
guage. “Whaffor no plenty fresh meat?”
And, absent-mindedly biting a mouthful
off my left leg, he went off to pay his
income-tax assessment.
» * * *
“Propalong”: While I always use the
ringed surcingle described by “Bad Aus-
tralian” (B. 22/7/’42) I’m very wary of
placing it in the half-flank position. If I
have to do so I always use a coupling
strap between girth and surcingle.
Reason? I watched —lying on the
ground-one of the prettiest pigrooting
displays in my experience after such a
rig had slipped back under my mare’s
flanks. And on the B.P, Co.’s holdings,
where mules and flank girths are the
rule, the surcingle used as “8.A.” advo-
cates has a bad reputation for spreading
the waist of a saddle.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Touching recent assertions
in The Bulletin concerning the relative
strengths of the sexes. Dan, a hale and
hearty man of 60, saw Mrs. K., the wife
of his next-door neighbor, somewhat
stout but equally hale and hearty and of
the same age, come to the edge of his
paddock with a horse and lorry and start
shovelling compost. His male pride in-
sulted, he vaulted over the frontier and
offered to assist her. Sensing a certain
provocation in him, she girded herself
for battle. Both shovelled grimly for
ten minutes, but Dan was obviously gain-
ing. Mrs, K. laid aside her shovel, off
“The skipper says to keep an eye out for subs."
came her blouse and then her corsets,
and picking up her shovel she rocked in
again. Twenty minutes later Dan retired
utterly exhausted, leaving his neighbor
still shovelling away, as fresh as a daisy.
“Took her stays off in public,” he told
the bar at the pub that evening. “Do
you call that proper?”
♦ * * *
“Sailor Bill”: Here in North Banana-
land we plod without concern through
the coastal scrub during the dry winter,
but in a few months tye will sedulously
avoid any shrub that has heart-shaped
foliage. Luckily, drought causes the
numerous stinging trees to shrivel up and
lose much of their power to inflict pain.
It is in the rainy summer that the
Gympie, flourishing vigorously, becomes
a nightmare for the unwary.
» * * •
“Prop”; Called to a case at night,
Tom the Vet. gave his bride a
lecture on the death-dealing power of
the old shotgun, explained its mechanism
and left. Mrs. Tom immediately sought
refuge in bed, with the shotgun loaded
and cocked close handy. A shindy in the
f owlhouse awakened her. Tiptoeing to the
window, she peeped out over the moonlit
yard. Sure enough, there was a tall, dark
object in the chooks’ enclosure. The
poultry were screaming blue murder, and
.Mrs. Tom thought the shadowy figure
moved menacingly. Poking the shotgun
through the window she shut both eyes,
pulled the trigger and fell over and into
bed almost in one movement. Half an
hour later the pain in her jaw and
shoulder had abated a little, and she
began to see visions of a fellow-creature
lying out in the cold, wounded, helpless
and in pain. She lay for another ten
minutes studying that picture. Then
bravely she got up, took the lantern and
the gun and went out. Yes, the object
was an old box stump, quite unscathed,
of course. But the climax came in the
morning when, after Tom had put in an
hour listening, sympathising, praising and
comforting, they found, ten yards to the
right of the stump, one dead fox and five
deceased chooks —two dead of fox and
three of gunshot.
* * * •
“D.R.H.”: I’ve just read the ninety-
seventh popular novel in which the dash-
ing hero leaves the fleshpots of the city
and becomes inured, after months of
physical suffering, to hard outdoor work.
One day one of these authors will try
his own recipe—and find that the break-
ing-in process is only a matter of days,
and not so terrible, because Nature doles
out a ration of healing sleep in propor-
tion to work done. Then perhaps he’ll
come back to town and write a yarn of
real hardship: the process of changing
from a wholly active and outdoor life to
a sedentary existence. And that takes
years, involving ill health, nervous upsets
and sleeplessness to which a few blisters
are only ephemeral annoyances.
* * * *
“B. 4”: I had flushed some topknots
from the range, and was getting ’em
sighted when there was a whir and
whistle of wings, and across my vision
flashed a blurred glimpse of blue light-
ning. Then down fell a pigeon, quickly
followed by another. Both had the necks
broken and were ripped at the collar
stud by the blue falcon. Down on the
flat some ducks were huddled well out
on a swamp. As the quackers rose an-
other smoke hawk flashed above them,
whizzed down, missed, lofted again and
cut down a drake. The broken neck
and two blood rips behind the skull be-
spoke a. job done with the talons and
not the wing, as some imagine. A dive-
bomber modelled on this gyrfalcon
should be a thriller.
- * * *
“Fanca r”: “Wippe-
gong’s” memory of ban-
quets at Fallon’s thresher
time (B. 29/7/’42) reminds
me that Mum and Ma-in-
law have been feeding
thresher and chaffcutter
hands for 50 and 48 years
respectively, and both
always set down a dinner
fit for a king before the
machine men. However,
on Dad’s and on Father-
in-law’s farms there have
never been any threshing
or bag-sewing records
established as there was
when the plants worked at
Junkanspuds’ and Ruffan-
ready’s, whose motto was
“Any slush at all for
thresher men.” Also, we
noticed the manoeuvring
by the machine boss to
have Mum or Ma-in-law
or a member of the
liberal sisterhood tucker-
ing the gang through week-ends and wet
spells.
DAD’S BLUCHERS.
Them’s me ol’ man’s boots y’ see
Nailed up there on the wall.
It must’ be half a century
Since first I heard ’em fall
When, worn with toil from dawn t’ dark,
The ol’ chap went t’ bed —
The possums used t’ cough an’ bark
On the ridgecap overhead.
He wore them boots when first he went —
A strong young fightin’ cock —
An’ pitched his ragged little tent
Upon his mallee block.
He wore ’em on the day he died —
He beat the Bible span;
Them bluchers were the toughest hide
That ever tasted tan.
He toiled in ’em, he danced in ’em,
He wore ’em inter town,
An’ when he fought he pranced in ’em
An’ knocked his foeman down.
They helped him clear his farmin’ site
An’ heard his harvest song;
He stood in ’em when things went right,
Again when things went wrong.
He clumped in ’em ten miles one night—
Me mother’s heart he won.
He wore ’em, in a sort o’ fright,
The day they were made one.
The years rolled on, his hair turned grey,
He knew life’s thorns an’ fruits;
Defeats an’ triumphs came his way—
He met ’em in them boots.
His grey hairs left him in the end,
His bones began to creak;
But heart an’ spirit wouldn’t bend —
He died without a squeak.
An’ just before he pulled his roots
He says, like it’s a joke,
“Most blokes wear out their flamin’ boots;
These boots wore out the bloke.”
N.S.W.
UNDERBOOL.


PREVENT BONE CHEWING
Tri-cal; If you suspect bone chewing, you
must lose no time in remedying it. Even if
your pasture seems good it can still lack ade-
quate supplies of calcium and phosphorus —
the essential minerals which stock seek when
they chew bones—and the deficiency must be
made good. Feed Tri-cal-os Bone Flour to
clean up the trouble and continue feeding
regularly as a safeguard against its recurrence.
Tri-cal-os is the best mineral supplement I
have used and I give it to all my stock know-
ing that I’m on the fringe of a mineral
deficient area. Tri-cal-os is a pure bone
product, has a guaranteed minimum content
of 33 p.c. phosphoric acid and 40 p.c. lime;
stock take to it readily.
0
a
m
You can get all particulars and folders (these are interesting) from Davis Gelatine,
G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 758 K,
Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Old Farmer.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY. HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
New Wool Prices.
“Murrawong”: New appraisement
rates are now operating. The increase
works out at about 2d. per pound on the
average guaranteed by the British Gov-
ernment, and represents an increase of
15 per cent, on appraisement limits ruling
to 30/6/’42. It applies to the clean,
scoured price for each type. There have
been complaints, but this seems to be the
only practicable method. Had 2d. been
added to the greasy price it would have
.given an unfair advantage to faulty
wools.
More complaints may be heard when
the free, high-yielding speciality spinners’
wools come up for appraisement. The
increase on a superfine fleece type in the
grease Wifi range up to 4jd. per pound.
The net increase on good fleece wools
of 64/70 quality, carrying light burr and
with the average yield of this type, wifi
work out at per pound. Burry
fleece of similar spinning quality wifi net
l|d.-2d. per pound more, and crutchings
somewhere about according to
bulk and quality.
Some growers of medium type, shafty
wools claim that such wool is much more
useful at present than fine spinners’ wool,
and should, therefore, carry an enhanced
value. But there is probably a greater
demand for crossbred wools than for
merino at present, so crossbred growers
would have a better claim than merino
men. The Central Wool Committee, in
giving the increase fairly to all types,
doubtless aimed at preventing a swing
toward certain types.
Best way to regard the increase is in
its effect on the return per sheep. Here’s
an example from last year’s returns:
N.S.W. tableland clip averaged 81b. per
head. A good, well-grown north-western
clip carrying burr averaged about 111 b.
The tableland clip averaged 16d. per
pound and the feturn per sheep was 10s.
Bd. A 15 p.c. increase on this, Is. 7d.,
gives an average of 12s. 3d. The plains
clip averaged about 12d. per pound, or
11s. a head. A 15 p.c. increase, Is. Bd.,
gives an average of 12s. Bd. a head. On
the whole, the new prices should work
out fairly for all classes.
Barley for Stock.
“H.C.”: Though malting barley does
best where the summer cools off gradually,
farmers in the S.A. mallee find it a good
rotation. It gives greater bulk of green
feed to the acre, is the most palatable
of all cereals and leaves a soft stubbie
that stock fancy.
Mallee-land trials with Cape barley,
malting barley and wheat as grain for
stock were staged in scattered areas where
the rainfall averaged 11.6 in. per year.
Barley and wheat were sown under
similar conditions and given the same
amount of super. Cape barley yielded
21bus. 191 b., or 10431 b., to the acre;
malting barley, 18bus, 141 b., or 9141 b.;
and wheat, 13bus. 141 b., or 7941 b. Best
yielder was Roseworthy Oregon ; Cali-
fornian Cape was second.
The trials showed Cape barley as the
most economical crop, since it produces
more grain per acre-inch of rainfall than
either malting barley or wheat. Bulk
for bulk barley doesn’t take more plant
food than other cereals, but it’s a surface
feeder and crowds out other plants so
that they form less seed, which means
poor feed the following year.
For Ironstone Soils.
“Hamley Bridge”; Molybdenum, a
“metafile element of the chromium
group,” has been used on ironstone soils
in The Meadows (S.A.) district and given
a striking response in growth of sub.
clover, lucerne and other legumes. The
discovery, made by A. J. Anderson, of
the Waite Institute, should be of value
in the Mt. Lofty ranges, on Kangaroo
Island and in districts of similar soil type.
It arose out of an investigation on Nor-
man Brockman’s property at The
Meadows, and is the first record of a
response to the mineral, though there
had been hints from Russia and it had
been established there and in U.S.A., as
well as at the*Waite Institute, that molyb-
denum was essential for plant growth.
In the south-east, notably about Robe,
pastures responded markedly to copper
and zinc. It seems clear now that to
manganese* copper and zinc molyb-
denum must be added, at least in iron-
“ ’Bout a mile further on y' turn orf this highway on to a bit of a bush track."
stone country. Costs shouldn’t be a
problem, since only small amounts are
required, and Australia has natural de-
posits of the mineral. As a test where
clover fails to grow well despite good
rains and liberal superphosphate, the In-
stitute suggests spreading a ’kero.-tin of
wood ashes over an area of five by four
yards. It wants to hear of results.
Pests in Stored Grain.
“Y Dent”: A pale buff moth, under
a half-inch long and about a half-inch
across the outspread wings, with a few
dark spots on the front of the wings
and a fringe of hair on the lower side of
each pair, is the Angoumois maize moth.
It lays its eggs at the base of the grain
in the cob in the field, only the tip grains
being affected. Even well-covered ears
do not escape. Once the caterpillar
hatches it goes straight into the grain,
eating a straight burrow from side to
side, when it spins a cocoon. Maize
shelled and stored in bulk or in tightly-
packed bags stops most of the moths
emerging and to that extent stops reinfes-
tation. Grain stored in the ear is a direct
invitation to the pest.
If the grain can be held in an air-
tight container like a tank the pest can
be eradicated at once. But maize must
be bone-dry for this sort of storage ; any
moisture will result in heat and decay.
A dose of cyanogas G-fumigant should
then fix the pests. Allow 161 b. to every
1000 bushels.
A thousand-gallon tank holds about
128 bushels of shelled maize, which
would need about 21b. of the fumigant.
Throw a half-pound on the bottom of
the tank first, and scatter the rest through
the maize as the tank is filled. Seal up
and leave for at least three full days.
The treatment won’t affect the germina-
tion of the grain if it is to be used for
seed s
Anaemia in Sucking Pigs.
“Huxave”: You don’t notice it for
about a month till the pigs have gone
back in condition. There may be deaths,
survivors are unhealthy, short of breath
and stunted. Diarrhoea and scour often
follow. Blame lack of iron or the sow
being confined to the sty and badly-fed
during pregnancy. Ordinarily the un-
born piglet gets enough iron from his
mother to store up good supplies in his
liver. When the sow’s cooped up durjng
pregnancy and not given a chance to
get iron from the soil or grass, she can’t
hand on the right amount.
Give her daily trips to pasture. If she
has to be confined see that she gets regu-
lar green feed, earth and ashes. This
means a healthy litter. After farrowing,
two or three hours daily on clean pas-
tures for sow and litter once the piglets
are 10 days old.
Turn sow and young out on to green
pastures if anaemia is noticed. The young
pigs begin rooting in the earth and eating
it, and that gives them what they want —
iron. Drugs are effective but trouble-
some, expensive and not practical. If
you must, give each piglet one-dram
doses of Parrish’s food daily for two or
three days or three to six grains each of
either Ferri carb. sacc. or Ferri ammon.
cit.
Potato-moth Control.
“Pat Ater”: Potato crops last season —
particularly about Crookwell (N.S.W.),
which supplies a big percentage of the
State’s seed crop—suffered more from
moth than from drought. Dry, hot
weather suits the moth best, and usually
it is more destructive along the coast than
inland. Crookwell’s potato crops had
struggled through the district’s worst
season ; then the moth descended in the
last dry lap and inflicted a final blow.
A grower of certified seed at Bannister,
W. A. Gorman, contends that the grub
in the last few weeks before digging re-
duced the yield of matured seed —most of
if wanted to supply early coastal growers
for the coming season —by half.
At Robertson and Burrawang, high-
land country, losses from moth were
almost negligible because the early crop
in the uplands beat the moth to it. But
on the warm coastal plains, and particu-
larly on the N.S.W. North Coast, moth
can get there in time to ruin an early
crop.
Start the fight at planting-time. Deep
planting is the initial step. As deep as
eight inches to nine inches can be recom-
mended in light soils. The deeper the
better in sandy soils, which dry out
quickly and where hilling is best left
out. Better to have a slight depression
along the rows to catch all the moisture
offering. Fertiliser added by drill to the
upper layer is readily washed down to
the root area in these sandy patches. On
North Coast deep alluvials and on the
volcanic belts the deeper planting loses
nothing in plant-food supply.
Keep the surface soil in good physical
condition by regular tilling to.maintain
a fine tilth. This prevents cracking, holds
more moisture and so lessens the chances
of grubs reaching the tuber clumps and
attacking them below ground level. Early
planting will compensate for any delay
in deep placing, and there will be no
reduction in yield.
Where hilling can be practised to ad-
vantage it helps. Wider spading between
the rows —up to three feet is not over-
much—allows for easy working. The
objective should be to throw the soil well
around the base of the plants to fill in
cracks made by swelling tubers. On smaller
areas drawing a mound well around the
plants with a hoe or pronged rake is help-
ful. Bag the tubers im-
mediately they are dug,
especially in hot districts.
Every minute they are left
exposed may mean more
grubs. Sew the bags as
soon as they are filled.
Stored seed should be
kept in moth-proof bins,
tanks or sheds. Infested
tubers in store can be
treated with a mixture of
derris powder 11b., kaolin
41b., but see that every
tuber is dust-covered.
When foliage is badly
attacked in the field dust-
ing with the mixture
named or spraying (31b.
derris in 100 gallons of
water) every ten days will
give a measure of control.
Hints for the Farm.
“B.”: Careful handling
of fat lambs gets them to
market with the bloom on.
Don’t use dogs. Sucker
lambs should have an
escort of ewes to the truck-
ing yards. Grabbing, lift-
ing or prodding can cause injuries. Avoid
overcrowding in trucks. Even with the
best of care lambs will look the worse
for the journey.
“Will C”: Horse-manure is excellent
for soil, but horse-stalls and stableyards
should be kept free of it. If stalls and
yards are paved with flattish stones,
boards, logs, etc., covered with eight
inches of soil, they won’t get boggy during
wet spells and the horse-droppings won’t
be tramped into the ground. Horse-dung
or soil filled with horse-dung is a floor
that may result in hard-to-treat hoof
troubles like thrush and canker. When
wet it is a hotbed of tetanus germs.
“B,”: Give the fowls all the skira-milk
they can drink. Fed on nothing else but
milk and grain they’ll lay well. When
fed in the mash reduce the mash by about
half and increase the grain by half. Let
the birds have all the grain they want
and don’t force them to eat mash.
If care be exercised eggs may
be preserved indefinitely in limewater.
To make the preserving solution, dissolve
21b. of slaked lime in sgal. of previously
boiled water. Stir well to dissolve as
much of the lime as possible. When the
water will absorb no more lime, pour
off the dear liquid and throw away the
sediment. All eggs should be fresh and
uncracked and will store best in a crock
or wooden container. Metal receptacles
should be smeared over the inside with
melted paraffin before being put into


The Mutual Life and Citizens*
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £34,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,200,000.
M. O. Alder. A.1.A.,
General Manager.
No More
Coughing or
Sleepless Nights
BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL Mixture cer-
tainly makes short work of these stub-
born old hang-on coughs and colds, that
no other cough remedy will budge,
according to Mr. H. A. Allen. Mr. Allen
says: “For years I suffered every winter
with a terrible cough. I have had many
sleepless nights and coughed until tears
ran, and my stomach ached. I started
again with the same old cough this year
—but after a few doses of BUCKLEY’S
CANADIOL Mixture my cough was gone.
You can’t go wrong on Buckley’s—by
far the largest-selling cough medicine
in all of blizzardly cold Canada. One
or two doses ends a stubborn cough
and even the toughest old hang-on
coughs leave for good in a day or two.
At any chemist or store.
Wi re! e s s a lon e ca n me et th e
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT * CONSTANT ★ CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN-MADE *
RADIOTRON
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
BILLABONG
HAND, POWER
AND
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
4 fe* & A
V
DESIGNED TO
MEET THE
STATION OWNER’S
and
Farmer’s Requirements
SEND TO THE MAKERS FOR ALL
PARTICULARS
JOHN DANKS&son
Ply. Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
rv
■‘r'-'iSte.
JMB
&
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. -
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney.
G. C,
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
C. McKAY. Manager.
use. A sgal. crock will hold approxi-
mately 200 eggs.
“K. Me.”: A scheme for the dehydra-
tion of 25,000 tons of meat for Britain
is still in the talking stage. Woolgrowers
want to unload their surplus stock off
shears. Export of mutton is restricted
and another crop of lambs is now being
dropped. If dehydration plans fail, over-
stocking will be rampant. Ten million
sheep would be needed to fill the 25,000-
ton order.
“C.H.S.”: Cottee’s, the makers of
“Passiona” fruit drinks, want as much
passionfruit as they can get this season.
People already possessing vines and those
willing to go in for passionfruit should
get in touch with the firm at Cottee's
Passiona, Ltd., Marion-street, Leichhardt,
Sydney.
“Goulburn”: Records show that the
tea plant can be grown practically from
Queensland to Victoria. W. Poggendorff,
of N.S.W. Department of Agriculture,
considers that Australia could possibly
produce its own tea requirements in
time, although cost of labor may be a
problem. He believes that the Dorrigo
(N.S.W.) plateau is a likely district.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
An eight-year-old harness mare lolls her
tongue when being driven. Can you tell cause
and suggest cure ?
It’s probably a habit for which nothing can
be done. Make sure the bit is smooth and not
drawn back too tightly against her jaws.
Outback Occasions.
No. 48.
GETTING OUR SISTER AWAY.
She was to spend a fortnight with our
auntie down in the city. Mother began
getting her away a week before she was
due to leave —our mother was always a
one for getting people away well before
the time—and there was a great laying out
and putting away and laying out again
of clothing and the sort of dildols girls
cart around with ’em.
Our part began the morning she was to
leave on the half-past seven train. Her
luggage was packed the night before,
Father and Mother had given her all the
instructions fathers and mothers always
give on such occasions and we went to
bed. It was about 15 miles from our place
to the station and we reckoned Father
could start with the car at seven and get
her on the train with time to spare.
It was still dark that morning when we
heard Father get up and start blundering
about in his room. Then we heard
Mother’s voice.
“What are you doing?” it asked.
“I’m goin’ t’ catch the pony.”
“What for?”
There was a pause. Then Father said
“Woman, do y’ expect the girl t’ walk t’
the train!”
There was another pause. Then
Mother said “Aren’t you taking her in
the car?”
Father was out in the hall by this.
“No,” he said, “I’m up t’ me ears in
work. One of the boys can drive her in
in the sulky.”
Whereupon “one of the boys” snuggled
down and pretended to be asleep. But
the other wasn’t to be fooled, and there
began a whispered argument as to which
of us should do the driving. It was
settled by Father, who suddenly returned
to the house and shouted “Come on,
you fellers. There’s a thick fog. Come
an’ help me get the horses.”
We tumbled out, dragged on our
clothes and went forth into a grey dawn
and a fog so thick you could cut it.
Father headed for the horse paddock
and we followed the swirl he made in
the fog.
We paddled around that 100 acres,
shouting to one another, falling over logs,
barging into bushes, but not locating any
horses. It got a bit lighter, but the fog
got thicker, and before long we didn't
know where the house was. Once I
thought I saw the horses and plunged
towards them, but it was only Father
helping our brother untangle himself
from a snarl of barbed wire that had
somehow got there. Father swore he’d
kill the man who left barbed wire in his
horse paddock, and we drifted silently
into the fog again.
After what seemed ages, Father began
shouting. He must have been a long way
off, because I could hardly hear him.
Then a loud drumming rushed at me and
I jumped aside as a mass of fog came
thundering down. In the middle of it
were the eight horses and in front and
to one side raced the sulky pony.
“Whoa back! Whoa back! Here they
are!” I bellowed and started to run. A
large, hard, wooden fist shot out of the
gloom and bounced me back on my head.
I got up, a bit rocky, and saw a strainer-
post leering stolidly at me. I listened
and then heard the drumming over to the
right and started that way. Then it
seemed to be to the left, then to the
right again, so I gave it up and started
back to the stables.
After finding the fence and following
it the wrong way for a chain or so I
finally got to the stables. The horses
were all there in the yard, but there was
no sign of Father or our brother, so I
yelled out for them, and the flaming
horses whirled round and fled through
the gate out into the floating mystery
that surrounded us. Then out of that
mystery rushed our Father and our
brother and cursed me for a pest and
scourge. They’d just got the neddies into
the yard and were closing in on the gate
when I yelled. Abashed, I eased myself
out of their sight into the enveloping fog.
The sun was coming now and there
were white patches in the fog, which
started to shift about in large chunks, so
that one minute you’d see a bit of fence
and perhaps a horse’s head and the next
they’d be blotted out and you’d have to
stand and listen. This went on for another
year or two, me keeping clear of noises
which sounded like our brother or
Father.
Presently I heard them talking up near
where the yards ought to be and went
there. They had the horses in again and
Father turned to me and said “FT being
so smart, y’ can get ready to drive y’r
sister in.” Our brother wouldn’t look
at me, but I could see he’d been working,
on Father. Without a word I got a halter
and caught the pony.
We went to the kitchen for breakfast
and had it, and then I bent over and held
my stomach and said “000-h!” Father
wanted to know what was the matter and
Mother gave me an anxious look and I
slid off my chair and rolled about on the
floor and said “000-h!” some more.
Mother and Father came and bent over
me and peered at me and 1 said “The
painr F
Father straightened up and turned to
our brother to tell him to take our sister
in, but our brother had wakened up
quicker than anybody and had slipped
otf outside. Mother put me to bed, scold-
ing me for getting sick at such a time,
and Father went out, after a thoughtful
look at me, and looked for our brother,
Then he came back and he and Mother
talked a lot and there were high words
and I heard Mother say loudly “Well,
it’s nearly seven o’clock and the only
way she can get there is in the car. Are
you going to disappoint the girl now ?”
And the next thing was; Father taking,our
sister to the tram in the car. My pains
stopped about then, but I thought it
best to stay in bed tor a while,
Our brother came in once or twice in
the morning, and so did Father, and both
of them seemed to think I was j? . S
them on. Our sister had a good tin
down m the city, but she often said she
never thought she and catch the Tain that
morning. Mother said it was all because
of her menfolk being unwilling to o
for her what they and break th/ ir necks to
do for some other woman. We boys were
surprised to hear Mother call our sis er
a woman.


/J bUetuMu tip, to- the
QufJiiintf, tyonce
who uAe QUlettßladei.
ns
» 9
m?
5 &
%
X
When you buy Gillette Blades, you can give them longer life
by proper care. Unwrap the blade carefully, without touching
the cutting edge. Handle the blade at the ends. After use,
rinse in clean water and dry gently on a smooth towel.
This care will ensure longer life for the hard, electrically
tempered cutting edges of all Gillette Blades you buy.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
f
v
' /%'■''s/'/sy/s
Mm
yf/. : ,
y y///v*;>y‘;y.sy/y/yyy ■••;.■,*
M...
& J
W
»»;«»»»
f*-
Your TURN..
Mr. Motorist!
You cannot turn a nut, your engine or a corner without
bringing Steel Tubes into play. The tough, handy box
spanners in your tool kit, like many essential parts of the
car itself, are made from Cold Drawn Precision Seamless
Steel Tubes. B.T.M. makes its Steel Tubes to fit their
particular task —it knows what can be expected of
Steel Tubes and how to produce them accordingly. This
knowledge is solving
engineering problems every
day.
fds
fds
PRECISION
ALL WAYS
R. &. Me
BTMII
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy “Popular Science” for May, 1942. —
3300.
Information Sought.
What vitamins and minerals are most impor-
tant for health ?
All the necessary vitamins are obtainable in
fresh fruits and vegetables, eggs, butter, milk
and meat. The list of vitamins (more than 20
are already known, and more are being dis-
covered almost daily) and the foods that con-
tain them is too long to enumerate here.
«■ * \ •
Can sheep do without water if turned into a
paddock where the grass is green and wet with
dew at this time of year?
It depends on the length of time they are
to be in the paddock. For a few days they
would most likely get along all right; after that
trouble may arise. Who can say with cer-
tainty that there will be dew .every morning?
A couple of cloudy and windy days and nights
without rain will leave the grass bone-dry.
Again, there will be the factor of the saline-
content of the soil, which will be reflected in
the herbage. Sheep can become thirsty in cold
weather, especially if the grass fails to supply
the normal moisture needs of the animal
system. If the paddock has no water supply
it shouldn’t be hard to put in a small trough
and fill it now and then from a tank on a
dray or motor-truck. You can soon tell from
the trough whether they need water or not. If
nights of heavy dew can be expected, tiny dew-
ponds can be dug here and there with a shovel
and they will show if water is needed.
* * * *
(1) Are California redwood trees the tallest
in the world? (2) Is it a fact that “Eucalyptus
regnans” (giant gums ) in the Victorian valleys
often grow to 300 ft. and even higher?
(1) The Californian redwood trees are the
tallest in the world, the sequoia-tree rising to
the height of 365 ft. (2) Eucalyptus regnans in
Victoria have reached the height of 325 ft., but
the majority of eucalypts are less than 150 ft.
high, and in inland districts a tree 100 ft. high
is accounted a large one. J, A. Froude in
Oceania told the world quite wrongly that the
Victorian eucalypts were 100 ft. higher than the
Californian sequoias.
* * * *
What is the Statute of Limitations and how
does it operate in N. S. Wales?
It is a statute which limits the time within
which an action for debt can be brought. An
action for recovery of a debt due under a
simple contract must be brought within six years
of its due date and for a debt due under a
contract under seal within 20 years. The debts
may be revived by an acknowledgment in
writing or by part payment, in which case time
begins to run from the date of revision'.
* * *
(1) Can a person plead guilty to a charge of
murder? (2) What is the general court pro-
cedure if such a plea is entered?
(1) Yes, but although a Judge cannot refuse
to accept the plea he usually draws the accused’s
attention to the consequences of the plea, the
seriousness of the crime and its penalty, and
advises him to withdraw the plea of “guilty”
and plead “not guilty.” (2) If the accused
persists in his plea of “guilty” the jury is dis-
charged, the Judge hears the facts alleged and
passes sentence. If an accused stands mute or
refuses to plead, a plea of “not guilty” is
entered for him by the proper officer of the
court. If a doubt arises as to the ability of
the accused to plead a jury is empanelled to
try the question. If the verdict is that he is
able to plead, his plea is taken; if to the con-
trary, a plea of “not guilty” is entered for him.
* * Hs *
What are the characteristics of the Maltese
cat ? To what species does the cat of a uniform
smoke-grey color belong ?
Sydney authorities are exceedingly dubious
about the existence of the Maltese cat as a
special breed. Generally speaking, short-haired
blues are dubbed Maltese. They are also
vaguely known as Archangel, Russian, Spanish
and Chartreuse. One owned by Helen M. Wins-
low, and shown in her book on cats, suggests
a cross between an English-Russian, if such a
breed can be imagined, and a short-haired
English. A smoke-grey variety is not recog-
nised. It .is either a smoke or it isn’t. The
under color of a smoke is as white as possible,
and top color black; the frill and ear tufts
greyish or silver in tone. The eyes are deep
orange.
, * * * *
A reliable method of propagating rose cut-
tings? How should they be treated, and when
should the work be done ?
Use seasoned cuttings from last year’s
growth about 12in. long. Leave only two strong
buds on each (these are seen behind each leaf).
Where plots are not ready place cuttings in a
bucket of water, and lift them out as needed.
Dig a trench 9in. deep, put heavy clay or soil
in the bottom, set cuttings in it at an angle,
then firm in the top soil to exclude air, leaving
a depression around the stem in which to apply
moisture. A warm position along a fence with
an easterly situation is suitable. Cuttings which
strike can be shifted to the open garden next
June. Get the propagation done early in
August before the sap begins to rise.
(1) How can alabaster be distinguished from
Italian marble ? (2) Any difference in weight ?
(1) Real alabaster is almost as hard as
marble; it is a carbonate of lime substance
formed by a stalagmitic process. So-called
alabaster is much softer than the ancient ala-
and if slightly soluble in water. It is
hydrated sulphate of lime. (2) Marble is
heavier than alabaster and the surface is
colder; no one familiar with both could pos-
sibly mistake one for the other. Any marble-
worker will advise you.
. . ’
Any information about copper or bronze
tokens issued by tradespeople during the early
days of Australia? Were they currency, like
our pennies, when were they withdrawn and
are they of any value today?
Copper and bronze (and some very few
silver) tokens came into use in Australia in the
fifties, sixties and seventies of last century,
Their advent was due to the shortage of small
currency. TRe trading houses in the Australian
colonies, Tasmania and M.L. at first imported
large numbers of tokens from England, where
they were struck to order with the names of the
firms. Later token mints were established in
Australia. The Government, unable to procure
copper coins, made no objection, and tokens
became common currency until the end of the
’seventies, when regal bronze coins were re-
ceived from England and the tokens were de-
monetised and called in by the Government at
face value (penny and halfpenny) within a
certain date (Dec., 1877). Thousands of
varieties of tokens occur bearing the names of
hundreds of different trading firms. They were
guaranteed by the issuing traders, and were
also in general use and interchangeable. As
to the collector values of such tokens, there are
some few rare specimens that command high
prices. Normal values are, for very common
sorts, 6d.. and less common Is. to ss. each.
* * * *
How many tons of sisal hemp were imported
into the Commonwealth in the years 1938 to
1941 inclusive?
Imports, 1937-38, were 11,198 tons; 1938-39,
13,252 tons; later figures cannot be disclosed,
* * * *
(1) Recipe for preserving raw prawns for
bait? (2) Method for waterproofing linen cord
lines ?
(1) The following is good for a quantity of
about lib. of prawns, which, must be fresh:
Remove heads and rinse well in fresh water,
Place into a container one dessertspoonful of
formalin and two pints of water. Into this mix-
ture place the prawns and allow to soak for
approximately two hours. Remove the prawns
and lay them on a perforated tray or' double
layer of absorbent cloth or hessian to
thoroughly drain. Procure an earthenware jar
or glass container with screw top, so as to make
airtight. Place one layer of prawns on bottom
of jar. On top of prawns place a layer pf the
following mixture: 2oz. of coarse butchers’ salt,
one level dessertspoonful of boracic acid and
loz. of sugar. On top of this place another
layer of prawns, and then a layer of the
mixture, and so on alternately until jar is com-
pletely full. Invert the jar occasionally, as this
keeps the prawns moist with the liquid which
forms. (2) Mick Simmons, Ltd., Haymarket,
Sydney, can supply “Olio” line dressing at
Is. 2d. 2oz. bottle.
* * * *
Have tests been carried out with eucalyptus
as an addition to petrol for internal-combustion
engines?
Not aware of any official test of eucalyptus
as a substitute for petrol, but A R Penfold
Curator of the Sydney Technological' Museum’
has concluded some successful tests on Euca-
lyptus phellandra as an anti-knock agency
He finds that 10 p.c. of Eucalyptus phellandra
°i* will raise the octane value of petrol from
70 to 79. The use of phellandra for this pur-
pose is protected.
* * * *
Method of waterproofing a gabardine over-
coat?
Dissolve lib. household (laundry) soap in one
gallon of warm water. In another vessel dis-
solve 11b. of alum. Use first solution warm
the other lukewarm. Pass coat or cloth through
soap solution, leave half-hour take out and
squeeze, then pass through alum solution. In
half-hour take out, pass twice through clean
water and then mangle dry in the onen air
,
DTIST ArSWGTS.
TXT . ~ , ~ , „ * ,
. - questions should be referred to the U.K.
, , e . x a V, N° information on such
callable in Australia.. ..J.8.; Write
, N a val Recruiting Office, Loftus-street,
‘’ - J A - S - : . Where er You Walk” origi-
a PP eare d m Handel s Semele,” de-
scnbed by Grove as an English s6renata” and
com Posecl out 1743. “Semele,” with the
exce P. lon °J the one lyric which every baritone
9 ow sin ? s > has sunk without a trace.... .X.Y.:
“ r sp a ration or tobacco for smoking is allowed
under license N.J.: To remove stains
, rom ma rble scrape off any thick surface tar,
then soften the remainder with thick soft fat;
a fterwards wash with a mixture of fine pumice-
Powder and vinegar, then with warm soap and
water. Rub dry with a chamois T.T.S.: To
ma ke tanglefoot, mix over low heat lib. treacle,
ilb. resin and 41b. Venice turpentine; while hot
smear on brown paper or cardboard; not much
use on wire. Don’t forget that catching birds
i n this way is against the law E.W.C.:
Simplest way to make cheese is to put cream
into a damp cloth, hang it for a week in a cool
pHce, then put it into a cloth-lined mould and
press lightly. Turn twice a day; ready in a
fortnight... .L.C.: To roast coffee beans melt
in a pan a teaspoonful of butter, put in the
beans, sprinkle with castor sugar (a teaspoon
to each pound of beans) and roast over slow
heat, stirring all the time. A rotating roaster
is best; be careful to avoid burning the beans.
Better to experiment first J.S.D.: Vanilla
beans are not eaten; they are used for flavoring
0n1y... .G.R.: Where a contract is silent as to
the time for performance, the law implies that it
is to take place within a reasonable time. What
is a reasonable time depends on all the circum-
stances of the case Pension: Leave property
to children, reserving to wife the right to reside
there free of rent during her lifetime
H.E.8.: In present circumstances you can buy
it cheaper ready-made—if you can get a permit
to buy anything of that sort W.J.8.: (1)


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND—HAMILTON DISTRICT.
No. 1216 In Divorce.
IN THE MATTER of the Petition of ELIZA-
BETH ROSS HODGSON of Te Awamutu
Married Woman for divorce.
TO THOMAS WILLIAM HODGSON for-
merly of Wonthaggi Victoria Miner
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Hamilton citing you to appear and answer the
petition of ELIZABETH ROSS HODGSON of
Te Awamutu wherein she prays for a dissolu-
tion of her marriage with you on the ground of
separation for three years and upwards and
such citation intimates that in default of your
so doing the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition and to pronounce sentence therein
notwithstanding'your absence NOW therefore
take notice that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within Forty-two days after the date of
this publication to attend in person or by your
Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at Hamil-
ton New Zealand and there to enter an appear-
ance without which you will not be allowed to
address the Court at any stage of the proceed-
ings. A copy of this citation and petition will
be supplied to you on your applying for same
at the Supreme Court Office at Hamilton New
Zealand.
DATED at Hamilton, N.Z., this 27th day of
July, 1942.
(L.S.) A. E. REYNOLDS, Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing ad-
vertisement.
THOMAS CHRISTOPHER ORR is the
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the office of the said T. C. Orr,
28 Victoria Street, Hamilton, New Zealand.
Missing Friend.
TO FREDERICK LANG formerly ot Spring
Street Melbourne but now of parts unknown
Salesman and Agent.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife DOROTHY IRENE LANG has in-
stituted proceedings for a divorce on the ground
of desertion UNLESS you enter an appearance
in the office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court at Melbourne on or before the Ninth day
of September One thousand nine hundred and
forty-two the case may proceed in your absence
IF you intend to defend this suit you must also
file an answer in the said office on or before
the Nineteenth day of September One thousand
nine hundred and forty-two AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that a sealed copy petition and
copy citation in this suit have been forwarded
to your sister Mrs. C. Kuhlman at 216 Halifax
Street Adelaide South Australia and copies
thereof may be inspected at the office of the
Petitioner’s Solicitor. —JOAN ROSANOVE 415
Bourke Street Melbourne Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
Legal Notice.
TO KATE DAVIS (niece of David Williams
late of Wellington New Zealand and daughter
of his late sister Catherine Davis) and to all
persons claiming through her. —Failing your
claiming from the PUBLIC TRUSTEE Wel-
lington New Zealand by the 31st day of Decem-
ber 1942 a share in the estate of David Wil-
liams it will be distributed disregarding your
rights.
DANIEL
CRAWFORD’S
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
FISHING TACKLE FOR EVERY NEED
A. practical aopler,, with complete .took, of tackle, we cat. PP 'i"o7wrK
needed for beach, rock, deep-sea, harbour and river Ashing- Calll or wr^te
for full particulars... or for advice about specialised tackle. Prices are
moderate .. . and all goods are GUARANTEED by us.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
m
5000 POWELL
GAS PRODUCER UNITS
‘ON THE JOB’ I
OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE AND RELIABILITY
This preference for Powell, shown by thousands of experienced transport
owners, is a tribute to Powell’s superior eng.neermg, outstanding
performance and reliability.
Only Powell Gas Producers can give you . . . Government approved mode s
UP to 40 h.p famous Beresinsky Cleaner that reduces engine wear to
“less than with petrol” . . . Como upper-cylinder lubrication system . . .
full range of spare parts and the H. C, Sleigh after-sales services.
Blowers are available for all models.
Insure now against emergency by fitting a Powell Gas Producer.
<l®
H. C. SLEIGH
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, or
Powell Dealers throughout Australia
POWELL
GAS PRODUCER UNITS
01/l"/ OS • Tilol
fa
E 1869
CRAVENA
Ijottll appucuJi tkm
, catituuUtu/
/
s*rd
E SPEC I ALLY
Yes, because expense is greater and a share
goes to next-of-kin. (2) Ye5....J.H.: No, the
husband’s permission is necessary before
a wife can travel abroad, no matter who pays
her expenses... .H.L.: Provided there was no
legal impediment to the marriage of the parents
at the time the child was born, their subsequent
marriage and registration of the birth of the
child would legitimise it. The child may be
adopted by one of the parents. Application on
the prescribed form should be made to the
Director, State Children’s Department, Bris-
bane, for an adoption order. Upon such adop-
tion order being made the child may assume
the surname and all rights, duties, obligations
and liabilities of the adopter as though born
to the adopter in lawful wedlock J.C.S.:
Know of no preparation which would be useful.
E.G.: Paragraphs are paid for at lineage
rate; you apply for payment, indicating pen-
name, page, etc. Stories are paid for on
acceptance, cheque being posted.... Capitan:
(1) “Ek Dum” means “At once —quickly,” used
in India. (2) No. (3) Town in Algeria. (4)
Malay for “Pray here” could be “Sembayang
sini.” There are no Malay temples, but there
are Mohammedan mosques which would pro-
bably have inscriptions in Arabic on them. No
Malay inscriptions J.A.: Arthur Adams’s
Australian Anthem is not in any volume of his
collected works. Cannot undertake file-search-
ing without some clue as to date... .G.A.: (1)
N. S. Wales Agriculture Department, Farrer-
place, will give you details of wood-borer’s
life history. Find holes where dust is ejected and
run thin wire in, following with jet of turps or
kerosene. Winter is best time. (2) Mix lime-
wash for steps with milk and salt; prevents
slipperiness and mould and lasts longer. (3)
Moruya means “thick scrub”; Polwomera is
not a native word; probably corruption of
Piwollera, mountain duck’s nest.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
A.G.S.: —
But still the braggards rule
O’er all the Axis Powers
While the British answer from the stool,
The plumber and the sowers.
P.N.: Don’t like that unrhymed line at the
end of the rhymed stanza M.E.J.: Except
for the “no good-bye” line, it’s all a bit vague.
J.C:H.: Come v again D.H.; Both light-
weights E.M.8.: An outstanding stretch
even for “the long arm” W.D.; Feeble....
M.L.S.: We’re happy for Harry, but that s all.
T.V.M.: Peter is a bore; his friend is
worse... .J.O’L.; Idea all right, but it needs
better handling P.F.: Try them on a daily.
E.G.McC.: Prefer to leave soldier-fiction
to soldiers C.C.; Heavy-handed 8.R.;
He sure must have been a regular guy, but we
can’t match up to “Flame of Desire”....
A.D.W.: No space for serials, however good.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H. 5.8.: You have given the ocean a beauti-
fully even marcel... .P.H.: The two corpses
propped stiffly against the tank are staring at
a point about 25 yards from the unidentifiable
animal they are supposed to be discussing.


WSiat qualifications
should your trustee
possess?
He should be thoroughly trustworthy, possess
sound business experience and have know-
ledge of the law relating to trusts. He should
be able and willing to undertake the some-
times very heavy and continuous duties
involved. An individual possessing such
qualifications is hard to find. Moreover, he
must eventually age and his powers decline.
Neither is he immune from misfortune, and
he may die long before the trust is completed.
To vest a trusteeship in an individual is to
leave the consequences mainly to chance and
it is a mistaken compliment to ask a friend
or relative so to act.
It is for these reasons that business men well
versed in affairs have for more than 63 years
appointed The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited to manage their estates.
The company’s services are devoted solely to
the care and management of the property of
its clients. Its Directors have wide experi-
ence and proved capacity and the duties
involved are not vested in one individual—
the company’s service “goes on for ever”.
Consult your solicitor or call or write for
further information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.0.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Oolman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) :
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French,
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes
dsf
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, With iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
r Dividends s,
5 p.c. To Re— Re-
Apr., Profit. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
1932 39,393 4825 5£ p.c. = 34,743 325 269,834
1933 29,204 6 „ „ 29,003 201 270,035
1934 29,214 6|- „ „ 22,155 7,059 277,094
1935 30,880 8 „ „ 25,780 5,100 282,194
19.36 31,295 8f „ „ 27,795 3,500 285,694
Share premiums, £9751 .. .. 295,445
1937 33,005 9J p.c. = 29,406 3,599 299,044
Share premiums, £17,103 .. .. 316,147
1938 37,091 —■ 9| p.c. = 34,911 2,180 318,327
1939 39,681 10 „ 37,596 2,085 320,412
Contingency reserve disclosed, £23,000.. 343,412
1940 42,020 10 p.c. = 37,596 4,424 347,836
1941 43,100 10 „ 37,596 5,504 353,340
1942 37,702 10 „ „ 37,596 106 353,446
Circumscribed by restrictions as it now
is, the co.’s Australia-wide business in
paper, printers’ requisites and fancygoods
is soundly placed and financed, and,
though £5398 down, latest profits can
be taken as well and truly earned. That
impression is strengthened by the £23,000
brought from hiding in 1940, while stocks
are regularly reported to be “taken in at
cost or less and less reserves,” sundry
debtors to be “adequately protected” and
investments to be “below market value.”
Besides, there is a whole cluster of free-
holds in Sydney, Melbourne and Bris-
bane which wouldn’t be pushed to realise
book values, and a study of the accounts
indicates a complete absence of an item
like plant. The latter doesn’t mean that
the office-boy can be seen any day strug-
gling to deliver a reel of newsprint here,
a new machine there ; it simply reflects
the management’s conservatism in charg-
ing to earnings all equipment as acquired.
Expenditure under this head ran to
£5478 (up £3886) last term ; hence that
part of the reduction in disclosed profits
not attributable to taxation. There was
nothing wrong with the volume of turn-
over, despite the compulsory cut in paper
consumption of both newspapers and
commercial printers. Continuance of
these happy circumstances is too much
to expect, however. Certainly the imme-
diate future looks protected by the sub-
stantial monetary level of stocks, but
paper is more precious, rationalisation
has eliminated the manufacture of many
local lines and reduced the flow of others,
while the lions in the path of replenish-
ing imported supplies are obvious. Still,
there is an able and experienced man-
agement at the helm.
Judged by these figures, the usually
hungry printing trade is a more self-
reliant brotherhood these times;
_ . , 1932. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £690,739 £375,965 £375,965 £375,965
Liabilities . . 34,208* 109,650* 150,423 147,673
Tax reserve .. 75,084 68,562
Freeholds . . 110,319' 120,565 122,065 126,881
Stocks . . 145,692 137,258 220,051 209,922
Debtors . . 351,499 445,781 475,814 390,551
Cash, etc. . . 409,215 118,822 146,281 228,191
* Including tax provision, etc.
There was another £85,263 reduction in
outstanding accounts last year, and cash
and investments (up £81,910) are accumu-
lating fast. Similar movements during the
lean early ’thirties saw the management
return £368,483 of capital. It had to
gather £80,663 from shareholders four
years later, however, and a more fitting
and convenient resting-place for surplus
funds at the moment is Government
loans. There will be an immediate call
for finance at the cessation of hostilities.
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship Co.
To Re— Re—
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1932.. 18,651 5 p.c. = 14,081 4,570 16,919
Surplus on liquidated subsidiary, £23,556.. 40,475
1933.. 15,984 5J p.c. = 15,489 495 40.970
1934.. 23,411 7 „ ~19,713 3,698 44,668
1935.. 29,491 8 „ ~ 22.529 6,962 51,630
1936.. 22,575 8 ~ „ 22,529 46 51,676
1937.. 37,617 8 ~ ~22,529 15,088 66,764
1938.. 33,071 8 „ ~23,428 9,643 76,407
1939.. 24,638 8 ~ ~24,000 638 77,045
1940.. 24,710 8 „ „ 24,000 710 77,755
1941.. 24,407 8 ~ ~24,000 407 78,162
1942.. 19,891 7 „ ~ 21,000 77,053
Sydney’s ferry cos. are having a bit of
a struggle, despite fewer private road-
users. In. view of “the difficulties of
operating the company’s service under
the conditions which have prevailed and
which still exist... .your directors regard
the balance sheet now placed before you
as being satisfactory,” comments the
Port Jackson co.’s report introducing a
cut from 8 p.c. to 7 p.c. in the div. Even
then, it took £llO9 more than the profit
claimed, and the amount available for
distribution would have been depleted
£3094 further had depreciation (£20,052
this year) on the previous term’s scale
been charged. There is nothing to sug-
gest that things are other than as stated.
The trouble has been mainly with
working costs of all sorts, wages and
dearer fuel particularly. The manage-
ment has now attempted to meet the
position by instituting on week nights a
timetable which one vessel can main-
tain, so that with a service after
7.45 Villagers have become a somewhat
isolated community during the hours of
darkness. A full service, however, is
still maintained for pleasure-makers at
week-ends, and this has raised the
hackles of the regulars. These, ad-
mittedly, are the backbone of the busi-
ness, but they sometimes forget that the
cheapness and efficiency of the service
they enjoy are partly the result of the
excursion business which the management
has been at pains to develop. The alterna-
tive to some inconvenience would appear
an adjustment of fares, which no doubt
would be equally resented and in which
Governments are loath to co-operate
these days where anything like a public
utility is concerned.
This list of the active fleet indicates
something of the evolution and revolu-
tion of ferry transport:
Gross Year
Vessel. Tonnage Built.
South Steyne .. .. 1200 1938
Dee Why .. .. 800 1928
Curl Curl .. .. 800 1928
Bellubera .. .. 500 1910
Balgowlah 500 1912
Barrenjoey .. .. 500 1916
Baragoola . . .. 500 1922
There is an eighth 460-tonner on the re-
tired list. The Bellubera belies her age,
some time ago having been converted to
Diesel-electric drive in an assault upon
costs. To the same end, the manage-
ment also established its own repair
shops, for which it must be thankful at
the moment.
This plant is lumped with freehold in
the published figures, and the whole lifted
£10,666 net last term, when there was a
reduction of £12,677 in the main asset:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 64,198 49,092 36,134 48,659
Ship property 285,637 271,227 251,084 238,407
Freeholds,, plant,
etc 71,985 74,234 72,903 83,569
Investments .. 84,270 83,046 88,750 92,679
Stocks . . 9,248 11,597 14,450 17,030
Cash, debtors,
etc 2,103 1,744 2,110 6,028
Reserves of stores have been further built
up and investments, the front-line pro-
vision for ship replacement, added to.
There was little movement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£67,078).
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.
. . To Re-
June, Profit, Dividends. serves. Reserves,
£ £ £ £
1932.. 19,649 7 p.e. = 15,603 4,046 32,783
oHnf 6 ” ” ls > 864 3,034 35,817
1934.. 21,598 6 „ „ 14,381 7,217 43,034
Staff fund, £1500.. .. ... .. 41 534
1935.. 23,314 5J p.c. = 14,766 8,548 50’,082
Staff fund, £lOOO. • ~ . # 4g 082
19 36-- 17.819 5$ p.c. = 15,300 2,519 5L601
Staff fund, £5OO 51 101
19 o?bi 30 ’ J lO6 P.c. = 18,170 11,936 63*037
Staff fund, £lOOO.. .. .. . 62 037
1938.. 21,320 6 p.c. = 17,587 3,733 65’,770
1939'.. 24,859 6 „ ~ 19 860 )
Staff fund, £lOOO .. \ M»9 70,269
1940.. 32,482 6 p.e. = 19,552 7
Staff fund, £2500 .. ’..10,430 80,699
1941.. 26,881 5 p.c. = 18 486 I
Staff fund, £2500 . f 5 > 895 86 ’ 59i
1942.. 24,601 5 p.c. = 18,665') „
Staff fund, £2500 .. ..} 3,436 90,030
Largest wool- and stockbroker in the
North, the management celebrates its fat-
test turnover yet by handing back 40 p.c.
of wool charges and 30 p.c. of fat-stock
and produce, as against percentages of
25, 25 and 20 p.c. respectively for some
years now. On store stock and proper-
ties, the rebate stays at 20 p.c. The
amount thus credited back to consignors
(£16,505 in 1941) isn’t mentioned, but it
is fine testimony to the efficiency of the
control and certainly isn’t going to harm
the co.’s clientele.
Part of the support the co. enjoys re-
flects Articles which limit the div. to 7 p.c.
H, P-. c - of commissions is rebated,
u e branches, the co. now
handles over a quarter of the Queensland
clip and 33 p.c. of the cattle and 22 p.c.
of the sheep dispatched to the Brisbane
yards. Consider this record of recent
progress:
Year Wool, sheep and
Bales. Cattle. Lambs. Turnover.
Too-' 82 > 556 40,567 91,170 £2,841,731
136 ’ 249 ' 34,6 2 9 123,09 5 2,757,074
IP7" 28 ’ 479 82 > 881 2,538,797
Tool" H£’ 3 5 5 35,155 73,74 6 3,775,628
inon * * 109,6 2 6 3 4,3 44 1 09,4 9 2 3,170,570
lodo" °Ji 37 ’ 361 83 > 309 2,865,275
In!?" } 52 ’ 270 28,249 84,392 3,269,662
loll" li'o’A' 82 32,fit 7 81,746 4,124,373
194 2.. 172,0 1 6 42,193 1 07,4 6 7 4,378,420
Seasonally, Queensland fared much better
than the southern States, and wool receipts
of all Brisbane brokers for the past year
are disclosed 42,239 bales higher at
630,267 bales. Moreover, the Primaries
got a full year’s benefit from purchase
(on a share basis) of the Sturmfels P.P,
Co-op. nearly halfway through the pre-
vious term. Most of the rest of the
quarter-million expansion in turnover was
on account of the big produce section.
After meeting exes, and the rebates speci-
fied, the £24,601 (down £2280) remaining
was sufficient to cover the 5 p.c. div.,
transfer another £2500 to staff funds and
still leave £3436 to put on the shelf.
Additions to storage capacity facili-
tated handling of the larger wool busi-
ness ;
1935. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £272,407 £330,621 £377,949 £375,524
Liabilities* .. 522,402 481,068 581,552 585,292
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 199,721 199,401 252,634 265,637
Plant, etc. ~ 31,328 40,378 46,085 42,478
Advances .. 528,906 683,775 706,335 692,723
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 101,579 6;02 75,397 88,312
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
When the books closed, because of the
assistance extended clients there was 255.
2d. of outside money at risk for every
pound belonging to shareholders. Obvi-
ously much depends on how much of
these advances is self-liquidating or
readily realisable, though the recent suc-
cession of favorable seasons should have
reduced much of the inherent risks. To-
gether, cash and advances exceed the
co.’s own debt by £195,743.
While border areas and the nor’-west
need rain, seasons elsewhere favor a
heavier shearing to participate in the in-
creased appraisement prices. The average
15.4 d. a pound Britain is offering for the
fourth war-time clip brings the price
practically into line with the contract
figure of 1914-18.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
, -—Dividends
Net Pref. Re—
Mar., Profit. 71 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.!
£> £, £,£,£,
1932.. 6,166 9375 Nil 30,476
Added reserves, £11,087 ~ .. 19,889
3f p.c.
1933.. 4,100 4688 Nil 19,977
Reserves disappear, £15,592 .. 35,669
1934.. 2,405 4688 Nil 37,852
Depreciation reserve disappears, £28,280.. 66,132
1935.. 6,606 4688 Nil 918 65,214
71 p.c.
1936.. 10.640 9375 Nil 1265 63,949
1937.. 11,336 9375 Nil 1961 61,988
Loss.
1938.. 1.,360 Nil Nil 79,348
Robur Tea and Subsidiary.
From doubtful debts, £3100.. .. 84,399
Loss.
1939.. 6,493 Nil Nil 90,892
From doubtful debts, £715 .. . . 90,177
Profit. 71 p.c.
1940.. 11.119 9,375 Nil 1744 88,433
15 p.c.
1941. .20,000 18,750 Nil 1250 87,183
10 p.c.
1942. .12,393 12,500 Nil , 87,290
t Goodwill (£75,000) not treated as an asset.
The story there is mainly one of the
continued high landed cost of tea (aggra-
vated by international restriction of out-
put since 1933) and keen competition
locally, which has kept selling prices
down and hence profit margins within
narrow dimensions. Thus this Robur Co.,
which took over the business of James
Service and Co. in 1928, has been able
to make only one ord. distribution since
inception, while returns to the prefs.,
which comprise half the capital and the
public stake, were £20,313, or 3s. 3d.
per share, in arrear at the end of March.
Despite its new set of problems, war
actually appears to have helped the co..


PATENTS,—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * «
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
, The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGEB SIGN
Of TireB Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making yoU
miserable, don't just complain and (Jo noth-
ing about them. Nature may be warning you
that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood, causing nagging backaches,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, swelling, pufflness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning show there is something wrong with
your kidneys or bladder.
Don't wait I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you Well and keep you well.
(KmmtU'mal lattfetttg (ttompattg
of IGimitfJi
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Incorporated In New South Wales.
Board of Directors;
EDWARD R. KNOX, Chairman. ORWELL PHILLIPS, Deputy Chairman.
GEOFFREY F. HUGHES. SIR DONALD C. CAMERON. K.C.M.G., ROBERT VICARS
and DOUGLAS R. LYSAGHT.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1942.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General
Meeting to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George
Street, Sydney, on Tuesday, 18th August, 1942.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders the Balance Sheet as on 30th June,
1942, with a copy of the Auditors’ Report thereon. A copy of the Profit and Los*
Account is annexed.
The profit for the year, after payment of all
expenses of management, and provision
for taxes and for rebate on current bills
and accrued interest on fixed deposits,
and for bad and doubtful debts and other
contingencies, amounts to £377,162 7 10
To which is added the amount brought for-
ward from 30th June, 1941 122,42$ 12 11
making a total of £499,591 9 9
from which the Directors have made the
following appropriations:
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended
31st December, 1941, at the rate of
7% per cent, per annum paid on 27th
January. 1942 £177,712 19 4
Reduction of Bank Premises Account—
amount written oft for depreciation .. 25,000 0 0 202,712 19 4
leaving a balance of £296,873 1 6
and now recommepd for sanction their—
Declaration of a dividend for the half-
year ended 30th June, 1942, at the
rate of 7% per cent, per annum pay-
able at the Head Office of the Company £177,712 19 5
leaving the amount to be carried forward 119,165 2 0 296,878 1 5
The Directors desire to place on record their deep sense of loss through the
death on 25tb May last of Mr. Owen Esmond Friend, who first Joined the Board
In May, 1919.
In terms of Article 94, Mr. Robert Vicars and Mr. Douglas Royse Lysaght were
appointed Directors to fill the vacancies caused respectively by the resignation of
Mr. R. J. A. Massle and the death of Mr. O. E. Friend. Messrs. Vicars and Lysaght
are now eligible for election and have given notices of candidature.
In conformity with Article 89, Mr. Geoffrey Forrest Hughes and Sir Donald
Charles Cameron, K.C.M.G., now retire, but are eligible for election at the Meeting
and have given the requisite notices of candidature.
It rests also with the Meeting to appoint Auditors and fix their remuneration.
The Auditors, Messrs. Cecil Howe Doyle and Harington Burrough Cowper,
now retire; Mr. Cowper, being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. Notice
of intention to nominate Mr. Francis William Hixson, a former Auditor of the
Company, to the office of Auditor has been given by a Member to the Company,
pursuant to Section 113 of the Companies Act, 1936.
In order to attain the most effective use of our manpower and release as many
men as possible to the services. Branch establishments have been under constant
review during the last three years. In March last the position was jointly con-
sidered by all Trading Banks. As a result thirty-three Branches were closed
during the year, but in nearly every case customers have been afforded the services
of a Receiving Office or satisfactory reciprocal arrangements have been made with
other Banks for the maintenance of adequate banking facilities and equitable
exchange of business.
E. R. KNOX, Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET ON 30th JUNE, 1942.
(including the figures of the London Branch by cable)
LIABILITIES
Capital—
Authorised .........£12,000,000
In 480,000 shares of £25 each.
Issued—379,l2l shares of £25 each £9,478,025 0 0
Less; Reserve Capital of £ 12/10/- per share 4,739,012 10 0
Paid up £4,739,012 10 •
Reserve Fund (wholly used In the business of the Bank) 4,300,000 0 0
Final Dividend proposed 177,712 19 5
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 119,165 2 0
Total Shareholders’ Funds 9,335,890 11 6
Deposits, Bills Payable and other Liabilities, Including pro-
visions for contingencies 61,052,978 6 10
Notes In Circulation 13,549 10 0
Balances due to other Banks 263,387 0 6
£70,665.805 8 9
Contingent Liabilities (under Letters of Credit, Guarantees, etc.) £1,371,498 8 7
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers ...
Cheques and Bills of other Banks
Balances with and due from other Banks ....
Money at Short Call in London
Treasury Bills —Australian Government ....
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills) —
at or below market value (Including
£4,000 lodged with Public Authorities) —
(1) Australian Government Securities ....
(ii) Local and Semi-Governmental Authori-
ties' Securities
Special War-Time Deposit Account with Com-
monwealth Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit..
4
10
2
0
0
11
0
0
5
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted —after deducting provision
for debts considered bad or doubtful
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites—at cost, less amounts
written off
All other Assets
£32,229,531 12 S
36,690,503 6 II
1,162,908 5 0
582,862 4 2
£70,665,805 8 9
Contingent Assets (as per contra) £1,371,498 8 7
ORWELL PHILLIPS
DONALD C. CAMERON
Directors.
B. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
C. DARVALIi, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANRING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared It with the books at
the Head Office and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the Bills
and counted the Cash at the Head Office. We have obtained all the. information and
explanations we have required, and in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly
drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s
affairs according to the best of our Information and the explanations given to us,
and as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company la
required to keep by law or by Us Articles have been properly kept.
’ n rr n avt tt* 1
C. H. DOYLE
HAKINGTON B. COWPER
Auditors.
Sydney. 30th July. 1942.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st December,
1941, at the rate of 7% per cent, per annum, paid on 27th
January, 1942
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows:
To Dividend for the half-year ended 30th June,
1942, at the rate of 7*/» per cent, per
annum £177,712 19
„ Amount carried forward 119,165 2
25,000 0
296,878 1 8
£499,591 0 9
By Amount brought forward from 30th June, 1941 £ 122,428 12 11
Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1942, after payment of
all expenses of management (including Directors’ Pees,
£3,750) and provision for taxes and for rebate on current
bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, and for bad
and doubtful debts and other contingencies 377,162 7 10
£499,591 0 9
ORWELL PHILLIPS
DONALD C. CAMERON
Directors.
E. R. KNOX. Chairman of Directors.
C. DAItVALL, General Manager.
partly by infusing a little more camera-
derie into the trade. But a5O p.c. curtail-
ment in normal trading has now come
about. This because, after its big over-
seas price rise, tea is under complete Gov-
ernment control, one of the aims being
to stabilise selling prices by a system of
subsidies. The Tea Controller does all
the importing, and these distributors’
earnings are mainly dependent on the
cost margins allowed by the Prices Com-
missioner and the degree of rationing —
the latter itself contingent on the avail-
ability of supplies and shipping from
Ceylon and India. For the present the
weekly allotment is 2oz. per person, the
same as in Britain; Canadians have the
alternative of loz. tea or 4oz. of coffee.
In these circumstances pref.-holders’
prospects depend on how heavily over-
head presses and on what can be done
with the subsidiary. Oriental Tea Co., of
Sydney and Brisbane, which over the past
five years has gone £19,308 net to the
bad. The drift was temporarily arrested
with a profit of £4908 in 1941 ; but a
loss of £6072 last term pulled group earn-
ings back from £20,000 to £12,393, which
was just short of the amount required to
meet the pref. div. and clear four months*
arrears. Depreciation written off was
£4094.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances, the outside debt being covered
by cash or its equivalent alone:
( ' ■ Parent v —Consolidated— ■,
1936. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £250,900 £260,000 £260,000 £250,000
liabilities* .. 29,047 107,544 69,485 43,810
Property and
plant . . 47,808 41,869 44,781 40,660
Investments ~ 64,624 53,805
Stocks . . 69',043 70,808 92,366 102,696
Book debts ~ 23,586 26,494 29,661 29,792
Cash, etc. .. 14,723 85,219 79,558 45,875
* Including provision for taxation.
The other feature there is the high level
of stocks. To add £10,330 to the item
and clip £25,675 off liabilities, which in-
clude something for taxation, cash, etc.,
was drawn on for £33,683. But the depre-
ciation allowance lifted the more or less
liquid surplus to £134,553 (up £2453).
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
War-time recovery in earnings has been
spectacular, and it is now proposed “to
strengthen the financial position of the
company by substituting share capital for
the present debenture issue”-—£512,000,
nominally carrying 7 p.c. but reduced
to £5 Bs. 6d. p.c. by statutory cut.
Plans are still amorphous:
It is thought advisable that the shares
to be offered to the debenture-holders
should, as far as possible, be preference
shares Accordingly, power has been
taken to issue up to 512,000 £1 preference
shares, the dividend to be fixed at a rate
not exceeding 6 p.c.
With taxation as it is, those tentative
proposals appear more likely to benefit
the co.’s £233,600 of ord. capital than
debenture-holders, many of whom will
find the extra one-half p.c. interest
offered small inducement to exchange
their rights as preferred creditors
for those of preferred shareholders.
Chief privilege as debenture-holders is
power to enforce their security in the
event of default of interest or other
material covenants; as preference share-
holders, they would become more or less
silent partners, ranking for both capital
and arrears of dividend only before
holders of the ords.
Amendment of articles is also pro-
posed to permit issue of any new ords.
“at the discretion” of the directors, in-
stead of being first offered to share-
holders —a limit should be set to any
such mandate —and to allow a director
to vote in relation to contracts in which
he is interested, provided they are made
in the ordinary course of trading.
If it were not for the shortage of mine
labor and English excess-profits tax,
North Kalgurli (W.A.) would, at present
prices, be a golden prize-packet. Blocked-
out reserves were computed a year ago at
over a million tons of 6.Bdwt. grade,
with “probable” at 341,140 tons of
s.B7dwt. average value, and they have
bulged since. Latest quarterly report
mentions good widths and assays in Kal-
gurli and North Kalgurli—the two main
sections. Previous reports had something
cheering to say about these and the co.’s
other two blocks —Union Jack and
Croesus Prop. Accounts and the year’s
final dividend announcement are due,
• * * »
Aggregate divs. of roughly £40,000,000
have come out of Westralian goldmines
to date. But of the hundred-odd con-
tributors only a few are distributing now.
Gt. Boulder, which hasn’t sent out any-
thing since June, 1940, tops the list with
£6,723,463, while Lake View, Ivanhoe
and Golden Horse Shoe paid in the aggre-
gate over £12,000,000 before Lake View
and Star got them. Boulder Persever-
ance’s total is over £2,000,000, Sons of
Gwalia’s nearly as much, Wiluna’s some
£1,250,000, Lake View and Star’s
over £2,500,000 and South Kalgurli’s
£1,000,000. Among dividend-payers that
have passed on is Great Fingall, with a
total of £1,747,000. Oroya Brown Hill,
which distributed £2,146,000, and Kal-
gurli, which paid out £1,681,000, are
now incorporated in other producing con-
cerns, Out of the production of Bayley’s
Reward, Coolgardie, first mine and divi-
dend-payer on the eastern goldfields,
roughly £200,000 was distributed. From
Westralian alluvial about 325,0000 z.
has been won, and out of specimen
stone nearly 300,0000 z. has been dollied.
North-east Coolgardie, which includes
Kanowna and several other small highly-
productive early-day centres, has been
the biggest contributor to these two totals.
Heading the others are East Coolgardie
(Kalgoorlie and Bulong), Murchison, Mt.
Margaret, Pilbara and Broad Arrow.
Little alluvial or dollied gold is being
got now.
♦ * * *
Westralia still slips down the gold-
production stairs. Output for the first
half of the year is over 90,0000 z. down
compared with 1941, Man-power reduc-
tion to the basis decided by the State and
Federal Governments means, of course,
a further tumble in the yield. Mines
which labor diversion might cause to
close down can submit and are submit-
ting their cases to the Mines Department
as regards war-time maintenance, for
which a Commonwealth grant has been
made.
* * * *
New Golconda (W.A.), though unlucky
so far, has hopes of a turn-up. At the
annual meeting chairman H. J. Mortlock
said there were promising indications in
the lode formation in the winze on the
southern shoot of ore on the co.’s present
mine at Coolgardie. His remarks were
cheered, and some of the unfortunates
present figured out the prospect of get-
ting some of their capital back.
* * * *
After a conference of mineowners,
miners and man-poWer officials, Victorian
goldmining is to see its labor cut to a
quarter of last September’s strength. The
450 men to be left will carry on at mines
which are the whole existence of a town-
ship (Morning Star, Wood’s Point, and
Maude and Yellow Girl, Glen Wills, are
in this category) or are paying their way.
Elsewhere activity will be restricted to
asset preservation. Equipment like rock
drills and compressors is also required
for more essential mining.


BALANCE SHEET OF
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
C lncorporated in Victoria under the “Companies Act 1890”)
As at Close of Business on 30th June, 1942.
Authorised Capital—
-300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each
Issued Capital-
Paid-up Capital
Iteserve Fund
(Used in the business of the Bank)
Exchange Adjustment Reserve
(Used in the business of the Bank)
Final Dividend proposed payable August, 1942
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
LIABILITIES.
Total Shareholders’ Funds £0,590,004 16 8
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including provisions for
Taxation and Contingencies 42,918,555 4 7
Notes in Circulation .. .. ’ 0,182 OSO0 S 0
Balances due to Other Banks 35,153 4 5
£49,550,495 5 8
Contingent Liabilities £2,530,458 19 3
(As per contra in regard to obligations of Customers and others on
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New
Cash at Bankers .. .. ..
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other Banks
Money at Short Call in London
Treasury Bills—
Australian Government
Other Government
Public Securities —
(At or under market value)
Australian Government
Other Government
Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities
Special War Time Deposit Account with Commonwealth
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit
Stumps
Zealand Notes and
£5,010,023 13 9
1,738,010 3 5
76.984 7 10
712,500 0 0
.. £3,440,000 0 0
375.000 0 0
3,815,000 0 0
.. £4,593,818 13 10
2.340.914 5 2
85,762 17 0
7,026,495 16 0
Bank of Australia .. 3,578,000 0 0
2,017,572 6 0
19,257 11 10
£23,994,443 18 10
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 24,239,231 610
(after deducting provision for Debts considered Bad or Doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites 1,316,820 0 0
(At cost less amounts written off)
£49,550.495 5 8
Contingent Assets £2,530,408 13 3
(Comprising Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as per contra.)
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency.)
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT IN RESPECT OF THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1942.
To Expenses, Head Office —458 Branches and Agencies
(Including Directors’ Fees, £3032 6s. 6d.)
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes
~ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down
To Amounts written off Bank Premises
„ Dividends —
Interim paid February, 1942
Final, proposed payable August, 1942
„ Balance carried forward
.. £891,508 13 4
230,386 14 7
241,812 19 4
£1.363,708 7 3
£25,000 0 0
£109,013 13 4
109,013 13 4
218,027 6 8
114,241 3 4
£357.208 10 0
By Discount and Interest earned, net Exchange, Commissions and Other Income
after deducting Interest Paid and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills
Current at balance date and Appropriations to the credit of Contingencies
Accounts (out of which Accounts provision for all Bad and Doubtful
Debts has been made) .. .. .. £1,303,708 7 3
By Net Balance brought forward
„ Net Profit for the Year
.. £115,455 10 8
241,813 19 4
By Balance
£357.268 10 0
£114.241 3 4
I PERCY FREDERICK GRAHAM GORDON, General Manager of The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the 1
Adjustment Reserve, and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss of the Bank t
knowledge and belief, true in every particular.
Reserve, the Exchange
are, to the best of my
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the Company at the date of the Statement: JOHN LANGLEY WEBB, Shipowner, Melbourne; WILLIAM
mnt, Melbourne', ARTHUR SYDNEY BAILLIBU, Investor, Melbourne; WILLIAM JAMES BYRNE, Solicitor, Melbourne; WILLIAM SYDNEY REID, Merchant.
HOWELL SWANTON, Merchant,
Melbourne. ma j. e solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making
P. F. G. GORDON.
a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 27th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and forty-two.
Before me—R. L. G. McCOY,
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1925.” x ,
We. JOHN LANGLEY WEBB, WILLIAM HOWELL SWANTON and WILLIAM JAMES BYRNE, of Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited, do
lierebv certify that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet Is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company s affairs, and
that the Statement of Profit and Loss exhibits a true and correct view of the results of the business of the Company for the year. „ „ ,
‘ On behalf of the Board,
JOHN L. WEBB.
W. H. SWANTON,
W. J. BYRNE.
Dated at Melbourne this 27th day of July, 1942.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS.
To the Shareholders of
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
Ladles and Gentlemen,
We report that we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the year ended
.l trim*? n f flm atnf a lli/v flAmnnntr’o nfYnlr»o nnil flinf f Jin Uf nlnniAnf
Melbourne, 27th July, 1942.
... w 30th June, 1942, and that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up and exhibits a
true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs, that the Statement of Profit and Loss is properly drawn upso asto of t le results of t,e
business of the Company for the year, according to the best of our Information and the explanations given to iis and as shown by the books of the Company. T -mi
The Loudon Office figures to the same date have been accepted by us on cabled advice from the London Auditors, Messrs. Jackson, I ixley and Co., and the Assets and Liabilities
at the Branches taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants. „ , T n
We have received every assistance from the Officers of the Bank, and they have supplied us with all the information and explanations we hav e^^ e f^pj) f^ ll y ® are ’ Ij,atlies aiul *4cn(lemon,
K. FOOKES 1
Win. S. I’ll I LIP t
Chartered Accountants (Australia).
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Decent War Effort
In a country where trade-union wages
have been lifted about 174 p.c. since war
broke out, where taxation of such wages
has been very light, and where it
seems to be the policy of agitators to
scramble the brains and efforts of many
engaged in the war effort, it is heartening
to put on record that Australia’s most
vital war industry has not raised prices
since the outbreak of hostilities, and that
it still sells the cheapest steel in the world.
This is not merely a comparison of two
kinds of war effort; the fact that wages
have inflated while the output by Labor
has tended to fall has actually been a
burden on the effort of the Broken Hill
Proprietary Co. and other organisa-
tions of the same order. There has been
no Arbitration-Court compensation to
shareholders in B.H.P. to make up for
the increasing cost of living. On the
contrary, they are helping to pay the
increased wages allowed to trade-union-
ists, and themselves have received not
even steady dividends. There has been
a substantial fall over the past two years.
Contrasting with £1,431,513 in 1939,
Broken Hill Prop.’s profit for the year to
May 31 was £687,711, down £275,568 on
the reduced figure of the preceding term.
The result was arrived at after provid-
ing £1,025,013 for ordinary depreciation
(up £28,132) and £550,348 (up £94,018)
special depreciation. TTiough general re-
serves were drawn on for £585,281 during
the year in order to pay excess taxation
not provided for, visible tax provision in
respect of the term recently closed is
£300,000 lower at £750,000. The divi-
dend was at the reduced rate of 6£ p.c.,
and the rate is likely to be no more than
5 p.c. during the current period. On
capital as it stood before the 1939 capi-
talisation of share premiums previously
charged to shareholders, last year’s 6 \ p.c,
div. is equal to 10£ p.c. In pre-war years
the div. stood at 12 \ p.c. If the div.
drops to 5 p.c. for the current period
it will represent no more than 8.2 p.c.
on a pre-capitalisation basis.
Actually the entire profits for the co/s
past term were less than the dividend
paid in the last pre-war year. And in
the meantime an extra £2,750,000 of cash
has been put into the business by share-
holders to help the co. participate fully in
Australia’s war effort. Since those shares
were issued the market price of all B.H.P.
scrip has fallen heavily.
Though B.H.P. represents big business
indeed —it is the largest company in Aus-
tralia—and has been criticised on that
score, it has a splendid war record. At
the present time it is carrying on under
extraordinary difficulties, some of the
internal nature already mentioned, others
beyond the control of any Australian. It
is efficient and capable, and has been
ahead of the Government in planning
and production. The Menzies Govern-
ment took B.H.P.’s chief general man-
ager for Director-General of Munitions,
and Labor has added to his powers.
In spite of all this, lies and distortion
are still circulated about 8.H.P., and this
sort of stuff periodically emanates from
Parliament itself. It can only come from
a type of brain that is not appreciative
of enterprise and industry, knowing no-
thing about those things itself. Idle envy
and cultivated hatred are damaging to
the Commonwealth’s war output.
The 4-p.c.-profits-limitation plan has
been officially and emphatically dropped.
This paper never gave the half-baked pro-
posal one word of encouragement from
the time it was mooted nearly six months
ago, and in this respect it is almost unique
among the newspapers, however much
they may have condemned it towards the
finish. Almost the entire basis of Labor's
revolutionary economic proposals of
February last has now been abandoned;
only a husk of the property-dealing re-
strictions remains. Control of interest
rates had been in operation long before
Labor came to office, and the wisdom
of it has never been denied ; neither has
the necessity for rationing and rational-
isation, nor controlling man-power. But
a Government that has been bluntly dis-
illusioned about its economic programme
may find itself equally in trouble about
its administration of the man-power and
rationing problems. As a matter of fact,
it is in trouble, and when one hears offi-
cial assertions to the contrary one
remembers equally positive assertions
about the dead-and-gone economic pro-
posals. The Government had better own
up to what is an obvious fact; It has
made bushels of mistakes already, and is
in the way of making bushels more. The
solution to its internal problems lies in
the direction of accepting the counsel of
industrial and financial experts who have
proved their ability in the past and re-
jecting advice based on political dreams
and theories and possibilities of “the next
election.” What must not be forgotten
is that there may never be a “next elec-
tion” unless we accept the realities of
the position our enemies have forced
on us.
* * * *
On three consecutive days last week
Opposition-leader Fadden criticised the
Government’s war-time administration.
First dealt with were Mr. Dedman and
his Department of War Organisation of
Industry (mostly rationing and rational-
isation), second was the policy of instruct-
ing the Prices Commissioner to fix profits
as well as prices, and third were the man-
power muddle and the “bias” of Eddie
Ward, “evident from his statements to
the press from time to time.” Concern-
ing the first charge, Mr. Curtin replied
that “the previous Government’s mind on
war organisation of industry was a com-
plete vacuum,” while Mr. Dedman had
“brought a first-class mind to problems
of great difficulty.” He had “not tried
to introduce socialisation through any
sort of door.” In regard to Fadden's
second charge, the Prime Minister said
that Professor Copland would be told
that there was to be no profiteering, but
that the 4 p.c. plan had been abandoned.
However, “the Government will take
steps to see that excessive profits are not
made.” He suggested an inquiry into
Copland’s activities if specific charges
were made. As to the third case,
Eddie was left to defend himself in his
own indefensible manner, and immedi-
ately caused more trouble for the P.M.
Poor Curtin! Much of his time is spent
explaining away the behavior of his more
militant and muddling Ministers.
* * * *
At the annual meeting of the N. S.
Wales Chamber of Commerce president
A. E. Heath said “the basis of the State
Premiers’ objection to one taxation
authority was that no Government could
govern without the power to tax; but I
think it would be nearer the mark if I
said the real reason was that, with the
State revehues limited, party politicians
would not be able to make extravagant
promises to the electors in an effort to
secure votes.”
* * * *
A Cabinet sub-committee on post-war
reconstruction has been formed, says
Prime Minister Curtin. It is comprised
of Treasurer Chifley, Attorney-General
Evatt, Social Services Minister Holloway
—and Eddie Ward. Mr. Curtin thinks
that “reconstruction is not a single subject
in itself, but has to do with the whole
aspirations of the people for a better way
of life.” Repatriation Minister Frost
says he does not wish to see again the
“exploitation of returned men by un-
scrupulous business interests that took
place after the last war.”
♦ * * *
Commonwealth Government has ap-
proved of legislation being drafted by
the Treasurer, Mr. Chifley, for the estab-
lishment of a mortgage bank. Mr.
Wilson, the strategically important mem-
ber for Wimmera, wants a mortgage
bank.


Missing Friend.
TO JAMES MICHAEL LORKIN formerly of
Yarrawonga in the State of Victoria—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ANNIE ELIZABETH
LORKIN has instituted proceedings against you
for divorce on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the
Third day of September 1942 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs. If you intend to defend this suit
you must also file an answer in the said office
on or before the Fourteenth day of September
1942.
REGINALD WADHAM, of Law Court
Chambers, 191 Queen Street, Melbourne, Solici-
tor for the Petitioner.
Public Notice.
1, LAURA FRANCESCA FRANKENBERG,
of Norwegian nationality, born at Tromso, and
resident 69 years in Australia, now residing at
41 Pitt Street, Kirribilli, Sydney, intend to apply
for Naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-36.
Divorce Notice.
TO GLADYS LEHNER Married Woman and
STANLEY HOOD Motor Driver formerly of
507 Melbourne Road Frankston. —TAKE
NOTICE that EDWARD WILLIAM LEHNER
has instituted proceedings against his wife the
said GLADYS LEHNER for divorce on the
ground of her adultery with the said STANLEY
HOOD Unless you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne on or before the third day of
September 1942 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs
If you intend to defend this suit you must also
file an answer in the said office on or before
the Fourteenth day of September 1942.
D. S. ABRAHAM, 422 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor for Petitioner.
mmmm
•The hanger* a* tbe £
cra« assembly depot in "•
valued at 63.000.000. or. «’
, treated in timber. T ‘*
amount ot steel conserved b, lhe«
meon. Hardly needs empHosming-
"The Australian limb.. Journal.
(N the great I"tw» of A tin*.
L’tss-Jrs rJ* -- - -""
*■ f, ““ , . mines, timber to [
aas£SS®ri#Sffi
hours . a., basis
D^ ;b^^fo^li Soo< '& a ' e j"o S E f
5O N PT y *P(ioneTGunnedoh
3*s* Street. Tweed/e, *g
and Queens/ana. _ vj
JOSEPHS©. H
UlStriouih/-- - -
WAUGH
** .71- D „„d. Si
Melbourne
CT2-33-4J
■v • iVv;• x > "M't
Post-war Credits
From W. Benjamin (N.S.W.):
The Government is spending hundreds of mil-
lions on war, most of which is going into
local circulation. It is a paradox that the
greater the Government’s expenditure on
weapons of destruction which yield nothing to
our national wealth the more money the man
in the street finds, at least temporarily, in his
pocket. Unemployment is non-existent, wage
rates are high and production of essential com-
modities is more remunerative than normal.
The man in the street has money, and in a
spirit of “easy-come-easy-go” he wants to spend
it But in doing so he disturbs the economic
structure by setting up a demand on our already
insufficient productive powers. If the com-
modities he desires are in the essential category,
the Government services want first call; if they
are non-essentials, his demand makes calls on
man-power more urgently needed elsewhere.
Curtailment of buying-power is essential to
full mobilisation of our economic resources.
Several means of curtailment are open to the
Government, the principal ones being (1) taxa-
tion both on income and on spending, (2)
loans, and (3) outright rationing of supplies.
Taxation is high but not necessarily high
enough on the lower- and medium-income group,
in which group the bulk of the purchasing-power
lies.
Loans from th£ public have yielded many
millions, but the per capita contribution is
miserably small. After weeks of efforts, threats
and glowing promises the Government succeeds
in filling a £35 million public loan —which will
carry on the war for little more than one month.
The present Government has set its face
against further taxation, according to the Prime
Minister, during the coming year. Rationing
is direct and drastic in curtailing public spend-
ing, but its fundamental disadvantage lies in
the problems of administration. Rationing
is not feasible for all commodities, and any
further extension would make greater calls on
available man-power. Only loans are left, and
the public’s response to the last loan was not
sufficiently spontaneous to encourage hopes of
great extensions of voluntary savings.
Then what of compulsory savings?
The idea was first propounded by J. M.
Keynes. His scheme, which in the main has
been adopted by the British Government, pro-
posed that a contribution should be made when
imposing the tax on incomes of a further
amount to be placed to the credit of the tax-
payer, repayable to him at the first favorable
opportunity after the war. The release of these
savings after the resources of the community
were no longer fully engaged for war purposes
would help the citizens through the first effects
of the post-war readjustment.
In the U.K. the method adopted is to credit
taxpayers with the extra income tax payable as
the result of statutory variations in the con-
cessional allowances. There is a maximum
credit in each case of £65. Taxpayers receive
a certificate of the amount so credited. In the
case of companies and businesses, portion of
the excess-profits tax is similarly earmarked as a
post-war credit. The credits so established
are not interest-bearing. Credits will be repaid
after the war either in a lump sum or by in-
stalments over a period. Repayment of post-
war credits may be made to meet exceptional
domestic difficulties such as illness, unemploy-
ment, etc.
The Commonwealth Government’s reluctance
to make use of compulsory loans is likely to
be overcome by the stern necessity of the
country’s needs, not only of revenue for war
purposes but also to assist in lowering the de-
mand for consumption goods over and above
absolute necessities.
The following method of imposing a system
of compulsory war contributions is suggested
as a basis for consideration. It is proposed
that at the time income tax is assessed a further
amount be charged by way of a percentage of
the primary tax payable at personal-exertion
rates on the taxable income of every individual,
irrespective of the class of the income. The
amount of the compulsory contribution should
be made payable with the same amount of
interest and in the same time as is provided for
war-savings certificates — i.e., 20s. for each 16s.
at the end of seven years. At the time of
payment the taxpayer should receive a “war-
contribution certificate,” and such certificate
should be non-negotiable by sale or by way of
security for a loan or debt until the date of re-
demption except in certain circumstances where
necessity arises through illness, unemployment
or similar misfortune.
A scale of contribution that might be imposed
is as follows:
P.c. of
Taxable Income. Primary Tax.
£l5l to £250 50
251 to 600 40
601 to 2500 30
2501 to 4000 20
4001 and over 10
The reason that a decreasing percentage is
suggested as incomes rise is due to the fact that
persons who are in receipt of medium and lower
incomes are in receipt of the bulk of the
country’s income, and, not having the habit of
“investment,” do not contribute to war loans
to the extent they should. Persons on the higher
incomes, who in the main have the habit of
“investment,” do, despite the severity of taxa-
tion on their incomes, invest surplus income in
war loans, etc.
Another factor is that in the post-war period a
decline of income will be felt to a greater
extent by those with medium or low incomes,
and the post-war credit receivable by them will
be of greater use and assistance than to those
with higher incomes even if such higher incomes
decline, as they must, after the war.
The following examples further illustrate the
proposal:
Taxable Primary Tax Contri- Post-war
Income. (P.e. Income), bution. Credit.
£2OO .. £7.9 £3.95 £4.93
250 .. 19.2 9.60 12.00
300 .. 31.5 12.60 15.75
350 .. 44.2 17.68 22.10
400 .. 57.3 22.92 28.68
500 .. 84.8 33.92 42.40
600 .. 114.0 45.60 57.00
800 .. 179.4 53.82 67.27
1.000 .. 256.0 76.80 96.00
1,500 .. 495.0 148.50 185.62
2.000 .. 804.0 241.20 301.50
3.000 .. 1599.0 319.80 399.75
5.000 .. 3374.0 337.40 421.75
10,000 .. 7874.0 787.40 984.25
As to companies, it is suggested that the
primary tax payable be increased from 6s. to
(say) 7s. in the £ of taxable income. Certificates
should be issued for the amount of the extra
impost, non-negotiable by sale during the war.
They should, however, be capable of negotia-
tion as security for advances during the war
period for such matters as extensions and addi-
tions to buildings, plant, stocks, etc., if the
necessity for same has been approved by a
duly authorised authority. Interest (if any)
and date of redemption to be decided.
It should be recognised that a compulsory con-
tribution scheme is ancillary to whatever other
steps the Government takes to raise required
revenue for war purposes. It should not
be regarded as a substitute for other means,
but as a method of obtaining a reasonable
contribution to the war effort from all those
citizens who have a taxable income, and a
means also to safeguard the financial structure
of the country by curbing expenditure on private
consumption goods, which hampers the pro-
duction of materials and services required much
more urgently lor, war purposes.
“For every American ground soldier
in Australia today there are at least five
Australian soldiers. The number of
Americans in this country is roughly
comparable with the number of Austra-
lians who have gone overseas to fight.”
This statement exploded a number of
ideas about the extent of U.S, aid to this
country. It is also going to explode a
number of excuses made by Mr. Ded-
man’s department when complaints have
been made about shortages of this, that
and the other thing. In view of last
week’s revelation it can hardly be con-
tended in the future that our allies are
eating out of house and home a country
accustomed to support seven million
hearty eaters. We’ll have to get down to.
facts at last. And how Canberra hates
facts!
* * * *
At the annual meeting of the N.S.W.
Chamber of Manufactures last week the
president, H, J. Hendy, said: “We must
win this war. All that is necessary for us
to do, pay or suffer must be done. At the
same time, it does not mean that every
bright opportunistic idea thought up by
a militant trade-unionist, an academic
theorist or a party politician of whatever
color, and turned overnight into an ill-
considered, ill-digested and ill-timed regu-
lation, bears any necessity at all to the
pursuit of that objective.”
» * * *
Pool Petroleum Pty., Ltd., begins trad-
ing on August 15. It represents the pooling
of the storage and distributing business
of each of the existing Australian oil-
importing interests. Trade names will
disappear from most of the products
marketed for the duration. Object of the
pool is purely one of war-time organisa-
tion, and it should release man-power.
Increased costs caused last week’s penny
rise in petrol.


Australia's Own War.
THE SERVICE MAN
“Ek Dum”: General MacArthur's
communiques in brief: —
August 3: Jap cruiser and two float ’planes
attacked with unknown loss in Banda Sea. No
Allied losses. At Salamaua, enemy interceptor
destroyed. Night raiders scored hits on Lae
’drome and a.-a. positions. Allied heavy and
medium bombers attacked Gona-Buna under
fighter escort. Five Jap “O” fighters and one
twin-engined machine shot down; two Allied
fighters and a bomber missing. Enemy out-
posts at Kokoda dispersed by patrols and dumps
strafed and bombed.
August 4: Light bombing raid on Lae-
Salamaua—a cargo ship beached and burn-
ing. Enemy positions at Kokoda bombed;
fires started.
August 5: Only “reconnaissances and security
activities.”
August 6: Only minor activity.
August 7: Medium bombers attacked aero-
drome and runway at Salamaua-Lae. All
’planes returned. Enemy effort at Gona-Buna
“static.” Only light ground forces involved.
August 8: Medium bombers harassed Lae
aerodrome and dispersal areas with heavy demo-
lition bombs day and night. Direct hits on
runway made with 20001b. bombs. Heavy
bombers also struck at Vunakanau aerodrome
—15 tons of bombs on runways. Seven “O”
fighters, out of 20 attacking, were shot down.
One Allied ’plane missing; some casualties and
minor damage in others.
August 9: Medium bombers carried out
three heavy attacks on Salamaua. A beached
cargo ship directly hit and left burning. A.-a.
positions silenced and aerodrome runway hit.
Many fires started. Strong night raid on Lae
aerodrome and bombers using 20001b.
bombs. Allied fignters bombed and strafed
Buna-Kokoda, starting fires and silencing
machine-gun nests. Night attack on Rabaul
aerodromes. A successful attack on Solomons
airfields encountered considerable a.-a. fire.
Attacks on Shipping
There was plenty to set nerves on edge
in Australia last week. A trawler shelled
off the east coast by a Japanese sub-
marine. Rumors of the sinking of ships,
based on Tokyo’s resounding and expand-
ing claims. A W. M. Hughes statement full
of blithering blazes. Occupation of more
islands within 350 to 400 miles or so of
Arnhem Land. Failure to drive the
enemy out of Gona and Buna.
When the trawler was shelled there
had been no sign of an enemy submarine
off the coast. It turned up 20 miles from
shore, in sight of land, A big sea was
running. Clouds scudded across the
moon. The ship had her nets out. A
shell screamed over the bows. Captain
William Reid thought it was a warning
by a naval vessel to “out lights.”
Then the submarine was seen, a long
grey shape. The captain called: “Don't
fire! We are only a harmless fishing
boat.” The only answer was further
shells. The submarine was reckoned
about 200ft. long.
Her guns seemed to the trawlermen to
be of heavy calibre. The second shot
put the main steam pipe out of action.
Then sections of bridge and superstruc-
ture went flying. By the time the little
ship had been hit by 12 shells a lifeboat
was launched ; but just as they were
abandoning ship a gust of machine-gun
fire caught the crew. The submarine
circled 100 yards away, brutally spraying
them. The second mate, Arthur Scobie,
and Archie MacPherson, a deckhand,
were killed immediately.
The rest of the crew gave up attempts
to take to their boat. Some took to
the water. George Reid, the chief engi-
neer, swam round the ship trying to
dodge bullets. Most of the others dashed
for shelter in the ship. Suddenly the
submarine dived and it was all over.
Besides the two men killed, the cap-
tain’s brother, Alex. Reid, who served
as mate, was wounded —mortally. The
chief engineer, George Reid, a relative,
the radio operator, L, W. Wilson, and
Frank Temple, a fireman, also were
wounded. The captain and some others
suffered from shock.
The flashes of the shelling had been
seen ashore in a fishing village. Local
residents put out into the rough sea with
a trawler and two police followed in a
30ft. launch. It was a game thing to do
in view of the enemy’s presence.
The sea was still rough, but a line was
passed by the local trawler to the bat-
tered ship and a dinghy moved along it
again and again until all the crew, in-
cluding the dead, had been removed.
Then the rescuers hooked on to the
wreck and held her till a tug arrived.
It was not the only case of submarine
shelling. A liner was shelled in southern
Australian waters at night. Four shells
were fired but none made a hit. The
liner’s gun crew replied, and she made
port without a casualty.
In New Guinea
Meanwhile, it was announced that the
Japanese were believed to have landed
small reinforcements at Buna, in New
Guinea, as well as supplies. But though
there was a lull, all reports from the
New Guinea area suggested that the
enemy was preparing for something. An
increase of enemy shipping round the
coast was noted. At Kokoda desperate
attempts were being made to establish
control of the airfield only 15 minutes’
flying from Moresby. At Guadalcanal
ft was reported that the enemy was build-
ing new airfields.
The air of inaction about the High
Command was deceptive. It was a
prelude to a series of heavy day and night
attacks on Lae, Salamaua and Rabaul
with 20001 b. bombs, the heaviest ever
used in South Pacific air warfare.
On August 6 the H.Q. Command issued
a statement dealing with New Guinea.
It said that the N.G. defence line was
along the almost impassable Owen
Stanley Range. With the enemy in con-
trol of the north N.G. coast and of the
sea-lanes to Rabaul, it was impossible to
defend northern advanced positions with-
out sacrificing the troops involved, since
they could be supplied by sea only —with
little hope of success. Any garrison
there would undoubtedly be overwhelmed
in case of serious assault. But the enemy
himself was not at a great advantage.
In case of a general Allied attack on New
Guinea his Buna-Kokoda force would be
cut off. In any case, the Allies held a
natural fortress line in the range; the
foe was on flat and more open ground.
It was announced that, 10 days after
the Buna landing, the enemy fully occu-
pied the Tanimbar Islands, 350 miles
from Cape Don in the Arafura Sea.
These islands have been mentioned in
these pages as danger spots several times.
Once, before the main ocupation, the
Allies did some bombing in their locality.
The Arus, a former Australian pearl-
ing H.Q., and the Kai Islands, both near
the west New Guinea coast, are also
occupied.
These moves are designed to close the
Torres Strait and perhaps to provide a
jumping-off ground for# a landing in
western New Guinea in the Fly River
region.
The Solomons Attacked
The press outcry about shortage of
supplies and American man-powerOn
Australia must have delighted the Japs;
but on Thursday Tokyo became deadly
silent on the subject. On Saturday it
hinted that big things were afoot. Later
in the day Washington’s Navy H.Q.
issued a communique:
U.S. naval and other forces attacked
enemy installations in the south-east part
of the Solomons in force. The attacks
are continuing. Simultaneously naval forces
bombarded enemy ships and shore instal-
lations at Kiska [Aleutians].
Later in the evening Admiral Nimitz’s
H.Q. supplemented the news with a
statement that the forces of the U.S.
Pacific Fleet and Pacific Ocean areas,
assisted by units from the South-west
Pacific, launched offensive operations in
the Tulagi (Solomons) area on August
7. Operations were progressing favor-
ably, despite opposition from the enemy’s
land-based aircraft and garrisons.
This labelled the affair as a major
attack on a fleet scale, with land and air
support. ,
It was reported on Aug. 10 that Aus-
tralians were taking part.
It was plain that the heavy attacks
on New Guinea were part of a carefully
concerted plan prearranged to prevent
the dispatch of supplies to the Solomons
during the attack upon Tulagi,
Up till August 10 there was no authen-
tic news about either the strength or
nature of the operations against the
Solomons, the northernmost parts of
which (Kieta) were occupied by the
enemy on January 25, and the southern-
most, Guadalcanal, more heavily occu-
pied on June 19, reinforcements arriving
on July 4.
American broadcasting stations on
Sunday quoted a naval spokesman in
Washington as saying that the operation
seemed to be of major proportions and
“might indicate an amphibious landing,
covered by aircraft.”
Whatever the result the heartening
facts, as given by Mr. Curtin, are that
the move was the product of weeks of
preparations by the United Nations,
which had been kept a profound secret.
Mr. Curtin said the operation was “offen-
sive in conception.” It is good to know
that the Supreme Command has reached
the point at which it can plan in those
terms.
If a heavy force with powerful air sup-
port were landed decisively in the Solo-
mons, Rabaul, 550 miles from Tulagi
and apparently the main New Guinea
base, would become liable to much more
regular bombing and exterior communi-
cation routes to the enemy’s mandated
islands would be constantly under fire.
At the time of writing there was no
official claim that a landing had been
made, though the reference to the “garri-
son’s” opposition in the official commu-
nique suggested it.
Uncle Sam and Australia.
“Ek Dum”: The peahen section of the
press, which has been more concerned
with a Second Front in Europe than with
a first front in Australia, worked itself
into a dreadful state of mind last
week over the American contribution to
the defence of Australia, the absence of
an offensive and the paucity of infor-
mation in General MacArthur’s commu-
niques. The sudden announcement of the
large-scale attack on Japanese bases in
the Solomon Islands made some of the
hysterics sound ludicrous.
General MacArthur is a big man with
a big job to do, and with no intention of
indulging in reckless adventures or need-
less sacrifice of valuable life and skill.
His ultimate task is not to defend Aus-
tralia, but to co-ordinate a general battle
plan for the South-west Pacific. For this
the organisation must be laid down, the
basic plans made in advance of produc-
tion of trained men and needed materials.
The defence of Australia is still Aus-
tralia’s concern. But it was so shame-
fully neglected that Australia had to turn
to allies in a hurry for tanks, guns and
aeroplanes to meet immediate require-
ments, though the beginnings of her own
production effort are well advanced.
Air Defence in the North
The defence of New Guinea has
had to be improvised and thrown
primarily on to the hands of the air
forces. Pre-war Governments had gone
on their woodenheaded way building
Wirraways which in action were power-
less even against Japanese obsolescent
type-“G” fighters. It became necessary
to call on Uncle Sam for machines.
Uncle obliged, as always. And since
it takes some time for crews to become
efficient in Liberators and Fortresses and
their like, as well as Tomahawks and
Kittyhawks, and there was no time for
training R.A.A.F. men for them, Ameri-
can crews were sent along. The com-
mand was entrusted to an American who
understood their methods, discipline and
natures and who did not need an inter-
preter when he gave orders —he has an
Australian Deputy C.O.S.
The R.A.A.F. does not advertise. The
deeds of Australian pilots are rarely ever
heard of while they are at work.
If a legend has grown up that Ameri-
cans are doing the job of defending
Australia on an irresistible scale, it is
certainly not the fault of their Army
publicists, but that of the people who
have been doing most of the yelling.
Australia’s Responsibilities
The fact remains that the atmosphere
will not be completely healthy until the
people and the press get some solid and
sober facts into their heads.
The land defence responsibility for
a start is on the shoulders of an Aus-
tralian staff headed by Generals Blarney
and Northcott. General Blarney is as
experienced in planning heavy fighting
as any officer in the world.
The American troops in the Anzac area
are under General Blarney.
He is supported -by a full quota of Aus-
tralian officers, many tried and hardened
in the last war as well as this, all with
experience of the latest devices of this
war. The staff men among them have
served in successful campaigns, designed
and carried out by General Wavell, whom
one of the world’s finest military critics
described in the last issue of “Foreign
Affairs” as “a man equal to Clausewitz
in courage and modesty, akin to him in
genius and superior in style.”
With the A.I.F. officers is a nucleus of
some of the world’s finest divisions fully
trained, the ready-made pattern for an
unbeatable army.
Those who opposed the sending abroad
of the A.I.F. must hang their heads when
they see these officers and men and realise
the security which their presence already
has given, the experience and outlook they
have brought home. They have provided a
diamond-hard core round which to build
a smart, well-disciplined force accus-
tomed to modern methods. The Ameri-
can divisions which are to fight beside
them are gaining from their presence,
and are not averse to taking advantage of
their first-hand knowledge.
Australia has real defence lines, and
they have been planned by Australians and
put into being by Australians who have
wrought something like a magic trans-
formation in the last six months, despite
labor shortage and dislocation and the
piecemeal nature of military morale and
organisation caused by the presence side
by side of two different kinds of soldier
—one who can choose the limits within
which he will fight and the other who
has bound himself to go wherever his
country needs him.
U.S. Effort Substantial
Uncle Sam’s effort has been generous.
It needs to be got into many heads that
he came into the war with the same diffi-
culties as Australia. He also had politi-
cians who threw spanners into the works
every time an attempt was made to get
full preparedness.
He started the war with fewer trained
divisions than Britain had'in 1939.
It will be months before the United
States Army can put even 50 divisions
fully equipped and fully trained into the
field ready for modern war. Equipment
alone of such a force calls for hundreds
of thousands of vehicles, and supplies of
ammunition, to mention one small item,
which will provide 60,000 tons for every
day of fighting. Sea transport to carry
such forces and supplies, men to man
the ships and aeroplanes and crews to
co-operate run to immense figures.
In production, time and skill are two
things which are not found in mines.
Skill is created only by the liberal use
of large quantities of time. Japan and
Germany already have utilised their time
stocks and already produced their skill
in quantity. Peaceful America and
peaceful Britain and peaceful Australia
are only now drawing on their resources
to produce trained fighters and war
mechanics.
Uncle Sam was helping us in this war
long before he was fighting in it.
The only limitation on what he has
done has been his capacity. He has done
what he could, not what he would have
liked to do. The position was expressed
exactly by Mr. Curtin when the noisy
W. M. Hughes set the editors off in
hysterics:
The military operations of the command
in this area are not influenced by either un-
willingness or incompetence, and members
of the Australian Advisory War Council
are fully informed regarding every aspect
of the matter
This is a world war, and the allocations
to particular theatres are examined in the
light of the global situation.
Australia must share the perils of the
total problems. She has shared them, and is
sharing them, and will share them.
This, of course, does not mean that
Australia’s Government and High Com-
mand are not in duty bound to press for
all the help they can get from outside
until they are sure this country is safe;
or that the Commonwealth must not be
their first consideration, overriding all
others in emergency.
In another statement, made in the form
of a speech, Mr. Curtin said:
The allocations to us were on a higher
scale than those which have actually
arrived. Some of them did not arrive be-
cause of shipping losses, but some of them
did not arrive because I consented to their
diversion to more urgent places and pur-
poses.
The “diversion” must have been asked
for, and Mr. Curtin was in the position
that he had to agree. It would have been
no use demanding what could and prob-
ably would have been refused.
The Position Summarised
In actual quantities the American help
so far furnished to Australia (and there
have been no complaints from Maori-
land) represents as much as it would take
the available Japanese shipping a matter
of months to transport to the South Seas,
and that is the proper angle from which
to look at it.
Long-distance sea communications have
been the important factors. The forces
used in the Coral Sea and Marshall
battles were certainly much larger than
Australia ever possessed and effective.
And naval help to Australia certainly
cannot be judged by the size of any par-
ticular local concentrations. Most major
naval operations affecting Australia, in-
cluding the current battle of the Solo-
mons, are directed from Hawaii by
Admiral Nimitz.
The fact is that Australia has suffi-
cient men under arms to ward off any
invasion which Japan could compass
with her existing navy and mercantile
marine. Many are fully trained. The
army as a whole is gaining in training
every day.
If the forces have not been used on a
larger scale in New Guinea it is prob-
ably because the command has deter-
mined that it has had no chance of
seasoning them and weeding them out in
that malarial climate. Apropos, Keith


Missing Friends.
MISSING.—LIEUT. S. A. HALL, JLA., in
Malaya from fall of Singapore. Any informa-
tion would be gratefully received by his mother,
MRS. M. T. HALL, Seamen’s Lodge, Min-
stead, New Forest, England.
Murdoch has been allowed or has taken
the liberty to say that “many of the men
sent to Timor were sick with malaria
within a fortnight,” and that some units
in Moresby have been “60 per cent, sick.”
The Supreme Commander is one of
the most experienced of tropical soldiers.
He can be counted on to know what he
is about far better than peahen editors
and invalid pensioners, glamor girls
and office cleaners whose opinions on
high strategy are regularly invoked by
one Sydney paper.
We are short of modern fighters
capable of wrestling with the new “O”
fighfers on an equal level. We need more
long-distance bombers, abundance of
every kind of munition, more transport.
Our men need training, many need hard-
ening. But, even now, nobody need be
under any panicky delusion that any
conceivable attack will not be resisted in
a way which will make its leaders gasp.
Russia's Deadly Peril.
“Ek Dum”: There are few bright spots
about events in Russia.
With every main artery in the south in
German hands, including the one on
which the whole defence of Russia
depends—the Moscow-Kharkov-Rostov-
Caucasus road and rail system —Timo-
shenko’s soldiers could look for no help
save from behind the Volga or down a
narrow corridor to the west of it.
The Don route southward was blocked
at Voronezh. On the lines inside the
western Don bend before Stalingrad
Soviet armies had all they could do to
hold their own. If they could have
broken the German advance or if they
had been strong enough to detach a force
for use south of the Don, they might
have helped the Soviet forces above the
oilfields and the Caucasus foothills. No
help came. By the middle of last week
the position in the oil region looked hope-
less, even though capture might be
delayed.
Newspapers whose reporting of the
events smells of the propaganda methods
used in the winter campaign saw success
in the Red Army operations both at Klet-
skaya, 75 miles from Stalingrad, and at
Tsymlyanskaya, 130 miles from Stalin-
grad, where one correspondent remarked
the Russians held the Germans “penned.”
At both points it was represented that
the enemy was suffering “terrific losses.”
Specified losses were only in battalion
terms, however. And the Germans
claimed on August 6 that Kletskaya was
in their hands.
There could be no secret about the
enemy’s progress in the Kuban region
of the oilfields, along the Azov and Black
seas. He moved quickly across difficult
ground, ostensibly menaced by a large
Russian force on each flank, each well
served by communications.
The natural conclusion early in the
week from the geography and lines was
that the enemy was not pushing his drive
on Stalingrad for the moment. It has
never been his habit to attempt more
than one major operation at a time. An
assault on Stalingrad would be just as
useful in a week or a fortnight, and much
easier, since the lapse of that time would
see southern oil supplies cut off, along
with any chance of supplies getting
through from the Allies via the Caspian
or more oil going up the Volga to the
threatened city.
It might have been in the mind of the
invader that simultaneous drives from
Tsymlyanskaya and points further east
along the Don, synchronising with a drive
down the Don on its eastern side, and/or
across the railway systems from Voronezh
region to the Volga round Saratov,
which lies on the edge of the Republic
of the Volga—inhabited by Germans till
they were sent to Siberia —could presently
block off another huge section of Soviet
territory and cut three more vital rail-
ways, including the southern link of the
Trans-Siberian railway.
The Russian armies battling ostensibly
for the approaches to Stalingrad could
then be brought inside the encircling arms
of this new operation—one arm closing
from the north, the other from Stalin-
grad. In the menaced area lie the whole
remains of European Russia’s grainland.
To the Caucasus
How much the Germans had such a
plan in mind was revealed quickly.
At the beginning of last week opera-
tions at Kletskaya and Tsymlyanskaya
were static, while the southward drive in
the Kuban country continued. This was
not an easy progress geographically.
There are deeply-scoured rivers, changes
in the plain country, which rises up 2500 ft.
to the Stavropol (Voroshilovsk) Plateau
on the verges of the Caucasus Range in
the central south, and swampy land along
the Azov Sea.
But the Germans poured over it, not
in mere spearheads but in two wide
fronts. One curved south-east between
the Manych and the Sal rivers and then
swung across the Novorossisk line past
Voroshilovsk (Stavropol). This moved
much more quickly than the one on the
Azov side.
Exactly a week from the day the Rus-
sians admitted the fall of Rostov the
German main spearhead had travelled
220 miles south-eastward from the city.
It moved with a width of sweep which
left Russian forces along the Azov and
northern Black Sea coasts only two
alternatives.
They could abandon in a hasty retreat
the naval base of Nojiorossisk, the oil and
aircraft-spirit fields at Maikop, the big-
gest refineries in the southern U.S.S.R.
—or in the whole south, for that matter
—the oil port of Tuapse, the whole
of the rail communications with the
southern Caucasus, and the wheat and
cattle resources of the Kuban region.
Then the hasty retreat might not succeed.
Or they might risk enclosure and anni-
hilation by the German broad-fronted
invasion to defend the oilfields and keep
as many of, the enemy in that region as
possible, and for as long as possible,
while the forces of Stalingrad sought to
save themselves and the Volga crossing.
On August 6 the Germans announced
that their Manych-Sal river drives were
approaching Armavir on the one side and
Krasnodar on the other, and that they
were beyond Voroshilovsk (Stavropol).
Also that all railways across the Caucasus
and both main oil pipelines had been cut.
The forward German lines of the main
advance had passed the latitude of the
enemy-controlled Kerch Strait and were
within 100 miles of it.
On August 9 they claimed that the oil
field at Maikop and its refineries at
Armavir and Krasnodar, which produce
2,000,000 tons of spirit and lubricant a
year, had been captured, and that the
oil port facilities of Tuapse on the Black
Sea had been wrecked by the Luftwaffe.
A second German force from Rostov
was making a more leisurely progress
than the Manych-Sal drive further east.
It scoured down the edges of the Azov
Sea swamps, completing the enclosure
of the rich Kuban wheatfields and other
sources of food production. For all
practical purposes, the whole 20,000 sq.
miles of Kuban country west and north
of Voroshilovsk on August 5 had fallen
into German hands within a week.
Moscow declared that parachute
groups armed with tommy-guns and five-
ton tanks had been responsible for much
of the enemy’s success. Having regard
to the time taken in the advance, the
numbers which could have been dropped
could scarcely have been large enough to
affect the stability of the kind of army
one would have expected to find defend-
ing the Caucasus and the most vital oil-
fields.
The centre of the battle which had
begun on July 19 in the Kursk region
was now over 500 miles away, near Voro-
shilovsk (Stavropol),
In three weeks an area \\ times the
size of Victoria had been absorbed into
Hitler’s grasp.
Attack on Stalingrad Begins
As the German armies reached the oil-
field region the Tsymlyanskaya front
livened up again. It had been advertised
for days that the Germans were held
here, and that their bridgehead was too*
narrow to permit them to use it for
major operations.
But the enemy appeared suddenly 30
miles south of the crossing on the Black
Sea-oilfield railway to Stalingrad. Also,
he appeared further to the north-east at
Kotelnikovo, only 95 miles from Stalin-
grad. To reach this town he must have
advanced 50 miles from his bridgehead.
It was strongly defended, but his tanks
within 48 hours drove a deep wedge into
the defences.
The crossing place at Tsymlyanskaya
was not chosen idly. To the south of it,
below the firm, open plains of the Don,
the country begins to run into the
Manych Depression, a region of swamps,
lakes and little rivers, in which the Rus-
sians could not hope to maintain any
powerful harassing force.
To the east the high open plains form
a neck bounded on the left by the river
and on the right by steppes merging into
broad swamps along the Caspian.
The high portion of the landscape to
the north-east narrows until it reaches
the Volga area below Stalingrad.
Here the river is a maze of channels
and forms the core of swamps about 25
miles wide.
An enemy advancing along the rail-
way towards Stalingrad, as the Germans
started to do below the Don on August
5, was almost completely sheltered from
the chance of attack except a frontal
one. He was secure, of course, on the
left flank of his advance because he had
already conquered the country north of
the Don.
Thus the Russians at Stalingrad are
in this position: From 75 miles nortn-
east, across the Don, at Kletskaya, their
powerful force for nearly a fortnight ha
been desperately fending off a heavy Ger-
man onslaught. .
This Red Army had its back to a river
3000 yards or more wide, behind which
there were high cliffs and a bad getout.
There was ground for believing that
some German armored forces at least
were on the wrong side of the river to the
north of it, threatening the flank of its
line of retreat. ,
However, from the lie of the land and
the nature of Russian rear communi-
cations, retreat in any case was precari-
ous if the defenders had to fall back
across the river to Stalingrad. Further
down the river, on the west bank, only
40 miles from Stalingrad, another Ger-
man corps, perhaps merging into that
operating at Kletskaya, was directly fac-
ing Stalingrad at Kalach.
To the squth the enemy formations
which had crossed the river at Tsymlyan-
skaya were moving towards Stalingrad,
with no geographical obstruction between
themselves and the city save the Don-
Volga Canal. The defences which Stalin-
grad had laid round its town, which is
approached from all directions except on
the eastern (Volga) side over a perfectly
flat, treeless and unobstructed plain,
could be only limited, and calculated only
to delay and not defeat the enemy. The
city has even less natural advantages for
camouflage or defence against air and
armored attack than Tobruk.
The three German drives formed an
arrowhead aimed at the heart of Stalin-
grad.
An ominous factor in the whole situa-
tion was that, in spite of many refer-
ences to huge armies which had been
trained during the winter, no help had
come to the Russians from the north or
from the east to prevent the swift cutting-
off of Russia’s vital members. The only
effort at diversion was a strong but local
series of counter-attacks north of Rshev
which did not seem to get anywhere.
Commonsense observers had had no
faith in the tales of the great armies.
It is impossible to train modern armies
in a few months, especially in a winter
in which nearly all mechanised transport
is immobilised through oil freezing and
road blockages. Moreover, training of
millions of men calls for whole army
corps of officers, who, even in the
most junior ranks, can be produced only
by a year’s intensive training at a mini-
mum. Also, mechanised equipment and
supplies govern absolutely not only the
size of armies but their movement.
Quiet at El Alamein.
“Ek Dum”: For a fortnight after the
sally in which a whole Westralian bat-
talion was lost neither side in Egypt had
made any substantive move, but the air
battle has continued vigorously from Ben-
ghazi eastward and across the Mediter-
ranean. Both sides have been busily
consolidating, building up defences from
behind which to spring, and each reports
that the other is piling up supplies.
In London it was said that the Ger-
mans were being reinforced by the 164th
Division from Russia. It is unlikely that
it can have reached Egypt in full force
since the El Alamein fighting began.
Rommel’s orders of the day are purely
defensive —exhortations to the troops to
push on with their digging of anti-tank-
mine defensive sectors; but whether this
is due to uneasiness at the sight and
sound of the unceasing traffic on the
Alexandria road, which includes a goodly
number of heavy tanks, some American
manned by Americans, is uncertain.
The continual plastering of Mersa
Matruh and Tobruk must be causing
the enemy worry ; but it would be wrong
to assume that he is on the defensive.
Even if he is, in view of the events in
Russia, his role may be to hold as many
British troops remote from the Turkish
and Caucasian borders. Defeat of the
Axis forces in Libya would make the
Iranian oilfields infinitely safer.
Gandhi and the War Effort.
“Ek D”: Meeting at Bombay, the
Indian National Congress almost unani-
mously adopted a resolution demanding
that the British quit India and a civil
disobedience campaign. Thereupon the
Viceroy’s Council, at which all those
present except the Marquis of Linlithgow
and another Briton were Indians, ordered
drastic measures.
Gandhi, Nehru—only released a few
months as a measure of conciliation Di.
Azad, the Congress president, and 51
others were arrested and sent to Poona
for internment. Many arrests later were
made in Bombay and other places.
Mr. Jinnah, leader of the Moham-
medans, declared that separate Moslem
States are a prerequisite part of any
scheme of Indian self-government. He
added that “nobody could drive the
British out of India,” and he hoped the
agitators would come to their senses.
The Princes have remained quiet. Most
of them would fight in preference to sub-
jecting themselves to “provisional” gov-
ernment by the Gandhis and the Nehrus.
All that the Congress movement is
likely to achieve is the death of many
simple persons and hot-headed young-
sters who are egged on to rioting.
“Some disorder can be expected,” an
Indian Government spokesman said. But
if action continues firm and the Govern-
ment is allowed to design its own course
of action, the Japanese, now jubilant,
will be bitterly disappointed with the
military results.
Congress agitation so far has not re-
duced recruiting to a stage at which
facilities can cope with all volunteers
offering. Neither has it prevented a vast
development in Indian armament output
during the past few months.
On the Channel Horizon.
“Ek D.”: From Moscow last week it
was reported that an Allied mission was
at work there—British, U.S., Norwegian
and Russian. Berlin, Rome and Tokyo
had suggested before details were given
that Mr. Churchill was in Russia. Cer-
tainly he was not in Parliament when the
Commons adjourned for a short recess.
Further convoys of American soldiers
—“the biggest ever known” —arrived in
Britain; the fighting heads of the U.S.
army air force were there already.
In France there are signs of large-scale
German movements. The commander is
Von Rundstedt, and divisions of the
S.S. Guards have arrived. They are
storm troops, hitherto used for assault
projects of peculiar peril and difficulty.
So it looks as if there might be a second
front. Foreign influences and non-com-
batants have done their darnedest to
make it a political necessity. *lt is re-
motely possible that the enemy may try
to anticipate it.
Lists of missing in Malaya continue
to be published. They filled over 16 col-
lumns of a Sydney daily one day lasi
week.
* * * *
Raids on Germany during the week
included a heavy one on Duisburg, a
great inland port. There were several
sweeps over the French coast, but an
ominous air of watching is apparent all
along the North Sea.
« * * •
Raids over Britain were limited. Berlin
claimed attacks on Cambridge and Edin-
burgh and the dropping, of a new type
of phosphorus bomb on an East Anglian
town. %
m * * *
Isolated German aircraft have begun
to pay attention to Iceland, which is miles
from the nearest enemy base. A Focke-
Wulf attacked a U.S. military base on
the island on August 2 —the fifth assault
in a fortnight.
* ♦ * *
War correspondent Slessor’s first
account of the unhappy combat of Ruin
Ridge conveyed an unfortunate impres-
sion that British tanks had let the West-
ralians down. In a later message he
testified that British tanks tried to relieve
“the doomed battalion” but couldn’t get
through, the minefields being deadly. And
he quotes a Westralian as saying that in
the actual attack on the Ridge “the men
of a British tank unit did a magnificent
job.”
Regardless of what was ahead, they
belted through minefields and everything.
And while we consolidated the officer-m-
-charge got out of his tank and set about
collecting wounded. When I put a wounded
man inside 1 found that the captain had
stowed eight wounded Australians m there
already.
The Bulletin has spoken to and heard
from many Australians who have fought
in the Middle East. One and all had no-
thing but praise for the British. Gener-
ous Diggers regretted leaving Africa, be-
cause, as they put it. Tommies fresh
from Britain would have a dreadful time
before they became acclimatised and
accustomed to desert warfare.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Section Officer Burnard was a proud
woman when she found singers and
players among W.A.A.A.Fs. stationed in
or near Melbourne. The girls give their
own concerts, and it’s a treat to hear them
throwing themselves into a spirited ren-
dering of “Oh, Johnny” and “Once a
Jolly Swagman.” The pride of the concert
parties is the new dance band, which sets
all feet to dancing when it joins in the
fun at a former girls* boarding-school.
The W.A.A.F., like the A.W.A.S., is
getting the benefit of some good house-
hunting by the Y.W.C.A., which has now
taken over the management of Toorak
Mansions as well as the Toorak residence
lately occupied by Theodore Fink, to
run them as hostels for women of the
two forces.
Although merely social gatherings are
a thing of the past, many a jolly hour is
spent at tea with a talk on something
or other which has attached to it a bob
or so for the Red Cross or Comforts
Fund. At Mrs. J. T. Tweddle’s home in
Toorak women artists who gather for
Red Cross work enjoyed a tea and talk
on Russia last week. Talker was R. D.
Elliott, who visited the Soviet with
Beaverbrook. Impression left on the
mere feminine was that the get-togethers
in Moscow can’t have been very en-
lightening, seeing that the Britishers
couldn’t speak Russian and their hosts
had no English. For the women artists’
benefit, the talker described the table
decorations at the 26-course feast with
which Stalin entertained Beaverbrook.
Just bowls of fruit —same as we've been
having for years!
At Berry-street Foundling Home’s
once-a-year check-up Mrs. Hicks, the
president, said sadly that the home would
be missing the work that in former years
was so well done by junior auxiliaries.
The same story is coming from almost all
philanthropic efforts (owing almost en-
tirely to members of junior branches
taking up war work), and it is a question
how it is to be countered. A most satisfac-
tory solution has been found at Fisher-
men’s Bend, where some hundreds of
people are settled under a housing
scheme. Here, worjdng under National
Fitness leaders, Scotch College senior
boys and Tintern girls will shortly go
into a school holiday camp with young
folk from the Bend, the schoolboys and
-girls acting as camp leaders and general
usefuls, so that the young folk from the
Port Melbourne area may get the utmost
benefit from the stay under canvas and in
country surroundings.
Mrs. Evatt, wife of the Attorney-
General, does not honor Melbourne
with her presence very often, so her brief
stavs are eagerly anticipated, and clubs
wim arty ideas strive for the pleasure of
having her “say a few words.” At the
Contemporary Art Exhibition, vyhich she
opened, she castigated energetically,
albeit politely, those who can’t see what
the “modern” artist is getting at. The
art show was interesting, not only for the
pictures on the wall, but for the remark-
able styles of dress seen among the on-
lookers, some of whom carry “modern”
art conventions into their own ornamen-
tation. It is easy to divide the sheep of
progress from the goats of conservatism
at these shows. The sheep walk round,
casting suspicious eyes at each other,
loudly praising their gods they are en-
lightened.
Dutch residents of Melbourne took
off a little time last week to wet the head,
metaphorically speaking, of little Princess
Irene, second daughter of Juliana of
Holland and her Bernard. The “do” took
place at the Dutch Club, and the menu
included dishes called after the members
of the Dutch royal family, and, in par-
ticular, Princess Irene. Nowadays we
see a good many Dutch people, exiles
from N.E.1., and like them for their
courageous endurance of what must be a
pretty thin time. There have been many
marriages between Dutchmen and Mel-
bourne girls, the widespread opinion
being that Dutchmen make especially
good husbands. They like this country,
and are content to settle here, bringing
with them some Dutch traditional ways
which won’t make them any the worse
citizens.
Mrs. Marcus Swan, formerly Sybil
Burnett, daughter of a former air chief
marshal, whose husband is an Australian
air officer, lost no time in showing that
she had become a good Australian. She
was at the last meeting of the Air Force
Women’s Association and took over a
secretarial job as asked by the committee,
which knows and values the help she gave
when it was first set up to assist wives of
airmen transferred to distant stations and
generally to help women whose menfolk
were on n.c.o.’s or ranker’s pay. Mrs.
Swan has now set up housekeeping in
her Melbourne flat.
The passing of the wife of Surgeon-
General Tom Dunhill, for years a lead-
ing London medical knight, was noted
with regret in Melbourne, where she had
many friends and relatives. Visiting her
native land some time ago she was as
gentle and non-assertive as she had been
when Melbourne knew her as Miss
Affleck, and later when she was Mrs.
McKellar. Her marriage to Dr. Dunhill
took place when he was already on the
high road to great success and she was
a widow with two children. The two
Dunhill brothers (the younger died just
when he had become a medical graduate)
were youngsters in a Vic. country town.
Thomas studied and became a chemist,
and then the two made their way through
the medical school. Dr. Jerry Moore was
one of the first to see the makings of a
great surgeon in Tom Dunhill.
No one among the women of the
American Auxiliary has more cause to
rejoice over the splendid results of the
American Ball than Mrs. Judd Holt, pic-
tured here by Broothorn. She worked
early and late for the cause, and was one
of the trim blue-uniformed members who
gathered at Menzies to hear their presi-
dent, Mrs. James Clymer, tell how £2OOO
was won from Melbourne’s dancing
public to benefit little patients of the
Children’s Hospital. This amount will
take some beating, and Mr, Barrett,
manager and secretary of the hospital,
told the American women that he per-
sonally thought they would never exceed
it, perhaps never equal it again. All Aus-
tralians at Menzies for the handing over
of the cheque to the Children’s Hospital’s
acting president, Mrs. J. J. Fogarty, were
full of envy of the lovely blue uniforms
worn by the American women who are
pulling their weight at the American Red
Cross Club.
Bronnie Taylor, in the news recently
with her “Songs for Young Australians,”
will go abroad after the war on a Uni-
versity travelling scholarship. Miss
Taylor graduated with first-class honors
in French Language and Literature and
won the Dwight Prize, the H. B. Higgins
scholarship and the Masefield Prize. She
speaks French, German, Italian and
Dutch, and, though still a minor, has
held for four years a major resident
scholarship at Janet Clarke Hall, Trinity
College.
From Sydney
The Allen home at 440 Edgecliff-road
has now become the Arrows Club. This
is a new home for women of the services.
It is an activity of the Legion of Catholic
Women, and the Ladies of the Grail
are in charge. The club is residen-
tial, and can supply bed and board
to 15 permanents. Nine more beds will
be kept for convalescent service women.
The bedrooms are in orange and deep
blue, and the balcony, which overlooks
the harbor, is furnished in pastel tones.
The dining-room, which can seat about
30, is furnished in orange and buff.
Lounges, recreation-rooms and library
are bright and gay. The whole looked
very attractive last Sunday when opened
by Lady Wakehurst.
Whatever doubts there may be about
the efficiency of women in other fields
of service, the land army girl is acclaimed
a success. She proved her worth in the
1914-18 war in England, and she is doing
quite a fine job here in Australia during
this present upheaval. In W.A. the girls
are in great demand. Last year’s fruit
harvest in Mildura was aided by hundreds
of women pickers. Numbers of Ruths
busy themselves with field work connected
with the flax industry. Girls are now
even helping to grow the nation’s
tobacco. If S. Australia had a Swinburne
he might be stung to writing about the
foam of the grapes and the feet of the
dove. Four hundred girls were working
recently in the vineyards of the Murray
and of Clare (a lovely countryside for
the task).
All these labors called for a confer-
ference. Last week delegates from the
different States met and discussed how
the work of women on the land might
be extended, how conditions for the girls
could be kept comfortable and smooth-
running, and inevitably the subject of
uniforms for the land army came under
discussion. Director-General of Man-
power Wurth opened the conference,
which held its talks in the Man-power
Directorate in Martin-place, Lieut.-
General Carl Jess was the chairman. For
once the women conferrers outnumbered
the men, and every State was represented.
General decision arrived at was to extend
the scope of Eve’s labors in field and
vineyard.
With daffodils selling at six shillings
a dozen in the city flower shops and
modest bunches of violets priced at two
shillings each, it was no wonder that the
flowers at Scots College found ready
buyers last week. The flowers were a
support to the musicaie which the
women’s committee of the college
Parents and Friends’ Association had
organised to aid the Red Cross Prisoners
of War Fund. For weeks ahead the gar-
dens of college friends had been “be-
spoke,” and the result was a camellia and
magnolia display joyous enough to make
woman forget even clothes rationing.
Hundreds of the blooms had come from
the Gordon gardens of the Professor
Waterhouse couple. Lady Gowrie was
the guest of honor, and the wife of the
college head, Mrs. A. K. Anderson,
handed her a bouquet of radiant young
flowers. Margaret Sinclair, Claire Simp-
son, Joyce Hutchinson, and Terence Hunt
contributed to the programme, arranged
by Mrs. Rex Bennett.
Hilda Scurr’s classic hair-do may be
influenced by her innate love of drama.
Certainly there is something almost old
Greek about the wreathed plaits. Miss
Scurr, a young Maorilander, like Marie
Ney, received her early training with the
Allan Wilkie co. She is now playing the
exacting part of Sara Mueller in “Watch
on the Rhine” at the Minerva, and invest-
ing it with the nobility the character calls
for. She is an expert knitter, and in be-
tween calls her needles never cease per-
forming for soldier comforts. John Lee
photograph.
On the afternoon of Saturday, August
22, the Henry Lawson Literary Society
will give a birthday party in the Pick-
wick Club for poetess Mary Gilmore,
and well-known writers will be there in
large numbers to do honor. Dame Mary
has friends and admirers wherever poetry
is loved. Many of these will come with
flowers in the hand and on the lips; and
the afternoon should be a very special
occasion.
Shirley Bradfield, eldest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Bradfield, of Gordon,
and granddaughter of Dr. J. J. C. Brad-
field, designer of the Bridge, became en-
gaged last week to Captain Russell W.
Fox, A.1.F., a graduate of the Royal
Military College, Duntroon. His father
is Lieut.-Colonel S. J. Fox, who recently
commanded a regiment in the Australian
Armored Corps, and who is an original
Anzac. The clan might be called
the fighting Foxes. One of Captain
Fox’s uncles is a commander in the
Royal Navy, two cousins are serving in
the Royal Air Force, three cousins are
serving in the South African Army, and
one in the Royal Navy.
In spite of a week of winds that took
bites out of the ear, Sydney art-lovers
went bowling across the Domain ‘to the
National Art Gallery. The special attrac-
tion was the Lloyd Rees show. Mr.
Rees, a Queenslander, has all the warm
sunlight of his native State in his pencil.
This is seen in the dappled light and
shade of a settler’s home with its outside
chimneys, its young gum-trees in what
Osbert Sitwell describes as “shrill green
leaf,” and its sliprail fences,
Lloyd Rees is one of those artists
whose works are bought by other artists,.
That’s a great compliment. Sydney Ure
Smith, Margaret Preston, Wal Taylor
and others have lent their treasures to
this exhibition. The Gallery’s own pos-
sessions, loot from the Teachers’ College,
Armidale, from Howard Hinton’s collec-
tion are among the oil-colors and mira-
culously delicate and beautiful pencil
drawings.
Good-looking and sparkling Mrs. Tom
Hogan, of Melbourne, crossed the border
some time ago to make a prolonged visit
to Sydney, The people of the Harbor City
may not like their long stretches of dry
weather, but rain-soaked Melbournites
regard the Sydney sunshine wistfully;
and probably June and its rainfall had
something to do with Sydney being able
to welcome one of the southern capital’s
most popular. Welcomed she has been,
too, with many parties. An outsize
one at the Australia last week gave
many old town and country friends a
chance to listen to Mrs, Hogan, who is a
gifted raconteur.
Pianist Eunice Gardiner and singer
Harold Williams will be heard at the
Con. on August 18. Dental war chest
funds will benefit. Lady Gowrie will be
present.
Dorothy Sayers’s Busman’s Honey-
moon makes a better novel than a play.
But still the play, in the hands of Doris
Fitton’s young ladies and gentlemen of
the Independent Theatre, proved pretty
good entertainment for the crowds who
sought the North Sydney playhouse at
the week-end. The theatre is now smart-
ened up with ivory walls and bracket-
lighting. A sort of pageant of the drama
in different ages and climes adorns the
walls of the auditorium itself, while the
long passageway that leads from the street
is gay with colorful and stylised figures,
harlequin in cap and bells among them.
Jessica Noad was a pretty wife for
Lord Peter Wimsey, and in the second
act wore a dinner frock of midnight blue
with distinction. Of the men, strangely
enough, it is chimney-sweeper Puffett
who wins the heart. To have a Puffett
in the home at regular intervals, who
would not forgo the ease of gas fires,
of radiators, of slow-combustion stoves?
Sydney friends of Mrs. B. Pon will be
glad to hear that she has received word
that her sister (Mrs. Fabian Chow), a
member of the staff of China’s Depart-
ment of Information, is safe in Chung-
king. She had been in Hong Kong just
previous to the Japanese occupation, and
Mrs. Pon had feared for her safety. Mrs.
Pon and her husband and children are
now settled on a farm at Corowa,
National Defence Leaguers are natu-
rally proud of the good work done at their
camouflage-netting centre. Last woek the
centre tied the last knot in its 10,000 th
net. This was proudly on display when
Lady Gowrie paid her first visit to any
C.N, group. Army Minister Forde’s wife
was also a guest. Major-General Few-
trell, Captain S. Dixon and Lieut. Wynter
represented the Army,
Mrs. Warwick Fairfax is the new presi-
dent of Air Force House. The Claude
Reading lady, its first president, is still
on the auxiliary. Mrs, Robert Dixson is
now one of the committee’s vice-presi-
dents.
In an amusing letter, writer Harry
Tighe tells of life as lived by him at
Delungra, The house is surrounded by
a garden filled with poppies, stocks, wall-
flowers, gaillardias. He says, however, the
cauliflowers he had tended with loving
care, and was just about to pluck, served
instead as a nocturnal feast for two
marauding cows (not Japanese), When
not gardening, Mr. Tighe says he busies
himself with camouflage netting which he
sends to Inverell.
Mrs. F. C. Barber, president of the
committee of St. Gabriel’s School for
Deaf and Dumb Boys at Castle Hill, has
decided, owing to brownout conditions,
not to organise the annual bridge party
this year in aid of the school. Instead,
she is circularising St. Gabriel’s many
friends asking each to contribute the
price of a ticket. Those who know the
school’s work in making deaf and dumb
boys self-supporting and who wish to
help may send along donations. These
should be addressed to Mrs. F. C.
Barber, c/o David Jones, Ltd., Barrack-
street. Here she is in charge of the
C.W.A. camouflage-netting room each
Tuesday.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM LEWIS (also known as WIL-
LIAM FENTON) late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that BERYL LEWIS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1037 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without just cause for three
years and upwards notwithstanding her own
adultery since the filing of the petition You
may enter an appearance by the 25th September
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MERVYN A. DOYLE Solicitor
133 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS RAISBECK formerly of North
Fitzroy in the State of Victoria but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your
husband FRANCIS JOSEPH RAISBECK has
instituted proceedings against you for divorce
on the ground of desertion. Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court of Victoria before the
Third day of September 1942 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence If you intend to defend
this suit you must also file in the Office of the
Prothonotary an answer before the Fourteenth
day of September 1942.— MORGAN & FYFFE,
108 Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitors foi;
the Petitioner.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Spirak, a gift horse owned by Pte. E.
McCoy, of the A.1.F., won £B4O in prize-
money by defeating Victory March and
Trent Bridge in the Australian Steeple-
chase at Flemington on Saturday. His
starting price of 50 to 1 reflected his
chance on form, but backers have found
form particularly hard to follow in im-
portant jumping races this winter. David
Spear, 25-to-l winner of the Australian
Hurdle, finished nearer last than first in
the Arkaringa Hurdle on Saturday, the
latter race being won by Browser, who
had run last in the Australian Hurdle.
Parentena, 10-to-l winner of the G.N.
Steeple, finished a bad last in the Aus-
tralian Steeple, but it can be said for him
that he was very sore for a time after his
National success.
Superior stamina won for Spirak, a
very plain eight-year-old gelding by Stand
By from Good Company. It was his
first success over fences, and he scored
at the expense of the equal favorite, Vic-
tory March, unlucky horse of the jump-
ing season with seconds in the National
and Australian Steeples. Spirak, a winner
over hurdles when trained by Ron
Cameron, is now under the care of A. H.
Oliver, who combines the training of
racehorses with night work in an essen-
tial industry. Oliver was one of four
jockey-brothers riding in Tasmania some
years ago, and Spirak is his most impor-
tant training triumph.
• • • • • *
Hestia, a five-year-old Parenthesis
mare, enhanced her Cups chance by an
easy win from Portfolio and Cellini in
the Malakoff Stakes. She was a genuine
stayer in W.A., winning the Derby and
w.f.a. races in that State, in addition to
finishing third in the Perth Cup, and
looks much better now than when she
arrived in Melbourne after a rough trip
last autumn. Hestia did not beat a Cup
field on Saturday, but she has raced only
three times since a spell, and impresses
as certain to improve. She has 7.13 in
the Caulfield and 7.7 in the Melbourne
Cup,
Amazed recorded a sound staying per-
formance to defeat Jenny Law and
Prince Blank over the mile of the Chats-
worth Plate. Even if not up to Derby
or Cup class, he should continue to pay
his way in races of lesser importance.
Amazed is a chestnut by Excitement-
Frangipanni, trained by R. Cameron for
L. McLeod. Burberry, favorite on the
strength of two successive all-the-way
wins, was ridden behind on this occa-
sion, but the experiment was not a suc-
cess. Fancied Derby and Cup candidates
in Bobby Pearce and Grain Trader re-
appeared after a spell, but neither had
anything to do with the finish. Each
will derive benefit from the race.
Beau Lake, who hails from the
Riverina, finished strongly to defeat
Paramente and Art Union in the first
division of the St. Aubin Welter. S.A.-
owned Royal Decree, backed from sixes
to equal favoritism at 7 to 2, justified the
confidence reposed in him by outstaying
the 50-to-I chance Lady Martarma in
the second division. Royal Decree has
won his last four races, three of them in
Victoria, and is a galloper somewhat
above the average. Heavy backing pre-
ceded Strategy’s improved form in beat-
ing Veiled Promise half a head in the
third St. Aubin Welter. He had finished
only tenth to Strand over a similar dis-
tance at Flemington a week earlier, but
on Saturday was the medium of a plunge
which forced his price from 10 to 1 and
longer down to fives.
* * * *
Rosehill was not crowded on Saturday,
but it is probable an attendance of 13,000
gave the club a payable meeting. A tote
turnover of more than £22,000 was satis-
factory.
Munro was seen at his best on Winni-
peg in the Flying Handicap. He was con-
tent to wait in fourth position until reach-
ing the straight, and even after St. Con-
stant had headed the pacemaker, Flying
Knight, he did not call on Winnipeg for
a final effort until well inside the last
furlong. Winnipeg responded gamely to
beat St. Constant (who is far from a back
number) by a couple of lengths, with
Rodborough third. The latter lost a little
ground after entering the straight and
then ran on again. Broadcaster was a
complete failure, showing neither early
pace nor finishing ability. Rimveil will
do better when he has had more racing.
Two’s Company (Parsons), who cut up
badly when backed at Ascot a week
earlier, won the August Handicap in
much the same fashion as when she
scored at this track two months ago.
Less than five furlongs from home, Am-
berspear and Gilltown were ten lengths
ahead of Bona Fide, with Two’s Company
fourth. The first-mentioned two still led
entering the straight, but a little further
on Two’s Company dashed to the front,
and then held off Ron Rico, who made
up a lot of leeway over the last two fur-
longs, Triggerman broke down, Abspear
was not sighted, and though Salivant and
Goose Boy ran fairly neither was ever
a possible winner.
Faerie Queen is evidently not as good
as previously supposed. At the half-mile
she was fourth to Valiant Garde, Cadger
and Beau Head in the Trial Handicap,
but was beaten before reaching the turn.
Cadger (Bartle) first of all stalled off
Beau Head, and then lasted long enough
to win by half a head from Royal Em-
blem, who was late in getting a run
through. After being place possibilities
in the run home, Parsing and Ronswalk
weakened, and though she ran fifth Wee
Woo’s form was a lot below expectations.
Easter Time, a good track worker, did
not show up.
War Effort, who has not developed to
any extent since last season, made the
running in the first division of the Three-
year-old Handicap. He lasted to the
leger, where Babillard (Freedman) came
through and, travelling in smooth fashion,
won comfortably from Prince Buzzard,
who, when pressure was applied, did a
little kicking up in the straight. Main
Topic, who is likely to improve with each
race, is a near winner, and Metaxas (a
half-brother, by Enfield, to Lucrative,
and a 850gns. yearling) ran sufficiently
well to make him worth keeping in mind.
Panbranch (Delaney) won the second
division of the Three-year-old Handicap
in three-quarters of a second faster time
than Babillard recorded, and, though he
hung in on San Sebastian and Aquatic
less than a furlong from home, went
away from them as soon as straightened.
San Sebastian and Aquatic did the pace-
making 1 , and dead-heated for second.
Apart from the three that filled the places
nothing had a chance from the top of
the straight. Peter’s Pence, who was third
at that stage, failed to stay, and neither
Roman Law nor Afloat ran respectably,
Louano (Laycock), a six-year-old by
Louvain, was the sensation of the day.
Unbroken until he was nearly five, then
used as a station hack, and unplaced in
a couple of recent races in Sydney, he
was the medium of one of the heaviest
commissions of the afternoon in the
Maiden Plate. Moderately placed at the
turn, he came home like an old stager,
and scored easily from Casket King.
Louano is a good type of gelding, and is
sure to win in better company. Sand-
man was prominent for a long way, and
Mabonga was so far back half a mile
from home that his third was a fair effort.
McMenamin is rarely caught napping
at the barrier, but a bad getaway on
Haridelle cost that mare the Parramatta
Handicap. She was hard ridden to make
up her leeway, had to go rather wide in
the straight, and then, after getting her
head in front, was beaten on the post by
John Dory (Griffiths). The latter’s owner
was not there to invoke the usual blessings
on the horse and jockey, but, as the
winner’s price was 20 to 1, most book-
makers did. Dick Whittington was in a
bad position early, and had no chance
after. There was merit in Christopher
Milne’s third. Fearless did not show the
form expected, but Dawn Mary and
Angus ran well. The last-named’s next
start or two should give him a win.
* * * *
As was only to be expected, with Rose-
hill in opposition and a not particularly
attractive programme,* there was plenty
of room to move at Ascot on Saturday.
Backers thought winners would be easy
of selection, but Dark Felt was the only
favorite successful, and he started at
odds on. Although some owners and
trainers make a fuss about paltry prizes,
the fact of there being only eight runners
for the Flying Handicap of £2OO and five
for the Ascot Handicap of £250 suggests
that, with many, the betting market still
counts more than stakes.
Dark Felt (Coutts), as was generally
expected, proved much too good for his
Novice Handicap opponents. He was a
winner from the turn, after Barrenjoey
had led to that point. Dark Felt will
score in a higher class.
Tragopan was supposed to have a mort-
gage on the Ascot Handicap, but after
pulling hard in the lead for a long way
he tired so much over the final furlong
that he finished last. His Lordship
(Wilson), who is useful at Ascot, led into
the straight, and had no trouble in beat-
ing Stylish, who has not turned out as
well as she promised early in her career.
Consistent Phalaran (Carr) downed
Milanja in almost the last stride in the
Flying Handicap, with Postman the
closest of thirds. Chatting, who is not
acting up to her Brisbane reputation,
had a good run throughout, but, though
she led into the straight, tired into fourth
position.
Kimbell, favorite for the Three- and
Four-year-old Handicap, was second to
Fort Leon at the turn. Then his weight
pulled him up, and in a good finish
Silverelda (Thompson) won by a head
from Fort Leon, with Artistic a close
third. Judy Garland was solidly sup-
ported, but gave her backers a poor run.
Mit (Wilson), showing better form than
the previous week, had a comfortable win
from the odds-on favorite, Majorca, in
the Fourteen-two Handicap, in which
Te Rama led into the straight,
Mary Lou, favorite for the Welter
Handicap, commenced slowly and had to
put up with third place. Tetreen (Carr)
headed Blinky Bill at the turn, and was
too good for Sign On in the run home.
There was support for Lockray, but he
beat only one, and Gipsy Way and Rameo
did not give any trouble.
* * * •
Owners of even the poorest class of
horses take a deal of discouraging. The
Moonee Valley club tried it in connec-
tion with next Saturday’s meeting, but
received 275 entries for six races. For
the club’s meetings on September 12 and
26 horses will be barred from various
races unless they have won a stipulated
amount in one race. For instance, any
horse that has not received at least £l9O
for one race on the flat will be ineligible
for the mile Quality Handicap, and less
than £145 is a bar to entry for the mile-
and-a-quarter Budgeree Handicap.
* * * *
Riverton was disappointing in Mel-
bourne in the autumn, but he has gone
on the right way since he resumed work
after his spell. He has not been severely
taxed, but over short distances has shown
he retains the pace that marked his best
efforts last season. If he continues to
progress as at present the Hobartville
Stakes will give him a great chance of
starting his three-year-old career with a
win. His stable-companion Baronda is
also doing well. G. Price was not in
luck towards the close of last season ;
but the probabilities are those two colts
will give him a good send-off in the
current one. Among the three-year-old
fillies Batlje Dress (B. Payten) should
strike form at an early stage.
* * * *
It is improbable M. McCarten’s early
success as a trainer will affect him that
way, but the inability of some trainers
to “carry their corn” is always amusing.
A few wins in quick succession
give them enlarged ideas of their
own ability and importance. Nor is it
surprising when they find themselves run
after by those social, professional and
business lights who are always to be
found trailing the “man of the moment”
—be he owner, trainer or jockey—
in the racing world. When their run of
“outs” comes along these trainers feel
hurt that there should be a falling-off in
their important friends, but some deserve
all they get in that respect. While things
are going well with them they are ready
to impart information to people who
might be useful to them in some way,
but are silent as to their chances where
fellow-trainers are concerned. It is not
so with all, but undeniably some begrudge
a win to anyone—if they are not sharing
it—on any of their horses.
* * * *
Isn’t it the same in Australia? Touch-
ing ,on training in America, the
“Thoroughbred Record” (Lexington)
says: “There seems to be a prevailing
notion that anyone who can ‘talk horse’
around a hotel lobby, a sporting club
or a barber’s shop can train a racing
thoroughbred, when as a matter of fact
it is an elusive art thoroughly mastered
by only a few.” Bearing on the sub-
ject of training, the greatest authorities
on track work are often those clubmen
who never see it and as between the rela-
tive value of the gallops of various horses
would know practically nothing if they
did.
* * * *
The A.J.C.’s revenue for the year end-
ing June 30, 1942, was £209,453, against
£265,143 the previous year. Admissions
dropped from £135,324 for 27 days in
1940-41 to 107,551 for 20 last year, these
including two at Rosehill. Prize-mone>
in 1941-42 totalled £76,160, against
£116,840 in 1940-41, the difference being
principally accounted for by a distribu-
tion of only £7BOO at the club’s two days'
meeting at Rosehill, against £39,950 for
four days at Randwick a year earlier.
The club paid £107,912 in taxation, and
donated £19,531 to patriotic and war
funds. Country clubs were subsidised to
the extent of £4863, and retired trainers
and jockeys received £2117.
* * * *
American breeder A. B. Hancock has
14 stallions at his Claiborne Stud and
three at his'other stud, Ellerslie. Several
are owned by other breeders, but it is
convenient to locate them at Hancock’s
studs. Stallions at Claiborne include
Blenheim, $2500 fee ; Sir Gallahad HI,
$1500; Gallant Fox, Johnstown, Omaha
and Rhodes Scholar, $lOOO each. Blen-
heim’s fee represents about £A76O.
« * ♦ •
Few people buy horses for the mere
joy of owning them, or for the special
purpose of supplying the public with
sport. Possibilities of profit are, as a rule,
the main object, and therefore it is
only natural that they should advocate
the distribution of prize-money on the
highest possible scale. Nevertheless, at
this juncture it seems wrong that some
should, in effect, say: “Lessen the war
effort and give owners a better chance
of making money.”
Miscellaneous
A surprise equal to that of Spirak in
the Australian Steeple was brought off
by Carlton, which donkey-licked Essen -
don, 18.20 to 11.9. It made little differ-
ence to positions in “the four,” the other
football leaders holding their own and
Footscray holding everything else against
Hawthorn, 20.17-9.4. Melbourne was
scarcely troubled by Fitzroy, 12.13-10,8,
“Sowth” walloped Saints, 13.11-6.10, and
Richmond gambolled playfully with Col-
lingwood, 16.21 to 12.11.
♦ * * m
University v. Manly was a hard and
fast exhibition of Union Rugby. The
Students led 7-5 at half-time, and there
was no further score, though a Manly
man had a kick for goal that a blind man
wouldn’t have missed, Parramatta, too,
was downed for lack of a goaler; with
two tries to Drummoyne’s one, it was
beaten 15-9. In the result Uni. has a
clear five-point lead on the competition
table. Manly and East (11-nil against
St. George) share second place, and
Parramatta is fourth. They’ll probably
remain that way for the semi-finals. West
may still get in, but a walloping from
Randwick (26-16) made the team’s chance
slim. North beat Gordon 20-6.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Tommy Colteaux whipped A 1 Walker
in a fight at Leichhardt, said to be for
the Australian middleweight champion-
ship, claimed by Colteaux. It went 11
rounds, and they were good rounds. A
left to the solar plexus was the deciding
punch. It floored Walker for minutes
instead of 10 seconds.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before Acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Maiden Plate: Night Life, 1 ;
Hudson Bay, 2; Parmant, 3.
Lalima Handicap: Jenny Law, 1 ;
Tokalule, 2 ; Azan, 3.
Melrose Steeple: Warwickshire,
1 ; Dorset, 2 ; Springhead, 3.
Glenara Handicap: Rippling
Avon, 1; Beamish, 2; Hullabaloo, 3.
Kiata Welter: Phoines, 1 ; Naval
Revue, 2 ; Tranent, 3.
Argyle Handicap: Darraweit, 1 ;
Royal Decree, 2 ; True Flight, 3.


m
V
*sr-
m
im
m
, „.>S'
/
Y»**no.r*a
“The secret’s in
the 333’s blend!’*
POOL PETROLEUM
PTY. LTD.
to
The subscribers Co this Company
are the following:
Alba Petroleum Company of Australia Ply. Ltd.
Atlantic Union Oil Company Limited
Australian Motorists Petrol Company Limited
Callex Limited
Caltex Queensland Proprietary Limited
Independent Oil Industries Pty. Limited
Independent Oil Industries Pty. Ltd.
Neptune Oil Company Proprietary Limited
H. C. Sleigh
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited
The Shell Company of Australia Limited
Vacuum Oil Company Proprietary Limited
Pool Petroleum Pty. Ltd. has been formed at the request
of the Commonwealth Government and Is governed by a
Regulation under the National Security Act.
Subscribers have entered Into an agreement under which
Pool Petroleum Pty. Ltd. is the sole distributing agent
within the Commonwealth for:
MOTOR SPIRIT UGHTING KEROSENE
POWER KEROSENE DIESEL OIL
FUEL OIL DISTILLATE AND GAS OILS
The above products will be sold under Poo! brands.
The purpose of this arrangement Is to utilise all possible
tankage space and to afford the greatest flexibility In
achieving complete co-ordination of distribution services
and the conservation of manpower.
$
THE DATE FOR COMMENCEMENT OF OPERATIONS
BY POOL PETROLEUM PTY. LTD. WILL BE
SATURDAY, 15th AUGUST 1942
SMOKE-OH!
“The motorist admitted in court that he had
run over the traffic policeman’s boot.” — “D.T.”
His excuse that by not going round it
he was saving the country half a gallon
of petrol was not accepted.
“Accused, who was described as a printer, had
opened a grating and passed two potties of beer
through. He did not know his customer was a
plain-clothes detective.” — "Truth.”
A printer’s error.
•J* »|« *%
“A ratepayer today found that the Water
Board had granted her a rebate of 7s. 4d. Be-
wildered, she sang the Water Board.”— "Sun.”
“It Ain’t Gonna Rain No More”?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. Coles may pay a visit to Newcastle
area, where, it is claimed, conditions are dif-
ferent.” — "Sun.”
What! Coles to Newcastle?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wife wouldn't join in when husband played
‘strip poker.’ ” — "Sun.”
He thought he was a card, but when
she showed her hand properly he was
trumped.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
Obvious!
“The two bones of our leg bear the interesting
names Tibia and Fibula.”— Woman’s paper.
The Anatomy Professor dragged his
framework out of bed. Put his left foot
through his hat and put his boots upon
his head. Packed his suit into a port and
put the port out of the way. Tied a neck-
tie round his waist and thus was ready
for the day.
The lecture for his class that day was
on the various bones. And so he told
his charlady, in rather flippant tones:
“I’m off to spend the day, my dear” (her
int’rest here increased), “with Tibia and
Fibula . . . Well, Tibia at least!”
His char, soon told a brace of friends:
“That old boy’s pretty hot.” They were
surprised that heat should be in such
a dry old pot. “He takes his work so
seriously! ”
The char, replied, “Oh does ’e? From
his own lips I’ve heard he’ll spend today
with some French hussy!”
E.
4* 4* 4*
“Anglo-Saxons played a crude form of golf
over 600 years ago.”—“ World's News.”
Many of them still do.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One well-known glamor star was forbidden
by her father to become an actress.”
—Film mag.
The many critics who have winced.
Recalling roles that she has played.
Unanimously are convinced
Her dad she’s never disobeyed.
K.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What is the cheapest way to get my ears
pierced?” —Correspondent in woman’s paper.
Just select a seat close to a saxophonist
in a jazz band, dear, and wait.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One prominent businessman reports that
under our treatment he lost 161 b. in weight in
a month.” —Slimming ad.
Now he isn’t quite so prominent.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“ ‘Yes,’ said Mrs. Grealey, ‘Deidre is an in-
genuous little thing. When she sings we know
she's happy.’ ” —Short story.
It’s doubtful, though, if Deidre is
aware that when she doesn’t sing the
others are happy.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Just as well for some pugs that they
don’t have to give coupons for socks! *
“Mary’s coloring made her the most con-
spicuous girl in the group. Her hair was a
rich, beautiful auburn, and her skin was a
perfect blend of red and white.”
xr a u* . —Magazine story.
o °ubt the other girls, green with
envy, gave her black looks.
•** * *
“Radio and Electrical Gods bought.”
“Great Northern” (Sydney).
Any radio station that is charged ex-
cessive resale prices for used crooners
and commentators should at once report
the matter to the Prices Commissioner.
Too Bad!
“The Will Hays Office has eliminated a scene
from Joan Crawford’s latest film because it con-
siders a hat she wears is ‘too seductive.’
7 cl,...™™] mi u. 77 f
Rothschild Z. Shuwelguttz, president
of Colossal Productions Inc., rolled the
unlit double Corona from one side of his
mouth to the other, took his feet down
T* SdVta £S ace pro
dScer Izzv pTnkenhammer ™
ducer, Izzy 1 mkenhammer.
Howdy, chief, said the a.p.
“Waal, Izzy,” said the president, “I
sure reckon we’ll hit a new all-time high
with this new hock-and-howl fillum.
Boy! Will it be a slam-up wow! And
was tying that landgirl idea up with
Benny Bololo’s Band one big brainwave!
It’s patriotic, it’s stupendous, it’s—well,
it’s swell. Are you sure of a real knock-
out climax?”
“Sure, chief. The whole thing’ll be
highlighted with a mass wedding scene in
the fields as -200 General Lee tanks break
from the haystacks they’re concealed in,
with the bailey drawn up in stars and
stripes formation. We”
At the moment the door was uncere-
moniously pushed open and AI Abamma,
the studio’s ace gag man, rushed in, his
eyes alight.
“Bawss! ” he burst out, “I gotter razzle-
high, tops crack for that scene where the
landgirls are swingin’ the stooks and
hoofin’ it to Abe Solstein’s new swing
arrangement of Bee-thoven’s ‘Moonlight’
ditty. You know, where Minnie, the
comic relief, comes bouncin’ in. After
she pulls that one about lookin’ for a
farmer named Alf Alfa who promised
to show her how a nurse would put a
binder on a reaper. She’s sorta left
hangin’ out to dry, see? Well, how about
the funny guy cornin’ on with a hay
fork? When she asks him will he lend it
to her he comes back with: ‘Sure, baby,
pick y’r teeth if you want to.’ ”
“Sure, Al, put it in. That’s swell.”
As Al vanished the president leaned
back. “That guy’s sure a wonder. Now,
Izzy, how are the 40 Colossal Lovelies
coming alahng with that Dying Swan
bailey that Irving Moscow syncopated in
hot rhumba for us?”
“Swell, chief. That’ll sure have the
fans rubbering, I’ll say. Olga Katzen-
blinka, the star, will do her stuff in just
a sorta bridal veil and a string of pearls.
Thought we’d have trouble with the
Censor people, but they O.K.’d |t.”
“Swell! What about the hip-length
diaphonous briefies and single-strand
brassieres of the lovelies?”
“Passed O.K. In fact, they offered
six inches of open lacing at the sides,
but I killed it. The set-up’s fixed, and
the fans’ll see plenty.”
“Sure! Well, get goin’ and shoot the
woiks.”
Two months later the super musi-spec-
tacle “Hi-yar, Buddy” was finished, but
just before the World Premiere was an-
nounced the blow fell. Izzy rushed into
the president’s office one morning tear-
ing his hair with one hand and waving
a letter with the other. Rothschild Z.
stopped mangling his cigar for a moment
to bark: “How come, Izzy—what’s chew-
ing your vitals?”
“May I be hornswoggled, dodburned
and spoopjeeped! ” moaned Izzy. “We
gotter shoot that ‘Dying Swan’ sequence
again, chief, or the Hays outfit’ll wipe
us cold. They reckon them long ear-
rings Olga wears is too voluptuous!”
80.
Black Magic.
“Glamor Goes to War.” —Woman’s paper.
In days before war’s clash and clamor.
She always managed to enamor
Me with her artful girlish glamor.
She wanted sables, gloves or hat,
A perfume, brooch or furnished fiat ;
She simply sighed, and that was that.
But now, as much as I abhor it.
When she’s in need and I ignore it.
She stands right up and fights me for it!
P. O. M. C.
Modem Winner.
“This cake-making competition is ideal for
modern wives.”— Woman’s mag.
The recipe that won the prize
Brought joyous gleams to hungry eyes,
The judges said, “We compliment
The wife from whom this cake was sent.”
The winner laughed, “I cannot bake.
That’s one my husband likes to make.”
YAIR.
Failure!
“Don’t wait. Plant them this week-end.”
—Gardening note.
Though he planted them with care,
Of results he never brags ...
For he didn’t get a share
When his wife discovered where
He had planted all his fags.
ELM.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Why Be Thrifty?
I am one of the foolish people who
endeavored to save a little money so
that the Commonwealth Government
would not be obliged to pay me a pen-
sion.
After learning a trade my health broke
down. I could have drawn the invalid
pension for the past 30 years, but I pre-
ferred to try to earn a living, even
though I could not work at my trade.
I took up freelance journalism and, in
spite of the handicap of having to dictate
every word, I became a contributor to
The Bulletin and the few other Aus-
tralian publications which accept and
pay for contributions. I worked hard-
only anyone who has tried freelance
journalism could tell how hard. I saved
every pound I could and managed to buy
four houses.
During the depression three of the
tenants came to me with hard-luck tales
and had their rents reduced. I am now
rewarded for trying to be a good land-
lord by a war-precautions regulation
prohibiting thejrents being raised to the
old figure, although in two cases there
are new tenants willing and able to pay
the extra money. Yet every item of
repairs has gone up 100 p.c. One house
was painted a few years ago by a local
firm for £2O. A few months ago the
same firm quoted me £49 to paint the
same house. If I should be unfortunate
enough to get as a tenant a munitions
worker who does not pay his rent and
knocks the house about, war-precautions
regulations make it almost impossible to
get him out.
The rest of my savings I invested in
the shares of Australian companies, em-
ploying Australian workmen and turning
out goods vital to Australia’s war effort.
A 4 p.c. limit on companies’ profits would
reduce my income from these invest-
ments. On an income much less than
the basic wage I was threatened with
taxation of more than 10s. in the £ on
my shareholdings. The Government was
obliged to drop this proposal, but still
approves of the “principle.” It has no
use for the principle of self-help.— Wart
(Tas.).
Taxpayers* Troubles
It has been reported that there will be
a “Bulging State Surplus” in Victoria for
the financial year ended June 30. It will
presumably be revealed in the Budget.
But it will not be a true disclosure of the
financial position of the State, as on June
30 there were 70,000 taxation assessments
still to be sent out by the Taxation De-
partment. The amounts that will be paid
by these 70,000 taxpayers will, therefore,
not be included in the Bulging Surplus.
There is talk of the Federal Govern-
ment collecting two years’ taxes in one
year, so as to make the taxpayer pay as
he earns his income. At present he is
paying his tax in the year following that
in which he earned it. If this system
is adopted the 70,000 Victorian taxpayers
who have not yet been billed for 1940-41
will be paying three years’ taxes in one
year.
The Budget system in Australia needs
a drastic overhaul. It is the practice of
Governments in Australia to submit their
Budgets to Parliament for the approval
of Parliament months after they have
spent part of the money. In the U.K. the
Budget is submitted generally within 14
days of the close of the financial year, with
the result that the British Parliament has
some say in the money that is to be
expended. Why cannot Australia do
likewise?—D. R. (Vic.).
Voluntaryism by Compulsion
Enlarging on the “reason” for compul-
sory call-up of men from 18 to 60 years
for A.R.P. in Melbourne, Chief Sec,
Bailey, chairman of the Victorian State
Emergency Services Personnel and Equip-
ment Committee (whew!), “explained”
that in some districts wardens could not
get services up to full strength, so Chief
Warden Duncan has been given power to
“compel” men to give 48 hours’ “volun-
tary” service every four weeks, without
remuneration.
Apart from the fact that “compel” and
“voluntary” won’t go in harness in the
English language, despite Mr. Bailey, I
should like to ask the Chief Sec, how
he expects to keep a roofspotter awake
if he wants to sleep. Won’t the spotter
think he has a grievance if he knows
as everybody knows, that carpenters o
no great skill are drawing upwards of £l7
a week on Defence jobs while he is draw-
ing nothing?
A wage of a few bob would make plenty
of men eager and anxious to carry out
the important and possibly dangerous
job of an air watcher or fire extinguisher.
The way the State Government wants to
do it will produce a lot of disgruntled
people who would be, not a protection,
but a menace.
Why, in God’s name, should a provin-
cial Government be given powers of con-
scription in this matter or any other? —
Lord Luvus (Vic.),
A Digger Says a Word
I have recently returned to Australia
after doing a little fighting in foreign
parts. Since setting foot once again on
the best country in the world I have been
able to observe what fellow-Austra-
lians are doing to keep it free from the
hordes of the “Son of Heaven.” To say
that I and hosts of my cobbers are dis-
gusted at the feeble attempt at a “total”
war effort is putting it mildly.
The apathy shown by a section of the
public is bitterly discouraging. It’s time
people realised that we are no longer con-
cerned with fighting for the glory of the
British Empire, but for our very exist-
ence. Imperial glory and prestige—they
have been shot to pieces by the series of
reverses our arms have suffered. One
has only to listen to the people of various
races one meets overseas to realise just
how low our stocks are.
I would recommend every civilian to
read the two poems on page 4 of B.
15/7/’42. From them you can get a
good idea how we feel and what it is like
to witness violent death come to your
best pal. We of the army ask for no
bouquets, but we do expect the home
front to do its job and put up with a
few inconveniences which may come
its way. We will do our job, but we
must have industry and agriculture at
full production. Americans who have
come into contact with the Australian
effort are disappointed. It’s up to us
to show them that we really do want to
win this war. —QX Returned (A.1.F.).
Camouflage the Nurses!
Since camouflage plays such an impor-
tant part in modern warfare, does it not
seem the height of folly for Australian
Army nurses to be arrayed in red capes
while on active duty?
Soldiers are clad in drab colors, army
vehicles are painted in browns and greys
to disguise them. Why should the women
who attend the sick and wounded be
garbed so as to attract attention? —
Bunyip (N.Q.).
Get On with It
For the love of Mike let us forget (at
least for the duration) such fancy dis-
tinctions as the wearing or not of Aus-
tralia titles, service chevrons, canvas
gaiters and so on. Having a fair working
knowledge of army red-tape, soldiers in
general will know how much time and
stationery is wasted in commanding and
countermanding, such as was the bother
over the badges.
Apart altogether from the wastage
aspect is the definite fostering of bad
feeling engendered by returned men dis-
playing British army gaiters and Aus-
tralia titles.
With the possible exception of Blind
Freddy everyone notices the strained
atmosphere which invariably bobs up
when A.M.F. and A.I.F. men come into
contact. This would not come about if all
the paraphernalia were standardised;
we could then buckle down to a fair
dinkum combined effort. After all, the
“Chocos” are not bad blokes —look at the
jobs of work they have performed—and
the majority look as though they were
too young to join up when the stoush
began.
In conclusion, lest you should guess
wrong, I served for two years in the
Middle East. — Emcon (N.S.W.).
Army Education
“Conscript’s” suggestion that I find de-
light in the failure of A.E.S. in ray unit is
ill-founded. My point is that, in a forma-
tion of fifteen hundred men, A.E.S. fails
to catch on. Mine is an A.S.C. unit, and
the boys work pretty hard most of the
day and then run rations around at nigh
Naturally, efforts to force on them learn
ing in subjects in which they have no in
terest meet with hostility.
In football and athletic meetings, a
well as concerts arranged and organiser
by our C. 0., the interest taken is worth
of the effort, which goes to support th
theory that welfare of the troops is
matter for regimental concern rather tha
of an external organisation. It is reason
able to suppose that troops tied down o
battle stations would get a fair amoun
of exercise in their training, and in thei
leisure hours would appreciate a chang
to the academic. However, each ma
has his own views on what he requires i
the way of pastime, and I know from
my association with men from a dozen
other units that “Salt” and lectures o
“C.A.8.,” seasoned with visits from
A.E.S. personnel, are considered just so
much nonsense. — Jindivick (Vic.).
Work of the N.C.W.
“Balander” (B. 22/7/’42) does the
Queensland N.C.W. an injustice in stating
that when “the Cilento lady gave the
council a straight talking to about v.d
and the need for educating the young
against it,” she “found the usual argu-
ments in opposition.”
So far from needing any “urging” on
this matter, the N.C.W. is vigorously
conducting a campaign to enlighten
young women and senior boys.
This is only one activity of the N.C.W.,
which never ceases working for the wel-
fare of women and girls. During the last
few months, by deputations and other
means, it has been instrumental in focus-
ing attention on the abuses in the liquor
traffic and on the inadequate punishment
of males convicted of sex crimes, and
has sought to supply vigilance officers
for guarding'young girls at night. It has
promoted interest in nutrition and phy-
sical education, and taken an active part
in making representations to the Gov-
ernment regarding the internment of
aliens.
An outstanding piece of work was
organising first-aid classes in every suburb
in Brisbane, Today, among other things,
the council is studying post-war recon-
struction, so that it may be ready to play
its part when peace returns.— Recording
Secretary (Q.).
Building Restrictions
The Commonwealth regulation limiting
expenditure on alterations, repairs and
maintenance to £25 is carrying the build-
ing ban to absurd limits.
Comparison with the position in Great
Britain shows how ridiculous it is. I
quote the “Ideal Home and Gardening,”
March, 1942:
One hundred pounds is the limit to the
cost of decoration, repairs and maintenance
work generally which may be done to your
house without a license being obtained
from the Ministry of Labor. If you do the
work yourself, you will have only the
materials to buy and the whole of the
£lOO could be spent on them, which would
mean that you would get more done for the
money.
This in a country but a few miles
removed from the vanguard of a poten-
tial and ferocious invader. To preserve
their capital value, buildings must be
protected against the ravages of time, and
the £25 stipulated wouldn’t cover the cost
of repainting a six-roomed house, leaving
nothing for other contingencies.
A check up on the average property
over 25 years old usually reveals faults
in plumbing, fencing and roof, apart from
interior wear and tear, involving neces-
• sary expenditure which increases rapidly
in ratio to the length of time allowed to
■ elapse before the repairs are put in hand.
—lnko (S.A.).
! Centenary Thoughts
In my bush humpy I read this in an
: article on Sydney’s municipal centenary,
published in its oldest daily newspaper:
Sydney is more than the home of its
1,400,000 inhabitants. It is the centre
through which nearly all the trade of the
State passes, and many improvements are
awaited to make it a more efficient entrepot.
The real celebration of the centenary will
be the practical one of launching an im-
provement scheme worthy of its citizens’
pride in their city.
To me, it seems that a grave mistake
has been allowed to continue for too
many years—a mistake that has definitely
prevented Sydney from being twice as
large and twice as populous. This is the
pernicious habit of allowing people to
live in other parts of N. S. Wales.
Why anybody should choose such a life
is beyond comprehension. It can be said
by the long line of Sydney Governments
that they’ve not been guilty of encourag-
ing this folly. The chief aim of their
legislation has been to draw the popula-
tion of the State in, not push it out. To
that end the railways and the roads have
been made to radiate from the city, mil-
lions of tax-money have been spent on
providing splendid amenities in the city,
labor legislation has never failed to give
the worker better wages and conditions
in the city, laws have been made to force
trade and commerce into the —er —“en-
trepot,” and State education has always
aimed at the same target.
Misguided people who persisted in
living in the country despite all this prob-
ably had their dreams. Many of them
visualised ten N.S.W. cities, each with
100,000 people, or twenty with 50,000,
rather than one with 1,400,000 —airy and
fresh cities with their districts of thriving
townships and small farms. It is possible
that they conceived this as a means of
increasing population and more fairly
distributing wealth. Doubtless even now,
as they gaze on crowded Sydney and com-
pare it with the empty country, they ex-
perience feelings of disappointed rage.
Fortunately, they cannot do much
harm, being so few. And if only the
State Parliament system can be ~saved
they will be even less dangerous in the
future, when that great new order comes
after the war and millions are available
for vast improvement schemes in Sydney.
—Nark (N.S.W.).
Who Wants to Milk?
It strikes me the man-power authori-
ties are killing the goose that laid the
golden egg (only it's butter and cheese in
this case) by taking the dairy hand from
his badly-paid, long-hours job and giv-
ing him short hours ‘at double and treble
the pay. I doubt if these fellows will go
back to the farms unless dairy produce
gets a 50 p.c. rise and wages are doubled.
Even then the taste of city life, easy
money and short hours is going to weigh
heavily in the balance.
I know little boys and girls of eight
and nine who milk seven or eight cows
at a milking to help mother and dad. City
girls would pretend to be horrified at the
idea of such children working so hard,
but will they volunteer to take their place
at a wage the farmer could afford to pay
with dairy produce at its present value?
Post-war talk will be all about how to
get men back on the land, as it was last
time, so why not leave some of the peop’e
on the land? —H. G. Htscock 10 ).
“ Gripes, Fred, he's kickin' up a lot of noise!"


‘v..
v**
*>.
‘V
&3
Kg
1
W
•* * T
&
*j>.
V*Ai
•ri
fVt.
•••>
t<
SsS
5-v
v,v:
v *1
>St
n
■ ■
t
1
ViJ
- j>
*«.• % '•; %
•VSS
"JV . .. •
'*s
,<■ ; *
I * * ••.* * ‘
* ”«**
»»... .
sv..:***.
:• -• t
*.v
*.- \
>' - -. i
• ; ■_*
V .
fl*>
I
Sv
?.\!
S'
v r
N V
!<•
V\
<■«!
■S&
\s
tN
3#
sW«
•-W
• • ,• v # ’%A••* •
/ v •*. • .*»/*; ■; . :■.
•• « ,
- ;
me
1
(»*
oi%r*i
i
WJinVf
TRADE
MARK
Distilleries at Moorabbin, Victoria; London, England;
Toronto, Canada; Cincinnati, U.S.A.
