

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 63.—N0. 3270
Wednesday, October 14, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON.
P l r S e " t fhen he a
thoroughfare regarding its antiquity, for it is one of
tattoMettopolls. c r L
sale of meat, poultry, vegetables, etc., but that is a
small item of importance in its twentieth-century activi-
ties, as represented by offices of great shipping cor-
porations and establishments allied with the Empire’s
trade and other activities. It was a “business centre”
in the days of the Roman occupation. In 1300 it was
a mart for corn and meat. It escaped the Great Fire
of 1666. Students of literature have a peculiar interest
in Leadenhall Street, Here Peter Motteux, translator
* m
§ £ S an i_ site
Cor i nthian . pill ared portico on the right of the Ulus-
tration—principally occupied by the leading wine
merc hants firm of H. R. Williams and Co., whose
cellars extended for a considerable distance beneath
that and other buildings. Vignerons in Australia will
recall that Mr. Williams was one of the most active
promoters of the agitation for the reduction of wine
duties. Mention has been made of No. 122 in this
thoroughfare. It has an interest in later days quite
leKs'Tl':! £
Hshed" 8 that this
the .inea. of the
should have its centre m such close juxtaposition to
that which housed “John Company. Considered
Imperially, both, in their respective spheres, have
played a profoundly important part, and the I. and u.
is still playing its, in the wondrous records whereon
are recorded some of the greatest tnumps o *
genius and enterprise, triumphs w ic ,
adversities as great as, it not indeed g ,
with which the race was confronted in i


Story Writmg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney ‘‘Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
NINE ON THE WAR.
“Let us consider,” said Mr. Shean, “ the
utilitarian, hedonistic, pragmatic, opera-
tional and instrumental character of the
science and philosophy, pseudo-religion
and ethics of sensate culture.’'
“No!” said Mr. Gallagher.
“But,” said Mr. Shean, “when I con-
sider the utilitarian, hedonistic, prag-
matic, operational and instrumental char-
acter of the science and philosophy,
pseudo-religion and ethics of sensate
culture, I leap for joy.”
“You should see a doctor,” said Mr.
Gallagher.
“I have,” said Mr. Shean. “I un-
earthed that gem of English prose in
The Crisis of Our Age (Angus and
Robertson), by a Mr. P. A. Sorokin, who
is a doctor of sociology at Harvard Uni-
versity. I assure you that The Crisis
of Our Age is not generally so formid-
able as I may have led you to believe.
Consider this second quotation:
“ ‘Rembrandt’s or Praxiteles’s creations
are used as labels for soap, beer, razor
blades or silk stockings. They become
mere “satellites” of the more “solid” en-
joyments- such as a bag of popcorn, a
glass of beer, a highball or a pork chop con-
sumed at popular concerts or art exhi-
bitions.’ ”
“Well, strike me lucky!” said Mr. Gal-
lagher. “You mean to say Mr. Sorokin
eats pork chops at concerts?”
“No,” said Mr. Shean. “We do.”
“I’ve never noticed myself doing it,”
said Mr. Gallagher, “but I’ll take your
word for it. There is, I suppose, some-
thing wrong with us?”
“At the time of the Renaissance,” said
Mr. Shean, “Western culture changed
from the religious to the materialist.
Materialism in science has got us just
nowhere; materialism in politics got us
to Communism and Fascism; material-
ism in art and literature got us to the
howling imbecility of ‘modern’ painting
and the increasingly distorted and sen-
sational ‘realism’ of Hemingway, Faulk-
ner and Steinbeck.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Gallagher. “A man
and a brother?”
“I regret to inform you,” said Mr.
Shean, “that Brother Sorokin is some-
what remote from this vale of sorrow.
He assures us:
“ ‘Many a country has been defeated in
war and still civilisation has not perished.
Moreover, they hardly ever stop to
ask whether die culture they stand for is
really worth saving—whether, on the con-
trary, it would not be better for it to
perish.’ ”
“I have frequently thought,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “that —to say nothing of my
country threatened with the hordes of
Asia —I am, myself, emphatically worth
saving.”
“You are an egotist,” said Mr. Shean.
“You are intolerably sensate. You would
eat a pork chop in the presence
of Mr. Curtin. And here I have the
very thing for you. Sensational! Authen-
tic! Hitler and his Naked Dancers!
Munich, Nazi Bordello! Generals and
Nordic Blondes!”
“Tut!” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Tut you may,” said Mr. Shean ; “but
that’s what’s on the jacket of Ernest R.
Pope’s Munich Playground (Angus and
Robertson), and that’s what’s inside it.”
“In that case,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I
shall return with haste to the considera-
tion of the pragmatic aspects of the
science of sensate culture.”
“Well, I wouldn’t do anything despe-
rate if I were you,” said Mr. Shean.
“Ernest is not so bad as all that. For
one thing, he is the only journalist (I
think) who has ever written a book about
Europe without being Bitter About
Chamberlain.”
“You could knock me down with a
crowbar!” said Mr. Gallagher,
“Here’s a queer thing,” said Mr. Shean.
“Mr. Pope and a Mr. William Shirer,
who has written Berlin Diary (Hamish
Hamilton), both American journalists,
were colleagues in Germany; actually
worked together on broadcasts. Now Mr.
Pope, picturing Chamberlain at Munich,
writes;
“ ‘No mere Hitler or Mussolini visit had
ever released such jubilation in Munich.
Chamberlain was the real hero of the
day.’ ”
“Ah,” said Mr. Gallagher. “And
Shirer, of course, says the opposite.”
“Your perspicacity overwhelms me,”
said Mr. Shean.
“I take it for granted,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher, “that all Famous Correspondents
interpret the facts according to their
politics.”
“Quite,” said Mr. Shean. “Even
Famous Correspondents are, after all,
human. At least, I think so. Mr. Shirer
reports:
“ ‘Hitler was all graciousness indeed, and
Chamberlain, looking the image of an owl,
was smiling and apparently highly pleased
in his vain way with some manufactured
applause by a company of S.S. Guards be-
fore the door.’ ”
“Bitter about Chamberlain?” said Mr.
Gallagher.
“You’d think Chamberlain was a tiger-
snake,” said Mr. Shean.
“If, to the grave displeasure of Brother
Sorokin, I live to be a thousand, ’ said
Mr. Gallagher, “it will afford me some
innocent amusement to observe the in-
evitable canonisation of Chamberlain.
I do not think that history will
regard it as a criminal offence that
Chamberlain tried to save the Empire
from war from, among other things,
the horrors of the blitz on London
or the Australian tragedy in Malaya.
Nor do I think it can be called criminal
to have won for an ill-armed and un-
prepared England, when the peace effort
failed, a vital year for rearmament.”
“Mr. Shirer,” said Mr. Shean, “was all
for war in 1938, when England had
hardly an anti-aircraft gun:
“ ‘No word from Prague tonight as to
whether the Czechs will accept Chamber-
lain’s ultimatum. I still hope against hope
they will fight. For if they do then there s
a European war and Hitler can’t win it.
“When the war arrives,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher, “where do we find our reporter ?
“We find him in Berlin,” said Mr.
Shean, “disdainfully hobnobbing with
Lord Haw-Haw.”
“All this,” said Mr. Gallagher, “savors
to me of the sensate. Could we not,
just to please Brother Sorokin, have
something a little more sublime?”
“I refer you,” said Mr. Shean, “to
J. B. Priestley’s Out of the People
(Collins).”
“I said sublime,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Be that as it may,” said Mr. Shean,
“Out of the People has a highly intelli-
gent Message for you and me.”
“I’m not exactly struck on Messages,”
said Mr. Gallagher. “I wish Mr. Priestley
would write more novels and stop trying
to make me a better man. Sensate as 1
am. I’ll do me.”
“Nevertheless,” said Mr. Shean, “Mr.
Priestley has had a Thought. And the
Thought is this: we are not to speak of
the ‘Masses’ any more, because that’s
insulting, undemocratic and unreal; we
are to speak of the People.”
“Inform Mr. Priestley,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher, “that his Message is as refreshing
as cod-liver oil. The Masses are out.”
“Which reminds me,” said Mr. Shean.
“In May, 1939, Stafford Cripps opposed
conscription in England.”
“No!” said Mr. Gallagher. “In May,
1939, eight months after Mr. Shirer had
hoped to see the war started? You
stagger me. No wonder Chamberlain had
some hesitation in plunging England into
war. Is this on the authority of Mr.
Priestley?”
“Having delivered his Message,” said
Mr. Shean, “Mr. Priestley has departed
for parts unknown. This never-to-be-
forgotten contribution to imperial vic-
tory, which you and I had both forgotten,
is quoted from Frederick L. Schuman’s
Night Over Europe (Hale).
“Bitter about Cripps?” asked Mr.
Gallagher,
“Honest, anyhow,” said Mr. Shean.
“Schuman purports to give us ‘the full
diplomatic history of the Second World
War up to the beginning of 1941.’ He
is a professor.”
“Bitter about Chamberlain?” asked
Mr. Gallagher.
“You’d think Chamberlain was a
rattlesnake,” said Mr. Shean.
“Perhaps Mr. Schuman is sensate?”
said Mr. Gallagher.
“Far, far from it!” said Mr. Shean.
“Very spiritual:
“ ‘ln the days to come the fittest will sur-
vive and rule the world. The unfit will
fail and lose body and soul. The fittest
will be those who know that the world is
one. The fittest will be those who know
that national sovereignty and international
anarchy arc marked for death; that
laissez-faire, feeble government, the rule
of money and property are alike lost for
ever.’ ”
“I never heard such nonsense in all
my life!” said Mr. Gallagher. “At least,
not since I last read Sydney ‘Sunday
Telegraph.’ ”
“Do I,” said Mr. Shean, “detect in
your voice a tone of scepticism regard-
ing propheqies about the New Order?”
“Mr. Shean,” said Mr. Gallagher, “you
do.”
“You are becoming morbid,” said Mr.
Shean. “You need a pork chop. You
might get some light relief out of
these two on China: The. Soong Sisters,
by Emily Hahn (Hale), and Dawn Watch
in China, by Joy Homer (Collins).
“Emily Hahn points out that all the
poetic names for women, such as Plum
Blossom or Eyelashes of the Lotus, are
no more poetic to the Chinese than our
Lilys, Violets or Rubys are to us.”
“Whang goes another illusion!” said
Mr, Gallagher. “Any more?”
“Evacuating bomb - refugees from
Chungking,” said Mr. Shean. “This pic-
ture: —
“ ‘One old couple refused to get into the
Generalissimo’s car or even to approach
it until they were assured over and over
again that such action would not be a pro-
fanation. Even then they insisted on kow-
towing three times to the machine before
they would enter it.’ ”
“And Dawn Watch in China ?” said
Mr. Gallagher.
“Air raids,” said Mr, Shean. “The
Nanking and Wuhu horrors. Also some
glimpses of Japan where ‘one inter-
nationally known Japanese’ advised Miss
Homer to go back to the United States
and ask the Government to put an
embargo on arms to Japan and so stop
the China war; ‘Do not fear we will
wage war upon you for your act. My
people are war-weary, in no mood for
conflict with the United States.’ ”
“Up a gum-tree there,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher.
“All mortals are fallible,” said Mr,
Shean. “I notice as one of the greatest
attractions of Joseph E. Davies’s Mission
to Moscow (Angus and Robertson), that
this American ambassador is careful to
warn us that even an American ambas-
sador is mortal and fallible. He declares,
for our judgment, that he is not a Com-
munist but a democrat; that he does not
think Communism will ever work and
that he regards individualism (miscalled
capitalism) as ‘the best system of govern-
ment that civilisation has yet evolved for
the common man.’ ”
“You accept Mr. Davies, then?” said
Mr. Gallagher.
“He has forgotten to add that he is an
American,” said Mr. Shean. “It does
not seem to have occurred to him that,
when he criticises the appeasement policy,
Roosevelt’s own policy was one of
appeasement and isolation.”
“Bitter about Chamberlain?” said Mr.
Gallagher.
“You’d think,” said Mr. Shean, ‘‘that
Mr. Chamberlain was a Communist.”
“How astonishing it is,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “that even to a man of Mr.
Davies’s standing it has not occurred
that American production, vital to a suc-
cessful war against the Axis, is only now
—in 1942, jour years after the Czecho-
slovakian affair— approaching those pro-
portions upon which a British Govern-
ment would feel safe in involving its em-
pire in a war to the death.”
“It’s got me beat, too,” said Mr. Shean,
“But when you have warned yourself
that this book records American policy,
and one man’s opinions, you will find it
enormously interesting. There are five
great themes, recurring and recurring:
German militarism as the cause of
Europe’s distress; the confidence of the
Russians in the Red Army and their in-
sistence to the ambassador that, alone
and unaided, they could meet a com-
bined assault by Germany and Japan;
the failure of Marxist theory in practice
in Russia, the abandonment of Commu-
nism for a competitive system (with
higher rewards for better workers and
party heads; and the inevitable corollary
of the reappearance of class distinctions)
and the substitution of one-man dictator-
ship for the ‘dictatorship of the prole-
tariat’ ; the reversion from international-
ism to Russian nationalism ; the partial
abandonment by Stalin’s regime of the
Trotskyist dream of immediate world
revolution, not involving, however, the
dismissal of the Communist parties
throughout the world but their retention
as instruments of Russian military and
strategic policy.”
“The world is too much with us, late
and soon,” said Mr. Gallagher. “We
have thrown our something away —a
sordid boon.”
“When a man takes to misquoting
Wordsworth he needs a tonic,” said Mr.
Shean. “Take a few tablespoons of The
Psychology of Nervousness, by William
A. Mcßae (Oxford University Press).
It will convince you that everything is
due to your unhappy childhood.”
“I was happy as a bird,” said Mr.
Gallagher.
“You have hidden-guilt feelings and a
need for punishment,” said Mr. .Shean.
“Oh, no, I haven’t,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“We’ll send it to Hitler,” said Mr.
Shean.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Sydney’s current art ration comprises
the Water Color Institute’s show at the
Education Department gallery and Seven
Painters at the Macquarie. The Institutes
are almost all highly competent practi-
tioners. Norman Lindsay’s gorgeous
“Through the Savannahs,” Margaret
Coen’s fine flower-piece “Green and
Gold,” Anne Montgomery’s “Low Tide”
and Phyllis Shillito’s “Spring Dressing”
catch the eye, as do also Dora Jarret’s
light-hearted pictures. John Eldershaw,
G. K. Townshend, R. H. Steuart (who
gleaned some notable impressions in
Singapore), Maude Sherwood, H. R. Gal-
lop and Rah Fizelle arc old favorites
characteristically represented. Of the
Seven Painters Eric Wilson, who shows
carefully-painted, highly-stylised glimpses
of Dutch scenery, makes the nearest
approach to art that might win a nod
from the gods instead of from “S. M.
Herald.”
A vast and drooping dolefulness seems
to have settled upon “S.M.H.” since she
decided to reform art. Granny com-
plained of one show that the Australian
landscapes were insufficiently “melan-
choly.” She explained away a certain
charm in some of the Water Color exhibits
as “a racial memory of mists that hang
low over the English countryside, of
gentle, undulating hills and the fresh per-
fume of moist grass —a memory that no
new country, however dry and barren,
can eradicate in so short a time” ; and,
reviewing the Seven Painters, she analysed
Australia as “a country of tough, wiry
people, hardworking and lonely, and, at
times, utterly bored.”
Mr. Curtin sent a telegram of con-
gratulation to the people responsible for
the display at the Melbourne Athenaeum
of national savings posters by art students
of Victorian technical schools. Most are
in the worst tradition of commercial art.
When one aspiring youth draws thel silk-
stockinged leg of a Land Army girl, with
its foot encased in a chaste and expensive
leather, pressed to a spade as an inspira-
tion to the public to be war-effort-minded
it could equally well have been labelled
“Buy Hackenbacker's Hosiery and Look
Smart.” In another the grim dame Aus-
terity is depicted as a girl lying on a
couch with her ear to the ’phone and
nothing on but a skintight pair of bathers.
It’s charitable to assume that Mr. Curtin
hadn’t seen the show when he austerely
wasted his telegram.
Only in the crowd scenes has “Pro-
fessor Mamlock,” the Russian film at
Sydney Savoy, anything new to show
in technique. Whereas the Savoy’s
French films outdid the best of
Hollywood as gems of production, “Pro-
fessor Mamlock” suffers badly in com-
parison, its continuity halting and dis-
jointed. Nowhere in the film is there a
Russian as a Russian. The characters
are all Germans ; the story a powerful
but familiar indictment of the Nazis
anti-Jewish atrocities.
The most popular item at a Sydney
A.B.C, Saturday afternoon concert was
Tschaikowsky’s B Flat Minor Concerto,
just now enjoying a world-wide renais-
sance of interest because the opening
theme is used in a film starring Bette
Davis. The soloist, Melbourne pianist
Raymond Lambert, belongs to the atmo-
spheric school of executants, and the
clear-cut precision and dynamic force
Tschaikowsky calls for (he wrote the
piece for Nicholas Rubinstein, whose
style was nearly as incisive as that of
his elder brother Anton) were called for
in vain. Mr. Lambert is, nevertheless,
an engaging performer.
Wirth’s Circus has turned up at its
old stamping-ground in Melbourne a
month ahead of schedule. The ele-
phants, if anything, look larger; in
the Cage of Death Captain Eric
Flyger demonstrates man’s power over
the Glorious Ferocious Beasts of the
Jungle with an ever greater disdain for
danger ; the three Misses Wirth display
the usual grace and finish in a high-air
performance; and a huge bespectacled
giant on skates whizzes a damsel round
him at such a speed that if he let go she
would probably sail clean through the
roof and land inside the Japanese lines
in New Guinea. Incidentally, the hand or
Man-power is apparent in the youthtui
appearance of the staff, some of whom
look as if they had inherited the costume
of the old man. The capacity of women
to take the place of men in heavy mdustry
is demonstrated by Miss Eileen Wirth,
who handles 50,000 pounds of elephant
with consummate assurance.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
THE SENIOR STORE”
119th Year of Service
OFFICIAL SUPPLIERS
OF
NAVAL OFFICERS’
UNIFORMS
/ i
v
\ \
-■ \
v
m/><
Tr-\\-
'X
' ">)
"A _I:JS
:\
\ I
t
y/
_\_ jf^\
all'
<
t „ jS e®** 3
fTT^
All Naval Uniforms tailored by Anthony Horderns 1 are correct in every detail* and all
Materials are of Standard Service Quality. We guarantee satisfaction with style and fit.
Realising that a quick and effective service is essential, we give preference to Service orders.
CAPTAIN, R.A.N.—Metall ic Lace. Tailored from lightweight Serge. D.B. Jacket and'
Trousers. Price £6/13/3
LIEUTENANT-COMMANDER, R.A.N.—Metallic Lace. Tailored from lightweight Serge.
D.B. Jacket and Trousers. Price .... £6/5/6
LIEUTENANT, R.A.N.V.R.—Non-metallic Lace. Tailored from lightweight Serge. D.B.
Jacket, and Trousers. Price £5/11/-
SUB-LIEUTENANT, R.A.N.R.—Non-metallic Lace. Tailored from lightweight Serge. D.B.
Jacket, and Trousers. Price £5/7/3
WHITE DRILL UNIFORMS, ALL RANKS—Coat and Trousers. Price, each 34/-
Shoulder straps, pair, from ....... 10/9
(If unable to visit us , we will gladly post Self-Measurement Form and qll particulars.)
NOTE: The necessary authority must accompany all orders.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. Post to Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney


IT COULD ONLY HAPPEN HERE
By ROBERT CLARK.
PINKIE was an elephant whose
craving for hay was phenomenal.
She would dream of hay in stacks,
with no one but herself about, and
then awake to the bare circus pen and
Leslie, the lion, growling in his sleep a
few chains away. And she would sigh
wistfully, and drop into a fitful doze.
But she got her hay in the end, and she
got Mr. Streaker.
We saw Pinkie only once a year, when
the circus came round, but we saw Mr.
Streaker every day. He was a thin man,
at about that middle age when you can’t
tell whether a man is young or old. He
sang in the choir and took up the collec-
tion, but he still gave short measure on
Monday. No one could deny that his
store was cut-price, but it was cut-weight,
cut-quality and cut everything else. The
town was pretty well fed to the teeth
with Mr. Streaker, but no one could do
anything about him. He was too power-
ful. Every time he did us in the eye we
had to be polite and come back for more,
but that didn’t stop our hate from accu-
mulating.
It was Dan and Pinkie, between
them, caught him in the end. Dan was a
simple sort of fellow who did nothing
but work and never got anywhere. His
father was the town drunk. Ever since
his birth, Dan’s mother had worked all
day and night to keep him and those
that followed after him; now Dan was
doing the same for her. It was always the
same sort of work —hard, bullocky stuff,
the sort that no one else would touch. He’d
dig pits, chop wood or empty cesspools
for a bob an hour; some people .gave
him a slice of bread and butter and a
cup of tea, if he was there more than
four hours and if they thought of it. No
one ever asked him to pull weeds or
plant flowers and no one seemed to know
how good he was with dogs and horses
—in fact, any animals.
He wasn’t twenty-five when he cracked
up. He just kept collapsing on the job,
and no one would pay a bob an hour
for that sort of thing. He wouldn’t
see the doctor, but in the end the doctor
saw him and booked it up to the
Almighty. He told Dan to get on to light
work or he’d be up among the tomb-
stones inside twelve months.
It was then that Mr. Streaker saw his
opportunity. Not long before, a piecart
had been forced on him in part-payment
of a debt. It occurred to Mr. Streaker
that, with a coat of paint, the old con-
traption might very well appropriate
some of the evening custom from the little
cafe on the corner. Private enterprise,
said Mr. Streaker, is the foundation of
democracy. His one difficulty was to
find a suitable man behind the counter —
someone honest enough and poor enough
to make it what Mr. Streaker called “a
payable proposition.” He thought of
Dan. Dan was becoming a burden on
the conscience of the town. With a
fine gesture Mr. Streaker stepped
forward and eased the community
conscience. The parson was enthusiastic,
the doctor satisfied, and Dan’s former
employers felt easier. But the rest of the
town, who knew Mr. Streaker, just added
it to his debit. Dan took the job. He
didn’t collapse any more, but he grew
thinner and more spiritless.
THEN the circus arrived, and Pinkie
with it. This was the golden opportu-
nity of the year for the piecart. Mr.
Streaker saw the town authorities, who
couldn’t refuse because he owned so much
land, and the circus proprietor, and as a
result told Dan where to stand.
At 7 p.m. sharp Dan arrived at the
appointed spot, opposite the showground
gate, stoked up the fire in the stove, un-
harnessed the old draught and led him
home. By the time he returned things
were beginning to move with a swing.
Wonderful noises were coming from
behind the iron fence —dozens of lions
seemed to be roaring, herds of elephants
squealing and there was much shouting,
calling and banging. The painted images
of giraffes, monkeys, fat women and
clowns rippled in the glare of electric
light over the gate. A magnificent voice
blared the enormous attractions offered:
“Come along. Come along. One big night
only. The Wundah Rodeo and Circus,
the biggest and brightest in Australia.
Come and see the lion eat the man. The
biggest and fiercest lion in captivity. Have
you seen Claude the Clown or the lovely
elephant girl? Come along. Come along.
One big night only.”
We needed no urging. That magnifi-
cent voice penetrated into every dining-
room and kitchen, even at the far end of
the town, and everyone, whatever his in-
clination, came. There was a solid mass
crushed between the ticket-office and
Dan’s cart, and others were converging
in like the spokes of a wheel. All the
identities were there —Jack Gosling, the
bookmaker, with his moon smile and
grey hair; Toby Sprigg, the licensee of
the Railway, looking, as he always did,
like a Primitive Methodist preacher
announcing the last trump; Jerry Smart,
the agent, and all the others who
gathered at the pub or the barber’s shop
and made the town what it was, with
their wives and daughters, sons, grand-
sons and granddaughters. The whole town
was there, except Mr. Streaker. He was
missing. The small rectangle between
the gate and the piecart was an immov-
able mass of people, with those at the
edge pushing and shoving. Dan just
stood and stared.
At' first the spruiker shouted to the
crowd to go easy, but that didn’t make any
difference. Then the proprietor came out
to take a hand, and when he saw Dan’s
piecart he made one beeline for Dan.
“You’ll have to shift. Someone’ll get
hurt soon. I’ll get my elephant. You get
the shafts off or up or something— out of
the way. We use chains.”
Dan was always too physically weak
to do anything but obey; in any case
there could be no argument. Before he
climbed out from behind the counter
he threw a few extra pieces of wood on
the fire, feeling dumbly that it might
appease Mr. Streaker’s wrath for disobey-
ing instructions.
Pinkie came lumbering down the road,
swinging her trunk happily. As she re-
versed her huge backside iiito the cart,
the crowd melted as if the circus had
never been. They soon re-formed into
a ring at a safe distance, gratified to have
this extra piece of entertainment for
nothing. After a bit of kicking and prod-
ding, Pinkie was hooked on, given the
equivalent of gee-up, and the cart lum-
bered slowly off.
Everything seemed to be running
smoothly. It was Pinkie who first realised
it was running too smoothly. No one
had noticed that the piecart was moving
down a slight incline, nor that it and its
hed-hot stovepipe tended to roll on to
Pinkie. The first intimation we had was
an indignant squeal. Then Pinkie let out
a scream, lifted her trunk in the air and
broke into a gallop. We stood with open
mouths, and watched the incredible sight,
in our main street, of an elephant at full
stretch with a piecart bouncing up and
down on her tail. They disappeared
round the Railway pub corner, with an
excited keeper ineffectually trailing after.
“He won’t do any good,” moaned the
proprietor. “Why isn’t Jack here?” Jack,
who had been Pinkie’s keeper for many
years, had died a few weeks before, which
seemed a valid enough reason.
Then we came to, and realised there
was something on. The circus was for-
gotten. We were going to be in on this.
As I rushed along in the crowd, I nearly
knocked Dan over. He was standing
stock-still where the piecart had been, his
dreary face like ashes. I didn’t see him
again until he crept into the crowd round
the haystack later.
T T didn’t take us long to find the pie-
-1 cart. It was upended in a ditch, and
broken crockery was strewn round like
chaff, but there was no sign of Pinkie.
The circus proprietor was fuming and
beseeching in turn, offering rewards
running from fivers to fifties. We scat-
tered to get torches, lanterns, ropes, pitch-
forks, axes and bottles of beer. The
hunt was on. The rewards didn’t interest
us much, but the fun did. This was the
sort of thing we lived for; this was what
made life in a country town worth while.
It could only happen here.
Soon the paddocks on that side of the
town were covered with “elephant
hunters.” It was a wonderful sight. Lan-
terns bobbing round in the darkness, a
powerful torch here and there Cutting
the darkness like a javelin, the lights of
an occasional car drifting down the road,
and all the time shouted jokes and
laughter.
I think I was the first to spot her. I
saw something dark move near Streaker’s
haystack—we had wandered into one of
his paddocks. “There she is,” I yelled,
and ran across.
Immediately the lanterns began to
move in like white-hot filings racing to
a magnet. About a dozen arrived at the
same time as I did, and we gathered in a
respectful ring and watched Pinkie stuff-
ing trusses of hay into her cavernous
mouth. In between times she swung her
trunk contentedly and was happy. The
crowd was piling in behind us, but she
was used to excited mobs. And that was
about what we were. Advice kept pour-
ing in from all the lantern-holders, but
no one cared to do anything. At last
Jerry Smart crept up to see what a bit
of prodding would do. Pinkie’s body
must have been studded with eyes, be-
cause just when he was within reach her
hindquarters sagged back like the col-
lapse of a house and a dreadful noise
came from somewhere.
“Look out,” we all yelled and tumbled
back over ourselves. When we’d sorted
ourselves out of the heap of writhing
bodies and burning lanterns, the air was
foul with language and kerosene. By
the light of the one remaining lantern
we saw Pinkie still swinging her trunk
and chewing contentedly. We began to
realise that she was enjoying herself.
Someone who’d got a bad burn
chucked a rock, and then the fun really
did begin. Beside the stack was an old
horse-trough full of water. Pinkie didn’t
move when the rock hit her, but her
trunk slid into the water and sprayed
the crowd on that side with the best fire
jet you’ve ever seen in your life. They
doubled up as if they’d been machine-
gunned, and the rest of the crowd stood
and roared with laughter. Jack Gosling,
in particular, his moon-red face just
about rolling off his neck. What got
him was the sight of Toby Sprigg, stand-
ing erect and apocalyptic, with his hair
and face streaming water. It was funny,
but it was funnier still to see the sudden
look of stricken gravity that came over
Mr. Gosling’s face when the next spray
caught him in his rolling stomach.
Pinkie’s trunk was in the air for the
third time, but she seemed to hesitate
and then for some unknown reason
emptied the contents of the hose over
the top of the haystack. But she had
the fourth lot ready for us when the
keeper arrived on the scene and started
shouting orders. It was apparently the
wrong thing to do, because he got the
lot in the face. I felt sorry for the poor
coot, but . you couldn’t help laughing.
“I’m not her blasted keeper. My job’s
the monkeys.” You couldn’t tell whether
he was crying or not, there was so much
moisture on him.
Pinkie took a second off to stuff her
mouth with some more hay, but from
then on it was Rafferty’s rules. She
covered us with water, she covered us
with hay, and then she scooped the mud
from the bottom of the trough and plas-
tered everyone within reach. We looked
as if the birds had been roosting on us.
Strangely enough, she’d give us a miss
every now and then and plaster the top
of the stack. The circus proprietor
turned up and threatened and pleaded in
turn. One elephant, and fifty men
bluffed!
Then Dan walked out of the crowd.
We yelled to him to stand back, not to
be a fool, but he took no notice. He
walked straight up to her huge flapping
ears. She saw him coming and stood
stock-still, with that tense awareness a
horse has when you’ve got! a bridle in
your hand and he’s got some nasty trick
in his head. Dan started to rub her
trunk just where her nose ought to be.
He was making queer noises in his throat
all the time. She didn’t seem to mind ;
then she wound her trunk round him
and lifted him off his feet. We caught
our breaths and held them, expecting any
moment to see him thrown to the ground,
but, instead, she placed him gently on
her neck. He landed awkwardly, but he
didn’t seem afraid and just sat there
astride. Pinkie returned to the business
of demolishing the haystack, and a sigh
came from the crowd like air from a
punctured tyre.
We waited for what was going to
happen next, but Pinkie had given up her
persecution and was intent on reducing
the stack to the ground. She started from
the bottom, bundled a few sheaves into
her mouth and tossed the rest around for
us. It was like a new form of pillow
fight, with us on the defensive, dodging
them as hard as we could go. Toby
Sprigg centred one nicely on the head ;
he lost his block for a moment and ran
round like Ned Kelly in a straw helmet.
They were helping him out when the
stack started to totter, and we got the
really big surprise of the night. As the
top layer came sliding down there was
a woman’s scream, then a man’s oath
from somewhere on top, and two figures
were suddenly struggling to maintain a
foothold. We soon had our torches on
them. It was Mr. Streaker and his wife’s
maid, a girl from the city.
Pinkie was the only one who wasn’t
surprised. She went on chewing. The
girl was practically hysterical, and Mr.
Streaker, when he had got his balance,
tried to be indignant, but it couldn’t
succeed and he gave it up. We stared at
them in silence; then someone sniggered
ana the torches were lowered.
‘Tell her to go home,” shouted the
circus proprietor,
“Tell ’er yerself,” someone answered
with a laugh. Blit the circus proprietor
wasn’t worrying about the girl. Dan
leaned over the elephant’s and
started to coax her like you’d do a horse,
and Pinkie meekly turned and lumbered
off for the town. Whether she’d had her
fun and wanted to go home, or whether
she felt she’d done her job in exposing
Mr. Streaker, or whether Dan had a way
with him we never knew, but she went as
docilely as any pet lamb, and we fol-
lowed.
WE went back to the circus, but some-
how it fell flat. There were no
complaints—we’d had our money’s worth
—and we clapped every item, but our
memories were going over every incident,
and our thoughts were on Mr. Streaker.
Between items we discussed what he must
have felt like during that half-hour Pinkie
and we were playing round the base of
the stack. Would she divorce him?
That was the urgent question by the time
the show was over.
She did, and it was the end for Mr.
Streaker. The church shut its doors and
the rest of the town blackballed him.
He watched his business dwindle to
nothing, sold it for a song and left for
the north. The piecart lay in the ditch,
a monument to the town’s satisfaction.
Dan also left the town, but long before
and in different circumstances. Pinkie
adopted Dan that night, and for some
strange reason would do anything for
him. The proprietor wasn’t slow to take
his chance. Two mornings later the town
turned out to wave Dan good-bye. Jack
Gosling took up a collection and handed
him a fiver to buy some clothes. The
last we saw of Dan was a happy but
bewildered face standing by Pinkie on
the truck. Pinkie was absently swing-
ing a straw in her trunk.
We still see her once a year, and Dan
with her, and he’s always got a smile
now. He’s still the same simple sort of
coot, but that’s the sort animals like.
Various Verse
This Year.
Not like a cloud in careless career
Saunters the year:
Not ruminative, opening doors to beauty.
Nor in the smooth prophet’s cloak
Proposing benign hopes, deriding the smoke
From lost and scattered pits of pain.
But the year comes striding
Whose banner of bane
Smites at the sun’s face. The year comes crying
Earth’s capitulation, while each slavish hour
Gathers the ghosts of the dying.
How shall we trust the time
Whose step is thunder?
How shall we fold hands,
Bathe brows in the evening mood,
While by the brawling year, the guest we’ve
taken,
The house is shaken?
But we must live with sorrow, sit
With Borgia at table until the anger
Of iron burns out and dispersed
Is the mob of events, and the lark once more
Is news and the song that was lost in our fears
Is a light and a laugh in the heart of the years.
MAORILAND.
J. R. HERVEY.
Stars.
My little son and I looked up one night
to the smooth evening sky.
He asked, “What are those lights?”
“Stars,” I said; but I could not,
was not able, knew not enough of truth
to tell him honestly, faithfully, what
they are—the dreams of dreaming minds,
the screaming of eternity, or youth
of future worlds; or the burnt-out rinds
of past worlds.
All I could say was those words:
“Stars, my dear darling” —
and who knows but I lied like men I hate.
The chatter of the black orgasmic starling
perched on a wire, a roof-top, or any bird s
carries more truth than my portentous word.
“Stars! ”
For who knows when, soon or late,
we shall leap outward into a rare heaven,
not one of the known ones,
one of the seven?
And who knows . . .
whether God and the devil, getting together
by moonlight or by chance, will exchange
throws , , ,
and, in between their talk about the weather,
will win, or lose, or tie ,
for the determination of how, when, where
we die —
even if it be here, or on another star,
as long as God and devil and star are there,
there we are!
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


The Bulletin
Voi. 63—No. 3270
Wednesday, October 14, 1942.
STILL A THREE-MILE LIMIT.
“Debating the Statute of Westminster, Mr. Menzies said that the adoption of Section 3, which clarifies the Commonwealth’s extra-territorial powers, puts beyond doubt the
power of Parliament to make laws for conscription for service overseas.”
“A striking effect, Miss Commonwealth, but outmoded. In this nice new frock you can go far, but you mustn’t go TOO far.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westraua : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp,
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
WORLD WITHOUT END.
Australians are not yet in the position
of the Scilly Islanders; who got their
living by taking in each other’s washing,
but things are shaping that way. A time
may come when half Australia will be
employed in fixing wages for the other
half.
There is a Commonwealth Arbitration
Court with four Judges, and there are
Arbitration (or Industrial) Courts in
N. S. Wales (five Judges), Queens-
land and Westralia. There are Concilia-
tion Commissioners in the Common-
wealth and N. S. Wales, conciliation Com-
mittees in the latter State and wages
boards in the other States, except
Queensland —the conciliation committees
and wages boards when last counted by
the Commonwealth Statistician numbered
680. For the edification or recreation of
the N.S.W. coalminer, there are special
Coal Reference Boards, one of which
has a Commonwealth Arbitration Judge
for chairman. Then the Commonwealth
has a Public Service Arbitrator, while
States have Public Service Boards or
Commissions with virtual wage-fixing
powers. And attending on the Judges,
commissioners, committees and boards
there are associates, tipstaffs, registrars,
inspectors, secretaries, shorthand writers,
typists, clerks and messengers, while
Government Printing Office staffs are
always on hand to apply “the art preser-
vative” to forests of awards, appeals,
variations, demarcation orders, applica-
tions for war-time loadings, reserved
judgments and the like.
That (E. & 0.E.) was the position until
recent weeks. Then, exercising National
Security powers with the connivance of the
Commonwealth Labor Government, the
Westralian Labor Government gazetted
basic-wage increases which had been
refused by the State Arbitration Court —
in effect constituting itself a final court
of appeal without troubling itself about
evidence or arguments. Then the Com-
monwealth Labor Government set up the
Allied Works Council and Mr. Ward’s
Women’s Employment Board, each with
wage-fixing powers independent of those
exercised in the same field by the Com-
monwealth and State Arbitration Courts,
and so exercising them as to have drawn
sarcastic remarks from the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court Bench {‘‘ten
classifications for concrete workers! ” was
the latest). Stacks of other Women’s
Employment Boards, each with indepen-
dent wage-fixing powers, are now threat-
ened, And to the proposing of “special
tribunals” for particular industries there
is no end.
Mr, Commonwealth Conciliation Com-
missioner Blakeley was taken from his
other duties, whatever they may be, to
conduct an “investigation” at the Port
Kembla works of Australian Iron and
Steel. The notorious Thornton, general
secretary of the Federated Ironworkers’
Union or Red racket (“We made
strikes our business... .in 1941 we de-
clared in favor of a democratic peace”),
seems to have done most of the “investi-
gating.” At one stage counsel for the
company said he had been instructed to
absent himself from the “investigation” if,
as he understood, Mr. Thornton “intended
to attack Industrial Judge Cantor.” This,
to Mr. Thornton, was equivalent to
“throwing a bombshell into the ‘investi-
gation,’ ” but he recovered from the
bomb-shock sufficiently to Demand “a
new tribunal to deal with the steel and
non-ferrous industries, with power to fix
wages and conditions.” The Demand
was supported by two other union secre-
taries.
Mr. Commonwealth Conciliation Com-
missioner Blakeley had previously been
taken from his other duties, whatever
they may be, to conduct an “investiga-
tion” at a Commonwealth Aircraft Cor-
poration factory. This “investigation”
forms a unique chapter in the “regulation”
of industry, even in the woolly Labor
style. It concerned a machine hand and
shop steward named Rice, a Red with an
unsavory history, whom the company
sent about his business —to the vast in-
dignation of trade-union bosses, who
“saw Eddie Ward,” meanwhile threaten-
ing a strike. Mr. Ward intervened, and
Mr. Blakeley came into the picture.
Having heard evidence or some
evidence —Mr. Blakeley pronounced Rice
“irresponsible, interfering and inattentive
to his important work,” and referred to
a letter from the Security Department.
The letter stated that Rice wds known
“at the Fingerprint Branch, his last con-
viction being in 1938,” and that he was
“not considered suitable for continued
employment in an organisation respon-
sible for the execution of vital defence
work.” Mr. Blakeley also referred to
charges that Rice had held meetings at
the factory and absented himself from
the duties for which he was paid at
Arbitration Court rates, in each case
without permission. Nevertheless, Mr.
Blakeley ordered the company to take
Rice back on two months’ probation;
and without prejudice to its right of
appeal to the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court —seemingly one of the few
rights that haven’t been “regulated” out
of existence —it took him back.
The case was carried to the Arbitra-
tion Court on application for a certifi-
cate that, inasmuch as the Blakeley order
“contained provisions affecting conditions
of employment,” it was subject to review
by the Court. In “a long joint and unani-
mous judgment,” the Full Bench ruled
that the order contained such provisions,
and that the conditions of employment
involved were “likely to affect the public
interest.” Though describing the Blake-
ley order as “unprecedented,” their
Honors said they “would not be disposed
to set it aside on an appeal under Sec-
tion 31a” if they “agreed that the posi-
tion was as indicated in the Commis-
sioner’s judgment.” They did not so
agree; “in our opinion there was a mis-
trial in this case, and we find ourselves
unable, after having examined the evi-
dence, to adopt the Commissioner’s con-
clusions and findings.”
Of itself the fact that there was a mis-
trial was immaterial to the question the
Court had to consider.
A Conciliation Commissioner may, in
the making of an order, misdirect himself
as to the law and as to the weight and ad-
missibility of evidence, yet his decision
cannot be challenged unless the provision
in question is one affecting a condition of
employment which, in the opinion of the
Court, is likely to affect the public inter-
est. The right to appeal must be founded
upon the provisions of the order and not
upon the conduct of the Commissioner.
The Commissioner’s conduct had, how-
ever, “precluded a proper consideration.”
Though it was admitted that Rice had a
criminal record, the Commissioner had
“rejected evidence as to it.” Their
Honors were “not fully informed of
Rice’s record,” but they knew “enough
of it to feel that incidents which appar-
ently the Commissioner regarded as
nothing more than pin-pricking or vexa-
tious had a much greater significance if
the testimony against Rice was accepted.”
In effect “while the man was being paid
by his union to protect the interests and
rights of its members, he had endeavored
to obtain money from an employer in
consideration of betraying his trust, and
had carried this attempt to the stage of
demanding the money by menaces.”
Such a man’s “subsequent conduct might
show whether there had been any refor-
mation or change of spirit on his part.”
If certain evidence was to be believed,
Rice was “still disposed to blackmailing”
and had “endeavored by threats to influ-
ence an inspector to change his methods
of inspection.” But although Rice’s own
evidence “was in conflict with that of
a number of other witnesses” and “his
credit” was a material point, Mr. Blakeley
had disallowed cross-examination as to
his record. The decision was that “the
appeal should be allowed to proceed.”
On the day which saw the delivery of
this judgment, “the appointment of a
tribunal to fix wages and conditions
for rural workers principally engaged in
the wheatgrowing industry,” with a chair-
man “nominated by the Federal Govern-
ment,” was agreed to by the Wheat-
growers’ Federation and the A.W.U., and
the A.C.T.U, asked the Commonwealth
Government, the Government that
“pegged wages” last February, to add
“a war loading of 6s. a week”
to the basic wage throughout Aus-
tralia by regulation. The same Gov-
ernment, going outside its Arbitration
Court, paid a crew amounts ranging
from £lB6 4s. to £65 10s., exclusive of
overtime, for taking a vessel from' Mel-
bourne to Fremantle.
That’s all for the present, but the six
State Parliaments may be expected to
break into the wage-fixing business at
any moment. Nowadays they are prin-
cipally occupied in pretending that they
really have something to do.
Blackguarding J. Bull.
In the House of Lords on October 1
fellow-peers scathingly attacked the Left
Lord Strabolgi over an article he
had written for the U.S. publication
“Collier’s Magazine.” They had taken
a fair time catching up: the article was
published in the August 22 issue of
“Collier’s” under the heading “What’s
Wrong with the British Army?” so that
any mischief it might have worked would
have already been done.
In a reply which Lord Lovat, who led
the attack, described as “the lamest I
have ever heard,” the Left peer denied
slandering the British Army. Actually,
he said of it that “the British Army,
apart from many individual acts of
bravery, has not shown up well in this
war.”
If we leave out of account minor expedi-
tions against the Vichy French, the British
Army has two victories to its credit, against
the Italians... .With these exceptions,
against both the Japanese and the Germans
the British Army has only chronicled a
dismal record of failures.
In refraining, in his fashion, from
slandering the British Army, Lord
Strabolgi wanted to know why was its
prestige, “to put it bluntly, so low?”
With America shipping thousands of its
troops to J. Bull’s home islands, to stand
side by side with this same British Army,
the noble and patriotic journalist’s words
could, of course, only have the effect
of inspiring those who had read them
with a fresh degree of confidence —that
is, on a Strabolgian definition of what
is and what isn’t slander. On the same
terms, confidence would be similarly
heightened by Lord Strabolgi’s answer
to his own leading question. He explained
that what was wrong with the British
Army was that it was controlled by “a
clique within a class.” Lord Lovat
summed up on it;
The article alleged that the military de-
feats had been due to a lack of faith in
British generals, because they were bad
generals, and that they were bad generals
because they were professional soldiers.
Lord Lovat condemned the outpouring
as “calculated to shake American faith
in the British Army’s leadership.” Lord
Denman questioned the “effects of the
article on American officers if a second
front was formed and they had to take
orders from the men discredited by Lord
Strabolgi.” No doubt American officers
and doughboys are made of stuff too
tough to be much influenced by the crank
views of a Left peer notorious for such
views; but it might seem to have some
significance that, on the day Lord
Strabolgi’s precious article appeared for
very widespread circulation in America,
the New York “Daily Mirror” was im-
pelled to come out with a leader begin-
ning:—
It is said that “anti-British feeling is
growing in America.” A market has been
developed for the idea that “Britain will
fight to the last ally!”
In developing that “market” Lord
Strabolgi could fairly claim some credit
for his writing ; but he is, after all, only
typical of basic Leftism, differing in that
he singled out the British Army only, ex-
cluding the Navy and R.A.F. The general
run on the Left have not been so exclu-
sive. With design obvious enough, it has
been the general Left game to sneer at
J. Bull for his part in the war as a whole,
accusing him of slacking, of needing
prodding; even accusing him —which
brings in his R.A.F., his Navy, his Army
and his merchant seamen inclusive —of
cowardice.
This is nothing new. It was the Left
line to sneer at J.B. long before the war;
to accuse him of decadence, and to fore-
cast the collapse of his Empire. The war
on, that Left line continued; at first,
because it then suited Leftists to repre-
sent that this was merely another “Im-
perialist war”; then, with Russia in-
volved, because it now suited Left
propaganda to pretend that J.B. was
doing nothing.
Official British figures can make all
these sneerers look cheap. One such
record —curiously little-publicised, com-
pared with the prominence widely given
to Left sneer propaganda mentioned
the. most outstanding single fact of this
war: that it was J.B, alone who stopped
a swift and complete Nazi victory. After
the Dunkirk disaster, J.B. rejected a
dishonorable peace. Without outside
help he kept control of the seas ; won
the Battle for Britain against seemingly
impossible odds; endured the worst bomb-
ings in history; reformed and equipped
a great army in Britain ; supplied half
the men sent to the Middle East and
equipped nearly the whole of them ; sent
abroad 80 per cent, of total military pro-
duction ; used 600 warships to keep open
sea lines of communication for the
Empire and its Allies ; supplied Russia
freely with arms, equipment and materials
badly needed on many of J.B.’s own
fronts.
Of all active-service casualties suffered
by the British Commonwealth of Nations
since the war began, no fewer than 70
per cent, (up to the time these figures
were issued) were men from the United
Kingdom. As well, J.B.’s home casual-
ties from bombing in the first three years
of the war were 47,305 civilians killed
and 55,658 seriously injured.
J.B.’s own troops have fought during
this war in France, Belgium, Norway,
North Africa, East Africa, Somaliland,
Greece, Crete, Syria, Libya, Iraq, Iran,
Malaya, Java, Hongkong, Burma and
Madagascar. The R.A.F. (its personnel
70 per cent J.B.’s own men) has fought
in every major campaign, apart from
what it did in Britain (the greatest of
all air victories) and what it has done
and is doing over the seas. Last month
it lost 194 aircraft over Europe, including
155 bombers lost on night raids; in
August the loss was 271 aircraft. As
well, the R.A.F. lost 91 aircraft in the
Middle East in September, and 106 in
August.
On figures given out in America by
Lord Halifax—no doubt to counter the
damaging effects of Left propaganda of
the Lord Strabolgi brand —Britain is
turning out as many aircraft as Ger-
many, which has nearly double the popu-
lation, not counting imported enforced
labor. In a remarkable article in the
September “American Mercury,” the
U.S aviation authority Major P. de
Seversky testifies to the quality of those
J.B. products, declaring that British pur-
suit ’planes fly faster and higher than
those America has so far produced, and
that “the best British bombers could
easily outdistance American bombers with
equal useful loads.” Lord Halifax also
told his American audience that J.B.’s
“war production per head of population
is greater than that of any other nation.”
All this represents only a fragment
outline of some part of what J.B. has
done and is doing. Returned Diggers
who have fought beside them swear by
the British regular soldiers, tank troops
and others, and their leaders. Their
present Commander-in-Chief in the
Middle East, with justifiable pride in
them, praises “qualities which make them
the finest fighters in the world.” He in-
stanced their courage fighting back to
Dunkirk ; the Eighth Army in its recent
North African stand;
Just when the world might have been
expected to collapse around its ears, it
stopped dead, re-formed and returned to
face the enemy.
Also Burma:
As their physical strength dwindled, as
their equipment and ammunition faded
away before the severe Japanese attacks,
the men of Burma achieved superb morale.
Strange that Left slanders about them
get a hearing at all. Strange, also, that
publicity is reserved for foreign generals
almost exclusively, and British leaders
like General Gort —for instance —are only
heard of when they are dead; though
the British political habit of sacking and
shuffling generals around may account
for much of this. Strangest of all that
Leftists doirig their poisonous slandering
of J.B. in and from British countries, and
newspapers in British and Allied coun-
tries acting as their tame vehicles, should
fail to realise that they are at the same
Jime doing the Axis’s dirty work—the
propaganda lie that J.B. is leaving it to
others being a main line of Axis propa-
ganda, calculated to breed dissension.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Voices from the Post.
Dr. Evatt duly received Parliamentary
sanction for the adoption of five clauses
of the Statute of Westminster, but some
of the enthusiasm with which he recom-
mended a very long Constitutional
amendment to the House seems to have
oozed out of him. Anyway, the thing is
to be referred to “a committee of 24
members, representative of the Govern-
ments and Oppositions” in the seven Par-
liaments ; and we know what committees
are.
“That’s good-bye to the referendum,”
said a cynic sitting behind Dr. Evatt.
Whether time proves him right or wrong,
there will be no need for a referendum
for a very long time to come. For the
period of the war and at least 12 months
afterwards the Government can exercise
all the powers which are exercisable by
Governments in countries with unitary
systems, and if a referendum were to be
fought on political issues, such as the
danger that trade, commerce and indus-
try may fall under the control of Mr.
Ward and his friends, it would be better
to dispense with it altogether and bring
about union by other means —the High
Court judgment in the uniform-income-
taxation case pointed the way.
During the debate on the Statute of
Westminster, Mr. W. M. Hughes showed
a flash of his old fire. Previous discus-
sions were referred to, but it is strange
that nobody quoted the present Chief
Justice of the High Court, who said on
July 17, 1931, that Clause 3, now accepted
by the Commonwealth Parliament, would
not apply to the States, which are “en-
titled to preserve such relations as they
like with the British Parliament and the
rest of the Empire,” specifically in respect
of their criminal laws. It is stranger
still that nobody quoted Mr. Churchill.
That gentleman, speaking as a private
member on November 21, 1931, opposed
the Statute of Westminster. He said it
would make an end of the Irish Treaty,
that “great pact and symbol of peace....
between those two parent races from
whose loins so much of the British
Empire has sprung.”
It would be open under this bill for the
Bail at any time to repudiate, with the full
sanction of law and Parliamentary pro-
cedure, every provision in the Article of
Agreements. It could repeal the Irish Free
State Constitution Act in every respect
repudiate the right of the Imperial Gov-
ernment to utilise the harbor facilities at
Berehaven and Queenstown... .the right
of facilities for aviation and oil storage....
the limitation upon the size of the Free
State Army. The whole structure of the
Irish Treaty could be destroyed, not by
illegal repudiation, but by the mere passing
of a law through the Free State Parliament.
Other Churchillian prophecies have gone
wrong. In this case, what he foresaw
and dreaded came to pass, and it has
been his fate as Prime Minister to have
to make the best of it.
"Eat and Drink More . . .
It seems only yesterday since Australians
were being exhorted by display adver-
tisement and radio campaigns to eat more
apples, pears and lamb and drink more
wine. Housewives were assured that, by
giving the family these things, they were
“winning the war in the kitchen.”
Now, any Australian found taking a
little wine, munching an apple or pear,
furtively fondling a potato or feasting
his family on lamb is apt to be suspected
of black marketeering. Nobody seems
to know why commodities have sud-
denly become scarce, least of all the
herd of boards set up to “control” them.
One, the Apple and Pear Board, has
gone through millions of tax-money for
a net result of making pome fruits scarce
and dear.
In the year before the war Australia
exported 186,493,5001 b. of mutton
and lamb, 211,113,9001 b. of apples,
29,493,0001 b. of pears and 3,720,504ga1.
of wine. Fruit and wine exports have
ceased. Sheep-meat exports are cut to
the bone. There should therefore be a
surplus sufficient to give every man,
woman and child about 26ilb. of sheep
meat, 301 b. of apples, 41b. of pears and
half a gallon of wine a year in addition
to what was already being consumed.
The contention that we have Allied
service men to feed, that output of some
land products has fallen and that the
national capacity to satisfy its appetite
has improved doesn’t explain the almost
complete disappearance of commodities
that, without export relief, would reach
glut proportions The most astonish-
inp thinp of all is the scarcitv of wine
mg thing of all is the scarcity or wine.
It all points to shocking mismanage-
ment of the whole food question, and the
more boards and committees appointed
the worse the position becomes.
x~ A D f*
Uirec? to A.d.U.
a c . TT-t • rx j Tr
A strange feature of life m Sydney this
spring is that able-bodied Corns.—some
of military age, some above it, but all
apparently hale and hearty and capable
of contributing something to the war
effort—are to be seen, and their work is
to be smelt, in their accustomed haunts,
Surely Communist agitation is not a
protected industry.
But one of the younger “comrades,”
who has, it seems, been weighed down
by “nostalgia for Russia,” has got back
there, and his regulation Red voice has
been heard over the national broadcast-
ing system. He is described as A.B.C. s
correspondent in Russia,
In his second broadcast from Moscow
the young man peddled the familiar
Second-Front stuff. A .Second Front
would bring death—probably useless as
well as horrible—to scores, perhaps hun-
dreds, of thousands of Britons, Canadians,
Americans and Maonlanders in e S
ing forces and the merchant navy , u
the young man isn t worrying about that.
He won t be there. .
The young man was born in Australia,
He got away in a Soviet ship which pre-
sumably was allowed sate passage
because the U.S.S.R. is not at war
Japan. On the way]he Passed lands
where Australians are at death-grips
with Japanese under dreadful condmons
m H % hero,c n e “°; t to kee P AuSt ff'“7 m'S
and free But his conscience, f any, did
not prick him and his skin 15 •
A-B.C. and its W Y < ’
last examined by Jolly, M.ER., £7OO a
week ) have a reputation for being mciul-
tQ Reds But this ptltrid arrange-
merd a young man who should not
have feeen allowed to leave the imperilled
count in which he was born, this fat
subsidising of “absenteeism” in the most
disgraceful form and of propaganda for
a Second Front—which might conceiv-
abiy mean the loss of the war and the
extinction of Australia—is the dead limit
of insolence and indecency.
»»- —
Waste Paper.
Despite all that has been said about the
need for saving paper you see waste
everywhere.
Heaps of paper lie outside chain-
stores, which issue sales checks which
the customer is asked to keep until he
g £ts outside. Heaps of it are wasted
by Parliaments and Government depar -
ments, in unnecessary advertising, in
(Continued on page 8.)
THE FORDE FREEDOMS.
“As Minister for the A.I.F. I demand freedom for it to fight anywhere...As Minister for the A.M.F. I demand freedom for it to fight
nowhere except on Australian soil...As Dr. Evatt’s colleague I demand the Four Freedoms...As representing the A.L.P. I demand
freedom to compel everybody to join a union.”


EXPERT CARE OF YOUR ESTATE
By a Company with 56 Years' 9 Experience,
TF you have appointed Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, Executor
of your Will, your Estate, on your death, will be in safe hands. It
will be administered firmly and correctly, but with sympathy and under-
standing, and in a personal and friendly way. The Company would
not have grown in 56 years to be one of the largest Trustee Companies
in the world if its service had been mechanical or impersonal. An
interview with a Senior Officer of the Company is suggested, or, perhaps
you would prefer to write for explanatory booklet?
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.O. ; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £59,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: 0. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
FISHING TACKLE FOR
EVERY NEEP
TROUT FLIES. —Here’s a large and highly specialised range. Write,
or call and see them.
NETTING NEEDLES. —All sizes. We have just received large new
stocks.^
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
1
isfotr.<k
pamphlets, in a thousand different ways,
Few householders are saving paper.
Most of them would have a job to de-
fend themselves against charges of waste.
So would most individuals who are not
householders.
In England as long ago as March 6
the following item appeared in the press:
From Monday next it will be an offence
to throw away a bus ticket. Housewives
must not wrap ashes, potato peelings,
refuse in old newspapers a minimum of
paper must be used for fire-lighting
Paper-wasters may be fined up to £lOO or
three months, or both, in summary court,
and £5OO or two years, or both, on indict-
ment.
Collection of waste paper, where it has
been saved by the honest and patriotic
householder or business, is a hit-or-miss
business in Australia. It is no excuse
for waste, though another sad commen-
tary on the whole futile plan of trying
to run a war on the “voluntary system.
POLITICAL POINTS
Charles George Latham is the new
Westralian Senator. In his last speech as
Leader of the State Opposition he said:
“If a referendum is taken at the end of
this year every one of us should go out
into the country and explain to the
people that the adoption of unification
will mean the giving away of their birth-
right.” He may change when he gets to
Canberra, but it doesn’t seem likely.
All sorts of things were expected from
Maxie Falstein, M.H.R., A.C.2, when
his “period of detention” ended. People
were led to believe he’d say something
hair-raising about R.A.A.F. discipline,
conditions in the clink, and so forth. He
reached Canberra. Out came his state-
ment: Races should be held every Satur-
day. Randwick is in Maxie’s electorate.
Anonymous doggerel which came to
this office in a letter bearing the Canberra
postmark:
A Bathurst (N.S.W.) orchardist has
given the Sydney press seven reasons why
he intends to destroy his apple crop this
year. He could have done it in seven
words: The Australian Apple and Pear
Marketing Board.
“Second Front Vital, Declares Willkie.”
So the headline ran in Sydney’s “Daily
Mirror,” and below it F. Ehrenfried
Baume, “chief of the ‘Daily Mirror’s’
London staff,” explained that Willkie had
said “what many of us here have been
trying to say for months.” On the same
page was an editorial: “Smash Japan
from the Air before it is Too Late,” with
these opening sentences:
The world appears to be greatly con-
cerned over a Second Front in Europe....
For Australia, the vital front, at the
moment, is in the Pacific.
In short, the “Daily Mirror” supports a
Second Front in Europe, but has a lin-
gering prejudice in favor of a Second
Front in Australia.
For a reference to the case of a girl
secretary who disappeared without leav-
ing a trace, Barnes, the queer bird from
Bundaberg, has been suspended by his
fellow-members for two weeks without
pay. What he said was nasty, but things
as nasty or nastier have been said in
other Parliaments with impunity. Cal-
well, M.H.R,, made a gross and utterly
unwarranted attack on the Air Force
officer who gave evidence against Fal-
stein. All it brought him was a rebuke
from Curtin, and the rebuke had so little
effect that before members scampered
away Calwell put a string of questions
of the have-you-stopped-beating-your-
wife? order on the notice paper. Crimi-
nal libels have been vomited in the
Senate and the N.S.W. Assembly and
recorded in “Hansard” without any con-
sequence other than protests from mem-
bers who preserve the decencies.
In a sort of apologia for the dreadful
Apple and Pear Board, Sydney “Sun”
remarks that the Parliamentary com-
mittee of inquiry last year heard 349 wit-
nesses in six States, and found that only
18 were opposed to any form of control.
Then the committee heard the wrong
witnesses. It would be interesting to
hear some of those same witnesses now.
“Ex-Premier Forgan Smith is retiring from politics to become chairman of the Central
Sugarcane Prices Board at £2000 p.a. He has recommended his son as his successor.”
“Ah’ll tak’ the high road, and ye’ll tak the low road.
An’ Ah’ll be in sugar afor-r-re ye.”
Ward, speaking on his favorite stamp-
ing ground, the Domain, made a boast
of having “tried to get into my depart-
ment as many Labor men as 1 can.”
One of the many is Garden, who has a
soft job with a fancy name, “Liaison
Officer” between the unions and the Gov-
ernment. The spiritual father of these
“Labor men” was Mr. Flanagan, of
Texas, whose one recorded oration has
a place in history alongside that of
“Single-speech” Hamilton. “To the vic-
tors belong the spoils,” quoth Mr. Flana-
gan, of Texas. “What are we here for?’’
C. G. Jesson, a Queensland Labor
M.L.A., was annoyed because he couldn’t
get a priority to fly down to Brisbane
from his northern electorate. “After I
telegraphed to the Premier,” he snorted,
“the military gave it to me, but put on
the bottom of the telegram Tf extra
mails, unload Jesson.’ ” After the howl
of mirth subsided, the poor man wailed
“It might seem very amusing to you; it
was not to me.” It certainly is not amus-
ing that the fighting forces should be
harried by small-time politicians.
“Costless-credit” cranks are fond of
fathering their nostrum on Abraham Lin-
coln. The latest is an unsuccessful Lang
candidate for the Senate, and the same
yarn has been heard from Senator
Darcey and Wilson, M.H.R. These
worthies are very vague as to when and
where Lincoln recommended the quack
medicine. If in a moment of youthful
folly he ever did, he certainly never tried,
when President, to ram it down his
nation’s throat.
Federal Commerce Minister Scully has
“reconstituted” the Australian Wheat
Board, There will be seven grower rep-
resentatives, one flourmill representative
and a chairman. Ay, and another board
in each .State, with secretaries and typists
and all sorts of things. And wheat will
remain a political headache.
Information about the Perth-Fremantle
s.p. industry, presented in the Leg. Coun-
cil, in reply to questions asked by
Chairman-of-Committees Cornell;
Convictions for two years to July 1, 1942,
701; fines, £48,819; costs, £664; number
of shops concerned, 71; number of persons
convicted more than once, 26.
Fantastic as it seems, s.p. fines were
allowable deductions from income in
pre-Chifley years, and Cornell has been
informed that they will still be deduc-
tions under the uniform-income-taxation
law. If Chifley doesn’t interpose with a
veto, it will be a case of “O Austerity,
what crimes can be committed in thy
name! ”
Westralia lost £387,000 on its Govern-
ment railways last year. Losses on other
utilities were £89,500 on ships, £32,700
on meatworks, £9725 on engineering
works, £5303 on quarries and £1265 on
brickworks. Profits of £53,900 were
made on sawmills, £41,200 on tramways,
£22,800 on electricity works, £3OOO on
pubs and £16,700 on Goldfields Water
Supply—still Westralia’s greatest engi-
neering triumph, and always identified
with the names of C. Y. O’Connor and
John Forrest.
“On the civilian front,” remarks Bris-
bane “Courier-Mail,” “from the shame-
ful story of Darwin, still hushed up by
the Government, to the latest demand
that the Army should lay down its arms
to relieve a temporary labor shortage [for
the harvest] there has been slavish adher-
ence to rule and custom and the usual
easy way of doing things.” Only too true.
Anyone with 15s. to spare could
scarcely do worse than spend it on a copy
of the report presented to the N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly by the Select Committee
that “investigated” the Homebush abat-
toirs and saleyards. “Minutes” and all,
it weighs 21b. 3oz. and is spread over 405
pages, most of which run to 1500 or
1600 words. The thing is useless, and
worse ; a wickeder waste of paper could
not be conceived. But presumably it is
reckoned to be “part of the State war
effort,” of which McKell and his Minis-
ters blither so much.
“The Government is to provide can-
teen services at munition factories” —
Ward said it, and it has come to
pass. Meals are to be “available
at a reasonable price and the can-
teens will not operate at a profit.” Ward
needn’t have said that. While nobody
objects to Ward’s Government running
canteens, nobody expects miracles like
profits.
Newspapers have become smaller still,
another newsprint cut having been decided
upon. Meanwhile Communists seem to
be able to get as much as they want for
their publications, most of which are
illegal, and the “A.B.C. Weekly” con-
tinues to absorb large quantities at a
large loss of listeners’ money.
There is a tremendous gap between
the expenditure on Commonwealth
maternity allowances and child endow-
ment —£359,000 and £11,303,000 last
year, with an estimate of £375,000 and
£12,060,000 this year. Since maternity
costs are increasing and the first child,
on which no endowment is paid, is the
most expensive the gap cannot be justi-
fied. Apropos, the payroll tax has fallen
far short of paying for the child endow-
ment. It yielded £8,962,400 last year, and
is expected to yield £9,750,000 this year.
“Hansard” records startling things that
were said during one of the Budget-
debate “all-nighters,” only scraps of
which were reported in the papers:
Clarke (Darling): When the present
Government took office there was not one
fighter ’plane in Australia and the Army
had decided that the north-west of W.A.,
northern Queensland and portions of the
Northern Territory were not to be de-
fended against the Japanese.
Johnson (Kalgoorlie): I left Canberra
in July, intending to visit the north-west,
which had already been attacked by the
enemy. Arriving in Westralia, I was in-
formed that the whole of the north-west
was to be abandoned and that the most
northern defence line would be the Moore
River, 65 miles north of Perth as the
crow flies.
Johnson added, however, “that every
port in Westralia is now defended and
that is the position in the other States
also.” Clarke gave the Government
credit for sending troops to New Guinea,
for getting “hundreds of ’planes of
various types,” and for mobilising a vast
army of men to build aerodromes and
strategic roads.
“Ear Punisher”; Premier Dunstan con-
tinues to talk about the State’s war effort.
I am reminded of a goat belonging to
a friend of mine. It was attacked by a
neighbor’s dog and its left hind leg had
to be amputated. Whenever it gets an
itch behind the ear it goes through all
the motions of scratching behind the ear
with the leg that happens to be missing.
I believe it is what the psychologists call
a conditioned reflex.
The winds of heaven whispered low; the
thunder roared “It’s true!”
From Pole to Pole the story ran, from 1 China
to Peru.
“Fate, do your worst,” Lucullus said, “for I
this day have dined”;
But old philosophies fell down when Forgan
Smith resigned.
What milling thousands in the streets! What
news the extras bring!
What special services in choirs and places where
they sing!
All Englishmen were plunged in grief, from
prince and peer to hind;
Yea, all Democracy stood still when Forgan
Smith resigned.
“He’s gone,” quoth Churchill with a groan,
“and never said ‘Ta-ta’! ” 1
“Page me a bomber,” Roosevelt cried, “I’m
off to Shangri-La!”
“Mein Fiihrer, see,” Joe Goebbels shrieked,
“der news at last iss kind —
Ochstralia from der var mitdraws —Herr Vorgan
Schmitt’s resigned.”
The tidings lapped the warring world to every
clime and land,
From Greenland’s icy mountaintops to India’s
coral strand.
The fires of dead volcanoes burst from limbos
long confined
And blew the continents to bits when Forgan
Smith resigned.
That night a messenger from Mars arrived, plus
carpet bag,
And on the ruins of the world he raised the
Martian flag.
He tuned his pedal wireless up to broadcast
to the wind: /
“It’s very lonely here on earth now Forgan
Smith’s resigned!”


a
mmM
_ ££
- ;• • '
.
WORLD FAMOUS SHIPS
including the “Queen Elizabeth,” 85,000 tons (illustrated);
“Queen Mary,” 81,250 tons; “Mauretania,” 35,000 tons, use
Exide batteries for essential equipment. You, too, can depend
on Exide for your car, radio or home lighting plant.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
PERSONAL ITEMS
E. J. Hogan, Victoria’s tall Minister
for Agriculture and Mines, has lost
one of his three sons in the fighting
services. Leading Aircraftman T. L.
Hogan was killed during flying training
on a Rhodesian bombing range. He left
the Vacuum Oil Co. to enlist in the
R.A.A.F. in 1941.
Vast increase in R.A.A.F. personnel
and the complexity and multitude of the
problems, legal and semi-legal, that in-
crease has created have made a legal
advisory authority necessary to the
Air Board, and Minister Drakeford’s
choice has fallen on Victorian-born
Edward Herbert Hudson, K.C. As
Judge Advocate General to the Air Force
with the rank of group-captain, his job
is to examine all proceedings of courts-
GROUP-CAPTAIN HUDSON, K.C.
martial with a view to eliminating errors
in law and procedure and possible mis-
carriages of justice. A graduate of Mel-
bourne Uriiversity, law and golf have
been E. H. Hudson’s hobbies ever since
he won the Judge’s Supreme Court Prize
in 1921 and started out to build up one
of the largest practices in Melbourne.
He took silk three years ago when he
was 40. A low-mark golfer, he is captain
of the Riversdale G.C.
Filing his suit for divorce against his
American wife, Sir Thomas Beecham
charged her with “extravagance and con-
stant harping.” A wife who allegedly
pledged her husband’s credit to the tune
of 500,000 dollars in a single week migftt
be said to be playing simultaneously on
all the instruments in the percussion
group, rather than the gentle harp. Never-
theless, her spending scarcely matched
S’Tom’s. He spent the fortune left him
by his father, of pill-making fame, on
some of the most gigantic musical pro-
jects any country has known. The result
was the British National Opera Co.,
which would never have even begun if
he had not lost enormously on it.
Afterwards, he took Covent Garden
Theatre, gave a magnificent series of
operas and beggared himself once more.
Winner of this year’s first prize in the
Melb. National Gallery students’ com-
petition is Sergeant F. A. Furumo, of
the U.S. Army, who paints in his spare
time on active service. Previously he
was a lithographer in a Milwaukee com-
mercial art firm.
The other day a diminutive figure in
civvies, wearing parachute harness,
stepped from a ’plane at the foot of the
Owen Stanley Range—Arthur Drakeford.
By common consent Drakeford has done
a good job as Air Minister, is highly
popular with his party and with members
generally—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph”
was never wider of the mark than when
it recently alleged that he had the “skids”
under him. A leading line of. his policy
is seeing that Australians get their share
of high air commands. In the Falstein
case he showed a sense of responsibility
—rare these days—in refusing to place
political considerations before Air Force
discipline. A" member of the Federal
A.L.P. executive, he’s also president of
the Engine Drivers’ Union, a body noted
for its Australianism.
Feared by criminals:
When Judge Herbert Raine Curlewis (who
has passed on in Sydney at 73) retired from
the District Court Bench in 1939 he was de-
scribed as “the greatest Judge that ever sat
in that jurisdiction,” but nobody had any
doubt that a certain brand of criminals felt
much relieved. Relief may have been felt, too,
by a certain number of counsel, for Judge
Curlewis was specially noted for two particular
traits —his forthright strictures on mean and
cowardly crime, with sentences to match; and
his cutting comments on counsel who misused
the King’s English. Criminals found guilty
before him of crimes of violence and cruelty
could be certain that retribution had found
them in an appropriate form. Also noted for
the frequency with which he declared repeated
offenders habitual criminals, he held that
through, this they were given the chance to fix
their own sentence. On the other hand, he
dealt lightly and protectively with young
offenders. Born at Bondi (Sydney), he was
called to the Bar in 1893 and appointed to
the Arbitration Court Bench in 1917, chang-
ing to the District Court and Quarter Sessions
in 1928. In his early days at the Bar a Bulle-
tin contributor, he was later a Sydney Uni-
versity lecturer and author of a number of
books on Law. He married Australian novelist
Ethel Turner. A son, Captain Adrian Cur-
lewis, has been reported missing in Malaya.
Reported missing in air operations in
Europe, Flying-Officer G. R. Anderson,
in the palmy days of peace one of the
late Gregan McMahon’s trusted corps
of actors. Joining the R.A.A.F. in 1940,
he went to England in the next year, and
was posted as navigator to Squadron-
Leader Catanach’s Australian Hampden
Bomber Squadron. Wounded and recov-
ered, he joined a new Australian torpedo-
bomber squadron, and had recently been
in a number of successful sorties over
Norwegian waters. A brother is missing
in Malaya.
With the passing, at 88, of George
Ferrars Townshend, a notable figure in
Auckland (M.L.), where he’d lived for
73 years, his eldest son, Ferrars Osborne
Townshend, becomes heir presumptive to
the title of Marquis of Townshend, which
dates back to 1724. Another son is
Bulletin artist G. K. Townshend, art
instructor at Sydney Tech.
The present marquis is
serving with the British
forces : he’s 24. George
Ferrars Townshend, a
native of Guernsey and
son of Rev. Lord George
Osborne Townshend,
landed in Maoriland with
his widowed mother, Lady
Victoria, and two brothers
in a windjammer in 1877.
He joined the Lands and
Survey Dept. He was
keen on yachting and fish-
ing, and he painted well in
oils. The Townshend who
became noted as the de-
fender of Kut was his
nephew.
V.D.C. commander in
Westralia, Sydney - born
Brigadier-General A. J.
Bessell-Browne, collected a
captaincy and D.S.O. in
the Boer War, and in the
1914-18 outbreak com-
manded the Bth Battery,
A.1.F., and saw the Galli-
poli campaign from land-
ing to evacuation. He
commanded the sth Aus-
tralian Divisional Artillery
in France, where, besides
the C.B. and C.M.G., the American
D.S.M. came his way for his support of
the U.S. forces in August-September,
1918.
S.A. has again gone to Tas. for a
National Fitness organiser, T. I. Thomp-
son (it was B. F. G. Apps before). Both
learned the job in Melbourne, where they
earned the Uni.’s Physical Education
diploma.
There is a link between Col. R. H.
Lewis, of the U.S. Army, and Charles
Joseph La Trobe, first Governor of Mel-
bourne, the colonel’s wife being the great-
great-granddaughter of John Henry B.
La Trobe, a relative of Charles Joseph ;
both Charles and John went to America
in the beginning of the nineteenth cen-
tury. Charles toured the “States” on a
lecturing tour with Washington Irving.
Then he returned to London, and even-
tually reached Australia. John became
the architect of a lot of Washington s
early buildings. The colonel was an
interested visitor the other day at Mel-
bourne Town Hall, where La Trobe
relics are on display.
Intrepid Victorian missionary Rev.
Henry Matthews was shifting natives to
a place of safety in New Guinea when,
it is believed, a Jap sub. ended the enter-
prise. After 33 years’ laboring in the
vineyard on the Mitchell River, at Port
Moresby and other places, Rev. Mat-
thews was at an advanced post when the
Japs arrived. He was given a chance to
leave but refused, preferring to stay with
his charges. He was born at Ararat.
Keith Officer, 0.8. E., chief of the Aus-
tralian Legation at Tokyo, now on his
way back under an exchange arrange-
ment, has had a picturesque career in
the diplomatic service. A member of a
well-known Victorian squatting family,
he studied law at Melbourne University,
and for a while was associate to High
Court Justice Higgins. After winning an
M.C. in the last war he got the job of
political officer in Northern Nigeria. Then
he became secretary to the Governor of
Nigeria. The Commonwealth External
Affairs Department found his experience
and polish useful, and he was succes-
sively liaison officer in London and coun-
sellor to the British Embassy at Wash-
ington, to the Australian Legation at
Washington and to the Australian Lega-
tion at Tokyo. In 1933 he succeeded his
old undergraduate companion R. G.
Casey at the British Foreign Office.
Scribe’s Dream of Heaven:
Gold from the Sea, by J. R. W. Taylor, is
on the bookstalls; the story of the __salvaging
of more than £2,000,000-worth of gold that
went down with the Niagara off the N.Z.
coast in 1940. How Taylor came to get the
material for his book is a journalist’s notion
of Paradise. Son of R. S. Taylor (editor of
Brisbane “Courier” for 15 years up to his
death in 1932), Jim Taylor joined the “S. M.
Herald” staff in 1928, transferring from the
“Courier” after a while with Sydney “Tele-
graph.” One night in September, 1941, word
got to him to ring the “Herald,” “urgent, very
important.” Next, could he leave immediately
for New Zealand? It would be a “thrill”; just
JIM TAYLOR DROPS IN.
what kind of a thrill, said general manager
R. A. Henderson, “I won’t tell you.” For
security reasons, only g.m. Henderson and War-
wick Fairfax knew what it was about. Taylor
jumped at it, boarded the 40-year-old Claymore,
and was on his way to cover the lifting of
the Niagara’s heaps of ingots. Introducing
the book, W. A. Mackay (managing director
of the Macdonald Hamilton shipping firm)
mentions, of the salvage team, Capt. Williams
(A.U.S.N. co.), Capt. J. W. Herd (same cq.;
later marine surveyor in Brisbane), and chief
diver Johnstone (“probably the greatest diver
in the Southern Hemisphere”). Taylor records
how, when the first heap of gold came up (after
disappointments), Capt. Williams insisted on all
hands celebrating; keeping in mind that they
were “engaged on a venture of patriotic signifi-
cance, they were careful to precede their revelry
with appropriate ceremonial.” Then the de-
scription of them, out there with the sea to
themselves, toasting the King aitd bellowing the
National Anthem “with a fervor that might
have made the Royal ears redden.” Taylor
went down below himself, cramped with John-
stone in the diving bell, to get his “local color”
right and see what Davy Jones’s domain on the
floor of the Pacific really looks like.
Lieut.-Col. Albert Philip Harold Oke
(here depicted by Coventry) is yet another
proof that the youngster who makes time
LIEUT.-COL. OKE.
for attending night classes has more to
him than the average run. He started as
a telegraph messenger when 13, went
night-classing till he was able to pass a
telegraphist’s exam., then stuck at it till
he collected an accountancy diploma.
He joined Defence as a clerk, and was
there 15 years before transferring to
Taxation as senior investigating officer in
S.A. Now he has charge of ordnance
services in the S.A. line of communi-
cation.
Into the silence:
Of wounds in Egypt, Corporal Meha Kani,
member of the Maori battalion and of a dis-
tinguished Maori family. A native of Poronga-
hau (Hawke’s Bay), he was 26 and a splendid
physical type. He was adopted by his grand-
mother, Mrs. Mere Meha, now over 100.
Kani’s grandfather, Puhara Hawai Kirangi, was
a paramount chief of the Ngati Kahungungu
in the Maori War days.
Edward J. Doran (77), born at West Mait-
land (N.S.W.), started in the P.M.G.’s De-
partment when 13, transferred as expert tele-
graphist to Railways, next to Tramways, where
he became traffic manager. He had a couple
of trips abroad; one at the Government’s shout,
the other as a governor of Rotary, in whose
interests he travelled the length and breadth
of Australia during his 11 years of retirement.
He did the State some service—over 50 years
on the job.
At 74, V.R.C. chairman, pastoralist and
former M.L.C. Alan Currie, who, at his Ercil-
doune (Vic.) property had the only flock de-
scended without infusion of any other blood
from the original sheep imported by the Mac-
arthurs. In the last war he won an M.C.
with the Royal Field Artillery, with which he
served for four years, being several times
wounded. He was knighted in 1937.
At Olinda (Vic.), at 76, David Blair, one of
Australia’s best-known timber men. Born in
Melbourne, he joined his father’s timber busi-
ness and of late years operated from Sydney.
He knew the vast tropical forests of the Near
North almost as well as he did Australia’s, and
it was he who first injected Philippines and
Borneo timbers into the Australian market.
At 80, Jim Goodall, Labor member in the
M.L. Upper House. A born hard toiler —
farming, stevedoring, etc. —he was rarely seen
with his coat on except in the Uppah Chamber,
where wearing it must have been a great sacri-
fice.
In Melbourne, at 79, J. H. Gillies, who
went to Tasmania in 1908 in search of cheap
power to develop his discoveries in zinc-ore
treatment, got fropi the island’s Parliament
after 18 months’ hard work a bill to enable
him to exploit water power, got contracts for
lighting Hobart and other parts, went to London
and raised £140,000 and so became the father
of Tasmania’s great hydro-electric scheme.
At 54, in Melbourne, Percy Collingwood
Oake, for the last 17 years secretary of the
Victorian Chamber of Manufactures. A
member of the Victorian Council of Public
Education, the Victorian Commodities Board
and the State Advisory Prices Committee, he
was also an active Rotarian.


SOAPBOX SOPHISTRY.
“Nobody should bo allowed to draw more than
£5OO a year.” — Mr. Ward.
Austerity, especially in crises
Like these, I cleave to as a sacred creed.
1 loathe the levying of fancy prices
For any sort of service—yes, indeed —
One should be satisfied with what suffices
To meet a fair and reasonable need.
From ruling armies down to teaching Greek,
I’d make the maximum ten quid a week.
Judges and bishops, experts elevated
To run the railways or to make the grade
As bankers, chaps for whom there’ve been
created
Snug billets in the ten-to-four brigade,
Are far too lavishly remunerated,
I hold, and riotously overpaid.
How few there are could give a quid pro quo
For such a devil of a lot of dough!
You think my words would carry more convic-
tion
Were I to take a step within my reach,
Imposing on myself the same restriction
1 think desirable for all and each?
You hint I’m something of a contradiction
In that I fail to practise what I preach
By drawing thrice as much as, in my view,
Should constitute an equitable screw?
Ah, friends, you mustn’t take too literally
Or too intensive a construction place
On every pungent phrase or sprightly sally
Framed to impress the fickle populace.
Actions with speeches needn’t always tally,
And what’s O.K. in any other case
The most vociferous reformer’s prone
To find inapplicable in his own.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“M.C.”: A couple of w.os. having had
a scrap at an Australian address, arising
out of one of them (an old soldier)
allegedly telling the other (civilian till this
war, and in a non-combatant unit) that
he was a natural child, the same apply-
ing to every other member of the
corps. The non-combatant chap reported
it to his colonel, with the result that the
other day the alleged offender was up
for court-martial. Question by President
of the Court: “Did you, or did you not,
say that this w.o. was a natural child,
or that members of his corps were natural
children?” Accused; “To the best of
my recollection I did not way so, but I’ve
always thought so, and still think so.”
Case dismissed.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: As a mere working jour-
nalist, it gives me an indescribable
pleasure to sub-edit Keith Murdoch. He
wrote in Melbourne “Herald”: “I person-
ally hold strongly the opinion that every-
thing possible should be told us about the
New Guinea campaigns.” Surely, good
Keith, a newspaperman should have
boiled that down to “I believe that every-
thing possible should be told us about the
New Guinea campaigns”? And then any
good sub. would have cut it still further
to “Everything possible should be told us
about the New Guinea campaigns.”
After all, “Charge, Chester, charge ; on
Stanley, on!” were the last words of
Marmion ; not “I personally hold strongly
the opinion that you should charge,
Chester, charge.”
♦ * * *
“S.T.S.”: The Supreme Court of S.A.
has got in early with the legal presump-
tion that the whole personnel of H.M.A.S
Sydney is now dead. The father of a
seaman asked for a division of a trust
fund on that assumption, backed by a
certificate from the Naval Board. The
mother argued for waiting until the war
is over. The Public Trustee had doubted
if the evidence was sufficient, but the
Court felt satisfied.
H= * * *
“Young Carl”: In their burbling inno-
cence some of these Leftist writing-boys
who’ve got to Moscow let out information
that should frighten anybody off Commu-
nism for life. One of them goes into
raptures about the way women work in
Russia and how children are trained in
trade schools. “Trade schools are actu-
ally workshops, where children enter im-
mediately upon practical work. Their
working days are from 7.30 a.m. to 5.30
p.m.... they are paid half-rates on the
piecework system.” Ten hours a day!
No, thanks ; I’ll keep my kids in back-
ward Australia where a benevolent Labor
party will limit their hours to eight a
day for five days a week and pay thump-
ing overtime for any work in excess.
* * * *
“Left Chop”: I am overcome by the
latest development in the timeless career
of Joe Palooka, hero of an American
adventure strip in my morning daily.
Joe, world’s “champeen” heavyweight
pug, with the face of a schoolboy and the
nature of an angel, has apparently been
left behind after a commando raid into
enemy-held territory. He’s putting in
the time garrotting Nazis, blowing up
gasworks, befriending a French child and
nursing a wounded “buddy” named Jerry.
The scene switches to what is presum-
ably an English pub;
Scene 1: Two Yank soldiers in attitudes
of utter dejection on the bar counter.
Behind it a beeyewtiful English barmaid
gives tongue, “Where’s that little red’ead,
Jerry, ’e ain’t been in lately? Guard’ouse
again?”
Scene 2: One Yank walks sorrowfully
out. Barmaid, “Did I sye somethin’ wrong?
’E never answered me.” Remaining Yank,
“No. But he was a great pal of Jerry’s
and Joe Palooka’s. They—uh—we lost
’em. I—uh —well, we don’t like to men-
tion those things.” (The “uh” undoubtedly
should be translated as a gulp of manly
emotion.)
Scene 3: Barmaid weeps into handker-
chief, saying “Oh, there now. I’m terribly
sorry. I —I” . Yank, “Don’t, Sis.
That’s out.”
Scene 4: Barmaid, abashed and repentant,
“Oh, of coss. Excuse. I was thinkin’ of
my brother. ’E went at Dunkirk. Wot’ll
it be?”
Then comes the magnificent climax which
swept me into an ocean of emotion, for
that tough Yank stands right up under
his grief and calls for “Ginger beer and
a hard-boiled egg’’!
"It’s things like ’er Wot tears the veil of mystery from us girls."
“Harold Hardupp”: A number of
Sydney pubs which formerly would have
had but scant affection for the inquirer
for meals or a bed have got back into
the board-and-lodging business; in a
brief ramble through the town I tallied
eight such drinkeries showing notices in-
viting all-comers to try their lunches
and dinners and their other accommoda-
tion. Liquor shortages, no doubt, are
prompting the publicans to fall back on
a long-neglected side of their business.
“Bob Punter”: Bacchus forbid that I
should figure alive or dead with the
wowser choir, but boys of the Bung
breed in Sydney are resorting to a variety
of shabby dodges. With lessening of sup-
plies (which means lessening also of com-
petition) they’ve taken to shutting their
doors any time that suits them, and to
Sheol with the thirsty. The excuse is
lack of beer ; but there are other drink-
ables they’re not out of. They are under
a legal obligation to be open, but evi-
dently the present wowser wave makes
it safe for Bungs to flout the laws. Beer-
drinkers are made victims of special
dodges. Some pubs won’t sell schooners,
though to anyone who has to study his
pennies one of the big glasses is best
value. Other Bungs will sell schooners
only in saloon bars, where, of course,
they’re dearer than in the public. If I
knew how to make the stuff myself I’d
sign the pledge.
* * * *
“Taipo”: So many of Maoriland’s bar-
risters are now in khaki or air-force blue,
and so many of them find it necessary, in
discharge of obligations undertaken
before enlistment, to appear in court, that
the question as to whether it is fit and
proper for a counsel to sport a uniform
with his wig and gown has been discussed
rather sharply. Fair, J., drew a storm
by remarking acidly that he expected
counsel to apply for the Court’s permis-
sion before appearing in such a garb.
The matter was discussed in other courts,
and an utterance by Myers, C.J., was
interpreted as conveying disapproval of
Judge Fair’s attitude. Judge Fair there-
upon made a full statement on the sub-
ject. He disavowed hostility to the mili-
tary. He had served as a soldier for
eight years, five of them on active service,
and had held a commission. There was
no Army or Air Force regulation pro-
hibiting a barrister on service from
doffing his uniform and appearing in
usual dress in court, and where it was
not impossible there was every reason the
barrister should do so, thus avoiding “any
unnecessary departure from established
practice which might prejudice the impar-
tiality of the administration of justice.”
# * * *
“W.C.T.”: In my 70-odd years I have
seen many Ko-Kos (B. 16 /9 / ’42), includ-
ing George Thorne, Albert James, Walter
Passmore (Britain), Charles Workman,
George Lauri, Howard Vernon (the
tallest of them all) and Ivan Menzies.
Much of the “business” associated with
the part was common to them all, though
one or two could cackle in the quainter
situations better than others, especially
Albert James (a provincial Ko-Ko)*and
Charles Workman. None could sing in
the sense of a Fullard, nor were they
meant to. Gilbert’s idea was against
making a balladist of his comic man.
Workman and Passmore linger most
pleasantly in the memory.
» * *
“A.M.D.G.”: Apropos V.Cs. (B.
23/9/’42) —the award of “only six V.Cs.
to Australians” (in this war) is fairly
generous, considering that no more than
about 40 V.Cs. have been awarded by
the King since the start of the war. In-
cidentally, one posthumous V.C., awarded
to an officer of the Northumberland
Fusiliers for gallantry around Tobruk in
November last year, brings the total of
V.Cs. awarded to old boys of Stonyhurst
College (England) to seven, which is
probably a record for any English public
school. Stonyhurst is a Jesuit College in
the north of England.
# * * *
“Taniwha”: An unusual sort of con-
tribution t 6 the solution of post-war
problems is the Maoriland institution
known as the Sutherland Self-Help Trust.
Ben Sutherland was a railway servant
close to superannuation who in 1922 had
the idea of starting a “self-help co-opera-
tive grocery,” with shareholders drawn
from the railway service. A bit of a
fanatic, this Sutherland stuck to cer-
tain ideals and battled on, derided by
almost everybody. At last he succeeded.
There are now nearly 200 Self-Help Co-
op. stores in M.L., carried on by Ben’s
eldest son Arthur. Arthur (who person-
ally gives £5000) and the Self-Help Co-
op. (which gives the income from 51
going-concern shops) provide the nucleus
of the Trust. This property is to accumu-
late till July, 1961, or till assets total
£500,000, and thereafter its income is to
be distributed to help “applicants who
by their own endeavors raise moneys for
the carrying out of their objects rather
than to applicants who rely entirely on
charitable grants.” The yearly income of
the trust at present is estimated at about
£7OOO.
4= * * *
“Craiser”: Somebody has thought it
worth while at the height of the world
crisis to cable from Chicago that at a
convention of couples married for more
than 50 years it was decided that the best
formula for successful marriage is Co-
operation, Children and Good Cooking.
The only essential ingredient is co-opera-
tion. If there is no co-operation it
doesn’t matter what the rest of the in-
gredients are ; they won’t make a nice
matrimonial plum pudding.
* * * *
“F.S.”: “Arter” (B. 30/9/’42) says that
art history is the record of men who
made their meaning gloriously clear. It
certainly wasn’t in the case of Whistler.
When'lhat celebrated painter brought an
action against Ruskin, regarded as Eng-
land’s greatest critic, for saying that his
pictures were pots of paint flung in the
face of the public by an insolent Cock-
ney, counsel for Ruskin brought into
court some pictures as exhibits. Several
of Whistler’s paintings had already been
displayed, and the learned Judge said
irritably: “I think we have seen enough
of Mr. Whistler’s pictures.” Unfortu-
nately the later arrivals happened to be
Titians!
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: It is an odd thing that the
new Farrell - plus - Dawson song (B.
23/9/’42) insists on calling itself “Land
o’ Mine” —instead of “of.” This is a
purely literary trick. Ordinary speech,
fond as it is of contractions, doesn’t want
to say “o” alone. The best proof of this
came when the trick started, a whole
generation ago, with “Peg o’ My Heart,”
a play immensely popular ; for quite half
the people who tried to get their tongues
round it took that bare “o” as important
(instead of negligible as intended), and
so called it “Peg Oh My Heart.” While
the trick was at its height, we even got
“Glory o’ England,” which is really hard
to say without the “f.” In fact, even the
Dawson song’s title, in any ordinary talk,
becomes “Land V Mine,” with the vowel
disappearing instead of standing out
alone as the super-literary blokes suggest.
Sic * * *
“Avon” remembers some M.L. avia-
tion history:
Maoriland’s Defence Minister recently made
a carefully guarded statement about the
R.N.Z.A.F., and’remarked, among other things,
that, thanks to an expansion movement that
commenced in 1937, it now had a strength
which would have constituted M.L. a first-
class air Power before the war. M.L. fliers,
he added, were now known in all parts of the
world, and had won 275 awards for bravery
and devotion to duty since September, 1939.
That takes my mind back 34 years to a day
which I spent with other denizens of a southern
M.L. city watching the efforts of one Pither,
from Southland, to induce a weird contraption
of bamboo and canvas, activated bty a motor-
cycle engine, to rise from the ground. From
early morn till dewy eve we trotted around after
Pither and his tdxi-ing ’plane, but they never
once looked like rising from mother earth.
Reports that came later from a city further
north that he had actually risen from the ground
and flown a mile were received with marked
scepticism. That was in 1907, five years after
the Wrights made their first flight at Kitty-
hawk, but a year before Bleriot flew the Eng-
lish Channel. But even then there were a few
men in M.L. who saw the future of aviation.
It was not many years later that H. F. Wigram,
of Christchurch, established an aerodrome and
training school—it produced 180 pilots for
service in the 1914-18 war. Wigram was a
wealthy, influential man, a newspaper director
and a Leg. Councillor, and in season and out
of season he used all his weight to emphasise
that Maoriland must defend itself in the skies.
He made quite a few useful converts, and in
the twenties of this century there were aero
clubs all over the Dominion. His name is
perpetuated in the R.N.Z.A.F.’s Wigram aero-
drome at Sockburn. How he would have
rejoiced in the exploits of Maoriland fliers in
the present scrap!
If. * * *
“Ex-C.G.” : One of the most noticeable
things about Sydney tram travellers is
their penchant for leaving the tram on
the wrong side. On a recent night of
rain and storm, when it was hard to see
more than a few feet in the blacked-out
streets, I tried to warn an elderly lady
against it in a spot fairly heavy with traffic.
1 got an icy stare for my pains, not only
from herself but also from others in the
compartment, and shrank back, humbled.
She stepped forth, something rushed past in
the wet gloom, there was a faint scream and
we moved on. 1 was about to jerk the cord
when a chap behind tapped me on the
shoulder and said —I’ll swear disappoint-
edly—“lt’s all right; it missed her.”
FAULTY CRAFTSMANSHIP.
“True poetry in the thought, but little in the
execution. ’—Answers to Corr. (B. 7/10/’42).
A fine idea imperfectly transmuted,
A notion with a touch of real romance
Spoiled by the way in which it’s executed,
Its verbal garb, its mode of utterance.
So might some young Apollo, broken-booted,
In greasy sweater and in ragged pants,
Find himself headed back from social sprees
By his sartorial deficiencies.
And yet be sure there’s something sympathetic
In the brief compass of ten words compressed,
A hope foreshadowed and a hint prophetic,
Lest blunt rejection leave you too distressed,
You yet may see in print your thought poetic
When it’s a bit more adequately dressed.
The fancy’s there. A bit of lilt and swing
(Who knows?) may constitute it just the thing.
Heart up, my unknown bard! There’s nothing
Than up Parnassus’ pleasant slopes to climb.
But minstrels less inspired may move the fleeter
And leave you at the bottom marking time
If you ignore the melody of metre,
The irresistible appeal of rhyme.
Though moderns may contest it, lacking those
You might as well express yourself in prose.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Cock Robert”: Since the newspaper
posters vanished and the vendors began
to chalk up lines on their boards, I have
been looking for a chalker with an origi-
nal mind, and have found one —at
King’s Cross, Sydney. A little master-
piece was his “Menzies Trip to England
Cost Youse £11,000! ” I’se going to keep
an eye on that board, youse can bet
on that.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Actor Edwin Styles says
Australian audiences are much addicted
to coughing. In England, he says, this
would be regarded as a sign that the play
was going badly, and a playwright has
been known to rewrite a scene after the
audience has, so to speak, coughed its
disapproval. Mr. Styles thinks the Aus-
tralian habit of coughing irrespective of
the play is due to the fact that nowadays
there comes to the theatre a new tygp of
person not trained to the right behavior
at a fleshanblood performance. But
Australian audiences don’t cough at the
pictures if the theme enthrals them ; they
don’t cough, at concerts where the per-
formers are capable of focusing their
attention on the music; they don’t even
cough at political meetings unless the
speaker is more than reasonably a bore.
That they are capable of coughing is
shown by the fact that they bark like
1000 machine-guns the moment the vir-
tuoso plays his last note or the conductor
lays down his baton. The fact that
“Robert’s Wife,” Mr. Styles’s latest
vehicle, is a somewhat slow-moving Eng-
lish vicarage play, which gives him slight
opportunity for displaying his talents,
may have something to do with the out-
bursts he finds so distressing.
ip * # ♦
“Tuart”: A memory of Bill Anderson
and his brother-in-law, Ed-mund Duggan,
inspired the latest Poverty Point quip. At
a time when Bill had two bellowdrama
companies on the roads an unemployed
actor asked Ed-mund for the loan of a
pound. “My deah boy!” Ed-mund ex-
postulated. “If I had a pound I’d start
a Number Three Company.” Now it’s
“If I had a pound I’d sue E. J. Tait.”
* * * *
“Flyist”; Those to whom it matters
most soon learn to adjust parachute
harness and to pick up the ’chute itself
with the mechanical manner of fixed
habit and the fervent prayer that it will
not be needed. For all that, there is in
many a lurking wish to make a jump, if
only to be able to say you’ve done it; so
grins went round when word came in
that the most nervous chap in the section
had been first to pull his ripcord and see
the silk unfold. He came back showing
little distress; he ate heartily, spoke
lightly of the event and even accepted
without protest the new tag of “Rip-
cord Charlie.” What he did resent, how-
ever, was having to fork out 2oz. of
precious rationed fine-cut to soothe the
irritation of the blokes in the ’chute sec-
tion. Those lads hate nothing quite so
much as having a job of refolding just
because an agitated rookie, in his rush
over the tarmac to climb aboard for his
first flip, grabs the ripcord instead of
the carrying strap.
* * * *
“Old Sweat”: Stationed at a camp
quite a long way from Perth, Private
Nugget decided that the spot of strictly
local week-end leave could be more
merrily spent in the big city. A covered
truck being on the point of leaving, he
stowed away, and in a little over two
hours was down among the bright lights
—what is left of them. Monday morn-
ing found him reduced to a thrummer,
with a.w.l. in prospect if he didn’t get
back to camp pretty quick. At the rail-
way station he applied for a concession
ticket. “Where’s the one you came down
on?” “Lost it.” “Well, where’s your
leave pass?” “Lost that, too.” “Well,
you’re unlucky ;no pass, no ticket; you’ll
have to walk.” Undaunted, Nugget
bought a platform ticket. This got him
on to the train, and that was something.
Sixty miles out the conductor ambled
along. ‘Tickets, plees.” Nugget pro-
duced his pasteboard. “But this’s only a
platform ticket.” “Look, mate, I just
have to get back to camp or I’m a.w.1.,
and that thrummer was all the dough I
had.” The conductor let it pass. Arrived
in camp, not more than four hours late,
Nugget was virtuously busy when the
R.S.M. came along. “Where’ve y’ been?
We’ve been looking all over the camp
for you. You’ve been transferred to
Perth. Get your kit and be smart; the
truck’s waiting,”
* * * *
“Millie”: I can add a bit to “Avon’s”
recollections (B. 30/9/’42) concerning
one-time British M-P. Victor Grayson.
He was a member of the N.Z.E.F. in the
1914-18 war, and he had the distinction
of being one of the few Ms.P, to be
forcibly thrown out of the House of
Commons. * He once refused to allow
the House to carry on its business until
the unemployment question had been
“Because you’re in the Women s Naval Auxiliary do We HAVE to sleep
in these blasted things?”
aired. Mr. Speaker ruled him out of
order, and then “named” him. Gray-
son’s subsequent ejectment from the
Chamber, under orders from the Ser-
geant-at-Arms, finished his career as a
Parliamentarian. When he arrived in
England with one of the Auckland rein-
forcements, G.O.C, Godley told General
Richardson to keep an eye on the young
fellow, for he might cause trouble. But
he didn’t.
* * * *
“X.S.”: In any history of new crimes
created by war Stawell (Vic.) ought to
be mentioned. It was there that a young
men, charged with having a bottle of
beer in his possession in the vicinity of
a public hall where a dance was being
conducted, was fined £2O and costs under
National Security regulations.
Jfc % * *
“J.H.M.A.” on Sydney’s debt to Mac-
quarie :
Two plans of Old Sydney are still in exist-
ence which show what Governor Macquarie did
for the primitive village he came to at the end
of 1809. James Meehan, Assistant Surveyor of
Lands, in the first of these shows the town as
it was in October, 1807, when its southern limit
was about where Park-street is today. Sussex
and Elizabeth streets hadn’t yet come into exist-
ence, King-street extended only as far as York-
street and all of Market-street lay between
George and Clarence streets. The map of
1822 shows Sydney laid out on its present
plan, and Howe’s New South Wales Almanac
for 1821 gives a list of buildings undertaken since
the beginning of 1810. They were the General
Hospital in Macquarie-street; the Commissariat
Stores on the west side of Sydney Cove; the light-
house at South Head; the Prisoners’ Barracks
at the top of King-street; the Military Bar-
racks on the site of the present Wynyard-
square; Government House stables (now the
Conservatorium of Music); rectories at Syd-
ney and Parramatta; Fort Macquarie; a Toll
House near the position of the present Central
railway station; the Carters’ Barracks and
stables; the Benevolent Asylum; a fountain
and obelisk in Macquarie-place—the latter still
“Has Stalingrad fallen yet , darling?”
"No. but my shares have!”
there; the Supreme Court and three churches —
St. James’s, Sydney: St. Matthew’s, Windsor;
and St. Luke’s at Liverpool. St. James’s, the
Conservatorium, the Prisoners’ Barracks and the
obelisk in Macquarie-place are all that time and
characteristic Sydney carelessness have left to
the city.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: One great social change
that has occurred in my time is the
almost total disappearance of fist-fighting
as a means of settling arguments and
providing free recreation on a large scale.
Life in Australia 50 years ago—my
memory goes back that far —was far
more competitive and combative than it
is today, leaving war out of the argu-
ment. Anyone, whatever his age or con-
dition, who yearned to take part in or
have a look at a good scrap could in
those times be accommodated almost any-
where and in almost any leisure hour.
School-paddock scraps, street scraps,
shearing-shed scraps, scraps between
navvies, miners (all varieties), “rabbitos,”
vegetable-hawkers, milk-carters and lar-
rikins, all were unfailing sources of enter-
tainment, and a publican would have lost
his customers had he put a veto on back-
yard brawls. A wild age perhaps ; but
it bred the finest pugs the world has ever
seen, bruisers who carried all before
them in the U.S.A. and England ; and the
best of them needed only the Jem Mace
polish that Larry Foley and Peter New-
ton put on them to become champions,
having, in 50 or 100 “private” fights,
learned everything about the trade but
the tricks. I should like to see one of
those fierce warriors—say, Joe Goddard
—revisit his old haunts for half a day.
Wouldn’t he muss the marcelled hair of
the pretty boys you see about the streets!
No modern gym.-tutored boxer would do
anything so indecorous. As likely as
not he sports marcelled hair himself.
* * * *
“Macann”: Boston, says an “Ameri-
can Mercury” writer, has set up a Rumor
Clinic, “field headquarters of Boston’s
unique battle against the corrosion of
war-time gossip and enemy propaganda.”
Anyone hearing a wild furphy is asked
to report it, and the Clinic forthwith ex-
poses the poisonous item in the Boston
“Herald,” on notice-boards in factories,
in pay-envelopes and elsewhere. It
sounds a noble effort, with some special
interest for inhabitants of these parts in
the writer’s No. 1 Rumor. A chap giving
out in a saloon that he was celebrating
because he’d just got the first letter from
his boy in Australia, a stranger beside
him interrupted: “No cause to celebrate,
my friend. Hundreds of the soldiers who
went out there are right back here in
Boston now. Insane. Bad food, terrible
living conditions.” Australia, no doubt,
owes a joint debt to the barman who at
once suspected this of being a furphy ; to
the writer of the article, who classed it
“a false and vicious rumor” ; and to the
Boston Clinic, which did the good-
neighborly service of pointing out that,
of 47 men in the military service returned
to Massachusetts for mental care, not
one had come from Australia.
« * * »
“Chevroford”: It was Albury which
saved the bacon of a centenary air
race contestant when he lost his way
by summoning local motorists to concen-
trate their headlights on the aerodrome.
Carrying on that kindly tradition, when
Corryong, 50 miles from Albury, heard
the note of a distressed ’plane the other
evening the local Volunteer Air Observers
Corps promptly got in touch with
R.A.A.F. headquarters. Permission was
given to transcend National Security
Regulations, the power-plant engineer
rushed to the switchboard controlling the
town’s street lights, and by switching the
lights on and off informed the ’plane in
Morse the name of the town and direc-
tions for reaching the nearest aerodrome.
The craft made a safe landing.
« ♦ ♦ ♦
“Ologist”; When should poets, story-
writers, playwrights and journalists use
“O” and when “oh”? Besides these
literary people, linotype operators and
proofreaders should be interested in the
answer. According to Fowler, usage has
changed, “oh” having been prevalent in
many contexts now requiring “O,” and is
still by no means fixed. The present
tendency, he says, is to restrict “oh” to
places where it has a certain independence
and prefer “O” where it is prolific or leans
forward upon what follows. Thus “oh”
is the word before any stop (“Oh, what
a lie!” ; “Oh! how do you know that?”),
and “O” is used when it makes a unit of
exclamation with the following word,
phrase or clause (“O for a kindling touch
from that pure flame! ” ; “O dear me! ”).
As well, “O” is invariable as the sign of
the vocative (“Come, O men of iron will”;
“O mighty-mouthed inventor of har-
monies”). It may be added that “O” is
always a capital, but “oh” is capitalised
only at the beginning of a sentence. It
would not be capitalised, for example,
in such a sentence as “We made the trip ;
and, oh, how enjoyable it was!”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: For war-time reasons the
Indian Government has dropped for this
year arrangements for the pilgrimage to
Mecca by the sea route, so pious Mos-
lems will be denied the opportunity of
standing in the great mosque and kissing
the Kaaba. Nor will they stand in
the Great Mosque at Medina, there
to be tdld that the coffin of the
Prophet floats in mid-air. Neither
will they be able to confirm the purity of
their hearts by looking through the roof
at the houris, a glimpse vouchsafed only
to the completely virtuous and holy. Nor
will the 150,000 residents of the two holy
cities have the opportunity of emptying
the pockets of the faithful nor the
Bedouins of stripping them of what
remains, including their clothes, and
sending them naked back to the sea-
board. These disadvantages have never
deterred tens of thousands of Malays,
Javanese and Indians from undertaking
the annual haf, because the rewards when
they return to their village steeped in
the odor of sanctity are well worth it.
* * *
“Feng-Shui”: From my scrapbook:
They [the Japanese] are the greatest
travellers because, even in a land composed
mainly of mountain chains, they recognise
no obstacles to travel Impedimenta the
Japanese has none, or only what he can dis-
pose of in a few minutes. Distances have
no significance for him. Nature has given
him perfect feet that can spring over 50
miles a day without pain; a stomach whose
chemistry can extract ample nourishment
from food on which no European could
live; a constitution that scorns heat, cold
and damp alike, because still unimpaired by
unhealthy clothing, by superfluous com-
forts, by the habit of seeking warmth from
grates and stoves and by the habit of wear-
ing leather shoes.
Thus Lafcadio Hearn, the Grseco-Irish-
man who married a Japanese wife, taught
English at Tokyo University and wrote
with singular acuteness and charm on
the people, manners and customs and
spirit of the country until, becoming a
naturalised Japanese, he was placed on a
Japanese salary and somewhat modified
his high opinion of his adopted nation.
His description does not hold completely
today, for the Japanese have acquired the
habit of depending somewhat on Euro-
pean creature comforts. But centuries of
such conditioning as they have had can-
not be eliminated in a generation, and this
probably explains a lot of their success
in Malaya, Burma and the N.E.I. It
doubtless also explains the comparative
success the Chinese have had against their
ancient enemies, they having been con-
ditioned in much the same school.


ABORIGINALITIES
“The 0.D.”: Barney dropped his swag
by the council tank, tied the great useless
mongrel that followed him to a tree and
set forth to prospect the town. Two
hours later he returned, empty-handed
and full of profanity. Then he cogitated.
A little later, now followed by the great
yellow hunk of harmless dog, he drifted
up a side street. Two little girls played
on a neat lawn. Barney opened the gate
and kicked the hound through it, then let
out a yell, dived on the astonished mong
and wrestled mightily with it, what time
the children screamed and a scared
woman ran forth and retrieved them.
Then Barney let that amazed and mor-
tally-frightened cur escape through the
gate, rose, dusted himself off and said
“Lucky I was passin’, missus. • The beast
was mad, an’ them kids” —he left it at
that. Yes, it netted him a parcel of
tucker and five silver deeners, and he
retired to camp, comforted the shivering
hound and fed it and himself royally.
* * * *
“South-east”: Gallagher, an old bush-
man, threw his swag into the Mt. Gam-
bier train at Naracoorte and clambered
in after it. At Penola he threw the swag
out again, got out and sat on it, watching
the train go south. “I’ll wait f’r a lift
or walk or somethin’,” he told the s.m.
“There was one o’ these here modern
young wimmen in that compartment. I
didn’t mind her strummin’ the yewk or
whatever she called it, an’ I didn’t mind
her chatterin’ away t’ me about things
wimmen usen’t t’ know about when I
was young; but then she pulls out a
packet of cigarettes, sticks one in her
face an’ says, polite like, ‘Do y’ mind if
I smoke?’ Well, cripes, it’s always bin
a man’s right t’ ask that question, so
Gallagher got out. When’s the next
train t’ the Mount?”
* * * *
“D. Wells”; When our young parson
arrived for the monthly church service he
was vastly impressed by the large con-
gregation that had turned up. Every
man, woman and child, not to mention
most of the dogs, within 30 miles was
present. The little church couldn’t hold
’em all, so he opened the doors and win-
dows and preached to an overflow audi-
ence, inspired to give of his best. They
heard him with commendable attention,
and afterwards they thanked him, and
old Bill Johnson put him in his car and
drove him 20 miles to the railway town.
After which that congregation formed a
ring and the real cause of the gathering
proceeded—the long-awaited fight be-
tween Sam Combine and Harry Buloke
over their boundary fence.
* * * »
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d hit the city well
cashed up. On the second night Mat
came in a bit late and hogging for ven-
geance. He’d got into some sort of a
joint with a couple of smarties, there
was some sort of a stunt put over and
Mat lost a fiver. On his way home he’d
been thinking it over and suddenly real-
ised how he’d been stung. Next evening
he insisted that I go with him to the
vicinity of the plucking, where he stood
me off some distance and himself altered
his hat and tie and adopted a vacant ex-
pression, every now and then pulling out
a fistful of notes and counting them.
Shortly a couple of preying animals
appeared and closed on the bait. They
barneyed with Mat for a bit, then sug-
gested a move to some quiet spot for a
game. Mat let out a howl and sailed
into them. He didn’t need my help ; in
a couple of minutes one was out cold
and the other bolting for his life.
“Cripes!” I said, surveying the casualty
on the ground. “Is that the one got y’r
cash yesterday?” “Him?” snorted Mat,
“Never seen him before.” “Was it the
bloke that bolted?” “Never seen him
before, either.” I looked puzzled. “What’s
the matter with you?” he says. “They’re
the same breed, ain’t they? Reckon I
got me money’s worth.” And, completely
satisfied, he led me away.
* * * *
“Piangil Pete”; I’m wondering if this
country, in view of the shortage of pipes,
will rediscover the roots of the needle-
wood. A- close-grained, deep red wood,
they provided good tobacco braziers in
“ Well, brothers, the ‘ incident's' working according to plan.”
the old days in Riverina, and I’ve seen
some splendid bowls carved into various
shapes with nothing more than a pocket-
knife. Golf-club makers claim that per-
simmon wood is the best for their
weapons ; I’d like to see them try needle-
wood root.
* * * *
“M. U. Ray”: The quiet Riverina
town dozed in the noon. Up the deserted
street came two dogs—a staghound and
a half-bred blue heeler. They sighted a
large cat asleep on the doorstep of the
fancygoods shop, which was run by two
spinster sisters. The dogs winked at each
other, then leapt for that cat. The cat
leapt inside; so did the dogs. Forth on
the sun-drenched street leapt the screams
of spinster sisters, the yowls of a defiant
cat and the baying of joyful hounds
mixed up with the crash of falling tables
of fancygoods. That part of the popu-
lation that could force itself awake
rushed to the shop and fought its way
inside. The two dogs got out and went
ambling on, grinning at each other and
full of a strange pleasure. They were
three miles away before that shop sorted
itself out.
H= * * *
“M.U.R.”: The popular belief that
wood must be dry to burn properly isn’t
subscribed to by old hands who’ve had
anything to do with firing the boiler on
a Murray paddle steamer. The fuel con-
sisted mostly of gum, with a proportion
of box, and though dry box burns well
dry gum is more likely to char and go
sullen in the firebox. For a real steam-
raising fire you couldn’t beat gum that
had been cut green and allowed to lie
half a year in the stack.
“Old-timer”: He was a good boss
generally, but would blow up like a vol-
cano if he found anybody wasting time
pottering about on some job that didn’t
matter. He had a pet magpie which he
used to feed and talk to every morning.
One morning the fowl failed to appear.
There were eight male hands, himself,
his wife, two sons, a daughter and kitchen
rouseabout. The whole blanky lot were
set hunting for that lost pet, and kept at
it until well-nigh lunchtime, when the
thing turned up of its own accord. Old
Jim, who’d grown up on the place,
promptly went up to the boss and gave
him a dressing-down about wasting time,
and wanted to know if he thought the
magpie-hunt was a fine example of what
he was always preaching. The boss
thought it over. “The only thing you’ve
forgotten,” he said coldly, “is that I’m
boss here, which makes all the differ-
ence.” Sadly, we had to admit that it did.
* * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry haS been telling
Murphy about his ailments and the poor
results he’d been getting from what had
once been trusty remedies. “What you
want to do is to go and see the doctor.
He’ll fix you up in no time,” said the
publican. “Them blokes don’t do you
much good, as a rule,” said the long ’un.
“I’ve always been able to doctor meself
from a doctor’s book the missus has got.”
“Yes,” said Murphy, “and one of these
fine days you’ll be dyin’ of a misprint! ”
“Peg”: “Gumsucker” (B. 19/8/’42)
must have overestimated the capacity of
his stomach when he says he ate 200
cherries a day, stones included. In Maori-
land is a cherry orchard at which there
is a standing offer of £lOO for any visitor
who can eat one cherry off each of the
300 trees. It sounds easy till the owners
warn that it amounts to nearly 101 b, of
fruit. That makes “Gumsucker’s” little
daily snack over 61b.
» * ♦ •
“Rupe H.”: The name Aotearoa was
given to Maoriland about a.d. 950 by the
great navigator Kupe, of Tahiti. The
name then applied only to North Island ;
South Island was called Waipounamu.
Both names came from incidents during
the voyage. Before that North Island
was known in Polynesia as Tiritiri-o-te-
Moana, probable translation being
Green Island of the Ocean, and the
then much-less-known South Island was
Aropaoa.
* ■ * * *
“Horseless H.”: The queerest bound-
ary-rider’s hobby I’ve known was that
of “Mac” at No. 1 Hut, Toorak station,
Nelia (N.Q.). “Mac” wrote the world
over for railway timetables and kept
himself posted with latest schedules of
the L.M.N. and S., the Flying Hambur-
ger, the C.P.R. and every train down to
the Jo’burg express. If you wished to rail
it from Bombay to Calcutta, Chicago to
’Frisco, or Neerim to Patchewollock, he
knew all the connections and stops for
refreshments. All this 60 miles from a
train which ran once a week, weather
permitting, and anything up to a day or
so late.
“Sailor Bill”: In this district black and
copper-hued snakes go for their lives
when they sight you, browns and carpets
start off calmly, death-adders stay put
and tigers come straight at you. I’ve seen
plenty of snakes killed by thrown stones,
boiling water, brush hooks and garden
tools, but I’ve yet to meet a man who
will attack a snake with a rolled-up paper
or his belt. “Zake’s” friends (B, 23/9/’42)
should use those weapons on non-
venomous wrigglers.
Lower Tops’!”; Cool hands with
snakes? My vote goes to the Cape
Barren Island folk descendants of
marriages between early sealers and Tas-
manian gins—who today live principally
by navigating their families, fowls and
kangaroo-dogs hi ill-found whaleboats
from island to island in storm-lashed
Bass Strait —“mutton-birdin’.” They ex-
tract the young mutton-bird from the
rookery by thrusting a bare arm down
the burrow. On desolate Chappel Island
I’ve seen them pull out a copperhead, toss
it away, then casually thrust an arm down
the hole again for the bird.
* * * *
“J.D.”: I wish “Esk D.,” “The 0.D.”
and the rest could have seen this cribbage
finish, Alf needed 57 and dealt to Steve,
who required only three. The pack was
cut and five of spades turned up. Steve
led queen, Alf played five of hearts and
scored two, Steve followed with a nine.
Alf with a five of clubs pegged one for
his last. Second round began with eight of
clubs from Steve, met by jack of spades
from Alf, then four of hearts and five
of diamonds —one more . hole to Alf.
Steve laid his hand and scored only two ;
dead-in-the-hole. Alf’s hand was worth
29 ; 24 still wanted. “Crib” was turned
up and disclosed two fours and two
sjxes; 24 and out!
* * * ♦
“Solitude”; “Had a mine named after
me once,” said Seventyfiver. “Mrs.
Bung’d been grubstakin’ me f’r twelve
months, waitin’ f’r me to make a strike.
And I made it. Gold! Cripes, that
dazzler wus packed tight from the grass-
roots clean through t’ Hades. Well, I
collected a few specimens, pegged her
out good and proper, an’ hit town
one night just too late t’ register till
mornin’. I told the ole girl ’bout it when
the blokes had all cleared out o’ the pub
—that is, all ’cept a big ginger-headed
coot that couldn’t be kicked alive. Next
day I took meself down t’ the office, an’,
cripes! the bloke sez that spot’s been took
already! A big ginger-headed bloke had
dragged him out o’ bed that mornin’ t’
register the claim before he lit out o’
town.” Seventyfiver shook his head sor-
rowfully. “Made a coupla fortunes out
o’ her, that copperhead did.” “Yes,” I
pointed out; “but you said you had a
mine named after you. Was that the
one?” “ ’Course it was! ” said the ancient
testily. “He called it ‘The Jackass.’ ”
* * * *
“Sandy”: Contrary to “Pitt St.” (B.
23/9/’42) my experience in the bush is
that country people do know their way
about, most of them in the dark. It’s in
the city you have a job to get directions
from anyone, though there are several
places in Sydney anyone can direct one
to, namely, Randwick, Rushcutter Bay
and Harold Park. Have tried them often ;
they never miss. Most of them can also
direct me to an s.p. joint.
* * * »
“Narrin”: Jimmy built a flat boat.
Constructed of flooring-boards, on the
lines of Jimmy’s latest theory, the craft
measured about 14ft., with a two-foot
beam. The mob at the Bend pub was
divided between hilarity and a tendency
to rush out and buy crepe, but the old
chap insisted that the thing was both
safe and speedy, being “scientifically
designed for the whaler’s face-to-bows
rowing style. It was fast all right: the
sight of Jimmy making a crossing in a
current would have turned off even a life-
assurance salesman. And then one day
the old chap went up the lagoon after
mussels. Paddling quietly along he
became aware of a swimming tiger-snake.
The thing dived and Jimmy went on.
Suddenly something made him look
around. An evil dark head appeared
over the stern, and wet sinuous lengths
of silent snake oozed into the boat.
Jimmy leapt to the bows; the snake
reared in alarm, and over went the lot.
Jimmy reckoned afterwards he was swim-
ming before he hit the water, and he
made a record spurt to the bank. The
boat was left in about four feet of water,
and it’d probably be there yet except
that the chorus of “I-told-y’-so’s” from
the mob got under Jimmy’s skin. He uses
the thing still —with a kero.-tin outrigger,
“jus’ f’r ev’ryday, y’ know.”
THE MIDDLE SEA.
“Stones!” they said. “And who would climb
a hill
To look at stones or see a ruined mill;
Waste on a view of barren stones a precious
minute free?”
I went alone along the burning ridge
And found a maze of storied stones to bridge
The new and old of centuries beside the Middle
Sea.
A ruined beacon, work of Roman hands,
Had shed a light across the dunes and sands
To guide the laden galleys with their freight
from Araby.
The caravans and shepherds on the plain
Would point —“The star of Christ” —and point
again
—“The star of men to light the ships upon the
Middle Sea.”
Here, a pile with splendor showing still
Where Governors dispensed the Roman will.
Some were kindly men and just —and some for
tyranny.
Those crumbled steps had made a market there:
Dusky slaves had mustered . . . maidens fair . ..
Chattels for the bargaining across the Middle
Sea.
A forum stood above the busy shore.
Lovers knew the old unchanging lore.
League on league of verdant fields were spread
with industry . . .
All nothing now —a stony glaring plain:
To live? —Ah, yes—if God creates again!
But only dunes of sand go down to meet the
Middle Sea.
Now, staring from an old embattled height,
I watch the legions going out to fight
Along the road of heathen host and Roman
empery.
My vision fades ... I know the battle din
Is real —watch my own -Australian kin
Going up to fight again beside the Middle Sea.
MIDDLE EAST.
F.-O. J. A. HENDERSON.


“I forgot me keys.”
“Bad Australian”: Does goanna oil
possess the wonderful curative properties
attributed to it by bushmen? Cases cited
usually concern some unnamed indi-
vidual whose address is not disclosed,
and in almost every instance the cure is
alleged to have been effected by a gin or
a wandering bush “doctor.” I encoun-
tered but one competent to speak with
authority, a dingo-stiffener out on the
Lower Darling. I found him before his
campfire frying a panful of something
that smelt like Botany or Footscray on a
midsummer eve. Noting my interest he
remarked, “Jest renderin’ down some
goanner fat fer ile. Wunnerful stuff,
goanner oil. Bin usin’ it fer more’n
twenty year.” “Then it can’t be such a
wonderful remedy,” I said, “or you
should have been completely cured years
ago.” “I ain’t said nothink about curin’,”
he protested. “Goanner ile is the finest
thing in the world for lubricatin’ a saddle
or a set o’ harness.”
* * * *
“Trevdee”: There’s a small, spindly
tree up in North Australia which has a
clustered, daisylike flower, each single
bloom having a liberal issue of nectar.
The birds go for it, ignoring its dreadful
odor, which has brought odium on
many a cookhouse pitched near it,
* * * *
“Old Dan”; I see be the papers where
they’re talking about giving people
lucerne to eat because of the general
scarcity of greens, and a lot of fellows
are claiming that lucerne is better than
lettuce, spinach and so forth. Could be,
too, because a horse will do a lot better
on lucerne than he will on lettuce or
spinach. Anyhow, it’s about time we
started using the stuff that grows free
and wild to help Jack Curtin’s austerious
campaign. What’s wrong with nettle
soup? Sow thistle makes a good green
stewed, and there’s nothing wrong with
rape leaves. For breakfast a plate of
boiled wheat with milk and sugar is pretty
good, and if you want a real slap-up feed
that will fill and fatten tear into a plate
of hot swede turnips with pollard, butter,
pepper and salt.
* * * *
“lago”; A kookaburra watched until
my spade uncovered a juicy white grub ;
then he swooped from the sapling and
the grub disappeared. The ease and pre-
cision with which Jacko gathered in his
quarry at the exact moment of impact
with the ground would have turned a
dive-bomber pilot green with envy. Other
birds appear to alight first and then grab.
Jacko lands and grabs in the one action,
and his timing is perfect.
» * * *
“Oodna”: Neither of the sisters at the
A.I.M. hospital knew much about Lofty.
He used to drift in periodically from the
silence, exchange a bit of outback gossip
and slip silently away again. They were
getting ready for their annual fete, which
is a real event in their lonely hamlet, and
were baking and mixing when in strolled
Lofty. “Brought a few bob for yT fete,”
he volunteered, fishing in his pants pocket
and throwing a bundle of notes on the
table. It ran pretty close to £lOO, had
been donated by station-owners, prospec-
tors and other inlanders as Lofty collected
on his walkabout. He’d picked up a mulga
wire about the imminence of the fete on
his way in. Such is the outback.
* * * *
“Maffra Mike”: “Bloomey,” moaned
the snowy-headed youth with the red
cheeks, ploughing heavily through the
jungle mud between Moresby and Efogi,
“when they called me up I reckoned I’d
get a change, but it’s just the same as
home.” “Home?” snorted the next file.
“Yair, home,” asserted Snowy; “me of
man’s got a dairy farm down near Lang
Lang, in Gippsland. Only difference be-
tween there and here is there ain’t any
cows here.”
* * $ *
“Looby”: The drought hacl broken
and the town was joyous. “Long time
since you had rain?” asked the stranger.
“Too right,” said the barman. “But it’s
certainly appreciated now that it’s here.”
“Yair,” laughed the stranger. “The
ducks’ll enjoy a swim, I reckon.” “Don’t
be silly,” snapped the barman. “None
of our ducks can swim. We haven’t got
one more than ten years old.”
* * * *
“B. 4”: Routed out by the dogs, a
goanna shot up on to the back of a
bullock, which promptly bolted. With
a howl of delight, Jacky ripped the hooks
in and raced after him, but returned
minus the meat. “Didn’t you follow him
up the hill?” yelled the boss. “.No, boss,”
replied Jacky. “That pfeller no bin race
up the hill: he bin jump the plurry
thing!”
“Murlonga”: Nellie, mission-trained,
could read, play the piano and order from
a menu. She fell into serious illness, re-
covered and was convalescing when
asked “What would you like to eat,
Nellie?” Feelingly the child of nature
spoke; “A bit of goanna!”
* * » m
“H. Horseman”: That bloke who in-
quired if Koo-wee-rup was in China (B.
16/9/’42) recalls the good old days when
the Oodnadatta (S.A.) mail ran fort-
nightly. A passenger boarded her at
Port Augusta and asked a cove sitting
opposite “What time does this train get
to Oodna? Have you got a timetable?”
“Timetable!” came the reply. “What
you want is a bloomin’ calendar! ”
* * * *
“Loo”: Dad’s on the war fund com-
mittee. He’s confident that the township
will raise more money than its neighbor,
“Next Friday we’re goin’ t’ hold an
auction. Got the idea from Hollywood.”
He produced a press cutting which said
“Carole Landis’s stockings (stripped in
street) raised £6OO for war funds.” Im-
pressively he added “We’re going to use
my Emma for the show. Yair, we’re
goin’ t’ strip her in the main street and
auction the milk by the half-pint,”
* * * *
“Arev”; Labor was scarce and Joe
was not pleased to see a non-worker
coming leisurely along. “G’day, boss,”
said the swagman affably, “any chance of
a feed?” Joe looked him up and down,
fastened the last wire and stood upright.
All right- Come this way. The swag-
man licked his lips and followed, but. a
questioning light came into his eye as
Joe led the way, not to the kitchen, but
to the barn. “Well,” said Joe, “y’ can
get going.” The swagman looked around.
“But I asked fer a feed!” Joe nodded.
“Right-oh, you can feed the chaffcutter
till we go up fer dinner in a couple of
hours’ time.”
* * * •
No. 1 Bench”: Abo. toeholds in the
heart of a tree (B. 9/9/42)! Cutting
some Borneo cedar, logs of great size
carroty, soft and sodden with water, the
saw passed through extremely hard knots.
With the slabs laid out to dry the knots
turned out to be spikes of wood so hard
that, sharpened to a point, they could
be driven like a nail right into the heart
of the cedar. They had been used by
some long-forgotten tribe as a tree stair-
way.
* * * *
Naturala”: Birds, fish and reptiles
swallow their prey head-first (B. 9/9/ 42)
on the principle of streamlining. It
wouldn t be possible to swallow a fish or
bird tail-first. Both fins and pinion and
tail feathers would stop it. Frogs are
the exception. The batrachian fodder is
taken by the rear end and, against the
chances of losing so active a hopper m
changing grips, down troggy goes rear-
first. Which is why Nature has armed
“di"
Lg .o any other than a W hungry
in ' * * * *
“Yeno Ham”: Nabawa Ned had be-
come interested in an organisation of
farmers and thought he would get some
ideas from his uncle, a retired wheat-
grower. “What do you reckon is the
trouble with farming?” he asked. “Well,”
said the old chap, “in my day when we
talked about how much we could raise
on 400 acres we meant wheat —you
modern cockies mean loans.”
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Tom, a lone-hand alluvial
miner, always kept his gold for months in
“Abo. Chief”; Forward, “Naturala”
(B. 23/9/’42)! Man, ever since you
claimed it “odd” that there were no com-
munity wasps in this country communi-
ques have poured in from all directions
with the assurance—some with pro-
fane emphasis caused by physical experi-
ence—that the place literally buzzes
with ’em. Any time now I expect some
English-reading Jap up north to add the
weight of his evidence,
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Centuries ago the Maoris
chewed koromiko for inward disorders,
Early settlers used to brew from the
koromiko and put the solution up in
bottles. During the Boer War Maoris
had koromiko sent to them for dysentery.
The strange thing is that it cures both
dysentery and constipation which no
other medicine has yet done. Maoriland
Government is to have an analysis made
of the plant? and p ro fessor Smirk
(Dunedin University) is trying to dis-
the element responsibk £or the
- nronertip „
u ative HFO?6™6B-
- * „_ * „ . * , *
“LX : Camp is another great
Australian word. It refers to a resting
place for stock, a place on which cattle
are worked, a body of men, a body of
stock, a particular kind of horse or oven
and many other things, Here’s an
imaginary order: “Take a camp of men
to Gobble Camp. There’s a camp of
cattle there ; put ’em on camp at the clay-
i , .
pan ’ “ ake ..? l a ” p at *e junctioni and
c ' am P there t,II I come out to you. Camp
the cattle the night on the ridge. Aftet
I think I’ll go and have a camp,
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Without fear of ’planes
or the men who manage them, the mag-
pies on our ’drome found where all
the best pickings occur, adjusted their
wa y S accordingly and moved amongst us
the confidence of equals. Now they
are nes ting in the yellow-box belt beyond
th e fence, and amongst the conventional
sd cks and bark are wire, twine and hes-
s j an f rom the camouflage constructions
near by. When I approached one nest
coc j c bird pitched into me on sight
an( j never j e t up . He wasn’t to know the
s j n j ster gadget tied near his nest was but
® \ _ nlv knf>w T wa „ __ in
vadeu, and for lh J hours he just fough.
tactics and, combining cunning, Courage,
speed and superb audacity, never gave
me a chance to get set. There was
nothing to do but retreat. The last heard
! r ? m . hlm , was a rln S ,n S burst of
trlu mphant song.
* * * *
S.G. : Scientists have not been able
to discover any organs of hearing m the
bee, so it seems rather silly to expect
banging tins to “bring them down” (B.
30/9/’42). When a colony swarms nor-
mally the queen is heavy with eggs
and is unable to make a sustained flight.
“Well, if you want sweets, what course do We cut out?”
a pickle bottle with a large cork stopper.
One night bottle and contents were
pinched. Tom took it philosophically,
Later he went to town and made in-
quiries. A chemist informed Tom he
had treated a man for severe acid burns
on both hands. Tom next interviewed
the police, and the upshot was three
years’ hard for the burnt thief. Tom had
kept his gold in diluted nitric acid, and
had impregnated the cork with a generous
amount of scent to disguise the smell.
She usually settles within a few minutes
of leaving the hive. Under an old English
law a swarm of bees on the wing be-
longed to the person out of whose hive
it came—for so long as he followed to
where it settled. To notify the village
that a swarm was flying, a bell would
be kept ringing till it settled. Early
settlers in Australia had no bells, and
no doubt substituted the banging of tins,
from which arose the idea that the noise
would cause the swarm to settle.
ROMA.
In the north when bearded bushmen, yarning
with their pipes aglow.
Tell the tales of roaring Roma, Roma sixty
years ago,
Time has halted in their stories and the cattle
bandits ride
Westward to the Maranoa in the wild years that
have died.
Never in the Queensland story was a bolder
epic born
Or an era passed as reckless in the zone of
hoof and horn,
When on dim tracks rarely travelled, camping
with the rising suns,
Stolen steers through starlit stages found their
way to distant runs.
Then were passes through the ranges white
man’s foot had seldom trod,
Rough men pushing wild mobs through them,
fearing naught of gun or God,
Secret stockyards past the scrublines, hidden
fires where brands grew red —
Danger stalked the hills of Roma in the dark
days that are dead.
Now no more from rich, red Roma, claiming
longhorned contraband,
Ruling through a reign of terror, raiders rove
the sunlit land,
Save when greybeard Queensland bushmen,
yarning with their pipes aglow,
Tell the tales of roaring Roma, Roma sixty
years ago.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
m&j
v/EniaaEinsigy-,
W.
»
w
«
if
3b
Pi
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
jManaper W. G. Bulfm
sfsdfdsfdsf
sfsdfdsfdsf
E
You ran improve the Quality and weight
of your clip by using Bgelabra Kams.
One user writes: “We are now getting the
benefit of using Bgelabra Hams. The 6-
tooth Ewes have cut 1021 b. and reared a
lamb as well; the Wether Hoggets have cut
over 131 b.”
HAMS now available from sgns. to 13gns.
GELABRA
MERINOS
H. E. KATER & SON Warren,N.S.W.
Tel: Warren 10. .
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Test with Drenches.
“J.R.D.”: In New England (N.S.W.)
the C.S.I.R. tried three types of drenches
for large stomach-worm infestation on
100 young sheep. Divided into four
groups, they were run in the same pad-
dock, got the same feed and were subject
to the same degree of reinfestation from
worm larvas in the pasture. Before the
experiment they were already infected.
One group was drenched with pheno-
thiazine (15 grammes), another with carb.
tet. double-strength (5 c.c.), a third with
bluestone-nic. sulphate (25 c.c. of 4 p.c.)
and the fourth was left untreated.
Three examinations of droppings were
made at weekly intervals before
drenching began to note the degree
of infestation. It varied from 2000
to 20,000 eggs per gramme, which
means that at the maximum period—just
before drenching—each sheep was infect-
ing the pasture with an average of four
million worm eggs per day.
One week after drenching, group one,
the controls, showed a general increase
of infestation. In two, the bluestone-
nicotine group, infestation was controlled
in 21 sheep; the drench was ineffective
in three cases because it failed to reach
the worms in the fourth stomach—every
mob has a percentage of sheep which
react similarly. Group three (carb. tet.)
showed general reduction, but worms
were present that were possibly immature
at the time of drenching. Three sheep
in the fourth group (phenothiazine) had
faint traces of worms; the remainder
were cleaned up.
Put back in the same paddock, the
sheep began to pick up fresh larvae, and
when all became wormy again they were
rearranged into four fresh groups, each
having much the same degree of infes-
tation. The same procedure was fol-
lowed, and the same results were
obtained, except that this time pheno-
thiazine was even more successful.
Reinfestation was fairly rapid after this
drenching because of warm, showery
weather. A month later, when all had
again become very wormy, all were
drenched with carb. tet. This checked the
worms except in a few cases, but the
measure was only temporary. Two weeks
later all the sheep were drenched with
phenothiazine for 100 p.c. clean-up.
The tests proved that the efficiency
of drenches in order of merit is pheno-
thiazine well in front, with a head be-
tween carb. tet. and bluestone-nic. sulph.;
that treatment will give only temporary
relief unless sheep are moved into a
spelled paddock immediately after
drenching; that, where fresh grazing is
not available, two consecutive doses of
pheno., preferably in winter, will go far
toward rendering sheep and pasture
worm-free; and that alternate doses of
carb. tet. and bluestone-nic. sulph. give
better results than persistent dosing with
one particular drench.
Phenothiazine is slower to administer
and more expensive than other drenches
but is safer to use and kills a greater
variety of parasites, Carb, tet. is effective
on liver fluke and large stomach worm
only (on account of its scarcity it may
now only be used for fluke); bluestone-
nic. sulph. kills tapeworms, large stomach
and intestinal worms, including black-
scour worms; pheno. will not kill liver
fluke or tapeworms, but it settles all
others and is the only drench that will
kill nodule and bowel worms. Pheno.
is the most economical because it is sure.
Holding the Mallee.
“Lake Corong”; Stopping a blow is a
primary step in mallee erosion-control (B.
7/JO/’42), but it’s a mistake to assume
that blowing is confined only to the
lightest country. As H. Hanslow, head
of the State Rivers and Water Supply
Commission, points out in a useful pam-
phlet, any mallee country will drift the
moment conditions make drifting easy.
Before any sort of cultivation is begun
it should be decided whether or not it
“Take care o' that sulky , you young fool!"
is likely to start drift. Even clearing,
without cultivation, can start the topsoil
on the move.
The old adage of “prevention is
better than cure” applies particularly to
mallee erosion, and one of the best pre-
ventives is stubble. It should be for-
bidden to burn stubble in the mallee.
It was necessary in the old days to de-
stroy bunt spores but not in these days
of dry pickling. Working in a heavy
stubble is hard, admittedly, but most
isuccesses are achieved the hard way.
A lot of mallee men have been misled
by the wheat-fallow-wheat rotation in the
near-by Wimmera, but it simply won’t
do on anything lighter than black-box
country and won’t last long on that under
low rainfall. Those who’ve stopped
erosion in the mallee work pretty close
to one or other of the following: fallow,
wheat, oats, fallow; fallow, wheat, oats,
grazing, fallow; fallow, wheat, oats for
grazing, oats or barley for stripping;
fallow, wheat, oats and grazing for four
or five years. The third one, where a
cereal is stripped, leaves stubble behind.
either to lie or be ploughed in tor the
next working.
Mostly a sunder-seeder or disc-drill
will sow oats efficiently on stubble, or
they can be broadcast ahead of a Wim-
mera scarifier. A dressing of sulphate
of ammonia should be given if possible.
Naturally the small man can’t afford the
long rotations possible on a large area;
all the same, once a rotation is fixed it
should be stuck to.
Another point about leaving land out
for years is that very little mallee coun-
try will continue to grow grass, and if
the period is too long there is little cover
when the plough goes in and the land
breaks up too fine. When this has hap-
pened it’s best to lay off wheat and stick
in a ryecorn seeding, round about 301 b.
of seed an acre. The ryecorn root sys-
tem is a great soil-binder, the crop is
good feed when young, but gets tough
and coarse, which is all to the good be-
cause the stock leave it alone, and it is
still there as a top cover when wanted.
Plough across prevailing winds, work as
much land as possible when it’s wet, and
don’t overdo sheeping the fallow —their
hooves chop the soil pretty fine.
Cotton on the Burdekin.
“Mackay”: Though the Burdekin delta
is the only area where cane lands can
be satisfactorily turned over to cotton, not
all of it is suitable. Soil type, lie of land
and nut-grass pest have a bearing.
Irrigation furrows for cotton must be
smaller and shallower than for cane. If
the land is poorly graded the water
quickly overflows into depressions and
causes flooding, while higher ground
remains dry. Too much water is worse
than too little for cotton.
When cotton-production is restricted to
the drier months planting cannot begin
before autumn. If land cannot be got
ready for planting in April or early May
then it is better to wait till late July or
August. Late-winter and early-spring
plantings take less cultivation, less weed-
ing and less watering. But they need
special care. Since the growth period is
short, the crop must be brought to matu-
rity as quickly as possible. For this
are needed soils of low nitrogen content,
early varieties, close spacing of plants and
careful irrigation. These methods have
enabled many a farmer to bring late-
sown crops to harvest before the rainy
season. If planting is delayed too far
into the spring the crop won’t have
matured before the rain, which not only
hampers picking but affects the quality.
When grown under irrigation small
upright plants close together in rows are
better than large spreading ones. Yield
is not determined by the number of bolls
per plant but by the number per acre.
H. K. Lewcock, cotton research officer,
says that heavier soils should be planted
in autumn and lighter soils in late winter
or early spring.
Potatoes and Dryness.
“Pat Ater”: It’s surprising on what a
small amount of moisture potatoes will
give a worth-while return. If the soil is
deep volcanic and the country is cool and
high, go ahead with planting, even if
present conditions appear unfavorable.
Deep planting is the answer to a dry top-
soil when westerly winds are active, and
it serves the double purpose of combating
the destructive moth-grub. Deeper plant-
ing—eight inches or more where soil is
deep and well-drained —has many advan-
tages, especially in sandy soils, which dry
out quickly in the upper levels.
Last year at Burrawang (N.S.W.), J.
Mortimer dug an average of four tons to
the acre in a record dry season with only
one good shower of two inches shortly
after planting and a light thunderstorm
halfway through growth. Factor was the
main variety. One stand of the newer
Katahdin gave a yield of six
tons. It was in a depression
that held most moisture. When
the potatoes were dug all the
soils were powder-dry for feet
down, but the haulms were still
green and tops showed only a
sign of yellowing. It was a
demonstration of the potato’s
ability to fight its way through
drought. Wells and creeks had
dried up and cabbages without
irrigation were a complete
failure.
At Crookwell (N.S.W.) oyer
an even drier period which
missed early showers, there was
a similar story, and it was only
a late attack by grub which
robbed both A. W. Gorman and
H. Bannister of potential six- to
eight-ton crops.
For Codlin Moth.
“B.”: If you get a deposit of
lead arsenate into the calyx cup
the fruit will be safe for the
whole of the season.
Early spraying gives poor
results and upsets the bees. Get
busy when about 80 p.c. of the
blossom has fallen and before
the calyx closes. With apples
this is usually two or three days
after blossom fall; with pears,
some weeks. Use of lead arsenate
to 50 gallons of water ; a concentrated
coarse spray is better than a mist. An
ordinary lime-casein spreader —11b. to
every 100 gallons of spray—helps.
If there’s black spot use lime sulphur
with the lead arsenate. For apples, lime
sulphur should not be stronger than one
in 80; for pears, one in 160. Mix the
lead arsenate with twice its weight of
either hydrated lime or lime-casein
spreader into a thin paste and then add
to the diluted lime sulphur. Trees should
be sprayed from the inside as well as
the outside. Don’t overlook the tops.
Most of the fruit is carried there and
most of the codlin-moth eggs, too.
From a Queensland pastoral supply
firm:
It is hard to see the point of the ban on
stock licks. Apparently ingredients for licks
may be sold for mixing on the property, obvi-
ously an attempt at saving man-power, but a
machine operated by a boy will mix lick
quicker than 10 men mixing by hand and
make a better job of it.
The fact that copper and cobalt salts are
specifically mentioned suggests that the author-
ities had in mind sheep-licks. Queensland s
beef and dairy cattle, it seems, have been


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
J.,
m
fj#. *Sr
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPUING ST., SYDNEY,
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK,
PRODUCE AND
STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager- rw
ALSO AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
The manufacturers desire to notify the public that, all Government orders having-
been overtaken, immediate delivery of private orders can be given. Ample supplies
of Hygeia Dissolvent and paper are assured.
This self-contained sanitary system gives the comfort and safety of sewerage to
homes in nnsewerecl areas, no water supply being: required.
It is not just a modified closet pan. Closet pans and sanitary rates are eliminated,
as well as the unpleasant conditions inherent in closet pans.
INSTAE YOURS BEFORE THE HOT WEATHER.
Any Handy Man Can Instal It. Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
PRICE: Family Size, £l9/2/6 f.o.r. Sydney. Crating, 10/9.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26 Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone: 81052. Obtainable direct or from all leading stores.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, S'carfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R., P. Melnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
Wireless alone can meet the
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT ★ CONSTANT ★ CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRON
RADIO VALVES
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC I’KOPBIKI'ABVj LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Fty.. Ltd.
mm-
sv
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
CRAVENA
[/mill effmciate tkeh
••
■gm-
PREVENT
THR
overlooked. There is some difference of opinion
about the value of salt and licks to sheep, but
no one will deny that cattle must have salt
and other minerals. For dairy cattle lime and
phosphorus are essential.
Beef, wool and milk production cannot
be kept up without licks. To skimp the lime
and salt supplements is asking for trouble.
Licks must be had, and apparently that is
recognised, but the farmer, short of labor, is
expected to mix them himself by a costly and
laborious process. And it seems to have been
forgotten that many manufactured licks con-
tain valuable proteins.
In Queensland the railway authorities charge
a far higher freight on lick ingredients than
on manufactured lick.
From Max Henry, chief veterinarian,
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture:
At a meeting at Maclean, N.S.W., a journal
of the Australian Museum was produced as
evidence that there is no tick in the area.
But the article was written in 1932 and was
10 years behind the times. It was also stated
that there was no redwater in the district.
Redwater is merely a symptom, and may point
to diseases other than tick poisoning. Tick
poisoning has occurred on the Lower Clar-
ence, at Ulmarra and in the surrounding dis-
trict, and there is serious danger of carriers
being in the Grafton-Maclean area. Until the
tick itself is eradicated the danger of an
outbreak always exists. The claim that in the
U.S.A. only cattle on which ticks are found are
dipped is wrong. All cattle, horses and mules,
if infested or exposed, are treated regularly
e|ery two weeks.
Outback Occasions.
No. 57.
PUTTING UP THE TANK.
Choosing the site for our new 2000-
gallon tank was easy. Deciding on what
sort of a foundation to establish it was
a different matter. We picked the corner
behind the kitchen, which Mother said
would make it handy for her, and Father
said that, to make it handier, we could
raise it 4ft. above the ground and let
a pipe through the wall into the kitchen.
This seemed a good idea until our brother
mentioned that if the tank base was 4ft.
high the top would be a foot above the
roof-gutter, and so far, said our brother,
nobody had found a way to make water
run uphill. The way Father scowled <
you’d have thought it was our brother’s <
fault. <
We had a clump of pines on the hill. 1
Father said it was silly to waste money 1
on sawn timber, so we picked out half a 1
dozen trees, dropped them and cut them ]
into three-foot lengths for piles. Father 1
said 25 piles, each 2ft. in the ground, )
would carry the tank.
“1 don’t reckon it will,” argued our
brother. “Water’s pretty heavy stuff and 1
the iron in between the piles might bust
out under the strain.”
“Pshaw!” said Father.
“By cripes,” I said, “a gallon weighs
ten pounds; that’s twenty thousand
pounds when the tank’s full. Pretty close
t’ ten ton.”
Father, however, couldn’t see it.
“Them piles will carry it,” he said. So
we cut ’em and stripped the bark from
’em, and then we dug the holes where
Father had ’em marked and stood the
piles up. Then we put a straightedge on
them and found that, owing to the run of
the ground, when they were all in and
rammed down tight some were higher
than others.
“It means we gotter pull ’em out an’
saw ’em off to the right height,” said our
brother, and Father got wild and said all
we could think of was doing jobs over
again and why didn’t one of us think
of the lie of the ground before we put
’em in. It’s no good saying anything to
Father when he gets like that, so our
brother and I got the straightedge and
marked all the piles that were too high.
Father sat and thought hard and then
said we needn’t pull them out; it was
just as easy to saw them off where they
stood.
Was it? You try sawing off a green
pine pile about a foot thick with a farm
handsaw that has been used for every-
thing from cutting wood to breaking
down meat, and the pile only a foot
above the ground. You have to squat
down and hold the saw with one hand
in the handle and the other about half-
way along the blade and cut. By dark
we had two sawn through and both of
us had permanent kinks in our backs
and the fingers of my left hand kept
closing and wouldn’t open.
Well, next day we did about seven piles,
and then Father discovered that the saw-
ing wasn’t perfectly horizontal and there-
fore the tank bottom wouldn’t rest flat
and there was a fine old rumpus. If
we’d been working for him for wages we
could have told him to get a decent saw
or have a go himself, but we were only
his sons and could only sit there and
listen to him.
We got chisels and tried to level off
the uneven tops of the piles, but a chisel
in green pine is a hopeless sort of thing,
and what with everything and the way
the hammer used to jump and bark our
thumbs our farm became a pretty nasty
sort of place. In the end Father roared
that all “this messing about” was costing
time and money and it might rain any
minute and he’d go and get some sawn
timber crosspieces and use the piles to
fit them on. Our brother and I watched
him go and grinned at each other and
went and sat down on the woodheap and
said “Well, fair dinkum, putting up a
tank ain’t so easy.”
Father bought a job lot of rejects at
the local sawmill and our brother and I
had to cut notches in the piles and do the
best we could with that sawn timber.
Some of the baulks were warped and
bowed and others had spirals in them,
and there were gum-faults in the timber
in places where we wanted to bolt, so
that when we bored for the bolthole the
timber would break in two or split or
jam on the bit and break it. After we
got all the timber on a few days went
by before the plumber could come to
make the tank, and in those few days the
sun got on to that timber and it bulged
or shrunk or curled so that we had to
chip bumps off some of it with the adze
or break pieces off and let new ones in.
Every time Father discovered a new
fault in that tank-bed he’d call us and
tell us what a useless pair of bush car-
penters we were and it was a pity he
hadn’t done the thing himself or paid a
man to do it. With which we agreed
heartily
Then the plumber came with his curves
of corrugated-iron and his sheets of flat
iron for the top and bottom. He looked
at our wooden tank-bed and grinned to
himself and said to Father “Is that
where you want it?”
Father nodded. The plumber grinned
again and, with us helping him, put the
tank together on the ground. When he
put the bottom in the top on we
noticed he had a ring of iron let .
he went up in the pines and pomte
to some sand and said he wanted a tew
loads of it. Our brother and I loaded up
the wagon in some wonder, and when we
got down to the house he had the iron
ring over our wooden frame and we
filled in with sand until it was level, and
on that he stood the tank. Father went
to market properly, saying w y cou c
he have told us and what did he mean by
burying the timber m the sand. But the
plumber said he hadn t any time to waste
and got his cheque and drove away.
was months before Father gave up going
out after tea to gaze at that tankstan .


VICTORY’
is our
Business
Tio'tf c 0 \
%e ve °l\ \
\&®l aV> o< o^-\
\«*Jyv **%&? vjc* 9 i. £&s.. A e I °\\
A«AV a- s ao\- n < C.c,0p%»6 >
G.M. PRODUCTION TO BE
TREBLED FOR WAR
On February n 1942, the United States scrapped its biggest
industry for the duration. Automobile plants that turned
out 5,000,000 cars and trucks in 1941, have been merged
into one gigantic arms production unit—the largest ever put
together. From these plants, there is now rolling an ever-
increasing quantity of planes and tanks and guns and
shells, a quantity soon to include one-fifth of all the war
goods to be produced by the United States in all its war
industries.
Interviewed in New York recently, Mr. C. E. Wilson, Pres-
ident of General Motors said “ G.M. can handle about 10%
of the total programme. It has already agreed to produce
40% of the plane engines for the Army, 25% of the tanks,
half of the trucks, a third of the machine guns and half of
the Diesel engines for the Navy. To meet its schedules,
General Motors, which averaged a productive rate of one
billion 500 million dollars over the past five years must
push towards a rate of three billion 700 million dollars this
year and four billion dollars by the Spring of 1943.”
In Australia the 10,000 men and women who are Gen-
eral Motors-Holden’s are also producing large quan-
tities of war material, including aeroplane engines
and parts, guns, boats, shells, bombs and many types
of army vehicles.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth
MAKE EVERY PAY-DAY A WAR SAVINGS DAY
C 760.22
m
...!
I
m
■
Wr
mm
u
i
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy book of draughts problems.—3313.
To buy Callisthenes, published by Selfridges,
London, 1934.
Words of poem “The Sentry” in which occur
the lines: —
I failed in the last watch I kept,
Now I have none to keep.
—3314.
Information Sought.
Just what truth is there in the statement “The
greater the truth the greater the libel” ? Is a
libel greater merely because of its truth?
Libel is defined as “to defame, or expose
to public hatred, contempt or ridicule.” In
some places a newspaper sued for libel can
plead truth and public benefit, whereupon
there arises the question of what consti-
tutes public benefit. For instance, if a
newspaper discovered that a politician had
accepted a bribe in return for getting legisla-
tion passed that would benefit the briber at
the expense of the public it could plead public
benefit; but where a man had set up a success-
ful and honest business and was conducting
himself properly a newspaper would find it
very hard to succeed with a public-benefit plea
if it discovered that the man had served a
sentence for (say) criminal fraud in the past
and published the fact. It might be held that
since the plaintiff had reformed and was
leading an honest life the libel was all the
greater because of the truth of the past episode.
In other words, the man had been made to
suffer for an offence which he had exculpated
and lived down. These matters almost always
are tried before a jury, and juries have great
powers.
* * * *
(1) What was the cause of the death of the
late King Edward VII ? Did he die of appendi-
citis, as revealed by a post-mortem conducted
by Sir Frederick Treves ? (2) Was this the
first case of an appendicitis diagnosis? (3)
Did the King die of some other cause later,
after recovering from a diagnosed appendicitis ?
(1) No. The King was successfully operated
upon for appendicitis by Sir Frederick Treves
on June 24, 1902, (2) No. It seems to have
been an American surgeon, Reginald Fitz, of
Boston, who first stressed the relation of the
disease to the appendix and laid down rules
for operative treatment. His observations are
recorded in the New York “Medical Journal,”
1888, xlvii, 508. (3) Tire King died on May 6,
1910, the cause of death being heart failure.
* % * *
We live in N.S.W., three miles from the
nearest school. Is it necessary for my six-year-
old son to attend every day?
The law requires him to attend school unless
he receives regular and efficient instruction in
his own home on at least 85 days in each half-
year or unless there is no school within two
miles by the nearest practicable route and no
train, boat or other conveyance on which the
child can travel on a free pass which is not
more than two miles’ walking distance from
the child’s home. If there is no means of con-
veyance it would seem your child cannot be
compelled to attend school.
* * * *
(1) What amount of a deceased soldier’s estate
is exempted from probate duties in N. S.
Wales? (2) If there should be an inflation of
20 p.c. compared with pre-war, would a valuer
for probate be justified in allowing for this
when valuing an estate which consists princi-
pally of land?
(1) “From the value of the estate of the de-
ceased soldier there shall be deducted in re-
spect of such part of the estate as passes to
the widow, children, grandchildren, parents,
brothers, sisters, nephews or nieces of the
deceased a sum of £SOOO, or where the value
of the estate is less than £SOOO, an amount
equal to the value of that part.” Otherwise
the same as civilians. (2) Considerations of
inflation do not enter directly into the matter.
The valuer has to estimate the fair market
value of the estate of the deceased at the time
of death and must be prepared to justify his
valuation if it is challenged.
* * * *
(1) Is “Advance, Australia Fair” the Austra-
lian National Anthem? (2) If so, on whose
proclamation and when ? (3) Is it any more in-
cumbent upon me to stand to attention on
hearing it in a picture theatre than if “Waltzing
Matilda” were being played?
(1) and (2) There has been no official recog-
nition of the song. (3) No legal compulsion,
but it saves trouble to do what the crowd
does in the matter of patriotic observances in
times like these.
* * * *
Recipe for whitewash to be applied to an
outside wall of galvanised-iron and sandstone ?
This is the famous White House whitewash:
Slake with sufficient hot water half-kerosene-
tin (approx.) of live (rock) lime, covering
to keep in steam. Strain through fine wire
sieve and add 141 b. salt (previously dissolved in
warm water), 31b. ground rice (boiled to a
thin paste and stirred in boiling), best
powdered whiting and |lb. glue (already melted
over gentle heat). Add five gallons hot water,
stir well and leave for two days. Put it on
hot; one pint covers a square yard. Use small
brush and apply like paint. Better hose down
or wash rusty parts of wall, then give two
coats, letting first dry well.
* * * *
Method of preserving flowers with wax ?
Melt together in a large saucepan 11b. of
paraffin wax and 2oz. silicate of soda (water-
glass). Dip flower (or bunch of flowers) slowly
in with sweeping movement downwards, hold
suspended, then lift out and allow surplus wax
to trickle off. Flowers so preserved must be
kept in a cool temperature.
Brief Answers.
E.M.R.: He can be ejected from the property
and compelled to pay a reasonable amount for
his use and occupation of the land. See a
solicitor J.K.; Not necessary but advis-
able. Cannot advise as to appropriate court
without knowing amount involved A.H.8.:
Yes, it is an ordinary debt due by the agent
to the company F.L.S.: No such agree-
ment has been imported into Federal statute
law. Apply direct to Immigration Officer,
Customs Department F.H.8.: (1) A record-
ing company, such as Columbia or Decca,
might be able to tell you. (2) N.S.W. Licens-
ing Police state there is no law affecting the
amount of liquor which may be stored for a
person’s own use. (3) Address inquiry to
Curator, Taronga Park F.C.: G coupons
can be used throughout the whole year
Mice: To rid stack of mice, place dishes
of solution of arsenic dissolved in water all
round the stack. This is more effective than
lime and sulphur A.L.: Get in touch with
the Flying Doctor Service of the Australian
Inland Mission... .H.C.G.: Strauss’s “Salome”
was first performed in 1906. Maud Allan made
her debut in Vienna in 1903 and in London
in 1908. Details of the music to which she
danced are not given in reports of her per-
formances in English newspaper files available
in Australia. She appeared in Oscar Wilde’s
jplay “Salome” in 1918. Her last Australasian
tour was in 1915-16.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
M.R.:
After the sun has lost its fierceness
And in paler glory sinks.
The silly world of modern humans
Clicks the electric switch and blinks.
T.F.:
They’re putting new tiles round the pub
To lighten their income taxes;
Nowhere can you find a bite of grub—
Has Pintpot joined the Axis?
.... R. Clark: Kindly send address; we’ve mis-
laid it P.H.: Use colloquialisms by all means;
but “The enemy is due to force the issue”
is not natural speech but the foulest journalese.
H.N.O.P.: Breathless with dashes....
M.P.: Promising R.G.H.: Pleasant, if it
weren’t pitted with those “dids” and “dos.”
S.W.: Honestly, now, do you really be-
lieve in fairies? L.C.A.: “If you publish
any of these, that would surprise me. If
you do not publish them, my wife will get
the surprise.” You have indeed a pearl of
great price R.P.: The first line of “Man
Victorious” and the last of “Let Go My Hands”
are true poetry; but they’re surrounded by too
much conventional verbiage... .N.T.: Good
thought, but the opening verses are crammed
with cliches... .L.P.: Nothing like that; not
even when it’s typed on perfumed notepaper.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.N.L.: Tones need to be .sharper for re-
production J.M.G.; Send the monstrosity
to a temperance paper... .P.G.8.: The 18-
footer looks the same size as the 20,000-ton
liner R.N.: Away with your Tilly-Millie
feeble backchat!.... C.K.W.: Jest fell dead
on doorstep from senile decay E.D.: The
gent, and the damsel on a raft have been
floating in and out of 252 George-street for
years J.W.R.: Infant with arms like Indian
clubs and a chin like Jack Lang’s sent back
for renovations... .W.V.: Characters mostly
obscured by decorative frills Bert C.:
Wheeze recalls dear days of mutton-chop ziffs
and antimacassars H.McL.: What’s that on
the sideboard —a football or the baby?


(f
99
STEELBHT
STOBACE
EQUIPMENT
is commissioned with the R.A.A.F.
on,j)i
- a |
mmem m
■■ '• ■:\ §*■' ,; *! ' SMB
IMiMIM fiiiiii Si 11111
■I
m m
■
.
■n
, : v
'.. !?■*?
m ;
i
■
mm
;-• ;•
h:
: i
H
9H
i
H
i
i
: !■:
m
? * —■
■
H
«&?1 • ■■■■■
. *. i :
M
M
m
m
I !
■
1
■
:
—BIM
NS
M
*
mm
i
n
■I
■
: IS
■
1
.Ph
■ , - _....;
m
mm
m
H
m
WM
:. - . f />' my
: ::
f; Kv v
:*;-■■■
■J
■
mm.
M
&
m
■
m
m
HH
ISTi
■
Bi
p
HBB
■ m
H
■
wbk^m
■* '
§r
Wk «sis, . I
m
'•■• • - ;:•
HH
■I
iJ
hh|
m 1
■HM
?»
: i
;: . ;••:::• :
Wherever R. A.A.F. planes are based, "Steelbilt" equipment is on active service.
"Steelbilt" lockers equip R.A.A.F. Airmen's quarters; repair hangars are fitted out
with "Steelbilt" Bins and Shelving; R.A.A.F. operational records are protected by
"Steelbilt" Filing Cabinets.
"Steelbilt" is serving every arm of Australia's fighting services.
Naturally, that means no more "Steelbilt" for civilian use until after the war. But
while we are working top speed on Defence needs, we are also getting valuable
manufacturing experience... developing new design features that will mean big
improvements on all* "Steelbilt" equipment when Victory is won.
IT "Bangor" Door Hangers are also called up for the duration. But as soon as
conditions permit, Wormald Bros, will be releasing all the original "Bangor"
Jj models along the many new improved types developed over past months.
f
“STEELBILT” Storage Equipment
MANUFACTURED BY WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND
SB 2


tts
"THE exacting demands of industry for uninterrupted
* plant operation calls for the highest degree of quality
in Power Transmission Equipment, and in most plants to-day
you’ll find the name ‘Ludowici’ on ail or most of the equip-
ment used for transmitting power to machines.
Whether your power transmission problem is large or small,
Ludowici technicians, with their specialised knowledge and
experience, backed by the finest quality equipment will
solve it for you.
So to ensure greater operating efficiency call for Ludowici
Power Transmission equipment and service.
We specialise in the production of:
LEATHER BELTING . PIVOT DRIVES . TORQUE
DRIVES . V-BELT DRIVES v » GEARS . PULLEYS
BEARINGS . SHAFTING . HANGERS . COUPLINGS
CLUTCHES.
m
i
m
w
ms.
i
to
. C. LUDOVICZ & SON LTD.
YORK STREET, SYDNEY i 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
ECZEMA
Sensitive people fed eczema
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin where
the inflammation lies, is antiseptic an
healing and quickly allays the irritation.
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the reliet
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
Doans Ointment
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Peters American Delicacy (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 22,779 10 p.c. = 42,583 480,360
Written off investments, £12,435 .. 467,925
Unexplained additions, £19,434 .. 487,359
1933.. 32,266 7.8 p.c. = 31,937 329 487,688
Unexplained additions, £34,779 .. 522,467
1934.. 43,383 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 800 523,267
Unexplained additions, £32,944 .. 556,211
1935.. 55,720 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 13,137 569,348
Unexplained additions, £28,847 .. 598,195
1936.. 68,517 12J p.c. = 49,681 18,836 617,031
Depreciation reserve, £20,276 .. 637,307
Unexplained reduction, £24,388 .. 612,919
1937.. 109,320 16 p.c. = 63,876 45,444 658,363
Added depreciation res., £21,277.. 679,640
1938.. 113,491 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 78,005 757,645
Added depreciation res., £26,434.. 784,079
1939.. 96,812 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 61,326 845,405
Goodwill ( £25,250), freeholds, etc.,
sold to subsidiary, and £397,446
of bonus scrip issued from profit .. 870,655
Depreciation reserve disappears,
£453,423 417,232
Div. orr bonus shares, £70,972 .. 346,260
1940.. 87,537 8.9 p.c. = 72,991 14,546 360,806
1941.. 77,306 8.9 „ „ 74,498 2.808 363,614
1942.. 70,637 8 „ „ 66,751 3,886 367,500
The figures now tell less than they used
to, though the position remains obviously
comfortable. True result of operations
is now partly hidden in two wholly-owned
subsidiaries, Peters Ice Cream Pty. (paid
capital £1,000,000), to which the main
section of the business was passed and a
one-for-one gift-issue made from the
profit thereon in 1940, and a Taree
creamery (paid capital £100,000), acquired
shortly before and since developed into
one of the Commonwealth’s most
modern. The creamery is now a protected
undertaking, selling 80 p.c. of its output
to the Government, besides catering for
the metropolitan milk trade and proving
a source of supply for the ice-
cream co. in all seasons. Also help-
ing things are sundry investments and
holdings of £84,000-odd in associated
inter-State cos., handing on 8.3 p.c, to
9 p.c. and earning more.
War has aggravated costs and trading
difficulties in all directions ; at the same
time it has created growing demand
from the Department of Supply and
Australian service and munition can-
teens, and this is now being supplemented
by the big call from the American
forces. On the civilian side, the board
has largely anticipated the requirements
of the Department of War Organisation
by the elimination of many packaged
lines and by economies in man-power (to
be probably the biggest problem in the
days ahead), transport and mileage. One
of the results has been considerable ex-
pansion in bulk ice-cream sales, to the
benefit of the reorganised cone depart-
ment, and the changeover has been
accompanied by a reduction in price to
retailers. And because of the part trans-
port plays in its activities the enterpris-
ing board has developed its own shale
fuel supplies, now being further aug-
mented and a surplus from which will
be available for the Liquid Fuel Control
Board. Co-operation with the Govern-
ment has also extended to the provision
of refrigerated and bulk storage, while
workshops and mechanics are devoted
to defence work.
The reduction of £6669 in net earn-
ings is more apparent than real, last
year’s takings being charged with undis-
closed but “substantial” taxation short-
provided. Depreciation of £21,213 was
also written off by the parent in addition
to £22,993 chalked up in the accounts of
the pups, the aggregate being £4606
heavier. That left disclosed net at
£70,637, or 8.4 p.c. on capital, against
9.2 and 10.5 p.c. back to the change in
the parent’s status from operating to
mainly holding co. Div. was reduced
from 8.9 p.c. to 8 p.c., leaving £3886
to plough in, apart from that retained
by the pups, which can be expected to
have inherited the parent’s old conser-
vatism.
Here is as much as the published
finances communicate:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £397,446 £834,306 £834,381 £834,383
Sundry creditors* 95,335 57,736 58,461 75,124
Overdraft .. 114,943 71,163
Freeholds, etc. 285,345
Plant, etc. .. 687,281 117,831 114,362 94,699
Shares subsidiaries 783,046 1,100,000 1,100,000
Other shares,
etc. . . 212,051 158,311 158,311 131,437
Stock . . 39,897
Book debts .. 23,238 165,701 35,973 55,407
Cash ~ . . 10?,115 65,207
* Includes provision for taxation.
The subsidiaries, in which the parent
took up an extra £316,954 of scrip (partly
advances capitalised) during 1941, re-
quire no aid from the holding co. these
days; the former, indeed, are assisting
their parent to the extent of £5762 net.
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Inner reserves disclosed, £86,000 .. 208,345
1932.. 33,631 8 p.c. = 24,133 9,498 217,843
1933.. 34,105 8 „ „ 24,133 9,972 227.815
1934.. 36,391 8 „ „ 24,133 12,258 240,073
Renewal reserve disappears, £28,075.. t 211,998
1935.. 43,685 10 p.c. = 39,600 4,085 216,083
Investment reserve disappears, £10,000.. 206,083
1936. . 68,079 8 p.c. = 47,362 20,717 226,800
Superannuation fund, £2500 .. .. 224,300
To inner reserves, £19,469 .. .. 204,831
Share premiums, £10,375 .. .. 215,206
1937.. 100,585 9 p.c. = 60,616 39,969 255,175
Superannuation fund, £3OOO .. .. 252,175
To inner reserves, £30,535 .. .. 221,640
Share premiums, £61,250 .. 282,890
Written off investments, £61,250 . . 221,640
1938.. 111,373 10 p.c. = 74,000 37,373 259,013
Superannuation fund, £2OOO . . .. 257,013
To inner reserves, £lO.OOO .. .. 247,013
Share premiums, £12,250 .. .. 259,263
Written off investments, £12,250 .. 247,013
1939.. 115,281 10 p.c. = 76,250 39,031 286,044
Superannuation fund, £2OOO .. .. 284,044
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. .. 274,044
1940.. 115,904 10 p.c. = 77,500 38,404 312,448
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 287,448
1941.. 115,989 10 p.c. = 77,500 38,489 325,937
War losses written off, £26,706 .. 299,231
1942.. 92,986 5 p.c. = 38,750 54,236 353,467
Events of the past eight months have
clipped the co.’s wings to an extent not
yet fully evident in the accounts, the co.’s
trading and other varied activities and
those of its pups having been suspended
in New Guinea, Thursday Island and the
Gilbert and Solomon groups, main
spheres of operations. And for the
moment plans for rehabilitation when
occupied territory is wrested back
are occupying the board’s time rathei
than development of other activities.
Because of enemy action, current assets
of £26,706 have been written off in the
parent’s accounts; other capital losses
in the Mandated Territory and Thurs-
day Is. should be eventually recouped
from war-damage insurance. Prelimi-
nary notification of claim has been filed,
and because settlement is indefinite the
board is looking after its pennies to
ensure there will be no shortage of ready
cash when the time for reconstruction
comes.
Meantime the superstructure erected
in the past decade’s great activity has
been on such solid foundations that
“we feel reasonably assured that the
coming year will not disappoint you,”
deputy-chairman R. B. Carpenter com-
forts. Of the kennelful of pups, main
support now appears to be coming from
W. R. Carpenter (Overseas Shipping),
which had a “relatively good” year with-
out loss of any vessels, the Fijian off-
shoot, whose ord. div. shot up to 10 p.c..
Southern Pacific Insurance, paying 7 p.c.
and steadily improving its position, and
the airways business, now in national
service with “satisfactory” results. A
promising new addition in W. R. Car-
penter (Canada), set up at Vancouver
(8.C.) a year or more back to crush
copra for the Canadian oil market, got
smartly off the leash, and proved a useful
outlet for the copra from territories in
which the co. is interested at a time when
Island ports were stacked with the dried
kernel of the coconut. In this connec-
tion loss of the Philippines, D.E.I. and
Malayan supplies completely changed
buyers’ attitudes, and brought Britain in
as a purchaser of the limited Pacific
production at the equivalent of £2O 6s.
9d. Australian, f.o.b. —roughly five times
the price not long before.
The effect of this windfall is apparent
in Carpenter’s latest profit, down only
£23,003 despite the jolt to activities.
Profits of the subsidiaries are taken
credit for only to the extent of divs. de-
clared, too, so there is very likely a bit
more milk in the coconut than is
apparent. Taxation paid during the
year and now disclosed was £23,264,
and depreciation £20,831 (up £4338). Be-
fore allowing for the ascertained loss of
£26,706 mentioned, the £92,986 of profit
ran out at 11.8 p.c. on capital, compared
with 14.9, 15.1 and 15 p.c. for the three
stable years before. Without apologies,
the board cut the div. in two, reducing
it to 5 p.c., and discerning shareholders
won’t quibble with the decision.
Consolidated accounts are not pre-
sented, so the actual earning-power and
asset values behind a written-down share
investment of £497,004 in subsidiaries
aren’t discernible:- —
1931. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £301,667 £775,000 £775,000 £775,000
Liabilities .. 7,333 152,278 169,254 831,396
Shipping-, free-
holds, plant,
etc. . . 16,825 387,350 342,471 321,176
Investments, etc. 118,114 527,686 529.693 531,231
Stocks . . 1,238 104,434 67,846 67,248
Debtors, etc.. . 261,774 208.926 331,115 352,099
Cash, etc. . . 45,460 23,666 37,816 226,859
Of liabilities, £218,881 is a domestic obli-
gation to and is partly offset by £126,683
owing from the pups. Debtors also in-
clude plantation advances of £97,969 —
assets on which these are secured are
themselves subject to war-damage claims.
All open accounts in New Guinea have
been written off, and when inner reserves
are considered the chances are that very
little, if any, further cleaning up of
finances will later prove necessary, what-
ever frustration of earning-power has
to be tolerated in the meantime.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1932.. 13,064 7 p.c. = 12,320 744- 74,322
1933.. 20,929 10 „ „ 17,600 3329 77,651
Written off, £5O 77,601
1934.. 18,251 10 p.c. = 17,596 655 78,256
Share premiums, £BBOO .. .. 87,056
1935.. 19,717 10 p.c. = 18,607 1110 88,166
Bonus scrip issued, £48,400 .. 39,766
Special depreciation, £20,400 .. 19,366
1936.. 22,305 8 p.c. = 19,360 7 1(U - 91 0,.
Staff fund, £lOOO j IJ4j 21,311
1937.. 25,578 9 p.c. = 21,780 1 97qs IQq
Staff fund, £lOOO i 1
1938.. 22,655 9 p.c. = 21,780 \ o 7r , o d
To staff fund, £5OO ) 24,481
!939 . . 27.554 9 px. = 21,780 | 4274 2 8,758
To staff fund, £l5OO )
1940.. 26,206 9 p.c. = 21,780 1 0 49 R
To staff fund. £lOOO I 3426 32,184
1941 25,685 9 p.c. - 21,780 1 2405 34>589
To staff fund. £l5OO j
1942.. 23,990 9 p.c. = 21,780 1 ~ VQO
To staff fund, £2OOO J ’
Austerity three-course meals with a ceil-
ing price of 3s. for breakfast, 4s. for lunch
and ss. for dinner, the rationing of beer
and spirits, the lift in prices for both and
for wines, owing to increase in excise,
won’t do turnover of this Melbourne
“dry” hotel much harm. Chief bump to
earnings will come from the rise in the
cost of foodstuffs and labor, taxation,
and priority restriction on inter- and intra-
state travel. As against that, war has
brought a lot of khaki-clad people to
Melbourne, and the Victoria, which has
always had a moderately priced tariff, is
centrally situated. Indeed the co. is well
equipped to cater for just the kind of
conditions that prevail at the moment.
But for reasons just explained, and others
too, no lift in net earnings need be looked
for.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the call for accommoda-
tion —Victoria’s capacity is some 900
people—was a record, and hundreds of
would-be patrons had to be turned away.
After deducting trading exes., gross earn-
ings (£67,356) were £8222 stronger. But
a growth of £10,062 in rates, taxes and
provision therefor (together £28,715),
partly offset by minor savings in other
directions, gobbled all the increase and
£1695 besides. That left the net result
at 9.9 p.c. on capital as against 10.6,
10.8, 11.3, 9.3, 10.5 and 9.2 p.c. back to
1936. The div. was kept at 9 p.c., making
the average 9.2 p.c. over the last decade.
Of the £2210 that remained, £2OOO was
sent to the staff fund, and the balance
lifted the lay-by to £34,799.
The property, partly freehold and
partly leasehold, adjoins Melbourne Town
Hall, fronting Little Collins-street. Hie
lease, which runs out in 1993, carries a
nine-storeyed building, erected in 1927,
and provision has been made to recover
the outlay through a sinking fund. The
freehold section was rebuilt in 1934.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1935. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Capital . . £193,600 £242,000 £242,000 £242,000
Liabilities* . . 117,141 83,591 62,538 59,107
Freeholds .. 264,637 240,654 231,443 225,825
Leaseholds . . 102,692 97,805 95,962 95,364
Plant & furniture 39,757 17,655 13,939 15,192
Stores.. .. 952 1,041 1,662 2,178
Debtors . . 101 289 254 5,526
Investments & cash 1,819 12,810 13,646 11,076
* Including taxation.
The most pleasing feature there is the


THE
“BOULIA”
big hip stock saddle
■
N.S.W
Freight
Saddles
Paid for
Cash with
Order
£l5/15/“
(COMPLETE)
Has plenty of
dip in the seat
and the pads are
high. It has the
popular short
panel with
leather facings at
back. Built on a best
“Fouright” Tree, the
materials are first-class
throughout.
Come and inspect our
range of Genuine Truc-
to-LabelWieneke Saddles.
WALTHER&STEVEHSOM I??
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY .
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
appoint your executor and trustee now.
Consult
vyj? g>-4 z~"
-C:
Security
Economy
Service
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
sfsdfdsfdsf
(, Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
(Vice Chairman) : Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A.
Robert 0. Wilson. Manager: J.
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C-M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
t/MlTtO
IT'S THE
GROUNDWORK TUT COUNTS
m
ms
m
m
mm
mmm
Ww:wivv«
85
HICHARDS
Gauge testing
precision built R.I.L.
hydraulic tank for
Beaufort Bombers.
m
i : i
m.
RICHARDS
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
R*M C Rl
A f ive-mi les-a-minute dash
oyer enemy territory . . .
target sighted . . . then
hectic minutes of torturing,
racking twists and turns as
Hie pilot weaves his way through
probing searchlight beams and
fierce anti-aircraft fire. "All our
planes returned safely" is the cold
official tribute to the superlative
R.I.L. craftsmanship that imparts
toughness and reliability to weather
such ortleals night after night.
Every R.I.L. workman realizes
how much his R.A.A.F. comrades
rely on him, so each man devotes
his full measure of skill and fidelity
to uphold the R.I.L. tradition of
reliability and to make the task of
our Beauforts surer and safer.
steady reduction of the debt, to the bene-
fit of net earnings and the finances gener-
ally. Last term £14,794 was sliced off
the mortgage (£28,658) and £11,363 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors (£30,449, including taxation).
When the books closed the outside deb(,
including provision for taxation, exceeded
more or less liquids by £40,327, an im-
provement of £6649 over the twelve-
month, and up £29,124 over the last three
years.
King Island Scheelite, in Bass Strait,
is looking to ways and means of bumping
up output (at the moment around
five tons of concentrate a week), its
mineral product being an essential for the
steel industry. Commonwealth has agreed
to share the cost of a drilling and ex-
ploratory campaign in unstated propor-
tions and terms. War-time (company)
tax was the obstacle to lifting production,
the management reported early this year.
It was then uncertain of the effect of the
general reduction in the base for this war
impost to 5 p.c. when a previous Govern-
ment had granted it relief in respect of
profits up to 10 p.c. on capital. Since then
a fifth of mining income has been made
exempt from all taxation in both cos.’
and shareholders’ hands ; if there have
been any specific concessions for the
King Island co. they haven’t been'men-
tioned. Liability of tinminers for war-
time (company) tax was recently liber-
alised to commence at earnings of 8 p.c.
3*= * * #
Hill 50 (W.A.) was recently nibbling
at an option over, the near-by Swan
Bitter property on a one-for-two share
basis. But, because of a report from its
manager. Swan Bitter broke off negotia-
tions when practically completed. Now
it has decided to give an option after all,
and Hill 50 has driven a harder bargain.
Period is for 12 months, and if a pur-
chase comes off payment will be by the
exchange of one Hill 50 4s. fully-paid
for every three Swan Bitters. Immediate
market benefit would have followed had
the board accepted the first offer; cer-
tainly no harm would have been done,
as the proposals would have needed rati-
fication at a shareholders’ gathering
before becoming binding. Swan Bitter
reckons that its “Big” lode in the Morn-
ing Star is one large body of ore, not the
series of deposits previously thought.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) shareholders
are still wondering when last year’s
financial results will reach them and
when and what the next dividend will be.
Hitherto the figures have been issued not
later than August. Delayed mail ser-
vices have no doubt held up arrival of
mine accounts and the manager’s report
in London this year. Last dividend was
6d. a share in December.
* * * *
Blue Spec, at Nullagine (W.A.), is to
carry on, the antimonial content of its
gold ore being wanted for war purposes.
A development and production pro-
gramme has received Commonwealth
approval and a loan of £15,000, carry-
ing 4 p.c. interest and repayable out of
profits, made to see it through. That, of
course, implies priority for mine labor
and supplies. So late payers are urged
to buck up and fork out the 14d. call
due in August or see their shares sold. A.
fistful forfeited after the previous call
were auctioned in June.
* * * *
Although generally lengths at South
Kalgurli (W.A.) have been short, there
have been some good developments in
the co.’s mines in recent months. Be-
cause of these there was some talk of
the main shaft being deepened, but silence
has followed labor depletion. The cut
in last term’s div. was out of propor-
tion to the small slip in profits shown.
* =K * *
Annual accounts of the A 1 mine, at
Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.), will show reduced
earnings when they come to hand. Con-
trary to early indications, the previous
term’s drift in recoveries was arrested,
but throughput fell away by a quarter.
This, of course, was no help in combating
other cost-inflating influences at work.
Man-power diversion has now reduced
production to small dimensions. In
1941 co. was ninth on the list of Vic-
torian goldwinners,
* * * *
From Jo’burg:
Rand goldmining looks like repeating in 1942
last year’s production of 14,000,0000 z. Out-
put for the expired nine months of this is
slightly higher than for the corresponding period
of last year. Working costs will be up and
dividends probably down again. In 1941 work-
ing profits were nearly £46,000,000, of which
taxation and Government participation absorbed
£24,700,000, and dividends declined to
£18,750,000. Union Corp., one* of the leviathan
producers, crows over its past 40 years’ achieve-
ment. In 1902 its mines milled 171,000 tons
and extracted 76,0000 z. of gold for a work-
ing profit of £125,000. In 1941 they milled
7,195,000 tons and got l,825,000oz.; working
profit was £7,692,000. In between nearly
£10,000,000 was distributed in dividends. Gov-
ernment Gold Mining Areas, another outsize,
crushed over 3,080,000 tons, or 10,000 tons per
working day, and did 52,941 ft. of development
in its last term. Its reserves are estimated at
SpSfS.n w r . aBmg43dWt - a ‘
* * * •
Uncle Sam’s new Texas tin smelter has
started up. Initial capacity is roughly
25,000 tons of refined metal annually—
about the gap between smelter
capacity and ore supplies (equiva-
lent to 85,000 tons of metal) available to
Allies at the moment—and is to be
doubled Not only had the Jap de-
prived us of two-thirds of our available
tm-production, but also of effective
smelter capacity to treat what was left,
A smaller-scale American smelting ven-
ture during the late stages of 1914-18
later proved unable to compete with
Asia’s lower costs.


CAPSTAN
O
The Empire’s
favourite
cigarette
How to make
Gillette Blades
last longer..
Hi
m
mm
m.
m
M
m
spend longer on
lather time
You’re doing yourself a good turn when you
spend a few extra minutes over the morning
lather. The extra time in working up a rich
wet lather will not only make shaving smooth
and easy, but almost double the life of your
Gillette Blades. And don’t forget to treat
Gillette Blades gently. Handle them at the
ends: don’t touch the cutting edges: dry them
with cafe. Remember these tips and watch
how much longer your Gillette Blades will last.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
AND SAVE STEEL
The will to SAVE is the will to win. Buy Savings Certificate*.
Business, Rollery, etc.
What Sort of New Order?
Canberra Labor’s war-time Budget
passed through Parliament; though
, j- , r t ~ .
strongly disapproved of by the Oppos,-
‘i°n. no serious attempt was made to de-
feat the Government. So for a few weeks
now the finances of the Commonwealth
have been subject to the influence of this
Budget. There is not the slightest question
among people possessed of ordinary
horse-sense that it is a dangerous Budget
' 7 one inviting economic defeat for Aus-
tralia even if there is a military victory
for the Empire and its Allies. And since
the trade-union-boss element feels that it
ls entitled to insist on a new order after
the war, even though the war has still to
be won, it is not out of place for others
more restrained in their outlook to con-
sider the immediate and post-war pros-
pects of Australian civilians as a whole.
After all, however patriotic and spirited
a people may be in the war effort, as
things are in this day and age it
is still impossible to put anything
like as many men in the fighting
services as are required in civil life to
keep supplies up to those fighters. There-
fore one cannot dismiss as out of place
in war-time essential civilian organisation
and services. Food production must go
on, as well as clothing output, transport,
sanitation, medical services, etc. It is not
a good idea that victorious soldiers should
return to their country to find it in a state
of ruin and chaos. However stoical
civilians may have to become in order to
make a full contribution to the war,
nothing is to be gained by their health
being ruined, their essential services
breaking down or their methods of pro-
duction becoming costly or inefficient.
So it is with finance. Finance is an
essential service—a very essential one.
One of its greatest uses is to smarten-up
the carrying-out of all kinds of work in
all parts of the Commonwealth with the
greatest of convenience to all concerned,
It annihilates distance for trading pur-
poses by the widespread nature of Aus-
tralian bank branches, and it can over-
time factors where banks and
others make credit available to credit-
worth ducers Finance ig a facto r
jn waf production and econ omic content-
ment the same as tranS p ort> communica-
tions> etc . But it enters into t h e lives of
the people more intimately than any of
the ot h e rs. That is why it is subject to
so much po ii t i ca i abuse,
Consider for a moment the inflation
that the Budget plan now current in Aus-
tralia is breeding. The inflation is taking
place because the Government is fniser-
ably a fraid to charge its political foi-
lowers and others in the same income
class with their fair share D f the cost of
this war i nco mes of under £8 a week
represent almost three-quarters of all
the personal incomes earned in the Com-
monwealth, but the direct war taxation
thereon is very small. In aggregate it is not
to compare with the taxation paid by the
other quarter of the total incomes, which
are higher individually but are taxed
up to 18s. in the £. Instead of taxing
Australians in the proportion which it
knows it must take goods and services
away from them, the Government deals
with a few by using a heavy hand, and
i n respect of the voting majority it en-
deavors to borrow voluntarily and create
money by means of “bank credit.” It is
actually handing out extra money to the
great mass of consumers when it should
be taking it away.
Inflation causes rising costs, rising
prices. Already we have seen wool lifted
b y 15 p.c. as a matter of absolute neces-
sity because production costs were in-
flating. Now butter-producers are in the
spotlight. Since war began the Common-
wealth basic wage has risen from 795.
to about 935. entirely because the cost of
living had inflated in that degree. The
present Commonwealth Budget, which pro-
vides for only 46 p.c. of war waste to be
paid for by taxation, is going to cause
further great inflation when artificial con-
trols on prices and spending give way.
If all the countries of the world inflated
their costs and prices in an equal degree
their difficulties as a result would be
more or less in equilibrium, and their
external trade position would largely de-
pend on how soon they put their respec-
tive internal houses in order. But Aus-
tralia is running the grave risk of being
the odd man out in the world owing to
the besotted, excessive and wasteful finan-
cial policy pursued by its Government.
The Treasurer obviously doesn’t want to
face up to the facts of the position;
although he has the evidence of Canada
and other Empire countries showing how
the war job can be sensibly financed, he
drags out all the weak and evasive
excuses he can find to plead that Aus-
tralia cannot finance its war effort sen-
sibly and in a matter-of-fact way.
As the odd man out in a post-war
world Australia may find itself involved
in a “new order” of a most distressing
kind, its export trades laboring under
inflated costs and its internal industrial
activities disrupted by the economic
revolution that is bred by inflation.
Chifley’s spoiled children of the war—
those people he has kidded that they can
be spared their share of the monetary
cost of this all-in fight—will be the first
to suffer when inflated costs kill off trade
and the inevitable unemployment follows.
If we continue on our present incredible
war-finance way the “new order” can
scarcely be anything but disorder.
The cast-iron callousness of the Austra-
lian Council of Trade Unions was de-
monstrated last week when the inter-State
executive decided to recommend to the
Federal Government that a war loading
of 6s. a week be added to the basic wage
“by regulation” throughout Australia.
The idea, apparently, is that with the
country at bay and deprived of its better-
class younger men in the interests of
national preservation, opportunity should
be taken to exploit the situation by
flagrant and unashamed profiteering to
the extent of 6s. a week. The very term
“war loading” will anger all decent people
—it is so reminiscent of the term “pros-
perity loading” , associated with that
special 6s. a week granted to wage-
earners in 1937 when conditions were
prosperous. Apparently the A.C.T.U. is
unable to distinguish between the pros-
perity of peace and the sacrifice of life
and property that our war effort repre-
sents to those who are really sharing in
the fighting of it. The war effort, indeed,
has been accepted by some unionists as
an opportunity to make as much as they
can out of their fellow-Australians. And
they’ll be the very ones who will squeal
about what they did in Australia’s war
effort when eventually they cut their own
economic throats by their greed and
thoughtlessness. There are aspects of
the war-time behavior of some Austra-
lians that is contemptible. The idea of
asking for 6s. a week more above all
cost-of-living increases falls well within
that description. In the Sydney Domain
the other day Eddie Ward, in his element,
said that “soldiers can only get more pay
if some people get less.” Well, what’s
wrong with trade-unionists getting less,
like everybody else? Aren’t they Aus-
tralians, protected by Australian and
Allied soldiers?
* * * *
The A.C.T.U. suggestion that another
6s. a week should be grabbed from this
suffering country “by regulation” shows
the alacrity with which bodies of this
kind are prepared to throw democratic
principles overboard. The idea is to
sidetrack Parliament and the Arbitration
Court, ■ as was done in the case of the
44-hour week in the maritime industries.
Even some Labor members of the Fed-
eral Parliament admit that they are pre-
pared to take advantage of the country’s
present distress to further the party
“interests.”
w * • * *
At its conference the A.C.T.U. “dis-
cussed a plan to exempt from income tax
all extra earnings which are due solely
to cost-of-living adjustments.” An absurd
suggestion from a taxation department’s
viewpoint in any case, the suggestion
won’t stand consideration as a matter
of equity. The inflation which produces
increased living costs affects the bpying
power of Government tax receipts the
same as it affects wages. The A.C.T.U.
suggestion really amounts to one that
the Government should suffer from infla-
tion, but that wage-earners should bene-
fit from it, seeing that a fixed amount of
tax on an increasing wage would result in
a decreasing proportion of tax to wages.


THAT
*
• ~
the
HOW MUCH WILL YOU
SACRIFICE FOR AUSTRALIA?
TAKE THE MEASURE OF YOUR
Check over your
normal expenditure.
Then see what you
can save! The
difference is the
measure of your
service to your
country if you in-
vest your savings in
Australia’s War
Effort.
NOW Is the time to
help Australia!
NOW is the time to
deny yourself, and
be proud to make
the sacrifices
SAVE and invest
every pound you
can in the Austerity
Loan.
e.
NORMAL
SPENDING
AUSTERITY
SPENDING
INVEST ALL YOUR SAVINGS IN THE
£100,000,000
AUSTERITY LOAN
HOW you CAN INVEST IN AUSTRALIA'S WAR EFFORT
1. £100,000,000 AUSTERITY LOAN.
Bonds are £lO each and in multiples of £lO. There is
no limit to the number you can buy. Subscriptions may
be lodged at any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office or Stockbroker. Interest starts !on your Bonds
from the day of purchase.
2. NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
£lO each. Can be purchased either outright or by paying £1
down and £1 a month. Buy them at any Bank, Savings Bank
or Money Order Post Office.
3. WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
Cost 16/- each now and grow to £1 in 7 years. Can P ur ‘
chased at any Bank, Savings Bank or Money Order Post Office.
AL24A-42.
Isn’t it
too much to ask?
To ask an individual to act as your Trustee or Executor in these days of strain
and uncertainty is, in most cases, to take an unfair advantage of friendship. Only
those who are endeavouring to cope with the problems, worries, and difficulties
of trusteeship in time of war can realise the exacting nature of the task. In
fairness to your friends and family, and in the interests of your estate and
beneficiaries, it is suggested that you investigate the special service offered by
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited before regarding your Will as final. The
Company is a permanent institution under experienced and capable direction.
It has the combined knowledge of finance, taxation, and investments which
no individual executor could be expected to possess. Write now for _an
explanatory booklet, which gives full particulars of the Company s service.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
? BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE; B 7901. Box 543 B > Sydney.
Figures issued by the Commonwealth
Bank show that profits of a large group
of Australian companies, including indus-
trials but excluding banks and the like,
fell from 7.9 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
during the March quarter of 1941 to
6.8 p.c. during the same quarter of 1942.
Figures for the respective June quarters
show a drop from 6.2 p.c. to 5.4 p.c.
There has been a steady decline in aver-
age company earnings since 1938, and
that decline has taken place regardless of
the 20 p.c. drop in the buying power of
money during the period. The share-
holder has received, in other words, a
smaller income even in terms of reduc-
ing money, whereas the wage-earner has
had full compensation for cost-of-living
increases. Often he has received sub-
stantial overtime as well. But still the
A. is not satisfied.
* * * *
The Prices Commissioner has granted
B. the right to advance its prices for
pig-iron by £1 15s. a ton, making it
£5 155., and steel products by £2 10s. a
ton, making merchant steel bars £l2
12s. Bd. In Britain pig-iron is the equiva-
lent of £8 7s. 6d. Australian a ton, and
merchant bars £2l 2s. lid. The prices
man reports that the increases were
allowed “after a most exhaustive exami-
nation of costs and profits,” and that the
heavy increases in costs over the past 18
months could not be offset by higher
turnover or further improvements in effi-
ciency. He added that this was B.H.P.’s
first increase since war began, and that
no other country had such a record. One
of B.H.P.’s big difficulties has been the
problem of getting ore to the steelworks
at a reasonable cost since Japan entered
the war. Then there has been the 18 p.c.
increase in wages since Sept. 3, 1939.
* * * *
From Nov. 1 the maximum hours that
may be worked in a week will be 56, In
the meantime the limit is 60. Apart
from the aspect of fatigue the plan has
merit in that up to the present many
unnecessary hours were worked by em-
ployees merely for the sake of getting
overtime rates for jobs that could have
been done in an eight-hour day,
* * * *
The Dairying Industry Assistance Act
provides for a Federal subsidy of
£2,000,000 a year to the milk and butter
industry. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment has chosen this method of assist-
ance rather than raise the price to the
consumer. The extra that the dairy-
farmer will get as a result will still leave
him far behind the city worker’s wage
increase since war-time inflation began.
It is said to work out at an extra a
pound, of which increased wages en-
visaged by the plan will absorb yd.—
that is, where the farmer employs labor.
* ♦
Picture-theatre entertainment continues
to be highly popular in Sydney and most
other capital cities. Since the outbreak of
war box-office takings have increased,
and in the case of Greater Union
Theatres group reorganisation under the
chairmanship of Norman Rydge has
assisted the favorable turn in the in-
dustry’s fortunes. The group’s bank
overdraft, originally £400,000 —it was
£343,364 as late as January 3, 1939 —has
been replaced by a credit balance. For
1941 profit of the group was £100,728,
compared with £52,754 in 1940, £1705
in 1939, a loss of £11,495 in 1938 and a
deficit of . £14,329 in 1937. This table
gives more detailed information of the
group’s progress in recent years:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Profit. Profit. Profit.
Greater Union Group £1,705 £52,754 £100,728
Loss.
Greater Union Pty. .. 12,949 37,561 79,079
Profit.
British Empire Films 14,498 10,075 16,634
Cinesound Productions 935 2,821 1,242
Loss.
Nat. Theatre Supplies.. 780 2,297 3,773
No provision has been made for income
tax in the latest compilation because of
the method of assessment. No divs, are
proposed at the moment, the general idea
being to stabilise the position first. This
policy is a wise one considering the diffi-
culties from which the group is only now
emerging—difficulties created by the over-
building of theatres at costly prices and
the toughening nature of U.S. film pro-
ducers. There is still no amalgamation
with Hoyts. Wests, Ltd., owns 39 G.U.T.
shares for every 100 of its own, Spencers
has 36, Greater J. D. Williams 33, and
Amalgamated 32.
* * * *
Mr. Chifley has forbidden further gen-
eral ‘revision of share prices on the Stock
Exchanges, Individual cases may be re-
presented to the Treasurer, however. The
whole trouble derives from false condi-
tions arising out of Government financial
policy, plus “economic organisation” and
“rationalisation.” But it has been stated
that “a mutually satisfactory basis for
the war-time regulation of Stock Ex-
changes is expected from discussions be-
tween the Treasurer and Stock Exchange
officials.”
The announcement by the Treasurer
forbidding regular adjustment of share-
trading limits had the effect of increas-
ing the demand for all shares not already
at top limits. 8.H.P., which had main-
tained a narrow opening for dealings for
some weeks, quickly closed up, and
A.C.I. was soon one of the few first-
class industrials in which dealing was
possible. The absence of sellers was re-
markable, and the index of Australian
share prices went to the highest of this
year, though still well below the aver-
age established before the present Gov-
eminent took office and the war spread
to the Pacific. The Federal Government
itself has been largely responsible for
the wide fluctuations in the market over
the past year. Its “economic orgamsa-
tion” regulations, including the 4-p.c.-
profits policy, brought about a shatter-
ing collapse in prices, and when these
regulations were mostly jettisoned
through their impracticability there was
a quick turn in quotations that was only
accentuated by the rationing effect of
price control. Australia had to put up
with a kangarooing sharemarket, with all
sorts of anomalies and difficulties. Gov-
ernment-created inflation then added to
the demand for shares, and that demand
has continued since, with the appetite
for scrip whetted by the official
attempt to restrict dealings. Much of the
present demand for shares arises from a
desire to protect capital, not to make
money. There is very little real money
in shares at the present time. Most divs.
are being reduced because of heavy taxa-
tion and commodity price control,
*
South Australia is pressing for the
appointment of one of its citizens to the
vacancy on the Commonwealth Bank
Board caused by the resignation of Pro-
fessor Giblin. It is pointed out that not
since the bank was established in 1912
has South Aus. or Westralia had rep-
resentation on the board. Wherever the
new appointee comes from, it is desirable
this time that he should know something
about banking. The political character
of several appointments in recent years
is revealing itself in the service rendered
by the bank. The central bank for a
i ong t j me resented the description of
“Government department,” but it is being
forced more and more in that direction,
xhe senior men in the bank’s service
nowadays must ponder sometimes over
the changes that have taken place since
the passing of Robert Gibson, Mackenzie
Lees, Harry Sheehan and Alex. Bell.
* * * *
Claude Neon Industries, Ltd., showed
a loss of £16,712 in the year to June 30,
compared with a profit of £40,597 for
1940-41. The div. falls from 10 p.c. to
nothing. Gross profit at £86,825 was
little more than half the figure of the pre-
vious year. The reverse was largely due
to the frustration of sign contracts by
the war-time fighting restrictions im-
posed in the final half of the year. It
has been held that contracts for over-
awning signs are defeated by the brown-
out regulations, but that under-awning
signs, which are useful in the day-time,
come into a different category.
* * * *
Mr. Dedman’s Department of War
Organisation of Industry is largely hum-
bug and camouflage. The “Victory suit”
idea has no virtue except that it is so
uneconomic and wasteful that men are
sure to wear out their old clothes rather
than part with money and coupons tor
the Dedman rigout. And so it goes on—
much ado and great publicity, but little
in the way of results. Mr. Curtin has
complimented Mr. Dedman on “the first-
class mind” he has brought to bear on
the problems of the department. Other
people express other views,
* * * *
jj, e p arm ers’ Co-operative Auctioneer-
. of Hami i ton (MX.), is meeting
th | shortage by publishing its
annual repo rt and accounts on one llin.
? x in sheet which folded, can be
addressed and s t ampe d without an
,
*’* * *
, i__ c
A Sydney man aged over 65 has been
refused permission by the JNationai
Employment people to advertise for a
job. He is too old for the civil service,
and apparently for the Labor Corps. The
case is just one more of the many mys-
teries of our war-time administration.


N.G. and the Solomons.
THE SERVICE MAN
“Ek Dum”: Famous Editors, Poli-
ticians and others whose meat is the
New Guinea campaign have been going
about like conjurors who have lost their
toppers. None of them seemed to have
hit upon the obvious expedient for fill-
ing in the Great Hiatus caused by the
mysterious disappearance of a Little
Yellow Man in Green by apologising to
the Allied High Command or conning
over their scrapbooks for July and
August,
Australians were not the only offenders
during the Great Squeal. An American
correspondent referred to General Mac-
Arthur and his subordinates as “wrong”
in their views and to some of the opera-
tions of American airmen as “ineffective
and amateurish.”
The crux of General MacArthur’s
statement issued through a Spokesman
on August 6 had been that “isolated
positions such as Gona-Buna subject to
enemy envelopment are invariably
doomed without commensurate advan-
tages. They represent forlorn hopes.”
Since then, the theory has been proved
several times to the Jap command’s
chagrin and to the triumph of the views
of Generals MacArthur and Blarney.
It has been proved in the Solomons,
at Milne Bay and by what has happened
to the isolated force of the enemy dangled
across the Owen Stanleys on a rotten line
of communication towards Moresby.
The striking fact about each of these
moves has been that the score has not
gone merely to the favor of general
Allied strategy in the broader sense, but
to the excellence of Allied intelligence
and the cunning with which the facts
which the Allied command knew were
kept secret. They were not allowed
into a realm in which clairvoyant editors
and politicians could use them to win
reputations as prophets.
As the Australian and Allied troops
moved cautiously up the ridges beyond
Efogi, climbing 1500 feet into the 6000-
feet levels between that village and The
Gap, the Allied air forces continued their
twin policy. One part of the policy was
to keep bombing the track behind the
presumed Japanese lines, occasional
flights of Kittyhawks and Airacobras
raking his retreat route ; the other part
was to keep a regular series of attacks
on Japanese bases in the North Solo-
mons and at Lae and Rabaul in progress
to prevent the sending of help.
On October 5 the vanguard of advanc-
ing Australians climbed the last 1500 ft.
steep on the southern side of the range
from Kagi to The Gap. The enemy was
still not to be seen. A trail of impedi-
menta, not particularly suggestive of
haste, was stretched out along the slip-
pery tracks up which they had come.
There are two tracks from Efogi, one
going via Myola to the s.-e. and the
other more directly to Kagi, beyond
which they cross before reaching
Kokoda.
The air expeditions which went out
that day came back with more news than
usual. Heavy bombers which went to
Rabaul at dawn to drop 12 tons of bombs
on the aerodrome runways returned with
a story of much heavier a.-a. fire and of
the lately-unaccustomed spectacle of 20
“O” fighters, not merely in the air, but
primed for a running fight of 50 minutes,
which saw the end of four of their
number, damage to several others and
one Allied machine missing.
At Buna there were barges at the
beach which were machine-gunned, a fat
supply dump was blown up and some
holes were made in the defences of San-
tananda, which nestles on the Milne Bay
side of Buna. But the excitement of the
day was the spotting of a large transport,
escorted by two destroyers, putting out
to sea. U.S. heavies attacked. They in
turn were intercepted by from six to
twelve fighters, of which three were shot
down for an Allied loss of one machine.
It was not clear what the convoy had
been about. There was not the slightest
evidence —for the public, at any rate —
whether troops and/or supplies had been
landed or taken away.
By October 8 despairing correspon-
dents were dependent almost entirely on
speculation to fill their columns. Air
attacks the day before had been confined
to the North Solomons. The Supreme
Command’s sober version of a day of
cautious muddy climbing and peering
round rocks for shadows in the Owen
Stanleys read:
Owen Stanley area: Our ground forces
continued the advance forward from Kagi
without encountering enemy resistance.
Of the innumerable guesses of experts,
that of a cynic that the Nipponese had
heard of the presence of Mr. Forde
and had escaped before he could
harangue them was as good as any.
The fact is that any surmise is guess-
work. If the Supreme Command has any
information it very wisely will not tell
anybody— not even Mr. W. M. Hughes.
There was no precise information in
the statements issued by returned Min-
isters Forde and Drakeford, though there
was much talk about the “entirely offen-
sive outlook” and the “spirit of our men
to keep on advancing and advancing”—
which seemed to cause Mr. Forde some
surprise. There has never been an Aus-
tralian enlisted since the days of the New
South Wales Corps who has not been
offensive in outlook and eager to advance.
Many serving Australians, however, have
inherited native caution and grey matter,
which go well with offensiveness.
At the week-end Australian patrols
made their first light contacts for a fort-
night with the Japanese on the northern
jump-down of the ranges, about 50 miles
from loribaiwa and 15 miles from
Kokoda. But there was still no hint from
H.Q. about any discovery of the enemy
in force. The day after these events
(11/10/’42) H.Q. reported: “No further
contact with the enemy. Continual wet
weather is being encountered.”
On Thursday the Allied Air Command
began a new series of attacks on Rabaul.
The excited press tale of “wave after
wave” of Flying Fortresses, which
dropped 60 tons of bombs, needs pruning
—6O tons is cargo for a dozen machines
at the outside. But this and the subse-
quent attack were the largest which so
far have been made in the war in the
Pacific on a land base by land-based
machines.
Rabaul is not an easy place to bomb.
It is on a narrow neck of land along
the harbor, sheltering under the lee of
an arc of volcanoes, some active, which
separate the town by a hairsbreadth
from the open sea. The harbor is an old
volcano. The town itself is more like
a botanical garden, with a few houses
and public buildings in it, than any civil-
ised conception of a capital. Its streets
are almost completely arched over with
trees. Its buildings are widely separated,
save in the short streets of Chinatown.
Most of its facilities, military and other-
wise, are widely spread out along the
waterfront, and it would probably take
as many bombs to blot it out com-
pletely as it would to wipe out many
an Australian city ten times as dense. At
the same time, its scattered nature makes
it more difficult and costly to defend
against air attack.
In Thursday night’s raid R.A.A.F.
Catalinas led the way in and piled in-
cendiaries on suitable spots around the
town to light the way for the Fortresses.
They came in with their h.e. to blast
machine shops, supply dumps, barracks,
a.-a. positions and aerodromes. Dumps
along the waterfront were fired or blown
up for hundreds of feet on end, and
many of the strongpoints and stores
were raked with m.-g. and cannon fire.
The raid was followed up the next
night with one in which a further 40
tons of bombs was dropped under the
same sort of procedure.
The lack of aerial resistance and the
ineffective —if heavy—ground fire which
allowed every Allied machine to return
to its base continue to be an encouraging
feature of these evening battles. The
Japanese have not yet developd a night
fighter; and the newer Fortresses are
now going so heavily armed that “O”
fighter pilots take their lives in their
hands when they approach. On Friday
three Jap fighters nosed up to a Fortress
on reconnaissance. One left hurriedly;
the other two will never see home again.
On Saturday Rabaul, the apparent
main base of the enemy’s South-west
Pacific effort, looked from the upper air
like a smouldering river. But final con-
clusions cannot yet be drawn.
In the Solomons
Happenings in the Solomons remain
fluid. There has undoubtedly been a
good deal of coming and going, with
some major action occasionally reported.
Oct. 4 —Sunday—was the week’s busiest
day. A small group of Jap bombers,
preceded by 30 “O” fighters, tried to raid
American positions at Guadalcanal. U.S.
Navy Wildcats, with some Army friends,
wasted no time in getting into the air.
Nine enemy fighters were quickly shot
down and the bombers turned back with-
out dropping their bombs. It cost Uncle
Sam one ’plane ; the pilot came home on
his umbrella.
Their appetites whetted by this success,
Navy and Marine dive-bombers organised
a picnic to call on a cruiser and several
destroyers which seemed to be landing
reinforcements on Guadalcanal. An
American ’plane was shot down —again
the crew was saved—but the cruiser was
hit. Next morning two Marine torpedo
bombers found her still smoking from her
wound and she had tinned herrings for
breakfast —two subcutaneously injected.
Meanwhile fighters and dive-bombers
were playing merry havoc among the
landed troops and their dumps.
Another U.S. force of carrier-based
machines in bad weather on Oct. 5
attacked a Japanese ship concentration
in the North Solomons and Shortland
Islands area, damaging a heavy cruiser
and a transport, a seaplane tender and
two freighters, besides either destroying
or severely damaging a cruiser, a de-
stroyer and four four-engined flying-
boats at a Shortland base. R.A.A.F.
bombers meanwhile raked over Faisi-
Buin, a great Japanese centre of activity.
Six enemy flying-boats were damaged at
Faisi.
The whole story of ’these operations
had not been told when The Bulletin
went to press. They were highly success-
ful. Without cost to American and
R.A.A.F. crews and machines, they
brought the count of enemy ships lost
or severely damaged to 37 and ’planes
brought down in the Solomons to 248.
Japanese perturbation was shown. Long
before the fight was over Captain
Hiraide, a Japanese naval spokesman,
was shouting that Uncle Sam had already
lost several cruisers, 10 transports and
more than 10 naval craft. Much the
same boasts were heard after the Coral
Sea and Midway fights. But on this
occasion nothing was heard from Im-
perial H.Q. about “the glorious victory.”
These interruptions and the consis-
tent bombing of Buin and Buka have
not, however, prevented the continuance
of after-dark landings on Guadalcanal
by small enemy parties. Sooner or later
they will have to be dealt with on a large
scale.
General Odium’s View
Major-General V. W. Odium, the
Canadian High Commissioner —a double
D.S.O. of the last war and commander
of the 2nd Canadian Division in Britain
during all the anxious period of 1940-41
—is now in Canada discussing the mili-
tary situation with his Government. He
told newspapers at Ottawa that without
large reinforcements from Manchuria
Japan could not successfully invade Aus-
tralia ; but he said that the balance of
the forces in the south-west Pacific was
now so fine that it could be upset by the
arrival of reinforcements for either side.
He declared that the enemy might
make landings in Australia but without
heavy reinforcement would be unable to
drive them through. The Australian and
U.S. troops (he declared) were holding
positions which were constantly exposed
to the threat of the arrival of Japanese
reinforcements, and therefore the United
Nations must as soon as possible, and
as completely as possible, supply General
MacArthur with sufficient strength to
launch a real offensive.
He “praised warmly the courage and
ingenuity of Australians, who had
stretched their resources to the utmost
and had done things in production be-
yond all praise.”
In the Aleutians
The arrival of a large U.S. convoy in
the adjacent Andreanov section of the
Aleutian group had a quick effect. The
enemy abandoned Attu and Agattu. He
still holds Kiska, the best western posi-
tion, but bombers are making the holders
very sorry for themselves.
In the North Pacific, as in the South
Pacific, the heavy naval blows which the
enemy has suffered have played evident
havoc with his main designs.
Shift to the Caucasus.
“Ek Dum”: Every eye has been
focused on Stalingrad, though strategi-
cally and tactically it has for some time
ceased to be vital, Stalingrad was only
more important to the enemy than any
other bit of southern Volga bank because
of its vast tank factory and other mili-
tary production works. With those im-
mobilised, as they must be in the midst
of fierce fighting and continual bombard-
ment, even if the German claim to their
capture is untrue, the Volga itself, the
main artery of Russia, means more to
the enemy than the town. It means
more indeed than almost any town. If
traffic on the river is not almost com-
pletely closed down, it must be nearly
so —the Volga is only 1£ mile wide at
Stalingrad itself.
An “Izvestia” correspondent has re-
vealed that three-fourths of Stalingrad
was destroyed in the first barbarous blitz
—on August 23.
Berlin’s actual main preoccupation
for some time seems to have been the
inception of another offensive against
Grozny.
Each time the attention of the world
is kept fixed on the dying embers of a
battle about the magnitude and turn of
which it is deceived throughout, it is
suddenly brought face to face with a
new “surprise” attack, which should not
have been a surprise had the campaign
been faithfully and intelligently reported.
Any hope that the enemy has lost
debilitating numbers at Stalingrad can
be ruled out. His actual assault forces
there cannot be much larger than has
been asserted by Moscow two or three
times in its more conservative moments
—three or four divisions, including
armor. His nearest main dumps are 450
miles away by airline at Kharkov. And
the task of keeping up ammunition and
supplies at the rate of well over 1000
tons per day for each division engaged
in actual battle would be staggering
enough even if this were the only battle
in hand.
But there have been at least three in
progress or being prepared for, the other
two with lines of communication as long
as or longer than those to Stalingrad. It
can be taken for granted that, if Hitler
needs the Grozny oilfield and the perch
on the Caspian littoral leading down to
Baku before winter, all his main effort
will have been directed in the last fort-
night or so, not to finishing off Stalin-
grad, but to preparing to pile up men
and material across the Terek bridge-
heads.
For, save Sevastopol, this is the worst
country he has had to face. It is rough,
hilly and broken and susceptible to the
establishment of the same sort of de-
fences as those which gave German
generals headaches in the south-western
Crimea. And thus far in the southern
Caucasus the Russians have proved
extremely tough nuts to crack.
Campaign End Draws Near
The fighting season naturally lasts
longer in the south than in the north,
except on the higher levels of the
Caucasian Range. There was three
weeks of difference in the dates
of the first moves to end the cam-
paigns of 1941, at Leningrad and Rostov ;
there is probably another week or more
of margin for the Cis-Caucasian areas.
The German moves 'last year, however,
were made too late, and they paid dearly
for this bad timing. They were hard put
to it to save their points of advantage
for the 1942 campaign.
The enemy is unlikely to delay so long
this year, and there already are signs
that he may be content with consolida-
tion of positions in the Caucasus region
as the fruit of the 1942 campaign.
This has given him already since May
12 an additional area the size of
France, the whole of the industrially
rich Donetz basin, the Maikop oilfields,
the Armavir and Krasnodar oil refineries
and the wheat lands of the Kuban
region ; complete control of the Crimea
—it has a fine wintering climate for
troops —of the northern parts of the
Black Sea, of the Azov Sea and of
several hundred miles of the Don. To
these are added positions which dominate
the Volga route to the outside world.
In all, the enemy has under his thumb
over 800,000 square miles of Russian ter-
ritory, including occupied Poland and
the Baltic States, with a population of
about 94,000,000.
Fighting Details
The scale of the Stalingrad fighting
continues to be indicated by Soviet
claims.
On Oct. 7 the Moscow communique
reported that the Germans continued to
bring up new forces and fling them into
the battle, and that “one battalion of in-
fantry six times attacked a Russian posi-
tion but was beaten off, five tanks being
knocked out and a company killed.”
Artillery in another sector had wiped out
seven tanks, two mortar batteries and
an infantry battalion; in still another
sector, during ten German attacks, 800
of the enemy were said to have been
killed and 27 machine-guns, four mortars
and three aeroplanes destroyed.
At Mosdok, it was recorded, tank and
infantry attacks had been repulsed and
seven German tanks and a German com-
pany had been wiped out. On the Novo-
rossisk front a German division which


As a long satisfying drink, a liqueur, or as a base of your
favorite cocktail.
CLAYTON'S
A KOLA TONIC
Product of CLAYTON BROS., London.
Agents: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
attacked a strategic height was described
as having been repulsed with the loss of
400 dead. “Prisoners and war material
were taken.” Prisoners are rarely men-
tioned these days by either side.
The German claims on Oct. 7 regard-
ing the Volga and the Cis-Caucasian area
were that “north-west of Stalingrad a
tighter ring has been drawn round the
Russian forces,” and that after hard fight-
ing in difficult terrain and weather Ger-
man armies had taken the town of Mal-
godek. If true, this would mean that the
enemy had reached a point 35 miles from
Grozny.
The Germans on Oct. 11 claimed that
a Russian force in the Caucasians
had been surrounded, and referred exul-
tantly to heavy bombing of Grozny,
causing huge fires.
Russian official sources said nothing
about any major operations on other
fronts. The German communique spoke
of an advance n.-w. of Lake Ilmen in an
inaccessible wooded, swampy area.
Next day the Russian High Command
reported fiercer fighting in the Stalingrad
area in which Russian artillery wiped out
an infantry battalion, destroyed five
tanks, 70 lorries and 40 ammunition carts
and silenced six artillery batteries and
four mortar batteries. Russian tank crews
n.-w. of Stalingrad destroyed 10 dug-in
tanks, eight guns, five ammunition lorries
and wiped out about 250 Germans.
It was mentioned by Moscow that in
repulsing attacks in the Mosdok area
about a company of Germans were anni-
hilated ; that south of Novorossisk the
Germans and Rumanians lost about 100
men ; and that in Leningrad environs 12
blockhouses and five dugouts and 300
Germans were destroyed in two days.
The German report the same day said
that in the Caucasus Soviet attacks had
been repulsed ; that at Stalingrad the Red
Army had given up further territory, and
that n.-w. of the town Russian forces had
been “split in two and were being
destroyed.”
A supplementary Moscow commu-
nique declared that in this area the Ger-
mans had been repulsed, had been
counter-attacked and had lost 1000 men.
For most of last week little or nothing
was said in Moscow of Rshev, where the
previous week a recorded advance of
seven miles and the capture of important
positions by Soviet troops had been im-
portant features of the war cables. But
on Oct. 8 it was agreed by both sides that
fierce fighting had been in progress since
Oct. 2. According to Moscow reports,
not official, the enemy on Oct. 2 threw
in two fresh infantry and two tank divi-
sions in an attempt to cut off the Russian
spearhead.
All the northern movements are appar-
ently not in the same class as those in
the south. They merely represent the
restless toss of the sea of war fanned
into action by local causes.
Generally speaking, Moscow and
enemy reports agreed only on one im-
portant point—that where there was
fighting it was fierce and stubborn.
Prisoners and Chains.
“Ek Dum”: In the affair of the Ger-
man prisoners of war taken at Dieppe
and at Sark (Channel Islands), the Ger-
mans, as usual, got in first with their
story, preparatory to resorting to fright-
fulness.
Their High Command referred to a
War Office assurance that no orders were
given to bind prisoners at Dieppe, and
savagely pronounced it “a lie,” Close
examination by a Court, it was alleged,
had disclosed that at Dieppe men were
bound from five to fifteen minutes. As
for the raid on Sark —one of many in
various places, it came out —on October
6, members of a German working party
were tied up in their shirts, prevented
from putting on further clothing and led
to the beach. When a German sergeant
“resisted this improper treatment” he
was killed with bullets, another man was
bulleted and bayoneted, and another
was wounded.
Then came this blast of barbarism:
From October 8 at midnight all officers
and men captured at Dieppe will remain in
chains until the War Office states that
orders to bind German prisoners are re-
pealed.
The British Government, denying the
accusations, invited the enemy to send
representatives to question Dieppe
prisoners in Britain; and a representative
of the Swiss Government did so. The
Government then announced that the
German threat had been carried out on
Wednesday against 107 officers and 1269
n.c.os. and men captured at Dieppe—
mostly Canadians —and that from noon
on Saturday an equal number of Ger-
mans held in Britain and Canada would
receive treatment in kind.
Next day, however, the Government
acknowledged the existence of an order.
issued without authority at Dieppe, that
“wherever possible the hands of war
prisoners will be bound so that they
cannot destroy papers.” As soon as it
was discovered the order was counter-
manded, and there was no evidence that
any prisoner brought back from Dieppe
had his hands tied.
Ten officers and men, it was declared,
carried out the raid on Sark, and seven
of them captured five Germans, whose
hands were tied so that their arms might
be linked to those of their captors. No
orders, written or otherwise, had been
issued, but the prisoners had to be taken
past German-occupied barracks and pre-
cautions were necessary. Despite the
precautions, four of the five German
prisoners broke away shouting and had
to be shot to prevent their raising the
alarm.
There is no convention as to whether
or not prisoners of war may or may not
be tied. All manuals of military law set
out that prisoners are in the power, not
of the unit or individual capturing them,
but of the Government to which the
unit or individual belongs; and that all
steps may be taken to keep the
prisoners secure, provided those steps are
“humane.”
The most stringent measures may be
taken to inhibit resistance or prevent
escape:
Prisoners of war may be shot down if
they resist their guard, or if... .they attempt
to escape.
Reprisals are recognised under inter-
national military law, but they “must not
be excessive and must not exceed the de-
gree of violation committed by the
enemy.” The relevant clauses do not refer
to prisoners.
Even if a few Germans were tied up
for a few minutes, the chaining of thou-
sands of British prisoners r > a reprisal is
barbarous. And it is not forgotten that
the Germans in April, 1916, sent 250
French officers to a reprisal camp and in
May and June, 1916, 30,000 more French
soldiery to the Baltic and Polish provinces
of Russia in retaliation for the alleged
bad treatment of German prisoners in
certain camps in France.
A second threat by the Germans to
treat “sabotage” troops as bandits and
slaughter them is, however, a new ver-
sion of savagery without modern prece-
dent. According to military law as
accepted by all countries, “train-wreck-
ing and setting on fire camps or military
depots are legitimate means of injuring
the enemy when carried out by members
of the armed forces.” And “armed
forces” even include the levee en masse —
“the inhabitants of a territory not under
occupation who, on the approach of the
enemy, spontaneously take up arms” and
who need not even wear distinguishing
badges or have a recognised or recog-
nisable leader.
While the Germans were raging, the
Italians worked up a tragedy on their own
account. Rome Radio screeched that on
September 30 40 Australians armed with
automatic rifles and under the command
of a British officer surrounded an Italian
officer and six men in North Africa after
their lorry had broken down. The
seven Italians having surrendered, the
Australians “fired in cold blood into the
group of prisoners, and only desisted
when all the Italians seemed dead or
mortally wounded®” But an Italian air-
man who had fainted recovered to tell
what he had seen or imagined.
If 40 A.I.F. men armed with auto-
matics had captured six Italians in such
circumstances, they would probably have
given them their rifles to carry—an old
A.I.F. custom in this war. Mr. Forde’s
assurance that the prisoners of war taken
by the A.I.F. are humanely treated was
scarcely needed.
The honestly-admitted fact about the
unauthorised order issued at Dieppe is
unfortunate. It was probably a result
of the reckless outpouring of “com-
mando” and “guerrilla” articles and
books, written by tyros, in which
men are advised to act tough and in-
structed in various horrible ways of caus-
ing sudden death, from cutting carotids
to snapping spinal cords. A responsible
British general recently protested against
this propaganda of violence, and British
and Dominion Governments should* fall
heavily on authors and publishers.
What Americans Are Saying.
“Uncabled Additions” items from U.S.
newspapers:
The Prime Minister (Mr. Churchill) astonished
people here by wearing first a sun helmet, then
a Panama and finally a large cowboy som-
brero during his visit. With the sombrero
he wore his zippered blackout overalls. — N.Y.
“Herald Tribune” correspondent with the troops
in Egypt.
Each day’s bad news increases the outlook
for a long, long war. Officials guessing privately
no longer talk about 1943 or 1944. — N.Y.
“World-Telegram
The British action in removing the names
of the Ministers of Estonia, Lithuania and
Latvia from the British Government’s official
diplomatic list, although extending them privi-
leges and recognition on a personal basis, will
not be followed by the United States. The
United States has never recognised a change in
sovereignty in the three countries, and has
no intention of doing so. — N. Y. “Sun.”
Washington, Aug. 20.—Unless a satisfac-
tory solution of the Anglo-Indian problem can
be found within 30 to 60 days, Sirdar J. J.
Singh told me, the Japanese will almost cer-.
tainly attack. Singh is president of the India
League of America. Formerly he was a member
of The All-India Congress Committee.-IF. P.
Simms , in the Scripps-Howard chain.
The first great offensive American action, the
invasion of the Solomons, has not been fully
reported for a very good but unstated reason,
The details, if officially told, would let the
Japs know just about where and how it will
be continued. Paul Motion, in the N.Y.
Journal-American.
I ST
siderations had triumphed over the judgment
of the military commanders. It would prob-
ably mean a premature attack that would send
thousands of men to their deaths without the
WoUld
The fundamental fact is that both America
and Britain are fighting a war of survival on
the perimeter of a vast circle controlled by
powerful, ruthless and minutely prepared
enemies. Until we can catch up m industrial
production, soldier training and strategic ex-
perience, we must expect reverses and more
reverses. —“ Saturday Evening Post.”
I have no illusions whatsoever as to the
stand which the American Communist party has
taken in American affairs I admire Russia
and the marvellous fight which Russia is put-
ting up. Russia has a right to the kind of
government that Russians desire to have, but
I do not wish to be controlled in this country
by an American group that, in turn, is con-
trolled by Russia and Russia’s interests. I
should like to see Labor people united, be-
cause it would add to their strength, but they
cannot be united politically with people who
act under the dictates and in the interest ot
another nation. — Mrs. Roosevelt, quoted in
N.Y. “Sunt”
American forces in India will exercise scrupu-
lous care to avoid the slightest participation
in India’s internal political problems, or even
nal
measures only should their own personal safety
or that of other American citizens be en-
dangered or for the necessary protection of
n!!^Lp«f?nTrr;7r^wv eqUipment ' —
LJ .S. State Department instructions.
Grain men calculate the prospective surplus
of wheat that could be exported from the
United States, Canada and Argentine, after
all harvesting is completed, at about
1,600,000,000 bushels. This is virtually triple
normal annual wheat exports of the entire
world before the war broke out. —Associated
Press, U.S.A.
Col. H. Lanza, a well-known military writer,
says that Britain would have been glad to
send troops long ago to fight alongside the
Russians, and that the U.S. would be glad to
send troops now, but that Stalin will not permit
it Why, nobody seems to know. — N.Y.
“Daily News.”
N.Y. “Post” has coined a name for men of
the American-Australian-N.Z. allied forces m
o Y f a waT‘japan had 3,500,000
to 4,000,000 men under arms, of whom at least
1.500.000 were called up in 1941. There is a
potential reservoir of men of military service
age of at least 8,000,000 more. These fall
into three classes: Already trained by previous
service, partially trained and untrained. The
trained group is large, since by automatic mili-
tary service Japan has called up each year
200.000 men between the ages of 20 and 22.
Max Hill, former chief of the Assoc. Press
Bureau, Tokyo; N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
The layman’s viewpoint as sounded by the
Gallup Institute on this question: “Do you
think that President Roosevelt and Prime Mims-
Se ‘military* Vans o"r
do you think these plans should be decided by
the military and naval leaders of the United
Nations?” Results are; Roosevelt and
Churchill, 21 per cent.; naval and military
"T £ “ n '- : Undedded ’ 15 P “
Asserted in Tokyo that the Lisbon
Maru was sunk on October 1 by a “mur-
derous” (sic) U.S. submarine while con-
veying 1800 British, Australian and Cana-
dian prisoners of war to Japan. Tokyo
Radio alleged that six torpedoes were
fired, though the sub. came close enough
to identify British uniforms, and that
over 1000 of the prisoners were rescued
either in two Japanese ships or by reach-
ing neighboring islands. Each time the
tale was told it became taller. The
piece de resistance was an affidavit about
a Jap gun crew of four on the stern of
the Lisbon Mam. ‘‘Seeing the torpedo
approaching, spelling the doom of the un-
fortunate prisoners, the four brave fellows
coolly and instantly fired at the projectile
and blew it out of the water before it
CO uld reach the ship.”
* * * *
The Admiralty announces the loss or
JJ.M.S. Coventry, 4290-ton cruiser of
jqjg vintage, converted into an anti-
aircraft ship. Her complement was 400.
The Q ermans had claimed the sinking of
fo(jr Britis h converted cruisers,
* * * *
Tf)kyo Rad j o reported that the ashes
f naval men killed in the
ot the tour naval men Kiliea m inc
attempts to submarine objectives m Syd-
Harbor have arrived home with I •
Kawai. The Japanese paid a tribute to the
chivalry of the Australian Government
and the R.A.N. in allowing the remains
t G b e returned to their relatives.
, * * «
BerUn Radio chattered excitedly over
the week-end about a High Command
“immediately outside
Capetown Harbor had sunk L I* l6
chantmen, totalling 74,000 tons ; and oft
West Africa and S. America, in the North
Atlantic and the St. Lawrence mouth, 10
ships totalling 67,000 tons including
Blue Stars Andalusia Star (14,943 tons),
Musso. was not to be outdone. Berlin,
w jth comical mock solemnity, told how
had that moment been received
. . . „ A _
that an Italian submarine had sunk a
20,000-ton liner and another large trans-
port ship in the Atlantic.
* * # *
Last week there was a f u H. S cale blast-
.c , f
in S °f the four square miles of Osn -
briick, which contains an important rail-
W ay junction, large war-production
k d 90 000 people (four bombers
. . Vr c r-u - „
were lost), and 115 U.S. Flying Fortresses
and Liberators and 500 British fighters
were over Lille. Here direct hits were
made on radw ay and armament works,
_ J
an< i 53 enemy fighters were brought
down.
*** * . ,
Brave little Malta continues to triumph
over swarms G f enemies. In September
guns and defending squadrons brought
down 10 enemy planes, and enemy
action was described as “on a small
sca l e .” At last week-end there were
heavier raids. Malta’s total losses to July
*n j • • • j 1 9 aa .. o i_ r
?1: Killed in air raids, 1300 , ser U y
injured, 7000 houses destroyed, 9000 ,
damaged, 17,000. There is no second-
front movement in Ma 11a
Ironi in ividiia.
T , wpp r, ; n F„ V nt ended with
Ihe restless week in Lgypt ended wun
two of the heaviest raids on enemy bases
which the Axis has suffered. Apart from
other damage it cost Germany and Italy
24 > planes S i nce May 25, when Rommel
f ~ . , • R Pn oba7i
started his drive eastward from Benghazi,
..the Germans have lost m combat 16U
Messerschmitts and 119 Junker dive-
bombers, of which 96 were Stukas. An-
Qther 154 mac hi nes were labelled “prob-
fy destroyed- and 378 damaged ex-
elusive of those damaged or wrecked on
the ground. R.A.F., S. African and
jj.S. light bombers were in action every
i niaht tKrnnphoiit Sentemb'er and
or night throughout CiepiemDer, , dim
during the month Tobruk alone collected
4000 tons of bombs—a staggering figure
compared w ith the 5000 tons dropped in
, 1n d on German territorv in
the 1° rai ds on Uerman '“rriioiy in
north Europe. Including Malta, bomb
ing raids and air support for ground
troops cost the Imperial Air Forces 94
mac hines and the Axis 113 in September.
About 90 Allied pilots were saved Both
sides in Egypt are reported to be
manoeuvring for an offensive and playing
f or pos ition.
F * *
There are signs that the Germans are
about to make more tremendous calls
on conscripted labor and materials from
occupied countries. Disturbances in Den-
mark and Norway seem to have had their
genesis m increased looting of man-
power and materials. The raid on Sark
showed that all male Channel Islanders
not born or permanently resident in the
islands had within the past fortnight been
forcibly deported to Germany with their
families. Goring in his latest speech
mentioned gleefully that 11,000,000
prisoners of war and civilians from occu-
pied countries were “aiding the war
effort.” There is evidence of an omi-
nous westward transfer of German troops
and resources and a general preparation
of public opinion, such as it is, for some
great movement of which the venue will
not be Russia.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
What struck the onlooker most at
Town Hall ball celebrations of Chinese
National Day was the extraordinarily
high standard of the dancing. Chinese
young men and women and their Aus-
tralian friends paced the gavotte with
perfect poise and grace. They kept their
lines like soldiers, and though the hall
held about 1000 dancers there wasn’t any
feeling of being jostled or walking over
toes that is a characteristic of many
dances held there. Eastern and Western
dress seemed to mingle without any
appearance of incongruity. Many older
Chinese women wore the traditional
black lace of the Western matron while
their daughters were in lovely Eastern
silks and satins, made Chinese fashion.
There was a strong official party with
a good sprinkling of Consular represen-
tatives.
The Air Force has always prided itself
on being one big family, and now
family troubles are thick upon it. Aunty
Eric Harrison and Aunty Knox Knight,
of R.A.A.F. Welfare Association, are up
against it for somewhere to park little
Harry and Molly while mother goes into
hospital, and there’s still more headache
when mother emerges with small brother
or sister in her arms. Father, at the wars,
must hear only cheery news of the
family; so the aunties have a plan to
pop the families into a big house near
the city for a week or so while mother is
in hospital, and for mother to join them
there when she comes out.
The plan would still be nebulous but
for a fairy godmother who has promised
to run the house for the aunties and staff
it, too, with volunteers among her friends,
some of the good-hearted women of the
racing world. Godmother is Mrs. John
Clarke, better known as Iris Connolly.
The Connolly family, with father Eric at
its head, has done some big thipgs for
war efforts, and it was with a sigh of
relief that the Air Force aunties accepted
Iris’s offer to help, knowing that she
would put everything into it. These days
Mrs,. John Clarke is mostly to be found
at Air Force House, where she has been
one of the stalwarts since its inception.
Husband John is on active service. He
is the W. L. Russell Clarkes’ elder son.
Brother Michael is a prisoner of war
in Germany.
Breaking-up day at the University for
the young W.A.A.A.F. officers who had
just come through their exams, with fly-
ing colors was a great sight. For some of
the girls who have never tasted the de-
lights of community life before it was an
experience at once thrilling and moving.
To others it was like being back at school
prizegiving again. One of the latter was
Moira Shelton, of the well-known medi-
cal family, who has packed a good deal
of school and University life into her
career. She holds a B.Sc. degree and a
diploma of Domestic Science, and her
services are urgently needed to help with
the serious work of preparing a scientifi-
cally balanced diet for the thousands of
young women now in the air blue
uniforms.
Will there yet be women chaplains for
the services? Already there are many
welfare officers from the Salvation Army
and the Y.W.C.A. with women out on
service stations, and the Rev. Isabel
Merry, an ordained minister working with
the Y.W.C.A. at Footscray in a welfare
and hostel centre for munition workers,
is eloquently putting the case for chap-
lains of her own sex, or rather for women
attached to the chaplain’s department
and seconded to work for the spiritual
welfare of service women. Lots of the
girls would enjoy services at lonely
stations conducted by a woman cleric.
Months ago garments made from dis-
carded suits of service men intended to
be worn by evacuated children if air war
came were comfortable, even neat, but
not thrilling to a child. But now it’s a
different story. The little dresses and
pants and overalls and blouses are the
sort of things any little evacuee would
get lots of joy from wearing. On some
are embroideries and color touches which
show an artist’s hand.
Melbourne V.A.Ds. are bucked at the
turn affairs are taking for them. A train-
ing school in a military camp and a
widening of their sphere of work, with
consequent increase in non-commissioned
officers and quite a few commissioned
ones, suggest that the shy “little sister”
service is coming into its own. Included
in the course at the training camp will
be lots of lectures on radiology, and
others which will make the V.A.Ds. in-
creasingly useful in hospitals and
especially in operating theatres. There
will also be more army administrative
work of the kind which will give the
girls a chance to go to forward stations.
Already the navy-blue uniform with its
Red Cross decorations is widely and
favorably known.
Gilsullivan enthusiasts never tire of
their favorites, and they almost filled His
Majesty’s on Saturday night to see the
very latest revival of “The Gondoliers,”
with the redoubtable Ivan Menzies in his
gayest role. At the end of the perform-
ance flowers all round to the women leads
were the order of the night. The audi-
ence on Saturday night included a fair
sprinkling of Dutch who had attended the
Wilson-Wright wedding to see Rosemary,
daughter of their Consul, Lieut.-Col.
F. H. Wright, married to Lieut. Garrick
Wilson.
Something new in austerity was
achieved by Joan Fraser, daughter of
Liquid Fuel Board chairman A. J. Fraser,
at her wedding on Saturday. The bride,
who is a nurse at Royal Melbourne, and
is just finishing her course, having been
delayed by sick leave, decided to be mar-
ried to Flight-Lieut. Cyril Chambers at
Ewing Memorial Church just near her
home, so there was no need for motors
in the bridal cortege. Joan Fraser is an
old P.L.C. girl. The bridegroom did a
medical course before joining the Air
Force.
Some good teamwork has character-
ised the effort of Mina Shelley, producer
(here pictured by Broothorn), and Maie
Hoban, director of dialogue, for the pro-
duction of “Lady Precious Stream.” Miss
Shelley, who has, like Miss Hoban, seen
the best overseas as well as here, knows
by instinct when the chorus should come
from the right or the left. Miss Hoban
has for long years been trimming and
coaxing the voices of Melbourne’s ambi-
tious speakers of both sexes. Two things
Melbourne has never failed to support
are pageants and Chinese relief shows.
At the last meeting of the committee run-
ning “Lady Precious Stream” the biggest
applause went to Mrs. Wang, wife of
the Chinese Consul, when hers was an-
nounced as the first donation towards
expenses.
Pre-school-minded Melbourne got up
last week to cast its bouquets at Christine
Heineg. Christine purposes leaving for
America sometime soon after having
made a big success of establishing five
Lady Gowrie -Pre-school Development
Centres in as many capital cities. She
was so much in Melbourne (though
Canberra was her official headquarters
of recent years) that this city regards her
as its own, and her going leaves a blank.
She had a fertile mind, and did much
towards popularising the special furni-
ture and playthings which kindergartens
encourage the pre-school child to adopt
as his and her own.
From Sydney
When Primimster Curtin adjured this
country to get mentally and morally into
sackcloth and ashes, he’d have been a
little touched (if quite a lot surprised) to
know that some of his women listeners
determined on the spot that sugar-bags
would do them for their summer ward-
robe. One or two such suits had a flutter
at the Derby. But, all in all, there was
not much to which the word austere
or, on the other hand, flamboyant
could be applied about last Saturday’s
racing thousands —millions they seemed
as they surged almost in a solid mass
from members’ to the official stand.
Women punters, as of old, put on their
five shillings and half a crown with reck-
less abandon. In short, it was a spring-
meeting crowd. Forgetful of their duty to
their country? Not quite, with mothers
and wives whose sons and husbands are
away fighting ; with every second woman
present immersed in war wprk, volun-
tary or in the services; with men of the
forces on every stand.
Dressing was what might be expected
on any day at Randwick when the sky
is grey, the wind chill. Women went
tailored and often befurred, or wore
woollen coats with silk frocks. Hats did
not all wear a remodelled or home-con-
trived look, though none had an extrava-
gant, let-us-be-gay air. One of the pret-
tiest seen was a navy straw, two or three
layers of tulle flat on its wide brim. Mrs.
Salenger in mist-blues brought daughter
Margaret, who was going to grass mentally
for the afternoon. Her Arts exam, is
just around the corner. Mrs. Jo Coen
had daughters Patricia and Marie with
her. All her boys are soldiering. Another
mother with daughter was Mayoress
Crick. Of tips, the best for the
Epsom was that given by Mrs. T.
Hogan, of Melbourne, a day or
two before the races. She told a story
in which a woman announced proudly
that she was going to a lecture by a cele-
brated scientist. “What is he talking
about?” asked the brainy one’s friend.
“He is talking on sun-spots.” “Oh, my
dear, I must come, too. You know I have
always been troubled by Freckles.”
The C.W.A. market garden at Elaine,
the Hubert Fairfax home at Double Bay,
did roaring business. Over £5OO was
netted for the association’s club for
service women in Darlinghurst, and that
on a Saturday afternoon when Rand-
wick was luring with a brave display of
racehorses. Mrs. Jack Garry, State presi-
dent of the C.W.A., and former president
Mrs. Beveridge sent along super turkeys.
The vegetable stall was piled high. Its
vitamin-replete succulence had been sent
by country branches. Double Bay house-
wives came early and staggered home
with baskets full. There wefe tulips from
Canberra, and rich plum cakes for all
occasions. After the official opening,
which was the midday good deed of
Mayor Crick, Mrs. Fairfax spread a
lunch for 50, the Mayor, his wife and
daughter Patricia being among those who
sampled the veal and ham pie and the
ice-cream cake. Consul-General for the
U.S.A. Ely Palmer and Mrs. Palmer and
Archbishop Mowll and his wife were
other guests.
The Kater lady (pictured here by John
Lee), Barbara Knox and the Alexander
Gordon lady are making a corner in
silver. Some lovely pieces from old Syd-
ney’s dinner-tables and sideboards have
found their way to the hoard. A Went-
worth descendant has handed in some
treasures from Wentworth House when
it was one of the city’s fashionable
homes. Mrs. Ashley Davey, Miss E.
Dibbs, the Owen lady and Miss Mary
Fairfax have all contributed handsome
pieces. The silver will be auctioned on
December 1 by Max Lawson in his auc-
tion rooms. The Red Cross will benefit.
There has been no fine, free, careless
rapture about this year’s spring race-meet-
ing week. In fact, the social calendar
having become a message from Mars, the
only big get-together last week was the
dinner-dance at Prince’s. This, of course,
was a war effort, and was for the
R.A.A.F. Central Area Comforts Fund,
Prince’s J. C. Bendrodt dropped 150
dinners into the mouths of the dancers
in the cause ; and the committee regarded
this rather like manna from heaven. It
meant a clear 150 guineas to the fund.
The dinner was strictly three-course.
The menu was “or-or,” not “and/or.”
Compositions of spring flowers, however,
refused to look austere, and added blithe-
ness to the perspective. So did the frock-
ing. For once Sydney women had given
up being a procession of the black-clad.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s emerald-green domi-
nated a ringside table. On the dance
floor Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere’s long, sway-
ing frock of mist-blue sprigged muslin,
Judy Mills’s chalk-white frock and red-
gold head, and fair Mrs. Wang Osborne’s
hydrangea-blue tulles were a delicate mix-
ture. Bright design was added by Eve
Playfair’s ivory moires patterned in red.
The Ernest Watts brought a party ; so
did Dr. Roberts and his wife. With them
was the fund’s secretary, Margaret
Gordon. Black nets swirled around
Mrs. L. Bode’s slimness. Mrs. Reg Bet-
tington was another dancer. Mrs. Venour
Nathan was there with daughter Carma,
who did ‘ a spirited rhumba with
Nicky Ivangine. Another performer was
Mrs. Gordon Walker, who sang several
songs. Mrs. Victor White, in iris-pinks,
was being complimented on the continued
success of her treasure shop for the
prisoners of war. Mrs. Bob Ashton,
Mrs. Allen, Rada Penfold Hyland and
Sandra Jaques were others who helped
the success. So did decorative Jean
Cheriton. About midnight delicacies,
wines and such, contributed by the guests
from their own pantries and cellars, were
auctioned and brought the money roll-
ing in.
The klieg light of publicity was thrown
on the auction sale at Carmona, the home
of the Countess Freehill, who died a few
months ago. Little was said about the
personality that had surrounded itself
with such beauty as made Sydney buyers
bid regardless. The Countess was a
quiet, unassuming woman with a love of
literature and art. One of the windows
at the Point Piper house has a quotation
from the Book of Kells inscribed about
its sill, and her paintings included works
by such artists as Gruner, Jackson, Syd
Long and Herbert. Probably in Aus-
tralia there was not a home with more
exquisite crystal and china.
The Countess (the title was a
Papal honor) was a good friend
to the boys at Westmead School,
to the Manly College and to St. John’s
within the University. Her kindnesses
were as numerous as the days in the year.
She was the widow of Francis Bede Free-
hill, Sydney man of law and onetime
Consul for Spain. The auction sale of
her treasures was said to rank with that
of Dame Eadith Walker’s possessions in
public interest. The first day’s sales
reached the £4OOO mark.
The engagement is announced of Jean
Marjorie Pearson, elder daughter of the
late H. R. Pearson and Mrs. Pearson, of
North Sydney, to Lieut. Jack Lester
Griffiths, only son of the late A. J. Grif-
fiths and Mrs. Griffiths, of Wellington,
M.L. Lieut. Griffiths is A.D.C. to Lieut.-
General Freyberg, and has been an All-
Black footballer.
With roast beef and with hock cup
the Red Cross Special Appeals Committee
sped its Christmas Card Art Union. The
party, a late-afternoon affair, was held in
the auxiliary’s rooms in the Prudential
Building. The Christmas cards, designed
by the city’s newspaper artists, decorated
the room. On each card is a lucky num-
ber, and the idea is for the public to buy
bushels of these and send them to friends,
thereby giving them a chance to win a
prize of anything from £5OO downwards.
Total value of the prizes is £lOOO. Jimmy
Bancks explained the scheme while the
assemblage dug its teeth into the roast
beef rolls presided over and buttered
by Mrs. Reg Bettington. The art union
will be drawn on January 28 in the
Sydney Town Hall.
.Latest news of Allen Blair, who was
one of the Castlecrag group of players,
is that he is touring with Sybil Thorn-
dike. Allen went to England before the
war, then caught a bad chill which kept
him in hospital and nursing home for
some months. Now, however, he is in
the play “Jacob,” by Housman. Allen
plays Esau, Dame Sybil is Rebecca and
Lewis Casson is Jacob. When last heard
from, Kenneth Neate was in Canada and
intending to join up with the Canadian
Forces. Ken has had many successful
engagements both in Canada and New
York. Singing the tenor part in Rossini’s
“Stabat Mater,” with Beecham conduct-
ing, was among them.
The name of the winner in the popular
grandmother competition will be an-
nounced at a Conservatorium concert on
October 19. This will, as it were, put
the roof on the National Shilling Drive
to provide recreation huts for service
women. There are five cash prizes to be
won. With these will go illuminated cer-
tificates. Every granny who entered will
be handed a certificate. Lady Wakehurst
will hand out the guerdons. Sydney tip-
sters favor the Alexander Gordon or the
Reading lady. But a surprise may
come from Newcastle, says organiser
Wilson. Another sturdy contestant is
Mrs. Davis, of Granville. She drives
about the Parramatta district in her
sulky, sells shilling stamps to the poultry-
farmers, and by last week had raised
quite a healthy amount.


Personal and Missing Friends.
Re KATHLEEN M. RUSCHIN, Deceased.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
ERNEST LAWRENCE RUSCHIN, MAR-
JORIE RUSCHIN and JESSIE RUSCHIN,
the children of Kathleen Mary Ruschin, late
of Mansfield Street, Northcote, who died in
1923, please communicate with THE EQUITY
TRUSTEES CO., of 472 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne?
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Fine weather, a fast track, an attend-
ance of 74,800 —350 more than last year
—and a tote turnover of £100,809 were
among the features of Derby and Epsom
Day at Randwick. There were 9300 ser-
vice men present, and it is to be hoped
their morale was not affected to the ex-
tent seemingly feared by a once-promi-
nent cricketer who now gets newspaper
space as an anti-racing crusader.
After his success at Rosehill F. Dalton
was keen on Freckles’s chance of win-
ning the Epsom Handicap, and, backed
from 10 to 1 down to 6 to 1 on the
course, that horse ran up to his trainer’s
expectations. When Thompson took
Freckles to the front in the first fur-
long he did not bustle him in order to
get a long lead. Freckles was two
lengths ahead of Yaralla at the half-mile,
but the latter was alongside him imme-
diately after entering the straight, and
had his head in front a furlong from
home. Then Freckles raised another
effort, and, with Yaralla tiring, after mak-
ing a great effort under a big weight, was
clear a ljundred yards from home.
Merrimba put in a fast run, but Freckles
hung on well to win by a neck.
From the top of the straight the win-
ner did not look like coming from any-
thing outside the three place-getters. As
was feared, Rimveil commenced too
slowly to be a danger, and did well to
finish fourth. Prince ran well, and Gun-
dagai and Grand Fils, after finding the
early pace a little too fast, finished
strongly. Of the rough division John
Halifax did best. Bought for 2000gns.
on Dalton’s advice after his failure in
last year’s Epsom, Freckles has since
won three races. He is by El Cacique
from Suntint, by Paper Money from Sun-
glow, by Multiform, and was bred by
W. H. Mackay.
On the whole it was an ordinary-
looking Derby field. Form appeared to
make the race a fair thing for Hall Stand,
but his chance was not a winning one
after entering the straight, and he was
decisively beaten by Main Topic
(Munro), At barrier-rise Hall Stand went
up in the air, losing ground, and was
fourth or fifth nearing the mile post.
After that he had a clear run, but simply
was not good enough. Main Topic ran
away from him over the last furlong.
Grand Prodige had a long lead from
Main Topic at the end of the first half-
mile, run in 51£, and was also clear
after cutting out the mile in a shade
better than 1.42. He lasted until well
in the straight, and, half a neck away
from Hall Stand, narrowly beat Baroda,
who was unlucky early in the race and
again at the end. Angel finished ahead
of the remainder, of whom nothing
favorable can be written.
Main Topic is by Talking from Ger-
main, by Corban from Lady Pop, by
Popinjay. Bred by A. E. Cooper, he
failed to reach a reserve of 250gns. as a
yearling, and was then taken on lease by
trainer P. T. McGrath, with a purchas-
ing contingency of 500gns.
Dashing Cavalier was a disappointing
favorite for the Colin Stephen Stakes.
Last early, he did not after really flatter
his backers. It was against Veiled Threat
that he had to do the pacemaking, and,
though half a mile from home he led
Katanga (Munro) three lengths, the latter
was with him halfway down the straight,
and was a little too good at the finish,
winning by half a length, with Evergreen
a neck further off. As the pace set by
Veiled Threat was not fast, Evergreen
might not have been disadvantaged if
more freely used over the first mile.
Dewar did not run up to his Hawkes-
bury Handicap form, but was hampered
to such an extent at one stage by Dash-
ing Cavalier that the latter’s rider, Coutts,
was suspended for two months.
Anpapejo (Aldridge) had an easy win
in the Hurdle Race, after Kinmat and
King’s Cross had made the early run-
ning. The last-named fell at the three
furlongs, and, though Kinmar led into
the straight, Anpapejo was a winner
before reaching the last jump. Saratoga
was a moderate third, closely followed
by Take Care, who shaped fairly for a
beginner. Mag Mort, who could not raise
a decent gallop at any part, fell at the
last jump.
In the Kensington Handicap Magi
(Knox) proved herself even better than
previously supposed. She commenced
smartly, and, though Guild Hall was with
her at the three furlongs, she then drew
away, and in the run down the straight
gave nothing a chance. Guild Hall tired,
and, though Bragger, Cadger, St. Elmo
and Pall Mall bunched up commencing
the last furlong, they were unable to
seriously threaten Magi, whose time,
1.23 i, was only a second and a quarter
behind the track record, jointly held by
High Caste and Mildura. Heavily-backed
Queenslander Eureka got away too badly
to have a look-in, and neither Rylstone
nor Air Link ever threatened danger.
In the Trial Stakes Galliard (Shean)
showed a return to the form that enabled
him to run second in last year’s A.J.C.
Derby. He did the pacemaking, and
from the commencement of the final half-
mile never looked like being overhauled,
though Kiaree, Plimsol, Royal Lancer,
Barrenjoey and Glendower were all
reasonably close to him entering the
straight. Lambeth made such an indif-
ferent showing that it does not seem as
if much is to be feared from him in any
of his immediate engagements.
It’s Funny (Bartle), backed down to 9
to 4 for the Squatters’ Handicap, ran
past Wellesley a furlong from home, and
won easily from the latter. Panurge made
up a lot of ground to get third, slightly
ahead of Beau Frere, who also came
home well, Haridelle, Yours Truly and
Goose Boy were nearest Wellesley enter-
ing the straight, but they all weakened,
the weight evidently troubling Goose
Boy. Pantler did a little better than in
his recent races, while the disappoint-
ments included Aralys and Abspear, who
never looked possibilities.
Of the 30 Caulfield Cup candidates
which raced at Flemington on Saturday
none impressed more than Skipton and
Velocity. Skipton did not defeat a par-
ticularly strong field for the Stand Han-
dicap, but he carried 51b. more than
his Cup weight, and recorded an attrac-
tive performance. A long way out of his
ground at the half-mile, he went right
round the field on the turn, and, finishing
resolutely, won in the last stride from
Hestia, whom he met 91b. worse than Cup
terms, with Koorenbeen a tiring third.
Skipton’s win was his first since the Mel-
bourne Cup, and his form justified the
confidence of his trainer, J. Fryer, that
he would be seen at his best again this
spring.
Velocity finished only fifth to Great
Britain in the first Melbourne Stakes,
but would have been closer had he ex-
perienced a better passage. He ran on
strongly, and requires a distance farther
than a mile. Tranquil Star, fourth, did
not reveal the dash expected of her at
the finish, but Spearmain, a Melbourne
Cup candidate, showed up well in sixth
position. He made up a lot of ground
over the concluding furlongs. Tuhitarata
justified his warm favoritism with a
brilliant win from Amazed and Distinc-
tion in the second Melbourne Stakes.
He was still going strongly at the end,
but, although he has been supported for
the Caulfield Cup, he has to be taken
on trust over 1| mile.
Great Britain’s success in the first Mel-
bourne Stakes was a first-class trial for
the Caulfield Guineas and Victoria
Derby. Never farther back than third,
he won by only half a length, but, after
momentarily looking in danger of defeat
nearing the finish, kicked away again on
the post. His win may have proved the
judgment of H. Badger, who elected to
ride him in preference to Leahero in the
Guineas and Derby, but that point
cannot be cleared up until they meet in
the Guineas next Saturday. Leahero did
not race on Saturday, but his trainer,
P. Burke, is quite satisfied with his con-*
dition and prospects. Great Britain car-
ried 7.13, and ran the mile about a
second faster than another Derby candi-
date, Amazed, who carried 7.8 into second
place behind Tuhitarata. Grain Trader,
another classic aspirant, made up ground
to finish fourth to Tuhitarata, and Pan-
dect’s sixth in the same race was an
attractive performance from a Melbourne
Cup viewpoint.
Mermeran, a filly by Valiant Chief
from a Windbag mare, ineligible for
the Oaks, defeated most of the best fillies
in training in the Edward Manifold
Stakes. It was her third successive win.
She struggled on to score narrowly from
East End and Judith Louise, but ran
out towards the finish, and a protest
entered by Hartney, rider of East End,
was not unexpected. The protest was
withdrawn almost immediately by East
End’s trainer, E. Fisher, but, in fairness
to backers of the runner-up, the stewards
should have insisted on a hearing. Inter-
ference did occur, the stewards subse-
quently reprimanding Mermeran’s rider,
H. Badger, for not making a proper effort
to straighten his mount wheri running
out. From an Oaks viewpoint nothing
impressed more than Reply Paid, who
came from a hopeless position to finish
fifth.
Gay Gown, a 350gns. filly by Gay
Lothario from Wrapper, and therefore a
sister to Burberry, defeated Great
Britain’s sister, Strazeele, in a close finish
for the fillies’ division of the Maribyr-
nong Trial Stakes. Dawna James, a
40gns. daughter of John James, was a
fair third. Pharisee, a good-looking
230gns. son of Law Maker and Maiden
Hair, won the colts and geldings’ division
attractively from The Bohemian and
Spanish Legend. Last-named, who
started favorite at 11 to 8, may have
won but for misfortune at the start.
* ♦* *
Few backers will approach the Metro-
politan with marked confidence in their
ability to select the winner. Weight-for-
age form, as applied to handicaps, often
works out incorrectly, and though
Katanga will meet Veiled Threat on the
same terms as in the Colin Stephen
Stakes it is improbable he will again beat
him. Veiled Threat will not have to do
the pacemaking next Saturday. Ever-
green, who was late on the scene in the
Colin Stephen Stakes, will meet Katanga
and Veiled Threat 61b. better, so he still
enters into calculations, though in a fast-
run race it is uncertain whether he will
run the distance quite as well as Veiled
Threat, who is expected to be improved.
Dashing Cavalier did not show winning
Metropolitan form in the w.f.a. race, nor
did Dewar, even making full allowance
for the interference to which he was sub-
jected. There was nothing impressive in
the running of Abspear, Thrax, Yours
Truly, Beau Timide, Lambeth, Aralys,
Angus, Jymjon, Haridelle or Goose Boy
in their respective races, though the
lighter scale may help the last-named.
If they should be acceptors, the Squatters’
Handicap minor-place getters, Wellesley
and Panurge, will meet It’s Funny on
slightly worse terms, and Beau Frere will
be only a pound better off.
It’s Funny won on Saturday in such
good style that he is undoubtedly one
of the possibilities. Fourth in the A.J.C.
Derby last year, winner of the St. Leger,
and sixth in the Sydney Cup with 8.2, he
has staying credentials. He gave Veiled
Threat a pound in the Cup, but in the
Metropolitan he will be in receipt of 81b.
He looked well last week, but should be
even better next Saturday. Grand Fils,
a proved stayer, is likely to improve upon
his Epsom form, but though Merrimba
made a great showing in that race the
fact that he has done only a sprint
preparation may be against him. The
same applies to Gundagai.
Three-years-old rarely start in Metro-
politans, but Main Topic, in running
away with the Derby in 2.3 li —only a
quarter-second outside Phar Lap’s record
—proved he is entitled to be one of the
field. His weight drops from 8.10 to 7.7,
but though he has evidently greatly im-
proved since then he will be meeting
Evergreen 101 b. worse than when the
latter finished ahead of him in the Hill
Stakes.
Last week’s non-runners included
Moondarewa, Shining Night, Bucolic and
Two’s Company. Moondarewa has 61b.
less than when, after being chopped back
at the start by Salivant, he finished in
the bunch that so closely followed Dewar
in the Hawkesbury Grand Handicap. In
his case a lot depends upon the state of
the going. He cut up badly on a soft
track in Tatt.’s Spring Handicap, won by
Shining Night, but with his handy weight
of 7.8 he is bound to be hard to beat
on firm going. Any track will suit Shin-
ing Night, whose failure in the Hawkes-
bury Handicap cannot be counted against
him, as he ran off the course at the first
turn. Bucolic is working well. It will
be one of those races in which it would
be possible to advocate the claims of at
least half the field. Main Topic, Katanga,
Veiled Threat, Merrimba, It’s Funny and
Evergreen shone most of Derby Day run-
ners, and yet Grand Fils and Goose Boy
did sufficiently well to make it difficult
to dismiss them as “no-chancers.” How-
ever, I shall pin my faith to Moon-
darewa.
* * * f
G. Price was hopeful Riverton would
prove a tough opponent for anything in
the Derby. He galloped well at a
mile and a quarter, but a subsequent mis-
hap in the stable was regarded as suffi-
ciently serious to warrant his withdrawal.
However, as the Derby is not a pre-post
betting race, backers were not affected.
* * * *
If owner F. W. Hughes does not make
a good bid for the Gimcrack Stakes it
will not be for lack of numerical repre-
sentation. Susquehanna, Mara, Gran-
mar and Louisiana w(ll carry his colors.
The last-mentioned three are by The
Marne and Susquehanna is by Brueghel.
* * * *
The entertainment tax has increased
admission to the flat at Randwick from
Is. to Is. 3d.; saddling paddock, men
from 11s. 6d. to 155., women from ss. 6d.
to 6s. 6d,; and St Leger reserve, adults
from 2s. 3d. to 3s. At Flemington the
charges are now: Stand, men 15s. 6d.,
women Bs.; hill, adults 4s.
* * * *
In Sydney in future in races of £2OO
the sweepstakes will make a nice bet for
a small sum to winning owners, but it
will cost 10s. more than in the past to
start a horse for apprize of that amount.
Clubs will still retain the entrance fee
of 10s., and the rule provides for a
sweepstakes of 1 per cent, in races for
which the added money is less than £5OO.
A difference of 10s. is not great, but it
may tend to fewer horses being trained
in public.
$ < $ * *
Maoriland racegoers have evidently
not entered on an austerity campaign so
far as betting is concerned. At the Avon-
dale meeting held at Ellerslie last month
the tote turnover on Guineas day was
£96,508, against £57,390 on the corre-
sponding day last year. In Maoriland,
as in N.S.W., the war is producing more
money for racing. For nine days’ racing
last season the tote turnover of the
Wellington R.C. was £813,510, which, on
a daily average, was a record for the
club. The prize-money distribution was
£38,780, and all profits went to war and
patriotic funds.
« * * »
Despite the reduction of racing in
England, advertising bookmakers and
tipsters appear to be quite as flourishing
as prior to the war. A recent issue of
the London “Sporting Life” contained
over three columns of bookmakers’ ad-
vertisements, and the tipsters’ contribu-
tion was two and a half. Some of the
latter do business at a very cheap rate —
five one-horse letters and five one-horse
wires for £l, and that covers the cost of
wires and postage. One of the best
advertisers is an Epsom woman who has
been in the business for 12 years. Some
take credit to themselves because they
have not changed their address over a
long period, and others draw attention
to the fact that they are giving their real
names.
* * * *
The V.T. and R.A.’s (Ascot) bid for a
day’s racing at Flemington was turned
down by the V.R.C., despite £BOOO in
stakes and all profits to go to charities.
It was asking a lot of the premier body,
and it would have surprised if the reply
had been other than negative.
* * * *
Handicapper Hill has had some happy
escapes when he appeared to have treated
horses more than favorably. Skipton
will give him some anxious moments until
the Caulfield Cup is decided. Winner
at a mile and a half with 9.1 at Fleming-
ton last Saturday, 8.10 now seems some-
thing of a luxury for him in the Caul-
field Cup.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
The Shorts: Faerie Queen, 1;
John Halifax, 2; Guild Hall, 3.
Breeders’ Plate: Moorland, 1;
The Beacon, 2 ; Van Eyck, 3.
Gimcrack Stakes: Ajixa, 1;
Hecuba, 2 ; Susquehanna, 3.
Craven Plate: Yaralla, 1 ; Rim-
veil, 2 ; Hall Stand, 3.
Metropolitan; Moondarewa, 1;
It’s Funny, 2; Main Topic or Veiled
Threat, 3.
Clibborn Stakes: Grand Prodige,
1 ; Riverton or Baroda, 2 ; Boor-
chief, 3.
' Final Handicap: Panurge, 1;
Prince, 2 ; Rylstone, 3.
FOR V.A.T.C. MEETING.
(At Flemington.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Caulfield Guineas: Leahero, 1;
Great Britain, 2; Chatfield, 3.


in
ent
SP
liiii®
less
UUc» en
the
when you
cook with an
AGA
Everywhere women are giving their
time, their energies, their enthusi-
asm to w r ar work. Often unexpected
demands are made on hospitality.
In homes where there’s an AGA
Cooker delicious meals can be pre-
pared, at any hour, with a minimum
of attention.
The AGA Cooker burns continu-
ously; cooks fast or slow as desired;
conserves food flavours; saves shrink-
age of meats; and is almost un-
believably economical. HJodel CS, for
instance, suitable for city or country
houses, cannot burn more than £4/7/6
worth of fuel in a whole year, with
coke at 35/- per ton in the city.
(Freight increases price of fuel in the
country, but annual consumption is
so low that amazing economy is
possible anywhere in Australia.)
The AGA Cooker is finished in
sparkling, easily-cleaned vitreous
enamel. Its insulation keeps
kitchens cool. It operates scientifi-
cally by STORED heat. You can
leave a whole dinner to cook itself,
while you devote extra time to your
war effort.
You vrill find it most interesting to
have an AGA Cooker demonstrated.
Or, if you cannot call, write for
Illustrated AGA Catalogue RIO.
(REOD TRADE KARK>
7koiigind7katStmge.
COOKER
M A 0 F I N B R IT A I N
n—o
LEVON & CO., LTD.,
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King: Street, Sydney, and
433 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and at Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents; Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents; A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
Agent for Western Australia: Malloch Bros., Ltd., Perth.
Agent for Queensland: Queensland Primary Producers’
Co-operative Association, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
sfsdfdsfdsf
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual ease and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street,
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR GORDON CAMPBELL late of
Park Parade Bondi. —TAKE NOTICE that
MARY CAMPBELL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1627 of 1942 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance by 30th November
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from E. H. TEBBUTT & SONS Solici-
tors 28 Martin Place Sydney.—C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
TO ROBERT JOHN DOWSETT formerly of
Munro Street Ascot Vale in the State of Vic-
toria Jockey.—J AKE NOTICE that your wife
has commenced divorce proceedings against
you on the ground of desertion Unless you enter
an appearance in the office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court of Victoria in Mel-
bourne on or before the Fourth day of Novem-
ber 1942 the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs.—E. A.
FORTESCUE CROFT, of 379 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Proctor for the Petitioner, Mercan-
tile Exchange, Melbourne.
Legal Notices.
WILLIAM FREDERICK BENNETT, formerly
of Budgerum, in Victoria, Farmer. Son ot
WILLIAM and MARGARET MADELINE
BENNETT. Would the abovenamed (who is
entitled to shaie in the estate of his mother,
the abovenamed Margaret Madeline Bennett,
now deceased, if he makes claim thereunder
prior to the Third day of August, 1943), or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with MESSRS. CLARKE & GAVAN
DUFFY, Solicitors, of 52 Lydiard Street, Bal-
larat, Victoria?
STAMPS
100 New Zealand*, all different
100 Australians, all different
40 Pacific Islands, all different .......... V*
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air lusts —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., M
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.JH. (Est. 56 Year*.)
SMOKE-OH!
“Seeks to Fill Father’s Seat.” — Heading.
Most are content to follow in his foot-
steps.
•J#
“Only one N.S.W. coalmine was idle on
October 7.”
Presumably immediate steps were
taken to restore the situation to normal.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Reluctant Piano.” — Short story.
Wish it would swap places with the
Relentless Radio in the flat underneath us.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The ’Plane Truth.
“The dental officer is making me a new set
of teeth out of a Messerschmitt propeller.”
— “Women's Weekly.”
The idea is screwy, take it from me.
I know.
After the Blitz. I found the dentist to
whom I went for a set of teeth had
fashioned the top plate from the prop,
of a Spitfire and the bottom one from
that of a Heinkel. This obliged me to
work my lower jaw five times faster than
the upper in order to ensure uniform
mastication.
So fixed has the habit become that I
can no longer reduce the ratio at will,
and as a result I am denied all converse
with my fellow-mer>. My involuntary
practice of saying the end of every poly-
syllabic word before the beginning makes
my conversation unintelligible to even
the most quick-witted.
To crown this, the aeronautics in which
my crockery indulge would exasperate
the most tolerant man. Hardly a night
goes by without my being awakened by
the jarring and grinding in my mouth
as both sets collide while looping the loop
or performing hair-raising Immelman
rolls. What I’m really dreading, though,
is the frightful tailspin that one of them
is a moral to take sooner or later into
my abdominal regions. How can I face
a dentist and confess that after a daring
reconnaissance flight over enemy terri-
tory, one of my dentures failed to return?
P. S. C.
4* *b *b *b
“Charlie Chaplin’s third wife divorces him.”
—Cable.
He must be a funny man in the house.
*b *b *b
“Measles prevalent in Melbourne.”
Victims can easily be spotted.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“Ticket forger gets £5O from bookmaker.”
That’s a bit over the odds!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Women are winning this war.”
— Woman’s paper.
Yes, but look at the practice they get!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Shift worker wants all-night radio.”
Neighbors would want him to be doing
a shift.
“He was frequently drunk, and woke up to
find himself married to a woman who had been
a waitress in a cafe he frequented. Her ex-
travagance and social ambition ruined him.”
— Woman’s paper.
She used to wait on him of yore —
Serve foods for his delight;
But, wed, she waits on him no more —
She only serves him right.
H. M.
•b 4. q. ■ 4*
“A.M.P.’s big loan subscription.’
—Sunday paper.
A policy to suit the need.
*b
“More serious view of shoplifting.”
—News item.
Something that must not be taken
lightly.
»I< *!< »b *b
“Singing is an exercise of enormous benefit
to anyone suffering from chest or throat weak-
ness.”—Weekly paper.
Tonic solfa.
.j.
The Entertaining Sort.
“Cyril spent money on his friends liberally
but entertained a high opinion of himself.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
He was great on entertaining; in fact,
he entertained the assurance that he was
an entertaining personality. He enter-
tained Tom, Bill and Harry at the pub,
and Maisie, Gwen and Gloria at. theatres
and parties, entertaining them all the
while with talk about himself. Actually,
he failed to entertain any idea of how he
entertained them (secretly) with the ideas
he entertained about himself.
H.
•J*
“He looked at Ellen. That same brooding
look was there.” — Story.
He’d seen her brooding oft before.
She brooded now again.
But this he didn’t quite deplore.
For Ellen was a hen.
•b *b *b *b
Gardening Made Easy.
111.
Seedlings.
There are two schools of thought.
The first get their seedlings from chain
stores. The second is composed of the
true gardening enthusiasts, who plant only
seedlings raised by themselves.
In the former school the ritual is un-
varying. The time comes around when
the seedling-buyers want to set out their
plants—say, cauliflowers. They have to
be set out in their permanent places
in late summer. As usual, beautifully
cool overcast days will be in evi-
dence from Monday to Friday, when
the mercury will start to climb. By Sat-
urday midday it is 102, with a withering
westerly blowing.
At about the fifth such week-end, the
seedling-buyer becomes desperate. Rush-
ing into a chain store at 12.25 on the last
Saturday possible he obtains the last two
bundles of cauli. seedlings. They look as If
they’ve been in a fast oven for about an
hour, but he is confident they will revive
when he plants them out. Three hours
later, when the temperature has dropped
to 95, he pokes them into their appointed
places. A drink, another after sundown,
and he retires hoping fervently that the
morrow will dawn dull and showery—
and damn the Sunday surfers, for in gar-
dening it is every man for himself.
The last heat-wave of summer starts on
Sunday morning, and by the afternoon
the last cauliflower seedling has given up
the ghost.
The efforts of chain-store gardeners
always raise a superior grin from the
other school. To the tyro in seedling-
raising the attainment of that degree of
proficiency denoted by possession of a
sectionalised seedbox with an adjustable
hessian covering may appear as distant
as a heavenly star, yet there is no reason
why modest success should not be his.
The chief causes of failure among
backyard seedling-raisers is pests,
ranging from the kids next door, who
boot the football with precision on lettuce
ready for transplanting, to slaters, slugs,
snails, thrip, cutworms, cats, mealy bugs
and similar lepidoptera. All these pests
have one thing in common: they do their
fell work in the open. The rational
answer to their depredations is therefore
obvious —bring your incipient seedlings
inside the house.
The logic of this is plain. Have you
ever seen a slug on top of the radio or
a thrip disporting in the bathroom? No!
There, then, is your solution. Personally,
I prefer the bathroom —handy for giving
the young spinach and stock the dregs
of your shaving water (strained first, of
course, so they won’t get choked up with
the hairs), while it is something to boast
that the beetroot have drunk your bath-
water.
Touching upon the submerging of the
seedboxes in your bathwater (between
baths they can be stacked on top of the
shaving cabinet) it must be remembered
that seedlings dislike dirty water; there-
fore, submerge them before your bath.
For those who like to stew in almost
boiling water it will be necessary to put
the seedboxes under while it is only hot
—boiling water is rather too severe on
plants that are not yet fully established.
Many so-called experts harp on the
need for drainage of seedboxes. This
is mere prejudice; their grandfathers
did it, so they must. A watertight box,
given one good swill of water, will
hold it for years. If water, held
thus, developed fur on it, or jellied,
I would say drain it by all means ; but
it doesn’t, so why not save the constant
application of fresh water? Anyway,
drained seedling boxes watered on top of
the piano may result in the iron frame
becoming dusty. Lead-lined boxes may
prove slightly more expensive, but they
are the best.
Similarly, the putting of coke and
broken earthenware on the bottom of
seedboxes is at odds with commonsense.
These, as well as a lot of gibbers, should
be put on top of the earth, which should
have a good percentage of cement mixed
with it. Thus the seedling’s early habitat
will approximate the conditions of the
soil in which it will eventually be set out.
It must be remembered that seedlings
raised indoors will have to be planted
out in a shady spot, at least until they
got used to the stronger light outdoors.
When the mass of vegetation comes
up in your seedboxes don’t try to dif-
ferentiate between the seedlings and the
weedlings. Just measure the box out in
small squares with crossed strings, scoop
the contents of each square out clearly
and put it in a hole in the bed of cor-
responding size. You might get, say,
seven cabbages and one weed. On the
other hand, you might get 24 weeds and
no cabbages. It’s this delightful uncer-
tainty that makes gardening such a fas-
cinating pastime. g Q
For Street Photographers.
O you who stand by road or park
And snap the ladies passing by,
Your glance is always keen to mark
The flashing smile, the twinkling eye.
May I suggest that sometimes you
Should wait until you see their backs,
And then provide them with a view
Of how they really look in slacks?
T. W. NATHAN.
Dexterity.
“Her temper was erratic. One they were
talking quite pleasantly when she said that he
had ceased to care for her and hit him sud-
denly with a frying pan.”
— Husband’s evidence in divorce.
This lady, like many with love for their
man.
Acts, when she takes action, with dash ;
She thought that his love was a flash in
the pan, *
So she gave him the pan in a flash.
HAMER.
Pipe Down!
“No tobacco for our pipe of peace.
— “World’s News.”
It’s the pipe of peace that sometimes
starts a war, however.
“What, you’ve bought another pipe?”
“Yes, m’dear. You used to roar about
the smell of my old one so much that
for peace sake I thought I’d get a new
one.”
“I object to any pipe if you knock the
ash out on the window-ledge. That’s
right, upset the tobacco over the polished
table ! And don’t brush it off with the
curtain.”
“Sorry, m’dear. Where are the
matches?”
“We’re out of them. And while you’re
up at the corner you may as well get
some groceries I’m wanting.”
When it comes to that, and listening
to endless lectures about blowing smoke
near the mirrors, scraping the ashes into
the aspidistra pot and surreptitiously
pushing dead matches under the carpet,
the inability to buy tobacco comes as a
boon, and it can then be truly referred
to as a pipe of peace.
ELM.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Priority Passes I
Priority passes, they call them. It
means if you are on business of national
importance, or can tell a good yarn, or
know a man who knows a man you can
travel inter-State, If, on the other hand,
you are only a service man’s wife you
are wasting your time to ask. I know ;
I’m a service man’s wife.
My husband was transferred to an
adjoining State without leave. Here for
many weeks he spent his occasional leave
day in camp rather than go to a strange
city and wander around alone. Strangely
enough, there are men in the forces who
don’t drink and are not interested in
dancing with pretty hostesses.
Along came a few days’ leave, pos-
sibly final, but with no home pass ; so
with little hope I approached the powers
that her for a permit to travel. I had
only to mention the service and my story
was wiped off —I hadn’t a hope.
I packed my swag, complete with
blanket and billy, and bought a ticket to
the border. Here I watched the train
proceed without me ; in the compartment
I had left were two service men only.
The rest of the carriage also lacked pas-
sengers, but I had to sleep under a hedge
and walk.
I don’t want to clutter up the trains in
times of emergency any more than
anyone else ; but why, when trains are
crossing the borders with empty car-
riages, can’t someone use a bit of com-
monsense and send it over with passen-
gers, preference naturally being given to
people travelling on service business? —
I Hiked (Vic.).
Soldiers and Civilians
As a private in the A.I.F. I receive
6s. 6d. per day plus keep.
At the wharf where I disembarked after
returning from the Middle East our ship
was unloaded by two gangs—(l) civilian
wharf-laborers, 7s. per hour ; (2) soldiers,
3£d, per hour.
Either raise the private’s pay to a
reasonable figure or lower the civilian’s
pay to its equal, but no longer let one
man carry the burden of another. This
is a war thrust upon us to be shared by
all alike—F. C. R. (N.S.W.).
This Austerity
I have listened to public speakers, both
in the flesh and over the wireless, talking
about austerity until my ear-drums are
sore. And lam sick of it. Why?
My wife tells me of the continually
rising cost of living to be met out of a
wage that does not rise and would not
be a living wage without overtime. I
have cut out beer and have cut my
cigarette ration in half. I am actively
practising as much austerity as seems
sane for me to do, putting what little
money is over into the war loans and
savings certificates as I am told to do.
Then every day I go to work where
there are scores of single girls whose
wages are almost on a par with my own.
I hear them talking. Most of them seem
to concentrate on dress and how they
have borrowed father’s coupons to buy
a new coat or a new dress or new stock-
ings, because father hasn’t got the money
to buy a new suit this year. I have heard
them boasting that they have £lO in their
purse which they are dying to spend.
You suggest to them that they put it in
war loans or something like that and
you are told “I didn’t start this war.”
When our politicians stop pleading and
do some acting so far as austerity is con-
cerned, then probably my ears will stop
aching.—C. L. T. (S.A.).
Money
It is strange that “R.H.G.” (B. 2/9/’42),
usually such a logical writer, should say
he is puzzled over the functions of money
and the effects of war finance.
In peace-time a period of good seasons
and favorable trading conditions keeps
people employed and provides capital for
further expansion of business. If equili-
brium is not upset by heavy Government
and other borrowing, the total supply of
money will not increase but each piece
of it will purchase more because prices
will fall. Money in itself is not wealth —
it is only a medium for exchanging wealth
—and an increase in the supply of money
does not mean more wealth ; rather the
reverse, because it lessens the quantity of
real wealth which can be obtained for
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
money. As The Bulletin pointed out
recently, £5 now will only go as far as
£4 before the war.
The inflationary conditions in war-time
cannot be better for the community. By
reason of the heavy Government outlay
from borrowed funds or bank credit,
there is more money about, but it is of
smaller value owing to the inevitable
rise in prices. It is expenditure from
capital—not from revenue. Living on
capital, or by heavy expenditure of bor-
rowed money on unproductive enter-
prise, is just as detrimental to a State as
to an individual. War conditions are no
benefit to our economic position. The
smooth working of all economic activities
is upset, and it is futile to argue that
present conditions are bringing about a
better state of affairs than one in which
production in peace-time might catch
up with consumption. Stagnation would
not necessarily follow, as “R.H.G.” infers.
—Eco (W.A.).
Protest
Like others, I was sorry to see (B.
16/9/’42) a picture showing a man bring-
ing home to his delighted wife a great
load of food and drink, with the legend
“Look what I found on the wharf,
missus.” This rampant dishonesty, which
is leading many a formerly good Aus»
tralian astray, is a very serious thing,
not a joke. And daily papers con-
done and encourage it by using the mild
“Stand back or I'll fill you full o' white-ants!"
word “pilfering” even for the unspeakably
selfish thief who sees to it that a woman’s
gift to her soldier overseas doesn’t reach
him as it left her. No, decidedly not
funny. — Digger’s Father (S.A.).
Shoddy Shoes
Tell “Deb” (Tas.) (B. 30/9/’42) that
shoe manufacturers are not to blame for
inferior sole leather being used in some
shoes. Only 20 p.c. of former supplies
of “crop” (fair quality sole leather) is
permitted for civilian production, which
means that to keep a good secondary
industry going (one which is contributing
its share towards the war effort) shoul-
ders or second-grade leather must be used
by manufacturers.
Statements from Canberra regarding
shoddy footwear which “last only 17 hours
and have stuck-on soles, not nailed,”
show crass ignorance of one of the coun-
try’s best-developed secondary industries.
For years past the world’s best
women’s and children’s shoes have had
cemented soles, and after many years’
experience in handling all types of foot-
wear I can assure you that nails have
not been used in the soles of anything
but men’s heavy work boots for almost
a generation.— Mark Patch (Q.).
Out of Fashion?
Since the announcement of a legal ban
on contraceptives, it seems almost certain
that illegal operations will increase. When
women don’t want to have children, only
very few will have children. •
Why should the poorer people have
large families when the rich refuse to have
them? And why should the rich have
big families when the King and Queen,
representing the ideal British marriage,
are blessed by two offspring only?
Big families have simply gone out of
fashion, like neck-to-knee beachwear. —
M. (N.S.W.).
Quashed Convictions
Press reports of appeals against N.S.W.
Police Court convictions suggest three
things: (1) magistrates don’t know the
law as well as the solicitors who advise
their clients to appeal; (2) innocent people
are sent to gaol; and/or (3) the accused
who can afford to appeal has more than a
50-50 chance of winning. An authentic
summary of appeals that succeed and
those that fail would be enlightening. —
M. A. C. (N.S.W.).
Med. Students and Their Fees
A fee-paying strike by medical students
at Melbourne University is worrying the
powers that be. The students object to
paying six years’ fees for a course that
has been cut to five years owing to war’s
exigencies.
Why not abolish fees altogether and
make the £450 course free to individuals
of proved ability? Then children of
poor parents who have a real flair for
doctoring would have an opportunity of
getting at the equipment which only the
university has, and hopeless cases with
ambitious parents who want to see their
sons in a highly respectable profession
would not waste their teachers’ time. 1
know one medical student who spent 15
years at Melbourne University “trying”
to get through the final year.-— Pawang
(Vic.).
Troubles of a House-owner
It’s not a private fight, so let me prise
“Wart” and “Macßopus” apart long
enough to interpose the observations of a
semi-disinterested bystander.
“Wart” (B. 23/9/’42) says he prefers
not to take the risk of accepting tenants
who can obtain the protection of the
Landlord and Tenant Regulations unless
he knows them personally. That is all
very well. But how does he act when
a war worker yearns to become his
tenant?
Under the Housing of War Workers
Regulations, if “Wart” owns a dwelling-
house in a prescribed area that is vacant
or to become vacant, he must, unless, he
has a good reason for refusing, let it
to any person holding a certificate that
he is a war worker if that person requires
him to do so. If he doesn’t he is liable
to severe penalties.
Furthermore, once “Wart” gets a war
worker in his house he will find, as I
found to my cost, that he can’t even sell
the place on a contract to give vacant
possession until he gives notice to the
Minister or Secretary of the Department
of Labor and National Service and
obtains consent to the transaction.
Under the Landlord and Tenant Regu-
lations he will commit an offence if he
lets a house that is not in “fair and
tenantable” repair. So, assuming a war
worker requests “Wart” to let to him a
vacant house that is not in “f. and t.”
repair, not only must he comply with
the request but apparently he must also
repair the place first.
“Wart” may prefer not to risk taking
tenants he does not know, but he’ll find
himself running a far greater risk if he
starts knocking back tenants who are
war workers. — Lex (N.S.W.).
Raffle Prizes
Having bought a ticket in a raffle to
aid a patriotic fund, I was astounded to
find that the prizes consisted of goods
that are conspicuous by their absence in
cupboards and pockets; in the aggregate,
2050 cigarettes, 82oz. (obacco, one gross
matches, one bag of sugar, six hams, 6lb.
cocoa and 481 b. of coffee and chicory.
Rationing of most of these commodi-
ties is supposedly because of shortage,
yet supplies seem available to tempt
people to gamble on the chance of win-
ning a prize and thus becoming a
hoarder.
Rationing and austerity should be
observed even when it concerns getting
contributions to patriotic causes. — Jeff
(Vic.).
The Ban on Salt-licks
Another fool restriction has hit the
stockman ; Dedman has prohibited the
manufacture of stock licks, though you
may buy the material, it seems, and mix
your own.
Provided he has the spare time
and the labor, a man may mix salt, lime,
bonemeal and other simple things, but
no man living would be fool enough to
attempt to mix the molasses without
machinery. Ten men with shovels and
sweat may, in 10 hours, do what one girl
attendant and a machine can do in half
an hour. Sulphur is the only ingredient
of which there may not be a local sur-
plus. Very occasional licks use sulphur.
Why the restriction? It can’t be rail
shortage—fodder is still carried for race-
horses. Stock licks are a necessity to
the man on the land.—H. G. L. (Q.).
Artists
There are two kinds of artists. One,
when he gets two hours of leisure, goes
and sits on a river bank and works on a
landscape. The pseudo-artist, when he
gets two hours of leisure, goes and sits
in a drawing-room or cafe with others
like him and spends the two hours com-
plaining that he hasn’t the conditions.
His ability to believe that it is his condi-
tions and not himself which prevent him
painting completely protects him
from making any real effort.
If it isn’t this practical age we
live in it is dear old Karl Marx,
with his patent economic system, in
which every artist will be given
equality of opportunity. This
strikes no chord in the breast of
the real artist. He knows perfectly
well that the social system is im-
perfect and would like to see it
different. But he does not imagine
that a change in the social system
would give him an interest in paint-
ing, because he already has that
interest and is able to maintain it
even if he has to work in a factory
or an office at some monotonous
occupation.
It is easy for the pseudo-artist to
become a Marxist. It charms him
to think that if only there were a
different social system he would be
as passionately interested in art as
the other fellow. He never asks
himself if Communism came in to-
morrow how that would make his
painting better. So he can go
meandering through life, arguing
and debating at meetings in aid of
China or Russia or Tierra del
Fuego, and firmly believing that
what is wrong with him is not his medi-
ocre skill and lack of passion but the
capitalist system. —F. S. (Vic.).
Propaganda
Those who are anxious to spend addi-
tional money on Australian radio propa-
ganda, presumably because of German
propaganda successes at various times—
it certainly can’t be because of anyone
else’s propaganda achievements —forget
the important fact that German' propa-
ganda is largely disruptive. It suits Ger-
many’s book to have most of the rest of
the world at sixes-and-sevens. It’s much
easier to start a row than to patch one
up, particularly when you have the ad-
vantage of working on an ethnological
hodge-podge like Europe and a hetero-
geneous collection of jealous, suspicious
and often backward neutrals.
The British, on the other hand,
are anxious to unite the whole world
except the Axis nations (who take good
care that their people don’t hear our dis-
ruptive endeavors). So they have
achieved very little with propaganda.
Even with a friendly' nation like the
U.S.A, their success was negligible: it
took Pearl Harbor to unite the Ameri-
cans ; the Germans had no success with
their “friendly” propaganda in Brazil.
The truth is that you cannot talk your
way into peoples’ hearts. In fact, unless
a nation is strong —which Australia is
not —it’s doubtful if anyone listens to
her radio panegyrics except those paid
to do so and an odd transient or two
who are far more likely to be cynically
amused than impressed,— Roy Biv (S.A.),


KdtiW*'
Dear Sirs;
My grocer cannot supply some of my favourite biscuits.
Have you stopped making them?
Dear Madam:
Our factories are working at full capacity. Arnott’s
Biscuits are “On Service” on every Australian battle
front. We have removed many lines from our lists to
enable us to fulfil war orders, and we look forward to that
happy day when supplies will once again be ample.
Grocers everywhere are assisting us to distribute fairly
our available supplies and avoid disappointment to our
many friends.
Lend to Defend
FAMOUS
u
BISCUITS
EASE RETURN ALL EMPTY TINS TO YOUR GROCER AS SOON AS POSSIBLE
