

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.- No. 3278
Wednesday, December 9, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
COLONUS
BY PORTOFINO—GENOA. Four Years.
WINNER OF THE MELBOURNE CUP, 1942
MR. L. O. MENCK. Owner
Trainer, F. J. MANNING, jun.
Jockey, H. McCLOUD
Weight, 7st. 2lb. Time. 3min. 33¼scc.


d
fd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney •‘Bulletin:’
My Name
My Address
fc.B. 242
The Red Page
SURPRISING HISTORY.
“It was noticeable that in acts of heroic
leadership, after clergymen or their sons,
who figure most noticeably in such
records, farmers and other countrymen
are outstanding.”
Thus C. E. W. Bean, winding up
his large share of the Official History.
“Clergymen or their sons” is only a minor
example of the crowd of surprising
features of the volume, which tells,
with the familiar wealth of detail,
the story of “The A.I.F. in France,
1918.” By omitting the detail —though
every bit of it is essential as history—
what a shelf of stirring story, in the
manner of Masefield’s Gallipoli, could be
built out of these weighty tomes! And
though the shelf would hold Anzac,
Pozieres, Passchendaele and the rest, there
would be no story there more moving,
and certainly none more surprising for
most readers (Diggers included), than
that flowing through this final volume.
By this time the war had worn old,
and the Diggers with it. Some of these
had fought through Anzac ; many of them
had been through the blood-and-mud
battles of 1917 ; most of them, though
youngsters in years, were hard, tough
“veterans,” war-worn, but also war-wise.
Though by now the bulk of them had
had more than enough, they held place
among the world’s best shock troops still.
But they had another inherent quality
that has never (outside Dr. Bean’s
volumes) had the emphasis it deserves—a
clever headiness in their fighting; a
native hunting cunning, which now came
into its own.
It had had its beginnings after the first
raw actions at Anzac ; it had developed,
though it availed little, in the closely
massed fighting of 1916-17. Now it came
out in an extended succession of brilliant
exploits, practically continuous over the
four months from April to July ; steadily
wearing down the morale, or confidence,
of those pitted against it; gaining (as
Lieut.-Col. R. M. Luckock, of the general
staff, wrote) “a mastery over the enemy
such as” had “probably not been gained
by our troops in any previous period of
the War.” It built up and established
the Diggers’ “moral ascendancy”; re-
vealed to the British and Australian
leaders the weakness of the enemy’s de-
fences and the dejection of his troops;
and, in Dr. Bean’s account —where for
the first time it has been fully recorded
—had as its direct and dramatic climax
August 8, the Germans’ Black Day.
Because this astonishing story had
never been fully told (or half-told), either
at the time or since, 1918 up to that his-
toric date has always hitherto seemed,
except for one or two publicised high-
lights, a comparatively even and quiet
time, especially after the deadly frontal-
attack pitched-battle fighting, with fear-
ful casualties, that had preceded it. What
was going on all the time, wherever the
Diggers were in the line, has in Dr.
Bean’s account the ironical descriptive
title “Peaceful Penetration”!
Earlier there had been large-scale night
raids (always unpopular with all troops,
and often disastrous to them), but this
was different. Invented and initiated by
the Australian troops themselves, it was
carried out frequently in daytime. Some-
times individual Diggers did the “peace-
ful penetrating,” going out in daylight
and executing lone-hand attacks on Ger-
man posts in trenches or shellholes, and
even bringing back prisoners. Mostly it
was done by parties of three or four or
larger. “For all their resoucefulness the
Diggers had to rely for success largely on
bluff and partly on luck.” Some of their
bluff was extraordinary; so was most
of their luck.
The main thing was that they never
let up. As one captured German ruefully
said, his crowd hated to be opposite the
Australians because his crowd never knew
when they were coming over. One re-
sult was that such prisoners were con-
stantly passing back through the Digger
lines over the whole four months of
“peaceful penetration,” to provide Intelli-
gence with information, interesting and
useful always, and vital when it came
to launching the great offensive of August
8, when the rapid German slide downhill
really began.
A more heartening result to the Diggers
engaged on it was the frequent capture
by this brazen means of large lengths of
the German line, for which previously
costly battles had been fought, mostly
in vain. In a German history an adju-
tant admits that this later “sort of war-
fare cost us more than a regular attack.”
In one typical enough instance Diggers,
mainly by “peaceful penetration,” secured
ground 1000 yards deep on a front of
4500 while the formal plans for taking
it were being made by the higher com-
mand. In another typical enough in-
stance, a visitor from the army staff,
looking over the ground with Lieut.-
Col. P, Currie one morning, said “I sup-
pose you’ll be having a battle there
before long?”
“This afternoon,” was the answer.
“What do you think we are putting in?”
The visitor shook his head. “A job for
a brigade, wouldn’t it be?” suggested
Currie.
“Well, I dare say it would. What are
you tackling it with?”
“An officer and 11 men are going for
the right half and an officer and six men
for the left.”
The visitor whistled. “What have you
got on the left flank?”
“An n.c.o. and four men are going out to
look after that.”
“It’s the damnedest bit of cheek I ever
heard of,” said the visitor laughing, “and
I’m not going to swear it won’t come off.”
It came off all right; as did the subse-
quent bigger show at Mont St. Quentin,
regarding which Lord Rawlinson, told by
Monash that he proposed to take that
formidable German holding with one
weak brigade, laughed at Monash’s
“cheek.” Of the “peaceful penetration” Sir
Herbert Plumer (prefacing his comment
with “You know, gentlemen, that it is
not my practice to make eulogistic
speeches”) declared that no division
had “done more to destroy the morale
of the enemy than the Ist Australian
Division.” Of the climax, Sir Archi-
bald Montgomery wrote (a year after the
events) that
it is not generally known that this vic-
tory [the Battle of Amiens] could not have
been won without the steady and continu-
ing offensive of the Australian corps
throughout the months of April, May, June
and July. To its remarkable achievements
during these months may be attributed to
a very large extent the increase in morale
which was necessary to make the battle....
even a possibility.
There are few special surprises in the
account of that now ensuing battle. It
is familiar enough history, from Monash’s
message telling the Diggers that for the
first time all five Australian divisions
would next day engage together in the
largest and most important battle opera-
tion ever undertaken by the corps, to
the conclusion that bore out Monash’s
forecast that it would be one of the most
memorable battles of the whole war, “the
story of which will re-echo throughout
the world, and live for ever in the his-
tory of our home land.”
When the mist which shrouded the
early morning fighting “lifted like a cur-
tain,” it gradually disclosed “a scene that
will never be forgotten by any who saw
it.” The Somme Valley came into view,
with, about the grass- and wheat-covered
slopes, the scattered Diggers, early ob-
jectives overrun, strolling or standing “in
the easy attitude by which Australians
were recognisable on all their battlefields
since the first sunrise at Anzac.” This
was one of the big testings of the early
tanks, and as one of these came within
100yds. of them the Germans leapt out,
and “waited to be collected —and, if time
allowed, ransacked for souvenirs—by the
infantry.” “The German infantry were
well aware of their opponents’ proclivi-
ties, for some posts actually had their
watches and other articles ready before
the troops came up.”
Behind the advance troops “was every
arm of the Fourth Army’s offensive in
motion.” Field batteries galloped into
action, and in a few minutes their guns
were banging away. There were surpris-
ing sights. Says one quoted account:
Then past us on the other side trooped
a procession of Royal Horse Artillery be-
hind the wood. They were led by a young
officer, riding round-backed, in the most
immaculate dress. He carried a riding
switch like a field-marshal’s baton in his
right hand. His helmet was covered with
some terra-cotta stuff which looked like
chamois leather; and he wore chamois-
leather gloves unbuttoned at the wrist,
going into action as he would go off to
Rotten Row.
The Australian historian adds:
Behind rode his trumpeter and, farther
behind, the battery, every man’s helmet
the same terra-cotta color and tilted at the
same angle, the horses walking easily, toss-
ing their chestnut manes. It was “A” Bat-
tery of the Royal Horse Artillery, the
famous Chestnut Troop, going forward to
play its part in the third phase of the
advance.
It certainly must have surprised those
who saw it. Diggers always looked after
their horses well (as distinct from what
they hung on them or asked them to
draw), but not in the most spit-and-polish
days could they ever have turned on a
show as good as this which there met
their astonished gaze at that stage of the
war!
A more weighty surprise element in
this vol. of the Official History is the
criticism of Monash. To many some of
it may come as the breaking of a myth.
When Haig was casting out feelers to-
wards having Monash succeed Bird-
wood, he praised Monash highly to Dr.
Bean, who replied that
the independent standing of General Bird-
wood was of great value to Australia, and
added—what was then true of most Aus-
tralians associated with the staff and the
command—“We look upon General White
as the greatest soldier we have by a long
way.”
Haig’s belief in Monash was not dis-
turbed by this and like interviews, in-
cluding one “in which Birdwood, after
the Passchendaele fighting, criticised
Monash’s leadership.” It is suggested
that “some continued to doubt—as in-
deed they may do to this day—whether
in all possibilities it [Monash’s appoint-
ment] was the best.” Keeping always in
mind that pretty well all the time the his-
torian is balancing these with apprecia-
tion of Monash’s particular qualities—
his great organising ability, his match-
less powers of exposition when detailing
vast plans to those who were to see them
carried out; etc. —here are other points;
That Monash was in some respects an
outstandingly capable commander was well
recognised in staff circles, but though a
lucid thinker, a wonderful organiser, and
accustomed to take endless pains, he had
not the physical audacity that Australian
troops were thought to require in their
leaders....
Monash’s leadership as divisional com-
mander was still hampered by an insuffi-
cient experience of the firing line, which
made it difficult for him at all times to judge
what was likely to be true or false in the
reports of events there. He was inclined
to believe the best story—a tendency
always dangerous in a commander. The
war correspondents noted that he was
always the best leader from whom to
seek information before a fight but the
worst to go to afterwards —he tended to
think that everything had happened in
accordance with plan, and closer inquiry
usually proved that, even in the best-planned
battles, it had not.
Monash could not always distinguish
between genuine fighting leaders and some
who made a better show on parade.
If the resemblance in mentality [to
Napoleon] was striking, it ended there.
The calculated audacity of the Corsican
was replaced by prudence adhered to as
a principle. Unlike Birdwood, Monash
took no delight in running bodily risk.
It was typical that, whereas Birdwood,
being on leave in England when the Ger-
mans attacked in April, 1918, seized the
chance of crossing the Channel by an air-
force machine in order to reach the front
in a few hours, Monash, four months later,
in the climax of his life, when informed
that he might at any moment be required
in France to play his part in the Allies’
great offensive, arranged for a destroyer
to stand by at Dover, “as I was not quite
prepared for the alternative proposition of
flying across.” There was never any sign
that he lacked physical courage; rather he
was determined to avoid all except inevit-
able risks, whereas Birdwood, with his eye
on the effect among his men, was resolved
to share some of their dangers.
Had the true story of Hamel or Chipilly
been known to Monash he could not have
set for inexperienced troops the task that
he did; but Monash often lacked know-
ledge of what happened in battle.
the most brilliant battle plan that
Monash ever drew broke down largely
through his underestimation of the human
element.
Whether Monash possessed the ruthless
will of the greatest fighting leaders may be
strongly questioned, and he was fortunate
in never having to carry unsupported the
shock of a great reverse.
Despite all the foregoing—and much
more —the historian sums up to the effect
that “the Australian force produced the
ablest commander under whom it came
on the Western Front, Monash,” and
though before finishing the sentence he
praises Brudenell White for having
“more than any other man moulded the
A.1.F.” he elsewhere expresses unquali-
fied appreciation of Monash’s qualities;
Like that great prototype [Napoleon] he
ranged leagues beyond the intellectual con-
fines of most soldiers.
From the time of Monash’s advent the
corps had at its head a very great mind —
certainly one of the greatest that has ever
controlled a British military force....
At another point this history of surprises
touches on an occasion when the Diggers
—so given to handing surprises out to
others, in battle and out of it —were
themselves most agreeably surprised.
This was when they had their first ex-
perience of Americans —now being re-
newed among the latest Diggers nearer
home. Wiseacres had prophesied exciting
times when the Americans would march
in announcing that they had come to
“win the war”; “the Diggers expected
something of this, and their hair rose
to meet it, but they found no trace of it.”
Instead, they (and all others) noted “pie-
cisely the opposite quality—the modesty
and restraint of their talk.”
The vol. rounds off one of the most out-
standing writing achievements Australia
has so far known. There was an element
of surprise in this, too —appointing a
journalist to the job of official war corre-
spondent Australia fluked a notable his-
torian.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Lonely elderly gentleman, widower, retired
clergyman, seeks accom. in respectable sur-
roundings; peace and quiet; permanent.”
By all means, sir, go at once to the
Brewsters’ old Brooklyn home at Sydney
Minerva. Commodious throughout, from
upper rooms to cellar. One of the oldest
families. Came over with the May-
flower. Present members of most direct
interest to you , Miss Abby Brewster and
Miss Martha Brewster, in manner,
appearance, behavior and by general
agreement the dearest, kindliest, gentlest,
most considerate souls imaginable. Per-
sonal services a specialty. Try their
elderberry wine. You’ll never taste any-
thing like it again.
As well as offering a slight glimpse
into the body of a play which certainly
isn’t lacking in body, the foregoing is by
way of a good deed performed in grati-
tude towards keeping up the supply of
lonely, elderly gentlemen who will surely
he needed if the Minerva’s current
“Arsenic and Old Lace” gets the run it
deserves. It can fairly be generalised as
one of the funniest and most original
entertainments in memory, a singular
sport of comedic genius. Its comedy is
the authentic article, not dependent on
the wisecracks, though these are plenti-
ful and helpful, but inherent in concep-
tion, construction and character to-
gether. In conception it takes melo-
drama, which is emotional overstatement,
and inverts it. Cut out the wisecracks,
revive Bland Holt and lift all the voices
to the right pitch, and it could be staged
as it stands as outright melodrama, and
gruesome at that. As conceived, pre-
sented and acted it is a masterpiece ol
that creamiest of all brands of comedy,
understatement—the complete antithesis
of melodrama (though it has to be said
that, by design, it forgets to be comedy
and becomes melodrama in spots). In
construction it is notable for one of the
best comedy first acts and far and away
the best comedy finale seen in years.
The main burden of it is carried
along on the broad shoulders of Claude
Flemming, the only one wearing the
Brewster name who isn’t, so to put it,
nuts. Always a vigorous and at times a
very fine performance of robust acting.
Arundel Nixon gives a remarkably well
sustained performance as the Brewster
nephew whose form of nuttery is the
notion that he’s the first Roosevelt.
There is good acting of different sorts by
one or two others, particularly Harvey
Adams as the Brewster whose nuttery
takes the vicious criminal form. But the
real joy of the whole thing is the joint
performance of Ethel Gabriel and Letty
Craydon as the dear old Brewster spin-
sters who, out of sheer kindheartedness
and in quite affecting childlike inno-
cence, put up a record there at home that
matches that of their vicious nephew
abroad. Their joint performance is
exquisite comedy. They make the not-
so-hot acting of some of the others, par-
ticularly police impersonators (Sydney
Wheeler excepted), seem quite im-
material.
The Melbourne Cup (musical section)
was run at the Town Hall before a
crowd of punters that packed the hall
from floor to ceiling. The only element
lacking was a couple of bookmakers in
the foyer, the University having decreed
that the event should be run off for its
own sake and that there should be six
starters but no winners, the judging
being left to the private and unsolicited
opinion of the music-lovers present. Miss
Shirley Paton rode Liszt’s concerto in E
flat for piano and orchestra, and Miss
Estelle Coady whipped the same mount
to such an excellent finish that only the
acutest judges of form could choose be-
tween them. Miss Pauline Ward brought
a firm pair of hands to bear on the
Brahms concerto in B flat major, a some-
what hard-mouthed brute for such a
youthful rider. Mr. Allan Fraser showed
his colors on Chopin’s concerto in E
minor, and Miss Poppe Olsen, the only
violinist, displayed good form on the E
flat concerto of Max Bruch. If the
applause was any indication, most of the
money in the house was on Miss Mary
McLeod for her spirited manipulation of
Dohnanyi’s variations on a nursery
theme, with its impish humor. Flautist
Linda Vogt was one of the nominations
but had unfortunately to be scratched.
The Melbourne. Symphony Orchestra was
under the Heinze baton.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
‘THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
119th YEAR OF SERVICE
Jt
DRIVING RANGE
"Driving Range" Game is the popular Golf
Game, Metal sided board measures 24 x 12 inches.
A fascinating game of skill for boys and
girls. Price 21/-
3 GAMES IN ONE
Here is fun for all. Chess, Draughts,
and the exciting new game of Mill.
The Chess Board supplied is extra heavy
and well made. Price 7/11
NAVAE WARFARE
An exciting game for a boy. Naval Warfare. First
build your warship, then see who is the best at
blowing it to pieces with the gun provided.
It's great fun. Price 4/9
LOTS AND LOTS OF GAMES
Quite a big variety. Boxed Games, including
Ludo, Steeplechase, Football, Yacht Race,
Golf, Cricket, Motor Race, etc.
Price , each 1/6
WOODEN HORSE AND CART
Wood Horse and Cart, finished in Blue, Green,
or Red Duco. Length, inches. This will keep
him amused for hours. Price 5/6
WOODEN TIP TRUCK
Strongly made Wooden Tip Truck, finished in
various colours. Length is 23 inches and
the width is 9 inches. Price 10/9
® Games—Second Floor.
m
m
f 5
r jA
'3?
Hi
J
--
: :■
<2
<Cr
<9
rv
C/
*V
o*3
(s' 5
fc v
ANTHONY HORDERNS
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney


WARDEN’S POST
By CHARLES SHAW.
“ r~ H?” mumbled Jackson, fighting
r“' his way up from depths of sleep,
__ feeling his wife’s hand on his
shoulder, shaking him. He got
his eyes open and then lay, shocked into
momentary stillness. The high, rising-and-
falling alarm of air-raid sirens beat in
through the open door from the night.
Jackson had heard them before, on air-
raid tests on Saturday afternoons, when
he and the rest of the wardens cantered
rcund the streets, receiving typewritten
slips describing imaginary incidents and
writing and sending reports, while chil-
dren hung round and watched them and
pedestrians grinned as they passed. But
this was midnight, and no children ran
about, and the sirens called on a strident
note of alarm.
“Hell!” said Jackson, and fell out of
bed and switched on the light. Then he
remembered and switched it off again.
All fingers and thumbs and feet, he dived
here and there about the black room,
frantically dragged his clothes on over his
pyjamas, found tin hat, respirator, war-
den’s book, torch, report forms and
householder register. Then he jammed
the respirator haversack over his shoulder
and the hat on his head and shoved the
other gear into various pockets. All his life
he’d been a slave to punctuality, and now,
at one of the mightiest crises in it, he was
going to be late. He had a vision of the
crowded post and the senior warden
snarling “Where’s Jackson? Jackson
should be here!” Then he was outside,
running to the front gate.
As he reached it the sirens ceased for
a moment, then opened up again, and
Jackson stopped dead. A sudden, fuller
realisation that this was it made his heart
jump. He listened intently, but there was
no other sound save the sirens. He
turned and ran into the house, found his
wife, put his arms about her and said
“Don’t get alarmed, dear. It’s nothing.
It can’t be anything. Don’t disturb the
kids,”
“Fm all right; don’t you worry,” she
said in the crooning voice she used when
he was tired or irritable or ill. He kissed
her and began to run to the post.
The sirens had stopped and there was
no light anywhere on earth, but in the
sky the stars blazed, unmoved and un-
concerned Jackson heard excited voices
up a dark lane ; other than that there
was nothing but the sound of his own
feet beating on the concrete road. As
he turned the corner he peered anxiously
into the gloom to see if any wardens
were going from the post to their patrols.
He rounded the sandbags and went side-
ways through the half-open door of the
post. On the threshold he stopped, a
terrible sense of failure sweeping over
him as he saw that only the two duty
wardens were there and all the others
gone. “I’m late, but I’m here,” he panted,
aggressively defensive.
“Huh,” said Thomas, dialling a num-
ber on the telephone, “first as usual.
Trust you, Jacko.”
WITHIN the next few minutes they
came crowding in, wardens and first-
aid women. On other nights, Jackson
thought, on other nights of lectures and
practice raids and brownout patrols,
there’d be a buzz of talk. Tonight hardly
a word was spoken. The women went
to their end of the post and sat and whis-
pered. The senior warden rapped the
table. Jackson thought “Tom looks seri-
ous. But he’s not rattled. Good old
Tom!” and felt that he himself was less
rattled because of it.
“.... on your patrols, and the first
thing is to keep the people calm,” the
senior was saying. “If anything happens
don’t take risks. Dead wardens aren’t
any good. Your job is to save life and
protect property.”
Jackson looked round. About the only
change in expression he could see on the
faces he had been seeing once a week for
more than a year was a certain eagerness.
It came to him that this, the real thing,
was an event, an upheaval, a change from
the practices and training. He wondered
if any of them was thinking that he might
go out to death or dreadful wounds or
scenes of agony and terror, and, dropping
his face for a moment, he fought with
his own imagination. And over and
above it all, he was conscious of himself
listening, listening.
Three minutes from his arrival at the
post he was on his patrol; beside him
stalked Harry Sims, tall and rangy. A
quiet humorist, this Sims, who never
seemed to stop working in his little small-
goods shop, who always seemed short of
sleep and who always managed to be
unruffled. Jackson hadn’t thought much
about Sims before. It struck him now
that he hadn’t the slightest idea of Sims’s
opinions on anything, that he had no
means of knowing how he would act if
there was a sudden high-pitched droning
overhead and then the scream and flame
and shattering roar of bombs. “God,”
he thought, “I hope’s it’s a false alarm.”
Harry said easily “Who’s this bloke?”
A figure stood in the road and watched
them silently. They moved towards it
and it said “What is it? What is it?
Are they coming?”
“Now,” said Jackson, making his voice
firm, “you mustn’t stand around out here.
Get inside under cover.”
“What is it? Are they coming?”
“Look, we don’t know. But it’s a
dinkum alert,” said Jackson. “And you
must go inside.”
“That’s right,” said the figure wildly.
“Don’t tell a man anything. Man could
be blown to hell an’ you blokes wouldn’t
tell him anything. Marching down the
road with y’r tinhats an’ ”
Jackson became alarmed. The cove
might start yelling or running. His alarm
gave way to rage. One fool in the whole
street might start anything. Back came
Tom’s words, “keep the people calm”
“Get inside,” he said sharply, his
strange new feeling of alarm and anger
making him threatening. “Get inside!”
For a short moment nothing happened.
Jackson thought the man might rush him;
then Harry’s long figure moved beside
him, and the man hurried across the road
and disappeared through a gate.
“Gripes,” said Harry, “it’s a wonder
he didn’t burst out howlin’.”
Jackson was comforted by the remem-
brance of Harry’s move to support him.
“Old Harry’s all right,” he thought.
“Wonder what we’d do if a bloomin’
great bomb thumped down here?” he
asked.
Harry chuckled. “Do you mean goin’
up or cornin’ down?” he asked. “If y’
mean cornin’ down I reckon I’d be look-
in’ f’r somethin’ soft t’ land on.”
Jackson grinned. They turned the
corner of their patrol and found a soldier
barring their way. “Say,” he said, “there’s
a gas meter here won’t turn off, and the
young lady’s worried.” A young girl
stood by the gasbox. Jackson couldn’t
see her eyes, but he was conscious of
some hostile force flowing from her to-
wards him. He reached down for the
gas tap. It was turned off. He made sure
of it, and a ripple of laughter started deep
down in his throat. He saw the soldier
standing by the girl and the girl standing
by the soldier, and he understood her hos-
tility to him, and he said “Oh, well, if
it won’t turn off it won’t.” He moved
away, and knew that the girl was look-
ing at him warmly, and he said “I’m a
warden. We can’t have people in the
streets in an alert. You better get in
under that verandah, Digger.”
As they walked away Harry said “I
bet they don’t care about gas meters.”
They moved on along the street. Every-
thing was in order. Jackson felt easier,
relaxed ; he wasn’t listening in the same
straining way, but his mind kept running
on pictures he had seen of the damage
to English cities. Harry said “That
sheilah back there with that soldier re-
minds me. One night I’m in town. It’s
after midnight and I’m lookin’ f’r a
taxi”
Jackson only half-listened, but his eyes
narrowed under his helmet and he
thought “The silly cow thinks I’m ner-
vous. He’s telling this yarn to cheer me
up.” He began to whistle gently in order
to show Harry that he was all right,
thinking “That’s all right. But these
cheerful blokes might crack if anything
happened.”
Nothing did happen. They “touched”
other patrols at the limits of their own
area, exchanged caustic remarks about a
distant light over a military area and con-
tinued their slow walking. Passing his
own gate Jackson found his wife waiting
for him.
“It’s Davey,” she said. “He won’t
settle down. He keeps asking where you
are. Children are so excitable, aren’t
they, Mr. Sims?”
“Tefl him I won’t be long,” Jackson
said, “and see if you can’t get some
sleep.”
They continued back to the limit of
their patrol and around again. Not long
afterwards the sirens sounded the all-
clear.
AT the post there was a babel of talk
and a lot of laughter. Jackson noticed
that everybody seemed ready to laugh
at anything. There was an air of relief
that could be felt. “Well,” he said airily,
“now the heads have had their fun I
suppose we can go and get some sleep.”
“They’re not a bad mob,” he thought
as he walked home, remembering that
everybody had turned up and that the
muster and dispersal to patrols had gone
off like clockwork. He looked up at the
sky, gracious in its jewellery of stars, and
felt a cool, soothing touch of wind. In
the house his wife was awake. “Look,” he
said, “you ought to buy more stuff from
that Harry Sims. He’s a pretty decent
sort.”
SONNY
By R. H. CROLL.
WE all knew Sonny was barmy,
though he always seemed harm-
less enough. Jim said he was
queer when he first came to the
Strathbogies, a good twenty years ago,
and living alone hadn’t helped him.
When you went over to Green’s, where
they had the stallion, there was only one
place further out in the hills in that
direction, and that was Sonny’s. He’d
done a bit of clearing, but there was an
awful lot of timber left, big stuff, and
when he rung it the tall sticks just stood
there and dropped dead branches into
the crop and tripped up the plough with
their roots. He hand-reaped his oats ;
there weren’t more than a couple of
acres, and a machine would never have
got round among all those stumps and
trees. But he kept his hut spotless.
Alec Mack came along as I was talking
to old Jimmy on the road. Jimmy’s the
funniest roadmaker I ever struck. He was
down on his knees patting the dirt along
the edges, making it look finished-like,
“Y’ever see Sonny these days?” I
asked Alec.
“Just going over there now,” he said.
‘T ain’t seen him for weeks.”
So we crossed the creek down by
Crosby’s and set out together. Usually
we saw something of Sonny every little
while, and I hoped nothing had happened
to the poor old blighter. We came on to
the little track that’s the short cut in to
Sonny’s and there, about fifty yards ahead
of us., we suddenly saw a wallaby fairly
sailing through the air like a bird. Now
that patch of scrub’s about ten feet high
and the wallaby seemed to turn almost
upside down as he went out of sight
again. “ ’Struth! ” I called out to Alec,
“did you see that? What a jump!”
The track took a sharp turn about
where we’d spotted the wallaby and we
were round the curve almost before we
knew. And there was the wallaby still.
It was sitting in the oddest way, tip-tilted
almost on to its nose. Then we saw its tail
was caught in one of Sonny’s rabbit
springers. The springer was a young
wattle that the wallaby was just heavy
enough to keep bent. It gave one leap
and sailed over our heads, and then the
sapling dragged it back so that it fell in
a heap. We finished it off and I carried
it along.
“Sonny must be sick when he hasn’t
been round his snares,” I reckoned. But
he wasn’t. He’d only had one of his
funny turns when he wouldn’t come near
anyone. He was standing at the door as
we came through his gate. He said
“Hullo! ” and we went in.
“Thought you might be off color,
Alec said.
Sonny didn t seem to hear him. Not
gmng to Ml any m ° re rabbits, he broke
out ’ S!, he v-n n a PP ea £.to be talking to
u ?' , w y a t keS ’ T °°. man y., saakes
fn oUt k^ h a n snakes are I y>”f,“ llad "P.
the rabbits dance on them. Kill em every
bme. What we want is more rabbits.
He mooned on, talking to himself.
“What about a drink of tea, Sonny?”
j as ] ced
He came out of another world and
looked at us stupidly. “Why, of course.
I'll put the kettle on,” he said, and he
seemed quite all right, “Have a bit o'
cake? There's plenty. Made it Sunday,
What day's this? Tuesday. Should last
a week, but go ahead.”
if mao a „t 0 A;™ frx
abi,u Frfdfv ’ p
“Where'd you get the wallaby?” he
as k ed J 43 }
“Off your springer,” answered Alec.
That set him going again. He began
muttering. “Dead. Ought to be dead.
Ought to be killed.” He picked up a
knife and began to sharpen it, and he
looked right past us.
I wasn’t happy, and neither was Alec.
“Came past the post office. Sonny,” he
said. “There was nothing for you ”
Sonny felt the edge of the knife and
put it down. He looked at it for a minute
and then picked it up again and went
out his backdoor. We watched him push
into the scrub. That was the last time we
saw Sonny alive.
K I EXT day I was having a bite up at
Jim’s place and young Billy Mai-
lock came in in a hurry. He had his gun
and he’d been running.
“Wasting a day after the bunnies?”
says Jim
“No,”'says Billy. “Mother sent me up
to say Sonny’s gone off his chump. He
tried to kill her last night.”
Mallock’s place was down on the
Seven Creeks, pretty lonely, and the old
man was away at the shearing in New
South. There were five kids. Billy was
the oldest, fifteen.
“We’d all gone to bed,” he told us,
“and then Mother went, taking the baby
with her. Sometime late she thought she
heard someone moving about. ‘That
you, Billy?’ she called and a voice along-
side the bed said ‘lt’s only me. It’s
Sonny! ’ ”
Now we’d told the Mallocks about
Sonny and the knife. In a moment the
woman had grabbed the baby and was
out of bed. It was pitch-dark, but she
got past without touching him. The
sleeping boys were in the next room.
“Get a gun, Billy,” she whispered into
his ear. “Sonny’s in my bedroom.”
Poor kid! He was frightened and still
half-asleep, but he grabbed his gun from
the wall, found a cartridge and slipped
it in and pulled on his boots. His mother
lit a candle, and together they crept into
her room. It was empty. But on the
floor lay a pair of shoes and a long-
bladed knife. The rest of that night the
woman and the boy guarded the place.
But Sonny did not come back. Billy
came over for us as soon as it was day-
light.
It’s wild country even today—tall
timber and deep gullies and the houses
far apart. Nearly all the men were away
shearing, so we got our guns and tramped
all day long to warn the lonely women.
The worst was Ag’s place. Hers is the
last clearing out east, and there she was
with a young baby and no one else within
miles. Charlie, her husband, wouldn’t
be back for a couple of months. We
couldn’t stay the night, but we said
we’d look in again in the morning. She
loaded the gun and we fixed her door
for her.
About five we got back to Mallock’s.
We decided to watch till late that night
in case Sonny came for his boots and
knife. The kids went to bed and we sat
in the dark waiting and listening. I
know I nodded, but the slightest noise
and I was feeling for my gun. Nothing
happened. At midnight we left after Mrs.
Mallock had bolted and barred the
windows and doors.
It was a cold, starry night, very still,
with frost in the air. I was to go to
Jim’s to sleep. I’ll not forget that couple
of miles in a hurry. We were tired and
sleepy and jumpy. It was right enough
crossing the clearing, but that long
track through the high bracken and in
the dark of that patch of tall wattles
fairly got on my nerves. Jim’s, too. I
laugh now when I think of the sleeping
sheep that jumped up right alongside us.
I« a flash we were both pointing our
guns and ready to shoot.
But it was no joke then. The joke
was to come later when Jim found he
couldn’t get into his own house. His
mother and father, for the first time in
their lives, had locked the doors. I can
hear the old man yet, standing inside de-
manding gruffly who the hell we were
and what the hell we wanted at that hour
of night.
Next morning we went out to Sonny s,
but there was no sign of him. We ted
his fowls and tried to tame his cat, but
she scuttled off when we came neai.
Then one day I took water from the
kitchen tank and we found Sonny. He
been dead in it for weeks.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 9, 1942.
Vol. 63. —No. 3278
ONE “INVINCIBLE” TO ANOTHER.
“The intervention of Japan was an absolute guarantee of an Axis victory. Japan is invincible.”
“TO—JO”!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
UNFORGIVABLE INFAMY.
President Roosevelt asked Americans
to hold Monday of this week, December
7, as “a day of silence and remembrance
of a great infamy.”
On December 7, 1941, 86 ships of
the American Fleet were moored in
Pearl Harbor, among them eight battle-
ships, seven cruisers, 28 destroyers and
five submarines. Every battleship and
most of the aircraft in the Hawaiian area
were temporarily disabled; five battleships,
three destroyers, a minelayer and a large
floating drydock were sunk or “severely
damaged.” All these losses have since
been made good, though some of the
severely-damaged ships are not yet ready
for battle. Personnel losses included 2117
navy officers and men killed, 960 still
missing and 876 wounded; 226 army
officers and men killed or died of wounds
and 396 wounded.
The act of infamy occurred on a Sunday
—a favored Axis day for launching attacks,
usually treacherous. As the story has
been pieced together from U.S. official
papers, the President —though, like most
Americans and nearly all onlookers, he
expected war —was as greatly surprised
when it came on that day as were its
immediate victims in *Pearl Harbor.
So were other leading Americans who
had been taking part in the protracted
diplomatic discussions with Jap repre-
sentatives at Washington. The history
of the climax runs that the news of the
Jap attack reached Washington almost in-
advertently, through a message intercepted
at Mare Island and relayed to the Navy
Department. It had been broadcast by
the U.S. Pacific Fleet commander to all
ships in the Hawaiian area —a message
as typically American as the treacherous
attack was typically Japanese: —•
Air raid on Pearl Harbor. This is no
drill.
Navy Secretary Frank Knox was start-
ing off on a routine visit to the Washing-
ton Navy Yard when the message was
handed to him by the Chief of Naval
Operations, Admiral Harold R. Stark.
( “What,” said the Secretary, “does this
mean?” “It’s the beginning,” replied
Stark, at which Rear-Admiral R. K.
Turner broke in with a comment of
highly English flavor: “By God, sir,,
they’ve attacked us! ”
It was the beginning of a nice Sunday
afternoon for the bulk of the Capitol’s
inhabitants, and a lively afternoon for a
few. The midday meal over, the city
was relaxed. At the White House the
President, in his shirtsleeves and with-
out a necktie, had the company of his
close friend Harry L. Hopkins, in V-neck
sweater and slacks. Also his pet Scottie.
The day before the President had cabled
Emperor Hirohito appealing for his help
in “dispelling the dark clouds.” Mr.
Roosevelt had had a busy week. Months
before he had told Mr. Churchill —when,
by report, the British P.M. was all for
anticipating the Jap preparations for
war by joint Anglo-American action —
that he thought he could “baby” the
Japs along for about three months. He
had been “babying” them along for four
months —a game, as it turned out, that
two sides could play at.
On the day the blow fell “the Presi-
dent might have been any one of a mil-
lion Americans putting in a loafing Sun-
day afternoon with a crony and a hobby”
—he hoped to catch up with his neglected
stamp collection. Another of the little
ironies of the day was that the millions
of copies of that Sunday’s newspapers
carried Secretary Knox’s annual report
on the fitness and readiness of the U.S.
Navy. Yet another was the notice the
President had had hung on the White
House switchboard: “Do not disturb!”
Put through by an apologetic operator,
Secretary Knox began: “Mr. President,
it looks like the Japanese have attacked
Pearl Harbor” “No!” Mr. Roose-
velt interrupted unbelievingly. “It’s true,”
said the Secretary, and read the message.
Typical of one of the best traits
noticed in American official statements
since —a reluctance to give out any news,
despite press clamor, until it can be
given as checked and authentic—Secre-
tary of State Cordell Hull next day still
withheld the news that America was
“constructively” at war, telling a press
conference only that he had had an “un-
confirmed report” from “an official
source.” Meantime he had told the
Japanese envoys that in all his 50 years
of public service he had “never seen a
document that was more crowded with
infamous falsehoods and distortions”
than the Note they tendered to him:
“Infamous falsehoods and distortions on
a scale so huge that I never imagined
until today that any Government on this
planet was capable of uttering them.”
Meanwhile, too, the President had got
directly into touch with, among others,
Mr. Churchill, who five months earlier
had pledged that Britain would be in
“within an hour” if America was
attacked. Both President and P.M. under-
took to arrange for a definite declara-
tion of war on the following day, De-
cember 8. Actually, because of the time
difference, the British declaration pre-
ceded the American.
There were no qualifying clauses in the
answer Congress, Senate, the American
nation and the American press gave to
the President when he asked for the
formal declaration. America had then
actually been at war some 24 hours.
It would be wrong to suggest that Mr.
Roosevelt and the rest —especially such
U.S. Navy authorities as Admirals
Yarnell and Leahy, who had strongly
advocated joining up with the British at
Singapore and “taking no more non-
sense” from the Japs—were surprised that
war should have come in the Pacific.
What surprised them was the day it
came and the way it came. They had
still vaguely clung to outmoded notions
regarding the always rather mythical
“rules of war.” In their still vaguer, if
not vacant, minds, Australians now op-
posing the move for one army for all-
out and all-in military effort to hold off
the Japs and eventually beat them back
to where they belong are in much the
same position that many Americans were
in when Pearl Harbor happened.
That was the Japs’ first and worst mis-
take. It made Americans all-round fight-
ing mad. They have been now fighting in
that mood for a year ; all things con-
sidered, with remarkably fine results. It
would make no difference to them even
if Australians were so foolish as to
follow the lead of a handful of meddlers
obsessed with nursery notions of war —
both old-fashioned nursery and old-
fashioned war at that.* The Japs put a
thorn in America’s side at Pearl Harbor,
and however long it takes, and whatever
part Australians play in it, the Yanks are
out to do a job, ahd will do it.
Americans have honor at stake, a
potent spur. For Australians there is a
matter of honor, too, though to some,
apparently, it isn’t so clear-cut. In Aus-
tralia’s case there is no Pearl Harbor (so
far) to signpost it, taking the Singapore
prisoners, raids on Darwin and the like
as ordinary events of war. Australia’s
point of honor is that this country walked
wide awake into the war in the first
place, with undertakings—underwritten
by everybody fit to be called an Austra-
lian —to see it through. In the last war
similar undertakings were carried out
only by virtue of the superhuman efforts
of the thinned A.I.F. lines on the battle-
fronts. Those lines did a job that should
have been the task of double their
numbers. At times they were worn to a
standstill, directly because there were not
political leaders in Australia big enough
to shoulder the full responsibility of see-
ing that they were reinforced. They saw
it through, as, in similar circumstances,
they would, if they could, do again.
As a result, Australia came out of the
war with honor clean. More, by virtue
of that heroic job and nothing else, Aus-
tralia had the right established to take
a hand in the shaping of the post-war
world, such as it was. These matters are
involved once more, and to anyone fit to
represent anything bigger than a backyard
would provide sufficient reason for sup-
porting the one-army move. And this
time further issues are involved, in the
immediate present and for later on. The
one-army move aims at constructing a
unified force that can be used, side by
side with its American counterpart, in
the one thing that counts above all to
Australia —beating the Jap, There are
timid strings to the scheme as put for-
ward by Mr. Curtin, but these would
soon be cut when it came to driving or
not driving the Jap beyond the map limits
the P.M. has vaguely set. Meantime, the
scheme represents an almost incredible
change in both the P.M. and many of
those who are swinging behind him. The
Australian interest immediately involved
is keeping this country free from Jap in-
vasion—with the Jap activities in Timor,
by no means assured yet. Part of this
aspect also is that job on which the
Americans are engaged—belting the Jap
back from the vast areas overrun in these
last hectic 12 months.
Even if this were not done, America
would still go on as a great World Power
—heading towards becoming the greatest.
There would be no heading anywhere
for Australia and New Zealand. They
would have had their brief run.
There is another reason —with reference
to the future —why the Australian effort
must now be all-out, apart altogether
from the shameful point that those who
oppose the one-army move are quite will-
ing that the war to make Australia safe
should be fought by Americans and
volunteers only. However it all ends —
Mr. Churchill has ominously suggested
that the war in Asia will outlast the war
in Europe—the fear of the North will still
haunt thinking Australian minds. Coun-
tries with the population and economic
strength to do so recover even from bad
beatings in wars, and what the Japs have
done they and their friends might be
able at a future date to repeat—-a possi-
bility greatly increased by the shift of
war into the air, with as yet undreamt-of
developments ahead. An Australia which
now insisted on taking a limited part in
its own defence would be in a pretty
position for again asking for help from
America or any other country. Instead
of holding the extremely high place they
now hold in the eyes of the world —
purely by virtue of the quality of their
fighting forces —Australians who had fol-
lowed the craven leadership of the Langs,
the Wards and the like would be a
despised people, and they would deserve
to be despised.
"Cementing" the States.
Beginning doubtfully, and threatened
more than once with a breakdown, the
Constitutional Convention at Canberra
moved in its second week from harmony
to harmony, and closed with the gentle-
men singing one another’s praises, hav-
ing arrived at an agreement by common
consent. People unused to the spectacle
of two sets of party politicians, met in
an atmosphere in which old antagonisms
and suspicions asserted themselves,
changing rapidly into a mutual-admira-
tion society will look for the catch in
the agreement; and they won’t have to
look long or hard.
It is recorded that Dr. Evatt was an
exhausted man when the proceedings
ended. His persuasive powers and talent
for exposition had been heavily taxed.
Seeking increased Commonwealth
powers, the Attorney-General proposed
in the first instance to get them via a
socalled Constitution Alteration (War
Aims and Reconstruction) Bill, with a
vision splendid, “the war aims and objects
of Australia, as well as the United Nations,
including the attainment of economic
security and social justice in the post-war
world,” and bespeaking for the Common-
wealth Parliament supreme power to pass
economic-security and social-justice
measures. This bill was endorsed, not
very enthusiastically, by the Federal
A.L.P. Conference, after having been
reviewed in a hostile spirit by State Par-
liaments.
Non-Labor delegates from at least three
States went to Canberra prepared to re-
new the fight. To their surprise, the
October proposals were withdrawn and
others substituted, the title being changed
to the Constitution Alteration (Post-war
Reconstruction) Bill. Some of the origi-
nal clauses were dropped, as also were
the words making Parliament indepen-
dent of the High Court in respect of
economic-security and social-justice legis-
lation, which was to have covered “secu-
rity of employment and the provision
of useful occupations for all the people.”
There was added the power to pass laws
respecting “trade, commerce and indus-
try (including the production, manufac-
ture and supply of goods and services),”
companies and investment; and “trans-
port, including air transport,” was short-
ened to “transport.”
The second bill, like the first, was con-
signed to the waste-paper basket. Either
w'culd, of course, have necessitated a refer-
endum as well as an Act of Parliament;
and the general consensus of opinion
among electors and delegates alike was
that a referendum would be a nuisance.
Dr. Evatt, it now seems, was himself
anxious to avoid a referendum, but why
he should have gone to the trouble of
drafting two elaborate Constitution-
alteration bills when what he was really
after was a grant of power from the
States is a mystery.
Section 51 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution says “the Parliament shall, sub-
ject to this Constitution, have power to
make laws for the peace, order and good
government of the Commonwealth with
respect to matters referred to the Par-
liament of the Commonwealth by the
Parliament or Parliaments of any State
or States, but so that the law shall extend
only to States by whose Parliaments the
matter is referred or which afterwards
adopt the law” (xxxvii). On the pro-
position of Mr. Cosgrove it was agreed
that the State Parliaments should be asked
to “refer matters” to the Commonwealth,
and a committee was appointed to draft
a bill for submission to them. Saying that
“a spirit of give and take” had been
“adopted,” Dr. Evatt presented the fruits
of its labors to the convention, which
rapidly accepted them —“unanimously,”
the record said, though Mr. Watts, the
Westralian Opposition-leader, intimated
that he might oppose some of the
“matters” when they came before his
Parliament. And, a newcomer at Can-
berra, Mr. Watts produced the impres-
sion, as the Frenchman put it, of being
“dangerous ; this man believes everything
he says.”
Like President Wilson’s programme, of
melancholy renown, the improvisation
consists of 14 points.
1. The reinstatement and advancement
of those who have been members of the
fighting services of the Commonwealth
during the war, and the advancement of
dependants of those members who have
died or been disabled.
2. Employment and unemployment.
3. Organised marketing of commodities.
4. Uniform company legislation.
5. Trusts, combines and monopolies.
6. Profiteering and prices (but not in-
cluding prices or rates charged by • State
or semi-Governmental or local governing
bodies for goods or services).
7. The production (other than primary
production) and distribution of goods, and,
with the consent of the Governor-in-
Council, primary production, but so that
no law made under this paragraph shall
discriminate between States or parts of
States.
8. The control of overseas exchange and
overseas investment, and the regulation
of the raising of money in accordance
with such plans as are approved by a
majority of members of the Loan Council.
9. Air transport.
10. Uniformity of railway gauges.
11. National works, but so that the con-
sent of the Governor-in-Council shall be
obtained in each case before the work is
undertaken, and that the work shall be car-
ried out in co-operation with the State.
12. National health in co-operation with
the State.
13. Family allowances.
14. The people of the aboriginal race.
The fourteen points are embodied in a
Commonwealth Powers Bill, and if the
bill goes through (no certainty in every
case) it is to operate for “five years from
the termination of hostilities,” unless
amended or repealed by virtue of a State
referendum. Mr. Cosgrove had sug-
gested a seven years’ term. Why there
should be any time limit at all passes
understanding.
When the compliments were turned on,
Mr. Curtin said “We have added a new
and important chapter to the history of
Australia.” Mr. McKell, for his part,
hailed the agreement as the dawning of
“a new era in the relationship between
the Commonwealth and the States” ; and,
returning to Sydney delighted, he de-
clared that it had “cemented the States
more firmly and realistically into the
Federal system.” To Mr. Fadden, who
saw no merit in the convention in his
first speech, “the Commonwealth Powers
Bill is the result of co-operation, unself-
ishness and compromise.”
Compromise is the bane of Mr.
Fadden’s party, and it is the bane of the
bill that he extols. Having appar-
ently been persuaded that it was asking
for too much, the Government com-
promised by accepting too little. Placed
in a commanding position by the High
Court judgment in the uniform income
taxation case, it permitted the State poli-
ticians to make a virtue of surrendering
powers that the Commonwealth is already
exercising (by paying family allowances,
for instance), and acquiesced in their
efforts to “cement more firmly” the
curse of divided control. Without full
powers over trade, commerce and indus-
try, the Commonwealth Constitution has
never been an effective instrument of
government in this great and important
domain ; and full trade, commerce and
industry powers are still to be denied
when they could have been secured. And
there was a wretched backdown on the
transport question. Every form of trans-
port should be a national matter.
Mere Commonwealth control of air trans-
port will leave the State Governments
still in a position to make a mockery
of Section 92 (“Trade, commerce and
intercourse among the States.... shall be
absolutely free”) at the borders.
For, although they will have less to do
than ever (which does not mean that they
will be less mischievous), the six State
Governments and Parliaments, with their
six Government Houses, are to remain.
It was suggested by Dr. Page that there
should be 12 more Senators and 26 more
Representatives, and no doubt the sug-
gestion will be heard again. Nobody
suggested that the State Ministers and
members should cut down their numbers
and salaries, if for no other reason than as
a tardy measure of justice to their shorn
taxpayers, much less reconcile themselves
to the extinction that should be their por-
tion as meddlers and cumberers of the
ground. It was taken for granted that
they would continue in all their costly
pomp and tin-pot glory for as long as the
electors would stand them.
By people who looked to the conven-
tion with some hope of deliverance from
the plague of overgovernment, with its
grievous burdens and maddening com-
plications, it will be remembered less tor
what it did than for what it failed to do.


PLAIN ENGLISH
It's Parliament's Job.
In the noise and dust of the latest of
many Labor wrangles, the all-important
fact has been obscured. Though the
Curtin Government has chosen to refer
the question of compulsory militia ser-
vice beyond Australia and its territories
to the State A.L.P. executives and to
some conference to which these concerns
are to report, the matter is not one for
decision by any parcel or parcels of non-
elected persons. The decision must be
made by Parliament.
The underlying principle was accepted
by the Labor party and embodied in a
Defence Bill when the Labor party con-
stituted the Opposition in both Houses,
with exactly the same numbers as now —
36 Representatives and 17 Senators.
That measure made its appearance in
the House on September 21, 1939. It
was referred to by the then Minister of
Defence as “the bill standing in the name
of Mr. Curtin and introduced by Mr.
Ward.” The Menzies Government had
interpreted Section 49 of the Defence
Act as meaning that men called up for
the defence of Australia could be sent
to “any territory of the Commonwealth.’
This interpretation was challenged by Mr.
Ward and his party; by Mr. Ward in
the following terms:
The Opposition contends that the pro-
vision was only intended to apply to those
territories which were administered by the
Commonwealth at the time the Act was
passed, and not to those territories which
have since been acquired. In other words,
it applies only to those territories.... within
the confines of the continent... .When the
defence legislation was first passed Aus-
tralia had no external territories.
After a lot more in this strain Mr. Ward
enlarged on Clause 3 of his bill, which,
pruned of verbiage, read:
No inhabitant of Australia who has not
voluntarily enlisted for service outside Aus-
tralia shall be required to serve outside
Australia.
No inhabitant of any overseas territory
who has not voluntarily enlisted for service
outside that territory shall be required to
serve outside the territory of which he is an
inhabitant.
“Overseas territory” means any territory
of the Commonwealth which is not within
the limits of the continent, and “Australia
does not include any territory of the Com-
monwealth which is not within the limits of
the continent.
Supporting the bill, another part of
which sought to make any person a con-
scientious objector, exempt not only from
combatant service but from non-
combatant service, who chose to label
himself as such, Mr. Curtin said it had
been introduced by arrangement with
Mi. Menzies at the instance of “the
unions.” He proceeded:
We say there should be no conscription
of the Australian people for the defence
of Australia’s overseas territories which
may be described as extra-territorial. We
say they ought to be defended by forces
voluntarily recruited.
When the division was taken Mr.
Curtin and 28 followers, among them
nine of his present Ministers, voted for
restricting the • obligations of called-up
men to the defence of the six States and
the Federal territories within the Com-
monwealth. They were defeated by four
votes. As a solatium they received
the concession of a conscientious-
objector clause covering “aH conscien-
tious beliefs, whether the ground thereof
is or is not of a religious charac-
ter,” with a right of appeal to the High
Court of the Commonwealth or the
Supreme Court of any State. Only 14
members were against what Mr. Archie
Cameron described as “one of the great-
est surrenders to threat and to minority
dictatorship—the noisy Communist ele-
ment —that have ever been made.”
If the Opposition is looking for pre-
cedents it needn’t go beyond this Curtin-
Ward measure. It has itself something
to wipe off the slate.
■ -o-
No Complaints from Reds.
For many years lay-speakers have de-
livered addresses on social questions at
Sunday-afternoon meetings, open to
members of all denominations, at Wesley
Church, Melbourne, and the broadcast-
ing of these speeches has been a feature
of radio since its beginnings in Australia.
A greatly appreciated feature withal, set
high on lists of popular preferences when
listeners have been canvassed. But a
recent speaker indulged in some criticism
of the Trade, which is what hundreds of
thousands of other Australians have been
doing in stronger language. A Univer-
sity professor prepared for Sunday de-
livery some more criticism of the Trade.
That was enough for A.B.C. It refused
to broadcast the professor (that at the
eleventh hour), and intimated that “regu-
lar broadcasting” of Sunday-afternoon
addresses from Wesley Church would
cease on November 15,” having, after
many years, been discovered to be “an
abdication from the commission’s respon-
sibility for selecting programme material
and speeches.” The Wesley Church
people had arranged for a Curtin speech,
and that will automatically come under
the ban.
Going further, A.B.C. informed Dr.
Irving Benson, of Wesley Church, that
his Questions and Answers talks, which
precede the Sunday-afternoon speeches,
would go off the air “after your broad-
cast on November 29.” In this case it
discovered conscientious doubts as to
whether “questions covering an un-
limited range of religious subjects could
be answered unequivocally without giv-
ing pain or offence to important sections
of the community”—Bung and the Com-
munists perhaps.
Dr. Irving Benson had troops of
champions. One pointed out that his
Questions and Answers had been an
A.B.C. feature for nearly 13 years, having
been solicited in the first place by the com-
mission itself. Another mentioned that
“the ‘A.B.C. Weekly’ opened its columns
to a violent attack on the broadcasting
of two Sunday-morning services, which
developed into an attack by some cor-
respondents on the broadcasting of re-
ligious services at all, without giving ‘the
other side’ a turn at its propaganda.”
He professed to see “a connection be-
tween this campaign and the ban imposed
on the Wesley Church speeches and Dr.
Benson.”
“The other side” has no reason to
complain of A.B.C. From time to time
Communists are engaged as speakers at
national stations, though no critic of
Communism or of the Communist con-
spiracy in Australia is ever heard ; and
the commission chose as its Moscow cor-
respondent a young and presumably fit
employee of one of the banned Com-
munist journals, who retails such asser-
tions as that “the Soviet” (he rarely uses
the word Russian) “undoubtedly possesses
the greatest submarine fleet in the world”
—without mentioning the oceans in
which this has been demonstrated. During
Armistice week A.B.C. and its “Weekly,”
which has managed to lose listeners’
money at the rate of £7OO per week, de-
voted unstinted time and space to turgid
glorifications of the Russian revolution
while giving on its programmes one (1)
line to the Armistice, apropos of a
concert.
Maybe the public will get more Red
and Parlor Pink stuff, sugar-coated or in
the raw, now that the Wesley Church
speeches (among them those of the P.M.
and Mr. Menzies) and Questions and
Answers have been banned.
Ruin to the Fruitful Grope.
Mr. F. Ryan, president of the Federated
Liquor Trades Employees, to their con-
ference last week:
Five thousand winegrowers, of whom
2000 are returned men from the last war,
face ruin. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment will be urged to save Australia’s wine
industry from extinction.
He said further that “Retention of the
wine industry is vital to South Australia,
and it would absorb thousands of men
discharged from the services after the
present war.”
On the face of things —not overlook-
ing the stated transport difficulty of get-
ting supplies away from S.A. —it looks
as if shortsightedness (to call it by the
mildest name) is seriously damaging this
all-Australian industry at a time when,
with slightly more sympathetic treatment
from Authority, it could be most firmly
established. Shortage of other beverages
has led thousands to try Australian
wines this year. They have found them
good, and, if the opportunity was made,
there would be a strong chance of most
of these experiencing a lasting change of
taste.
The industry —important to Australia
abroad —is certainly vital to S.A.
Approximately 80 per vent. <rt Australian
wine is grown and mace in that State.
Up to the end of last war good wines
had been made in Australia, but what
gave the industry its real start as a
national affair was the settlement of Dig-
gers and their families on the land as
a matter of Government policy and at a
cost of more than £20,000,000 to Com-
monwealth and other Governments.
When the present war started a 5,000,000-
gallon export market had been built up,
and it says enough for the quality of the
wine that this was done in the face of
the toughest opposition that European
wine interests could put up.
The war has cut off this market; and
the home market —which could be grow-
ing all the time —has been pegged to a
quota. Meanwhile, it has again been
given out that beer-drinkers are to get
a 40 per cent, increase in supply for
Christmas, both in draft form and in
bottles. Unlike the primary bases of
other industries —including beer-making
—the basis of the wine industry (the vine-
yard) takes five years to become estab-
lished, and lasts longer than a man’s life.
That’s what the last-war Diggers engaged,
with others, in vinegrowing come up
against: they can’t make use of the land
for other purposes without destroying the
capital that has been sunk in it.
TWENTY-FIVE MILLIONS WANTED.
“There she is—good enough for us to fight for and good enough for you to invest in.”


WE ARE SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
fd
£l5/17/3
DOUBLE RIGGED.
For Delivery Jan., 1943.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
N.S.W. Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order.
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS. TAPADEROS, ETC.
WALTHER & STEVEMSOM ITS
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY I
WHEN HAIR GROWS THIN !
For bald patches, alopecia patches, dandruff, itching
and dryness of the scalp, falling hair, use McMahon’s
Hair Restorer, proven effective even in cases of bald-
ness, and equally good for men. women and children.
It restores the scalp to a healthy condition. Easy
and pleasant to use.
McMAHON'S HAIR RESTORER
PRICE: 5/-
Obtainable from Chemists, Hairdressers and Stores. If yon
cannot get it locally post 5/6 to the wholesale distributors :
GRAIG & AITKEN PTY., LTD.,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Trade Inquiries Invited.
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
\V. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
POLITICAL POINTS
December 6 was the 29th anniversary
of Lang’s election to the Macquarie-street
talk-shop as M.L.A. for Granville. He
will be 66 on December 21. Friends and
admirers expect that he will celebrate
his birthday by forming another party.
After doing a balancing act for a fort-
night, C. G. Fallon, general secretary of
the A.W.U. and president of the Federal
A.L.P. executive, came out against his
Government on the militia-service issue.
At the Federal A.L.P. conference he
proudly acknowledged that “we” are
“making use of the war to implement our
Labor policy.” Now “we” are up against
the old difficulty—it recurs every few
years—of deciding what “our Labor
policy” is.
Going to Melbourne for the State
A.L.P. discussions on militia service,
Curtin, who spoke for an hour and had
Dedman and Keane to back him up, was
heavily rebuffed. By 17 to 5 the dele-
gates, headed by Calwell, M.H.R., de-
clared themselves “opposed to any pro-
posal for conscription for overseas ser-
vice” ; and Don Cameron was among
the majority. A South Australian Labor
conference has voted 3 to 1 for the
Curtin plan, and that puts the P.M. one
Slate ahead ; but it’s a sorry business
altogether, and it could happen only in
Australia.
No one ever questioned Theodore’s
ability, and, goaded into defending his
Allied Works Council by Sydney “Daily
Mirror” attacks and union-boss threats,
he made an excellent fist of it. After
dealing with his assailants in a style
which recalled his final rejection of Lang
and Lang’s “leather-lunged lowbrows,”
he concluded with smashing sentences:
The Government has entrusted us with
a job which its military advisers declare
is essential for the security of Australia.
No form of pressure, criticism or abuse
will prevent me from enforcing to the full
limit of my powers such discipline and
control as are needed to complete that job.
It remains for the Government to do that
other and more important job which its
military advisers declare is “essential for
the security of Australia.”
McKell of N.S.W. has had his policy
speech hurled at him again. His State
Industrial Commission has been unable
to operate since June 30, when Justice
Browne resigned as president, and a
mountain of business has accordingly
piled up. Mr. McKell’s remark that
“Arbitration in the Courts is a costly ex-
ample of highly-centralised legislation”
has led some people to wonder if he in-
tends to abolish the Industrial Commis-
sion. If he does, he’s taking a mighty
long time to make up his mind about it,
this man who is so fond of telling others
in weekly newspaper articles how to run
their countries.
N.S.W. retailers, 450 of them, have
unanimously rejected Dedman’s plans
for reorganising the retail trade. Con-
templating the possibility of socialisation
and “extinction,” their president, Sydney
Snow, dryly observed that “it is one thing
to lose our assets through the exigencies
of war, and another to lose them through
the meddling of inexperienced economists.”
The proceedings closed without Christmas
greetings to Dedman and his queer tribe
of professors, lecturers, librarians, Far-
liamentary draftsmen, statisticians and
vets.
Whatever the reactions in Europe,
Churchill’s statement that the war in
Europe might end before the war in
Asia came as a shock to Australians.
Nor were their feelings allayed by the
pro rinse that, if this came to pass, “we
should immediately bring our forces to
the other side of the world,” at the same
time “sitting with America and Russia
and the other United Nations shaping”
the destinies of Europe. Is the part
assigned to Russia merely to be concen-
tration on the affairs of Europe while
“the valiant struggle against Japan’s
aggressions goes on”? The war in Asia
is not mentioned in the Anglo-Russian
Alliance.
If Dedman listened to 2FC’s American
news on Sunday evening he must have
learned that professional impersonators
of Santa Claus, here outlawed by Deddy,
are to get more pay in the U.S.A. But
perhaps his hearing apparatus had been
blasted out of action by the nation-wide
“Is Mr. Hughes in?”
“Yes, Mr. Dedman, an' he's doing his twenty-four hours on!"
roar evoked by his latest edict; except
in specified areas and circumstances, no
person may employ a single domestic
without a permit (“forms available at
Man-power offices”) for longer than 24
hours in any one week. The roar was
led by Billy, who sees himself, at rising
79. having to do the housework himself.
Scully, commenting on the appoint-
ment of Bulcock as Director-General of
Agriculture, said Bulcock would develop
a master plan while working in close
co-operation with the Australian Agricul-
tural Council. If Bulcock can do both
things at the same time he’s a wizard.
While the Canberra conventionists
were hard at it, the Gallup-poll people
were announcing a 60 p.c. vote in four
States for abolition of State Parliaments.
Most of the conventionists aimed at
prolonging them indefinitely.
While Dunstan was at Canberra his
party organisation began toying with the
idea of forming an Australian Country
party. Most people thought there was
one already, but the fact is there are two
Country parties in Victoria (one calls
itself “United” and the other “Liberal”)
and one each in the other mainland
States, the S.A. concern being joined
with the Libs, in such a way that Federal
Oppositionists may choose the caucus-
room they prefer. Tasmania is Cocky-
less. But as soon as the Victorian
manoeuvres were mentioned a Dunstan-
ite hotly announced that he was agin
them.
Sitting on the tankstand a few weeks
ago, the wheatgrower chewed pleasantly
over the Canberra announcement that he
was to get 4s. a bushel for his first 3000
bushels, a 2s. advance on any excess and
maybe a further disbursement. Now he
is chewing, not pleasantly, over the fact
that he must pay adult harvest hands
18s, to 265. a day, with keep, for a 48-
hour week, with time-and-a-half for over-
time and three paid holidays, and see
that they have A.W.U. tickets. And he
mustn’t dock, them on account of wet
weather, breakdowns, jammed silos or
other causes. The cocky is privileged to
plan his day on the summer-time schedule
and rearrange himself to work 48 hours
a week.
Clarence River (N.S.W.) dairymen
staged a short strike against the Sydney
Government’s compulsory anti-tick dip-
ping programme, and were bitterly de-
nounced by a Sydney Minister, no
member of whose party (55 in the
Assembly alone) has said a word against
coal strikes. At first Commonwealth
Minister Scully tried to stand out, hold-
ing that it was - a State matter. He
didn’t know how right he was, for the
North Coasters are dead up against dic-
tation from Sydney. The moment the
cow-farmers brought the Commonwealth
into the business they stopped their stop-
page and milk flows once more.
The P.M.G. has banned certain forms
of radio advertising on Sundays and
urged commercial stations to broadcast
items of “a lofty and uplifting character.”
Banned items mentioned include laxa-
tives, anti-smell soaps, liquor and some
medicines. The radio listener, whose
susceptibilities are thus protected, may
still tune in to Communist propaganda ;
and no soap could kill the smell of Com-
munism.
N.S.W. Premier Mac Kay or N.S.W.
Police Commissioner McKell —nobody is
quite sure which is which —got another
smack in the eye over the attempt to
prevent policemen with civil aviation cer-
tificates from joining the R.A.A.F. Hav-
ing joined in spite of the ukase, one of
the cops has succeeded in having his dis-
missal from the police force upset and
is to be reinstated. “In view of certain
advice from the Crown Solicitor” the
appeal was not contested.
Though Independents have been win-
ning by-elections in other States, Victoria
seems to have no use for them. Two
stood for Maryborough-Daylesfofd, one
being a son of G. C. Frost, the elector-
ate’s Labor member for 22 years. Neither
can claim any more than that he did better
than the U.A.P. man, Duncan—though
a flying-officer, Duncan nearly .lost his
deposit, which shows how the U.A.P. has
flopped in Victorian country towns.
Labor had a strong candidate in C. P.
Stoneham, and he won easily.
Courting popularity, the U.A.P. in
N. S. Wales has adopted a lot of pious
aspirations and a new “monetary policy.”
“Monetary methods” are to be (no,
“shall” be) “adjusted to permit credit to
flow freely for developmental works, with
interest rates fixed at the lowest practic-
able level,” wherefore “the judicious use
of national credit is favored.” Who shall
be “judicious” is not stated. There is no
guarantee against the thing falling into
the hands of the injudicious, in which case
a sorry mess would be made of U.A.P.
investments.
Other delegates to the convention at
Canberra noticed a marked change in
Dunstan’s attitude to the Commonwealth.
Rankin and Wilson are wondering
uneasily what it portends.
While throwing their weight behind
Curtin in the latest Labor hullabaloo.
Corns, are complaining that he’s a long
time removing the ban on their party and
press. Anti-conscriptionists (all anti-
Coms.) are muttering savagely that they
won’t let him remove it. Langsters. are
commenting brutally on the number of
apparently able-bodied Corns, who are
neither fighting nor working, as war work
is understood. It is rather suggested that
Communist agitation has been treated as
a protected industry.
On Sept. 21, 1939, Holloway, now one
of the three “anti” Ministers, declared
that he would “fight against compulsion
foi the mainland, the territories and
for overseas.” Blain, the voteless but
riot voiceless or heartless member for
Northern Territory, got to him in good
plain Australian: — . . y
Mr. Holloway’s remarks show, that he
looks upon New Guinea as a foreign land.
He declares that to send troops there will
be sending troops on foreign service,
boreign service to defend the Diggers up
there! If I had my way and the Diggers
had their way, Australia would despatch
troops to New Guinea this afternoon.
Blain afterwards enlisted for his second
war. Nothing has been heard of him
since Singapore fell.
A Mr. H. J. Timperley to the Victoria
League at Melbourne :
There is one direction in which the
Chinese may be expected to exert some
pressure after the war. The Chinese do
not demand that we open our doors to a
great flood of migrants, but they do ask
that their merchants and travellers of , good
standing be admitted on the same footing
as other aliens. It would be good policy
to revise our immigration laws volun-
tarily now, rather than under pressure later,
as a gesture of friendship and admiration
for China.
Mr. Timperley is a newspaperman who
went to China and took a Government
job there. Apparently only his political
thinking has been denationalised.
Evidently anticipating the publication
of the Beveridge report, an English
writer quoted an arresting fact:
There are now in England and Wales
2,000,000 fewer children under 14 than
there were in 1914, and 2,500,000 more
men and women over 60. A staggering
consideration.
Staggering it should be. But it doesn't
seem to stagger people who consider that
the State should grandmother everybody
from the cradle to the grave.


EXB3*42
.
KOOK Through These Glasses
at Everything You Buy!
From now until victory comes, patriotic buying must be the rule.
It will help mightily towards winning the war if we all buy longer-
lasting things—when we must buy at all.
Exlde BATTERIES
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Veteran artist-knight Arthur Streeton
has been contemplating a hospital ceiling
in Melbourne instead of the gums of his
beloved Olinda, but is now reported to
be progressing satisfactorily. He is 75,
and like John Longstaff at the same age
looks as if painting was mankind’s
healthiest occupation. He still paints,
though it is some years since he held the
public exhibition which he announced
would be his last. It wasn’t, however.
During the last Victorian liquor refer-
endum he painted a huge anti-prohibi-
tion poster and set it up in his front
garden, to the astonishment of Toorak.
Though, as heard in Sydney, Brisbane’s
Lud Mayor John Beal Chandler may not
be the world’s greatest orator, when he
speaks he definitely has something to
say. He was specially invited to Sydney
by the National Service League, on the
strength of an address he gave to Rotary
in Brisbane last June. A staunch sup-
porter of Australian democracy, he's
strongly against current attempts to re-
Brisbane’s Lud Mayor.
place it (and such features of it as pri-
vate enterprise) with socialism, open or
disguised. He is himself a leading figure
in private enterprise, as founder and
managing director of J. B. Chandler and
Co. and managing director of a string'
of other concerns, a number of them
also wearing the Chandler name. An
Englishman, born and educated at Bun-
well, Norfolk, he has worn Brisbane’s
set of bunny skins since 1940.
There was unusual opposition to the
five sitting members of the Adelaide Uni.
Council whose turn it was to retire this
year. The election is by the Senate,
which in S.A. means all the graduates
(except the newer ones). Judge Parsons,
although returned without opposition to
his seat as Warden of the Senate, had to
take his chance in the Council election,
along with Douglas Mawson of Antarctic
fame, Adey, late Director of Education,
and two doctors, Arthur Cudmore and
Helen Mayo (the Council’s only woman
member). The new blood nominated was
also medical, Prof. Goldby and Britten
Jones, and the former was successful,
displacing Cudmore, who has done long
and good service on the Council.
President and P.M.;
Though Churchill is Roosevelt’s senior by
several years, the U.S. President calls Britain’s
P.M. Winston, whereas Churchill always
addresses Roosevelt as Mr. President. This
has been the order of things since they were
first in direct touch with each other per trans-
atlantic telephone. Characteristically Ameri-
can on the one hand and ditto English on the
other, there is no doubt more to it than that
on Churchill’s part, Britain’s P.M. recognising,
as he would, that Roosevelt is really not his
opposite number, but King George’s. Apart
from that, Roosevelt, according to American
writers who appear to have the run of White
House, is a somewhat aloof figure, even to
America in general. At any rate, nobody
dreams of calling him by his first name,
Franklin; the man in the street talking to an-
other calls Roosevelt F.D.R., which is as near
to familiarity as the public which called
Coolidge “Cal” ever gets.
The latest recruit to the Stock
Exchange of Adelaide is Don Turnbull,
the Davis Cup tennis-player. He will
not, however, take his seat for some time
yet, being overseas as a captain in the
A.I.F.
Harold Edwin Young, who graduated
from Taringa State school and Brisbane
Grammar to Queensland University, can
now, if he likes, stick wheat-ears in his
hair and walk about with lumps of fallow
in his hands. He’s the first graduate of
that University to gain the degree of
Doctor of Agricultural Science. He has
a B.Sc. and a M.Sc. up his sleeve and had
been prying into the secrets of arboreal
life for the Forestry Department when,
about a year ago, he joined the A.A.M.C.
Hamilton Patterson, just-retired man-
ager of the Union Bank, has been 46
years in Queensland banking. His father
joined the bank in London in 1876 before
coming to Queensland and his son has
gone to the R.A.A.F. after 12 years in
the bank. This unbroken service by
three generations is claimed as a Queens-
land record.
Writing from a German p.o.w, camp,
Gerald Leary (A.1.F.) mentions the using
of a Bulletin joke-block as the cover
picture for a weekly newspaper that’s
printed in Berlin (in English) and dis-
tributed gratis to British prisoners of
war. The drawing was that of a chap
I telling a girl friend one of his air-fighting
experiences, and so carried away that,
grasping a soda siphon in each hand, and
to the words “Then I gave him a burst,”
he’d squirted the contents into the phiz
of a gent, opposite. “Needless to say,
it created much amusement in this par-
ticular camp, as it undoubtedly will in
hundreds of other camps in this coun-
try,” writes Leary. The drawing was by
Les Such, himself now A.1.F., and last
heard from in W.A. A Cockney, Les
always was one of the best of good
fellows. Also, from the Libyan desert,
seasonal greetings have come from an-
other Bulletin artist, Jack Lusby —one
of the best, too. Enclosed was a snap
of Lusby in shorts and a fez, seated on
sand, playing a mandolin, and looking in
grand fettle.
In a letter to the Royal Society of New
Zealand acknowledging the honor paid
him in electing him an honorary member,
Field-Marshal Smuts referred to a Maori-
land friend of his before the Boer War
temporarily sundered relations—Richard
Cockburn Maclaurin, one of the most
brilliant sons M.L. exported in the ’nine-
ties. Maclaurin’s educational endowments
won him distinction in M.L. and Britain,
but his crowning work was the building
and equipping of the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology, the foremost institu-
tion of its kind in the U.S.A., costing
millions of dollars. As a student at
Cambridge he “roomed” with Jan Smuts
—both young men just keeping their
heads financially above water. After the
Boer War Smuts wanted Maclaurin to
go to South Africa to organise its educa-
tional system, but Maclaurin declined.
A.B.C. has brought coals of fire on its
head by putting the Rev. Irving Benson
off the air. It took the commission a long
time to come to this decision; Rev.
Benson has been answering questions over
the air for 13 years. One of Melbourne’s
most literary clerics, he runs a
weekly column in the “Herald,” has pub-
lished books on theological matters, con-
tributed to English and U.S. journals, is
president of the Australian Reading
Union and the Victorian Library Asso-
ciation, and Bevan lecturer at Melb.
University. Born at Hull (Eng.), he was
once minister of a posh church in
Toorak. He’s superintendent of the
Wesley Church Central Mission.
“C.L.”: Touching on Bulletin men-
tion of the number of Boer names figur-
ing in current South African casualty
lists, and including a De La Ray. My
father, Frederick Joseph De La Ray, was
killed in France in 1918. A nephew of
the Boer general, he came to Australia
in his teens, and served with the 38th
Batt., A.I.F.
A major mining man:
All mining men in eastern Australia knew
Jim Horsburgh (B. 2/12/’42). After com-
pleting metallurgical studies at Sydney ’Var-
sity he spent a working lifetime north of 28.
He got his first job at a smelter in his home
town, Maryborough (Q.); then he became
manager of the Chillagoe works, and in 1918
went to Mt. Morgan, then in its romantically
rich stage. After a term as chairman of the
N.T. Commission —he was appointed because
of his mining knowledge, but found he had
powers over everything but mining—he joined
the resuscitated Mt. Morgan as a.g.m., visiting
the U.S.A. to study low-grade treatment prob-
lems. At the end he was adviser to the
Commonwealth on strategic minerals. Two
sons are in the services and three in produc-
tion jobs—the eldest is manager of Tableland
Tin, Malcolm Newman’s big Mt. Garnet (Q.)
dredging show.
Australian Red Cross Society’s chair-
man Dudley Charles Turner was on old
stamping ground when he dropped in on
Sydney last week for the first annual
meeting of the Aus. society ever held in
the Harbor City. It packed the Town
Hall to capacity. Chairman Turner, edu-
cated at Sydney Grammar, started with
Eastern Extension at La Perouse and was
sent by that co. to S.A. in 1905. He
resigned in 1911, but stayed on in S.A.
till 1940, when he went to Melbourne as
vice-chairman and commissioner to Army
H.Q. Total staff there was then nine; now
it’s 100 a day in the p.o.w. section alone.
Turner managed to get a shipment of
food and medical supplies to Japan in
the first diplomatic ship—Australia’s
share, £103,000. Once it’s arranged for
ships to go through regularly Australia
will pay its share in proportion to
number of prisoners, no matter where the
stuff goes from. The Red Cross in Aus-
tralia now has 3000 branches, with
30,000 workers.
Girls have this year taken both of the
much-coveted Bennett prizes in the Law
School of Adelaide Uni. Betty Moffatt
scored especially in contracts, and Helen
Devaney in other subtleties from bank-
ruptcy to divorce. Both of them work
hard in city law offices all day, and both
find time for war work as well.
After 36 years helping to bring relief
to destitute persons in South Aus., F. G.
Byrne has himself obtained relief, the
Government appointing him an Under-
secretary. For many years he was chief
prosecuting officer of the State Children’s
Department, which he joined as a clerk
in 1906, and he was also collector under
the Inter-State Destitute Persons’ Relief
Act. When the departments were amal-
gamated in 1927 as the Children’s Wel-
UNDERSECRETARY BYRNE.
fare and Public Relief Department, he
was made secretary, and nine years later
became chairman. Also Director of Sup-
plies and Canteen Service in the Civil
Defence Department, he’s 53,
As a break from the livelier doings of
Guadalcanal, Chicago “Tribune” rep.
Robert Cromie, here depicted by Frith,
is on the warpath in Australia hunting
scalps of special interest to his paper.
He’s the complete opposite of the Holly-
wood-brand Amurrican newshound —he
doesn’t smoke, doesn’t drink, doesn’t wear
horarims, and is as easygoing and modest
as they come. Though it was only in
1928 that Kingsford Smith, Ulm and the
two Americans Warner and Lyon made
the first flight across the Pacific, these
chaps reporting the Pacific war take as
a mere matter of course sudden flights
over vast stretches of the ocean. It
sounds like any young scribe’s dream of
paradise, but there’s a catch to it, the
job fairly teeming with great stories and
red-hot scoops about which, for secuiity
reasons, they can’t pen a line. Cromie,
who has been six years with the “Tri-
For Chicago “Tribune.”
tmne,” has a special word for the Marines
—tough chaps and tough scrappers, with
a command of expressive language at
least equal to that of a Digger bayonet-
course instructor. One yarn said to be
typical of them tells of one driving a jeep
with lights on in the Guadalcanal black-
out. “Put those blankety-blank lights
out!” bawled another of the unit on
guard. The jeep-driver slowed down and
bawled, back: “I can’t put these blankety-
blank lights out. I’ve got the blankety-
blank-blank colonel here beside me!”
Into the silence:
At 28, in action in New Guinea, Capt. John
Murray Blarney, nephew of General Blarney.
Capt. Blarney had fought in the Middle East,
being one of those brought back when Aus-
tralia was threatened with invasion. He has
been posthumously awarded the American Dis-
tinguished Service Cross.
In Sydney, at 67, John Garlick, best known
for his chairmanship of the Sydney Civic Com-
mission appointed by Bavin in 1927, though
his best work was probably in drafting legis-
lation governing administration of shires and
municipalities when the Local Government De-
partment was set up with himself as Under-
secretary. First chairman of the Main Roads
Board, he returned to it when the Civic Com-
mission made way for aldermen, and acted as a
consultant to various Governments until 1940,
when he became a Deputy-Censor.
In Sydney, at 85, Frank Cotton, one of
the original (1891) band of N.S.W. Labor
members —he was Newtown’s M.L.A. for 10
years—and an indefatigable writer for the
Cause since his teens. Professor Leo Cotton
(Sydney Uni.) and Professor Frank Cotton
(Melbourne Uni.) are his sons.
At 78, in Melbourne, W. Forster Woods,
C.8.E., doyen of Melbourne Stock Exchange
and an unusual man of commerce. At his
sanctuary at Macedon he kept an open forum
where professors, economists, politicians and
distinguished visitors from overseas argued
and debated, with the birds and animals
making bets on the decision. ’Change first
saw him in 1895; he was a committeeman in
1903, and chairman for six consecutive years,
and then again for eight. He was also director
of T. and G. and of Melbourne Safe De-
posits.
At 51, George E. Langford, master builder.
His chief monument is the spires of St. Paul’s,
which dominate the southern gateway to Mel-
bourne. They were started by his father,
Clements Langford, and he finished them. The
job was so big that several houses were built
out of the fragments from the stones that went
into the spires.
In Sydney, at 66, comedian Fred Bluett, who
over a couple of generations was to Australia
what George Robey at his best was to England.
A son of the stage, Bluett came to Australia
when he was 16, and first appeared in amateur
shows in Melbourne. He was back in Eng-
land for most of last war, when his counter-
part there was at his top. His son Gus (dead
a few years back) was for years a mainstay
of the comedy side of Australian musicomedy,
and his daughter Kitty is a popular radio artist.
In Tasmania, Capt. Frank Pogson Bethune,
who started off as an A.I.F. private in the last
war, won a commission and —commanding a
small party of Diggers given the seemingly hope-
less job of holding a particularly vulnerable
post—issued the famous “This position will be
held” order.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Caballer”: Hot on the spoor of Satan
the Anglican Synod’s most unsophisti-
cated member brightened a Sydney Sun-
day paper. “I wouldn’t mind if men
drank beer in small doses like Worcester-
shire sauce,” he declared. “But they
want to drink whole bottles of it. Whole
bottles! It beats me.” Then he switched
from beer to the pitchers and other
snares and pitfalls. “Service men don’t
want pictures and dances on a Sunday
night. What they want is a good old
sing-song in a parish hall and a nice cup
of hot tea,” The masterpiece came at
the end. “I took two American soldiers
home one Sunday night, and there has
never been any liquor in my house. They
were fine young men, and they said they
had the times of their lives. I haven t
seen them since.”
sk sk sfc *
“Pat Ater”: It is to men like Jack Hides,
Owen and their brother-patrol officers —
apt disciples of Hubert Murray’s “human-
treatment” teaching—that Australia owes
“Are you sure the call-up said to come here?”
the loyalty and devotion of New Guinea
natives in the present campaign. “Men
of Papua,” Hides always called them —
not natives—and he always contended
that under those brown skins there were
qualities of heart and head undreamed
of by armchair ethnologists. S’Hubert’s
phrase, “The men who own the land, to
be treated as such,” has paid handsome
dividends to the white race. Recent
events constitute a magnificent tribute to
British—and particularly Australian —
principles of colonisation, as administered
by a grand old man whose name should
never be allowed to fade,
“McN.”: “Casualties among war cor-
respondents in New Guinea illustrate
risks to which journalists and photo-
graphers are exposed in obtaining for the
public a true picture of the war,” burbled
the Minister for the Army. He might
have added, but didn’t, that it was a poor
return for their services that the type of
picture favored by his Government’s
Department of Information is that with
a goodly allowance of female leg.
Even gallant American nurses, bath-
ing in a N.G. stream, found themselves
snapped and presented to the Australian
public. Not much has been heard of the
Department of Information lately, but
that doesn’t mean it isn’t as fatuous as
ever.
* * * •
“I. P. Nantucket”: Although the exits
may not have been up to the safety
standard demanded by modem fire pre-
cautions, it seems undeniable that the
terrible death-roll in the burning of a
Boston (U.S.A.) night club was due very
largely to panic. Descriptions of the
horror make it clear that there was an
uncontrolled rush to the exits, and that
revolving doors couldn’t revolve because
the maddened crowd pushed at both sides
and those behind pulled down those in
front. As a rule, there has to be a
tremendous strain before Anglo-Saxons
panic. I’ve seen them do it, though not
from fear of death. It was fear of arrest.
“Alkali Ike”: A lot of people of two
generations will feel sorry for poor old
Buck Jones, one of the victims of the
frightful Boston fire in which nearly 500
perished. In the days of the silents Buck
galloped through countless thousands of
feet of film and shot off innumerable
bullets from his six-shooters to the joy
of millions of youngsters. A square-
jawed, grim-mouthed hero who seldom
smiled, he outlived Tom Mix, Hoot
Gibson, Bill Hart and other horse-opera
stars and even attained to the glory of
weekly strips in English comic papers.
In “talkie” days he mostly appeared in
Western serials, always sure of a wel-
come, from the older generation at least,
on the score of old associations. He
couldn’t act, but he could ride, and his
magnificent white horse was alone well
worth the price of admission.
* * * *
“J.L.A.”; Good works are nothing new
to Salvationist Brig. Mcllveen, the “Little
Salvo bloke” of Tobruk (B. 25/11 / ’42).
He was a young S. Army officer at the end
of the last war. Bubonic influenza was
raging throughout the land, and Dubbo
got more than its share, so much so that
during the worst phases business *was
largely suspended and a community effort
organised to service sufferers. Aldermen
put aside local squabbles. Homes not
stricken became invalid kitchens, prepar-
ing food to be distributed in those of
rich and poor alike. In the poorer sec-
tions things were particularly bad. Whole
families —Dad, Mum and all the kids—
were down ; the doctors working over-
time, and then some. Seemingly 24 hours
a day, whenever the relief cars called,
there was Mac on his job regardless of
risk, and the danger was real. Many
others did grand work, but Mcllveen
was outstanding. The town tried to pre-
sent him with some tangible token after
it was all over, but Salvation Army rules
would not permit. Subsequently Fight-
ing McKenzie came through on the first
of his post-war tours, and at the big
Dubbo gathering we presented the little
“Me” with an inscribed Bible. The
“Army” Jet us do that.
“Oxmead”; I have heard that yarn
about Eton cricket snobbishness—a more
familiar and somewhat happier version is
“Harrow we know and Winchester we
know, but who are ye?”—since I was a
very small boy, but 1 never heard Chel-
tenham cited as the “butt” of it before
(B. 2/12/’42). Indeed, looking up a
reference, 1 find it originated before I
was born. F. S. Ashley-Cooper, in
Cricket Highways and Byways, publishes
letters written in 1866, when Shrewsbury
challenged Westminster to a match, only
to be tartly informed by the captain of
the latter that “Westminster plays no
schools except Public Schools, viz., Char-
terhouse, Eton, Harrow, Rugby and Win-
Chester.” The Shrewsbury skipper re-
torted hotly that; his school was the most
important one in England when West-
minster was unknown, and that the other
fellow “had yet to learn the first lesson
of a true public school education, the
behavior due from one gentleman to
another.” The anecdote, with a few
variations, has been cropping up ever
since, though it is worth noting that
Westminster, not Eton, was the original
offender
* * ,
No flowers, by request:—
Andrew Currer, secretary of the Victoria
China Naval Contingent Association, has
“You've made a mistake; you've put some beer in my Water."
among other singular documents of the con-
tingent the downright will of John Harding,
an old sailor who had been bugler to the great
Fisher and was later a P. and O. quartermaster
and after that worked for a Melbourne firm
of printers. Harding called at the association’s
office and drew up the will, with requests that
fellow-members should carry out after his
death: “Do not let any long-faced undertaker
grab the last few quid I leave behind. Knock
up a box yourselves, and cover with the Union
Jack. Hire a truck, and follow in a couple
of taxis, and bury me with my shipmates at
Fawkner. Stop on the road at the nearest pub
and have a drink, for which 1 leave the sum of
£5. 1 will be waiting outside. Then carry on.
When reaching cemetery, ask a Sky Pilot to
say a few words to our Lord, and ask Him to
accept me as I am. Then when I am secured
in the locker, get the bugler to sound the
Last Post as hard as he can, and put another
notch in his bugle. I leave him £1 for his
expenses. After this I request you all to wish
me a sailor’s farewell, and proceed back to
the club and drink to the memory of your old
shipmate, and to our next merry meeting on
Fiddler’s Green.” Currer states that Thomas
Whitford, now in the Australian Navy, sounds
the Last Post at the graveside of members of
the contingent. He was given a silver bugle
for the purpose, and remarked at the time
that he “would be glad to use it for the lot
of them”—hence the reference to the “notches.”
Harding’s wishes were carried out to the letter
when he went west at 73.
* * * *
“A Major”: Some very sensible re-
marks have been made by Colin Taylor,
recently examiner in Maoriland for the
Royal Schools of Music (he was for 10
years music master at Eton). He said,
speaking against the regarding of exami-
nations as the be-all and end-all of musi-
cal progress and education:
Much talent is being ruined, throughout
the English-speaking world by premature
forcing; forcing the child to gain these
proficiency certificates. The two predomi-
nating causes of this evil are that children
start climbing the examination ladder at
far too tender an age, and that examinations
are automatically taken year after year re-
gardless of the fact that the rungs of the
ladder have come further apart as they
ascend. Always give pupils time —time for
artistic browsing, for assimilation, for the
widening of the horizon.
Of course, underlying the business of
certificate-gaining is the idea of using
musical ability as a commercial asset. I
can recall half a dozen cases where excep-
tional aptitude and talent, harnessed to
examination-grinding, petered out and
left their former possessor in the shallows
and quicksands, and as many more where
such gifts, used only as a means of recrea-
tion, have been developed with advantage
to the individual’s prospects in every other
relationship of life. To return to Mr.
Taylor, he has formed the opinion that
the Sydney Con. and the Capetown Col-
lege of Music are the only two institutions
south of the line which treat music seri-
ously. Melbourne, please note!
* * * *
“Bo”: I know little of the political
acumen or organising ability of Britain’s
Minister for Air, Sir Archibald Sinclair,
but I like the way he uses the English
tongue. Replying at a Foreign Press Con-
ference to the protests of the Italian
Propaganda Minister against R.A.F.
bombings, the knight said; “This snivel-
ling hypocrite is wasting his time direct-
ing his belated remonstrances at us.” The
Bulletin’s Archibald couldn’t have prised
a word out of that and improved it.
* * * *
ttC i •, „ *
Scnb : d ltS wa F" time IPCOP ‘
veme " ces h Maonland numbers a lead-
f nc / Portage, so. acute that when a
bur | lar raided a Welhngton office and
“ ade off wlth a . h .f'T swag the bereaved
fi™ commenced the inventory of missing
chattels supplied to the police with two
pencils (one mdel.). Stationers say that
in pre-war times the Dominion’s pencils
were mainly supplied by Czechoslovakia;
now supplies are being sought (vainly, it
would appear) from England. Someone
ought to tell these benighted Fernlanders
that there’s a big pencil-making factory
in Sydney (out Rosebery way) and it isn’t
the only one in Australia by a long
graphite.
* * * *
“Kayk”; One of the reasons for the
scarcity of small coinage may be put
down to the account of Professor Cop-
land, and he should take pride in the
fact. To quote one instance only, the
pre-war chemist was in the habit of
thinking in terms of multiples of 3d.
(seldom) and 6d. (more often). It has
been recently my lot to have many pre-
scriptions made up, and I have had the
interesting experience of being charged
such figures as 9s. 10d., Is, sd. and Is. 7d.
Men have received the accolade for less.
HARTIGAN’S SPOONS.
“The N.S.W. Railway Department has invited
tenders for 1,000,000 wooden spoons for its refresh-
ment rooms, owing to its inability to get stolen metal
spoons replaced.”- —Sydney “Sun.”
Our ancestors, when Alfred the renowned
Was king, some ancient chronicler alleges,
Could leave their valuables lying round.
Gold chains and cups and bracelets upon
hedges.
And feel assured they’d be as safe and sound
From casual marauders as the pledges
Which we entrust, from grim necessity,
To some Hebraic uncle’s custody.
How times have changed! It well may mortify
Social reformers and grave preachers nettle,
The knowledge that, when down to tea and pie
The travellers upon our railways settle,
The very forks and spoons take wings and fly,
Albeit fashioned from the cheapest metal,
Transferred to inaccessible retreats
Along with bought-and-paid-for drinks and eats.
’Tis ever saddening when, nights or noons,
One’s chattels evanesce and leave no traces.
Step up, you caustic framers of cartoons,
And sketch our railway heads with sour
grimaces
Chanting a dirge for their departed spoons,
Much as old Horace mourned anni fugaces.
Here clearly is a situation when
The brush is more effective than the pen.
It gets the goat of the Commissioner,
As well it may, this constant disappearing
Of that which custom furnishes to stir
The cup so frequently entitled “cheering.”
Plain thievery, of course, though most prefer
The pleasant euphemism “souveniring,”
Holding, despite the often-quoted claim
Of Shakspeare, that there’s something in a
name.
A million wooden spoons! What thoughts of
dough
Waiting some lucky chap the words engender!
The very phrasing of it seems to glow
With careless rapture and imposing splendor.
I’ll say he’ll get a thumping quid pro quo,
The bloke who hits the bull’s-eye with his
tender.
And here’s a hope you’ll keep them, if you can,
From itching fingers, Mr. Hartigan!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
A WAR MEASURE.
“The Westralian Labor Government has postponed
the general election for another 12 months.”
You will always find objection to a general
election
Being entered on a month or two before
Parliament has stayed the distance of its usual
existence ;
And one hears some special pleading for a
lengthier proceeding,
Even annual postponements, in the war.
It excuses almost anything, the war.
When the prospects of remaining in your job
involve retaining
At the least a fairly reasonable store
Of the votes which your persuasion carried on
the last occasion
And you feel you’ll risk a* pickle should the
hoi polloi prove fickle,
There’s a means of dodging trouble in the war,
So it’s wise to take a ticket in the war.
Though from precedent you’re breaking in the
course you’re undertaking,
Indictments on that count you can ignore,
Pointing out that party squabbles should be
kept in chains and hobbles,
And the stuff from hustings spouted be incon-
tinently outed
For the absolute duration of the war,
As a hindrance to the winning of the war.
Circumstances alter cases in a lot of times and
places; .
And it’s arguable nothing could be more
Statesmanlike and patriotic (even it a bit
despotic) . ...
Than postponing an election for the wnicn
you’ve no affection
When there’s whips of warrant for it m tne
war — . .
The joker and both bowers in the war.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“D.E.”: One of the gentlemen who
went to Canberra for the convention was
so overcome by emotion that he dropped
into poetry. Eminent newspaper pro-
prietor, too —Keith Murdoch, no less.
He didn’t rhyme or —being too modest,
no doubt —have his rhapsody set as verse ;
and I hope he won’t fnind my sawing his
opening stanza into appropriate lengths:
Canberra, always so beautiful,
In the soft glow of sunset and sunrise
Is beautiful now, in its own right,
All the day and all the days.
I have to acknowledge that the next
spasm baffled me, so I reprint it as pub-
lished in the Murdoch press, stops and
all:
It is inhabited, not thickly, thank Heaven,
but with many pretty settlements of a
country type; with houses much top small,
for surely six must, in future, be the mini-
mum aim for Australian family life, but
with habitation after habitation around
which one is justified in building fairy
tales of robust strength, affection and
happiness. So be it, one thinks, throughout
Australia.
So let it be! And don’t let any rude
fellow imagine that the poet Murdoch is
setting a family standard that he hasn't
himself reached. Who’s Who, which has
never seen Romance bring up the nine-
fifteen, gives these domestic particulars in
its record of him: “B. Aug. 12, 1886 ; m.
1928 ; I s., 3 d.”
* * * #
“C. 8.”: Private swimming pools in
Melbourne are an unexpected war-effort
auxiliary. The Department of Munitions
has tabbed them all off and has
the power to commandeer them. They
are needed for underwater storage of cer-
tain chemicals that are neither poisonous
nor explosive. There are hundreds of
concrete private pools in Melbourne, and
people will have to sacrifice their swim-
ming. One well-known doctor will have
to sacrifice his table as well as his pool.
A bit of an epicure, in normal times he
used to keep the pool stocked with some
of the edible varieties of seafood. When
he wanted fish for dinner he would go
down with a line before breakfast, catch
a couple and leave them with his wife
before he went to his practice.
# * #
“Cook’s Mate”: Though there haven’t
been greater men in Australia —at a least,
to my way of thinking —since James
Cook came here in 1770, I can’t conceal
from myself that he was the complete
mug at naming places. He it was
who gave those lovely gems of tropical
islands in the Western Pacific discovered
by Fernandez de Quiros at the beginning
of the seventeenth century the name of
“New Hebrides.” The islands, in their
tropical gorgeousness, are about as like
the bleak “Old” Hebrides as Pinchgut is
like Montague Island. Such a designa-
tion, however, is quite in keeping with
his title for the east coast of Australia —
New South Wales —and his christening of
Port Jackson. Incidentally, the old
story that the harbor was called after
the man at the masthead who saw it as the
Endeavour sailed past its entrance is a
myth. There wasn’t a man named Jackson
aboard the little ship. The port was
named after the Secretary to the Admir-
alty.
sp $ *
“Bob Punter”: Here’s another of
those shoddy war-time dodges. Neither
bottles nor flasks of whisky can be
bought, but you can take along your own
bottle and generous Bung will fill it for
you—at counter-pijice per nip. It means
a huge extra margin of profit.
Jic * *
“Old Gold” remembers Australia’s
early currency;
Before the Bank of N. S. Wales was estab-
lished in 1817 Australia had got used to a queer
collection of coins and paper money. In a Gov-
ernment proclamation issued in 1800 the value
of some of the coinage then in circulation was
arbitrarily fixed. The list included Spanish
dollars (ss. each), ducats (9s. 6d.), gold mohurs
(£1 17s. 6d.) and rupees (2s. 6d.). The paper
money was of two sorts. The first consisted
of commissariat receipts for wheat and for ser-
vices rendered to the Government, which passed
from hand to hand and were known as “sterling
currency.” The other kind were promissory
notes, issued by anyone who wanted to do so,
and varied in value from threepence to pounds,
these being called “colonial currency.” This
latter medium of exchange was sometimes de-
preciated to half its face value.
“Soc. Ed.”: Some miscellaneous infor-
mation concerning the weights and
measurements of Australian-minted coins
(B. 18/11/ ’42) has aroused the spirit
of research in the breasts of bank
officers. “Foocha,” “J.W.M.” and “Cur-
rency” have had the bullion-scales out
and have discovered that five halfpennies
(not six, “Theo D. Lite”) go to the
ounce, balancing three pennies.
* k * *
“F.S.”: In presenting the 1941 Street
Architecture Medal, Lud Mayor Nettle-
fold expressed the hope that many of
Melbourne’s old buildings would be
pulled down and replaced with attrac-
tive structures, such as were built
in pre-war years. In what pre-war years?
The Treasury building, erected 50 years
ago, is an attractive structure, even if it
is a copy of a Venetian palace. So is
St. Paul’s Cathedral, and illustrations of
both have got into a world history of
architecture. But this distinction has not
been granted to adventures in concrete
looking like piles of butterboxes. There
are still a few old buildings in Melbourne
with fine examples of the stonecutter’s
art, but this has been destroyed by trade-
unionism, machinery and mass-produc-
tion. If the old buildings which Coun-
cillor Nettlefold regards as eyesores are
demolished their beautiful stones and
carvings will no doubt go to the crushing
mills to make road fillings, as happened
with the Old Melbourne Gaol and other
excellent examples of early colonial
building. But the city certainly won’t
be the more beautiful for it.
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: Australians have a
knack with the picturesque phrase. Re-
cently returned from the conflict, a cor-
poral of our squadron told of another
chap who, when Jap bombers raided
their ’drome, went bush with a very
creditable show of speed. Said the
corp.: “Could he shift? ’Struth, you
could see the soles of his boots so often
you’d think he was kneeling in prayer!”
* * * •
“C.R.”: Some additions to “H.P.’s”
reminiscences of old Sydney theatres (B.
25 1 11 1 ’42): The only theatre that ever
stood on McCathie’s site was the Royal
Victoria. “The Vic.,” destroyed by fire in
1880, was Bland Holt’s headquarters for
some years. It had an immense stage, the
largest Sydney has seen, which made the
theatre very suitable for spectacular pro-
ductions such as “New Babylon,” which
“ That'll teach you to point!”
was Holt’s first great Sydney success.
After the fire of 1880 Holt transferred
to the Royal in Castlereagh-street, where
he produced “Alone in London,” “Taken
from Life” and “Mankind.”
« * * *
“Lord Luvus”: A party in a Vic-
torian township set out to bury a
publican friend in the local cemetery, and
after the funeral returned to the pub only
to find that the deceased had the keys of
the bar in his pocket; so they went back
and dug him up. The tale may not be
entirely true, but I am less inclined to
doubt it since the Cold Tea party won
its great campaign for the rationing of
beer. The lengths some of my once-
soberminded friends will go to get a
bottle are amazing, and I could easily
believe that, if the occasion demanded it,
they would indulge in body-snatching.
Yet it was exactly the opposite result that
prohibitionists aimed at. They wanted to
remove the obsession for beer. Instead,
the restrictions they fought for increased
it. Hence, I get a certain satisfaction out
of a story told about the spearhead of the
attack on the drinking habits of the
people. He indulges in long walks, and
once overdid it, walking from Ben-
digo to Geelong. How many motorists
belonging to his own denomination
passed him I don’t know, but it is on
record that the only Good Samaritan
who offered him a lift was the driver of
a beer wagon.
« * * *
“Strict Veg.”: A report that the
authorities in Paris have started an “eat-
more-rats” campaign and that a member
of the Academy of Medicine has given
it his endorsement by announcing that
rats are edible, and taste even better than
pork or rabbits, moved a Melbourne
daily to be heavily facetious. There used
to be just as great a prejudice against
bunny in Australia as there is no doubt
against sewer-rats in Paris, and even
today, with Austerity the fashion, if the
chatelaine of a Toorak mansion served
rabbit to her guests most of them would
feel insulted. Rabbit is regarded as a
greater delicacy in France than poultry
and as great care is given to its cooking.
A Victorian artist who was invited to
dine at a wealthy Parisian’s was sur-
prised when he found that the piece de
resistance was the dish which he asso-
ciated with the rabbit-oh who made his
rounds in the poorer suburbs of Mel-
bourne. His host told him that the beasts
were bred in his place in the country
especially for the table. After he had
tasted the dish the artist decided that
either the French are miraculous cooks
or the rabbit has been sadly maligned
in Australia.
“Si Ann”; Another high Thai official
was being shown round Melbourne by a
Federal departmental head (B. 25/11 / ’42)
and they both put up for the night at
the same hostelry. Early before break-
fast the F.d.h., a great stickler for correct
behavior, was awakened by a tap on his
door, “Who’s there?” he shouted. “It
is I, sir, Prince X, sir,” said the voice of
the Siamese. “I am coming in to greet
you.” “Wait till I put my pants on,”
shouted the Australian. “No, no, sir!
No ceremony, please,” cried the person-
age from Thailand.
* * * *
“Tuart”: December 5 was the 130th
anniversary of Napoleon’s desertion of the
wretched remnants of the army of in-
vasion he had led into Russia. After the
taking of Smolensk in August “his lieu-
tenants,” Wolseley wrote, “advised him to
halt and not go farther into Russia that
year.”
Behind the Dwina and the Dnieper he
could, they said, reorganise his army and
establish a new base for another campaign
the following summer, should no peace be
arranged in the meantime... .But he still
believed in his star and could not realise
the possibility of failure. We can only
account for his neglect of all plans to meet
the accident of non-success by that over-
weening confidence in himself and in his
luck to which in the end he mostly owed
his destruction. When, therefore, failure
overtook him, it not only surprised him but
found him without any formulated scheme
to negative its effects.
Is it going to be any different with
Hitler? His army, unlike Napoleon’s,
has survived one Russian winter, but
General Winter is still strong and may
prevail.
* * * «
“Farm Cove”: “O’Shooga” (B. 4 /11 / ’42)
need not worry. It is strange but true
that, while thousands of lives are being
extinguished daily, people can still get a
kick out of a murder story involving one
paltry life. Another thing ; where deeds
of heroism in this war are recorded (and
that may mean one in ten thou-
sand) they usually form part of a
story dashed off by a war correspondent
who, in most cases, has not the knack
of dramatic presentation so desired by
the fiction reader. When the war con-
cludes it is unlikely that there will be a
market for war stuff for some years.
This was so in the period 1918-28,
when stories even remotely touching the
conflict were taboo to most editors. Then
came the reaction, and war books and
films boomed.
* * * •
“Avon”: Maoriland, like Australia,
finds a few crumpled rose-leaves in its
war-time mattress. Vegetable shortage
is acute recent quotations, rhubarb
2s. 6d. a bunch, spring onions |d. each,
no carrots, no parsnips, no swedes;
pumpkins and marrows very rarely ob-
tainable. But spuds can be bought, at
6d. a pound—imported from California
—and cabbages and cauliflowers are
fairly plentiful. Fruit is a luxury —
oranges at lOd. each, apples 7d. a pound,
walnuts five for Is. Increased duties on
pipe tobacco and cigarettes have already,
so the Tobacconists’ Association reckons,
reduced smoking by 30 p.c., though mili-
tary canteens get supplies free of duty.
But there’s hardly any grumbling ; “C’est
la guerre” is the motto.
* * * *
“Wiz”; I think we Britons, who have
fought the French so often, have more
sympathy with them than has any other
nation. There’s a call for that sympathy
in these times. This by way of prelude
to recalling that at Chatham, England,
where there were many French war
prisoners 130 years ago, and where many
died, there is a monument in their honor
bearing these words:
Under this stone are gathered the re-
mains of many gallant soldiers who, for-
merly enemies, then prisoners of England,
rest in her soil, where they forget the
hatreds of war and the griefs of cap-
tivity. They have been deprived of the
supreme consolation of closing their eyes
in the midst of their beloved fellow-citizens;
but they rest in an honorable tomb raised
by the pious care of a nation that honors
courage and sympathises with misfortune.
A bit pompous and stilted, perhaps, but
there’s a great heart in it.
v * * %
“Daljean”: I lately read in a daily
paper article that Stephen Decatur, one
of the most picturesque figures in the
history of the American Navy —his life-
span was 1779 to 1820—was the author
of the uncompromising toast “My coun-
try, right or wrong!” Consult-
ing books of quotations, I learnt
that the toast was given at Nor-
folk, Virginia, in April, 1816,
and in full reads: “Our coun-
try! In her intercourse with
foreign nations may she always
be in the right; but our country,
right or wrong.” A slight variant
is credited to Crittenden, of Ken-
tucky (1787-1863): “I hope to
find my country in the right;
however, I will stand by her,
right or wrong.” But the ver-
sion of Carl Schurz makes a
greater appeal. In an address in
Congress in 1872 he said; “Our
country, right or wrong. When
right, to be kept right; when
wrong, to be put right.”
* * *
“F.S.”; As an explanation
why Rome had been spared a
visit from the R.A.F., a trav-
elled man told me that most
of the art treasures of the world
are in the ancient city by the
Tiber. They aren’t; there are
more in London —or were before
the authorities removed them to
some other place for safety.
The best Titians and Tintorettos
are to be found in the galleries
and manor houses of England,
just as the finest extant examples
of Greek sculpture are the Elgin marbles
in the British Museum. There are prob-
ably more masterpieces of French painting
in America than in Paris, and the world’s
finest collection of impressionist pictures
is said to be owned by an American mil-
lionaire, who (so the legend runs) bought
them at a time when Cezanne, Van
Gogh, Matisse and Gauguin were re-
garded the worst of French painters. As
for Corots, there are more in the U.S.A.
than Corot ever painted.
s * *
“Cauboy”: John Reed, secretary of
the Contemporary Art Society in Mel-
bourne, writes to the “Age” bitterly com-
plaining that the National Gallery
trustees have ignored “modernist” artists.
He attributes the failure of two recent
competitive exhibitions to the trustees’
reactionary attitude towards the “creative
contemporary artist.” These “modern-
ists” seem extraordinarily anxious to get
recognition from people whom they must
regard as cobwebbed old fogies. Mel-
bourne modernists regard Cezanne, who
was contemptuous of academies and the
orthodox, as their great master. They
should try to be more like him.
* * * *
“L. de R.”: “Austere in its economy
of material and man-power, but yielding
nothing to the pre-war product in attrac-
tiveness,” is the official description of the
Victory underwear which has been
stored away under seal in the offices
of the Controller of Knitted Goods
in Melbourne. It is surely a strange
period in history when a solemn Govern-
ment department can announce in lan-
guage that suggests a corset ad. that
it has achieved reforms in the architec-
ture of articles of female apparel which
are the stock joke of every vaudeville
comedian.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The present shortage of
harvest labor in the wheatbelt reminds
me of the good old days of 1919-20 and
thereabouts, when most of the usual har-
vest workers were in the old A.I.F. or de-
mobilised and living on the fat of their
gratuities and deferred pay. There were
oceans of wheat, a good price had
been fixed for it (9s. a bushel in Vic-
toria), and cockies found it hard to get
men. If you knew anything about a
stripper or harvester or could sew bags
or handle a team you were set. Herds
of youths from the cities and larger
towns headed into the cereal belt and, all
ignorant of farm work, got good pay so
long as they had a pair of hands and
were willing to use them. That harvest
was a joyful one. It was frequently
interrupted by “welcome homes” to re-
turning heroes at which everybody
junketed until dawn, lumpers on the
stations earned mighty cheques and con-
sumed floods of beer, and all the wheat
towns throve as though in the first flush
of a goldrush. When I hit Pinnaroo,
on the Vic.-S.A. border, the first thing
that caught my eye was a form asleep
under a pepper-tree. Pinned to its breast
was the legend “Don’t wake me under
£1 a day.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Leatherjacket hide un-
doubtedly would serve as an excellent
abrasive paper (B. 4/11/ ’42). Sharkskin
also is good, especially for stripping old
and peeling paint from a sun-bleached
lugger. The reason is that the shark’s
hide is actually covered with thousands,
one might say millions, of tiny teeth. On
the skin inside the mouth these teeth pos-
sess the capacity of growing larger.
So the many rows of incisors that adorn
the gob of the sea lawyer come into exis-
tence. And that also is why a shark can
lose half a bucketful of teeth biting at
an oar or the keel of a boat and be none
the worse for it; with an unlimited
supply of teeth all over its body, a few
dozen on a section of skin creep back
over the jaws and so replace the lost
dentures. Seen under the microscope, the
infinitely small teeth of the skin are
identical with the ferocious champers of
the jaws. So it takes pretty tough old
paint to stand up to a section of dried
sharkskin tacked on to a wooden rubber.
• * * *
“D.T.”: What sort of snake did that
mutton-birder drag out of the burrow
(B, 4/11/ ’42)? If it was of a venomous
species—well, that bloke should quit
birding and start working the shows in
competition with the professional snake-
charmers. These, when teasing a reptile
such as the tiger, invariably grab it by
the back of the neck. Now my experi-
ence is that when a snake enters a burrow
it at once turns round so that its head
faces the entrance and possible danger ;
and any human hand thrust blindly down
would be met by fangs—and if it was a
dinkum black the hand would be hastily
withdrawn, with the fangs still retaining
their grip. That’s a characteristic of the
black-snake ; it has a bulldog grip. The
tiger strikes like lightning, and often the
victim is unaware of having been bitten.
So I strongly suspect that the rusty black-
colored snake that frequents mutton-bird
burrows is of a non-venomous species
and, being glutted with a meal of squab,
too sleepy even to bite, even if it had the
instinct to do so.
* * §
“Mat’s Mate”: When me and Mat
trudged into the country round Clare
(S.A). things got tough. Jobs were as
scarce as hen’s teeth and some of the
cockies seemed to have the idea that since
a quid a week and tucker was good in
Granddaddy’s time it was good enough
for us. We had other ideas, including a
good clearing contract in Victoria, the
which, in order to reach, we needed some
cash for rail fares and tucker on the way.
We were sitting on our swags one morn-
ing, sans breakfast or tobacco, when a
flock of crows flew silently over, making
a beeline east. “They’re in a hurry,” I
remarked idly. “Yair,” said Mat bitterly.
“Probably come over from the Murray,
took one look at this place an’ now get-
tin’ back f’r their lives. I’d be in a
blanky hurry, too, if I had wings.” He
got up, sighed, shouldered the knot and
added “Well, we ain’t got wings. All
we got is feet but, by cripes, we’ll make
’em do. S’pose a man lost his feet in
a lousy place like this. Come on.” A
week later we followed the crows over
the border.
“John Ketch”: Recently I was given
entry to a room with a unique wall-deco-
ration scheme. It was a police museum.
“Watch her take this one in first gear."
,and the walls were festooned with the
ropes with which despondents of the past
30 years had used as a means of passing
on. And, oddly, few were thick ; prefer-
ence seemed to run to the common
hempen clothesline, though some had
favored sash cord, and three a stout fish-
ing line. Apparently a successful self-
hanging isn’t done with a heavy rope ;
possibly a last-moment repentance, as the
noose grips the windpipe, enables the user
of a thick rope to get a grip and rescue
himself —a matter rather difficult once a
thin cord had tightened. All had case
records attached. Some were of new
rope, obviously bought for the job;
others were weatherbeaten, where the
cadaver had hung for weeks, even
months, in the bush, without being dis-
covered. One determined soul had done
the job with No. 8 fencing wire.
* * * *
“Narrin”: There was an icy south-
west gale blowing downstream —a dinghy
could just make headway—but the
young black duck, so small that he’d never
even heard of feathers, was riding what
must have been mountainous waves to
him with absolute nonchalance. And he
could swim under water, too, though
only a few inches, as he proved when I
chased him down-current. He had been
blown out of the lagoon, and I restored
him to his brothers and sisters —13 of
’em —who were riding at anchor in a
patch of duckweed in the lee of a snag
200 yards in from the river.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: No, the spadger isn’t
purely a seed-eater (B, 2/12//42). Out-
back I used to think he was, but on
moving into a suburb it suddenly struck
me that all the spags about the place
must have a thin time finding seeds, so
I watched ’em. I’ve seen them chase
moths and gnats as eagerly as a wag-
tail, and in any city park they can be
seen squabbling with pigeons and star-
lings for crumbs of bread, cake and
cheese, bits of meat and other tucker
from the office-flapper’s lunch. My own
opinion is that the spag, always a city
bird, could never have been much of a
seed-eater till he struck the Australian
outback. No city could supply the seeds
necessary to feed the hordes of spags
in Sydney, anyhow.
* * * *
“Ex-Greasy”: I was a bit staggered to
read (B. 2/12/’42): “The ‘gun’ took over
the machine and sheared the one remain-
ing poddy up to standard.” In my time
it was always “shore.” It would be funny
to hear a greasy saying “Yair, I sheared
at Isis Downs an’ Big Burrawang an’ all
them big sheds. Sheared me 120 a day,
too.” Webster recognises shore as a
form of shear “used among sheep-raisers
in Australia” and the O.E.D. defines
it as a verb, past tense of shear.
* * * ♦
“Old Camp”: Contemplating the
thimbleful that one now gets for sixpence
and hearing Aboliars and others still
talking about pots, my old-man’s memory
goes back 40 years and more. Regardless
of the opinion or censure of all wowsers.
I claim with pride that the beeriest place
Australia ever knew was the Coolgardie-
Kalgoorlie goldfields. When it had to be
dragged 300 miles by horse team the
stingo was a trifle expensive, but before
the present century got into its stride one
could buy a whole pint, and in a pewter
pot with a glass bottom, in any Kalgoorlie
pub for the nimble sixpence. And with
some accumulated wealth of the ’fields,
one could adjourn to Perth, a mere 375
miles, and there buy an imperial pint for
threepence. There were even times when
wassail was given away. With the laud-
able idea of developing the building trade
the Government granted liquor licenses
without stint; and no one thought of
opening a new pub without making the
first day a free house. From 12 noon to
12 midnight everything passed over the
bar gratis. Nor did this result in a
Bacchanalian orgy; it was common to
see the newly-fledged publican standing
at his bar-door practically begging
passers-by to step in and sample the
brew, though pubs further along the
street were doing a roaring trade.
♦ * * *
“B. A. Ker”: One of Nature’s most
fascinating characteristics is her versa-
tility. Even in the gait of birds she has
exercised her penchant for variety.
Finches move in quick, nervous hops ;
sparrows also hop but with a self-assured
air and a series of lightning bounds that,
proportionately, shame a kangaroo.
Willie Wagtail combines a flutter and
hop, up and down, sideways and forward,
all in one movement, like a feathered
jumping-jack. The peewee has a mincing,
stately walk, unlike the cockatoo, which
waddles like a drunken sailor. Ground-
larks run in short bursts, but the peewee
lark —unexpectedly in a bird of its size
—hops. An ostrich walks with a gait
that could only be described as a cake-
walk. The swift I have never been able
to check up on, but, according to bush
tradition, a swift never lands on the
ground unless by misadventure, as its
wingspread is too great to permit of a
take-olf from a level place.
* * *
“Betcha”: When I rode across to Flash
Joe’s to pick up a bundle of old sacks
for a stack cover I found him sprawling
beneath a yellow-box while an old-time
jobber sweated over the woodheap. Joe
woke up enough to tell me where Fd find
the sacks, and after spending some time
sorting them out I got back as Mrs. Joe
brought out the tea billy and called the
jobber. Skilfully Joe steered the conver-
sation to anecdotes of other days, till
he had the old-timer going properly.
“You can have another five minutes off
yet he allowed magnanimously as the
old bloke was about to rise. “Now, what
was you saying about them wild horses?”
Ten minutes later the jobber returned to
the axe. “What’s the idea?” I asked as
Joe produced pencil and paper and started
scribbling. “Well, y’ see,” he chuckled,
“I just hate cutting wood, so I put this
cove on to do it, and then write up his
yarns for a paper I know. ’Course,
though, I got t’ keep him on ’em till I
can get enough out of it to pay his
wages.” “It’s a great idea, all right,” I
agreed, wondering as I forked out the
five bob I owed him for the sacks if
there’s any limit to this business of
finance.
* * * «
“Jurumudi”: The “millionaire’s salad”
mentioned in “What Americans Are Say-
ing” (B. 25 /11 / ’42) as being common
provender for soldiers at Milne Bay,
N.G., is probably what the Malays call
umbut. Umbut is the heart of the coco-
nut-tree, and its extraction involves the
death of the tree. Consequently it is to
the lowly islanders what caviare is to
European epicures. My Chinese cook
once served it as a salad when I told
him I was inviting a neighboring planter
to dinner and wanted him to turn out
something special. The planter was
delighted at getting a taste of something
he had often heard of but never expected
to feel on his palate. When he returned
to his plantation next morning he found
six of his trees had been mysteriously
felled and the delicate hearts extracted.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”; Take a Scots-Australian
stockman and put him on a farm and
almost certainly you’ll hear of miracles
of invention exceeding all the fencing-
wire patents of the earlier pioneers.
There is one scratching the sand in this
southern S.A. district and suffering, with
the rest, the effects of the labor shortage.
Harvest-time has come and there is no
one available to drive the tractor. But
the ingenuity of Highland ancestry and
bush education —he hailed from Mount
Poole, where Sturt once spent an uncom-
fortable summer—has stood the long
bloke in good stead. He rides the
stripper in as much comfort as the local
mallee roots allow and drives the tractor
by means of rope reins.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was so late
on the job the other morning that I rode
across to see what was wrong. His voice
reached me from the home paddock,
where he was stalking his pony. “Now,
I ain’t holdin’ out on y’, Toby,” he
wheedled. “Y’ know me better’n that.
Ain’t I shared with y’ these twelve years
an’ more? ’Struth, it ain’t my fault.” I
rounded a scrub patch and sighted the
ancient pair. The old fellow had both
hands out in front coaxingly, and from
a short distance the nag, legs braced and
neck straining forward, was executing
some long-range sniffs. Seventyfiver’s
step forward sent the suspicious brute
into reverse, and finally a strategic dash
ended the overtures in a snorting rout.
When these manoeuvres had been re-
peated several times in different parts of
the paddock, and every entreaty and
thieat had been exhausted, the old chap
turned to me and let go. “What a coun-
try!” he roared, dashing his hat savagely
on the ground. “What a flamin’ Govern-
ment! Once a man was up agin nothin
but a few reasonable droughts, floods,
plagues, wild pests, bad seasons, scrub,
bracken and starvation prices. He did
have a chance! But with these ’ere
damn’ control boards! An’ these cock-
eyed ration commissions! Aw, cnpes,
what’s the use o’ tryin’! ” “Maybe yre
right,” I blinked wonderingly ‘ out
what’s that got to do with it?” “Why,
he choked, “I wish the cow that allows
a man one lousy pound o’ sugar a week
had t’ live with my nag for the last three
days of it.”
THE OUTCAST.
in a shadow-haunted wood,
Where the world in evil mood
From its councils banished her,
Strays a lonesome wanderer.
While for vanished scenes she grieves
Under drooping limbs and leaves,
There day-through, night-through, she
roams,
Exiled from men’s hearts and homes.
Borne upon the passing breeze,
As she paces ’neath the trees,
Ne’er a singing bird she hears
Making sweetness for her ears;
But, instead, to her there come
Battle-call and beat of drum,
And from dawn till day grows late
Voices hissing death and hate.
And as raging, black and blind,
Havoc shouts upon the wind,
Undertoning all she hears
Sounds that sting her eyes to tears.
Sounds that tell of hearth and heart
Fireless, loveless, rent apart;
By the hands of cruel Fate
Made forever desolate.
In that shadow-haunted wood,
Where the world in evil mood
From its councils banished her,
Thus mourns Peace, a wanderer.
Nf.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Bo”: “1 useter think,” said Long
Alec, “that this stunt about a cove’s
hair goin’ white overnight on account
of a shock was all boloney until I see
old Sam Thurston the day after he
sobered up from a bender to find that
he’d been dossin’ on the edge of a
1000 ft. precipice. In his case it changed
his hair from white back to jet black!
There was a painful silence until the
little man with the washed-out blue eyes
sitting in the corner spoke up: “Yair, a
shock can change a bloke right enough,”
he corroborated. “Worked one time for
a cove named Dan O’Shaunnessy up at
Wee Waa. One hot day he’s standin’ in
the paddock moppin’ his head when a
six-foot goanna, chased be some birds
down from a near-by gum, mistakes him
for a stump an’ scoots straight up his
back an’ gets a claw-hold on Dan’s scone,
Dan daren’t move an’ risk a bite, which
he’d heard never healed up. He couldn’t
yell out, and he had to stay like that for
a hour until I come an’ shot the
go. When the head flew off two
inches away from Dan’s ear he fainted.
Well, he shook all that day an’ all the
next, an’ I could see a change cornin’
over him. On the Saturday mornin’ Dan
comes out after breakfast clobbered up
in his best suit an’ puts the horse in the
trap. Bridget, his missus, wants to know
where he’s goin’. ‘To church, o’ course,’
says Dan. ‘But you’ve got mixed up
with the days, Dan,’ she says. ‘There’s
no church on Saturday!’ ‘Mixed up,
nothin’!’ Dan snaps back. ‘You ought
to know that Saturday’s the day I go
to the Synagogue! ’ ”
» » • »
“J.D.P.”: Dysentery cures, is it? In
W.A. the famous Coolgardie cure was
retailed at any pub for two bob a nip.
The coiled white vegetable inside re-
sembled peeled strips of the arrowroot
orchid, which is plentiful on dead timber.
A decoction of these stems will in itself
stop the rot. Other proven bush cures
are Sida retusa leaves, chewed and swal-
lowed, and drinks made from the gum of
the bloodwood or the boiled bark of the
gum-tree. The degree of bitterness
acceptable to the palate indicates the
strength of the dose. These would tighten
a Scotchman’s purse. Abo. stockmen
often chewed and ate various gums, but
I noticed that they always appealed
to me for medicine afterwards. The
old-time shepherds and lags swore by
fi esh sheep pills chased by a pannikin of
hot‘tea. Perhaps there was no option
about austerity in those times.
* * * *
“K.”: The volunteer fire brigade at
Bullanbullock was a happy-go-lucky con-
cern until Jim Henderson lobbed in the
township. Jim was of the type that
novelists refer to as a “dynamic per-
sonality,” though if anyone had called
him that James would have had his coat
off before the penultimate syllable had
been uttered. In no time he had placed
himself at the head of the brigade, and
the era of ragtime methods and indo-
lence gave way to a period of intensive
training under Jim’s keen direction.
Inter-district fire-brigade competitions
were arranged, and Jim dug the spurs
into his team harder than ever in prepara-
tion for them. One evening he had them
out with the ladder up against Munro’s
bakery, practising taking the hose up to
the top and later rescuing “victims” that
were supposed to be trapped up in the
flour loft. As a final flutter he sprang
his surprise on the team. “Now here’s a
test for an emergency,” he announced.
“I’ve just cut the hose. Now assoom
you’ve just arrived at a fire and the hose
has accidentally been dragged across
something sharp. Well, what are y’ wait-
ing for?” As the team searched with
the hurricane-lamps to mend the break
a cyclist dashed madly down the street.
“Hey, you blokes, can’t y’ see?” he
yelled. “Creswell’s store up the other
end o’ the town’s alight, an’ she’s burnin’
like hell!” With their minds at last
jerked off the work in hand, the enthu-
“I've got a Dago batman now. He's had his hands up so long he can't
get 'em down, but he's a bonzer hat-rack."
siasts looked and saw a deep red glow in
the sky and sparks leaping upwards. As
the editor of the Jumbaloo and Bullan-
bullock “Budget” said in the next issue,
“Jim Henderson and his team effected a
brilliant save of the concrete floor.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Once heard a dingo-stiffener
out from Nevertire (N.S.W.) predict that
the pure strain of the warrigal would
gradually be watered down, owing to the
number of domestic dogs gone bush and
the deliberate crossing with the cattle-
dog to produce better “heeler” strains.
Certainly the cross strains have become
numerous, but in the New England dis-
tricts, at least, the pure-bred dingo is
seemingly in no danger of extinction.
Colors vary, though most are yellowish
with a black muzzle. All are rather on
the underslung side and thickset, and
the four white socks, white blaze on the
chest and white tip at the tail are invari-
able indications of the native dog’s pure
strain. With plenty of light scrub coun-
try still available to him far from the
haunts of man, and his own cunning and
evasiveness to help him, it will be a long
time yet before the dingo is fully
absorbed into domestic tykedom.
“Aratta”: It was a drizzling afternoon,
and Dad and Dave were cutting chaff
with a hand machine. Dad was feeding
and Dave was sweating at the handle
when a middle-aged chap, carrying a
swag, showed his face in at the door of
the chaff house. He gave a gasp, and
moved off hurriedly. Dad stopped his
“What kind of a steward do you think you are? Serving pork without
apple-sauce!"
labors and raced out after him. “Hi!”
he cried. “Wait a minit, you. What’s up
with y’?” “Nothin’,” said the other in
an anguished sort of voice. “Let me go! ”
“Not on y’r life I won’t,” said Dad in
a determined tone. “Not till I find out
what y’ come here fer?” “I wus lookin’
fer a job,” replied the other. “Well,”
said Dad in a puzzled voice, “why didn’t
y’ ask fer one ’stead of tearin’ orf like
this? I can give y’ a job if y’ want one,
start y’ right away,” and he nodded
towards the chaff house. The swagman
glanced fearfully back at the building,
at the door of which Dave was standing
wiping his forehead. “No, thanks,” he
cried tearfully. Dad looked at him in
amazement. “What the hell’s wrong with
y’?” he said angrily. “Y’ say y’ want a
job, an when I offer y’ one y’ won’t take
it. Are y’ loopy or what?” “No, I ain’t,”
replied the other. “But it’s this way. 1
cleared out from home a few days ago.
Me ole woman ran a laundry, an’ my job
in it wus everlastin’ turnin’ the flamin’
mangle, till it near drove me barmy, an’
that” —waving an agitated hand towards
the chaff house —“is the first job I’ve been
offered since!”
* * * *
“T.V.”: In the days before Hitler ran
amuck I used to pay up to a shilling each
for chisel-pointed lettering nibs, but,
anticipating austerity, I’ve used nothing
else for the last two years but turkey
quills. They’re even better than the steel
job, their only drawback being that they
don’t hold the ink so long. In two
minutes’ work with a razor blade one
can make a pen to exactly the width
required.
$ * « w
“Bumpk”: Strange as it may seem, the
vegetable drive in Victoria has caused a
lot of heartburning in some districts.
People from the city got a bit of land by
a creek which had never been used for
anything but to graze a few cows, put in
an engine and a pump and in a few
months were irrigating several acres of
cauliflowers and potatoes. At the be-
ginning the villagers predicted failure ;
but when the venture turned out so well
they concluded that the newcomers
were agricultural wizards, though there
was nothing extraordinary in their per-
formance, since the ground was virgin
soil and only needed to be ploughed to
become fertile. One old identity had a
grouch, however, which he vented in the
pub. “These city blokes are allowed to
pump water out of the creek, and here
I’ve been wantin’ to pump water out of
it for 30 years and I haven’t been
allowed.” One of the New Era farmers
happened to overhear him. “Did you
ever apply for a permit?” he asked the
disgruntled cocky. The old-style cocky
confessed that he’d never thought of it.
» * * *
“N.”: Bring on your flash pointers
and setters and other canine wonders!
Wounded a rabbit at dusk on a recent
day, but lost him in a thicket of tobacco
bush. Called the cats, and Bit-o’-String
responded. He knew quite well what
was up—don’t ask me how—and he
found the rabbit, made a point at it apci
waited for me. If the bunny had moved
it would have been dead meat, but as it
stayed put —well, it was the boss s rabbit
and not to be touched.
* # * *
“C.Q.”: The writer of the gardening
notes in a Melbourne daily has suggested
that there might be something in the old
traditional belief that pumpkins, melons,
beans and peas should be sown before
the moon is full, and lettuce, cabbage and
celery when it begins to wane. Most
Southern Europeans in Victoria follow
this or a similar practice, and some of
them even plant by moonlight. They
come from countries where agricultural
departments and bureaux of scientific
research are unknown or remote and
where the calendar that is followed is
Nature’s. When a particular bush begins
to put forth buds the farmer tells his
sons that the ploughing must be started,
as his father probably did before him
and his father before him, back to the
dawn of history. And the thing works.
♦ * # *
“Nakhoda”: A report that the first
patient at a med. station in Papua
was a 25-year-old native with a spear
wound, the result of a tribal feud in the
remote interior, recalls an “operation”
at which I assisted in Borneo. I was
staying with a district officer when an
elderly native tried to disembowel him-
self by thrusting his parang into his
intestines. The d.o. and I knew about
as much of surgery as we did of the
binomial theorem. Undismayed, how-
ever, the d.o. consulted a textbook that
happened to be in the station library and
decided to have a go at the old fellow.
He put the organs back, more or less in
their right order, and had just got the
would-be suicide stitched up when the
patient drew a long breath and blew all
his innards out again. The d.o. pains-
takingly repeated the operation, with the
same result. An anaesthetic was indi-
cated, and, the situation having now be-
come desperate, the d.o. seized a heavy
billet of wood, hit his patient over
the head with it and finalised the opera-
ation for the third time, giving the head
a fresh tap every time he saw conscious-
ness returning. A fortnight later his
patient was walking round as if nothing
had happened.
“M. Dee”: Dad had been
asked to speak at the big
loan drive to be held in the
School of Arts hall at Hillygibba,
and between that and the cur-
rent heat-wave he had reached
fever pitch. Mum had advised
him to discard his woollen sing-
let for one of the silk ones
young Joe had left when last on
leave. He would find them in
her drawer. It was a great rush
getting to the meeting, but Dad
somehow flung himself into his
clothes. When he got up to
speak, however, instead of the
flow of expected oratory his
mind kept running off the proper
track and his speech was a halt-
ing, lame affair. Upon reach-
ing home he made an immediate
beeline for the bedroom. A
terrific roar drew the family to
the door. There they beheld
Dad standing in Mum’s petticoat
—a pre-war lingerie triumph. In
his haste he had pulled it on as
. Joe’s singlet. The family agreed
that a long silken garment
slithering behind his knees every
time he moved would scarcely
be conducive to clear marshal-
ling of arguments.
“Jayem”: Long Harry and Red Victor
had jointly acquired a racing greyhound,
but, despite careful training and expen-
sive feeding, the hound repeatedly finished
last. Coming home from the, latest cours-
ing meeting, when their dog had again
shown his consistency, they decided that
they would no longer be connected with
the sport as owners. “What’ll we do with
the blasted mong—put a bullet into
him?” asked Vic. “Why waste a good
bullet?” asked the long ’un. “Just take
his flamin’ collar off and we’ll run away
from him.”
BUSH HONEY.
Here is captured sunshine
Caught in the drowsy noon
From the hearts of fainting blossoms,
Where the lucerne flowers swoon.
Here is the tang of summer.
The strong sweet taste of hay,
The breath of the northwmd, burning,
The greedy thirst of day.
Essence of clustered gum blooms
And purple Darling pea,
The stars of wild clematis
And deep, white dogwood tree.
Here is the smell of dawning,
Spiced with rain-on-dust,
Jewelled with golden bubbles
From the swelling river’s bust.
Here is the outback color,
The white, bright flame of stars.
The wood-smoke blue of evening,
The sunset’s dappled bars;
Fused, by a tireless magic
Of work and ceaseless wings,
In a golden drop of bushland
Fit for the spoons of kings.
n.s.w.
OLD-TIMER.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
,PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
a
IHIHIBIBB
SSShESS
*OSS®2
&
\VS
%
m
X
\S*
ls 2
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
[Manager W. G. Bulfin
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREL,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fat Lambs Up North.
“Dalby Road”: The difficulty of get-
ting good crossbred ewes handicaps the
turn-off of fat lambs from the Darling
Downs. There’s a chance for graziers
on the fringe of the country to cross long-
woofled British rams with their c.f.a. ewes
and work the ewe lamb's into the Downs
as lamb mothers. If that could be done,
and a Downs type of ram used on the
ewes, the rest would be easy.
Border Leicester, Romney Marsh or
Lincoln rams put to strong-woolled,
robust sorts of merino ewes should get
an almost ideal type of crossbred ewe
for lamb-raising. In Queensland 98 p.c.
of the sheep are merinos, and from them
must come the mothers of a lat-lamb in-
dustry. Good prices are generally on
hand for good crossbred ewes, and where
the classing shows a line of strong-
woolled merino ewes running overmuch
to strength of fibre and general rough-
ness they could be better culled for cross-
breeding than sold to the local butcher.
Lamb-breeders want sizable ewes of
sound constitution, and the big western
merinos have both. What’s more, they
can send it on to the progeny per the
big-framed English longwools, especially
if the latter have become hardened
through several generations of Australian
conditions. Having his crossbreds, the
lamb-breeder next needs a good lamb
sire. Southdowns are fashionable at
present, but a Southdown lamb must
keep growing from birth to block; one
check and it’s not a fat lamb. Dorsets,
on the other hand, are quick-maturing
and hardy. So are Border Leicesters, and
they have the added advantage of a
higher skin value. If good Corriedales
can be got all the better, since they yield
both lambs and wool,
A Westralian Benefactor.
“W.J.P.”: When the rabbitproof fence
from Esperance Bay to Condon (W.A.)
was completed, a lot of the camels used
on it were sold, broken to harness and
used for wagon work. The packsaddles
that had come with them from India
were stored in a lumber room in Port
Hedland. In time the stuffing burst away
and littered the room and was dumped
in the backyard. After some time grass
grew and spread from the dump, a most
unusual thing in a place of marsh and
sandhill. It was traced to the saddles
and identified as buffel grass from India.
Now it covers, the Port Hedland common.
Settlers gathered and sowed the seed.
It did well and improved some holdings
almost 50 p.c. Some was sent to other
towns on the nor’-west coast. I got some
seed from the Ashburton Roads Board
and planted it in the garden. Now I
can’t get it out. A prolific seeder, it has
spread all over the horse-paddock and
to other parts of the run.
It was some years before the stock
took to it, but today they’ll pass every-
thing else to get at it. Years of self-
reproduction has made it a native grass.
Meilga Creek in flood used to cut chan-
nels all over the flat, and tons of soil
were washed away. The buffel grass has
stopped that. It grows in thick tufts
about 2ft. high, and the flood simply
flows over it and lays it down. No soil
can get away, and the tufts catch debris
and silt and hold them.
We have another grass here that may
be worth while. We call it Birdwood be-
cause General Birdwood gave some seed
to Captain Craig, his son-in-law, who
has a station in the Gascoyne district.
Birdwood is similar to buffel and grows
well. It has a larger seed and seems to
attract cattle.
Fodder Storage.
“Idalia”: No place needs it more than
Central Queensland. In lush seasons in
these parts the stock can’t cope with the
growth, and all too often it is left to
rot on the ground. Cut when the seed-
head has just formed, most of the grasses
make good hay or silage, and the cost
is more than offset when a dry spell
comes.
Rhodes grass is plentiful in scrub and
rain forest country, and makes good con-
“Give us a lift, mate!”
served stuff. Lucerne, of course, stands
alone. Enough can be stored in good
times for several bad times, and the stand
usually comes away again with the first
iaia a a c ‘ r T sPea-
, A qmck-growmg crop that will respond
to light rams is handy, Sudan grass is
[han millet . * ffl grow on com .
paratively poor soil, gives heavy yields
throughout the season, stands repeated
cutting and gives feed well into winter,
The sorghums give bulky, nutritious
fodder, and stand dry weather better than
maize. They’re a great combination with
Sudan and cowpeas for silage,
Subdivision where possible is a good
beginning, because it not only allows the
stock to get the best out of the paddocks
but allows for resting and reseeding
while other paddocks are eaten down,
Further, young, green grass is better feed
than old stuff, and rotational grazing is
the best way to get it.
Seed Maize.
“Y. Dent”: Select the seed carefully.
aii t f
All sorts of have to be watched.
including the habit of pollen to tra e
long distances and cross-pollmate crops.
If you can’t keep the pollen oft arrange
sowing so that your seed maize will tassel
on its own. Local seed beats imported,
which is another reason why it pays to
grow your own Select the seed ic! the
held from a stand that has matured
naturally, is dry and free from disease
The ears, compared with the stalk, should
be large and on upright plants. One
good single ear on a plant is better than
two mediocre ones, but, if you can, take
two good ears from the same plant.
The ear should be at a medium height
on the stalk. Too high means hard har-
vesting ; too low means interference from
weeds and slow drying after rain. The
smaller the sucker growth the better the
plant. Ears should be firmly stuck on
and should droop when ripe. Cob points
should be well covered with husk as a
guard against pests and weather. The
cob should be of moderate size, cylin-
drical, with well-filled butt and tip and
a high grain percentage. The grain should
be typical of the variety in shape, color
and size, and should be tightly placed in
regular straight lines on the cob. Don’t
use or try to sell seed maize of mixed
color.
rr r> • k
l .ts. in atocic.
“Doody”: Symptoms of tuberculosis
in cattle can easily be confused with
other diseases. Slow emaciation, low
yield of milk and a poor, staring coat
often indicate t.b. Other symptoms are
a soft, persistent cough, snoring or
grunting in the throat and a gradual,
painless swelling of the lymphatic
glands. In pigs the disease is difficult
to detect until inspection after slaughter,
First symptoms in fowls are general
weakness and loss of weight, low egg
production, pale comb, ruffled feathers
and gradual emaciation. Later they be-
come drowsy and keep to themselves.
In a post-mortem exam, on cattle look
for abscesses in the lungs, lymphatic or
mammary glands which will contain a
yellowish, cheesy pus. Sometimes nodules
of pus will be found on the inner wall of
the chest or abdomen. Innumerable
seedlike abscesses in the organs, particu-
larly the lungs, liver and kidneys, indicate
militant t.b. T.b. pus has no disagreeable
smell. In pigs the abscesses are usually
found in the lymphatic glands of the
head, throat and intestines. Sometimes
the lungs are affected. In fowls
the nodules are in the ovaries, liver,
lining of abdominal cavity, the mem-
brane from which the intestines are
suspended and the intestines themselves,
These lesions are greyish-white pearl-
like lumps and vary in size from a pin-
head to a pea.
There is no treatment; eradication of
affected stock is the only check. If de-
tected in the dairy herd apply the tuber-
culin test. Average percentage of infec-
tion discovered in Queensland tests is
about 7 p.c. for coastal herds and less
than 1 p.c. for inland herds. If fowls
get t.b. the best thing to do is to dispose
of the whole flock under proper inspec-
tion.
Seed Treatment.
“H.C.”: Dusting vegetable seeds isn t
100 p.c. insurance, but it’s a great safe-
guard. In most cases copper dust can
be used at the rate of one level teaspoon
to the pound of seed and organic-
mercury dust at one-quarter to one-half
level teaspoon. Put the seed and dust in
a tin and shake vigorously for five
minutes ; to get rid of excess dust run
the seeds over a sheet of newspaper.
Pumpkin, squash, melon, cucumber,
carrot and spinach seeds respond best to
dusting. So do red and silver beet. For
the last, increase the dosage to four level
teaspoons copper dust per pound of seed,
or one teaspoon per pound of organic-
mercury dust. For peas allow 2oz. of
copper dust per bushel, loz. organic-
mercury dust. Don’t dust peas that have
been given nodule-producing bacteria.
For cabbage, broccoli, brussels sprouts,
cauliflower, kohlrabi and turnips tie ilb.
of the seed loosely in a cheesecloth bag
and hang it in a kerosene-tin of water
heated to 122 deg. F. Maintain the water
at even heat. Give cabbage 25 minutes
immersion and the rest 18 minutes.
Celery seed needs 135 deg. F. and soak-
age time cut to 10 minutes. Dry all seed
quickly in the shade. Tomato seed gets
full protection from either of the dusts
or if steeped in mercuric chloride (ioz.
in 12i pints water) for five minutes;
wash for 15 minutes and then dry. All
of these chemicals are
poisonous.
Hints far the Farm.
“Mullengah”: One
way of coping with the
blowfly is to burn the
carcasses of any dead
sheep immediately they
are discovered. Myriads
of flies breed in rotting
carcasses. Sprinkling
the skin with a solution
of arsenic usually gives
a good kill of flies.
‘Sailor Bill”: Dairy-
men can’t get better
than couch grass. It
sends out long runners
that root into the
ground at intervals and
forms a heavy mass of
roots that enable it to
withstand much tramp-
ling. Once established,
neither drought, heavy
grazing, poor soil nor
ploughing will worry it
much.
“Wowagin”: When ploughing red soil
tbe mouldboards should be scraped with
a WO oden batten sharpened to a chisel
po int at one end. A shovel or old plough-
share scores the mouldboards and pre-
vents them from cleanng themselves,
“B.”; From one-half to an inch of the
subsoil is enough to plough up each rota-
tion. Keep an eye on the furrow depth,
and when too much subsoil is brought
up raise the set. If this doesn’t give a
good seedbed it may be that the pad-
docks need a subsoil ploughing and work-
in S down.
“Mt. Boppy”: Don t harvest linseed
until it is thoroughly dry and ripe. Com-
plete maturity, high oil content and clean-
ness make value. Some prefer to har-
vest a rough sample and clean it after it
has dried in the bags by running it
through a stationary machine,
“Caltowie”: It’s necessary to control
swarming of bees at this time of year,
Provide plenty of supers, preferably with
combs. If supers with frames fitted with
comb foundation have to be used put
them under a working colony, not above
it. If a super of foundation must go
over the brood chamber, put in a drawn
comb or two as bait to draw the bees
to begin work. Or use a couple of estab-
fished frames from the brood nest
below ; take them from each side and


PROVIDES THE SAME COMFORT AND SAFETY AS CITY SEWERAGE
WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
Besides Typhoid, Dysentery and serious diseases, many minor affections such as
Septic Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chills and Colds can he traced to unhygienic closets.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and runs off into the soil.
It eliminates closet pans and saves sanitary rates.
IT PREVENTS THE SPREAD OF THE BLOWFLY PEST.
There is no emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health and is fully guaranteed. Over 2200 in use.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Ply. Ltd, ¥^: E SSr T ’ ssnNKV -
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 125% Sales Tax.
Plus 25/- war surcharge; crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
Obtainable direct from ns or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide: Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; E. P. Mclnemey and Co., Ltd., Perth.
For Inflamed
SOLD E 1
H. A. Rose & Co. P
Eyes and Eyelids
fEHYWHERE
—,
Ss*.
Wireless alone can meet the
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT ★ CONSTANT ★ CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRO
RADIO VALVES
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD,,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
L
m
i
-
m
THE
a
D
16V2 inch
SHAPER
15 f
W *:X<r K
•• v •• • X-; ;<-;viv. .-..ntuw&ft* &-«!r ' v .
■K*: .1
f&&*y S&afl _, ...
wm&wk <Br‘ ■ J*£'
For
Immediate
Delivery
.: ■ ‘
' V S:' ;
-
ill
: %•. '"V
m
'i
1 n
ip
. J
:
n
■
A HIGH-SPEED MACHINE
FOR ALL CLASSES OF SHAPING WORK
Features of the Dubois High
Speed Shaper are:—
1. Machine can be OPERATED FROM
ONE SIDE, a!! handles being within
reach of the operator.
2. T-slotted MACHINED BASE PLATE
for fixing large castings.
3. "START-STOP" LEVER in handy
position for easy control.
MAIN FRAME is an integral Box
Section casting, well proportioned and
strongly cross ribbed.
4-STEP CONE PULLEY DRIVE ol
ample bell area and width.
IMPROVED SWIVEL TYPE TOOL
HEAD mounted on Graduated Base.
Shafts may be passed right through
machine for KEY-WAY CUTTING.
ETC.
The Dubois runs very smoothly at high speed and has been designed lor long
continuous service without adjustment. Ask us for complete details, specifications,
etc.
Manufactured by
TVf np C MACHINE TOOL
iTJ.nA\u Manufactg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Telephone 822T7 (3 Lines) , _ 9 „ _ 1 _, .
Telegrams “rand." Brisbane (Formerly Ropson & Dutton Pty. Ltd.)
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
then, when put above, they can be
allowed to hang down into the spaces
they left" and readjusted as soon as the
bees begin work in the new quarters.
Too much honey in a brood frame re-
stricts full extension of brood rearing
and may cause swarming. Relieve the
position by moving a couple of the over-
loaded combs up to the first super and
replacing them with empties. Ample
hive-entrance ventilation checks swarm-
ing ; so do the working of young Italian
queens and the selection of non-swarming
breeding stock.
“L. Cove”: The old queen must be
removed or killed before the new one’s
introduced to the beehive. Then run
the new queen into a short test tube
about iin. in diameter, pour a little luke-
warm water sweetened with honey into
the tube and rock it up and down gently.
When the queen’s thoroughly wet, tilt
her with the water into the centre brood
comb and replace the lid quickly.
“B.”; Four soybean varieties are
recommended for N.S.W. —Otootan on
the coast for fodder and green manure
and Easy Cook, Potch 169 and Haber-
landt on the Tablelands for seed. Culti-
vation is similar to that for Little Navy
beans. W. T. Hilliard, of Armidale, grew
one of the State’s best crops last season,
using all three varieties. Yields have
averaged 12 to 15 bushels per acre, and
the Department of Supply and Develop-
ment is offering 255. per bushel for 98
p.c. grade, on contract.
“F.0.F.”: When the baby beef from
the Metropolitan Board of Works farm
at Werribee (Vic.) was declared unfit for
human consumption, tenders were called
for its disposal, and for some years
Carter Bros., who run 200,000 White
Leghorns, held the rights and at times
employed as many as six butchers to
kill and prepare the carcasses. The
chooks lapped it up and managed to pro-
duce 10 p..c. of the Victorian egg total.
Now the ban on the beef has been lifted
and Carter Bros, are seeking other means
to satisfy the needs of 200,000 fowls.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
Wellington Point: The warts on the heifers
are caused by a virus and are infectious, though
not markedly so. They may spread rapidly on
affected animals. The larger ones may be
ligated at the base with strong silk thread and
smaller ones touched with caustic sticks. A
drop of nitric acid on each wart is effective,
but should not be used with the caustic stick.
Outback Occasions.
No. 65.
FATHER'S PAIN.
It started one morning about three
o’clock. Our brother woke me up and told
me to listen. I listened, and from our
father’s room there came the sounds of
a strong man in agony. Then we heard
Mother talking to him and Father
answering, between groans, that he had
a pain “there. No, not there. There.”
Presently Mother appeared with a light
and ordered our brother to light the fire
and get some hot water. The look on her
face scared me out, too, and I helped
him. After we put the water on we went
into Father’s room.
“I’m all right,” he gasped. “It’s only
a pain in the stomach. Must’ve et some-
thin’.” His face was white and his brow
was wet.
“Must be a pretty decent pain,” said
our brother, eyeing him. Father groaned.
We stood around, helpless as the male
sex usually is when sickness befalls a
home, and waited for Mother. She came
in with a bowl of steaming water and
some rags. Father sat up and said “Hey,
what’re y’ goin’ t’ do?”
“Hot foments,” said Mother firmly,
“are the best things for pain.”
“You’re not puttin’ that scaldin’ water
on me,” Father asserted.
“Don’t be childish, dear,” said Mother,
dipping wads of rag in the hot water.
She ordered our brother and me to ex-
pose Father’s stomach and then she put
one of the steaming wads on it. Father
let out a yell and winced away. For the
next 20 minutes we dabbed his stomach
with hot wads and Father winced and
protested and then said the pain was
gone.
“Are you sure?” Mother asked. The
cure had been suspiciously sudden. Father
swore it and turned over as though to go
to sleep.
When daylight came Father still looked
as though he were suffering and an-
nounced that he didn’t want any break-
fast. That threw Mother into a turmoil
of anxiety. She felt his pulse and his
brow and anxiously asked if he felt hot
and made him put out his tongue and
flex his arms.
“Don’t fuss, woman,” Father snorted,
“I’ll be all right.”
Father was a great believer in the old
bush axiom that most sickness can be
cured by hard work, and he wanted to
get out in the paddock. Mother wouldn’t
hear of it.
“You can’t tell me,” she said. “I’ve
been looking after you for twenty years
and any time you haven’t any appetite
you’re sick. It might be appendicitis or
ulcers or” —she hesitated, then nerved
herself and added—“poison.”
Father jumped. “Poison! ” he repeated,
and went whiter than ever. Like most
men he had his private fears, and one of
them was poison. Years before he and
a mate had been on an outback track
and came to a waterhole. The mate took
a big drink and shouted to Father not to
touch the water. Then he took convul-
sions and almost died before Father could
get help. It turned out that some station-
hand had been told to poison the water
against rabbits and put up a notice. He
hadn’t put up the notice and he’d made
a thorough job of the water. Father
had always had a fear of being poisoned
ever since.
“Look,” he said, “I still think it’s some-
thin’ I et, but do y’ reckon / ought t’
have an emetic?”
Mother said it wouldn’t do any harm,
so Father downed some salt and water.
When that failed, he swallowed some
cut-tobacco. He’d used it for poisoning
dogs. It worked—emphatically.
As the day wore on Mother became
almost as ill as Father with worry. In
secret and silence she showed us boys a
clipping from some paper or other that
was all about cancer and how it tackled
people in middle-age and so forth. It
was enough to frighten a week’s growth
out of anybody and, according to the
symptoms it mentioned, you could almost
bet on toothache being a sign of cancer.
She said Father ought to go to the doctor.
Father opposed the idea. Doctors were
all right, he said, but it was silly to run
to them with every little pain. He’d be
all right if only people would stop fuss-
ing.
“You’re like all men,” Mother said
and started to cry. “You think you’re
immortal or something and you’d die on
my hands and not do anything about it.
If you’d see the doctor it would set all
our minds at rest, even if it is only some-
thing you ate.”
“Blow the doctor,” snorted Father, “I
got work to do.” And he headed over to
the stables, but doubled up and fell half-
way, and when we got to him he was un-
conscious and sort of tied in a knot. Our
brother took one look at him, another
at poor Mother’s stricken face, then took
command. He got the car, he and I man-
handled Father into it, we put Mother
in the back seat and did 50 m.p.h. into
town and the hospital, where they took
Father away from us.
A couple of hours later he was with-
out an appendix and pale about the gills.
They let him see us for a few minutes.
The doctor assured us heartily that he’d
recover and then, in an astonished voice,
remarked, “His appendix was quite
healthy. Looks as though something
violent occurred to inflame it suddenly.
He looked as though he’d swallowed
barbed wire or something. Strange.”
We thought of that tobacco emetic and
silently backed out of the ward, leaving
Mother happily fanning Father.


vtTAl fOODS
1 * °to economise in food ... and how to conserve the health and
nutritional values in every meal prepared... An AGA Cooker will
help you to solve those war-time problems, and save amazingly in
tnol fnn
The AGA Cooker operates on the scientific heat-storage principle,
retaining delicate flavours and nourishing juices in meat and vege-
tables, and reducing meat shrinkage to a minimum. The AGA ovens
are so capacious that complete meals, in substantial quantities, may
be cooked in one economical operation.
The AGA Cooker burns continuously, cooks fast or slow as you wish.
Fuel bills are almost unbelievably low. For instance. Model CS,
, c ‘ lty a “ d country homes. Is guaranteed not to use more than
wortll of fue l in a whole year, with coke at 35/- a ton, in
the city. (Freight increases price of fuel in country, but annual
consumption Is so low that amazing economy is possible anywhere
in Australia.)
AGA Cookers are heavily insulated, and finished with a sparkling
easily-cleaned vitreous-enamelled surface. An AGA equipped kitchen
stays cool in summer and comfortably warm In winter.
Made in Great Britain. Over 40,000 in use in the British Empire.
Guaranteed against faulty material and workmanship for ten (10) years.
Call tor demonstration, or write for illustrated AGA Catalogue 813.
conserved by
CooU*i*9
fuel too.
JkOmmd
COOKER
LEVIN & CO., LTD.
(Inc. in N.Z.). Estab. 1852.
45 King Street, Sydney.
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents:
Cotton, Farmer & Preston Ltd., Adelaide.
Western Australian Agents:
Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth.
Queensland Agents:
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op-
erative Assoc., Xitd., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents:
A. G. Webster & Sons, Hobart.
STATE EXPRESS
m
aimiysp&aSe /
This must he EVERYBODY’S Loan —
Buy Austerity Loan Bonds .
t»B9D-tI.4S
Our Service Department
Wants.
Words of Henry Lawson’s poem “Peter
Anderson and Co.” —3326.
Information Sought.
Some information regarding the life of Robert
I owns, after whom Townsville is said to have
been named?
i Towns was bom on November 10,
J 794 ( Australian Encyclopaedia gives 1791), at
Longhorsely, Northumberland, and died on
April 4, 1873, at his residence, Cranbrook,
Rose Bay, Sydney. He became a sea captain,
and established a mercantile house in Sydney,
employed many vessels in the island trade,
entered largely into pastoral pursuits and held
a number of stations in the north of Australia.
He was the first to introduce cotton cultivation.
In 1861 a port was established at Bowen and
Woodstock station was taken up by R. Towns,
J. M. Black and Andrew Stewart. Towns
wished to establish a boiling-down works and,
as he had some thousands of acres on the
shores of Cleveland Bay, the works went there,
and so Townsville was commenced in 1863.
* * * *
(1) What vitamins are required for human
consumption to ensure a healthy diet? (2) In
the daily supply of mineral matter, what essen-
tial foodstuffs must be consumed?
(1) Four principal vitamins are: A, necessary
for growth and the maintenance of resistance
to infection, present in considerable amount in
fish oils and fat, butter, egg-yolk, milk, cheese
and liver; B, a specific against deficiency dis-
eases like beri-beri and pellagra, present in
whole cereals, beans, peas, lentils, root and
green-leaf vegetables, fruits, nuts, milk, cheese,
egg-yolk, liver and kidney, also in yeast; C,
which prevents scurvy, present in varying degrees
in fresh fruits, tomatoes, green-leaf vegetables,
potatoes, carrots, etc.; D, essential for the
effective utilisation of calcium (lime), which is
to be deposited in the bones and teeth of the
body. In its absence the lime cannot be utilised,
the functions of the body run badly, the bones
and teeth are not properly formed, and the
condition of rickets may supervene. D is
found in fish oils, fats, egg-yolk, milk, butter
and leaf vegetables (lettuce, cabbage, spinach,
etc.). Its distribution in foods is somewhat
similar to that ot vitamin A, with which it is
closely associated. (2) The human body con-
tains about 71b. of mineral matter, of which
live-sixths is stored in the bone. The chief
mineral substances concerned are calcium
(lime), iron, phosphorus, iodine and chlorine.
Though these minerals supply no energy they
are of great importance in regulating the pro-
duction of energy in the body. Calcium is
needed by the muscles, iron by the tissues and
iodine to produce thyroid-gland secretion. The
amount of mineral matter (about 20 grammes
per day) in an ordinary mixed diet will supply
the requirements of the body for these minerals.
Dried fruits, such as dates, figs, prunes, cur-
rants and raisins, have a high mineral content.
* * * *
(1) In 1938 N.S.W. elections (a) were there
more women than men enrolled and (b) what
were the voting figures in contested electorates
of both sexes and their percentages ? (2) When
did women first vote at N.S.W. elections?
(1) (a) Yes, the women numbering 804,316,
the men 803,517; ( b ) polling in contested elec-
torates: men 633,079; votes recorded 608,727
(96.1 p.c.); women 635,901; votes recorded
606,767 (95.4 p.c.). (2) In 1904.
* * * *
What quick-growing climbing evergreen
plants are suitable to cover an unsightly fence ?
Make a choice from these: Cobea (Scandens,
purple; Alba, white); Jasminum (rose, white
and yellow), Lathyrus or everlasting pea
(white); Lonicera or honeysuckle (various
colored flowers); Thunbergia (deep orange);
Dolichos (white and rosy-pink); Bougainvillea
( Magnifica trailii, deep purple; Braziliensis,
terra-cotta; Laterita, brick-red). All are strong
growers and will stand heavy pruning; any
two can be grown together to make a dense
effect. It is advisable to make the fence secure
before planting to help it carry the weight of
the climbers when they take possession of it.
* * * *
(1) Was the Australian cricket team which
toured England in 1938 defeated by an English
county team ? (2) Which won the “Ashes’'’ most
•—Australia or England? (3) When did the
“Ashes” originate ?
(1) The 1938 Australian XI was not de-
feated by an English county team: tire only
defeats were in the fifth Test match at the Oval
and by Leveson Gower’s XI. (2) Test matches
played, 143. Australia won 57, England 55,
drawn 31. (3) The use of the term “Ashes”
in Test cricket dates from the match at Ken-
nington Oval, England, on August 28-29, 1882,
when Australia defeated England by seven runs.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of Don Tallon’s wicketkeep-
ing for Queensland in Sheffield Shield matches
in 1938-39? (2) Did he break any records?
(1) Versus N.S.W. at Brisbane, caught four,
stumped four; v. Victoria at Melbourne, caught
two; v. South Australia at Adelaide, caught
one, stumped one; v. N.S.W. at Sydney, caught
nine, stumped three; v. South Australia at
Brisbane, caught one; v. Victoria at Brisbane,
caught four, stumped five. (2) Twelve wickets
in the match v. N.S.W. equalled the first-class
record of E. Pqoley for Surrey v. Sussex made
in 1868; 34 wickets in the series is the best
Sheffield Shield performance.
* * * *
(1) How long was Jack Dempsey heavyweight
champion of the world? (2) What were Demp-
sey’s ring earnings?
(1) Dempsey gained the title by beating Jess
Willard on July 4, 1919, and Gene Tunney
outpointed him for it in 10 rounds at Phila-
delphia on September 23, 1926. (2) Dempsey’s
earnings in his nine most important contests
aggregated 2,712,079 dollars.
* * * *
From whom did Jimmy Wilde win the
world’s flyweight championship, and who won
that title from Wilde?
Wilde won the flyweight belt when he knocked
out Zulu Kid in 11 rounds at London on De-
cember 18, 1914. Filipino Pancho Villa de-
feated Wilde (seven-round knockout) for the
Bst. world title in New York on June 18, 1923.
Brief Answers.
M.McG.: The bank should have a record
of the transaction. Why not write and ask
it? No charge should be made. AJso, see
a solicitor, as your claim would appear to be
statute-barred.. . .L.A.C.: Cannot say withf
out fuller particulars of actual employment.
Unionism is not yet compulsory by 1aw....
M.D.: Consider you would be entitled to relief.
See the registrar of your local court... .A.W.E.:
(1) and (2) You should furnish a return, annex-
ing a certificate from the master of the ship
certifying that U.S. tax has been deducted from
the salary. You will be liable to pay the
difference (if any) between U.S. tax and Aus-
tralian tax. _ (3) Yes... .Bushie: No alteration
in distribution arrangements. Present con-
ditions will continue 8.N.N.: Jack Hulbert
was in the cast of the film version of “The
Ghost Train” made at Elstree in 1932 and
shown in Australia in 1933 J.C.: Write to
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, for catalogue
of books, at the same time giving particulars
of what you desire N.S.G.; So many epi-
grams are credited to Voltaire. Cannot help
you to track down the one you mention. N. S.
Wales Public Library would let you conduct a
search F.H.R.: A lieutenant, if a prisoner
of war in enemy territory, receives the rate of
pay for such rank paid by the army which is
holding him. Dependants continue to receive
original allotments allowed D.L.: C/o the
“Worker,” 238 Castlereagh-street, Sydney
J.A.S.: Department of Public Health says best
results are obtained by ratcatchers using the
“spring-back” type. It must be daily attended
and the bait changed J.J.S.: Write to Syd-
ney Technical College, Harris-street, Ultimo,
and a list of books you may need will be
posted.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
T. :
Let Asia bring forth yellow men
Who rage with fire and sword;
This Austral land can better them
With good old Eddie Ward.
U. :
One tragic, spelbound moment stood,
Then kissed the butcher’s wife
S.S.H.:
And Santa Claus, poor Santa Claus,
They’ve wiped him off the slate,
And little children pace the floor#.
And grieve for Dedman’s fate.
F.W.L.: Doesn’t show a c010r... .W.R.:
Interesting, but we don’t reprint... .J.T.: In-
curably feeble... ,P.W.: More interesting things
have happened in Malaya since those days
M.C.: Still not quite up to the mark
C.1.D.: Not that one, but let us see some
others Z.Z.: Flapper fodder W.S.:
You’ve “been experimenting with an idea
for giving new form to the short story.” Why
not wait till you’re reasonably competent
with the old? D.P.: “Monologue” is
merely monotonous J.T.F.; Those “poor
little tough eggs” belong to Chicago E.C.:
The wonder horse gets the horselaugh....
W. 8.: Magaziny... .A.S.: It’s a synopsis for
a novel rather than a short story 0.L.F.:
That “dear old abo.” is blood-brother to
all the Kentucky negroes of fiction 5.8.:
The snap ending doesn’t snap... .8.F.: You’ve
paraphrased Grapes of Wrath. If you do
it again we’ll heap them on your head
G.M.: Too near the knuckle C. 8.5.; Sin-
cere enough; cut, and come again.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.R.L.: Congratulations on depicting a pig
which carries a heavy fleece and has a
tail like a fox-terrier’s R.M.W.: The ocean
waves were marcelled with beautiful evenness.
F.Y.: You got mixed with your French per-
sonalities ; Laval hasn’t a mangy-looking beaver
nor has Petain lips like a lubra’s C.T.8.:
Jokes about pimply faces aren’t P.M.V.:
Peculiar encroachment of lifesaver’s legs and
arms on his chassis precludes the possibility
of his having any stomach Bert C.: That
Dead Heart prospector could, by your per-
spective, walk to the horizon in two minutes
T.S.: Gent, sans neck and eyebrows dumped in
basket along with his elephantiasis-stricken girl-
friend.


A
*i
m
S I
:■
i
„ ** - j
■
te
m
i
U
c*
;i
,w
»
***
I '*»■ i
*
. 47 <A*
w* 1# F ~% T ■*!
mmm
■III
.«
■a
l*l
F # II
m
,-r ■>
r\ ■ '■■*
«gr*ir
' , *%
H
F
m
U
hf : -.'
& w M#
. k
>S?
w
5:-
U ‘
? /f **
,
#
H
* ?
**
.
c
I
c
%■■
IF you saw that length of gas pipe
lying on the grass with the notice
“Danger Unexploded Shell” near it,
you would probably laugh. Someone
having a joke. But wait .. . it’s not so
funny!
We are turning gas pipes into shells
every day.
We used to make gas pipes
thousands of feet of them. Your meals
are probably cooked with the help of
our gas pipes —made before the War.
Now, those gas pipes have been turned
into shells.
This is how it happened . . .
Remember 1934? Remember when
Australia was just coming out of the
depression? When we needed new,
thriving industries? That was when the
plant of Stewarts and Lloyds went into
production in New South Wales.
That was also the year when Hitler
came into full power in Germany.
For us it was the beginning of what
we hoped would be years of reconstruc-
tion. Before long, Stewarts and Lloyds
were producing everything from gas
pipes to ships’ boiler tubes. Australian
Democracy was at work. But while we
worked from 1934 to 1939 we couldn’t
shut our eyes to what was happening in
Europe. By 1939 it was quite obvious
that the War we had tried to hold back
was inevitable.
We decided to turn our gas pipes
into shells.
Without subsidy, we installed the
plant necessary for the forging and
rough machining of ammunition
shell bodies —from 25-pounders to 60-
pounders.
We worked fast and evolved a
process of shell making which cut out
the operation that has always been so
costly and lengthy. We produced shell
bodies in much the same way as weldless
tubes. We made the inside of the forg-
ing perfect for size, and so smooth that
it did not require boring.
We had shifts at work at one end
of a new extension before the roof
was completed at the other end. Our
engineers worked miracles to change
over tube making machinery never
intended for shell-making. They had
to. We couldn’t wait for weeks or
months for special plant or equipment
from overseas.
*
By September 3rd, 1939, we were
ready. Ready to serve.
So it was that gas pipes became
deadly weapons of Democracy.
The day will come when the last
shell will pass along the production line,
and behind it will be a gas pipe.
Perhaps your gas pipe for that new
home you will be building. When that
day arrives, remember the men who
sweated at furnace heat to turn gas pipes
into shells . . . remember the men whose
foresight it was that made Stewarts and
Lloyds ready for action before War was
declared.
Stewarts and Lloyds
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.


THE exacting demands of industry for uninterrupted
plant operation calls for the highest degree of quality
in Power Transmission Equipment, and in most plants to-day
you’ll find the name ‘Ludowici’ on all or most of the equip-
ment used for transmitting power to machines.
Whether your power transmission problem is large or small,
Ludowici technicians, with their specialised knowledge and
experience, backed by the finest quality equipment will
solve it for you.
So to ensure greater operating efficiency call for Ludowici
Power Transmission equipment and service.
We specialise in the production of:
LEATHER BELTING . PIVOT DRIVES . TORQUE
DRIVES . V-BELT DRIVES . GEARS . PULLEYS
BEARINGS . SHAFTING . HANGERS . COUPLINGS
CLUTCHES.
i
H
i
t lS!**
I
tl
o
jsS
R
V2V
aiissic®
w
J. C. LUDOVICI & SON LTD
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
20- 26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— -Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes., RemerabeE
the name DOAN’S.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 66,625 6 p.c. = 54,000 12,625 190,457
Stock appreciation, £20.000 .. .. 210,457
3 933.. 98,693 9 p.c. = 81,000 17,693 228,150
1934.. 105,279 10 „ „ 90,000 15,279 243,429
Flood loss, £64,088 179,341
1935.. 102,185 8 p.c. = 72,000 30,185 209,526
1936.. 107,124 10 „ „ 90,000 17,124 226,650
1937.. 109,466 10 „ ~ 90,000 19,466 246,116
Share premiums, £49,168 .. .. 295,284
1938.. 105,271 10 p.c. = 96,146 9,125 304,409
1939.. 115,433 10 ~ „ 99,834- 15,599 320,008
Share premiums, £1826 .. .. 321,834
1940.. J 17,975 10 p.c. = 100,000 17,975 339,809
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.*
1941. . 153,875 10 p.c. = 100,000 53,875 427,939
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . . . 422,939
1942.. 122,922 10 p.c. = 100,000 22,922 445,861
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 440,861
* After eliminating outside interests.
In competition with British imports,
the co. has set a standard in the textile
industry that has long won its own re-
ward. In pre-war times it specialised in
high-grade worsted suitings, both for
home and export, and fine dress goods.
Now the two main mills —one each in
Melbourne and Sydney, employing, with
Byfas Pty., a small silk offshoot,
2700 persons—are engaged 70 p.c. in de-
fence work. The other 30 p.c. of output
is confined by order of war “organiser”
Dedman to cheap, standardised, single-
weft cloths for civilian use —an unsatis-
factory quality to both the co. and the
public.
Thus the management is facing a sharp
drop in the annual money value of its out-
put at a time when production costs are
continuing heavenwards. Wages alone
have advanced nearly 30 p.c. since the
last peace year, while the price of greasy
wool to local buyers had stepped up
roughly 40 p.c. before the recent
lift came along. Moreover, the coarse
cloths now being turned out accel-
erate the deterioration of overworked
plant, for which adequate deductions
aren’t forthcoming from the hungry tax-
gatherer. Still, the div. is again 10 p.c.,
and staff funds have been given another
£5OOO leg-up without threatening to break
the bank.
By overtime and night work, produc-
tion in all departments was pushed up to
new levels last year, and better could
have been achieved but for the ineffec-
tiveness of man-power authorities in pre-
venting labor drifts. The response of
women in Melbourne to short-shift em-
ployment has been disappointing, and
absenteeism, which upsets the whole pro-
duction programme, is also a major dis-
rupting influence that has been growing
in intensity. After deducting £498 coming
to outside shareholders, the combined
result of operations was a surplus of
£122,922 (12.3 p.c. on capital), of which
£77,375 was earned at the Abbotsford
(Vic.) plant and £45,547, including a
“modest” contribution from Byfas, by
the pups. The aggregate slip of £30,953
was entirely on account of taxation
(£166,837, up £39,129) and depreciation
(£71,947, up £10,540). The latter was
equal to 21 p.c. on the book value of
plant at June 30 ; so, although little im-
mediate physical replacement is possible,
liberal provision is being made for the
future.
The new river wall to guard against
repetition of the severe flood loss of 1935
is nearing completion. It has been a
costlier affair under war-time conditions
than anticipated ; but whether this alone
was responsible for all last year’s lift in
Melbourne freeholds isn’t disclosed:
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital . . £998.342 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Outside interests* . . 5,040 5,388
Overdraft . . . . 14,275 93,434 81,302
.Sundry creditorsf . . 212,275 334,477 332,720
Staff funds . . . . 5,000 10,000 15,000
Freeholds . , . . 369,031 382,750 424,608
Plant, etc 420,447 394,662 342 457
Stocks .. .. 591,936 744,794 852,865
Debtors . . , . 170,327 303,915 202 191
■ Shi ' res •• 60,174 32,114 33,092
Cash, etc 26,841 62,655 74,457
Including- proportion reserves. | Including tak
provision.
They are all healthy figures. The
size of the stock suggests that the
effects of the revised wool deal with
Britain will take some time to become
fully evident in the cost sheets. The item
jumped £108,071 last year, the money
coming from a reduction of £101,724 in
trade debts following the changed nature
of demand. Depreciation allowances
looked after fixed asset outlay, the more
or less liquid surplus (£749,183) being
£33,616 stronger when the books closed.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nominal
/ Dividends ■, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 33,922 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 18,560 15,362 420,784
1933.. 46,320 6 „ 6 „ 21,960 24,360 445,144
1934.. 46,150 6 „ 6 „ 21.960 24,190 469,334
Unexplained additions, £28,731* .. 498,065
1935.. 35,732 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 13,772 511,837
Net unexplained reduction, £27,008.. 484,829
1936.. 20,244 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 483,113
To staff fund, £24,260 .. .. 458,853
Unexplained additions, £47,903 .. 506,756
1937.. 34,180 6 p.c. 61 p.c. 23,660 10,520 517,276
'•Unexplained additions, £30,598 .. 547,874
1938.. 33,037 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 25,360 7,677 555,551
Unexplained additions, £49,208 .. 604,759
1939.. 34,320 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 28,760 5,560 610,319
Melbourne Steam and Subsidiary.
1939.. 34,524 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 28,760 5,764 635,590
Added reserves, £41,128 . . . . 676 718
1940.. 22,139 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 25,360 673,360
Added reserves, £39,337 . . . . 712 697
1941.. 17,777 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 708,651
Added reserves, £39,031 . . . . 747 682
1942.. 25,447 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 25,360 87 747,769
includes profit on sale of Consols.
The accounts cover just on a year with
the fleet, or most of it, on Common-
wealth charter under the direction of the
Shipping Control Board, for whom
owners act as managing agents. Terms
of the chartering haven’t been disclosed.
But they are in keeping with the Gov-
ernment’s stand on profits, and the prob-
lem is still to earn a decent return on
the capital invested after providing what
the board considers necessary for depre-
ciation in view of high potential replace-
ment costs. Still, the agreement has so
far proved a little more remunerative
than the immediately preceding free-
lance days, and ord. div. is restored to
the 7 p.c. of the first war year.
As affecting shipowners, conditions on
the waterfront are summarised by chair-
man York Syme in this way:
During the year the company’s organisation
has been extended to the full in practically
every department. Turnover has not been ex-
ceeded in our history. This accounts for the
better financial return. Unfortunately the re-
sults from the fleet have been disappointing.
Running costs are advancing in all directions.
The vessels are being turned round in port as
quickly as possible in the national interests, and
cargoes are being worked night and day, Sun-
days and holidays. This means heavier wear
and tear. When ships are laid up to undergo
periodical survey and refitting, time occupied
has been protracted owing to shortage of
ship-repairers. We have therefore suffered loss
of earnings for a longer period of enforced
idleness, as well as spending more money in re-
pairs.
Stevedoring costs have risen markedly. It is
not uncommon to find that out-of-pocket costs
for loading and discharging cargo absorb more
than half the freight; indeed, in some cases
handling charges have mounted to three-quarters
of freight earnings. However, war conditions
demand that ships must be worked expedi-
tiously, and these drawbacks are unavoidable.
A feature which has caused all shipowners
growing concern is the extent to which cargo
pillaging has grown. The losses under this
head are much more serious than I can re-
member in a lifetime of shipping experience.
Gross tonnage of the fleet is 23,073. With
pickings from the co.’s lighterage, etc.,
business and coke, coal and other agen-
cies, net earnings on this account are
recorded at £11,173 (up £8920). Invest-
ments contributed another £3664, and the
busy engineering subsidiary, Hobson’s
Bay Dock, turned in the remaining
£10,610 of profit included in the aggre-
gate analysis at the outset. After satis-
fying the handful of pups, the £25,447
was 7 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
4.7, 6 and 9.7 p.c. in the three years
before. Interlined additions to reserves
are mainly in respect of depreciation
(now £478,739); the lay-by is therefore
labelled nominal.
The year’s actual depreciation in the
combined accounts was £40,133. It is a
very reasonable figure, though no more
than 4.6 p.c. on cost value of ship prop-
erty and plant:
Melbourne Steam and Subsidiary.
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £366,000 £366,000 £366,000 £366,000
Creditors . . 81,213 98,821 117,205 123,773
Suspense* . . 1,573 4,595 7,019 7.000
Tax, etc. . . 32,227 22,711 24,668 32,847
Ship property
and plantf. . 833,986 841,119 844,782 857,802
Freeholds . . 50,032 50,032 50,032 50,032
Stores.. .. 40,008 35,902 42,499 35,753
Sundry debtors 79,657 102,606 166,282 211,778
Investments,
cash, etc. . . 129,000 148,645 129,228 134,704
* Due to variation in balance dates, fAt cost.
The cargo steamers were built in the
early ’twenties; the modern passenger-
and-cargo motor vessel as late as 1935.
When outstanding payments for services
rendered come in there will be a healthy
surplus for investment. These book debts
mounted another £45,496 last term. When
the accounts closed, more or less liquids,
including stores, exceeded the amount
coming to sundry creditors by £258,462
(up £37,668) —14s. per pound of capital.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- De-
July, Loss. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, ficit.
o 0 £/ £f
1932.. 17,757 Nil Nil Nil 16,530
Profit. 18.1 p.c.*
1933.. 7,711 5434 4200 Nil 18,453
5.4 18.9 2*
p.c. p.c.* p.c.
1934.. 23,787 1627 9923 9,542 2,695 15,758
6.2 p.c. 4 p.c.
1935.. 27,944 1627 3255 15,268 7,794 7,964
5 p.c.
1936.. 31,713 1627 3255 19,084 7,747 217
6 p.c. 6 p.c. Reserves.
1937.. 39,030 1800 3255 22,901 11,074 10,857
5.4 p.c. 5 p.c.
1938.. 26,850 1627 3255 19,084 2,884 13,741
1939.. 31,969 1627 3255 19,084 8,003 21,744
1940.. 29,195 1627 3255 19,084 5,229 26,973
1941.. 32,439 1627 3255 19,084 8.473 35,446
1942.. 31,592 1627 3255 19,084 7,626 43,072
* Including arrears.
Very heartening considering the limita-
tions imposed by rationing and other
war-time controls upon production and
consumption of civilian goods. The co.
enjoys a prominent position in the high-
grade furniture, furnishing-drapery and
china-and-glassware trade, and has done
so for years. There is £464,187 of capital
to feed in 30,000 first 7 p.c. and 52,500
second 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 381,687
ords. The prefs. are rationed, and have
been since the early 1930’5, when the
N.S.W. interest Reduction Act imposed
a cut of 22\ p.c., reducing the rates to
5.4 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respectively, with the
right to advance with the ords. beyond
these points to their original contract
rates.
There was certainly plenty of money
about, owing to growing war expenditure,
including that of our Allies ; but private
spending became more rigidly controlled
as the term advanced. The ban on erec-
tion, alteration and extension of dwelling
houses continues, and the limit on new
private and co. borrowing under mort-
gage has been reduced to £5OO. That
practically dried up the revenue which
used to come from the furnishing that
usually accompanies new building, while
rationalisation and rationing have limited
sales of furnishing drapery, lounge suites
and other furniture. Also, in the crystal-
and chinaware sections a self-imposed
daily selling quota operates. In addition,
costs and taxation continue to climb, and
don’t appear to have reached a peak yet.
But whatever the co. missed on the
civilian swings it picked up on the Gov-
ernment roundabouts in war contracts,
etc. Indeed, the co.’s furniture factory
has been unable to meet the limited
civilian demands made upon it. So the
board was able to write net earnings
only £847 short of the previous year’s.
And that was after providing an extra
£6002 for rates and taxes (£32,090). The
£31,592 of profit claimed was 6.8 p.c. on
capital (pref. and ord. combined) as
against 6.9, 6.2, 6.8, 5.7, 8.4, 6.8 and
6 p.c. back to 1935. The distribution to
shareholders remained unchanged at 5
p.c. to the ords. and 5.4 p.c. to the first
and 6.2 n.c. to the second prefs. The
balance lifted the lay-by £43,072 in ex-
cess of goodwill (£67,660), not treated
as an asset herein
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Capital . . £464,187 £464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Liabilities* . . 99,981 127,440 111,245 109,533
Freeholds, etc. 272,252 272,252 272,252 272,252
Machinery, plant,
etc. 26,586 27,450 25,077 20,235
Stocks .. 181,718 250,371 240,242 245,836
Book debts . . 112,191 75,476 79,387 84,019
Cash, etc. . . 5,147 5,033 5,901 6,432
* Including provision for taxation.
The debt (down £1712) includes some-
thing for taxation and £61,000 (un-
changed) owing on mortgages. In peace-
time capricious fashion played havoc
with stocks (up £5594 last term) more
than once, but under existing conditions
they should, provided they are well


Personal and Missing Friends.
TOM MUIR.—WiII THOMAS MUIR, son of
the late JAMES B. MUIR, jeweller, Glasgow,
who recently communicated with RUSSELL
& DUNCAN, solicitors, 105 St. Vincent Street,
Glasgow, from an address c/o P. 0., Canning-
ton, Western Australia, kindly send his new
address to his mother or to the said RUSSELL
& DUNCAN?
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for any
goods or property within the Sydney Fire Dis-
trict, and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance com-
pany not registered in the State, are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1942.
The time appointed for the receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 30th January, 1943;
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the time
such property was in any Fire District under
the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales returns show-
ing the total amount of the premiums received
by or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1942, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 30th January, 1943; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY, LIMITED.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, NSW.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
When a Man makes his Will
\VHEN a man makes his Will, it is necessary for him to appoint an Executor
’ to administer the Will. In the old days few men had the experience
and wisdom to make good executors. The testator (the man who made the
Will) might appoint his best friend, and the friend turn out to be a man
of poor judgment in money matters, or Irresponsible, or in bad health, or
even a scamp.
Today, the wise man avoids that risk. He appoints Perpetual Trustee
Company, limited. The Company has a vast experience in the administration
of Estates of varying sizes and kinds. It never becomes too old for sound
judgment, and it never absconds.
Write for a copy of a booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee,” that deals with
this problem in a frank and straightforward way, and shows what the
Company’s service costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C. ; E. R. Knox;
11. Norman Pope; Allen 0. Lewis; W, Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative; H A Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
DEEDS count
more than WORDS
in this grim struggle for world' freedom. The unprecedented
demands of the war must be unhesitatingly met and earnestly
sustained by one and all.
THATCHER AND OBERG are proud to be contributing to
our country’s defence requirements by striving to maintain
Timber supplies—for Timber has an important part to play in
our defence structure.
THATCHER & OBERG Pty. Ltd.
MU1221 Timber Merchants - - - - Detail Joiners
(5 lines) Vat Builders - - - - Flooring Specialists
GARDENER'S ROAD MASCOT
DEC
STH
f
Don’t delay convert-
ing your maturing
Bonds.
* * *
Holders of Australian
3 f °/o Inscribed Stock
or Bonds maturing
Dec. I sth, 1 942, are
invited to convert
them into Austerity
Bonds or Stock.
don’t be caught
in the last minute rush. Whether
you are going to subscribe £l,OOO or
put down £i deposit on a £lO Bond,
make your application now.
Subscriptions may be lodged at any
Money Order Post Office, Bank,
Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
HUR By
■ • ALIO2-I9
Easy facilities for lodging applications and making deposit on £lO Bonds are now available
in vestibules of Theatre* and Picture Theatres.
selected and rightly priced, be a source
more of strength than weakness. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£226,754, including stocks)
was £12,469.
Wellington Alluvials, the Macquarie
(N.S.W.) project which B.H.P. put under
way, says it can’t carry on with the
labor available, and Victorian dredgers,
which have been working short time, are
also quaking in their boots. Chief are
the new Harrietville venture, Victoria
Gold Dredging and Cocks Eldorado. A
saving grace in the case of the last-named,
which recorded net earnings of £21,218
(up £3623) in its latest term, may be the
small amount of tin in the wash. Work-
ing two shifts, Harrietville’s first tun
produced gold yields of o.Bgr. per c.y.—
though rather less than half the estimated
value of the 96,000,000-c.y. property, yet
in line with bore returns of the ground
dug, the board assures.
* * * *
Raiding of goldmining man-power
comes awkwardly for the extensive de-
velopment programme of Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie (W.A.). In all, it did 6438 ft.
in the year to March, of which 2694 ft.
was in ore averaging s.Bdwt. over 54in.
Still, reserve ore at the end of the period,
though four years ahead of the mill, was
6 p.c. below the previous computation
of 646,000 tons (grade sdwt.), owing to
a net reduction of 42,000 tons in the
Australia East opencuts. Chief exposures
last year occurred in opening up the
Oroya hanging-wall lode in the Iron
Duke, and in enrichments of the Hinch-
cliffe area. Oroya South group also
added its quota to reserve tonnage, and
geological examination of the north end
of the Australia East has disclosed prom-
ising objectives for future work. Also,
since the close of accounts a horizontal
drillhole from No. 9 level across the
True Blue lease has intersected a wide
mineralised zone, two sections assaying
7.9dwt. over 21ft. and 17.5dwt. over 3ift.
Tailings loss was reduced to o.46dwt. Still,
profit (before depreciation, taxes, etc.)
slithered from £179,894 to £121,040 stg.
by reason of a fall of o.77dwt. in gold
yields and a rise of lOd. a ton in costs.
Div. was reduced from 9d. to l\d. per
share, less tax, but the British Treasury
appears to have been the chief loser.
Because it was in the transitional stage
during the base year, “excess”-profits tax
has acted very harshly on G.M.K.
Receipts of Gold Exploration and
Finance tumbled from £94,337 to £52,765
in the year to March. Halving of Vic-
toria Gold Dredging’s handout and the
cutting-out of payments altogether by
Triton (now closed) and Triton-holding
Western Gold Mines was the main cause.
Other interests include Central Norse-
man, Western Mining Corp., G.M. of
Kalgoorlie and G.M. of Australia. Dur-
ing the year Central Norseman repaid
£165,104 of advances, and this in turn
helped Gold Exploration to pay off at
130 p.c. since the close of accounts the
remaining £209,270 of the half-million
of notes issued in 1936. Central Norse-
man should be free of debt, but the
question of divs. here, it would seem, is
largely wrapped up with matters outside
the management’s control. Gold Ex-
ploration itself has a fair-sized p. and 1.
debit to liquidate before it starts paying
out on its £913,016 of capital. The fact
that the depressed market values of
March stood 43 p.c. below book value
of its investment portfolio may be a
further obstacle to divs.
From London:
Gold Exploration’s shareholders complain
because the statement of chairman Percy Mar-
mion which accompanies the latest report
doesn’t bring the financial position—admit-
tedly healthy—up to date. It is calculated
from the balance sheet that surplus liquids
(cash and British Government bonds) after re-
demption of outstanding notes on June 30
must have been roughly £160,000, equal to
Is. 9d. sterling per 10s. share. Subsequent to
the date of the accounts operating profits of
£50,000 have probably accrued. Latest London
quote for the shares, selling at ss. some time
ago, is 3s. 3d.
* « ♦ «
Hill 50 (W.A.) pays another sixpenny
interim on December 18, the third since,
following two payments of 9d., it re-
verted to sixpenny distributions again
about the middle of the year. Ore re-
serves are stated to be gaining on the
mill.
• * * *
Bantam First Hit Gold (W.A.) holds its
annual roll-up in Perth on Dec. 16. There
isn’t much on the agenda, but share-
holders hope to hear something cheery
from the manager in spite of these —
from a goldmining point of view—cheer-
less times.


Don't neglect to
RENEW
your War Damage
INSURANCE
your furniture
a. dm
m •
your CLOTHES
YOUR MOTOR CAR
YOUR RADIO
It is important that you
renew your cover against
War Damage to personal
effects immediately. Rates
are still only 8/- per cent.
Remember that if you lose
your belongings by air-raid
or other enemy action, this
insurance is the only one to
safeguard you.
Do not delay... renew your
War Damage Policy NOW I
'THAT' . =
WE'LL SHOULDER
THE BURDEN
You may be one of the many who find present uncertain conditions are making
intolerable demands upon your time and energy. So much so that you find it
impossible to give proper attention to your personal financial affairs. If this be
so, you have the solution at hand. Let Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd. relieve
you of all the worrying details of administration of your estate. During your
lifetime, and afterwards, this Company will give uninterrupted, faithful, and
efficient service.
If you are interested in learning details of the service which this Company can
render to those anxious to be relieved of the burden of administration of their
affairs or estate, two special books will be forwarded on request. Write for
them now.
DIRECTORS—James Burns • Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H, Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
J BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, 5.P.0., Sydney.
Business, Rollery, etc.
The Atlantic Charter
It might be considered in Australia
that reference to the terms of the Atlantic
Charter as principally eyewash amounts
to something approaching blasphemy. But
as those terms stand they represent very
little more than fanciful and idealistic
window-dressing, with the goods, or even
their specifications, still to be delivered.
A trade journal issued by the London
“Times” proprietary nearly a year ago
said “Clauses 4 and 5 deal with eco-
nomic and social questions, but they an-
nounce the adherence of the British Com-
monwealth, our Allies and the United
States to certain ideals rather than to any
definite plans. They are ideals to which
we can all subscribe, but there remains
the formidable task of thinking out the
methods for their fulfilment.” The same
journal later said “the signatories of this
agreement evidently see the disadvantages
of presenting materials for a public de-
bate that might become acrimonious and
thus impair the good relations now exist-
ing between Britain and the U.S.A.
Clear definition at this stage would be
dearly purchased if it created difficulties.”
Since then both the U.S.A, and Japan
have entered the war.
The terms of the Atlantic Charter
largely arise out of the circumstances of
this war and the international trade and
social conditions which preceded it. Here
is the full declaration, as issued by Prime
Minister Churchill and President Roose-
velt nearly 16 months ago:
Hirst, their countries seek no aggrandise-
ment, territorial or other.
Second, they desire to see no territorial
changes that do not accord with the freely-
expressed wishes of the peoples concerned.
Third, they respect the right of all
peoples to choose the form of govern-
ment under which they will live; and they
wish to see sovereign rights and self-govern-
ment restored to those who have been for-
cibly deprived of them.
Fourth, they will endeavor, with due re-
spect for their existing obligations, to
further enjoyment by all States, great or
small, victor or vanquished, of access, on
equal terms, to the trade and to the raw
materials of the world which are needed
for their economic prosperity.
Fifth, they desire to bring about the
fullest collaboration between all nations in
the economic field, with the object of
securing for all improved labor standards,
economic advancement and social security.
Sixth, after the final destruction of Nazi
tyranny, they hope to see established a
peace which will afford to all nations the
means of dwelling in safety within their
own boundaries, and which will afford
assurance that all the men in all the lands
may live out their lives in freedom from
fear and want.
Seventh, such a peace should enable all
men to traverse the high seas and oceans
without hindrance.
Eighth, they believe all of the nations
of the world, for realistic as well as spiritual
reasons, must come to the abandonment
of the use of force. Since no future peace
can be maintained if land, sea or air
armaments continue to be employed by
nations which threaten, or may threaten,
aggression outside of their frontiers, they be-
lieve, pending the establishment of a wider
and permanent system of general security,
that the disarmament of such nations is
essential. They will likewise aid and en-
courage all other practicable measures
which will lighten for peace-loving peoples
the crushing burden of armament.
Consider some of the fundamentals in-
volved. Prior to the war there were re-
current trade problems that existed
almost from the close of the previous
war. Very early after 1918 we saw un-
employment in Britain during the period
(and after it) of the laborious return to
the gold standard which ignored the in-
flation that had taken place in production
costs as a result of a costly war that was
not financed entirely on realistic financial
lines.
France at this stage was inflating
its currency and indirectly subsidising
its exports. It did not attempt to stabilise
its currency at the point of inflation left
by war, as Britain should have done ; it
carried the process on in the post-war
period, deluded to some extent by the
idea that Germany would eventually have
to pay big indemnities to it. While
France should have been taxing its people
directly for post-war expenses of govern-
ment and reconstruction it went on in-
flating. Stabilisation of the currency
occurred in 1927 at a fifth of the pre-war
value ; two years before Britain had stabi-
lised at pre-war value. Britain soon lost
trade and gold to France, Freetrade had
to disappear in Britain, and eventually
both countries plunged, with the rest of
the world, into depression. It is not going
too far to say that France’s social and
political outlook became undermined by
the illusory prosperity of the inflation
period and afterwards to an extent that
lasted to the time of Blum and the out-
break of the present war.
France’s exchange problems added to
those of Britain and the U.S.A. in the
period of recovery from the depression.
Britain left the gold standard in 1931
after six valiant but misguided years. Its
error was not that it stabilised but that it
stabilised the currency without regard to
trade conditions. Finance found that it
could not dictate to trade ; it had to co-
operate with it.
The United States adopted desperate
measures to cope with its 12 million un-
employed in the later years of the depres-
sion. It altered its exchange rate as an
artificial measure of trade stimulus, with
repercussions throughout the world.
“Exchange” became a barrier to the in-
ternational exchange of goods and ser-
vices. Through the medium of exchange
rates one country could influence the ex-
ternal trading policy, and consequently
the internal living conditions, of another
country. In the midst of numerous coun-
tries pulling and tugging in the general
terms of production costs, exchange and
tariffs in the world’s markets, Germany
vigorously furthered a direct policy of
barter with several countries, and with a
different exchange rate for different
classes of transactions. Japan, hungry
for essential raw materials, swamped the
world with cheap manufactured goods
that menaced employment in countries
which could not produce as cheaply.
That is just part of the pre-war back-
ground with which we must approach
consideration of the Atlantic Charter.
Ignore these things we cannot. They
represent inherent problems of inter-
national trade, especially where some
countries must export in order to get
essential raw materials which they them-
selves do not possess. War-time invention
will not abolish the need for most raw
materials.
Clause 3 of the Charter expresses the
desire to see “sovereign rights and self-
government restored to those who have
been forcibly deprived of them.” Un-
doubtedly. But every little country will
have the right to a fiscal policy of its
own, too.
Clause 4 aims at furthering the “enjoy-
ment by all States” of access, on equal
terms, to the trade and raw materials of
the world. Just as easily as that? There
are private as well as public rights to be
considered. Wool is a raw material, pro-
duced by private interests. How is
“access” to be gained to Australian wool
other than by the age-old method of buy-
ing it, provided the wherewithal is there?
Clause 5, expressing the desire for
“fullest collaboration between all nations
in the economic field,” is entirely healthy
in its object, like so much of the rest,
but on analysis it is mainly a pious
hope. Nations cannot collaborate unless
their people first of all collaborate
amongst themselves. Each nation will
have to set its own house in order before
it can hope to collaborate with anyone.
Australia, for instance, would have to
settle its political differences and accept
a foreign-exchange, tariff and trade policy
based on international agreement, with
internal living standards inevitably gov-
erned to some extent thereby.
The world is made up of countries
differing in geography, natural resources
and climate, and the peoples of the earth
differ in nature, language, living standards
and mode of life. Nearly all are vigor-
ously and valiantly national when it
comes to a showdown (as in Russia),
however much they may have affected an
international viewpoint.
The purpose here in criticising the
Atlantic Charter is not in any manner
to stand in the way of its ideals but to
prevent its inchoate but much-quoted
form from being accepted by Australians
as anything resembling a practical plan
for post-war recovery. “Freedom from
fear and want” is an unattainable ideal
except to the dead. The Charter cannot
be accepted by practical people as any-
thing more than a suggestion that in the
post-war period the British Empire, the
United States and others are prepared to
discuss earnestly, and if possible over-
come, those international trade problems
which so often failed to yield to discus-
sion before this war.
Accepted as anything more than a
sincere gesture things like the Atlantic
Charter can breed much mischief. The
words, rolling off the tongue, sound well,
but much wishful thinking has been
wrapped up in such words since the
beginning of man. Energy, wit, integrity,
understanding and tolerance are every
bit as necessary as hope if we are to reap
the benefit of scientific progress in the
post-war world.
Savings-bank deposits in Australia now
exceed £3Ol million, an increase of £6
million during October. Since March
the total increases have been £41.7 mil-
lion, representing an average of £6 million
a month. These are the biggest figures
ever recorded in Australian history, and
indicate the combined effect of high
wages, restricted spending outlets, light
taxation of wage-earners and compara-
tively poor response to Government re-
quests for voluntary loans. They are
only part of the story of wage-earners’
affluence, too. The note issue has been
expanding rapidly because of currency
hoarding, and there has been a run on
specie as well, so much so that it has
been made an offence to pay or accept a
premium for Australian coinage. The
note issue now stands in the vicinity of
£ll7 million, of which about £lOO million
is in the hands of the public, whereas £33
million usually sufficed for pocket-money
before the war. Only a proportion of the
extra issue has been put to a legitimate
use ; a lot of it is being hoarded for a
variety of reasons, and this Australian
experience is far more pronounced than
in any other country. But it has been
bad enough in Britain to prompt a com-
ment from Sir Kingsley Wood, Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer. In spite of the
fact that the “small man” pays a higher
rate of tax than here, and collectively
he has subscribed £l5OO million in “small
savings” since war began, “there are £1
and 10s. notes in teapots and stockings,
up chimneys, under mattresses and
in more orthodpx money-boxes and
wallets.” The Chancellor said that these
people run an unnecessary risk of loss,
and the money would be better in savings
certificates or savings banks, where it
would “provide a better and more reliable
basis for the war-time financial struc-
ture.”
* * * *
Australia has been playing with self-
delusion in the matter of war finance for
a year or more now. Our financial
methods are designed to delude us as
to the real effect on our living standards
of the diversion of man-power and
materials to war purposes. Though the
higher incomes are taxed most heavily,
with the lower-income-earners the policy
is to take away their living standards by
rationing and rationalisation, but to leave
them with most of their money. This brings
us to the fact that the value of money
in this country depends almost solely on
its relationship to the quantity of goods
and services available, for the exchange
of which money serves its principal pur-
pose. If you have fewer goods and ser-
vices to exchange than there is money to
facilitate their exchange you are on the
verge or in the process of inflation. The
Government is not taking away from the
people, in the form of taxation, as much
buying power as is necessary to pay for
our war effort. In effect, it pays the
people for their war effort but does not
charge them for it in full, or anything
like it. Was there ever such self-delu-
sion? It is only because of rigid artificial
controls that we haven’t suffered more
severely from inflation already. Con-
sidering the gravity of the situation with
which we are faced, Canberra’s financial
humbug is an insult to the intelligence
and character of Australians. It is sickly
stupid.


SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT JUIIHS
M* 1 *
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEI, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Jj
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY U- HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER.
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
DANIEL
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
WMm
i \
hi I h
isr.
m
%
Cf . ..'
f
m
m
The American Eagle
builds his eyrie
The U.S. Army is no stranger to Masonite. For years before “the
Wonder Board” was manufactured in Australia, Uncle Sam’s
fighting men found Masonite a part of their daily lives. But
now the great American eagle must build an eyrie in Australia
—must have huts for troops, mess tables . . a hundred and one
urgent requisites. Naturally, the first choice was Masonite . .
Masonite fabricated in Australia—Masonite which is equal to
the highest quality board produced in the United States! And
so Masonite becomes the practical symbol of a great alliance
. . . the alliance of America with Australia ... of science with
nature ... of infinite utility with amazing economy.
Manufactured by Masonite Corporation (Aust. ) Limited from Wood Fibre
MASONITE TEMPERED PRESDWOOD.. PRESDWOOD..TEMPRTILE..QUARTRBOARO DE-LUXE
DISTRIBUTORS
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE ? . . ADELAIDE , . . PERTH
Form a Group! Join a GroupJ Buy War Savings Certificates.
-
as
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
For greater
smoking enjogment
CRAVEN A
Ttq*"*
Voftj
/
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
The Beveridge plan of social security
for Britain aims to cover rich and poor
alike, the just and the unjust, those who
overindulge in beverages and those who
don’t. It provides for retirement pen-
sions, unemployment and disability allow-
ances, free medical treatment and other
benefits. It has the virtue of being partly
a contributory scheme and partly a sub-
sidised one. In the case of adult males
the insured will pay 4s. 3d. a week, his
employer 3s. 3d., and the Exchequer will
“heavily subsidise” these contributions.
There will be no “means” test of eligi-
bility. By 1965, when pensions are ex-
pected to reach their full basic rate, the
“cost will be £B5B million,” of which the
Exchequer will contribute £519 million.
The plan could be introduced from July
1, 1944, its sponsor predicts. Unemploy-
ment, disability or training benefit for a
man and wife jointly is 40s. a week ;
retirement pension, after 20 years’ contri-
bution, is the same figure. There is an
allowance of Bs. a week for each depen-
dent child. Employers and “independent
workers” come under the scheme, but
unemployment or disability benefits will
not apply for the first 13 weeks in their
case. Sir William Beveridge denied that
he had ever described his plan as “half-
way along the road to Moscow,” and
said it had no relation to anything in
Russia, America or Germany. If any-
thing, it resembled the New Zealand
plan. There is a suggestion in such
“social security” propositions as the
Beveridge offering that Governments, for
better or worse, are anxious to control a
great proportion of the national income
by way of taxation after the war.
* * * *
It is probable that if the public response
to the £lOO million loan is not sufficient
to fill it we shall see the savings banks
called upon to make up the balance, or
part of it. Money has been pouring into
these institutions for the greater part of
1942, and very little has been taken out
for the purpose of buying war-savings
certificates or subscribing to other
methods of Government finance. But if
the loan has to be filled at the finish by
the savings banks it will mean that the
people whose savings are represented have
not been parted from their spending
power any more than when they first put
the cash in the bank. That is where the
danger of inflation lies. At present there
is a great deal of potential inflation, in
the Australian economy that is prevented
from developing merely because of the
restriction on borrowing, spending and
investment. Batik credit at present in
use for war finance amounts to a mix-
ture of both actual and potential inflation.
:Jc * *
Although total subscriptions to the
Austerity Loan have improved, accord-
ing to latest figures, the number of sub-
scribers is still out of proportion to the
effort wanted. Which indicates that sav-
ings banks, the Commonwealth Bank and
other “institutions” are filling the gap on
a greater scale than # the Government de-
sired. An argument has come from an
ordinary member of the public that the
loan has been Dedmanised from the start.
He explains that all the pettyfogging,
damnfool frivolities indulged in by the
Minister for War Organisation of Indus-
try suggest to many people that the Gov-
ernment’s war effort can’t be entirely seri-
ous ; fancy rationalising pink icing,
Father Christmas and dozens of other
such things! Liquor has developed the
aspects of a racket, and even soft drinks
are hard to get. Unnecessary irritation
there undoubtedly has been, and, coming
from a quarter which should have its
hands full with essential work, there are
grounds for the argument that it has
angered potential loan supporters.
* * *
Qantas Empire Airways, Ltd., for the
year to June 30 showed a profit of
£40,667 after providing £83,327 for
obsolescence and depreciation and
£30,000 for taxation. The figures are
not very different from those of the pre-
vious year, what there is being principally
in the taxation provision, up £BOOO.
# * * *
Tableland Tin (N.Q.) expects its No.
2 dredge to start work in the middle of
February. Because of the long delay and
the incidence of sales tax the cost has
been greater than estimated.
* ¥ * *
Bond’s Industries has varied its pro-
posal of offering 100 6 p.c. pref. shares
for each £lOO debenture carrying £5 Bs. 6d.
per cent. An alternative offer will be
80 pref. shares and 20 ords. for each
debenture. The scheme will not be pro-
ceeded with if fewer than 1500 debentures
(out of a total of 5120) are offered for
conversion. At present a 9 p.c. div. is
being paid on Bond’s ord. shares, and
they stand at around 265. in the market.
Assuming that all the debenture-holders
accept the alternative offer, an extra
51,200 ords. would be added to the regis-
ter, plus 460,800 prefs., but the debenture
debt would be eliminated.
* * * *
Associated Newspapers, proprietors of
Sydney “Sun” and various weeklies, re-
ports that newsprint costs, £lB 3s. 6d. a
ton in 1939, are now £3l 18s. 6d. Com-
pany tax, which in 1939 took 23.8 p.c. of
gross profit, last year absorbed 41.6 p.c.


THE SERVICE MAN
Buna's Stubborn Defence.
“Ek Dum”: Australian and American
forces are having a desperately hard
struggle to take the Buna-Gona area.
The stubborn enemy has succeeded in
reinforcing his men, and is giving no
evidence of shortage of supplies.
When the Australians entered Gona,
and the united forces closed in through
the terrible jungle and swamp on the
Buna triangle, it seemed as if the Jap was
about to bid good-bye to Papua.
But he refastened his grip on Gona,
and has since been demonstrating the
superiority of sea communications
through a navally-controlled area over
limited air communications and impos-
sible land communications, such as the
Australians and Americans have to put
up with.
Atmospheric conditions of a New
Guinea wet season are all in favor of
sea power. There are severe limitations
to what air power can do even in periods
of good visibility. To effectively cover
the area in which, late in the afternoon,
there might be Japanese ships which
could deliver aid and reinforcements to
Buna before morning, Allied aircraft in
the last hours of daylight each day would
need to intensively inspect 50,000 square
miles of cloud-and-haze-shielded sea —an
area equal to considerably more than
half that of Victoria.
Destroyers can lurk on the south coast
of New Britain in some inlet and be at
Buna eight hours later—in emergency
even less.
The airmen of the Papuan area have
had a man’s job on their hands. They
have done wonders under conditions
which rank among the worst in the world
—rain and mud everywhere, days of
hopeless visibility, improvised aerodromes
located by urgency rather than choice,
and supplies which are restricted by a
very limited power to carry them.
Last week began with an enemy
attempt to land fresh troops in the Buna-
Gona area. It was made on Nov. 29 by
four destroyers which approached Buna
about noon. Attacked by Flying Fort-
j esses, they retreated. Two got away.
The other two were last seen listing badly
and belching smoke ; they “almost cer-
tainly” were sunk.
Next day there was bitter land fighting
m the deep swamps and tangled jungle
which the enemy had filled with his de-
fence posts round his beach-head posi-
tions. The heaviest was near Gona, and
the feature of the war in the sky was
a battle between 12 Allied ’planes and
12 “O” fighters.
The Allied men had much the better
of it. They shot down seven “Os,” all
with their pilots, losing two ’planes them-
selves and no pilots.
The Tightening Grip
On Dec. 2 General MacArthur re-
ported : —
Our ground forces are slowly contract-
ing their grip on the enemy. Our air
lorces operated in direct support of ground
units. An enemy dive-bomber and two
fighters were shot down. An enemy naval
force of four destroyers is apparently
attempting to land reinforcements.
Correspondents added to this that a
Flying Fortress had picked up the four
destroyers south of Gasmata travelling
at speed.
The leading pair were 10 miles affart,
then two together two miles behind. The
flotilla was covered by a powerful fighter
screen, which attacked the Fortress,
riddling it but losing two Zeros.
U.S. bombers and Australian Hudsons
made some near misses on the ships.
The fight went on through the night
to within a few miles of the Papuan coast
where barges and small boats met the
visitors. It appeared that some reinforce-
ments were landed before the ships
escaped. Beaufighters sank two barges
containing about 20 Japanese and two
empty ones off Buna on Wednesday
morning. Later two barges, each with
40 occupants, were sunk.
The destroyers’ escape was largely due
to the heavy air escort, which continued
with them throughout hours in which
combat and effective bombing was pos-
sible ; but 23 “O” fighters were shot down
and others damaged, and Allied losses were
reported as “light.” Forty Allied bombers,
including the heaviest Liberators and
Fortresses and Mitchells, were used
against the destroyers.
Progress was made on Dec. 2 and 3 at
both ends of the 10-mile-long Japanese
position. At the western end. with the
support of artillery and aircraft, Austra-
lians drove in towards the coast beyond
Gona, and advanced along the beach
towards the centre of the enemy’s posi-
tion at Sanananda. At the eastern end
the outskirts of Buna village were infil-
trated, the enemy “resisting with the
greatest ferocity.”
There was a hopeful note which sug-
gested more progress in General Mac-
Arthur’s communique on Dec. 5, which
referred to ground forces “on the west”
having mopped up pockets “left behind
in our advance from Gona along the
coast.” The fierceness of the fighting was
shown by the fact that more than 400
enemy dead were counted.
On Sunday General MacArthur re-
ported that fighting was limited to
sporadic clashes, but that control of the
beach east and west of Gona had been
extended.
On Monday it was announced that by
reaching the beach east of Buna the vil-
lage had been isolated.
Newly-arrived U.S. 105 mm. (4.134 in.)
howitzers, the opposite numbers of our
25-pounders which were already in the
field, had joined in the bombardment.
They had been flown —a weight of nearly
five tons all told—with their crews from
the Australian mainland in Fortresses.
Lae and Salamaua had been bombed
heavily. Medium bombers on Saturday
blasted Buna.
The enemy has not given up by any
means. Finding the sea unpalatably hot,
his latest venture was the dropping of 100
bundles of supplies into the Sanananda
and Buna areas by nine large pusher
’planes, escorted by 14 “O” fighters.
There was one futile night raid by the
enemy on Moresby, and another on an
aerodrome at Milne Bay, which caused
no damage. Allied ’planes bombed Lae-
Salamaua and ranged as far afield as
Kavieng on the northern tip of New
Ireland, where the aerodrome was strafed.
Rabaul was heavily attacked in darkness
at the week-end.
Activity in Timor
The R.A.A.F.’s persistent bombing of
Timor is evidence enough of activity
there.
The highlight of the week’s operations
was a surprise raid by Beaufighters on
Penfoi Aerodrome, near Koepang, on
the early morning of Dec. 2.
Though the ’drome is heavily pro-
tected, the raiders came just above tree-
level, and so fast that the defences were
not properly manned. None of the raid-
ing machines received a scratch. At
least 18 bombers and three “O” fighters
parked on the aerodrome were hit.
Another Solomons Victory.
“Ek Dum”: Japan’s last attempt to
land troops in the Solomons was lightly
conceived beside the previous ones.
Capital ships were not risked.
The approach of the convoy was
spotted in good time, and the U.S. naval
communique which described the subse-
quent battle said that a U.S. task force
met the visitors on the night of Nov. 30,
beat them off and sank two large de-
stroyers or cruisers—a rescued sailor said
one was the new destroyer Takanami —
four other destroyers, two transports and
a naval ship.
Casualties were estimated at at least
7000 Japanese. American losses were a
cruiser sunk and other warships dam-
aged.
~ Fighting on Guadalcanal itself was
limited to increasing local activity
toward the north-east of the island, where
General Vandergrift’s men have been
mopping up Japanese patrols which come
within reach of their claws, and some
air fighting on a small scale.
According to Colonel Knox Japanese
have been searching the beaches for sup-
plies cast up from ships, and the remain-
ing enemy pockets on the island are faced
with starvation and destruction.
A.I.F. and R.A.A.F. in the Solomons
It is now revealed that A.I.F. and
R.A.A.F. men were among the first to
come under fire in the Solomons and that
Australian airmen were the first to
engage the Japs in the area.
A small Australian force transformed
Tanambogo, a speck to the south-east of
Tulagi, into an air and radio base in
Sept., 1941. They were later joined by
U.S. fliers, and when Rabaul was in-
vaded Catalinas from Tanambogo, flown
by R.A.A.F. and U.S.A.F. men, acted as
dive-bombers over Rabaul Harbor. After
Rabaul fell, Tanambogo became the
chief Allied wireless station for the
Western Pacific.
When the Japanese invasion of the
Solomons became imminent, the Austra-
lians wrecked everything on Tanambogo
and abandoned the area on May 1 last.
The Japanese moved into Tulagi and
Tanambogo next day, five days before
the Coral Sea battle.
Australians afterwards carried on
valuable work preliminary to the U.S.
Marines’ invasion on August 7.
Hard Fighting in Africa.
“Ek Dum”: Of North Africa it was
here written (B. 35/11/’42) that it was “not
going to be all plain sailing,” and diffi-
culties brushed aside by “famous” com-
mentators have made themselves felt.
At Fuka and elsewhere when his tail
was trodden on, Rommel showed his
capacity to lash out. There is some
evidence that he was strong enough to
delay pursuit substantially while rein-
forcements were hurried to the African
coast hundreds of miles in his rear. This
he did not by actual contact but by split-
ting his routes and forcing the Eighth
Army formations to split theirs, and by
switching of forces in the difficult coun-
try past Tobruk and beyond the Derna
Wadi.
His coastal forces could not be left,
lest they succeeded in putting to sea or
entrenching, and the drive southward was
not strong enough to deal with the whole
of his forces if encountered —it had to
be limited to specialised types of cavalry
and other units designed for swift move-
ment.
Bad weather became the Germans’ ally.
Large sections of the British intercep-
tion units ploughed across country while
Rommel’s mechanised units belted down
the Benghazi road to Jedebaya and El
Agheila. Once in his old defence triangle
the enemy had a breathing spell, partly
because the weather still continued bad
and partly because the force opposed to
him was strong enough only for harass-
ing and was not suitably equipped to
assault even a short prepared line.
It was only last week that the British
columns making for the south-eastern
corner of the Gulf of Sirte junctioned,
and that supplies arrived in anything like
sufficient quantities to justify an attack
on a commander still tough and wily.
If anybody knows what reinforcements
Rommel has received nothing is being
said about it. But it is unlikely that he
has been left without a stiffening of help
which will put him in a position to fight.
By the time the British junction was
made he was dug in behind all the old
features of El Alamein —pillbox, m.-g.
nests, traps, minefields and the rest of it
—no doubt prepared in advance of his
retreat. Much of the preparation, indeed,
must have been made while he was in
occupation of the position preliminary to
his push forward early in the year.
Hitler’s Big Stake
Hitler is likely to make a maximum
effort to save his Germans, not because
their comparatively small forces would
make much difference to him or because
Libya itself is worth while, but because
the loss of the Mediterranean would be
a disaster to him. He is fighting in Libya
and Tunisia for the Mediterranean and for
his prestige with the whole Moslem and
the Middle Eastern world, as well as for
his hold on French public opinion and
on the Italians.
The result of the Tunisian campaign
carries a greater stake than the cam-
paign in Libya. Tunisia will decide the
fate of Libya as well as French Africa,
whatever may happen in the local fight-
ing at El Agheila or afterwards along the
road to Tripoli.
During the past week there was little
sign that the First Army and its Ameri-
can Allies were winning. They had
reduced the major area of resistance to
a few hundred square miles in the north-
east corner of the country, but they were
getting no nearer Tunis or Bizerta than
before ; indeed, they seemed to be mov-
ing further away.
The Axis, now alleged to have over
40,000 men in Tunisia, was bringing its
supplies along a route which its ships
could compass in a single night and its
’planes in an hour or so. On the other
hand, the Allies were still hampered by
long lines of communication, for the
whole length of which their devoted sea-
men were plagued with bombers and Ü-
boats. Unloading operations were
checked by continual raiding of Bone
and other ports, which they were using ;
and their fighter aircraft support was de-
pleted by the constant need to deal with
enemy transport and protect unloading
ports from attack. The enemy had
superiority in the air.
In the Bizerta Triangle
On Dec. 2 the Allied communique
reported that forward troops were main-
taining strong pressure against the
enemy’s positions near Mateur, 22 miles
south of Bizerta and Djedeirdacoq, 15
miles west of Tunis. Contact had been
made with the enemy in mountainous
country between these two points.
Next day U.S. correspondents in
North Africa prematurely announced
that Tunis and Bizerta had been bombed
into uselessness as bases. But the Ger-
mans flung a violent attack against the
Allied flank at Teburba, five miles west
of Djedeirdacoq, using heavy artillery,
parachute troops and tanks in profusion.
And it was plain that they had adminis-
tered a nasty jolt, though nasty jolts must
be expected in operations of such a
character.
On Dec. 3 Berlin claimed to have
made a successful attack on Teburba
—occupied by American troops—to have
destroyed 22 tanks, captured others and
inflicted “certainly high” losses, also
overwhelming British tanks at Djedeirda-
coq, capturing prisoners and large quan-
tities of war material and compelling the
remainder of the British forces to with-
draw westward. Another enemy report
was that a strong point on the coast in
an unnamed locality had been wrested
from the British, who had suffered heavy
casualties, “especially the 78th Division.”
Press and radio insisted that the Ger-
man assault had failed at all points. An
Allied H.Q. spokesman said on Dec. 4
that losses had been heavy on both sides,
that the Allies held “the western part of
Djedeirdacoq, which has changed hands
several times,” and that the Germans were
trying desperately to regain the vital
Mateur-Djedeirdacoq-Teburba triangle.
He added: —
Obviously, whoever holds it will eventu-
ally win the battle for Tunis and Bizerta.
Heavy fighting is continuing in the Mateur
area.
It was reported that day that forces were
being regrouped after a 48-hour tank
battle, in which the Germans claimed to
have smashed 58 British and U.S. tanks.
The Allied communique of Dec. 5
stated that, though British and U.S. units
were being regrouped on heights dominat-
ing Teburba, some Axis forces had
entered that town. The docks and an
aerodrome at Bizerta had been bombed
on Thursday night, and two Allied day-
light attacks had been made on the
docks on Friday. The Germans and
Italians lost 33 tanks between Dec. 1
and 3, but, when the communique was
issued, were attacking with tanks sup-
ported by dive-bombers.
Reuter’s correspondent at the week-
end reported that the Axis troops had
recaptured Djedeirda and several sources
mentioned heavy fighting in the moun-
tainous area between Mateur and
Teburba on Saturday. The “Times” man
declared on Dec. 6 that we had lost
Mateur as well as Teburba and Djedeirda
—the whole of the base points of the
attack triangle.
The German communique of Dec. 6
claimed that mopping up was continu-
ing near Teburba, and that 1100 prisoners
had been taken and 70 tanks destroyed,
while the Luftwaffe bombed disembark-
ing troops and supply convoys at Bone.
The Italians claimed 400 prisoners, and
large quantities of supplies during the
capture of “an important Tunisian junc-
tion.”
General Anderson’s troops, whom
Reuter’s describes as chiefly British and
Dominion (which may mean Canadian),
with 25 per cent, of Americans and a
number of French units, obviously are
having the fight of their lives. All the
same, there is no cause for despondency.
They will win in the end.
U.S. units have begun to join in the
air war on Italy. Their first essay was
with Liberators—about the same size as
the Fortresses —against Naples. A
cruiser was sunk, a battleship and an-
other cruiser received direct hits, and
bombs burst along the main moles doing
considerable damage. The a.-a. fire was
vigorous but inaccurate, and all ’planes
returned safely to their bases. The
Italians officially described the raid as
violent, and admitted that it had caused
great damage, killed 159 civilians and
injured 358,
"Redoubtable Blows."
Our affairs prospered in November. Our
armed forces were victorious, and our gallant
Russian allies struck redoubtable blows against
the common enemy.”— Mr. Churchill.
“Ek Dum”: In a dispassionate review
of the general situation, Mr. Fraser, the
Maoriland P.M., issued a warning against
wishful thinking about what is happen-
ing in Russia ; and the warning might
have been repeated in stronger terms in
the Commonwealth, which has a war
loan to fill. No ass or slacker should
be given an excuse for saying “Aw, what’s
the use? The Russians are winning,
aren’t they?”
Time and time again the march of
events in Russia has proved the need of
caution in assessing happenings in that
country, but the reporting of the events
of the past fortnight has been as fantastic
as the reporting of the events of last
winter and of half a dozen Russian
advances since, though Red Army bulle-
tins are, as a rule, sober and restrained.
It may be readily believed that Rus-
sian armies are carrying on a lively harry -


mn
a?
ing of German front-line positions, and
that, under cover of snow and tog, they
are heavily digging the hosts of Berlin
and Buda in the ribs, even inflicting a
sore and debilitating wound here and
there. Also that sometimes they are
catching bodies of troops and supply-
base guards unawares and capturing them
on a biggish scale. If they are doing all
this they are doing a good job. More
cannot be expected in a Russian winter,
with the temperature below zero and
every gully filled with snow or slush,
even from fresh armies. And the em-
ployment of fresh armies would mean
using up reserves which will be required
next spring.
What the Russians are actually sup-
posed to have done on the Stalingrad
front is somewhat as follows. South of
Stalingrad huge forces crossed the Volga
—a river miles wide with miles of
swamp on either side, and the whole
under constant enemy observation and
even gunfire. They then sneaked up to
German or Rumanian hillside and
ravine defence positions over an open
and treeless plain. They attacked with-
out major air preparation or prelimi-
nary bombardment, too quickly to allow
of there having been any question of first
dealing with minefields which form a
normal part of an enemy’s defences.
Then, the story goes, they pushed
straight through a front more strongly
held than El Alamein and twice as
strongly manned, served with heavy guns,
massed mobile artillery packs and a host
of pillboxes. They swept on through
these defences for 30 miles and captured
the enemy’s main supply depot and cut
his main communication route.
The Germans encountered in Africa
fought like tigers and, after they broke,
turned round at Fuka and lashed out in
furious fight which made pursuit costly.
In Russia, both last winter and this, ac-
cording to the wishful thinkers, they are
ill-fed and cowardly runts who frequently
desert of their own free will, whose
officers run away in defeat and who, as
often as not, crawl out of their dugouts
and take to their heels in carpet-slippers
or beg for mercy.
As the stories proceed, Timoshenko’s
northern drive, by the same methods as
those used in the south and with the
same swiftness, was carried right across
the Don on the north-west of Stalingrad
until the Stalingrad area was completely
cut off from the west.
Enormous amounts of material —200
tanks a day captured, apart from those
destroyed—were placed in Russian hands
and the enemy losses were calculated at
over 30,000 per day for a week. After
that they dwindled to about half that
number, and prisoners, a feature in the
first three days, ceased to be counted until
the week-end. Then there was mention
of 400 having been taken north-west of
Stalingrad.
Numbers and Facts
In one week the enemy was said to
have lost 250,000 men. Another 250,000
were reported to be cooped up in the
Stalingrad area —that is, in a block per-
haps 40 miles long and 30 miles wide.
This huge concentrated force, which
would not be there without immense
transport, airpower and firepower, seem-
ingly did nothing while its comrade forces
were being annihilated to the westward in
devastating battles. Indeed it allowed the
Russians to scour up and down the east-
ern side of the Don in narrow channels
between German massed positions in the
Stalingrad area and the river itself,
allowed them, unchecked, to present a
long and vulnerable flank, while it went
on fighting for buildings inside Stalin-
grad itself.
When it had become evident (to the
satisfaction of boo boo boys and peahen
tacticians) that 250,000 men were “hope-
lessly trapped” in the Stalingrad area the
next moves were curious.
It had always been represented that
the Germans had never held more than
a tiny section of the north of the city of
Stalingrad ; but now in order to provide
standing room for the trapped 250,000
this theory had to be modified. It was
allowed by one paper that the enemy
must be still in Stalingrad.
In Stalingrad itself the Russians are
fighting to retake the city ruin by ruin.
Trapped in a space so congested,
robbed of his support, his communica-
tions cut and his men demoralised, the
enemy in Stalingrad was pictured as
being ripe for the knockout.
But it transpired that the “doomed”
armies “had established a new de-
fence line” east of the Don —that
is, along the path down which some
of the Russian armies were repre-
sented as having swept in their rush
to Kalach. To destroy this defence line
the Russians were still fighting a fortnight
after their offensive began, while carry-
ing on two other series of movements —
along the edges of the Ergeni Hills,
which run almost south-west from the
southern end of Stalingrad, and on the
Kalmuck plains, south and east of them.
It would take long stretching of the
imagination to believe that there were
any forces, either Russian or German,
on these plains other than marauding
patrols. The country is all salt plain
below sea level. At the Manych Depres-
sion, where geological (though not poli-
tical) Asia begins, it sinks into a series
of lakes, and near the Caspian Sea it
is largely swamps. It is inhabited mainly
by nomads—about 180,000 in 30,000 sq.
miles.
The Germans’ natural defence line in
this area would be somewhere along the
top of the Ergenis, or a bit further north
along the southern arm of the Don Bend
—that is, if they intend to keep a con-
nected winter defence line in that region,
which is doubtful.
The taking by the Red Army of vil-
lages right down to Obilnaya, on the
edge of the Manych swamps—the origi-
nal capture of which was not recorded —
was trumpeted, and the advance to
the “great German centre of Kotelni-
kovo” waxed and waned all through the
week. The town itself jumped about on
newspaper maps like a jack-in-the-box,
sometimes moving 50 miles between issue
and issue.
Inside the Don Bend advances were
daily recorded, but there was nothing to
support the repeated suggestion that the
German Stalingrad forces were com-
pletely cut off from the west.
In fact, the obvious inability of the
Russians by the end of the first fortnight
to close the gap between a point 36 miles
north of Kotelnikovo and another point
to the south-east of it suggested that, de-
spite the 250,000 Axis troops allegedly
swept away in a wide swathe, the enemy
was still powerful to the west of the Rus-
sian drive and still had a corridor or
corridors into Stalingrad on the southern
Don.
A lot of things about the position shift
themselves into a proper perspective when
the silly notion is discarded that the
enemy had more than half a million
troops packed into the Stalingrad and
Don bend areas, some of them divided
from their neighbors by the awkward
barrier of a shallow freezing river, others
wandering in large quantities round the
fringes of desert swamps to the south.
For contrast, Rshev —much more im-
portant, since it commands the northern
Moscow approaches—was said last week
to be held by only 100,000 men.
The probability is that the German
High Command has formed an I gel
(hedgehog) defence position for the winter
at Stalingrad, like that at Rshev and
Staraya Russa last winter. Into this winter
fastness supplies will have been poured.
Round it or through it defences will
have been built.
The approaches in Stalingrad in winter
are in bleak, open steppe country in which
it would be impossible to provide the kind
of shelter naturally given by the hills of
the Kalach-Kachalinskaya-Stalingrad tri-
angle and the deeply scored, east-west
ravines which drive into the heart of
Stalingrad to the banks of the Volga
itself.
All that can be done in the Don coun-
try by the Germans is to keep some
sort of communication lines open—a
facility which they succeeded in preserv-
ing in all their Igel (hedgehog) defence
ports in the north last year.
The Igel, so called from the bristling
front presented to attackers, was origi-
nally a mediaeval pike-armed formation
somewhat like the British hollow square.
It is easy to believe that bold Soviet
cavalry and mechanised units have pene-
trated into the Don bend. It is also easy
to believe that heavy columns have
been flung against the edges of a
German Igel at Stalingrad, inflicting a
bad local mauling on the enemy. But it
is not easy to credit either the reported
timetable or huge scale of the battle,
having regard to the likely strength of
German defences, to heavy fog which
would render dealing with minefields ex-
ceedingly slow and difficult, and to the
probabilities regarding what men and
attack equipment could be carried in the
time available across rivers. The Volga is
a wide river, the western bridgeheads of
which were enemy-held, and enormous
lumps of new-formed ice capable of
smashing in the sides of a steamer must
be slowing down even heavy boat traffic
to a crawl.
When Hitler can be prised off the
Volga or hauls up the white flag in
Stalingrad it will be time enough to ring
the bells.
Toropetz to Rshev
The reported offensive in the north
ran true to an old pattern. On Feb. 18
this year the front line of the northern
front was pictured as running from
Staraya Russa (with the German 16th
Army surrounded), due west almost to
Porkhov, about 50 miles from the Lat-
vian border, which was on the point of
attack by the Red Army; thence to the
suburbs of Velikiye Luki via Kholm,
down the east of the railway to within a
few miles of Vitebsk, next to Velizh,
and Byelii, then turning north and cut-
ting the Velikiye-Luki-Rshev railway
to the west of Rshev. Rshev was sup-
posed to be closely surrounded on three
sides, with only a narrow communi-
cation avenue on the south-west.
Maps showed that the German line
had been created by the enemy mov-
ing or being moved off a great area of
swamp and bogland and forest between
Staraya Russa and Rshev along the
western edges of the Valdai Hills.
By August it was obvious that the
Russian line had moved backwards con-
siderably from the Porkhov region and
Velikiye Luki to the edges of the Valdai
Hills, and that the Russian armies also
had been pushed eastward from Rshev
and away from the south of it. Also,
apparently, that they had been levered
off the railways to the westward and to
Viazma.
On August 27 it was reported that
Russian troops at the western end of the
Kalinin front had launched an offensive
and broken through the enemy defences
on a line 70 miles long:
German troops have been thrown back
25 to 30 miles in the Rshev and Gzhatsk-
Viazma regions, liberating 610 populated
places, including Zubtsov, Karmanovo and
Pogoryaloe Godorishche The number
of (German) killed, officers and men
reaches 45,000.
On this representation, Rshev was
nearly surrounded again, and Moscow
said officially that fighting was taking
place on its outskirts —once, even in its
streets.
Since that time it has been represented
that the Russians were moving forward
in the Rshev area, tightening a well-
established grip on the town, pushing the
fighting towards its centre and continuing
to sit athwart its westward and south-
ward railways.
Now in the world press and radio they
are capturing ground which they cap-
tured in August, and inflicting the same
sort of casualties. Moreover, last winter’s
battle of Velikiye Luki, which was fought
with decidedly unpleasant results for the
Germans, tearing from their grasp the
communication systems east of the Lat-
vian border, seems to be in process of
being fought all over again on the same
ground, and with the same features.
Early last week Velikiye Luki —which,
according to peahen experts, jumps about
on the map even more than Kotelnikovo,
being anything from 50 miles upwards
from the Latvian border (from which it
is actually about 100 miles) —was sup-
posed to have been by-passed by strong
Russian forces, which were about to
attack Novo-Sokolniki nearer Latvia.
These and other operations on the
northern front were taking place in heavy
snow, in which tanks, horse cavalry
and other movable machinery, which
cannot be moved in heavy snow with
any degree of swiftness, or over any but
short distances, were being moved —by
dint of pounding the snow out of exist-
ence with a barrage over hundreds of
square miles.
At the week-end both sides agreed that
there was stubborn tank fighting south
of Lake Ilmen, in the Toropetz region,
where the increasing freeze was making
movement more feasible.
There was nothing to support the belief
that the recapture of the Ukraine, the
cutting-off of the enemy in the Cis-
Caucasus and general disaster to the Axis
forces were imminent.
The Allies will be well satisfied if
Russia keeps on fighting vigorously, and
will not expect the miracles wrought for
it by remote correspondents and radio
uncles.
The Japanese Government, nearly 10
months after the capture of Singapore,
officers above the rank of captain are in-
has issued a first meagre list of Austra-
lian prisoners of war in its hands. No
eluded. The list is made up of 221 names
—95 from N. S. Wales, 76 Victorians,
15 S. Australians, 16 Westralians, 14
Queenslanders, two Tasmanians and two
New Guinea men. No information was
given as to where the men were held.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Mussolini’s survey of his
country’s losses:
Battle casualties from June 10, 1940, to
Nov. 10, 1942: 40,558 soldiers, 33,500
sailors, 20,124 airmen killed and 80,772
soldiers wounded. No list of wounded
sailors or airmen.
Civilian deaths and damage: 1876 persons
killed, 3300 injured. Houses destroyed m
Genoa, 5772; in Milan, 400 destroyed, 4200
damaged; in Turin, 161 destroyed, 3200
damaged.
No mention of the “more than 100
generals and nearly 300,000 Italian
soldiers” held in British prison camps of
whom Mr. Churchill spoke a day or two
earlier. If the agonised yells which issued
from Rome Radio are prompted by 5200
casualties, the Radio will disintegrate of
its own inner force of panic before the
figure reaches 52,000.
» » * ♦
An official account of the Battle of
Britain shows that 2,900,000 people out of
3.200.000 in inner London demonstrated
their conviction that an Englishman’s
house is his castle by staying at home
when Goring’s barbarians called. In
outer London 70 p.c. of 4,600,000 peopie
slept in their beds every night. With
190.000 bombs and uncounted incen-
diaries, Hitler left 500,000 homeless in
various parts of the U.K., killed 43,667
(17,000 women, 5000 children) and seri-
ously injured 50,387 in seven months. In
London in nine months 1,150,000 homes
were hit and 375,000 homeless had to
be housed and fed. If Emerson could
revisit England it is improbable that he
would revise his judgment, set down a
century ago —“The best of actual
nations.”
* * * *
Only two French submarines seem to
have escaped from Toulon. The appro-
priately named Casabianca (1364 tons, 11
21.7 in. tubes) and the Marsouin (974
tons, 10 21.7 in. tubes) were received with
military honors at Algiers.
* * * *
Sunk in the South Atlantic on Oct. 12
was R.M.S. Oronsay, familiar to thou-
sands of Australians as one of the Orient
Co.’s five 20,000-tonners. Captain
Norman Savage and most of the comple-
ment, including several Australians, were
later picked up and taken to Dakar.
# * *
A Lorenzo Marques message (Dec. 4)
reported the torpedoing of a British ship
carrying troops from Egypt off the Zulu-
land coast. Rome Radio declared that
the troops were S. Africans, and the sub.,
it seems, was Jap, On Wednesday night
British light naval forces destroyed an
Axis convoy’s torpedo-boat escort off the
Tunisian coast. Berlin Radio claimed
the sinking of a British cruiser in the
same area. This was not confirmed.
* * * *
It transpires that British naval losses in
the expedition to land troops in North
Africa (Nov. 8-9) were the destroyers
Brooks and Martin (1920 tons), the cor-
vette Gardenia, the cutters Walney
and Hartland, the sloop Ibis, the depot-
ship Hecla, the minesweeper Algerine, the
a.-a. ship Tynewall and a small aircraft-
carrier (converted merchantman), the
Avenger. Walney and Hartland were
lost attempting to prevent the scuttling
of block ships in Oran Harbor mouth.
They gallantly broke through the boom
and, although on fire, landed troops in
the inner harbor before they were sunk.
The U.S. Navy admits the loss of five
naval transports during the landing opera-
tions, and three other transports, a de-
stroyer and a tanker were damaged. A
Dutch destroyer was also lost.
* * * *
Apart from bombing, British and
Indian troops are pushing ahead their
preparations for the invasion of Burma.
A 100-miles-long road has been built by
tens of thousands of coolies into hill
country, where bamboo takes the place
of the Australian outbacker’s fencing-
wire as a necessity of life.
* * * *
Little Reunion, 420 miles off Mada-
gascar, has, after a brief resistance,
given in to Allied troops and thrown its
970 sq. miles and 198,000 people into
the pool against the Axis.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Completion of the railway link be-
tween India and Bagdad is announced.
The Indian line used to end at Duzdap,
on the Iranian border, and there was a
hiatus of 1200 miles. It must have been
built in record time.


Women’s Letters
• ,7
From Melbourne
Y.W.C.A. women in conference in Mel-
bourne have been delighted with the
wider friendliness of their welcome. In
past times they were warmly welcomed
by their own fellow-workers but hardly
made any impression on the general com-
munity. Now, thanks to their war effort,
they have become well and favorably
known to thousands of service women
and hostels have as “good neigh-
bors” almost all women who work for
war-time good causes. The Y Emmas
lace the same problems as the rest of
the hostels in finding volunteer labor for
staff. The sensible lines on which these
hostels are planned, however, mean that
a minimum effort is necessary for a maxi-
mum result in comfort and good cheer,
so that the tired service women who go
to them are not likely to miss home
luxuries yet awhile.
There’s no doubt about sporting shows
being the best moneymakers for war
lunds. Gymkhanas and golf demontra-
tions surprised workers for auxiliaries
last summer, and many are anxious to
see more affairs of this kind held again
now the weather is warming up and out-
door fixtures are not so risky. The sum
of £2OOO was taken at Walter Lindrum s
one-day exhibition under the auspices of
the R.A.A.F. Locker Fund, and when
Mrs. R. Williams handed over the cheque
to the Lady Mayoress for the A.C.F. on
behalf of the group it was agreed that
Mr. Lindrum had created a record for
individual fund-raising. A case of fish
knives and forks with Air Force badge
in gold expressed the Locker Fund's
gratitude in substantial form.
Ginger beer flowed and cakes were put
away with more than usual speed in
Scot’s Church Hall on Wednesday, when
the City Newsboys’ Club had its Christ-
mas party. The club numbers on its
rolls something between 300 and 400
boys, and must have tipped a friendly
mitt to many thousands in its four de-
cades of existence. Miss Edith Onians is
still the guiding spirit of this organisation,
which gives technical instruction in many
trades as well as providing a centre for
companionship and fun for hard-work-
ing boys. Some instructors (nearly all
are honorary) have been called away to
the services, and the club is hoping that
fresh volunteers will come forward.
“Calling All Toys” is the cry of Alfred
Hospital committee, faced with the prob-
lem of providing Christmas gifts for the
hospital’s children, both ward patients and
out-patients. Mrs. Barry Thompson, who
has undertaken to fill Santa’s big sack
every Christmas for 27 years, is a wor-
ried woman this year when she finds her
shopping expeditions yield only a tiny
fraction of the gifts needed. Rationing
has made it impossible to buy children’s
clothes, once among the most appreciated
presents, and even dolly can’t have new
ones. Mrs. Thompson is appealing to
everyone to look out old or disused toys
and send them along, as they can be
cleaned and repaired. The R.A.A.F.
auxiliary committee also had a toy prob-
lem with their Christmas tree and fair
for children of servicemen ; but buying
in bulk some months" ago, and the lucky
discovery of lots of dolly left-overs from
the doll-dressing competition that the
Japs spoilt by coming into the war on
the day of the sale of dolls, have solved
their problems.
It was a happy occasion for Group-
Officer C. Stevenson when she was able
to present as new W.A.A.A.F. officers
50 from the just-completed school, 40 of
them originally ranker members. It has
always been the boast of the women ser-
vices that efficient, and deserving women
could rise from the ranks, and this big
percentage seems to justify this conten-
tion. At the same time the A.W.A.S.,
which insists on all would-be officers
going through a “rookies’ ” school, has
also been training many of its numbers
for officer rank. The result is to encour-
age girls who hold responsible posts in
civil life to be ready to sacrifice their
salaries for service, knowing that if they
are worth their stripes they will win
them and ultimately will get to an offi-
cers’ school.
Many University friends were among
those forgathered to see Judyth Gibson
become Mrs. William Edquist at St.
John’s, Toorak. The golden-haired bride
looked fairylike in parchment-colored
Chantilly lace. Daughter of the A. J. L.
Gibsons, of Grange-road, Toorak, Mrs.
Edquist has been doing a hush-hush war
job since leaving the Uni., where she had
a reputation for exciting and distinguished
clothes, designed by herself. She was a
Melbourne pioneer of the vogue for knee-
length woolly socks that solved the stock-
ing problem. Bridegroom is a son of the
Victor Edquists* of Myora-road, Toorak.
and is interested in engineering in peace-
time ; at present he is a sergeant in the
A.T.F.
The idea of making a super-baby trous-
seau and giving it to the Red Cross to
raffle has been an outstanding success
from the jump. When new babies are
mooted the family circle now goes and
buys a shilling ticket at the Red Cross
Variety Shop as a matter of course. The
happy parents whose baby wins the trous-
seau will be blessed indeed. There are
enough clothes for baby’s first 12 months,
all coupon-free, for coupons have been
self-sacrificingly surrendered as the
materials were bought. There are also
furnishings for baby’s cot and pram, and
all the odd bits and pieces that a baby
would insist on having if it could stand
up for its rights. In the meantime the
Red Cross sits back and regards with
satisfaction the thousands of shillings
rolling in.
The New Year will bring a volume of
war-time poetry from the woman’s angle.
Gwen Bessell-Browne, here pictured by
Broothorn, is the author, and the book
is dedicated to her husband, Sergeant
John Bessell-Browne, killed in action with
the R.A.A.F. some months ago. Illus-
trations for the title page and poem head-
ing have been drawn by the author’s
brother, Sergt.-Observer A. C. E. Snook,
who was one of the party of Air Force
men who made a 1500-miles’, 44-days’
journey in an open boat from Java after
its capture by the Japanese. Mrs. Bessell-
Browne’s baby son inherits a full measure
of military blood, as she is the daughter
of Wing-Commander C. W. Snook and
paternal grandfather is Brigadier-General
Bessell-Browne, both well known in
Perth.
Afternoon tea in the high-ceilinged
room overlooking the Assembly garden last
week gave women in the little group enter-
tained by Mrs. Ivy Weber, M.L.A., some
idea of what it feels like to be a member
of that august body. Previously the guests
had seen their hostess taking part in a
vote on a Dietitians Bill, and one and
all felt that they would like to be voting,
too, on a matter so interesting to women.
Mrs. Brownbill, the other woman mem-
ber of Victoria’s Lower House, was at
the party. At the meeting with which,
at her home in East Kew, Mrs. Weber
will launch the “Women to Canberra”
movement in Victoria, women who in the
past, tried to battle their way to Parlia-
mentary honors will attend. Vida Gold-
stein is likely to be there, though in these
days she finds more interest in philosophy
than in politics.
All sorts of schemes for helping service
v/omen in post-war days are in the air.
One of these proposals concerns the
V.A.Ds., and is a plan to keep them in
uniform for at least 12 months after the
war and in Commonwealth pay while
they assist with various types of recon-
struction. Another links up the service
women with proposed gigantic under-
takings which will take armies of men to
the interior and mean that hostels will
be needed, some of the work of which
would be best done by women.
Women students weren’t frightened by
the thought of fruit-picking for the vaca-
tion being made compulsory, as the pros-
pect of outdoor work was welcomed by
students in the midst of swotting and
exams. There was disappointment when
the University authorities let loose the
sad tidings that most of the work for
women will, be in canneries, but if a
really hot summer is coming the girls
probably will find there are advantages
in working indoors. Senior history lec-
turer Mrs. Kathleen Fitzpatrick will be
in command of arrangements for women
students. She has already made a name
for herself with the Committee tor
Women in Industry, and it seems likely
that more will be heard of her in public
life.
From Sydney
The Red Cross called it a day last
Friday with something like £BO,OOO in
the pocket of its jeans, £42,000 of which
had been placed there by Miss Red Cross
and her friendly rivals. Leonore McCal-
man, of Gulargambone branch, is holder
of the title for 1942, and very dainty she
looked, too, as she smilingly extended
her hand for her seal of office. This was
handed over by Mayor Crick at a tea
party in Prince’s on Friday afternoon.
Leonore gave tongue to a neat little
speech, as did Dot Arthur, of United
Buffaloes Broadmeadow branch, and
Moiya Brown, of Grafton. The three
were bright examples of the State’s girl-
hood, and probably every one of the 112
candidates in this contest is equally spark-
ling and animated.
On deck at Prince’s were Red Cross
importants: Mrs. Penfold Flyland and
the Alexander Gordon and Sam Walder
ladies. The last-named could feel proud
of her effort in Martin-place. Hers was
the Market Fair that sailed down the
middle of the roadway, a galleon laden
with plenty, in the early-morning hours.
Frank Albert, by the way, gave a hand
here, and sold the first cabbage. Then
he became a buyer and plucked off a
£lOOO badge. Before lunchtime scarcely
a green leaf, an egg or a rasher of
bacon remained. Button-sellers told
breathlessly of record sales. The silver
auction had netted over £2OOO. Alto-
gether, success was in the air. The tea-
drinking at Prince’s took on a note of a
celebration, and the smile at the official
table starting with that of our pleasant
Mayoress grew wider and more expan-
sive as the full round-bodied figures of
achievement were announced.
Charles McCann, S.A.’s Agent-General
in London, found time during his one
day stay in Sydney en route to Adelaide
to ring up the Anzac Fellowship of
Women to say he was charged with a
message from his wife, who is president
of the London branch, to say what a
fine job of work the A.F.W. has done
and to appreciate the relief it had given
to those in dire need. He spoke also of
the organising power and sympathy
shown by Mrs. H. F. Cortis Jones,
hon. sec.
This girl with smiling eyes is Valda
Jorgenson. With her parents, the H. L.
Jorgensons, she lives on Goat Island, in
Sydney Harbor. She has just become
engaged to Lieut. John Dunn. A.I.F. Her
own war work includes first-aid work
on the island, voluntary clerical work at
the Showground, and helping with the
comforts fund for boys who have left
the island to serve with the forces.
Photograph by Norton Trevaire.
The National Defence Camouflage
Netters upped' and had a Christmas
party (Dedman or no Dedman). N.D.L.
workers of the home variety, as well as
those who work in the city rooms, for-
gathered under the leadership of new
president Kae McDowell, and a cheery
and determined “all pull together”
atmosphere sent the party sparking
along. Major-General Fewtrell was
an important guest and in his
speech said: “You camouflage netters
are really volunteer munitions workers
....you provide the equipment to save
the lives of our own men.” One hundred
and seventy thousand nets have been
made by voluntary N.D. Leaguers (cash
equivalent £250,000). Of these 20,000
have been made by workers in their own
homes. Mrs. G. Chambers is the leader
of this group. Lady Wakehurst was the
honored guest of the afternoon.
Helen Hall, of the American Red
Cross, was the guest of the Women
Writers’ end-of-the-year lunch. The
Chelsea Club now gives harborage to this
gioup of pen friends, and the room was
crowded with writers interested in hear-
ing Helen speak. In private life this fair,
pencil-slim woman is Mrs. Paul Kellogg,
and she is known in at least three coun-
tries for her splendid labors in the in-
terests of suffering humanity. She told
the story of the founding of the Henry-
street Settlement, of which she is presi-
dent. Interesting was her account of the
credit loans (a mixture of banking and
moneylending) entirely run by a com-
mittee of the young people of the settle-
ment.
The heads of the settlement know
something of psychology. When they
were running a campaign for better
housing for the poor they sent a group
of the women who lived in squalid houses
as delegates to Washington and gained
for them an audience with President
Roosevelt. On their return one of the
delegates said “You know, Miss Hall, the
President is a lovely man. He’d have
spent the whole afternoon talking to us
if it hadn’t been for those secretaries
coming in all the time.” Then there was
the woman whose sense of delicacy was
somewhat shocked by travelling condi-
tions. The sleeping cars in the States are
on long, Pullman lines. This delegate
remarked: “If my husband had seen
those long lines of men’s shoes under the
bunks and heard all those men snoring
he’d never have let me go.” However,
delegates and Henry-street Settlement
combined won their point.
Hopeweod House put up the shutters
as a finishing school (at least, for the
duration) last week. Principal Nancy
Jobson and some of her devoted staff will
move into a roomy flat surrounded by
bright gardens near their former Darling
Point school, which started out as the
home of Lebbeus Hordern. The last
breaking-up drew large numbers of
parents and friends. Old pupils, among
them Hopewood House’s first girl to be
enrolled (Mrs. Merrick Long who was
Jean Mackay), turned up, and applauded
vigorously their principal’s speech of fare-
well. Songs and plays and dancing in the
Bodenweiser style formed a neat after-
noon entertainment directed by the Coun-
tess de Vilme-Hautmont. An exhibition of
the pupil’s work combined the ornamental
with the useful side of life. A display
of fencing showed that this art was a
more graceful way of getting your man
than, though not so quick as, a little exer-
cise with a tommy-gun. Mrs. James
Chuey, old friend of Hopewood House,
distributed the prizes.
James Muir Auld, whose face (from
his self-portrait) was as sensitive, serious
and sincere as that of Barrie’s stickit
minister, is holding court posthumously
in the National Gallery. Indeed, there
was churchly blood in him, for he was a
son of the Rev. John Auld, of Ashfield.
The memorial exhibition of this artist’s
work shows a sort of lyrical passion for
his native sky and tree. Even French
critics remarked on this. Poet Rod Quinn
looks out from his Muir Auld canvas,
every inch a Celt, and in the portrait of
F. Tregear there is his shadow so much
a part of him that it might be the shadow
in the Stevenson poem. The National
Gallery has been made bright and shining
in time for this exhibition. Its walls have
a gleaming freshness, its floors a super
polish. It might almost be one of those
millionaire bequest galleries of the U.S.A.
The Ku-ring-gai women war workers
were responsible for a very artistic exhi-
bition of treasures from many lands held
recently in David Jones’s auditorium.
Tonight, the Turramurra Centre of this
group will present a programme of music
from many lands in the concert hall of
Federation House in Phillip-street.
Tickets are at the bargain rate of three
shillings each.
Tomorrow afternoon the Australian-
American Movement will hold its Christ-
mas cabaret in the Coronet rooms, near
Wynyard station. The programme is
being arranged by Mrs. Roy Harrison,
and there is talk of a Christmas-tree —
just a symbol, Mr. Dedman. It promises
no fruitage of gifts.
Sister A. B. Parry has brought out
another of her invaluable little books,
Emergency Hints for Home Nursing,
and, as the author is a lecturer for St.
John Ambulance, and for the Red Cross
Society, and has had years of experience,
the book should prove invaluable to the
homemaker. Over 100 illustrations,
clearly and finely drawn by Cam Petti-
grew, give point to the hints. N.E.S.
Minister Heffron has written a foreword,
and he should be particularly interested
in the pages which relate to emergency
kits. Sister Parry is liaison officer for
women in the N.E.S., and is an Inspector
of First-aid Posts. Dr. Mary Booth also
makes introductory remarks.


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £ 1/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
Wanted to Buy.
WANTED TO BUY. —Recordings of Bruck-
ner’s 4th and 7th Symphonies. Must be in
good condition. Particulars and price to K.
Mclntyre, P.O. Box 66, Devonport, Tasmania.
Personal and Missing Friends.
HARRY FRYER.
IF HARRY FRYER, formerly of Blenheim,
New Zealand, but now believed in or about
Sydney, will communicate with the undersigned
he will hear something to his advantage.—
MAZENGARB HAY & MACALISTER,
Solicitors, 21 Brandon Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Divorce Notices.
TO THELMA JEAN GRAY formerly of War-
racknabeal Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
your husband VALENTINE GEORGE GRAY
has instituted proceedings against you for
divorce on the ground of three years’ desertion
Unless you enter an appearance in the Pro-
■thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the 30th day of De-
cember 1942 the case may proceed in your
absence If you intend to defend you must also
file an answer in the said office on or before the
9th day of January 1943. —ROBERT C. ROY,
472 Bourke Street Melbourne, Solicitor for
the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD OUSTON HINDERWELL late
of 300 Palmer Street East Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that CLARA HINDERWELL has
filed her Petition in Divorce No. 2569 of 1942
on the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Nineteenth day of Febru-
ary One thousand nine hundred and forty-
three and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from JOHN W. BINNEY Solicitor
79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Legal Notice.
TO HENRY KEITH BLAMEY of Sydney
Solicitor formerly practising at 39-40 Martin
Place Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that the Statu-
tory Committee of the Incorporated Law In-
stitute of New South Wales did on the second
day of December instant ORDER and appoint
that the hearing of a question or matter as to
alleged professional misconduct by you as a
Solicitor particulars whereof have already been
served at your former registered office be fixed
for Friday the 29th day of January 1943 at
II o’clock in the forenoon at the Board Room
(9th Floor) M.L.C. Building 44 Martin Place
Sydney AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that if you fail to appear at the appointed
time and place aforesaid the committee will
proceed to hear the matter your absence not-
withstanding. DATED this Fourth day of
December 1942. —J. E. GOSLING, Chairman
of the Statutory Committee, 3 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Great Britain will have another race
before he retires for a short spell, and,
pending the result, opinion concerning
the real value of his easy Victoria Derby
win will have to be deferred. Heavy
going was blamed for his failure in the
Melbourne Cup, but form in that and
subsequent races has suggested that weak
opposition, rather than outstanding
ability, contributed largely to his Derby
success. Amazed, dead-heat for second
with Illyrian in the Derby, finished
nearer last than first in the Melbourne
Cup. Illyrian was subsequently beaten
five lengths by Gay Roi (tenth in Derby)
in the Batman Stakes, and finished well
back with 6.11 in the Williamstown Cup.
» * * «
Spring racing in Melbourne produced
two of the best bargains in recent years.
Colonus, purchased by L. O. Menck for
150gns., won the Melbourne Cup, and
Dark Felt, bought by J. A. Cain for
500gns., the Moonee Valley Cup. Both
horses changed ownership less than a
year ago, and already Colonus has re-
turned Menck £6430 in stakes and trophy
for three wins and three seconds. Dark
Felt, with six wins and a second, has
returned Cain £3605 in stakes and trophy.
For their previous owners Colonus won
only £765, and Dark Felt, a maiden at
the time of his sale, £770. Yearling sales
provide the best opportunities for bar-
gains, but buyers who like to dabble
occasionally in proved gallopers have
scored handsomely this spring.
* * * *
Disinclination to risk one of the top-
weights being eliminated by ballot was
behind the action of V.A.T.C. in grading
the Caulfield Cup field down to the
safety-limit. Good horses make for good
racing, and racegoers endorse a decision
by V.T. and R.A. (Ascot) to exempt top-
weights from ballots for its future meet-
ings. When a ballot is necessary to reduce
a field to, say, 21 runners, one-third of the
permissible runners, representing the
seven top-weights, will retain their places
without risk of elimination. Ascot has
followed the A.J.C. plan of making pro-
vision for emergency runners in the event
of course scratchings. Desirability of this
procedure was apparent on Caulfield Cup
day. Five horses were graded out of the
Cup, but two of the approved acceptors,
Tuhitarata and Damalis, were withdrawn
on the day of the race.
# * * *
Ben Butler (St. Magnus-Foliage) was
most impressive of the two-year-olds
which raced during the Melbourne spring
carnival. His only start yielded an easy
win in the Gwyn Nursery, and he would
have started favorite for the Maribyrnong
Plate had his nomination for that race
not been overlooked. He is resting until
the autumn, and, if he progresses as anti-
cipated, will take a lot of beating in the
Sires’ Produce Stakes. His trainer, L.
Robertson, has another smart juvenile in
Simmering, winner of the Debutante
States, and a close second to Pharisee in
the Byron Moore Stakes. Bargain lots
among the juveniles included Maemanto,
who returned £lB5O for an original out-
lay of 85gns., and Pharisee, a 230gns.
yearling, who won £l4OO in stakes.
* * * ♦
Consideration might be given to in-
creasing the distance of the Caulfield and
Williamstown Cups (Hm.) while those
races continue to be run at Flemington.
Victorian Trainers’ Association considers
that, in the interests of safety to horses
and riders, handicap races over \\ mile
at Flemington should be discontinued in
these days of large fields, and the dis-
tance increased to 13 fur. Bone of con-
tention is the short run to the turn out
of the straight. Risk of interference and
accident is accentuated by the headlong
dash for favorable positions, and jockeys
say an additional furlong would give the
field more time to settle down early,
thereby ensuring a cleaner race. V.R.C.
increased the distance of one of its spring
handicaps from \\ to l|m., and has
taken similar action with another forth-
coming handicap.
* r * •
The Prime Minister and presumably
other members of the Federal Cabinet
met representatives of the A.J.C. and
V.R.C. at Canberra last week for the
purpose of formulating a plan that would
greatly reduce the volume of starting-
price betting, even if it did not knock
it out completely. That will be difficult,
as where there is demand there is gener-
ally supply, no matter how great the
risk. Strict control of telephone licenses
would be a step in the right direction.
When ordinary private residences hold
licenses for three or four telephones it
would be absurd to think the authorities
do not know the use to which they are
turned. An early suggestion that
acceptance for each race should be de-
layed until an hour prior to the adver-
tised time of starting did not receive
consideration at the conference. Such
procedure would be impossible in these
days of divisions, balloting for a start
and tote betting. The veriest tyro in the
conduct of racing should know that a
hopeless muddle would result.
Cash betting was never heavier on
Sydney racecourses than at present.
Totalisator speculation endorses this
statement. The turnover at each race
meeting continues to increase, and no
doubt the books get their share of the
additional money. At Randwick on
Nov, 28 there were 23,500 present, apart
from soldiers, who are not computed in
official returns at that course. The
attendance on the corresponding day last
year was 19,500 and the tote turnover
was £29,025 for seven races. On the
recent occasion there were six races, and
£58,695 went through the machines. This
year’s average of runners for the six races
Was higher than a year ago, and that, of
course, would conduce to heavier bet-
ting. Still, the average per person for
the afternoon was about £1 more than
the same day in 1941.
* * * *
Sticking closely to figures, Merrimba’s
Villiers Stakes chance should be about
equal to that of Freckles, though, of
course, the fact of being a faster beginner
gives the latter an advantage. In the
Epsom Merrimba, in receipt of lib., ran
Freckles to a neck, and in the Camden
Handicap at level weights (Bartle rode
21b. overweight) Merrimba, in fourth
position, was two lengths behind Freckles.
In receipt of 71b., and with an extra fur-
long to help him, Merrimba reads like
being a tough opponent for Freckles.
Grand Fils won two sprint races in the
spring, and also ran fairly in the Epsom
with 7.12. However, the handicapper is
definite in his opinion that he is much
better over a distance than at a mile.
Grand Fils has 8.6 in the Summer Cup,
against 8.1 in the Villiers. In the circum-
stances it is probable the same pro-
gramme will be adopted with him as at
the spring meeting—a cut in for the mile,
and if he fails in that then he can tackle
the Summer Cup. Veiled Threat, It’s
Funny and Dewar are others more
leniently weighted in the Villiers Stakes
than the Cup, but are better suited by the
longer distance.
» * * *
It was reported shortly after the
appearance of the summer weights that
the Summer Cup, more than the Villiers
Stakes, was likely to be Rimveil’s mission.
Trainer and owner must be credited with
knowing by which race Rimveil should
be best suited, but while he has shown
himself a great weight carrier in handi-
caps up to a mile, his best distance effort
was his fourth with 9.2 in Velocity’s
Caulfield Cup, and in that the last bit
found him wanting, but he covered a lot
of ground. In the Rosehill Handicap, 1
mile 3 furlongs, last December he was
second with 9.8 to Dewar 8.10, but,
though the Summer Cup field will not be
so strong as that he met when he ran
so well in the Caulfield Cup, the extra
furlong and a bit may bother him. At
the time of writing Rimveil is still in the
Villiers, and the books are keeping him
on the safe side.
* * * ♦
As was expected, nothing came of the
talk of some owners and trainers of boy-
cotting Rosehill if that club did not re-
vert to their old entrance fee of 10s. a
race. With personal interests clashing
the odds are always against anything in
the way of a proposed strike by owners
and trainers amounting to anything.
» * * #
The prices recently paid in England
for brood mares and yearlings point to
buyers in that country being optimistic
as to the outlook for racing, despite the
fact that the end of the war is not yet in
sight. It is stated that some good Ameri-
can offers were recently made for stal-
lions, but “Not for sale” was the reply.
An offer of £lO,OOO for Admiral’s Walk
was among those turned down, and,
though a very tempting price was offered
for the three-year-old Hyperion colt
Hyperides, Lord Rosebery declined it.
Nearco’s progeny have made such a good
impression in England this season that
a would-be buyer into the syndicate own-
ing that horse recently advertised in the
London “Sporting Life” that he was will-
ing to give £2200 for each of two shares,
but it is unlikely any were for sale.
* * ♦ *
It is too early to write at all definitely
concerning the merits of our two-year-
olds. In appearance they are, as a whole,
up to the standard of previous years, but
until the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
and the six furlongs Champagne Stakes
are run we may know comparatively
little about their three-year-old possibili-
ties. Even the results of those races have
not always proved enlightening. The
last two Sires’ Produce Stakes were easily
won by Hall Stand and Yaralla, but
neither proved a stayer, and last season
Main Topic, unplaced in that race,
walked away with the A.J.C. Derby.
Moorland and Ajixia showed lots of
pace in respectively winning the Breeders’
Plate and Gimcrack Stakes, but neither
has started since, and though unplaced
in the Breeders’ Plate Haddon Hall’s
wins at his last two starts entitle him to
be rated as good as either. As he is a
half-brother, by Hall Mark, to Prince
Ariel, he may stay, but, as he is a geld-
ing, he is ineligible for the Sires’ Produce
Stakes or Derby. It is the same with his
stable-companion St. Quentin. Breeding
is not against Moorland as a staying pos-
sibility. His sire Felcrag (Felstead-
Florence Dombey) won races in Eng-
land, and his dam, Bower Belle, is by
Bernard from Forest Charm, whose
brother, Prince Bardolph, won the Sydney
Cup and Williamstown Cup, among other
races.
As Macarthur’s joint owners are re-
ported to have refused £2OOO for him
they must be optimistic as to his future.
There is justification for it, as he fin-
ished fairly in his recent races, and as
he is a half-brother, by Marconigram,
to Royal Chief (winner of the Metro-
politan and other good races at Rand-
wick, as well as in New Zealand) his
pedigree suggests distance will not come
amiss to him. Most of Ajixia’s closest
relatives have shown to greater advantage
over short than long distances, but her
dam, Volume, is out of Pamphlet, a
sister to Lingle, who narrowly missed a
Melbourne Cup. Belle Pomme and
Craglia are winners, but may scarcely
come up to the standard of some of the
others mentioned. Clarion Call and Star
Gold are useful, and though Van Eyck
and Hecuba have yet to accomplish all
that was expected before the A.J.C.
spring meeting, both are good gallopers,
and should be sure to win later in the
season. At present, however, no two-
year-old stands out in a marked degree
from the others that have raced in
Sydney.
♦ * # *
In America various racing bodies are
working hard on behalf of war funds.
Bay Meadows (San Francisco), which
raced continuously from Oct. 3 to Dec.
5 —45 days—donated 92 per cent, of its
profits from the meeting. At Belmont
Park the Turf Club Committee of
America had a seven days’ War Relief
meeting in November, the five New
York clubs collaborating, and it was ex-
pected the profit would be between
$250,000 and $300,000, all of which was
to go to army services. The profits of
the 11 days’ autumn meeting at Keene-
land (Kentucky) were put to the same
purpose. Nothing half-hearted about
those efforts ; and owners did not raise
any growls that they were being ad-
versely affected by clubs’ patriotism, not-
withstanding that in many instances
prize-money was less than usual.
* * * *
As a rule there is not much difference
between tote dividends and bookmakers’
closing prices where fancied winning
horses are concerned, though at early
stages of the betting the latter generally
lay longer odds against a horse than those
at which it starts. Many bookmakers,
however, think they have gone far
enough when they offer 20 to 1 against
anything, and when an outsider crops up
nearly all are well beaten in odds by the
tote. Since the commencement of the
season the machine has occasionally paid
some good dividends, those at 20 to 1
and over being as under:
Win for ss.
Warbird £3l 6 0
Beau Timide 27 17 9
Windbrook 21 12 6
Wise Laddie 21 19 0
Addington 20 6 6
War Trophy 17 7 0
Grand Fils 17 1 6
Guild Hall 16 19 6
Estborough 10 17 6
John Dory 6 16 9
The Somme 6 16 3
Ron Rico 6 14 9
Wee Woo 646
Grand Fils 626
Prairie King 513 6
* * * *
Up to September 29 the American
three-year-old colt Alsab had won
$306,365 (roughly £A92,475) during his
career. He*had started 40 times for 22
wins, eight seconds and three thirds. A
very satisfactory return from a horse
that cost $7OO (about £A2I3) as a year-
ling.
With a decision over George Elliott to
his credit, Maurice Dremon, the Fighting
Frenchman, shaped up to that pug again
at Leichhardt, and was going well until,
breaking from a clinch in the second
round, Elliott shot a right to the chin.
The illegal punch floored Dremon for
“eight,” and he was down again before
the bell. Not knowing whether he was at
Leichhardt or Algiers, Dremon opened
the third with a long right lead. It was
countered with an inside right which
knocked him out.
FOR ROSEHILL.
( Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Encourage Stakes: Kiaree, 1 ;
Wellesley, 2 ; Lambeth or Condig-
nity, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Clarion Call,
1 ; St. Quentin, 2 ; The Beacon, 3.
Dundas Handicap: Hydra, 1 ;
Kingsdale, 2 ; Mildura, 3.
December Handicap: Enderby,
1 ; Amberspear, 2; Lord Spear, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Jungle
King, 1 ; Modulation, 2; Brinawa,
3.
Carlingford Handicap: Mortine,
1 ; Easter Time, 2 ; Ron Rico or Air
Link, 3.


us* rut was awe isr wmm\
'//,
v. <
4*
I
E
ns«
x
£
TRANSPORT
The lifeblood of the nation is transport! No use having
Industry, food, clothing or any of the other necessities of
life without the means of transporting them.
By land, over roads, railways or tramways, by the air
cr by the sea—engines of every description are throbbing
and wheels are racing to deliver the goods as and where
needed. Every moving thing requires Oil—special grades
for special machines, everything technically correct so
there will be no stoppage.
Shell plays a vital part in providing these essential
Lubricants to keep the wheels of transport forever turning.
YOU CAN BE SURE OF
EElLf'-'DII
11* * Dmfy-ficc
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated In England)
dm ■ mm
iii n
SMOKE-OH!
“Alola is an abandoned native village of
about seven grass huts, and after having been
repeatedly strafed by Allied fighters it presents
an even more tumbledown appearance than
ever. The village is at an altitude of 26,200
feet.” —Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Tumble-t/p, surely!
*i* . 4* •!•
Iwo young blacksmiths would like corre-
spond with two young ladies.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser."
They hope to forge a friendship.
i( "h
‘Mosquito nets, three light wood coats.”
—For Sale ad.
One advantage of this type of coat is
that it can easily be planed down to fit
—but can it be invisibly mended if knot-
holes appear?
“Some types of people will never tan.”
— “Women’s Weekly.”
Unpractical Ministers for Education,
for instance..
“Origin of the word ‘cad’ shows it comes
from ‘cadaver,’ meaning a dead body.”
—Weekly paper.
One who lacks esprit de corpse.
“A sheet of this glass only three-quarters
of an inch thick has maintained the weight of
an elephant while suspended from its four
corners.” —Adelaide “Advertiser.”
But do elephants have corners?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Footscray (Melb.) council was told that the
depleted grave-digging staff could not keep
up with the demand for graves.”
The council is negotiating for the pur-
chase, cutting-up and delivery of aban-
doned mineshafts.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Contradiction.
“It was her melting smile that won him.
Apart from that she had no attractions.”
— Woman’s paper.
When ladies charm us and beguile,
What baffling ways they’ve got!
Herds one who used a melting smile
Though she was not so hot!
Nat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Same Thing.
“Now biscuits are scarce make rusks.”
— Correspondent, “Woman's Mirror.”
What’s in a name? As biscuits go,
the name is sometimes so much show.
At “cherry creams” we raised a grin;
they went one cherry to the tin. And
so, when Mrs. Maykafuss remarks in
smug conceit to us “I made some rusks
today,” that means the same as when her
husband screens a shudder with a sigh
and quakes “My wife today made some
mistakes.”
OH.
4* ijt »|«
“Any old rubber can be treated.”
—News item.
So can any old sponge.
Gardening Made Easy.
XI.
Perennials.
The importance of being able to differ-
entiate between annuals and perennials
cannot be overstressed. The ignorance
in this respect existing among home gar-
deners is typified by the case of a man
in my own suburb. His wife mentioned
that they should go in for perennials.
Next day he hopped in to the seed store
and asked for a “bundle of perennial
seedlings.” The seedsman asked him
what kind he wanted.
“Oh! You have more than one sort?
Well, I’d better have the chocolate-
colored one —they’ll match the downpipe
and guttering.”
“Yes, but what kind of peren-
nials” —
“I’ve just told you. They’re for the
diamond-shaped bed”— —
“No, no —I mean, what’s the name of
the plants you want?”
“Dammit, I’ve told you —perennials!”
“Yes, but—now, look here, are these
the sort of things you want? Pin-
cushions.”
“I tell you I want perennials”-——
“These are perennials, sir.”
“Now, listen. First you say they’re pin-
cushions and in the next breath you tell
me they’re perennials. Don’t try and put
any roughies over me. I know what I
want. Now these things here —are they
perennials?”
“Yes, sir, and a very good line, too.
Splendid for border work. They’re
double Chinese peonies.”
It ended in the would-be buyer of
perennials, abashed at the revelation of
his own ignorance, crawling out of the
shop, after hastily buying a packet of
broccoli under the impression that it was
a new lawn-mixture seed.
For perennials, by far the easiest and
cheapest cultivation is that of friends who
go in for them a lot. An expression of
admiration for his wonderful chrysanthe-
mums or pentstemons is something that
always gets under the skin of the flat-
tered horticulturist. Immediately he will
dive for his trowel and insist on giving
you some roots.
Most perennials are remarkable for
their hardiness and vigor of growth.
That’s what you want —something with
the same weed-choking ruthlessness of
Kikuyu grass. Set closely enough, the
more robust perennials will save you a
lot of work with the fork.
One of the best in this regard is the
shasta daisy. In my own garden, from
one small root of it given to me by an
enthusiast, I now have a solid mat of it
20ft. by 4ft. The foliage is so thick that
not even flood rains penetrate to the
root system, but that doesn’t adversely
affect the growth in the slightest. It
would take a bulldozer working flat-out
all day to uproot the stuff. And all the
flowers bloom simultaneously.
Of course, not all perennials have the
weed-squeezing ability of the shasta. Take
carnations, which are sure to figure in
the list of the wife’s requirements.
The carnation’s chief feature is its
straggly, untidy habit of growth. By
driving in a stake and tying the carna-
tion to it every two inches the plant can
be kept in some sort of order, but in this
case liquid manure cannot be given,
otherwise the expanding stems will burst
their bonds, or, if you are compelled to
use something strong like piano wire, the
stems will be cut through. A better
method is to girdle the plant while it is
young with wire-netting sunk into the
ground. The lateral shoots will poke
through the wire and keep the blooms
off the ground.
As time goes on you will notice an
enormous dock growing within an inch
of the carnation stem. As it will be im-
possible by this time to disentangle the
“top hamper” from the netting without
pulling all the stems off, the only other
way to get rid of the weed is to reach
down through the opening at the top. Get
a good grip and pull quickly. If the
ground is-hard they will, both snap off
at ground level; if soft, they should come
out fairly easily. The netting will have
to be pulled up by the other hand in the
same movement, otherwise the carnation
plant, flying up past the stationary net-
ting. will be stripped.
The carnation and netting, still together,
can then be replanted. 80.
Sights.
Oh, I have seen peculiar sights
While sailing o’er the seven seas.
And even stranger ones at nights
When hitting, amply oiled, the breeze!
But e’en the worst of these, I ween,
In shame would have to turn their
backs
If they could see what I have seen
Parading round King’s Cross in slacks !
T. W. NATHAN.
Truth in Superstition.
“Let us take the sweeping fact; there is no
truth at all in any superstition.”
— Woman’s paper.
Oh, isn’t there? Take the one about
putting boots on the table being the sign
of a row. There always is a row if I
put my boots on the table, especially
when a clean tablecloth has just been
put on.
Kissing anyone good-bye in an open
doorway is unlucky, too. The time 1
kissed young Miss Gay there Maria, who
I thought had gone into the kitchen, saw
us. The ill-luck still lingers.
Of the belief about a broken mirror
bringing seven years’ bad luck, I merely
mention the fact that on the eve of my
marriage to Maria I came back to my
lodgings after a farewell buck-party and,
waving a bottle about, broke the mirror
on the hallstand
H. M.
Hero’s Heritage.
“Man’s Part in Grim Warfare,”— “Woman.”
Convinced his strength will triumph and
dead-sure his cause is right,
He sticks undaunted to his guns ; he’s full
of fire and fight,
And gives the enemy no sign of quarter
or surcease.
And then he’s glad to twist anon and
grant that black is white,
And wash the dinner dishes in the
sacred name of peace!
P. M.
Flying Story.
“Sydney is at present suffering a severe plague
of lilies.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
It’s nothing to the one we had in
Booglebah back in ’93. They used to
say there were more flies than atmo-
sphere. But one day, quite by accident,
I discovered the remedy.
I was knocking over an O.P. at the
Shithery Arms when a fly dropped into
it. I flicked it out immediately, just as if
it had ricochetted. Another second
would have been lethal, but, as it was,
the creature, hissing loudly, soared to
the ceiling, slaughtering other flies right
and left. I grabbed another, gave it a
brisk dip and sent it hunting. It was
sheer murder ; wings and legs went fly-
ing everywhere. Immediately I enlisted
the aid of companions, and we soon
mobilised an army of intoxicated flies
which completely wiped out their non-
alcoholic brethren. Then, reaching the
later stages of their inebriety, they be-
came bad-tempered and fought among
themselves.
In due course there was only one sur-
vivor, which we eventually hunted down
and shot.
Yes, it was great stuff, that 0.P.!
T.
-I' 4* *r *l*
“Herculean women.”— “World's News.”
They’ll bowl you over with a glance
A nd squash you with a frown.
No matter how petite they are,
They do not even need a car
To run a person down.
O'HELL


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Sane Trading
Small and medium business is taking
a good deal of punishment these days,
but it isn’t all ill wind. The seller’s
market has brought an end to high-
pressure selling. The retailer is no longer
pestered to take over this and that
“agency,” isn’t overloaded with expen-
sive stocks of luxury agency lines and
doesn’t have to flog his territory chasing
figures.
Things are a bit too tough as they are,
but I prefer this state of affairs to the
previous condition. It can’t really be
“good business” to lash into things the
way we used to. Tyres, for instance.
The mountains of tyres that were sold,
the droves of keen salesmen that were
for ever pushing, pushing sales! Simi-
larly petrol—the oceans that flowed
across Australia in the name of “sales
figures.” The incredible armies of radios,
refrigerators, cars. The dead stock that
piled up not only on retailers’ shelves,
but in consumers’ homes. T.-p. gave all
this orgy of buying a shot in the arm ;
in fact, was the basis of it all.
The whole country lived beyond its
means, chasing the absurd phantom of
our “high standard of living”—which
really means a high standard of getting
into debt. The present-day trend of cash
on the barrel-head, and supplies coming
forward in just sufficient quantities for
everyone’s normal needs, must tend to
infuse a saner, healthier note into the
Australian business symphony. Let’s
hope we can keep it this way. A post-war
buying boom would lead to the same old
depression.— R. H. Gordon (W.A.).
In Defence of the Small Shop
The stand-by of the small shopkeeper
has always been the regular customer,
yet “Pharmer” (B. 18/11/ ’42) says the
nursing of his regulars at the expense of
his catch trade is the reason for so many
small men closing down. Why should
the small business sell its short lines to
catch customers? The great majority of
catch customers are those who make a
practice of asking for short but un-
rationed lines at every shop they pass,
and they themselves are one of the causes
of the present shortages.
The small man who sells short lines to
catch customers will soon find that he is
not selling his other lines at all, for his
regular customers will soon transfer to
some other shop where they can get their
fair share of goods in short supply, and
it is he, and not the man who sticks to
his regulars, who closes down through
lack of business. But the main reason
for the closing down of many small
businesses, where the net return is rela-
tively small, is the high wages paid in
munitions and other industries. — Jes-
mond (Vic.).
Insurance of Industry
One of the principal problems that
have to be solved by the Constitutional
convention has been partly solved at the
moment by the fact that, through war
work, unemployment has disappeared. T he
unemployment problem will have to be
faced again when peace-time arrives, and
the time to face up to this problem is
now, for the many attempts during peace-
time to introduce National Insurance
were a failure.
Having in mind the many objections
to health-insurance proposals, a scheme
entitled Insurance of Industry has been
offered to the various Australian Gov-
ernments.
This scheme is based on a Federal
basic income, to be declared irrespective
of employment. Qualification to receive
this income would be registration for
work. This Federal basic income should
be assessed to cover the cost of food,
clothing, shelter and health, with suffi-
cient also for the individual to pay edu-
cational costs to fit him for employ-
ment, for health is largely governed by
environment.
The name Insurance of Industry can
be understood when it is realised that
individual spending on the basic needs
of the people is the best insurance that
industry can have. With such a scheme
in operation at the present moment it
would be possible for the whole popula-
tion of Australia to make use of bank
credit and share the finance burden of
war. The fact that a Federal basic
income was provided for by statute law
would also be guidance to traders and
give confidence to the youth of Australia
to invest their money and energies to
win the war and the peace.— Stephen
Carley (N.S.W.).
Equal Sacrifice?
Recently the press and a national
radio station gave out the news that a
Melbourne racehorse owner had been
offered £10,000 for his horse. A little
later a Brisbane woman announcer, also
from a national station, enthused over
the flowers she had noticed on her way
to the studio. On inquiring the price of
two orchids that took her attention she
was informed they would cost 30s. and
35s.
I live in the bush, and my nightly
orgy for some time past had consisted
of listening to the radio or reading,
meanwhile consuming two Minties. For
the last four months I have had to cut
out the Minties. I can’t get any, and if
I could my conscience would compel me
to save the packet for my soldier son’s
monthly parcel. Why should we have
to obtain Government permission to sell
our poor little farm at a reasonable price
when racehorses can be sold for as low
as £10,000 per horse? And orchids at
35s.! Austerity, is it? —D. M. H. (Q.).
“If you Want to sit there you'll have to join the Park Loafers and
Debaters' Union. Dollar down and 25s. a year."
War Loans
The other evening I heard the P.M.
make an impassioned appeal in support
of the Austerity loan. The money, he
said, was essential to supply our troops
with the sinews of war.
This constant pleading is anything but
dignified for a national leader, and one
wonders why he has to resort to it. Mi.
Churchill has never had to do so. Citi-
zens should regard it as a duty and a
privilege to invest for their country’s
safety. Imagine Tojo pleading in Tokyo
so that the Japs might have sufficient
ammunition!
Loans should be compulsory and free
of interest. In total war we must (in
order to survive) use total methods. —
A. Daly (S.A.).
Vegetable Prices on M.I.A.
About 12 months ago the Government
appealed to farmers to grow vegetables
for the troops. Large quantities of all
varieties were required, and contracts
were made between canneries, growers
and the department.
The Leeton cannery management went
into the scheme enthusiastically. New
plant was purchased, buildings were
erected and the three co-operative cos.
acting for them contacted farmers and
made contracts to cover the cannery’s
commitments. The scheme got away to
a fair start, and by a splendid effort the
cannery was able to supply by far the
biggest percentage to the services.
Prices paid to growers were considered
reasonable at the time, and were based
on the price of the canned article to the
department. However, the keen demand
on the market sent prices sky-high, and
carrots at one period were making as
much as £4O per ton. Contract price
was only £ll 10s. The Prices Commis-
sioner intervened and fixed the price at
£l2 10s. per ton to the grower, but he
also fixed a rate for market sales at 18s.
by the cwt, and ss, by the quarter. Agents
soon exploited this apparent anomaly.
No carrots are now sold at ton rates ;
they are all sold by cwt. or quarter, and
the average price returned to the grower
on the M.1.A., although fixed at £l2 10s.,
is a trifle over £l5 per ton. Canners
cannot compete with this figure.
The Supply Department must consider
seriously and quickly a substantial in-
crease in the price it is offering today.
Ibis (N.S.W.).
Boards
The removal of the Apple and Pear
Board from the “acquisition” part of the
business after it had lost £2,000,000 of
public money and established a record by
selling for 365. cases of apples for which
the grower got 4s. will be contemplated
without regret by most of the Victorian
orchardists. One put it this way: “I
plant apples and pears and a board
comes. To save some of the fruit from
the board’s depredations I start keeping
fowls, and a board comes along and takes
possession of every egg the fowls lay.
I still have my cherries, and so long as
there isn’t a Cherry Board I’ll get along
all right. The birds will get some of
them, but Nature isn’t half as difficult
to handle as the fruit and egg boards.
I always plant so many trees for myself
and so many for the birds. But you can’t
treat a board that way.”
Some Victorian growers have sprayed
their trees to prevent the fruit setting.
Others have simply let them go to pieces.
So there will be another shortage and
prices will rise, and no doubt the growers
will be accused of profiteering.— Bumpkin
(Vic.).
Sugar for Jam
Some shrewd, understanding business-
man should be immediately employed to
rationalise Australia’s rationing efforts.
Although fruitgrowers sought a decision
about sugar supplies for home jam-
making immediately rationing was en-
forced, the tardiness of the Rationing
Commission has only now made avail-
able supplies, after much early fruit has
been wasted ; and in granting extra sugar
quantities for jam- and preserve-making
a method of discrimination has been
adopted which defeats the object of
rationing. Queenslanders are to get
10lb. each; home jam-makers south
of the border are to get only 61b.
The method also discriminates against
the genuine householder who makes
her own jams and preserves, in that
any person may obtain an extra 101 b. of
sugar by simply presenting a ration book
to a grocer and representing himself or
herself as a home jam-maker.
Thus a family of seven who never made
a pot of jam, and probably never will so
long as the storekeeper has jam for sale
(though home-made jam costs one-third
of the shop article), may obtain 701 b. of
extra sugar in Queensland and 421 b. in
southern States. — Sweet Tooth (Q.).
Gallup Polls
This cross-section poll of public
opinion can be very useful. But shouldn’t
it have some outside overseership—the
same sort of check (with a resulting
guarantee of businesslike efficiency) that
auditors would have to give if it were a
financial enterprise?
It now gets the widest possible pub-
licity as claiming to show what the people
of Australia in general are thinking to-
day. But are they? lam not saying
that they are not; only, where is the
proof? For example, though moving
about a good deal, I have never yet met
one person who admits having been
applied to for this expression of the
average man’s —or woman’s—verdict on
the questions raised. Who does select
these average jurors to give a verdict
for the nation? And just how are they
selected? If the vote means anything at
all, it means a rough idea of what a
nation-wide referendum would say on the
subject. That rough idea might be wel-
come and even valuable; but one hesi-
tates while it comes only from an un-
known number of unnamed people,
chosen by a committee self-appointed.—
S. T. S. (S.A.).
Poverty and Crime
One of the most remarkable instances
of circumstances disproving a theory is
the case of Oswald Barnett, chairman of
the Victorian Housing Commission and
author of The Making of a Criminal and
other works whose theme is that vice
and crime are the direct consequences of
poverty. If his theory inspires him to
remove some of the slums of Melbourne,
good enough for him! But its validity
isn’t borne out by recent happenings.
The most convincing demonstration that
poverty is not the most important factor
in anti-social behavior is shown by the
present state of Melbourne.
A large proportion of the lower-grade
wage-earners is better off than ever before
from the point of view of money. Are
there more harmonious relations between
parents and children, between politician
and politician, between one class and
another? On the contrary, if we are
to believe our social reformers.
Children can’t be kept at home by
their parents. Innocent girls are learn-
ing wicked habits. Nearly everybody is
drinking, smoking and indulging him- or
herself. The institutions that have bene-
fited from the wave of economic pros-
perity that has swept the community are
not the art galleries, public libraries and
similar cultural bodies, but the pubs and
other places of amusement. So the re-
formers say, and they want the pubs and
other places of amusement abolished.
The ignorance, not the malice, of
parents produces delinquent children. All
that the increase of money has done has
been to give some people who didn’t have
the opportunity before greater opportuni-
ties to deteriorate themselves. The mil-
lennium will never come about in the way
that Mr. Barnett imagines. Which isn’t to
say that poverty is a good thing or that
ten-pounds-a-week is necessarily a bad
thing. But obviously income isn’t the whole
of the problem. —Lord Luvus (Vic.).
Lot’ries
The comment by “Demos” (B.
25/11/’42) on the Queensland lottery
proves that a little knowledge is dan-
gerous.
During a visit to Brisbane a few
years ago I was shown some of the
many modern women’s and children’s
hospitals, which are the last thing in medi-
cal equipment, that were financed solely
from lottery proceeds. How many
churches can show similar hospital build-
ings erected and paid for by direct giving
by church members and other lottery
critics? As I gazed upon the magni-
ficent Lady Bowen Women’s Hospi-
tal in Brisbane, I wondered, as a
professing Christian, if the Divine
Master would forgive the means by which
it was established. I think He would.
Anyway, why pick on lotteries only for
criticism when greyhound racing and
horseracing are considered proper
mediums to raise funds for charity. —
Charity (Q.).
The Voting Age
Pass an eye over the famous statesmen
holding office in Australia today, and
note how many of them, in Scullin’s
term, enthusiastically supported the aboli-
tion of compulsory training and the cut-
ting down of defence expenditure. If
these elderly men had so little fore-
sight, is it desirable to risk our future
existence on the judgment of persons
with far less worldly experience and less
knowledge of human nature? — Tom
Gleeson (Q.).
School Magazine Portraits
W. J. Peake’s nose for news (B.
25/11 /’42) sniffed short of a few juicy
morsels in bringing the light o’ day to
the photographs of the N.S.W. Premier
and Education Minister on the front page
of the official school magazine. Let’s go
further back in the files. Tom Mutch’s
handsome profile takes up most of the
cover of May, 1927. D. H. Drummond,
M.L.A., then Minister for Education,
finds a place on the cover of May, 1935.
Hugh Main, onetime Minister for Agri-
culture, smiles full face on the cover of
October, 1935. And, no doubt, there
are others, and who cares? —P. Pinker-
ton (N.S.W.).


CORNER HUNTER AND HUGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Austerity Today
Prosperity
TOMORROW!
Jl UST as Life Assurance is your
personal safeguard against the uncer-
tainty of the future, so are Austerity
Bonds your national safeguard. And
just as Life Assurance appeals to the
far-sighted and thrifty, so does the
Austerity Loan—for both provide
protection and sound security. So
assure Australia’s safety by investing
all you can in the £100,000,000
Austerity Loan. Save—and subscribe
NOW.
The “City Mutual” is a purely mutual Australian institution.
Founded in 1878, it looks back proudly on a record of
consistent successes and looks forward with confidence to
a future of prosperity and progress.
CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1878.
HEAD OFFICE; CORNER HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
WILLIAM BENNETT,
General Manager.
INVEST IN AUSTRALIA’S
AUSTERITY LOAN
