

The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3253.
Wednesday, June 17, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
THE WHITE CLIFFS OF ENGLAND.
RENOWNED in song and story are
the White Cliffs of England, extend-
ing, in a somewhat restricted geographi-
cal and popular sense, from Dover to
Beachy Head, a distance as “the ’plane
flies,” not the crow, of roughly 55 miles.
When reference is usually made to the
White Cliffs, from whatever cause, is
there not a tendency to overlook the fact
that the ancient name for England was
“Albion,” a word derived from the Latin
term “Albus,” which signifies white, the
comparison being, of course, to the White
Cliffs just indicated? Popular reference
usually confines itself to the “White Cliffs
of Dover.” Actually, the “White Cliffs
in their beauty and grandeur” are to be
seen near Eastbourne, where the impos-
ing outline of Beachy Head casts its
flickering reflection on the waters of the
English Channel. Beachy Head, illus-
trated, rises to a height of 575 feet. Here
the South Downs terminate. At the base
of this “fearsome cliff” is a lighthouse
“set upon a rock,” while almost beneath
the same great headland is, in normal
times, the gay front of Eastbourne, one
of the justly-famed resorts of the South
Coast. But Beachy Head has an interest-
ing history, quite apart from that to
which the years 1914-1918 contributed,
added to by the years which followed
1939. Beneath this “massive white head”
on June 30, 1690, the united British and
Dutch fleets, under Herbert, Earl of
Torrington and Evertsen, consisting of,
as the chronicles of the day had it, “56
sail,” met the French fleet under De
Tourville, of “78 sail and 22 fire ships.”
Torrington, in pursuance of peremptory
orders “from the Court,” but against his
better judgment, gave battle, and was
worsted, though not decisively. Torring-
ton, however, was tried for “cowardice
and treachery,” and though triumphantly
acquitted was deprived of his commission
by the King, an action discreditable, the
object of which was to appease his
Majesty’s Dutch subjects.


Ii« M l I*
frw^cc
jnwlte*
«!( HOMt
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 142
The Red Page
A MAN WITHOUT A MASK.
Trying to say the last word on Blake—
as critic after critic has attempted to do
—is like trying to say the last word on
the sunset: artists can paint it, writers
describe it, scientists analyse it, yet
evening after evening, elusive and inex-
haustible in its mystery, the challenge is
repeated in the sky. Despite all the at-
tempts since the first full life Blake
was written (Alexander Gilchrist’s Life
of William Blake, newly added to Every-
man’s Library after having having been
many years out of print) nobody has yet
come closer to a definition of the inde-
finable than did Samuel Palmer, who
knew Blake, and who wrote to Gilchrist
in 1855:
He was energy itself, and shed around
him a kindling influence; an atmosphere
of life, full of the ideal. To walk with
him in the country was to perceive the
soul of beauty through the forms of
matter; and the high, gloomy buildings
between which, from his study window, a
glimpse was caught of the Thames and the
Surrey shore, assumed a kind of grandeur
from the man dwelling near them. Those
may laugh at this who never knew such
an one as Blake; but of him it is the
simple truth.
He was a man without a mask; his aim
single, his path straightforward, and his
wants few; so he was free, noble and
happy.
A man without a mask .. . that is as
nearly perfect a summing-up on Blake
as is ever likely to be made. All his
virtues as a writer and an artist are im-
plied in that phrase, and all his faults;
the secret of his wisdom and the revela-
tion of that near-madness which such
men as Coleridge and Wordsworth
thought was truly “insane.” From the
personal aspect the “mask” is the face a
man wears in public ; the pose which,
consciously or unconsciously, he adopts
to avert the persecutions of ridicule or
the terrors of isolation; the denial or
watering-down of individuality which he
concedes to society so that it may not be
troubled with the hated spectacle of
abnormality. Blake, as a man, wore no
mask, adopted no pose, made no conces-
sions to society.
None of the things he did in his life
were really so very abnormal; certainly
they were not mad. It was the way he
did them that made them seem strange ;
the utter guilelessness, the utter “mask-
lessness” that made those unacquainted
with his ways feel that they had “found
him out.”
Gilchrist’s Life tells the famous story
of Blake and his wife, naked in their
summerhouse, being discovered by a
visitor to whom Blake offered the ex-
planation that they were reading Milton’s
Paradise Lost and had undressed to put
themselves into the proper frame of
mind. A fantastic story —yet odder things
that the most ordinary people do are
reported in the newspapers often enough ;
and in principle it is no madder than,
say, going to a hilltop to read Words-
worth. But Blake couldn’t see that it
was an odd thing to be found doing. It
didn’t occur to him to put on the mask
of either grin or blush, as would at once
occur to the people whose private oddi-
ties get into the divorce courts.
Nor were the things Blake said —nine
times out of ten —mad in their essence ;
it was the way he said them. All great
artists would agree with Blake that for
them to betray their art is the unpardon-
able sin ; they might quite likely agree
with him that they would be “punished
in eternity” if they were false to the
truth that was in them or failed to at-
tempt work that was within their powers ;
but only a “man without a mask” could
express that feeling as Blake did, in
words that read like melodrama or mad-
ness but to him were simple honesty:
But if we fear to do the dictates of our
Angels, and tremble at the Tasks set before
us; if we refuse to do Spiritual Acts be-
cause of Natural Fears or Natural De-
sires! Who can describe the dismal tor-
ments of such a state! I too well remem-
ber the Threats I heard! “If you, who are
organised by Divine Providence tor
Spiritual communion, Refuse, and bury
your Talent in the Earth, even tho’ you
should want Natural Bread, Sorrow and
Desperation pursues you thro’ life, and
after death shame and confusion to face
to eternity. Every one in Eternity will
leave you, aghast at the Man who was
crown’d with glory and honor by his breth-
ren, and betrayed their cause to their
enemies. You will be call'd the base Judas
who betray’d his Friend!” Such words
would make any Stout man tremble, and
how then could I be at ease? But I am
no longer in That State, and now go on
again with my Task, Fearless, and tho’ my
path is difficult, I have no fear of stum-
bling while I keep it.
Any painter, looking upon a fellow-
painter with the customary goodwill,
would be capable of thinking, as Blake
did of Reynolds, “He was hired by Satan
to depress art” ; but only the man with-
out a mask would say it in those words.
Any writer, thinking about the iniquities
of censorship, would say that it is cer-
tainly not the writer of a Lady Chatter-
ley’s Lover or a Ulysses who is an enemy
of literature, but the man who bans the
book; but only a Blake would have the
naivete or the daring to declare that Vol-
taire’s spirit had said to him:
“I blasphemed the Son of Man And it
shall be forgiven me, but they [the enemies
of Voltaire] blasphemed the Holy Ghost
in me, and it shall not be forgiven to
them.”
Any artist is likely to be pleased at
his own output, but it is usually only
the wife or the mirror in the bathroom
who hears:
I have written more than Rousseau or
Voltaire —Six or Seven Epic poems as long
as Homer and 20 Tragedies as long as
Macbeth.
And when the normal mask-wearing
artist feels in high moments that his
work has eternal significance and will have
eternal life, he says with Keats “I think
I shall be among the English poets after
my death” ; not with Blake:
I am more famed in Heaven for my
works than I could well conceive. In my
Brain are studies and Chambers filled with
books, and pictures of old, which I wrote
and painted in ages of Eternity before my
mortal life; and those works are the de-
light and Study of Archangels. Why, then,
should I be anxious about the riches of
fame or mortality?
It is a man’s spirit speaking, absolutely
free from the mask that hides the per-
sonality, the sophistication that subdues
his utterances. It might easily be thought
that here, in the completely unconfined
outflow of the spirit, must be found the
purest expression in art. And so, some-
times, it is. In the vast confusions of
the “Prophetic Books” one will come
across from time to time a clear gem of
poetry or thought that could not possibly
have been better expressed ; such a revel-
ation as this, which puts without effort
a thought over which Wordsworth
labored hard and Tennyson gave• up in
despair:
Thou perceivest the Flowers put forth their
precious Odors,
And none can tell how from so small a centre
comes such sweets.
Forgetting that within that Centre Eternity
expands.
Yet the “Prophetic Books,” as a whole,
are a dark and turgid rubble. As the
man’s “mask” enables him to take his
place in society, so does the artist’s
“mask” give to his works that form which
enables them to take their place in the
great tradition of creative effort. Because
the true spirit is in him, the uncontrolled
“maskless” artist achieves (the word is
almost “flukes”) artistic form on occa-
sions, as Blake did in the “Songs of
Innocence.” But he cannot construct.
And construction, vehemently as Blake
always denied it, is just as necessary to
great art as is that inspiration Blake un-
doubtedly possessed and on which, to his
detriment as a builder, he placed his
whole reliance.
Pleasure in Poetry.
One of the things that vanished from
English poetry when T. S. Eliot slew die
Georgians was the spirit of joy. Reading
W. H. Davies or Edmund Blunden, for
example, was (and is) a pleasant, a happy,
a joyous experience; but nobody has
ever enjoyed reading Eliot or Auden or
Spender.
As Keats did in his day, the Georgians
tried to capture in their verses the sights
and events that had given them pleasure,
so that their readers might share that
pleasure. It’s not necessary that poetry
should be pleasant reading: on the con-
trary, it was necessary that Eliot should
revitalise English writing by bringing
back the awareness of tragedy—realism,
satire and lamentation. But, when that
is admitted, how refreshing it is to come
across a poet whose work is made to
delight,
How pleasant, in fact, to see the Com-
monwealth Fund choose this particular
time, when the world is sombre and diffi-
cult and Australian poetry increasingly
tends to follow suit, for the publication
of Frederick Macartney’s Preferences
(Angus and Robertson).
It is not that Macartney is unaware 01
the depths or the darknesses of life;
So I no less must stand revealed
Unhealed,
However I may hide my lace
In the grasses and grace
Of the earth, as a child might smother
Small griefs in the lap of its mother . .
This earth, which in the socket ot the sky
Rolls round as if it were a madman s eye.
But he prefers, on the whole, to make
his poems about the happy moments ;
the times when a lark sang, or a girl
smiled, or the sun shone:
I have Jain in love, and alone have lain,
In a lap of grass on the knoll-kneed plain,
Biting a blade for the taste of its tang,
When the first star shines where the last
lark sang.
If he gets into an Eliot-like mood of
doubt and despondency, as in “How She
Wrings My Heart” —
Marcus Aurelius said long ago;
Look at the stars as if you with them flow;
Consider always how the elements merge
In one another; for such thoughts can purge
Away the filth of this our life terrene. —
and begins to “beat bare fists against this
night, studded as with a dark door’s
ancient nails,” the deep mood is soon
dismissed with a laugh:
Her mouth stops mine, so that I scarcely hear
Her merry murmur, “Wasn’t he a dear!”
If he finds, going through a sequence
of love lyrics, that a man can come to
envy a stone, the tragic mood is soon
transmuted:
I belong to nowhere —
Where do you belong?
Once I loved a lady
And put her in a song.
First we loved with laughter,
Then we loved with tears;
And that’s the way a life goes—
Oh, the years and years!
When the emphasis is on joy, or on
the compensatory phases of tragedy, the
tone of Preferences is inevitably light.
But the lightness comes out of strength,
not out of weakness:
There have been bitter moments when my eyes
Avoided the keen blue, so false within
My spirit seemed, unahle thus to win
Simplicity; but now across the skies
They follow, where the sudden ground-birds rise,
Green fancies from a grassy origin.
Macartney has selected these poems
from the output of twenty years. In some
(“Lean to me, heart of the twilight-pearl”)
the influence of the early Yeats is appar-
ent ; the “green fancies,” of course, are
an echo of Marvell; the Elizabethan
lyrists, Shaw Neilson and Hugh McCrae
have also probably had something to
say to him. He imitates no one, however ;
he speaks with his own voice, not
strongly original, but pleasantly and
naturally his own.
He is least successful in his sonnets,
which are inclined to lumber—a grove
with “trenchant attributes” of pillared
green; he has not the true passion for
the earth or the people of the earth that
could make strong poetry out of his
tropic landscapes or descriptions of
aboriginal ceremonies; sometimes, as in
the description of an island wearing a
beach like a “pinafore,” he carries light-
ness to the point of sentimentality; but
he has always a good phrase to redeem
the few slips; and his garden-pieces and
love-lyrics, in their respective kinds, are
fine verse-making.
Glory Hill Farm: Clifton Reynolds
(Bodley Head). English amateur farmer
telling how he made 100 acres pay.
Pleasant descriptions of country scenes,
people and animals, with philosophy;
“Surely even in fowls there is a lesson
for mankind.”
Night Shift: Inez Holden (Bodley
Head). Short novel, glum rather than
grim, about factory workers in the Lon-
don blitz. Reads like a piece of first-
hand reporting but, like all reporting, is
“realistic” only in the sense that a certain
portion or aspect of reality is recorded
-—here the weariness, the petty grumbling,
the indifference, the inarticulate courage ;
evading both the heights of comedy and
the depths of tragedy.
Lovers of Australia: Series of radio
talks sponsored by the W.A. Labor
Executive (People’s Printing Co. Ltd.,
Stirling-street, Perth). On explorers,
Eureka, Deakin, Lawson, White Aus-
tralia, etc. Thinnish, as most talks are
when printed; but timely.
The Things I Give: Joyce Harriet Jen-
kin (printed by Stockland Press, 16-18
Queensberry-street, North Melbourne).
The things here given, being “of air, of
light, of dew or firelight glow,” are
pleasant, essentially feminine lyrics, with
flashes of charm as their chief merit, and
a habit of rhyming “farce” with “grarce”
or “parce” as their only noteworthy defect.
Forsaking All Others: Alice Duel
Miller (Methuen). Novel in verse by the
author of The White Cliffs. Uplifting
sentiments in verse as flat as a flounder:
Dear Lee, this is the truth;
That any marriage founded on devotion
Though that devotion die, as mine for Ruth,
Is not a state, but a unique emotion.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
What was it that the Victorians and
the Edwardians found so excruciatingly
funny in cakes and buns? W. S. Gilbert
doubled himself up and howled with
helpless laughter every time he wrote
about them and Wilde, too —Sydney
Minerva’s presentation of “The Impor-
tance of Being Earnest” recalled —could
titter about muffins for ten minutes at
a stretch. Was there some vague stirring
of social conscience about greed or adi-
pose tissue, as there now is about class
snobbery, so that a comedian automati-
cally got a laugh when he mentioned a
muffin as he does today when he men-
tions the Old School Tie?
At the Minerva, the muffin scene got
only a few pale laughs, helpful rather
than helpless. The only other time when
the play flagged for a moment was in the
jokes about German metaphysics, which
were received in an uncomfortable
silence. The trouble with stage jokes
about the enemy in war-time is that they
evoke thoughts and emotions extraneous
to the play—something that’s usually
forgotten when people argue about
whether or not “The Mikado” should be
played in war-time. Whether it presents
the Japanese favorably or unfavorably,
or whether—as was pointed out in this
column last week—it isn’t really about
the Japanese at all, isn’t the point: it
undeniably mentions Japan, and the men-
tion of Japan today arouses emotions
that have nothing to do with Gilbert’s
writing or Sullivan’s music.
Ever since it opened, the Minerva has
had a habit of following a good show
with a bad, the bad with a good, the
good with a bad in regular alternation.
It never seems to have set itself a
standard: there is no giving stage tradi-
tion in Sydney, except at the Tiv. It was
the good show’s turn after “Believe It or
Not”; and “The Importance of Being
Earnest” was extra-good. Oscar himself
would have found it bosker. Giles Play-
fair (a son of Sir Nigel) and Allan Rose,
wandering in from Singapore, where they
had been playing for the Malaya Broad-
casting Commission, should never be
allowed to leave Australia : and the local
actors, especially Hilda Dorrington, Kath-
leen Robinson, Georgie Sterling and Nan
Taylor, surpassed themselves. Production
by Playfair and settings by William Con-
stable both excellent. Much approval from
the audience at the conclusion proved that
Wilde’s wit has lost none of its sparkle
and that theatregoers still like to listen to a
fine artist juggling with words for the love
of tossing ’em up and watching ’em flash.
“Spring Meeting,” the Minerva people’s
first presentation at North Sydney after
gathering-in the Independent Theatre,
bore a vague resemblance to an
egg of unknown quality. A “romantic
Irish comedy” about how Sir Richard’s
daughter managed to marry the stable-
boy, the play arrived, egglike, with
a certain amount of noise, was at first
treated with suspicion by the players -
Syd Wheeler, Harvey Adams, Arundel
Nixon, Queenie Ashton, Rita Pauncefort,
Dorothy Dunckley and others —then with
mild enthusiasm and finally, when the
hatching period was nearly up, with fran-
tic anxiety. With the exception of a few
half-strangled cheeps, however, neither
wit, wisdom nor humor emerged and the
egg remained unhatched. It may, with fur-
ther maternal attention from the players,
develop into a healthy dramatic chicken.
For the seventeenth annual exhibition
of the Contemporary Group of artists at
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, 13
painters are represented. What Thea
Proctor, Vida Lahey, Joshua Smith ana
Daryl Lindsay are doing in that gallery
is inexplicable—anybody could under-
stand and admire their work. Frank
Medworth, though he often affects that
fascinating new English style of water-
color painting in which the whole of
Nature’s color gamut is reduced to baby
blue, lemon yellow, Nile green and plenty
of white paper, makes his meaning plain.
The others, including such pillars of the
brave new art as Roland Wakehn and
Arnold Shore, interpret their own souls
in their usual sturdy fashion. It may be
suspected that they dread above all else any
sign of appreciation or comprehension
from the common man, and have taken
adequate steps to avert any such disaster.
Modernists, surrealists and suchlike
might usefully take a look at
of historical portraits with which that
eminent master Mo has beeni convulsing
the crowds twice daily at the Tivoli, Mel-
bourne. One of the most sacred modern-
ist principles is that the artist should ex-
press his individuality in his pictures,
and however much the comedian s por-
traits of Julius Caesar, Nell Gwynne and
others contain of their models, they cer-
tainly contain as much ot Mo as the law
and his audience will allow.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —always
%u>
v^ V X.*'s •
.V
' '
SEMD FOR YOiR A.R.P.
EQUIPMENT NOW!
■i
>
<*
SENIOR STORE’
LAMPSHADES
No. 1.-—New and improved indestructible Lampshades, all metal, double
purpose, detachable cap for Brownouts. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, each,
1/6. SPECIAL PRICE, each 1/1
Nos. 2 and 3 (Unillustrated). —Tall Cone-shaped Black Shades. Two
qualities. Prices sd. and IOJd.
VENTILATOR BLACKOUT SCREENS
Ventilator Blackout Screens, attractive and very effective
. . . fitted in a jiffy. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, each, 1/4
UNFILLED SAND MAT
Specially made for bomb disposal . . . already sewn in
rolls for filling with sand. Price, each 2/8
ASBESTOS FIRE BLANKETS
(UNILLUSTRATED)
"Tri-State" Asbestos Fire Blankets, specially
rolled and packed in metal wall container.
Three sizes: 3ft. x 3ft., price, 37/6; 6ft. x
3ft., price, 50/-; 6ft. x 6ft., price. 75/-
SHOVEL AND HOE
Shovel and Hoe, with long
handles, specially made for dis-
posal of incendian-es. Three
types: No. 1. Price, pair, 7/-
No. 2. "Xtingo," special hard-
wood. Price 9/6
No. 3. "Uni," specially built of
selected hardwood. Price, 11/9
CM
W)
FIRST AID AND A.R.P. BOOKS
The Facts You Need
[A.R.P* CIVILIAN GUIDE
A —A.R.P. Civilian Guide, written espe-
cially for wardens. Gives modern
methods of dealing with bombs and
gases, and how tg safeguard property.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price, each, 10Jd
ENCYCLOPEDIA OF
FIRST AID.
B —Contains over 500 articles dealing
with First Aid. In hand-book size. A
really good textbook. Price, each, 2/3
FIRST AID IN PICTURES
C —First Aid in Pictures, an invaluable
adjunct to the recognised handbooks on
First Aid. At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
each 1/6
FIRST AID HINTS FOR
HOUSEHOLD USE
First Aid Hints for Household Use.
Written by an N.E.S. expert. Printed
on thick cardboard. Size, x lOins.
Is adaptable to be hung on walls of
factories, in blocks of flats, etc. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, each, 3|d.
ANTISEPTIC SOLYPTOL
Solyptol, a safe antiseptic which is
ideal for surgical and home use. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, per bot., 1/7
Ate
ms
>•««
mzzrnrm
5S
m
m i
m
;s : >*ss
■;v : .
r-'-xv
FIRE EXTINGUISHER
f A
i
mm
•> %
RRE
a
m
tS^ins
m m
OKH
iUi^ k
K|lfc *<**.*
THE
“INSTANTA 1
The "Instanta" Fire Extinguisher, in
special metal wall container, filled
with powdered substance thrown by
hand on fire. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, each 15/-
m
m
w
oCIKfRt
mm
Pfil
METHODS OF PROTECTION
GUMMED MASKING TAPE
"Uni" Gummed Masking Tape for windows, width 1-jins., prevents shattering, 200 ft.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price, roll 2/-
ANTI-SHATTER SOLUTION
Anti-Shatter Solution by Dockers, for adhering net or muslin to windows. Half pint
tin. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, tin 1/7
PAINT BRUSHES
Paint, Varnish, and Proofing Brushes, set in rubber. Pure bristles. At Anthony
Horderns'. Prices, each 1/5 and 2/6
OUTLINE WHITE
Outline White, by Taubmans, for motor car outlines, kerbs, fences, and steps. Can
be seen at night. 11b. tin. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, tin 1/5
BLACKOUT PAINT
Blackout Paint, by Taubmans, for painting roll-up or detachable screens. Half pint
tin. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, tin ’ 1/4
ANTI-BLAST SOLUTION
Anti-Blast Solution by Bergers, is highly effective when used with muslin or net.
Half pint tin. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, tin 2/1
A.R.P. Equipment —Blue Tables, Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night) FAMOUS LOW PRICES Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


ELAN COMES TO WEEDALONG
By CHARLES SHAW.
JULIE SAYERS was thirty-six and
fast becoming an old maid. She
had been in the Royal Garage when
it first metamorphosed out of the
old blacksmith shop, and she was in it
today with a neat little office full of
books, order forms, a typewriter, cash-
register and all the other paraphernalia
to be found in a modern country garage
sitting behind a line of chromatic petrol
bowsers and a couple of kurrajongs.
Other people got themselves born, edu-
cated, married; became parents, went
away, came back, vanished, died, sold
out; were drunk, gaoled and forgotten.
Julie went on keeping the accounts at
the Royal Garage. Weedalong accepted
her in much the same way as it accepted
the dusty old Boer War memorial, some-
thing somebody had planted in the town
and around which the town grew.
Julie was quiet. Unmarried gentle-
women of her age generally take part in
social welfare, raise their voices at public
meetings, but the only place Julie ever
raised her voice was in the choir on
Sundays and then not very loudly.
Besides her quietness her one splendid
attribute was that she minded her own
business. Scandal flowed up against her
and baulked, either to die right out or
break and flow by, like dirty water meet-
ing an uncompromising brick in a drain.
Let the town be disrupted by local poli-
tics, let tempers rage in a bout of sec-
tarianism, let tongues wag because some
wife and mother had fled with someone
else’s husband and father, let the grocer
boy pinch the grocer’s money or the
mayor be fined for drinking after hours,
Julie had no comment to make, no
advice to give.
Weedalong took enthusiastically to the
war. Its young men enlisted, its old men
made speeches, its women either enlisted
or established comforts funds. It sub-
scribed to war loans, bought war-savings
certificates and worked its head to beat
petrol rationing and other restrictions.
Julie maintained the quiet, even tenor of
her way. The first Libyan campaign,
Greece, Crete, Syria, passed into history.
Weedalong began to depopulate. The
call to the colors and the call to muni-
tions making at high wages couldn’t be
resisted. Japan came into the war. Julie
watched Malaya and the rest go, and
said nothing. She had money saved and
she kept it. Appeals to war loans and
savings certificates she regarded as not
being addressed to her.
Then early one Sunday morning three
strange motor vehicles whirled into
Weedalong and stopped. A dark-eyed
young man in a strange uniform 4>egan
a search. The place was asleep when he
arrived ; half an hour later it was awake
and agog. Citizens gathered and peered
at the cars and their human contents, at
the “U.S. Army” and numerals on their
bonnets, at the searching young man.
He, after a quick survey of the cjosed
shops, addressed the assembled citizenry:
“Say, is there any way of getting spark
plugs?”
They sent for Julie. She peered at
the dark-eyed young man in his hand-
some uniform and said “I’m sorry, but
Mr. Rowles never opens the garage until
nine o’clock on a Sunday morning. He
always takes the keys on Saturday night.”
The dark-eyed young man said win-
ningly, “Ma’am, your Mister Rowles is
holding up the United States Army. You
go right in where he’s at, ma’am, and
tell him that.” He gave her a long, level
look and added, “You tell’m, ma’am,
that I’ll bust into that li’l old garage if
he don’t come. We gotter have plugs.”
All the time his dark eyes were on
Julie. Her emotions had been stored away
so long they had become a trifle moth-
eaten, but somehow that soft voice blew
the moths to glory. Julie ran to Mr,
Rowles’s home, awoke him, bullied him
and was back with the keys in ten
minutes, the drowsy-eyed Rowles fol-
lowing. In another five minutes the three
cars were vanishing up the highway in
the dust of their going.
The Weedalong people chattered and
argued about it. Julie stood silent, just
inside the garage door, where a large
map of the United States of America,
put out by some oil company, hung on
the wall. She looked at it a long time,
thinking about that young man and the
other young men who were coming over
the seas to fight for Weedalong. Julie’s
mind was almost as limited in vocabu-
lary as her tongue. But she stood there,
and strange sensations, strange ideas
churned their way about in a mind turgid
with the heavy impressions of 20 years in
a country garage. She went home, and
those who passed her, remembering it in
the light of later events, recalled the
“funny look she had.”
BY church-time the temporary sensa-
tion of the passage of the Americans
had died down. Julie was in her place
in the choir, the regulars were in their
places, the minister in his surplice and,
though war was in the Pacific, it could
be assumed, from Weedalong’s point of
view, that God was in his heaven and
all was right with the world.
The explosion came just when the
minister, speaking on the need for self-
lessness in the nation’s peril, said “and
to those left behind, as well as to those
who go forth to fight, the call is for
national service in the time of peril.” He
stopped there, struck by the congrega-
tion’s attitude. Then, following their
astonished eyes, he looked up at the
choir and saw Julie, She was standing
up, staring at him with distended eyes.
She had taken her hat off and thrown it
on the floor in front of her. Her hands
gripped the rail of the dais. So, for a
long moment, the tableau held: Silent
congregation, silent and erect Julie,
stricken minister.
Then she spoke. Her voice was low,
but it had the penetration of a bell. Her
eyes had shifted to look at her employer,
“Mr. Rowles,” she said, “what about
the three hundred gallons of petrol you
sold to Mr. Stevens to beat the rationing
and which is hidden on his farm? What
about the petrol you’ve been selling for
three shillings a gallon?”
Then she put her hat on and sat down.
Down in the body of the church Rowles,
his face scarlet, stared up at her. The
minister stared at Rowles. From the con-
gregation came a titter or two. Julie
took off her hat and stood up again.
“You needn’t laugh, Mr. Johnson,”
she said. “You had no right to put that
tea in our shed and then take it out and
charge higher prices when tea got short.”
Mr. Johnson had vanished through the
door before the astounded congregation
could turn to look at him. Rowles got up
and walked out with averted eyes. Julie
put her hat on and sat down again.
The minister’s mouth was opening and
shutting like that of a stranded fish.
Then he pulled himself together, drew
himself erect and said loudly “Follow
me, everybody !”
He stalked out of the church, his lips
set. Wonderingly, the congregation fol-
lowed him. They walked and shuffled
along behind him, too curious and
alarmed to chatter. A few Sunday idlers
looked at them and then followed. The
minister led them to Rowles’s garage.
There he faced about and held up a hand.
For some reason Julie stepped out and
went to stand beside him.
“Now,” said the minister, “hoot him.”
He turned round, faced the garage and
said loudly “800-hoo! 800-hoo!”
The congregation gave one or two
faint echoes, then, suddenly discovering
that it liked the process, let itself go in
a thunderous “800-hoo! ” An odd voice
cried “Traitor,” another “Profiteer.” A
swelling, enthusiastic “800-hoo-oo! ’
encored them.
The minister turned and led the way to
Johnson’s store. The same procedure
followed, except that by this time the
congregation had become a large crowd
and kept on growing. Then the minister,
with a martial look about him, roared
“About turn, quick march! ” and led
them back to the church. Halfway there
he lifted his voice in the opening bars
of “Onward, Christian Soldiers,” and the
crowd took it up with fervor.
Julie couldn’t get back to the choir.
It was crammed with people, as was the
entire church. Boys climbed on the
window-sills or hung from the beams
in the roof. The minister had never
faced a more crowded or more eager
audience. But there was nothing he could
say. He just stood there, his head bowed
in prayer, and the organist, sizing up the
situation, played a slow hymn. Gradually
the crowd got out. It wanted to talk
or be talked at.
Julie left amongst the last. She passed
along the street, through the knots of
people. Nobody spoke. They parted
to let her through, or stood aside, watch-
ing her. She had done something
different, she had caused revolution, she
had upset them, she had destroyed their
conception of her. Never again would
they feel that they had her measure. So,
like an alien, she went home.
But Weedalong can’t ignore her. It
feels she knows too much. Its contri-
butions to war funds have consistently
beaten those of any other centre its size
from that day to this.
UNCLE'S CAREER
By BRIAN JAMES
UNCLE died early on Thursday
morning. “At just on twenty-to-
three,” Auntie Annie said, “for the
clock was on the mantelshelf, and
I happened to glance at it as a curious
sort of shudder passed over him, and I
knew it was his last, and at ten-to-three
Jim had the doctor there, and he said he
couldn’t do nothing at all, and it was his
heart, and the clock was right, for Jim set
it by the wireless the night before, and
at most it never lost more than a minute
a week, even before we got the wireless,
and”
All this, of course, we learned sub-
sequently.
Jim called at breakfast time on Thurs-
day, He said, “The old man’s gorn.”
“Where to?” said Mother.
“Dead!” said Jim.
We stopped eating. It was quite a
shock.
“Sudden,” said Jim. “Doctor says his
heart.”
“My, my!” said Mother. “When?”
Jim said it was a couple of hours ago.
“I’m very sorry,” said Mother. “But I
always did say” She stopped, how-
ever, and asked Jim to have a cup of tea.
Jim thought he might, and sat down.
“And your mother, Jim, how is she?”
Jim thought she was pretty good.
Pretty good, that is, considering. He ate
a piece of toast and drank noisily from
his cup, and then he said, “Must be
going. Lot to arrange.”
“When’s the funeral?” asked Mother.
“Tomorrow at two. Rookwood. Labor
Funerals we’re getting. The old man
would have liked that, being always
political.”
WE were vaguely sorry for Uncle
Harry without caring very much.
Perhaps it was that Uncle Harry had
always been a part of our lives, and now
that he was gone that part of it was
gone too. We were sorry for that maybe.
We went to the funeral on the Friday.
There was quite a crowd at the funeral
parlors. It surprised us that so many
folk from old Summerlea should be in
Sydney, but Jack Hayes reckoned that
there was hardly anyone left at Summer-
lea these days. Drought prices and
munitions did it, he said. He also said
that Uncle Harry was a “hard case, he
was.” Then, as an afterthought, “a
regular citizen.”
After the funeral we all went back to
Auntie Annie’s place at Stanmore.
Auntie Annie got quite confused at
all the fuss. Mother said it was God’s
will, and Auntie Annie supposed it was,
but she would say that he never did
give a hand with the children when they
were young, and he never did carry one
of them (Auntie Annie was quite innocent
of ambiguity), and if one of them wanted
attention during the night he always pre-
tended to snore. It seemed strange to us
that all the just grievances of a lifetime
should be summed up in such comparative
trifles. Mother was quite hurt about it.
Jim took the old hands into the next
room. Every now and then you could
hear the click of glass on glass and a
guggle-guggle. Finally Jack Hayes’s voice
declared loudly, “Well, he was a bloody
hard case, all right—a regular citizen!”
Then Mother said we’d better go home.
She told Auntie Annie again that it was
God’s will, and Auntie Annie again sup-
posed it was, but she tearfully argued
that she couldn’t forget the time the chil-
dren were all little, and she would main-
tain —
A FORTNIGHT later Jim called with
** a copy of the Summerlea paper.
“They’ve got Father’s career in the
‘Argus,’ ” he announced, and it was sur-
prising to hear the “old man” promoted
to “Father.”
The “Argus” gave Uncle Harry a
column and a half, and headed it “Sturdy
Pioneer Passes On.” It told of Uncle
Harry’s great age—“in the ripeness of
his years was he taken” —of his birth-
place, his places of residence, his mar-
riage, his many children and their names
and addresses, his grandchildren ; and it
made special reference to his two great-
grandchildren. It waxed poetic over
“the autumn of a useful life spent in the
bustle and roar of a great city, far re-
moved from the sylvan scenes of his be-
loved Summerlea.” Then it closed on the
strong note, after brief mention of Uncle
Harry’s having lived through the bush-
ranging days: “A sturdy fighter in that
gallant company that, alas! each year
grows thinner. Might we suggest for
him, as for all that brave band, the fitting
epitaph: ‘He loved the battle and found
it good.’ ”
Jim read the “career” twice aloud, and
became almost tearful over it. Evidently
there was regret that he now realised only
too late the great worth of his father.
WHEN Jim left and the glamor of the
“Argus” had faded a bit, the high-
lights of Uncle Harry’s career faded with
it. Sad to say, memory could not recall
Uncle Harry ever having done a real
day’s work. True, he was eloquent on
the great toil of “them pioneering days,”
and he was strong on the point of future
projects, but none could ever remember
Uncle Harry in the process of graft. Cer-
tainly he did deplore the decay of young
manhood, the tameness of today’s wild
horses, the feebleness of present droughts,
and the mildness of recent floods. He
regretted the lack of salt and sting
in everything nowadays. “I mind the
time” he would say, and then yon
knew this degenerate age was in for its
just criticism.
Uncle’s career divided itself quite
naturally into a number of phases or
inactivities. First there was his military
career, which had been long and varied.
It commenced with the Sudan cam-
paign, when he had “more than half a
mind” to join Colonel Richardson’s con-
tingent. He didn’t, however, but he was
responsible for the new pub in Summer-
lea being called the “Contingent Arms.”
During the Boer War he was the district’s
greatest strategist, and Mafeking just
happening to coincide with the payment
of the milk cheque (Auntie Annie and
the kids did all the milking, by the way,
but Uncle Harry insisted on taking the
milk to the factory) the cheque never
got home. Uncle Harry spent most of it
at the “Contingent” and the balance on
crackers for the town kids. He ended
the day by declaring that Emil Schneider
was a pro-Boer,
What Emil did then and how he did it
were never too clear, but Uncle had to
be brought home and put to bed for a
week. Auntie Annie was bitter about it
and that Mafeking cheque for a long
time. In the Great War Uncle Harry led
the Recruiting Rally for Summerlea, and
when the Second Great War broke out
he made a noisy attempt to enlist, and
excited a deal of comment by his con-
temptuous “Too old at eighty? Not too
old at a hundred!” The city dailies
featured it.
The bushranging phase was not so
clearly defined. It hinged, however, on
the Kellys and their sticking up of Jeril-
derie. Uncle Harry was to have ridden
at breakneck speed from some place to
some other place for some reason or
other, but it seems that someone else did
the ride after all, with what results we
could never understand.
In politics Uncle Harry shone from
before Dailey to after Lang. He would
often say, “What they want is the right
sort of man. Just look at the fellows
that are putting up nowadays.” Uncle
himself was mentioned as a “likely pos-
sibility” in ’92. But nothing came of it.
Someone said in ’97, it was never certain
who, that Uncle “should be on that Con-
vention.” The remark was certainly
traced to the “Contingent,” and there
was even a strong conviction that Uncle
himself had said it. In 1901 Uncle com-
plained that the local candidate was an
untried man, and after that Uncle estab-
lished himself as a strong local critic.
As pioneer, settler and farmer, he
wasn’t a great success, and his holding
was at a standstill by the 1919 drought.
Erosion, rabbits and the bank decided
his move to Sydney. At the same time
he qualified for the old-age pension, and
Jim, the only one of his sons who didn’t
marry, supplemented the income quite
considerably.
All in all, we felt when we had thought
it over that the “Argus” had been a little
extravagant in its epitaph ; but Mother
said, “Well, he’s dead now, and I’m sorry
Auntie Annie said all that about the chil-
dren when they were young,” and we
let it go at that.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63. —No. 3253.
Wednesday, June 17, 1942.
AFTER MIDWAY.
“As dishonorable enemy he say, lose pants, Admiralissimo, but save honorable face.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
DUNSTAN IN DANGER.
During the last war the Commonwealth
Government invoked and exercised great
powers. In the second year of the war
its power to fix bread prices was chal-
lenged in the High Court by W. A.
Farey, a Hawthorn (Melbourne) baker,
who had been fined for selling bread at
more than the fixed price to A. S. Burvett,
a Commonwealth inspector, the trade
having decided to make a case of it. By
a 5-to-2 decision his appeal was dis-
missed, the majority being composed of
Chief Justice Griffith and Justices Barton,
Isaacs, Higgins and Powers, with Justices
Gavan Duffy and Rich dissenting.
“The ground of the decision,” wrote
Ernest Scott in his volume of the Official
War History, “was that the power to
make laws with respect to defence covers
everything which may contribute to vic-
tory in war ; that the responsibility for
defence policy lies not with the Court,
but with the Parliament and the
Executive, and the Court will not ask Ts
this wise? Is this necessary?’ Those
are, according to this judgment, political
questions. Unless it can be shown that
the Commonwealth Act —or a regulation
made under it —which is challenged can-
not possibly affect the result of the war
the Court will not interfere.”
In those days the danger to Australia
was remote, and remote it remained;
through all the vicissitudes of the war
not a shell nor a bomb fell on Australian
soil. Now, when Australians have been
killed at widely separated points of their
own continent, when a hitherto victorious
enemy has established himself in Austra-
lian territory and neighboring islands,
and when the Prime Minister has said
that “invasion is a menace capable hourly
of becoming an actuality,” the Premiers
of Victoria, Queensland, South Australia
and Westralia are challenging the powers
of the national Parliament to pass, and of
the national Government to administer,
uniform income tax laws designed to
give the representatives of the nation
that control of war finance which has
been exercised all along in Britain,
Maoriland and South Africa, and which
Canada is taking. Mr, McKell an-
nounced—very late—that he intended
joining forces with the other Premiers,
but his decision was emphatically repu-
diated at the annual N.S.W. Labor con-
ference.
What the High Court will do in this
matter is the High Court’s own business.
But there is a Court of Public Opinion,
in which the Premiers already stand con-
demned. And, whatever the result of the
High Court case, the proceedings in the
Court of Public Opinion will not end
until State Parliaments and State Gov-
ernments, as Australia has known and
suffered them, are abolished as useless
and dangerous, outworn instruments of
insolence, extortion and greed.
In a way, it is fitting that the lead in
this outbreak of provincialism run mad
should have been taken by Mr. Dunstan.
Though as a man he is quite an estimable
character, as leader of the Government he
impersonates all the stodginess, oppor-
tunism and superfluousness of Victorian
State politics, which have long ceased to
be a contest of principles, none of the
parties into which the so-called Parlia-
ment is divided standing for anything
which can be identified as such.
Mr. Dunstan’s group was for three
years allied with the U.A.P., also called
Nationalists and previously Liberals, and
he himself was second man in the Argyle
Government, with the title of Deputy
Premier. At the general election of
March, 1935, the U.A.P. lost seats, and
when the new House met a new Premier
was installed. It was Mr. Dunstan, who
had come to an arrangement with the
Labor party, the latter offering support
in return for concessions, to turn his
recent friends out. It seemed impossible
that so brazen an alliance could last
very long. But such is the degeneracy
of Victorian politics —in pre-Federation
days so vigorous and with so many out-
standing personalities —that it has en-
dured for upwards of seven years.
In all that time Melbourne, with more
than half the electoral population of the
State, has been deprived of representation
in the Ministry. And although the Labor
party derives most of its electoral support
from the city, and has for many years
given lip-service to one-vote-one-value,
Melbourne is grossly under-represented
in both Houses. At the general election
of June, 1939, there were more electors
in Boroondara (33,473), Heidelberg
(31,820) and St. Kilda (30,413) than theie
were in all the Assembly electorates repre-
sented by Ministers Gippsland East
(7867), Swan Hill (9128), Upper Goul-
burn (9625), Korong-Eaglehawk (11,174),
Warrenheip - Grenville (10,402), Gun-
bower (11,272), Gippsland South (12,034)
and Warrnambool (12,576): Korong-
Eaglehawk is the Premier’s electorate.
Except Mr. Dunstan and Mr. Hogan,
who was a Labor Premier, these
Ministers and their colleagues from the
other shop are only names to the
generality of Victorians. Their fame, if
any, is confined to their own districts,
and when Ministerial changes occur it is
a case of Tweedledum succeeding
Tweedledee.
That 1939 election was held months
before the due date because of a quarrel
between Mr. Dunstan and Mr, Hocking.
Who Mr. Hocking was and what the
quarrel was about nobody outside the
Country-party organisation seemed to
know. Certainly the falling out of
more or less faithful friends did not
originate in any difference of opinion
about the drift’ of population from the
country to the city. That has gone on
unchecked by any measures or expedients
of the Dunstan Government throughout
its term of office. At the end of 1934 (the
Government dates from April 2, 1935)
the official merchant of statistics reckoned
that there were 1,000,000 people in Mel-
bourne and 837,490 in Remainder of
State. At the end of 1939, the estimates
were 1,046,750 for Melbourne and
840,528 for Remainder of State, so Re-
mainder of State failed to hold even its
natural increase. Eleven Melbourne sub-
urbs have more inhabitants than can be
found in the largest country “city” (Gee-
long, 40,450), and four (Caulfield 71,100,
Camberwell 61,000, Brunswick 55,100
and Prahran 54,800) have more inhabi-
tants than the combined population
(209,440) of the five country cities, four
country towns and 17 boroughs. It is a
dreadful record for seven years of
Country-party rule.
The so-called Parliament is to meet
again at the end of the month, and Mr.
Dunstan can’t be feeling comfortable
about it. Mr. Cain, the Labor leader,
is seriously annoyed with him for “in-
dulging in an attack on the Common-
wealth when the State Premiers should
be co-operating with it to win the war.”
Mr. Cain is also troubled in his mind
about the senseless ban on Werribee beef,
which the scientific world has ridiculed
for years, and which in the present state
of the beef market amounts to an out-
rage upon the nation. He objects also
to the control of horseracing having, in
various ways and on indefensible grounds,
been virtually taken from the V.R.C.
and handed over to Ascot —though in
this matter he may not be able to impose
his views on members of his party.
And Mr. Cain must be wondering un-
easily whether Labor was ever justified in
keeping the representatives of a minority
in office. Its gains have been small and
its sacrifices great. Had it remained in-
dependent it may have legitimately
aspired to office with a majority of its
own ; and if there are any virtues in State
Parliaments no party is entitled to deny
itself and its supporters the hope of
forming a Government. More than once
since April, 1935, it has been evident
that there was an electoral majority for
Labor. Mr. Dunstan’s Country party has
never been in this position and never
can be. Though the cockeyed arrange-
ment of electoral boundaries is heavily in
its favor, it has never had much more
than a third of the Assembly seats. Con-
scious of its weakness in the constituen-
cies it was afraid to run a candidate for
the Senate in 1940. When it essayed the
experiment in 1937 its ticket polled 66,481
primary votes out of 956,051 ; Labor,
with 473,664 primary votes, won the
three seats.
If Labor support for the Dunstan Gov-
ernment was ever warranted, one of the
terms should have been the passing of
a redistribution-of-seats bill based on
equal electorates, or, as in the Common-
wealth Act, with a permissible margin of
one-fifth more or one-fifth less than the
quota. By not exacting this condition —
by, in fact, weakly acquiescing in the
Government’s refusal of electoral reform
—Mr. Cain’s party has been guilty of a
gross betrayal of its own people. And
now that it can see what the betrayal
has led to, it should have the grace to
be ashamed of itself.
Possibly, Mr. Dunstan thinks he can
go on managing the Labor party. It
will be difficult for his Government to
regain the favor of the “Age.” That
paper, already annoyed at “fumbling and
evasion about the launching of prosecu-
tions for breaches of security orders re-
lating to the sale of liquor,” is disgusted
with “the peculiar features of the remark-
able allocation issued by the Chief Secre-
tary” in the matter of racing dates. Rac-
ing, it should be said, is still a most
important matter in Melbourne. Some
people think it is more important than
the war.
The “Age” angrily pointed out that the
“allocation” gave Ascot, a “proprietary
course” with “the poorest facilities,” 10
Saturdays, whereas the V.R.C. and the
V.A.T.C. were fobbed off with nine,
Moonee Valley with eight and Williams-
town with five. This arrangement was “out
of keeping with the spirit that must per-
meate Australia,” and atrociously unfair
to “clubs using Crown lands and devoting
war-time profits to patriotic purposes.” Yet
“instead of promptly and frankly facing
the situation” brought about by these
“extraordinary anomalies,” the Chief Sec-
retary “quibbles about the law, and
argues that the terms are still compatible
with the holding of a Tuesday race meet-
more than five months hence” — i.e., the
Cup day races at Flemington, which, as
the Commonwealth Cabinet decreed, the
V.R.C. loyally coinciding, cannot now be
held on a holiday.
Protests against the “allocation” were
so fierce that the Premier undertook to
have it “reviewed.” The “Age” men-
tioned this, but said it had its “suspicions
that an effort will be made to confine the
‘review’ to the mere compensation of
the V.R.C. for the loss of the first Tues-
day in November,” and that wouldn’t
satisfy a public “concerned with the
apparently favored treatment that Ascot
has received, not only over the V.R.C. but
over other legitimate racing clubs.” It
went on to tell the Chief Secretary that
in pleading that “he had to be guided by
the Act in making the allocation” he
was talking through his hat; actually
the “allocation” conflicted with the Act:
“the very object of the regulations which
allowed him to make it was to override
the provisions of the Act.”
In its next issue the journal boiled
over: —
As forecast in the “Age,” Cabinet side-
stepped the main issue and merely adopted
the offer made by the V.T. and R.A. to
give one of its ten meetings to the major
racing club. Thus the V.R.C. will now
have ten meetings, but the grossly inequit-
able position remains, with Ascot, a private
profit-making concern, having nine meet-
ings. This allocation is unlikely to allay
the storm of public criticism Tire
Premier had no comment to make on the
suggestion that meetings should be allocated
only to organisations prepared to devote a
certain portion of their proceeds to pat-
riotic funds.
Though the “Age” is not now the power
it was when David Syme nominated 10
Victorians (out of 29) for the 1897
Federal convention and saw them all
elected by popular vote, it is still a very
influential newspaper, and that “alloca-
tion” may be the rock on which the
Dunstan Government will be wrecked.
A.B.C., B.B.C. and V.V.
A.B.C. has its Broadcasting Act at last.
The measure gives the commissioners
security of tenure —previously their terms
of office had been renewed from session
to session by legislators too concerned
with other matters, among them the
Friday train from Canberra, to put the
Broadcasting Bill or some broadcasting
bill through all its stages—and there are
to be three new commissioners; . but
listeners need not expect any great
improvement. The best they can
hope for is a bit more music of
Australian composition and possibly
an increased call on the services of
men with a philosophy of life and some-
thing to say, such as Professors Dakin
and Murdoch ; and even in this they may
be disappointed. At present these able
Australians, whose monologues are
always salted with humor, seem to count
for less with persons in authority on
A. enormous staff than Mr. Abram
Landa’s protege Professor Julius Stone,
who churns out Left Wing war politics
with all the assurance and disingenuous-
ness of the tribe to which he belongs.
A.B.C.’s daily war summaries are, as
a rule, well done, especially when Mr.
Heath Burdock is on the air. And, left
to himself, the “This is Canberra” man
has shown that he can do a very good
job. But the intervention of the Depart-
ment of Information, with its hate propa-
ganda (which cost between £4OOO and
£5OOO in newspaper advertisements
alone) and its Open Letter to Tojo,
has its appalling side, and much
of the 8.8. C. stuff rebroadcast from
national stations is puerile or worse.
No doubt A.B.C. would plead that it
cannot fairly be held responsible for
B. shortcomings, but it seems to
delight in employing “commentators”
with the 8.8. C. touch. In the matter of
war comments it could have no worse
preceptor than 8.8. C.
Of 8.8. C. “news bulletins” a disgusted
soldier-M.P. said in the Commons
recently that they were “like sugar-coated
pills, with good news covering up the
bad.” According to a “Daily Mirror”
war correspondent, 8.8. C. accounts of
the fighting in Libya have astonished the
men who are doing it.
From 8.8. C., via A.8.C., Australians
learned last week of a Russian sniper,
sex female and (of course) young and
beautiful, who has 300 notches on her
gun—which is characteristic of its report-
ing of Russian events. From the same
source they were informed that “all
French people living in the coastal
districts, from the Belgian frontier
to the Pyrenees” (coastline, a mere
1565 miles), had been “urged to
evacuate” those districts “immediately.”
Where the poor wretches were to go and
how they were to get there, and whether
they would be expected to make their
own arrangements as to food supplies,
housing, work and so forth or secure
them by favor of an implacable enemy,
was not explained.
The 8.8. C. announcer handsomely
admitted that “such an evacuation” pre-
sented “difficulties,” and that “obstacles
would be put in the way,” bill he was
sure they could be “surmounted” some-
how.
If we ask you to surmount them, it is
because it is necessary for the success of
operations which will be of capital import-
ance in the struggle for the liberation of
France. It has been shown time and time
again that the presence of civilians at the
scene of military operations gravely impedes
the activities of troops, especially friendly
troops.
In their extremity the French cannot
have lost their intelligence, and it has
been demonstrated very plainly, except
to 8.8. C. spouters and the like, that they
don’t care two straws for any interests
other than French interests, as they con-
ceive them. Leaving aside the effect of the
British bombings, which Vichy has de-
nounced in terms which no French
Government has applied to the British
since the wars of the First Republic and
the Empire, they will do nothing to
prejudice those interests, the chief of
which is the return of the 1,500,000
prisoners of war. Many of those
prisoners of war belong to “the coastal
districts from the Belgian frontier to the
Pyrenees.” What folly to demand that
their families should leave their ancient
provinces, depart from homes bereft of
husbands, sons and fathers for so many
unhappy months with what is left of
their poor belongings, to go God knows
how to God knows where and to God
knows what fate! What poverty of
imagination, what lack of human feeling!
In the March “Nineteenth Century”
there is a striking protest, written by the
editor, against the permanent estrange-
ment of France by short-sighted politics
and insulting propaganda. The editor
takes the view that the French will come
again, as they did after 1815 and 1870,
and that in the new world —which to
Sir S. Cripps will be made up of the
British Commonwealth, the United States,
the U.S.S.R. and China—France and
Britain will be necessary to one another.
He insists that “the French people as a
whole are anti-German, which is not the
same thing as being pro-British,” and
that “Vichy does not represent France,
nor does De Gaulle,” who, he thinks,
should be leading his troops in Libya;
that De Gaulle “will ever represent
France seems most unlikely.” Then who
will represent France in the days to
come?
Only such as have lived in France through
the period of collapse and of German over-
lordship, and who have combined courage
with diplomacy in dealing with’ the con-
queror on their native soil. Only from
amongst such will the future leaders ot
France be drawn. Indeed, even now an
elite of this nature is arising to lead France.
Though it is easy to sit in judgment on
“the men of Vichy” that sort of judgment
“is not our business ; they will be judged
by their fellow-countrymen.” In any case,
“the men of Vichy” are not all like
Laval. , .
Some of them are the allies, or at least
the instruments, of our enemies. Others
are not. To confirm the former in their
enmity and to estrange the latter is a mis-
take of the first order. Admiral Darlan is
no friend of England. But he is not a fool.
In the administration at Vichy there are
men who will show themselves to be friends
of this country when the time comes. Men,
also, like Le Corbusier, one of the greatest
architects of our time, and De Pierrefeu, a
very gifted and very independent writer.
To dismiss men of this sort as traitors, or
even as “rats,” is worse than impolitic.
Yet this has been done, and by none
more than by “a certain ‘Colonel
Britton,’ who seems to be Commander-
in-Chief of the V-army,” and who has
figured in 8.8. C. broadcasts which are
“silly, cheap, boastful.”
Among the “rats” who were, according
to Colonel Britton, to be handed over for
“particular punishment” were several
Frenchmen. Admiral Darlan was men-
tioned. In the same broadcast Colonel


Britton referred to the V-army as though
it were a terrorist organisation, a kind ot
Gestapo, and uttered dire threats against a
number of people living in France and
other occupied countries. Docs the 8.8. C.
think it is politic to incite Frenchmen to
commit acts of terroristic violence against
Frenchmen? Colonel Britton denounced
the great actor Sacha Guitry. It Sacha
Guitry is a traitor to his own country it
is for his fellow-countrymen to deal with
him—not for us.
Incitements to revolution in Europe
have been criticised in The Bulletin.
The editor of the “Nineteenth Century”
detests them.
The bogus V-army is supposed to be
promoting “revolution” in Europe. Revolu-
tion is a very serious matter; it is not
, easily controlled, and once it has begun no
one can tell whither it will lead. A revolu-
tion in France might be an irretrievable
disaster What little is known about the
activities that are officially classed under
“Political Warfare” arouses the deepest
misgivings. If the manner in which sub-
version is encouraged in certain continen-
tal countries is an example of these activi-
tives one is bound to suspect that “Politi-
cal Warfare” as waged by this country is
a menace to our friends (and therefore to
ourselves) and a help to the enemy.
British Intelligence, once so excellent
everywhere, and still good in some
countries, let the Empire down badly in
respect of France and Japan. British
propaganda, as expressed in 8.8. C.
broadcasts of the Colonel Britton type,
is, if anything, worse, and may have
worse effects.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Molotov's Treble.
There was a Molotov-Ribbentrop agree-
ment, there is a Molotov-Matsuoka pact
and there is now a Molotov-Eden treaty,
a treaty of alliance. It is to “remain in
force for 20 years, and thereafter until
terminated by either country,” unless in
the meantime it has been “superseded by
a long-term system of international
security.”
It is a splendid arrangement for Russia.
In the treatv and in an accompanying
agreement {not a treaty) with the U.S.A.,
the Russians are promised the greatest
possible measure of British and American
help in the war with Hitler and his
European allies, including a' Second
Front in Europe ; in a White House state-
ment covering the negotiations “the
creating of a second front” is pronounced
an “urgent task.” And neither instrument
obliges Russia to enter the war in the
Pacific. That war and that ocean are
not mentioned. Neither is any continent
but Europe.
The omission has been pointedly re-
marked at Chungking. The Chinese
have suffered so much and are so hard
pressed now that they may be pardoned
if they are disappointed with a treaty
and an agreement wholly concerned
with the war in Europe. All the
same, they need not have insinuated that
the Japanese, “taking advantage of the
Molotov-Matsuoka pact,” were “attack-
ing American possessions near Russian
territory” with Russian knowledge, and
that Russian neglect to give the Ameri-
cans warning was “extremely regrettable.”
In any case, the Americans are incapable
of abandoning the Chinese cause, as they
are incapable of abandoning the cause
of Australia and New Zealand.
The Molotov-Matsuoka pact was dis-
cussed in the May, 1941, issue of
“Current Notes,” a Canberra publication
issued from the Department of External
Affairs, and Clause 2 was republished:
Should one of the contracting parties
be the subject of military action by one or
more States, the other contracting party
will observe neutrality throughout the whole
duration of such conflict.
“Current Notes” mentioned that Mat-
suoka gave the credit to Stalin: “The
Soviet-Japan treaty is above all the
result of your great insight.”
The Governments of the Dominions
were consulted about the Molotov-Eden
treaty, of which Mr. Curtin has expressed
approval, and may be asked to become
parties to it. Before Canberra does Par-
liament should be taken into the Govern-
ment’s confidence as to features which
call for explanation. Particularly the
effect on Australia of exertions in
Europe which, if a Second Front in
Europe this year is anything more than
a pious aspiration, may be excessive and
exhausting and possibly disastrous ; for
anything may happen in war.
One thing is certain, and Canberra should
note it: Washington’s generous support for
the Russians in their increasingly difficult
military situation will make no difference
in its attitude to American Communists.
According to Mr. Eden, Molotov left
Britain for the U.S.A. on May 27, and
as he travelled in a very fast ’plane he
must have arrived on May 28. And
Washington must have known for days
that he was coming. It was on May 28
that Attorney-General Biddle startled the
Corns, by ordering the deportation of
Harry Bridges on the ground that he
was a member of a party, the Communist
party, that “advocates the overthrow by
force and violence of the United States
Government.”
War Work and the Future.
All Mr. Curtin’s appeals to them to
save notwithstanding, a great many Aus-
tralians are on the greatest spending binge
in their history.
Many youngsters are now earning as
much as their fathers earned three years
ago. When they have to come back to
normal, perhaps even to unemployment,
there is going to be trouble. While not
denying them the good wages now cur-
rent, a wise Government would see to
it that they—and not only they—are com-
pelled to save for the future, mean-
while getting the use of the compulsory
savings for war expenditure.
This did not appeal to Mr. Curtin when
Mr. Fadden proposed it, but during his
period of office he had had to accept
many things to which he was previously
opposed, and one more addition to the
list should not vex him.
In Britain a single man on £l2O pays
£7 10s. in income tax but gets a post-
war credit for that amount. If total
income is £3OO he pays £66 2s. 6d. in tax
but gets a post-war credit of £l7 7s. 6d.
In the cases of a childless family man
on £2OO, a £3OO man with two children
and a £350 man with three children the
post-war credit equals the tax. And post-
war credits “cannot be bought, sold or
assigned.”
No Shadow of Doubt.
[Three Ministers (Navy, Army and Supply)
are to make a detailed examination of the
Japanese midget submarines recovered from
Sydney Harbor.],
A more or less intelligent anticipation
of their report, as presented to the
House:
Honorable members will appreciate that we
found it necessary to approach our task with
a definite plan. In order that confusion should
be avoided and that the House might have
a definite picture of the result of the investi-
gation in detail, it was decided that the
Minister for the Navy, having regard to his
long experience and close contact with both sur-
face and underwater craft, should confine him-
self to matters of construction, what makes
the thing submerge and how the crew sees where
it is going. To the Minister for the Army,
having regard to his experience of armaments,
was allotted the task of investigating the tor-
pedoes, guns, bombs, rifles and any other ex-
plosive or percussion implements. To the
Minister for Supply fell the duty of investigat-
ing the foodstuffs, etc., with which the sub-
marines were furnished.
Only one craft could be examined in the time
available. It was made of steel; of that there
is no shadow of doubt. It was round in shape
and tapered at each end —at least that was
assumed, since one end was missing. It should
be noted that the naval authorities, though no
doubt the suddenness of the incident is some
excuse, seemed to have displayed excessive zeal.
So far as we could see, there was no need to
destroy one whole end of the machine, and there
must have been a waste of explosive. We con-
sider that it would have been sufficient to
put a hole in the side of the thing and let the
water in. Had this been done our conclusions
as to its shape would have been more definite.
The Minister for the Navy has this matter
in hand and will bring it before the Naval
Board.
We were particularly interested in the absence
of high-angle anti-aircraft guns, a defect
pointed out at once by the Minister for the
o Continued on page 8.)
The boys stood on the railway line;
The driver gave a yell:
The train went on to Canberra,
The boys went on to—the High Court.


Australia’* Leading Financial Journal.
THE MAN-POWER PROBLEM
BANK CREDIT AND THE BUYING ORGY
June Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Army. This, in his opinion, in which we heartily
concur, suggests that the enemy is suffering trom
a definite shortage of these, weapons. Our col-
league’s report on the torpedo armament will
be produced at a later date. That it will be
detailed and conclusive is beyond doubt, out
some delay will be caused by the necessity o_
our colleague’s being reasonably sure ot wmcn
is the back end and which the front bet ore
arriving at any conclusion.
On the question of supply, the Minister con-
cerned will have more to say. At the moment
he is busily engaged on the significance ot a
red umbrella found in the boat. We realise,
of course, that an umbrella is not an unusual
thing, but the color may or may not be pi
significance. The Minister intends summoning
the Allied Supply Council, andwillplacebefore
it a special report on this matter, together with
the statement of witnesses that an empty tomato-
sauce bottle was found floating near or at the
scene. There is also the fact that each of the
two vessels was held together by rivets.
We jointly ask the House to restrain its desire
to debate these matters until our supplementary
report is ready. In the meantime we wish to
assure honorable members that frcrai our investi-
gations these preliminary conclusions have bv.en
arrived at:
(1) The craft were submarines (2) they
were found on the bottom of Sydney Harbor.
(3) Each was made of steel, held together by
rivets (4) No effort to repair them had been
made by the enemy. (5) We are satisfied that
they had entered the harbor for some nefarious
purpose.
POLITICAL POINTS
On Friday Curtin had to tell the nation
that the Second Liberty Loan was lagging.
A place where his voice might have done
some good was a “certain” Government’s
lot’ry office, where a crowd, debarred
from spending on clothes, pushed and
jostled for tickets, some coming away
with sheets of them. In the same Gov-
ernment’s province a man whose income
was £lB,OOO has been ordered to find
£23,000 in tax. Had ho won the £lB,OOO
in a lot’ry he wouldn’t have had to pay
a cent.
Willing to wound uniform income
taxation, McKell was afraid to strike
until he learned that Willcock, another
Labor Premier, was joining Forgan
Smith, Dunstan and Playford in tackling
it in the High Court. He was the most
astonished. man in Australia when the
delegates to the State Labor conference
carried an almost-unanimous vote against
his becoming a party to the case. To
make matters worse, “voices” told him
that Dubbo was a victory for Curtin and
that the “social legislation” he boasts
about came from Lang. Not since Hol-
man’s time has a Labor conference de-
nounced a Labor Premier’s “policy.”
It is queer to read in a Great Daily
that “if a newspaper abuses the right of
fair criticism, its editor should be called
to the Bar of the House and be com-
pelled to justify the article or to take the
consequences in a court of law.” In
these matters, the House is its own court
of law: prosecutor, jury, Judge, every-
thing. At the instance of a Labor Gov-
ernment, the Westralian Assembly, for
what it chose to regard as an offence
against its Dignity, committed an editor
(the late Jack Drayton) to Fremantle gaol
without specifying the term of incarcera-
tion. It relented after a couple of months.
Like the Premier in Perth, Playford,
of Adelaide, doesn’t seem to have ever
read the Commonwealth Constitution. In
a blast against uniform income taxation,
he asserts that “the people of the States
of Australia joined together in a federa-
tion,” although it was the people of the
Six Colonies who did that—and they
didn’t all have income taxes then. “The
effect of the new legislation,” Playford
alleges, “is to make the States financially
dependent upon the Commonwealth.” But
didn’t the Adelaide, Perth and Hobart
Governments maintain this as long ago
as 1927? And wasn’t the Grants Com-
mission set up to hear their annual
moans?
If anybody had any justification for
putting up a howl against uniform taxa-
tion it was the people of Canberra,
hitherto totally exempt from State taxa-
tion and now 'certain to have their taxes
brought to the same level as those paid
by others. Yet, so far, nothing has been
heard from them. Maybe Canberra folk,
unlike the Premiers, are Australians first
and locals afterwards.
Ward got a great reception at the Syd-
ney A.L.P. conference, being cheered
every time he showed his face. Doubt-
less it cheered Eddie to be cheered,
though Sydney A.L.P. conferences are
apt to cheer a man one minute and howl
for his blood the next.
That very superiah charactah R. W. G.
Mackay has come a dreadful thud in
Britain. In taking leave of Sydney he
intimated that he found the Australian
political scene too dull and intended
reaching for higher things. Beaten twice
as a British Labor candidate (on the
second occasion, seven years ago, by a
lady) he was beguiled by the success of
Independents at by-electiqns into com-
ing out for a Welsh electorate as an Ind.
Soc., only to be trodden flat- by the
Government candidate, whose majority
was 5655. To make things worse, the
winner is not only a Conservative, but
a rival radio spouter—Cyril Lakin, one
of 8.8.C.’s portentous bores.
Another Great Daily had the second
Roosevelt signing a treaty of alliance
with the U.S.S.R. He couldn’t do that
without the consent of the Senate, given
by “two-thirds of the Senators present” ;
and the Senate has not been consulted.
Strictly speaking, the U.S.A. has no treaty
of alliance with any of the United
Nations, nor is any necessary. The word
of its President is enough.
The Commonwealth Government is
doing what it should have done from
the beginning—instituting a general con-
trol of A.R.P. work and expenditure. It
should also place it beyond the power of
State Ministers to conscript people for
roof-spotting and the like —a concession
granted to them in a weak moment,
Heffron, the Sydney A.R.P. boss, pro-
fesses to be “amazed” at the Common-
wealth Government taking over. The
Commonwealth Government will be
amazed when it discovers what N.E.S.
.has cost in one way and another, and
contrasts it with visible results.
N.S.W. Leg. Council at first refused to
back down on its amendments to the
McKnell Workers’ Compensation and
Third-party Insurance Acts, and the
McKnells have been talking about a
referendum for its abolition. They’ve
been challenged to make it a referendum
on abolition of their “Parliament,” but
they won’t accept.
Under an order issued by the State
Director of Emergency Road Transport
in Melbourne, no candidates in forth-
coming State elections will be permitted
to employ vehicles, whether motor or
horse-drawn, to transport voters to the
polling booth, the object being to con-
“By an overwhelming majority the State A.L.P. Conference declared itself against
McKell's plan to oppose uniform income taxation in the High Court.”
“This is ‘Tiger’ McKell again, speakin’ from the Trades ’All Stadium. I put
up a great fight, Forgan, but I was knocked.”
serve petrol. One of these days there
will be no candidates and no State
elections.
Melbourne “Age” has published a
sturdy article on the growth of boards
and commissions—67 have been set up
by Canberra in 12 months—and the
manner in which salaries are fixed:
A State public servant, in receipt of £675
annually, was appointed a deputy-director.
... .A secretary was the next necessity, and
some group of persons, the source of whose
authority is obscure, determined that the
secretary’s salary should be £B5O a year.
It follows that the deputy-director will re-
ceive more than the secretary, but what
authority will fix the sum?
It’s a mystery at the moment, but if the
d.-d. doesn’t like what The Unknown
fixes he can appeal to Ward.
There are or were 100,000 Jews in the
Crimea—they are outnumbered only by
Russians and Ukrainians (180,000) and
Tartars (140,000). Many of them are
farmers: some, descendants of settlers
introduced by Czar Alexander I; others
were placed on 250,000 acres by the
Stalin Government, with the aid of
10,000,000 dollars subscribed by Ameri-
can Jews. Of these, a “Contemporary
Review” writer, Norman Bentwich, men-
tions an interesting fact:
A part of the settlers had been Zionist
in sympathy. Small groups among them
went out to Palestine, but some returned
because they were regarded by the Palestine
Governments as Communists. .
The poor devils must have had a ghastly
time since the Germans came.
The old Jewish writers who made such
a fuss about the seven plagues of Egypt
would have considered them blessings
from heaven had they had an oppor-
tunity to compare them with the six
plagues of Australia.
Closing his eyes, the Premier said:
“There can be no question but that a
nation in the position in which Australia
now finds itself should have one govern-
ing body to administer its defence, feed
and keep safe its people and be the only
taxing authority,” Then he opened his
eyes, sat up in bed and stared affrightedly
into the darkness, crying “Heavens, who
said that?”
Passage from “The Commonwealth
Crisis,” an imaginative story of the future
by C. H. Kirmess, in the “Lone Hand”
of l/l/’O9, the author having visualised
the reaction of Australians to a Japanese
occupation of the North:
Resolution proposed by the leader of the
Federal Labor party: “That until after the
expulsion of the Japanese occupation force,
the High Court shall not hear appeals on
behalf of the States against any action of
th? Federal Executive as approved by Com-
monwealth Parliament.”
In vain the Moderates fight to the last
ditch. The resolution passes the Repre-
sentatives by a majority of seven, the Senate
by three The sovereign people of Aus-
tralia want to take their fate into their
own hands, and refashion the Court.
Mr. Curtin may have the prophecy for
what it is worth.
Nearly every time an Australian
Premier opens his mouth he skites to
heaven about the “great war effort” his
State is making, pointing out how won-
derful it is that State instrumentalities do
this and that. What else could they do?
For the first time for 71 years the
annual conference of the Victorian
A.N.A. will not be held. That didn’t
stop J. E. Menadue, chief president, get-
ting off a telling indictment of State
politics:
State Parliaments... .have outlived their
usefulness. They are a hindrance t 0....
social reform... .They parochialise the out-
look of the people to an extent which is
detrimental to the well-being and develop-
ment of Australia.
Dunstan denies it all while proving it all.
The Chinese Government has ordered
the closing of all unnecessary tea-houses
because tea-drinking has become too wide-
spread. Chinese are frivolously spending
money and wasting time when the nation is
facing its greatest danger.
The last part of it applies with equal
force to Australia, but some Australian
union leaders are talking about “trouble”
if their men don’t get “adequate tea and
tobacco rations,”
Joseph Harsch, an American corre-
spondent in Australia, declares that John
Curtin’s stature has broadened in the
Prime Ministership until he has become
a “referee between the parties.” It’s not
a bad description of one side of John
Curtin ; but the trouble is that the referee
is apt to err in favor of bad players.
In the Lords, Lord Cranborne said
there were overwhelming reasons against
a unilateral declaration of a peace policy
at the present time. The most over-
whelming is the need to win the war
first.
Mr. Rupert Lockwood, “National
President, Australian Friends of the
Soviet Union,” again:
Vladivostok, now the important base in
the Pacific, will be needed for future opera-
tions against Japan, and must be protected
at all costs.
Protected by whom? Hard-pressed John
Bull and Uncle Sam ; “the best way to
protect it is, of course, for Britain and
America to open a Second Front in
Western Europe.”
What happens to the rich after the
present Australian Governmental social
trend has raised the poor to riches and
pushed the rich to poverty? In other
words, what will the harvest be when,
from the taxation and privilege point of
view, the Governments have changed it
to “one law for the poor and another for
the rich”?
“This,” remarks Sydney “D.T.,” “is a
war of ideas as well of arms.” It may be
true ; but, if it is, a lot of the ideas now
in use had better be scrapped.
The Premiers have been telling every-
body that they’re afraid that uniform
taxation will destroy the sovereign
rights of the States. What they’re really
afraid of is the writing on the wall, and
it is just as applicable to them as it was
to Belshazzar.
It’s just as well Abraham Lincoln
didn’t live in modern Australia. He
wouldn’t have been so confident about
his belief in “government of the people
for the people”—-by seven Governments.
“S.”: Mr. Crinion, assistant secretary
of the Federated Ironworkers, was re-
ported as saying that inability to get tea,
tobacco and beer after hours was causing
“dissatisfaction” among ironworkers.
The men in the industry, which has been
almost free of strikes for a year, are be-
coming restive because they are denied the
small comforts granted to service men.
No service man would deny Mr. Crinion s
followers the “small comforts” ; in fact,
they’re prepared to risk life and limb so
that Mr. Crinion and co. may enjoy high
wages, short hours and the right to make
silly statements.


THE ECONOMY SAUCE
Subscribe now to the 2nd Liberty Loan.
Sauce
USE ONLY A FEW DROPS
AT A TIME
PERSONAL ITEMS
Two King’s Birthday knighthoods
came the way of Victorians, whose
Government doesn’t object to titles. Lud
Mayor Beaurepaire’s was a foregone con-
clusion, inasmuch as he has been asso-
ciated with public appeals for war funds
to the tune of a million since the out-
break and has been a strenuous war-
worker. The other new knight, Herbert
Olney, is a patent-leather manufacturer
who has represented Melbourne North
Province in the Legislative Council for
13 years, was chairman of the Charities
Board in 1940-41, and is president or
chairman of some of the leading charities
in the city.
Gerald Foley’s name goes on the list
of Westralians in positions of eminence —
Curtin (P.M.), Fraser (Minister for Exter-
nal Territories), Cunningham (President
of the Senate), Nairn (Speaker) and Prowse
(Chairman of Committees in the House).
Foley has been named vice-chairman of
A.B.C. He has been secretary of the West-
ralian Timber Workers and a State and
Federal A.L.P. delegate, but those were
not his only qualifications. He has done
a lot of broadcasting in Perth, and in his
Way has shown as keen an interest in
Australian letters as Ernestine Hill, who,
discovered as a verse writer by The
Bulletin’s David McKee Wright when
she was in her teens, has made her mark
as a novelist and a writer of Australian
travel books. Mrs. Hill becomes a mem-
ber of the committee, as also does
J. D. G. Medley, Vice-Chancellor of Mel-
bourne' University. Medley was a British
soldier in the last war and Foley was in
the R.A.N.
Squadron-leader Charlie de Courcy
Matulich can claim two records: (1) he is
the only South Australian who is C.O.
of an R.A.A.F. station in that State, and
(2) he was the first South Australian to
fly with the A.F.C. in Egypt in the last
war —he enlisted with the A.F.C. in 1915,
and had about two years’ flying service
SQUADRON-LEADER MATULICH.
before he was wounded in a dogfight and
invalided home. A company director in
civilian life, Matulich has been asso-
ciated with such flying men as Williams,
“King” Cole, Tunbridge, Chadwick and
Irving. He is the son of a 1914-18
Digger, and the grandson of an Indian
Army officer.
Captain P. G. Taylor, who received the
British Empire Medal for gallantry after
he saved the Southern Cross and its crew
during the Australian-Maoriland flight in
May, 1935, by crawling out on the wing
to effect engine repairs, has been requited
to surrender the medal —and receive in
its place the George Cross. One of the
best-known —yet most modest —of Aus-
tralian flying men, Taylor was with the
R.F.C. in the last war ; was co-pilot and
navigator with Kingsford Smith in the
1934 Pacific crossing ; was the Australian
Government’s representative in the Guba
flying-boat in the first air crossing and
survey flight of the Indian Ocean ; ferried
flying-boats from U.S.A. to Australia and
piloted N.E.I. Governor van Mook across
the Pacific and back. He has several
remarkably accurate long-range solo
flights to his credit, as well as one or two
very readable books and an excellent
volume on navigation.
Reported killed in action Major Athol
James McL. Wilson. Dux of Geelong
College in 1920 and a Melbourne Uni-
versity man, Wilson was admitted to the
Victorian Bar in 1925 and joined the
Arthur Robinson firm. He was in com-
mand of a coastal fort when war broke
out. Later he was drafted to command
a garrison somewhere in the north.
The Union S.S. Co. has lost two of its
senior skippers by resignation. Captain
J. Rankin, born in Scotland, has held a
master’s ticket for 34 years
and has been in the Union
Co.’s service for 32 years.
In recent years he has been
on the trans-Pacific run.
Captain A. S. Dalgleish,
born Newcastle -on - Tyne,
joined in 1913, but had leave
of absence to serve as a lieu-
tenant, R.N., 1917-19. He
has commanded many ships
on the London-Wellington
run.
Back in Australia, this country’s only
one-legged pilot. He is Flight-Lieutenant
Bruce Rose, of Ivanhoe (Vic.), who lost
his limb after baling out from a Blen-
heim bomber over the North Sea. Rose
acquired an artificial leg and returned to
his squadron, earning the D.F.C. for gal-
lantry and skill, largely in fighter recon-
naissance and escorting of commando
raiders. He was the pilot who had the
last view of the German warships flbeing
from Brest to Kiel through the Channel.
John Baker, who becomes chairman of
directors of Elder, Smith, succeeding Fred
Downer (who succeeded Barr Smith
only six months ago), is, like Downer, a
lawyer and son of an old-time lawyer-
statesman —Richard Chaffey Baker, first
President of the Senate. John B. has been
more before the public eye than his pre-
decessors in the chair, having been on
the Adelaide City Council for some
years, also S.A.’s tennis champion, after
Cambridge 50 years ago, and a first-rate
golfer afterwards.
Affectionately known among his old
mob of the Ist Div. Sigs., First A.1.F., as
“Gee Gee Esses,” “the Old Man” or “the
old blankard” —legend has it that he was
the first unit commander of the A.I.F.
to accept the last term for what it really
was —Colonel George G. S. Gordon,
D. 5.0., V.D., still has the stars and
crown up for his fourth war —this time
as commander of a Sydney area brigade.
Born in Bangalore, southern India, of
Scottish parents, young George went to
sea in the White Star clipper Sophocles.
The adventure urge blew him to African
shores, and he ducked from his first
rifle bullet in the Matabele war. After
that he went to Victoria, where he settled.
When the Boer War loomed he was one
of the first in, and, returning, got a com-
mission in the 26th Company of Engi-
neers in the old militia. In August, 1914, he
was in again as second in command of the
Ist Div. Sig. Company. On Gallipoli his
splendid work in the cable section earned
him his majority, and when the unit
reached France in March, 1916, he was
its O.C. He took the company through
to the Armistice,’ collecting a lieut.-
colonelcy and a D.S.O. In between wars
Gordon has been mechanical expert in
Melbourne to the Dunlop Rubber con-
cern.
“C.R.”: Novelist Morley Roberts, dead
at 85 in London, had some bush experi-
ence in N. S. Wales in the ’seventies and
worked on the railroads in Victoria. His
voyage before the mast to this country
produced the best book he wrote, a sus-
tained prose lyric on the glories of ships
and shipmen. The rest of his life was
spent on the land in Canada, the
U.S., British Columbia, Africa, Central
America and the South Seas, in the
quartermaster-general’s department of
the War Office and in Fleet-street.
Frith, having sallied forth to buy
underpants and returned with a string
shopping bag, imposed these sartorial
shortcomings on W. B. Hudson, Deputy
Director of Rationing in N. S. Wales, as
a warning of things to come. After the
efficient distribution of ration books last
week-end, however, it seems unlikely that
the deputy director of the show will
ever be reduced to such rational dress.
An amiable Maorilander, Hudson carqe
to the N. S. Wales Railways Department
in 1906 as a fully-fledged railway engineer,
W. B. HUDSON.
and, as assistant-engineer for Per. Way
and Works, supervised many big jobs.
When F. C. Garside stepped up to Assis-
tant Commissioner in 1932 Hudson be-
came Comptroller of Stores, and as chief
buyer and distributor of the widest
variety of goods used by any concern in
Australia now spends around £7,000,000
a year—he pays a handsome tribute to
a highly-skilled staff, now buying under
great difficulties. To ensure that he has
enough to keep him busy, he is also
Director of Emergency Food Supplies
and a member of the Commonwealth
Business Advisory Committee. His hobby
is the Fairbridge Farm School at Molong
(N.S.W.) —he was responsible for its
admirable'layout and engineering services.
Francis Edgar Williams, who may now
be dubbed “Doctor” on the strength of a
D.Sc. received from Oxford, was the
S.A. Rhodes Scholar for 1915, but before
he went on with his studies he saw a
good deal of service in the 1914-18 war
—he was with the Dunsterforce. He
has since won a Rockefeller Fellowship,
the Wellcome Medal for Anthropological
Research (1932), the Cilento Medal for
Tropical Hygiene and Native Welfare
(1935), has been Government anthropolo-
gist in Papua since 1927 and was in Port
Moresby when bombs were falling.
Born at Malvern (S.A.), he is 48.
“X.S.”: There died in Victoria the
other day a man just one year short of
the century yet in such firm possession
of his faculties that he wrote an auto-
biography the day before his death.
Hence he was doubtless able to read of
the recent bombings of Krupp’s works at
Essen, and if he did it must have been
with mixed feelings—he was born there
and was one of Krupp’s earliest gun-
makers. Later he made guns in the
U.S.A. Sixty-one years ago he came to
Australia, gave up the lethal business and
took to farming. He was Max Louis
Senftleben, of Nhill.
Malcolm Mclntosh, Commissioner of
Public Works under Playford in S.A.,
has now had upwards of 4440 days in
office—a record for the State as a Cabi-
net Minister. He has beaten the achieve-
ment of J. G. Jenkins, an American
who arrived in Australia as a book-agent
towards the end of last century and even-
tually became Premier of S.A. The only
other Minister to pass the 4000 days has
been Richard Butler —not the present
holder of that name but his father.
Mclntosh, Victorian born and M.H.A.
for Albert (S.A.) since 1921, has just
turned 54.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 57, Harry Lester, a pioneer
of the movies in Australia. As superintendent
for West’s Pictures, he handled silent successes
like “Quo Vadis?” and “The Last Days of
Pompeii,” and was known over all- circuits in
Victoria. He was president of the Indepen-
dent Exhibitors’ Association.
Gone to appear in a Higher Court, Sydney
Fletcher, one of Brisbane’s oldest solicitors and
brother of Brunsdon Fletcher, formerly editor
of the Sydney “Morning Herald.” He never
overcharged a client or bullied a witness, and
much of his life was given to good works
without thought of personal kudos or reward.
At 84, in Adelaide, Stephen Parsons,
manager of the T. & G. company long ago,
then surveyor, musician and Methodist, and
prominent in each of those lines. He claimed
to have been the originator of the Ridley Gate
at the Adelaide Showgrounds, a memorial to
John Ridley, who did so much for S.A. (and
Australia) by the invention of the wheat-
stripper.
In S.A., at 67, Patrick Kearne, chairman for
seven years of the Licensed Victuallers’ Racing
Club and winner of the L.V. Cup last year.
One of his favorite memories was having been
present at six Derbies in one year, 1927 —Syd-
ney, Melbourne and Adelaide, English, Irish
and French.
In Melbourne, at 76, Maximilian Cohn, the
city’s oldest wine and spirit merchant. He
hailed from Bendigo and set up his Williams-
street shingle in 1896.
At 63, James Muir Auld, of Sydney, one of
the soundest of the older school of Australian
landscape painters. He was born in Sydney,
and is represented in the Sydney, Adelaide and
Brisbane Art Galleries. He recently won the
Wynne Prize.
At 82, T. L. M. Barker, born in Geelong, but
for the last 63 years a resident of M.L. As
a surveyor he was responsible, in the ’eighties,
for the first accurate mapping of large areas
of Canterbury and Wellington provinces. In
his youth he was a noted athlete. He retired
from the Government service in 1924.
At Auckland, M.L., where he was born,
Capt. S. A. Chatfield, aged 56, one of the
best-known skippers in the Pacific Islands trade
in his day. In later years he held shore jobs
with the Union S.S. Co., retiring in 1939.
' “Cauboy”: I see that Judith Anderson,
the Rose Park (Adelaide) girl who has
been a leading actress in America
for a long time, has made a hit by
playing “Macbeth” to an audience of
American soldiers, though warned it
would be a flop by all the experts. The
soldiers followed Lady Macbeth’s bloody
transgressions with breathless interest,
and all but two out of 2000 afterwards
said they had enjoyed the show. Miss
Anderson didn’t make such a hit when
she returned to her homeland in 1924 and
played in “Cobra,” “Tea for Three” and
“The Green Hat.” She gave admirable
performances but suffered the same fate
on the stage in Melbourne as Marjorie
Lawrence did on the concert platform
in Sydney.
Counihan has here sketched one of
America’s leading trainers of fighter-
pilots—Colonel Ross G. Hoyt, of
Traverse City, Michigan. Few have had
a more extensive theoretical training, and
on the practical side Hoyt has com-
manded many fields, among them the Will
COLONEL R. G. HOYT.
Rogers Field, Oklahoma. He was avia-
tion member of the military mission to
China in 1941, and was Chief of Staff,
U.S. Army Forces, at Darwin this year
just as things were beginning to warm up.
Holds a few records for long-distance
and endurance flying, and is an expert on
the subject of refuelling ’planes in flight.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Clooter”: The sang-froid of the dyed-
in-the-wool civil servant is something to
be admired. One of the species recently
took over a new office in a taken-over
city building. About 3 p.m. there was a
knock at his door. “Enter,” he said.
Hearing a gasp he looked round, to
behold a fine-looking young woman
clad in a towel. “Heavens,” she gasped,
blushing, “isn’t this the massage room?”
Without a flicker he replied “No, this is
the Department of War Tokens and Inci-
dentals, number four branch. Try further
down the corridor.”
* *. * *
“D.E.”: The flapper press was tem-
porarily knocked out by the chilling,
statement of a U.S. Army spokesman
that the Doughboys didn’t come here to
talk for publication about Our Girls, and
his broad hint that such inanities would
be discouraged ; but it shows signs of
rallying. Anyway, a Sydney afternoon
paper bobbed up with half a column
about a young woman from a fish-and-
chips shop (with portrait), who, leaving
her haunt of fillets and spuds to meet a
girl friend, chanced instead upon a Welsh
seaman. A few hours later, though they
had been perfect strangers, they were
man and wife, and next morning the
bride was back among the fish and chips.
Parted for ever? No, as happy as Larry,
and flashing her wedding ring, as she
speared hunks of flathead and sprinkled
salt on the murphies. The True Romance
takes strange forms in Sydney afternoon
papers.
* * * *
“Alter”; Of all forms of theft about
the easiest, and therefore the least sport-
ing, is cutting a small canvas out of its
frame in a public gallery. Lack of a
market deters such exploits, but a thief
or thieves of the sort have been preying on
Sydney’s Art Gallery. Latest disappear-
ance is a tiny picture by William Dobell,
“Study for a Woman Dozing,” a sketch
in preparation for a larger work. Dobell
is not everyone’s meat, and it would
seem that the small size mainly decided
the thief’s choice. The gallery is a big
one, the staff, never very large, is smaller
still these days, and nobody can be
blamed save the criminal. A good safe-
guard against such depredations, of
course, is to glass all small and medium-
sized paintings, but anyone who has
undergone the contortions that are neces-
sary to avoid reflections and see the pic-
tures in galleries where glass is the rule
will hope that the thief will be laid by
the heels very speedily and punished in
a way that will effectively deter imitators.
“S.”: Firm believer as I am in the
rights of women and the equality of the
sexes, I do not think that Drake would
have cuddled a kitten on the bowling
green as the Armada hove in sight.
I- explored Sydney on a Saturday after-
noon and from a high place saw for the
first time in my life, fabulous as the sea-
serpent, women playing on a green on
which men were also at bowls. All
seemed strangely well: the ladies wore
sober white, they bore themselves with
the same ineffable solemnity as the men,
uttered the same hoarse and mysterious
ejaculations, followed the rolling of the
bowls with the same restrained agony.
But all was not well. One erring bow-
leress was seen to clutch a kitten to her
bosom, stroke it, and make feminine
noises at it. Horror rippled visibly over
the green like a wind through long grass.
“Put that cat down, Mrs. Whosit!” thun-
dered the largest, whitest and gravest of
the lady bowlers. Mrs. Whosit dropped it
as if it had been a time-bomb. There’s
room for only one sort of kitty in that
game evidently.
« * « *
“Tuart”; Having once visited Sebasto-
pol, lived in Balaclava and tarried in
Inkerman (street), and also in later years
ascended the heights of Raglan and Can-
robert (streets), I have a romantic interest
“ Ba-bee m-i-n-e !”
in the latest campaign in the Crimea. I
read that the Germans have bombed
what has been described as “the most
striking relic” of the old Crimean War,
“the panorama of the siege, a master-
piece of scenic art, housed on the height
of the Malakoff, which formed the
centre of the Russian position.” Pano-
ramas of battles were all the go when I
was young. Melbourne had one for
years, a capital representation of the
Battle of Waterloo, and some of the
figures I dimly remember yet. I believe
Sydney had a very good Gettysburg
panorama, but I never saw it. Perhaps
it is a pity this sort of battle art went
out. If this generation had been familiar
with pictorial models of some of the
great achievements of the Old Diggers—
for example, the charge at Beersheba
and the attacks on Villers-Bret. and
Mont St. Quentin —the politicians may
not have found it so easy to convert the
citizen army into a shadow, and that only
11 years after the Armistice. Of the
panorama “on the height of the
Malakoff,” a recent writer says that “a
constant stream of students and school-
children was taken round it,” and I have
no doubt whatever that this has done
much to kindle the patriotism of the
Russians.
* * * *
“Pawang”; In his annual report John
Dale, Melbourne’s tall health officer,
records an improvement in the health of
the community which he attributes to
increased prosperity. He adds that it is a
sardonic comment on our civilisation that
more people are able to satisfy their
needs in war-time than in time of peace.
* * * *
. “Bumpkin”: Melbourne dajlies pub-
lished columns of propaganda on the
necessity to grow vegetables in back gar-
dens; then they dropped it, for a good
reason. One has only to take a trip on
a suburban railway to see how much
effect the Government’s implorings have
had on custom. The front garden remains
the domain of the standard rose and the
little grass plot. In Shakspeare’s day Eng-
lish gardens used to be a mixture of vege-
tables and flowers. The idea of segrega-
tion came later. In imitation of noble
lords, suburbanites began to relegate the
utilitarian spud to the backyard, and tried
to make their front plots as regal-loojdng
as the vast estates of their lords and
masters. Now the notion is fixed that
the intrusion of an artichoke or a broad
bean into the front garden is an aesthetic
faux pas. Yet in a competition in a
N.S.W. workers’ settlement some time
ago a Swede won first prize for beauty
by arranging his garden so that the bril-
liant green of the silver beet was con-
trasted with the sober hue of pansies.
His herbaceous border, too, was at one
and the same time odorous, useful and
ornamental.
* * * *
“Tummas McN.”; I’m not struck with
these mechanical methods of getting
things done. Found myself on a Sunday
one of a hundred or so city folks gawp-
ing at some fellows trying to remove a
Moreton Bay fig-tree. They had two bull-
dozers, each with driver and about
five men as supernumeraries. The
super-whatnots climbed all round the
plant, which was about 30ft. high and
possibly 3ft. 6in. thick. They crisscrossed
it with steel ropes. One bulldozer pushed
and the other pulled. There was a great
roaring of Diesel engines. The hawsers
tautened, quivered and snapped. More
climbing, pulling, pushing and roaring of
engines. The tree remained obdurate,
even contemptuous. This went on for
nearly an hour, by which time I became
bored and departed. A couple of bush-
men with axes and a crosscut and a
forest devil would have had that tree
down and its stump out in half the time.
if * » *
“Bo”: My afternoon paper gave the
inevitable interview with a centenarian,
complete with family group showing
Granny heading four generations. Readers
were told that the old lady “still does her
own housework,” but was that necessary?
No female centenarian who has ever
been written up over the last 50 years
has failed to slog into the washing every
Monday morning. The intimation that
she needs glasses “only for close sewing”
was also redundant; no interviewed
ancient admits to using specs when read-
ing the daily news, which she follows, of
course, with the “keenest interest.” That
one of so great an age should have
“never felt better in all her life” was a fore-
gone conclusion. It may be that one of
these days a centenarian will crankily snap
that he or she “feels rotten,” but in that
case the interviewer will drop dead on
the spot. But, somehow, I felt that this
particular interview was in some way
incomplete. Something familiar, some-
thing as vital to an interview as bacon
is to a fried egg, was missing. For hours
it haunted me. Then I pinned it. The
old lady had not attributed her remark-
able longevity to anything in particular.
* * * *
“Avoca”: An A.B.C. announcer re-
cently gave the Gaelic name of De
Valera’s Irish domain a one-syllable form
and pronounced it similarly to “air.”
Some four years ago it was cabled to
Australia that the High Commissioner for
Eire in London, J. D. Dulanty, advising
those in difficulty about the pronuncia-
tion, said: “Think of Sarah, then drop
the ‘s.’ ”
H* * $ $
“Si Ann”: An American correspondent
back from Moscow found the Russians
obsessed with such a mania for secrecy
that on no occasion did he or any other
foreign observer get within coo-ee of the
actual front. The secrecy bug is a heritage.
Travelling across Siberia in pre-1914-18
war days I carried a camera and took
snaps of everything interesting I saw. I
had performed this manoeuvre innocently
at every railway station for 3000 miles
when a friendly Russian asked whether I
was a member of the Royal Russian
Camera Club. I had never heard of the
thing and said so. “Well,” he proceeded,
“you are liable to have your camera con-
fiscated and suffer even worse things.
Nobody can take a photograph in
the Russian Empire unless he is a
member of the club.” The fact that I
had taken hundreds of photographs with-
out interference before I got this piece of
intelligence was probably due to my air
of confidence born of innocence.
* V * *
“Avon”; Among small shopkeepers
tobacconists seem to have a better capa-
city for survival on the same old stand
than most other traders. There’s one in
Wellington, M.L., who has been in busi-
ness so long that, faced with a match
shortage, he rummaged among old stock
and unearthed a few gross of fusees.
These fire-making appliances, it is sug-
gested by a Wellington newspaper, ante-
date the Boer War. The estimate is too
modest — f bev haven’t been in general use
since before the Crimean campaign. They
consist of a stick bearing at the end a
big blob of chemical compound that
ignites when struck on the box. The
chemical blazes like a Roman candle for
about 10 seconds and does not set fire to
the stick. About the only advantage the
fusee has over the match, wax or safety,
is that it takes a hurricane or a tornado
to blow it out while it is burning.
SENSITIVE SOULS.
If your job’s to enlighten the country at large
How Parliamentarians their duties discharge,
If your task is to furnish a readable view
Of the words that they say and the things that
they do.
If you’re paid for recording the contest of wits
Between Foxes in posse and embryo Pitts
Though in politics widely apart as the Poles,
Remember they’re, most of ’em, sensitive souls.
Whatever the goals
They proclaim at the polls,
In the main you can rank them as sensitive
souls.
Free speech by themselves they’d be loath to
condemn,
But you’d better beware what you say about
them.
Their critics outside they can slang as they like,
As willing to wound as they’re eager to strike,
And just as secure from being called to account
As if they were gods on Olympus’s mount.
But should you attempt the reversal of roles
You’ll learn that you’re dealing with sensitive
souls;
You may get into holes
And be hauled o’er the coals
For ruffling the plumes of such sensitive souls.
So, chaps, you’ll show wisdom in watching your
steps
Should you ever be moved to poke borak at
Reps.
Or Senators either. ’Tis something that they
Regard as a species of lese-majeste.
They haven’t attained to the seats where they sit
To be subjects for flippant or frivolous wit.
To be jolted or joshed in irreverent scrolls
Is a little too much for these dignified souls;
It jars their controls.
This taking of tolls
For raising a laugh from these sensitive souls.
It calls for repression. And don’t be too sure,
You artists who revel in caricature
And feature these seigneurs, with feeling and
force,
Possessed of such dials as might frighten a
horse,
That you won’t be the next to come under the
ban
By getting the goat of the Canberra clan.
There are bodies a-plenty to meet on your
strolls
You can mangle your worst without harrowing
souls,
And faces in shoals
Off Parliament rolls
’Twill be safer to limn than these sensitive souls.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
OFFICIOUS.
“ ‘Somewhat officious’ was the tei’m applied by
Judge O’Mara in the Federal Arbitration Court to
the action of the Deputy Director of Man-power in
arranging a conference of employers and union secre-
taries ‘when Mr. Bellemore bad just as much stand-
ing in these matters as the Master in Lunacy.’ ”
“Officious!” Once upon a time the word
Denoted something fine and meritorious
That nowadays from angry lips is heard
In tones censorious.
Strange, what our forebears deemed a term of
praise
For which recipients might well be grateful
Should come to signify, these modern days,
Something that’s hateful.
It shows how words of classic rank and state
May go downhill, in either speech or writing,
Until they sound less than affectionate
And more than slighting.
“Officious, innocent, sincere, the friend
Of ev’ry name” —’twas thus it
started,
The eulogy that Doctor Johnson penned
On one departed.
“Doing good offices,” “obliging,” “kind,”
“All there at duty’s caH”—the word, it’s clear,
meant,
An adjective in which a chap could find
Naught but endearment.
So when “officious” dubbed, in consequence
Of being too rigidly disciplinarian.
You city wardens shouldn’t take offence.
Accept the term in the Johnsonian sense;
Not the O’Marian!
N.S.W
PIPARDS.


“Harold Hardupp”: Our Mrs. Sudds
is a lady of queer misfortunes ; accord-
ing to her manner of expressing herself
she seems to have to endure strange physi-
cal torture in all her troubles. For in-
stance, in the early days of her first mar-
riage her father and mother-in-law died
on her; later on her eldest child, her
uncle, three prize greyhounds, a cow, her
husband, a much-loved cat, three suc-
cessive canaries, the family horse, her
two aunts, her brother and another dog
(she mixes them up strangely) died —all
on her. The butcher has delivered bad
meat on her, she bought a sack of
potatoes, cheap, at the door, and it went
rotten on her —in short, she seems to be
the actual physical site for all sorts of
misadventures.
* * * *
“K. L. Ender”: On June 7, while
sundry people were noting that certain
things, including the futile raid on Syd-
ney Harbor, were happening on the
semi-anniversary of the Jap attack on
Pearl Harbor, some prize chump cheer-
fully remarked that the date was also
the semi-anniversary of “the opening of
the V for Victory campaign,” the most
futile thing that has come out of this
war. The picture-palace in our suburb
still concludes its programme with an
orchestral rendering of the Morse V,
but I doubt if any member of the audi-
ence recognises it.
“Pitt St.”: Pretty well every Austra-
lian newspaper that reported the sal-
vaging of Jap submarines from Sydney
Harbor seemed to be impressed by the
steel teeth for cutting nets. Probably the
Navy wasn’t surprised at this little gad-
get, I know I wasn’t. About 1935 I
bought my kid a toy submarine, made in
Japan, and fitted on it were the teeth
in miniature. It might pay to have a
look at other Japanese toys to see if
conscientious toymakers give away other
details of armament.
“Mac Hoots”: Let it not be thought
that I would scoff at those who, as soon
as the sun came up after the sub. had
shelled Sydney, explored the open spaces
for souvenirs ; nor at those many more
who took a tram out afterwards to see
what damage they could. For I, too,
casually, almost by accident, shall in-
dubitably find myself goggling with the
rest before the week is out. But how
insatiable is the curiosity of Homo
sapiens ! Sydney’s raid was child’s play ;
but show us the Day of Judgment and
the destruction of the world, and Mac-
aulay’s New Zealander will be found
sightseeing in the ruins and some un-
shatterable Australian will be hunting
for souvenirs. Curiosity—the itch to see
how the big guns go off and the mighty
armies work —helps to start all wars ;
and curiosity—the passionate interest in
what happens—helps us all to endure
them. We are still monkeys!
“Gives you the fair creeps, don’t it, lady?”
“Hackshaw”; I fear that in their
struggle to preserve the sanctity of the
Melbourne Sabbath the parsons are fight-
ing a losing battle. They have lately pro-
tested against A.R.P. tests on Sunday,
the issue of ration books on the sacred
day and professional endeavors to
alleviate the boredom of the troops with
Sunday entertainments. A daily paper
correspondent, nettled by such narrow-
ness, has alleged that among historic
events that occurred on Sundays were
the Battle of Waterloo, the
landing on Gallipoli, the
declaration of war by Britain
on Germany, the evacuation
of Dunkirk, the invasions of
Yugoslavia, Greece and
Russia by Hitler, the launch-
ing of the “V for Victory”
campaign, the Japanese on-
slaught on Pearl Harbor and
finally the submarine attack
on Sydney Harbor. He was
wrong on some of his dates,
but his point was clear.
* * *
“C.R.”: The development
of a sure preventive of influ-
enza is still a scientist’s
dream, according to Profes-
sor Hurst, director of the
Medical Institute of Adel-
aide. Even in the present
experimental stage, he says, it
is evident thdt there is no
likelihood of a vaccine that
will give long immunity from
’flu ever being developed,
and most people can go on
comfortably expecting at least
one cold a year, which they
will dignify with the name of
influenza, although the true-
blue ’flu virus turns up only
once in about four years. Apropos
of which, Commander Moyes, who
accompanied Mawson on his Antarc-
tic expedition, told me that when
he was in charge of the second
base party at Queen Mary Land the
members enjoyed immunity from colds
for over a year. Then one day a supply
ship brought a consignment of new
blankets. The whole party went down
with the sniffles immediately the parcel
was opened. Their year’s immunity had
made them more susceptible to infection
than if they had been living under normal
conditions. To immunise an entire
nation would be a colossal business.
* . * * *
“Lao-dah”: The Bulletin long ago
noted the lack of a good Australian
national anthem (B. 3/6/’42) and offered
a prize for one. Arthur Adams won it,
I have not heard that his verses were
ever set to music. There was a line which
concluded each stanza like a refrain,
“God’s demesne, Australia! ” Three
children to whom I showed the poem pro-
nounced “demesne” as it is spelt and the
effect was ruined.
* * * *
“Uncle’s Niece”: “Percy Pawnticket’s”
mention of the litter of old false teeth
and glasses in pawnshop windows (B.
3/ 6 / ’42) reminds me. My Unc. has a tray
of spectacles on the counter —about 200
pairs, at a rough glance, and no extra
charge for dust, A worried-looking
gent, was trying on pair after pair;
calling to Uncle for a newspaper on
which to test the spectacles and, in the
next breath, mumbling complaints against
the whole universe. At last he seemed
satisfied with a pair and adjusted them
carefully on his nose. Up stepped Uncle,
all smiles. “Got vot you vant?” he
asked. The customer glared at Uncle,
“Good heavens, no!” he snapped. “But
now I can see clearly enough to look for
a pair.”
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Several years ago Melbourne
cinemas installed auditory boosters for
the convenience of the deaf. Now the
“Sure you brought the tomatoes, Prendergast?”
Post Office has had a kind thought for the
blind. They are to be accommodated with
’phones whose dials are fitted with
Braille symbols so that they can use an
automatic telephone. A specially large
one has been installed at the Blind Insti-
tute.
* * *
“Sartor” remembers the last time Syd-
ney went on clothes rations;
Rationing of clothing was one of the very
earliest experiences of “Sydneysiders.” When
the supplies brought out by the First Fleet
had become exhausted, it wasn’t only hunger
that the people camped on the Tank Stream had
to face—semi-nakedness added to their afflic-
tions. Captain-Lieutenant Tench, of the
Marines, has something to say about it. “The
distress of the lower classes for clothes,” he
writes, “was almost equal to their other wants.
The stores had been long exhausted and winter
was on hand. Nothing more ludicrous can be
conceived than the expediency of substituting,
shifting and patching; much ingenuity was de-
vised to eke out the wretchedness and preserve
the remains of decency. The superior dexterity
of the women was particularly conspicuous.
Many a guard have I seen mount in which the
number of soldiers without shoes exceeded that
which had preserved the remnants of leather.”
It was not until June 20, 1790 (two and a half
years after the colony’s foundation), that the
ship Justinian brought the famished unfor-
tunates something to eat and something to wear.
* * * *
“Jimmy”; The return to woodcuts, a
recent American printing development,
may reopen a long-vacated field to
present-day artists. Sixty years ago Aus-
tralian illustrated magazines had to rely
solely on the dexterity and steady hands
of the engraver —high-class work of the
kind was a feature in The Bulletin in
the ’eighties. The work demanded in-
tense concentration —particularly with
lines and shadings—and all lettering, of
course, had to be done “back-to-front.”
The craft was jealously guarded; en-
gravers secreted themselves from prying
eyes. One of Sydney’s most accomplished
chisellers was locked in a back room,
where he cut watermarks for cheques,
and did it so beautifully that forgery by
any hand-process was well-nigh impos-
sible. Allied to the woodcut in the
matter of technique, although it came
many years later, was the use of lino-
leum for poster-work. An artist drew
the lay-out (Norman Lindsay did a lot
of this sketching for The Bulletin), cut-
ting followed, and finally the work was
glued or nailed to a mount. Possibly
the lino.-block will follow the woodcut
back into popularity.
s: s &
“Cauboy”: it may be that comedian
Ivan Menzies, in refusing to play the
Lord High Executioner in the latest re-
vival of “The Mikado” in Melbourne,
takes too solemn a view of the import-
ance and significance of a comic opera.
The Japanese took too solemn a view
of it, too, once, and ambassadorial pro-
tests were lodged in London. That preju-
dice passed and the piece (translated) has
been played in Tokyo. Still, the explana-
tion the nimble little mime gives for his
action has some reason in it, inasmuch
as he has received a letter from a woman
who said that “The Mikado,” by making
a mockery of the Japanese, might cause
them to take it out on Australian
prisoners of war, one of whom happens
to be her husband. That may be, con-
sidering that the reaction of a Melbourne
dowager in His Majesty’s foyer was of
the same order. “Dafanately Fifth
Column!” she snorted when she heard
that Ivan had refused to play Ko-Ko.
“M.G.S.: The umpteenth revival of
Gilbert and Sullivan at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, makes me wonder how long
Gilbert’s burlesques would have lasted
without Sullivan’s music. In matters of
art Queen Victoria shared some of the
narrower prejudices now associated with
her age, but she may have shown a sure
instinct when, at the command perform-
ance of “The Gondoliers” at Windsor
Castle in 1891, she had Gilbert’s name
deleted from the programme. When Sulli-
van conducted his cantata “The Golden
Legend” at the Albert Hall, Victoria
advised him to write grand opera. She
even used to play his tunes herself on
the castle piano. Sullivan was knighted
in 1883 ; Gilbert had to wait for 24
years, until the Queen had been gathered
to her forefathers. Gilbert’s skits on
lords and ladies may have stung her. On
the other hand, she may have thought
them an impertinent intrusion on the
music of Sullivan, which is much better
than most highbrows think. The Firm
might provide an interesting season if it
got out of its rut and staged some of
Sullivan’s operettas, at the risk of caus-
ing Gilsullivan addicts to commit suicide
on His Majesty’s doorstep in protest.
* * * *
“Old Codger”: Sydney’s “Hole in the
Wall” shares its name with resorts of
similar name all the world over. Gener-
ally, such places have been sanctuaries
of one sort or another. Phoenix Park,
Dublin, claims the oldest. A board hung
at the back of the Black Horse (that’s
its title now) bears the sign “The Original
Hole in the Wall: Nancy Hands.” This
“Hole” gave entrance to or exit from
the park. Another was at Kilkenny,
where the Duke of Wellington and other
celebrities sometimes dined ; it is memo-
rialised in the lines:
Whenever you go to Kilkenny
Inquire for the Hole in the Wall.
There you’ll get eggs three a penny
And butter for nothing at all.
There are many about London —one at
Wood-street, near Cheapside, and an-
other at Waterloo —while at Salford,
which refers to it as “Th’ Hole i’ th’
Wall,” liquor used to be passed hurriedly
through an aperture with a whisper to
“Soop up an’ goo.”
$ * * *
“F.S.”: In seeking to justify modern
egg-box architecture “Roy Biv.” (B.
3/6/’42) points out that some of Beet-
hoven’s music was thought queer once
and also Van Gogh’s paintings. In the
same breath he says that the next genera-
tion, in scanning the illustrations in an
architectural-history book, may think the
old structures as odd as modern egg-
boxes. The two statements don’t present
a very harmonious appearance. Beet-
hoven’s music doesn’t seem queer now
and Van Gogh’s paintings are seeming
less and less queer as he and his school
become fashionable. Then why would
a piece of ancient architecture which is
as beautiful in its way as a Beethoven
symphony look queer? No architect of
any intelligence would say that the Par-
thenon at Athens looks queer, though bits
of Doric or Corinthian stuck here and
there on a modern building cer-
tainly look as queer as a tophat on a
South Sea Islander. But that is only
because the architect lacked skill. There
is no such thing as “modern” architec-
ture any more than there is any such
thing as “modern” art. There is only
good and bad architecture. Egg-box
architecture is just poor architecture, but
it is no more modern than Exeter
Cathedral.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; Old Dan, bachelor, had
been growing wheat as long as anybody
could remember and he’d built up a
decent bank account. In the town he
owned a few houses and had interests in
one or two other things. In other words,
Dan was sitting pretty. Along came the
inevitable agricultural expert. He had a
look at Dan’s place and said, “You
ought to run a few sheep, y’ know. The
old days of single-crop farming are
gone.” Dan pondered the matter a
month or so, then bought 250 in-lamb
ewes. A swift change came over him.
He looked after those ewes as though
they were studs, and when the lambing
came Dan was up every morning assist-
ing difficult births and fending off crows
and flies. Orphan lambs he took to the
homestead and cared for gently. Early
the following August the agricultural
expert called again. “You ought to get
one of those travelling two-stand plants
to shear ’em,” he said. Dan looked
puzzled. The expert explained. Dan
pondered again, went to town and
bought a two-stand plant for himself,
hired an ancient shearer and the pair of
them plugged along, doing about 20 a
day apiece. This form of shearing exas-
perated Dan’s neighbor. “Go t’ hell,”
said Dan. “Them sheep an’ me is real
good cobbers. I’ve reared them there
lambs an’ everyone of ’em knows me.
Do y’ think I’d let a couple of rough
shearers knock ’em about. And be-
sides,” he added reproachfully, “y’ know
darned well the bad language shearers
use.”
“ Dagger ”: Stop “ Silverdee ” (B.
10/6/ ’42) wondering how the sheep-fly
lived in Australia before the white man
arrived. It didn’t, not being present. The
emerald-green curse of the sheep coun-
try, like most of our pests, human and
otherwise, is imported.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: The shrimp (B. 13/5/’42)
begins existence as a tiny egg attached
to the leathery filaments that feather the
underside of its mamma’s tail. After a
while, when it has developed into a jelly-
like form with the black nucleus of a
head, it drops off. Then, after miracu-
lously escaping a myriad enemies, it
develops a shell, legs and whiskers, and
becomes a perfect though very minute
shrimp. Throughout the rest of its life
it grows, discarding its shell from time
to time and growing a new suit. The
final suit announces the adult stage. The
reproductive functions are then carried
out, after which the shrimp, male and
female, gracefully leaves the stage, the
life-cycle being renewed by the nymph
forms by this time swimming freely in
the deep waters of pond, river or sea.
Infant shrimps are sometimes so small
that I have counted over 300 taken from
the stomach of a herring caught in estu-
arine waters. So that one should be
carried even four miles through and
along an irrigation system is quite pos-
sible. Incidentally, the unhatched spawn
of the shrimp, and of most other crusta-
ceans, is that cheeselike substance which
at the proper season seems almost to fill
the interior of the fish. An epicurean
dish, when taken with salt, pepper and
vinegar.
t. * * *
“E.H.S.”: Watching a couple of bee-
hunters robbing a hive located in a
hollow tree, I was amazed at the cer-
tainty with which the homing workers
determined the position of a storehouse
that was no longer where they had left
it. The entrance to the hive was through
a small knothole about 30ft. from the
ground. The tree had been felled during
their absence, and the bees without hesi-
tation began circling around the spot
where the knothole should have been.
By the time the hunters had cut the honey
out of the fallen tree there was a ring of
insects about 6ft. in diameter milling
around in a futile endeavor to find their
late home. When I passed that way
again about three hours later, the hive,
which had been greatly augmented by the
arrival of fresh units, was still whirling
around with unabated vigor.
$ 'i'
“Nad”: Knowing that I possessed
a barometer, Mick, the new share-farmer,
invariably asked me “How’s the glass
today?” Then he became the proud
owner of a thermometer. One warm,
sultry day, calling at his place, I received
“ Careful , Buddy!”
the usual query. I told him that the
barometer was low and that we might
expect a thunderstorm. Mick immedi-
ately called to his daughter: “Kitty, have
a look at the chronometer and see what
it says.” Kitty had a look and replied
“It reads 89, Dad.” “There you are,”
said Mick. “Your glass is low, mine is
high ; they both can’t be right.” “But,”
I explained, “you can’t tell if it’s going
to be wet or not by that instrument.”
“By cripes, can’t you?” he replied. “You
just stick it into a bucket of water and see
what it will do!”
* * * *
“Solitude”: The old man can’t whistle
for nuts, so when his new sheep pup
began shaping like a possible show-win-
ner he decided to do something about it.
A cutting from a kerosine-tin was
wheedled into a makeshift whistle and
the mong’s education began. After a few
months he knew the answer to every
bloodcurdling screech and waited obedi-
ently for each. Pride of the old bloke’s
life, the dog progressed amazingly until,
matched against all-comers, he won hands
down. Then, at the height of his fame,
the whistle was lost. The old chap’s
pockets were turned out a thousand or so
times, the paddocks combed for miles
around, and then began an orgy of hole-
punching in fresh tin for a new squealer.
Buckets and canisters were nobly sacri-
ficed and added to the litter round the
doorstep, neighbors were canvassed and
contributed everything from a jampot
to a battered sheet of galvanised, but the
shrill tone of the missing whistle was
elusive as the lost chord. The old man’s
doing his own sheep-work lately, racing
from side to side in a lather of sweat and
dust, while the record-smasher trots
painstakingly at his heels enjoying the
fuss.
* * * *
“Narrin”; I’ve lobbed into many a
campfire argument as to what happens
when a rifle cartridge dropped into the
fire explodes. Here’s a contribution from
Stanley’s In Darkest Africa : “A youth
named Amari... .was suddenly wounded
in the head by a bullet from a Reming-
ton cartridge that someone had carelessly
dropped near the embers.” So the bullet
does fly after all; and half a dozen
blokes owe me tins of Capstan.
» V : f *
“Rom Ney”: I knew somebody would
get hurt rampaging round on horseback,
armed to the back teeth with shears,
drums of fly-oil and whatnot, running
down fly-blown sheep on one or other
of those million-square-mile sheep sta-
tions of “Sur Cingle’s” (B- 10/6/’42). I
don’t need to ask poor Billy Grey about
the yakka attached to maggot stabbing —
strange as it may seem, I once caught
a full-grown buck maggot about to sav-
age a big ram and sliced the cow in half
with a hay-knife in three seconds dead —
but I do sympathise with the shear
wound he got. Anybody caught in the
vicinity of this ‘,‘Sur Cingle” typhoon and
his galloping maggoteers is likely to get
anything! Rams get blown in the head.
I wonder if “Sur Cingle”
“Orroroo Oscar”: Been watchin’ this
here pen fight between “Sur Cingle,”
“Rom Ney” and others over whether
sheep mongs are any good for workin’
sheep, fly-struck or otherwise. What I
want to know, as the owner of a few
sheep on a few acres not a thousand
miles from Quorn (S.A.), is where the
devil “Sur Cingle” can get station-hands
who’ll go out on the run to work sheep
without a dog. None I’ve ever struck
would dream of it.
“Coocoomah”: “R. Ney” (8.22/4/’42)
rather weakens his case when he men-
tions difficulties in mustering a paddock
of 1000 acres. Sheep can easily be got
out of such an area, which is only the
size of a home horse-paddock in the real
back country. I have mustered 64,000-
acre paddocks in the ’eighties and ’nine-
ties, not only beyond the Darling and
Paroo but even as close in as Cobar.
Where Mount Boppy township and mine
are how was a paddock belonging to
Meryula of that area, very scrubby at
that. In those days at Haddon Rig no
dogs were permitted ; an army of mus-
terers were used where a couple of men
with good dogs could have done better.
On my way to Coonamble I saw those
same musterers trying to make a big mob
cross a shallow 20-yard-wide water-
course. Horses were foam-flecked and
men knocked up after dragging odd sheep
across and using all dodges trying vainly
to get the rest over. My dogs got the
lot across in three minutes. In far-west
N.S.W. and s.-w. Queensland it would
be impossible to handle sheep without
good dogs. I have mustered and counted
5000 sheep through a paddock gate with
the help of only dogs and a tally-keeper.
* * * ,*
“Loo”: Dad Horrigan had just lobbed
back home in Buttaphat after a fortnight
in Sydney, and the family clustered
around him on the verandah. He leaned
back in the best chair with the air of a
hero, answering questions with a cer-
tainty which sprang from the knowledge
that the answers couldn’t be checked.
“Gee, Dad,” cried Fred from the steps,
“you must have had a good time! And
did anyone try to sell you the flower
clock in the Zoo for a fiver?” “Yair,”
drawled Dad. “Two blokes tried that.
They must have thought I was something
out of an old-time comic pitcher. That
joke’s dead. J didn’t fall for it, of course ;
just told ’em off pretty quick. A fiver
indeed! I knocked ’em down to two
quid.” The family was so silent you.
could hear the fleas moving around on
the dog. Then Dad forked three pound
notes from an inside pocket. “There,
Mum,” he said casually, “that’s the
change they gave me out of that dud fiver
we’d had here in the house for years—
thought it’d be a good chance to get rid
of it.”
* * * *
“B. 4”: Suffocating fish in a mud bath
(B, 27/5/’42) was practised extensively
by Binghi, Lighting fires as wings well
out round a drying lagoon, the bucks
with their mangy dingoes would steer a
large mob of ’roos towards the hole.
The camp lubras and piccaninnies, whirl-
ing bouri sticks, would block the ’roos,
which would then take to the water. The
howling myalls would keep
the ’roos moving and plung-
ing in the muddied lagoon
till scores of fish and eels
were forced to the surface
for a breather. These were
speared or scooped up in nets.
Meanwhile the ’roos crept
out, dried their hides and
waited round the mudhole,
knowing they would be re-
quired later.
* * *
“Naturala”: No, “Veto”
(B. 13/5/’42), I cant explain
what impels the carpet-snake
to gobble up its young when
danger lurks for the reason
that, never having witnessed
the phenomenon or met any-
one who has witnessed it, I
am without positive data on
the matter. The subject is as
contentious and no nearer of
solution than that other hardy
annual the joey-born-on-the-
teat controversy. So if “V.”
has ever witnessed Mrs.
Axminster swallowing her
young, and, more important,
disgorging them again, I ad-
vise him to write a mono-
graph on the subject and for-
ward it to the Royal Zoo-
logical Society. More than
once I have attended the dis-
patch of female black-snakes,
the post-mortem of which
never disclosed living young
in gullet or stomach. As for
the N.Q. jewfish displaying
symptoms of the maternal instinct —well,
Britain harbors a small fresh-water fish,
the stickleback, which frames up the
semblance of a nest in which spawn is
deposited, the young hatched and for a
time guarded. But such fish may not be
absolutely cold-blooded. Not all fish are.
* * * H=
“Narrin”: “Traps!” snorted Ponto.
“You blokes don’t use y’r flamin’ imagi-
nations. Back in ’3l me an’ ole Fossy
got a woolbale o’ skins in three days.
We simply scattered tacks round a
warren. Then we’d snore off till sun-
down. Soon’s the rabbits wus all out
feedin’ an’ playin’ about me an’ Fossy’d
sneak up, one on each side, behind a
coupla bushes. Then we’d peek out an’
say ‘Booh!’ We knew, o’ course, that
they’d start stampin’ their hind feet as
a warnin’ to their cobbers. Then natcher-
ally they’d sit down f try an’ get the
tacks out. But the pain’d irritate their
reflex muscles, an’, still sittin’ down,
they’d all start kickin’ like blazes. In a
second or two they give ’emselves the
rabbit-killer, an’ all me an’ Fossy d to
do wus walk over an’ pick ’em up!”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The bush mission-
ary had called at an inconvenient hour,
but Jerry, the camp cook, set to work
and fried a couple of thick chops and
some spuds, which he placed before his
guest with the hospitable injunction
“ ’Ere, drop that little lot inter y’r craw,
mister.” The holy man bowed his head
over the food in silent thanksgiving,
whereupon Jerry, placing a wrong con-
struction on his action, sharply demanded
“Wot in ’ell are y’ lookin’ f’r? Cut out
y’r screwin’ at that grub an’ tear it inter
y’. Y’ ain’t goin’ t’ find no extras in
the scran w’ere I’m slingin’ the banjo. ’
THE MIGHTY ATOM.
One day the gods were resting
On clouds in space afar,
Watching the comets breasting
Through nebula; and star;
Bright planets wove a pattern—
Jupiter on his beat,
Uranus, Mars and Saturn
And Venus, fair and sweet.
Deep peace was there among them
As tunefully the stars
From their high places sung them
Songs which no discord mars.
Then upward into vision
Old Earth came staggering
Into that peace Elysian—
A blasted, bombed-out thing.
Breathlessly slow her motion
An upward course to win,
Shaken by loud explosion
She seemed too worn to spin.
A dreadful thunder rocked her,
Stunning that quiet place,
Shattered and smashed and knocked her
Afar in empty space.
And, as her fragments scattered
As broken earth-clods fly,
Two spirits, scarred and battered,
Passed with triumphant cry:
“At last we split the atom!
See what it did to men!
In one b'ig bang it spat ’em
Where they won’t rise again! ”
The gods who had been resting
Rose from their clouds to go
Out past the comets breasting
The strong star-river’s flow;
The planets wove their clever
Curved courses in the sky;
But Earth had gone for ever—
Only the gods know why.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Keep her under thirty till you get her broken in.”
“Yair”: I’ll give the dingo due credit
any day for cunning and persistence, but
I didn’t know just how tough he is—or
was—until, browsing over an item in
The Outline of Science the other day,
I came across this: “The dingo is
famous for its persistent ‘death-feigning,’
for an individual has been known to
allow part of its skin to be removed, in
the belief that it was dead, before be-
traying its vitality.” The author, a
learned professor, penned that many
years ago, when no doubt dingoes were
dingoes and not the debilitated creatures
they are in this generation. I remember
Grandfather coming home one day—he
had been out in the hot sun —and swear-
ing he had been attacked by a warrigal
he’d scalped the day before. Grandma
had walked over to him, said sharply
“Breathe! ” had sniffed and said “1
thought so!” But, since reading that, I
am convinced that a gross injustice was
done to Grandpa.
* * *
“Wippegong”; When “D.R.H.”
trounced “J. Rilston” for calling desert
oaks “stunted” (B. 3/6/’42) and went on
to contend that “mallee is a joy to the
eye,” he was proving also that when a
man’s roots get properly down into his
native soil his loyalty will be strongest
where those roots struck. Once took a
bird-minded medico from the Mallee for
his first scramble through a Gippsland
gully, and, although my crimson rosellas,
gang-gangs, coachies, pilots and rufous
fantails all came to support me, my
friend left disappointed. “How can you
ever watch a bird in this cover?” he
cried. “A flick of a wing and you’ve
lost it. In the Mallee you can follow it
easily.” Years later, when I tried mallee
country, I couldn’t follow a honeyeater
for 50 yards, while the unbroken sea of
low eucalypts seemed the ultimate in
dreariness, though I learnt the feel of it
later. When you live in a place you’ll
find something admirable in your sur-
roundings, just as in a fighting service
unit you’ll become part of a team along
with chaps some of whom you despised
at first —if you can’t do both you’re of
little use to your native land. And nobody
need apologise for his own district;
each has its character. Nothing along
the favored coastline can approach for
stark tenacity the picture of “J.R.’s”
black oaks knee-deep in red desert sand
near the S.A.-C.A. border. Yet the
haunts near home call clearest. I’ve had
good camps in the MacDonnells and along
the length of the ’Bidgee ; in green Illa-
warra and on the Reef; but to me no
fire burns so brightly as where its blue
smoke climbs straight among the tall
timber carpeted with tree ferns, and no
water is so good as where the little brown
Gippsland creeks gurgle out from behind
the granite boulders where they are born.
* * * *
“Wire-buster”: The size of Tiny’s feet
was a subject on which he never wel-
comed discussion. Very fussy about his
footwear, he had ordered a pair of tan
calfskin at the store. They were delivered
to the camp, and he came out of his tent
to where the rest of the linesmen were
lolling in the shade of a big ironbark.
They all noted those new shoes, said
nothing. Tiny had just opened the boot-
polish tin when he stared hard at the
shoes, held them up for closer inspec-
tion and then burst out: “ ’Struth! The
swine’s put one over me. They’re made
from two different hides!” Curley un-
coiled his face from the crook of his
arm, peered carefully at the shoes and
then at Tiny’s feet, and drawled “Strike
me! You didn’t expect them to be able
to get two shoes for you from the one
hide, did you?”
*** * m
“Bo”; Old Swinglebar had no hobbies
except the farm and writing letters to
the shire clerk of Goannafat, who hap-
pened to be also his son-in-law. At the
slightest provocation, or even without
any, he would indite hot epistles, and he
seemed to derive a morbid pleasure in
waiting for the answers, in which his
“darter’s ’usban’ ” strove to be officially
polite. Early one morning Swinglebar,
investigating the cause of his dog’s furi-
ous barking, found in the side road out-
side the sliprails of the western paddock
a dead cow. It was enough. He hopped
inside and wrote a long letter, complain-
ing that the roadway was “always bein’
Glutted up with rubbish.” This time it was
a strange dead cow. “The boddy, which
looks as if it’s been blown up, ain’t
mine,” he finished up, and put a postscript
demanding its immediate removal. Back
came a letter asking what was strange
about a dead cow, and whether he
could ascertain if it had
been blown up with gelignite
or dynamite and if the bits
were scattered over a wide
area. After gnawing the pen
handle halfway down to the
holder, Swinglebar finished a
four-page explanation that it
was a blow-up on his lucerne.
Back came the reply that he
should endeavor to find the
owner. A week later he wrote
a six-pager telling of his thor-
ough search. He wound up:
“I have now found out the
owner; get your newsance
inspector to come and look at
the boddy. If you don’t I’ll
burn it.” Back came the reply
from his son-in-law: “Do you
refer to body of owner or car-
cass of cow?” That day old
Swinglebar, hopping mad, was
observed approaching the side
road with a tin of kerosene in
one hand and his nose tight
pressed between thumb and
forefinger.
“J.H.M.A.”: Although James Ruse is
generally accounted Australia’s first
farmer, it is pretty certain that he wasn’t.
When Phillip’s little colony landed at
Sydney Cove in January, 1788, the live-
stock was put to cropping the pasturage,
then removed to the head of the adjoin-
ing cove, which was cleared for a farm,
“to be under the direction of a person
the Governor brought out,” This
“person” was Edward Dod, one of
Phillip’s servants, and he cultivated the
first farm in Farm Cove, where Sydney’s
Botanic Gardens have been situated
for a good deal more than a century. A
couple of years after the foundation of
the colony, Captain Watkin Tench, of the
Marines, inspected the already cleared
and cultivated land at Parramatta, accom-
panied by the Rev. Mr. Johnson (“who
is the best farmer in the country”) and
Edward Dod. Ruse didn’t begin his
farming until the year Tench writes
about —1790.
* !K * *
“J. Rilston”: The Australian bush
could produce more drugs, curative
potions and lotions than Europe ever
dreamed of. Our earliest botanists, who
really took an interest in Australia, had
any number of them tabulated and there
was hope then of supplying the world.
The easy money from wool and gold
knocked such schemes sideways, and
one needs to do a terrific amount of
delving even to unearth the writing of
those old-timers. But, even taken in
bulk, what other country can match
eucalyptus oil?. Sandalwood oil, distilled
in W.A., has proved of immense value.
Peppermint, a tree found plentifully in
south-west W.A., yields a super euca-
lyptus. From the ti-tree of a certain
variety is distilled one of the most power-
ful antiseptics. And so on. One only
needs to walk through the Australian
bush, crushing leaves between the fingers
and using one’s nose, to realise what a
store of drugs and scents lies waiting for
the investigator and the distiller.
* * * *
“B, A. Ker”: The yarn about the
shearer who, carried away by a demon-
stration he was giving on his swag of
how a jumbuck should be barbered, flung
the shorn “sheep” out of the window
and hollered “Wool away!” is an estab-
lished bush classic. But real life can
produce equal instances of absent-
mindedness. My mate tried at six suc-
cessive railway stations to buy cigarettes.
When he clicked eventually he loaded the
fags into a silver case, passed me the
empty packet—and flicked a keepsake full
of precious fags out of the window! But
Mum beat that. Suffering with a head-
ache while doing a spot of mending, she
got two tablets and a glass of water,
put a hand to her mouth, gulped twice,
drank the chaser, then sat down and
found herself sewing a couple of aspros
on to a shirt!
* * * *
“Aratta”: The two swaggies arrived at
the bridge camping-place simultaneously.
Each was accompanied by a tyke of
dubious parentage. While their masters
busied themselves getting a fire going the
dogs proceeded to fraternise in the usual
canine fashion, and then came back and
squatted each beside his owner. Said the
traveller from the north: “Not a bad
sorta dawg that of yours.” The cove
from the south replied: “My oath, he’s
a good ’un! I bin offered money f’r that
there dawg; but it ain’t been big
enough.” North waited expectantly for
the return compliment, but South, show-
ing a lamentable lack of road etiquette,
made no mention of the other dog. “Well,
’s far as money goes,” remarked North,
“Is that right about the Japs takin' Singapore , Joe?”
resentment in his voice, “the Mint ain’t
turned out ernough t’ buy my dawg.
Which ain’t t’ be wondered at, considerin’
what he can do.” South fidgeted and
seemed anxious to put in his say; but
the glare in North’s eyes and his size—
a good three stone heavier —evidently
convinced him it would be better to
listen. “Yes,” North rattled on, “yM
be astonished if I tole y’ what that there
dawg’s done in ’is time. Pos’tively mar-
vellous, he is. Things y’d hardly be-
lieve possible. Never see his equal. No
wonder he’s” “But what the hell can
he do?” cried South in exasperation,
North shook his head sadly, and went on,
ignoring the inquiry: ‘I c d be a rich
man t’day an’ that dawg livin’ in the lap
o’ luxury but f’r one failin. Oh!
said South, pricking up his ears. “So he s
got a failin’, eh?” “No, he hasn’t,”
replied North evenly. “I have. He’s
suffered from my modesty in not tellin’
people about what he really can do.”
And he lifted his boiling billy off the fire,
*„ „ L Jf, „„ *
sess “ rS ' he P ffl
22/4/ . 42) f rem ? nds me of the peculiarities'
that afffict two J whose
frien^shi | l have • d £or years .
Jimmy , a lightweight English terrier-foxie
to h fc ave h f s lam focuscd
a „ w ’ Airedales a „ d A|satians are
his prey , while lesser fry are ignored. On
the other hand, his mate. Buller, a 70-
pounder whose bulldog-silent heeler
origin is there for all to see, imagines
hin ? self ke or somet hing, for his
a Q „
favorite P a Stime IS landing With an
asdl matic wheeze and a resounding thump
; h , £ fema i e s visitors F
th jj has c y owed o|d Buller
wjth his ideas \ have never discovered ,
d [he , stands till now .
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; It looked like being a
bitter night, and we were silently contem-
plating spending it in the open. Our last bit
G f t ucker was gone and we were broke,
xhen we sighted the roa dside pub. Mat
eyed it thoughtfully awhile, then gave
me some instructions, and we turned and
went 0 $ in to t h e scrub. There we shaved
and spruced ourselves up, put on clean
shirts and brushed up our boots, pants
and C oats. After dark we took the swags
and pi an f ed them on the other side of
, h b Then we went jn and Mat
<f ad f
® rou S h ' . “ f es * ro “ gh at moe
* e „ m ° r ? mg > , he said ; " as you af ! er
h? H ave V seen anythin of a bloke
in a utility?” asked Mat. The publican
hadn’t. We said we’d been working
for a bloke out on a place and he’d gone
to Echuca in the utility and was to meet
us and pay us at the pub so we could
get the mail to Shepparton, where we
had a job waiting. “He’s got all our lug-
gage in the truckj tod said Mat, adding,
« Aw> we u t j rec kon we best make back
to his place< Come onj Bally.” Before
j could move the publican said we might
j ust as well stay there _ We made a show
G f flebating the proposition and finally
agree d. We settled ourselves in the
p ar i or and had a few rums; Mat got on
the ’phone, asked for some number or
other, made talk and hung up. The boss,
he explained, was stuck up with a broken
axle and might not get out till morning,
Once more Mat suggested making back,
but the publican wouldn’t hear of it. The
cook brought in biscuits and cheese, and
we had a good feed and won two bob at
cribbage. By midnight we’d booked up
about a quid’s worth of drinks each and
were shown to our room. Mat slipped
out, told the cook that we were to get
an early breakfast and slipped her our
two bob. At dawn next morning, full of
hot sausages and tea, we gathered our
swags and departed, marvelling at what
could be done on two bob and a bit of
thinking.
MULLET.
From this headland looking down
Side by side with me,
Tell me, keen-eyed Fisherman,
What it is you see.
“Yonder, where the green seas roll
And the grey gulls glide.
Glimpse I there a mullet shoal
In the undertide.
“Naught their quest to stay or stem,
Glides that silver host;
Travel-time it is for them,
Northing up the coast.”
Since the deep with seeing eyes
Thus ’tis yours to scan,
Do they foe-less, fearless speed,
Tell me, Fisherman.
“Toll they pay upon their way,
Toll from dawn to dark,
Toll, red toll, by beach and bay,
Toll to mesh and shark.
“Toll they pay in waters deep,
Toll in. shallows clear,
Meeting ever, as they sweep
Nor’ard, foe and fear.
“Skirting shores where breakers surge,
Yearly thus they quest.
Spurred on by an ancient urge
And an old unrest.”
iV.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Prevent Bone Chewing.
Tri-cal: If you suspect bone chewing, you must lose no time
in remedying it. Even if your pasture seems good it can
still lack adequate supplies of calcium and phosphorus —the
essential minerals which stock seek when they chew bones—
and the deficiency must be made good. Feed Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour to clean up the trouble and continue feeding regularly
as a safeguard against its recurrence. Tri-cal-os is the best
mineral supplement I have used, and I give it to all my stock
knowing that I’m on the fringe of a mineral-deficient area.
Tri-cal-os is a pure bone product, has a guaranteed minimum
content of 33 p.c. phosphoric acid and 40 p.c. lime; stock
take to it readily.
You can get all particulars and folders (these are interesting) from Davis Gelatine,
G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 758 K,
Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Old Farmer.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LLU
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Class Your Own Wool.
“Sheepo”: It may be found necessary,
and if you remember first to place wool
with the same number of “crimps” to
the inch together it’s not difficult to
make a pretty good fist of it.
The approximate numbers of crimps
to the inch for various qualities are as
follows; 70’s, 19 crimps; 64’s, 15 ; 60’s,
13 ; 58’s, 10; 56’s, 7. Keep the length
of wool even and make any short of
the average length into another line.
Unless the fleece is heavy with vege-
table matter, skirt lightly, taking off only
the sweat ends and short wool on the
edges. If it’s affected with slight burr,
remove the portions affected; if the
fleece is smothered with burr skirt lightly,
as no amount of heavy skirting will free
the fleece of it.
If the wool is from sheep that have
been grazing on loose country it will
be necessary to remove the backs, as dust
and sand lodge there and will spoil the
appearance and affect the price if left in.
Economise with woolpacks. Try to
get 3361 b. of fleece and 3501 b. of odd-
ments into a bale.
Flies and Management.
“Rom Ney”: Good management is
most important for successful blowfly-
control. It is reckoned that a bad fly
season costs the average merino man
£35 per 1000 sheep to fight strike alone,
but there are direct and subsidiary effects,
not always taken into account, which
must cost much more. Reducing them
should be a part of management.
Since hand-dressing will cost at least
Id. a sheep, and it may be necessary to
dress the same sheep three or four times
in a fly wave, it is obvious that yarding
and drafting them so that the cleaning-
up can be thorough is one way of sav-
ing. Further, a well-dressed sheep is less
likely to be struck again for some time,
and there is not the loss of crutched wool
that follows treatment on the run.
Treating wool from stricken sheep is
simple. Make a rack of netting and
throw the pieces on it to dry. The mag-
gots, which will try to leave it almost at
once, can be caught in a tray underneath
and destroyed. This saves wool and
accounts for future flies.
Yarding saves the sheep the knocking
about they get when rounded up in a
paddock and held by a dog. If the
crutched wool is picked up and the yard
kept clean and a few flytraps placed
around it, more flies will be accounted
for. On a large property it’s easy enough
to knock up temporary yards in the pad-
docks in readiness for fly waves.
A good bit of the loss from strike is
made up of sheep deaths—flocks have
lost as high as 25 p.c. in bad waves—
loss of wool, tenderness and break in
the fleeces of the stricken and their in-
ability to do well after being struck.
Struck ewes fail to breed, rams may be-
come temporarily sterile and lambs don't
grow as they should. A lot of trouble
is worth while to prevent all that.
Blackleg.
“Hux.”: Blackleg may attack any
young stock and is pretty deadly. Symp-
toms are swellings on the shoulder, neck,
thigh, quarter and trunk, which increase
rapidly and become filled with blood and
gas. Cause is a minute organism, Baal-
lus chauvcei, which, like anthrax and
tetanus, can live in the soil and form
spores.
Wet districts are most susceptible.
Animals in one paddock may be infected
and those in the next remain immune.
It’s thought that infection develops when
pastures are rich and young stock vora-
cious.
A first indication is young stock sud-
denly dying. Or animals may become
very lame in one or more limbs. In the
first stage the swelling is hot and “pits”
when pressed. As it increases it may,
under pressure, give out a crackling
sound, and the skin over the swelling be-
comes hard and leathery. Opened, a
dark, frothy fluid pours out.
There appears to be no treatment that
can cure an affected animal. Prevent
contamination of the soil by burning or
burying the carcass. Burning is safest.
When the carcass is buried the hole
should be dug close to the body and at
“Well, now everybody's 'ere. Mister, s'pose you git started."
least six feet deep. Into it should go
a good percentage of the earth on which
the body has lain. The carcass should
be covered with quicklime before burial.
Vaccine is a good preventive ; the most
effective is one made by the Common-
wealth Serum Laboratories. The disease
is notifiable.
Sudan Grass.
“H.C.”: Sudan grass is drought-
resistant and produces large crops in light-
rainfall areas. Stock eat it readily, and
it cures in four to five days after cutting.
Chaffed, it provides excellent horse feed.
At Bundaberg (Q.) Sudan grass hay re-
tained its high quality up to two years.
Cost from two-acre blocks of Sudan
grass in Queensland last year were:
241 b. seed, 10s.; sowing and harrowing
for four hours, 7s. Bd.; rolling four hours,
7s. Bd.; 2001 b. sulphate of ammonia,
£1 95.; mowing, four hours, 7s. Bd. ;
raking and cocking, 10 hours, 19s. Id. ;
carting and stacking, 24 hours, £2 13s.
4d.; total, £6 15s. 4d. Cost per ton of
hay was £1 2s. sd. Assuming that this
year’s ratoon crop will cut out costs
of seed and sowing, with harrow-
ing and rolling costs the same, produc-
tion cost will be reduced to 18s. 2d. per
ton of hay.
In N.S.W. Sudan grass does best in
the drier districts. As seed will not ger-
minate when the soil is cold, sowing
should be done in September and
October. Closely sown, plants are more
finely stemmed and better suited for
sheep grazing. When the land cakes on
the surface it should be harrowed in the
opposite direction when the plants are
3in. to 4in. high.
Only pure seed should be sown. Sudan
and sorghum cross-pollinate freely.
Danger of stock poisoning appears to
be greatest when the crop is young, when
it shoots during a dry period or after
rain following a dry spell.
Cut Sudan grass at the flowering stage.
The binder’s best for closely-sf>wn crops.
Veges. Now.
“Horse Fruit”: Plenty of vegetables
can be sown in June, and this country
needs all it can get.
French beans can go in in rainy, tem-
perate districts, broad beans almost any-
where. Sow cabbages on warmer coastal
land and transplant seedlings from the
last sowing ; it isn’t safe to sow lettuce
back from the coast, but peas and radish
can be sown anywhere. Except on high
country tomatoes, leeks and onions can
be sown, potatoes in early coastal coun-
try and turnips on the coast; set out
rhubarb seedlings and crowns anywhere.
Watch out for brown vegetable weevils
and cutworms in early spring. They
breed in heavy weed patches, which ought
to be wiped out. Fallows for spring sow-
ing should be kept bare. Use a poison
bait on the land before sowing. Mix
241 b. of bran and lib. of Paris green
dry, then add 41b. of molasses to 2|gal.
of water. Mix the lot to a crumbly
mash and you’ve enough for an acre.
Sprinkle it on the beds in late afternoon
and leave it all night.
Another little nark is the red-legged
earth mite, about a 25th of an inch long,
purplish-blue, with bright red legs and
mouth. It favors lettuce, peas, turnips,
rape, silver beet, beetroot, lucerne, clover
and pretty well everything else. Nor -
west N.S.W. and the Upper Hunter
usually have ’em and they chew the
greens from May to September. Bleached
leaves show their presence, and often
frost is blamed for their raids on young
lucerne. Spray affected veges. with a
solution of 1 fl. oz. of nic. sulph, 5 ft. oz.
of white oil emulsion and four gallons
of water. Spray when the day is warmest
and get the stuff on leaves and soil. A
doubtful area can be dusted, before sow-
ing, with one part of carbolic powder in
four parts of lime. Dust two to three
weeks after rain.
Cabbage moth can ruin entire crops
of cabbages or cauliflowers. Start dust-
ing the seedlings and keep it up every
week or ten days to within six weeks
of cutting. Use a 50 p.c. lead-arsenate
dust —lead arsenate-nicotine if aphids are
about —but because of the poison the
dusting must stop then. After that, a
derris and kaolin —one to eight—dust can
be used if necessary. Get the dust into
the centres of the plants.
Nicotine sulphate may be hard to get.
Tobacco dust and home-made tobacco
washes will serve in its place, and kero-
sene emulsion and soap solution do a
good job. Ordinary grade tobacco dust
costs £5 2s. 6d. a ton in N.S.W., super-
fine £7. Less than half-ton lots are 6s.
6d. and 7s. 6d. a cwt. respectively. Mix
tobacco dust with an equal amount of
hydrated lime or kaolin and dust on
when dew is present. Use the superfine
dust with lime for a direct application as
an insecticide.
Here’s a tobacco wash formula: 21b.
tobacco dust, -jib. hard soap, 6gal. water.
Steep the dust in two or three gallons of
water for 24 hours and strain the extract.
Add the soap and make up to the volume
with water.
Early application of sprays and dusts
means a general saving. There are re-
strictions and penalties attached to the
use of arsenious dusts and sprays; make
yourself familiar with them.
Lettuces.
“Plane Creek”: Irrigation is a great
help in lettuce-growing ; the plants must
be kept well watered if they are to grow
rapidly and be sweet. They like sandy
soil cultivated to a depth of about 12
inches; the richer the soil the better.
Dump into it as much old horse or fowl
manure as it will take. We grow lettuces
as big as St. John’s Day cabbages by
planting ’em in beds consisting almost
wholly of old stable manure, black and
loose after years of rotting. Transplant-
ing is risky, but is usually a success
during winter if care is taken and the
seedlings are shaded for a few days. Sow
the seed in rows 2ft. apart, thinning out
to nine inches between plants. After seed
is sown the drills will need a good soak-
ing with water ; then throw dry horse
manure along the drills to keep the
moisture in. As the plants develop chip
around them periodically.
Liquid manure, allowing a tablespoon
of ammonium sulphate to a kerosene-tin
of water, will stimulate growth, or throw
horse manure around the plants to be
washed in by water. Best main-croppers
include the New Yorks, Neapolitan,
the Imperials and American Summer
(Hanson). Smaller lettuce which give
good results grown six inches apart are
Iceberg, Tom Thumb and Mignonette.
Hen Troubles.
“Ninety-nine”: If a hen is seen visit-
ing the nest frequently and no egg is laid
and if she appears distressed and has
drooping wings and tail, be sure she is
egg-bound.
Examination will show the egg to be in
the cloaca, and assistance may be given
by inserting some olive oil in the vent
with a small syringe. The hen should
be given a good dose of castor oil
almost a dessertspoonful. The bird should
then be held over steam from boiling
water for 15 minutes, and afterwards


»: Z
ETIlf-
Wireless alone can meet the I
exacting needs of communication |
for Mobile Units.
INSTANT * CONSTANT ★ CERTAIN
| AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRON
| R A D I O VA L V E S
|sTANDARD TO ARMY TRANSMITTERS & RECEIVERS
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty.. Ltd.
“ BILLABONG ”
TROUGHING
dan
ma Ke:r
Stable Door
oanks
patent
?I7r
Cattle
9 I -
ICS’
lt^ TENT N °2l
|g '\f t/ AiVe 4 s^o^
2176
Sheep
Pig
A GOOD SUPPLY OF PURE WATER IS
ESSENTIAL FOR YOUR STOCK .
Write for Prices and Particulars to
L.TLD.
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/”
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from IS/-
Spacious, Up-to-date
Telephone: 8W1531
Dining Room —All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
(7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
V J G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
placed in a comfortable and secluded
nest, where there is no chance of her
being disturbed. If she still fails to lay
steps should be taken to remove the egg.
It should be manipulated toward the
mouth of the vent as carefully as pos-
sible. The shell can be broken and the
contents removed. When the inside of
the egg has been removed the shell will
have to be crushed, the pieces being care-
fully withdrawn by the fingers, which
should be well oiled. Care should be
taken that no particles are left, otherwise
they will set up inflammation.
There are various causes for the con-
dition. It may be the formation of an
abnormally large egg, or a second yolk
may have been thrown from the ovary
before the necessary period had elapsed
since the previous yolk was liberated.
There have been cases of the albumen
coagulating in the oviduct and thus caus-
ing obstruction. When there is any in-
flammation in the oviduct, the eggshell
during its formation is liable to become
rough and irregular on the surface, and
this renders its passage troublesome and
painful.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: If a horse develops
greasy heel, clip all the hair away and
wash the leg with soap and water con-
taining bicarbonate of soda. After the
skin is dry, soak the leg in a solution of
3oz. each of bluestone, alum and sul-
phate of zinc to a gallon of water. Brush
the lotion well into the patches. Dress
the leg daily, the solution at half
strength.
“Canbelego”: Food value is increased
up to 22 p.c. by coarse grinding of barley.
Soaking the grain decreases the food
value for pigs. Supplement barley with
a protein ration such as skim-milk, whey
or meatmeal, green feed and a lick con-
taining calcium —four parts of ground
limestone and one part of salt.
“B.”: Grain sorghum is good for
poultry when other grains are scarce.
Birds not used to it should be changed
on to it gradually. When grains are
ground, grain sorghum can replace up
to a third of the other grains without
affecting feed value. It gives good results
compared with bran and pollard rations.
“L. Cove”: The pullet that’s going to
be an early layer has a large red comb,
is energetic, of greedy habits and has
roominess between keel and pelvic bones.
Months in which laying begins should
be marked by a colored ring on the leg
—different colors being used for the
sixth, seventh and eighth months. Pullets
that do not lay till after the eighth month
should be isolated and forced tor egg
production.
“Sarina”; Watch the seedlings the
missus gets from the neighbors ; see that
no nut grass is in the soil clinging to their
roots. If it does get a hold, plough or
dig up the patch and turn pigs in to
devour the exposed nuts or bulbs. Plenty
of fresh horse manure on the patches
or fires will usually destroy the medium-
sized ones.
“Plane Creek”: My neighbor had a
kerosene-tin which had contained
molasses filled by a cloudburst. There
had been enough molasses clinging to the
tin to turn the water a greasy brown.
The water was thrown on a patch of 3ft.-
high thorny weeds near the cowbail.
Those weeds died as completely as
though they’d been sprayed with arsenic
pentoxide!
Outback Occasions.
No. 40.
THE OXEN CONDUCTOR.
It was when Father decided to clear
the timber out of the swamp paddock
and called tenders for the job. A man
named Smith arrived, eyed the swamp,
talked to Father, had a cup of tea and
departed. We gathered that Father had
let him the contract.
A few days later a team of bullocks
hauling a wagon piled with camping and
clearing gear arrived at our place. It was
one of the most joyful days our dogs
ever experienced. Mr. Smith was riding
on the wagon and, walking beside the
bullocks with a long-handled whip over
his shoulder, was he whom we will ever
remember as “Big Toe” Taylor. The
chief features of “Big Toe” were a per-
manent grin, a thin cigarette hanging
from a corner of the grin, a shapeless
felt hat and a pair of ancient blucher
boots, obviously sizes too large and worn
without laces. Remember those boots ;
they’re important.
We’d never had a bullock team on our
place before, and naturally Father and
we boys and our dogs went down and
helped Mr. Smith and his bullocks and
his dogs and “Big Toe” to get set in
their camp. Everybody was rushing
round rigging poles and unfolding tents
and stacking gear and kicking dogs out
of the way; and Father and Mr. Smith
talked to each other about the virtues
of what Mr. Smith called “the long,
strong pull of bullocks against the jerks
and squirts of a tractor.”
Soon we noticed that “Big Toe” wasn’t
doing anything. He had unyoked his
bullocks and turned them into the little
paddock; then, still with his whip and
his grin and his thin cigarette, he sat on
the wagon-pole and calmly watched pro-
ceedings. Our brother and I, struggling
with a big tank plough, asked him to
give us a lift. He turned his head, we
caught a flash of light-blue eyes under
the shapeless hat, the cigarette stood out
straight as the grin tightened, and a cold
voice said “I’m an oxen conductor, not
a flamin’ maid-of-all-work.” Then the
cigarette relaxed and the grin eased.
Abashed and wondering, we wrestled
with the plough unaided.
Mr. Smith had heard the passage ot
words. He called us aside with Father
and said “Look, that Taylor is a wizard
with bullocks. He’ll work night and day
with ’em. He can make ’em do things
nobody else could. He’s almighty proud
of it, and he’s bin kidded to so much
that he believes he’s out on his own. He
is, too. Don’t laugh where he can hear
y’, will y’, because he’s a fair dinkum
oxen conductor all right, an’ if he gets
the huff—well” He left us to imagine
the rest.
We boys were mighty interested in the
oxen conductor and his work. That was
how we discovered the truth about the
oversize bluchers and how he came by
the title “Big Toe.” One day he had the
team leaning into their yokes, pulling
three great gums out of the swamp. The
load was heavy and the mud thick and
the bullocks had all they could do. Their
conductor clumped up the line, calling
to them in a strange mixture of prayer
and profanity, while his long whip flick-
ered across them in stinging patterns.
But it was no good. The bullocks
gave one last mighty heave, swayed from
side to side and stopped, beaten. Their
flanks heaved and their eyes stuck out.
Their conductor drew off in a stricken
sort of way and leaned on his whip.
“It’s too much for them,” said Mr.
Smith ; “cast off one of the trees.” The
conductor straightened, his thin cigar-
ette stuck out. Suddenly he let out a
wild howl, threw one foot and then the
other in the air. The bluchers went fly-
ing and, without looking at them, “Big
Toe” raced to the polers, sprang lightly
on their backs and howled again. At
that the polers stood into the yokes, and
“Big Toe” leapt on to the next two and
the next two, howling and jumping from
pair to pair to the head of the team, for
all the world like an anxious kelpie run-
ning over the backs of jammed sheep.
Then he leapt to the ground and ran
ahead, and that bullock team made a
vast effort and the three trees came out
of the mud and were dragged up on to
the high ground, the bullocks swaying
and pulling and “Big Toe” dancing ahead
of them on his bare feet, yelling joyously.
Then he whoa’d them, left them and
went back to retrieve his bluchers. We
boys, lost in admiration for the per-
formance, must have gazed at him with
a sort of reverent awe when he came
back. His grin broadened, and you could
see that he was basking in the light of
our veneration. He sat down on a log,
rolled one of his thin cigarettes and then
shoved his feet into the bluchers.
Our brother looked at those boots and
said “How do y’ manage to keep ’em
on?”
“It’s like this,” replied the oxen con-
ductor. “Y* see, I gotter be ready any
time t’ kick ’em orf an’ fly up on them
beauties o’ mine. So me boots has gotter
be loose, an’ t’ make sure o’ that I wear
’em big, see? I keep ’em on by keepin’
me big toes cocked. Like this.” He
lightly kicked off the boots and showed
us his big toes, each cocked at an angle
of about 45 degrees.
“Y* mean t’ say,” our brother said,
“y’ can get about like that all day?”
“Too right,” answered “Big Toe,”
shoved his feet into the bluchers again,
got the cigarette going and went off to
start the team back for more trees. Our
brother and I then went behind some
bushes and thought about it, and laughed
ourselves silly.
A week or so after that, when “Big
Toe” was on the offside of the team, Mr.
Smith picked up a heavy hammer and
threw it on the wagon. It skidded off
something and cracked “Big Toe” in the
side. He jumped and swore, held his
side for a bit and then went on working,
He and his bullocks left shortly after.
It was two years before we heard of him
again. The war had broken out and he d
volunteered, and the doctors found that
two of his ribs had been fractured for
a long time. His guess was that the
hammer had done it. Our brother re-
marked on hearing this that there’d be
a lot of bent German bullets about if
they ever shot at our oxen conductor.


*t run*
TIN —normally used in the coal-
ing of Galvanized Iron—must
be conserved for Government
use. To meet this situation John
Lysaghl (Australia) Pty. Ltd. has
perfected a galvanized iron sheet
with a new "War Finish." Equal
in quality to the familiar Orb and
Queens Head Galvanized Iron —
as indicated by the fact that each
sheet carries the well-known
Lysaght guarantee the only
noticeable difference is an ab-
sence of the familiar "spangles,"
The public can rest assured, there-
fore. that in ordering and accept-
ing Lysaght Galvanized Iron
marked "War Finish." they are
making a very definite contribu-
tion to the War Effort and. at the
same time, securing a product
that will give every service and
satisfaction.
50 Ly SAB
Ps tSENT 4
CORRUGATED AMD* PLAIN
L 79
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY, LTD.
St DK { Y MHB olfft HI ' BftISBA H E :: AO ft A! Of HR Tif
TIME WORKS CHANGES IN FAMILIES
TIME works changes in family circumstances. It creates problems that only the
experienced may be able to foresee. For that reason it is wise to appoint _in your
Will an experienced and level-headed Executor and Trustee, one upon whose integrity,
mental vigour and good judgment you can rely ; one who will never die.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, offers you the permanence of a Company, the
collective judgment of many trained minds, and an understanding of family financial
and business problems born of 56 years’ experience with thousands of Estates.
That you may understand the Company’s service, ask that we send you a copy of a book;
“Your Executor and Trustee.’’ It explains the service in detail and tells what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Brigadier the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.
E. R. Knox; H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P- Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees ana otners,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £59,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy Australian Stud Books, Vbls. XVII
and XVIII; also Australasian Turf Registers,
1937 to date. —3276.
To buy copies of magazine “American Artist.”'
State price and date.—3277.
To buy, new or second-hand, miner’s pit
lamp (acetylene) suitable for wearing on cap.—
3278.
N.c.o. (Sydney) would like to be received
as paying guest with refined family.—3279.
Information Sought.
Constitution of the present Federal Cabinet?
Members are John Curtin (Prime Minister,
and Minister for Defence), Francis Michael
Forde (Army), Joseph Benedict Chifley (Trea-
surer), Herbert Vere Evatt (Attorney-General
and External Affairs), John Albert Beasley
(Supply and Development), Joseph Silver Codings
(Interior), Norman John Oswald Makin (Navy
and Munitions), Edward James Holloway
(Social Services, Health and assisting Minister
for Munitions), Richard Valentine Keane
(Trade and Customs and Vice-President of the
Executive Council), Arthur Samuel Drakeford
(Air and Civil Aviation), William James Scully
(Commerce), William Patrick Ashley (Informa-
tion), Edward John Ward (Labor and National
Service), Charles William Frost (Repatriation
and in charge of War Service Homes), John
Johnstone Dedman (War Organisation of Indus-
try and in charge of the C.S.I.R.), Hubert
Peter Lazzarini (Home Security and assisting
the Treasurer), James Mackintosh Fraser (Ex-
ternal Territories and assisting Ministers for
Commerce and Army), Donald Cameron (Air-
craft Production and assisting Minister for
Munitions), George Lawson (Transport and
assisting P.M.G.).
* * * *
When and how did the Commonwealth take
over the N.T.? Who controlled it originally?
Was it ever divided into two parts, and, if so,
when were they joined?
After forming part of N. S. Wales, the N.T.
was annexed to S.A. in 1863, and in 1901
entered the Commonwealth as a corporate part
of S.A. The Commonwealth Constitution Act
of 1900 provided for the surrender to the Com-
monwealth of any territory by any State, and
under that provision an agreement was entered
into on December 7, 1907, for the transfer of
the N.T. to the Commonwealth. It formally
passed under the control of the Commonwealth
on January 1, 1911. On March 1, 1927, under
the North Australia Act of 1926, the N.T.
was divided for administration purposes into
North Australia and Central Australia, the
dividing line being the 20th parallel of south
latitude. Each Territory was under a Gov-
ernment Resident, one at Darwin and one at
Alice Springs (then Stuart). The North Aus-
tralia Act, 1926, was repealed as from June
12, 1931, by the Northern Territory (Adminis-
tration) Act, 1931. The North Australia Com-
mission was abolished and the whole of the
N.T. placed under the control of an Adminis-
trator charged with the general administration
of Crown lands in the N.T.
* * * *
Any method of lengthening the life of safety-
razor blades which can be undertaken in the
home ?
They can be resharpened to some extent by
placing the blade inside a smooth tumbler and
rotating so as to achieve a stropping action on
the glass surface.
* * * *
What is the Military Order of the Purple
Heart, bestowed on American troops ?
The Military Order of the Purple Heart was
founded on August 7, 1782, by General George
Washington, at Newburgh, New York, as a
reward for “singularly meritorious action,”
and revived by President Hoover on February
22, 1932, the bicentennial of Washington’s
birth. The original badge consisted of purple
sprigged silk edged with silver braid, and was
sewn on the left breast of the uniform coat.
The new decoration is a heart-shaped medal
bearing a bust of General Washington on a
field of purple enamel.
* * * *
To whom were the two monuments at the
entrance to the Sydney Conservatorium of Music
erected; inscriptions, etc.? Also, what is the
wording of the tablet let in the wall of the
Lands Department, Bridge-street, Sydney?
On the left of the entrance the monument is
lettered “King Edward VII, 1901-1910” (south
side). Plaques are “Peace and Progress” (east
side) and “Empire Unity” (west side). The
monument on the right is titled “The People of
N.S.W. to Albert the Good, Prince Consort
of Queen Victoria, 1866.” The tablet on the
Lands Department bears this inscription: “The
top of this plug is 27ft. 3|in. above mean tide
and 28ft. ll£in. above mean sea level.”
* * * *
What are (1) “national” holidays in the
United States; (2) “legal” holidays in New
York ?
(1) There are no “national” holidays in the
United States; each State has jurisdiction over
the holidays to be observed, which are desig-
nated either by legislative enactment or execu-
tive proclamation. (2) New York “legal” holi-
days are: New Year’s Day, Lincoln’s Birth-
day (Feb. 12), Washington’s Birthday (Feb. 22),
Memorial Day (May 30), Independence Day
(July 4), Labor Day (first Monday in Septem-
ber), Columbus’s Day (Oct. 12), Election Day
(first Tuesday after first Monday in November),
Armistice Day (Nov. 11), Thanksgiving Day
(second last Tuesday in November) and Christ-
mas Day. MacArthur Day (June 13) is now
to be added to the list.
* * * *
(1) When and where were Princesses Eliza-
beth and Margaret born ? (2) Names of the
children of the Duke of Kent ? (3) Date of the
Duke of Windsor’s abdication and marriage;
his present position and residence?
(1) Princess Elizabeth Alexandra Mary was
born at 12 Bruton-street, London, April 21,
1926; Princess Margaret Rose was born at
Glamis Castle, Angus, Scotland, August 21,
1930. (2) The Duke of Kent’s children are
Prince Edward George Nicholas Paul Patrick,
born October 9, 1935; and Princess Alexandra
Helen Elizabeth Olga Christabel, born Decem-
ber 25, 1936. (3) The Duke of Windsor abdi-
cated December 11, 1936; married June 3,
1937. He was sworn in as Governor and Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Bahama Islands, August
18, 1940, with residence at Government House,
Nassau, Bahama Islands.
• * ■* m
Particulars of the mammoth cave of Ken-
tucky ?
It is a limestone cavern about 85 miles south-
by-west of Louisville, consisting of numerous
chambers of various levels, connected by pas-
sages or avenues, domes, grottoes and gal-
leries, and contains several streams or lakes.
Many of the avenues are covered by a remark-
able variety of crystals, and in the chambers
stalagmites and stalactites abound. The fauna
consist mainly of blind fish and several insect
specimens.
* * * *
Any record of an electric light which auto-
matically flashes the SOS signal when thrown
in the water?
Whitaker’s Almanack, 1941, reports that “the
Ministry of Shipping has given its approval
to the ‘Raft-o’-Lite’ safety flashing light of the
International Marine Radio Company. It com-
prises a battery and light in a watertight case,
provided with a float so that it will assume a
vertical position when thrown into the sea.
A flasher is incorporated with it which is de-
signed to emit automatically the international
distress signal SOS. When stored in an in-
verted or horizontal position the light is not
in use, but when thrown into the water it
assumes a vertical position and the flashing
light is automatically switched on, continuing
for 48 hours at least. The light, it is claimed,
is particularly suitable for oil-burning ships and
tankers, where oil on the water may render dan-
gerous the use of open flares.”
* *
Particulars of the Panama Canal?
It is 50 miles long and the channel is from
300 ft. to 1000 ft. wide at the bottom. It con-
tains 12 locks, and transit from sea to sea takes
about eight hours (passage through locks foui
hours). The least width is in Gaillard Cut and
the greatest in Gatun Lake, where the channel
can be made much broader at any time by
cutting down trees and dredging. The water
depth when the surface of Gatun Lake is ati
85ft. above sea level varies from 85ft. in some*
parts of Gatun Lake to 41ft. in the Atlantic)
entrance. Depth through the Gaillard Cut is l
45ft.
* * * *
Particulars of G. O. Allen, captain of the
English cricket team to Australia in 1936-37 ?
Allen was born in Sydney, July 31, 1902.
Toured Australia with the M.C.C. in 1932-33 ;
captained England v. All India in England in
1936; captained England in Australia in 1936-37
(the only Australian-born to have this honor);
played for England v. Australia in England in
1930 and 1934. Got Cambridge blue in
1922-23. Right-hand fast bowler and batsman;
played English county cricket with Middlesex.
Allen’s figures in Tests are 21 innings, one not
out, 479 runs, average 23.95; and 43 wickets
for 1653, average 38.44.
* * * *
What is the legal status of women in N. S.
Wales?
Question is vague but generally in N. S.
Wales women have the right to exercise the
franchise and are not excluded by their sex
from acting as members of the Legislative
Assembly, as members of a council of any shire
or municipality, as Judges, magistrates, barris-
ters, solicitors, conveyancers or members of
the Legislative Council, Many have been
appointed justices of the peace and some have
been admitted to the legal profession. Women
are eligible for all degrees at Sydney Univer-
sity, but are not usually ordained as ministers
of religion. They may not act on juries.
Rates of wages payable to women in terms of
industrial awards and agreements are based on
a separate living wage for women which, gener-
ally, is about 54 p.c. of the living wage for
men. Under the Married Women’s Property
Act, 1901, a married woman is capable of hold-
ing, acquiring or disposing of any real or per-
sonal property as her separate property in
the same manner as if she were a femme sole.
Her property is not liable for her husband’s
debts, and her earnings in any occupation apart
from her husband’s are her own. A wife,
however, has no legal share of her husband’s
income, nor in any property acquired by their
joint efforts after marriage, but the husband
is liable for all necessary expenses of his wife
and children.
What is the difference between (1) the tree
tomato and the ordinary vegetable sort; (2)
the banana passionfruit and the other variety ?
(1) The tree tomato (Cyphomandra betacea)
is an ornamental shrub, grows to 10ft. and is
unsuitable for frosty areas. In its third year it
bears oblong fruit with a hard skin which turns
from green to yellow when ripe; extremely
piquant in flavor, and mostly used for preserves.
The ordinary tomatoes are grown from plants
raised annually, and the fruit is yellow, green
or red. (2) Both passionfruits are vines and
should be trellised; with care and manuring
will bear for years. The banana kind (Tacsonia
mollissimd) bears yellow fruit up to 6in. long;
the ordinary market variety (Passiflora edulis )
is round or egg-shaped and purple-skinned when
ripe.
* * >■ »
Recipe for substitute tea made from wheat ?
Wash two pounds of wheat, drain, and when
dry put on a baking-sheet in the oven. Sprinkle
over it a large teaspoon of salt and four table-
spoons of sugar, stir well and when brown stir
to keep from burning. Bake to a rich brown,
cool and store in airtight oven. One teaspoon
to one cup of boiling water makes the drink.
* * * *
(1) Best method of treating duck or fowl
feathers after plucking for use in pillows, etc. ?
(2) Should birds be plucked wet or dry ? (3)
Would pillows filled with these feathers be of
service to the Red Cross ?
(1) To clean duck feathers, soak them in hot
soapsuds (use good soap or Lux), rinse in
warm water and finally pass through a tubful
of water made “soft” with washing soda and
a few drops of ammonia. Dry on a wire grid
in the sun, shaking and tossing continually.
(2) Fowls may be plucked dry and the feathers
baked before us, but if plucked wet they may
be cleaned in the same way as aquatic birds’;
dry as in (1). (3) Red Cross had not thought
of it, but suggests that you write to the super-
intendent, 27 Jamieson-street, Sydney.
Brief Answers.
M E.: Fisher said it during his term as Prime
Minister from September 17, 1914, to October
27, 1915 (he had been P.M. twice before).
Hughes was Attorney-General... .W.A.McC.:
Can’t trace... .M.E.D.: Don’t think you’d
have much chance at present. Write to Aus-
tralian National Airways, 4a Martin-place,
Sydney P.D.: The idea is all that is neces-
sary—a brief description of the drawing and the
line to go underneath... .F.W.: Use of bird-
lime is illegal... .J. 8.: Same as for domestic
pigs. Write to the N. S. Wales Department
of Agriculture, Sydney, for free leaflet on
making bacon... .L.H.: You don’t state the
nature of the smell. Try blowing wardrobe
out with vacuum cleaner (reversed) and then
scrubbing well with water whitened with
Solyptol or similar product. Allow to dry
thoroughly, then give the interior two coats of
good spirit varnish... .J.E.: Taragon grows
readily enough in N. S. Wales dry districts, but
know of no seedsman who will supply seeds or
cuttings... .E.1.R.: The ginger plant described
produces commercial ginger, but plants should
be tender and grown quickly for best results.
Gather the roots in neat pieces, pour over
scalding water, scrape off outer skin, then soak
the roots in a few changes of cold water over
12 hours. Allow two cups of water and three
cups of sugar to each pound of root; soak
ginger in the cold water for 24 hours, then
boil and add sugar. Cook for one hour
longer until the syrup thickens. Pack the
ginger in jars, pour syrup over it and seal.
Leave for at least three weeks before using....
X.Y.Z.: To make sourdough bread, take two
cups of sour milk, one cup of cornmeal
(hominy), one teaspoon of salt, three table-
spoons of butter, one teaspoon of bicarbonate
of soda and two eggs (well beaten). Mix milk,
meal, salt and butter, stir well, add eggs and
soda. Bake in buttered tin for 35 minutes in
moderate oven. “Biscuits,” in this case, are
scones made from the same mixture, but cut
out with scone-cutter... .C.Y.; There is no
legal way of changing Christian names. Sur-
names can be changed by deed-poll, but
Christian names can only be adopted by usage.
... .Curious: Yes... .H.C.G.; Presume you
refer to life assurance. In the absence of some
provision in a treaty between the two nations,
they would probably disappear if the com-
panies disappeared. It all depends on how
far the conquering nation permits existing
institutions to continue to function C.D.H.:
If, on request, your neighbor will do nothing
to abate the nuisance, you could apply to the
Court for an injunction W.G.; A public
hall is a room or building of a permanent
character where public entertainments or public
meetings are held. If within this definition they
must be licensed. The license does not control
the rent or other matters mentioned A. 8.;
(1) Yes. (2) Yes. (3) Probably at Deputy
Registrar of Patents Office, Customs House,
Brisbane. (4) Impossible to say. Consult a
patent attorney L.E.D.L.: If the amount
owing under the mortgage exceeds one-third the
value of the land, mortgagor and mortgagee
are each liable to contribute in equal shares
the contribution payable in respect of the house.
You are entitled to a statement of your account
with the society .8.5. F.; If the Court thinks
the application was necessary to determine the
point in dispute it will order that the costs ot
all parties be paid out of the estate P.T.J.:
The “Northern Standard,” published by the
North Australian Workers’ Union, and the
“Army News,” published by the A.M.F
G.8.K.: Assistant-surveyor James Mcßrien re-
corded in a field-book (still in existence) on
Feb. 15, 1823, that near the Fish River, between


Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Aus-
tralasia, weekly: 12 months, £1 45.;
6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s. (Ex-
change must be added to Country and
inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas
(British Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 165.; 3 months, Bs. To
members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any Address Overseas
(Foreign): 12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6
months, £1 25.; 3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, and all places within
the British Empire, 1 \d. per copy. To
all other places, 2\d.
Every Shillinq helps
to keep the Wheels of
Industry TurniM
X
X
X
DDDqq
□ c
n
a
n
r>
<W)
The Second Liberty Lean closes
not later than 23rd June, 1942.
Applications may be lodged with
any Bank, Money Order Post
Office or Stockbroker. Subscrip-
tions may be paid in full or by
instalments.
Money is the driving force behind
every campaign. Without money, the
courage and sacrifice of our fighting
forces is fruitless and futile.
The wheels of industry must NOT
slow down . Money, your money,
everyone's money, is needed NOW I
Only thus can battles be won, and
liberty survive.
Subscribe to
LIBERT
mM
%
mm;
\
■m
■
&
Y*
More and more people are smoking
CRAVENA
every day
quality always tells!
10 for ll* 1, 20 for 1 / 1@
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
3014
Rydal and Bathurst (N.S.W.), he found “numer-
ous particles of gold in the sand on the mils
convenient to the river” F.N.: Peter Lalor
was born at Tinakill, in Queen’s County, Ireland,
on February 5, 1827. He died at Melbourne
on February 9, 1889... .D. 8.: Mrs. Rudyard
Kipling died in England on December 19, 1939.
She was 73 P.8.J.: Leopold HI of Belgium
married Princess Astrid of Sweden, who died
on August 29, 1935... .H.K.R.; Including four
miles of approach channels for the harbors, the
Suez Canal is 103 miles long. It was opened
for navigation on November 17, 1869. The con-
cession to the Suez Canal Company expires on
November 17, 1968 F. 8.: De jure recognition
of the annexation of Ethiopia was generally
accorded, Great Britain’s recognition being in-
cluded in the Anglo-Italian Treaty of April 15,
1938 (ratified on November 16 of the same
year). On February 4, 1941, however, the
British Government declared that it would wel-
come the reappearance of an independent
Ethiopian State and would recognise the claim
of the Emperor Haile Silassie to the throne.
F.B.: Michael was proclaimed King of
Rumania when his father (Carol) renounced
succession on the death of his father (Ferdi-
nand) on July 20, 1927. He ceased to be king
on his father’s accession on June 8, 1930, but
was proclaimed king again on his father’s
abdication on September 6, 1940... .R.F.:
Oxford University has 22 colleges and three
private halls; Cambridge has 17 colleges and
one hall P.R.D.: Malcolm Campbell is
credited with being the first man to travel on
land at over 300 m.p.h. at Daytona Beach
when he attained a speed of 301.129 m.p.h. on
September 3, 1935.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should he addressed to the Editor,
The Muse aroused:
E.O’H. :
Scattered far and wide on our home soil
Are Uncle Sam’s great armed forces,
Ready to meet this great heat
And make the enemy retreat,
T.R.A.: —
Now in Australia we have the Yanks
To help us in our time of distress,
To fight those other little cranks
Who thought we weren’t at our best.
E.L.:
We’re flattered, Mr. Nippon, that you came across
the sea
To view our famous harbor, and now you must agree
We’ve showed you how we’re ready, and the spirit
we’ve begotten.
The beauties of the harbor, and at last the sandy,
bottom.
... .M.Y.: No haven here... .T.G.; We couldn’t
listen to Joe... .M.G.: Try a daily... .A.E.8.:
“Salty Sal” not to our taste... .A.J.F.: Nothing
in that batch; try again when you’re a little
older... .G.H.W.; Not up....A.P.: Hopeless.
... .K.W.: Doleful... .L.M.E.: Have a depth-
charge dropped on that “Submarine”... .J.R.:
Had you been moved dumbly as well as humbly
it would have been better... .W.J.; The last
couplet’s good; elsewhere your rhyme is master.
P.J.I.: “I shall see a pale hand waving,
waving farewell in the gloom.” The poem is
seeing one now L.G.C.: Yes, indeed, it
would be nice if everyone were bright and
sunny, not like the grumpy miser who hoards
up all his money; and yet if we drown the
office boy in his own inkwell edifying verses
will be to blame C.W.; With one mighty
bound Brown Baron cleared the w.p.b. and
galloped away to the Never-Never-Never
E.M.: An agent to market your verses in the
U.S.? Think twice, and then again PJ.:
Take a shillelagh to U....P.5.: Too many
cogs missing F.G.G.: One among dozens.
J.McE.: Sounds young. And promising.
... .D.M.G.; “Let’s jolly well face it fighting.”
Yes, but not writing.... K.B.; The theme’s be-
yond you... .G.A.H.; Eminently ordinary....
J.K.: Tut H.E.M.: It’s been much better
done before.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.N.H.: Your inane flappers are not even
shapely F.L.F.: You reserve all your bush-
fire, surfing and bleached-bare-drought jokes
until readers are huddled around fires....
H.W.L.: We’ve met Nellie’s husband before,
but he didn’t look quite so bad... .J.T.S:
“I am pursuing art”; you'll want to get your
running shoes on, then P.C.W.: We’re seek-
ing an injunction against that maternity-
eternity “joke” E. 8.; Close-ups of Holly-
wood stars (copied) are not for this shop
J.R.H.: You’ll never get close enough to hear
the rustle of Art’s skirts as she sweeps past if
you stick to silhouettes... .M. 8.: God help
the patient if the doc. holds his scalpel like
that! C.J.: It was a fancy of some mid-
Victorian humorist that a man wore the knees
out of his strides while proposing... .Bert C.:
Dialogue between homing drunks uninspiring.
W.D.G.: Your miner with arms sprouting
from his shoulder-blades and a navel situated
on his chest should apply to the Workers’ Com-
pensation Commission if they are the results
of a bad accident... .A.N.P.: Get the bunting
out for the welcome home... .E.S.L.: The
electric-stove joke short-circuited somewhere
between your pen and the Bristol board....
N. 8.: Your jobbing gardener stepped straight
from the pages of an English comic paper.


You
cannot bequeath
your Judgment
or experience
The judgment and experience a man accumu*
lates in his lifetime cannot be passed on to
his dependents. For this reason it is doubly
important that he should take the necessary
steps to ensure that his estate is managed with
competence and fidelity.
For more than 63 years The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited has
provided the impartial advice and assistance
of a permanent corporation as Executor,
Trustee, Attorney, Agent, and in other capaci-
ties of a fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the company ensures
continuity in the execution of a trust, which
cannot be provided by a single individual.
Charges are fixed and moderate and ample
security is provided. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for full information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £ 958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
and Agency Company Ltd .
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income.t Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£££ £ , £
To Staff Fund, £10,882 .. .. 1 R9QAf;R
1935.. 2,314,069 1,458,217 212,097 3,415 ( ° ’
Profit on sale of securities, £7557 .. 1
To Staff Fund, £13,027 .. .. \ 923,726
1936.. 2,649,319 1,446,134 273,988 J
To S'taff Fund, £12,730 .. .. V, 077007
1937. . 2,806,347 1,422,983 290,006 2,641 f ~yo
To Staff Fund, £13,021 .. .. I
Profit on sale of securities, £3488 . . j- 1,136,390
1938. . 2,951,504 1,512,566 293,015 J
To Staff Fund, £12,285 .. .. ]
1939.. 3,090,661 1,551,769 317,545 9,646 I „ 74 416
To tax reserve, £lOl,OOO .. .. [ ’
To general reserve, £124,000 .. I
To Staff Fund, £14,952 .. .. 1 , 9700^7
1940.. 3,201,274 1,557,087 303,553 54,725 ( ’
To staff fund, £14,668 .. .. 1
Profit on sale securities, £6267 .. I 1 iqn 418
1941. . 3,263,475 1,684,266 267,390 I ’
To tax reserve, £113,000 .. .. j
•Includes dividends to shareholders.
tAfter deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income.t Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
To Staff Fund, £5063.. .. .. I ooq 9^o
1935.. 920,562 291,691 288,557 1301 ( 000 ’• 0
To Staff Fund, £5677 .. .. .. \ orn 779
1936.- 1,008,393 326,960 322,797 2188 1 ’
To Staff Fund, £5869 .. .. .. 1 365 096
1937.. 1,126,782 390,476 363,237 2104 f
To Staff Fund, £6387 .. .. .. \ 4 on g 49
1938. 1,248,539 405,902 401,264 4643 | ’
Funds capitalised, £300,000.
To Staff Fund, £6217 1
1939. . 1,352,118 507,610 419,406 5733 I „ 4 q 652
To tax reserve, £32,000 .. .. f ’
To general reserve, £32,500 j
To Staff Fund, £7838 1
1940. . 1,452,237 530,257 417,756 2,820 [ 380,566
To tax reserve, £13,000 .. .. T
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO .. J
To staff fund, £8250 .. .. .. 1
1941. . 1,570,713 581,294 436,364 1,263 1 41 „ n ,„
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO .. .. I ’
To tax reserve, £31,500 .. . . J
fAfter deducting taxes.
The major war-time problems confront-
ing Life offices have been increased mor-
tality, though as yet not beyond the
bounds of expectation, and reduced pro-
fit from funds, owing to the disappear-
ance of a free investment market and
falling interest rates, capped by solider
taxation. The first, of course, should be
only temporary in its effects ; but there is
no such guarantee as regards the future of
interest rates. So prudent managements
have not only strengthened the present by
earmarking large slabs of revenue for
contingency and other reserves; they
have also looked after the future by
lowering the basis of anticipated interest-
earning. As a result, the old margin
for bonuses hasn’t been the same, though
last year the big and progressive M.L.C.
was able to maintain its rates in both
Ordinary and Industrial sections at the
level of the previous year, partly at the
expense of shareholders, whose div. was
reduced from 17 p.c. to 15.8 p.c.
Since the outbreak of war the Citizens’
has added £356,500 to general reserves
in the Life departments, £290,500 to taxa-
tion account and written £74,187 off sun-
dry assets, a total of £721,187. In addi-
tion, the Ordinary branch was put on a
2| p.c., instead of 2| p.c., valuation basis,
a rate prevailing in the Industrial section
since 1934. These are the strongest bases
yet adopted in Australia, and within a
quarter of one p.c. of anything of the
kind in the U.K. Supporting assurance
funds of £29,950,927, there are now
£1,116,000 of other reserves, while the
capital of £1,000,000 and general branch
reserves (£294,023) are also available to
meet whatever contingencies may arise.
Despite depletion of field staffs, new
business put on the books last year was
only slightly below the ’4O experience
at £10,360,276 — £6,111,320 Ordinary,
£4,248,956 on Industrial account, which
has more than doubled in importance
since 1933. Deducting taxes (£166,233),
combined figures for all departments
showed revenue at the hew record of
£5,047,180 (up £241,515), of which
£3,757,906 came from premiums and
£1,289,274 from interest, etc. After meet-
ing all outgoings and claims, handing
£150,000 to shareholders and sending
£22,918 to staff funds, £lOO,OOO to general
reserve and £144,500 to taxation account,
£1,602,460 of the Life income remained
to add to assurance funds. The business
is being managed at extremely low cost
—eliminating taxes and dividends, 11.6
p.c. of Ordinary premium income and
28.8 p.c. of Industrial, reductions from
13.4 p.c. and 29.8 p.c. over the year.
Despite “large” war claims, actuarial
surpluses £19,604 higher showed up:
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Ordinary .. £849,680 £631,106 £666,212 £681,471
Industrial .. 115,459 124,715 134,415 138,760
Total .. £965,139 £755,821 £800,627 £820,231
Of divisible profits 85 p.c. to 90 p.c.
belong to policy-holders in the O.D. and
80 p.c. in the 1.D., and this year a total
of £818,279 is being split up.
Assets are of fine calibre. Last year’s
revenue surplus was directed towards
assisting the war effort on the financial
front, raising total war-loan contributions
since Sept., 1939, to over £5,000,000:
1940. p.c. 1941. p.c.
Public securities. £20,121,478 63.2 £22,495,703 65.8
Mortgages .. 7,947,484 24.9 7,882,775 23.1
Loans on policies 1,864,710 5.9 1,850,663 5.4
Cash, book debts,
etc 707,874 2.2 739,987 2.2
Property.. .. 694,713 2.1 649,762 1.9
Debentures, shares,
etc 561,455 1.7 553,038 1.6
£31,897,714 £34,171,928
Liabilities* .. 1,310,950 1,655,780
Net assets ..£30,586,764 £32,516,148
* Other than under policies.
Allowing for taxes, the lot turned in £4
3s. Id. net p.c. on Ordinary funds and
reserves and £4 ss. Bd. p.c. on those in
the 1.D., contractions of 3s. Bd. p.c. and
4s. 6d. p.c. respectively on earning power
in the preceding term.
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re— Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 185,973 10 p.c. = 150,000 35,973 1,447,098
1933.. 219,416 10 „ ~ 150,000 69,416 1,516,514
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,491,514
Staff bonus, £20,000 .. .. 1,471,514
1934.. 222,988 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,988 1,544,502
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,519,502
1935.. 212,362 10 p.c. = 150,000 62,362 1,581,864
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,556,864
1936.. 234+74 10 p.c. = 150,000 84.474 1,641,338
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,616,338
1937.. 244,149 10 p.c. = 150,000 94,149 1.710,487
1938.. 261,725 10 „„ 156,250 7 95 475 y 805 96 2
To Staff Fund, £lO,OOO j 9 ? ,4 ' 61,8U ’ 9
1939.. 290,286 10 p.c. = 181,250 109,036 1,914,998
1940.. 294,430 10 ~ ~ 200,000 7 344301,999,428
To staff fund, £lO,OOO j
1941.. 364,639 10 p.c. = 200,000 164,639 2,164,067
Written off plantations, £35,000.. 2,129,067
Docking & repair a/c, £150,000 2,279,067
1942.. 411,564 10 p.c. = 200,000 211,564 2,490,631
Cessation of operations in Papua, New
Guinea and the East Indies came too
late to exert much influence on the
figures, and, while trading losses in these
centres have been “absorbed in full,” only
part was provided from current earn-
ings, the rest from inner reserves. No
capital loss was included, properties at
the branches concerned and plantations
in enemy-occupied territory being re-
tained at book values pending clarifica-
tion of the position thereto in respect of
war-damage insurance, etc.
The wisdom of past cautiousness in
piling up internal strength against some
such contingency as this was never more
apparent. Since 1920 £3,000,000 or
so has been visibly written off one
way and another with other pro-
visions, keeping the book value of fixed
assets within modest dimensions, x con-
sidering the spread of the undertaking:
1937. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £1,500,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Liabilities .. 1,717,049 2,302,704 2,356,082
Properties and
shipping .. 1,326,770 2,088,300 2,625,008
Investments, etc... 1,693,218 1,991,348 2,047,903
Stocks, advances,
etc 1,060,015 1,207,921 1,126,486
Book debts .. 823,716 1,053,069 941,529
Cash .. 98,816 226,130 205,786
The year’s lift of £536,708 in the main
asset reflects a real-estate deal embracing
the Imperial Arcade property, including
the Arcadia Hotel and license, in Pitt-
street, Sydney. Rents here will do some-
thing towards compensating for loss of
Islands trade and supplement returns
from Consols and the co.’s share-interests,
which include two-thirds of the capital
in B.P. (South Sea) and roughly one-half
that of Queensland Insurance; also
Penneys (the Queensland and N.S.W.
Northern Rivers variety chain), Bankers
and Traders’ Insurance, A.U.S.N. Co. and
Jantzen (Aust.), among others.
Despite this fine stabilising source of
income, chairman James Burns reckons
his co. will do very well to maintain the
10 p.c. of the past 22 years, or such
statutory rate as may yet be decided
upon. Apart from the change in Pacific
conditions, the whole of the fleet has been
requisitioned by either the British Minis-
try of Shipping or the Australian Ship-
ping Control Board, and charter rates
are declared not likely to more than cover
depreciation on original cost and bare
interest.
The outlook for copra and other Island
produce improved as the year wore on,
and notwithstanding chafing war-time
regulations, price-fixing. Division of
Import Procurement, shipping boards,
quota embargoes, inwards and outwards
permits, etc., B.P.’s cash turnover ad-
vanced £1,132,094 to £13,710,755. But
the extra profit was all absorbed by taxa-
tion (responsible for nearly all the
£179,282 increase in exes.) and allow-
ance for depreciation and war losses (to-
gether visibly up £105,403), leaving the
declared result £76,222 lower at 9.7 p.c.
on capital:
1932. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Gross £ £ £ £
earnings ~ 700,915 1,284,081 1,385,059 1,593,623
Exes. .. 392,761 845,020 931,163 1,110,446
Balance .. 308,154 439,061 453,896 483,077
Depreciation,
bad debts,
etc. .. 105,747 178,440 183,239 288,642
Profit claimed 202,407 260,621 270,657 194,435
Reserve move-
ments* ~ 16,434 +33,809 +93,982 +217,129
Net per table.. 185,973 294,430 364,639 411,564
* Unexplained additions (+) and deductions (—).
Reserve rather than p. and 1. movements
occupy the centre of financial interest,
however. Apart from a ship-repair
reserve of “about £150,000” shown in the
first table, there were other additions of
£217,129, of which £93,769 represents a
surplus on war-risk cover carried by the
co. itself, and undisclosed sums are attri-
buted to the merging of Java and other
branch accounts in the head-office books.
So far as the latter represent accumu-
lations of past years, the net profit shown
by the “Wild Cat” is, of course, over-
stated,
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 19,177 6 p.c. = 15,000 4,177 229,204
1933.. 10,081 5 „ „ 12,500 .226,785
1934.. 19,292 7 ~ „ 17,500 1,792 228,577
1935.. 12,334 6 „ „ 15,000 225,911
1936.. 26,969 8 „ „ 20,000 6,969 232,880
Share premiums, £75,000 .. .. 307,880
1937.. 32,389 10 p.c. = 25,000 7,389 315,269
1938.. 36,064 10 „ „ 37,500 313,823
Cost new share issue written off, £1337., 312,486
Cost new branches w/o, £2200 7 qc? qac
1939'.. 27,662 7J p.c. = 30,000 j au/.yia
Share premiums, £20,000 .. .. 327,948
Share-issue underwriting, £1750 .. 326,198
1940.. 43,236 8 p.c. = 37,333 5,903 332,101
1941. . 37,736 6J „ „ 37,708 28 332,129
1942.. 23,062 „ ~28,125 327,066
Chief factors responsible for contrac-
tion of £14,674 in net earnings last term
were drought and increased costs, in-
cluding taxation. A dry spell in northern
Vic. and N. S. Wales Riverina affected
the quantity and quality of wool, live-
stock and meat handled —the latter con-
cerned growers more than this co. —while
the extra demands of the taxgatherer and
arbitration awards together added £12,000
to outgoings.
During the 12 months to the
end of March last, 635,610 bales
(down 68,888 bales) were sold under
appraisement in Melbourne and Albury,
and turnover in the livestock market
shrank, too. So, despite extension of the
business by purchase of the undertakings
of N. C. Bott at St, James and Devenish
and of Green, Manning and Co, at Yarra-
wonga, Younghusband sold 7368 fewer
bales during this period, but the carry-
over (8902 bales) was 3431 bales heavier:
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1930.. 58,795 114,864 85,800 74.6 p.c
1931 . 91,587 78,019 76.838 98.4 „
1933.. 90,068 84,598 74,517 88.0 „
1935.. 69,360 92,232 79,898 86.6 „
1936.. 94,719 113,443 86,474 76.2 „
1938.. 79,515 140,500 104,446 74.3 „
1939.. 74,750 127,718 100,056 78.3 „
1940.. 84,711 190,561 147,325 77.3 „
1941. 199,778 162,042 81.1 „
1942. .103,913 196,407 173,345 88.2 „
After providing for bad and doubtful
debts, gross earnings were £3371 lighter.
Including £l5OO (down £500) sent to the
staff fund, exes, made off with an extra
£11,303, making the shrinkage in the net
result £14,674. The £23,062 of profit
shown was only 3.7 p.c. on capital—to
which £125,000 had been added during
the previous term —as against 6.5, 9.4,6.9,
9.6 and 12.2 p.c. back to 1937. Only a
couple of points were clipped off the div.,
reducing it to 4\ p.c., reserves being
tapped for £5063 to pay it. Last term
the co. earned only a trifle more for
shareholders than it did for the Govern-
ment, £22,000 being set aside for the
taxgatherer.
On capital and reserves combined 4 p.c.
is equal to a shade over 6 p.c. on capital
alone. Though there is a wide gap
between the 6 p.c, and last term’s net
earnings, recent rains have improved the
seasonal outlook, and the British Govern-
ment has made a handsome increase of
15 p.c. in its contract price for the sur-
plus Australian clip, lifting the average
figure to 15.45 d. per pound. Still it is
doubtful whether anything better than a
4? p.c. div. need be looked for for the
current term, and that subject to war
developments.
Movements in balance-sheet figures re-
flect the Government’s policy in respect
of loans and the Central Wool Com-
mittee’s prompt settlements:
1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £500,000 £625,000 £625,000
Liabilities .. 384,699 693,451 354,986 138,010
Premises & plant 193,465 212,855 223,094 249,324
Book debts, etc. 910,699 1,331,433 1,085,677 826,805
Investments, cash,
e t c 9,005 9,005 19,005 34,535
Merchandise .. 4,015 6,555 20,087 10,406
Last term book debts were reduced by
£258,872, enabling a reduction in liabili-
ties of £216,976. The growth of £26,230
in fixed assets mainly reflects purchase
of the businesses already referred to.


The Art of
Meeting
People
with chapters on
PUBLIC SPEAKING AND , THE
ELEMENTS OF COMMAND
By
E. H. WELFORD,
Director, Pelman Institute (O/Seas).
This book has been written primarily to meet
an increasing demand for exact information
on the principles governing our relations with
other people. It is the fruit of personal
experience supplemented by acquaintance with
the needs of thousands of pupils of the Pelman
Course, and it covers all the ground honestly.
Bach chapter is followed by an “Application”
to the reader’s own life and circumstances
of the principles discussed in the chapter.
The hook is available to the public at 5/- per
copy posted. Address The Pelman Institute, 3
Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Bane, Melbourne.
per copy posted.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COIXISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Missing Friend.
LENA SINGLE (wife of Arthur Single).
Resided North Queensland some years, particu-
i larly Townsville, Sapphire, Cooktown. Any
person knowing whereabouts or next-of-kin
please communicate WRIGHT & MAXWELL,
Solicitors. Warwick.
nDKi
OY -
S^(OV>
Conservation of Rubber is
now vital to Australia’s War
Offensive.
Careless treatment of your
Tyres is, to-day , no less than
Sabotage of a War Essential •
Every military or civilian
driver, by regularly checking
his tyre pressures and wheel
alignment ... by eliminating
quick starts and sudden stops
, . . helps to conserve rubber .
The Olym pi c Tyre & R übb er C
q
r
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
An unsatisfactory feature of the meat
position at the moment is that, while
exporters &re gußTcinteecl certain pi ices
the Commonwealth, thus safeguarding
processors, no such protection is afforded
producers, whose returns are further
reduced by the Government levy of 15
p.c. gross on all meats passed for export.
Petroleum Production
The following figures are taken from
the “Petroleum Times,” London. They
represent estimates of world petroleum
production during the last two complete
calendar years. The percentages given
are the proportion of each country men-
tioned in relation to world production:
, 1940 1941
1000 Per 1000 Per
barrels. cent. barrels. cent.
353,214 62.91 1,405,830 62.46
Mexico.. 40,315 1.87 41,200 1.83
Canada.. 8,718 0.41 10,003 0-44
Total.. 1,402,247 65T9 1,457,033 64.73
Cent, and S.
Venezuela 184,761 8.59 222,902 9.90
Colombia 25,593 1.19 24,442 1.09
Argentma 20,617 0.96 21,641 0.96
Trinidad 20,219 0.94 21,211 0.94
’ Peru .. 13,985 0.65 12,846 0.57
Ecuador. 2,349 0.11 1,561 0.07
Bolivia .. HO 0.01 121 0.01
Total.. 267,634 12.45 304,724 13.54
E rST.. 222,600 10.35 242,150 10.76
Rumania 42,525 1.98 40,563 1.80
Germany — ,
Old Reich 4,544 0.21 4,438
Ostmark 718 0.03 692 0.03
Slovakia &
Moravia 119 0.01 109 0.01
Poland.. 3,891 0.18 3,319 0.5
Hungary 1,755 0.08 2,474 0.11
Italian Empire— ■ „
Albania 1,497 0.07 1,381 0.06
Italy .. 57 46
France .. 496 0.02 479 0.02
Total.. ' 278,202 12.93 295,651 13.13
Asia — „
Tran .. 79,152 3.68 78,035 3.47
Iraq .. 24,225 1.13 12,650 0.56
Burma.. 7,731 0.36 7,762 0.34
Bahrein 7,095 0.33 6,846 0.30
Saudi Arabia 5,365 0.25 5,871 0.26
Brit. India 2,250 0.10 2,270 0.11
Total.. 125,818 5.85 113,434 5.04
Oceania —
Ncth E I
Sumatra' 40,587 1.89 40,827 1.81
Borneo. 12,988 0.60 13,848 0.62
Java .. 6,514 0.30 6,735 0.30
Molucca 732 0.03 721 0.03
Brit. Borneo— „ ..
Brunei.. 5,729 0.27 5,552 0.25
Sarawak 1,317 0.06 1,312 0.06
Japan .. 2,639 0.12 2,659 0.12
Total.. 70,506 3.27 71,654 3.19
Egypt .. 6,053 0.28 7,659 0.34
Other
countries 580 0.03 581 0.03
World total 2,151,040 100.00 2,250,736 100.00
British Empire
total .. 53,059 54,956
These figures may be the last of their
kind during this war with any semblance
of reliability. A ban on U.S.A. produc-
tion information shortly is likely, and
even now those for parts of Europe are
largely guesswork. A striking feature is
the small percentage of the world’s oil
that came from the Malay Archipelago.
But it was more than Australia’s require-
ments, and it was handy, the same as
Burmese production was to India.
“O.B.”: Convinced that some loaf is
better than none, Westralia accepts the
temporary agreement with the Federal
Government to immediate
future of its precious gofdmining indus-
try. Production will be continued on a
limited scale, and where the grabbing of
man-power prevents a mine from being
worked it can claim through the State
Government for maintenance out of a
Federal grant of £lOO,OOO to be made
available. Employing 15,000 men in the
year before the war, the industry has
already seen its pool of labor reduced
to 8000, and in accepting a reservation
of 4500 men it is now consenting to a
reduction in all of 70 p.o. This is not so
good as the mineowners hoped for, but
is a distinct improvement upon the policy
recently enunciated by Federal Ministei
Dedman that, except for some key men,
there would not be any protection for
the industry against military call-ups, and
that it would have to part with a propor-
tion of its remaining labor for Allied
works after that.
* * * *
Curtailment of Westralian goldmining
is going to hit Perth merchants hard. They
do a big business with the goldfields,
principally Kalgoorlie and Boulder.
Those likely to suffer most are the hard-
ware, machinery, explosives and fuel sup-
pliers. Kalgoorlie traders shiver at what is
coming to them. That field has furnished
for a long time half the gold sent to the
Perth Mint. In April it supplied 53,4040 z.
out of a Westralian total of 104,0390 z.
The next three contributors were Mur-
chison 12,0390 z., Dundas (Norseman)
10,8340 z. and East Murchison (principally
Wiluna) 90660 z.
* * * *
Wiluna (W.A.) isn’t likely to be able
to carry out its full plans at Mt. Char-
lotte now, but the latter co. has given
its “assurance that every consideration will
be shown should any such difficulties
arise over which they [Wiluna] have no
control.” Meantime, Wiluna is making
progress option payments, and will later
settle for £220,000 Australian if it likes
prospects enough. Paid capital £100,921,
the Charlotte co. at the end of November
held £8633 stg. in cash and owed £26,158,
mostly to Paringa (2\ miles away), which
is a substantial shareholder and has an
option over a block of unissued capital
at par.
* * * *
Second annual report of New Milano,
Mt. Monger (W.A.), is a more sober
affair than its predecessor. Despite capi-
tal expenditure of £7OOO, the optimistic
plant and production programme of a
year ago wasn’t realised, partly because
of deficiencies in the power plant. Addi-
tion of a second five-head of stamps
doubled output (5768 tons), but gold yield
came down to 17.3dwt. a ton and net
earnings from £4779 to £3657. Abandon-
ment of the Haoma option has left the
co. chiefly with its original Milano and
Leslie leader systems (the latter under
labor exemption). About 12 months’
ore is reckoned in sight, and with most
of the staff outside military age a four-
weekly output of 4500 z. gold is looked
for. The decline in values at depth, typi-
cal of the area is reflected in average 85s.
recoveries in the current term, against
all-in costs last year of £6 ss. a ton.
Heavy staff retrenchments and other
economies are credited to the present
manager, however, together with rapid
improvement in the financial position,
which was pretty low at the end of Febru-
ary. Capital is £127,630, practically all
represented by the cost of the property.
* * =t= *
London-controlled Youanmi (W.A.)
has amended its articles so that no direc-
tor shall be paid for services after Oct.
1, 1941, but shall be entitled to travelling
expenses in attending meetings or to the
co.’s business. As a result of military
demands on labor the mine closed early
in January after having withdrawn
underground pumps and other equip-
ment. This meant that the workings be-
came flooded. Plant, equipment, stores,
etc,, are now compulsorily held at the
disposal of the Federal Government. Ces-
sation of mining as soon as payable re-
serves had been extracted was approved
by shareholders some time ago.
« * * *
The antimonial content of Blue Spec
ore may be the war-time saviour instead
of peace-time hindrance of this recon-
structed Marble Bar (W.A.) goldmine.
The stuff is wanted by the Government,
and negotiations, “it is hoped, will result
in operations being enlarged to full scale,
with the prospects of receiving priority
consideration for all requirements,” the
board announces along with a sale notice
of forfeited shares. Output has lately
been at a low ebb because of labor and
transport problems.
* * * *
New Golconda (W.A.) reports another
unprofitable year. Receipts from gold
won from the Iron Duke, a 14-acre block
at Coolgardie, aggregated £1137, but ex-
penditure exceeded that by £749 and re-
duced the contents of the till to £276, less
£29 owed sundry creditors. For the pre-
vious 12 months the deficit was £576.
After losing most of its paid capital of
£61,000, co. first abandoned the Lake
Austin and then the Saturn mine, on the
Murchison field. The former was thrown
up owing to unfavorable developments
and the latter because war-time condi-
tions made its flotation impossible. Con-
cerning the Iron Duke option, chairman
Mortlock says:
Prospects have always been sufficiently
favorable to warrant a continuance of de-
velopment and it is felt that a cessation f
at this juncture would be unwise. It is
therefore proposed to continue sinking on
the reef with the hope •of an enrichment
which will allow a re-survey of the whole
position.
Activities are necessarily limited.
* * * *
From London:
Holders of Australian, principally Westralian,
gold shares have had to withstand one shock
after another. First there were the regulations
drastically limiting company earnings and, in
effect, foolishly strangling the sharemarket.
Secondly, there was the Federal desire to sus-
pend gpldmining in Australia in order to
divert men and materials to more essential
war uses. Cables from Australia go some way
towards elucidating the problems raised by its
“new deal,” but it is impossible yet to say how
the regulations will work, out in practice. Take
the statement that the limitation of company
profits to 4 p.c. on subscribed capital, plus
reserves, will, as regards mining undertakings,
be eased by certain important concessions
such as “full provision for depreciation, amorti-
sation of wasting assets and taxation,” so that
the balance should provide a good deal more
than a tax-paid 4 p.c. on the shares. Even so,
unless the amortisation allowance is a liberal
one, it seems too much to expect the bigger
dividend-payers to maintain their recent rates
of distribution. If the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment could be persuaded to promise that
the emergency taxation would be repealed alter
the war holders of Australian mining shares
would doubtless be willing to hang on and see
the thing through. But unless this is done Aus-
tralian cos. are likely to meet with a chilly
response in this country to any invitations _ to
subscribe new capital for post-war enterprise.
* * * *
With four weeks of the current term
still to run, Mt. Morgan (Q.) has an
estimated working surplus of £175,600 on
the slate, and the figure would be better
but for weather conditions.' Capital ex-
penditure at £20,400 has been only a
quarter of the previous term’s outlay, too.
The co. has averaged £8 or so a ton
more for its bigger output of copper, and
overburden was expected to become pro-
gressively less troublesome a year ago.
At present returns of £lOO-105 for the
red metal, better things are indicated in
the current term, but with overhead, de-
preciation and pref.-div. absorbing the
best part of £lOO,OOO annually the co.
still has some distance to gb to catch up
on net earnings of £219,704 shown in
1940. A 4d, ord. div., the first disburse-
ment for nearly two years, went out in
February, and another is to follow next
week. Co. is silent about Chalmers,
* * * *
Westralia thinks it should get a copper
expert. Its output, never much, is now
microscopic. Deposits are widespread,
but apart from those at Northampton,
Whim Creek, Phillips River and Murrin,
from which the bulk of past production
was obtained, they have been hardly
touched. There is, however, nothing big.
» * * *
First Australian Unit Trust, represent-
ing an investment of over £455,000, an-
nounces a half-yearly payment of sd.
per sub-unit, against 7d. for the same
period of 1941. The distribution is mainly
from interim-div. receipts, which in many
cases have been tempered by a cautious
view of the outlook, apart from the in-
roads of taxation.


Before Bedtime
Start Driving Out
BRONCHITIS
Sleep Sound All Night.
Enjoy a coughless night—sleep sound
and awake refreshed—just be wise
enough to take 2 or 3 doses of
BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL Mixture
(triple acting) before you go to bed—
it’s safe for the kids, also.
For bronchial coughs—for tough, old,
persistent coughs, take a few doses of
Buckley’s—by far the largest-selling
cough medicine in all of blizzardly cold
Canada—and feel as good as ever again.
It “acts like a flash.” At all chemists
and stores
fhwkleMfS
CANADIOL
MIXTURE
A SINGLE SIP PROVES IT
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1 /*3B.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide,
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going Into middle age note a
Wowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to he expected to a de-
gree, if passage is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting, Nature
may be warning that there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons In your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffl-
ness under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don't waitl Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a
special remedy for the kidneys and will give
oulck and lasting benefit. Old and young
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY;
PILLS with perfect safety.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
The War and the Land
Except for areas devoted to special
defence work, war has further robbed
Australia’s rural districts of population.
The efflux of people tp the urban muni-
tions works and essential industries was
early noted by such country traders as
Permewan, Wright, who would be more
likely to see movements in the true
country population than the migrations
of country-town dwellers who depend on
the rural industries or special Govern-
ment activities for their existence. Thus
a serious position has become more so.
It has been abetted by the taking of man-
power away from the goldmining indus-
try, by the incidence of taxation on large
“borderline” properties, by bad seasons
in some parts, by restriction or dis-
couragement of output in the wheat and
sugar industries, by a rather severe initial
attitude towards small farmers in the
matter of military call-ups, and by in-
creasing transport difficulties.
Following on the assumption by the
Commonwealth of the sole right to levy
income tax, the McKell Government
made some mention of a revised policy
in the matter of land tax, the idea being
allegedly to encourage the breaking-up
of big estates. Clearly any such policy
would be ridiculous at the present time
when small farms, out of the urgency of
the war effort, are being allowed to go
back to scrub and bush. The entire idea
of land tax as administered in Australia
is in dire need of revision, and it has
much to do„with the discouragement of
rural industries. It will be tragic if
political factors for which there is no
excuse are allowed to add to the burden
which rural industries are already un-
avoidably carrying.
Labor Governments have very little
time for rural interests. Their general
policy in regard to wages and unionism
does not extend to country districts. The
absence of rural awards except in the
case of shearers and the like is not be-
cause of any love for the farmer, but
because of the desire to pamper the city
dweller with food, etc., that is not in-
flated by costs incurred outside the Gov-
ernment railways and the city limits.
That is not to say that butter, milk,
vegetables and so on may not seem
unnecessarily dear to the consumer.
City costs are a big factor in milk,
meat and vegetables. And at the
other end of the production-consumption
line the country youth is so poorly paid
that he is anxious to get to the city to
get any kind of a steady, reasonably paid
job. The producer at the same time has
to put up with good seasons and bad,
and his export surplus, necessary to his
existence and to the exchange require-
ments of the country, is sold generally
at a price much lower than that received
within the Commonwealth. Every in-
crease in metropolitan wages adds to his
burdens and those of his employees with-
out any compensation. He is overlooked,
as a rule, when electric-power supply,
better roads, development schemes, etc.,
are under consideration, and irrigation
and water conservation are neglected. The
districts with the bigger voting numbers
get preference, and the contrast between
city and country conditions widens still
further.
In Australia, since the outbreak of
war, the Commonwealth capital-city
basic wage has been lifted an average of
14 p.c. Woolgrowers became concerned
about this rise in costs, and the British
Government was approached on the
matter, with the result that a 15 p.c. in-
crease in wool prices was sanctioned. But
the Australian price of butter has been
lifted only seven-eighths of a penny a
pound wholesale since war began—an
advance of 5 p.c. The dairy-farmer was
admittedly on a good footing before war
began, and possibly he has not been
forced to advance wage rates on the
same scale as the metropolitan manufac-
turer. But that simply means that both
the dairy-farmer and his employees have
shared the extra burden imposed by war-
time costs inflation which, in the case of
the city worker, is looked after by basic-
wage adjustments. And for many dairy-
farmers the seasons since war began have
been far from kind.
There are many aspects to problems
of this nature, and the mere raising of
prices for land products won’t solve/
them. The drift from the country to the
city remains one of Australia’s natural
and political weaknesses. Without arti-
ficial aid in the shape of water-supply,
electric power, etc., the Australian bush
can be a very disheartening place,
especially to younger womenfolk. There
have been suggestions that electricity is
the most urgently required improvement
in country living facilities; it can alter
the aspect of both the home and the
farm, and make life much happier and
easier without great increase in costs or
rateable values of land. Another thing
necessary, however, is the concession of
more political and' economic considera-
tion to the country districts as a whole.
No one wants to spoon-feed any section
of the community, blit there is no doubt
that concentration of too many people
in the capital cities has created in tens
of thousands a parasitical political out-
look that stands in the way of intelligent
consideration of the landman’s problems.
And the future of Australia largely de-
pends on the development of its inner
areas.
Mild but definite improvement in the
sharemarkets continued last week. The
restriction of sales still evident was more
because of lack of sellers than absence
of buyers. This was noticeable particu-
larly among bank shares, breweries and
first-dass industrials like A.C.1., Bradford
Cotton and Henry Jones. Sellers of
B.H.P. came into the open at the in-
creased price of 31s. 2d., and Yarra
Falls sold firmly at 355., maintaining a
reputation for steadiness established right
through the hectic times of the last six
months. The Sydney index of industrial
shares has risen to 101.20, which com-
pares with a lowest of 93.76 and a highest
of 112.37 during the present year.
* * * *
A matter which hasn’t been given
much general notice since the passing of
legislation for a single income tax
authority is that of the inglorious N. S.
Wales company tax, which is now no
more. The McKell Budget of last year
had a severe effect on share prices
throughout the Commonwealth, impos-
ing as it did double taxation where
inter-State income had borne a lower
rate of tax than that imposed by N. S.
Wales. There was also the abolition of
rebates of tax paid by a co. when divs.
were received by shareholders, and an
undistributed-profits tax of Is. in the £
was levied where a co. distributed less
than half its taxable income. The mini-
mum company tax was raised by 6d. to
3s. in the £, and ex-Australian income
was taxed. Now all this State legislation
has been washed up, and N. S. Wales
companies and residents are on the same
footing as those in other States. It doesn’t
mean that N. S. Wales is going to be
relieved of all the State taxation it was
previously paying ; on the contrary per-
sonal rates will be little lower. But,
subject to a case in the High Court, cer-
tain anomalies introduced by McKell will
now disappear, and distinction between
investors and investments in various
States will vanish for the duration and
one year. After that it will be up to
the people themselves.
* * ♦ «
The Australian note issue now exceeds
£lOO million, and is slightly more than
double what it was before the outbreak
of war. This demand for currency is
partly the result of ‘ increased war-time
industrial activity, partly because of the
fluid nature of the population in present
circumstances, and partly because of
note hoarding, the last factor being
divisible into two motives —to avoid taxa-
tion and to have money in some place
other than in the banks. The idea of
having a parcel of notes hidden some-
where in order to evade depreciation of
the currency or “conscription of wealth”
is a feeble one. Inflation affects notes as
well as bank deposits, and the only
effective way of conscripting wealth for
purposes of war is by taxation. And false
taxation returns very properly carry their
penalties. At the present time such
behavior should carry the same penalty
as evasion of military service.
* * * *
The employee of the munitions factory
mentioned in B. 3/6/’42) who claimed
that his biggest problem was to spread
four hours’ work over a 12-hour day is
apparently no isolated case. Another
man from a Government factory says
that the quota of work allotted in his
department can be done in six hours, but
production in excess of the quota per
shift is not permitted, and half the shift
is usually wasted time —and overtime.
Labor is reaping the whirlwind of its past
fallacious teachings. All the old policy
of go-slow, obstruction of production and
profit, abolition of piecework and hate of
the boss whoever he might be is coming
to the surface like scum in our present
war effort. And it will continue like that
so long as politicians of the Eddie Ward
variety continue to kid the troublemaking
and obstructive type of Australian
worker.
* * * *
Mr. Dedman continues to have his
little difficulties with the banks. He said
last week that while trading banks which
had closed branches in towns where more
than one bank was operating did so “in
accordance with my wishes,” there were
several cases where banks had closed
their branches where it was the only
bank in town ; this was done “entirely
on their own responsibility.” He is
having trouble with one bank, he says.
Unless it co-operates like the other banks
he intends to “reconsider the whole posi-
tion of voluntary rationalisation.”
* * * *
Though several Canberra Ministers
have been in a great hurry to interfere
with efficiently run private industries such
as banking, where Government depart-
ments have had problems of their own,
such as food and transport deficiencies,
more muddle than brilliance is in evi-
dence. And Mr. Dedman’s efforts in
“war organisation of industry” have
brought tears into the eyes of over-
worked producers and industrialists.
Organisation is a science and an art, not
a theory. Experimentalists find the going
hard when they try their hand at “im-
provements.”
* * * *
The Federal Government is said to be
“off” the idea of nationalisation of the
coal industry, so ardently desired by Eddie
Ward, because, unless accompanied by
the nationalisation of all industry, it feels
that the action would be discriminatory.
Another snag is the matter of compensa-
tion at what is described as “enhanced
war-time valuations.”
* * # ♦
Revenue from Customs and the Post
Office is up about £6,500,000 on estimates
for the 11 months to May 31. The vigor
of Customs revenue is particularly in-
teresting in view of shipping difficulties
following the spread of war to the Pacific.
Maoriland has experienced a fall in Cus-
toms receipts that prompted increases in
other taxes.
* * * *
Life assurance still has special attrac-
tions to those paying a high rate of in-
come tax. Some taxpayers on the higher,
income scales are getting their assurance
—for the present —at next to nothing,
though the limit is £lOO of premiums a
year. Most people taking out assurance
under these conditions apparently do so
knowing that after the war taxation
rates may be expected to fall, and the
rebate they will then get won’t be so great,
but that the assurance should be no
harder to carry than at present because
of the lightened general tax load. What
these people saved by increasing their
assurances in war-time will represent a
sort of addition to bonuses, or a reduc-
tion in the net cost of assurance. But
already life assurance policies have lost
substantially in value since war broke
out because of the depreciated value of
money. Each pound used for the pay-
ment of premiums before Sept. 3, 1939,
would buy upwards of 15 p.c. more than
the same pound now. As the war pro-
gresses the position may worsen,
especially if the Government continues
its present inflationary financial policy.
But the value of life assurance, properly
utilised, is undoubted in spite of these
factors beyond the control of the offices
themselves, and after the war there may
be some reaction from inflationary
trends.
♦ * ♦ *
In the Commons the other day, reply-
ing to an Independent Labor member
who had referred to “conscription of life
but not of capital,” Sir Frank Sanderson
declared that it was contrary to the
national interest that capital should be
conscribed to the extent already evident.
The working class alone had increased
incomes as a result of the war. War
loans were now being raised on the basis
of 2 p.c, or less, compared with 5| p.c.
in the last war. After Britain had been
engaged for two and a half years in the
most costly war ever known the interest
bill on the national debt was £37 million
less than 10 years earlier. War-time con-
trols now in force should be continued
for a period after the war, Sanderson
believed.
* * * »
Five months of price stabilisation in
Canada has cost the Dominion Govern-
ment over two million dollars. The aim
of the scheme is to fix prices of products
in which cost factors cannot be con-
trolled and to discourage speculative buy-
ing of stocks. Not all of the expense has
been due to rises in costs since the plan
began to operate; when ceilings were
fixed there were already some commodi-
ties on which subsidies were inevitable.
It is not the Government’s policy to rely
on rising prices entirely to restrict con-
sumption of many things in short
supply; rationing on a broad scale is
regarded as unavoidable. The price-ceiling
plan has operated on a rough-and-ready
basis up to the present, concerns which,
hadn’t lifted prices of their products
prior to rationing being at a disadvantage
compared with competitors who did. It
is reckoned, however, that any industrial
casualties that may occur in the squeeze
between costs and the price ceiling will
show quick recovery in some more
essential war-time calling.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £34,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,200,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
FIND NEW HEALTH
You cannot enjoy good health if you
suffer from constipation. To-mght,
before retiring, chew one or two NYAL
FIGSEN TABLETS. Figsen is so easy
and pleasant to take; no nausea, no
griping pain. In the morning Figsen
acts thoroughly, effectively, yet so
gently and mildly. Figsen helps to re-
store a natural bowel action. Equally
good for young and old. Figsen is one
of the 168 dependable NYAL FAMILY
MEDICINES. Sold by chemists every-
where. l/2h a tin.
The next best thing io. Nature , ..
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
m
m
■
mm
mm
'POWELL
ON THE JOB
Urgent foods. Vital fuels and timbers.
Important civil transport services.
Paramount army supplies. Wherever
there are priority loads to handle,
you’ll find “Powell on the Job” —get-
ting things done quickly and efficiently
with lower operating costs. Powell’s
heavy-duty construction keeps trucks
out of the repair shop and on the
road. Powell’s famous Beresinsky
Cleaner reduces engine wear to “less
than with petrol.”
There’s a model for every purpose,
and Powell are the only units with
Government approved models up to
40 horse-power.
Immediate delivery of
POWELL GAS UNITS
from H. C. SLEIGH, Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, or Powell Dealers throughout Australia.
The Loan
The loan has been lagging to an extent
that has caused the Prime Minister to
express disappointment and to make
comparison with the last loan, which was
particularly successful. This time the
number of subscriptions is far behind,
which indicates better than the actual
money figures as to how the people are
responding. Compared with the number
of people who are being spared really
adequate taxation —they are principally
the ones earning £8 a week and under,
and represent 70 p.c. of the income-earn
ing population—support for any loan
during this war has not shown that the
people are fully appreciative of the “vol-
untary” - system to which the Government
has avowedly committed itself. It seems
that the investor class is still the main-
stay of these urgent borrowing opera-
tions, which means that most investors
are rendering double financial service,
seeing that shareholders are the most
heavily taxed class in the Commonwealth.
One would think that with clothes ration-
ing under way the restricted means of
spending money would induce greater
saving and lending tendencies in others. In
any case, there can be no excuse for poor
support to the present Liberty loan con-
sidering the amount of overtime being
earned by tens of thousands of lightly-
taxed workers. The money is wanted
most pressingly for national preservation,
and there is no doubt that the people
have the money.
From a N. S. Wales taxpayer:
I have received a letter from Treasurer
Chifiey urgently asking me and the co. I repre-
sent for a subscription to the second Liberty
L °My co. has put £5OOO into the first Liberty
Loan, whilst 1 personally invested £2OOO. 1
would very much like to put a further £lOOO
into the present issue, but am afraid taxation
rates make this impracticable. For the year
ended June 30, 1941, my taxable income was,
for Federal purposes, £2567, and, for N.b.W.,
£2824. My assessments, just paid, totalled
£l6Ol.
So during the present financial year, when
my income should remain approximately the
same as in 1941, I have paid £l6Ol in taxes
and subscribed £lOOO of the £2OOO referred to
to war loan.
If the taxation commissioner will accept
Consols in payment of tax I would invest an-
other £lOOO right away, but unless I can be
reassured on this point I feel it would be
dangerous not to keep enough money available
from which to meet the Commissioner’s de-
mands.
Imagine my position next year if my income
were to fall to £looo—which it can quite easily
—and if out of that £lOOO I am called upon
to pay £l6OO (probably more) in taxation on the
present year’s income, and if I do not keep
money in hand for the specific purpose of meet-
ing taxes. Much as I would like to subscribe
to the present loan, I must guard against the
possibility of having to go, cap in hand, to
the Commissioner with a request for time to
pay, particularly as he would probably charge
me 10 p.c. interest for any such favors.
As to my co., I have been led to believe
that all profits in excess of 4 p.c. per annum
have to be paid in taxation, and that National
Security Regulations will be infringed if the
co. fails to have available, in cash, the dif-
ference between 4 p.c. and the profit earned
during the year; so I am afraid the co. also
is denied by circumstances the privilege of in-
vesting this time.
The clothes-rationing programme intro-
duced this week is drastic by ordinary
Australian living standards. Each person's
quota, in quantity, is far below that on
which the Australian living wage is based,
but quality is not rationed. The male
allowance of coupons is enough to buy
five shirts, nine pairs of socks and a
suit of pyjamas a year and no more.
Possibly the average male doesn’t want as
many socks and shirts as that, but he
wants many other things, and suits (38),
overcoats (40) and shoes (12) come rather
heavy in an allowance of 112 coupons
A youth coming from a country farm to
a city job with no suitable clothes would
find it impossible to buy an outfit with his
clothes ration for the whole year.
Members of the same family may pool
coupons, and nursing and expectant
mothers are provided for. There is
bound to be confusion for a time over
goods ordered before rationing started
but not yet delivered. Much depends
on whether the goods have been paid
for in full or when they were ordered.
Australia for the first time is beginning
to feel the full burden of total war. The
pity of it is that hoarders won’t feel
the pinch as badly as more considerate
people.
* * * *
The Prime Minister has forecast that
in 1942-43 war will cost Australia £360
million, the equivalent of £52 a head for
every man, woman and child in the Com-
monwealth. It works out at a million a
day for the nation, a pound a week for
every person. By all previous compari-
sons of similar things it is a terrific
burden on the community, but one that
can be made lighter if the war effort is
all-in and waste isn’t overdone. Some
waste is inevitable, but avoidable waste
is an intolerable sin in view of the bur-
dens being borne. Waste benefits no one
for long, and just now the future of the
war in this part of the world may depend
on the extra production we would have
had but for waste. It can be said with-
out any fear of exaggeration that there
is still far too much waste and mis-
direction of effort in this country, and
that is partly ? why the war burden per
head is so great. We know now that
the war effort is all-in, and our plans
should be comparatively clear. Excuses
for waste therefore grow fewer and fewer.
* * * *
It seems that some Canadians are ques-
tioning Canada’s not-yet-completed gift of
$lOOO million to the British Government.
The Royal Bank of Canada has found
it necessary to illuminate the matter. It
points out that at the time the Canadian
Commons decided on the gift the Prime
Minister said that “the Government will,
as part of Canada’s direct contribution
to the defeat of the Axis, ask Parliament
to make provision for meeting Britain’s
shortage of Canadian dollars by supply-
ing, free of charge and without obligation
to Britain, munitions of war, raw
materials and foodstuffs up to an amount
of one billion dollars.” The bank points
out that there is no question of sending
Britain the money, but simply tools of
war and means of sustenance. Britain
has exhausted its gold reserves and can-
not pay for Canadian goods in the ordi-
nary way. Also, most of the Canadian
debt has been repatriated as a result of
the big export surplus on trade with
Britain. If Canada feels in duty bound
to keep' on supplying Britain with the
materials of war —and there is no doubt
about that—then those materials must be
given free of charge or regarded as a
debt due for payment after the war. The
Canadian Parliament has wisely decided
that the creation of a $ 1000-million debt
against Britain would be an obstacle to
post-war trade recovery, and that in any
case it represents money spent in defence
of Canada.
* * * *
Britain has more regard for its econo-
mists than has Australia, as witness the
conferment of a barony on J. M. Keynes,
described here (3/6/’42) as “the most
publicised economist in the world, direc-
tor of the Bank,of England and sponsor
of the plan of post-war credits now being
availed of in Britain.” His latest state-
ment is that “this time it will take us
three years to recover from the effects
of war, and during this period we must
submit willingly to discipline—progres-
sively less severe than in war-time, but
perhaps more difficult to bear in
peace-time.” Keynes’s appointment to the
court of directors of the Bank of Eng-
land came this year. Britain is becom-
ing more and more economic-minded as
part and parcel of its total-war effort.
Poets may be writing in terms of econo-
mics before very long, or at least as
soon as economists straighten out their
language.
* * * *
Dr. G. L. Wood, author of Borrowing
and Business in Australia, has suggested
to the Economic Society of Victoria that
surplus funds over and above claims
made on and paid by the War Damage
Commission would be a valuable aid to
post-war reconstruction and “realign-
ment of employment.” Apparently tak-
ing a favorable view of the war situa-
tion, Dr. Wood said that the people
“could scarcely expect contributions to
be returned,” but what the taxpayer lost
by way of contribution he would gain by
lower taxation in a Common wealth-wide
public works policy. The idea of judi-
ciously releasing dormant spending-power
in the post-war period has everything to
commend it. But a great deal depends
on to what extent we have paid for war
during the war.


THE SERVICE MAN
Fighting in the Pacific.
“Ek Dum”: To the Americans and
Australians who stopped the southward
drive of the Japanese in the operations
which culminated in the Battle of the
Coral Sea, and to the Americans who
drove the enemy from Midway Island,
the people of this country owe more than
they can ever repay. Their names should
be written in gold and preserved in the
annals of the Commonwealth for all time.
At the week-end the thrilling story
of the Coral Sea fight was issued, together
with details of the operations against
Lae and Rabaul in March.
It was noticed in March that the enemy
was massing ships at Salamaua and Lae
apparently for attacks on Moresby. On
March 20 ’planes from a United States
task force, under Vice-Admiral Wilson
Brown, as well as shore-based ’planes,
sank or damaged more than 20 ships.
Nevertheless, the enemy persisted with
his designs for an advance southward.
During April army reconnaissance ’planes
reported that he was again “concentrat-
ing transports and supporting elements,
including shore- and carrier-borne air-
craft” for an attempt to advance on the
Solomons and Louisiades. And in both
these island groups, 500 miles or so south
of any point which he had previously
held, he grabbed bases, and early in
May established reconnaissance over the
whole of the Coral Sea. He seemed to
have control of the whole of the
Solomons and loomed over the New
Hebrides.
But on May 4 Rear-Admiral Frank
Fletcher “surprised part of the Japanese
invasion fleet in and near the harbor of
Tulagi,” and “only a few Japanese ships
got away. Most of them were severely
crippled. Some were beached to prevent
them sinking.”
On May 7 Rear-Admiral Fletcher’s air-
craft came on the main body of the
Japanese force in the Louisiades off
Misima—7oo miles from Cooktown
(N.Q.), His bombers attacked. Fifteen
bombs sank the aircraft-carrier Rykaku—
a new ship somewhere between 14,000 to
20,000 tons. She was at the time turning
into the wind to launch her ’planes and
went down in a few minutes with them
all. A heavy cruiser also was sunk—
apparently an eight-inch-gun Furataka,
mentioned as having been destroyed at
the time.
Next day the Japanese air squadrons
destroyed the U.S. tanker Neosho —
some reports called it “Bioshow”—and
the destroyer Sims. This latter, named
after the U.S.N. c.-in-c. in British waters
in the last war, was of the 1939 vintage,
37 knots, 1570 tons and five-inch guns.
Most of her crew of 160 were saved.
The same day the U.S. fliers left the
Shokaku, a second enemy aircraft-
carrier, blazing fiercely. Sister to the
Rykaku, she was launched on June 2,
1939, and could have been commissioned
only a few months ago. In this engage-
ment, however, the enemy loss was offset,
for the U.S.A. Lexington, one of the
two largest and fastest aircraft-carriers
in the world, was hit by two torpedoes
and a couple of bombs, and was rocked
by several near misses. The Japanese had
been “sinking” her since the war began.
This time she did sink, but not before
she had taken a lot of punishment and
the officers and crew had made magnifi-
cent efforts to save her.
Some hours after she had been hit,
and while steaming at 20 knots, she was
racked by explosions, probably due to
gas leaks from damaged pipes. She
burst into flames and was abandoned,
sank; but not before most of her 80
machines and 92 p.c. of the crew of
2122 had been rescued.
The Navy Department summed up:
The attacks on Salamaua and Lae and
the battle of the Coral Sea resulted in the
disruption of two Japanese attempts to
advance south-east of New Guinea and
cost them over 15 ships sunk, including
a new aircraft-carrier, three heavy cruisers,
one light cruiser and two destroyers. Two
other warships were probably sunk, and
over 20 ships, including an aircraft-carrier,
three cruisers, two aircraft tenders and three
destroyers were severely damaged, while
100 aircraft were lost.
United States losses were only the Lex-
ington, the Sims, the Neosho and a few
’planes.
Giving rein t 6 his imagination, the
baffled enemy claimed to have sunk two
battleships of the California class, a
British battleship of the Warspite class
(the Admiralty issued a prompt denial),
a sister of the Lexington, the 19,900 ton
aircraft-carrier Yorktown, an Australian
[ cruiser of the Canberra class and some
[ small vessels. His version of his own
i losses was “a tanker converted into an
, aircraft-carrier, some small vessels and
, 31 ’planes.” General MacArthur’s com-
muniques, issued on May 8, had placed
Japanese losses on the first day of the
Coral Sea engagement at one light
cruiser, two. destroyers, four gunboats and
a supply ship sunk, a 9000-ton converted
. tanker, a light cruiser and a cargo vessel
damaged ; on the second day, one air-
craft-carrier sunk, one badly damaged, a
heavy cruiser sunk, another badly dam-
aged. MacArthur communiques always
show care in ascertaining and giving
facts.
The Enemy Tries Again
On June 7 Admiral King, commander-
in-chief of the U.S. Navy, announced
that two large-scale battles, involving both
sea and air forces, were in progress, one
“beyond Midway,” the other near Dutch
Harbor in the Aleutians, about 2800
miles from Tokyo Bay and only 100
miles or so from the Alaskan coast.
On June 8 Washington gave the
probable losses off Midway as two and
possibly three Japanese aircraft carriers,
with all their ’planes, plus one destroyer,
sunk. The enemy also was reported to
have had one or two more aircraft car-
riers and three battleships damaged, at
least one of the latter seriously ; also, two
cruisers crippled and four damaged, and
three transports damaged.
The U.S, Navy, for its part, lost one
destroyer sunk —most of the crew was
saved—one aircraft-carrier damaged and
some ’planes destroyed, Major-General
Tinker, Cr-in-c. of the U.S.A. air force at
Pearl Harbor, was reported missing. He
led a bomber squadron; his ’plane was
last seen in a steep dive.
Admiral Nimitz reported that evening
from Pearl Harbor:
The enemy appears to be withdrawing.
Contact was lost during the night Addi-
tional damage has been inflicted on two
enemy cruisers. Until all reports are
checked it is impossible to state whether
these cruisers are in addition to those
included in previous reports. One enemy
destroyer was sunk. One U.S. destroyer
was sunk by a submarine, but near-by ships
rescued the personnel with small loss of
life. Except for minor submarine activity
in the vicinity of the Hawaiian Islands this
section of the Pacific is quiet.
Admiral King, at his press conference
on June 7, had declined to say specifically
that the Midway battle had resulted in a
victory for Uncle Sam. He said: “The
enemy has withdrawn.” When asked
whether the Japanese had “thrown every-
thing into the Midway battle,” he re-
plied: “Perhaps not everything, but the
bulk of it. One of their methods is not
to send a boy to do a man’s job.”
About the battle for Dutch Harbor he
said that “the situation was somewhat
obscure, first, because the weather had
been bad for several days; second, be-
cause naval officers in their action report
only gave a minimum of information to
Washington.”
But enough had been learned at
South-west Pacific headquarters for
General MacArthur to cable to Admiral
Nimitz that “the splendid victory at Mid-
way has aroused the greatest enthusiasm
throughout this area,” that his “own pride
and satisfaction were boundless,” and
that the Australian Prime Minister had
asked to have his felicitations joined to
those of “all ranks here.”
On June 9 the Pearl Harbor com-
munique merely mentioned that there
was “nothing to report from the central
Pacific area.” Newspapers gave Japan-
ese losses off Midway as “14 to 18 war-
ships sunk or damaged,” including “three
to five aircraft-carriers.” But U.S. naval
observers soberly pointed out that “the
damagp” figures “were obviously incom-
plete” and that the Japanese were “not
yet definitely defeated.”
June 10, from Washington:
It is admitted here that Midway and the
Aleutian Islands battles were defensive
actions and that the initiative still rests
with Japan.
And that is the proper way to look
at it. It is too early to claim, as did an
American correspondent in Australia, that
Japan is now “wide open to attack from
the south.”
The Enemy’s Version
It was given on June 10 by Tokyo
Radio, based on an Imperial H.Q. com-
muniqud. Tokyo Radio declared that on
June 4 and 5, in a widespread naval
operation in the North Pacific, Japanese
forces had repeatedly attacked American
ships along the Aleutian Island group.
Meanwhile, on June 5, another force
attacked Midway, where contact was
made with a heavily air-reinforced Ameri-
can naval unit. “Serious damage” was
done to Midway installations, where
fierce attacks were levelled at U.S. sea and
air units. Two new U.S. 19,900-ton air-
craft-carriers Enterprise class were
sunk.
On June 7, the communique continued,
Japanese army units were landed on the
Aleutians at several points. Operations
there were continuing. One large Ameri-
can transport had been sunk, a tanker
bombed and destroyed by fire, two direct
hits made on oil installations and 14 U.S.
’planes shot down.
Japanese losses were admitted —one
aircraft-carrier sunk, one badly damaged,
one cruiser seriously crippled and 35
’planes missing. Later the sinking of the
damaged aircraft-carrier was confessed.
These losses are a serious matter for
Japan, which possesses only a fraction
of American building capacity. And they
were sufficient to send a thrill of exulta-
tion through all the democracies in the
Pacific.
A, Real Victory
By way of replying to the enemy and
also scotching exaggerations issued by
too-enthusiastic friends, Admiral Nimitz
came out with the following:
Incoming reports indicate that the Japan-
ese fleet engaged in the Midway battle con-
sisted of at least 30 vessels, among which
there were probably 50 per cent, casualties.
The Japanese loss of personnel was several
thousand, and there were many cases of
hard-pressed Japanese ships which did not
even take time to pick up survivors from
the sea.
Colonel Sweeney, who headed the Flying
Fortress formations that operated from
Midway, after a flight of nearly 1300
miles from Pearl Harbor, said that when
he first attacked “there were more than
20 ships lined in columns.” His forces
picked the biggest ships, started pattern-
bombing and saw direct hits on a trans-
port ; also on one cruiser and possibly
on a second, as well as on a battleship.
But, he added, “we didn’t remain long,
since the enemy, a.-a. fire was too hot.”
Next morning the Flying Fortresses
attacked the enemy force closer to Mid-
way. Here the ships were in line of battle
—destroyer screens in the van and on the
flanks, encasing cruisers, battleships and
carriers. Sweeney’s boys pattern-bombed
a carrier, scored a direct hit and
saw flames and an explosion. That after-
noon they saw a carrier and a capital
ship burning, and there were “no un-
damaged carriers visible,” so they bombed
a heavy cruiser and hit it square amid-
ships.
The crux of the matter is that the
enemy attacked at Midway with 30 or
more ships, which, even if the number
includes several transports, was as sub-
stantial a force as ever fought nearly
2600 miles from a main base.
A wide sea reconnaissance and the pre-
vision of the U.S.N. and Air Force en-
abled the concentration of an unex-
pectedly strong force of defensive naval
and air might. There was an element of
surprise in the battle—this time, as evi-
dently in the Coral Sea, against the
enemy. He waS so sure either that he
could take Midway, or that he would
encounter only carrier-based aircraft,
that he did not attempt to destroy Mid-
way’s airfields.
Shore-based aircraft, including the
heaviest that the U.S. Army owns, were,
however, on the spot. For the second
time in the history of the Pacific war —
the first was the occasion on which
Prince of Wales and Repulse were sunk
—shore-based aircraft proved a decisive
factor.
Whatever their intentions, the Japanese
were forced to retreat. For the Ameri-
cans it was a major victory, very impor-
tant, if only for its effects on enemy con-
fidence. But Dr. Evatt was right in
warning Australians from Washington
against forming hasty and overoptimistic
judgments. As he said, “Until we can
attack Japan we must be prepared to be
attacked by the Japanese in almost every
part of the Pacific.” In other words, we
cannot afford to relax our war effort in
any way. We must increase it in every
way.
What the Japs Were After
In effect, the Japanese stroke against
Midway Island and the Aleutian Islands
was the most important development in
enemy tactics since the move against the
Philippines and Malaya.
A major landing at Midway and the
establishment of a base there would not
only point a pistol at Pearl Harbor and
the Oahu defences. It would threaten
all the direct northern Pacific and
Panama-Australian routes, and go far to
nullify the strength and usefulness of the
Honolulu-Dutch Harbor-San Francisco
defence triangle.
Occupation of the Aleutians would
give Japan a complete series of stepping-
stones across the North Pacific. From
Hokkaido, the northernmost large island
of Japan proper, a chain of smaller
islands runs north-east for about 800
miles —the Kuriles. Each of these small
bits of land is within sight of the next.
The last of them is just off the peninsula
of Kamchatka, which is Soviet territory.
Many strategists have regarded Kam-
chatka as the key of the far-north
Pacific. Whoever holds it could close
the Behring Strait and the Behring Sea;
he could also interfere successfully in any
campaign against the Aleutians from
Asia.
With U.S.S.R. neutrality assured, an
Asiatic aggressor intending to assault
American territory does not need a foot-
hold on Kamchatka itself. Across the
Kurile Strait, in sight of neutral Russia,
Paramoshiri, most north-easterly of the
Japanese Kuriles, is all the jumping-off
ground the enemy needs for aerial attack
on the Aleutians.
The shadows of Japanese bombers
winging from there to Kiska, near where
the Japs claim to have landed in the
Aleutians, under 800 miles away, might
easily fall across Cape Lopatka, in Soviet
territory.
From Kiska to Dutch Harbor, 100
miles or so from the Alaskan peninsula,
is 685 miles. It is only another 615
miles across the peninsula to Kadiak
Island, in the Gulf of Alaska; thence to
Sitka, off the main Canadian coast, but
in Alaska, is 635 miles. Sitka is in a
maze of islands off British Columbia,
with which thousands of Japanese are
familiar. From there, or a little south,
Vancouver Island, Esquimault, the trans-
Canadian railway systems and Canadian
cities as far in as 500 miles from the
Pacific are within bombing range.
Thus the lightly-populated Alaskan
coast is approachable from Japan by the
same easy stages as New Guinea. Once
in command of the Aleutians, the enemy
could wall off the Behring Sea and pro-
vide himself with a closed naval route
to the Alaskan coast.
It is established that the enemy has
placed landing parties on uninhabited
isles in the Aleutian group. The Ameri-
cans are keeping them busy.
At this time of the year Alaska’s cli-
mate is warm; the seas are open. The
sparsely populated territory—there are
only 72,000 people in it —has many
things which Japan needs. No road or rail
connects it with the south, but last March
Canadian Prime Minister King and Mr.
Pierrepont Moffat, U.S. Minister to
Ottawa, signed an agreement under which
the United States is to build a military
road across Canadian territory to Alaska.
This road will be for mutual defence.
Canada will provide the right of way and
materials. After the war the road will
become Canadian save for the right of
U.S. civilian traffic to cross it without
discrimination.
On June 12 Ottawa reported that
heavy reinforcements of Canadian troops
had been sent to British Columbia in
consequence of the Japanese landings in
the Aleutians.
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: After the shelling of Syd-
ney and Newcastle from the sea on June
7, all was quiet for a few hours, but on
the night of June 8 a ship was attacked
by a large submarine off the s.-e. Aus-
tralian coast. She fought it off and
arrived in port with some damage, hav-
ing been hit by two shells.
On June 10, after three alerts in a
fortnight, Perth (W.A.) had its first full-
scale alarm, when the streets were cleared
and fighters went up. But it was based
on a “groundless report.”
On the same day it yvas announced by
the G.H. Command that another sub-
marine had probably been destroyed. The
communique added: “This would bring
the total destroyed to nine” —four midgets
in Sydney Harbor, one by a Dutch
bomber, the rest by the R.A.A.F.
Air fighting in the north livened up.
On June 11 Alied bombers made their
heaviest raid for weeks over Lae and
Salamaua against spirited fighter and flak
defence. Beside starting large fires at
several points, our bombers and fighters
brought down eight fighters, probably
destroyed another two and damaged three
by machine-gun and cannon fire. Only
two Allied machines were missing.
These losses were the product of three
fights—one a fighter affair, a second
against the defences of Lae, and the third
across the bay at Salamaua, where two
of the “O” fighters were destroyed and
others damaged. The pilots described the
mission as “one of the hottest so far.”
It may be accounted a good sign that


during a fortnight there was no attack
on Moresby. _ „ , „ A A
While the air was full of bullets and
bombs off New Guinea, enemy installa-
tions across the Arafura Sea at Timor
were in flames from a fierce attack.
At Rabaul ’drome on Thursday a
direct hit was made on three enemy
bombers and another string of souvenirs
was spread across the area round the
buildings among a lavish collection of
grounded ’planes. Eight O fighters
which went up in defence might have
saved their petrol with advantage.
On Friday it was Gasmata’s turn, but
Vunakanau, Rabaul’s ’drome, was again
sprayed to keep the enemy awake.
At midday on Saturday Darwin had its
first raid for seven weeks and the heaviest
since the initial attack on Feb. 19. The
attackers were 27 bombers and 12 to 15
“O” fighters, which dropped 150 bombs
from above 24,000 feet. But their raid
was unsuccessful; they did only slight
damage to an aerodrome. One enemy
fighter and one Allied interceptor were
shot down. On June 14, 18 to 25 O
fighters were beaten off. The enemy lost
four machines. The pilot of the one
Allied machine lost was saved. A
bomber formation retreated without com-
ing over the town.
An Allied flight on Saturday lightly
attacked Rabaul, and -shipping was
blasted at Jiniberi (Tabar Islands, off
New Ireland).
An alarm at Newcastle on Sunday
night set batteries blazing in a bombard-
ment of some unspecified objective at sea.
About 100 rounds were fired, and the
coast and city were blacked out for some
time. No sirens were sounded.
Rommel Before Tobruk.
“Ek Dum”: Last week saw a nasty
turn in the battle in Libya, consequent
upon the loss of Bir Hakheim by the
Free French.
At the end of the previous week the
Italians were being held off comfortably
on the north across the approaches to
Acroma, which stands at the northern
edge of the escarpment, the junction of
numerous roads and tracks, including the
main coastal road to Tobruk.
Almost due south from Acroma runs
a highway to the desert. After about 12
miles, it crosses Enver Pasha’s Trig
Capuzzo, which passes along the central
top of the escarpment 16 miles to El
Adem aerodrome, then 10 miles to Sidi
Resegh, thence onwards to Fort Capuzzo
and the Egyptian border. Seven miles
further south the Trig el Abt breaks off
along the southern edge of the escarp-
ment to Bir el Gubbi, from which a
road runs to El Adem and Tobruk (35
miles) almost due north. The place
called Knightsbridge is on this road. Still
further south beyond Bir el Harmat is
the plateau of Bir Hakheim on another
main easterly desert route to Bir el
Gubbi. .
The enemy has thus been striking for
all three main routes to Tobruk.
Bir Hakheim’s resistance was bitter and
prolonged. Time and time again after
the enemy had, further north, pushed his
way into the staple-shaped area, which
became known as the Devil’s Cauldron,
the British threw in mobile armored
forces west of the position to take the
weight off the French. Commanded by
General Koenig the latter were first
fiercely assaulted, then besieged on three
sides*
The relief forces—R.H.A., Indians and
crack British regiments were used for this
heroic work —found their efforts vain.
On June 8 there were three distinct
engagements in progress. One was for
a box fortification in which a Guards
brigade was entrenched at Knightsbridge
behind minefields guarding the approaches
to Tobruk, 30 miles to the n.-e. The
second was in the Devil’s Cauldron,
which was packed with spitting tanks in
a 10-mile-wide block, slightly west and
north of the first fight. The last was for
Bir Hakheim.
On the previous Friday, a British
counter-attack south and west of Knights-
bridge had made the enemy’s teeth rattle
and forced him to recoil, but savage
battles developed in the course of the
enemy’s counter-attack, whirling all over
40 square miles of dust-hidden, heat-
ridden, tank-blasted and wheel-broken
country. The salient fact about this
punching match was that Rommel
appeared to lose nearly half his front-line
armored strength in the area and that,
with greatly improved repair facilities,
our forces seemed momentarily to have
equality in numbers of vehicles with the
Germans and Italians.
The net result of the operations was a
withdrawal by the • Germans. It was
withdrawal with a purpose. The Knights-
bridge area was left quiet while tanks
and mobile artillery—heavier than any-
thing yet seen in the African war —were
hurled in a solid spearhead at Bir Hak-
heim, British imperial aircraft did their
best to mitigate the onslaught, and a
British column well to the west beyond,
the mouth of the Cauldron harried enemy
communications.
Though reporters noted signs of
“desperation” in the German com-
mander’s experiment of sending infantry
ahead of his tanks in the Knightsbridge
area the previous few days and in an
“uneasy dispersal” of his tanks, in con-
trast to the usual method of concentra-
tion, his game really appeared deeper.
He was playing to induce his enemy to
loosen out and follow his spreading
mobile units while he achieved concen-
trations of artillery, fresh tanks, ammu-
nition and supplies in the rear of his
three main objectives. The best that
could be said was that if the Free French
could hold out in their sunburnt Hades
of sand and declivity, the advantage was
inclined to be with the British. After
the week-end battle General Ritchie
summed up this view:
Well done, Eighth Army! Stick to it and
we’ve got him! All our efforts are needed
now —dogged, determined, aggressive—to
turn the tide to victory.
But Bir Hakheim was suffering more than
tired and tortured flesh and blood, un-
reinforced, could bear. Armor was
massed all round it—armor drawn much
of it from the fronts further north and
west.
It already had warded off nine blows.
Monday had seen a terrific bombardment
of the four-mile-square hillock —some-
thing like the Central Australian eroded
formations north of the Finke —by heavy
mobile artillery and Stukas. The imperial
air forces did their best —in the previous
fortnight over the whole battlefield they
had destroyed 1000 enemy vehicles, 47
’planes and hundreds of troops.
The defenders, including a Foreign
Legion regiment, mowed down advancing
Italian infantry with machine-gun and
bayonet and stopped one tank rush after
another. On June 10 imperial motorised
forces made another attempt to assist. But
on June 11 Berlin announced the cap-
ture of the position. This was confirmed.
The remains of the valiant garrison had
withdrawn under cover of British tank
screens. It was reported that General
Koenig and 3000 out of 4000 men
escaped.
The victory was a blow to the Eighth
Army. The Free Frenchmen’s fight had
not been the main battle. That had been
stilled in the Cauldron while they were
fighting it out. What the capture of Bir
Hakheim did achieve for the Germans
was a short cut for their supplies to the
Knightsbridge area and the opening of
a British flank in about the most awk-
ward position conceivable —on the side
which could receive least help from the
sea, and was menaced by most easting
routes. The blow paved the way to
pounce on British communications from
the south-west.
However, the delay had given the
imperial troops time and some rest, and
had cost Rommel heavily in men and
material and fatigue.
He, however, wasted no time. His
tanks were scarcely on the heights of
Hakheim before he struck with a Panzer
spearhead north in the Bir el Harmat
region across the Trig el Abt.
He flung himself into the road rect-
angle of which Bir Hakheim formed
one of the base points—the others were
Acroma, El Adem, only 10 miles from
Tobruk, and Tobruk. In a few hours his
tanks were up the escarpment on the
Trig Capuzzo and the 18-mile line from
Knightsbridge to El Adem had become
an inferno. He apparently secured con-
trol of routes along the Jebel el Akbar,
south of the escarpment to El Gubbi.
Tanks, appearing from somewhere,
fiercely but unsuccessfully attacked El
Adem itself—Berlin said “the remnants”
of Allied tank forces were being dealt
with there.
Enemy reinforcements of armor
seemed to pour so soon as the southern
flank attack began to develop into a well-
clinched battle. A new stroke was begun
near Gazala, apparently with a twofold
aim—one arm to enfold the Acroma and
Gazala regions, thus expanding German
communications and capturing or driving
eastward all British forces west and s.-w.
of Tobruk; the other to surround and
attack Tobruk itself, cutting off help
from the sea, and paving the way to
drive the imperial forces to the Libyan
border, or to pen them off by dashes
along the Bir el Gubbi and Trig Capuzzo
highways.
On June 14 the position was menac-
ing to the Eighth Army, but some of its
strong elements, including the S’Africans
in the Gazala region, were not yet in
action. However, the enemy’s furthest-
flung forces were almost within long-
distance-artillery range of the Tobruk
perimeter, and that fact could not be
discounted even in a vast infiltrated battle,
all along fought very gallantly by the
Eighth Army.
Grim Fighting in Russia.
Though in the north there was fighting
last week along the swampy Volkhov,
and heavy transport movements to Fin-
land from German ports in the Baltic
were reported—the Soviets announced
the sinking of nine enemy transports
the centre of interest remained in the
south.
“Red Star” admitted that the situation
of Sevastopol had become serious. The
struggle for that historic place seems to
have resolved itself into a bitter swaying
fight for two strong points overlooking
the city. The Germans seem to domi-
nate Balaclava and Inkerman and to
have secured points from which to cover
the harbor from each side.
Throughout the week heavy German
air forces, which could not be warded off
because the city is short of aerodrome
space, persistently raked the town, its
cliff-bound port and its approaches with
bombs. By June 14 the defence ring had
been deeply penetrated and the situation
was precarious for the Russians, who had
been besieged for 217 days. The Ger-
mans claimed .the capture of Fort Stalin,
set on “a dominating height.”
A small force of Germans crossed the
Kerch Strait and made a reconnaissance
landing on the Taman Peninsula, thresh-
old of the Caucasus.
And after three or four days’ pre-
liminaries, the Kharkov bridgehead
regions have become the scene of what
“Red Star” calls “the heaviest fighting
on the Russian front this year.” The
Russians at the week-end admitted a
strenuously-resisted advance by the
enemy. To Russian tank attacks the
enemy opposed furious dive-bombing.
Moscow reported 1000 enemy operational
flights over one narrow sector of the
front. . ...
An enemy communique of June 14 de-
clared that German spearheads had
crossed the Donetz in several places and
captured several important heights on
the west bank, though in places boggy
ground was making progress difficult.
The Russian casualties for three days
were asserted to have been 8600 killed
and 25,000 prisoners, together with 94
tanks, 282 guns and 200 lorries captured.
This will be an important week in
R USS ia
The landing of British troops at Mur-
mansk has been alleged for the second
time —on this occasion from Helsinki
but has not been confirmed. An enemy
estimate of the number landed is between
10,000 and 20,000. They may be work-
ing and instructional parties, connected
with the supply of armaments^
Blitz at Broome.
Captain L. J. Brain, operations man-
ager of Qantas Empire Airways, tells the
story of the first Jap raid on Broome in
a letter to his g.m., Hudson Fysh:
Nine-thirty a.m. The ship is being refuelled
and 25 passengers and crew are waiting on tne
wharf with their baggage. Ambrose is ready
to take her and I am writing a letter to the
M.D. Am interrupted by the unmistakable
sound of machine-guns Jap fighters are div-
ing and shooting up the flying-boats m the
harbor. Got over to the shore and watched.
The Jap fighters are not camouflaged, but are
bright silver with red spots under their wings.
As they take it in turn to dive down on an-
other flying-boat, the tracers can be seen flashing
into the water and the slower cannon shells
can be heard.
Shouts and screams can be heard coming
across the water from the burning boats. Ihe
natives are in a great panic, and will not assist
me to drag a rowboat down the mud to tne
water. I find I am not strong enough to do
this alone, owing to fever and absence of tood
for some days past. _ .
Malcolm Miller (Mansfield and Co.) appears
at the right moment, and between us we get
the rowboat into the water. The Japs are now
proceeding over to the land aerodrome. Alter
getting out about half a mile we could see heads
bobbing in the water and hear shouts for help.
On coming up we found seven Dutchmen, two
supporting a young Dutch woman, who was
in a state of collapse. Another was swim-
ming on his back supporting a young baby
and keeping his face above water. The others
were keeping company with a Dutch boy
about eight who was still able to swim and
support himself.
We got the woman and baby and also the
boy and three of the most exhausted men
aboard the rowboat, and the remaining four
clung to the edge. We could not handle any
more, so returned to the nearest mangrove
beach. . „
Meantime I noticed to my surjyise that two
luggers which had been refuelling were un-
damaged and were rescuing other survivors.
There were no casualties among our start.
Several engineers on the ship hastily
scrambled into a dinghy when shooting com-
menced, but, finding bullets showering around
them, dived overboard and could hear the
bullets hitting the water above them.
The enemy made no attack on the mam
jetty, where the passengers and crew were
assembled.
Qantas has lost four valued men since
the Pacific war began.
Bad weather has held up large-scale
offensives over Germany, but the Ger-
mans are still talking about Cologne and
Essen. Emden was pasted on one of the
clearer nights, and the Ruhr was again
the scene of a large raid in which heavy
damage was paid for with the loss of 18
bombers. The fighter and light-bomber
sweeps continue to do damage over occu-
pied France. '
• * ♦ *
Taranto was raided five times last week
by R.A.F. and F.A.A. machines. Raid-
ing over Malta was not on the largest
scale. Enemy losses of ’planes in the
raids ran to double figures—six on one
day.
* * * *
Air-raid casualties in Britain in May
are officially given as 170 men and 155
women and 48 children under 16 killed
and 425 persons sent to hospital.
** t * *
Further large numbers of U.S. troops,
including tank forces, have arrived in
Northern Ireland, and fresh Canadian
reinforcements in England. There is no
inkling as to the size of the U.S. Army
in Ulster save that it is still under com-
mand of a major-general.
♦ * * *
An American battleship, at least one
cruiser and destroyers are serving with
the British Home Fleet, of which the flag-
ship is H.M.S. Duke of York. Berlin
asserts that 20,000 U.S. troops have been
landed in Iraq.
* * * *
Things are going badly for the Chinese,
who are fighting gallantly at half a dozen
points in Kiangsi, Chekiang and Yunnan.
Chungking admitted the loss of Chuhsien,
an important rail and air junction in
Chekiang, but declared that it cost the
Japanese 20,000 dead and wounded.
Fuchow in Kiangsi is also lost. Several
small Chinese forces in Kiangsi are said
to be on the offensive. The Chinese in
Burma have now been fully withdrawn
and have rejoined the Chinese Yunnan
army.
* • * f
Included in the sea activities during
the week were the crippling of an Italian
submarine off Santander in the Bay of
Biscay by Australian Sunderlands; an
aerial attack on enemy shipping in the
Frisian Islands in which direct hits were
scored; a naval clash off Belgium in which
a 600-ton German torpedo boat was
sunk, while two British boats were slightly
damaged and two crew members killed.
H.M. sub. Turbulent reports sinking a
1629-ton Italian destroyer and four supply
ships on the way to Libya. The Italians
admit the loss of two destroyers in the
Mediterranean —one by a mine, one by
a torpedo.
* * ♦ ♦
The first U.S. merchantman since
December has been sunk off the West
Coast of the U.S. The Navy Department
admits that sinkings round the U.S.
coasts average three ships a day. U-boats
which the enemy are using combine the
characteristics of a destroyer and a sub;
marine, are faster on the surface than
merchantmen and carry 12 to 16 21-inch
torpedoes.
* ♦ * *
Rome gives Italian naval casualties
since the outbreak of war as 25,000, in-
cluding 1900 killed, and claims that the
Italian Navy has sunk 1,191,000 tons of
Allied naval ships and 1,300,000 tons of
merchant ships. The naval sinking repre-
sents about 80 per cent, of Britain’s
battleships, cruisers and destroyers at the
outbreak of war with Italy. Magnificent
work!
* * * *
“E.D.”; John Bull has not wasted
the past year. It is now over
four months since an American Army
Air Force man remarked that he
had been “staggered” to discover
that Britain had somehow accumulated
the biggest and fastest air force bombers
in the world. Results have shown that
Britain not only possesses such bombers,
but bombs and trained men to go with
them. And an admission early in the
year that there were 1,500,000 men in
the R.A.F. and its ancillary services has
proved true. The kind of surgical opera-
tion which is being performed on Ger-
many is in the million-man range.
*** * *
“E.V.”: Cologne (B. 10/6/’42) is a
very ancient city. It was named
by the Emperor Claudius after his Agrip-
pina. It is supposed to be the resting
place of the Three Kings of the East.
It has been a bishopric since a.d. 314.
The main city is enclosed in a quarter-
circle of fan converging on the huge
double-spired cathedral and the Cathedral
Square. On one side of this is the
railway station; on the other, the town
hall and a fine cluster of spired churches
and shops along the Breitestrasse. The
centre of the city is a tangle of ancient
streets, medieval buildings and modern
pubs and shops, but some distance out the
arc of the old fortifications was re-
moved to make the broad four-mile-long
Salier Ring, with adjoining parks and
gardens. Still further out is a second
semicircular road, and beyond that huge
railway yards, factory suburbs, oil-
storage, chemical and munition plants.


Women's Letters
From MeSbourne
American service men have often told
hostesses in Melbourne that they wanted
to return some of the hospitality show-
ered on them, but ways and means eluded
the stranger within our gates. It is too
hard these days to book tables at a
restaurant for more than two or four
people, and dance floors are few and far
between. But one unit .decided that some-
thing must be done, so it called its padre
into consultation. He was Major Blen-
kinsop and a live-wire. Before long the
major had acquired the Town Hall no
less ; then with the aid of a hostess regis-
tered with the American Hospitality
Bureau fixed up the oft-vexed question
of food, so that a dinner was cooked on
the night in the Town Hall kitchen for
200 service men and girl partners and
served from small tables in the hall at
a real dinner-dance. There seemed no
difficulty about all ranks sharing, for
Lieut.-Col. Wiegand attended ; so did the
padre and junior officers, and of course
lots of full privates.
Had a woman returned to her native
Melbourne 25 years ago with the news
that part of her work as a missionary
was to give leprosy injections, most of
our mothers would have taken a leap
three feet into the air and hurriedly left
the lady, and thereafter suffered tortures
wondering whether they had acquired
the dread disease. But now it’s just a
story, if an interesting one, and it was
told last week by Effie Varley when she
rejoined her father and mother, the
Frank Varley s, on furlough from
Nigeria. An old University High School
girl, Effie went through the Pharmaceuti-
cal College and had its diploma when she
fared forth as a Sudan Interior mission-
ary. She tells an tale of
the cure of leprosy in its early stages by
these injections,' and its arrest if taken
in hand only in a later stage. She
travelled over half Africa to reach her
port, and seems to have enjoyed all of
it. Her chemist’s lore came in handy
wherever she was, for the native seems
instinctively to turn to the white man
when troubled with sickness.
Melbourne’s efforts at promenade con-
certs so far have been confined to organ
recitals at the Town Hall some seasons
ago, and now, with brownout making our
nights far from joyful, we are fearfully
contemplating the possibility of midday
recitals at the Assembly Hall. The hall is
small, so it should be easily filled ; too
easily, for the fact that it had to be taken
emphasises our shocking dearth of halls
of a reasonable size for such experi-
ments. A galaxy of talent, including vio-
linists, pianists, singers and the rest, has
made itself available, and proceeds from
small collections go to the Red Cross.
The aim, of course, is to keep music
alive in our midst, but the difficulty is to
give this to a public in such a way that
it doesn’t have the suspicion that it is
merely hearing what it heard last night
on the radio.
With the knighting of our Lud Mayor
lots of nice things are being said about
his wife, who is having a busy time
coping with all the congrats. She is
another Ballarat girl to arrive. The
golden city has supplied quite a num-
ber of helpmeets to knights, a notable
instance being General Lavarack’s pleas-
ant and popular wife, who was daughter
of an aforetime Ballarat medico, the late
Dr. Ochiltree. The Beaurepaire lady
was a Mackay of the widespread family
made locally famous by Hugh Victor of
that ilk ; its bright particular son invented
the harvester which brought him a for-
tune. There are two Beaurepaire chil-
dren, a boy who swims nearly as well as
father used to, and a girl who is ambling
along at her pleasant suburban school
and in no hurry to grow up.
Another medical engagement has come
this week, 'that of the popular Dr. John
Billings, who has been senior resident at
St. Vincent’s this last 12 months, and
Dr. Lyn Thomas, whose appointment to
the Royal Melbourne was announced last
week. The announcement does not sur-
prise their friends, but they apparently
thought that putting off public announce-
ment until Lyn had the rush of exams,
over was a good idea. Dr. Thomas was
one of the most liked of Janet Clarke
Hall’s senior students, and John Billings
was one of Newman’s brightest stars,
finishing a very brilliant course with
second place on the finals list.
This is the season when annual meet-
ings are in full swing, but the one held
by the Country Women’s Association was
an abbreviated convention compared with
the big exhibition and debates which used
to be the rule in pre-war days. This
time there was no exhibition, because
the work done is now mostly in use for
war and also because no time
couk f b £ wasted from camouflage net-
maki and instruction in this work,
wbi ch the Country Women have under-
taken tQ ive any i here where a woman
G r two will undertake it. One thing did
emerge from the annual gathering, that
the Land which has under Mrs .
s v Sewell’s excellent organisation
moved quietly ahead, has already found
trained or sprained girls for jobs
wb i cb now mount towards the 200 mark,
g ut j- b i s movement would be much
quicker if legislators would give some
bo dy of women, preferably the Country
Wo^en offida l recognition,
e .•+ a u ~
S YI h P » S
? hmlth -. sbo . uld b f. a when she
1S f a 3 uir ?,f m Ta T Tt \
° f „* hlS "n*
S“? er ? e l ather J * e ? a * y
Styles - has been doing a course m house-
Wl , £ery f Invergowne Homecraft ho tel,
no *. ° nly , th< i , usual °f year ,, . wdh
which most girls are contented, but the
two-year one which is given the name of
the professional course. Girls who have
done it should be the equal of any chef
and house-manager, and they also have
had the advantage of playing hostess in
the perfect little cottage attached to the
hostel, so that their ideas on interior
decoration and table decorating and the
like have been stimulated by practice
and the criticism of their hostel fellow-
students. No plans for the marriage are
disclosed yet, Alan being very busy in
an important job which makes him a
fixture for the period of the war.
The presence here of some very trim
feminine figures in well-cut navy blue
uniforms, ornamented with maroon and
with pips on the shoulders, has intrigued
us plenty ; for, since the Americans made
such an impression by not only giving
their nurses substantive rank but actually
calling them, first and second lieutenants
and the rest of it, we have been very
commission-conscious. It was quite a
thrill to learn that said navy with maroon
indicated the members of our Australian
Massage Corps, who are attached to the
A.A.M.C., and that when appointed to
their work they are gazetted lieutenants.
Most of the girls now wearing this uni-
form have already won the right to be
considered a most important part of the
medical unit, and for those who like to
air their idea that massage is “all bunk,
anyway,” the record of the work of mas-
seuses in Malaya will some day make sur-
prising reading. They didn’t let up dur-
ing the last days there, working con-
tinuously by surgeons’ sides night and
day, with an hour here and there for
sleep.
With her marriage to Flight-Lieut.
Marcus Swan this week, the eldest
daughter of Sir Charles Burnett, our
former Air Chief, becomes an Australian.
She has won from the W.A.A.A.F.S. high
regard for a splendid job as their second
in command under Claire Stevenson. She
is not the first daughter of an English
commander to see something likeable in
the Australians in her father’s command,
for Lord Birdwood’s daughter now lives
in Westralia, having married a sol-
dier of the last war. To Sybil Burnett
must be given credit for being one of
the first to realise that clothes rationing
and travel rationing were essential. Long
before most other girls in prominent posi-
tions had seen it coming, Sybil used to
wear non-silk stockings to any and every
social function, and her bicycle carried
her over most of the metropolitan area.
Hubby Marcus Swan being at present
attached here, the couple will probably
sample Melbourne flat life for a while.
From Sydney
Women walking undisturbed through
the sunshine of last Saturday, childien
calling gaily as they flew through the air
on the swings in park and playground,
mothers sitting in peace by the fires of
countless homes, their babes tucked in
bed for the night, were all part of Aus-
tralia’s hallelujah chorus of MacArthur
Day. For that is what the coming of this
heroic general, backed by the resources
of the great Republic, has brought to
this Commonwealth, a feeling of security.
And to say this generously is not detract-
ing from the generalship, the courage of
our own soldiers (Americans who fought
under General Monash in the 1914-18
war know all about those qualities). It
is not weakening by a thread the ties of
blood and kinship which make us British
to the backbone. But it is admitting a
debt of gratitude which the soul of Aus-
tralia repays with an implicit faith.
It is rarely that a man is honored dur-
ing his lifetime by having his nation set
aside a day in his honor. General Doug-
las MacArthur, soldier son of a soldier
father, was probably modestly embar-
rassed when the U.S.A. bestowed on him
this distinction. Modesty, like a cloak,
has enveloped the general’s way of life
since coming to this country. Not for
him the sounding trumpet, the bright
banner. But what he has set himself to
achieve he will achieve. With his Ameri-
can and Australian forces he will stream
back to the Philippines (beloved place of
his birth) on the tide of victory. When
Peace spreads her cool mantle again upon
the earth, let MacArthur Day become one
of Australia’s nation-wide days of cele-
bration.
Mabel McElhone, assistant-controller
of V.A.Ds. (A.1.F.), got back from the
Middle East recently with her smile un-
impaired. Mabel was attached to head-
quarters, and besides hard work she
managed to have a look at the beauti-
fully-equipped houseboats on the Nile
which have been given over for the use
of nurses and V.As. when on leave. Like
all other returned women war workers
Miss McElhone retains nothing but
pleasant memories of her experiences.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
After weeks of wondering just how
the Government hoped to hand out mil-
lions of ration-books in two days (Satur-
urday and Sunday), after women saying
to one another “Well, dear, if I have
to stand for an hour in a queue, I’m
afraid I’ll faint. My heart, you know!”
or, more frankly, “Dearie, I got fallen
arches, an’ it’s goin’ to be reel crool on
me! ” the rather dreaded week-end
arrived. And behold, like all bogeys
when dragged from their lairs, there was
nothing alarming about the affair. You
went to the issuing hall nearest to you,
and women who combined early morning
shopping with collecting their coupons
found little lines of maybe eight or so
ahead of them. People who went in the
afternoon were in and out in the twinkling
of an eye. Well, at any rate, the business
took no longer than voting.
It was a chatty affair, too. You found
acquaintances in the lines, and you ex-
changed intimacies with perfectly strange
women. One unknown confided that
she could do without a winter suit, but
woolly undies she must hdve. Would
she, she inquired anxiously, be allowed
to put the coupons she would otherwise
use for a suit into long-sleeved vests?
One thought brought a beam of satisfac-
tion to the soul: there was real demo-
cracy behind this handout. Every man,
woman and child in Australia has
been put on the same footing. There
have been no distinctions of rank and
position. Mrs. Piute can grab no more
(though she may grab more expensively)
than the woman wage-earner’s coupons
allow her. Like the mower on a lawn the
ration-coupon book has levelled us all.
All things considered, president Mrs.
Roy Buckland and the committee of
workers for the Sydney Industrial Blind
Institution, are not ill-pleased with the
results of the dance held in Prince’s last
week. J. C. Bendrodt had made a gift
of the whole affair —dinner, which was
an excellent one, music, and the restau-
rant for the night. Tickets were a guinea
each, so, even with the cancellings which
occurred owing to the rumor that a
“total blackout” might be imposed on
the city, the cheque from the dance
should be quite a good one.
Owing to the small attendance and
everybody knowing one another, there
was a private-party air about the night.
An old-fashioned waltz competition and
a Monte Carlo dance, for which prizes
were given, were bright happenings. The
prizes looked almost fabulous. Bottles
of whisky and champagne, topdressed in
flowers, caused the gasp of surprised in-
credulity. In former years the title of
the dance for the institution has been “the
White Ball,” but this year there was no
arbitrary color or style. Women dancers
wore plain but bright frocks. Mostly
the men were in uniform or lounge suits.
Mrs. Roy Buckland sparkled as though
she and the ’flu had not just recently
parted. Mrs. Scott Waine was among
the night’s good-lookers. The committee
is determined to raise its yearly quota,
and is already thinking out plans.
Members of the C.W.A., from country
districts as well as from the city, arrived
with promptitude and smiling anticipa-
tion at David Jones’s annexe last Thurs-
day. Every year the C.W.A. has an inter-
national day. That is, it decides on a
country which is to be honored. This
year China was the country chosen. The
programme was one of Chinese music
and song. Consul-General Dr. Tuan, his
wife and other members of the Consular
set were guests of honor. Dr. Tuan
made the speech of the day, his country
his subject. He told in what respect the
women of his country were held, and
quoted the proverb which says that the
man who has a good wife will never go
to gaol.
President of the Cumberland branch,
Mrs. H. J. Brady, presided, very smart
and trig in a dusty-pink suit. Near her
were Mrs. Tuan and Mrs. Wong. Helen
Hsu, a daughter of China’s Minister to
Australia, was also in the official group.
Next to her were William Morris Hughes
and Dame Mary. “Billy” made the
speech of thanks. In it flashed humor
and forcefulness. Mrs. Beveridge, who
had come from Gundagai specially for
the party, was among the much-wel-
comed. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, who had
brought a number of friends, made an
informal and very friendly little speech
supporting that of Mr. Hughes.
To the C.W.A. goes the credit of estab-
lishing the first service women’s residen-
tial club in this city. The club is at
King’s Cross, just a one-section tram ride
from town. In the summer it will be
lauded for its nearness by tram and bus
to various beaches and swimming baths.
It is a club with a touch of real home.
Here the tired service girl can have a
sleep-in without being looked on
askance, and here, too, she can bring her
men friends to dinner. The C.W.A. can
feel as proud as its members tried not
to look last Sunday when Lady Wake-
hurst made one of her friendly speeches,
cut a ribbon or two and thereby set the
wheels in motion.
By three-thirty the doorway was starred
with C.W.A. importants awaiting the vice-
regal arrival. State president Mrs. Jack
Garry, Mrs. H. J. Brady and Mrs.
Beveridge were a few of the notables.
From country branches came represen-
tatives and a comforting list of cheques.
Mrs. Wilson, president of the Oberon
branch, had come with £2O from that
mountain fastness. Twenty pounds fur-
nishes a unit, though how such dainty
nests are furnished with this amount is
just another example of how C.W.A.
surmounts a difficult problem.
There’s a dining-room in the basement,
all honey-colored wood and bright fur-
nishings. The ground floor is given over
to long, narrow reception-, recreation-
and writing-rooms. In the last-named
is a very gleaming electric clock. There
are plenty of fireplaces, and on each
mantelpiece is a mirror. Each bedroom
holds two small beds, their glittering
chrome throwing into relief the rose or
deep-blue chenille covers and gaily pat-
terned curtains. Each bed is supplied
with a wool-filled quilt in toning color-
ings, and there is plenty of ward-
robe space. Prices are such that a
service woman’s pay can run to them,
and there is a hint of quiet luxury sur-
rounding this establishment. Allowing
the girls to slumber in the morning un-
disturbed and to entertain their boy
friends to a friendly dinner were sugges-
tions from Lady Wakehurst. She was
duly thanked for these and other kind-
nesses. Major-General Fewtrell, C. S.
Docker and Mrs. McVittie lifted the
voice of praise. Mrs. Garry and Mrs.
Beveridge spoke for the C.W.A.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Everything was favorable for the meet-
ing at Randwick last Saturday, and,
though only one absolute favorite was
successful, three others were well backed.
In the June Plate Kingsdale (McMena-
min) proved himself even better than pre-
viously supposed. Always within strik-
ing distance of the pacemaker, Trimmer,
he ran past the latter at the leger, and
won as he pleased from Rodborough,
who shoul4 be hard to beat when he
next runs in a mile welter. Happy Bay
also finished well, as did Winnipeg, who
was a long way back in the early part.
Valve also did well at the end. All Love
stopped at the post. A little while ago
Kingsdale would not have been rated
up to Yaralla’s standard, but he has re-
cently made such marked improvement
that it will be interesting to see how the
handicappers rate them when they are
next engaged in the same race.
Triggerman and Fearless were at the
head of affairs to the turn in the Winter
Plate. Then Pantler (Freedman) settled
them, but was immediately tackled by
Katanga, Fifty yards from home the
latter looked a sure winner, but his old
habit of hanging in and taking a bite at
a rival enabled Pantler to get a slight
lead almost on the post. Hard luck for
the owner and trainer of Katanga.
Speeder ran on well to beat Triggerman
for third. The form of Two’s Company
was at complete variance with her pre-
vious week’s. Fifth at the half-mile she
was not afterwards a place possibility.
Lord Valentine momentarily showed up
in the straight, but did not run on, and
Fearless Fox never shaped worse. Red
Pete was too new for such a long trip.
In the Exeter Handicap Fermanagh
(Coutts) again proved himself good at a
mile, and further demonstrated that he is
suited by the welter scale. He led from
the time the field settled down, and, get-
ting away from his nearest followers- —
Cable, Roxford, Duke Cullen and Guild
Hall—entering the straight, squeezed
home by a head from Pinero, who, after
being eleventh •or twelfth at the turn,
would have won in a few more strides.
Response, in third place, also came from
a long way back, and he, Many Ways
and Duke Cullen look more like early
winners than any of those they beat.
Temerity showed all the speed expected
in the Nursery Handicap, leading round
the turn from High Flight, but Boor
Chief (Munro), who quickly made up a
lot of leeway, had the race safe halfway
down the straight. Flying Shuttle finished
strongly, and Sandman also ran well, but
for a win Hawklet, General Smuts
or Roman Law may be better worth fol-
lowing than either.
It takes a particularly smart three-year-
old to win a Trial Handicap at Randwick
with 9.3, and those backers who sent
Galliard out at 7 to 4 were blessed with
more pluck than judgment. Third into
the straight his weight pulled him up in
the run home. When Mutineer (Knox)
was running third to Winnie and Rrcnew
after passing the half-mile it was apparent
he was going to take a lot of beating.
He ran past Winnie at the top of the
straight, and then had no trouble in
stalling off Shining Night. Hopelessly
placed at the turn, Addition put in good
work to beat Winnie for third, and The
Gambler was another . that made up
ground in the straight. Dyne made a
poor showing, as did Nemesis.
Saratoga (R. Welsh) did not shine at
Rosehill, but the week’s interval did so
much for him that, after leading with
Tea Denis at the half-mile—where the
latter fell —he went on to win the Hurdle
Race easily from Rameo, who, after
appearing to have a chance at the three
furlongs, lost ground in the straight.
Gold Pan was third, but it was a poor
effort. Nothing else counted.
* * * *
The most striking performance at
Moonee Valley on Saturday was that of
Retnuha in the Greenvale Handicap.
Backed from 14 to 1 down to eights he
beat the second horse, Cellini, by six
lengths. Retnuha was a 45gns. yearling.
Sea Power finished first in the Deep
Creek Handicap, but so badly interfered
with Gusher that the latter got the race
on protest.
Vines won the Windarra Hurdle, but
though Boisterous was among those he
beat it was not a performance that caused
his G.N. Hurdle price to shorten to any
extent. Nor did that of Ardent Youth
in the G.N. Steeplechase as a result of his
Travancore Steeplechase success. Still, as
he is a good jumper and has the mini-
mum in the National, his chance may be
better than generally supposed. Long-
priced winners are common at Melbourne
meetings, and The Monk, at 20 to 1 for
the first division of the Woodlands Plate,
and Hearsay, at 33 to 1 for the second
division, gave the books results that were
thoroughly to their liking.
* * * *
Isambard, as a result of his recent win,
is a hotter favorite than ever for the
G.N. Hurdles, and Winterset is well clear
of everything else in the Steeplechase. As
both are Flemington specialists, it will
take unexpectedly good form on the part
of probable opponents to cause either
to lose his position during the next fort-
night.
* * * *
In the election for the vacancy on the
A.J.C. committee F. W. Duesbury de-
feated R. J. Bartley by 677 to 357. A
keen worker, the new committeeman
should be a genuine acquisition.
« ♦ * •
King George’s Hyperion-Clarence filly
Sun Chariot (4 to 1 on) easily won the
Oaks, but his colt Big Game, also an
odds-on chance, ran only sixth in the
Derby, which was won by Lord Derby s
Watling Street (Fairway-Ranai), who de-
feated Hyperides (brother to F. W.
Hughes’s stallion Titan) by a neck, with
Burban Ali’s three-quarter brother Ujiji
third. Watling Street started at 6 to 1.
Last season he was rated next to Sun
Chariot and Big Game. Many good
judges in England were doubtful whether
Big Game would stay, and their judg-
ment was correct,
* * * *
The Epsom Handicap (Oct. 3) is to
carry £2OOO against £3OOO last year, and
the Metropolitan (Oct. 10) drops from
£5OOO to £3500. Value of minor races
will not suffer to any appreciable extent.
The spring meeting will be confined to
two days this year. Epsom and Metrop.
entries close on Aug. 10.
In reducing its prize-money for the
Epsom and Metropolitan the AJ.C. is
taken to task for lack of confidence in
the future of racing. However, many
people seemingly do not yet realise there
is a war on, and that overconfidence in
any industry is inadvisable until we push
the Japs further away from our shores.
Better to cut down big stakes now and
let owners know' where they stand than
do so later.
* * * *
Many prominent Melbourne and Syd-
ney racing men have died during the past
two years, and last week F. A. Moses
was added to the number. He and his
late brother Will did well as breeders,
with Valais as their leading stallion. They
raced many good horses, the best being
Poitrel, one of Australia’s greatest stayers.
* * * *
“A bit to nothing” is relished by many
trainers as well as jockeys ; and the other
day I heard a trainer argue that, as in
any other business, if you gave a man
something that was of value it was only
fair you should receive tangible recogni-
tion. The fact that he was giving away
his employer’s business did not count.
That attitude may, to some extent, be ex-
cusable where a trainer’s patrons are
practically non-bettors, but it cannot be
justified where there is any interference
with an owner’s interests or in the case of
those who, taking advantage of what they
see on the training tracks, give out that
another trainer’s horse is “a good thing”
and receive payment for the information
if it proves correct.
m * * *
Australian soldiers in some parts of
the East see a fair amount of racing, and,
writing me from Syria, a friend says:
Last Sunday was Derby day, but I couldn’t
attend. Anyhow, it was a peculiar sort or
Derby, being restricted to three-year-olds that
had never raced. The prize was £3OOO Syrian
(approximately £430 Australian), so you see
they do not race for peanuts here. The
smallest prize on an eight-race programme was
about £AI3S. Not bad when you consider
the highest price of admission is equivalent to
4s. 3d.; it used to be 2s. lOd. Soldiers pay
the latter amount for admission to the pad-
dock. One day I was so broke that I went
on the flat—over the fence and in for nothing
—and it was one of the most amusing days’
racing I ever had.
Prince Aly Khan, now a major id a Yeo-
manry regiment, has been racing a couple of
horses in Syria, and has just paid £4OO sterling
for the third horse in the Derby. Capt. Frank
Cundell is training for him.
* * * ♦
Queensland has turned out some good
sprinters, but, if the B.A.T.C. (Brisbane)
handicapper is correct in his estimate,
Auction, a five-year-old gelding by
General Monash, is “the greatest ever.”
In the Doomben Newmarket, seven fur-
longs, Auction is giving 171 b. to Beau-
livre, who in the last Epsom was weighted
only 71b. below High Caste. Auction has
proved himself an Albion Park specialist.
On Saturday he won again at that track
with 11.5.
* * * *
Discussing the result of most recent
“dope” tests an American exchange says:
“It was agreed by experts that of eleven
fundamental drugs four showed unmis-
takably that they could get more yards
per minute out of horses. Of these heroin
was the most potent. It was found that
morphine, nearly always a depressant in
humans, may stimulate horses. Nitro-
glycerine injections helped the circulation
of the dope by expanding the horses’
blood vessels. Strychnine excited the
spinal cords. . Aconite was almost as
speed-producing as heroin. Cocaine made
horses wild at the post. The urin.e test
recovered doping proof as long as forty-
eight hours after the injection. The saliva
test was useless after eight hours, but for
reasons of convenience it was the main
test today.”
» * • *
The “Dominion” (Wellington) says the
remount encouragement scheme is to be
discontinued in Maoriland until after the
war. The racing and trotting bodies con-
tributed a percentage of their totalisator
revenue, and the Government donation
was £4OOO yearly.
* * * .*
It is mentioned by an American ex-
change that Santa Anita Park is now a
Japanese concentration camp. Aliens are
held there before they are sent to inland
camps.
* * , * . * ,
Some owners and trainers have
already considerably reduced their teams,
but the form of several horses that
have raced recently suggests that opti-
mistic Sydney owners and trainers are
still numerous. You repeatedly hear it
meetings 1 show”nearly enough
Si*
would give them a chance m a Hurry
Scurry at a bush meeting. Adm y
SOme l ra w er ?X n r'in lm thr o er orToir
remarkable fashion in tnree or lour
weeks, but how they manage to persuade
owners to persevere with no chance
horses is even more surprising.
* * *
No trainer can accomplish a great
deal unless he gets hold of the right
material but some cannot turn it to
account’when they do. Occasionally a
goodTorse will “make” a trainer, giv-
fn°g° mm"es Zt do not fall to § the
lot of more capable men. It is not
unusual to hear it said of some trainer
“He’s lucky,” but it is knowledge of his
business and not luck that keeps any
man near the top of the winning list
season after season. And even with the
best material a good trainer cannot avoid
an occasional run of “outs.”
In commenting on the turf activities
of J. E. Widener, the “Thoroughbred
Record” of a recent date touches on his
efforts to have Gray’s Australian starting
machine adopted in America. It said:
Dissatisfied with the method of start-
ing races in this country, Joseph E.
Widener introduced the Australian gate on
New York tracks. This innovation was
denounced by some members of the racing
press and many of the common gamblers —
parasites on the sport. It was never given
a fair trial and was ultimately discarded,
although those who have studied it closely
in foreign races are united in stating it is
the best method of starting horses now
employed the world over.
* * * *
At the time the Santa Anita meeting
was declared off 1400 horses had arrived,
and it was estimated that it cost a total
of £A2550 a day to maintain them. It was
reckoned the minimum at which horses
could be properly fed, shod and handled
\yas $6 (about 365. 6d.) a day. One owner
said that the bills for plating his horses
alone ran to over £37 —not dollars a
month, and veterinary services and medi-
cines averaged £45. It is evidently much
more costly to race horses in America
than in Australia. Few of our owners
would stand the costs mentioned for
any length of time.
* * * *
Owing to circumstances fewer w.f.a.
races were run in Sydney this season than
in previous years. Those lost to owners
were the Rosehill Rawson Stakes, Chip-
ping Norton Plate, Cumberland Plate and
A.J.C. Plate. Beau Vite won five, start-
ing favorite for four, while High Caste
was beaten in three of the four for which
he was the popular choice. Weight-for-
age results for the season are as under:
Canterbury Stakes: Reading (first), 7 to
2; High Caste, 10 to 9 on, second.
Chelmsford Stakes: Beau Yite, 5 to 2 ;
High Caste, 6 to 4, second.
Hill Stakes: High Caste, 6 to 4 on.
City Tattersall’s Stakes: Beau Vite, 9
to 4 on. _ x
Colin Stephen Stakes: Beau Vite, 5 to
2 on.
Craven Plate; Beau Vite, 7 to 4 on.
Randwick Plate: Dashing Cavalier, 9 to
4 on.
Autumn Plate: Beau Vite, 2 to 1 on.
All-Aged Plate: Yaralla, 11 to 2 ; High
Caste, even money, third.
* * * *
A variety of bloodstock will be
offered at the Newmarket Stables (Rand-
wick) on Friday. One of the racehorses
is the grey Grey Port, who, in running
fourth in Mustapha’s division of the
Welter at Rosehill, suggested the possi-
bility of a return to his two-year-old
form.
* * * *
' Streamline is the best hurdler and
sleepier nominated for the coming Great
Northern Hurdles, of £750, and Great
Northern Steeplechase, of £2OOO, at the
Auckland meeting. He has 11.10 in each.
Last year he was second in the Hurdles
with 11.5, and won the Steeplechase with
10.10.
* * * *
Ireland is going in for restrictions in
connection with the feeding of blood-
stock, and the Eire Department of Agri-
culture evidently hopes to make farmers
of some trainers. TTie Minister of Agri-
culture recently advised owners and
trainers that, instead of depending upon
the market for supplies, they should
make immediate arrangements to grow
the oats they require for their horses,
either by cultivating portion of their own
lands or by leasing land for that purpose.
* ♦ * *
It is mentioned by a London paper
that the Aga Khan is finding Switzerland
to his liking. He has remained there
since the outbreak of war. Meanwhile he
continues to race in England, though
on a greatly reduced scale, with Frank
Butters as his trainer and D. Smith his
first jockey.
Essendon v. Richmond, both unbeaten
until Saturday, drew 20,000 to Essendon.
The ’Dons led all the way in a hard,
stolid game, winning by a point: 10.17
to 11.10. The other matches attracted
small crowds —except for confirmed
barrackers the heart seems to have gone
out of Melbourne football —and Mel-
bourne itself got another drubbing, 13.11
to 6.9, from St. Kilda; Fitzroy beat
South Melb., 11.17-9.15; Carlton over-
came North Melbourne, 20.18-13.13.
In the only other close game Footscray
piled up more behinds than Collingwood,
11.21-11.12.
* * * *
With 31 points to North’s 3, Sydney
Uni.’s strong Rugby Union side carried
its total for seven matches to 216 points
to 35. Parramatta and East share second
place ; “Parra” beat Randwick 14-10,
and East cantered away from Gordon
in the second half, 12-3. St. George
scored a win at last—ll-5 over Drum-
moyne. Manly 5 with Kelaher back after
three years’ absence, and West, with Cec
Barnes at centre once more, played an
interesting match: Manly won 23-14.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Toolambool Hurdle: Cheery
Jack, 1 ; Xanthia, 2; International,
3.
Minook Two-year-old: Balcrest,
1; Featured, 2; Malt Brew, 3.
Richmond Handicap: Rua, 1 ;
Sir Romeo, 2 ; Sea Power, 3.
Wanda Steeplechase: Great Treat,
1 ; Highland March, 2; Bureaucrat,
3.
Cambria Welter: Lugano, 1 ;
Counsel, 2; Reg, 3.
Rosny Plate: Tuhitarata, 1;
Aurie’s Star, 2 ; Denis, 3.
FOR VICTORIA PARK.
(At Ascot).
(Before Acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Novice Handicap : The Gambler,
1 ; Winnie, 2; Whitefoot or Cape
Hero, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap: Battle
King, 1 ; Flying Shuttle, 2 ; General
Smuts, 3.
Fourteen - two Handicap: La
Vallee, 1; Easy Mark, 2; Te
Rama, 3.
Flying Handicap: Radical, 1;
Mannerheim, 2; Milanja or Chat-
ting, 3.
Welter Handicap: Many Ways,
1 ; Response, 2 ; Bona Fide, 3.
Victoria Park Handicap: Plimsol,
1 ; Addition, 2; Triggerman or
Tragopan, 3.


BRANDAUER’S
dfg
E?
535^
PENS
.Every poirit
guaranteed
do not experiment with Imitations.
C. BSINDAOn * CO, JMU BIEMXKOHAM, ESQ
STOPvoup Rupture
Worries/!
o
0-;
ES
Try the new Roussel
Appliance' Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEIj APPLIANCE CO..
DEPT. 27. 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
T-
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 .GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
.JONES £ CO.
CHEMISTS. 319 George Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
TO THELMA MARY DOUTHAT formerly of
Orbost in the State of Victoria but now or
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that LESLIE
VICTOR DOUTHAT has instituted proceedings
against you for a dissolution of marriage on
the ground of desertion UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the office of the Prothonotary ot
the Supreme Court at Melbourne on or before
the Bth day of July 1942 the case may proceed
in your absence AND FURTHER if you intend
to defend the said suit you must cause an
answer to be filed in the said office on or
before the 18th day of July 1942— GORDON
GUMMOW of 395 Collins Street Melbourne
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK ARTHUR TAYLOR for-
merly of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
BERTHA LETITIA TAYLOR has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 643 of 1938 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance on or
before the 28th of August 1942 and obtain a
cony of the petition without charge from JOHN
BARNETT GREAVES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street
Sydney— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
SMOKE-OH!
“Once they had exemplified, in the gossip
of Nashiona, the eternal triangle. They were
a triangle no longer. Some other element had
stepped in to square the triangle.”
— Woman’s paper.
The co-re.’s father, perhaps?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The blue whale is said to be the largest
animal that has ever lived on the earth.”
— “World’s News.”
It was hearing how much whalebone
is required to prop up other large crea-
tures that made it blue.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Many husbands worry over money.”
—Sunday paper.
Their wives, however, soon relieve them
of this.
4* 4* 4* 4
“Fortunately for them they finished up under
a stout table, which undoubtedly saved their
lives, for the house then collapsed on top of
them.” — ‘‘Great Northern.”
They’re luckier than they deserve to
be. Fancy going on a bust in the middle
of a bombing raid!
4* 4* 4* 4*
All Mod. Incons.
“The main desideratum in the modern flat
is the conservation of space.”— “S. M. Herald.”
In our comf. mod. flat we have several
space-savers.
A combination refrigerator-wireless set
is the envy of our friends, though occa-
sionally some extra-hot number turns the
butter rank. When the upper leaves of
the dining-table are turned over our bed
is exposed. Fido sleeps in a lower storey.
The kitchenette sink is convertible into
a spare bed.
The collapsible bath makes it possible
to use the bathroom as a cardroom ; but
it became unpopular with our friends
when one night the shower started leak-
ing during an interesting bridge post-
mortem.
Using the seats of chairs to cover
drawers containing shirts has its draw-
backs. I discovered this when Aunt
Tabitha came in during a storm and sat
on a dining-room chair top. Next day I
had to go to work in my pyjama coat.
Our chair with the telescopic steel arm
which can be shot out of the window
(with me on it) so that I can read the
paper hanging over the street while
Maria does out the flat is, however, the
handiest gadget of all. It saves me'from
having to swing from the chandelier
while the broom is in action.
H. M.
Success.
“How can I make my eyes larger?”
— Woman’s paper.
Cosmetics, she found, didn’t help her
eyes much. But she tried every aid
’neath the sun. Still her eyes grew no
bigger; no swift magic touch came to
help her, despite all she’d done. So at
last she gave up. She declared, “It’s a
frost! I’m just sick of this beauty-aid
stuff! ” Then she totalled how much her
endeavors had cost.
That opened her eyes big enough!
Eve.
4* 4* 4* 4>
“WANTED Mousemaid-Waitress. Guest
House.” — Suburban paper.
Look out that this isn’t just a trap!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Having read the letter he burst into a fit
of tragic laughter.”— Magazine story.
It would seem that he was uproari-
ously depressed.
•J* *J«
“She told him that if he attempted the slight-
est familiarity she would ask him to leave the
flat at once.” — Serial story.
A case of touch and go?
“I bet you look forward to this Sunday relaxation !”
“It is wrong to suppose that all members of
a nudist club are intimate friends.”
—Physical culture magazine.
In fact, some of them barely know
each other!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Quite sho,’ said Mortimer calmly. ‘And
that brings us back shrdlu blpng blp gng bgk
to the pint from which we started.’ ”
— Woman’s paper.
More likely it was several pints.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bushfolk may use the green vegetables pro-
vided by Nature.” — Woman’s paper.
Especially raw prickly-pear in the salad
When in-laws are visiting.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Rare Pleasure.
The moment he heard the words his
heart gave a joyful leap. So he had
succeeded at last —succeeded after that
long series of setbacks! Surely it was
too good to be true! Perhaps he was
being made the victim of a cruel jest.
He stared deep into the candid, soft
blue eyes before him, and the answer they
conveyed uplifted him. In the surge of
his deep relief at her words of consent
he stretched out his hand and lightly
squeezed hers.
“Do you really mean that?” he asked,
and waited to hear his last lingering
doubts removed.
“Absolutely,” replied the barmaid con-
fidently. “I can let you have a bottle of
beer tonight.”
T. W. N.
Therapeutics.
“Is there aqy way that 1 can cure my hus-
band of grinding his teeth during sleep?”
Newspaper correspondent.
One method is to give him for supper
hot scones the chief ingredient of which
is cement. As his fangs sink into them
drop a flatiron on his head. Continue
doing this until he has slept long enough
for the cement to set his jaws. Another
method is to persuade him to have his
teeth extracted. If he still attempts to
grind them after they are gone a sheet
of No. 3 sandpaper placed between the
gums will prove effective.
Yet another scheme is to have a gramo-
phone record of his teeth-grinding pre-
pared and keep playing this as he gets
into bed. He obviously can’t grind his
teeth during sleep if he can’t sleep.
T. W. N.
*4*
“In Albania the women wear the trousers.”
Life is normal there, then, despite
the Italian occupation.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Authors are regarded as poor risks, accord-
ing to an insurance expert.”— “World’s News.”
Their careers stop almost as soon as
they begin because they die laughing at
their first joke.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A charge of gelignite placed in a city board-
ing-house piano blew the instrument to match-
wood.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
The proprietress is now wishing she
had yielded to the entreaties of her
boarders and had the instrument tuned.
Natural Growth.
Her ways were kittenish and coy,
She was his “tabby” to young Jim ;
But now, long ceased to be a joy.
She’s just “that damned old cat” to him.
Hamer,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Booze beat romance.” — “Truth.”
By a “head.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Women, with or without exp., £2 16s. 3d. or
piecework. No Sat. work. Peeling brined
opinions. Easy work. No tears.” — “S.M.H.”
The worst part of the job is the precis-
ing of politicians’ sentiments, even
though taken with a grain of salt.
4* 4= 4 1 4*
“The yacht was at anchor in the Hudson.
We went out to it.” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
Perhaps it was the shock at seeing the
craft there.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He became unutterably weary of working
the same drill in the same fashion day after
day.”— Short story.
It would be rather boring.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Ties with Russia.” — News heading.
Hardly old school ties!
The Recipe.
“Book Reviews. Brining Up Father.”
—‘‘West Australian.”
Be it known to the uninitiated that
brining up father is a well-tried, old and
effective method of banishing drunken-
ness.
When the old man comes home
tight, hiccuping “Roll Out the Barrel,”
take him at his word, but substitute half
an empty vat or tierce, filling with a
strong solution of salt. Using a double-
action brine-pump, make sure he is well
and truly salted up inside before tossing
him into the vat. When he develops that
sickly look about the gills, add a dose
of saltpetre to give him color.
Provided everything is done correctly,
within two days he should be thoroughly
cured.
Butcher-bird.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lost, Australian terrier, lady dog.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Will be recognised by her retained
whaine.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Learn to play the piano or to sing, if only
to amuse yourself.”— Advt.
It will start to amuse others when you
think you can play or sing.
Touch of Warmth.
“Smutty Onions.”— “S. M. Herald.”
An onion (grown to spice a stew)
Beside a young tomato grew
In my small kitchen-gar den, but
The onion cultivated smut.
The. green tomato heard one day
The smutty onion make free play
Of badinage so frankly crude
That it transgressed the merely rude.
And when it heard what Onion said
Tomato blushed a rich, ripe red!
P. O. M. C.
World’s Greatest Desert.
“Sydney’s No-Water Board has reported tor
the ten-thousandth time l in five years that
though heavy rain fell 'in most parts of New
South Wales it missed the Sydney catchment
area.”
The rain may rain both full and free
On mountain, valley, rock and tree,
And scour out all the stagnant creeks
That else would breed malaria,
But ’not (wherever else it leaks),
Not on the catchment area.
Though yet another Deluge flow.
And not an Alpine peak shall show
Above the turgid tide, some Noah,
Of courage growing charier.
Shall find his ultimate safest shore
On Sydney’s catchment area !
HYRAM.
Bung Rules.
“Delays Wedding to Play Soccer.” — “Sun.’*
It’s too bad he couldn’t postpone it for
ever,
This contest unequal from which he will
never
Emerge as the winner. His schemes
highfalutin
Wilt fade at the kick-off. With sorrow
benumbing
He’ll find that he hasn’t a single kick
coming
When she starts decisively putting the
boot in.
P. S. C.
Across-the-table Mystery.
“I haven’t seen my husband for nearly five
years.” —Bleat to Dorothy Dix.
There are, it seems, a host of men
Who cut this little caper.
It means that here’s a man again
Who’s only home for meals and then
Hides out behind his paper.
E.
The Strategist.
His articles show, to his clear satisfaction.
How battles could quickly and simply
be won;
They also point out, with regard to some
action, <
Just what the Commander-in-Chief
should have done.
How women guerrillas could beat up
an army
Well trained and equipped — that’s his
favorite theme.
The General Staff, he contends, are all
barmy —
They’re all over fifty, a doddering
team.
A genius he, who might well save our
nation;
And, touching on all his strategical
lore.
He has one unbeatable qualification —
He never has been to, nor gone near,
A WAR.
K.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
“Strange but True”
The departmental mind moves in a
weird and wonderful way in that exalted
place where boards and departments have
their being, and where forms bloom
before being sent on their way to plague
the weary taxpayer.
Received one the other day exact
replicas of which had been arriving with
monotonous regularity for a considerable
time. Precise information was demanded,
under pain of death or something, re-
garding goods on order. These mythical
goods were supposed to be coming from
Malaya—presumably with the kind
regards of the Japs. — lago (Vic.).
Rationing
The extraordinary system introduced
by rationing authorities whereby supplies
are worked out on quantities obtained
two, three and four years ago —called
“base years”—is responsible for many
hardships and anomalies. The many
changes brought about by war condi-
tions apply to everything, including trade.
In few places have things remained
“static” for the last three or four years.
Population is shifting around; some
places do more business —and thus don't
get enough ration—and some do less—
and so get more than they want.
In this district, because of development
of essential industries, the population has
more than doubled since the “base” years
on which we get our various rations. Yet,
despite repeated applications, complaints,
etc., we still get the same hopelessly in-
adequate ration of such goods as tobacco,
matches, confectionery and many food
lines.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
London to Sydney
He was a Londoner who had
served his city as an air-raid warden
during the worst of the Blitzes. Asked
what he thought of Sydney he shook a
grave head, indicated the lunch-hour
throng in Martin-place and said “It’ll be
slaughter if enemy ’planes ever come over
at midday. Couldn’t the A.R.P. or the
police move all these idlers out or force
them to take their lunch-hour break in
the parks or somewhere?” As a warden,
I looked at the creatures of custom and
had a mental vision of trying to herd
them away ftom their stamping-ground.
It couldn’t be done, short of a rain of
bombs. — Pitt-street (N.S.W.).
Self-discipline
“V.C.” need not search far afield for
his “clue to an orderly world” (B.
27/5/’42). It is to be found in the body
of decent, sober public opinion, still
existent in Australia, which realises that
true democracy can exist only where a
measure of self-discipline is instinct in
every citizen. Where that self-discipline
does not exist, discipline of the common
or barrack-square variety must be applied
or democracy will fall as the League of
Nations fell—through its inability to
impose sanctions upon an unruly
member.
Overseas, Australians are dying that
democracy may live. In Australia, shel-
tered by —and betraying—that democ-
racy, miners strike on trumped-up pre-
texts, hearty louts register as stevedores
to evade the call-up, wharfies thieve com-
forts intended for soldiers and hoarders
deprive hard-working people of their
chance to buy necessities. Signs are not
wanting that the decent body of opinion
is rapidly reaching the end of its patience.
There remains the task of voicing that
impatience in tones which the Govern-
ment dare not ignore—R. M. B, (Vic.).
Socialism and Democracy
Sir Richard Acland, of common owner-
ship fame, writes in his latest book that
it is likely that the Russians “will learn
from us that political democracy is the
logical conclusion of common owner-
ship.” The Russians, however, are more
logical than Sir Richard. They realise
that there is no place for democracy in a
planned economy. No large-scale pro-
ductive enterprise could function if it
Were liable to have its policy reversed
every few years. Yet this is what could
happen to the “Plan” of a socialist State
if it allowed its people to vote on eco-
nomic issues.
An even stronger reason is that a demo-
cratically elected Government might con-
ceivably decide to restore private enter-
prise. How can political democracy be
the “logical conclusion” of a system
which it is at any time capable of destroy-
ing? Neither democracy, freedom of
speech, nor free communication with the
outside world is safe for a State rigidly
committed to socialism or any other sys-
tem of regimentation. — Col (N.S.W.).
Our Way of Life
Yet another Jewish professor whose
forebears, perhaps, were glad to find
asylum in the British Empire has spoken
his piece. Mr. Harold Laski is the man,
given prominence by Australian news-
papers for insisting at the annual con-
ference of the British Labor party that
civil liberties should not be restored after
the war.
During the last 50 years Jews by the
thousand have sought sanctuary in the
British Dominions in their flight from
countries which had become intolerable
to or intolerant of them. Having left
those places no better than they found
“'Cos I've got exemption, see?"
them they now seek to change the British
Constitution. This despite the fact that
they have no historical record of success
either in the management of their own
national affairs or—on the whole—of the
affairs of other nations.
Until English-speaking countries came
under alien influences the Anglo-Saxon
way of life was the best in the world,
Our best, and perhaps only, hope o
recovering the excellence of our tormer
way ot lt£e .s.to mvte Mr. Laskt and
f Russia thus leav-
lenius for self-govem-
*nt free once more to set an example
he world .__j. W . R. (Tas.).
Second Front Europe
Your inspiring leaders and virile policy
* , frillmvin „ reSolu-
have hatched out the fo owing resom
tlon > which was carried y
The Yass (N.S.W.) sub-branch of the
and other organisations for
a Second Front in Europe. This sub-
branch reS ents this agitation from irresponsible
persons who have no intention of personally
taking part in the opening of a Second Front
—anywhere; and considers their blatant f ulmma-
.‘ffS.SKS
elKUtion of military, naval and air
strate gy can be safely entrusted to the service
chiefs without interference from any amateur
source. Invasion of a hostile continent at this
juncture without adequate port facilitjes woul
be disastrous for a weakened Royal and Mer-
chant Navy> anc j pro ve virtually fatal toward
a successful issue of the Atlantic battle, or
the release of vital shipping b ”
the South-western Pacific. Finally, this sun
branch respec tfully requests the central execu-
tive of the n.s.w. R.S.S.A.I.L.A. to stoutly
counteract any subversive agitation, within its
sphere, for opening of a Second Front m
Europe.
Recorded encomiums from intellects
like R. L. Stevenson and J. FI. Curie are
something The Bulletin might be justly
proud of. All Diggers are conscious of
the sterling work performed by the
famous pink-covered journal on their be-
half. If justifiable condemnation of
near-traitors, abuse of Parliamentary
privilege and diverse obstructionists is
interpreted by flabby, feeble-minded poli-
ticians as “Fascist” then many ex-service
men will be privileged to espouse the
latter cult. Bravo Bulletin! -Ex-
Martian (Yass).
Land Produce
Very foolishly, Australia concentrated
on wheat, meat, wool and milk as farm
produce, what time it joyfully imported
a multitude of things that could easily
have been grown here. It is getting a
few lessons now, especially in the mattei
of tea and tobacco, both of which, given
the necessary attention, might have been
produced in Queensland in large amounts.
The banana State is capable of growing
almost anything, and the Japanese threat
won’t be an unmixed curse if it wakes
Queensland up. An evacuee from the
N.E.1., Weberi Pahri, after a quick look
at the place, is satisfied that vanilla,
pepper and kapok can be produced, and
he’s offered to start growing them along
the Herbert River for nothing more than
living expenses until he can prove it.
An Ingham man has offered Pahri 25
acres rent-free for five years as a start.
—Norther (Q.).
Taxation and the High Court
Great harm can be done to a good
cause by intemperate advocacy. In his
zeal for uniform income taxation,
Senator Keane made
the mistake o f
threatening the High
Court. He is quoted
as saying that “its
position might have
to be looked at” if
it declared the Gov-
ernment’s measures
unconstitutional.
If the Court so
decides, nearly all
Australians will be
disappointed. But
there would be
alarm as well as dis-
appointment if a fav-
orable decision were
thought to be merely
the outcome of
threats from the
Legislature. The con-
stitutional function
of the Court is to
give a skilled and
conscientious inter-
pretation of the law.
Should this interpre-
tation conflict with
the views of the
Government, it is the
latter’s duty to frame
new measures for
carrying out its
policy; or, if that ifc impossible, to seek
an amendment of the Constitution.
Certainly a referendum is undesirable
in war-time. But equally so are attempts
at any time to undermine judicial
authority and the rule of law. If the
Senator must make threats, let him direct
them against the real culprits those
State “Governments” which intend to
drag the taxation Acts before the Court.
—Arc (N.S.W.).
Earlier Budgets
There has been considerable talk on
the desirability or otherwise of bringing
down the Federal Budget earlier than
usual in the next financial year. Last
year the change of Government pre-
vented an early Budget, and the result
was that income-tax assessments were
issued too late. Many taxpayers 1
especially factory workers whose over-
time earnings have jumped considerably
since last July—had to claim refunds of
over-deducted tax, thus wasting their
own and the tax-collector’s time.
Paymasters of large companies were
driven frantic in April trying to adjust
the deductions of thousands of employees
within two or three weeks and to issue
group certificates. In some cases em-
ployees actually refused to work overtime
until their certificates had been issued to
enable them to claim their refunds.
The Treasurer should bring his Budget
down before the end of July and all
assessments should be issued by
Christmas, so that the working man may
find out how much tax he has to pay
in the second half of the financial year.
—Viator (Vic.).
Beef Shortage?
By recent reports there seems to be a
beef shortage in some of the southern
States, and to relieve it, according to a
press report, the Federal Government has
bought 32,000 head of cattle, presumably
bullocks, in the Kimberleys (n.-w. A.)-
People in my area, which is in the
vicinity of the N.T. and Queensland
border, and which runs hundreds of
thousands of cattle, wonder just how
these north-west cattle are going to relieve
the shortage, and why the Government
had to go so far afield to get supplies.
To reach the nearest railhead these
cattle will have to walk at least 800
miles, and by that time any condition
which they started with will have been
travelled off. To travel such a distance
will occupy about three months. To
make decent beef they will need to be
put on fattening country, and perhaps
two years later some of them would be
fit to slaughter. To find fattening coun-
try at present will be a difficult task
because of seasonal conditions.
If the beef shortage is so acute, my
area could have supplied thousands of
better-class and -conditioned cattle and
within a few hundreds of miles of rail-
heads. At present growers can obtain
only trucks for fats, and, as the stock
routes are so bad. only a few mobs of
stores have started on the road.
Southerners have my sympathy when
the Kimberley steaks and sirloins are
being served. They will need to sharpen
their teeth beforehand. And the Fed-
eral authorities may find this cattle-
buying venture a very costly one. —
Drover (N.T.).
Passing the Buck
The other night on the air there was
the usual stuff put over by the Depart-
ment of Information. This time it was
an appeal for money. In the way politi-
cians have it was subtly implied that the
public should not this time let their
effort be “too late and too little.”
Can that “too late and too little” be
justly levelled at the common people?
As my simple mind sees it there has
never been a shortage of men, money or
material. If there was a temporary
shortage, then our leaders had the right
to take what was required. All they
needed was the courage to do it. —
H. G. L. (Q.).
Profit and Service
Production for use, not profit (B.
20/5/’42), that favorite nostrum of “new
order” enthusiasts, is inconsistent with
an economy like Australia’s. It can
function in only two types of society—a
primitive agricultural community and
one in which every activity is mono-
polised by the State—a socialist regime.
None in Australia admires the first of
these two forms, least of all those who
desire what they term “an economic new
deal.” It is compatible with only a very
low standard of living, while their hope is
for more luxurious conditions. Socialism,
though its sophistries attract the unthink-
ing, is no more satisfactory. Its advocates
pretend that it assures the masses greatly
increased prosperity and gives them com-
mand of the resources of the community.
It really means control of both Gov-
ernment and industry by a small clique.
All not in the ruling junta or the higher
strata of officials, are, in effect, in a
state of serfdom, dependent on these
masters for the very right to live. Under
the much abused system of private enter-
prise anyone dissatisfied with occupation
or employer is at liberty to try something
or someone else. That is impossible
under socialism.
Australia’s political leaders, especially
those who are socialistically inclined,
have not shown themselves so worthy of
confidence that the thoughtful citizen
would be willing to concede them a totali-
tarian authority.
As long as society is based on private
enterprise and production is for markets,
profits must be made. For instance, if
it costs a poultry farmer Bs. a year to
feed an individual hen, his gain per head
must be more than that to allow him to
meet expenses, let alone provide him with
a personal income. By selling his eggs
at more than their cost of production he
is not exploiting the consumer. He pro-
vides a service and is entitled to a reason-
able reward for it. — Tom (N.S.W.).
Immunisation
There is nothing “extraordinary” (B.
6/5/’42) about the success of diphtheria
immunisation. What has been extraordi-
nary is the attitude towards it of people
who should know better. In Sydney not
long after war began civil war seemed to
be threatened when it was suggested that
immunisation be made compulsory as
it will be eventually. There are still
people who oppose the baby-clinic sys-
tem, vet I can mention towns in the dry
country where, before clinics were estab-
lished, infant deaths from gastro-enter-
itis reached alarming figures. Since the
clinics, such a death is rare. In that
alone, though they have other triumphs,
the baby clinics have justified themselves.
- B. P. (N.S.W.).


iSfc —r.
Manufacturers of
Wireless Apparatus for
THE NAVY
THE ARMY
THE AIR FORCE
MERCHANT NAVY
AIRLINES
CIVIL AVIATION
GOVERNMENT DEPTS.
PCRLIC UTILITIES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Buy War Savings Certificates
