

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3255.
Wednesday, July 1, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
C ARISBROOKE CASTLE, ISLE OF WIGHT.
j\| O portion of England combines within
so small a space so many tempting
localities as the Isle of Wight. Its famed
scenery, united with the freshness of the
air and softness of its climate, makes it
at once pleasant, picturesque and beauti-
ful. It may be added that equally no
portion of the old land is better known
or regarded with higher favor by visitors
from Greater Britain than this “blessed
spot.” In that battle for “constitutional
rights” our forefathers waged over so
many centuries the Isle of Wight figures,
the Castle of Carisbrooke providing, as
it were, the memorial. It was in this
venerable fortalice Charles 1 took refuge
with its Governor, Colonel Hammond,
in November, 1647, only too soon to find
his asylum turned into a prison, where
he remained for 13 months. This castle,
originally a fortress, pleasantly situated
near the centre of the island, is believed
to have been built by the Saxons so
early as the sixth century, and, according
to the annals, it was besieged by Cedric
In 530. It was certainly enlarged by Wil-
liam Fitzosborne, the “first Lord of
Wight,” in the eleventh century, was
captured by Stephen in 1136, and during
the reign of Richard II (1377-1399) suc-
cessfully withstood a siege by the French.
From this “sanctuary which became a
prison” Charles tried twice to escape.
Once he failed because the bars of his
window were too close together; the
next time, because his intention became
known, so the guard was doubled. It was
soon after this second attempt he was re-
moved as a prisoner to Hurst Castle,
on the mainland, so well known to all
Australians and New Zealanders who
have arrived at, or departed from, South-
ampton. The ruins of Carisbrooke Castle
are picturesque, and some parts of the
venerable building are in a state of good
preservation. Other portions have been
■estored, with a degree of success not
noticeable in all restoration attempts as
they relate to very ancient buildings.


at ffOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send? without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit as
advertised in the Sydney ‘ , Bulletin.' > "
My Name
Vy Address
The Red Page
OUTSTANDING WAR BOOK.
The first real war-book of this war—
real in the sense that, like all the best
writing that came out of the 1914 war,
it was what a soldier had seen and ex-
perienced: not what a journalist had
reported at second-hand or the half-
truths of a doctrinaire —was “Gun-Bus-
ter’s” Return via Dunkirk. Having the
same authenticity as “Gun-Buster’s” book
and being much better written, Hans
Habe’s A Thousand Shall Fall (Harrap ;
Angus and Robertson) is easily the best
piece of autobiography in the war-book
tradition this war has so far produced.
How unmistakable is the authentic
note of soldier-writing! No famous cor-
respondent, no political tub-thumper ever
strikes it; but it always rings clearly when
a man has fought and endured a war:
Now that the objective was no longer
soldiers spread out on a highway but 400
men in a small wood, the Germans spared
no “expense.” We lay pressed together
like sardines in a tin, because the wood
was small, and God had obviously made it
for a solitary pair of lovers and not for
two companies of infantry. We buried
our heads in the damp ground. The soil
had the familiar taste of wood, of spring.
For the first time I felt many things that
later I was to feel every day. I was sud-
denly close to the smallest and lowest
creatures, the insects and worms, everything
that crawled and writhed humbly on the
ground. The worms went on moving while
the shells exploded, and did not seem wor-
ried by all these human noises; the bees
buzzed in ridiculous, comforting competi-
tion, and sometimes between bursts a bird
sang. As we dug into the ground with our
ten fingers it sometimes seemed that we
were already in our graves, half alive and
half dead: and, most curiously, the whistling
shells meant life, and the buzzing bees and
singing birds meant death. W’e often had
the feeling that we should have to jump
up and run out of the woods to free our-
selves from the hostile trees which hid the
heavens and protected us—protected us
from the heavens?
A Hungarian volunteer who served
with the French throughout the fighting,
was taken prisoner, escaped and made
his way to Aimerica, where A Thousand
Shall Fall was written, Habe was estab-
lished as a novelist before the war—
which explains the excellence of the book
in narrative* drama, characterisation and
description. A gifted writer who fought
through the campaign.; that’s why A
7 housand Shall Fall so strongly re-
sembles Undertones of War, Goodbye to
AH That, Death of a Hero and the rest
of them. Where it differs, of course, is
that it isn’t a description of the long
agony in the trenches, but of constant
retreat—flight, a brief stand, flight
again; the increasing confusion and the
increasing despair until the bewildered,
exhausted, beaten army fell willingly and
with relief into captivity. “Sauve qui
peut!” —that, says Habe, was the battle-
cry of the French Army.
A stray German shell exploded a few
yards ahead of us. We threw ourselves on
the ground. The Senegal negro shouted
“Sauve qui peut /” He probably did not
understand the meaning of his cry. He
had heard it at a moment of great peril,
and from that time on he repeated it when-
ever he thought himself in danger.
The Germans shortened their range. Now
the shrapnel burst on the field to the right
of us. Suddenly I heard an inhuman cry.
It was one of the negroes. The other, the
black corporal, threw himself sobbing and
lamenting uver his comrade. I crawled
as close to them as I could. The negro’s
, whole back had been torn open by a shell
splinter.
He was the first dying man I saw at the
front. Like a last wish, or the name of
someone he loved, he mumbled the words
“Sauve qui peut!' Sauve qui peut t”
Run for your lives'! This was the slogan
of the French army,
Habe’s own moment to “ Sauve qui
peut ! n had come earlier when, with two
other artillery observers, he had been
forgotten and .abandoned by his com-
mander, left alone in the face of 60,000
advancing Germans. The great retreat—
the retreat without battle, without defeat,
and often without even a sight of the
enemy—had begun, but nobody thought
to tell the three observers.
The three caught up with their regi-
ment at last and marched into what Habe
calls “the mousetrap”;
“The Germans are coming. We’re sur-
rounded.” The cavalryman disappeared.
We heard the same story from artillerymen,
lone officers and infantrymen who poured
back. From that moment everything re-
minded you of a mousetrap, with the mouse
running back and forth, beating its nose
against the bars, though its doom had long
ago been sealed. All connection with
headquarters had been lost long ago. We
ran about in circles like confused tourists
in search of information. You ran away
in the very direction from which you had
just fled in terror. Wherever you went
there was somebody who knew everything.
They knew that the Germans were two
kilometres away. Always two kilometres
away. Always in the next village. And
always unconquerable.
Soldiers and civilians in an orgy at an
abandoned train of champagne; officers
fleeing in cars; soldiers looting every-
thing and anything that took their eye;
loyal officers and loyal men heartbroken
because they were never given an oppor-
tunity to fight; villagers spitting on an
army that abandoned them; soldiers
picnicking by the roadside, waiting for
the Germans to come and take them
prisoners':
Those who had to fight the Germans
were not afraid of living with the Ger-
mans; a tragic error, which the sons of
France realise only today. But the French
were not entirely to blame for this attitude.
This army was above all tired. It had but
one desire—to stop running.
About the only generalisation Habe
indulges in is the one made to him by a
loyal French officer during the retreat:
“When the German war broke out
France was in the midst of a civil war.”
Regarded as a contribution to the analy-
sis of the fall of France, A Thousand
Shall Fall is valuable because of the
variety of causes it submits in explana-
tion of what was obviously a most com-
plex event: high and low there were
traitors, but there was also the timid,
foolish populace that relied on a
“miracle” that never came and never
could have come; and there were such
“unconscious Fifth Columnists” as the
man who refused to supply the army
with petrol until a stamped order was
produced:
I asked him if he was trying to kid me.
He said no. And I don’t think he was, any
more than I think that in a literal sense he
belong to the Fifth Column. He belonged
to it unconsciously, like all Frenchmen
whose souls had been destroyed by their
bureaucratic training. He knew that tons
of petrol had been set on fire in the dis-
trict. He knew that the Germans were at
our heels. But in the bottom of his heart
he believed neither in the fire nor in the
Germans nor in the war. He believed only
in a piece of paper and a stamp. It pained
me to have to shake his whole neatly-
ordered world. Without a word I levelled
my rifle at his breast. “Give me the key! ”
But it is not primarily as an analysis
of the fall that Habe’s book is intended
to be read. It is a record of Habe’s
adventures. Pictures of the fighting:
To reach the bridge we had to go back
through the town. Meanwhile the Germans
had moved in everywhere. But our regi-
ments were resisting desperately. I saw
soldiers firing from behind corpses, resting
their guns on the bodies of their dead com-
rades. The town stank of corpses, smoke
and sugar. I had a glimpse of Colonel de
Buissy trying with a few men to erect a
tank barricade. Ihe whole scene had a
toylike effect, comic and tragic at once.
And yet God so orders things that the
greatest horrors are bearable by reason of
their very absurdity. We had a feeling
that the fellows on the other side could
not possibly be serious!
Pictures of the fighting, vivid and
authentic; and Habe’s personal adven-
tures in the war, in prison and in his
escape, winding through the scenes of
the defeat of France in fantastic drama:
My books had been burned by the Ger-
mans, yet I became commander of the
prison camp by their grace; they con-
demned me to death, and I became the con-
fidant of my executioners; my name was
put on a black list which was handed to
me; I fled from the Nazis and was provided
with a Nazi pass—how, after all this, could
I respect the all-seeing, all-knowing, all-
powerful Gestapo?
For Ghost-fanciers.
One of the most charming moments in
Christina Hole’s Haunted England (Bats-
ford ; Angus and Robertson):
An old woman found a set of teeth pro-
truding from the soil in Perranzabuloe
churchyard. Thinking she might find a use
for them, she took them home and put them
in her bedroom. That night she was roused
by a spectral voice crying under her window:
“Give me back my teeth! Give me back
my teeth!” Without daring to look out-
side she flung them through the window,
whereupon the crying ceased, and she
heard quiet footsteps retreating towards the
churchyard.
Further, there is the news that the old
vicarage at Grantchester is supposed to
be haunted, the ghostly gentleman whose
footsteps are heard coming through the
garden towards the sitting-room being
Rupert Brooke,
And there’s the “gloriously pointless”
story of the dissenting minister named
Joseph Wilkins. The Rev. Joseph, away
from home, dreamed that he visited his
mother and said, “Mother, I am going
on a long journey and am come to bid
you good-bye,” whereupon his mother
cried in alarm, “Oh, dear son, thou art
dead!”; a few days later came a letter
from his father saying that Joseph’s
mother, having dreamed exactly the same
dream —Joseph appearing at the bedside
and saying he was going on a long
journey, and she crying “Oh, my dear
son, thou art dead!” —was in a frantic
state of alarm. “The date of this dream
was the same as that of Wilkins’s dream.
The curious thing about this double vision
is that nothing whatever happened.”
Then there are the screaming skulls,
notably the one called “Dickie” which,
kept in an English farmhouse, kicked up
the most unholy row whenever anybody
tried to remove it and also “acted as a
kind of guardian spirit of the house”:
The noises, varying from loud thuds
to gentle taps, were heard whenever a death
m the family was imminent, and during the
lambing season, or when a cow was calving
or ill, the master would be roused by three
clear taps on the window. Mr. Lomas told
Fryer that as soon as he heard this signal
he rose without further inquiry and went
to see where he was needed: nor was he
ever misled.
Ferocious ghosts, tormented ghosts,
amiable ghosts, pointless ghosts, human
ghosts, fairies, spectral animals. .. Haunted
England, which is a re-examination of
old material, without any particular pur-
pose or underlying philosophy except to
make an entertaining book about ghosts
and to suggest that —however much is
discounted —there remains a mystery in
some of the stories, covers the ground
fairly well, ranging from the “Headless
Huntsman” of antiquity to the polter-
geists beloved by the Sitwells. Miss Hole
lacks Sacheverell Sitwell’s wholehearted
delight in oddity for oddity’s sake, and she
also lacks his felicity of style; but she
writes well enough, and she has an eye
for what’s humorous:
A personage known as Old Coles used to
haunt the neighborhood of Leigh in Wor-
cestershire. He would drive down the road
m the dead of night, past the great barn
at Leigh Court and down to the River Teme
to co °l his horses’ nostrils in the water.
When he was laid, a band of clergymen met
at midnight with an inch of candle and
conjured him to rest until the candle should
be quite burned out. Then, to ensure his
safe-keeping, the lighted candle was thrown
into a pool, and shortly afterwards the pool
itself was filled up. This proceeding does
not seem to have been entirely honest, but,
unlike most of these exorcisms, it appears
to have been effective.
In her speculations on her “facts,”
Miss Hole is interesting on two points:
one, the influence of racial or local
memories as an inspiration for ghost
stories ; and, secondly, the notion which
she holds in common with such spook-
lovers as Robert Graves and J. C. Powys
that there are certain places on the earth
where scenes from the past, usually
violent, have been “photographed” so
that from time to time they can be “seen”
again.
The comedy of the teeth, quoted at the
beginning of this article, is obviously a
traditional folk-tale which has been given
a local application. Local memory, work-
ing in a much more interesting manner,
is the explanation for such stories as
that of the knight in armor:
A barrow near Mold was Jong said to be
haunted by a soldier in golden armor who
was seen entering it from time to time.
When the barrow was opened in 1832 it
was found to contain a skeleton of a tall
man wearing a corselet of bronze overlaid
with gold. Professor Boyd-Dawkins tells
us that the corselet was of Etruscan design
and probably dated from the Romano-
Bntish period, so the ghost-—or a dim
memory of the living man—must have per-
sisted in that locality for 1400 years.
It s odd that in dealing with the second
theory, that “some apparitions are not
true ghosts but are imprints made on the
surrounding atmosphere by the violent
emotions released at the moment of the
crime, the author doesn’t extend the
notion to cover such cases as that of the
Loch Ness monster. The bunyip might
just as well be thought of as an “imprint,”
as a real monster, a hallucination or a
log of wood.
For whatever comfort anyone may be
able to squeeze out of it, Brett Rut-
ledge’s The Death of Lord Haw Haw
(Werner Laurie ; Dymocks) is a mmin Z
n* I? 1 * er ant * res t of them will
all die in time. The reader has
the agreeable privilege of being present
during the tracking down of Haw Haw,
of learning the astonishing place from
which he really did his broadcasting
(according to Mr. Rutledge), and of being
in at the death. The thriller gains specially
topical interest at the moment from
having the briskest of its action set on and
near the Normandie berthed in New York.
Angus and Robertsoq are asking for
contributions to the 1942 issue of the
short-story anthology, Coast to Coast:
Writers should submit no more than
two or three recently-written stories;
work already published in newspapers or
magazines may be submitted ; and stories
not used will be returned. Contributions
should be addressed to the Editor, Aus-
tralian Short Stories 1942, c/o Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and none will be accepted after
July 31.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Pianist Friedman closed his account
with Melbourne at his final concert at the;
Town Hall with a handsome credit in his
ravor and then proceeded to swell it by
throwing in handful after handful of
glittering small gold pieces. The ovation
he got closed one of the most consistently
elevated seasons in the history of local
music.
. Whe n “Dear Brutus” opens at the In-
dependents’ theatre at North Sydney on
July 4, Sydney will have four professional
legit, shows in healthy competition: the
Tiv., Royal, Minerva and the Inde-
pendents under Doris Fitton. The
Minerva people recently gathered Miss
Fitton and her theatre under their wing ;
she joined the directorate of their “White-
hall Productions,” and the notion was
that Whitehall should run plays both at
the Minerva and at North Sydney. For
the meantime, at any rate, that arrange-
ment has been dropped. Whitehall will
continue to run the Minerva, and Doris
Fitton, independent at the Independents’,
will branch out herself into professional
production. Cast for her opening effort
includes Jean Robertson, Marie Rosen-
feld, Jessica Noad, Leslie Ann Weed on, ,
John Alden, Harvey Ross-Buchanan,
Sumner Locke-EUiott and Desmond
Rolfe.
During its brief reign over the two
theatres, Whitehall presented “The Im-
portance of Being Earnest” at the
Minerva and “Spring Meeting” at North
Sydney; incomprehensibly, in view of the
fine production by Giles Playfair, the
Wilde play was given only a brief run
before being transferred to the suburban
house. ■ Perhaps because of the more
elegant surroundings, or, more likely, be-
cause the players had settled better into
their stride, “Spring Meeting” showed a
great improvement when transferred to
the Minerva. A lightweight Irish comedy
at the end of which everybody marries
everybody, it could never be more than
a good potboiler ; but it was, at any rate,
that. Harvey Adams would have been
better if he had not thought it necessary
to portray Irish charm by a mirthless
cackle; Arundel Nixon’s love-making,
which won him an Irish colleen, would
not have pleased a sensitive rhinoceros ;
but Syd Wheeler, as a kind of Fairy
Butler —the choicest role —played well,
and Queenie Ashton brought drama into’
the piece.
In spite of the enthusiasm of their
organist, William McKie, Melbourne
City Fathers never really liked the idea
of free luncheon concerts, and at the first
excuse they dropped them, though they
would be a boon to the citizen in war-
time. Lunchtime concerts have been
privately revived at the Assembly Hall,
and at the opening more got left on the
doorstep than got inside the small cham-
ber. Pianist Margaret Sutherland, Paul
MacDermott viola and that line
clarinetist Tom White presented a
lovely Mozart programme. Takings go
to the P.O.W. Fund.
Adelaide now runs to three flesh-and-
blood theatres. The Majestic, in old
times (as the Tivoli) the traditional home
of variety, has just taken it up again,
with Bob Dyer and Syd Beck and the
Leotards. The Royal, traditional home
of drama, has a similar show headed by
Miriam Lester and Don Nicol. The
present Tivoli is under the control of the
Repertory Theatre, which has lately
given two evenings each of Milne’s '“To
Have the Honor” and “The Late Chris-
topher Bean,” written when Emlyn Wil-
liams could still see the humorous side
of life. There afe also Tivoli Saturday
evenings of variety, free to all troops.
At the opening night of “The Pirates”
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, the stage
was pretty well enveloped in patriotic
bunting; the performance was preceded
by lantern slides depicting various Allied
leaders; the pirates had a new issue of
clothing containing vestigial reminders
of American history ; Ivan Menzies threw
a topical bit into the major-general’s
celebrated ditty and altogether the Gil-
sullivan revival begins to look like an
adjunct to the Department of Informa-
tion. Amid the uproar it coujd be
observed that Elva Blair, the young Adel-
aide singer, was acquitting herself well as
the most vivacious of Major-General
Stanley’s daughters; that Max Oldaker
was singing nicely ; that the constabulary
was doing its full vocal duty ; that some
of the unaccompanied choruses were as
near perfection as any in the opera’s his-
tory and that Gabriel loffe was a sensi-
tive conductor. Incidentally, “The
Pirates” was the only member of the G.
and S. canon which had its premiere out-
side England, It was first performed at
New York on New Year’s Eve, 1879,
and caused a major sensation.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
D
B
i
4
i
We invite you to inspect a collection of some of the finest qualities and
designs in ... .
HAND-MADE INDIAN CARPETS
Now on view in our Fine Art Gallery. Many are marked at pre-war
prices. We show a variety of colours and sizes in both Plain and
Eastern Designs.
9ft. x 6ft £ll/10/-
10ft. 6in. x 9ft £2O/12/6
12ft. x 9ft £23/5/-
13ft. x 10ft. .. .. . . £27/19/6
15ft. x 12ft £39/10/-
W,
m
4ft. x 2ft 36/6
sft. x 2ft. Gin 59/6
6ft. x 3ft £4/2/6
7ft. x 4ft £6/12/6
Bft. x sft £B/7/6
MO
til
m
M&:
m
*
m
m
Sii
m
m
m
mm
mmm
m
m
m
m
m
mm
m
m
Hi
m
Hi
I
iii
m
m
%i
m
i I
o o
m
( .
i
m
iO.
m
mm
■
m
m
>
m
&
A
m
fi
■
m
%
Wm
Q 6 0
m
4 / w
r
-I®
W
4
V
Vf nil
s
p
Jill *I
m
mm
%
¥
r
t
#
t
%Sfe
v
M
■m
C'
■a. M jfSTti.
GENUINE ORIENTAL
CARPETS
A special display is now on view
in our Fine Art Gallery and com-
prises fine examples of . . .
Persian Rugs
The following have exquisite colourings:
HAMAD AN
Size, 14ft. 4in. x 9ft. Sin. ..... £127/10/-
KIRMANSHAH
Size, 13ft. Gin. x 9ft. Sin £175/-/-
TABRIZ
Size, 12ft. Sin. x Bft. lOin £ll5/-/-
SMYRNA
Size, 16ft. 2in. x 13ft £139/10/-
Embroidered Tibetan
Numdahs
Made from Goat Hair in beauti-
ful designs and dyed fast col-
ours that will wash. In White
grounds only.
Size, 3ft. x 2ft. .. . Price, 10/9
Size, 4ft. x 3ft. .. . Price, 20/6
Size, 6ft. x 4ft. .. . Price, 42/6
They are ideal for Nursery use
or over Feltex close floor cover-
ing in bedrooms.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


DIRECT ACTION
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
“IT doesn’t sound
so bad if you say
I it quickly,” said
Charlie, but he
was so badly shaken by
the manager’s demands
that he rose and left the
bank without giving a reply to the pro-
posal or even saying a word of farewell.
The manager looked out after him with
surprise, but when the door closed he shut
Charlie out of his mind and took up
another case. There were plenty of other
cases. Charlie was bound to come back
in time, and probably in a more manage-
able mood.
But the manager didn’t realise how he
had stricken Charlie. To ask a creditor
for a bill of sale over his plant was a
routine procedure for the manager. After
a bad season like this he got one from
every farmer who had taken an R. 1.8.
advance to put in his crop and hadn’t
harvested enough to repay it. They just
had to give the bill of sale or they didn’t
get another advance to put in their next
crop. Most of them saw the inevitable-
ness and refrained from kicking against
the pricks.
But Charlie’s father ha t d warned him
against just such a bill of Sale when he was
very young and impressionable. “As long
as you’ve got your horses and plant you
can make a living somehow. But if you
lose them you’re pretty close to carrying
your swag. I did it once, and I only got
back on my feet again because I had a
big heart.”
The boy Charlie had gained the im-
pression that his heart could never pos-
sibly be as big as his giant father’s, and
that if he signed a bill of sale and lost
his plant it would be the end of him. If the
manager had invited him to cut his throat
he could not have been less willing.
Besides, there was the injustice of it.
Charlie’s method of keeping accounts was
elementary. He made records of all his
major transactions on slips of paper or
old envelopes, and when the opportunity
offered he put them on a file made of a
piece of galvanised fencing wire, bent
and pointed. Sometimes his wife washed
his clothes before he took the records
out of his pocket; sometimes he forgot to
date them, so that it became impossible to
separate them from similar records of
past years. But, generally speaking, with
the aid of his memory he was able to
estimate his financial position with what
he regarded as reasonable accuracy. Any-
how, he was certain it wasn’t nearly as
bad as the manager claimed. He walked
along the street with rebellion and fear
struggling in his heart.
He saw some soldiers home on leave
and pondered enviously their carefree
life. At moments like this he had often
thought of trying to wangle himself into
the army, irrespective of his age, but he
realised that no one would rent his farm
for a sufficient rental to pay the interest,
and that without his unpaid labor his
equity would disappear in accumulated
interest in a couple of years. He was
considering desperate measures when he
met Bill Henley.
They retired to their favorite nook at
the Royal, a sort of cubicle at the back of
the bar to which they applied the term
“loose box,” because they didn’t need to
breast the “manger,” but could have
their drinks handed over to where they
sat at a table.
“The point ‘they’ overlook,” said Bill,
“is that a farmer is human, and not
just a cog in a wheat-wool-and-mutton
manufacturing machine.”
“Too right,” said Charlie. “They work
out their miserable little figures, and think
they know what every man should do.
It makes me boil to have a pimply
little accountant talking to me about
‘your case.’ ”
“Only a farmer would be mug enough
to stand it,” said Bill. “The workers know
how to get what they want. They just
demand it, and go on strike until they
get it. Did you ever hear of a farmer
demanding anything?”
“Here’s one farmer,” said Charlie, who
was feeling a much better man now,
“who’s going to start demanding some-
thing. And if I don’t get it I’ll just stage
a sit-down strike.”
Bill grinned his approval.
“You’ll be sweet,” he said. “If you
don't grow a crop, he stands no chance
of getting back the money he advanced
you last year.”
“That’s what I was thinking,” Charlie
exulted. “I should’ve thought of it when
I was in his office, but I always get mental
paralysis in there. I’ve got him by the short
hairs; I’ll go back and tell him now.”
“You can’t do that,” said Bill, “the
bank’s closed.”
So they decided to write the manager
a letter while they were in the right mood
for it. But despite their buoyant spirits
they thought it advisable to tear the hotel
letterhead off the paper; it wouldn’t do
to create the impression that Charlie
spent a lot of time in hotels, or that he
was in an irresponsible state when the
letter was written.’ They soon had it
finished:
The Manager,
Rural Bank.
Dear Sir, —
Take notice that if I am not
given qp advance to put in my next
year’s crop, without having to sign
a bill of sale over my plant, I will
stage a sit-down strike. You will
then have to whistle for the money
you advanced me last year. I will
commence the strike tomorrow, and
will continue it until I have a letter
from you to say that rhy demands
are granted.
They were so pleased with the letter
that they had a couple more drinks to
celebrate the success it was going to
bring. After that, Bill struck out the
“Sir” and put “Mr. Rogers.”
“Why should we call him ‘Sir’?” he
asked.
“Why should we call him ‘Mr.’? He
never calls me ‘Mr.’ ”
So they struck out the “Mr.” and
left it plain “Dear Rogers.” They posted
the letter together, and arranged to meet
at the same place two weeks later to
discuss developments.
“Even if I have to suffer, it will be in
a noble cause,” said Charlie. “I will be
a pioneer martyr for the rights of hard-
up farmers.”
| T was latish when Charlie got home, so
' he said nothing to his family about his
determination that night. When he woke
next morning the whole thing seemed
decidedly fantastic. Still, he decided
there was no flaw in the reasoning by
which he and Bill concluded that the
plan couldn’t fail. And it should not be
very hard to sit down for a while.
At the breakfast-table the children
asked him what he proposed to do that
day. They were having their Christmas
holidays, and liked nothing better than
to keep with him and “help” him.
When he said “Nothing!” they
laughed. Dad was a great one for a
joke. But his wife, from long acquain-
tance, always knew when he was serious.
She looked at him with eyes as startled
as if he had proposed to blaspheme
against God in the presence of the chil-
dren. So he explained as much of the
business as he thought she could under-
stand. She asked a lot of irrelevant
questions, which he answered as patiently
as he could. Finally she said: “I’m sure
it won’t come out like you think. No
good ever came out of loafing.”
Charlie was hurt. When his wife said
“loafing,” she made it sound like one of
the few sins for which there is no for-
giveness. Nevertheless he rose from the
table determined to be faithful to the
cause. He collected an armful of news-
papers and went to sit in the armchair.
He found it quite pleasant until his wife
came in with brooms and dusters. No
one could inhabit a room Mrs. Charlie
was cleaning, so he took a chair on to
the verandah. He had scarcely settled
down there when his wife came out with
a broken saucepan. She suggested that,
since he never had time to mend anything
when he was working, he should be able
to now he was loafing.
Charlie recognised the thin edge of the
wedge and refused, but he removed him-
self from the house to be out of the way
of temptation. He went to the stable,
where he thought he would be able to
strike in comfort. The children appeared
as promptly as if they had lain in ambush
for him. The smallest girl put her hand
in his, saying hopefully and trustingly:
“Are you going to do some work now,
Dadda?”
He suspected that his wife had been
“at” her ; nevertheless it took all his reso-
lution to resist the urge to preserve her
innocent faith in him. He sat down on
a bag of chaff and leaned his back
against the oatbox. He talked to the
children, but they did not find him par-
ticularly entertaining when he was not
working, and they soon drifted away.
Soon his hands began to fidget, so he
occupied himself with whittling a piece
of wood. Every now and then one of
the children crept up and spied on him
between the slabs of the wall. When the
bell for morning tea rang, they scampered
away. Charlie did not follow; he knew
that his wife would make him feel that
he hadn’t earned any. When the children
came back they had the “kindling tin.”
They filled the tin with his whittlings.
Charlie recognised his wife’s hand, and
would have ground his teeth if he had
been that kind of man.
After midday dinner in a strained
atmosphere, Charlie saddled his hack and
rode oyer to a near neighbor. Since it
was now the tail-end of summer and very
hot and dry, the farmers were not par-
ticularly busy. He spent most of the
afternoon yarning with O’Brien in his
blacksmith shop, where he was making
a half-hearted attempt to get his scarifier
and harness in working order for the
time when it should rain and the earth
come to life again.
Charlie found this a pleasant way of
spending the time. On subsequent days,
after he had called at the post office to
see if the bank manager had sent his
letter, he visited other farmers. They
were all very interested in his strike, and
gave him plenty of moral support, but by
the end of the first week he began to
sense a hostility which emanated from
the farmers’ wives. They didn’t like to
have him wasting so much of their hus-
bands’ time.
By the middle of the following week
there was hardly a part of the district
where he didn’t feel uncomfortable. He
was not on speaking terms with his wife,
and his children displayed an uneasiness
in his presence which made him feel like
a stepfather. Still no letter came from
the bank manager.
Then, to make it much worse, it rained.
Not just a thunderstorm which washed
the earth and vanished, to leave the sun
to suck up the moisture in a couple of
days ; but a real, steady drencher that
saturated the soil and put an end to the
dust, heat and lethargy of summer.
Charlie watched the earth come to life.
The hard ground became soft and yield-
ing ; dust holes turned into beautiful
slushy mud. There were dews in the
morning, and the air was cool and clean.
Millions of little seeds germinated all
over the fields, and in favored spots the
clover lifted the surface of the soil like
the lid of a box, to get up to sun and air.
The sheep came up from the shade of
the clump of trees near the dam, and
streamed over the paddocks in extended
formation impatient for the first green
pick. Charlie’s horses, which had hardly
had energy enough to come to the stable
for their meals, now galloped round the
paddocks and tore up chunks of earth
with their hooves. They looked as if
they would enjoy doing some work.
Charlie knew the bustle of preparation
that was going on at all the neighboring
farms. He could feel the air vibrating
with the roar of tractors being tuned up
for the job ahead. His wife was looking
at him with positive disgust. He felt that
he had reached the end of his endurance.
HE kept his appointment with Bill
Henley, but was resolved to tell him
that it was a mistake for one man to go
on a sit-down strike. The thing should
be done on a big scale. But Bill had been
in town since early morning, and was full
of confidence when Charlie met him.
“You don’t need to worry,” he said.
“You might be thinking of the oppor-
tunity you’re losing, but what about
‘him’? If you stand firm now he’ll believe
that you don’t intend to put any crop in.”
“That’s easy for you to say. You’re
not missing any opportunities, and you’re
half-full of beer,” said Charlie.
“What we need now is a personal in-
terview,” said Bill, and, since Charlie had
decided it would end that way in any
case, he nodded agreement. “But we’d
better have a drink first so that you don’t
get that paralysis of the brain.”
They retired to the “loose-box” and
consumed a little beer, while Bill sub-
jected Charlie to a “pep” talk. He had
restored some confidence, when they saw
several men breast the bar on the other
side of the quadrangle. One was the
bank manager.
Bill nudged Charlie. “Here’s your
chance to meet him on your own
ground.” But seeing the bank manager
even there was enough to give Charlie
partial mental paralysis. Bill ordered
double whiskies. They worked. When
the manager was preparing to leave, they
sauntered round. The manager recog-
nised them as two of his clients—and
that was all. He nodded and was about
to go, when Charlie blocked his way.
“Hullo, Rogers,” he said.
The manager looked at Charlie care-
fully, and sorted him out from the rest
of his “cases.”
“Oh, you’re the man who” and
one corner of his mouth relaxed slightly
into what he regarded as a smile.
“Yes, I’m the man,” said Charlie, “and
what are you going to do about it?”
The manager wrinkled
his brow, and his face
looked as if he was
fluttering through the
leaves of his files.
“We sent you a
letter,” he said, and.
after examining Charlie’s face, con-
tined: “Apparently you didn’t get it
yet. It happened that your woolbrokers
neglected to fill in your initials correctly
when sending us your returns ; and some
confusion and delay resulted through
another client having the same name and
similar initials. You will be pleased to
learn that a considerable sum has been
placed to your credit, and in view of
that we are prepared to finance your
future operations without requiring fur-
ther security.”
He made a slightly ironic bow and
withdrew with his dignity intact. As
soon as the door closed behind him, Bill
gave Charlie a terrific thump on the back.
“We did it,” he exulted.
But Charlie was still trying to digest
the manager’s speech. He was always so
dazzled by the manager’s command of
language that he fell into a state of help-
less admiration.
“Don’t you believe what he said?” he
asked.
“That was all flapdoodle, to save his
face,” said Bill. “Your strike had him
rattled, and when you bailed him up and
called him plain ‘Rogers’ he knew that
he’d met his match.”
Charlie relaxed into a wide, self-satis-
fied grin. “Even if it wasn’t that,” he
said, “it proves that my system of book-
keeping is better than his.”
The Last Tasmanian
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
"T"HE original Tasmanians were one of
I the mos t primitive races of man-
I kind. Their history went far back
into remote human annals. A stone
implement found near Gladstone (Tas.)
was reckoned by Professor Edgeworth
David to be about 30,000 years old. Yet
contact with white men completely exter-
minated them in little more than two gen-
erations. The British arrived in the island
m 1803—in 1876 the Tasmanians no
longer existed.
It bas been supposed that they came
into the island whilst it was still joined
to the continent, but they were extraordi-
narily different from the Australian
blacks. The continentals have straight,
coarse hair—that of the Tasmanians was
0 f the short and woolly type, and they
bad darker skins. Their language was
altogether unlike that of the Australians’,
Both boomerang and wommera were un-
known to them, and they had only the
crudest of chipped-stone implements,
Their weapons were merely waddies, and
their spears only pointed sticks. They
b ad no canoes capable of going to sea,
and even in a climate as cold as theirs
they never wore clothing.
They were shockingly treated by bush-
rangers and convicts in the earlier days
0 f British settlement. With a notion of
saving them from complete destruction,
Governor Arthur organised a drive in
the late eighteen-twenties with the object
Q f concentrating them in Forestier’s Pen-
insula. It was carried out by 3000 men
an d cost £35,000, but its only result was
the capture of one woman and a boy.
G. A. Robinson was then given a free
hand to do what he could to save them,
an d by 1835 had collected about 200, all
that remained of a probable 2000
when David Collins formed his settle-
ment' on the Derwent in 1803. They
were placed on Flinders Island, in Bass
Strait, but by 1847 only 95 were still
living. These were removed to Oyster
Cove, near Hobart, but in 1869 William
Lanne, the last full-blooded male, died
in hospital. His widow, Truganini, was
then reputed to be the last pure-blood
still alive.
She belonged to the Bruni Island tribe,
and had been abducted by some convict
sawyers when a girl. She became an
assistant to Robinson, and showed high
courage and devotion to the work. When
the 16 survivors of the Flinders Island
camp were taken to Oyster Bay she went
with them. All the others had died by
1873, and she was taken to Hobart, where
she died in 1876.
She had had five husbands, the last of
whom was the William Lanne mentioned,
Truganini was supposed to be 65 when
she died. She followed Mr. Robinson
in all his excursions through the wildest
parts of the island. She acquired a know-
ledge of the various native dialects so as
to be able to communicate more freely
with the tribes, and she always went in ad-
vance of the party, risking her life among
the hostile blacks. She remained faithful
until the last great enterprise over the
western mountains was accomplished.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3255
Wednesday, July 1, 1942
IT’S NOW A TRIBAL CUSTOM.
“A couple of British soldiers! Let’s ‘dong’ them!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ippp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
WE WANT NO GESTAPO
HERE!
[ln Brisbane last week a newspaperman was
fined £2O, with £3B costs, for an offence against
National Security regulations—refusal to dis-
close to a C. 1.8, sub-inspector, acting for the
military, sources of information contained in
an article contributed to the Sunday “Mail.”
At Canberra a Sydney “Sun” man was inter-
rogated by detectives, alleged to be acting for
the military, but apparently operating under
instructions from N.S.W. Police Commissioner
Mac Kay, as Commonwealth Director-General
of Security, concerning sources of informa-
tion contained in a Sydney “Sun” article, which
declared, among other things, that Senator
Ashley, the Minister for Information, had not
been invited to an Army Public Relations talk
to newspaper representatives. Senator Ashley
applied to this incident the term “Gestapo
methods,” and Mr. Rosevear, M.H.R., repeat-
ing the expression, blamed “the weakness of
the Minister, Mr. Forde.” He said “newspaper
offices have been invaded, reporters have been
on the grid and the secrecy of the Post Office
has been violated.” All true; and yet the half
has not been told.]
The House at Canberra has seldom been
so excited as it was on the afternoon of
March 26. Mr. Blackburn (Bourke) had
declared on the previous day, after men-
tioning that public meetings announced
by so-called Australia Firsters had been
prohibited (by N.S.W. Police Commis-
sioner Mac Kay), that “after the House rose
last month, fifteen members of the Aus-
tralia First movement, all Australian-
born, were interned at Liverpool, N.S.W.”
Being unable to believe that “the persons
were in any way in sympathy with the
Japanese,” he urged the Government “to
bring them to trial at the earliest possible
date, or give them some kind of a court
of inquiry, or liberate them.”
It was arranged that Mr. Forde should
give the official facts by way of answering
a question asked by Mr. Watkins (New-
castle) ; and this Mr. Forde did, in a
highly dramatic way.
Said Mr. Forde: “Twenty persons—
nineteen men and one woman —believed
to have been associated with the so-called
Australia First movement have been
arrested and interned.” Documents and
papers had been seized ; “they set out
elaborate plans for sabotage at vulner-
able points, and describe methods calcu-
lated to make resistance to the Japanese
impossible.” One document “purports to
be a proclamation with the heading ‘Aus-
tralia First Government’ and the words
‘welcomes to this country as friends and
liberators the Japanese leaders and
army,’ ” and there were “plans for the
assassination of prominent people.”
At this some members gasped and
others felt their throats to see if they
were intact. Mr. Forde, modestly con-
scious of the impression he had created,
took the opportunity to rip out some
affecting moral sentiments of the “let-
this-be-a - warning - to-you-good-people”
order before' bringing his thrilling mono-
logue to a conclusion:
These documents indicate a Fifth Column
activity of the worst kind by a very small
band of people. The military authorities
have b(*en investigating the activities of the
so-called Australia First movement for a
considerable time, and the arrests took
place as a result of these inquiries. We
shall stand no Quislings, whether they come
from the highest or the lowest.
For Ministers and members the day
was made more memorable by the arrival
of General MacArthur, who, from a chair
beside the Speaker’s, was privileged to
hear Mr, Rowley James challenge that
officer to put him out, and Mr. Ward —to
whom any increase in defence expendi-
ture used to be proof of imperialist war-
mongering— taunt the other side with
having “left our defences” in “a shock-
ing state.” No opportunity for discus-
sion of Mr. Forde’s revelations could be
found, but it was provided next morn-
ing, Mr. Fadden moving the adjourn-
ment of the House to debate what he
described as “charges without parallel in
Australian history and in British history,
at any rate since the Guy Fawkes plot.”
“The safety of the nation.” the Leader of
the Opposition boomed, “is at stake, and
if people of our own race have been so
base as to enter into commitments to
the enemy, or to conspire to do so, they
should be tried for their lives.” Mr.
W. M. Hughes went further:
The real purpose of the Australia First
movement is to prepare the way for the
coming of the Japanese These people
stand convicted. Their general purpose is
revealed. They sent their spies and shock
troops into Western Australia and they were
arrested While one of them roams at
large I shall not be satisfied. We cannot
make war in this fashion —blithering about
the Bill of Rights and the habeas corpus
and things of that.kind. This is war; and
the man who says he will betray us de-
serves death. If my name is on the little
list of persons marked out for assassina-
tion I shall know what to do. I shall see
to it that any of these gentlemen who are
not interned will not need interning.
The indignant ancient spoke after the
Prime Minister, who said that the Aus-
tralia First movement had been “under
the constant observation of Military In-
telligence for several months.” Against
the 20 persons interned “a prima facie
case” had been “established by Military
Intelligence.” Nobody questioning the
competence of Military Intelligence, Mr.
Curtin went on to promise that “the
whole processes of the law will be in-
voked ; the civil authorities will be
directed to formulate charges on the evi-
dence that is available.”
After other members had tried to sus-
tain the dramatic quality of the debate,
the House passed on to the next busi-
ness. leaving the public a prey to con-
flicting emotions. While, by his own
admission, aware that the Australia First
movement had been under military sur-
veillance, Mr. Curtin assured the Ameri-
can people in a broadcast speech that
“there is no Fifth Column in Australia.”
Between that assurance and his Army
Minister’s denunciation of “a Fifth-
Column activity of the worst kind” (trans-
lated into journalese as “Spy Murder
Plot Alleged; Gang of 20 Caught, Says
Forde”), only 12 days elapsed ; and the
majesty of the law was now about to
strike —at whom? If Australia had its
Thistlewoods and Fenwicks would they
be tried for their lives, as Mr. Fadden
suggested? If they, were found guilty
would the Labor Government waive
its objection to capital punishment
and have them hanged or handed
over to a firing party? And in the
matter of procedure, would English pre-
cedent be followed, as in the affair of
Sir Roger Casement, or would the High
Court be asked to establish an Australian
precedent?
None of these questions arose or will
arise. The criminal proceedings were
confined to four persons, all little-known
Westralians, and one of them a young
woman employed in the post office. The
charge was not high treason, but “con-
spiracy to assist a public enemy, the
Japanese Empire,” and it was laid under
the Crimes Act, which Labor used to
loathe —or said it did. The four were
accused of having drawn up a proclama-
tion declaring themselves the “Australia
First National Socialist Government,”
welcoming Japanese invasion, threaten-
ing opponents of the “Government” with
death and decreeing the abolition of
interest and other annoyances ; accused
also of having plotted acts of violence,
among them the “liquidation” of Lieut.-
General Gordon Bennett and other
persons of less note —not Mr. Hughes,
Mr. Curtin or Mr. Forde.
After a Perth Police Court hearing,
the accused were committed. There fol-
lowed a Criminal Court trial, before the
State Chief Justice and a jury, which
lasted for 16 days. Whether or not “a
prima facie case” was “established by
Military Intelligence,” the arrests were
made by State police, and State police
were among the witnesses. The principal
witness was a certain Thomas, “from the
Special Bureau C. 1.8.,” who, posing as
Frederick Carl Hardt, an Australia First
sympathiser, said he had “decoyed” the
accused into confiding to him all their
plans. The defence was that they had
probed his secret and had hoaxed him
from first to last.
Thomas gave no engaging account of
himself. He acknowledged having been a
rolling stone, often in trouble for stowing
away and jumping trains, and did not
deny having expressed Communist sym-
pathies. Indeed he admitted having
joined the Russian Medical Aid Com-
mittee and also the Communist party, “as
a probationary member after the party
had been made illegal,” but this, he said,
he did at the instance of the Special
Bureau C. 1.8., which had given him the
only steady job he ever had. Summing
up, the Chief Justice pointed out that
on many points Thomas had been con-
tradicted by the accused, but on one
point he had been supported by one of
the four —Quicke, a farmer. It related
to a discussion on sabotage, “probably
the only way in which the enemy could
have been' assisted.” Thomas asserted,
and Quicke admitted, that sabotage had
been suggested by Bullock, who, it was
alleged, had appointed himself leader of
the National-Socialist Government; Bul-
lock’s account was that sabotage had
been suggested by Thomas.
Bullock, who was employed by the
Primary Producers’ Association as an
organiser, was found guilty. So was
Williams, an insurance agent, though the
jury specially recommended Williams to
mercy. Quicke and the woman in the
case, variously described as Miss Kra-
kouer and Mrs, Moss, were acquitted.
According to Thomas, it was at the
woman’s suggestion that the name of
General Bennett, a stranger to the West,
was placed on the liquidation list —this
only a week after he returned to Aus-
tralia from Singapore, and 23 days before
he received his Westralian command —
and, though a Jewess, she had subscribed
to a ferocious anti-Jewish programme.
The prosecution tried to show that she.
was on too intimate terms with Bullock,
which was decidedly nasty and, in the
sequel, ineffective.
As for Quicke, a detective admitted in
cross-examination that “for at least the
first 10 days after Quicke was first de-
tained he was not served with a Minis-
terial detention order.” This should be
noted by Mr. Blackburn and Mr. Brennan
for action when Parliament meets. An-
other instructive admission was made in
cross-examination, by a constable:
In reply to Mr. Hughes, witness said
that at one time the Special Bureau had
been very active prosecuting Communists.
On the last occasion on which a Communist
was charged in the Perth Police Court five
or six months ago the Crown produced no
evidence and the charge was either dismissed
or withdrawn.
Obviously an effect of the policy that
came in with the Labor Government. Mr.
Forde himself was responsible for the
release of Thomas and Ratliff from the
detention camp to which they were con-
signed after serving the very light sen-
tence imposed on them for running a
secret “anti-imperialist-war” propaganda
factory for the Communist party. Their
offence was so rank and their impenitence
was such that the Judge-headed tribunal
which went into their case refused to
recommend their release ; but Mr. Forde
had them out 14 days after his Govern-
ment took office..
While Communists and their “fellow-
travellers” exulted and arranged bois-
terous welcome-home demonstrations,
Mr. Forde “explained” that “the release
will remove what might have otherwise
been a source of serious industrial fric-
tion, and will promote production in war
industry.” In other words, Mr. Forde
had a lively fear of Communist agitation
and preferred appeasement to govern-
ment. In dealing with its own Com-
munists, Washington has other ideas.
Witness Attorney-General Biddle’s order
for the deportation of Harry Bridges,
issued on the very day Molotov arrived
in the U.S.A., and regardless of repre-
sentations that Bridges was doing all he
could to assist the American war effort.
It was sufficient for the Attorney-
General that Bridges, as he declared, had
been a member of the Communist party,
and that “the Communist party advo-
cates the overthrow of the United States
Government by force and violence.” Sub-
ject to his right of appeal to the Courts,
Bridges was “to be deported to Australia
at the Government’s expense”; and pos-
sibly, in the close relations which have
grown up since December 7, it was in-
tended to suggest to the Australian Gov-
ernment that it should not be soft-handed
in dealing with its own Communists.
Be that as it may, Mr. Forde’s feeble
words have in no way been justified by
events. In the promotion of “production
in war industry,” Communist influence
has not been worth two straws, and “the
release” has utterly failed to remove
“serious industrial friction” in N.S.W.
coalmining districts; if it had any
effect at all in those districts, the effect
has been bad. And though they no
longer pretend that the war is “an
imperialist war,” Communists have grown
more impudent and arrogant than ever.
They continue to issue papers which were
supposed to have been banned; their
voices are heard in town halls, streets and
parks; they have organised an out-
rageous campaign for .a Second Front in
Europe ; they demand the suppression of
anti-Communist newspapers and the in-
ternment of opponents whom fhey
allege to be “Fascists”; they boast of
being intimate with Ministers and brag
that they inspired the proceedings against
the Australia First people mentioned in
the first instance by Mr. Blackburn. In
ferocious contempt of the Prime Minis-
ter’s attitude (“the Government does not
seek to prejudice the trial of these per-
sons by naming them”), they published a
list of names, with savage denunciations
of the owners (some were retired busi-
nessmen, others 1914-18 soldiers, all
Australian-born residents of N. S. Wales),
which, since they have been widely cir-
culated, might influence jurymen should
there ever be a trial.
On March 27 Mr. Forde said there
were “processes of law open to those
who consider that they have been
wrongly interned.”
They are entitled to appeal for release
and to have their cases heard by a tribunal
which has already been constituted and
which has dealt with large numbers of cases.
On May 20 he repeated this statement
in reply to Mr. Rosevear and Mr.
Spender, who wanted to know why four-
fifths of the internees had not been prose-
cuted. He was unable to satisfy the
members’ curiosity, but promised to
“confer with the Solicitor-General in
order to ascertain whether, in his opinion,
there is sufficient evidence to justify the
prosecution of other members of the
movement.” Mr. Rosevear mordantly
inquired “whether the real reason for
the delay in bringing these people to
trial is not the flimsiness of the evidence
against them.” Called to order by the
Speaker, on the ground that “a cross-
examination is contrary to the rules of
the House,” the member for Dailey said
he would “try to get at the facts in
another way.”
I ask the Minister for the Army whether
the comments of the Chief Justice of New
South Wales about the application of the
internment regulations, and the difficulty
experienced by people interned by Minis-
terial direction in obtaining release, are
the real*- reasons why the Minister invites
the members of the Australia First move-
ment to go before a tribunal where they
will have no chance.
Mr. Francis reminded the Government
of “the serious allegations” it had made
in March. Mr. Calwell contrasted its
present attitude with the zeal Labor had
shown for the parties in the I.W.W. case,
and suggested that the Government
should “act similarly in regard to
members of the Australia First move-
ment.” And Mr. Cameron inquired
whether “persons who, in the judgment
of the Minister, are guilty of the crimes
which have been mentioned are to be
tried by an aliens tribunal or an in-
ternees tribunal, or is the practice of re-
quiring them to face their trial before
an ordinary Criminal Court to remain
in cold storage?”
The case of the 16 men was mentioned
in the House again on June 2, this time
by ex-Minister Stewart. “Are we to
assume,” he asked, “from the fact that
no action has been taken that insufficient
evidence against them has been ob-
tained?” With the disingenuousness
which seems characteristic of him when
driven into a corner, Mr. Forde replied
that “in March last I said some members
of this organisation had been responsible
for certain actions” and “certain members
of the organisation” had been prosecuted.
Respecting the others, “on the report of
the Commonwealth Solicitor-General, it
was decided not to take any further
action.” “The original statements” must
have been extravagant,” ex-Minister
McEwen interposed. “I said at the time,”
Mr. Forde pleaded, “that the Government
would be guided by the advice of the
Solicitor-General.” As for “those who
have been interned” many of them have
lodged appeals, and I have given instruc-
tions that the hearings are to be expedited.
I was informed today that 16 typists had
been put on to hurry the work forward.”
Sixteen typists! And this nearly three
months after the men had been taken
from their homes and callings, and more
than two months after Mr. Forde —de-
parting from the practice followed in
cases of other internees —had included
them in a sensational denunciation, then
and still unsupported by evidence given
to the public.
When Parliament goes into these
matters again—as in common justice it
will have to do, and far more deeply
than it has yet done —it should give care-
ful consideration to the Canadian pro-
cedure where subversive activities are
alleged against citizens by birth or adop-
tion. Canadians can be interned only on
the unanimous report of a committee of
three high officials from the Departments
of External Affairs, Labor and Immigra-
tion, and neither the Department of Jus-
tice nor the Canadian Mounted Police
can lie at the committee s


proceedings. But these are not the only
steps taken: —
Before any Canadian is sent to an intern-
ment camp he must be lodged in the local
gaol and notified of the reasons why he is
being detained.
He must be allowed to see his family and
SJSTS detention? ,en *""° £ ‘
He cannot be moved to an internment
camp until his case has been heard by an
advisory committee of three men, headed
by a Judge, and until a decision has been
rendered.
Thus the rights of the citizen and the
safety of the country are alike protected,
Chief Justice Jordan, in giving judgment
on the application of Mrs. Adela Walsh
for a writ of habeas corpus, pointed out
that the National Security Act and regu-
lations under which Mr. Forde issues his
int_t orders do not include the
words the detention of persons whose
detention appears to be expedient in the
interest of public safety,’ albeit they
appear m the corresponding imperial
legislation. Though the Court must uphold
the validity of the Act and regulations,
members of Parliament had in effect
authorised the Executive Government
to confer on the Minister arbitrary
powers over the life and liberty of every
Australian citizen, themselves included,
His Honor suggested that “most members
must have felt considerable astonishment
when this was explained to them, as I
assume it was.” What is astonishing is
that, although these strong remarks from
the Bench were made while Parliament
was in session, the “arbitrary powers
over the life and liberty of every Austra-
, r „ • J . ~
lian were allowed to remain in the
hands or the Minister, and that Minister
Mr. Forde.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Australians All.
Anyone who has led an out-of-doors life
in Australia for any length of time either
sticks to it or goes back to an inside
occupation full of strange longings.
A very great proportion of the old
A.I.F. were men from the open. Prob-
ably that had something to do with its
fighting quality and endurance, for those
who had joined it from shops and offices
were only one remove from the open
anyway in those days. And a very great
proportion of the men who returned
made for the open again.
The new A.I.F. was formed from a
community dominated by great modern
cities. Two of them held a third of the
entire population, and in all the main-
land States there had been a persistent
drift from country to city. The male
Australian was becoming sedentary or,
if he did stand up to work, he stood up
under a roof.
So into the new A.I.F. went many thou-
sands of youngsters from the office and
the factory. In no time the veneer of
city life vanished. Irresistibly they re-
minded one of the old A.I.F. when it
was young, and they proved it in war.
More thousands went to inland Aus-
tralia with the rush of R.A.A.F. enlist-
ments and with the calling up of the
militia and of men for the outdoor work
that became necessary when Australia
was transformed into a theatre of war.
All over the Commonwealth young
men from city and town are sampling
the tangs of the bush, the haunting
beauty of morning, the long mellow
afternoons, the sheer glory of the nights,
and sharing these and other things with
the kind of mates a man makes when he
is with them on a hard and dangerous
life.
What wonders this alchemy of the
Australian open will work in their hearts!
What long thoughts must be theirs on
the silent sentry-go while the wild swans
bugle overhead! What new love of
country will spring in them! What com-
'parisons they will make with the rush
and noise and selfishness and anonymity
of city life! And what will they want
when it is over and they come back to
ways of peace again?
Here is a psychological problem for
Government; here, a thought for those
given to idle babbling about new orders ;
here, if it is looked at through Australian
eyes, a new hope for the nation.
Stumped by the States.
If ever a country’s sins found it out
Australia’s are finding it out now. This
is particularly and embarrassingly so with
regard to its State Governments, whose
ineptitude and selfishness are being
brought home the more hurtfully with
every passing day.
Through them a country which had a
great surplus of foodstuffs—so great that
it couldn’t find export markets to absorb
some of them—finds itself actually facing
f oo d rationing because it has to feed its
°™ A 1 1“ Bating *s well as
rr * ime wken ex P°rt
7p|; eiS are cu^
Ih® reasons are not lack of food but
lack of transport, call-ups for military
service and war work and one or two
minor factors, but, above all, lack of
transport. For a decade before the
war the S t tate Governments, with their
strangulation policies, were
'I 11 , 8 . very P°. sitl 9 n about. By
ag JT* pm ?a en , ter ‘
transport develop-
Countries less advanced than Australia
enjoy road transport that would give an
Australian Premier the horrors. What
couldn’t Australia do now with fleets
of gian£ trucks driven b Diesel or shale
G r coal oil! Had it not been for the
states and their cursed transport rules
the country would have been criss-
crossed with good roads, served by
efficiently-operated transport concerns
and free of the dreadful border restric-
tions. The latter are gone now as a war
measure, but only in part and too late,
Said one of General MacArthur’s
engineer officers. Brigadier - General
Casey:
Australia has complicated road problems,
Railway rolling stock is of light construc-
ljon ,* s rather old in that it has not
been replaced m recent years. Military
operations impose a terrific strain on exist- ‘
ing communications. There is [for road
building] a lack of labor, plant and con-
struction material.
We’ll muddle through somehow, as we
always do, But if Australia suffers any
more the menacing antics of State Gov-
ernments in regard to national things like
transport, then it is incapable of learning
lessons, no matter how hard they be.
Reproach to the Bush.
There must be a lot of Australians out-
back who view with envy the perform-
ances of some of our American cousins.
Especially their descriptions of adven-
tures when cast adrift in uninhabited
parts of this great open land of ours and
the ease with which they have these
adventures chronicled in even the most
conservative and hitherto suspicious
columns of the Australian press.
There was a time, but it is long past,
when a whiskery bloke with a mild eye
could appear in some outback town, grab
the lapels on the coat of the local corre-
spondent, and with an air of impressive
gravity fill the ear of his auditor with a.
tale of bunyips, bowyangs, Bungaree
savages, Tantanoola tigers, Guyra ghosts
and other rare fauna. But not now.
Somebody set the Grafton country hum-
ming with a crocodile “seen” in the Clar-
ence River ; somebody else “saw” a rein-
deer out from Junee (N.S.W.); yet an-
other got himself appointed “protector”
of a bunyip which had taken up residence
in Dynevor Lake (Q.). But, except for
a momentary notoriety, the yarns were
scarcely noticed.
Not so with those cousins. Day after
day they are achieving things which the
most imaginative outbacker never im-
agined and getting their doings published
under big, bold, black headlines and even
recorded in the war-news sessions of the
nation’s radio stations. Mark Twain
would have been delighted with them.
Every space of sea-water they fall into
is infested with sharks, every swamp with
crocodiles. The sharks bite holes in their
rubber boats but are fought off with
knives. The crocodiles give them gentle
nips—the outbacker needs stiff nips to
set his imagination going—and then,
threatened with a knife, retreat in panic.
Landing from busted ’planes, their para-
chutes don’t open until a blast from the
’plane, which luckily beats them down
and explodes* unfolds them.
Take the one who told a Sydney “Sun”
man—and duly got his three columns
bold—how, starving, he caught, killed
and ate a grasshopper, then ate a clam,
then saw an “owl drop out of a tree and
scurry across the beach....l went for
that owl with my knife.” And there on
the beach he stabbed it to death and ate
it raw. A few minutes later the inevit-
able crocodile, probably the one that
goes round nipping people on the
shoulder, bobbed up.
And what have Australians offered in
contrast? Bury your heads in shame, you
benighted talespinners of the outback!
All you could dig up was the moth-eaten
yarn, this time attributed to a railway
fettler, that he “saw a lion, which snarled
at him.” Ye gods, a lion against men
who eat grasshoppers and stab owls! —or
was it a mopoke?—to death on lonely
crocodile- and shark-haunted beaches!
No wonder the editor of Aboriginal!-
ties wants to join the American Army!
HOUDINI’S SUCCESSOR.
“Ladies and gentlemen, you are now about to see the escapologist in the most marvellous performance of his marvellous
career. Watch him wriggle out of this!”


STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night Because* oiß
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day's work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help. . .
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take Immediate steps to correct
tlie cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When,
the kidneys do not function properly, wasto
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas*
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, pufflncsa under the eyes and
excess uric acid, ‘
Don’t delay 1 Neglect is dangerous. Taka
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
DOAN’S SACKACBfi KIDNEY FILLS to-day.
STDP^e
WORRIES!
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEIj APPLIANCE 00.,
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
«n»*SB8»/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
inland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
iuvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney.
w
Queensland
insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
How these war politicians stick to one
another! W. M. Hughes “would rather
lose more battles than lose Mr. Churchill,
for he it is who has brought us as far as
we have come.” Shouldn’t he have said
“as far as we have gone”?
Churchill in the Commons on June 2,
even while Bir Hakheim was being
attacked:
We have every reason to be satisfied,
and more than satified, with the course the
battle has taken. There is no shadow of
doubt that Rommel’s initial offensive has
gone completely awry and has cost him
dear in men and materials. A conservative
estimate gives the number of enemy tanks
destroyed or captured as about 260. We
are now mopping up the country east of
Bir Hakheim. The Axis air force has lost
heavily.
That sort of thing is getting monotonous.
It was here suggested long ago, and
many times since, that the Common-
wealth, exercising its powers under Con-
stitutional Section 109, could abolish the
chaos of income taxes by passing a 100-
per-cent.-income-tax law and taking by
regulation what the Government con-
sidered it should take from taxpayers in
the different groups. Section 109 says;
When a law of a State is inconsistent with
a law of the Commonwealth, the latter shall
prevail, and the former shall, to the extent
of the inconsistency, be invalid.
In the High Court case in Melbourne,
Ligertwood, K.C., was arguing for the
Adelaide Government that, if the Curtin-
Chifley tax “scheme” was good, the Com-
monwealth could completely subordinate
State Parliaments to the will of the
Federal Parliament. Said Justice Starke:
“Take the imposition of a 205.-in-the-£
tax by the Commonwealth. The States
could have no remedy.”
Inventions or ideas are pouring into
the Army Inventions Directorate at the
rate of 150 a week. So far, nobody has
invented anything to stop the squalling
of amateur strategists every time fight-
ing men fail to defeat the enemy with
smaller forces and equipment than the
enemy has.
Said Dr. Evatt at a welcome-home in
his electorate, “I want to see abroad
people representing Australia who think
of Australia every day and all the time.”
Truly spoken, but it should not be con-
strued as an invitation to the State Gov-
ernments to appoint another lot of
Agents-General. Agents-General and
State Governments are alike superfluous.
“We dare not be satisfied and we dare
not give up for a moment” —Dr. Evatt to
Australia in general. Yet when he spoke
men employed on an “important defence
work” were striking over an overtime-pay
dispute and 900 N.S.W. coalminers had
had another workless day—about 4000
for the week. The men on the “impor-
tant defence work” knocked off because
of a Conciliation Commission ruling that
payment of double time for work done
after 11 p.m. on King’s Birthday would
not be legal. Judge O’Mara said that
after the assurances given to the Prime
Minister by trade-union leaders, the
strike seemed “fantastic.” “Fantastic”
was scarcely the word.
One explanation of the defeat in Libya
was that the Eighth Army was out-
gunned? Did Beaverbrook send the best
guns, as well as the best tanks and the
best ’planes, to Russia?
One of Beaverbrook’s young men got
in at a by-election as an Independent—
a Mr. Driberg, who writes Second Front
stuff and the like as “William Hickey,”
Nowadays there are many ’bergs and so
forth writing and spouting Second Front
stuff and the like under Anglo-Saxon or
Anglo-Celtic pseudonyms. There are also
Nelsons and Sinclairs whose noses were
never made in England.
In a broadcast speech on press and
Parliament, Menzies got home very
cleverly on some of his newspaper critics.
In other days, he said, “the public mind
was informed by the reporter and per-
suaded by the leader-writer” ; the tradi-
tion was to “report fairly, and without
comment, and separately to criticise.”
Today there is a perceptible tendency to
mingle report with comment, so that you
do not know whether you are reading what
Brown said or what young Smith, the re-
porter, thinks of what Brown said.
A palpable hit!
Parliamentarians who are neither ex-
cessively punctilious about Dignity nor
given to making blackguardly attacks
on private persons who can’t reply with
writs have a case against the press.
Newspapers like the London “Times,” the
Manchester “Guardian” and the New
York “Times” make a point of report-
“Twelve N.S.W. coalmines, employing 3000 men, were idle on Monday.”
“What did you do in the Second World War, Grandaddy ?”
“Well, lad, I was a New South Wales coalminer”
ing the proceedings of Parliament fully.
Australian dailies have ceased to do so.
It is a mistake, especially in war-time.
Certainly the papers have the excuse that
there are so many Parliaments to report
—six being excessive.
“No more gold passes.” It sounded
too good to be true, and it turned out
that the Victorian Railways Commis-
sioners had decided merely to issue no
more first-class all-lines tickets in gold
but instead to make the medallion of a
white metal covered with a gold film.
There will be no more gold passes for
State politicians only when there are no
more State politicians.
Sydney Water Board claims that more
of its vehicles use charcoal gas for fuel
than any other State department. But
where do they get the water?
Mr, Curtin, in handing over control of
the liquor traffic to the States, doubtless
hoped they’d bring the thing under con-
trol. That was months ago, and there is
more boozing than ever. A uniform
drinking law is called for from Canberra.
Dunstan’s tedious repetition of his plea
that he was against uniform income taxa-
tion because it would “prevent any ex-
tension of social services” provoked
Riley, the A.L.P. chairman, into looking
up social services expenditure in the six
States. After five years of Dunstan the
Victorian figure was 11s. per head, an
increase of 2s. 4d. in five years. Figures
for the other States, all of which showed
increases, were 13s. 7d. in Tas., 14s. Bd.
in S.A., 15s. 7d. in N.S.W., 17s. 9d. m
Queensland and 18s. 3d. in W.A.
Victorian Labor met full of sound and
fury against the Dunstan-Cam arrange-
ment, and got to the stage of suggesting
a Cain no-confidence molion. Hostilities
were deferred until Dunstan produces his
nrnammmp if nnv
programme it any.
Canada has introduced compulsory
savings in its new Budget. Income tax
has been increased, but portion of it is
to be repaid after war with 2 p.c. interest.
Australia will have to do it sooner or
] a t er
A deputation from a Vic.oriau couu.ry
going to Melbourne to see the Minister.
In “State circles” the countrymen were
severely criticised for travelling in these
“times of restricted travel.” “State
circles” are “Country”-party!
Maoriland is to have a real war Cabi-
net, made up of seven Labor and six
Opposition members, with a Labor P.M.
as now. A domestic Cabinet is to manage
domestic affairs and the life of Parliament
is to be extended until a twelvemonth
after the war. Maoriland Labor has been
in power since 1935, and from the strict
party point of view has far less reason
than Australian Labor to consider the
Opposition. Since the outbreak of war
it has chosen to be different from Aus-
tralian Labor in almost every way.
In the Crimes Act conspiracy case at
Perth, Bullock and Williams were con-
victed (Williams, with a “special” recom-
mendation to mercy); Quicke and Miss
Krakouer were acquitted, but an order
for their release from military detention
was refused. All were alleged to belong
to the Australia First movement. This
is denied by the N.S.W. Australia Firsters
interned, and it is a matter which should
be brought up in Parliament as soon as
Parliaments meets. No doubt it will
be, by any of a dozen members.
Ashley, the P.M.G., announcing that
the Parliamentary Standing Committee
was about to meet in Canberra to “in-
vestigate” the “A.B.C. Weekly,” in which
£lOO,OOO or so of listeners’ money has
gone west, added that “indications point
to the journal continuing to be pub-
lished.” Being able to forecast the result
of a Parliamentary inquiry is a talent
given to few.
As a result of Commonwealth money
being spent in Victoria, the State’s once
chronically hard-up railways have set an
all-dime record for revenue. With a week
of the financial year to go it amounted
to £14,000,000, up nearly three million.
Yet the ungrateful Dunstan wants to bite
the hand that feeds him.
There are still, it seems, two Country
“parties” in Victorian Assembly. W. O.
Fulton, representative of No. 1, won the
by-election for North Gippsland on the
preferences of a representative of No. 2.
In the first count the Labor man was
nearly 200 ahead. The winner belongs to
the “United” Country “party.”
South Africa is to have no more race
meetings for the duration. It has one
Government and one Parliament, so the
one Government isn’t bothered by
provincial Premiers who wouldn’t offend
the racing “industry” for worlds.
According to Melbourne “Age,” be-
cause five racing greyhounds and their
attendants cluttered up the van of a train
leaving Albury for Sydney naval stores
marked “urgent” had to be left behind.
Responsibility has been disavowed by the
Commonwealth Transport Board, the
Victorian Railway Department and the
N.S.W. Railway Department, so there is
a chance for Ward to blame the nefarious
capitalist. It is Ward’s habit to blame the
nefarious capitalist for everything.
Announcing the closing of his expen-
sive Government Tourist Bureau as a
tourist bureau, O’Sullivan, the N.S.W.
Minister for Transport, said it would be
kept open as an advisory bureau. To
draw salaries as usual, no doubt, but to
give advice on what? O’Sullivan did not
explain.
Absenteeism in munitions works has
at last become so prevalent that the
Federal Government will have to do
something about it or provide employers
with means of doing something about it.
A lot of talk has been heard about the
national importance of the munitions
worker and of the need for keeping him
or her happy. The comparative few who
abuse their privileges can be dealt with
easily enough if the Government is de-
termined to govern.
“There goes the curse of the country,”
said Dunstan as he watched the Victorian
civil servants, as the last act of the State
Government’s official existence, throwing
all the rubber stamps on a scrapheap.
Unfortunately it was said not by Dun-
stan, but by Lieut-General Brebon Burke
Somervell, commanding U.S. Army Ser-
vices, anent the American Army.
“A good time was had by all” in Bris-
bane when a crowd of politicians and
their friends gathered at a luncheon to
celebrate Forgan Smith’s tenth year
as Premier. McCormack, Theodore and
two Federal Ministers were among them.
Ordinary people can’t travel without good
excuse now, even to attend celebration
luncheons, but then Theodore and co.
aren’t ordinary people.
According to an unnamed “leading
authority”:
At least 500 N.S.W. dairy farms have
been closed down. Stock on the majority
of others has been reduced 20 p.c. to 30
p.c. Most of our efficient man-power has
gone to munitions and the services; the
outlook appals everyone who knows the
industry.
Unnamed “leading authorities” with axes
to grind should receive no more notice
from the press than writers of anony-
mous letters.
Published on Monday:
The consensus of professional opinion in
Washington is that a second front, although
not specifically mentioned, is promised by
implication, and that the Churchill-Roose-
velt statement is another step- in the shift
of United Nations’ strategy from “defen-
sively extensive” to “offensively intensive.”
To the making of words there is no end.


THE ECONOMY SAUCE
Btiy War Savings Certificates.
Sauce
USE ONLY A FEW DROPS
AT A TIME
PERSONAL ITEMS
The appointment of George Dunbar
Moore as Second Member of the Naval
Board marks an epoch in R.A.N. history.
A Queenslander, he was the first Jervis
Bay man to achieve captain’s rank —in
1935. He is one of the first two to serve
as commodore—Collins, of H.M.A.S.
Sydney is the second.
The uniform-tax law fight between the
Commonwealth and the States was
opened by George Coutts Ligertwood,
who, representing S.A. but speaking by
consent for the other three States,
addressed the Court for more than 10
hours. Born in S.A. and a Stow Medal-
list and LL.B. from Adelaide University
in 1910, Ligertwood was associate to
knight Sam Way, C.J., for three years and
Acting Master of the S.A. Supreme Court
G. C. LIGERTWOOD. K.C.
for a further three years, after which he
dropped his legal career to join the A.I.F.
He has practised at the S.A. Bar since
1920 and took silk in 1930.
A 1914-18 Digger twice mentioned in
dispatches, Archibald F. Graham, has
been appointed Victorian Government
nominee on that State’s Public Service
i(vvc d 'u 3oi ? ecl tde P uddc sery ice in
1905 ; had much to do with educational
f. and was secretary to the Educa-
tion Department for many years. He
1S
Major E. T. Love, who succeeds Briga-
dier-General Dittmer as commander of
the Maori battalion with the rank of
lieutenant-colonel, is the first full-
blooded Maori to be appointed to a New
“of~n d B a. H,S Wfe 18
...
r. 9 C ? C L * n a * r °P era tions with the
R.A.A.K overseas, Sergeant-Observer
oss O. Gregory, the _6-yeai-old Vic-
cHckA AtatAAlrf lot’s e °i*i C nse 0 ef n'
cricket status in 1935. He was an all-
rounder, and a good one. Joining up in
a sterner game in 1940 Gregory was
posted to Canada in the Empire Air
Training scheme and then sent to
England. He took part in several flights
over Occupied Europe and Hitler’s
country and was then transferred to the
Middle East. He was born at Murchison
and educated at Gardenvale State school,
and was working with a firm of accoum
tants in Melbourne when the war gong
thundered. One of his Test opponent!
was Kenneth Fames, the fast bowler,
killed last October while serving with the
RAp
’’ ' , , A ' „
Wyndham (north W.A.) folk knew
Captain A. J. King well when he was
the flying doctor in those parts. Now a
prisoner of war in Germany, he has re-
ported to his old Melbourne h.q. that he
is reasonably well cared for. He was
caught in Crete, and there he saw an
amazing extension of the winged am-
balance service of which the Australian
Flying Doctor organisation was the world
pioneer. After the capitulation the Ger-
mans used aerial ambulances to convey
hundreds of wounded of both sides from
the island to Greece on a scale that he
had never imagined possible.
If Victor Courtney wins the Leg.
Council seat he is contesting, the Perth
Parliament will have a poet-member.
Becoming editor of the “Sunday Times,”
Courtney found it an office tradition that
the editor had to do the verse when
“Dryblower” Murphy “went to Wynd-
ham,” and, having a knack of writing
crisp jingle of his own, he found the
tradition no burden. He has published
a volume of very readable verse and his
signed articles are a feature' of Westra-
lian journalism. Courtney is in his
forties —young as Leg. Councillors go.
A D.F.C. goes to Flight-Lieutenant
Graham Pockley for intrepid work with
the R.A.F. in Europe. Mosman (Sydney)
claims him as one of its own boys, and
he' belongs to one of the very oldest Aus-
tralian families. His brother, a Jervis
Bay product, is back in the R.A.N.; their
mother is a sister of Ethel Turner (Mrs.
Curlewis).
The Bulletin reported of Frederick
Bridgman a few years ago that he “gave
so much of his earlier career to the
affairs of the Adelaide Steamship Com-
pany that it is only in recent years that he
has been able to take golf seriously.”
Bridgman should be able to take the
game more seriously than ever now —he
has retired after 43 years’ service, 25 of
them as g.m. A tall, quiet man with an
embracing knowledge of shipping and
allied things, he has just turned 67.
Shot down, while strafing Lae, Flying-
Officer W. L. Wackett swam for nine
hours, landed, fell among hostile natives,
was rescued by friendly ones from another
village, tramped over an 8000 ft. pass and
ended his Odyssey per foot, canoe and
launch at Port Moresby. He is a son
of the Wackett of many inventions who
manages the Commonwealth Aircraft
Corporation in Melbourne.
Michael Bruxner, leader of the N.S.W.
Country party and Deputy Premier and
Minister for Transport in the Mair Gov-
ernment, has reached 60 and so retires
from the C.M.F. reserve in which he was
a colonel. Before he became a politician
Bruxner was a fighting soldier in Gal-
lipoli, Egypt, Palestine and Syria, return-
ing with honorable scars, a colonelcy
and two decorations—D.S.O. and Legion
of Honor. After the war Bruxner looked
after his property in the Tenterfield dis-
trict (N.S.W.) and became M.L.A. for the
area. He is a good judge of horses and
cattle.
The life of J. McMahon has been inex-
tricably linked with the development of
road transport, so his appointment as
president of the N.R.M.A. —he was a
member of the council of the original
National Roads Association and has been
an office-bearer ever since—should find
him well suited to that post. About 60 years
ago McMahon’s father started a Sydney
carrying business and built it up to the
stage where he had some 600 horses on
the road and country properties on which
to breed and rest the neddies. “Nothing
was too big for the firm” and loads up
to 45 tons were shifted by horses, Mc-
Mahon junior started in the business as a
youth and saw the changeover from hay-
to petrol-burners, though Clydesdales and
racehorses still interest him. A Rugby
Union rep. in his younger days, a Sydney
City Council alderman since 1929 and
vice-president of the R.A.S., McMahon
has also been ringmaster at the R.A.S.
showground.
Poet E. J. Brady was married in Mel-
bourne recently to Florence Bourke,
from N. S. Wales. The bride has literary
and artistic qualities of which the ’groom
—and he’s a good judge—thinks highly.
Brady (all his pals use his surname; it
suits his chieftain-like personality) has
friends all over the world. One of the
oldest, and certainly one of the greatest,
is Masefield.
“Nobby II” extends his welcome:
The R.N. always sends the R.A.N. sound
fleet commanders. Rear-Admiral V. A. C.
Crutchley, V.C., who succeeds Rear-Admiral
Grace, is one of the best. He earned his
flag rank in the Mediterranean as Warspite’s
captain under Admiral Cunningham, and knows
most of the officers and hundreds of the men
he is to command. He is noted on the seven
seas for his beard, his size and his courage.
His beard is the real thing in naval beards —
none of your mossy bits of war-time seaweed,
but a real oak forest, toughened by 25 years
of silviculture, to which a boatswain’s mate
might turn confidently for sound timber at a
pinch. The Rear-Admiral is an impressive
figure on a quarterdeck and even more im-
pressive in a fight. From Ostend he escaped
with his life twice in the last war. Once, he
tried to block the harbor entrance with H.M.S.
Brilliant at dead of night on April 22, 1918,
and earned the D.S.C. He went back on May
9, 1918, and came out without the gallant old
Vindictive, but with a V.C. and Croix de
Guerre. He has been in these waters before —
as captain of the Diomede. On his mother’s
side, he is a descendant of Charles II and Bar-
bara Villiers.
In the legal team defending the uni-
form-tax law are Wilbur Lincoln Ham,
„K.C, and A. R. Taylor. Ham opened
for the Commonwealth. Like Fullager,
K.C., and Professor K. H. Bailey, who
are associated with him, he is Victorian-
born and a Melbourne University man —
he graduated from that institution with
first-class honors and exhibition in all
law subjects and the Supreme Court Prize.
He was with the 13th Australian Light
Horse in Egypt, Gallipoli and France.
Lance Pellew, appointed Acting Master
of S.A.’s Supreme Court, is a former
Sheffield Shield cricketer and 100 yards
State champion. He is a younger brother
of Clarrie Pellew, of the A.I.F. XI and the
1920-21 Tests, whose brilliant fielding is
remembered.
Here depicted by Counihan is Air
Marshal “Dick” Williams, the R.A.A.F.’s
representative at Washington. He is
eminently suited to that job, being the
R.A.A.F.’s first commander, the first Aus-
tralian to become an air marshal, the
only Australian to have graduated at
the Army and Air Staff Colleges and the
Imperial Service College, and the only
Australian to have commanded an R.A.F.
wing in the field in the last war. Wil-
liams was the first C.M.F, officer to
graduate from Point Cook (1914), and by
1916 he had left Australia as flight-corn-
AIR MARSHAL WILLIAMS.
mander of No. 1 Squadron, A.F.C.—lie
was awarded the D.S.O. for distinguished
service in Palestine. By 1918 he com-
manded the 4th (Army) Wing of the
R.A.F., of which the Australian squadron
formed half. Before going to Washing-
ton a few months ago he was Air Officer
Commanding R.A.A.F. Headquarters in
London, and just before the war was the
administrative head of the British Coastal
R.A.F. Command for a period.
Wing-Commander Nigel Love has done
many useful things for air development
but few as valuable as his present job of
putting about 3000 lads of the Air Train-
ing Corps through a preliminary course of
instruction for the R.A.A.F. He catches
them young and, with the help of several
enthusiastic assistants and a fleet of
yachts, imparts the lore and practice of
navigation and the various knacks
acquired during 200 hours’ perilous flying
over enemy lines in the last war and a
quarter of a century of experience since.
WING-COMMANDER NIGEL LOVE.
In this latter period, one of the highlights
was the selection of the site of the Kings-
ford Smith aerodrome at Mascot (Syd-
ney). His own boyish enthusiasm and
capacity for hard work make him just
the man for the job.
Into the silence:
Brigadier-General Cecil Henry Foott, dead at
66 at Upper Beaconsfield (Vic.), had been a
soldier since the turn of the century—he joined
the Queensland Permanent Artillery in 1896, the
Royal Australian Engineers in 1901 and was
Director of Engineers from 1909-11. He was
with the A.I.F. in 1914-19, and was Base
Commandant of the 3rd (Victorian) Military
District and commander of the 4th Division
when he retired in 1931. In 1940 the Army
called him up again and gave him command
of the V.D.C. in Victoria. Foott was edu-
cated at Brisbane Grammar, the school which
produced such soldiers as Lavarack, Miles,
Plant and Jackson. He was a son of Mary
Hannay Foott, who wrote “Where the Pelican
Builds His Nest.”
In Sydney, Arthur Greenaway, a good actor
and good fellow. Greenaway had done
some work on country tours before his first
Sydney appearance—with Essie Jenyns in 1887.
He was with Brough and Boucicault and in
England and America with some of the leading
stars —always a capable and cultivated per-
former. Recent work of his for the A.B.C.
was of a fine order.
In Sydney, Fred C. Millin, managing director
of Peapes. He was a councillor of the Retail
Traders’ Association from 1915-40, its presi-
dent in 1924-26 and 1934-37, and was the first
president of the Clothing Industries Employers’
Council. He was a Freeman of the City of
London.
. In Sydney, at 90, Father Thomas Gartlan,
Jesuit and twice rector of St. Ignatius’ College
(Riverview). He came from County Down to
Australia in 1879 and was on the original staff
at ’View in 1880. Father Gartlan organised the
first school boatrace between Riverview and
Sydney Grammar, and out of that came the
Great Public Schools’ Head-of-the-River series.
He’d seen every regatta at ’View but the last.
In Sydney, after a long illness, Cyril Drum-
mond Howes, director and g.m. of Meggitt,
Ltd. He was with that company for 28 years,
and did much to expand it to its present pro-
portions. Sydney-born and a last-war Digger,
Howes made many friends in Australian and
Maoriland business circles. He passed 58 mile-
stones.
In Melbourne, Elma Roach, one of the old
school of Victorian painters. She was a
National Gallery product who developed into
a peripatetic painter. She went for her sub-
ject matter all over Europe, visited India and
had only recently returned from a caravan tour
in the Walhalla (Vic.) district. She exhibited
in the various Paris salons and was bought
by most of the important Australian galleries.
Miss Roach was a direct descendant of John
Evelyn, the seventeenth-century diarist who first
drew attention to the importance of forestry
in England, and a great granddaughter of
Captain Liardet, the founder of Port Melbourne.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tuart”: Sydney has its own “Boy,
Ist Class” (B. 24/6/’42)—John Williams,
aged 14. Caught in a burning factory at
Surry Hills (three hands lost their lives),
he “thought” he had “better go upstairs
and warn the girls.” Flames licked the
stairs clean, and John Williams and
Estelle Williams (no relation) found
themselves trapped on the fourth floor, in
imminent peril of death. Firemen arrived
on an extension ladder and lifted the girl
through a window at which she had been
standing, burnt and distracted (the poor
thing, herself only 14, died in hospital).
On the ledge of another window, 60 feet
above the stony street, perched John Wil-
liams, aged 14. Firemen below began to
draw the ladder towards John Williams’s
window; as it moved, he leapt ten feet,
grabbed a rung, was himself grabbed by
a fireman, and hung on till the girl had
been carried down ; then he, too, was
helped to safety—in such a state that he
had to be taken to hospital, but still
game. It was his first job, and he was
about to collect his first pay.
* * * H=
“Charles the Com.”: The death of
“Bondy” Hoare, who thought nothing
of speaking three hours a day during
N.S.W. coal strikes, whether the strike
lasted months or years, brought forth
some novel features, such as the reading
of the Rationalist burial service and the
affirmation of the old Socialist oath over
his remains. But it’s a wonder his spirit
didn’t burst into speech when an A.B.C.
lady announcer described him as “Mistah
Bondai Hawah.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”; After weeks of argument
the State authorities finally decided to
relax the regulations governing Sunday
entertainment in Melbourne by allowing
the Capitol Theatre to open in the after-
noon for male and female members of
the services and munition workers. When
the pleasure-seekers rolled up to the
number of several thousand the troops
discovered that the wife, the mother, the
aunt and the girl friend could not be
admitted. Most of them departed dis-
gruntled, and the theatre was only half-
filled, mainly by men who had not
brought a feminine companion with
them. Premier Dunstan is to wait for
“further suggestions” before staging some
further fiasco.
*i * *
“Tocsin”: With all the solemnity with
which the “Woop Woop Advertiser”
used to warn the Czar, I rise to warn the
Federal Government that it has pulled at
least one large first-class boner in its
rationing scheme, and aroused
derision and opposition in a quarter
where, as a reasonably intelligent Adminis-
tration, it should desire to cultivate a
great and abiding peace. Mrs. Tocsin
has put the matter with her accustomed
terseness and lucidity. “Here’s two
soldiers coming into this home on leave
at any moment without notice and ex-
pecting cups of tea. Any provision for
them in the ration book. Oh, no! And
here’s me and Ermyntrude knitting our
fingers to the bone to provide them with
jumpers and mufflers and gloves for this
cold winter, and every ounce of wool
means a coupon out of our books.” It’s
in the tail of that exordium the danger
lies for heedless Authority. Come be-
tween a determined knitter and her wool
supply and ’twould be better had wolves
stolen you from your cradle at birth.
* * * *
“Schoolie”: Tell “Lao-dah” (B.
17/6/’42) that Arthur Adams’s Aus-
tralian National Anthem was set to music
—a very good tune, too —composed by
Theodore Tourrier. It was sung by me
and my mates with great gusto at a
Queensland rural school 15 years back.
In the version served out to us the
“demesne” that boggled “Lao-dah” ap-
peared each time as “domain.”
* * * ♦
“Second”; An Axis propagandist said
people will undergo any ordeal and
make any sacrifice if the circum-
stances can be tinged with romance;
“’ Oo's the ol bloke dancin' with the redhead?”
and he spoke with understanding. Today
with Australia in the most critical
year of its history, and with most of us
blase to conventional propaganda, there’s
an especially good field for the exploita-
tion of romantic aspects. In England in
1940, when the air raids were dramatised
as “The Battle of Britain” and an atmo-
sphere of romance was woven around
shelter and subway life, Britain found it
could “take it” much easier. In Crete some
of us were feelingsdown in the dumps until
we heard a 8.8. C. commentator referring
to us as “the gallant defenders of Crete,”
with the “eyes of the world” on us,
living through “hell on earth,” and facing
parachutists “dropped from the air like
Wells’s Martians.” After that we all
began to sit up and think better of our-
selves. That romantic angle is worth
using.
# * £ ♦
“C.L.”: At long last a Judge has given
some consideration to the great Austra-
lian adjective. Justice Halse Rogers, in
Sydney divorce proceedings, said, when a
wife accused her husband of having
applied the adjective to her, “The word
‘bloody’ is so common in modern par-
lance that it is not regarded as swearing.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: I’m still wondering whether
it is a genuine growl or a covert sarcasm
directed at sundry people, but this is how
it appeared as a letter to the editor of
a city morning paper:
I am one unfortunate civvy who has to
hunt for a smoke as if he was looking for a
nugget of gold. Why should the soldiers
grab everything? After all, I am one of
the many munition workers supporting these
men, so why should they have priority over
us? It looks as if a man will have to
smoke soldiers’ bumpers.
Well, even they would be too good for
some people.
it * * *
“Nakhoda”: According to a Mel-
bourne newspaper the Commonwealth
Government is perturbed because of dis-
crepancies between the dressing of
American and Australian soldiers, and
General Blarney is being asked to give
his attention to the matter. It is alleged
that the badly-dressed Australian soldier
on leave is made unhappy by the spec-
tacle of others more sartorially splendid.
Does it matter? The Japs are not likely
to be impressed by the clothes their oppo-
nents wear. They wore singlets and short
pants and sandals or no shoes at all in
the jungles of Malaya, and carried a
minimum of creature comforts. Having
been trained to this Spartan regimen they
were more mobile than troops accus-
tomed to much more liberal treatment.
When I was in Borneo an Englishman
from England set out on an expedition
into the interior. He thought he required
several tons of baggage, 40 or 50 coolies
and all sorts of the most extraordinary
impedimenta, including a dress suit and
a pants press, but he didn’t get very far
and the expedition ended in disaster. He
never really reached even the fringe of
the country that ordinary unsophisticated
natives in loincloths travelled to daily.
* * * #
“Bohemian”: Maoriland country news-
papers are feeling the paper shortage. The
“Inangahua Times,” of Reefton, founded
in 1875, has closed down. Reefton, after
the usual experience of wildcats and buck
reefs, settled down donkey’s years ago to
a few small but paying goldmines. A god-
send to the village was the discovery of
a small coal seam on its borders. The
“Western Star,” published in Riverton,
since 1868, has also gone west.
♦ * HP
“Oxmead”: “S.T.S.” is in good com-
pany when he pillories the misuse of the
word ‘‘alibi,” employed to mean any-
thing but “elsewhere.” A. P. Herbert
in What a Word has much the same to
say about it, with some telling instances
of this mi<sn<!f> ■
A boxer called Max Baer after losintr a
boxmg^afc^wteJeS’’to Se So-
phone, “I have no alibi” (which could only
mean that he did not' intend to show that
he was not present at the fight). A journal-
ist tells us that when our cricketers re-
turned from Australia “they offered no
alibis” [for their defeats].
Herbert’s book was published in 1935,
, j- . u- i :
when, according tO him, the solecism was
a matter of quite recent growth.
* * * *
“Zake”: Love used to be able to laugh
at locksmiths, but now the baby god has
, , 1 j .1 • j A: r- r
not only had the grin Wiped off his face
but has been given the horselaugh. An
official termed the Priorities Officer for
Inter-State Rail Travel has brought this
about by flatly refusing the applications
of brides-to-be to travel outside their
home State to marry service men. But
I brina hope to girls who don’t mind
putting up with soot in their perms As
an old rattler-jumper 1 feel confident that
attendance at my tutorial classes will
ensure prospective wives getting to any
desired destination where a railway runs.
not only expeditiously, but all in one
p[ ece>
F '.....
“Looby” : The restricted inter-State
a. • a. o w rxf
tram-travel has caused a lot of trouble
one way and another. A lady ahead of
me in the line-up of applicants was
two blinks off the snivelling stage.
“But I simply have to get to Queensland
tomorrow,” she said urgently ; then, With
a burst of feminine confidence, “You
rviw HuoKqnd wAp not Inmr mar-
see, my husband— were not long mar
ned and — well, you understand. borry ,
madam,” said the official ; “just wanting
to see your husband can’t be regarded
as important ~ don
it,” howled the lady abruptly. Me S
here in Sydney — and I want to get away
f ’l'm ’’
irom mm.
„„ „* . r.„i ns ,,> s
Bo ; ' Observing one or bydnty
few surviving cabbies — I often saw
him reading, and wondered what cab-
bies read. Now I know, and for witness
I trot out an interview with one by a
morning paper after the cabby had been
involved in an accident. Yes, his first
accident in 60 years. He’ll tell you in
his own words:
“You’ll excuse my emotion, sir,” he
said to his passenger. “I’ve had this cab,
man and boy, for 60 years, and I’ve
never been put to shame until this night.”
Hold your horses! There’s some more
in the same strain;
“You will realise the unbounded difficul-
ties that confront the driver of a fine
hansom like mine in times like these.”
Whoa! Here’s another slice to whinny
over: —■
“Moreover, sir, what makes matters
worse, is the fact that the horse was not
mine, but a beast that I acquired as a
loan —if you follow me, sir.
“And tonight 1 shall have to bring into
service a horse that has seen better days—
but a horse, nevertheless, that has the
requisite dignity for the task.”
And just get this finale!
“I will deal with the more sordid side of
the affair —the litigation that will doubt-
less follow —when 1 am more composed.”
Now I know what cabbies’ literary fare
is. Whence could such rotund phrases
have come but from mid-Victorian melo-
dramas?
“W.M.C.”: I don’t think “M-G.S.” (B.
17/6/’42) need worry about Gilbert’s
burlesques surviving without Sullivan’s
music—his “Bab Ballqds” had established
him as a writer before his association
with Sullivan commenced. Sullivan was
a musical genius, but he would have been
remembered only for morsels like “On-
ward, Christian Soldiers” or “The Lost
Chord” if Gilbert had not literally
dragged his best music out of him. It
was only by the unflagging industry of
Gilbert that the
Savoy operas were
produced. He had
to work like a nigger
to get Sullivan to
finish the score of
almost every opera
in time for the open-
ing night; in fact the
music to “Patience"
was completed the
day before the first
performance was
scheduled. Sullivan
never attended re-
hearsals ; Gilbert
produced the operas,
supervised everything
and. then stayed
away from the first
performance. Sulli-
van conducted and
got the bouquets.
After their quarrel
Sullivan prod u ced
nothing that has sur-
vived.
Origins of Sydney streets:
It is a time-honored legend that Sydney’s
irregular streets were laid out by bullock-drivers.
What happened was that the principal thorough-
fares were formed by the feet of wayfarers
following the easiest routes from point to point.
In Captain Hunter’s sketch of Sydney Cove in.
August, 1788, a track is indicated on the western
side of the bay which is one of those pioneer
pathways by which people used to find their
way to the hospital huts and tents situated where
No. 4 Police Station is now. It is the George-
street North of today. In the same way, paths
which ran along the Tank Stream became the
George and Pitt streets of today. Some logs
were thrown across the Tank Stream in October,
1788, to establish a means of, communication
between the two sides of the valley. This
primitive footbridge was afterwards replaced by
a stone viaduct, and so Bridge-street had its
beginning. When the village had grown a bit,
Hunter-street followed another crossing higher
up the valley. It was in this chancy fashion
that the city’s main highways were formed —
not by the Bullocky Bills of the period, for
there weren't any.
SERIOUS.
“Serious young man desires meet equally serious
young lady.”— “S.M.ll.” view mat. ad.
About the quaintest mating-call I’ve met,
The least exacting I’ve encountered yet.
She may be short or tall, blonde or brunette;
He’s not imperious,
As dominating males are apt to be,
About the looks of an affinity.
His only stipulation is that she
Has to be serious.
No sprightly damosel, with dimpling laugh
And lips designed for merriment and chaff.
May ever hope to be his better half.
From this thou learnest.
The vacuum in his heart and by his side
Waits to be filled by some complaisant bride
Who knows th’ importance can’t be magnified
Of being earnest.
Ultra-respectable I feature him,
Grave, sober, dignified, precise and prim,
In visage probably a trifle grim,
In frame ascetic;
A chap with disapproving eyes who views
Races and stadiums, lotteries, cards and booze,
Flappers in shorts or slacks, and dames who use
Too much cosmetic.
While, as for her, she needn’t have, I guess.
The charms and graces most of us assess
As aids to feminine attractiveness
And lure mysterious.
Her face and figure, if I read the call
Aright, are purely immaterial
Irrelevances with no weight at all,
’Long as she’s serious.
Well, there it is—an offer that’s designed
Clearly to hook some sort of womankind.
Withal I can’t but wonder how he’ll find
(Whoe’er the she is
That proves responsive to being courted thus
Without an atom of romantic fuss)
Whether the lady’s full as serious
As he says he is.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
RATIONING.
I’m not among the querulous cabal
Who reckon rationing irrational,
The ladies and the gents who get the spike.
Debarred from buying all the clothes they'd like,
Who feel aggrieved because the law proclaims
Sharp limits to the garbing of their frames.
If steps like these will help to win the war,
It’s sheer stupidity to growl “Whaffor?”*
Scarcer they grow, our graver cares amid,
The things we need —or used to think we did.
Slow though it came, conviction stronger runs
That butter’s less material than guns.
We get as favors now when we apply
For goods that once we were besought to buy.
And there’s one other none too needful thing
I think would be improved by rationing.
The flow of diction from the iron jaws
Of those whose mission is to make our laws,
The vapid bellow and the tiresome bray
Of would-be leaders who have naught to say
But platitudes, repeated twice or thrice,
And slabs of unsolicited advice.
Why is there no authority to stem
Their yap, and fix a quantum stiff, for them.
I hear the drone of armchair strategists
Whose dialectic stock-in-trade consists
Of stressing victories would have been won
Had this or that been done —or left undone.
We get it day by day and week by week,
This verbal bubble and linguistic squeak.
Out on this plague of twittering human birds.
I wish the Government would ration words.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Yair”: Mrs. Hopeful can’t quite get
the idea behind this clothes-rationing
scheme. She sits staring at her ration-
book for hours at a time, as though ex-
pecting it some day to speak all that’s
in its mind. “Any coupons left?”
her husband asked cynically. “Cer-
tainly,” snapped the missus, “and
I intend to have at least half of
them when the time comes to hand the
book back.” “Good on you!” cried
her spouse, a bit surprised. “That’s what
I call patriotic!” Mrs. Hopeful looked
a bit dubious. “I don’t know about
patriotic,” she said thoughtfully, “but
no housewife is so silly as not to save
coupons, if she can. I’ve been doing it
for years. If you save enough you always
get a free tea-towel or a butter-dish or
something”
* * * *
“Nakh”: Miss M. James, organiser of
the Arms and Explosives Union, a job
our grandmothers would have thought
strange for a woman, told a business-
women’s club in Melbourne that the
theory that munition workers earn fabu-
lous wages is all hooey. The basic wage
for females is £3 4s. a week. If a girl
worked seven days a week with o.t. she
might perhaps earn as much as £7 15s.
The average is under £5. None the less,
many Victorian families are earning much
more money than usual. I know a
country family not far from the city to
whom a fiver a week all told would have
once seemed a fortune. Father got odd
jobs about the village, mother milked
two cows and daughters looked after a
few chickens. Now the whole bang lot
goes off daily to the city, bringing home
weekly on an average £2O, and if dad
likes to be extra industrious at his job
of working on the wharves he can come,
home with a tenner in his pocket.
# He # *
“Wodgil”: Douglas Stewart’s Kelly
Gang verse-play, done by an unusually
clever A.B.G. company, is a striking piece
of work, but some of the Glenrowan-
pub dialogue gave me a jar. Forty years
ago I knew two of the landlady’s sons,
and I am sure they could never have
come out of that dingy environment of the
poet’s imagination. They were uniformed
policemen at Kalgoorlie, and two of
the nicest policemen I ever met. An older
copper knew all about them, and imp-
ishly suggested to me, seeing how green
I was, that I might get some original
Kelly Gang stuff from the younger
brother, a ruddy-faced, well-spoken
fellow with serious manners. “Mr.
‘Wodgil,’ ” he said when I broached the
matter, in all innocence, “that subject
is never discussed in our family, and ydu
will oblige me by not referring to it
again.” Exit Mr. “Wodgil” in confu-
sion. I sometimes wonder what became
of those brothers. The elder, when at
Kalgoorlie, received a Royal Humane
Society medal for saving life at Albany.
& * *
“Nakh”: The N.E.I. Government in
Australia has been making inquiries as
to how the Japanese are dealing with the
natives in their newly-conquered terri-
tories. Very naturally it turns out that
the Japs are doing everything to lower
white prestige and enhance their own by
preferential treatment of the native-born.
The Dutch endeavored to maintain their
prestige in a different manner. As far as
possible they ruled through the native
princes and only allowed the white hand
of dominion to show on critical occa-
sions. The awe the Javanese have for
their native rulers is tremendous. They
cannot approach them in an upright
position. The Dutch saw to it that the
same etiquette was demanded when the
native approached a white official. One
of the strangest sights in Java was a
native servant bringing a whisky soda to
a Dutch controller in a club. That he
succeeded in doing it while crawling on
his knees (he retired backwards from the
presence) argued an immense amount of
practice. If the Japanese reverse this
procedure precipitately they may produce
unexpected results. The Javanese are an
extraordinarily docile and sheeplike
people, but there is no rage like the rage
of a sheeplike people if the tether is
slackened.
* H= * *
“Old Bloke”: More of that rare bit of
old Sydney, an early home of The Bul-
letin, 24 Pitt-street, from which the
strip of roadway from Pitt-street to Mac-
tiuarie-place got its title of Bulletin-place,
has fallen to the onslaughts of the de-
molishers. The Bulletin shifted to 24
Pitt-street on August 13, 1881, for its
eighty-first issue, and the last paper from
that address came off the machine
on August 29, 1896. From there the
type-frames were hauled to 214 George-
street —there are still working on the staff
employees who put shoulders into that
shift —and its first issue (Sept. 5) was
notable for “Hop’s” cartoon labelled “A
Trip to Chinatown: The Bulletin and
Staff Move to Their New Premises.” The
point was that most of that end of
George-street and around the Quay in
those days was tenanted by Celestials and
crossbreeds of all sorts. When one tired
of the “nicee ginger” and “clackers” you
could cross the street and watch the
Chinese compositors setting up the “Tung
Wah Times.” Those were the days when
the Quay was the portal to Sydney —and
what a portal when gentlemen of the
Rocks lived on the robbery of seamen
and not-yet-awake migrants!
He * * *
“S.T.S.”; Thanks to “F.S.” for point-
ing out (B. 20/5/’42) the truth, obvious
but apt to be forgotten, that Fowler and
similar authorities settle only what was
considered sound in the language, not
what is. These self-appointed “authori-
ties” don’t make rules, as is usually sup-
posed ; they merely look carefully at
what is being done by the best writers
of their time and report accordingly. In
course of a few years the practice alters,
but they—for' a long time —don’t wake
up to the fact. I seem to have started
the present trouble by saying that
“alright,” though an ugly word perhaps,
is now no more wrong than is “always.”
Wrong it, of course, was not very far
back. But Tennyson, Gladstone and Queen
Victoria together would hardly be able
to understand a modern newspaper.
George V and Kipling have been dead
only six years, but one sometimes won-
ders if they would.
H! H= * ♦
“X.S.”: Sydney might solve its water
problem, in spite of its board, by emulat-
ing a Victorian township. For years St.
Arnaud has suffered from a defective
supply of moisture, and this year it failed
altogether. St. Arnaud got fed up the other
week-end, and 200 townsmen formed a
working bee to look into the matter. The
200 were conveyed to the watershed 20
miles away in nine trucks and 31 cars,
each taking his own pick and shovel.
There they found a chaos of logs and
undergrowth obstructing the course of any
rain that fell on the watershed. They
tackled the problem with vigor, sent the
rocks hurtling, opened up waterholes,
piled up the debris and burned it. By the
end of the day water was flowing from
a dozen tributaries into the main stream
that fed the town reservoir. Officialdom
was so impressed by this concerted volun-
tary action that it has promised to clear
the remaining gullies.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”; The old girls’ associa-
tion thought it would be a good idea
if it lightened the tedium of leave for
“If anyone wants me, Prendergast, tell them I've gone prawning."
“Been doin' too much roof-spottin', Joe. Now I'm havin' a
complete change."
American soldiers by staging a Saturday
night dance in a temperance hotel in the
city. The association mustered a bevy
of pretty girls for the occasion and gave
an open invitation to a camp to send
along prospective partners to the number
of 150. To their chagrin a mere eight
put in an appearance. In desperation
they sent a member of the committee
with a few of the girls down to the
lounge to see if they could rake up a few
strays to fill the gaps in the ballroom.
The girls breasted up to a couple of sol-
diers and asked them if they would like
to join a pleasant little dance. “Thanks
a lot,” said one of the soldiers, “if they’re
all like you we’d be glad.” Then he
turned to his companion: “Go up and
tell those eight guys who went to recon-
noitre the old gals’ party that it didn’t
mean old old gals—only school old gals,”
he whispered.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Obviously the pair were
businessmen. They stood in Sydney’s
busiest place and the short, genial one
with the large moustache boomed:
“Never saw business so rotten. The
town’s dead. Must be the war, y’ know,
and all this boarding up windows and
putting out lights. Man can’t show a
turnover at all. Still, you got to keep
going, y’ know.” The tall, cadaverous
one nodded' unsmilingly. “Yairs,” he
drawled, “nothin’ else to do. What I
don’t like is all these women gettin’ into
industry. Makes it bad for after the war.
Tobacco’s hard to get.” “Don’t worry
me, don’t smoke,” said the other, adding
“Well, can’t stand here all day. Got t’
keep going, y’ know.” They nodded, and
the genial one went off peddling his
matches while the cadaverous one leaned
against the wall holding a bundle of
bootlaces in his hand.
* *
“Nakhoda”: The falling of the Pacific
rubber lands into Japanese hands puts a
period to a lively page in the history of
commerce. I was in a small Bornean
outpost at the start of the great rubber
boom. Main reasons for it seemed to be
romance, finance and fashion. The
romance came from investors who im-
agined that a new sort of Golconda had
arisen. They also provided the finance.
Shady-looking gents from the Celebes or
Moluccas turned up in Singapore with
alleged concessions from rajahs, prospec-
tuses were drawn up on the tops of hotel
tables and companies were formed. The
shares sold overnight in London, and the
shady-looking gents departed. In the
subsequent wash-up it was sometimes dis-
covered that three-quarters or more of the
concession was below high water. There
was no real justification for the booming
of Malaya. Even the cheap-labor argu-
ment was fallacious. Most of the coolie
man-power had to be imported form
India and China because the Malay
wouldn’t work.
* * * *
“G.O’N.”: The Digger was being
examined for special duties, and was
going along in fine style. When
asked what he would do if his
ear was shot off while advancing
into action, he calmly replied “Keep
advancing, sir.” “Ah, the Old Diggah
spirit,” said the examining officer. “And
if after advancing another 50 yards your
other ear was blown off. What would
you do then?” “Stop, sir ; I’d be blind.”
“Blind? You mean deaf.” “No, sir,
blind. Me tin-’at would fall over me
eyes, sir.”
* * * s*
“Loo”: Once upon a time, B.R.
(Before Rationing), you’d find odd gloves
in trams by the dozen per day. But not
now! The ladies guard their gloves and
let less valuable items (such as the
youngest child) practically look after
themselves. Therefore, trammies voted it
odd when a woman arrived who had
left a pair of gloves in a tram and
was ah ready to raise hell unless
the department found them. And,
in the way she mentioned her lost
gloves, she showed the terrifying effect
modern times have had on the Feminine
Mind. “Excuse me,” she said urgently
and grimly, “I insist on immediate atten-
tion ; I’ve just left three coupons in the
tram.”
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: I see that Creswell
O’Reilly, ex-Commonweaith Film Censor,
has written his own official memorial:
Of pictures new and stories old.
Of maidens fair and heroes bold,
Of love scenes tender and villains tough,
I thank the Lord I’ve had enough.
Evidently his work as a censor bored him,
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The birth of an Aus-
tralian legend equivalent to the Angel of
Mons is adumbrated by an “Argus”
correspondent writing from bombed
Darwin. He reports that in a church
whose altar had been riddled and every
window shattered by bomb blast and
fragments there remained absolutely in-
tact the glass in a collection of sacred
pictures. There is a manifestation of at
least a similar hope in Melbourne which
is passed unseen by tens of thousands
daily. Some ardent individual has
chalked on the base of Fremiet’s Jeanne
d’Arc, which decorates the front of the
National Gallery: “Come back, Joan!
France is calling you!”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: There was, as “The
Banjo” once remarked when recording a
fictitious occasion, “movement on the
station, for the word had passed around,”
not that Regret’s colt had gone with the
brumbies but that the boss, a bit of a
brumby himself, was due back that day
from a long tour abroad. In rare letters
to the overseer the boss had given vague
hints of strange sights and strange doings
in foreign parts, and there had been one
or two pictures that nobody would want
to hang up in the front room. In those
days, though long bush trips were com-
mon, few travellers from other lands
came our way, and there was a surge
of curiosity as the hands found excuses
to hang around the homestead waiting to
see and hear this Marco Polo returned
to the jumbuck wastes. Then, out of a
cloud of dust on the Balranald road, the
car came, swung in at the gates and drew
to a stop in front of the homestead. The
mob gathered and peered at the boss. He
sat at the wheel as though waiting for
something. Then, with a sudden pleased
grin, he opened the door and got out,
stretched himself and said “Hell, I didn’t
know I was home till just then. I bin
so used t’ flunkeys where I bin that 1
was waitin’ for one of you so-and-sos
t’ open the door f’r me. Strike me, it’s
a blanky relief t’ have t’ do somethin’
for y’rself.”
* * * *
“M. U. Ray”,: Just heard that an old
Murray man I knew years ago has passed
on at a ripe age. He took his only two
convictions to the grave with him: (1)
that snakes stung with the forked tongue,
thus accounting for the double puncture,
and (2) that opinion was spelt—“an’ t’
hell with all them dickshunary blokes!”
—with two p’s.
* * * *
“Bo”; I hereby certify that I am an
Australian who has kicked around rural
parts betimes in five States and (n) have
never been chased by a snake; ( b ) have
heard the “more pork” “more pork”
uttered dolefully and nocturnally and
have never sighted, and don’t give a
damn if it is uttered by, the boobook
owl or the mopoke; (c) have never seen
a quiet, inoffensive eight-stone-10 rouse-
about knock a cranky 14-stone “ringer”
cold with one hit; {d) can’t drown a fly
on the pub wall with a squirt of tobacco
juice at 20ft.; (e) have never seen a foot-
ball-guernsey goanna take a flying leap
from 40ft. up an ironbark and arrive on
the ground quite unconcerned and none
the worse for the drop; (/) have yet to
see a bagman roll his drum properly;
(g) never knew a cow cocky to come
in at 3.15 a.m. and ask the hand for the
cornsacks he’s sleeping on; (h) have met
a bushman who smoked his pipe right
side up when it was raining ; (0 have met
abos. who didn’t say “plurry” every
fourth word and didn’t say “baal, bawss,”
when I asked them how were things, nor
did they nip me for “tickpens for bacca” ;
( f) can’t drink 12 glasses of beer while
the town hall clock strikes for noon.
That’s only portion. I could go through
to Z and then through the alphabet again,
but that’s enough for a start. Yes, I
am, I know, a freak according to all
bush standards.
“E.H.S.”: A pair of magpies built
their nest on a big gum near my camp
and were busy rearing their noisy brood.
One day an old goanna, sensing that a
lunch of plump squabs was indicated, set
out to investigate. The birds were keep-
ing him under observation, and he hadn’t
climbed far when they launched their
attack. He advanced in his spiral ascent
until he was about 6ft. from his objec-
tive. Then the frantic parent birds
launched a last despairing Blitz., and the
already badly-shaken invader loosed all
holds and fell about 30ft. to the ground.
Apparently unhurt, he made for home,
but the infuriated birds swooped down
and forced him to shelter in a hollow
log. Almost immediately sounds of
fierce conflict issued from the log, and
the go. emerged tail-first, backing away
from a huge grey cat with a mouth like
an open rabbit-trap. Weakened by his
encounter with the magpies, the saurian
was no-match for the cat, and the affair
was concluded in less than a minute.
Then the fierce grimalkin licked away a
few spots of blood, soothed her ruffled
fur and slid back into the log.
*** * *
“R.N.”: Artists, like writers, are prone
to small mistakes, and I seldom criticise
’em, but I should like to know what those
lever things are sticking out from the
overhead gear in Percy Lindsay’s sketch
of the land girls shearing (B. 24/6/’42),
and what the double chute is for. Also,
who pinched the counterweights and
“Have you anyone to defend you ?”
“Tryin' to be funny, are y’?’
cords for throwing the machines in and
out of gear?
* Hi * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow, in a
weak moment, took a job with a Gipps-
land cocky. They knocked off at sun-
down and made for the house. The
cocky went in and was out again before
Mat could get to the wash bench. “The
missus;’ he said, “won’t have the tea
ready for another hour. She’s had bad
luck with the cookin’ an’ we believe in
good tucker here. We might’s well do
a bit o’ maize-huskin’ till it’s ready.” Mat
followed him to the shed. Two nights
later it happened again. Mat pursed his
lips and became thoughtful. Forty-eight
hours later, just as the cocky began to
explain more cooking trouble, Mat held
up his hand, “Forget it,” he said, “I
ain’t annoyed, I’m amused. I never
thought it’d take me nearly a week t’
wake up t’ anything.” That night he was
on the train.
$ * * *
“Groper”: It isn’t often fresh-water
fish are worried about a spot of mud in
the water (B. 20/5/’42); salt-water fish
are the ones mud and sand really bother.
To them, used to the clearness of the sea,
such foreign matter in their gills is in-
tolerable. Thus it is a sight sometimes
on the inlets of north-west W.A. when
a choppy wind blows against the incom-
ing tide and stirs the bottom up. Urged
by instinct, the fish, especially the mullet,
just have to go in with the tide. But
the mud stifles them, and over
acres of choppy water uncountable
numbers will be seen sweeping along,
heads out of the water. This is the time
the coastal abos. do well. Just about
anything will do for a net—-a dry branch
with no leaves but plenty of twigs, even
a couple of sticks held together in the
one hand. They just stand about knee-
deep and scoop, flinging the fish with the
same movement high out on to the bank.
Once saw a couple of white beach-
combers do good business with a chaff-
bag. One man on each side of the mouth
running it through the water, the mullet
being so stupefied with the mud as to be
unable to get out of the way. When the
bag got too heavy to pull any further
they reckoned the haul was sufficient.
“Nor’-west”: The question whether
fish are attracted by a light or just acci-
dentally swim into a light’s radius was
settled when Ah Soon came to manage,
the cookery on a sheep-station up Ex-
mouth Gulf way (W.A.). The Gulf runs
pretty thick with fish ; it was the custom
to go out at night in a dinghy when the
garfish were about, and with a lantern
and a dip net get enough in a few hours
to feed the station. The trick is well
known: anchor in the tideway just off
the main run, hang the hurricane over
the bow and dip up the long slender
fellows as they come along. Invariably
they pause and give a few flicks round
in the circle of light before passing on.
For a while Ah Soon viewed our efforts
with indifference. Then he showed us
one. From stem to stern of the dinghy
he ran a length of yard-wide calico, held
upright by laths about a foot back from
the gunwale. Two hurricanes in front
of this, but well apart, lit the sheet up.
The dinghy anchored across the tideway
with bow and stern kellicks, the sheet
and lights facing the flow. Two heavy
sandbags kept that side down so as to
give a low freeboard. Dazzled by the
lights and the reflection garfish rose and
jumped, striking the sheet and falling into
the boat. And not only gar, but Long
Toms or sea pike, the garfish’s large rela-
tion. The night’s catch generally ran to
a couple of hundred.
* * * *
“Simlo”: It’s a queer thing, the cussed-
ness of the citrus family. Brought from
the Northern Hemisphere, most other
fruits acted sensibly by conforming to the
new climate. Thus we have apricots and
other stone fruits ripening in early
summer, just when they are appreciated ;
figs and grapes the same. Apples and
pears in aqtumn. But as I write the
heavens pour and a chill wind blows,
while outside the window the lemon and
the orange sway with branches heavy
with yellowing fruit. Who wants lemon
squash or orangeade in midwinter? Why
have these citrus plants resisted acclima-
tisation? Or do they also ripen in winter
in those northern lands where they
originated?
* * * *
“B. 4”: Myself a greenhider of old, 1
agree with “Herbert Dawson” (B.
10/6/’42) that a rush off a camp is un-
accompanied by vocal efforts. Droving
our scrubbers to the butcher, all previ-
ously thrown and tied, the first two nights
were the worst, as the mob swung round,
muzzles sniffing for loved scrubs lost.
Defective vision causes many drovers to
blame the possum, but it is mostly the
squirrel which starts a rush as he floats
down from nowhere to strike a tree-base.
It beats the bullocks, so they beat it. I
described the frenzied jamming of
panicked scrubbers as they fell over one
another at the hole and later at the camp.
They made plenty of noise. And also
don’t forget, “H.D.,” that an old-time
station-brand on a young calf would in
time leave a track that even a dingbat
could read in a blackout. In my slush-
lamp days we could see like cats, and
needed to, as we raced coachers and
scrubbers lured by a bottle of blood, and,
rooting round in the bloodcall, through
the dark into trap yards.
* * * *
“Illawarra”: It was calm and moonlit,
the bush was still, and far up on the
black shadow of the hills a fox yapped.
Beside the gate the youth and the girl
stood close together, and the beauty of
the scene was like a benediction hovering
around them as they conversed earnestly.
Then the youth spoke gently and the lass
tossed her head. “No,” she snapped,
“Eve milked twelve to your ten an’ you’ll
do the last.” And her brother went sadly
into the bail.
•1*
“Kingsman”: Blue’s large, knobby
hands bore the marks of an encounter
with liquid fire in Libya, of which he
never spoke. To the curious, he ex-
plained the scars in this way: “Ever been
out in the desert? No? Well, y’ve got no
idea what it’s like. Me an’ three other
blokes, y’ see, are out on patrol some-
where near the Sahara when up comes
one o’ them sandstorms. When it’s over,
damned if all our gear ain’t gorn—buried,
blown away or something. Luckily we
got some scran left, a bit o’ biscuit —
nothin’ ’ud blow that ruddy stuff away—
bully beef an’ tea, but there’s nothin’ to
boil water in. We’re just ’bout recon-
nerciled to goin’ without tea —an’ you
bush blokes know what that is—when I
remembers how y’ can boil water in
paper-bags. While there’s water the
paper won’t burn, an’ I looks at me two
big hands, just like fryin’-pans, an’ I
thinks if it acts f’r flamin’ paper it ought
t’ act for them. An’, cripes, it worked!
I’d cup me two hands, fill ’em up with
water an’ hold ’em over the fire till the
water boils, an’ then we’d make tea. It
saves our life, an’ everythin’s goin’ well
till one mornin’ a coupla dozen blasted
Stukas spots us. Down they comes tossin’
500-pounders at us, an’ me right in the
middle o’ boilin’ the breakfast water!
’Struth, it was tough. The other blokes
nicks orf an’ buries ’emselves in the
sand. But me, I’m left there. Y’ can’t
waste water in the desert, an’ here I am,
skippin’ round the crimson fire an’
dodgin’ bombs. It’s a norful mem’ry. At
last the Huns give it best an’ fly orf, but
in me flamin’ excitement I clean forgot
t’ watch the water, an’ before I c’d whip
it orf the fire it’d boiled over. Yair,
scalded me real bad, too.”
if. * * *
“BL3”; Can any Aboliar say what
time of the year a reasonable kill can be
assured when ringbarking? Sucker bash-
ing is a costly business, especially when
the country has to be gone over a couple
of times. Box and broad-leaf ironbark
are the worst timbers to sucker, yet there
are times when a good kill even in this
class of timber is obtained. The old
theory of ringbarking when the bark
strips well does not always pan out right,
in this part of Queensland, anyway. Some
ringbarkers I know favor ringing early,
say during March and April, but a lot
seems to depend upon the season.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Although an R.A.F.
psychiatrist has said that the best pre-
ventive of neurosis is air raids and air-
raid shelters, the Australian abo. isn’t
likely to suffer from it. When the first
bombing raids came to Darwin the
native population made tracks for the
interior. The sequel has been an addition
to his traditional collection of cor-
roborees. His imitations of the wailing
siren, the drone of bombers, the howl ot
fighters zooming up to engage them, the
rattle of the machine-guns —all carried
out with no other instrumental aids than
his didgeridoos and singing sticks —the
intent looks upwards and the dramatic
climax when the enemy ’plane crashes
are said to be amazing. Binghi, for all
attempts to sophisticate and civilise him
to the extent of having nowhere to go
to but a dugout, still remains the artist,
and there is a difference only in degree
between his way of manipulating a crisis
and Beethoven’s composing of a sym-
phony under the walls of Vienna during
a bombardment.
* * * *
“Big Joe”: During February’s Queens-
land floods a sealed bottle with a message
was thrown into theCondamine atßiverlea
station, Condamine (S.Q.). Exactly two
months later the bottle was picked up 2UU
miles from the mouth of the Murray by
Dick Young, of Adelaide, and the mes-
sage returned to the senders —a y°u n S
governess and her pupil. The bottle had
averaged 250 miles a week on its 2000-
mile voyage on the Condamine, Balonne,
Culgoa, Darling and Murray rivers, and
was 6ft. above water level when found-
A RECENT NIGHT.
It chanced upon a recent night,
When scarce a sound was heard
On darkened slope and lightless height,
That sudden tumult stirred.
For sounds there came of hate astir,
The hate of midnight foes,
What time folk warmly-bedded were,
, And ere the moon arose.
Sounds not of black swans winging far,
Faint-calling on their way.
Nor of wild waves on beach and bar,
Cliff-base and shoal were they.
Then whoso listened grew aware
Of menace overhead,
Of shell and shell that pierced the air,
Low-whining as they sped.
Amazed at what the hour brought forth
Stood they a wistful folk.
Till, belching fire from south and north,
• The coastal guns awoke.
Awoke, and o’er the starlit deep
Roared red defiance back.
Like lions leaping from their sleep
To meet some grim attack.
Awoke, and through the darkness sent
Across the solemn sea
The thunders of a continent,
Free as its winds are free.
Then died the rage as, bright, serene,
A midnight moon uprose,
And shed her rays upon a scene
Of silence and repose.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“The O.D ”: I can endure “Snr
Cingle’s” cheap sneers about “Martin-
place bushmen” (B. 24/6/’42), the sure
refuge of the semi-educated bushwhacker
who finds a cherished belief challenged by
commonsense. If the saddles he uses
won’t stand the weight of a man’s head
how do they stand up to the strains and
stresses of the magnificent feats of muster-
ing, drafting, dagging and droving which
he performs day after day in the mythical
country he inhabits? I’ve lost faith in
the man, for I’d come to believe that he
lorded it over a district of indestructible
horses, tireless men, rubber sheep and
nine-lived maggots. I tried, heavens
knows I tried, to show him the pitfall,
but if he persists that his saddles are built
of tin and fibre who am I to save him
from his own destruction?
“Sur Cingle”: If that par. of his sums
up his knowledge of how to treat saddles
“Bad Australian” (B. 10/6/’42) has an
apt pen-name. First of all, a stock saddle
is not “built to carry about 15 stone” ;
when I buy a saddle I state weight, height
and hip measurements. A saddle that fits
me would be ruined by a 15-stoner. Then
a saddle is in its natural position on the
back of a horse ; if properly counterlined
it is supported in such a way that there
is little danger of spreading. Sling it on
the ground in any way except standing
on its pommel and you weaken that
saddle, because its own weight—2olb. to
301 b strains in the falsely-sup-
ported tree. Next, a short, tightly-rolled
swag is ideal for carrying in the car
which, I presume, “8.A.” favors as a
means of transport. Put it on a pack
and it’s too stiff to conform to the shape
of the saddle, besides being top-heavy.
That means it won’t ride for long. For
pack work a swag should be rolled long,
wide and loose. Then, if you can pack
a horse at all, it’ll ride through hell.
* sfc * *
“Avon”; It was Sir George Grey, in
one of his oratorical flights, who first
compared the northern Maoriland climate
to that of the Mediterranean. The
simile, though the reverse of plausible,
seems to have stuck in many minds, and
now that Italy’s trade and production are
in a sad mess there are evidences of a
desire to push the Dominion into the
breach. For instance, olive-trees, hitherto
planted here and there for ornament and
shelter, are being regimented in experi-
mental plantations in Hawke’s Bay. It
will be three or four years before the
trees come into bearing and before the
comparative suitability of various types
can be gauged. Possibly by an associa-
tion of ideas, the castor-bean plant, source
of castor oil, is also being experimentally
cultivated in M.L. The Italians used to
obtain their rather generous supplies
from India and Brazil, but apparently are
no longer able to do so. Maoriland
research botanists are keen on the track
of such market restrictions.
* * * *
“Scuta”: They say the leopard cannot
change its spots nor Black Brother his
color. I don’t know much about the big
cats, but I do know of one abd. who
changed color at least in part. On a walk-
about with two others he was camped
for the time about ten miles from a Mur-
chison (W.A.) mining town. One morning,
after an evening visit to the town and
the purloining of some bottled dynamite,
his mates awoke, dragged him out of the
campfire and promptly disappeared. He
was found next day and brought to hos-
pital badly burned about one leg and
thigh. Some months later a sorry-look-
ing abo. might have been seen limping
round the town’s outskirts, with one leg
white and the other black. Skin-grafting
from the sound thigh had covered his
burns, but the grafts had lost their pig-
ment after healing. With a willin’ Barkis
and enough skin for grafts a complete
change from black to dingy white is
“The hussy! That's one thing I’VE never done in public , Martha!"
quite on the cards. After all, color is only
skin deep.
* * * *
“E C.”: Jim strolled into the store and
draped himself over the counter. “Hey,
George, I lorst me pocket-knife. Got
anythin’ decent?” The storekeeper
selected one out of the case on the
counter. “Here’s one that ought to, suit
y’, Jim, Sheffield make, with skinning
blade and marking blade.” He rolled
it across the counter. “That’ll be
eight and six, Jim.” “What! Eight
an’ six! F’r a flamin’ knife! It’s
daylight robbery, I tell y’, an’ 1 won’t pay
it, damned if I will.” Still grumbling to
himself Jim strode across to the pub,
arriving just as the blokes came back
from the saleyards. “You blokes have
a drink?” he invited. “Call ole Sandy,
too, an’ the boys. What y’ havin’?
Righto ; whisky for the mob, Slack, an’
have one y’rself.” After the second round
Jim dropped a quid on the bar, pocketed
his two bob change and turned to the
door. “Well, s’long,” he called. “Got
t’ git back. Only just dropped off to see
if I could pick up a pocket-knife. It’s
a bloomin’ cow without one. Yair, an’
would y’ believe it, the lousy ole skinflint
wanted eight an’ six f’r one. Eight an’
six! Cripes, think a bloke’s flamin’ well
made o’ money! ”
* * * *
“Solitude”: Old Jake had a spell of
’flu about the time his crop was ready to
harvest, so he sent out an SOS for
helpers. He soon learned, though, that
hired labor was a thing of the past
and that everywhere farmers were short-
handed. “It’s the war,” they told him.
Afraid to risk further losses, he gave up
cropping and bought cattle, which might
have been all right if the dry spell hadn't
hung around so long. However, he took
out another mortgage and wired for feed,
only to discover that the railways could
not undertake cartage. “It’s the war,”
they explained. Nothing else for it, lake
skinned the carcasses, abandoned his
selection and took to the roads. He
starved along the rivers with a panning-
dish, froze through the winter with half
a dozen traps, and after a spell of several
months in the back country turned up
in the township for supplies. “Sorry,”
the bloke behind the counter announced,
“but y’ll hkve t’ register, then maybe y’ll
get your four ounces o’ tea a month ; an’
I can’t let y’ have any tobacco. The Army
gets first call. Yair, it’s the war.” “Four
ounces a month and no terbacca! ” Jake’s
swag hit the counter with a thump, his
eyes narrowed and his jaw stood out like
a front porch. “This flamin’ war,” he
gritted as he turned purposefully towards
the recruiting depot across the street, “has
gorn too far!”
*P
“Narrin”: A greater bush nuisance
than the quartpot is the neck waterbag.
It’s so cumbersome as to be almost im-
practicable for fast work; its weight
encourages a horse to carry his head low,
with the usual result that he falls over
his feet, and yet it’s an almost universal
favorite. It’ll leave you thirsty if your
prad gets a chance to rub his sweaty neck
against a post or tree ; and if its cork
comes out you have to emulate Skuthorpe
at a moment’s notice. And, of course,
it’s the very devil of- an article to get a
lively colt used to. A pair of wither-
bags, on the other hand, are stable, safe
and inconspicuous, and they don’t lead
to falls at inconvenient moments.
“Never mind wot you'd do if you was Auchinleck. Do wot you're told
to do as Gunner Blair!"
“Propalong”: With his pack
and riding saddle stacked
against the one lone casi%3
bush in a sea of gibbers,
Winnecke Bill was camped half-
way on the long dry stage be-
tween Deadman and the 40-mi‘fe
bore. But sleep eluded him that
night. Peeved with the slowly-
climbing arcs of the constella-
tions, he began counting sheep.
Gradually the long line of toe-
clicking jumbucks filed through
Bill’s head by twos, till his nap
began to rise and fall in time
with their gait. And then, sud-
denly, something was wrong.
The noise of the feet had
changed; the smell was dif-
ferent. Peering over the camp
sheep, Winnecke saw that his
sheep had changed into an end-
less, plodding line of Shorthorn
bullocks. Dazed, his brain re-
sumed its counting while its
owner tried to wake up. But
still, nose to tail, shuffling the
dust, tapping aside the gibbers,
the beasts came tangible
enough, but silent and unreal in
the grey starlight. Suddenly
from behind the camper came a
convulsive snort and the thud
and creak of leather that comes
when a horse shies hard, and
then a stream of pure Australian
broke the spell. A moment or
two later, over a cigarette.
Bill was yarning with Mick Reilly, the
boss drover, who was taking advantage
of the cool night to press on over the
dry stretch.
* * »
“Citylite”: It was near to closing time
when the town’s chief vag. entered my
favorite pinky shop with a quart wine
bottle that he had salvaged somewhere
around the parks. Would they buy it?
They wouldn’t. Would they give him a
nip of plonk for it? They would. Then
as he slowly imbibed the nectar his rov-
ing eye caught the ashtrays on the rows
of little tables. From a couple to half a
dozen bumpers in each, the day’s residue,
mostly from women smokers. Not so big
as they used to be, but did ever a man
gather richer treasure trove! Out into
the night he stepped, warm in the innards,
superior for at least a couple of hours
to prosperous citizens roving like hungry
wolves from one barren tobacconist to
another. At the near corner lay a sheet
of clean white paper that the newsvendor
had thrown away when he unwrapped
his bundle of the latest edition. The
vag.’s needs were complete.
* * *
“B. A. Ker”; There was a female in
the case —or, rather, in the sulky—
which, perhaps, accounts for the fact
that I wasn’t giving the pony overmuch
attention as we whirled around the bend ;
but the next second things were happen-
ing! When the prad was under control
again and a hysterical damsel had ceased
screeching in my ear the cause of the
shy was apparent. In the middle of the
road lay a bike, a belt and a pair of
pants. A sharp whistle interrupted my
Sherlock Holmesian deductions and drew
attention to a gesticulating figure half-
submerged in the scrub. Afterwards the
story came out. The young fellow had
been riding the bike when the chain,
catching his trouser cuff, wound it
around the gear-wheel, snagged it on the
crank and spilled the rider on to the
road.' Lying on his side firmly attached
to the grid, and unable either to rise or
free himself, the young ’un had hit on
the only practical method of extrication
—removal of the snagged garment. He
had performed the disrobing and was try-
ing to unravel the pants when a sulky
containing a female had sent him dash-
ing into the bush.
“L.J.S.”: The new farm hand had
lobbed up from the city and, having a
few drinks with the hangers-on at the
pub, happened to mention the name of
his employer. He was disturbed to hear
that the financial position of the cocky
was considered to be decidedly weak.
So when his prospective employer arrived
to pick him up in the utility the new hand
immediately broached the question of
getting his pay promptly. “Don’t you
think I can damn’ well pay you?” asked
the cocky, nettled. “No, it’s not that,”
replied the hand, rather apologetically,
“but I want to know just where I stand
so there won’t be any misunderstanding.”
“Well, if you’re scared you won’t get
paid you can have your damn’ money
every night if you like. Will that suit
you?” “/ know what we’ll do,” said the
hand, “you pay me a day’s wages every
dinner time ; I’ll trust you for half a day
and you trust me half a day.”
WEAVER OF DREAMS.
(In memory of John Shaw Neilson.)
The weaver of dreams is gone;
Lonely and sad am I.
Earth seems pallid and wan,
Sombre and sad the sky.
Weaver of dreams, good-bye!
I know that the gentle rain
Soft on his bed will fall.
And his neighbor, the quiet crane,
Out of the mists will call;
But he will not hear at all.
And never again to me,
However I watch and yearn,
From the shores of the timeless sea
Will the weaver of dreams return,
For Death is a gaoler stern.
But one who has seen and felt,
Suffered and sorrowed too,
To the heart of a singing Celt
Renders this homage true —
Weaver of dreams, adieu!
Pen him no mournful rhyme,
Ring him no dismal knell, ,
Now he is one with Time.
Weaver of dreams, farewell!
Weaver of dreams, farewell.
Victoria.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


The value of phosphate for sheep
Tri-cal: If you are convinced that your stock is better for the feeding
of Tri-cal-os Bone Flour (tricalcic phosphate) to remedy any mineral
deficiency, then keep on with it. It may be the calcium content of
Tri-cal-os (and it is high, 40%) that is giving the results. On the other
hand phosphorus deficiency may at times be greater than is thought,
and there again Tri-cal-os does its job (33% P O ).
2 5
The whole question of phosphate for sheep seems a prickly business.
I remember how scientists drilled into us that we must feed phosphates,
and now when we are just responding to the teaching they tell us to
do the opposite—and blame us! I was reading in a South African
publication about the composition of sheep licks for the Transvaal
high veld, and it was indicated that as a result of experiments carried
out on the Government farm at Ermelo it is concluded that phosphate
should be the basis of mineral licks for sheep in South Africa,
Old Farmer.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os for stock feeding from:
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O.
Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth,
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee. T _
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREL, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON. o __ Tr _ n
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. Liu,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Food for Australia.
“Ex-C.G.”: The Victorian Director of
Agriculture, H. A. Mullett, gives land-
men useful hints in his review of the
farming position.
There will be less beef and pig-meat
for civilians, he says. They must eat more
mutton and lamb, but lack of artificial
fertilisers is bound to reduce the lamb
output. A lot of factors are likely to
combine in reducing export of mutton
and lamb, and he suggests that sup-
plies for the home market could be in-
creased by using lower grades and fatten-
ing to greater weights.
The Federal Government wants more
pig-meat for service men, and wheat for
pig and poultry feed has been reduced by
6d. a bushel as an encouragement to pro-
ducers. Labor shortage, reduced number
of breeding sows (in Victoria) and short-
age of barbed wire and netting are hin-
drances to increased production.
Victoria has added nine new cheese
factories —or extensions to butter fac-
tories— to existing plants and expects
to step up cheese production to
15.000 tons annually. Condensed-
milk factories have doubled last year’s
output. More and more milk is
needed. Transport, labor shortage and
again the fertiliser shortage are limiting
factors, and butter export is bound to
suffer. Every blessed egg is needed, but
the same factors operate against more
production.
Dried fruits and many thousands of
tons of vegetables are urgently required,
as well as seed for the next and succeed-
ing crops. Victoria hopes to increase
its potato acreage by 50 p.c. over that
of last year. A minimum price is guar-
anteed, and there is little or no chance
of a surplus. Flax acreage has jumped
to 28,000 acres and looks like reaching
35.000 acres.
With all these things in mind, it seems
the man who can jerk himself out of the
old, slapdash farming methods and go
in for concentrated production from small
areas will help not only the nation but
himself also.
For Mastitis.
“Tasmania”; We tried almost every
cure we heard of, even to vaccination,
with very little success, until the Tas-
manian Department of Agriculture sent
us acriflavine, a very powerful disinfec-
tant dye. It has been extensively and
successfully used in America, and we
found it 100 p.c. successful.
You need a siphon outfit consisting of
a teat siphon attached by a length of
rubber tubing to a bottle with an air
outlet. A short length of glass tubing
is let into the rubber to enable the flow
of liquid to be watched. The bottle is
marked off in five-ounce measurements.
Ours cost 14s. 6d. We got the acriflavine
in powder form in one-grain packets,
which are merely dissolved in 20oz. of
water for use.
Sterilise the teat siphon with boiling
water and fill the bottle with acriflavine.
Strip out the affected quarter and insert
the siphon, then upend the bottle and
gently raise it until there is sufficient fall
to drive the fluid into the udder—5oz. of
it. Withdraw the siphon and immediately
strip out the quarter again. Then put
another 5oz, of fluid into the quarter
and leave it there for five minutes. Then
strip again. Twelve hours later milk
out the cow, then strip her three or four
ẃ
ẅ
stunted during this period the setback is
never overcome.
Young pigs thrive best if allowed free-
dom and will eat young grass and weeds
and pick up some mineral from the soil.
Two or three acres of land netted in
behind the farrowing pens is a great ad-
vantage. If possible plant this paddock
with lucerne, otherwise plant Kikuyu
grass, but ordinary pasture is better than
none.
Farrowing pens should be built in a
line with the farrowing sty, trough and
feed platform at one end of the pens.
The pens should be on a slope and close
enough to the dairy so that milk can be
run down in open pipes to a vat at the
pens. Round pipes foul; light spouting
is better, as the sun will keep it clean.
Build the pens greater in depth than
width, as the sows require exercise. Cut
a hole in the fence at the back of each
pen just large enough to allow weaners
to get through into the paddock. The
usual methtod of creep-feeding is to build
a separate feed trough in the corner of
each pen. For large numbers a better
method is to allocate one pen to the
young pigs ; this should be handy to the
milk vat, with a small feed room along-
side. Cement a couple of long troughs
into a cement feeding floor, spaced wide
enough apart to allow for two lines of
young pigs.
Sows should be well fed so that they will
provide plenty of milk. The young pigs re-
quire little more for the first four or five
weeks, after which they will begin to
look for a supplementary ration. They
will learn which is their separate feed
pen, and the weaners are of assistance in
leading them to it. In addition to skim
milk, scatter a small ration of grain on
w
ŵ
ẁ


Wireless alone can meet the *
exacting needs of communication
I for Mobile Units...
I INSTANT ★ CONSTANT ★ CERTAIN
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC I’KOXEIETABY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
AU STRALIAN - MADE
RADIO VALVES
STANDARD TO ARMY TRANSMITTERS & RECEIVERS
“FORRERS ”
Self-Oiling Pump
MOTOR OR ENGINE DRIVE
100 LB. PRESSURE OR
230 FEET ELEVATION
CONTINUOUS PERFORMANCE
24 HOURS A DAY WITHOUT
ATTENTION.
We are Sole Distributing Agents for
Forrers Pumps in every State in the Commonwealth except
Queensland.
John Danks £.SonP^W
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W 3.
ossa
■*sm
ms
M
I Ir
sa
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED &
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals ala Carte. —- Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
ẃ
Outback Occasions.
No. 42.
Father’s Pipe.
He pushed back from the table, felt
round himself in an absent-minded sort
of way, suddenly came to earth, peered
closely at the floor, the table and the
room in general, arose, prospected the
mantelpiece and the dark spots behind
the stove, looked back at his chair in a
baffled way and announced, in a stricken
voice, “Me pipe’s gone.”
“A jolly good thing,” said Mother.
“I don’t know how many times I’ve
spoken to you about it, and why on earth
you never bought a new one I don’t
know. Now, perhaps, you’ll have to.”
Father snorted, “That’s a woman all
over. Nobody ever wants to smoke a
new pipe, m’ dear. Y’ have t’ break ’em
in before”
“You’ve been breaking that thing in
for as long as I, and my poor nose, can
remember,” Mother interrupted.
We boys had meantime risen and were
gently oozing away out of sight and
sound. We knew what it meant when
Father mislaid anything. But it was not
to be. We’d just reached the stable corner
and were about to take to our scrapers
when his voice reached us. “Hey, you
fellers, come back!”
According to Father, he’d knocked the
pipe out on a post at the top end of the
last drill row about half-past eleven. He
was certain that he’d put it in his pocket.
He had not done any more rounds after
that because a couple of kidneys had
worked loose on the near-side float and
he’d finished tightening them and then
decided to unyoke for lunch. We boys
were sent to search up and down the last
drill row, around the drill itself and the
area between there and the stables.
Father, not wishing to lose time, went
on seeding. Whenever Father lost any-
thing he never wished to lose time, and
everybody else had the unthankful job
of finding what it was he had lost. Some-
times these searches went on for months.
Father periodically finding a need for the
lost article and ordering everybody to go
over the ground again, swearing that he
“wasn’t goin’ t’ go spendin’ good money
on a new one when the damned thing
must be about somewhere if only people
would use their eyes.”
Mother used frequently to declare that
she was convinced that the reason why
Father married and raised a family
was that he needed somebody to be
always running along behind picking up
things he dropped. She was inclined to
think, she’d add, that it was just
as well he had married, otherwise he’d
have spent a bachelor existence divided
between hiring searchers and being
arrested for walking about with no
clothes on. When Mother got like that,
Father generally retired to the back of
our place and fiddled about with fences
and things till the weather changed.
Well, we couldn’t find that pipe. We
found other things, like spanners and
wire-keys and rusty pocket-knives that
had been dropped from time to time.
Father complimented us on the rather
remarkable qualities of eyesight that
could spot lost things when they were no
more good, but couldn’t see “a flamin’
pipe that must be sticking up somewhere
like a sore thumb.”
After the paddock, we combed the
stables and sheds and the house. We
could hear Father talking to the drill
team and we knew, by the sound of his
voice, that unless he got a smoke pretty
soon a lot of things were likely to happen.
Our Father was a decent sort of bloke
mostly, but like all bushmen he was apt
to take a violent dislike to everything
when he couldn’t get a smoke.
By three o’clock he was cutting tobacco
and rolling clumsy cigarettes with bits of
newspaper. They’d flare like a torch and
he’d cough and splutter and jump on
them and rush at us and roar things and
we’d hurry away muttering something
about “thinkin’ we’d seen somethin’ that
looked like a pipe over there.” Then
he’d go back and swear at the horses and
furiously sow another few rows of wheat
and fall on the butts of seed and manure
and hurl them savagely into the boxes
and jump op the footboard and curse
the horses into a fury of action. Our
brother whispered that if only Father
could be kept without a smoke he’d sow
the blessed wheat and harvest it and have
it into the station before Sunday, at the
rate he was going.
Mother came up the paddock with the
afternoon tea about four o’clock. Mother
is a very understanding woman, and she
gave us our tea and cake before going
on to Father. We saw her stop on the
headland and Father pull the drill up and
look at her and say something. He didn’t
get a clean bag for Mother to sit on or
put his arm around her or try to sit close
to her or anything like he generally did
when she brought the tea up the paddock.
Presently * she came back and got our
cups but didn’t say anything. We could
see “that look”- on her face and we didn’t
say anything, either, but hurried off to
look for the pipe.
We gave up soon after that and went
off on other jobs, though we kept think-
ing about the pipe and keeping an eye
out for it, trying in our minds to picture
what Father might have done with it.
We were anxious to find it, because we
knew that if it was still missing by night
we’d have to go to bed early. Nobody
would want to sit by the fire and endure
Father without his pipe.
Well, the day drew on, and about sun-
down Father unyoked and headed for
'h® .stables. We boys generally helped
him unharness and teed up, but this night
our brother found it necessary to whale
j nto WOO( jheap and I was busy help-
j ng Somehow, when pipes were lost
and sinister developments occurred
at our pi ace Q ur brother and I stayed
together< All of a sudden W e noticed
a ca ] mness> The horses were quietly at
their feed and we could hear Father put-
ting the harness away. A peculiar fact
was that the dogs went in and about the
stables without being kicked or sworn
at. We gathered armfuls of wood and
went into the kitchen. Father stepped
in behind us his pipe alight in his mouth,
a bright look about h.m not quite hiding
hts self-consciousness.
Stuck in old Pompeys collar, he
said, grinning tentatively. “Must've
stuck it there without thinking.” Mother
pursed her lips and said “Huh.” Father
professed to be amused about the whole
thing.
We didn’t profess anything,


lit
eiti
$P
uitte
Uitcit® 11
l*ess
the
t , y
when you
cook wiih an
AGA
Everywhere women are giving their
time, their energies, their enthusi-
asm to war work. Often unexpected
demands are made on hospitality.
In homes where there’s an AGA
Cooker delicious meals can be pre-
pared, at any hour, with a minimum
of attention.
The AGA Cooker burns continu-
ously; cooks fast or slow as desired;
conserves food flavours; saves shrink-
age of meats; and is almost un-
believably economical. Model C, for
instance, suitable for city or country
/muses, cannot burn more than £3/1?)/-
worth of fuel in a whole year, with
coke at 35/- per ton in the city.
(Freight increases price of fuel in the
country, but annual consumption is
so low that amazing economy is
possible anywhere in Australia.)
The AGA Cooker is finished in
sparkling, easily-cleaned vitreous
enamel. Its insulation keeps
kitchens cool. It operates scientifi-
cally by STORED heat. You can
leave a whole dinner to cook itself,
while you devote extra time to your
war effort.
You will find it most interesting to
have an AGA Cooker demonstrated.
Or, if you cannot call, write for
Illustrated AGA Catalogue R 7.
JfaOriaimllkatSimm
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVON & CO.. LTD..
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 Kins: Street, Sydney, and
432 IJourke Street, Melbourne;
and at Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents; A. O. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
Agent for Western Australia: Malloch Bros., Ltd., Perth.
Agent for Queensland: Queensland Primary Producers’
Co-operative Association, Ltd., Brisbane.
w
/I fruetuMy tip
tyicjJituUf tyonc&i all
ialto u4o Gillette. QladleA.
I
Those who use Gillette Blades can keep them sharp much
longer by proper care. The hard, electrically tempered
cutting edges must never be handled. Pick up the blade
at the ends.
After use, rinse the blade in clean water and dry gently on
a smooth towel. Do this and you will get more shaves from
every Gillette Blade you buy.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
Our Service Department
Information Sought.
What is “grangerising”?
In 1769, when Rev. James Granger published
a Biographical History of England, he origi-
nated an idea of leaving blank pages for inser-
tion of additional illustrations, and the inno-
vation became widely used for children’s amuse-
ment. Nowadays grangerising is carried out ex-
tensively, and the books —many of them of
abnormal proportions—are required for colla-
tion of prints, press notices, portraits, carica-
tures, etc. The word is seldom used outside
printing and bookbinding establishments.
He H= H= *
Particulars of the disasters of (1) Lusitania,
(2) Titanic, (3) submarine Thetis, (4) U.S. dirig-
ible Akron and (5) Russian cruiser Admiral
Nachimov ?
(1) Lusitania, bound from N.Y. to England,
was sunk by a German submarine at 2 p.m. on.
May 7, 1915, off the Old Head of Kinsale,
Ireland; 1198 lost. (2) Titanic was wrecked on
the maiden trip from Southampton to New
York by an iceberg off Newfoundland coast,
April 14-15, 1912; 1517 lost. (3) Thetis sank
in Liverpool Bay, England, during a diving test;
three survivors out of 103. (4) U.S. dirigible
Akron crashed in the Atlantic, 20 miles south-
east of Barnegat Inlet Light, New Jersey; three
survivors of crew of 73. (5) Russian battle-
cruiser Admiral Nachimov, carrying gold worth
53,000,000 dollars, was sunk by Japanese Fleet
in Bay of Tsushima, May 28, 1905; losses un-
known.
* * * *
In this inland N. S. Wales town white-ants
have made it practically impossible to keep
woaden pergolas more than a couple of years.
Remedy ?
Use second-hand gas- or water-piping, cut to
required lengths, and worm them to fit. Right-
angle joins and two-inch wormed pieces can
be bought from ironmongers and will make the
job of lengthening or shortening comparatively
easy. Given a coat of paint these will last
for years. When erecting, bed the posts in a
block of cement. During summer, when the
hot iron is likely to sear the climbing plants,
wrap hessian or paper round the iron or lay
pieces of ti-tree or similar shrubby twigs be-
tween the plants and the structure.
* * * *
(1) Where can I obtain a water filter?
Price? (2) How could I make one?
(1) Anthony Hordern and Sons, Sydney, can
supply a glass table filter of five-pint capacity
for £2 ss. Its weight packed is 281 b. (2) The
same firm advises that a practical home-made
filter can be made from two galvanised buckets.
One bucket is pierced in the centre of its
bottom to allow a filter candle to be screwed
into it and then supported over the second
bucket. Anthony Hordern can supply the
candles at Bs. 3d. each—they are the vital part
of the filter, and need cleaning with a nail
brush, held under water, at least once a week.
Filtering is a slow business (one drip a second),
so it is advisable to fill the filter and let it do
its job overnight.
» * * *
(1) Where is Eastern Standard Time calcu-
lated? (2) How far ahead is it of Greenwich
Mean Time? (3) How far east and west does
it extend? (4) When is the Southern Cross at
its highest point?
(1) At observatories in Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane. (2) Ten hours. (3) Eastern Standard
Time applies to Queensland, N. S. Wales,
Victoria and Tasmania, except for the Broken
Hill area in N. S. Wales, which keeps the same
standard time as S.A. (4) At midnight on
March 31.
* * * *
(1) When were woollens and tweeds first
made in Australia? (2) Particulars of present
production ?
(1) Manufacture was established at a very
early period and was under Government
control. The first record in N. S. Wales dates
back to 1801, when a few blankets were made
by convicts; manufacture in Victoria dates from
1867. (2) Production consists mainly of tweed
cloths, flannel, rugs, blankets and yarn, “all of
which have acquired a reputation for purity and
durability.” Detailed particulars for all States
are not available, but the total quantity of tweed
and cloth manufactured in Australia in 1938-39
was 26,379,786 square yards. In N. S. Wales
11,785,141 square yards of tweed and cloth
was manufactured, and in Victoria 13,125,924
square yards. Production of flannel amounted
to 4,514,738 square yards, and about 1,277,642
blankets, shawls and rugs were made.
* * * *
How do the various industries in N. S. Wales
compare with regard to industrial disputes ?
Please state number of people directly involved
and the number of working days lost?
The latest Commonwealth Year-Book
(1940) gives statistics only up to 1939. In that
year engineering and metal working industries,
etc., had five disputes involving 670 persons
and causing the loss of 55,191 working days;
drink, etc., had three disputes, 1939
persons involved and 22,287 working days lost;
clothing, textiles, etc., one dispute, 158 persons
involved and 316 days lost; other manufactur-
ing, two disputes, 214 people involved and
18,184 days lost; building, three disputes, 41
people involved and 563 days lost; coalmining,
357 disputes, 132,587 people involved and
274,261 days lost; other quarries,
etc., one dispute, 95 people involved and 380
days lost; railway and tramway services, one
dispute, 44 people involved and 1056 days lost;
shipping, wharf labor, etc., one dispute, 1663
people involved and 29,934 days lost; miscel-
laneous, 12 disputes, 1890 people involved and
8011 days lost.
* Jfc *
(1) When did J. T. Lang and B. S. Stevens
hold N.S.W. Premierships ? (2) What was the
cost of railway passes debited to N.S.W.
Ms.L.A. and Ms.L.C. in 1939-40 ?
(1) Lang was Premier from June 17, 1925,
to May 26, 1927; May 27, 1927, to October
18, 1927; and November 4, 1930, to May 13,
1932. Stevens from May 16, 1932, to February
11, 1935; and from February 11, 1935, to
August 5, 1939. (2) The Official Year-Book of
N.S.W. gives the cost of railway passes for
Ms.L.A. at £19,276; for Ms.L.C. at £12,176.
* * * *
Whot was the number of assisted migrants
to N.S.W. each year between 1932 and 1939
( inclusive ) ?
■—Over 12—« -—Under 12 —
Year. Nom. Males. Females. Males. Females.
1932 .. 21 1 7 8 5
1933 ..11 1 6 2 2
1934 .. 11 5 4 2
1935 1 1
1936 4 1 2 1
1937 .. 60 3 17 26 14
1938 .. 402 156 161 50 35
1939 .. 1309 630 444 143 92
Totals 1819 791 642 235 151
All migrants were from the United Kingdom.
* * * *
What were the American casualties in the
1914-18 war?
Army: Killed in action, 1656 officers, 35,912
men; died of wounds, 559 officers, 12,383 men;
wounded (not mortally), 6475 officers, three army
nurses, 176,195 men. Navy: Killed in action,
30 officers, 326 men; died of wounds, six
officers, 52 men; lost at sea, 41 officers, 416
men.
* * * *
(1) Population of West Wyalong (N.S.W.) ?
(2) In what shire is it? (3) Water supply?
(4) Sewered? (5) Rail services?
(1) About 2500. (2) Shire of Bland. (3) Pipe-
line from Jugiong (Burrinjuck scheme). (4)
Yes. (5) Mixed train arrives Mondays, Wednes-
days, Fridays and Saturdays at 10.35 a.m.;
departs on same days at 3.25 p.m. Motor
train arrives on Mondays and Wednesdays at
8.55 p.m. and leaves on Tuesdays and Thurs-
days at 8.45 a.m.
* * * *
How can I prevent flies from worrying the
tips of my dog’s ears?
Best thing to use is a mixture of oil of cade,
green soft soap and methylated spirits in equal
parts. It must be applied several times a day,
and it must be kept moist. It will sting a little
at first, but not after two or three applications.
If there is any difficulty in obtaining it, you
can get it from David Moore, 16 Bridge-street,
Sydney, for 2s. 6d., including postage.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
While washing for gold a friend of mine un-
earthed a coin or medal weighing 1.915
grammes and of .B in. diameter. On the obverse
side is a head and inscription “Georgivs II
Dei Gratia”; on the reverse side is a coat-of-
arms and inscription “W.C.B. ET. CO. DG.
ET. REX. F.D. 8.1.E.M. 1780 or 1790.” The
coin has a milled edge, and the metal is
yellowish in color and shows no sign of cor-
rosion, although it must have lain in the ground
for many years. It is too light both in weight
and color for gold. What is it?
It is evidently a brass game counter supposed
to be an imitation of a half guinea. Guinea sizes
were also made. Since the early part of last
century and up to the present time these brass
game counters have been manufactured in
millions, and are on sale at all large stationery
stores. They may be bought by the dozen or
gross at an average price of about sixpence a
dozen or less before the war. The counters
bear the head of George 111, and are inscribed
variously as George II and George 111. The
abbreviations and initial letters are supposed to
be the titles of these monarchs, but, because of
the ignorance of the manufacturers, have
developed into a string of meaningless letters.
Thousands of them bear the inscription “In
memory of the good old days,” a legend having
no significance and obviously used to fill up
marginal space.
# * * *
How to grow nymphceas ( water-lilies ) in
tubs ?
Make reinforced concrete tubs about 3ft. x
3ft. and 2ft. 6in. deep, leaving a few small
holes (iin. piping will do) near the top rim
to carry off overflow water and drainage. Sink
the tubs in the earth or place in permanent
position. Pack in at least 6in. of heavy soil,
set the plants in it (deep enough for the foliage
to reach the surface when the tub is filled),
then dribble in the water slowly so that the
roots are not disturbed. A few fish in each
tub will eat up mosquito larva; and insects.
Every two months most of the water should be
siphoned and replaced. Many excellent varieties
are catalogued, but do not make purchases
until containers are ready.
* * * *
From what are mother-of-pearl ornaments
made, and where are the products for their
manufacture obtained ?
Shells which show a pearly and iridescent
lustre are used for making mother-of-pearl
articles (buttons, knife handles, necklaces, trays,
etc.), but the chief commercial shells sought are
those of the bivalve Meleagrina margaritifera.
The principal sources of supply of these are the
islands of the East Indian archipelago, the
Pacific Islands, the north-west Australian coast,
the Persian and Red seas, and the Gulf of
Panama. Shells vary in color and size, and
weigh up to Hlb.
* * * *
Why is New Zealand always—or almost
always—referred to by The Bulletin as
“Maoriland” ?
The coiner of the title has been dead these
many years, but it is not difficult to guess the
reasons that inspired him. The Maoris, a race
of whom the British Commonwealth of Nations
has never had any cause to be ashamed, dis-
covered and colonised the islands centuries be-
fore Abel Tasman caught a glimpse of them
in 1642. “Maoriland” is a more mellifluous
name than “New Zealand,” and it avoids undue


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY PETER SCHIPP late of Copeland.
—TAKE NOTICE that OLIVE JULIA SCHIPP
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1041 of
1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
You may enter an appearance on or before the
16th September 1942 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from McCAW MORAY
& JOHNSON Solicitors 75 Pitt Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friends.
CAIRNS, WILLIAM, last heard of about 45
years ago, when he visited his parents’ home
in Fitzroy, and (if alive) would now be aged
68 years, or his children should communicate
with NATIONAL TRUSTEES CO., of 95
Queen Street, Melbourne, to hear something of
advantage.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAD OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GO VERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
V.
*
FOR twenty-five years the name of
RAPSON & DUTTON PTY. LTD.
has been associated with precision work
in Motor, Aircraft, Diesel, Industrial and
Marine Engineering. With Australia at
war, urgent demand came for the change of
peace-time activities to the more exacting
demands of war. Immediately, Rapson &
Dutton Pty. Ltd. swung into production of
Lathes and Machine Tools, as well as
Implements and Munitions of war. In
addition, the firm supplies Gears and Fine Parts to
other manufacturers engaged in the production of
precision tools for the war effort, and Army, Naval
and Air Arms are serviced for their more vital
repair and maintenance needs, in which speed and
precision are of paramount importance.
So, to indicate more exactly the present and
future activities of the firm, the name of
Rapson & Dutton Pty. Ltd. has been altered to
Mars Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
With additional capital permitting more
machines, more skilled staff and a widening of
facilities, the capacity of the firm to render national
service is greater than ever.
The old Directorate, Messrs. W. J. O'Sullivan, H. W. Rapson and
L. B. Payne, is retained.
Manufacturers of
"MAHS" LATHES
"RAPSON" LATHES
"FREDLINE" VERTICAL
TURRET LATHES
Letters should be addressed
to “Mars Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane”
MACHINES
MACHINE PARTS
MACHINE CUT GEARS
(All Sizes)
Hobi
tto
StEE* 5
£H G * r
J. & O’S. ADVT.
w
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENS
m
10 for ll d 20 for 110
EIB6S
PREVENT
THROATS
emphasis on a fragmentary exploit of Dutch
navigation. The Bulletin has yet to meet any
inhabitant of Aotearoa, white or brown, who
has any objection to “Maoriland.” Various
poets have adopted it in preference to the awk-
ward and misleading official designation.
Brief Answers.
C.D.McD.: For information about machines
for making tool handles, apply to the Directo-
rate of Machine Tools and Gauges, Ministry
of Munitions, 66 Pitt-street, and the Depart-
ment of Factory Equipment, Kembla Building,
58 Marigaret-street—both Sydney.... J.M.P.:
Application for a pension may be made on the
prescribed form, obtainable from any post office.
C.M.H.: Cannot say whether a pension
would be payable in your case, but you could
apply on the prescribed form —obtainable from
the nearest post office... .G.K.P.: The D.S.C.,
M.C., D.F.C. and A.F.C. in that order... .F.G.:
The author of the original English Who’s Who
was Douglas Brooke Wheelton Sladen....
R.G.8.: The present King has three brothers—
Dukes of Windsor, Gloucester and Kent—and
one sister —Princess Mary, who married Vis-
count Lascelles, now Earl of Harewood. An-
other brother, Prince John, died in 1919....
T.8.J.: W. M. Hughes represented the Lang
division of Sydney in the N. S. Wales Legis-
lative Assembly from 1894 until 1901, in which
year he went into the Commonwealth
Parliament as member for West Sydney.
R.D.L.: Curtis Brown, 6 Henrietta-street,
London, W.C.2, is the English address given in
The Writers and Artists’ Year-Book, 1942.
The Curtis Brown address in America is 347
Madison-avenue, New York City... .R.F.P.:
Yes, a bar —clasp —can be won to the V.C., but
it has been done only twice. Captain N. G.
Chavasse, of the R.A.M.C., won his Y.C. on
July 31, 1916, near one of the Steenbeck pill-
boxes, carrying and tending wounded while
himself a casualty. He received the clasp for
“courage and sacrifice beyond praise” at Wieltje
in August, 1917. Lieut.-Col. A. Martin Leake,
R.A.M.C., won the V.C. while serving with the
South African Constabulary in the Boer War in
1902. He won the clasp at Zonnebeke in 1915.
G.P.R.: The first V.C. to an Australian in
the 1914-18 war was won by Captain Albert
Jacka for conspicuous bravery at Courtney’s
Post, Gallipoli, in May, 1915... .R.P.S.: The
Queensland Ministry consists of William Forgan
Smith (Premier and Chief Secretary), Frank
Arthur Cooper (Treasurer), Edward Michael
Hanlon (Secretary for Health and Home
Affairs), Frank William Bulcock (Secretary for
Agriculture and Stock), Henry Adam Bruce
(Public Works and Public Instruction), Thomas
Andrew Foley (Labor and Industry), James
Larcombe (Transport), David Alexander Gled-
son (Mines), Edward Joseph Walsh (Public
Lands) and John O’Keefe (Attorney-General).
G.R.B.; Queen Elizabeth (85,000 tons),
Normandie (82,799), Bretagne (82,799), Queen
Mary (81,235), Europa and Bremen (51,000),
Rex (50,000) T.G.Y.: The Kellogg Pact was
signed in 1928 by practically all the nations
in the world. They condemned war as an instru-
ment of settling international disputes and
undertook to settle such disputes by peaceful
methods G.F.: The Basques, numbering
about 2,000,000, are found on the northern
coast of Spain, with a branch in south-weste
France, and speak a language quite diner
from Spanish... .R.P.D.; Gibraltar was under
the dominion of the Moors until the fit tee
century, when it was joined to the Kmga
of Granada. It was captured by the Britisn
1704 and ceded in 1713. Malta was held in turn
by the Phoenicians, Greeks, Carthaginians a
Romans, and was conquered by Arabs in •
From 1090 it was joined to Sicily until i'-w),
when it was handed over to the Knights o
St. John, who ruled it until dispersed by
Napoleon in 1798. The Maltese rebelled
against the French, and the island was su .b ‘
quently blockaded by the British Fleet, ai I
by the Maltese, from 1798 to 1800, and wit
the free will of the Maltese was finally annexed
to the British Crown by the Treaty of Pans i
1814.... L.P.: Nauru Island was discovered by
Captain Fearn in 1798, annexed by Germany
in October, 1888, and surrendered to the Aus-
tralian forces in 1914.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re bonirtbutiotts
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. Mo.
should he addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
H.K.C.:
Then, brothers, drink deep of our fresh Austral air.
Come, drink a deep draught and be glad
That the pleasure it gives for ever lives
In hearts that need never be sad.
In hearts that are free from the gross tyranny
Of dictators, selfish, ambitious.
Come, breathe in the air we find everywhere—
The air that is free and propitious.
R.K.:
So now Tokyo is yelling
About submarines shelling
Sydney and Newcastle. *
But that is just part and parcel
Of the propaganda of this rascal!
J.S.: —
Once we could buy quite easily
Dozens of brands, and also Hangmee;
But now by a very stern decree
What we drink isn’t tea but a try to be,
For we have to eke out very economically
Our weekly ration one ounce of tea.
P.J.I.: “The same flat roof, the same old
walls, the same verandah.” And the same
poem M.K.: Not interested in preserving
the young man from the “harpy”... .B.B.: A
bit more grooming, and Dargan’s Grey would
have bucked his way in W. 8.: Harmless.
... .R.A.A.: Would find it difficult to make a
“serial” out of 12 lines of indifferent verse.
J.M.: Spoilt by one line that gives us the
“quivering shivers”... .L.R.8.; Both have their
pleasant patches W.H.C.; “The Other
Man” is the best... .J.R.8.; “The purest hearts
oft withered are by strife.” And the purest
poetry oft withered is by clumsy inversions and
conventional poeticisms G.F.E.: Come again.
J.S.; Off our beat Dominie: Send it to
a rabbit G.C.G.; Fricassee with onions....
V. : Pome that rhymes “home” with
“poem” is racing hoera... .E.M.C.: That sort
of stuff’s no good unless it’s written by a
soldier; you make it sentimental 8.5. G.:
156 lines of confused doggerel? No trade....
B.B.: If you’re going to use words such as
“mourneth,” do use ’em correctly... .N.C.:
Try the Yugoslav in a story... .A.J.H.: Keep
at it... .M.L.; Tut... .H.A.G.: A nightmare
it is . .K.E.G.: It doesn’t come through
dearly M.McL.: The schoolteacher is a
stodgy fellow E.L.McC.: Something to it.
Send it to a woman’s mag. and try us with
others....G.G.: Send that autobiography of
a pipe to the school magazine.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.M.8.: That John Hop doesn’t look cap-
able of lumbering an apprentice jockey....
8.L.K.; Is the dummy in the corner praying
or cutting his toenails? ... .J.M.: So atrocious
it caused a revolt among the other rejects in
the w.p.b .R.Y.; With that hospital-theatre
joke you took a distinct turn for the worse....
W. : The emaciated female is floating just
about level with the top of the stove; try
anchoring your characters V.G.M.: Luke s
skill at eliminating mosquitoes per expectoration
doesn’t interest us W.G.J.: We doubt it a
rock fisherman would, or could, angle for
blackfish with a telegraph pole 8.W.: The
falling boulders and the professor are indistin-
guishable Bert C.: Hands instead of claws,
please, and the toes of shoes tend to turn up,
not down... .J.R.H.: Why are the South Sea
Islanders all wearing busbies? K.T.; Wed
like to meet that freak whose forehead corru-
gations are all vertical H.P.L.: With a year
or two of solid practice you should reach the
kindergarten stage.... Bertha S.; Take a trip
to the fruit markets, Bertha, look at a China-
man and then have another go at Ah P<png....
W.8.C.: “I have never had a lesson in art.
You needn’t have told u5....J.8.: You have
a crisp line but little idea of humor needs.
F.J.L.: That’s twice you’ve cooped all
those characters up in one, corner needlessly;
give them the freedom of the Bristol board.


a scrap of paper
.... but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PEBKINS, General Manager.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Comoany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
'Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HOW TO KEEP FIT
You can’t keep fit If you suffer from
constipation. Constipation saps energy,
makes you feel tired and “off-colour.”
NYAL FIGSEN, the pleasant-tasting
laxative, ends constipation quickly and
naturally. Figsen is made from three
of Nature’s own laxatives—Figs, Senna
and Cascara. That’s why Figsen is NOT
habit-forming, and why it is equally
good for everyone. Figsen is one of 168
dependable NYAL FAMILY MED-
ICINES. Sold by chemists every-
where. 1/3 a tin.
i The next best thing to Nature , , .
NyalFitysen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends 5
Pref. To Re— Re-
Mar., Loss. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£> £/ £ £ «£
1932.. 37,652 Nil Nil 181,178
Capital assets reserve, £16,800 .. 197,978
1933.. 19,391 Nil Nil 178,587
Feb.,
Capital assets reserve, £10,868 .. 189,455
1934.. 7,390 Nil Nil 182,065
Unexplained reductions, £2885 .. 179,180
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £1792 .. 177,388
Profit. 5 J p.c.
1935.. 2,642 15.123 Nil 164,907
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £lOl7 .. 163,890
5 p.c.
1936.. 54,341 54,011* 5 p.c. = 27,018 137,202
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £385 .. 136,817
Added Tax Reserve, £2OOO .. .. 138,817
6 p.c.
1937.. 60,025 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,229 150,046
Profit sale property, £827 . i .. 150,873
Written off Target Mills, £16.734.. 134,139
1938.. 61,564 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 12,768 146,907
1939.. 62,005 16,374 6 „ „ 32,422 13,209 160,116
Net addition tax reserve, £30,000.. 190,116
1940.. 60,003 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,207 201,323
Net addition tax reserve, £26,084 .. 227,407
1941.. 68,642 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 9,039 236,446
Net addition tax reserve, £75,177 .. 311,623
1942.. 70,107 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 10,504 322,127
* Includes £40,367 arrears paid in ord. scrip.
Last term the public had more money
in its pockets, owing to Government war
spending, and sales of retailers and others
continued to bound along. Foy’s got its
full share of increased business, and the
co.’s woollen and knitting mills were
kept fully employed on defence priority
orders. After allowing £21,668 (up £857)
for depreciation, the improvement in
gross earnings (£496,952) was £42,680.
But a heavier allowance for taxation
(£107,500, up £37,500) and increased
costs made off with all but £1465 of the
gain. The £70,107 of profit claimed —
best since 1929 —was enough to pay the
prefs. their full contract rate of ‘6 p.c.
and show 9.9 p.c. on £540,367 of ord.
capital, compared with 9.6, 8, 8.4, 8.1 and
8 p.c. back to 1937. The div. was kept
at 8 p.c.
But all that doesn’t mean much now.
For one thing, the Government proposes
to limit divs. to 4 p.c. on capital and
reserves combined, though it hasn’t yet
brought down the necessary legislation.
Also, clothes rationing will bite deeply
into turnovers, which means that the
problem of costs will become an exceed-
ingly acute one. Unless traders are able
to get these back sufficiently, the Gov-
ernment might be disappointed in its anti-
cipations of the tax yield from co. profits.
Chief savings will come from reduction
of staffs and/or replacement of men by
women, and less will be spent op adver-
tising, but many items of overhead will
remain more or less fixed.
So far as clothes are concerned, ration-
ing will reduce the standard of living ; a
year’s supply of coupons for adults is
112, whereas to buy the clothes allowed
for in the basic wage of the Arbitration
Court would require more than 200
coupons for men and over 230 for
women. So, for the most part, workers
will be able to buy little more than half
the quantity of clothing they used to.
Their wages have gone up, and one of
the objects of existing control is to keep
selling prices from rising too steeply.
So, although clothing prices are not
directly fixed, there should be a fresh
reservoir of war finance to tap in the sav-
ings thus brought about. And provided
an adequate supply of the lower-priced
articles is made available without marked
sacrifice in quality the scheme promises
to work without undue hardship to any-
body, though a lot of minor inequities
and rough edges yet remain to be
adjusted, and some of the sartorial frills
will be cut off life. It needs to be remem-
bered that rationing is an inevitable con-
sequence of an all-in war effort. The
Government has sought to place every-
body on an equal footing on the demand
side, and at the same time divert essen-
tial materials, man-power and money to
the real business in hand.
Here is a comparison of Foy’s balance-
sheet figures:—
1936. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £813,269 £813,269 £813,269 £813,269
Liabilities .. 337,823 382,740 321,599 364,355
Property . . 723,352 728,044 726,389 723,970
Plant, etc. . . 145,427 118,125 101,555 91,673
Stocks . . 362,370 456,462 438,169 600,287
Book debts . . 79,961 105,223 114,690 91,941
Cash, etc. . . 11,024 13,876 20,312 21,680
Outstanding feature last term was the
addition of £162,118 to stocks, which are
higher than they have been for over a
decade. The orgy of buying before
rationing began ought to have reduced
the pile ; much will depend upon how the
stock of rationed goods turns out in rela-
tion to demand.
Fkirymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
. . To Re— Re-
Dec., Prefit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933 .. 45,807 10 p.c. - 26,500 19,307 265,727
1934 .. 35,921 10 ~ „ 26,500 9,421 275,148
Drop in replacement reserve, £16,245.. 258,903
1935 . . 29,857 10 p;c. = 26,500 3,357 262,260
From inner reserves, £40,500 .. 302,760
Reserves capitalised, £132,500 .. 170,260
1936 .. 42,079 8 p.c. = 39,400 2,679 172,939
Insurance reserve, £913 .. .. 173,852
Added replacement reserve, £11,897.. 185,749
1937 .. 47,185 9 p.c. = 44,325 2,860 188,609
Added replacement reserve, £12,582.. 201,191
1938 .. 49,812 10 p.c. = 49,250 562 201,753
Added replacement reserve, £18,960.. 220,713
1939 .. 53,577 10 p.c. = 49,250 4327 225,040
Added replacement reserve, £1547.. 226,587
1940 .. 49,443 10 p.c. = 49,250 193 226,780
Added replacement reserve, £9147.. 235,927
1941 .. 34,039 7 p.c. = 34,475 235,491
The copra plantations in the British
Solomons, acquired from the Young
family in 1936 for £95,000 in scrip, have
had to be abandoned. They don’t appear
to have turned in much to their new
owners, however, the improved results
of recent years reflecting mainly an ex-
panding production of raws at better
prices from the co.’s Bundaberg sugarmill
and canefields. Output, 15,381 tons in
1937, had reached 27,804 tons three years
later; last year production was compul-
sorily restricted to mill “peak” of 21,000
tons because of a difficult export situation
and inadequate storage facilities.
For Queensland as a whole, actual pro-
duction of 697,000 tons fell 40,000 tons
short of permitted because of drought
and the acute labor position in the cosmo-
politan sugar districts. The Australian
sugar cheque thus dropped to £12,894,000
(down £924,000), despite the highest aver-
age realisation since 1932:
Bought f-* Tons (94 n.t.)
for— 1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Home . . 364,000 383,000 400,000 417,000
Export .. 458,000 545,000 406,000 328,000
Total.. 822,000 928,000 806,000 745,000
Home price £24/-/- £23/12/6 £23/1/- £22/17/-
Export price 8/4/3 10/7/6 11/5/6 10/16/8
Average* .. 15/2/2 15/15/3 17/2/9 17/6/3
* Applies Queensland only, and includes excess sugar.
Britain, Canada and Maoriland took the
export section in roughly similar propor-
tions, and the whole was expected to be
cleared before the opening of the current
crushing season, when the harvest will
be lighter. This because of further deple-
tion of the labor pool and February’s
extensive flood damage to standing crops.
Although Fairymead’s mill escaped, fenc-
ing, buildings, pumping plant, wharves
and molasses storage tank weren’t so'
fortunate, and a further adverse element
on earnings may prove the growing strin-
gency of internal transport. Just how
much shipping is likely to be available
for overseas sales isn’t yet evident, but
both Canada and Maoriland have joined
Britain in sugar-rationing schemes.
Of the slip of £15,404 in last term’s
net earnings, £7709 was on account of
a bigger provision for depreciation
(£16,532), on the light side in the previous
term. The £34,039 brought the div. down
to 7 p.c., and it is a couple of decades
since shareholders have had less. Still,
the one-for-two gift issue of five years
back makes that rate worth half as much
again to old holders, so most of those
on the register are still doing quite well.
How profit-limitation may affect returns
isn’t clear, fixed assets being in at
cost and £223,376 of the reserves shown
being tagged for replacement.
Within its power, the management is
doing most things possible to benefit
costs and efficiency. In three years new
plant, etc., outlay has exceeded £103,000,
of which £39,597 was in respect of the
year just terminated:
1935. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £265,000 £492,500 £492,500 £492,500
Liabilities* . . 59,034 84,484 188,515 273,553
Estates .. 224,014 330,681 333,659 338,218
Factories, etc. 180,668 ]
Railways, etc. 55,832 V 360,124 423,829 463,426
Plant, etc. .. 55,214 J
Stocks, etc. .. 7,045 45,648 176,506 211,484
Book debts .. 73,251 85,066 15,085 17,234
Cash, etc. . . 16,769 6,468 7,966 5,657
* Including provision for taxation.
Accentuated marketing problems are re-
flected in the further accumulation of
stocks (up £34,978). With the capital
outlay mentioned, it necessitated adding
£85,038 to the debt, now £39,178 in
excess of more or less liquids.
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
f Dividends N Nominal
Pref. Ord. Writ- Re-
April. Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. ten off. serves, t
£ £ £ £ £
1933 . . 122,252 9991 63,333 47,150 ) 778
Provident fund, £lOOO .. )
1934 . . 129,351 10.208 63,333 54,865 1 72 0
Provident fund, £lOOO .. 5
1935 . . 134,258 10,208 63,333 60,619 821
1936 ~ 133,994 10,208 63,333 60,420 854
1937 .. 134,950 10,208 63,333 60,826 1,437
1938 . . 144,038 10,208 63,333 66,642 5,292
1939 .. 147,631 10,208 63,333 67,603 11,779
7 p.c.
1940 .. 137,579 10,208 55,416 68,166 15,568
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1941 .. 128,999 8,750 47,500 68,121 20,196
5.4 p.c. 5.4 p.c.
1942 ~ 122,312* 7,912 42,948 68,649 22,999
t Subject to supply rights, £7500.
The power-stations have done fine but
little-appreciated work in meeting the
demands of war-time industry, both in
the amplification of their services and
the provision of alternate supply routes
against breakdowns at a time when cable
and transformers have been at a high
premium. The “Balmain co.’s” franchises
cover Balmain and Newtown (perpetual),
Petersham and Leichhardt (expiring 1953)
and Ashfield (1943), five of Sydney’s
older suburbs in which recent industrial
growth has overloaded mains and sub-
stations considered adequate for another
five years or so. There have been no
benefits for shareholders, however, be-
cause the low cost at which industry
receives its power has failed to keep
pace with the growth in costs and taxa-
tion.
Last term an extra 432 consumers were
connected, making 38,521 in all, and a
surplus of £237,630 (up £11,554) showed
up from generating, distributing and
maintenance. But general outgoings
made off with £18,428 more at £119,680.
Allowing for the usual liberal deprecia-
tion, shown as written off in the table,
and a prior addition of £4362 to insur-
ance reserve, that left the net result £7215
lighter at £53,663, equal to an all-round
5.7 p.c. on the £937,500 of capital. So
the full extent of the outmoded N.S.W.
Interest Reduction Act was applied to
the pref. div., reducing it to £5 Bs. 6d.
p.c., and the ords. were cut to the same
rate.
Maintenance of that moderate return
to ord.-holders may be conditional
on the co. being able to charge a price
more in keeping with the present supply-
cost of its product, and similar applica-
tions from the N.S.W. gas cos., faced
with much the same set of conditions,
haven’t been too well received. But then
there is no semi-Government gas co. also
feeling the pinch, as with electricity.
Rights of the 166,667 £1 prefs., on which
2s. 6d. is uncalled, extend only to in-
come, not capital.
Extension of the powerhouse, etc., and
interconnection with the City Council
electric supply venture show up in this
financial analysis;
1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Capital .. £937,500 £937,500 £937,500 £937,500
Sundry
creditors*.. 138,996 150,102 179,743 244,534
Fixed assets .. 985,468 875,714 867,680 972,831
Stocks, etc. .. 42,523 47,206 37,268 45,067
Book debts .. 12,949 25,585 18,938 28,486
Cash, etc. .. 68,621 176,516 240,965 184,567
* Including provision for taxation.
The other feature there is the healthy
condition of consumers’ accounts and
the accumulation of cash, etc. Hemmed
in as it is by the big council undertaking,
opportunities for further expansion are
confined to the area already served, so
it is chiefly to divs. that those on the
register should look for their benefits.
The municipal authorities concerned
have options of purchase at stated in-
tervals.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1933.. 14,031 7 p.c. = 6568 7,463 97.978
1934.. 12,469 7 „ „ 6568 5,901 103 879
1935.. 16,057 7 „ „ 6568 9,489 113.368
1936.. 18,822 7 „ „ 6575 12,247 125.615
1937.. 13,910 7 „ „ 6662 7.248 132,863
1938.. 22,746 7 „ „ 6662 16,084 148,947
To contingency fund', £2OOO .. 146,947
1939.. 27,366 7 p.c. = 6662 I _ ...
To contingencies, £2500 < 18,204 165,10 l
1940. 30,077 7 p.c. = 7517 1 IR . 211
To contingencies, £2500 j ‘ iU ’ Ut)o 180,211
1941.. 28,585 7 p.c. = 8891 1, 8 IQ .
To contingencies, £l5OO f 18 ’ 194 203 ’ 40 °
From inner reserves, £25,000 .. 228,405
1942.. 42,823 7 p.c. = 10,211 32,612 261,017
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
War-time industrial activity and rise in
insurable values have meant expanding
revenues for insurers; and because of
the substantial reserves most of them
have built up over a long period proposed
profit restriction, like other economic
controls, is likely to fall less heavily on
underwriters than many other traders.
At £261,017 the lay-by of the Bankers
and Traders’, a 1922 offshoot of the
Queensland, now stands visibly £114,879
in excess of capital. That includes £25,000
brought from hiding among the creditors
item last term, and the cupboard isn’t
yet quite bare, real worth of the co.’s
marketable securities being admitted to
be in excess of book values.
The 7 p.c. div. that has been an institu-
tion since 1926 has always been covered
by investment income alone. That’s after
charging all taxes, etc., to underwriting,
which partly explains past moderate
returns from this side of things. The ex-
perience here has lately been much better
—to the exact extent isn’t clear, because
a year or so back Consolidated Insur-
ances Pty., a reinsurance subsidiary, was
thrown off, since when reinsurances have
jumped from 27 p.c. to 41 p.c. of busi-
ness accepted. Thus last term, although
gross premiums mounted £91,907, only an
extra £36,187 was retained:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1926.. £97,486 £55,048 £33,890 56.5 p.c. 34.7 p.c.
1930.. 172,870 114.099 55,860 65.9 .. 32.3 „
1932.. 100,171 69,356 44,254 69.2 „ 44.1 „
1934.. 105,781 59,596 42,137 56.3 „ 39.8 „
1937.. 170,729 105,358 61,626 61.9 „ 36.2 „
1939.. 224,287 132,110 77,277 58.9 „ 34.4 „
1940.. 251,039 145,280 90,180 57.9 „ 35.9 „
1941.. 266,267 148,269 110,931 55.6 „ 41.6 „
1942.. 302,454 154,324 130,222 51.0 „ 43.1 „
A better type of risk is suggested by the
improvement of £4 12s. p.c. in the loss
rate, not bettered since the co.’s infant
years. Taxation (£29,435, up £9399) was
responsible for most of the lift of £1 10s.
p.c. in the expense ratio, leaving the
underwriting surplus £10,841 better at
£17,908.
On average capital, the £17,908 repre-
sented 12.2 p.c. Investment income (£3397
higher at £24,915) lifted the net return
from all sources to 29.3 p.c., so the div.
again strained nothing.
Finances reveal this solid disposition
of funds:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £95,175 £120,825 £145,600 £146,138
Sundry
creditors* .. 124,161 247,274 267,705 272,399
Public
securities .. 204,958 221,073 254,674 280,446
Fixed deposits 23,500 32,500 35,000 42,000
Cash, etc. .. 48,323 57,262 60,852 67,572
Shares subsid. 4,996 4,996
Book debts, etc. 40,328 54,590 74,678 92,751
Freeholds .. 74,041 195,401 195,401 202,000
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
When the books closed net tangibles
amounted to 134 p.c. of retained pre-
miums. It’s a ratio that suggests the
board might normally go seeking a little
more capital were the business to keep
expanding at the recent rate. The cur-
rent volume of underwriting, however,
may not be so large. Though Com-
monwealth business continues to put on
fat, coastal submarine warfare has added
to the risks, while 18 Asian and other


PATENTS,—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt,
* * * •
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks, Advt,
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
mining machinery
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Useful GIFTS for
MEN ON SERVICE
w
m
c
ikr\
X
m
Ml
. ■
An English Cloth Brush—has
extension handle, pure
bristles and inset comb,
navy, brown or
red leather
49/6
Identity Card and Coupons
Case in patent leather or
grained calf colours red.
brown, blue, black or 1 / A
white I/O
Safety Shaving Mirror in
navy or brown grained
leather case of superior
quality.
4y»in. x BValn. 25/-
sin. x 7Vain. 35/-
Genuine Kangaroo
extension belt with
safety pockets—
chamois 01 /
lined ... *. I/ -
others 6j/6. 10/6,
17/6.
Service Wallet In
genuine Kangaroo,
with notebook, etc.,
and mica front
compart- IC/.
ment .. . *»'
Writing Case with note-
paper in brown, navy or
red, practical and IQ If.
compact .. .. Iw I v
Swagger
genuine hand
kangaroo .. "J2/0
\W
PROUDS
PTY.
LTD.
Jewellers, Watchmakers, and Silversmiths.
CORNER KING AND PITT STREETS, SYDNEY
m
m
II
$
i 5«
m
mm.
msm
Mm
i
m
ij
m
w.-
li
Safe Travel
..by TUBE!
Cold Drawn Precision Seamless Steel Boiler Tubes enable
modern, high-speed locomotive to build up terrific steam
pressures in complete safety. Tests that can only be
described as excruciating assure that every B.T.M. boiler
tube is to be completely trusted with the lives of rail
travellers. Commensurate care is devoted to Steel Tubes
produced for any purpose... and B.T.M. is equipped to pro-
duce all the Steel Tubes
required for every purpose
in Australia.
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
PRECISION
ALL WAYS
BTM9
R. & Me
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
agencies have had to be closed and some
dislocation is reported from the Indian
end.
Man-power authorities, Mines Depart-
ment officials. Labor union and Chamber
of Mines heads are trying to find the
best plan of operation for Westralian
goldmines under labor-rationing condi-
tions. One suggestion is that the big
producers at Kalgoorlie and a few other
centres be allowed to keep going on a
scale that will leave something for share-
holders, and, with the exception of pros-
pector-worked shows, to close down
all the others. Another, and in many
ways more desirable one is that as many
mines as possible be kept working,
whether shareholders of any get anything
or not, in order to keep all centres alive,
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Mines, the Westralian
operating co., has put £50,000 into the
second Liberty war loan, making with
£250,000 subscribed to the first a con-
tribution of £300,000 to Australia’s finan-
cial war effort this year, apart from taxes,
At the end of 1941 it had nearly three-
quarters of a million Australian in hand,
and visible ore reserves of another
quarter-million profit value. The holding
co. is Wiluna Gold Corp., London.
« * # *
Profit of Yellowdine Gold Areas
(W.A.) in the year to April 10 was
£lO,lBO (down £6576). A 6d. interim
absorbed £9525, £560 was reserved for
taxation and the remaining £95 written
off past losses. Within the limits of avail-
able labor every effort is reported to
locate fresh ore-bodies, but, except for
a few isolated patches, nothing of im-
portance was found. Winzing from the
90ft. level in the hope of intersecting ore
disclosed in diamond-drilling was dis-
continued owing to inefficient and costly
labor when the hole was down 52ft. and
practically all available ore overhead had
been mined. The workings are now under
exemption until October. Development
on the Evanston option showed that
values didn’t live down, and the co. gave
up after expending nearly £l5OO of its
accumulated cash. There is still £15,956
j e £ t
* * * *
“O.B.”: Those who know Mt. Monger
are not surprised at the decline in values
at depth in New Milano. Golden dribs
and drabs extracted from this field dur-
ing the past 40 years would make a fairly
big lump, but all have been obtained
from surface or comparatively shallow
workings. The shoots die young.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) reverts to quarterly
sixpenny dividends on July 8. Last two
payments were of 9d. each. About £9OOO
worth of bullion is being produced each
month. Ore reserves are stated to be
keeping pace with extraction.
. * .
, Us Sister-States record Jean
falls, N.S.W. has been ale g Y
maintain its gold production.
cause the bulk of its output is t P '
the copper content of the gold-ore is
one reason, and Wellington Alluvials,
dredging on the Macquarie and so econo-
mical of labor-power. Thanks partly to
present profitableness of the red metal,
Occidental has already distributed Is. od.
a share (the full rate last year) in the cur-
rent term, which doesn’t terminate till
November. Wellington shareholders are
still waiting for some return on their in-
vestment. Accounts are due any day
now, and the 2s. shares, which went to
4s. Bd. in a period of misplaced optimism
in 1941, idle around Is. 9d. The water
position is improving.
North Deborah, after a merry 4\ years’
existence, is still the shining light of Ben-
digo (Vic.). Though grade (24dwt. for
1941) came down to 14.3dwt, for the six
months to May—it showed £5 a ton
profit, or £41,235 in all —it was won
mostly from development work between
the 860 ft. and 1020 ft. horizons, where a
west-dipping fault early indicated en-
couraging prospects and where the south
940 ft. level has been driven on the upper
section of the Deborah reef in 3ft. of
ore all the way to connect with the
parent’s workings. Thus the management
has been able to conserve the sup-
plies in the typical saddle at 560 ft., which
has yielded the ounce and better crush-
ings of the past. With the fortunes of
Central Nell and the Deborah mine at
pretty low ebb, North Deborah has
proved a lucky strike for the field, and
there are large reserves still in sight if
labor is left to take them out.
* * * *
“Strike Me”: The best alluvial field on
the Clermont area (C.Q.) is now Miclere,
and four or five shows in deep ground
are raising good gold. Anything oyer
200 ft. is deep there. A recent crushing
from the Neptune is held an all-time
record for the field —71 tons for an aver-
age 31oz. Over 60oz. was hand-picked
specimen gold; the rest came from milling
the picked-over ore. At its zenith, the
field is a bit handicapped now by military
call-ups.
* * * *
World’s gold production for 1941,
as calculated by Union Corp., was
41,000,0000 z., against 40,900,0000 z. in
1940. But current world-conditions render
both those figures provisional estimates
only. An increase is shown by South
Africa, and a decrease by Australia.
Gold mined in Canada and the U.S.
recorded little change. No figure was
obtainable in either year for Soviet out-
put, which has been an uncertain quantity
of recent years, but in 1939 was estimated
at 4,500,0000 z. South African percen-
tage of world production rose from 34.5
in 1940 to 35.1 in 1941.
•fc -S' 'l* *!•
Though aluminium is reckoned the
third most abundant element of the
earth’s crust, relatively few bauxite de-
posits are suitable for production of
alumina of metal grade, and this is one of
the drawbacks to most Australian sources
of the stuff. Overseas, it has led to
exploitation of other sources of
aluminium oxide such as alunite, impor-
tant by-products of which are potassium
sulphate and sulphuric acid. The Com-
monwealth has two notable alunite de-
posits at Bulahdelah (N.S.W.) and Lake
Campion (W.A.), where the State Gov-
ernment has taken over. As with bauxite,
selective mining is probably called for at
both places, for even at Campion, which
contains the most-uniform-grade material,
actual alumina content is rather lower
than that of good bauxite. The Bulah-
delah deposit contains about 26 p.c. to
37 p.c. alumina, so is closely comparable
with the most important occurrences in
the U.S., which range from 15 p.c. to
35 p.c.
» * * *
Loss of two-thirds of the world’s tin
supply to the Japanese has reduced pro-
duction accessible to the Allies to not
much more than 80,000 tons per annum,
as against normal requirements (includ-
ing Russia) of 140,000 tons. The pro-
portion of lost smelting capacity has been
even greater, for it was concentrated
largely on the islands of Penang, Singa-
pore and Banka, Holland and Belgium
refineries, with a total annual capacity
of 35,000 tons, went to Germany early
in the piece. Only other smelters in
operation are in Britain and Belgian
Congo, capacities 58,000 tons and 10,000
tons respectively. A new plant in Texas,
however, will soon make up the leeway.
Initial capacity of 18,000 tons p.a. is
expected to be doubled by the end of
1942,' and further expansion to 50,000
tons is understood to have been planned.
* * * *
The Law Book Co. of Australia has
put between one set of covers War Legis-
lation Affecting Property, by John Baal-
man, solicitor, and War Damage to
Property, by the same and R. Else
Mitchell, barrister-at-law. Just over 300
pages, including 32 of index, for 275. 6d.
Regulations and matters dealt with in-
clude building control, capital issues, con-
flicting Federal and State property laws,
“contracting-out” of statutory benefits,
war-time contracts adjustment, debtors’
relief, powers of attorney, the controver-
sial economic organisation regulations
(including the 4 p.c. provision), enemy
property, evacuated areas, fair rents,
housing of war workers, landlord and
tenant (Federal and State), land transfers,
limitation of actions, soldiers’ and sailors’
wills, war-service moratoriums, and war-
damage regulations and amendments,
plus a list of approved insurance com-
panies. A comprehensive volume, with
adequate explanations and index.


Insure with the
•AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
DANIEL
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Without Fear or Favor
With the passing of each day of this
war life in Australia becomes more and
more a matter of subservience to the
plans and edicts of the Commonwealth
Government. In a war-time emergency
there must be a supreme control in mat-
ters of man-power, piaterial and money,
and the liberty of the subject is inevitably
restricted. Australians are now facing
many dangers, hardships and shortages,
and we have to organise to meet
them. Unessential peace-time occu-
pations must give way to the more press-
ing ones of the hour, due consideration
to matters of health, discipline and
morale not being overlooked. While
things like tea, tobacco and picture
theatres«may seem non-essential, they are
of definite indirect value to the war effort
where available. And in ticklish times,
when traditional rights and privileges
may go overboard for the duration, a
press that is free to provide an outlet for
public comment and criticism is of
immense value in the long run, even if it
does no more in the course of a con-
troversy than show that complaints and
criticisms levelled at a Government are
unjustified.
While free, an honest press is always
there to speak for itself and for the
people. Its existence alone gives con-
fidence. Its opinions may be wrong
or they may be right, but the
press definitely forms part of a
democratic system of government. It is
more essential in war-time than it is in
peace. With total war now gripping
Australia a free press provides a safety-
valve when politics may be thought to
have become too evident in the color or
balance of the war policy. A broad,
sparsely-populated land like Australia re-
lies greatly on such things as newspapers.
But they must be vigorous and indepen-
dent.
A capable and sincere Government
doesn’t have to worry about criti-
cism. “The truth will out,” and if a
Government has the courage and ability
to carry through a job it believes to be
necessary and practicable, then mis-
directed criticism will bounce back on to
the critic. But if a job is neither neces-
sary nor practicable, or if a change in
the accepted order of things is unneces-
sary, then the Government deserves all
the criticism it comes in for until it
abandons its plans.
Australia, only 42 years a federation,
has had thrust on it a war that is as
modern and totalitarian in the Pacific as
it is around the shores of the Atlantic
and Mediterranean, where white people
have waged wars for thousands of years.
Even Australian traditions and political
foundations are still in the process of
evolution. What traditions we have
—such as freedom of speech—are
pretty deep-rooted, but on the political
side we are in the experimental stage.
We are decidedly overgoverned. Up till
recent years we have relied greatly on
overseas countries for our manufactured
necessities, and it has only been since the
last depression that borrowing in London
has ceased to be a prominent feature of
our economic policy.
We have an elaborate system of indus-
trial arbitration and trade-unionism, but
there is a growing tendency for unionists
to disregard the awards and recommenda-
tions of constituted authority where those
awards don’t suit the fancy of the union-
ists. This in a country where wealth is
already more evenly distributed than
anywhere else on the globe.
Australia’s present Government has
been in office about nine months. It
came to power accidentally, with little
experience in government. It suffers
from the disability of having been a criti-
cal Opposition for more than a decade,
and of having made fanciful promises
to its supporters. In some directions
it has shown more eagerness to act
than its predecessors, but in one most
important sphere its hesitancy is a danger
to the war effort. It is diffident about
compelling the voting majority to make a
full contribution to the struggle in which
we are engaged. This is particularly so
in money matters ; taxation on the lower
incomes is in no way comparable with the
sacrifices asked of those on £lOOO a year
and upwards. Labo'r as at present repre-
sented in Australia takes the view that
the man earning more than trade-union
wages has done nothing to deserve the
extra. This is demonstrated in the con-
tention that until the man on a higher
income is brought down to the income
level of the wage-earner the wage-earner
should not be taxed. But Labor Parlia-
mentarians, who earn more than wages,
show uneasiness on this point themselves,
and prefer to put really heavy taxation
rates into effect on incomes over £l5OO
a year.
This reluctance to tax adequately
the majority of workers, at the same time
“It’s the uniform you salute !”
imposing terrific but unacknowledged
income tax on the higher earners, has
had the result of giving hundreds of
thousands of workers a false impression
about the incidence of war’s cost. Includ-
ing overtime, they are better off mone-
tarily than before the war —often without
working any more productively—and they
imagine that the “big companies” and
their shareholders are in the same boat,
with the exception that they believe the
big cos. are making even more war-time
profit than they are. Some Labor poli-
ticians encourage them in this belief, and
never stress the multiple form which
taxation takes on all income earned by
shareholders, or point out the fact that
these citizens have been suffering a re-
duced income and living standard that
came long before the rationing of clothes
and similar things. The lower standard
of living was forced on them by taxation.
Undisciplined selfishness is a menace
to the co-operation necessary when a
maximum national effort is wanted. Not
all members of the present Government
are as incomprehensible in their attitude
toward this matter as is, say, the Minister
for Labor, Mr. Ward, nor as unrealistic
in outlook as Minister for War Organisa-
tion Dedman, of clothes-rationing fame.
But the majority rules, and the Govern-
ment must be held responsible for the
majority’s mistakes. It has made plenty,
and it will make more ; these will be
excusable only if it rectifies past errors.
Injustices and petty tyrannies may in
the main be justifiable if they benefit the
war effort. If the financial annihilation
of 50,000 “wealthy” Australians would
result in a 100 p.c. war effort that injus-
tice might in a way be “justifiable.” But
as things stand at present it is not so
much a matter of what the “wealthy”
are doing to win the war; it is what the
millions of more representative Austra-
lians are not doing. The war can neither
be financed, supplied with arms nor
fought by the “wealthy” alone. The great-
est force in the country is found among
the middle class and the “workers.” But
these have to be properly disciplined and
intelligently directed. It is acknowledged
that they are the great producing section
of the community. It is sometimes for-
gotten that they are also the great con-
sumers, and on them automatically fall
commensurate obligations.
The Canberra Government has not
passed on to the majority of Australians
their fair share of war’s cost. It has
endeavored to squeeze every penny pos-
sible out of the higher incomes, and,
where they fall short, to borrow from the
public when it can be done, and to chalk
up the balance with the Commonwealth
and trading banks. The bank-credit por-
tion of the Government’s war-finance
policy roughly represents the. extent to
which it has failed to tax the middle and
lower incomes. It is wishful thinking
exemplified—a measure of the Govern-
ment’s administrative weakness and of the
extent to which political considerations
enter into its war effort. There is no
economic justification for much of the
namby-pamby handling of the voting
majority and the sleight-of-hand finan-
cial methods adopted in order to make it
possible. If the people do not pay the
war bills now they will pay doubly before
much time has passed. The economic
confusion that follows deceptive methods
of Government finance may make itself
apparent even before the war has fin-
ished, thus adding to the severity of the
remedy when, in desperation, it has to
be administered.
It used to be part of Labor’s policy
to encourage “anti-boss” and anti-
defence feeling. Such teachings are now
hindering industrial toleration and de-
fence co-operation.
In Australia’s present crisis the Gov-
ernment must govern without fear or
favor. The very nature and nearness of
the war is daily increasing the and
trials of the war burden. The good humor
and morale, the patience and temper of
the people are being tested as they have
never before been tested. With the calling
up of man-power now for labor as well as
army purposes the Government will be
well advised to see that it has a practical,
not political, reason for its distribution
of restrictions and obligations. Man-
power is a particularly vital matter, and
the right men must be allotted the right
jobs where it is fairly considered that
they are more useful to the war effort in
some position other than their present
one. Brains and skill are at a premium.
More administrative jobs should be
allotted to men taken from industry
instead of to civil servants. In total war
production is almost as vital as fighting,
and, with a few specific exceptions, the
departmental mind is not of an essentially
productive outlook.
Australia’s Government, like its people,
has a lot to learn. Vast problems are
still ahead of us, and whatever action we
take should bd to meet them, not to
evade them, pass the buck or attempt to
conceal them. Much revision of past
planning is clearly necessary in order to
make future plans fully workable. Where
political appointments have not justified
themselves by practical results they should
be reviewed. Amongst us we surely have
the right men for the right jobs, and
until the right men are ip those jobs we
shall have self-made troubles to contend
with as well as those forced on us by
the enemy. It is no time for political
or industrial humbug or wishful thinking.
He told the story “off the record,” so
names, etc., are left out. He got a job in
a new Commonwealth office at around
£lO a week. He had a room of his
own. He reported to his chief bright
and early the first day, and was told
that so far there was nothing for him to
do —“but there will be.” The same thing
that afternoon, next morning, the day
after that and the week after that. He
took to short walks round the park dur-
ing his fifth week, at the end of which
he was so perturbed in his conscience
that he omitted to collect his pay. The
morning after payday the official respon-
sible reproached him. He explained.
“Yes, yes,” said the official soothingly.
“But” —more severely—“you must collect
your pay. If you don’t you’ll throw our
records out!”
* * * *
The State of New South Wales is ex-
pecting a surplus of £2,000,000 this year.
Very unusual and all that, and there is
a huge accumulated deficit, but in the
circumstances one might have expected
the State of N. S. Wales to figure as a
subscriber to the second Liberty Loan
for a couple of millions. It did not
figure.
* * * *
In 1941-42 Australian mills absorbed
407,479 bales of wool in their manufac-
turing operations—a record quantity, and
11.3 p.c. of the total clip. This figure
illustrates the strain being imposed on
the capacity of our woollen mills, and
when it is remembered that by far the
greater proportion of the output is for
military purposes the necessity for the
rationing of woollen clothing for civilians
becomes apparent. Not that in practice
military requirements are planned accu-
rately and with full regard to other mat-
ters ; in all probability muddle and mis-
takes figure to the same extent in mili-
tary-clothing arrangements as they do
elsewhere. But in general that is the
position; civilians are to go short of
woollen clothing because Australian,
American and Indian service men have
first call on our textile output. Before
Japan came into the war our output on
behalf of India, in yarn as well as finished
articles, was enormous.
* * * *
Australia’s cotton-spinning and -weav-
ing industry is fully employed. Prior
to the beginning of this war the output
of cotton textiles in this country was
much less than 10 p.c. of usual require-
ments, and, though great expansion has
since taken place in capacity of plants,
output is still only a fraction of demand.
The scarcity of cotton goods is illustrated
in clothes-rationing, a cotton garment
costing more coupons than a similar one
made of wool. Defence orders rapidly
took precedence in mill output, and the
Government granted facilities, by tariff,
bounty and otherwise, for stepping-up
production of canvas and duck. Though
profits during war-time are a most indefi-
nite quantity, Bradford Cotton and some
others in the trade should do well after-
wards.


BRANDAUEKS
•r*
o**
ẁ
rptNS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
c. BEAHDXOBB * CO, Ltd, BIBJUBQHAM. EKO
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
w
'S
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
;v
5000 POWELL
'■
GAS PRODUCER UNITS
8
ON THE JOB’
m
m
I
OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE AND RELIABILITY
This preference for Powell shown by thousands of experienced transport
owners, is a tribute to Powells superior engineering, outstanding
performance and reliability.
Only Powell Gas Producers can give you . . . Government approved models
up to 40 h.p. . . . famous Beresinsky Cleaner that reduces engine wear to
“less than with petrol’ . . . Como upper-cylinder lubrication system . . .
full range of spare part;s and the H. C. Sleigh after-sales services.
Blowers are available for jail models.
Petrol for even essential civil transport shortly may not be available.
Insure against such emergency by fitting a Powell Gas Producer.
H. C. SLEIGH
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, or
Powell Dealers throughout Australia
POWELL
GAS PRODUCER UNITS
The 4 p.c. profits question has been
resurrected in Canberra. The matter is
embodied in Statutory Rule No. 76 by
which the National Security (Economic
Organisation) Regulations were intro-
duced. It was the Prime Minister who last
week brought the question up on behalf
of the Government. He said that “any
speculation that the Government in-
tended to abandon the plan was without
foundation.” It is known that difficul-
ties are being encountered in suggested
methods of applying the 4 p.c. profits
limit, but there are reports that
legislation will be brought forward
to try to put it into force when
the Budget is brought down in August.
The rigidity and lack of commonsense in
the basic feature of the plan make it one
of the most preposterous proposals of
the present Government. It has been
condemned on all sides, including a Par-
liamentary committee appointed to con-
sider it and other economic “reforms.”
The absolute rigidity to be imposed on
limits of earnings can only destroy initia-
tive and encourage inflation. Any sys-
tem of profit control should leave avenues
for encouragement of initiative and
harder work.
* * * *
The manager of a Sydney engineering
concern says employees behave as though
the war is an opportunity to make the
most possible money for the least labor.
They are terrified of their union bosses,
and are fined when they do too much
-work. Pimps carry tales back to the
union, and there is always the fear of
being blacklisted. Pinpricks over matters
like stoppages for tea, etc., are ever-
lasting. Overtime is a continual source
of trouble; employees have gathered
the idea that overtime is a great
source of profit to the “bosses,” and until
lately thought they had a weapon to
threaten with. But with war-time busi-
ness taxation as it is most firms are better
off monetarily and otherwise without
overtime, and so all that happens when
overtime is “off” is that the war effort
suffers. And that is the position all the
way through. The “policy” of instil-
ling hatred of the bosses in its adherents
and blinking at obvious truths has just
about arrived at its obvious conclusion
—utter futility. “Bosses” are making big
sacrifices this war, while thousands of
unionists are in pocket because of it.
* * * *
A rush of applications at the finish
resulted in an oversubscription of the £35
million war loan by about £2 million.
Late applications may improve the
figure. Including some of these late sub-
scribers there were in the vicinity of
180,000 applicants at one stage. There
was almost half as much response
from the small investor after the loan
closed as there was while it was open.
* * * *
There is a movement on to eliminate
the “lag year” in taxation .assessments.
The trouble at present is that tax is paid
in a year different from which the income
is earned, with the result that in times as
erratic and uncertain as those now pre-
vailing a year of high income and low
taxation may be followed by a year of
low income and high taxation. There is
a fear that unless the lag year is elimi-
nated after the war, when a collapse of
defence industries may be expected, there
will be thousands of workers unable to
meet the previous year’s taxes. With
taxation on almost a “total” basis these
days it needs to be treated more scien-
tifically and with greater regard to
general economic conditions than in the
past. It is no longer merely an incon-
venience. It is one of the most obtrusive
factors in the struggle for national and
economic existence.
* * * *
Federal Treasurer Chifley has done the
logical thing in extending the taxation
exemption of 20 p.c. of a mining co.’s in-
come —except in the case of gold and coal
to dividends paid to shareholders from
such income. Where mineowners consider
the 20 p.c. allowance inadequate they may,
put their case before the board of
referees appointed under the war-time
company tax provisions.
* * » *
Canada’s 1942-43 Budget introduces
post-war credits, to be levied during the
war and repaid with 2 p.c. interest after-
wards. It is quoted that childless men
on £570 a year who now pay £5O in
income tax will be asked for £123, but
of the increase £57 will be regarded as
a post-war credit. The excess-profits tax
on companies is to rise to 100 p.c,, but
of that 20 p.c. will also be a post-war
credit. In the financial year to March 31
Canada raised by taxes 50 p.c. of
its huge war expenditure of $1352
million, or 78 p.c. if the financing of
British purchases is not included. Budget
expenditure was $1895 million altogether,
and revenue was $l4Bl million. Borrow-
ings totalled $1834 million. Some of this
money was used to finance British com-
mitments.
* * * *
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician,
S. R. Carver, in a summary of Australian
statistics, has revealed some effects of
war on the Australian economy. Savings-
bank deposits between June, 1939, and
April, 1942, rose from £245.6 million
to £264.5 million. This rise of £l9
million is equal to 8 p.c. In addition,
between March, 1940, and March, 1942,
there was a net purchase of £23.9 million
of war-savings certificates. Building
activity apart from A.R.P. work has
slumped precipitously. Since July, 1939,
motor-vehicle registrations have been
declining at an average rate of 19,000 a
month. The 1939 figure for registered
motor cars, was 559,356, for commercial
vehicles 260,270. In April, 1942, there were
452,332 cars and 254,040 commercials.
Between July, 1939, and March, 1942,
133,000 Australian women got jobs in
industry. Exclusive of rural workers
and domestics there were 533,000 women
in jobs in March, 1942. At that date
there were 1,364,000 men employed.
* * * *
A rise of 25 p.c. in freight rates be-
tween South Australian ports has been
allowed the Adelaide Steamship Co. and
Coast Steamships, Ltd.
• * * * ♦
A Sydney restaurateur complains that
a bag of onions cost him 755. last week,
which works out at Bd. a pound, com-
pared with a highest price of in the
past. Potatoes, for which the maximum
price fixed by the commissioner is 285.,
cost him 38s. Thus is price-control
defeated in the city markets. It’s a case
of 38s, for potatoes or none at all —and
in those circumstances the keeper of a
restaurant is a good mark for the illegal
profiteer. Spuds and onions are essential
to him, and perhaps by a little paring-
down of quantities to diners he can offset
some of the extra cost. Meantime, false
“unofficial” prices are being established
for these vegetables in short supply
K * « *
Officialdom has blundered again, this
time *n the matter of eggs. The poultry-
farmer’s lot has never been a very bright
one, partly because egg production was
one of those things that required little
capital and was therefore superficially
attractive to inexperienced people, with
the result that too many engaged in the
business. Now it appears that too many
people have gone out of the business,
voluntarily or compulsorily. But the price
hasn’t been “let out,” and there continues
to be a bleak prospect ahead of the
poultryman. The price of eggs is one of
the few things that* have not inflated over
the past 20 years. There has never been
any political thought given to the matter
of a living standard for such as the
poultry-farmer; it would conflict with
city voters.
* * * *
Those people interested in the idea of
socialisation of industry might consider
with profit the case of the Australian
Broadcasting Comrriission and the com-
mercial stations. The A.B.C. collects
oceans of money from listeners’ license
fees, while B-class stations have to inter-
sperse advertisements with their enter-
tainment in order to pay their way. Yet
in spite of the financial ascendancy of
the A.8.C., technical failure is so fre-
quent that an apology to a formula has
been adopted: “We regret the interrup-
tion to our programme, which was due
to a technical fault beyond the control of
the Commission.” Listeners who have
possibly known one or two technical
breakdowns among the whole list of B
stations have heard a dozen such apolo-
gies from the two Sydney national
stations. Compared with the commer-
cials, the nationals “fade-in” records
abruptly, and there is a similar lack of
smoothness elsewhere. Pronunciation of
names of country centres when rainfall
is being given is still bewildering. And
when it comes to rebroadcasts of 8.8. C.
news —well, it’s a case of “switch on to
one of the other stations, please.”


THE SERVICE MAN
Tobruk to Mersa Matruh.
“Ek D.”: Foiled in his first offensive
in Libya, the enemy started another, and
that was the beginning of all the trouble.
General Auchinleck has detailed how
things at first appeared to be going well.
The enemy forced a gap in our mine-
fields but was soon in difficulty with his
supply lines, which were pounded inces-
santly by the R.A.F. and raided by tanks
and armored cavalry.
This, when the battle was nearly a
fortnight old, born, bred and matured in
a heat of which nobody who has not suf-
fered it can conceive the effects, was
“probably its crucial moment.
“We might have turned the scale if we
had been able to take advantage of the
enemy’s condition. We, however, were
equally exhausted.” Thus General
Auchinleck.
A British counter-attack on June 3
to relieve the 150th Brigade (Guards),
which had been overrun, brought a savage
retaliatory thrust which forced a British
retirement. Reconnaissance had mis-
judged the weight of the enemy and the
time to strike.
The enemy now was free, with his
northern flank less threatened, to con-
centrate on Bir Hakheim until General
Ritchie decided that nine days of trying
to relieve the heavy pressure on the
isolated French-held plateau was enough.
The garrison withdrew on June 10. It
had “defended Bir Hakheim with great
tenacity and endurance.”
This retirement released enemy troops
to reinforce other positions and to assail
the Knightsbridge-El Adem southern
flank positions of the British with added
strength.
In the heavy fighting which ensued, the
C.-in-C. declared, all forces stood up to
the ordeal with the greatest skill, but in
three days the sorely tried Knightsbridge
positions, which had borne the brunt of
a fortnight’s savage and continuous
assaults, caved in. This left an opening
through which the enemy could rush the
30-odd miles to the coast to cut off the
S’Africans and the 50th North of Eng-
land division south of Gazala.
The withdrawal of these troops was
well done and “largely successful.” Both
divisions succeeded in joining the main
army east of Tobruk. They were cov-
ered on their perilous march through
enemy formations by front and rear
screens of British armor, sheltered over-
head by the R.A.F., which simultaneously
was engaged in the great battle of the
convoys out to sea. *—
Then the enemy rushed El Adem and
Sidi Resegh, 10 miles to the east, and
thrust himself across the narrow width
of the blood-soaked escarpment to within
a few miles of the sea. •
The speed with which he acted showed
the overpowering strength of his rein-
forcements and general resources.
He made at once for the weak spots
in the Tobruk perimeter on the s.-e. side,
dived down the El Adem-Sidi Mahmud
main road with 40 tanks, and flung 60
more at the old gaps through which the
British gouged their way when Tobruk
was relieved last year. These were east
of the El Adem road in the El Dudda
sector. A cloud of dive-bombers had
gone ahead ; lorries packed with infantry
followed on the heels of the armor.
It was very different from the experi-
ence when Tobruk’s initial garrison of
tired A.I.F. men was besieged a little
over a year before. Then, save for a
heavy thrust by 30 tanks on the first even-
ing, the enemy had been content to leave
the perimeter almost tank-free for a fort-
night.
Now the garrison had no time to do
more than catch its breath before it was
assailed by the whole of six divisions,
four armored, hurled out of the dawn
on June 20.
The nearest ’dromes which might have
helped with fighters were 100 miles away.
The ground defences were all too obvious
to attackers in that flat place, where
camouflage is painfully difficult.
The havoc wrought by the Stukas was
multiplied by heavy howitzer fire from
pieces up to 210 mm. Behind the barrage
put up by these massed and massive
weapons the enemy dug in to deal with
counter-attacks. British tanks available
were light and went down before the
88mm. anti-tank guns of the Germans.
The gaps widened, the full flood of the
attack poured in. There was a bitter
period of mopping up throughout the
night, the worn-out defenders dividing
into small groups and selling their posi-
tions and lives dearly, while great ammu-
nition dumps and accumulations on the
wharves were blown up. Some sections
of the mobile formations fought their
way out to the east, some escaped by*sea,
but the numbers could not have been
great. And the enemy must have secured
a very substantial booty of guns, vehicles
and supplies.
Berlin Radio on Jan. 23 said: “We
have now 28,000 prisoners, British,
S’African and Indian, in Libya.” Next
day it asserted' that the number of
prisoners taken in Libya was 45,000,
including 33,000 in Tobruk, and that the
British forces had lost 60,000 killed and
wounded and more than 1000 tanks and
500 aircraft destroyed.
Vichy said General Ritchie had been
retired. There was no official confir-
mation.
The enemy claimed that the British had
used 12 divisions, which was rubbish —
after four days the figure was amended
by Berlin to eight. In the offensive last
year the Eighth Army began its task
45,000 strong, or about half true strength
—it was really an enlarged corps, not an
army.
This time it seems at most to have
used about five divisions with ancillaries
—70,000 to 80,000 men all told.
Casualties were heavy because of the
nature of the fighting—Tobruk infantry
held out for eight hours against armored
vehicles, an astonishing feat of valor and
endurance.
It appears that of prisoners taken at
Tobruk a large proportion were A.S.C.,
A.M.C. and base troops in general.
The Enemy in Egypt
There was obviously a solid block of
the Eighth Army still in existence and
ready for fight. They withdrew past the
meagre defence positions of the border,
which are not large enough to hold any-
thing like an army. Wavell had been wise
enough to leave the Halfaya-Capuzzo-
Bardia lines untenanted in the days of
Graziani. Rommel followed the thirsty
track back to the Mektila-Matruh main
defence lines, where the tiny British corps
had faced seven times its strength in
the anxious last days of 1940.
Three heavy German columns rushed
hard on the British heels, ’planes, armor
and motorised infantry rolling past the
blown-up remains of the Halfaya Line,
eating up 150 miles of waste in three
days.
Rommel’s hope was in speed for
several reasons. One was that he
now had 200 miles of waterless desert
behind him and must waste no hours;
another, that with a week or two’s
respite British troops from Syria, S.
Africa and even India might be poured
in. It was reported that British divisions
from the Ninth Army in Syria were mov-
ing (Vichy alleged that an Australian divi-
sion was among them), and that the Rus-
sians were taking over British lines in
Iran to relieve British garrisons.
The first solid contact between Axis
and British troops on the new battlefield
was made in blinding heat and dust.
Rommel pushed two fierce thrusts against
main positions. Armored forces took up
the weight of both blows. Two battles
were soon in progress.
One was in advance of Mersa
Matruh, where heavy British screens
moved westward and punched the head of
the enemy column. The other was south
of Mersa Matruh, where all types of
front-line units formed a bloody whirl-
wind.
Rommel brought up strong forces, but
on June 29 his tanks were not in full
force. The resistance was desperate. No
information —there is plenty—about how
the battle is going is worth anything at
the moment of writing. After two days’
fighting the opponents cannot have done
much more than measure each other’s
power and strength.
There wa§ a less confident note about
Berlin’s radio predictions after midday
(Central European time) on June 28
German announcers had not up till late
that night repeated an Italian claim that
Mersa Matruh had been by-passed and
the coast reached by Rommel’s armored
forces 20 miles to the east. Cairo ad-
mitted a by-passing, but did not admit the
cutting of the coastal road.
With new guns and equipment and re- :
inforcements, the British are reported to*
be in fine heart. British, Dominion and
Indian troops, all of whom are said to
be engaged, are now fighting under the
conditions which suit them best. They
know that they are in a decisive action,
on the result of which great things depend.
Mediterranean War.
“Ek Dum”: On May 26 Admiral
Cunningham, home in London from two
years *of fighting in the Mediterranean,
“the hardest it has seen since Nelson’s
day,” made an important exposition of
the changed conditions of Mediterranean
war:
Just as the gun and torpedo are weapons
carried by ships to hit the enemy, so is the
aeroplane such a weapon. When great dis-
tances are involved this weapon must be
transported on carriers, but confined spaces
like the Mediterranean, with its short dis-
tances, should be handled entirely by shore-
based aircraft. Except in the western end
of the sea there is no reason for the use
of carriers in the Mediterranean.
He stressed the use of land-based air-
craft, not only in Crete and Greece, but
throughout all operations.
The present situation in the Mediter-
ranean, Admiral Cunningham declared,
was that both sides were occupied in an
attempt to destroy each other’s supply
lines. At one point the British were
taking a toll of half the Axis supply
shipping, but since the enemy started
heavy attacks on Malta this percentage
had dropped.
Do not forget that throughout this time
that I have been reviewing we have con-
sistently been in considerable inferiority,
lacking the great essentials of victory. And
if in such conditions our men can achieve
so much, what will they do when they have
the means?
There were enough warnings in all this
to make any sober critic wary of over-
optimism. Two main points emerged.
One was that even in his worst recent
periods the enemy was getting half his
supplies to Libya,
The voyage from Sicily to Benghazi is
under 400 miles. A simple sum is suffi-
cient to show the possibilities. Every
ton of Axis shipping devoted to the war
over a 400-mile route is worth five tons
of British shipping which uses the
perilous 2000-mile Mediterranean track
from Britain ; worth 30 tons on the much
more used and safe route round Africa.
Even with the loss of half tonnage, the
shipping position was dominantly in favor
of the enemy, and, as the Admiral
pointed out, the latter’s position had im-
proved after the heavy bombing of Malta
began.
Though Admiral Cunningham does not
mention it, gliders appear to have become
potent enemy vehicles. Experience of
them was developed in Crete after some
preliminary experiments in the Nether-
lands and Belgium in 1940. In the
original tests, the silent machines carried
10 armed machine-gunners or grenade-
throwers. In Crete, 12-man towed gliders
about 50 feet long, with an 80ft. wing-
spread, capable of dropping one foot in
every 15 and landing at 30 m.p.h., were
used.
It is beyond doubt that over the Medi-
terranean German transport ’planes, used
as locomotives, have been hauling trains
of up to six gliders, each carrying two
tons of supplies or ammunition or 15 or
16 men. Ten of these trains can move
a couple of brigades (or regiments) a
week in night flights.
German gliders land on skids and can
come down wherever they have their
own length and a few feet to spare, of
level ground.
Malta’s Role
Admiral Cunningham’s second point of
importance was linked with Malta, which
is plumped down in the middle of the
enemy convoy routes, as well as athwart
Britain’s Mediterranean supply lines.
While the island functioned at full effi-
ciency, the enemy naturally lost more
shipping than after its aerodromes were
torn to pieces by incessant air bombard-
ment.
Then the enemy had a freer run,
menaced only from the African shore.
He can defend his shipping right across
the sea with the long-distance land-based
fighters and attack the British in Libya
and even Egypt with shore-based
bombers.
He is at another immense advantage.
Every British fighter or bomber, every
pound of ammunition, every man for the
Middle East must be carried through the
perils of air bombing from the French
coast extending 1000 miles to sea, from
German and Italian submarines in the
Atlantic, from German and Italian sub-
marines in the Mediterranean,,
The enemy merely has to bring his sup-
plies to their bases on the European side
of the sea, only 500 miles from the great
Italian manufacturing centres of the
north. The ’planes can be flown down
over Axis territory to their operating
bases in a couple of hours.
Britain’s Huge Effort
Despite the heartbreaking disadvan-
tages under which they labored the
navy, mercantile marine and air force
have done herculean things in Libya, par-
ticularly the sea transport forces and their
guardians. The job of moving the im-
pedimenta of a modern army is stagger-
ing.
A railway has been built from Mersa
Matruh to the border since Wavell turfed
Graziani out of Egypt. One recent report
represents it as having been continued
to Tobruk, though this is not easy to
believe. Report does not give its gauge
or specifications. Even if it were only
a 2ft. military portable with minimum
weight (201 b.) rails, the section to the
border alone would have called for the
preliminary carriage of 370,000-odd iron
sleepers 4ft. 6in. long, with all their con-
comitants of nuts, bolts, fishplates, points,
station and siding and water and oil
equipment, and rolling stock.
When Wavell made his dash for Sidi
Barrani in 1940 he had only half a dozen
tanks worth the name. Last month, after
the attrition of a murderous battle of
more than two months at the beginning
of the year, fought against superior
numbers and far superior equipment,
Ritchie’s Eighth Army was able to make
a stand for three weeks against a force
of which the core was two full Panzer
and two armored divisions.
The monstrous task involved in the feat
of preparation which made this possible
thousands of miles from manufacturing
bases can only be considered in the light
of the statistics of even a moderately-
armored division—say 12,000 men, 240
tanks in the 2£-37-ton class, 150 light
tanks, three field artillery battalions with
(in the German case) howitzers up to
8.268 in. The modern version of these
latter weighs over 30 tons per gun with
mounting. Then in each division would
be a motorised infantry brigade, an anti-
tank battalion with guns up to 3.5 in., an
engineer battalion, H.Q. and quarter-
master equipment, scout and reconnais-
sance battalion, A.M.C. with ambulances,
attached aircraft and equipment, sig-
nallers, crane and repair vehicles.
In all, such a division includes about
3500 to 4000 vehicles and 8000 guns, of
which a couple of hundred at least would
be 75’s and 50 or so at least howitzers
4in. or over, and the balance machine-
guns. Foodstuffs, ammunition, clothing,
mines, signalling equipment and fuel are
measured in tens of thousands of tons
even for a few weeks’ campaign.
Hard lessons were taught in the battle
which began on November 20 last year—
our tank guns were too light; the 25’s
were not mobile enough ; the American
tanks, so enthusiastically applauded by
the press, had been built with insufficient
study of the enemy’s methods, technique
and gunpovyer. But that battle finally
went to sleep only months before the
one just over opened.
Even the most imaginative boo-boo
boy could scarcely believe it possible to
apply the lessons of experience and trans-
port the product of the changes to Libya
in that period. But British and imperial
soldiers have not changed. They knew
their technical inferiority, but fouebt
the harder.
Von Bock Across the Donetz.
“E.D.”: Timoshenko has suffered be-
fore Kharkov, on a much larger and more
dangerous scale, an experience similar to
that through which General Ritchie and
his forces have gone in North Africa,
despite armies on his flank to help him
and rivers to guard him. He has lost
the most important railway junction in
the Kharkov sector and is still in retreat.
But no one will write of Timoshenko’s
experience as an “expert” wrote of
Ritchie’s that it “was an utter, humiliat-
ing defeat.”
What is happening in Russia is more
vital to the Allied cause than the retreat
of the Eighth Army.
On May 10 Timoshenko took the
offensive in the Kharkov sector from
behind the Donetz, His attack was at
first described as a snatching of the whole
initiative of the 1942 spring campaign
from the enemy.
After 10 days it began to be reported
that the attack was merely a diversionary
thrust to prevent Von Bock from taking
the offensive further south at Taganrog.
After a week the initiative had appar-
ently fallen into enemy hands. The
Russians were declared to have con-
quered a large strip of territory, includ-
ing Kharkov’s outer suburbs, in all
about 3000 square miles. This was de-
scribed as covered by a 20-mile average
advance to a line running from just south


of Byelgorod, via Liptsi, to the Udi River
(tributary of the Donetz) and Kupyansk-
Kharkov line, and south of this an area
overrun by a 50- to 60-mile advance
towards Krasnograd junction.
The southern advance seemed to create
a huge, blunt Russian salient, the eastern
border of which was roughly defined by
a line from the Udi 10 miles from Khar-
kov via Zmiyev (in Russian hands) to
within 20 miles of Krasnograd, thence to
just north of Losovaya and Barvenkova
(both in German hands), to just north-
east of Isyum (in Russian hands).
Towards the end of May the operation
came to an end. The Russian view was
that it had been allowed to develop into
a stalemate so soon as Timoshenko’s
objective—the inhibiting of Von Bock’s
ability to attack Rostov —had been
achieved. The Red Army gave its losses
at 5000 killed and 75,000 missing,
against 90,000 killed alone in the
German forces. The enemy’s version was
that, by striking simultaneously at two
points at the western neck of the Isyum-
Udi River salient, he had encircled and
“annihilated” three Russian armies. He
awarded himself 260,000 prisoners and
huge armaments and named a long list of
Red divisions which he claimed to have
been wiped out or partially wiped out.
Other local actions developed, and
presently it became plain that the Rus-
sians had lost all the southern gains
credited to them. They held only three
bridgeheads on the eastern side on the
Donetz. One was at Isyum in the south,
a strong position in the narrow eastward
curl of the Donetz. One was at Zmiyev,
where the Donetz makes its furthest west-
ward bend. Both were important. They
covered railway bridges of the Kharkov-
Rostov line.
The third was on the Udi River cover-
ing the Kharkov-Kupyansk railway. Just
to the east of it, the Udi runs out of the
Donetz south of Chuguyev to wind its
way into Kharkov itself. It was the fall
of this bridgehead which was mentioned
in B. 24/6/’42.
Above Chuguyev, the Donetz bends
sharply eastward, then runs north to
Byelgorod. The Russians held some
country west of the river in this region.
Heavy fighting was reported here last
week. Large German concentrations
were being assembled just south of the
Kharkov battle area (Isyum-Kramatorsk),
the western base of the great industrial
and railway network triangle of which
Lugansk is at the eastern angle. The
danger of this movement was here
pointed out. It was not long in being
realised.
Within a week Moscow admitted that
a German “spearhead” was threatening
Kupyansk, a railway junction 70 miles
s.-e. of Kharkov. Unfortunately, it
was more than a spearhead. Next
day brought the news that the
enemy was within 20 miles of Kup-
yansk. Next day again—June 26 —
Moscow admitted that Kupyansk had
been abandoned, but insisted that Timo-
shenko’s armies were retiring “in good
order” to take up new positions and
“fighting a heavy rearguard action.” The
falling back could not have been only
at Kupyansk.
Isyum fell into German hands. News
came from the north that the enemy was
advancing on the Volkhov. He claimed
to be annihilating surrounded Russian
formations. He had certainly pushed 70
miles east from Schlusselburg on Lake
Ladoga.
One enemy newspaper report —not con-
firmed officially—was that Tikhvin, the
furthest point to which the German
armies had penetrated in the north before
the winter, had been recaptured. The
Russian recapture of this town was
named by Stalin on May 1 as one of
five great Russian victories. It would
be natural for the Red Army to retire
in this latitude in case of heavy attack.
Virtually all the land returned to the
Russians during the winter offensive was
bog land, then frozen hard. Now it will
have become bog land again, and the
Russians, as last year, might fall back
quickly and leave its amenities to the
enemy.
Unfortunately, in the process, they will
also have to leave him in a position to
threaten communications with Britain
through the Stalin Canal and northern
railway and Murmansk.
What Kupyansk Means
After leaving Kharkov Timoshenko
pulled back the whole of his main army
line in the Kharkov sector for another
30 to 40 miles, along a length of 160
miles. His front on June 28 hung down
from Alehveeka, guarding the railway
from Valuiki junction to Voronezh to
the Donetz region at Lisichansk, 55 miles
s.-e. of Isyum on the north side of the
Lugansk triangle.
This represents a retreat of 120 miles
from his furthest point of penetration
south of Kharkov during his May offen-
sive. There are no Russian forces within
100 miles of Kharkov on the east.
The results of the Russian retirement:
In Kupyansk there was lost the centre of
a spiderweb of railways, on which, as a
converging framework, the whole Soviet
Army structure in the upper Donetz-
Kharkov region was built. Lines run from
the town to Kharkov, to Byelgorod on the
main Moscow-Kharkov line, to Yeletz,
Voronezh; also, into the network of the
Lugansk industrial and rail triangle, to
the south, through which it again linked
itself with the Rostov-Voronezh-Moscow
line and the Caucasus oil regions.
(2) Kupyansk gives the Germans com-
mand of the Oskol valley running north
into the heart of the Kursk hills, and pro-
vides the ideal centre for drives .either north
to the east of Kursk or north-east to
Voronezh —headquarters of the Russian
Southern command —about 150 miles away.
Voronezh is about 150 miles also from
Kursk. Co-ordinated German drives on
Voronezh from Kursk and Kupyansk
would endanger the whole of the forces in
the higher country ringed by the railways
from Kharkov to Kupyansk, to Voronezh,
to Kursk.
Forces further north in the Orel-Yeletz
area —Yeletz was the furthest point of the
German advance last year—will also be in
danger.
(3) Pincers have been formed north and
south of the Lugansk industrial and rail
area, the last bit of the industrial Ukraine
in Russian hands. It needs only the con-
quest of a block about the size of a
Northern Territory station to place the
whole of the Ukraine in German hands.
It is not a pretty picture.
The Germans are 80 miles from the
Don River and 320 miles from the Volga,
which flows into the Caspian Sea.
It came from Moscow that Von Bock
had made a secondary thrust along the
Caucasian pipeline at Lisichansk. The
objective of this would be to break
through on the new southern joint, en-
velop the Lugansk industrial triangle and
cut off the Red Army’s pipe supply of oil.
Moscow declares that the attempt was a
full-scale drive, but was rolled back.
Simultaneously, other of Von Bock’s
armies struck from Kursk, 120 miles
north of Kharkov. It is evidently in-
tended to try to grip defending armies
south from there to Byelgorod in an-
other pincer ; the southern arm already is
formed by the enemy advance north of
Kupyansk.
Moscow reports see-saw fighting, some-
times hand-to-hand, in the Lisichansk
area, and great air activity.
Sevastopol’s Historic Fight
With all hope abandoned Sevastopol
still holds out. At the beginning of last
week it was admitted that the enemy had
penetrated the defence positions north
and south of the town. He had the
Malakov and Redan areas and was trying
to wedge a way into the town itself from
the north-east round the landward end
of the deeply-scored Man-o’-War Harbor.
According to German accounts the
week was devoted by the invaders partly
to digging out mines and to heavy blasts
by the Luftwaffe both on land and sea —
a destroyer and a submarine were listed
as among its prey; also to a widening
of the wedge in the defences by which
the final attack is to be launched into
the flattened town, and to some terrible
fighting for the reduction of the western
side of the gulf.
This last is obviously necessary, since
most of the Russian artillery on the ris-
ing waves of the western hills can con-
centrate on the town itself.
If the enemy entered Sevastopol with-
out capturing the western shore, he might
be buried there en masse under a hail
of shells.
Sevastopol has put up the kind of fight
which only a fortress kernelled in ring
upon ring of ideal defence positions,
wrapped in forest, guarded by heights and
with command of the sea approaches ex-
cept from the air, can put up when held
by stubborn patriots well armed and pre-
pared and resolved to die to the last man
rather than surrender so long as they
have a foot of their native soil to stand
on,
“Twenty-four-inch Guns”
The accounts of newspaper and radio
“observers” who viewed the battle from
Moscow —900 miles by crow-fly—made
up in picturesque detail for facts which
were missing. They saw 18 German
and Rumanian divisions used in the
assault, and two Russian regiments land
in the Yalta region “in the hope of re-
lieving the town” ; saw also the Germans
using 1000 bombers on the town area and
firing 20-inch to 24-inch guns, during
“the heaviest bombardment in history.”
If the monsters have been taken to the
Crimea it is a startling feat of transport.
With mountings, they must weigh over
500 tons. Shells, apart from charge for
a 20-inch gun, would weigh 2\ tons.
At the end of the last war British and
Germans had '2O-inch and 18-inch ex-
perimental guns. Both decided that they
were not worth while. British and Ger-
man tendencies have been to decrease
calibre and increase hitting power and
mobility even in heavy weapons.
The Germans at the week-end an-
nounced bloody and desperate fighting in
the hills and forests on the west side ot
the harbor. They showed some petulance
on the subject of mines; they said they had
removed 75,000 from round Sevastopol.
The battle for Sevastopol has more
military interest than any since the first
battles in France. It is the first major
engagement which the Germans have
fought in which conditions and terrain
were such as to preclude tanks from play-
ing the dominant part.
Moscow was bombed twice during the
week with little effect.
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: Over the wide sweep of
water from the Aleutians, where the
Japanese have consolidated their hold on
Kiska and Attu and the U.S.N. has
evacuated 500 native inhabitants from the
Pribilov islands, to Durban, where guns
fired on an unidentified ’plane, the war
has been of recent days a sporadic sort of
affair, with bombing raids here and there.
Last week the R.A.A.F. roved as far
afield as Kendari, on the east coast of
the Celebes, at the mouth of the Sam-
para River. It is 850 miles from Darwin.
One bomber had a 55-minute fight with
three Jap fighters, which fared worse
than the acrobatic larger machine.
Early in the week there were recon-
naissances over Timor —a Japanese inter-
ceptor was shot down —and over Darwin,
where seven “O” fighters failed to head
off the visitors.
On Thursday night Dilli was heavily
raided, huge fires being started. An aero-
drome was successfully bombed at
Rabaul in a: night attack. According to
H.Q. the raid was so effective that large
fires were visible 60 miles from the
target; we had no losses. The same was
true of a contemporary raid on Lae,
where machine-gun fire and bombs
heavily damaged troop quarters and
supply points.
A large attack by “O” fighters on
Moresby was driven off in a sharp dog-
fight. Five of the enemy went off to-
wards the ranges limping, and four Allied
’planes were hit. The Japanese were back
on Friday with 18 bombers and 12
fighters in an attempt on Moresby
’drome. No serious damage was done.
The Allies lost four fighters, but only two
pilots, in a battle which cost the enemy
six to ten ’planes damaged and “probably
destroyed,” according to the official com-
munique.
At the week-end Tulagi, Lae and Sala-
maua were all raked over again—Tulagi
heavily.
There were no more reports about
operations of enemy submarines off the
Australian coast, but the crew of a tor-
pedoed Allied freighter was brought to
Australia. The ship had been torpedoed
one night without warning near midnight,
and her gun crew was killed instantly by
a terrific explosion.
As the ship was full of explosives boats
were lowered at once and the survivors
—all the crew save the five on the gun,
but with two badly burned —spent five
days in open boats on a diet of biscuits
and chocolate before they reached a
Pacific island.
The submarine evidently remained
with the torpedoed ship for three days in
the hope of salvage.
Then, another ship attempting to tow
her, the Japanese came to the surface
and finished both vessels off, after order-
ing the crew of the rescuer into boats.
Every day sees Australia’s strength in-
crease. U.S. men and supplies still pour
in and many U.S. units which were not
fully trained when they arrived are now
advanced in training.
The R.A.A.F., widely reorganised, is
now on a full battle basis and fitted to
co-ordinate its activities with those of
the Americans.
The weaker formations of the Aus-
tralian Army are almost daily strength-
ened by influxes of new blood and arma-
ments. Fresh aerodromes come into
service every week.
L. J. Hartnett, the Australian Director
of Ordnance, told Washington journalists
the other day that with a very little more
aid from the U.S. Australia would be-
come completely self-reliant.
But Air Minister Drakeford has issued
the warning that “the battle for Australia
is not yet won.” If and when the enemy
strikes again “he will not be easily
repulsed.”
Chungking Has Hopes
Chungking’s sadly depleted and poorly
equipped forces continue to fight bravely
along the Hankow-Canton railway and
in adjacent provinces. In one or two
sectors the enemy has had setbacks.
The Chinese now look hopefully to
war between Japan and Russia, and cite
Japanese attacks on Soviet merchant
ships as evidence of change of relations.
One, it transpires, was sunk some time
ago in North Pacific waters; another
was attacked by a Jap sub. off the
N.S.W. coast. It was shelled off New-
castle some time before the attacks on
Sydney Harbor, and the captain was
wounded; but the ship was brought
safe to port.
Mr. Beasley subscribes to the theory
that a Russo-Japanese breach may be in
the offing. He points out that Japan is
believed to have 33 divisions in Man-
chukuo. Unless Russian strength has
faded to a shadow, an attack on Siberia
with that force would not be war; it
would be military hara-kiri.
If Japan attacks Russia it will be
because it wants to get its blow in first.
In the N.Y. “Herald-Tribune” of May 25
“a sensational rumor, current at Washing-
ton,” was mentioned in a leader; it was
to the effect that “the Russians are in so
critical a case that they are ready to buy
a second front in Europe at the price of
opening the Siberian front against Japan.”
A U.S. Navy bulletin states that the
attacks on Dutch Harbor (Aleutians) at
the time of the Midway battles were
heavy. According to the Mayor of
Urialaska, 21 ’planes were used. They
flew low, dropped 20001 b. bombs and
machine-gunned many objectives.
* * * *
British raiding during the week in-
cluded a sweep over northern France by
Bostons, escorted by 400 Spitfires, and the
77th raid on Emden—heavy but not so
heavy as that on June 6 ; three R.A.F.
machines were lost. Bremen had four
raids, some in the 1000-machine class.
The last at the week-end was made in
weather so bad that it was impossible to
see results. Berlin admitted that it had
been “a very trying week” for Bremen.
Dunkirk and towns in the west channel
coast of France, including St. Nazaire,
were sharply bombed and gunned. The
Germans made great play about “a heavy
raid which destroyed military objectives
at Norwich, including mills and aeroplane
and motor factories.” The Air Ministry
reported a hit-run raid on an East
Anglian town on June 24 in which one
of the finest old churches was burned
down by a shower of incendiaries. This
was the only “military objective” hit.
Eleven people were killed by bombs in a
Midland town the same night. The enemy
lost five bombers. There were other
sporadic raids over England. Britain is
losing about 5 p.c. of machines in her
raids, but the Air Under-Secretary said
last week that this did not militate against
success, as there was no danger that
skilled crews and ground staffs would
catch up with machines available.
* * * *
Mr. Attlee’s supplementary report on
the convoy battles fought to bring sup*
plies to Malta and Tobruk said the
enemy’s actual Iqsses were known to
be one Sin. - gun cruiser, two de-
stroyers and a U-boat sunk, and
one battleship hit by a torpedo,
with 65 ’planes. The R.A.F. and
F.A.A. lost 30 ’planes. The eastern con-
voy got its ships into Tobruk and then
made towards Malta, but had to turn
back. The R.N. lost one cruiser, four
destroyers and two escort vessels.
One of the destroyers sunk was
H.M.A.S. Nestor. Nestor was a Javelin
destroyer of 1690 tons, 36 knots. Her
captain was an Australian —Commander
Alvord Rosenthal, D. 5.0., and she had
an Australian wardroom and crew. Only
three stokers were lost and one man
wounded out of a complement of nearly
200.
The Atlantic’s grim and silent war is
reaching its climax. Last week the U.S.N.
reported the sinking of 13 ships in the
Caribbean in 11 days —June 3-14. They
included three small and two medium
U.S., one small and four medium British,
and Norwegian, Dutch and Honduran
vessels. About 130 lives were lost in
these ships and 88 in another barbarism
off the New England coast. German
Radio claimed to have sunk five more
Allied warships and 130,000 tons of mer-
cantile ships, plus 102,000 tons in convoy
on June 20.
* * * *
Gist of Russian communiques giving
casualtv lists for the year to June 22:
German. Russian.
To Dec. 7. To Dec. 7.
Killed, wounded and
missing .. .. 4,200,000 1748,000
Guns .. ■■ 22,000 16,000
Tanks 17,000 9,200
’Planes .. .. 16,000 7,000
To June 22. To June 22.
Killed, wounded and
missing .. .. 10,000,000 4,500,000
Guns . ■ • • 30,500 22,000
Tanks’ 24,000 15,000
’Planes .. . • 20,000 9,000
It is added that the Germans lost at
least 1,380,000 killed and that 70 p.c.
of Russian and only 40 p.c. of German
wounded were able to return to the firing
line.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
With the establishment of a half-dozen
new hostels and clubs for the services,
Melbourne is very well supplied. The
Salvation Army has taken over a nice
roomy house, a stone’s-throw from St.
Kilda-road, in Toorak-road, and also
Spring House in the city, and will run
them in its usual capable way for women
of the forces. With the official opening
of the Service Club in Kurrajong House,
Collins-street, and Gordon-street Hostel,
at Footscray, the Y.W.C.A. keeps in step
with the Army as a good right-hand to
the Administration in provision of living
and club premises. Both organisations
have owed much of their opportunity for
such service to the fact that they
always had men and women in training
so that they could not only take and fur-
nish hostels and the like but could staff
them at a moment’s notice. Salvation
Army women officers are already in
W.A.A.A.F. uniform, having been
made social-service executives.
The midday concert experiment has all
the chances of success, for within one
week the venue has been changed from
the upstairs room at Assembly Hall,
which proved hopelessly small, to the
hall itself, which was comfortably filled,
except the balcony, which apparently was
not opened. Only thing now to make suc-
cess doubly sure is for the players to
satisfy themselves during rehearsal that
their chosen offering does not exceed the
30 minutes from 1.20 to 1.50 allotted to
it. Otherwise will be seen and heard
columns of the clerkly rushing out to
reach their offices at two. At the last
concert, given by the two Prockters,
Gwen and Marjorie, and Marjorie
Summers, the Schubert Trio in B flat was
somewhat spoilt for those whose toes
were trodden on by the departing part of
the audience.
Elma Roach (Dina to her friends), of
pleasant memory, passed over last week.
Her work as an artist showed vitality
and her ideas on art were acceptable
sometimes in the realms of commerce.
She and Madge Freeman went abroad
together and lived at art centres of the
Old World for years. Miss Roach had
many side interests ; she did clever felt
work on silk, and one of her best-worked
waistcoats is in the possession of Esther
Paterson, a fellow-artist.
Mrs. L. M. Wang, her husband and
little son Wal have found that Mel-
bourne can be a welcoming place. They
Jhave been kept answering invitations and
seeing folks ever since their arrival was
announced. The Chinese community will
miss the Tsaos, however, and the new
Consul has to measure up to memories
of a very charming family. One of the
helpful ways in which Chinese Consular
people cement the friendship with Aus-
tralia is by the promotion of exhibitions
of their arts and crafts, samples of which
are to be found in many homes of
Chinese merchants in Melbourne.
Brides will need to be tough to sur-
vive the trouble the Land Transport
Board and the ration chiefs have placed
in their paths, hitherto strewn with no-
thing more afflicting than Mendelssohn’s
wedding march and confetti and roses.
The board won’t let them travel to the
new battle station of the bridegroom-
to-be, and the ration chiefs don’t seem to
believe in wedding gowns. Nothing much
can be done about travel permits unless
someone starts a horse caravan co., but
the gowns could surely be made from lace
curtains and brocade without the general
public suffering from a shortage of these
things. What will be wanted will be the
window-dresser’s art rather than the
dressmaker’s for those who put the bridal
robes together. A man has already
demonstrated how a gown could be made
from curtains, and he says that years ago
he saw Leo Carrillo do a similar thing in
a film.
“A girl with a big future” is how her
friends of the University Conservatorium
are describing Margaret Murphy, who
gave such a good account of herself as
Azucena in the Con. Opera School per-
formance of “II Trovatore” last week.
Her little home town of Lindenow is
jubilant. Miss Murphy, who teaches at
Coburg High School, and studies for her
Mus.Bac. in her spare time, has that
passionate voice which opera producers
pray for and a dramatic gift which
backs up (he voice. A pupil of Isabel
Biddell, she sang some time ago in the
Philharmonic Society’s performance of
“Elijah,” and made those who saw her
realise that they had in this young
teacher just the right material for opera.
The “Trovatore” training was in the
hands of Thea Philips till other calls
made it impossible for her to carry it
out to the end, and then Daisy Pirnitzer
stepped in and with Dan Hardy tutored
the choruses, did the scenes and all the
rest of the toilsome work which even the
least ambitious opera production entails.
Miss Pirnitzer, hitherto known as an
exponent of the modern school of mus-
cular and symbolic dancing, as developed
in Central Europe, has a lovely sense of
color, and her arrangements of the stage
groups for “Trovatore” were charming.
The chorus looked like the richly-clad
ladies and gentlemen that inhabit medi-
eval pictures. Usually in students’ opera
performances the mothball and the hasty
last stitchings are as obvious as the voice
of the prompter, and both are exces-
sively prominent. But Miss Pirnitzer did
away with all that, and deserves the
Con.’s and the public’s best thanks for a
new standard in efficiency in these
matters.
Mrs. Earl Moser, here pictured by
Athol Shmith, is a woman with more
secrets in her collection than most. For
instance, she knows all about the plans
for the craft and art schools by which
the Americans hope to add to the attrac-
tions of their hostel for their service
men. And she won’t tell, except that
everything is being tried, so that, if a
boy feels the urge to sketch or try putting
a radio set together or develop photo-
graphic negatives, there are a teacher
and a bench and a dark room at his dis-
posal. Mrs. Moser, perhaps because she
is the mother of twins, is good at getting
up games, too, and her early work in
U.S.A. taught her all about interior deco-
ration, so that she can tell you in a jiffy
what to do with a spare room to make it
homy. She has charge of the grand
secret of the red-white-and-blue floral
sprays to be sold at the American Ball
on July 4. All that she will say is that
the prize that goes with the lucky spray
will be something with the mune of
Douglas Mac Arthur on it that can be
handed to posterity, and that the back-
ground of the sprays will come from
Macedon and Burnham beeches.
The appointment of Kathleen Farr to
the Animal Welfare Hospital was quite
an event, as this is one of the prize vet.
posts about. The hospital, created and
indefatigably supported by Mrs. Lort
Smith and the Lyle lady, is so good that
many animal owners of comfortable
means wish it gave a general and not a
lower-and-no-income group service. As
it is, at it the most unfinancial small boy
gets for his dog friend the best of atten-
tion. Miss Farr, who is a good yachts-
woman, and has hunted with Melbourne
Hounds, has had so much experience with
horses that her appointment may give
new hope to the aspirants for this work
who have been sternly told that a good
right arm such as No Woman Has is
necessary for the horse part of the
course.
An Australian soldier who is settling
down in double harness is Lieut. Jonathan
Bruce. He and Elaine Lesley Wood,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. L. H. T. Wood,
of Eildon-road, St. Kilda, chose the lovely
Lady Chapel at St. Paul’s for the cere-
mony. Jonathan (John to his friends)
can boast a mother beloved of thousands
of young Australians —Mary Grant
Bruce, the story writer. His father is
Major G. E. Bruce. For years the family
lived overseas, part of the lime in Ireland.
Son John has recently returned from
overseas fighting, and, though his interests
were formerly in farming, he and his
bride, an old Merton Hall girl, will live
wherever his duties take him —or as near
as can be. Kath Bettrand was brides-
maid at the wedding.
From Sydney
The glad news has come to mothers,
wives and sweethearts of prisoners of
war in Japanese hands that letters may
now be sent to them. The arrangement
does not extend to parcels.
There has been a quickening of in-
terest in the Red Cross scheme for the
adoption of a prisoner of war by a
suburban or a metropolitan street. One
pound is the cost of sending one parcel
a week.
Kirribilli-avenue, on to which the gates
of Admiralty House open, was among
the first streets to nail up a signboard
proudly stating “This street supports an
Australian prisoner of war.” The
Governor-General handed over his
cheque for £52 when the idea was
launched. At the present time more than
6000 parcels are being sent away by the
Red Cross each week, and it is estimated
that four times this number will be
needed. So there’s" a stirring along the
pleasant suburban streets, and the idea
is taking brisk root among the flat-
dwellers. Especially after a good dinner,
sitting in a room with a cheery fire, let
it be remembered that only from the Red
Cross can prisoners of war receive parcels
of food and let us act accordingly,
Ethel, youngest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. J. A. Phillips, of Clifton Gardens,
and Sergeant John W. Redmond, elder
son of the late Mr. T. J. Redmond and
of Mrs. Redmond, of Mosman, are
among the newly engaged. Miss Phillips
is a member of the Scottish Detachment
V. and is working in a military hos-
pital. Her fiance is of the A.1.F., and
had 15 months in the Middle East,
During the week-end the committee of
the Royal Art Society rolled up its collec-
tive sleeve and got to the job of receiving,
judging and hanging the entries for the
R.A.S. 1942 exhibition. New president
Howard Ashton was among the hard
workers; so were Erik Langker, Syd
Long, Hanke and Jack Salvana. With
more than 350 entries there was enough
work to keep one and all busy. Women
artists have sent in a record number of
entries, and intensely interesting is the
work of R.A.S. members in the fighting
services who have still had time to glimpse
the skirts of Beauty.
There is a small memorial group of
Julian Ashton’s works, among them a
pencil portrait of Julian by Lambert.
Syd Long’s study of trees washed in high
sunlight is a spirited entry. Salvana’s
landscapes have the tang of Australian
soil, Erik Langker shows his innate sense
of design in a painting of ducks which
have their being at Baulkham Hills. The
show is, as usual, in the Department of
Education’s Gallery, and the private view
will be held on Friday between ten in
the morning and five o’clock. The Minis-
ter for Education will do the official
opening on Saturday at three in the
afternoon. In spite of the brownout, the
yearly conversazione in mid-July promises
to be a happy affair.
Everybody who listens to radio knows
Myra Dempsey’s warm and pleasant-
speaking voice. But it was a surprise to
many of her admirers in the groups
around the platform on the final day of
the Liberty Loan rally to learn that Myra
had written A song for the occasion. This
was played dashingly by Lieut. Pearson’s
Garrison Band, and sung with great spirit
by Nancy Kerr. The title of the song,
words and music by Myra, and the musi-
cal arrangement by Rex Shaw, is “Grin,
and Give It!” That rally was a great
success, in spite of the wind and the rain
that swept Martin-place.
Air Force lads made up the first guard
of honor, and after they had marched
briskly off to the strains of the Garrison
Band a guard of members of the
W. stepped intrepidly forward,
played in by the Transport Band. Not
an eye flinched as the rain fell down, and
that’s what being in uniform does to a
woman. It clears her brain of all phobias
about getting her hat spoiled. Anyway
the day’s importants whispered the word,
and the W.A.S.C. was invited to shelter
on the platform. Rear-Admiral Muirhead-
Go\ffd was one of the day’s speech-
makers. From Martin-place spectators
alone over £2400 was gleaned.
Last Thursday afternoon there was a
very interesting birthday party in Syd-
ney. It crowded the Pickwick Club and
marked the second year of work of the
Burwood - Strathfield branch of the
British Orphans’ Adoption Society. This
society was formed at the outbreak of
the war, the idea being to give good
homes and a better chance in life to the
small ones of Britain whom the Germans
have deprived of their parents. Evelyn
Douglas Darby, president of the move-
ment, claims that Australia will really
be helping herself by this youth migra-
tion, However, owing to the difficulties
of transport, the scheme for bringing
children from overseas had to be laid
aside till the seaways are swept clean. In
the meantime the society has been look-
ing after the children of Australian sol-
diers in the fighting forces.
Scattered throughout the State there
are 40 branches. The women members
have made thousands of garments, and
of these many went to England for
the benefit of bombed children. Now
dresses and suits and topcoats and beau-
tifully stitched underwear have been dis-
tributed or garnered for Australian young-
sters who may need them. Four homes
have been handed over by well-wishers,
and in each of these about 65 children
of soldiers are being looked after.
Aylmerton, Narrandera, Binalong and
Hazelbrook are the districts in which the
homes are placed.
Gladys Verona’s high, clear soprano
rose like a shaft of light for the brief
moment of her solo in the “Requiem” of
Brahms. This was the Conservatorium
offering to the musical elect of Sydney,
and the applause for Dr. Bainton’s good
work, the choir and the orchestra was
loud and long. The rich strength of Ray-
mond Beatty’s voice was much admired.
Gladys, a slim little figure in a frock of
creamy lame, received congratulations
and floral offerings after the perform-
ance.
Mrs. Ernestine Hill, newly appointed
to the A.B.C, (its only woman member),
arrived in Sydney as a teen-old from
Brisbane. She was already known as
a writer of poetry. For some time
she did newspaper work in this city.
Later she travelled through Central Aus-
tralia and the Northern Territory, and
wrote many newspaper articles concern-
ing them. More recently she has been
on the staff of the “A.B.C. Weekly,” and
her latest big work is a novel with
Flinders for its hero ; its title My Love
Must Wait. She is the first woman jour-
nalist to be appointed to the Commission.
Mrs. Hill has just signed a contract with
Doubleday, the American publishers.
Pianist Trix Tange and soprano Elsie
Findlay raised a lot of money by their
first-rate concert in the vestibule of the
Town Hall on Saturday afternoon.
Tickets were five shillings each, and the
place was packed, so the Lord Mayor’s
Patriotic and War Fund will receive a
welcome cheque. The Alfred Davidson
lady, who with a small committee (Mar-
garet Gillespie and Mrs. Hope Gibson
among its members) had arranged the
concert, made blithe speech between the
two halves of the programme. She told
of another musical collation to be spread
for the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund by the
Lunchtime Music Club. This is dated
for the 25th of July. Lady Wakehurst,
who was in the audience, had joy of
both pianist and singer. Trix’s playing is
known throughout Australia, and Elsie’s
pure soprano has been lifted in Handel’s
“Messiah,” Elgar’s “Coronation Ode,”
Bach’s Magnificat and Schubert’s Mass
in E flat.
At the last minute the Independent
Players were unable to present Bernard
Shaw’s “How He Lied to Her Husband”
at the concert arranged for the local Red
Cross on Sunday night. This meant that
singers Raymond Beatty and Heather
Kinnaird were called upon for extra
turns, and the two rose to the occasion
with their usual smiling nonchalance.
Clement Hosking’s Folk-song Choir gave
two gay and dashing groups of song.
Charles Philip, who arranged the pro-
gramme, had to comply with a double
encore after his opening number, Liszt’s
“Hungarian Rhapsody,” No. 6.
Mrs. Brian Primrose, who was Lucy
Harbutt, of Orange, has been in town
staying with her husband’s family in
North Sydney. She reports that baby
son Brian is growing sturdy in the air
of the west. Mrs. Primrose went back
to Orange at the week-end. There she
lives at her old home, and helps her
father in running the property now that
man-power is so short.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS HURLEY late of 35 Halloran
Street Lilyfield.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY
HURLEY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
691 of 1942 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance by the Eighteenth day of Sep-
tember 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. N. J. BELL
PHILLIPS & CO. 117 Pitt Street Sydney
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "P ILOT ")
Just when hopes were bright that he
was about to reproduce his best form,
Cheery Jack dealt his admirers a body-
blow at Moonee Valley on Saturday.
Favorite for the Port Phillip Hurdle, he
failed at the business end of the two
miles and finished a very tired fourth,
about 10 lengths behind the winner,
Boisterous. Cheery Jack will have to
make miraculous improvement to win
the G.N. Hurdle next Saturday.
Boisterous revived fading National
hopes by his defeat of Vines and Jack
Farr, but he was all-out to win, and had
to survive a protest. Dismissal of the
objection looked a foregone conclusion,
but, at the same time, Vines may have
been unlucky. He struck a lot of trouble
in an unusually rough race for a small
field. Boisterous, trained by F. Hoysted
for A.J.C. committeeman P. H. Osborne,
was regarded as a National prospect
early last winter, but an injury placed
him out of action temporarily. He is
game and probably improving, but was
beaten decisively by David Spear in the
Toolambool Hurdle, and the latter should
again finish ahead of him next Saturday.
Isambard, probable winner of the G.N.
Hurdle, was outclassed in the Point Cook
Handicap on Saturday, but his condition
cannot be faulted, and his record of five
successive wins over hurdles at Fleming-
ton speaks for itself.
Form in the Williamstown Steeplechase
threw no additional light on the G.N.
Steeple. Dorset, who won easily from
Victory March and Glenlonan, did not
survive the first forfeit for the National.
He is not noted for stamina, and, although
he showed more gameness on Saturday,
his trainer-rider, R. Sweetnam, is not
concerned at having scratched him.
Sweetnam looks to have reasonably-
bright G.N. Steeple prospects on High-
land March. Sachem, a place-getter in
the National and Australian Steeples
last year, reappeared in the Williamstown
Steeple. He made no showing, but might
be near his best again around Australian
Steeple time.
Compensating for his narrow defeat
by Sun Belle a week earlier. Centenary
beat Sea power by a head, with Delfern
a moderate third, in the Point Cook Han-
dicap. He was set a fairly severe task by
his apprentice rider, but showed courage
and stamina and seems likely to develop
into a good stayer. Centenary is a three-
year-old brother to the V.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes winner Regency, and is
engaged in both Cups. Similar, favorite
for Saturday’s race, tailed off early and
remained there to the finish.
Quezon, a colt by Brueghel from Tor-
frida, outstayed Victory V and the con-
sistent but unlucky Parmant in the
Juvenile Handicap. Cloudy Bay justified
his favoritism by defeating Curia half a
head in the first Esplanade Welter, and
Appeal, also ridden by Breasley, cleared
out from the turn to beat Aurania five
lengths in the second division. Cimserie,
a Cimbrian gelding, finished well to de-
feat Hathersage and Cavallo in the third
Esplanade Welter.
* * * *
Ascot (Sydney) was again packed on
Saturday, and this track has had its full
share of racing during the past few weeks.
Commencing with May 16 its total is now
five days. One feature of that period has
been McMenamin’s success. He rode on
four ,days and won twelve races.
Very little excuse could be made for
Radical in the Flying Handicap. He com-
menced smartly, was second to Status
at the half-mile, led into the straight, and
then could not stall off Guild Hall (Tur-
ner), who had his measure at the leger.
From the time he ran up third near the
three-furlongs Guild Hall appeared as
if he could go up to Radical, and he had
enough in reserve to score by a neck
from Magi, who finished strongly. Kim-
bell did well to run fourth, just ahead
of Status, a big gap separating the first
five from the remainder.
Chatham’s Choice and Many Ways
(Knox) were the early leaders in the
Ascot Handicap, with Yours Truly
nearest them. Many Ways had Chat-
ham’s Choice beaten at the top of the
straight, and went on to win by nearly
two lengths from Goose Boy, who will
do better on a bigger track. Happy Lass
fought on well to beat Chatham’s Choice
narrowly for third, and Buzzal headed
the other. Yours Truly galloped freely
for nearly seven furlongs, and then
condition failed him. Henchman looked
bright, but his showing did not suggest
a rapid return to his earlier form.
Astounding (Bartle) ran so well at
Ascot the previous week that his success
in the Welter Mile was not a surprise,
and he is evidently nearly back to his
best form. It was a good effort, as, owing
to being slow off the mark, he was giving
the pacemaker, Sobersides, a long start
at one stage and then defeated him by
a neck. Brazen Boy added to his list of
minor placings, but though he is paying
training expenses he is not giving his
owner much profit. Gilltown’s fourth is
likely to cause him to receive marked
attention from backers at his next outing,
and Dick Whittington is coming on again.
In the Two-year-old Handicap Double
Birthday (McMenamin) scored his fifth
win of the season. He took the lead from
Young Valais before reaching the turn
and won easily from Gryphon, who
looked dangerous when he moved up at
the straight entrance, but had no chance
against the winner in the run home. The
Beau Pere filly Probably—one of Gome s
team —was nearest the place-getters,
Young Valais stopping badly in the
straight. Costing 350gns. as a yearling,
Double Birthday’s five wins and two
seconds have returned a little over £740.
Easy Mark (Coutts) was not troubled
to win the Fourteen-two Handicap. She
followed Te Rama into the straight, had
her beaten at the leger, and scored by
two lengths from La Vallee, who, though
she ran well, never looked a winner. Mit
beat Te Rama a head for third.
Pall Mall (McMenamin) justified his
favoritism for the Trial Stakes. Second
to Tyrannus at the three-furlongs, he
settled the latter entering the straight,
and went on to win nicely from Widden,
though the latter did well from the turn
and may score shortly at a longer dis-
tance. Addition was disappointing. Slow
in finding her legs she was fourth at the
home stum, but finished weakly, Fort
Leon beating her for fourth position.
The latter was always prominent.
Dyne was a heavily-backed failure in
the second division. She did not give her
supporters a look-in, finishing fifth of the
seven runners. Stainless displayed her
customary pace, but, after leading into
the straight, was easily beaten by Kun-
gella (Mulley), who was never further
back than third. Wave Length, who was
in demand, was third, but his chance in
running was never a winning one, nor
was that of Prepare, who ran much below
her track form.
Queensland trainer C. McLoughlin, in
winning with Romero, Mannerheim and
Deneith at Newcastle on Saturday, put up
a good performance. He owns Deneith
(Denis Boy-Chrysology) and bought him
as a yearling for 160gns., principally
because of his relationship to Romero
on the maternal side. Both are out of
daughters of that good mare Neith, who
sprinted and stayed, winning a Challenge
Stakes with 10.2 and beating Trafalgar
in the Cumberland Stakes.
* * * *
In the Caulfield Cup Skipton has to
give Son of Aurous 121 b., and in the Mel-
bourne Cup 271 b. There should be no
doubt as to which race will be chosen for
the latter, who was second in last year’s
Melbourne Cup when in receipt of 111 b.
from Skipton, By comparison with the
last Melbourne Cup, Skipton is up 231 b.,
Son of Aurous 71b., and Beau Vite again
has the same weight.
« * * *
The list of stallions advertised for ser-
vice in N.S.W. during the coming season
makes interesting reading. Numerically
F. W. Hughes, with Titan, The Marne,
Piccadilly, Posterity and Oro, has the
strongest representation. Titan’s fee of
250gns. suggests his owner is not anxious
for subscriptions. Titan is as well brec\
as could be wished, and is a brother to
Hyperides, second in the last English
Derby, but in Australia 250gns. is a high
fee for a stallion that has proved him-
self, let alone one that has yet to do so.
The services of Merry Mathew, a good
racehorse in England, are available at
75gns.
Fees for classic winners are as follows:
Talking 100gns., Nuffield 75gns., Hall
Mark 50gns., Rampion (rising 19) Isgns.
and Mosaic 40gns, As the last-named’s
wins include two Sydney Cups and an
A.J.C. St. Leger his fee is reasonable.
Pentheus has sired so many useful horses
that he appears cheap at 40gns.; as does
Marabou (a Melbourne Cup winner and
sire of Skipton, V.R.C. Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup) at 25gns. Unlucky Silver
Standard is advertised at 15gns.
Backed by a strong committee J. Hib-
berd has put Newcastle on the racing
map again after it had been practically
wiped off. The reduction of racing in
Sydney has helped, but Hibberd has
shown his ability to take advantage of
opportunity, and that is something of
which every secretary is not capable.
* * * *
From next month there will be no
further racing in South Africa until the
conclusion of the war. Evidently
trainers, jockeys and stable employees
are needed for the war effort. Some Aus-
tralians hold official racing positions over
So far there is no mention of any
reduction of racing in India, where other
Australians hold billets, principal among
these being J. Higgins, one of the most
capable and fearless stewards we have
had in Sydney. He was not a respecter
of persons, and in carrying out his duties
did not give thought to whom he might
offend.
* * * *
Final forfeit for the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdles is on Thursday next.
It is improbable many of the 16 now left
in will drop out, and though the top-
weight, Cheery Jack, is not overdone with
51b. more than when he won two years
ago his recent form scarcely recom-
mends him. Isambard has done so well
at Flemington that he seems sure to hold
his position as favorite. He has the
same weight that he carried at his last
win over hurdles at Flemington, and that
he has since been unplaced in two flat
races can scarcely be counted against
him.
Saul is a stayer, but, though he jumped
well at his first start over hurdles, lack
of experience may tell against him. On
figures he does not appear to have any
pull over David Spear, Con Devon and
Manaaki, who finished ahead of him at
Flemington. As Con Devon and Manaaki
ran on well on that occasion the longer
distance should help both. Vines and
International have supporters, and the
former is expected to be suited by the
distance. Boisterous beat him on Satur-
day, but had better luck in running. If
in the same form as when he won last
year’s Australian Hurdle Merridale would
be a danger, but on recent form Isambard
reads like winning, with most to fear
from lightly-weighted horses in Manaaki,
Con Devon, David Spear and Vines.
* * * *
Athasi, dam of Harinero (sire of many
winners in Australia) and Trigo, has had
a long spell of usefulness at the stud.
Now 25 years old, it is mentioned by a
London paper that she has a good year-
ling by Windsor Lad. She is still well
and active, but after the youngster re-
ferred to was foaled it was decided to
retire her from the stud.
* * * *
Hard luck for those clubs which can-
not hold their meetings on their own
tracks, but if it tends to increased racing
at Randwick neither owners nor public
will be regretful. It may mean more
prize-money for the former and more
enjoyable conditions for the latter. While
some of the tracks at which racing has
ceased —or is likely to do so —supply
excellent galloping ground they cannot
comfortably carry the crowds which now
patronise racing. A few additional days
would do no harm to the Rand wick track.
* * * *
In the June Plate at Newcastle Romero
ran up to his public and private form and
won by a neck from Abspear in 1.25 —
a second faster than the previous track
record for seven furlongs. Prior to buy-
ing Romero for 200gns. and racing him
in partnership with a friend, J. P.
Buchanan had not figured as a horse-
owner. The original partner sold his
share, and now T. Dennis is a partner
in the horse. Since going into C.
McLoughlin’s care Romero has won 12
races, his earnings, with the addition of
minor place-money, being about £2BOO.
For an initial venture owner Buchanan
has reason to be well satisfied. Romero
was first raced by A. Cooper and was a
50gns. yearling.
* * * *
Victorian handicappers have not held
out strong inducement to Kindergarten’s
owner to send him to Melbourne in the
spring. Archer, Carbine and Poitrel are
the only horses that have won the Mel-
bourne Cup with more than the 9.13
allotted Kindergarten, who was weighted
at 9.7 last year, against Beau Vite’s 9.10.
The latter, who ran third again, has
the same weight. From last year the
w.f.a. scale allows for 51b. improvement
in Kindergarten and 11b. in Beau Vite.
There is no doubt as to Kindergarten
being a first-class handicap horse up to
a mile and a half, but that he is up to
Beau Vite’s standard as a two-miler
remains to be proved.
With 9.2 —21b. over .weight for age —
Skipton is fairly treated, but is much
better off in the Caulfield Cup with 8.10.
Occasionally handicapper Hill is hard to
follow, and as Skipton beat Laureate in
the Victoria Derby and Melbourne Cup
it would be interesting to know on what
he bases his belief that the latter will,
when conceding Skipton 51b., have at
least an equally good chance in the Caul-
field Cup. It is probable Laureate’s
owner would be difficult to convince that
the figures are correct. In the last Mel-
bourne Cup Skipton carried 7.7 and
Laureate 7.8, the latter receiving a beat-
ing of a few pounds.
Miscellaneous
Melbourne League football attendances
have gone to the pack ; the five Satur-
day matches seldom average more than
8000 —about the worst in history. Rich-
mond v. Fitzroy drew 17,000 ; no other
match had more than 6000. Richmond
won 15.15.t0 12.9. Collingwood scored at
last, 14.21-11.14, v. Melbourne; Foot-
scray walloped North Melbourne, 17.16
to 9.8; and Carlton did the same to
Saints, 18.14-10.11. Only at Essendon was
it like the good old days, the ’Dons boot-
ing 22.12 to Hawthorn’s 5.8.
*
Though Parramatta held University to
a three-all draw the Students had an even
closer shave against Randwick. They
were two points behind (17-15) with
only a couple of minutes to go ; then
Devery, the ’Varsity half, dived over for
the winning try. That takes Uni. un-
beaten through the first half of the
Sydney Rugby Union competition. East
(19-11 against Drummoyne) is second,
and Parramatta (16-12 against West)
third. St. George notched its second
win, 11-6, against North, and Manly, level
with Gordon (3-3) 20 minutes before
time, came galloping home 23-3.
* * * *
As a rule, boxing contests at Leich-
hardt are more exciting than those seen
at Rushcutter Bay, and Colteaux v.
Walker was the fiercest scrap Sydney has
seen for many months. Both are middle-
weights. One was as aggressive as the
other, and they fought savagely round
after round, at times after the bell. Walker
scored four knockdowns —twice in the
twelfth and last round —and was down
himself for “eight” in the eighth. He
was the cleaner puncher, and seemed to
have a bit the better of it on points.
Referee Pearson thought differently, and
his decision was “a draw.”
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Before Acceptances.
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Maiden Hurdle Race: Star
Boarder, 1 ; Proteus, 2; Comic
March, 3.
Myross Handicap: Blue Valley,
1 ; Featured, 2; Azan, 3.
Grand National Hurdle Race:
Isambard, 1 ; David Spear, 2;
Saul, 3.
Kensington Steeplechase: Winter-
set, 1 ; Bureaucrat, 2; Highland
March, 3.
Independence Day Handicap:
Sir Romeo, 1 ; Centenary, 2; Sea
Power, 3.
Iramoo Handicap: Sun Valley,
1 ; David Innis, 2; Aurie’s Star, 3.
FOR KENSINGTON.
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Jumpers’ Flat Race: Pimm’s, 1 ;
Kenil Gem, 2; Glittering Flame, 3.
Admirals’ Three- and Four-year-
old Handicap: Kimbell, 1 ; Happy
Bay, 2 ; Mary Lou, 3.
Midway Encourage Stakes: Gin-
ger Lass, 1 ; The Gambler, 2, White-
foot, 3.
Generals’ Flying Handicap: Com-
mon Sense, 1; Guild Hall, 2 ; Rod-
borough or Overbold, 3.
President’s Handicap: Red Pete,
1 ; Mutineer, 2; Galliard or Speed-
ster, 3.
Air Force Welter; Fearless Fox,
1 ; Omapo, 2; Astounding, 3.


SSBafctfi.
mats? ..
Divorce Notice.
IN
NEW
THE SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GRACE JAMIESON late ot No. 6 Harrow
Street Stanmore. —TAKE NOTICE that
ROBERT ERIC JAMIESON has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1056 of 1942 °” c
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance by 16JI
September 1942 and obtain a copy of_the peti
tion without charge from N. C. ROWLES
Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney—(l.s.) C. k.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SMOKE-OH!
Before marriage he called her the sun-
shine of his life. Now he finds she’s
all glare.
•F 4* *F *F
“Oysters get their food by straining large
quantities of water through their gills.”
— “World’s News.”
Just like a boarding-house victim eat-
ing vegetable soup.
*F *F *F *F
“An American wife has been granted a
divorce because of continued quarrels over
bridge.”— “World’s News."
The Judge made no order as to the
custody of the card table.
•F *F *F . *F
“Clothes rationing may mean that men’s
waistcoats, which take eight coupons, will dis-
appear from future suits.” — Daily paper.
The suicide rate among tramway ticket
inspectors is expected to drop sharply.
ẃ
ẅ
“Bookmakers may strike.” — News item.
This would be over the odds.
*|«
“American College of Surgeons states that
cows’ blood can be used for blood transfusions
for human beings.”
An old nag*might thus be transmogri-
fied into a fair cow.
Arms and the Man.
“A Badaxe (Michigan) farmer who went
courting with a bouquet of flowers and a shot-
gun has landed in gaol.”— “Daily Telegraph.”
Once when a stern papa observed
The lovers resolution falter,
A trusty twelve-bore often served
To lead the couple to the altar.
But when in Badaxe {Mich.) they choose
To hunt the lass and not evade her.
They do not hesitate to use
The rough, traditional persuader.
And though the hunter’s course was
shaped
In channels of enforced repentance,
In view of what he just escaped
Perhaps he got the lighter sentence.
P. M. L.
Nerve Troubles.
“Champion filly All Love is to be examined
for nerve troubles by two veterinary surgeons,
who may be assisted by a Macquarie-street
specialist.”
Only one who, like myself, has had
the actual experience can appreciate just
what an'exacting thing it is l to own a
nervous racehorse.
Some men make the stupid mistake of
going on pedigree when buying a horse.
My method of selection combined sim-
plicity and cheapness. I remembered
reading of a baker’s carthorse in Sydney
that won about ten races in succession.
Figuring that a milkcart horse would
do even better, I confined myself to this
sphere.
For months I scoured the suburbs until,
after what may be termed some near-
misses, I found a horse that would have
embodied the poetry of motion had it
not been that his near hind pastern kept
hitting his off front hock as he walked.
It horses walked during a race I might,
of course, have considered this a defect.
However, I liked the way he flicked his
shoulder, and he had a mole on his nostril
reminiscent of Carbine’s.
I bought him for £l5.
Now, in horse-training as in war,
orthodox textbook methods are not to be
trusted. I am all for the natural way.
If a horse wants a feed let him have it,
whether before or after a run. The same
with water.
I soon had Lionfodder in good
nick. One day, however, after I had
given him a good feed of oats and then
put him over a fast seven furlongs, I
noticed he was twitching badly. Obvi-
ously nerves.
However, he was still galloping well. In
fact, one day his performance over the
mile was so satisfactory that I rewarded
him just before bedtime with a tub of
rice, washed down with half a gallon of
beer, of which he was inordinately fond.
An hour or so later I heard a peculiar
roaring sound from the stables. Going
down I found Lionfodder down, rolling
his eyes and twitching and trembling all
over. Nerves, and worse than before!
I never put in such a night! I tried
everything from lying down beside him
and holding his hoof to stroking his
muzzle till his snapped teeth came within
an inch of my fingers. Eventually I got him
to sleep by forcing a dozen ground-up
aspirins down his throat, but not before
he had kicked my pipe from my mouth.
Next morning I made an appointment
with a leading nerve specialist.
I had some difficulty in getting the
horse into the lift, and the young woman
in the reception room looked rather
startled when 1 led Lionfodder in.
“You can see the doctor in a minute,”
she said rather nervously, “but hadn’t you
better leave the horse outside first?”
I frowned. “Certainly not,” 1 replied.
“It’s the horse he’s got to examine.”
When I led the horse in the specialist
looked at me keenly. I think he got a
bit of a shock when I explained what 1
wanted. But, learning that I had come
with the fee, he agreed to do his stuff.
“A bad case,” he said, looking grave.
“There is only one thing to restore his
nerves; that is”
I held up my hand. “I know,” I said,
for I had visited a nerve specialist myself
years before. “He will have to take a
long sea voyage.”
“Precisely,” he replied. “How did you
guess?”
Being obliged to do the next best thing,
I hung some seascapes up on the stable
wall. He gradually improved, though
when he went to the course for his first
race he was trembling visibly. A stiff
dose of brandy pulled him together, and
he was even a bit cocky as he danced
out of the saddling paddock on the way
to the starting post. But as he passed
the leger a raucous voice roared out from
the ring and poor Lionfodder collapsed
in his tracks. His nerves once more. And
was it any wonder?
He had just heard the odds the bookie
was offering about him!
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
“Demandists”
What land other than one under the
aegis of the Union Jack could present this
spectacle? A swarthy individual on a
soapbox in a public park with a list of
“demands.” Here are a few: “More aid
to China” ; “hands off the striking coal-
miners” ; “that all the workers be
armed”; “that Fascist officers in the
Army be sacked.”
It’s a coincidence that all these “de-
mandists” are always in “civvies.” True,
they provide diversion for a Sunday-after-
noon audience, but in view of their keen-
ness to defeat Fascism couldn’t they be
more usefully employed at a munitions
bench or, better still, in uniform? The
speaker was a young man and appeared
to have unbounded energy.
On sale also was a banned newspaper
in which insulting references were made
to the leaders of the British Army. No
wonder a Digger standing near by said
he felt like knocking the fellow off the
box.—A. Daly (S.A.).
Strikers
I have just returned to Australia after
serving almost two and a half years over-
seas with the A.I.F. The following items
of news greeted my reading of the morn-
ing’s paper;—
1500 coalminers are on strike at six
N.S.W. mines... .Another 2000 at Cessnock
threaten to come out in 14 day5....750
munition workers are on strike in Adelaide
because they are allowed only 30 minutes
instead of 48 to change in the mornings
and evenings... .4000 men in a munitions
factory in N.S.W. are “forced out of work”
following a strike in the clerical section,
where 50 clerks asked for another 4s. 6d.
a week 200 carpenters and builders’
laborers refuse to work under an award of
the Allied Works Council. They demand
another 255. a week... .150 men on build-
ing works at Tocumwal and 30 carpenters
at Essendon are on strike. The carpenters
object to one of the foremen... .300 mem-
bers of the Baking Trades Employees’
Union are on strike in Adelaide asking for
another £1 a week.
As I said, I have just returned from
two and a half years’ service overseas.
My brother is still over there. When I
returned I was given a week’s leave and
then sent where I cannot see my wife
or family again for a long time. In
nearly three years’ service I have never
once been asked whether I objected to
the sergeant-major, or whether I thought
the pay sufficient, or whether I was
allowed long enough to change and get
on parade when the bugle blew, or
whether I liked working under the con-
ditions laid down by the Army Regu-
lations and Standing Orders. And if I
did object and persuaded my comrades
to come out on strike with me I would
find myself very promptly serving four
or five years in a military prison for
mutiny. — H. F. a’B. (S.A.).
Second Front
The day that I hear that a second front
has been opened in France or Belgium
will be a most anxious one for me. Only
one who was in the last war can realise
the insuperable difficulties that must be
surmounted.
Just realise the amount of time, organ-
isation and transport that was required
to shift just one Australian division
from the north of France to the Somme.
As far as I can recollect it took some-
where about three weeks before the divi-
sion as a whole was ready for action —in
a real emergency I suppose it could be
done quicker. Multiply this by the hun-
dreds of divisions required, the enormous
increase in equipment, the necessity of all
units being landed simultaneously, the
smashed-up state of all landing facilities,
plus the Hun waiting with a network of
railways and thousands of bombers ready
to smash everything—consider all that
and then you have some inkling of what
the prospect of a second front would
mean.
By what I can see of it 90 per cent, of
these second-front cranks think all you
have to do is to give the Allied soldier a
rifle, bayonet and a pocketful of bullets,
let him go, and the Hun will run like
hell!
Hammer for all you’re worth, Bul-
letin, against this second front. We’re
just holding our own in this war now,
but a second front carried out as these
cranks want it carried out would be the
end of everything.—Old Digger (Q.).
Russia and Ourselves
Admiration of Russia’s noble stand
against invasion and satisfaction with
the consequent benefit to the Allies are
reasonable enough. But not so reason-
able is the widely-held emotional atti-
tude which has led a Mrs. Jessie Street to
ask the question: “If Russia had not
come in, would there be an England,
would there be an Australia?” The in-
ference is not only that without Russia
we would have been beaten, but that
Stalin decided to “come in” and rescue us.
Actually, of course, he was forced in.
In the words of Mr. Beasley, Stalin’s
“policy of opportunism and expediency”
had “run its course.” His neutrality
lasted only as long as it suited Hitler.
What kind of “coming in” was this, com-
pared with the free choice of the British
Dominions?
Russia had no obligations to us; she
was entitled to remain aloof if she could.
But:
It cannot have been necessary to go to
the length of publicly representing Great
Britain as the aggressor in the war; of sup-
porting Hitler’s peace proposals which
assumed a Nazi victory as their basis, or of
encouraging the Communist parties in
France and Great Britain t 0.... deliberately
sabotage the war effort in those countries.
These remarks are not by some diehard
Tory, but by a socialist and one of
Russia’s best friends, G. D. H. Cole!
To honor the Russian people for the
gallant defence of their homeland is not
the same thing as to hold the belief that
we owe them everything. It is common-
sense to help Russia against Hitler, but
nonsense to do so to an extent that
“Okay, Joe! Let her have it!”
may weaken our own resistance to
his friend Japan, against whom Russia
still shows no signs of “coming in.” —
Arc (N.S.W.).
The Loan
The slow response to the second
Liberty Loan suggests that the taunt of
“too late and too little” can be levelled
at a large proportion of what “H.G.L.”
(B. 17/6/’42) calls the “common people.”
That the loan was not quickly filled
was admittedly due to lack of support
from that portion of the community
which has benefited most from the war
—wage-earners receiving £8 a week or
less. Despite crushing taxation, high
income earners, companies and those de-
riving their incomes wholly from invest-
ment did their share.
Many wage-earners have more money
than ever before, and in a large number
of cases increased taxation has been
more than offset by enhanced contribu-
tions from junior members of the family,
whose wages are also higher. Yet too
often little is saved. This section was
an important factor in the shopping orgy
of the past year, and was also prominent
in the panic buying that followed the
Federal Government’s announcement of
clothes rationing. They are lavish
patrons of places of amusement, and of
the dogs, racing and the various lottery
offices. The majority can well afford to
contribute to war loans.
Their combined resources constitute
the largest individual aggregation of the
national income—over £5OO million out
of a total of about £9OO million —but
they pay little in direct taxation.
In certain quarters demands are being
made that compulsion should be used to
secure loan requirements. Any such pro-
cedure which does not touch those in
the under £B-a-week class will fail in the
long run, and may have disastrous eco-
nomic consequences. — Tom (N.S.W.).
The Small Businessman
Agree with “R.H.G.” (B. 17/6/’42) on
the question of rationing, but find that
the independence of formerly obliging
wholesale travellers increases the hard-
ships being experienced by the small
businessman.
In pre-war days my weekly tobacco
account never came below £8 ; now I am
allowed £3-worth as my monthly allow-
ance. To add insult to injury my traveller
has informed me that because of petrol
rationing I shall have to call at his ware-
house for it, and that, because of the
shortage of packets, I shall have to be
content with getting my quota in bulk.
This entails fares to and from the city
and the buying of paper bags, the price
of which rises daly.
This rationing and loss of profit in
practically all the lines I sell, together
with the fact that I cannot add new lines
to my stock, seem to indicate that I and
all other small businessmen will have to
stay as we are—at the convenience of
the public on our own banking account.
—Kiltie (N.S.W.).
The Customer
There is an unfair implication in the
Price Commissioner’s repeated reference
to retail firms who make customers buy
a few shillings’ worth of other goods for
every article of stuff rationed or short,
such as blue, tobacco, etc. This is done,
not, as he assumes, to push sales but to
prevent excess buying of such rationed
commodities.
Supplies are so short these days that
no retailer is interested in pushing sales
—except perhaps to push them down.
The average customer, as soon as it is
known that anything is “short,” at once
sets about obtaining a personal surplus
by fair means or foul, and the old dodge
of coming in again and again, or sending
someone else in as a dummy, can only
be countered by making him buy other
goods as well, so that the stunt becomes
too expensive.
There is some sort of plan gradually
taking shape for the rationing of all sorts
of goods, but for a long time the whole
burden was placed on the shoulders of
the merchant and the retailer, who were
told, in effect, to work out their own
system as long as they cut down the con-
sumption of any given line of goods. The
fact that some of the schemes savored
of frenzied finance is the fault of the
circumstances. — Storekeeper (W.A.).
Education
If the gods of Education really dwell
on Ben Nevis or Craigenputtock, as The
Bulletin implies (10/6/’42), even they
will see the joke when they read the
demand for good Scottish education for
this country.
For half a century the Scot, or the near
Scot, has not only dominated the admin-
istration of our university and public
school, but has created the atmosphere
and tradition of almost all our teaching.
Even today the administrative command
in our university is given in the gentle
Doric.
In the training of teachers, in the cur-
riculum and organisation of secondary
studies, in the very titles of our public
examinations, Scottish educational prac-
tice has been lifted entire and planted
upon us for more than a generation.
Think of MacCallum, Mackie, Daw-
son, Anderson-Stuart, Wilson, Francis
and John Anderson, McKenzie and
McCrae and double the number. They
were all reared on the Shorter Catechism.
Divil an O’Brien or a McGinty will ye
find among them. Those are great
names. They have done or continue to
do a fine work, and The Bulletin has
seldom failed to pay them handsome
tribute.
But if Australian education be respon-
sible, as The Bulletin declares, for the
alleged inanity of its products, not even
a sophist could raise the shadow of an
argument to favor a further dose from
north of Tweed. — Mirabooka (N.S.W.).
The individual who has to buy enter-
tainment certainly proclaims his lack of
education (B. 10/6/’42), so what is wrong
with our school system?
Perhaps, above all, educational authori-
ties are too much preoccupied with
novelties —such royal roads as “play-
ways” and “freedom schools.” And they
love to talk largely of reform. A desire
for reform is a healthy sign, but a sweep-
ing reform, in that it is a lazy reform, is
a dangerous thing. Modification is
slower, less showy, and very much surer.
Well, we’ve plenty of schools, and most
youngsters attend the State institutions.
Of these the primary schools can be
divided into two very general classes:
crammers and toyshops. One class of
school, or rather of teacher, builds all
hopes of heaven on exam, results and in-
spectors’ reports. The other extreme
plays around with good intentions.
Neither educates.
The high schools have as their objec-
tive public examinations. They there-
fore tend to become cram shops. Well,
says this lecturer and that professor, let’s
abolish exams., let’s raise the school-
leaving age, let’s do anything except in-
quire into the education of the teachers
who are largely responsible for this state
of affairs.
But is there any need to abolish
exams.? It would pay better to examine
the teaching, modify its aims, change
its methods in accordance, and then
modify the exams, to make them true
tests of the new aims.
And the aim of all teaching must be
to establish a balance between, on the
one hand, inspiration, stimulus and the
cultivation of that real interest which
sets the pupil working spontaneously at
the solving of problems which his own
mind suggests; and, on the other, the
hard work —drill, if you like—that pro-
duces habits of mental concentration and
of consistent and sustained effort.
Then the exam, can be made to test
whether the student has really worked,
whether he has learned to observe and
to reason, whether his imagination has
been stimulated, and whether he has
acquired that real appreciation which
constantly asks for more. — Taylor Ville
(S.A.).
Plurals
What are the plurals of the names
Smith, Brown and Robinson? To
put the question in another way, what
would you write or say in referring to
two or more persons named Smith, Brown
or Robinson? Easy, isn’t it? You would
naturally and unhesitatingly write or
speak of the Smiths, Browns or Robin-
sons. But what are the plurals of names
ending in “s” or “es”—Collins, Hughes,
Jones,- for example? What would you
write or say in referring to two or more
persons so or similarly named? Well,
according to many newspapermen and
radio announcers, such “s” and “es”
names do not seem to have plurals.
Take this sentence from a recent book-
review in a Great Daily of Sydney;
A group of bored, rich and much-
divorced people, idly discussing detectives
of fiction one rainy afternoon, decide that,
if the necessity should arise, they could
do better than the Sherlock Holmes, Poirots
or Father Browns of fiction.
Why didn’t the reviewer write “Sherlock
Holmeses”? “Holmes” is as rightfully
entitled to a plural as “Smith” is, and the
plural was undoubtedly called for, seeing
that more than one “Sherlock, Holmes”
was intended and the other two names
were in the plural. If the reviewer’s lapse
was due not to ignorance but because the
plural form offended his aesthetic soul, he
should have written all three names in
the singular—“the Sherlock Holmes, the
Poirot or the Father Brown of fiction.”
Anyway, why do writers, amateur and
professional, and radio talkers fail to
give “s” and “es” names their legitimate
right when pluralisation is required? Is
their failure to do so due to ignorance,
to slovenliness or to what they may
regard as the uncouth appearance of the
plurals in print and the imagined diffi-
culty of pronouncing them in speech?
Most of them are easy enough to get the
tongue around, but neither alleged un-
couth appearance nor difficulty of pro-
nunciation warrants the cutting off of
their plural tails. I find numbers of
more-awkward-looking and harder-to-
pronounce words in the dictionary.—
Daljean (N.S.W.).


ssSfSSI
SUB 5 .o*'
oft*
tVil
rAC
\i>5 [
W* et '\
si u '. • a,rift eS !\
2A
«SS>-j«sa
t*t'S
,\*« e
Tift'S
■wV»V
icH,
i» te :
■rdftt
ib*
fa*£ vn^Xs
wif\3.t'- u P vpss^.
«*P
r a d sg^tvA
s ato«' a:tv ? u tft ei t^e eted ;.
Ao|
oU
J? 4»
I .art*
risVaft 0
kni
aCM
te'l
t^ o Tse
l l *\saft lt - sse rtac^ ets
Below ; Bomb
bodies awaiting
transit bases and
caps.
CREDIT for the gratifying successes reported above
belongs to our air force, whose keen vigilance
and skilled attack resulted in seven submarines
being spotted and promptly destroyed with Australian-
made bombs.
The airmen’s triumph is shared in part by the workers
whose labours provided the weapons for victory.
Many months ago, the deadly bombs which proved so
effective began to take shape in Australia’s munition
plants. For their manufacture (illustrated at right)
steel was the first and major material.
Bombs were only one of the many armaments, such as
tanks, guns, shells, ships and aircraft, whose urgent
production required steel in augmented volume and
variety.
Due to the far-sighted efforts planned to give increased
steel productivity, for which The Broken Hill Proprie-
tary Co., Ltd., was primarily responsible, the Australian
steel industry has been able to successfully meet war-
time’s swollen demands, at the same time preserving
prices at the world’s lowest levels!
Such is the sound basis made possible by B.H.P. service
and efficiency which give Australia an assured supply
of quality steel for the development of our munition
effort and the maintenance of essential civil under-
takings.
At Right: Calibrating the wall
thickness of a 2501 b. bemb.
Below ; Jnternal inspection of
partfy-comvlcled bomb.
■
I*l ; s
'ms£
mm
At Left: Giving
a B.HP. open-
hearth furnace a
"drink” of
molten iron.
At Left : Completed
2301 b. bomb bodies
being checked before
despatch.
ŵ
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Iron and Sled Masters, Mine and Ship Owners. Colliery Proprietors. Ship Builders.
Head Office: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Iron and Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W., and Why alia, S.A.
