

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
./fffhi lime cff'Wie mellcumeMmid Imiq.uet
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63. —No. 3249.
Wednesday, May 20, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE CLOISTERS, GLOUCESTER CATHEDRAL.
M O section of England is richer in
ecclesiastical memorials of the past
than the County of Gloucester, and no
city equally so than the capital of this
division named after it. Gloucester may
be said to be, physically and archi-
tecturally, dominated by its great Cathe-
dral, with its beautiful central tower
rising to a height of 225 feet and topped
by four graceful pinnacles. The late
Prebendary Davies stated this glorious
temple of worship might be succinctly
described as “a Norman carcass,” a
none too pleasing, yet by no means
untruthful, designation in a certain sense,
It goes back really to the earliest days
of the religious history of the old land.
So long ago as 679 a monastery was
founded at Gloucester, in which in 1022
Bishop Wulstan of Worcester established
the Benedictine rule. The history of this
cathedral city during troublous centuries
may be briefly related. It was repeatedly
ravished and burned by Danish invaders
and endured ruinous conflicts till the date
of the settlement between Canute and
Edmund Ironside. From the time ol
Canute the Abbey throve, the founda-
tions of the present church being laid by
the Norman Abbot Serlo (1072-1104).
Walter Frocester, its historian, became
the first mitred Abbot in 1381. Edward
the Confessor often resided at Gloucester.
It stood high in the favor of the Norman
Kings. Henry 111 was crowned in the
Abbey and is said to have loved Glouces-
ter better than London. The “Statutes
of Gloucester,” 1277, the earliest of
which any record exists, arc important in
the history of the 13th century so tar
as it related to struggles for the recogni-
tion of fuller constitutional rights for the
people. To revert to the Cathedral, not
the least glorious “attachment” is pro-
vided by the Cloisters. In architectural
gorgeousness here is a worthy rival ot
Henry VIFs chapel at Westminster
Abbey. The elaborate stone-fan-tracery
of the ceiling is beautiful almost beyond
description. It is when contemplating
this superb memorial of piety and zeal
a realisation is borne in of the frightful-
ness, in a destructive sense, science has
rendered 20th-century warfare according
to the Hun interpretation.


MawJovpS”
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. H 2
The Red Page
The Lion and the Unicorn.
The Men from Java (Minerva Publish-
ing Co.), translated from the French by
John Marks, is a first novel sufficiently
impressive to indicate that Jean
Malaquais is a coming literary lion.
John Cowper Powys’s Owen Glendower
(Bodley Head; Moore’s Bookshop),
stranger than any of the strange novels
he has previously written, is as unex-
pected as a unicorn.
Not so long ago, when Hemingway’s
“dumb ox” was a new creation and the
apparition of his strong men with pas-
sions of fire, stomachs of iron and brains
of solid bone seemed as astonishing as
the birth of a three-headed calf, The
Men from Java would have been classed
among the productions of the unicorn.
But there is nothing sensational now in
“tough” writing, slang, and a degree of
frankness in talk about sex; nothing
astonishing ip the portrayal of tough,
violent men, vigorous at their work,
roughly masculine in the sprees that are
their relaxation; nothing original now
in the artistic viewpoint that interprets
life in terms of the male animal.
The Men from Java (the book has
nothing to do with the real Java) is about
miners in the south of France, men of
all nationalities isolated in a fraternity
of labor at the ramshackle encampment
they call “the Island of Java.” Faulkner
or Hemingway, Steinbeck or Saroyan, or
any of the contributors to the Penguin
New Writing series (which could more
properly be called Fashionable Writing )
would have made much the same sort of
novel out of the material. Peering down
into the noonday midnight of the mine,
any one of a dozen he-man novelists
would have seen the same picture of Men
at Work, or men at food, as Malaquais
sees:
The men, sitting down on the stones, be-
gan to eat. The lamps, relit, flickered like
fireflies in the heat. The men were naked
to the waist and had beautiful well-made
bodies, fine muscular arms and strong
broad hands. They had good appetites and
their jaws were made for chewing. They
were just men eating.
The darkness gathered round them, a
darkness that appeared to have an almost
plastic quality. The shaft of a spade, the
handle of a barrow, a pick and the tools
stood out from the night, waiting till the
men’s meal finished. Shadows ran over the
back and sides of the working, dark and
light, rebounding in noiseless collision. The
lamps flared, a whistling flame in the deep
mass of shadows. A man threw back his
head, rolling his eyes and sucking the
mouth of a bottle. An anonymous voice
teased: “Don’t choke yourself ” Some-
body who had not been asked to speak re-
marked: “Over our way we had a chapel
at the mine. An honest-to-God chapel with
a wrought-iron gate. It was cut in the solid
salt.” Then he added: “That’s what we
had.” Good Lord, as if anybody cared a
damn where he had been!
Lamp-lit torsos of men against the
darkness: that is how Malaquais sees
the world. But Powys likes to explore
ihe darkness a little: —•
The blaze of their bonfire had created a
circle of light and warmth in the midst of
a segment of the earth’s surface which at
that hour seemed to be reverting to what
it must have been when the old inhabitants
of Mynydd-y-Gaer gazed across it, thou-
sands upon thousands of years ago!... .He
liked the way the grey rocks alternated
with the patches of pale stubble and red
bracken. He liked the way the whole land-
scape seemed to converge at this season
towards some austere rock-bound ideal of
its own secret engendering. It gave him a
grim pleasure to see the rounded grassy
hills forming themselves, as they rose
above the leafless treetops, into vast
terraces of green stepping-stones, along
which the majestical spirits of the past
might move in tremendous procession to-
wards the far-off mountain peaks, where
not only trees and grass would be left be-
hind but all the turbulent human lives as
well ; lives that sought their nourishment
and contended for their feverish masteries
among the sheep and the cattle and the
horses and the swine that fed upon the
fatness of these less purified places.
It was only by moving a little distance
out of the blaze that Broch was able just
then to satisfy his insatiable longing for
the calm of the inanimate ; but when he
did manage to get the firelight out of his
eyes he was rewarded by a cold, deathly
chill that came up the slopes of Mynydd-y-
Gaer from the flooded river below and as
it came precipitated itself into a clammy
vapor that settled on his naked skull, in
minute drops, each drop a perfect micro-
cosm of all that desolate and dehumanised
world, of _ wet mists upon grey rocks, to-
wards which his spirit yearned.
If Powys wrote a novel about a mine,
how extraordinarily different it would be
from a book by Malaquais or by any
other contemporary novelist! The
Frenchman’s characters are living people
Powys’s would be half mythological;
the Frenchman’s are rich in comedy,
passion and tragedy—Powys’s would be
fantastic; the Frenchman is concerned
with their major normalities —Powys
would be concerned with their minor
abnormalities ; the Frenchman sees them
as “men eating”—Powys would see them
as life devouring life; the Frenchman
sees the mine as so much “plastic dark-
ness” —Powys would see the rock walls
possessed of some patient or malignant
life of their own; the Frenchman’s book
leaves you with Just the impression a
first-class film makes, that you have seen
all that happens when men work in a
mine or come out and go on the spree—
but Powys would leave you with the feel-
ing that you’d been on a voyage to hell.
The Men from Java is a vigorously objec-
tive picture of men working in a mine;
Owen Glendower is a window through
which one sees, in ever more vivid detail,
one of the strangest minds of our time.
Set in fifteenth-century Wales and
telling the story of the Welsh national
hero whose name is the title, Owen
Glendower is an even more fan-
tastic creation than was A Glastonbury
Romance. Anything less like the conven-
tional historical novel would be hard to
imagine. Crowded as it is with saints,
mystics, dwarfs, bards, witches, wizards,
devils and madmen, yet telling a straight-
forward story of the Welsh rebellion
against Henry IV, it’s as odd a mixture
as if Burton of the Anatomy of Melan-
choly had collaborated with Walter Scott.
Had some more conventional novelist,
such as Malaquais, written it, it might be
more convincing history, more vivid as
a picture of men at war. For, wild as
Wales always was, and fantastic as
the fifteenth century is in the soberest
records, it’s hard to believe that Powys’s
freakish imagination hasn’t led him into
some exaggeration as his mysticism has
certainly led him away at times from the
field of battle or the human dramas at
the council-tables. Yet Powys has one
great virtue as a mystic that sets his
novels apart from all the other freak
books, monstrous books, “unicorn” books
of recent writing: his mysticism makes
sense.
Finnegans Wake doesn’t make sense;
Wyndham Lewis’s The Childermas
doesn’t make sense; Kafka’s The Trial,
whatever meaning one may choose to
read into it, doesn’t make sense. All these
books set out deliberately to mystify the
reader. But Powys sets out to explain
his philosophy; to make it clear.
The whole huge novel (900 pages of
it!) is the working-out of a mystical
theory, and, whether or not it can be be-
lieved as a matter of history that the
fundamental reason for Owen’s failure
was that it is the Welsh national character
to survive by escaping and enduring
rather than by seeking to triumph in
battle, the idea is plausibly demonstrated
and Powys states the theme plainly:
The very geography of the land and its
climatic peculiarities, the very nature of
its mountains and rivers, the very falling
and lifting of the mists that waver, above
them, all lend themselves, to a degree un-
known in any other earthly region, to
what might be called the mythology of
■escape. This is the secret of the land. This
is the secret of the people of the land.
Other races love and hate, conquer and
are conquered. This race avoids and
evades, pursues and is pursued.
If The Men from Java were merely
another essay in the conventional strong-
man novel, it would not be worth com-
paring, however good it might be as such,
with a book so wild in imagination and
profound in philosophy as Owen Glen-
dower. But Malaquais, besides being able
to portray the male animal at work and
play, gives to the story of the outcast and
isolated miners struggling with the earth
something of the poignant drama and
deep human significance Conrad gave to
his pictures of seafarers, lonely on their
ships, fighting the wind and sea. He has
humor —a prolonged battle of wits be-
tween the drunken Englishman who
manages the mine and the pompous
French police sergeant who wants to close
it. And he has imagination— not as fan-
tastic as Powys’s, but of a kind that, in
his oddest scenes, would certainly appeal
to Powys.
Powys would like that “lousy pimp
Esteve”; the inhibited Dr. Magnus; the
liar Hans who believes his own day-
dreams about the ranch he has inherited
in Canada; the half-mad Russian prin-
cess who thinks (an oddity this in a book
that is otherwise clearly in the “prole-
tarian” tradition!) that Stalin is hiding in
the chimney; the strange scene where a
young girl’s curiosity takes her to the
men’s hut; the scene where the old miser
woman, whose treasure has been looted,
raves at the sergeant in obscene but un-
intelligible Russian ; and the scene where
all the women of the “island,” for no
particular reason except that they are
wrought-up by a day of disaster and ex-
citement to a pitch where the ridiculous-
ness of life overcomes them, howl with
hysterical laughter. Powys would like
this sort of scene: -
The frogs’ guttural croak, the cricket’s
interminable note, the lonely hoot of the
owl, the faint barking of dogs, all nature’s
deep smothered babel of a voice breaks on
the shores of Java, island invulnerable and
uncaring, rocked in its own pandemonium
of oaths, altercations, grumbles and protests.
And this sort of philosophising:
Under that pure mantle of sky, the
Island of Java murmured softly: its
Czechs, Arabs, Yugoslavs, its Germans
and Russians, its one Frenchman, all were
astir with thoughts, eternal, elemental
thoughts. The Island’s shrouded pulse con-
veyed its erethism and its indolence to
Magnus, he felt the prodigious community
of its inhabitants pressing against his heart.
One by one the islanders passed before
him: Branko the Croatian, who never
ended a sentence without saying “May
God punish King Alexander”; Stapoulos
the Greek, voluble and unctuous; Bochenek
the Pole, with his boyar’s moustache and
boyar’s paunch ; Costeanu the Rumanian,
who was as stuck-up as a University
student among cannibals; Auriga the
Spaniard, always indulging in feats of
strength ; Warski and Warska, with their
succession of little Frenchmen about to
be born ; Elisabeth and Stalina ; the
nigger and his music ; Karl and him-
self. ...How many centuries of history, of
instinct were there, seeping into them down
the ages? To what atavism, to what blood
were they heirs? Starting from Java, a tor-
tuous trail could be traced back: to what
races, to what origins, would it lead? From
Java one might reconstruct the descend-
ancy of mankind....
What makes Powys an original among
the novelists, a unicorn among the lions,
is that at this point where Malaquais
stops—“ One might reconstruct the de-
scendancy of mankind”—-he begins.
Malaquais turns away from his frogs
and birds to listen to humanity swearing
and laughing ; but Powys, in one of his
amazing flights of imagination when
Owen is in retreat at his castle at Harlech,
sends his hero’s “soul” out into the night,
away from humanity, to commune with
a seabird;
A real moon-intoxication began to seize
upon him as he stared at that hypnotic
rondure... .And how well he knew what
the seaweeds felt down there who were
yearning, quivering, trembling upward ;
every drop of their oozy sap drawn up-
ward, drawn with maddeningly-sweet
spasms upward, to the moon-drenched
ripples on the surface!
Tearing his dizzy eyes from that circle
of circles, he could see in the moonlight
some great somnolent seabird rocking up
and down on the illuminated tide.
To his moon-drugged fancy, the eye of
this bird met his own. “What human grey-
beard is that,” the seagull’s eyes seemed
to say to him, “straining like the finbacks
in their shoals, like the shellfish in their
shells, like millions of seaweeds, like mil-
lions of seaworras, towards our goddess,
our darling, the great Whore of Eternity?”
Malaquais, when his thought leads him
towards the remote beginnings of man-
kind, turns back to living men. Powys's
bald-headed Broch is an incarnation of
the remotest ancestors of the Welsh;
Owen’s great “secret” is “The Past is
eternal!” :
“Whenever I pass these stones at an
hour like this, do ye know what I feel?
I feel as though in the dust of Mathrafal
there lives forever, indestructible I tell you,
children, indestructible, all the pilgrim-
prayers, all the journeying longings, all
the voyaging desires, all the cravings and
the cryings, older than the wind, deeper
than the sea, of the people of this land.
Let them burn Mathrafal into cinders; let
them grind Mathrafal into dust ; I tell you
Cousin Rhisiart, I tell you Cousin Efa, as
long as this name lasts on the lips of the
people of this land, there will be one beat,
one pulse, one motion left in our blood
that neither the good nor the bad nor the
worst nor the best of our crafty conquerors
can ever blot out or destroy!”
In writing of this sort, Powys stands
alone. No other novelist could conceive
his fantastic characters—bald Broch, red-
haired Tegolin, devouringly beautiful
Lowri, the bearded dwarf Sibli who
treasures all her life the memory of one
kiss given “as to an aunt,” Mad Huw, the
infatuated Hog of Chirk, the villainous
bard known as “The Scab,” the apelike
Gam, Owen the mystical man-of-action
and Rhisiart his long-suffering chan-
cellor. No other writer could construct
such scenes as that when Broch’s wife
turns the millwheel and curses Owen and
all his works —a piece of living sculpture
with the symbolical grandeur of the
climax of the Glastonbury pageant. No
other writer could in Powys’s way see
the architecture of heaven and hell in a
grass-blade, the whole history of man-
kind in the wink of an eye, all the
malevolence of fate in the gnat that stung
Owen’s hand as he was riding to battle.
The lion among the novelists is, of
course, king of the beasts. He captures
and brings the world as it is for our in-
spection. And Malaquais is a promising
lion. But no good zoo should be without
its unicorn. Ppwys, as a comprehensible
unicorn, is both an international asset and
a pretty formidable contender for the
crown.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
At the talkies: “Dumbo” (Sydn
Plaza) —delightful Disney story of
elephant which learned to fly with
abnormally elephantine ears and so ro
from obscurity and ridicule in the circ
to a Hollywood contract; an imaginati
pink elephant sequence should be o
particular interest to inebriates an
elephants.
“Believe It or Not,” light bedroo
farce written and produced by A 1
Coppel, has succeeded Noel Cowarc
sordid “Point Valaine” at Sydne
Minerva. Pursued, as if by the hounc
of hell, by the realisation that nobod
above the mental age of 14 could bea
with the thinness of the piece if the
stopped to think about it (solicitor anc
his wife both being blackmailed b
butler) Marjorie Gordon, Hal Thompso
and Harvey Adams work feverishly
ensure that nobody does have time t
think. So much “business” is introducer
that it almost becomes a ballet. All tha
now needs to be done, to make abso
lutely sure that nobody has a momen
for reflection, is to cut out the interval
and, when the performance is over
knock the audience on the head with
blunt instrument.
“The Man in the Street,” by Johi
Thorburn, put on by the Gong Theatr
at its new studio, 92 Flinders-street, Mel
bourne, discusses the old theme of wha
might happen if a Messiahlike individua
returned to this distracted planet preach
ing the doctrine of Love Thy Neighbor
Nothing new in the treatment but the
Gong people played it with conviction.
“Cauboy”: There is a theatrical boom
in Melbourne such as no flesh-and-blood
entrepreneur ever expected but, despite
hopes for something more progressive
J.C.W. announces a re-revival of the Gil-
bert and Sullivan operas when “Night-
birds” has flown to roost at His
Majesty’s. Apropos, Americans are even
greater Gilsullivan addicts than Austra-
lians, and the recurrent seasons of the
Savoy operas in N’York get serious atten-
tion from even such highbrow critics as
George Jean Nathan, seldom very sym-
pathetic to British playwrights.
From London: The new Sadler’s Wells
ballet is refreshingly British; story from
Milton’s “Comus”; costumes —including
the “rout” of semi-animal figures—by
Oliver Messel; Robert Helpman and
Margot Fonteyn in the lead. And the
Australian element is strong. Helpman,
from Adelaide, surprises by adding fine
Miltonian elocution to his nimble foot-
work. The music—Purcell’s —is arranged
by Constant Lambert, whose main
trouble in life now is to prevent his good
Australian name from being taken for,
and pronounced as, a French one.
Una Bourne, who used to be Melba’s
accompanist, showed she hasn’t lost her
powers at a recital at the Melbourne
Conservatorium. She made a dashing
display with Beethoven’s “Appassionata”
but pleased the full house even more in
Mozart, There are very few local ex-
ponents of the piano who could have
given a more subtle performance.
The first Saturday afternoon sym-
phony concert at Melb. Town Hall found
soldiers, sailors, airmen and civilian
music-lovers clamoring to get past
the House Full notice. It would have
been difficult to imagine a better
programme. Leading off with Purcell’s
lovely Suite for Strings from the
“Dramatick Musick,” Heinze directed his
cohorts at the Concerto No. 4 in G
major, Op, 58, of Beethoven, with Isador
Goodman, j in military uniform, at the
piano. The soloist, who has been provid-
ing a contradiction of the official Mel-
bourne notion that the troops can’t take
it by playing classical music in the camps
of Victoria, was extraordinarily at his
ease, especially in the complicated
dialogue between his instrument and the
strings in the second movement. Then
came Tschaikowsky’s popular and beauti-
ful Fifth Symphony, with the opening
motif which crops up again and again
as if the composer could never have
enough of it, and the deep-voiced second
movement which recalls Chaliapin sing-
ing the “Volga Boat Song.” Heinze con-
ducted like an angel and the orchestra
played like 80 of them.
Highlights of a mixed art show at
Macquarie Galleries (Sydney) in which
23 painters are represented are a jolly little
landscape in J. Muir Auld’s happiest
manner, a tree study by Daryl Lindsay
and a masterly water-color, “Three Boats,
Singapore,” by Ronald H, Steuart.
Isabel Mackenzie’s “Silver Day” is a
cleverly-conveyed impression.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — protects you
THE SENIOR STORE’
Gracious Home Furnishings...
mmm
mm.
m
a
mm
I
M
m
m
M
31
mm.
m
m
' ■
m
British
Seamless
Maddocks’ English
Utility Sets
Maddocks' English White and Gold
Utility Set of 41 pieces, with Tuscan
Fine China Cups and Saucers. Set
consists of 6 each Bread and Butter,
Dessert, and Dinner Plates, 6 Soup
Coupes, 6 Cups and Saucers, 1 Meat
Dish, ins., 1 Covered Scollop, 1
Gravy Boat and Stand. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, set, 74/6. SPECIAL
PRICE 68/6
• China—Third Fluor
AXMKVSTER SQUARES
British Seamless Axminster Squares.
Size
7ft. Gin. x 6ft
9ft. x 6ft.
9ft. x 7ft. Gin
9ft. x 9ft
10ft. Gin. x 9ft
12ft. x 9ft
12ft. x 1 Oft. Gin
13ft. Gin. x 10ft. Gin
British Spool Axminster Rugs
British Spool Axminster Rugs
Size
4ft. x Ift.
4ft. Sin. x 2ft. Sin.
sft. Sin. x 2ft. Sin.
sft. Sin. x 3ft.
with fringed ends, will wear very well.
British Imperial Axminster Carpet
British Imperial Axminster Carpet by the yard, for wall to wall covering, squares,
and stair carpet. Wide range of attractive designs and smart colourings.
Width
27ins. Body
27ins. Stair
36ins. Stair
45ins. Stair
54ins. Stair
• Carpets —Fourth Floor.
Coloured Cheullle Table Covers
Multi-coloured Chenille Table Covers, a spelndid range of designs and colours to choose
from, will harmonise with any furnishing scheme. Size, 54ins. x 54ins. At Anthony Horderns .
Price, each, 11/6. SPECIAL PRICE 9/11
Scalloped Base Brise Bise Curtain i\et
24ins. wide Brise Bise Curtain Net, with scalloped base and pocket at top for rod. In Biscuit,
Ecru, and Ivory. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, yard, 2/11. SPECIAL PRICE 2/6
• Soft Furnishings—Third Floor.
9
ii
eg
t
mm,
m
its
i
j y*
£<»
m
Wn
m
CK
m
Ti
W
m
■rt
Anthony
FAMOUS
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
v Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


HARVEST
By JOHN K. EWERS.
ALL day they had been working
against time to finish the second
haystack. Tomorrow Larry was
leaving to go into camp. But it
wasn’t only the thought of his leaving
that spurred them on. Along the northern
rim of the sky thunderclouds lay like
piles of new-shorn wool. Mac had seen
them when they went out for the first
load and he didn’t like the look of them.
“If the rain beats us,” he said, “we’ll
have to pull the whole blamed stack down
and build her again.”
He didn’t fancy the idea of rebuilding
the stack with only Mary to help him.
Mary was twenty-five, stronger than most
women and as useful as most men, but
there was no one like Larry for building
haystacks. People going along the road
used to stop to admire the haystacks at
Coorabbin, but it was all Larry’s doing.
Mac couldn’t build a straight side to save
himself. So they kept hard at it, pausing
only to scald their throats with hot tea
the missus brought down from the house
each time they came in with a load.
Mac was sorry Larry was leaving, but
the kid was breaking his neck to get into
the army. When he had put in his papers
six months before the military had
ordered him to ;stay and help'with the seed-
ing, because the district was short of men.
Mac had shared him round among the
neighbors. But last mail he'd got his
call-up and he had to report on Monday.
Mac wondered when he’d get another
man as good as Larry,
The only one who seemed glad Larry
was going was the missus. She liked him
all right. They all did. But she was glad
he was going, all the same. Mac knew
why. He was the only one who did
know, but that didn’t make him see eye
to eye with her in the matter.
Mary had been two years old when
Mac married her mother. Everyone in
the district, including Mary, thought he
was her dad. For himself, he had no ob-
jections to a ready-made family, and he
never thought of Mary as anything but
his own daughter. If there’d been other
youngsters it might have been different,
but there weren’t, and he and the missus
were happy enough watching Mary grow
up.
But as the girl grew older he could
see the old fear coming back. He knew
the missus didn’t want it to happen to
Mary the way it had to her. Neither did
he, for that matter, although he couldn’t
help thinking that it hadn’t turned out
so badly for either of them, and he didn’t
like the way the missus kept Mary away
from the company of the young chaps
in the district. There were plenty of
them, decent, hard-working lads, or there
had been before the war started, but the
missus never made any of them welcome
at Coorabbin. Mac had told her she was
cranky and just looking for trouble, but
it made no difference.
She hadn’t wanted Mary to go out in
the paddock with Larry that morning, but
Mac said “I want her out there, and
she’s going.”
So Mary went, but each time they
brought in a load the missus was there
with tea, and when they had drunk it
she grabbed a fork and worked on the
stack alongside Mary and Larry.
AFTER lunch the clouds began to
move up the sky.
“We’re gonner get it, all right,” said
Mac between sheaves.
Larry paused long enough to take a
quick glance behind him. “Oh, I dunno.
Just a dry thunderstorm, I think.”
Mac wasn’t convinced. “Let’s have
’em a bit quicker,” he said.
Larry responded at once and Mary
tried to follow, but her arms were live
coals of pain about the wrists and there
was a dull ache between her shoulder-
blades.
“Take it easy, Mary,” Larry said,
“I’ll do the hurrying.”
She smiled gratefully at him, but she
tried to keep pace and to toss sheaf for
sheaf, to maintain the rhythm of bending
and lifting and heaving.
When the wagon moved off, Mary
paused a moment, leaning on the handle
of her fork. Larry came over to her.
You oughtn’t to go so hard,” he said.
“I like it, really, but I s’pose I’m not
used to it.”
* Anyhow, it’s nice working alongside
a good mate,’ said Larry. “Let’s carry
your fork.”
He put the two forks across one
shoulder and walked beside her, his free
arm brushing against hers as they trudged
behind the wagon. Somehow, she didn’t
feel so tired when they walked together
like that.
The sky was completely overcast now
and the air so still that the scrawny
gums by the house-paddock seemed like
a dark frieze cut out of stiff paper. Ligbt-
ning played about the horizon as they
passed the sheaves from one to another,
Larry high up on the crest of the stack,
a dim figure in the half-light.
When the last sheaf was in place Larry
climbed down the ladder. The others
were waiting for him. It was dark in the
shadows of the haystack, but they felt
good to think it was finished.
“Well, we beat it,” Larry said. “You
go off an’ I’ll fix the horses. An’, missus,
I’m hungry enough to eat one.”
Mac was glad of the chance to trudge
off. He could remember the time when
after a day like this, he’d have cleaned
himself up and driven ten miles and
danced till his stiff collar was a limp
rag. But he couldn’t do it now. And how
he was going to manage without Larry
was more than he could tell. But the
missus hung about uncertainly.
“Coming, Mary?” she asked.
Mary was already among the horses.
“I’ll just help Larry feed up. Mum,” she
said.
“All right, but don’t be long.”
T ARRY grinned at Mary over the
I—'leaders’ backs. Her fingers moved as
expertly as his A then she smacked each
one on the rump in turn and sent them
trotting off to the troughs.
In the dark of the stables she found a
hurricane lantern and held it up for him
to light. The glow of the match fell upon
their faces, close together, as Larry lit
the wick,
“I wish I wasn’t going now. I like
working for your dad. He’s a good
boss.”
“He’ll be sorry to lose you.”
“It’s been sort of home to me,” he
said.
The leading horses were coming back,
plodding resolutely into the stableyard,
with an occasional expectant whinny.
Larry hung the lantern on a nail by the
door of the chaff-house and they filled
the tins, side by side. The horses snuffled
eagerly into the chaff and presently there
was a steady, contented munching. When
Mary had finished filling her half of the
mangers, she flung her empty tin back
where she had got it, and leaned against
a dusty, cobwebby upright waiting for
Larry.
He would miss all this, she thought,
and at night—his little room was just
around the corner—the sound of the
horses munching, the stamp of their
hoofs, an occasional whinny; and she
knew that after he had gone she would
never be able to go near the stables with-
out thinking about him.
His voice beside her made her jump
a little.
“Tired?”
She shook her head, although every
bone in her body was aching.
Larry lifted the lantern to her face.
“Mary! You’re crying!” he said softly,
“No.” She turned away and brushed
her eyes with the back of her hand. Larry
was close behind her. She could feel the
warmth of his body and his breath on
the back of her neck.
“Mary! ” he said. One hand stole about
her. “Mary, I don’t want to go, I didn’t
know you felt like this. I didn’t know
how you felt. Your mum was always
keeping us apart, and I thought perhaps
there were reasons.”
“What reasons, Larry?”
“Someone else, perhaps. Or that I
wasn’t good enough. That was why I
wanted to go. If I could have gone six
months ago... but it’s been hell staying
on and seeing you.”
“Oh, Larry!” She turned quickly and
flung both hands around him.
DACK at the house, the missus was in
a fidget all the time she was getting
the tea. Every now and then she stopped
and listened. Twice she went to the door
and peered out in the darkness. The day
had been so sharp, so like that day be-
fore Tom had gone away. She could feel
it all over again. Tom and she alone be-
hind the haystack the last night of his
last leave. She had not told him in any
of her letters. He had written “When I
come home we’ll get married.” Two days
before Mary was born she heard that he
had been killed in action. It was all so
like this day and she was afraid. She
couldn’t stand it any longer. She turned
to where Mac was sitting reading a
paper. “They’re not coming. Won’t you
go and see what’s keeping them?”
Mac looked up irritably. “Oh, leave
’em alone. They’re not children, either
of them.”
She had an answer on the tip of her
tongue, but at that moment the rain
came. It came with only a few warning
drops, then a solid deafening roar on the
iron roof. The missus hurried to the
door. Outside, a blinding wall of water
obliterated the dim outlines of even the
nearest tree. A wind that had sprung
mysteriously from nowhere wailed under
the eaves.
There was despair in her eyes when
she turned to her husband. “They can’t
come now,” she said.
He looked up cheerfully. “They’ll be
over presently. My, listen to that rain!
Mighty lucky we got that stack finished
in time.”
But to her there was no time, no
present, no past; only men leaving and
women left, through all the changeless
ages.
PIKE’S MADONNA
By WILL LAWSON.
PIKE MURPHY was sort of an
offsider to me in the horse-
dealing business. He would have
been insulted if anyone had said
he worked for me, work being his
special abomination. What he did was to
ride round districts where we hadn’t
been, spying out the land. He was a
terrible good mixer, was Pike, and he’d
come back full of facts about where the
people lived who used horses and who
they were and all that. Then Molly—
shd’s my missus—and I would drift
through later and do well.
We were travelling north-west when
Pike decided to ride in by a side road to a
place where vegetables grew. There had
been a lot of Italians working there, he
told us, but they’d been interned and
some land girls were carrying on. He
reckoned there should be a chance of
selling horses to do the toil that the
Italians used to do. Pike had ideas like
that. Just who would buy the horses he
didn’t work out, but that was his way ;
he had hunches, and often they came off.
We always missed Pike when he was
away. A big, cheery Irishman, he was
full of jokes and yarns. Even the nags
seemed downcast without him, and this
time he stayed a week, which was a long
time for him.
The evening he came back to where
we had camped by the river Pike wasn’t
himself a bit. When he’d got off his
horse and given him a feed, we had to
drag news from him.
At last, after tea, Molly got it out of
him what had happened.
He was riding along one afternoon, he
said, past vegetable farms that were run-
ning to seed through their Italian owners
being in the pen. For a mile he saw
nobody; then up on a low hill he saw a
Chow working in soiled old shorts, with
an old coat on and a big, wide straw
hat. Pike hailed him, but got no answer,
so he tied the horse to the fence and
went over across the rows of beans. As
he got near, he sang out, in foolish
Chinese talk, “Yoki tanna lalli chichi!”
At that the Chow straightened himself
up and jabbered back, “You pliggi my
lubarb an’ gleen pea, I killee you.”
Pike laughed then and pulled out a
packet of smokes.
“Have a smoke, John,” he says, hold-
ing put the packet. Then the Chow
turned round and Pike dropped the cigs
in his surprise. “Holy Gee!” he said.
“I thought you was a Chow.”
“Do I look like one?”
“I’ll say you do. Here, have a smoke.
I got such a shock when I seen you was
a girl I dropped them.”
“A girl?” Molly chipped in here;
“working on the land?”
“Yes, a land girl,” Pike told her, “and
as lovely as the Madonna, under all her
dust and old clothes and tiredness. My
oath, she looked tired —and pretty.”
“I’m looking for land,” he told her,
“Used to be a farmer and, now things
are drifting back to nature, so to speak,
and they won’t have me in the army, I’m
thinking of getting back on the soil,”
“I hope you’ll like it,” she said, “I’m
the same, except that I got my farm.
You’re lucky; you can still back out.”
Then she told him how it was. She
had gone there when the Italians were
available as hands. Good workers they
were, too, and she’d had two of them on
her six-acre lot. Then out of the blue
came an army car that swooped down
and yanked those Italians right out of her
clutches, left her all alone to work her
farm, and the price of vegetables on the
up-grade.
What could Pike do but stay and
pick and pack for her? Two bob an
hour, she offered, which he refused with
scorn. That sounded too much like work
to Pike and the word offended him. What
he did for his Madonna, as he called her,
was not work but service to a goddess.
“Is that all?” Molly asked in a dis-
appointed tone when he stopped talking.
“Yes,” he said. “At least, no, not quite.
You see, Bob, that girl works too hard.
She gets no fun. I was wondering if you
would lend me a horse.”
“Of course,” I said, while Molly’s eyes
opened and she said, “There’s a side-
saddle, too, Pike.”
“Who asked for a saddle?” he said
quick-like, and his face got red. “I don’t
want saddle-horses, Bob. Can I borrow
two heavy ones?”
“Sure! Want anything else?”
“Yes, bridles, collars and traces, if you
have any. You see” He looked at
Molly, let his eyes drop and stammered,
“Y’ —you see, I reckoned I’d plough that
farm for her now the crops are done.”
Well, we just stared at him, staggered.
Pike Murphy going to work! It was a
shock.
I turned to Molly. I always ask her
about everything, then do as I please.
She likes it. “What do you say?” I asked.
“Give him the horses,” she said, waking
from her trance. “After all, it’s that
makes the world go round.”
KJ EXT day Pike went off, riding a big
1 half-Clydesdale that we reckoned to
sell up there, in spite of his age, and lead-
ing a fine half-draught mare of mixed
breeds. We saw him take the turn-off
into the valley where his Madonna lived,
and we heard no more for three weeks.
He came in the morning this time,
leading the Clydesdale and riding the
other, and when he settled down again
and lit his pipe Molly asked, “Well,
where’s your Madonna, Pike?”
He laughed his old laugh and shook
his head.
“Didn’t you plough her land?”
“I did,” he said. “And made a fine
job of it. Look at me hands!”
“Then what happened? Did she turn
you down?” Molly asked.
“She did not.”
‘‘Then you got tired of it all?”
“I would never get tired of her,” he
said. He just sat there by the fire, puffing
his pipe ; then in the old, contented way
he’d had before he met his Madonna
and after a long while he said “Them
Italians came back.”
“They did?”
“They did—let out on parole to work
the land. I’d just finished the ploughing
and was making me way, having let the
team loose, towards my tent, when
she came out, and with her a big, hand-
some Italian man. They were laughing
and talking and he had an arm around
my Madonna. The blood in my heart
ran cold; then it bounced about and I
was ready to kill him, when she called
to me. ‘Pike,’ she said, ‘come here!
This is my husband, Pike,’ she said,
and you could have knocked me down
with a feather. ‘And,’ she said, ‘we
want to thank you for all you’ve done.’
“ ‘lt’s nothing,’ I said. ‘Thank them
horses. I never done a hand’s turn in my
life’ —and I said it proudly.”
There was silence when Pike stopped
talking. Then Molly said, womanlike, “Is
that all, Pike?”
“No,” he said, hesitating and looking
anxiously at me, “1 sold them the horses.”
“Sold the horses?” I sat up. Pike had
never made a deal in his life. Goodness
knows what he had given them away for.
“Yes. I hope it’s all right. 1 said 1
would have to tell you first.” He drew a
roll of notes from his pocket. “Thirty
pounds I sold them for—here’s half ; and
if you agree, you can take them back to-
morrow—the horses, I mean—and get
the other half.”
“You got thirty for those old—l mean,
you got thirty for them? Pike, you’re a
miracle man. Take them back now.”
“Not me,” Pike said quietly. “I’m never
again going to set eyes on the place
where I worked like a slave for three
weeks. You take ’em. I’d be too
ashamed,”


The Bulletin
Vol. 63. —No. 3249.
Wednesday, May 20, 1942,
THE INVINCIBLE ISLAND.
Malta, defended by the Knights of St. John in one of the great heroic sieges of history (1565), has, under the Union Jack, withstood Axis bombing
raid's for nearly two years, and from its ruins continues to hurl death and defiance at the enemy.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane .
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp,
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
COMMUNISTS IN FOUR
COUNTRIES.
In Washington last week the chairman
of the Senate’s Military Affairs Com-
mittee introduced a bill designed to
prevent the war-time employment of
members of the German-American Bund,
the Communist party and Fascist organ-
isations and to oblige trade-unions to
register, registration to be forfeitable if
they employ Nazis, Fascists or Commu-
nists. By virtue of his position the
chairman. Senator Reynolds, may be
accounted an important member of the
Administration. His measure is an
example of the sharp distinction drawn
in North America between Russians,
fighting for their homeland with the
tenacity shown by their forefathers who
wrecked Swedish Charles’s invasion and
drove back the hosts of Napoleon, and
the motley bands of North American
Communists, imported or home-grown.
Three months ago it was announced
by the Canadian Government that 106
Canadian Communists were in intern-
ment camps.
In the United States, Communists,
Bundists and Fascists have been lumped
together as undesirables for a long
time. At the end of March, Browder,
leader of the U.S.A. Communist party,
was entering upon the second year of a
four years’ prison term. There had arisen
long before a “Citizens’Committee to Free
Earl Browder,” and “members of trade-
unions, religious and young people’s
organisations, civil-liberties groups and
all public-spirited citizens” were bidden
to attend “a National Free-Browder Con-
gress” held in New York on March
28-29, being meanwhile adjured in masses
of printed stuff to weep for their hero —
“a year behind bars ; a year in which
Browder’s great abilities in leadership
might have been at the active service of
the American people.”
Washington remained unmoved till
last week, when the President signed an
order for Browder’s release. He ex-
plained that he had taken into account
the “feeling which might exist in some
minds that the unusually long sentence
was imposed because of Browder’s politi-
cal views.” It was certainly a long sen-
tence for passport lying; an Australian
convicted of such an offence, Communist
or not, would never see the inside of a
gaol. All the same, Mr. Roosevelt’s
action has aroused nation-wide resent-
ment ; “the worst news since Pearl Har-
bor” is an American Legion comment.
The average American’s attitude to
Russian fighters and American Commu-
nists has been fairly stated by Westbrook
Pegler in the New York “World-Tele-
gram” :
I have discovered in Joe Davis’s report
of his mission to Moscow an implied appeal
to his countrymen to have done with Red-
baiting lest we alienate a comrade in arms
whom he deeply admires for qualities which
all Americans must envy in the present
hour
I remember that during the period when
this was an imperialist war, precipitated by
the predatory pluto-democracies, the Ameri-
can Communists were muttering that Alaska
should by rights be Russian, because the
Czar who made the sale had no right to dis-
pose of the property of the Russian people.
I agree that none of us should needlessly
antagonise Russia, but the American Com-
munist party, by its own contention and by
the terms of the basic treaty between our
country and Russia, is not a Russian
organisation. It professes to be wholly
American and absolutely independent of
Moscow, and, if that is so, it is a strictly
domestic affair of ours.
The Russian Communist is a brave ideal-
ist and a magnificent patriot, the American
Communist a misanthropic failure, a traitor
to his own country. The Russians must
despise him as much as the Americans do.
The British public, traditionally sym-
pathetic with the victims of invasion, has
been deeply moved by the sufferings of
the Russians and the fortitude with which
they have been endured by soldiers and
civilians alike. It is grateful to them
also for having fully occupied the Ger-
man army and most of the German air
force, whose fury—though the army was
held off for the twelve months which pre-
ceded the attack on Russia—was previ-
ously concentrated on the British Isles.
These feelings, influencing the politicians,
have been carried to quixotic and dan-
gerous lengths. The sending to Russia of
vast supplies of war weapons which were
urgently needed in exposed parts of the
Empire led to the swift loss in Malayan
waters of two great battleships, of
Malaya itself with its tremendous sup-
plies of rubber and tin, of the fine army
which tried to defend it with only the
shadow of an air force, and of Burma,
whose stricken army was even worse
served than the army of Malaya, and to
the placing of India, Australia and New
Zealand in peril. And minds touched
with pity but lacking in vision have sur-
rendered to the agitation for a Second
Front in Western Europe, which is
enough to make Jacky Fisher start out
of his grave and rail at a generation so
blind to the cruel inroads made in his
beloved Royal Navy and Merchant Navy
and to the supreme importance of sea-
power, which the Japanese have learned
only too well —along with the aerial
superiority mistakenly granted to them,
it explains all their successes.
Individual Labor members, among
them Emanuel Shinwell, have become
Second-Fronters, and members of the
Communist party are performing as usual
—Pollitt, their secretary, had the impu-
dence to propose an arrangement with
the Conservatives and Liberals to keep
Independents out of the House of
Commons; but the attitude of the Labor
Ministers and party executive to British
Communism has not changed. Mr.
Herbert Morrison steadfastly refuses to
issue a new charter to the “Daily
Worker.” And the executive, in its annual
report, issued last week, while expressing
the desire of “the Labor movement” for
permanent friendship with Russia and
“for the production of more and more
munitions for the Russian armies,”
insists that “the fulfilment of these desires
does not involve any necessity to co-
operate with the Communist party.”
The Communist party is ever ready to
create trouble. It has not hesitated to ex-
ploit friendly Anglo-Russian relations for
purely party aims.
The report is described in a cable as
‘a bitter attack on the Communist party”
and certain “ancillary” organisations, one
of which is “the Anglo-Russian Medical
Aid Committee” ; Dean of Canterbury,
“chief promoter.”
Australia has a litter of Medical Aid
to Russia Committees. The one in New
South Wales has Bishop Burgmann for
president and a Judge’s wife as travelling
ambassador or something; and, with or
without the knowledge of subscribers, it is
taking an active part in the Second-Front
agitation. This organisation has issued
stacks of Second-Front petitions ; indeed,
though printing paper is supposed to be
scarce, there seems no limit to the supply
available for Second-Front literature and
Communist propaganda in general. Com-
munist publications which were nomi-
nally banned in 1940 have never ceased
to come out, though the size has been
reduced. Others have made their appear-
ance, and the poisonous stuff is sent in
large quantities to military camps, arma-
ment factories, wharves and coalfields.
The chronic trouble on the N.S.W, fields
may be ascribed chiefly to long-con-
tinued Communist agitation (Communists
scrambled the minds of many miners and
can’t unscramble them), and the startling
outbreak of pillaging on Sydney wharves
—where a Communist sheet, the
“Wharfie,” circulates—is evidently an-
other effect of “take and hold” propa-
ganda.
On Saturday morning 14 Sydney
wharf-laborers were caught with stolen
goods; a lot of others escaped after
shedding their booty. Presumably all
read the “Wharfie.” Though informed
by the police that wharf robbers are
stealing at the rate of £2OOO a week the
magistrate—possibly influenced by the
example of the Government which set
two Communist stop-the-war propagan-
dists free let the offenders off with
fines.
If it is true, as Mr. Pegler suspects,
that Russian Communists despise Ameri-
can Communists, they must despise Aus-
tralian Communists as much or more.
Obviously they left the Australian Com-
munist party to place its own interpre-
tation on the Molotov-Ribbentrop agree-
ment, for “the party” hailed that instru-
ment as “a great victory for the Soviets
and for peace.”
It does not mean and could never mean
that they are prepared to give Hitler a free
hand for new and greater aggression. In
the event of unprovoked aggression the
pact becomes null and void.
Staggered by the immediate sequel, which
it pronounced “an act of stark aggres-
sion,” the party promised the Polish
people its “support in their struggle for
independence against the savage Nazi
Fascists.” Presently it discovered that the
Polish leaders were a vile lot of Im-
perialist oppressors, whose “White Rus-
sian and Ukrainian minorities” were
being “saved” by other hands “from the
Nazi invasion and its accompanying
horrors.” Before long “the struggle against
Hitler Fascism, against Goring and his
midnight stranglers, dehumanised thugs,
the dregs of humanity” had become an-
other sort of war altogether: “a sordid
struggle for profits, a war for the redivi-
sion of the world by monopolist groups.”
Let us recognise as our friends our
fellow-workers in all countries, not for-
getting those of the Arab countries, of
Africa, of India, who are fighting against
tyranny. Let us demand at once the recall
of all Australian troops overseas and that
no more be sent abroad. Down with the
war! Recall the troops! Forward to a
People’s Government and a People’s Peace!
Very tardily the Menzies Government
took action against the Communist
“party.” Its measures were half-hearted
and administered without energy, but
they had one curious effect: persons
who in ordinary circumstances would
have stood as Communist candidates
deemed it prudent to give themselves
other labels. One of them was F. W.
Paterson, who was subsequently fined
£4O, with £4B 18s. costs, for having, as a
member of the Townsville Council, “tried
to influence public opinion in a manner
likely to prejudice effective prosecution
of the war”—he proposed that A.I.F.
soldiers leaving Townsville should be told
with the council’s compliments that they
were serving in “a war to decide which
group of millionaire exploiters is to
dominate the world.” This worthy could
recently be heard speaking in the Sydney
Town Hall under the auspices of a so-
called Legal Rights Committee ; for town
halls, as well as public parks and —in
the notorious case of the May Day pro-
cession—public thoroughfares, are placed
at the disposal of mobs that were so
recently opposed to the war and
may be presumed to be capable
of opposing it again. In a paper
called “Forward” the secretary of
the “Legal Rights Committee” boister-
ously congratulated “Private Jack Blake”
on his “magnificent poll” in the Port
Melbourne Assembly by-election. Private
Blake, described as “one of Australia's
leading Leninists,” stood as a Commu-
nist, with the full permission of the
authorities, though the Communist party
is nominally under a legal ban.
In the March 27 debate on the “Aus-
tralia First” accusations Mr. Spender,
glancing at his successor as Minister for
the Army, said “The Minister will agree
that there is ample evidence of the Com-
munist party having endeavored to place
Communist cells in the military forces.”
Mr. Forde did not and could not deny
it, and these unspeakable attempts to
white-ant “the morale of our army, which
may at any moment be called upon to
resist the enemy at our gates” (Mr.
Spender again), have been marked by
blackguardly attacks on a distinguished
general, who has been bracketed with
The Bulletin as “Fascist” —this came
out at an inquiry into a very ugly inci-
dent at one of the camps. Communists,
helped by near-Coms. and fools, tried
to form an army of their own, and there
are signs that they are trying to get
round the regulation prohibiting it.
Such prohibitions are worth nothing
unless they are sternly administered, and
for stern administration this Government
is not remarkable.
Emboldened by the lack of it, “leading
Leninists” are touring the country
addressing public meetings at which they
demand “the restoration of legality to
the Communist party” and the suppres-
sion of The Bulletin, and boast of the
services they have rendered to the Gov-
ernment. At Griffith (N.S.W.) two “lead-
ing Leninists” “gave details of the precise
information supplied to the authorities by
the N. S. Wales Legal Rights Committee
on fifth-column activity, and followed by
Government action.” The particular
claim is that Communists were prime
movers in the proceedings against the
N. S. Wales “Australia First” people,
and, in contempt of Mr. Curtin’s injunc-
tion, Communists have published a list of
persons alleged to have been arrested,
with outrageous comments prejudicial to
a fair trial. They must have got the in-
formation from some politician or an-
other, and they have found politicians
willing to assist other features of their
dirty work.
Our Government should deal with
Communists as the U.S.A. and Canadian
Governments deal with them. The meas-
ures those Governments have adopted
have been accepted by the leaders of the
great labor unions, and have assisted their
countries’ vigorous war efforts. And
they safeguard those countries against
possible attempts to turn “the imperialist
war,” should it become that again, into
a civil war.
"The Little More."
The “news from home” which Austra-
lian dailies are publishing for the edifi-
cation of our American guests is rather
poor stuff. No doubt the boys are glad
to know how the Dodgers got on with
the Cardinals and how Joe Louis, Di
Maggio, Vines, Snead, Tilden and the
film stars still at Hollywood are standing
the strain of war; but the budgets
served up to them have all the appear-
ance of being prepared by strangers for
strangers.
The Americans must wonder why the
compilers don’t send them some of the
racy matter which their own papers pub-
lish. On the subject of Mrs, Roosevelt,
for example. As “presented” in Austra-
lian journals, that lady seems as remote
and statue-like as Queen Victoria, yet
reading American papers one gets an
altogether different impression. Her ever-
busy pen, her challenging championship
of her friends and the spirit with which
she defends herself when criticised by
Republican scribes—as she often is—
make her a most interesting figure.
Interesting also is Dorothy Thompson,
but not as exhibited in her solemn articles
syndicated in Australian papers. Miss
Thompson is no sawdust figure, but a
real woman, as a New York “Post” re-
port revealed:
Dorothy Thompson, the writer-columnist,
and an anonymous blonde with a penchant
for shouting “Heil Hitler! ” staged a battle
royal outside the Cafe Royale early today.
The combat was brief, furious and one-
sided. When the dust of battle cleared
from the East-side sidewalk Miss Thomp-
son’s left index finger had been painfully
and effectively bitten and she had been
kicked twice in the stomach.
The extent of the blonde’s damage from
liquor was obvious, but otherwise she was
still hale, hearty and vociferous when her
escort shoved her into a cab and whisked
her away from the scene of battle.
Recovering from her wounds in her apart-
ment at 237 E 47th-street, Miss Thompson
received reporters as she reclined in a
peach-colored bed-jacket.
The thing was adorned with a portrait
of “B/iVz-bitten Dorothy”—vastly un-
like the portraits published in Austra-
lian papers—“recuperating after wagging
her finger too near the teeth of a Nazi
blonde outside Cafe Royale.”
Another affecting episode, described in
the New York “World” but not cabled
to Australia:
Frank (The Dasher) Abbandando lived by
violence, died by violence and today was
buried with violence. The Dasher was
executed at Sing Sing, along with Harry
(Happy) Maione, for the slaying of George
Rudnick, underworld informer, who was
stabbed 56 times with an ice-pick in a
Brooklyn garage, May 25, 1937.
With two cars carrying the flowers and
four cars filled with mourners, Abban-
dando’s funeral cortege left his father’s
home at 346 A Chauncey-street, Brooklyn.
Through Brownsville streets, once terrorised
by the thugs of Murder, Inc., the procession
proceeded to the church. More than 500
persons were crowded inside and another
400 were held in line outside by six patrol-
men and 10 detectives under command of
Capt. Howard O’Leary, of the 12th detec-
tive district.
Henry W. McAllister, a New York
“Journal-American” photographer, of 82
Atlas-avenue, Malverne, L. 1., took two
photographs, one of the all-metal casket
and another of the mourners. Using the
attack technique followed by The Dasher
and his fellow-icepick-wielders of Brook-
lyn’s murder-for-hire syndicate Rocco
Abbandando, 23-year-old brother of the
executed lieutenant of Murder, Inc., rushed
McAllister from the rear, aiming two kicks
at his stomach. Both kicks landed on
the photographer’s left leg, gashing his
thigh. His camera was smashed and his
eyeglasses hit the sidewalk. Detectives Wil-
liam Brennan, James Shannon and Albert
Beron, all of the 75th Squad, leaped to his
aid. Rocco was charged with felonious
assault.
Minus Rocco, the funeral procession pro-
ceeded to St. John’s Cemetery, Middle
Village, Queens.
And no doubt many of our Americans
would be glad to have an occasional bit
from the “Congressional Record.” Con-
gressmen have a pleasant habit of giving
a wider vogue to unappreciated poets,
editors and magazine writers by reading
their lucubrations to fellow-members by
way of getting them published in the
Appendix to the “Record.” For example,
Mr. Woodrum, of Virginia:
Mr. Woodrum, of Virginia; Mr. Speaker,
under leave granted me, I am herewith in-
serting two poems by my scholarly kinsman,
Lon Woodrum. The poems, “Christmas
Prayer, 1941,” and “Awakening,” are most
timely and expressive.
There is no space here for “Christmas
Prayer, 1941,” and “Awakening” has to
be shaved down to a few lines, but they
are certainly expressive:
I hear feet,
A million, two million, ten million;
They shake the earth.
You won’t like ’em, Benito.
I hear wings,
A thousand, ten thousand, half a million,
They span the heavens with a span of death.
Remember Pearl Harbor, Tojo?
I hear machines,
A hundred, ten thousand, a million;
Yesterday they built autos.
And roller skates and Chinese checker-
boards,
Now they spit out guns and bombs
And battleships and everything you need
To blow an empire off the earth,
Or a dozen empires.
Can you take it, Schickelgruber?
Long ago, when Sydney’s City Cuncil
was under Labor control, a vigorous


attempt was made to sell it a hole in the
ground, euphemistically, described as a
coalmine, for £BO,OOO or so, so a note
familiar to Sydneians was struck by Mr.
Jenkins, of Ohio, in “submitting an edi-
torial written by Mr. John E. Sylvester,
the editor of the Wellston ‘Telegram,’
of Wellston, Ohio.” Mr. Sylvester’s
article would have delighted The Bulle-
tin’s James Edmond:
FROM THAT FOUNT OF EVERY
BLESSING CAME THIS $165,000 LOAN.
Stonewall Jackson fell by accident....
Seventy years later, named for him, the
Stonewall Jackson Co. was organised to
mine coal east of Wellston along the Jack-
son and Vinton county line.
It started off in a big way, soon bogged
down for lack of funds, and forthwith,
hand-in-hand, went to that Roosevelt reser-
voir of ready cash the Government’s Recon-
struction Finance Corporation lending
agency.
Maybe the glamor of the resplendent
name dazzled the Democrat leaders. Per-
haps politically right were those bold en-
trepreneurs from little Pee Wee township,
County of Pike, State of Ohio. Anyway,
the bigwigs at Washington pushed a
$165,000 in good bankable bills across the
counter —yes, a lot of mazuma in any
man’s language. .
And the security—but why bring that
up now?
Anyway, the security was 440 acres of hill
land, at best worth $2O an acre; and the
mortgage blanketed some second-hand
machinery also. To ensure repayment of
the loan, the company agreed to apply 25
cents a ton from all coal mined.
So far all was hunky-dory. But there’s
the rub —Stonewall quit digging coal.
When the loan was made there was
much eye-winking and head-shaking in
these backward parts, where we know so
little about high finance... .Now the loan
turns up in another’s hands, and the United
States of America isn’t telling how much
it lost on the transaction. And the Stone-
wall Jackson Co. is called to an account-
ing in the court.
But that doesn’t matter; it’s as dead as
the old gentleman himself, mouldering away
in his grave at Lexington.
That’s the stuff to give our brothers-in-
arms!
PLAIN ENGLISH
"Bigger, Better, Brighter."
The pensioner vote is so strong and
growing so much stronger that for a
member of Parliament to risk antagonis-
ing it is to take his political life in his
hands ; and such members have become
rare. One of them is Archie Cameron,
M.H.R. for Barker (S.A.). Speaking on
one of the social-service bills with which
in the most fateful months of Australia’s
history Parliament has been littered, he
said that the Government which at such
a time chose to go in for “bigger, better,
brighter and more beautiful pensions for
everybody” had no “sense of reality.”
State pensions for N.S.W. coalminers
at 60. More State pensions for wives of
pensioned coalminers. State pensions for
“coalmine managers, under-managers,
clerks, coke workers and mine workers’
widows.” Commonwealth pensions for
widows and the first children of widows —
second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh
and eighth children are cared for under
the child-endowment scheme. More State
pensions for widows (and no taxpayer
can be quite sure that they won’t be paid
double or that “mine workers’ widows”
won’t draw three lots of pensions). An
increase to 255. a week for Commonwealth
old-age and invalid pensioners. State
workers’ compensation without limit, not
only for employees injured at work but
for those injured going to and from work,
perhaps as a result of getting fighting
drunk and being slugged out in a beer-
shop. And nearly all in one week’s issue
of vicarious philanthropy in Canberra
and Sydney.
There is a time for everything, and
this is emphatically not a time for
“bigger, better, brighter and more beauti-
ful pensions.” In respect of old-age and
invalid allowances, cost-of-living increases
were already provided for, and no more
could be reasonably expected of a
Government whose Treasurer says he
expects to have a war deficit of
£70,000,000 at the end of June.
After Waterloo, when the victorious
Allies were streaming towards Paris,
they found the French Deputies, undis-
turbed by the roar of the guns, lost in
an absorbing debate. They were “giving
their country a Constitution when it was
not certain whether they would have a
country.” Deputies and Constitution
soon disappeared, never to be re-
assembled. This episode is recorded in
history as the world’s worst example of
legislative fatuity. But the occupations
in which the gentlemen at Canberra and
in Macquarie-street, Sydney, have been
engaged when, as the Prime Minister
says, “invasion is a menace capable
hourly of becoming an actuality,” run
it pretty close.
Away with the Borders!
In Melbourne City Council last week,
Cr. Barry, M.L.A., succeeded with a
resolution urging the Victorian Govern-
ment to simplify the government of the
State and to replace the “Parliament”
and the municipal councils with four or
five provincial councils, each of about 20
members. He suggested that provincial
councils be set up in Melbourne, Gipps-
land, the Western District and the North-
Cr. Calwell, M.H.R., supporting the
resolution, said he believed abolition of
State Parliaments would be carried at a
referendum.
Cr. Barry’s idea is no doubt put for-
ward as a beginning. Probably he
believes that, if Victorians can be per-
suaded to do away with their Parliament
and substitute regional councils, the
people in other States will quickly follow
suit. The weakness of his idea is that it
stops at borders. The people of the Riv-
erina, who are Australians by birth,
N. S. Welsh by a political border and
mainly Victorians as far as State outlook
goes, would be excluded, though the
proper and logical thing is a Riverina
regional council embracing districts on
both sides of the Murray.
In any plan for regional councils,
existing State borders must be regarded
as non-existent.
"Australia First" Cases.
After more evidence had been given for
the Crown, among the witnesses being
neighbors and acquaintances of Bullock,
the four Westralians accused at Perth
were committed for trial, heavy bail being
fixed.
It was deposed that Bullock had said
that
Geraldton had been bombed and destroyed.
An Allied aircraft carrier had been sunk
off that place. If the Japanase invaded
the country there would still be an Austra-
lian Government under Japanese control.
The “eastern States have packed us in;
the Japanese will be here any time and we
will be on our knees.” There was a party
in Australia suing for a separate peace. He
was afraid of the capitalists but not of
German, Italian or Japanese rule. Japanese
would populate the north.
Quicke, another accused, was alleged
to have called himself a fool for ever
getting mixed up in the business, and
to have “denounced Bullock in out-
spoken terms.”
In Sydney, on application for a writ
of habeas corpus, Mrs. Adela Walsh
challenged the validity of a National
Security regulation under which she has
been interned. It was a Full Court case,
and for the Crown it was argued that the
validity of the regulation had been up-
held in Westralian and South Australian
courts.
Said Chief Justice Jordan:
I should have thought that if the Legisla-
ture intended to confer on the Minister
power of life and death over citizens it
would have conferred it in specific terms.
I do not say the Minister should not have
the power. It is extremely desirable that
he should have it It is extraordinary
that these drastic powers were not
specifically referred to, unless the words of
the Act were mere shop-dressing intended to
lull Parliament into a sense of false security.
Mrs. Bernard, for the appellant, said
it was reasonable to contend that Parlia-
ment never authorised the “creation of
a small totalitarian State within the Com-
monwealth,” She added that vital safe-
guards in the British Emergency Powers
legislation had been left out of the Aus-
tralian measure, including the right of
appeal.
The appellant presented a long state-
ment in which she detailed her British
descent, her political activities and her
loyalty to the British cause.
With some additional remarks on “the
great powers conferred on a Minister”
by “harmless-looking general words in
a section which seemed mainly to be con-
cerned with property,” the Chief Justice
announced that the application for a writ
of habeas corpus was refused. No order
was made as to costs.
"Privilege."
Written by a former Attorney-General:
“Liberty of speech is granted you, but you
must know what privilege you have; not to
speak everyone what he listeth or what cometh
:n his brain to utter.” That was said by Sir
Edward Coke, Lord Keeper, in 1593, confirm-
ing on behalf of Queen Elizabeth the Speaker’s
usual request for the privilege of the House.
It would seem that the Lord Keeper, even
in those remote days, regarded the privilege
granted to members of Parliament in an
entirely different sense from the absolute and
uncontrolled privilege enjoyed and abused
today. No doubt Coke assumed that elected
representatives would comport themselves as
befitting their high and responsible position.
Today a member of Parliament is free to
utter scandalous and defamatory words con-
cerning members of the general public, know-
ing that he is immune from the law of libel
and slander; and in notorious recent cases this
has been done. But if a member applies scan-
dalous and defamatory terms to a fellow-
member, he may be ordered by the Speaker
to withdraw, apologise or be “named,” with
attendant penalties prescribed by the House.
Parliamentary privilege in Britain is derived
from the customs and practices of both Houses.
(Continued on page 9.)
STRENGTH TO YOUR ARM, MRS. PUBLIC OPINION!


BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA
Just a Few Sips and—
Like a Flash Relief!
Sleep Sound All Night.
To-day at any chemist or store get a
bottle of BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL
(triple acting)—by far the largest-sell-
ing cough medicine in all of blizzardly
cold Canada —take a couple of doses
and sleep sound all night long.
One little sip and the ordinary cough
is “on Its way”—continue for 2 or 3
days and you’ll hear no more from
that tough old hang-on cough that
nothing seems to help.
Siuckhy'i
CANADIOL
M I X JURE
Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/I/’3B). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LiTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria; A.O.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Pahinga Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia : Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States .
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE BANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making yoU
miserable, don’t just complain and do noth-
ing about them. Nature may be warning you
that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature's chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood, causing nagging backaches,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, swelling, putfincss
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning show there is something wrong with
your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief- and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisono’is
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE, KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
tluit will make you well and keep you well.
POLITICAL POINTS
Chifley has introduced four bills to im-
plement his uniform-tax plan, though two
—the principal measure and an assess-
ment bill—would be sufficient. The
principle is unassailable, and, though
there are arguable details, they can be
thrashed out in debate. In his speech the
Treasurer said one good thing (“State
rights and State boundaries are an
ignoble conception when a nation is in
danger”), and though the petty politi-
cians who stand for State rights and State
boundaries are making a fearful row, he
will win if he doesn’t weaken.
Louder and longer laughter was never
heard in the House at Canberra than
when Dedman blamed Mother’s Day for
the panic buying. Eight days after
Mother’s Day the panic buying was still
in evidence, and scores of thousands of
angry people, munition workers among
them, were calling for Dedman’s head.
As in Ward’s case, Curtin won’t hand it
to them. He is too loyal to dud col-
leagues.
Curtin made another appearance last
week as lead in the tragi-comedy “Settling
the Coal Strikes,” with “noises off” by
Ward. The P.M. said that call-up notices
were ready for a parcel of strikers but
would be withheld, all hands having gone
back to work. As usual, the main piece
was followed by a harlequinade. “More
than 1700 workers in five mines” were
out on Monday.
Not only the retail trade, the army of
shop assistants threatened with unem-
ployment and the other army of workers
unable to buy goods because hoarders
have hogged them have a crow to pluck
with Dedman. With Ward’s assistance
he has been trying for months to decide
what to do about the Westralian gold-
mining industry and the men employed
in the mines, and Westralia doesn’t know
his intentions yet. Panton, the Minister
of Mines, protested in the Perth Assem-
bly last month that they had been con-
cealed from him. Meanwhile Kalgoorlie,
a good Australian town which lives on
the mines, having no other source of in-
come, feels under a suspended sentence
of death for the duration.
When in Opposition Dedman and
Ward declared that the war couldn’t be
won “under the present system.” Under
their system, whatever they may call it,
they couldn’t run a dogfight without fall-
ing over the dogs.
Lamp, Landa and Lazzarini (the Carlo-
Camillo one) were out of the privileged
mudslinging business last week, but an-
other L took up the running—Lang. He
made a bitter attack on an engineer em-
ployed on the Burrinjuck repair job and
on Sydney Snow, of the U.A.P. All they
could do was to deny his charges and
invite him to repeat them outside, but
Lang knows too much for that. Then
Weaver, who was Clyne’s predecessor as
Speaker, was heard from. He dismissed
the “charges” “deliberate untruths,
without a tittle of evidence to support
them,” adding that “if such things con-
tinue we will be dishonoring ourselves
and cutting our throats.” Perhaps it
would be better in the long run to let
them cut their throats.
May 10 was the anniversary of
Hess’s arrival in Scotland. Forgotten
by their authors, no doubt, were the
official “explanations” of the No. 3 Nazi’s
flight—“suffering from a disease” ; “got
hold of an aeroplane in defiance of the
Fuhrer’s orders” ; “left a letter showing
trace's of mental disorder” ; “had an in-
sane idea of reconciling Britain and Ger-
many”; “adjutants placed under arrest,”
and so forth. No authoritative statement
of what he said to British Ministers has
ever appeared, but subsequent events
have made it clear that he told Churchill
that Hitler, hoping to bribe the former
into signing a peace, was going to attack
Russia, and that Churchill, rejecting the
bribe with cold disdain, told Stalin.
For the ten months of the financial
year, Tasmanians paid their State Gov-
ernment £1,172,914 in taxation—£72l,36B
of it income tax. At the beginning of
the period the population was slightly
over 239,000. Now any population of
that size that can afford to pay a super-
fluous organisation that much, in addi-
“Fourteen Sydney wharf-laborers, caught with stolen goods in their possession, were
fined.” ... “When a burglar is caught with the goods there should be no question of fining
a substantial term of imprisonment should be imposed.” —Minister Ward on profiteers,
same page of “S. M. Herald.”
"Eddie, did YOU say THAT?
tion to meeting increased Federal tax-
ation, should be on a good thing. It seems
strange that Tasmanians should emigrate
to other parts. Or does it?
In the shabbiest spirit of provincialism
the Senate has disallowed the regulation
lifting the idiotic ban on the sale of beef
from the Board of Works farm at Werri-
bee (Vic.). That should be another nail
in its coffin.
Dr. Evatt three months ago:
Portuguese relieving forces were en route
to Timor, with the full knowledge of the
Japanese, when the latter launched an
attack on Dilli on February 21. The Por-
tuguese Government formally protested to
Japan. It will be interesting to observe
whether the Portuguese troops will insist
on the evacuation of Dilli.
They never got there. When last heard
of, “after travelling halfway round the
world,” they were bearing down on
Mozambique, East Africa, to pick grit
out of pepper or something.
The brownout, which has been accom-
panied in places by a startling increase
of blackguardism and crime, has been or
is to be modified in four States. This
should be, though it isn’t, an effect of the
R.A.F.’s raid on Warnemunde, least suc-
cessful of the present Blitz. Instead of
dousing all their glims, the Warnemun-
deans turned on a battery of lights so
blinding that the raiders couldn’t dis-
tinguish any target, and they lost 19
machines. Many people have all along
been of opinion that dazzle and not
blackout, which can never be complete
when the moon is up and the harbor is
a long glowing track, should be Sydney’s
protective device against raiders. But
Heffron won’t have it.
Mr. Badly, who is Minister of Mines
and Sunday Picture Shows, boasts that
N.S.W. coal production last year was the
greatest on record. It amounted to
11,667,846 tons, a whole 49,630 tons more
than production in 1924. The average
for three pre-war years, 1924-1926 in-
clusive, was 11,300,060 tons ; for two full
war years, 1940-1941, tons. It
takes little to make Badly boast.
At the present rate of appointment it
shouldn’t be long before a battalion of
defeated Labor candidates is in Govern-
ment jobs. The latest is S. C. Taylor, a
Sydney lawyer who was one of W. M.
Hughes’s many opponents and who
seconded the vote to the returning officer
on other occasions. He is to assist in
some way or other Boss Cop Mac Kay,
who has been lent to the Commonwealth
Government for something or other.
Taylor is a brother of the Taylor, also
a lawyer, whom Labor put on the Com-
monwealth Bank Board.
This week’s fairy tale:
There was once an Australian Minister who
made an obvious blunder that had repercus-
sions all over the Commonwealth. When
called to account, he did not put the blame
on the capitalists, nor on Mother’s Day, nor
on opponents of the Government. He simply
said, “I admit the mistake. I acted too hastily.
I am doing everything to remedy it.” Then
the attendants rushed out for smelling salts,
brandy and other things to revive the fainting
members.
Maloney, a N.S.W. Leg. Councillor,
talking about his Government’s third-
party-risk insurance bill, said all insur-
ance should be handled by the Govern-
ment insurance office, as “private enter-
prise should not be allowed to make
profits from social legislation.” Maloney
allows that private enterprise may be per-
mitted to find taxes to pay for social
legislation.
Criticising the “awful” clothes-ration-
ing “blunder,” Calwell, Dr. Maloney’s
successor as member for Melbourne,
accused Dedman of being “too ready to
follow economists of the University type
who are on the Government payroll.”
If the Government is too faint-hearted,
to shoot some of these economists, it should
sack them.
Immediately afterwards, Colin Clarke,
sometime of Oxford and the British
Government Economics Council, was
named “Deputy Director of the De-
partment of War Organisation of In-
dustry for Queensland,” with a Brisbane
office. Apparently Dedman was so in-
furiated or broken up or something by
the Calwell philippic that he went out and
appointed another economist.
It was mentioned in the Perth Assem-
bly last month that the population of
Westralia has in a short time increased
from 460,000 to 600,000. Some day it
will be round 6,000,000, But then there
will be no Perth “Parliament,” though
there will be flourishing regions, run as
to regional affairs by their own councils,
and all sending representatives to the
Parliament of the nation.
The Commonwealth is to pay a guar-
anteed price of 3s. 6.1 d. a bushel for the
153,000,000 bushels delivered to the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board last harvest, the
price being on a f.o.b. bagged basis.
Minister Scully explained that the dron
from the 3s. lOd. guarantee was due to
that guarantee being fixed for 140,000,000
bushels, and that growers’ representatives
had agreed to the price being spread over
the extra 13,000,000 bushels. Meantime,
Senator McLeay has announced that
handling and storage charges on the
wheat are estimated to reach 10.486 d. a
bushel by September. Unless something
is done about limiting storage charges the
guaranteed price will be eaten away.
McKnell, the Sydney Premier, in his
weekly press article:
The need for a common unified effort to
sink differences, to realise the stark realities
of this war, should be plain to the blind-
est....
It came out simultaneously with the news
that the Federal Treasurer had intro-
duced a unified-taxation bill, a war
measure more than two years overdue.
McKnell fought that unified effort with
every popgun he possessed.
McKnell, concluding his weekly article
on the war: —•
We would be criminal if, under this cloud,
some of us endeavored to manufacture our
own artificial sunrays, and then to pretend
to ourselves and others that we were still
in the comforting warmth of a cloudless
high noon.
What do McKnell’s bigger and brighter
pensions and more beautiful workers’
compensation amount to but a pretence
that “we are still in the comforting
warmth of a cloudless high moon”?
Calmly stated in A.B.C.’s annual report
that A.B.C. budgeted for an increase in
license fees to the extent of £53,392.
Who gave it the right or the hint or the
promise that it could expect a rise in
license fees?
It is put this way:
A net loss of £41,467 in revenue for the
year 1940-41, following the reduction of
license fees in August, 1940, caused the
A.B.C. to reduce expenditure on artists’
fees and concerts by £52,000.
So artists got it in the neck. The huge
staff was made huger. And the “Weakly”
went on losing barrels of money.
Trustees of Victorian cemeteries are
troubled about a shortage of grave-
diggers, only old men having been left
under the man-power regulations. Per-
haps Barry, M.L.A., will move that as a
contribution to the war effort Victorians
should dig their own graves, the State
Parliament to set the example.


Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Divorce Notices.
IN
theT supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES— IN Divorce
TO EDNA AGNES NASH late of Sydney and
Newcastle. —TAKE NOTICE that GILBER
NASH has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 68/
of 1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance on or before the 30th June 1942 and obtain
a cony of the petition without charge trprn
MADDOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE Solici-
tors 38 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. k.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TCT CL A R ENCE GEO RG E TAYLOR for-
merly of 6 Church Street Abbotsford in the
State of Victoria Laundryman.—TAKE NOIiee
that your wife has commenced divorce proceed-
ings against you on the ground of desertion
Unless you enter an appearance in the Office ot
the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria in Melbourne on or before the 1st day ot
June 1942 the case may proceed m your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs
If you intend to defend this suit you must also
file an answer in the said office on or before
the 11th day of June 1942— ROY SCHILLING
of 379 Collins Street Melbourne Proctor for the
Petitioner. -
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK MATTHEW KOEFORD
late of Gunnedah New South Wales. TAKE
NOTICE that MONICA HAZEL KOEFORD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 727 ot
1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
You may enter an appearance belore the
Thirtieth day of June 1942 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from JOHN
CORCORAN & CO. Solicitors 2 York Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
Divorce Notice.
TO CLIVE ALFRED BALDOCK formerly of
St. Kilda Road Melbourne in the State ot
Victoria but now of parts unknown Fruiterer.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife KATHLEEN
AGNES ELIZABETH BALDOCK has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
and a repeated act of adultery Unless you
enter an appearance in the Office of the lio-
thonotary of the Supreme Court Melbourne
on or before the Eleventh day of June One
thousand nine hundred and forty-two the case
mav proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs AND FURTHER it you
intend to defend the said suit you must cause
an answer to be filed in the said office on or
before the Twenty-second day of June One
thousand nine hundred and forty-two. Tms>
advertisement is inserted by C. M. S. POWER,
of 283 Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Solici-
tor for Victoria, Solicitor for the Petitionei.
Missing Friends.
HENRY OLDEN PEARCE, late of Glebe
Road and Neutral Bay, communicate with K.
Rochester, 33 Orpington Street, Ashfield.
EVANSTlvlary, who resided at 29 Walker
Street, Redfern, in 1917, or any person knowing
her whereabouts, is requested to communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Box 7a, G.P.0.,
Sydney, in connection with the estate or
William Evans, a former employee of Maun
Bros, and Thompson, Ltd.
ANYONE knowing whereabouts of FRED-
ERICK HENRY COLE, formerly of PenUand,
Queensland, or of children of ELLEN OLI /EK
LONG, who died 1923, please communicate
EQUITY TRUSTEES, 472 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne. Said F. H. Cole and E. O.
were children of Frederick Cole and Bridget
Cole, nee Brodie.
Legal Notice^
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEA-
LAND —Wellington District (Wellington Regis-
try") No. 679. —In the matter of “The Trustee
Act 1908” and in the matter of ALICE
late of the City of Wellington Widow deceased
PURSUANT to an order made by a Judge ol
the Suoreme Court of New Zealand on the
ut day o? May 1942 NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all creditors and other persons
having claims against the estate of the above-
named deceased person who died at Wellington
on the 19th day of October 1941 and Letters
of Administration of whose estate were granted
by the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Wel-
lington on the 4th day of December 1941 are
hereby required to send in full particulars in
writing of their claims to the Administrator at
the offices of the New Zealand Insurance Com-
pany Limited Cnr. Featherston and Johnston
Streets Wellington on or before the 7th day ot
Julv 1942 next after which date the Admims-
trator will proceed to distribute the assets or
the deceased among the persons entitled thereto
having regard only to the claims and demands
of which he shall then have had notice
DATED at Wellington this 4th day of May
One thousand nine hundred and forty-iwo
(1942) -PERRY PERRY & POPE Solicitors to
Douglas Hamilton Hume the Administrator of
the abovenamed deceased.
No Act of Parliament defines these customs
in Britain, but in the Dominions Privilege Acts
passed in various States confer upon both
Houses the privileges, immunities and powers
enjoyed by the House of Commons at the
time of the passing of the Acts. They all
go back to the Bill of Rights, which declares
“That the freedom of speech or debates or
proceedings in Parliament ought not to be
impeached or questioned in any court or place
out of Parliament.”
if a newspaperman or a member of the public
commits an alleged breach of privilege he may
be summoned to the Bar of the House to
answer a charge of contempt. It he refuses
to attend the Speaker may issue a warrant to
the Sergeant-at-Arms giving that official authoi-
ity to bring him in custody to the Bar.
Resistance to the Sergeant-at-Arms is a further
breach of privilege, dealt with as a sepaiate
offence. Haled to the Bar, the person charged
may be committed to prison, and during the
same session of Parliament the Courts will not
discharge by a writ of habeas corpus a peison
who has been committed, nor can they bail
him. He is kept in prison until he presents a
petition praying for his release. All these elabo-
rate precautions protect members of Parliament
from the public. The public has no rights
whatever against-any gross, unprovoked and
highly defamatory comment by a member oi
can any member of the public traduce
another if he values his liberty or his purse.
If he does he is liable to prosecution in the
Police Court for offensive language; if the
words are written and likely t° provoke a
breach of the peace he may be indicted in the
Supreme Court for false and malicious libel or
he may be proceeded against for heavy damages.
It would not be difficult so to amend the law
that some measure of protection would be given
to citizens against the foul attacks of politicians
who abuse “privilege.” A Parliament carelul
of the rights of citizens would in these cases
request a Judge of the Supreme Court to in-
vestigate the facts —as he does in electoral
matters as president ol the Court cff Disputed
Returns —and report back to Parliament. But
it is idle to suggest a measure that would
admit of such proceedings to a Parliament
like the one in N. S. Wales.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Dr Evatt will return from Britain a
Privy Councillor. There were already
six in the House— Hughes Scullm Men-
zies, Page, Curtin and Fadden. P.Cs. are
“addressed as Right Honorable and wear
a State uniform” ; but only Billy is even
remotely suspected of possessing th
uniform.
More Spitfire pilots have returned to
add their signatures to the Australian
“Keep Off” sign. Flight-Lieut. Frank
Coker has been followed by Squadron-
Leader Keith (“Bluey”) Truscott, who led
the Australian Spitfire Squadron m Eng-
land and who has 15 Nazi ’planes, the
D.F.C. and bar to his credit. With Trus-
cott came Flight-Lieut. Clive Wawn of
the same unit, and home, too, is Pilot-
Officer Jack Elphick, of Queanbeyan,
formerly of Finucane’s squadion and
with 30 sweeps over France on his record.
John Soundy, M.H.A., has been re-
elected Lord Mayor of Hobart. A tall,
JOHN SOUNDY, M.H.A.
lean man of many interests, John is full
of good cheer and good humor, and he
can tell a good story when he doesn't
spoil it by laughing at his own jokes.
His pet enthusiasm is housing. Soundy
is as much a part of Hobart as the Town
Hall in which he conducts its business.
A letter Shaw Neilson wrote last year
when he was invited to contribute to
Australian Poetry, 1941 :
Dear Sir, —I have your letter of Feb. 26.
I am very pleased indeed to hear such a
fine effort is being made. It should be a
great help to our writers. I am sorry that
I see no prospect of being able to do any-
thing myself. I am an old person with
very little leisure. I have not written any-
thing worth while since Beauty Imposes
was published in 1938. Hoping for the
success of your venture. —J. S. Neilson.
Gone now to the minor but unimpeach-
able immortality of a natural lyrist who,
never attempting anything more weighty,
poured out song as clear and pure as a
bird’s, Neilson must have felt that his
end was near when he wrote that letter.
But on holiday in Brisbane he found the
heart to write again ; “To Norah Mc-
Kinney,” published first in “Meanjin
Papers” and afterwards in the anthology
lacked the fine precision of the verses he
wrote for The Bulletin 40 years ago,
but had a good measure of his invariable
charm, and in one couplet epitomised
both his verse and his character:
But I, being wrong in the reason and dull over
money,
It’s love that I want to be telling, all in the
green honey.
He was 70 when he died at Footscray,
Melbourne.
“C. 8.”: John Shaw Neilson used to
keep the wolf from the door by sending
his verse in to poetry competitions. On
one occasion he was beaten for first
place by John Neilson. The successful
rival was his father.
A man who might have served for the
original Mr. Chips is W. P. Nicholls,
who has retired after 41 years as head of
Pulteney Grammar School in Adelaide.
He reckons that more that 3000 young
hopefuls passed through his hands, and
the analogy with Mr. Chips is rendered
closer by the fact that he twice refused
the appointment before becoming head.
He will be succeeded by A. E. Barton,
an Englishman who graduated at Man-
chester University but has spent many
years in Australia. He served with the
Seaforths in the 1914-18 war and spent
a couple of years in the Sudan. He has
been getting in some practice on budding
intellects at Melbourne Grammar and
Melbourne Scotch.
Collecting rock specimens and academic
prizes seems to have become a life-work
for Dr. E. S. Hills, who, at 35, has been
appointed associate professor at Mel-
bourne University. He graduated D.Sc.
from there after winning the 1851 Exhibi-
tion, went to London University for his
Ph.D. and a fellowship of the Geological
Society, returned as lecturer, became
senior lecturer and gathered in the David
Syme research prize in 1940. Recently
he collected the London Geological
Society’s Wollaston Fund, and his Out-
line of Structural Geology was widely
accepted in England.
Lavington Bonython has worked up
from being the youngest member of Adel-
aide City Corporation, when first elected
in 1901, to being its senior. He is now
an alderman, after various years in the
Mayoral chair. The corporation has a
sort of war-time truce, Seymour Hawker
having been re-elected as Mayor and
the whole body going in without the July
contest for the second year running.
Air-Marshal Richard Williams, who
goes to Washington as R.A.A.F. repre-
sentative, is Australia’s foremost air offi-
cer in more ways than one. He is the
highest ranking Australian air officer on
record, is the only Australian to have
graduated at the Army and Air Staff Col-
leges and the Imperial Defence College,
and the only Australian to have corn-
manded an R.A.E. wing in the field. A
former Chief of the Air Staff, Williams was
the first C.M.F. officer to graduate as a
pilot from Point Cook—that was in 1914.
By 1916 he had left Australia as flight-
commander of No. 1 Squadron, A.F.C.,
and was awarded the D.S.O. for distin-
guished service in Palestine. By 1918 he
was in command of the 4th (army) wing,
RAF, of which the Australian squad-
ron formed half. He steps into his new-
office after returning from London, where
he was Air Officer Commanding R.A.A.K
Headquarters.
There is one man in Melbourne who
must survey the present revolution—or
devolution—in transport with rather
mixed feelings. He is George Broad-
bent, author of the well-known maps and
guides to Victorian highways, ana
founder of the Good Roads movement.
A pioneer cyclist, Broadbent has used the
roads he worked to improve as much as
anyone —it is 60 years since he first
mounted a boneshaker, and at two years
off 80 he still pedals for health and
pleasure. He won numerous track events
and put up many records ; his six hours
20 minutes for 100 miles on solid tyres
still stands. His three stalwart sons were
leading track cyclists.
Hitler’s Blitz, on England was the
inspiration for the King’s Medal, the
personal award made by George VI to
firemen and policemen for distinguished
behavior. The first Australian to receive
it is James Kemp, Melbourne’s chief fire
officer, who gets it for his untiring zeal
in multiplying the southern city’s fire-
fighting resources to meet possible air
raids. Kemp went from school to the
fire brigade and worked up from the
bottom rung of the ladder. In 40 years
of service he has been in attendance on
all Melbourne’s biggest bonfires.
Into the silence:
At Port Adelaide, A. W. Brown, an ex-Mayor.
Interested for many years in Westrahan mining,
he was chairman of directors of the Norseman co.
In England, at 66, Louis Charles Bernacchi,
Tasmanian-born scientist and explorer. He went
to the Antarctic in 1898 with Borchgrevmk and
in 1901-04 with Scott; after that he went ex-
ploring in Namaqualand in German S.-w. Africa
and then to the forests of the upper Amazon
basin. He was a lieut.-commander in the anti-
submarine division of the R.N.V.R. during
1916-18; later he gave up exploring tor Busi-
ness interests. _
At 65, in Melbourne, Professor William John
Young, one of Australia’s leading biochemists
and a world authority on alcoholic fermenta-
tion. Orchardists owe him much for his work
on the best conditions for picking and packing
oranges for export. A medical daughter is
tending Arab women and children in the Holy
City. .
At 66, in Melbourne, A. T, Craig, race-
horse-owner and -breeder, and one ot the
principals of Craig, Williamson Craig owned
Bitalli, who won the Melbourne Cup in ivzi.
Here depicted by Frith is the bedside
manner of Lieut.-Colonel A. J. Mackenzie,
C.O. of a large military hospital “some-
where in Australia” since last year. A
massive, genial Scot, he retired from the
medical world, after 30 years of practice
at Glen Innes, to run sheep and cattle
near by at Stonehenge. In 1914-18 he
was C.O. of the 4th Australian General
Hospital and C.O. of the hospital ship
Kanowna. As popular a doctor as ever
walked a ward, he believes “there’ll
LIEUT.-COL. A. J. MACKENZIE.
always be an England as long as Scot-
land stands—and that means, mon,
there’ll always be an England.”
William Musa Bhai Fowler—the name
records his father’s and uncle’s associa-
tion with the Black Watch in India—is
divisional manager of Commonwealth
munition factories in two States and con-
trols several thousand munition workers,
W. M. B. FOWLER.
among them his eldest daughter. A 49-
year-old Queenslander whose first job
was railway-construction work in the
northern State, Fowler started in the
munitions business in 1916 when he went
to England and worked in munitions fac-
tories for two years, after which he re-
turned to Australia with the nucleus staff
of the Commonwealth Arsenal. Muni-
tions weren’t much in the news in the
’twenties, but Fowler attained responsible
positions in the business in Victoria and
in 1932-36 was sent to England by the
Commonwealth Government to buy the
latest plant machinery. An uncle. Jack
Fowler, was a former C. 1.8. chief in
Sydney, and introduced the fingerprint
system to Australia.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
said. I expressed astonishment. The
salesman winked and became confiden-
tial- ‘You’d be surprised,” he said exul-
tantly. “We’ve got rid of stuff we thought
we d never shift —old stocks and fashions
we’ve written off as ‘dead.’ They snap
up anything made of any sort of material,
even stuff you could shoot peas through.
It’s been wonderful!”
* * * *
“Avon”: Many months ago there was
a hullabaloo in Maoriland because every
piece of a crate of household crockery
shipped by a Staffordshire firm and
opened at Auckland was found to bear
a swastika brand. The M.L. agents of
the firm were, at the time, quite unable
to explain how such a thing could hap-
P ei V They could only assert their firm
belief in the unimpeachable loyalty of
their principals. An explanation is now
to hand. In March, 1940, a travelling
agent of the pottery firm was in Colombo
“We girls know when you men DO run out of gas these days.”
“C.Q.”: Nine-tenths of the so-called
clothes-buying panic in Melbourne
wasn’t panic at all. All that happened
was that a lot of people who all their
lives had been told that they ought to
be thrifty but felt a desire to spend were
given just the excuse they needed by Mr.
Dedman. As evidence of which I
watched some women shopping who had
obviously never had such a chance to
spend their husbands’ money before. It
was like an ancient Roman orgy, but
instead of being an orgy of wine and
lovemaking it was an orgy of fripperies
and furbelows. Half the things they
bought were useless and superfluous. As
one determined female put it: “I’m not
going to let the Government do all the
spending!” And there was just as much
irrational behavior amongst the men.
One normally levelheaded citizen walked
into a boot shop and asked for half a
dozen pairs of black shoes. “No black
shoes left,” said the shopman. “No
matter,” said the customer. “I’ll take
tan ones and blacken them.”
“K.”: Grandfather, rising 85 and very
independent, has always insisted on doing
his own shopping. Finding he was getting
low in some items of clothing, he essayed
an excursion into town early last week
to replenish them, but at the store that
he has patronised for long years all his
efforts to fight his way in were frustrated
by panic buyers, and he had to retire,
bloodying everyone and everything. Per-
force 1 was commissioned to obtain foi
him a nightshirt, twill nightcap, red
flannel kidney belt, Crimean shirt and
other habiliments of a bygone fashion.
These, at least, I thought, would not be
snapped up. My years as a half-back
stood me in good stead, and boring
through the surging, fighting mob I
struggled to the counter. Breathlessly, 1
gave my order, but the salesman shook
iiis head. “Sold out of those, sir,” he
and accepted an order for plates, cups
and saucers which must bear the sacred
emblem of the Cingalese Buddhists who
were giving the order. This emblem is
the fylfot or swastika, which existed
several thousand years before the Nazis
adopted it. A parcel of crockery so
stamped was being conveyed in a barge
to a ship at Liverpool when the barge
was sunk in a collision. The underwriters
settled up for losses, then did some
salvage work, as a result of which the
swastika-marked crockery was saved,
was bought by an exporting firm that
had nothing to do with the original
manufacturers, and finally found its way
to Maoriland.
❖ * *
“Wodgil”: I used to like Shaw —the
playwright, not the military “authority”
—but I defy anyone to like him as mal-
treated by A.B.C. on Sunday, May 10.
The play was “The Applecart,” and
though one actor, a capable veteran who
made his name in J. C. Williamson’s time,
spoke his lines with just emphasis and
at the right tempo, others shouted theirs
at such a speed that in sheer self-protec-
tion I had to apply the closure. If Shaw
had been listening the old gentleman
might have been driven off his rocker.
“Zake”: “Cauboy” (B. 13/5/’42),
touching on the P.R.A.’s search for the
heir to “Advance, Australia Fair,” objects
to the “implied theory that patriotic senti-
ment is a proper source of private profit.”
Where does such an implication come
in? The A.B.C. had to find a suitable
musical prelude to its Australian news
session. Its choice fell on the air that
“C.” sneeringly refers to as an “undistin-
guished ditty.” But, whatever its merits,
“Advance,” etc., probably won against
competition. Had the choice fallen on
a few bars from Bizet’s “Agnus Dei” or
“Yes, We Have No Bananas,” would
“C.” have been so concerned as to the
destination of royalties? Seeing that “C.”
has such a down on the making of profits
out of patriotic sentiments, it is a wonder
that the manufacturers of flags and
badges for collection days and printers
of appeals on behalf of war causes have
so long escaped his denunciation.
* * * *
“H2O” remembers Sydney’s early
water-supply troubles:
It’s a very long time since a scarcity of the
principal temperance drink first afflicted Aus
tralia’s oldest urban area. The Tank Stream,
though the best creek in Port Jackson, gave
only a limited supply of water to the town.
In 1823 James Busby was engaged in England
as a mining-surveyor and civil engineer for N.
S. Wales, and one of the first jobs he under-
took was the solution of Sydney’s water prob-
lem. In 1825 he reported that “Sydney is at
present dependent for water on the tanks
Even in wet seasons the supply is small, and in
the dry seasons is so inconsiderable as to be
altogether unworthy of notice.” Busby sug-
gested the driving of a tunnel from what were
then known as the Lachlan Swamps—they now
lorm the ponds in the Centennial Park—and
in 1830 a restricted supply of water was afforded
the town from this source. Later on pipes
were laid through the streets, and to Sydney
Cove for the benefit of shipping. The rivulet
in the Botanic Gardens is still supplied through
Busby s Bore.” When it was completed the
lank Streams fate was sealed, and it ultimately
became a storm-water sewer. It can still remind
Sydney of its existence—during the heavy rains
at the beginning of April two pubs near
Sydney Cove had to get the Fire Brigade to
pump its overflow out of their cellars.
* * * *
Percy Pawnticket”: The war is vary-
ing the meaning and value of phrases.
Taking step with the young woman who
presides in what was in happier days my
favorite cigarette kiosk, I noticed that
she exchanged greetings with an acquain-
tance of mine and asked her if she knew
him. He was a regular customer, she
claimed. “Not that he has bought any-
thing yet,” she added thoughtfully, “but
he stops at the kiosk every day and asks
if I have any cigarettes.”
* * * *
Alma-road”; It has been suggested
that the trophy for the next Melbourne
Cup race will be an oil-paint-
ing of the winner instead of
the usual gold cup, Minister
Dedman having announced
that the time spent by crafts-
men on making cups could be
put to better use by a nation
at war. I hope some other
form of trophy is given. Paint-
ings of racehorses, with man-
nikins on their backs, are an
offence to the public eye, no
matter how great the artist or
—if you like—the horse. In
other days they were to be
found in barbers’ shops, billiard
saloons and hotel bars, and
prints frequently festooned the
walls of shearers’ huts and
deserted outback kipsies. But
for some reason whether
psychological or aesthetic I
know not—few people cared
to have such pictures on the
premises, and I can still re-
member the disgust of a travelling
salesman who tried to unload pictures
of Poseidon on a Victorian country
town at a shilling a time and
didn’t make tucker. “These blanky hay-
seeds,” he complained, “ain’t got no gen-
tility. They ain’t awake to the artistic,
that’s what.” Give the winner a silver-
mounted rug or a mulga-wood feed-box
—anything rather than a picture.
W * * 41
“Carltonian”: A couple of brownout
murders of women, with features that in-
dicate them to be the work of the same
hand, have Melbourne police bothered.
One Sunday morning a dead woman was
found in an Albert Park doorway with
her clothing ripped down into a girdle
round her waist. Her skull was frac-
tured. On the following Saturday another
woman was found in the same condition
in a city doorway. She had been strangled.
It has been hinted that a third woman
may have been saved by the appearance
of a friend when a strange man was “act-
ing suspiciously towards her.” So far,
apparently no clue to the identity of the
attacker (if there is only one) has been
discovered.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Wherever Wallace may
have got his inspiration for “Scenes That
Are Brightest” (he wandered a lot dur-
ing his sojourn in Australia) he cer-
tainly did most of the work in complet-
ing “Maritana” in the front top room of
a four-roomed house in Rowe-street,
Sydney—Number 9. When the lower
parts of half a dozen adjoining houses
were turned into shops their upper por-
tions were knocked into long rooms
which housed first the old Army and
Navy Club (popular in volunteer days)
and then for many years the Musicians’
Club, which was proud of the Wallace
association. There wasn’t much inspiration
certainly in the locality. Like Hosking-
place, further down (now a mere busi-
ness lane), Rowe-street was rows of
four-roomed cottages, mostly favored by
members of the theatrical profession.
* * * *
“Ehoa”; “Shaun Mclsrael” (B,
25/3/’42) wonders “what’s happened to
the Irish.” Has he heard of “Paddy”
F’nook’n, from Dublin, now, at 22,
“the world’s most successful living air-
man”? F’nook’n has fifty comrades in
the R.A.F., who amongst them have re-
ceived more than fifty flying decorations.
Not that this figure is by any means the
total of Southern Irishmen serving in the
Air Force, but this particular fifty have
more than their number of awards. Three
other brave men of Eire were awarded
the V.C. Ervine Andrews, Fogarty
Fegen and Garland.
“There aint going to be no butt .”
THE DEDMAN HAT.
“Hats were sold in Sydney with less trying-on
than ever in the history of millinery.”
— B. 13/5/’42.
No time was there for peering or for prying
Into tall mirrors with engaging smiles
To see if the effect was satisfying,
The headgear fashioned in the latest styles.
Never was such a rush of hurried buying
In all the history of women’s tiles,
Since bonnets and the like were first supplied on
Counters at Babylon—or Tyre and Sidon.
Dames mostly take a friend to help in choosing
What’s most becoming on their manes to set,
And, torn between accepting and refusing.
Now with this lid, and now with that, coquet.
But here the least uncertainty meant losing
What dozens more were just as keen to get.
This breakneck shopping is a holy terror,
For who without a trial can nail an error?
They snavelled chapeaux of all shapes and sizes,
From feathered Gainsboroughs to tiny toques,
With no preliminary exercises,
Doing what unimaginative blokes
Would crisply designate—so one surmises—
By the quaint phrase of “buying pigs in pokes.”
They paid for all the risks of being baffled
That one incurs when articles are raffled.
So, should you hear some gent, address a lady—
His sweetheart or, more probably, his wife,
Some winsome Winifred or blushing Haidee —
In tones with cutting disapproval rife,
“Where in the dickens did you get that cady?
It doesn’t suit you.” You can bet your life
The bit of goods he happens to be viewing
Denotes the deadly damage Dedman’s doing!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
THE PIG.
“ ‘Pigs are again in the boom,’ said a well-known
breeder—‘returning to their rightful place in the
rural economy of the nation. Numerous farmers
are now swinging over to them as an important
sideline.’ ” — “S. M. tierald.”
The pig is in the boom again, for him we’re
finding room again;
There’s many an empty sty he soon will
occupy in groups.
The amiable gentleman who used to pay the
rental man
Has now another metier —to help to feed the
troops.
Too long we’ve not respected him enough, in
fact, neglected him,
Regarding as superior the claims of sheep
and cow.
Still (spite of Deuteronomy) he’s part of our
economy.
And, if we’ve undervalued him, we’re learn-
ing better now.
As porker or as baconer, no appetite-awakener
Or hunger-satisfier that I know can give him
points.
No daintier comestible —I think it’s incontest-
able —
Exists than that which he supplies, in rashers,
chops and joints.
The hog—let this be known again—is heading
for his own again,
The same that roamed primeval woods in
Britain, acorn-fed;
The crackling-garnished eatable that Villon
ranked unbeatable,
The animal at Dingley Dell that Mr. Wardle
bred.
The cocky back is bringing him, and sort of
second-stringing him,
A profitable sideline to his barley and his
wheat,
The less of which is saleable the more will be
available,
It needs no emphasising, for our humble
friend to eat.
The pig is in the boom again, he comes to face
his doom again,
To reappear as ham, with eggs, and blend
with peas in soups.
We owe him much from sucker-time, especially
at tucker-time,
The choicest dish upon the board —the stuff
to give the troops!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Jago”- The mob was coming Home.
Libya? Greece and Crete lay in the past,
M *«*'
darknes^o^ide erl^ddenly U his
"If will cost me a pound to see your teeth ! Why ?"
“ 'Cause I've pawned 'em."
thing. But he thrust his head out and
sniffed the night air. The other men in
the carriage sniffed, too, but a little suspi-
ciously, and then clasped their noses. The
train rumbled over a bridge, and then
Charlie yelled excitedly over his shoulder,
“Home, blokes! Smell it? Ain’t it
grand? Good old South Ken. Smell
them boilin’-down works. I was born
hereabouts.” They closed the window
forcibly and sat on Charlie.
sj; % % *
“D.E.”: “There is a pleasure in the
pathless woods” —and also in listening to
bad radio comedians (unless they give
themselves airs) and in reading silly
books. I claim to have read the season’s
silliest. It is all about “scorched earth,
“guerrilla” warfare and other exploded
expedients of defeated armies, boister-
ously recommended to an undefeated
Australia ; and Americans among us, if
they ever see the stuff, will be astonished
to learn that Washington and Jeb Stuart
were “guerrilla” leaders. But here is th e
choicest passage:
No one condones the crimes of Ned
Kelly, Dan Kelly, Steve Hart and Joe
Byrne, but their raids over northern and
central Victoria and southern New South
Wales showed what small and determined
guerrilla units can do. They ambushed
police in the Wombat Hills, and escaped
time and time again from encirclement.
They understood the ruthless necessity ot
protecting themselves from betrayal: Dan
Kelly and Joe Byrne had no hesitation in
killing the informer, Aaron Sherritt. The
final siege of the hotel at Glenrowan
showed how fearless men can occupy large
forces.
The Kellys were able to keep their com-
mando intact over 1878, 1879 and 1880 be-
cause they understood the first principles
of guerrilla war. They had to keep, the
country in league with them, have
organised bush-telegraph system, be highly
mobile and melt into the bush after a raid.
They could see in the dark like cats; they
had mastered bushcraft and could manoeuvre
better than the police in the tangled
gullies and wooded hills. The Kellys had
the country in league with them because
they were careful not to offend them; they
raided the rich and the banks; they ex-
ploited the popular resentment of that time
against the police and colonial Govern-
ments.
The author? Mr. Rupert Lockwood,
“National President, Australian Friends
of the Soviet Union.”
* * 1
“Pax”: Bath, that beautiful old city in
Somerset, so ruthlessly bombed, has a
link with Australia. It was at Downside
Abbey, near Bath, that a religious familia
was settled sqme 128 years ago. This
community, poor and few in numbers,
followed the rule of St. Benedict. The
brethren were styled “Mr.” and they wore
no monastic habit, for that was contrary
to the law of England in those days. One
of their number was “Mr.” Folding, who
became Sydney’s first archbishop and
whose elevation to that office (and with
it the establishment of the Australian
Catholic hierarchy) has been given a cen-
tenary celebration. Dr. Folding died in
1877. The second Catholic archbishop,
Roger Bede Vaughan, was also a monk
from Downside Abbey.
. "rd”: Thejy^axi-driver
6/5/’42) must be doing well if the visiting
price of a packet of fags. He was told
“two and threepence.” He drew out a one
pound Australian note, planked it on the
counter and then held out a handful of
our silver and invited the shopgirl to
help herself. When he was told that the
silver alone covered the amount of the
sale six times over he was astounded.
He
“Heni”: Mrs. Suds, our char., likes
to read the morning paper at her 11
a.m. spell-oh, giving us the privilege of
her comment. “The politicians make
me sick,” she announced last week.
“Here’s one talkin’ about the happiest day
of his life —when he got elected, it was.
Reminds me of the girl at the other place
I work. She comes down to the kitchen
one morning dancing an’ sayin’ it’s the
happiest day of her life. ‘What s hap-
pened?’ I ses. She waves her hand with
a ring on it and ses she’s engaged. Soon
a£er that she gets married, and I see her
dressed up. There she is, swishin’ up
and down an’ sayin’ it’s the happiest
day of her life. I never set eyes on her
for about two years, and then one day
she rushes into the kitchen, grabs hold
of me and begins jumpin’ me round and
round. ‘Oh, Mrs. Suds,’ she ses, ‘it’s
the happiest day of me life.’ ‘What,
again?’ ses I. ‘What’s happened now?’
‘l’m just dippy with joy,’ she ses. ‘l’ve
just got me divorce! ’ ”
3 * * * *
“Si Anu”: In 1839 John Murray 11,
who started the “Quarterly” and pub-
lished for Byron, Crabbe, Borrow, Jane
Austen and other English writers, had the
idea of bringing out a small guidebook
on Holland, Belgium and the Rhine for
the convenience of English tourists, then
flocking to the Continent. He got in touch
with Karl Baedeker, the son of a book-
seller of Essen, who had started in busi-
ness at Coblenz in 1827. The publication
was a great success and was the precursor
of the long line of guidebooks with red
covers which used to be familiar to every
traveller in Europe. Karl died in 1859
and the business was later removed to
Leipzig. There is a certain irony in the
fact that the publications which Murray
started are now, according to Hitler, the
basis of the Luftwaffe’s attacks on
Britain’s historic cities.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Contrary to the predic-
tions of all the old fogeys, the female
conductors of trams and buses have been
an unqualified success in Melbourne. I
have never seen a male conductor clear
a crowd as quickly as I saw a conductress
do the other evening in Bourke-street-
In dulcet but firm tones she suggested
that the congealed mass of drunks, part-
drunks and sobers clinging to foot-
board and stairways and cluttering up
the gangway should move inside in
accordance with the regulations. They
were inside in 20 seconds. Not long ago
the spectacle was presented of a huge
policeman appealing to a policewoman
for assistance to arrest a couple of equally
huge navvies, fighting drunk, who had
wrapped themselves round him. She got
them off him and into a taxi by pure
persuasion. Melburnians have been
brought up to be polite to the female of
the species.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Placed before a small
county council in Canterbury (M.L.)
recently was a document that conveyed
little to members till the endorsement on
it attracted the notice of one who had
literary tastes. It read: “This area of
land is freehold property, with no en-
cumbrances, the owner being Samuel
Butler, of Forest Creek, runholder.” The
piece of land was a sort of
no-man’s-land on which
arrears of rates had accu-
mulated. Over 80 years ago
Samuel Butler, author of
Erewhon, had settled on the
Upper Rangitata on a run
to which he gave the name
of Mesopotamia. Motorists
who traverse the mysterious
country at the foothills of
the Southern Alps on the
way to Mt. Cook will recog-
nise Butler’s description of
the approaches to Erewhon
—the country which re-
garded physical beauty as
the crown of its culture and
sent criminals to hospitals
for treatment. G. B. Shaw,
on his M.L. visit some eight years ago,
was surprised to find the Dominion hadn t
yet erected a statue of Butler.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Unless memory serves me
badly, Princess Elizabeth was legally pro-
claimed heir to the throne of England
after her uncle’s abdication, conse-
quently she is heir apparent (B. 6/ 5/’42).
She has certainly been tutored from early
childhood to take her father’s place as
though her prospects of becoming Eliza-
beth II were officially regarded as better
than bright. Anyway, I can find no
record of the title of “heir presumptive,
as applied to the next in succession to
the throne, having been used in England.
♦ * ♦ *
“Retailer,” moved by what has been
going on in Sydney shops since clothes-
rationing was sprung on them, retails
some history: — .
The first shop in Sydney began to trade m
June, 1790, when, David Collins relates, the
lady Juliana having arrived, “a shop was
opened on shore by the master of this ship, at
the hut lately occupied as a bakehouse tor the
Supply, for the sale of some groceries, glass,
millinery, perfumery and stationery. But the
risk of bringing them out having been in-
judiciously estimated too highly, as was evident
from the increase on the first cost, which could
not be disguised, they did not go off so quickly
as the owners supposed they would. Two years
later another story was told of a similar ven-
ture, when the transport Pitt brought out the
stock for a second shop. “The high price at
which everything was sold,” says Collins, the
avidity with which all description of people
"I should have warned you, dear —the V.D.C. guerrillas practise in the
next paddock !"
r.r-ERnpd at what was to be purchased was extra-
ordinary and could only be accounted for by
die distance of' our Situation from the Mother
Country and the uncertainty of receiving sup-
nlies thence and the length of time which
we had heretofore the mortification to find
SSpse without our receiving any.”
elapse wmioui ,
“Th C »»• Pvprv time somebody wants
F S. Evciy
to clinch a philological argument ne
quotes Fowler (B. 6/ 5/’42). That
authority struck me when I read him
many years ago as more liberal-minded
than most of his tribe, but, even so,
his attempt to freeze the language is
doomed to futility. A language is a liv-
ing, growing thing, and it develops not
in universities or textbooks but in pubs,
on sheep stations and in the streets.
Nowadays even newsprint rationing
is playing a part in altering the struc-
ture of the language. Melb. “Argus”
has started to eliminate the definite
article, full stops between capital
letters and so forth and so on. After
reading the paper for a while I find
myself doing the same thing. If the
fashion caught on it would be con-
tinued after the necessity for doing it
had long departed, and it is incon-
ceivable that the language would
eventually dispose of “the” just -as
effectually as do the Malay lingo and
many others. Human beings are extra-
ordinarily susceptible to habit, and if
anybody wrote today in the way our
grandmothers wrote it would seem as in-
congruous as the appearance of a neck-
to-knee bathing costume on a girl at
Bondi or St. Kilda.
* * * - *
“Spasebo”: So-called “realistic”
methods of training at a British divi-
sional battle school, involving “hate
schools,” the spraying of troops with
blood and loudspeaker incitements during
bayonet practice to kill enemies., are
being vigorously criticised in the London
dailies. One general (retired) says that
it is definitely no way to win a fight, but
is a form of neurosis indicating hysteria,
and if not checked “will be harmful, be-
cause hate is an exhausting passion,
whereas lasting power, calmness and
determination are essential in battle.”
The general may be speaking from his
own experience, but wars of hate have
been successful. Mahomet certainly did
not preach love of their enemies to the
fanatics who followed him and who be-
lieved that every infidel they killed gave
them added bliss in heaven, and that if
they died killing they went straight to
Sworga. The failure of the British
methods, in my opinion, will be found
to lie at the door of the lack of convic-
tion of the teachers.
* * * *
“Diego Dick” remembers a valiant
Spanish sailor;
Now that Torres Strait helps to keep the
Jap out of Australia, the feat of the man whose
name it bears when he sailed through it over
three centuries ago may be recalled. De Quiros
had had to abandon the search for a southern
continent in 1605 and return home to Peru. But
Luis Vaez de Torres wasn’t to be stopped by
bad weather or discontented seamen. With two
ships he sailed south-west from New Guinea
on a course which, had he gone on, would have
taken him to the site of Brisbane more than
two centuries before the city was founded, it
was a fine performance. “We had at this time
nothing but bread and water,” he says; it
was the height of winter, with sea, wind and
ill-will against us. All this did not prevent me
from sailing south to 21deg., for the ship was
good.” So from the east end of New
Guinea Torres sailed west, and was successful.
Probably between September 12 and 15,
1606, he passed through the strait now
called after him, and no European went that
way again until James Cook navigated H.M S.
Endeavour along the risky sea-highway in 177 U.
Torres never dreamed that the tip of Cape
which he must i iave seen, was the
nor thern extremity of the fabulous southern
continent De Quiros had been looking tor.


ABORIGINALITIES
“M.U.R.”; “Sausage” McGuirk, full
of beer and fight, was propelled from the
front door of the pub by the publican,
the yardman and the boarder. “Sausage”
went round the back, breathing fire and
brimstone, and charged through the
kitchen door. There he encountered the
13st. lady cook. A minor hurricane
developed in that kitchen, and McGuirk,
full of beer but empty of fight, was pro-
pelled into the backyard. “ ’Struth,”
he muttered, eyeing the black cockerel
which, headless, hung on the clothes-
line a few feet above him, “did you fall
foul of her, too?”
* * * *
“Propalong”: Sub-artesian bore-water
means to most sheepmen a dusty line of
troughing in the shadow of a clanking
mill and at morning and evening long
strings of jumbucks plodding through
the luminous dustclouds. But it means
a lot more than that. When boring
instead of sinking for water became com-
mon many desert places blossomed like
the rose. “Good stock water” generally
means stuff too salt or alkaline to suit
garden plants. Avondale homestead
(S.A.) had for years a useful well whose
water was useless for irrigating anything
but merinos. Then a few yards from the
well a contractor put down a bore. Drill-
ing past the salt stuff he found fresh
water further down. And Avondale
joined the list of homesteads that have
fruit and flowers laid on.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: “The gin,” says “Zake”
(B. 29/4/’42), “is not remarkable for her
horsemanship.” Quite so. But at shep-
herding she can put it all over the buck.
Any shepherd can handle the dry flock;
but when the wet flock of lambing
ewes has a gin in charge the boss of
the property knows that each ewe is
virtually in a maternity ward, with a
skilled obstetrician and midwife in one
in charge. They are wonderful at that.
Each lamb receives individual care ; each
ewe is treated as a mother in travail. Even
the stalking of a kangaroo rat is forgone
at such a time.
* * * *
“Beamish”: Out of a flock of 15 tur-
keys one would undoubtedly be dubbed
“Pansy” if his fellow-turks could talk.
For over two weeks he has been sitting
with maternal care and patience on a
collection of about a dozen stones. The
largest of his “eggs” is the size of an
emu’s. No threats or overtures have been
able to budge him. When his googs
were taken away from him and a hen’s
egg substituted, he broke it with true
masculine ferocity, scratched together his
monumental setting and resumed his posi-
tion thereon. It is not mating season
for turkeys ; if he lives until then his
reactions should be worth watching. “If”
he lives, I said. I heard the boss say,
with disgust in his tones, “Wonder how
much that bloke weighs dressed.”,
* % %
“Narrin”: The rabbit, since he became
a colonial, has not only multiplied vastly
but has acquired a large range of habits
consistent with his new country. Twenty
years ago the place to find kitten rabbits
was in a shallow, isolated burrow stopped
and concealed with loose earth. Now, in
the bush at least, most breeding does
favor a ward in a large and deep warren
where the chance of intrusion by a fox
is small. Bunny has also gained a greater
ability to do without water than any
camel ever calved. And hard times have
taught him arboreal habits; I’ve seen a
rabbit squatting as comfortably on a
dead-finish limb Bft. from the ground as
his ancestors ever loafed on sand. On
the Murray they seem to have decided
on a year-round breeding programme
and on a flat denial of their proverbial
silliness. Some conservative members of
the family still persist in building reed
nests at water-level and are flooded out
as often as the locks alter the river
height; but the younger generation is
showing a marked partiality for hollow
logs and stumps well above the drink.
“B. A. Ker”: Queer that Nature should
make two animals so similar in appear-
ance as the rabbit and hare while giving
them characteristics so diverse. Whereas
the rabbit revels in scrub and under-
growth, the hare shows marked prefer-
ence for open country. Bunny burrows ;
his cousin doesn’t. The rabbit is essen-
tially a sprinter; knowing every warren
and hollow log in his vicinity, he relies
solely on a dash for a funkhole when
danger threatens. The hare, which com-
bines sprinting with staying powers, out-
wits and outruns his pursuers over a six-
or seven-mile circuit, always returning to
his haunts. A pursued rabbit swerves
instinctively; a hare turns his eyes back
at the pursuing dogs—often not watching
where he is running—and swerves at the
critical moment. A wounded rabbit never
fights when pounced on by a dog, and
squeals little, if at all; an injured hare
cries pitifully, but will strike fiercely at
the dogs. Some bushmen declare that
an antipathy exists between hares and
rabbits, and I’ve heard it claimed that
“The hares cleared out when the rabbits
“Young man, you should be in uniform !"
“YOU shouldn't !”
came.” I must admit I can’t recall having
seen both together.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: “Ec.’s” cabhorse (B.
22/4/’42) reminds me of old Jasper, who
always served as a newchum’s hack on
the run, not only because of his quietness
but because he firmly discouraged any
unfair liberties. Most of all, he dis-
approved of being asked to drink with
the bit in his mouth. Ridden up to
water, he’d turn his head to look re-
proachfully at his rider; then, if no notice
were taken of this plea, he’d strike sud-
denly and savagely at the bit. All learners
who hit the run were told to “ride ’im
over an’ let ’im drink” —the results were
always worth watching.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad and Dave were pulling
bogged sheep out of the mud in the dam.
It was heavy work, and their tempers
had become frayed. Dad would bellow
profane objurgations at Dave, who would
reply in kind. Suddenly a voice spoke.
“Oh, good morning, Mr. Greybox; good
morning, Dave,” and they looked up to
see the parson standing on the bank of
the dam. How long he’d been they
didn’t know, but it was a certainty he
must have heard a fair measure of the
language, and Dad hoped he had; it might
move him off quicker. Dad had just grabbed
another half-dead ewe when the parson
spoke again. “Ah! The good shepherd
rescuing his flock, I see.” The futility
of the remark got Dad’s goat properly.
He dropped the ewe, which went squelch-
ing back into the mire, and, turning a
mud-splashed face on the parson, said
with careful and incisive enunciation,
“Well, Mr. Goodly, there’s one thing
y’ve got the pull over me on; y’ can
keep y’rself clean on y’r job, for be
all accounts there ain’t no mud in the
place where you have t’ do the rescuin’
of your flock.”
♦ * * *
“The 0.D.”: Five minutes to go and
Cowangie a point in front. The Walpeup
half-forward took a mark in front,
whirled and sent a high punt at the goal.
The ball soared high and then suddenly
collapsed in mid-air and dropped straight,
a useless hunk of leather, punctured by
the metal tag on the kicker’s lace. Time-
off was taken and the game resumed with
a new ball, but the chance had settled
the issue.
* * * *
“Rom Ney”: I know a, squatter who’s
finding it hard to get labor owing to
man-power regulations, and I advise “Sur
Cingle” (B. 13/5/’42) to write to him
at once, naming his own terms. Any
man who can ride “many a paddock of
from 30 to 80 square miles crutching
green-tails wherever found” without a
dog is a treasure beyond even the value
of King Solomon’s virtuous woman, and
her price was far above rubies. All the
same, “Sur C.” might let us into the know
as to how he catches the struck sheep:
does he drop salt on their tails? How
many to the acre are there in that 80-
square-mile paddock and how many times
a week does, or did, he ride it? Or, per-
haps, the flies in that territory only strike
a sheep to the square mile, or “Sur
Cingle’s” riding is so speedy that they’re
blown away in the draught. And next
August he is to start “riding 50-odd miles
a day after woolly stragglers” and wants
me — me. mind you!—to send him a dog
that can keep up with him. Before I
do that I want to see the sheep that can
stand up to him. Dick the Dasher was
a goer in his day, but I’m glad Dick’s
dead ; he’d have been a stricken man at
the sight of “Sur Cingle,” dogless and
alone, armed with bottles of dip and criss-
crossed with belts of tongs, on some-
thing of a cross between a Clydesdale
and a willy-willy, riding like the wind
after the wild jumbucks and expertly
stabbing the maggots on their breeches
as he rode.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: In a recent joke block
Percy Lindsay equipped his navvies with
bowyangs. Nowadays they regard those
badges of strenuous toil as an anachron-
ism. Yet time was when one would have
been regarded as an outcast in a railway
cutting without the trouser-straps—that’s
if any self-respecting ganger ever would
engage such an obvious misfit. The old-
time navvy shoved his pipe down into his
right-leg bowyang just as the Highlander
shoved his dirk into the top of his
stocking. And there he stood, a man
armored for toil.
* * * *
“Avon”: For 100 years of Maori-
land’s history as a colony and a
Dominion “flax” has meant to the deni-
zens Phormium tenax, from the stout
fibres of which excellent rope has been
spun for the last 80 years—for centuries
the Maoris wove the stuff into kits and
mats. I remember —it must have been
quite 50 years ago—a recent arrival in
M.L. from Scotland saying sneeringly,
“Flax! Yon stuff’s not flax. Flax is what
linen is spun from.” But now, owing
to the cutting off from Britain of flax
supplies from Russia, Belgium and the
Baltic States, Maoriland is not only cul-
tivating the plant they recognise as linen
flax in Dundee, but exporting the pro-
duct by the hundred tons. The new
development commenced a couple of
years ago, and reports received from
Dundee are very satisfactory. There are
now 17 linen flax factories in M.L., hand-
ling the crops coming off 20,000 acres of
flax-sown land. Already, in addition to
substantial shipments of fibre, 2000 tons
of seed have been exported to Australia,
the U.K., India and Egypt.
* * * *
Herb Mul”: Don’t talk of the speed
of bushfires until you have seen Maori-
land ti-tree burn. Was once working on a
farm surrounded by heavy ti-tree country
when a fire started near the town. The
breeze was headed towards Cowville, and
I had a cobber head-teacher there. The
distance was 10 miles, so I hurried to
the small post office and sent him a
warning telegram. The school was right
in the centre of high ti-tree. A few days
later I saw by the papers that the teacher
and pupils had had a hard struggle to
save the school. Would you believe it?
So speedy had that fire torn through the
scrub that it got there before my telegram!
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We had been apart for
some time until I located a job for him
and sent a telegram. Having myself
been in work and with a few bob to
splash about, I inserted myself into my
new suit and set forth to meet him at
the train. Feeling expansive, I bought
a cigar, and must confess to a slight
swagger as I strolled up and down the
platform, fondly imagining that I looked
like a big squatter or something. The
train drew in, and from a second-class
compartment came a dusty old swag, fol-
lowed by an equally dusty Mat. With
the cigar at full steam I stepped forward
and held out my dook. He ignored it,
looked me over carefully and said coldly,
“Listen, you might look like a big noise
t’ strangers ; t’ me y’ look like a workin
bullock pretendin’ he’s a thousand-guinea
Shorthorn stud. Come orf it.” I’ve
never since pretended to be what I ain’t.
* * He *
“Chevroford”: Although Melbourne
has a very low average rainfall, Jupiter
Pluvius put up a brief record the other
afternoon which would bear comparison
with the heaviest tropical downpours.
Three-quarters of an inch fell in 13
minutes, and during three minutes of the
deluge the rate of intensity was just short
of eight inches an hour. A foot or so of
water formed a freshet which took the
old natural course towards the Yarra
along the creek which is now covered by
the bitumen and concrete of Elizabeth-
street, while Little Bourke, Little Lon.,
Little Coll, and the other ancient tribu-
taries of the main stream helped to swell
it. Cars were washed about like chips,
and incautious individuals were in danger
of being swept under culverts. The high-
light of the event was a youth who
became so excited that he stripped him-
self to his trousers and enjoyed a swim
along the tramline. Is it fantastic to
suggest that he was stirred by an ances-
tral memory of his grandpa doing the
same thing?
“Scuta”: While shooting along the
banks of a closed billabong on the Goul-
burn River (Vic.) a brief, violent thunder-
storm sent me to shelter near the lower
end of the stream. The heavy rain
scored the banks and muddied the water.
Walking along the edge after the storm
I saw what I took to be the head of a
snake in the water. I fired, but to my sur-
prise not a snake but a three-pound
bream came to the top. Looking closer,
I saw that the blind end of the billabong
was packed with fish lying perpendicu-
larly with their snouts just out of water.
I waded in and from the mass of black-
fish, catfish and bream picked out thirty
of the best. They were semi-asphyxiated,
the mud in the water preventing their
gills from getting sufficient oxygen.
Three or four hours later the water had
cleared and not a fish could be seen.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Nature never intended
the snake as a candidate for the Long-
distance Speed Stakes, otherwise she
would have permitted the reptile to keep
its legs. But Joe is good on short bursts.
He has to be to catch his tucker, the
lively mouse and the not-too-slow beetle,
and also to remove his length speedily
when the kookaburra or some other
feathered assassin swoops down in search
of a meal when Joe happens to be cross-
ing the open. The actual physical reason
why the snake is no good on distance is
that when moving swiftly he uses every
muscle of his body. Humans react to
this kind of physical pressure when swim-
ming, the one exercise in which every
muscle of the body is brought into action
simultaneously. And whereas any healthy
and vigorous human can walk 20 miles
non-stop without undue fatigue, only
rare specimens of the species have been
able to swim that distance. Where
Nature intended her creatures to be
walkers, runners or sprinters she endowed
them with legs full of specialised muscles
and sinews. Poor Blake has only his
belly scales and a wriggle.
BOMBERS GOING NORTH.
Over the scrubs and the pastured acres,
High over cotton fields aglow,
Droning a song of their master makers,
And heading northward, the bombers go.
The wild-eyed colts from the blue grass turning
Sniff at the air in their dumb alarm,
Then speed away with their hoofbeats burning
Into the timber away from harm;
And bushmen, hearing the engines singing,
Pause for a moment from sweaty toil.
And watch above them the squadrons winging
Northward, over the Queensland soil.
W hat do they see as they soar above her,
Where only the ibis soared .before?
Solve they the secret of why we love her—
These eagle men of a world at war?
They fade from sight where the clouds are
drifting,
The echoes die in the dark belars.
And we breathe our thanks for their strong
wings lifting—
The Southern Cross and the Stripes and Stars.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


"Chest expansion two inches —that's very poor!
"Well, Wot d'yez expect fer six bob a day ?”
“Old-timer”: I’m wondering what's
going to happen to all those blokes who
ambled about the bush camping for days
in likely spots and moving on when they’d
battled the place bare or the police be-
came impatient. Where is the hummer
now who is game to approach anybody and
beg a smoke, when even the man with
money can’t buy weed? And what of the
keen watching and the furtive movements
in the camps when someone, luckier than
the rest, comes down from the town
smoking a fag and with a look that
indicates he has more on him? I
can see that fellow carefully stowing the
precious weed under.his bunk or rising
in the night to go forth and plant it in
a hollow tree and next morning franti-
cally trying to locate the hollow which
he wasn’t game to mark. In towns the
pros, dive no more on the lowly bumper,
for there are no bumpers tossed away
carelessly as of yore. And what of tea?
And old clothes? There was a time
when you got either in the suburbs or
outback without much trouble. But not
now, brothers, not now. A man may as
well take on a job, for the savor has gone
from life, and a Riverina or a Monaro
sans tobacco and tea is the inferno
brought to earth.
* * * *
“Wester”: A Connecticut (U.S.A.) man
has written to New York “Times” sug-
gesting that the kangaroo rat got its name
when an Englishman in the early days,
seeing one on the hop, asked an abo.
what it was. The Connecticut man says
the abo. replied “Kan-ga-roo,” meaning
“I don’t know,” and the Englishman took
it as the name. Any biters?
* * =i= *
“■Wippegong”: Apart from magpies,
who give way to nobody, and ground-
larks, who fit in anywhere, the establish-
ment of a busy aerodrome virtually
banishes permanent bird life from that
paddock. To the east of our runways,
however, is a wide, shallow depression
leading from the hills beyond, and when
the dry weather broke and the yellow
water had rolled on, scores of plovers
came in and made that winding pan their
especial territory. All day the brown
backs skimmed about above the deepen-
ing green, and, although long past the
breeding season, intruders were vigor-
ously challenged ; but it was night-flying
exercises which stirred these fowl to
their full fury. As machines came or
went low across their domain the plovers
would lift their chorus in a wild, sus-
tained tirade, cursing, screaming, insult-
ing and abusing all unnatural hare-
brained fools who had to go roaring
round the skies when sensible beings were
intent upon going to sleep—and I agreed
with them. But when full moon came
and the distant ranges stood out in clear,
cold serenity, those same plovers went
aloft on exercises of their own, wheel-
ing, circling and banking, doing forma-
tions and cross-country flips and raising
hell’s delight the while—in short, doing
much the same, when it suited them, as
our chaps had been doing. There are
people like that.
* * * *
“Splodger”: The boss, glancing over
the ads. in a Queensland paper, happened
to see that a fellow seeking work stated
he could milk 20 cows an hour. The boss
reckoned it couldn’t be done. The over-
seer pooh-poohed the idea. The book-
keeper went into figures to prove that
so many quarts a minute equalled the
bailing-up of each cow, and so on. They
decided against it unanimously, without
being able to give a lucid reason why it
was impossible. Then the manager’s wife
said a few words which settled the
“The cows couldn’t let down in the time.”
* * * *
“Propalong”; The new jackeroo
straddled down to the watering yard as
the horses came in. “Oh, yes, I ride
very well —that is, on civilised
horses. I draw the line at the buck-
ing stuff, you know,” he told us.
The boss looked dubious. “How
about if they shy?” he inquired
gravely. Percy was pained. “I’ve
been riding thoroughbreds,” he re-
proved the boss. “Dashed sight
more lively than these old fellows.”
So we mounted him on Mick and
rode off to bring in the wethers,
Percy jig-jogging and heel-thumping
disgustedly in the rear. About
lunch-time we were getting the wild
hill mutton together out by Last
Creek. A little mob broke and
dashed for the stones, and the jacky
took after them. He rode sitting on
eggs, with his elbows poking holes
in his sides and his toes turned up
so nicely while old Mick pounded
away at a hand gallop. They closed
in on a little watercourse. Prob-
ably a beetle was sunbathing there
or a lizard licking its fur —anyway,
out of a sudden puff of dust Percy
went sailing through the air, while
Mick, having played his one trick
—a shy straight backwards without warn-
ing—stood looking sheepishly pleased.
The funny thing is that Percy has taken
Mick for a hack now and swears by him.
“N’kata”: “S.T.S.” (B. 29/4/’42) is a
bit belated in his suggestion that no Aus-
tralian bard has thought of the neat meta-
phor “a golden-yellow boomerang.”
Many, many years ago The Bulletin
had a competition for the best Australian
ode to the crescent moon. The winning
ode, “To a New Moon,” has always re-
mained in my memory. It contained the
stanza:
Now Night the dusky hunter goes
Across the World pursuing Day,
And at his swiftly flying prey
A Boomerang of Pearl he throws.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: I recall “Turoar’s” wind
(B. 15/4/’42) very well. On that day I
was with some mates in the scrub out
behind Walhalla (Vic.) when Bill, one of
the party, fell down a deep abandoned
shaft. As we congregated around the top
wondering how we were going to get him
up again we heard the roar of wind in
the distant ranges. It was obviously going
to be a snorter, and Joe got an idea.
Swiftly we bowled over a couple of trees
and split posts and knocked slabs out of
them, while Mick tore back home for a
pig net. Then we rigged a huge chute
pointing into the wind and leading into
the top of the shaft. The secret was that
Joe knew that this shaft led into another.
We had hardly got the job completed
when the tornado hit us. As the deflected
wind howled down the shaft we tore to
the opening of the other
shaft, threw the net
over it and fell on the
corners. There was a
rushing sound below,
and like a rabbit into
a net came Bill, and he,
the net and the rest of
us soared into the air
and lobbed into a
patch of prickly Moses.
Just in time, too, for
with a crash like the
crack of doom the
chute and the two 300-
foot ironbarks it was
fastened to disappeared down the shaft
into which Bill had fallen. Just another
life that wind had saved.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: Instead of advising me to
Visit an aquarium, “M.Q.” (B. 8/4/’42)
should himself visit a technical library ;
we are discussing a proposition in
mechanics, not the poetry of motion. The
bird’s wing and the fish’s tail are examples
of leverage. Primitive man in his first
efforts to propel his hollow log took his
cue from the duck’s leg and foot, another
instance of leverage, and invented the
paddle. Later the paddle became the
oar, the fulcrum of the lever being gained
in the pivoted rowlock. The lever
occupies primary place in the science of
mechanics. Next to the lever comes the
inclined plane —a navvy wheeling a
barrow up a sloping plank is an example.
Wind the inclined plane round an axis
and you have the screw, one of the most
powerful means of obtaining pressure —
the nut on the screw either travels up
or down the inclined plane. Next a
genius applied this screw to the propul-
sion of boats—it is still called a screw ;
when first designed the propeller was
double, had two turns of the thread.
Literally it screwed itself through the
water —an application of the inclined
plane. Then came the electric fan,
another screw, which, being a fixture,
throws the air from it. From the electric
fan to the tractor propeller of the aero-
plane was merely an extension of the
same principle. The first experimenters
in flight tried wings that flapped; we
hold the wings rigid and drag the ’plane
through the air by means of a screw.
“Perhaps I should have explained, Mrs. Bruce, that this is only a
demonstration .”
“Sedent”: My dog Nathaniel is two
years old and not very big. I’m 30 times
as old as he*is and ten times as heavy,
In the course of a ramble in the hinter-
land of Sydney’s North Shore last week
we found that our road petered out when
crossed by a heavily-bushed, steep-sided
valley, about a mile wide. There seemed
to be another road on the farther side
of the valley, so I decided to take a
short cut to it, though a little dubious
as to how poor little Nathaniel would
fare in such heavy going. “All right for
me,” I said to myself, “with half a cen-
tury’s experience of bushwhacking, but
I’ll have to keep the little chap near me
and give him a helping hand.” A recent
gale had strewn the valley with broken
brushwood, and the going was tough on
the way down to the creek and harder
still on the ascent on the other side. Mid-
way up it struck me I hadn’t seen
Nathaniel for some minutes. I whistled,
I bellowed. Came a faint bark from the
skies. It was Nathaniel, resting luxuri-
ously on the summit. He’d found a far
easier track than I had and done the
journey in half the time.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: The discovery in M.L.
of greenstone has revived the theory that
there was a pre-immigration of Poly-
nesians ahead of the Maoris. The dusky
men themselves have always scouted the
theory that any race inhabited the
Shivery Isles before their arrival. Sixty
years ago a Canterbury settler, digging
a well, came across a numbe* of green-
stone implements, chipped, unpolished
and of very rude formation. A univer-
sity professor pronounced that the stones
belonged to an age many thousands of
years earlier than that in which the
exodus from Hawaiki occurred. But a
very old Maori, when he examined the
implements, smiled. He explained that
the Maoris, when at war, concealed the
jade in the beds of creeks. The absence
of smoothness and the rough formation of
the stones merely indicated that the jade
was in a state of preparation when hidden.
It took a tremendous time to smooth
greenstone in the old Maori fashion.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Old Alan has many of the
little fads of the real hatter: a great
love for birds, a pathetic faith in certain
pills, a capacity for developing a taste for
a young tobacco bush or some other
poorly esteemed vegetable, a fierce pref-
erence for one brand of scented soap and,
above all, a vigorous and articulate pride
in the butcher-birds which think they
nmn rUo nomn A rlp.rl cfintoiin Ip.an-
was in a state ot preparation wnen mauen.
It took a tremendous time to smooth
greenstone in the old Maori fashion.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Old Alan has many of the
little fads of the real hatter: a great
love for birds, a pathetic faith in certain
pills, a capacity for developing a taste for
a young tobacco bush or some other
poorly esteemed vegetable, a fierce pref-
erence for one brand of scented soap and,
above all, a vigorous and articulate pride
in the butcher-birds which think they
own his camp. A loaded shotgun lean-
ing against the door frame is a sure sign
that Alan has seen a bird-shooting pea-
riflist in his vicinity. Riding through
the other day we saw the old gun ready
for action. “Hullo, the camp!” yelled
Dan from a safe distance. Then, as the
old chap emerged and we rode closer,
“Whose scalp are y’ lookin’ for now?”
Alan turned to see if the blunderbuss
was in place. “Aw, it’s them blanky
butcher-birds,” he rumbled. Dan nearly
fell off his horse. “What ?” he spluttered.
“Y’ wouldn’t shoot them flamin’ pets of
yours, would y’?” “Too right I will.
Rotten thievin’ blankers! They’ve been
eatin’ me soap an’ it’s flamin’ well haul
to get now! ”
* * * *
“Bughouse”; Of all Nature’s mysteries
few can surpass that of the most prolifi-
cally generated of all objects, a seed.
Break one open and we find only a small
quantity of pollen or flour, sometimes
fine and white, sometimes slightly colored
and waxy. Under the microscope it
shows merely as flour, as characterless a
substance as can anywhere be found.
Yet place the seed in moist earth and it
becomes a plant, producing flowers or
bearing fruit, and it ends with scores of
seeds precisely similar to the parent seed,
Yet all this growth, all the multiplicity
of roots, stem, branches, leaves, flowers,
was wrapped up in that apparently
characterless quantity of-flour! It needed
only a condition of fermentation, pro-
duced by sunlight, earth and moisture, to
start the operation going. And yet the
seed of that modified grass that we call
wheat, ground up to a flour, forms a food
containing almost everything essential for
the nourishment of the human body.
FINE COMPANY.
As I walked down a country road
Through orchards ripely fruited,
Where now a thrush sang soft and sweet,
And now a magpie fluted,
Outpouring music mellow,
It was my lot to chance upon
A hale and wholesome fellow.
While dewdrops like to jewels shone,
Green leaf, green blade adorning,
He joined me with a jovial smile,
A blithe and brave “Good morning”
Upon the still air flinging
That cheered me like the tuneful birds
Around about me singing.
Good talk had he as side by side
We strolled along together;
For such a heart had he as makes
Fine weather of foul weather,
And best befits the rover
Who sees on high the sun full-orbed
Though skies be clouded over.
With song and jest, and tales that told
Of bygone days and present,
Though rough the road whereon we trod
He made the going pleasant;
Made gay the way we followed
Through orchard groves that upward
sloped
And pasture lands green-hollowed.
A thrush and magpie still sang on
Three leagues from where we started
When, nigh a wayside orchard gate,
At noon of day we parted,
I and that jovial fellow;
I keeping on, he homing where
Ripe oranges hung yellow.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


FOR PROFIT IN PIGS
Tri-cal: Balance the mineral ration with Tri-
cal-os. From my experience this is the best
mineral supplement for providing calcium and
phosphorus for pig feeding. These minerals
are often lacking in feeds of vegetable origin
which have been grown on mineral-deficient
country. Tri-cal-os can be fed with confidence;
it is specially processed to ensure maximum
digestibility, and its mineral content is high—a
guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric acid
and 40% lime. Being a pure bone product it
has, too, the other minerals normally present
in bone. If you suspect mineral deficiency
balance the mineral ration with Tri-cal-os.
Production today demands good litters, strong
bones, minimum losses before weaning, thrifty
growth and highest factory returns.
r m
ym
$
m
Obtain information about Tri-cal-os for pigs from:
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney ; G.P.O. Box 4058
Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O.
, Melbourne; G.P.O.
Box 588, Perth.
Old Farmer.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does lie possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND F. W. HIXSON
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool and War.
“Rom Ney”: In its latest examination
of the wool industry, Winchcombe,
Carson, Ltd., notes that production has
touched record levels since the war
began, the average for the three seasons
being 3,623,000 bales, an increase of
360,000 bales on the three-year averages
immediately before the war. This despite
drought, rising costs and other difficul-
ties. The country’s sheep population has
risen by 11,000,000 over 1939 figures to
122,000,000.
In N.S.W. there was no marked
change in the average cut per sheep.
Lighter clips in some parts were bal-
anced by heavier ones in others. The
State had 1,195,000 more sheep in June,
1941, than it had in 1940, the wide
spread of topdressing and better water
supplies having their effect. Fodder con-
servation, too, doubtless contributed to
carrying capacity.
Average cut per grown sheep in
N.S.W. in 1940-41 was 9.31 b., a very
slight drop on the previous year, but
hardly likely to be equalled this year.
Average cut all round, sheep and lambs,
was 8.41 b. for 1940-41 and is estimated
at 81b. for this year. Average for the
last six years is roughly 8.21 b.
Rabbit destruction, owing largely to
the high prices offering for skins, prob-
ably helped to offset effects of the recent
drought, but rabbit destruction is becom-
ing difficult owing to labor shortage and
inability to obtain netting. The poison-
cart may be revived. If this happens it
will be necessary to destroy carcasses to
keep down fly. Labor shortage is show-
ing up in the spread of burr. Clips from
country that previously was free showed
signs of vegetable fault last season. The
burrs seem to be showing up on country
that has been freely topdressed with fer-
tiliser. If they’re caught early, burrs
are not hard to eradicate.
There was a 64 p.c. lamb-marking in
1940-41, a total of 14,014,400. This was
a falling-off against the 1939-40 figure of
15,674,000, but a big increase over 1938-
39, when the total was only 9,286,000, or
52.5 p.c. N.S.W. had 55,568,000 sheep at
31/3/’4l.
In Queensland pastoral conditions
were better, but grass fires, though com-
paratively few sheep were lost, did away
with a lot of feed. The State’s clip was
well-grown, but suffered from yolkiness,
shivvy seed, lice and burr, particularly
Noogoora. The most recent estimate
sets Queensland’s sheep population at
25,500,000 and in 1940 the average over-
all cut was 8.031 b. a head, better than
the two previous years and worth Bs, to
9s. a sheep to the growers.
It is pointed out that, despite the out-
put of artificial fibres, the world used
every fleece grown up to the outbreak of
war, and comfort is taken from the fact
that, with peace, civilian wardrobes will
need restocking. But the change from a
war to a peace economy will take a long
time and a marketing scheme embracing
all the great woolgrowing countries may
be necessary.
Phalaris for Tablelands.
“Pat Ater”; There’s no better fodder
grass exists for either dairying or sheep
pastures on cool tableland country or
slopes. The main obstacle to its general
adoption seems to be alleged difficulty
and expense of establishing it.
The seed is costly and preparation of
a seedbed is necessary for good germina-
tion, but these troubles are offset by
long life—almost a suc-
culent quick-growing grass and splendid
winter greenstuff. It stands heavy crop-
ping and is almost drought-resistant.
One stand of about four acres of
phalaris on F. C. Dowling’s grey soil
country at Coolong Stud, out from
Gunning (N.S.W.), has been growing for
over 20 years. Seed for that plot was
obtained from F. J. White, of Bald Blair
fame. It was sown on mouldboard-
ploughed and harrowed ground at 61b. to
the acre, with 1001 b. of super. Cocks-
foot sown with it has died out long ago.
Phalaris thrives on cropping, stands
dryness and has spread, self-sown, to
“The S.P.C.A. ought to do something about that."
waterways, choking the rushes. Another
20 acres of sub. clover now makes ideal
pasturage.
Rain cannot come “too late” for
phalaris, and it shoots readily in mid-
winter. Its association with sub. clover
is the answer to a cold-country grazier’s
prayer.
Vegetable Pests.
“Rabbi Kohl”: Winter’s the time for
vegetable weevil grubs. They have a
particular fondness for lettuce, radish,
carrot, turnip, beet and similar crops, but
shy off beans and peas. Clumpy weeds
like marshmallow and Capeweed provide
the beasties with bases for their raids.
The tiny eggs, green or yellow, are
laid in the soil round the plant base or
in the crown of the plant. In two to
four weeks they’re hatched, when you’ll
see fat little legless grubs, about a half-
inch long, light-green to yellow in color,
on the undersides of leaves or on the
crowns. They mightn’t appear to be
working, but within a few hours there’ll
be large holes in the leaves and the
crown will be eaten away as fast as it
grows.
Get rid of all weeds and keep rid of
’em all winter. If you leave it too late,
the weevil grubs will bolt for the veges
as soon as you start tearing the weeds
out. Spray or dust the crop in winter
and spring with lead arsenate, 2oz, to
four gallons of water for the spray, 11b.
to 41b. of kaolin for the dust. Crops like
lettuce must not be contaminated with
lead arsenate ; use equal parts of pyre-
thrum powder and kaolin to dust them.
If you suspect the ground, first get
rid of the weeds and then lay poison
baits. Chopped lettuce, turnip or weed
leaves can be sprayed with lead arsenate
and scattered round the place in late
afternoon. Or make a poison mash,
using 241 b. bran, 41b, molasses,
sodium arsenite or 11b. Paris green and
water. Mix the Paris green with
the bran (dissolve the sodium arsenite in
water) and add the molasses and mix to
a mash with the water. Spread thinly on
the soil, working some of it partly in,
again in late afternoon.
Don’t worry about peas, beans, cucur-
bits, oats, wheat or barley, but any
of them can be used as a rotation to rid
the ground of weevils.
Cabbages and cauliflowers may cop
out from two aphids, one slaty-grey and
the other green. If either is sighted
get busy at once with a 2\ p.c. nicotine
dust. To make the dust sprinkle 11b. of
nicotine sulphate on to 161 b. of finely-
powdered hydrated lime, then mix it
thoroughly. The earlier the dusting is
done the less frequently will it be neces-
sary later on.
The Zante Currant.
“B.”: State and Federal experts have
been looking into the problems of Zante
growers in non-irrigated areas of S.A.—
McLaren Vale, Adelaide Plains, Barossa
Valley and Clare —regarding rejuvena-
tion, pruning and cropping.
Blocks of vines, all something over 50
years old, showed that annual cinctur-
ing, sun-scald and trellis strictures were
affecting growth and quality and weight
of crops. For rejuvenation, the vine
was cut off just above where watershoots
could be expected. From the new cane
the vine head was re-formed and a new
frame developed.
After beheading, light crops were
obtained in the second and full crops in
the third and fourth seasons. Over six-
year periods rejuvenated vines outyielded
old ones, and the vineyards reached full
production. Losses from beheading were
under 10 p.c.
Spur pruning in the north, where rain-
fall varies, proved better than the rod
and spur method, which is best for the
reliable rainfall area of the south. Dis-
budding spur-pruned vines was found to
be necessary only when pruning was
faulty. Nitrogenous manures did not
produce any big benefit.
Mustard.
“Jesmond”: If seed is available
farmers in temperate districts might give
mustard a trial next spring. It is one of
the easiest and quickest crops to grow.
For years it was the stable crop on
Phillip Island (Vic.), when yields of up
to lOcwt. per acre were obtained.
Cultivate as for oats, and sow 81b. to
101 b. of seed per acre. Usual practice is
to mix the seed with sand or fertiliser
and sow through a drill. Germination
and growth are quick, and the crop
should be ready to cut in eight or ten
weeks. Cut with a mower, binder or
scythe in the early morning before the
dew has gone, as the plant is very brittle.
The seed-pods dry very quickly and the
crop should not be left out too long.
Thresh on a canvas sheet or tarpaulin
by running a light roller over the heads.
The pods crumble into dust and the seed
is very easily cleaned. About 14 or 16
weeks from ploughing to spending the
cheque, or what is left of it after taxes
are paid, makes mustard well worth while.
A fly pest stopped cultivation on
Phillip Island, but with modern methods
that should easily be controlled and the
crop harvested with little loss.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: “Ropy” cream is caused
by doubtful water and dirty yards,
bails, dairy and utensils. Keep the cows
from stagnant water. Wash udders and
flanks before milking. Keep premises
and utensils clean, using soda when
washing utensils. Scald them with boil-
ing water. Remove all droppings from
within 100 ft. of the dairy, bails and yards
at least once a day.
“Henare”: Cows’ ages can be remem-
bered if systematic naming is adopted.
Each season we add new
cows to the herd as replace-
ments. The first batch are
named from the initial A —
Arabella, etc. The next
season Beauty, Bonnie and
so on.
“Sarina”: Careful feeding
of the sow before farrowing
will ensure a plentiful supply
of milk for the litter. Begin
with greens, roots and a little
grain and increase her grain
ration gradually, allowing her
plenty of exercise. Plenty
of clean water is necessary.
Light rations of easily-
digested food should be fed
for a few days after far-
rowing.
“H.C.”: The morning mash
of bran and pollard for poul-
try can be substituted by
pinched wheat if the grain
is crushed. To give the wheat
mash a balance add 8 p.c. or
10 p.c. of meatmeai and 40 p.c. to 50 p.c.
of chaffed green feed.
“Goulburn”; Sow tick beans, field
peas and lupins in the orchard as a cover
crop. If no seed is available, leave the
orchard uncultivated and let it grow a
good crop of weeds, A topdressing of
icwt. to 2cwt. of superphosphate per
acre will encourage the growth and
stimulate natural clover. Plough the crop
in by early spring.
“Plane Creek”: If you have a fertile
corner, try cattle cabbages or kale, or
both. They’re excellent for dairy cattle
and other stock. Put plenty of old horse
manure into the ground, and prepare it
as for common cabbages. Transplant
seedlings in rows 3ft. apart, with 2ft.
between plants.
“Will C.”: Red beet likes light sandy
loam, deeply cultivated. Not too much
nitrogenous manure, but they respond to
potash and phosphoric acid. Sow in
drills 12in. apart and thin out to about
Sin. between seedlings. Keep the soil
loose around the plants, but don’t water
too heavily. Best “round ’uns” are
Egyptian Turnip Rooted and Derwent
Globe ; for a long sort Obelisk is hard
to beat. Plant in autumn, spring and
summer.
“Feline”: Beekeepers will find a patch
of buckwheat a good paying proposition ;
the blossoms contain an abundance of
nectar. Farmers can try it as green feed
for stock, and the seed is good for poul-
try. Also, it will make a fair-quality
flour.
“Caballer”; If ants are invading the
safe smear vaseline around the legs or
hanging wire. A quarter-inch band is
wide enough, as long as it’s thick. It


FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY MOREE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.
TOWNSVILLE.
LTD.
Wireless alone can me et the
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT ★ CONSTANT ★ CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRON
RADIO VALVES
STANDARD TO ARMY TRANSMITTERS & RECEIVERS i
' AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD,,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Valve Co. Pty., Ltd,
BILLABONG” Centrifugals
PUMP
WA
BY THE ACRE
L
P
f=>.
r
o
fggs^;
V
WRITE
TO
THE MAKERS
JOHN BANKS g SON Pty. Ltd
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
358
A A
iai
PtS!
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11/-
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. —— — Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
will last for months, and no meat-ant,
IL as it is wUI nass it
game as it is, p '
“Canbelego”; clean a rusty cross-
a b sZli a stump Then St a vertical
slot through the centre of the hole with
the saw Depth of the slot should be the
width of the saw, less the teeth. Put the
saw in the slot, teeth uppermost, fill the
hole with fine’ sand, moisten the sand
and work the saw as when sawing.
, • „ T ~ c „ nc ~ in nark-
ingl windmill pump if the brass piston
rod is worn As new rods are unob-
tainable reverse the rod taking care to
™ t the uhfnfer tack evenly in the
diamber. It will be necessary to re-
thread the end of the rod to screw it into
the plunger and secure it to the pitman,
y &
»T « W nr MilisrH nf Arm,-dale
, KT fg®” 1 / W - A ? il A l acre
(N.S.W.), harvested 20 bushels an acre
from 35 acres o£ r °T,Sj
cannms. Besides, he cleared I2s. a busnei
for is" acres of peas, and he has been
offered 20s. a bushel for an expected
20-bushel crop of soya beans on a 15-
acre stand. The place carries 30 acres
of sunflowers on land too stony or heavy
for beans. Last year Hillard got £25
a ton for sunflower seed, and expects
this season’s yield to exceed half a ton
per acre
“Crotin”: Meggitt, Ltd., of Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide, offers to
supply linseed seed ready for sowing at
a reduced price and guarantees to buy
the crop at world parity. Anybody in-
terested should drop the co. a line.
“Goulburn”: S. E. Lovell, Kalang
(N.S.W.), got 7jd. per pound for 12
baconers, five months old, weights from
1201 b. to 1361 b. Tammy-Berks, they were
fed on soaked maize when six weeks old,
and for the last two months were turned
into a paddock of maize. They got very
little milk, no pollard or bran-
Outback Occasions.
No. 36.
SEEDING TIME (1).
A lot of people think that shearing or
the harvest is the busiest time on the
farm. They read in the newspapers fine
stories about the sheep being mustered
and penned, about the shearers toiling
from bell to bell and the creamy fleeces
billowing across the wool tables and into
the bins, and they remember all the tales
they’ve heard of huge tins of tea and
stacks of brownie and the men picking
burrs out of their fingers and yarning
round the fire in the shearers’ hut at
night. Or, if it’s harvest they read about,
they get mental pictures of the machines
roving through the oceans of wheat all
day, of dusty and sweating men man-
handling thousands of bags of wheat
from dewy morn until the first pale stars
glow and then falling into bed and snoring
through the night, to stumble forth in the
dawn and go to the harvest again.
Nobody ever writes stirring stories
about seeding time. Perhaps it’s because
there’s no clamor or glamor about it.
You can’t make a thrilling picture of a
man up to his ears in red mud and feel-
ing round in the darkness for a dropped
spanner, or stumbling over bushes and
logs in the wet grass at 4 a.m. trying to
find the horses, or nursing barked
knuckles and breathing deep profanity
in some dark and lonely shed where a
tractor starting handle has slipped when
he swung it.
But come a-seeding and you shall learn.
The night before you have been working
by hurricane lamp getting the combine
ready. This is a machine invented by
agricultural implement makers for the
purpose of driving wheatgrowers insane.
Its invention was totally unnecessary,
since wheatgrowers are insane anyhow,
a condition brought about by a life spent
amidst mortgages, Rural Bank officers,
grasshoppers, rabbit inspectors, insurance
agents, shire councils, taxation authori-
ties, wheat market reports, agricultural
experts and wheatgrowers. The machine
is merely an addition ; it can’t break the
camel’s back because the last straw was
added long ago.
The combine consists of a double box.
For most of the year these boxes are
used to store empty bottles, old boots,
bits of harness, bluestone, a clucking hen
or two, some mice and as hiding places
for tools. They have to be cleared out for
seeding, one box for seed and the other
for fertiliser. Seed, of course, is what
the wheat springs from, provided there
is enough rain, it is sown at the right
time, no grasshoppers come, there are no
take-all, foot-rot or weevils. Fertiliser is
a material deliberately foisted on the
wheatgrower to increase his debts and
ruin his eyesight. Some people claim that
it makes the wheat grow more plentifully,
but the average wheatgrower’s opinion
of it can be heard on any wheat farm at
seeding time. It is briefly, succinctly and
efficiently described as “the bloody stuff.”
In the bottom of the combine boxes
are rows of stars. These revolve when the
machine is in gear, and their revolutions
are recorded on a clock affair which is
supposed to register the amount of seed
and fertiliser being sown per acre but
more frequently is the cause of the
wheatgrower registering new achieve-
ments in profanity. A lot of other gad-
gets^ —floats, tynes, hoses, levers, etc. —
are attached to the combine, probably
to justify the name, for the combination
of them all, though frequently claimed
by thoughtless people to give a perfect
wheat-sowing instrument, is more likely
to result in attacks of apoplexy being suf-
fered by those who have to use them.
This, then, is the machine with which
you have been tinkering for the past
week. By the “lantern, dimly burning”
last night you made the final adjustment,
laid out the swinglebars and chains,
loaded the boxes with wheat and manure
and retired. You tossed about a bit in
bed, the imminence of the coming toil
on your mind, wondering if you’d for-
gotten anything, and finally dropped off,
to be wakened an instant later by a light
and a voice saying “Come on, tumble
out. We got t’ get inf it.”
In the raw darkness of an autumn
morning you crawl forth, shudderingly
draw on your clothes and make for the
kitchen. Out in the stables there are light
and movement where the boys are feeding
the horses. You roast your back against
the stove and then go to the table and
stoke up. Feeling a bit more civilised
you go forth, firmly attach the neddies
to the combine, pick up the reins and
start for the first paddock. Dim forms of
the native fauna gallop off into the dark-
ness and a startled owl circles round the
team, causing the chestnut filly to rear
and tangle herself up. You feel your way
round, sort her out, blow on your fingers
and start off again.
You reach the paddock just as the
east begins to pale and a wind from the
Antarctic comes at you from the
south. Leaving the team, you go along
the headland, find the post with the
marker on it, make sure the little heap
of seed and fertiliser is in its place, light
your pipe and go back to the stamping
horses. You pick up the reins, sigh, re-
call that another year has passed and
speak to the team. The chestnut filly
plunges, there is a twanging and slither-
ing of metal against metal, loud grinding
noises, and you drag the team to a stop.
You feel your way round in the dim
light, sort out the filly again, decide not
to kick her in the slats —yet —and go to
the off side of the machine, where the
noises came from, and find that the out-
side tyne has dragged up a loose length
of fencing wire, which has got firmly
tangled round the wheel and in under
the box.
It needs pliers or a file to cut it away.
You cup your hands and roar back at
the house. The dogs bark back at you.
You roar again. Voices roar back at you.
One of the boys comes galloping up
barefoot and you address him. He stays
with the team while you go back and
get a file. An hour later, with the sun
raising gleams from the frost line along
the fence, you hack away the last bit of
wire, stick the file in the toolbox, pick
up the reins and pause. You are about
to start seeding.


4 rtf*
Dcfem
lo
S ° USAS m$
a
iii
rr
Spas
TIN —normally used in fhe coal-
ing of Galvanized Iron—must
be conserved for Government
use. To meet this situation John
Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd. has
perfected a galvanized iron sheet
with » new “War Finish." Equal
in quality to the familiar Orb and
Queens Head Galvanized Iron—
as indicated by the fact that each
sheet carries the well-known
Lysaght guarantee the only
noticeable difference is an ab-
sence of the familiar "spangles."
The public can rest assured, there-
fore, that in ordering and accept-
ing Lysaght Galvanized Iron
marked "War Finish," they are
making a very definite contribu-
tion to the War Effort and, at the
same time, securing a product
that will give every service and
satisfaction.
CORRUGATED AND* PLAIN
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.
smn BRISBANE A 0 £ t A J 0 f PEBEH
PROUDS
SUGGEST
CIGARETTE CASES
COMBINING
Sturdy Quality With Move! Features
&
■ 5' '
A splendid gift to a man in the
Services Cigarette Case OfJ/
of fine English leather .... 3yJ/-
With A.1.F., R.A.A.F.. or R.A.N.
badge, 32/6.
Prouds recommend this handsome
Cigarette Case in sterling silver.
m
■
irsKKSSSsr
Selected from a good range of choice
English chrome cases.
Capacity 15. 20/; 12 .
17/6
(Above)
A soldier's Writing Folio,
complete with paper, etc.
Strong, serviceable, stands any
amount of wear. In Tan
or Navy Blue
(Left)
An English compact Clothes
Brush, with pure bristles. Fitted
with manicure pieces. In
Air Force Blue, with 9R/-
Red back
PROUDS
, ' ' ■ Pry. ltd.
- Jewellers- • Watchmakers • Silversmiths
THE CLOCK'CENTRE OF SYDNEY
CR. KING N 0 P ITT STR EITS? SYDNEY*
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy books by Thomas Hardy. State
edition. —3266.
New or second-hand copy of The Valor of
Ignorance, by Homer Lea.—3267.
To buy new or second-hand copy of Tolstoy’s
Toil— 3268.
Information Sought.
Methods necessary when saving seeds of
vegetables ?
Procedure varies with different varieties. Ex-
treme care is necessary in labelling, storing,
handling and selection. Best results are assured
when different varieties of each are grown well
apart. Let tomatoes become rotten-ripe and
squash the pulp into a bucket of water; seeds
float and can be gathered and dried. Raise
parsnips and carrots in special beds, and when
seed is ripe lift plants but discard seed from
those with misshapen and forked roots. Pods
on peas and beans must be allowed to ripen on
plants to retain vitality, and only use those
free of disease. Careful selection must be made
of vine vegetables. Hand-pollinate the flowers,
then cover the female flower with gauze to
exclude insects and bees; this will ensure the
seed being true to type. Onion seed should be
saved only from selected plants; and the same
applies to cabbages, cauliflowers, Brussels
sprouts, parsley, capsicums and chillies, rhubarb,
lettuce, kohlrabi, turnips (swede and white),
radishes, celery, beetroot, leeks and silver beet.
It is preferable not to save potatoes; Govern-
ment-tested tubers will give better results, When
stored in wooden boxes (matchboxes are suit-
able) with a little naphthalene or lime and
tobacco-dust the seeds will keep for a couple
of years.
* :|=
Who were the “Three Immortal Poets,” and
what is the tablet inscription concerning them ?
They were Homer of Greece, Dante of Italy
and Milton of England. This verse concerning
them is on a tablet to Milton in St. Mary-at-
Bow, Cheapside, London: —
Three poets in three distant ages born,
Greece, Italy and England did adorn;
The first in loftiness of thought; surpassed ;
The next in majesty; in both the last;
The force of Nature could no further go,
To make the third she joined the other two.
Particulars of Katherine Mansfield?
Daughter of banker Harold Beauchamp, she
was born at Wellington (M.L.) on October 14,
1888, and was educated there, at Karori and
in London. She returned to Maoriland in
1906, remained there for 20 months, during
which she absorbed her surroundings and per-
fected her literary style, and left for England
in July, 1908. She had already changed her
name from Kathleen Beauchamp to “Katherine
Mansfield” in contributions to “Harpers’ Bazaar”
and “Native Companion,” and within three years
of her return to England had established a repu-
tation as a writer of short stories. In 1911 In a
German Pension was published. Through per-
sonal tragedies and ill health she worked “fer-
vently and meticulously,” doing much of her
best work for the periodical press, particularly
“Athenaeum” and “Adelphi.” In April, 1918,
she married J. Middleton Murry, with whom
she had been associated in literary work for
some years. She died at Fontainebleau on
January 9, 1923, “the best-known and most
highly esteemed of New Zealand writers.” Col-
lections of her work published at different times
include Prelude (1918), Je ne Parle pas Frangais
(1919), Bliss (1920), The Garden Party (1922),
The Dove’s Nest (1923), Something Childish
(1924), The Aloe (1930). Her collected Poems
were published in 1923; her Journals (edited by
Murry) in 1927; her Letters in the following
year; and volume of reviews, Novels and
Novelists, in 1930.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of Sydney Horler? Is that his
correct name ? (2) Address of the Fellowship
of Australian Writers ?
(1) Who’s Who gives that as his name. Born
at Leytonston, Essex, on July 18, 1888, he be-
came a journalist with the Western Daily Press
and allied papers, Bristol, in 1905. In 1911 he
took an appointment as special writer on the
staff of E. Hulton and Co., Withy Grove, Man-
chester. Subsequently he had Fleet-street ex-
perience on the staff of the “Daily Mail” and
the “Daily Citizen.” In the last year of the
1914-18 war he held a position in the propa-
ganda section of Air Intelligence. Upon de-
mobilisation he joined the editorial staff of
George Newnes and was appointed sub-editor
on “John o’ London’s Weekly,” but soon left
that job to write fiction. Since then he has pub-
lished over 80 novels, mainly yarns of sen-
sational interest. (2) Care of Mr. Ashton,
Box 3448 R, G.P.0., Sydney.
'!> 'l' 'l* #
“The types of plant affected are as follow”
is the way a Commonwealth advt. puts it.
Should the last two words not be “as
follows” ?
In all such contexts, as follows should be
written. The Oxford English Dictionary ruling
is: “The construction in as follows is imper-
sonal, and the verb should always be used
in the singular.” Fowler states that the phrase
as follows is very old, and no doubt originated
in sentences where there was no plural in the
neighborhood to raise awkward questions,
L-oncludmg his discussion on the subject,
bowler says that “the idiom is now fixed; no
one would want to change it except under the
impression that it was ungrammatical; to show
that it is no more ungrammatical than the
innovation [as follow ] is enough to condemn
the latter” g
MpfhnA , J ~
Mettiod of making greenhide from hide still
ivton/ng r/je hair ? . ~
water For 48 hours in clean cold
mu of and , un hamng make up
lallon of w!fw d * lb - Salt 1°
comnktelv immerse the hide
most nf y thc n 4 u°T’ ,5 ft E r wh, u h
haa , and flesh should be easily
limp P nnlv° . up , a second s ? ak ’ usin f
free nfLr„J^ h hlde b u sc S pe £
the hiVte 0 ~i air ? nd desb ,j as h
for Hnv h °Ti, Ugh y Ind1 nd soak m • C 0 ( ? water
fin/ i make f Up f* ™ rmg , bat h ot
of water S fol l“i °/ to ,f ach gadon
, akl fi?i K so F k h ! c u le . for tl lrce days - T hen
make up the bath with 6oz. alum (but no salt)
to each gallon of water and soak for four
days. Before removing the hide from the soak
make a slit in the neck to see if it is a greyish
color right through—if there is a streak in the
centre of the hide soak until it has disappeared,
The hide will then need at least two washings
in clean water, after which it should be hung
to dry away from the sun and wind. The hide
can be made soft and flexible by rubbing fat
or paraffin wax into both sides.
* * * *
Who were the first batsmen on each side to
score centuries in (1) Australia v. England
(2) Australia v. S. Africa, (3) England v S.
Africa Test cricket ?
(1) C. Bannerman (Australia), 165 in the first
Test at Melbourne, March 15-17, 1877- W G
Grace (England), 152 at Kennington Oval, Eng-
land, September 6-8, 1880. (2) Clem Hill
(Australia), 142 at Johannesburg, S. Africa,
October 11-14, 1902; J. Sinclair (S. Africa), 101
at Johannesburg, October 18-21, 1902, (3)
R . Abel (England), 120 at Capetown, S.
Africa, March 25-26, 1889; J. Sinclair (S.
Africa), 106 at Capetown, April 1-4, 1899.
. * ’ ’
/in , ,
n ■' iat 15 .P e . size . °J. cu cket pitch .
dLPlmPil t Ch h P S the batsman the
Twmtv t™ ™h T ‘ - f . •.
/.f'^Twenff^ 0 yards lo "g’ wide
!?f£nrerer y PY
L k preserve of the batsman. If the bowler
is Penalised,
tIC wicke t he can be
ktn SL *- rCd f’ must not take the
lv - m X ront - the wicket except when it is
“f “ tbe / ir °L after it is played, to run
out the batsman, players are not permitted to
9j d s ff nd where _a shadow will interfere
with the batsmen. In all these matters the
umpires are the sole judges of fair and mnfair
play and their decisions are final, though they
may be grumbled at.
* * * *
(1) Winner and runner-up of N.S.W. Rugby
Union premiership in 1941 ? (2) How were the
1941 profits of the Rugby Union split up among
patriotic bodies ? ...
(1) Eastern Suburbs (29 points), University
(27 points). (2) As decided by R.U. delegates;
Municipal Patriotic and Comforts Funds, £454
17s. lOd.; Services—Navy, Army and Air Force,
£3OB ss. Bd.; Christmas Hamper Fund £250;
Lord Mayor’s Fund, £150; Red Cross (Prisoners
of War), £25; Red Cross (Hospital Beds), £75;
to special reserve, £256 11s. 3d. Total £1519
14s. 9d. The profits for 1942 will be donated
to similar objects,
* * * *
rn , ,
, V', W dld , R,c !} ards , retire > and when
dld 26 return to boxing? (2) What Australian
championships did Richards hold when he re-
tired? (3) Who holds the titles Richards re-
Unquished?
(1) Richards retired after drawing with Ameri-
can Carmen Barth at the Sydney Stadium on
j anu ary 13, 1941, and came back on September
17 that ycar to fight a draw with Max Rayner in
Adelaide. (2) He held the Australian middle,
light-heavy and heavyweight championships
when he retired. (3) Although Richards has,
since returning to the ring, beaten A 1 Basten in
Melbourne and Billy Britt in Sydney (both
t.k.0.) these contests were not fought under
championship conditions, and Basten is recog-
nised as Australian middleweight champion,
Cec Overall as light-heavyweight and Narvo,
w ] lo has beaten Britt, heavyweight,
* * * *
From whom, where and when did Joe Louis
win the world’s heavyweight championship?
How many times has he successfully defended
this title? Who w>ere the men he defeated?
Louis won the world’s heavyweight champion-
ship when he knocked out James J. Braddock
in eight rounds at Chicago on June 22, 1937.
He has defended the title 21 times, and the men
defeated by him were Tommy Farr (15 rounds),
Nathan Mann (three), Harry Thomas (five), Max
Schmeling (one), John Henry Lewis (one). Jack
R °P« r (one), Tony Galento (four), Bob Pastor
U l )* Arturo Godoy (15), Johnny Paycheck
(two), Arturo Godoy (eight), A 1 McCoy (five),
Red Burman (five), Gus Dorazzio (two), Abe
Simon (13), Tony Musto (nine), Buddy Baer
( six )< Bllly Conn ( 13 )> Lou Nova (six), Buddy
Baer (one) and Abe Simon (six).
Rima* A M ewai»e
Brief AtISWCrS*
, _ .
A.L.: Andrew Fisher was Prime Minister
from April 29, 1910, to June 24, 1913, and
from September 17, 1914, to October 27, 1915.
\y ar was declared on August 4, 1914 E.L.P.:
The Penguin Political Dictionary states that
his father was Schicklgruber and changed the
name to Hitkr - as e earl as
sc - : See Allans, Melbourne, or Palings, Syd-
neyj regarding publication of a song M.G.:
“h ow MacDougall Topped the Score” is in
j/ lc . Bulletin Reciter, obtainable from N. S.
Wales Bookstall Co., Sydney Dot: Get in
touch with the Australian Nurses’ Association,
91 Phillip-street, Sydney (82889)... .J.H.8.:
presume you mean the George Cross and Medal,
created by the King on September 23, 1940.
xhey are awarded for gallantry... .T.H.: Write
to q ie secretary, Taxpayers’ Association, Cath-
c,art House, 11c Castlereagh-street, Sydney
GP : xhe offlcia[ Year-Book of the
R.S.S.A.I.L.A. states that “nearly 48,000 are
still missed by France, 8000 by Great Britain,
5000 by Italy and 24,000 by Germany. The
A.I.F. procedure with regard to front-line
troops reported ‘missing’ was, after a reason-
able period, to hold a special court of inquiry
and, if evidence to the contrary was not forth-
coming, declare the unaccounted-for soldier


Legal Notice.
TO CECIL ERNEST RUTHE, son of William
Ruthe, who died in New Zealand on the 17th
June, 1924, to the children of Cecil Ernest
Ruthe, and to all persons claiming by, through
or under any of them by derivative title or other-
wise howsoever. —Pursuant to an order made
by the Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
hereby called upon to send to the undersigned
on or before the 31st August, 1942, your claim
to share in the estate of the said William Ruthe,
failing which such estate will be distributed dis-
regarding your claims. —The SOLICITOR,
Public Trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK FRANCIS RALPH CAR-
PENTER late of Gunnedah New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that ZITA ANN MARY
CARPENTER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 294 of 1941 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards You may enter an appearance be-
fore the Thirtieth day of June 1942 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solicitors 2 York
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN DAVIDSON late of Maryville New
South Wales Laborer. —TAKE NOTICE that
TESSIE EILEEN DAVIDSON has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 70 of 1942 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards You may enter an
appearance before the 3rd day of July 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solicitors 2
York Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce. '
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE JOHN MURPHY late of Islington
Railway Employee.—TAKE NOTICE that
LYNDA HELENA MURPHY has filed a peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1758 of 1938 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards You may enter
an appearance before the 3rd day of July 1942
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solicitors 2
York Street Sydney— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
MACMILLAN BOOKS
THE UNFAITHFUL WIFE
By Naomi Boyde Smith
This is a tale of the first few months of the
present war. It tells of the lonely little Ameri-
can wite of an officer of the Royal Naval
Reserve who, left to her own devices and too
shy to occupy herself with any form of war
work, tries to escape into a shadow world, only
to find herself encountering dangers she has not
imagined and her day-dream crashing into the
reality of war.
Price 9/6; posted 10/-
THE EMPTY ROOM
By Charles Morgan
A long “short story” by this well-known
author. It tells of a man’s unswerving loyalty
to an idea—his continuing love for his wife,
whom he lost twenty years ago, and for their
daughter, who closely resembles her.
Price 8/6; posted 8/11
RANDOM HARVEST
By James Hilton.
The author of those famous books, “Lost
Horizon” and “Mr. Chips,” is hero again at
his best. One critic writes: “The imagination
which gave us ‘Lost Horizon’ is still expand-
ing and maturing. Indeed, I reckon him taller
now by half a head.... It is a large and
ample story full of living people and sharp
incident, and the plot makes you catch your
breath.”
Price 8/6; posted 9/-
These books may be obtained from booksellers;
wholesale only from
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON, W.C.2.
S i
mm.
mm
jm i tumni—l
flHßlii
JBIW
1
;'POWELL
ON THE JOB
Urgent foods. Vital fuels and timbers.
Important civil transport services.
Paramount army supplies. Wherever
there are priority loads to handle,
you’ll find “Powell on the Job” —get-
ting things done quickly and efficiently
with lower operating costs. Powell’s
heavy-duty construction keeps trucks
out of the repair shop and on the
road. Powell’s famous Beresinsky
Cleaner reduces engine wear to “less
than with petrol.”
There’s a model for every purpose,
and Powell are the only units with
Government approved models up to
40 horse-power.
Immediate delivery of
POWELL GAS UNITS
from H. C. SLEIGH, Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, or Powell Dealers throughout Australia.
wmmmmmm
CRAVENA
are kinder . .
to the throat
-rvi AD E ’ SPECIALLY TO PREVEN T > S QfR E vrT H R 0 AT S
m
10 for ll* 1 ' 20 for 110
Also in Fifties
‘killed in action’ ”... .W.R.8.; Electors on the
British Parliamentary register increased trom
5.000. in 1884 to 21,000,000 in 1918 (when
women of 30 were enfranchised) and to
28.850.000 in 1929 (women having the vote on
the same terms as men)... .8.G.5.: Roosevelt
was born at Hyde Park, New York, on Janu-
ary 30, 1882 K.L.P.: Whitaker’s Almanack
gives the estimated world production of wool
as 1,850,000 tons, of which Australia contributed
500.000 tons, Maoriland 136,000, S. Africa
117.000, U.K. and other British 120,000, U.S.A.
205.000, Argentine and Uruguay 225,000,
U.S.S.R. 135,000, All Europe 160,000, other
countries 220,000 8.F.: The Isle of Man has
an area of 227 square miles and a population
(1931) of 49,308 R.N.: The Marquis of
Lothian died at Washington on December 12,
1940, aged 58 N.G.: Great Britain and
Northern Ireland imported 31,005,730 cwt. of
wheat from Australia in 1938... .R.G.D.: The
N.S.W. Ministry consists of William John Mc-
Kell, Premier and Colonial Treasurer; John
Marcus Baddeley, Deputy-Premier, Colonial
Secretary and Minister for Mines; Robert James
Heffron, Minister for N.E.S.; Clarence Edward
Martin, Attorney-General; William Fraser
Dunn, Minister for Agriculture and Forests;
Clive Raleigh Evatt, Minister for Education;
Hamilton Knight, Minister for Labor and In-
dustry and National Services; Robert Reginald
Downing, Minister for Justice and Vice-Presi-
dent of the Executive Council; John Joseph
Cahill, Secretary for Public Works; Christopher
Augustus Kelly, Minister for Health; James
McGirr, Minister for Local Government and
Housing; John Moran Tully, Secretary for
Lands; Maurice O’Sullivan, Minister for Trans-
port ; Carlo Camillo Lazzarini and William
Edward Dickson, Assistant Ministers
D.G.S.: The latest Writers and Artists’ Year-
Book gives the address as “Scout,” 25 Bucking-
ham Palace-road, London, S.W.I R.G.S.:
The Berlin-Rome Axis is “a term denoting the
political collaboration of Germany and Italy,
initiated during the Abyssinian conflict in 1936,
strengthened by Italy’s accession to the Anti-
Comintern pact in 1937, and developed to a
full political and military alliance in 1939.
Italy had collaborated with the Western Powers
before and opposed Germany’s expansion in the
Danube Basin, threatening even armed inter-
vention during the first Nazi uprising in Austria
in summer 1934. When her attack on Abyssinia
and the sanctions had alienated Italy from the
Western Powers she turned to the Axis policy.”
NT.: Remove the shoes and turn the horse
afield in a soft paddock for six weeks. If that
is impracticable, cut out the corn and burn a
thimbleful of turpentine in the hollow. Then
replace shoe with a soft leather pad under-
neath.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
R.J.;
We thought our fathers beat the curse
And Tyranny was slain;
But, Phoonix-like, we’ve something worse,
For Eddie’s miners reign.
W.J.; —
MacArthur and his lads have brought
A lingo of their own
To Aussieland that Phillip wrought
And where our tongue has grown.
But many words are just the same as ours,
E.ff., descriptive words for Axis Powers.
B.A.F.: “Extreme weather often shook
them.” It shook us, t 00... .E.N.C.: Read the
poem four times, and you won’t have to worry
about your insomnia... .E.D.: Close... .J.R.:
Elementary J.C.: A potato could have done
better J.C.8.; “Old Sol benignly smiled a
genial warmth,” did he?....M.5.: No room
for bus epic, even if it is funny once in every
mile H.W.: Take it to the home for lost
doggerel E.V.D.: It just wanders N.A.;
Buttercups of “massive” hue? ... .P.K.; “I
wandered lonely as a cloud.” Did you meet
Wordsworth, by any chance? R.L.F.;
Nothing new in any of them S.C.: “We
Will Do It.” We will not E.D.8.: A rous-
ing cheer for Gumleaf... .L.S.: Du11.... V.A.;
Try it elsewhere E.M.S.; Away with that
“miserable yarn”... .W.F.T.; Words, words,
words —3400 approx, to retell an old and not
uproariously funny drawing-room story
A.W.B.: Try again when you’re a little
older.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H-S-D.: You take your passion for muscles
a bit far when you give your subject one on
the forehead M.L.: Explanation required
as to why Dad is shinning up the tree in his
nightshirt while sun is shining S.L.C.;
More intelligible looking results have followed
the overturning of an ink bottle P.G.: Sug-
gest you take flesh-and-blood instead of ships’
figureheads as your models for ladies’ faces.
D.N.B.: Original stuff only, please, and
figures that are neither frozen nor in process
of melting Bert C.: Received, one drawing
showing unidentifiable animal-ciun-saurian with
paws on Australia and armored tail on ferry-
boat mounting 16in. guns, breathing fire
marked “New Era.” What does it mean?
H.G.: If you must play about with colors, try
camouflaging the dirt-box M.W.8.: We will
try to stagger along without your depiction of
the spirit of Ataturk (we knew it was he be-
cause he had a fez and was labelled) defying
Von Papen disguised as a carpet-snake
W.H.P.: Scratchy and extremely wooden
D.P.; Picture of garlanded Curtin, scraping
away at a ’cello he is holding up to his neck
and looking at a mine burning, respectfully
declined F.R.: Welcome to veteran drunk
offering overcoat to nude park statue! Now
we know winter is upon us M.D.; That
jockey could walk on to his horse! N.M.J.:
Pencil sketches on a visiting card! Away!....
G. 8.: Army stew joke is thin, and you made
a hash of- the drawing.


fan you
rely upon
an individual ?
A Trustee should administer your Estate to
the greatest advantage of your beneficiaries,
a task needing business wisdom, constant
devotion of time to the duties involved over
a considerable period, and sound technical
knowledge. He must be completely trust-
worthy. Should you find a friend possessing
all these qualifications and appoint him
Trustee —he may die before completing his
duties—age may sap his wisdom—misfortune
may befall him.
But should you nominate The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited,
these circumstances cannot arise. Consti-
tuted under Act of Parliament, and answer-
able to the Courts, it is absolutely trustworthy.
It devotes its whole time and energy to the
administration of Trusts. It has the necessary
knowledge of the technicalities relating to
Trusts, is controlled by Directors of proved
capacity, and . . . the Company “goes on
for ever”.
Charges are moderate. For details write or
call upon:
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 HUGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve* and
Undivided Profits, 1958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; t
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E. ; G. S. Column, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton. *
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS: '
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ; SI
W. D. Stewart ; R. T. Hilder. _r
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French. Z_
Gen. Manager. IN. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes
BRANDALERA
PENS
nt
01
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
0. BBAHDADKX * Oft. LML. BIEMIBOHXM. ENO
X °Jj T CO«R /
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES &. CO.,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney.'
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. To
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 283,019 280,000 3,019 4,940,010
4 p.c.
1932.. 160,954 160,000 954 4,940,964
5 p.c.
1933.. 209,559 200,000 9,559 4,950,523
1934.. 203,509 200,000 3,509 4,954,032
Aug.,
1934.. 106,999 100,000 6,999 4,961,031
1935.. 214,985 200,000 14,985 4,976,016
5i p.c.
1936.. 240,848 220,000 20,848 4,996,864
7 p.c.
1937.. 254,383 235,333* 1
To special centenary fund, V 4.995,914
£20,000 J
1938.. 244,683 233,333 11,350 5,007,264
1939. . 225,087 225,000 87 5,007,351
1940.. 196,958 194,500 2,458 5,009,809
1941.. 188,129 191,333 5,006,605
* Excludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus from special fund.
The trading banks in Australia have
been subject to more rigorous control
than other commercial enterprises. This
not because of the profits they earn —
banking profits have long lagged behind
earnings of most other well-established
traders—but because the banks are part
of the machinery by which large-scale
economic planning is controlled.
War-time economic planning aims at
rapidly increasing production of essen-
tial war goods, demand for which con-
tinues to increase as hostilities drag on.
So it has come about that an increasing
proportion of the national output is con-
sumed in the war effort, and ordinary
private consumption has had to be cur-
tailed and private capital expenditure
and spending have had to be checked. In
the early stages it was aimed to bring
about the required diversion of goods
and services by control of money flows,
the Treasury and the banks being the
two chief instruments of control. But
war expenditure continued in excess of
savings. So, to guard against the infla-
tionary effect of increased consumer in-
come, more direct control of prices.
rents, wages, incomes and profits has
been adopted. Also the rationing of
tea, tobacco and now clothes.
Though at the moment rationing is
more a means of assuring that all will
share equally in a limited supply rather
than an instrument for curtailing private
expenditures generally, it is all designed,
among other things, to make more of
the national income available to the
Treasury for war purposes through tax-
ation and internal borrowing, and so
help to reduce external borrowing and its
pernicious influences to a minimum. It
is well to remember, however, that capi-
tal invested in industrial equipment for
production of war goods which become
redundant at the termination of hostili-
ties is effectively consumed. So, in the
interests of post-war employment and
post-war activity generally, traders should
be allowed to set aside amortisation re-
serves to cover loss on such plant as well
as for replacement of other plant, wear
and tear on which has been accelerated
by direct war demands. Failure to do
this is to charge the loss or attrition of
such assets against the future, and the
fewer the costs of war booked up in this
way the better for the workers of Aus-
tralia.
As for the trading banks, they are
obliged to follow the policy of the Com-
monwealth Bank in making advances,
and are prohibited from purchasing Gov-
ernment securities, semi-Government or
municipal loans or securities listed on
’Change without consent of ' the Com-
monwealth Bank. Further, their surplus
investible funds —roughly the increase in
Australian deposits since August, 1939 —
or as much thereof as the Common-
wealth demands, are to be lodged’ with
the central bank, and cannot be with-
drawn without permission. Certainly in-
terest is paid on funds so deposited, but
the rate is regulated to ensure that trad-
ing profits of a trading bank don’t ex-
ceed its average annual trading profits
for the three years to the end of August,
1939, Shorn of their power to influence
monetary policy effectively, and with their
earning power tethered by regulation,
the trading banks have now become little
more than handmaidens to the central
bank.
The Union’s declared trading profits
for the three years to the close of
accounts in 1939 averaged 6 p.c. on capi-
tal. For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts the net return was 4.7
p.c. as against 5.6 p.c. for the preceding
tenn, the slip being due mainly to tax-
ation. On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) last year’s profit
was only a shade over 2 p.c. The div.
was kept at a nominal 7 p.c., equal to
5.9 p.c. in Australian currency, after
allowing for exchange and British tax-
ation. Moreover, for the last quarter of
a century the Union has issued capital at
heavy premiums (as much as 120 p.c. in
1924), making the div. worth no more
than slightly over half the declared rate
on three of the four millions of share
capital.
Balance-sheet figures, covering activi-
ties in Australia, Maoriland and London,
are:
Liabilities.
1939. 1940. 1941.
Notes .. .. £7,556 £7,555 £7,538
Bills, etc. . . 1,667,251 1,888,584 2,292,879
Deposits . . 38,743,599 41,549,130 45,075,396
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 13,530,269 20,066,649 23,072,051
Advances . . 35,483,941 31,885,921 32,803,515
Premises . . 538,546 613,008 617,186
The position is very strong. Last year
a growth of £3,526,266 in deposits and
£404,295 in bills payable, etc., was
accompanied by an expansion of
£3,005,402 in liquids and only £917,594
in advances. The co.’s average deposit
with the Commonwealth Bank for the
first quarter of 1942 was £3,000,000-odd.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.)
Towards
Net , Dividends N Re- Re-
Jan., Loss. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 3,683 Nil Nil 2,305
Profit.
1933.. 2,082 Nil Nil 2082 4,387
Added patent rights. £2l .. .. 4,366
1934.. 274 Nil Nil 274 4,640
1935.. 8,501 9*p.c. Nil 6,252 2066 6,706
Deficit.
Reserves capitalised, £14,500 .. 7,794
Written off intangibles, £7l .. 7,723
1936.. 13.727 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,475 2252 5,471
Added intangibles, £25 ~ .. 5,496
1937.. 14.172 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,475 2697 2,799
1938.. 15,923 6 „ 6 „ 13,992 1931 868
1939.. 10,773 6 „ 5 „ 14,075 4,170
1940.. 6,420 6 ~ Nil 5,220 1200 2,970
1941.. 16,412 6 „ 6 p.c. 16,005 407 2,563
Surplus sale fixed assets, £1045 .. 1,518
1942.. 9,641 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 12,410 4,287
‘lncludes special payment of £725.
Defence contracts have replaced most
of the turnover this co. used to do in
agricultural implements and builders’
hardware. These contracts, which carry
narrower profit margins than commercial
lines, together with Government price-
fixing, the rise in raw-material and
operating costs, the lift in taxation, the
slackening of demand in both the agricul-
tural and building sections of the busi-
ness and the recent curtailment of opeia-
tions in N. S. Wales, explain the contrac-
tion in last year’s earnings.
Excluding surplus from sale of fixed
assets (£1045), gross earnings from all
sources (£93,795) were £12,045 lighter.
Including the allowance for depreciation
(£595, down £1430) and taxation (£BOOO,
up £3000), exes. (£84,154) were got back
£5452, leaving a shrinkage of £6771 in
the net result. This was enough to pay
the prefs. (£87,000) their 6 p.c. and show
2.4 p.c, on the £179,754 of ord. capital.
Still, the ords. were handed 4 p.c. as
against 6 p.c. for the previous term and
an average of 2.3 p.c. for the decade
before that. The amount of capital un-
represented by tangibles in the books at
the end of January was £4287,
The conversion of ploughshares into
armaments ought to keep the co.’s fac-
tories and machinery operating until the
time comes to reverse the process, and
that should mean much, considering the
nature of the business and the times,
though profit margins will remain slender.
The Government threat of a 4 p.c. ceil-
ing for divs., therefore, holds no addi-
tional terrors for shareholders in this
business —last year’s profit was 3.6 on
total capital.
Here is a picture of the undertaking
from another angle:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £266,754 £266,754 £266,754 £266,754
Liabilities ~ 125,197 129,033 67,715 47,605
Freeholds .. 71,906 71,906 71,906 88,166
Plant, etc. .. 32,838 32,902 25,436 25,825
Stocks.. .. 175,795 167,436 151,865 130,211
Book debts .. 73,353 81,515 56,393 43,275
Cash, etc. .. 3,625 3,010 3,612 2,871
Shares other cos. 42,916 42,906 42,906 42,906
Last term stocks (down £21,654) and
debtors’ balances (down £13,118) were
reduced, while £20,110 was lopped off the
amount coming to outsiders and £16,260
was spent on freeholds. Excluding shares
in other cos., mainly the holding in the
Tas. subsidiary (W. Hart and Sons), the
more or less liquid surplus (£128,752)
was £15,403 lighter than at the previous
balance,
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
r~r Dividends
_ _ Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
. £ £ £ £ £
1932.. 2,505 720 Nil 1,785 15,811
Loss.
1933.. 1,678 720 Nil 13,413
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£ll,OOO 2,413
Profit.
1934 .. 3,910 720 2} p.c. =4,651 952
1935.. 10,544 720 4 „ „ 7,441 2,38.3 3,335
1936.. 9,465 720 4 ~ ~ 7,442 1,303 4,638
1937.. 11,814 720 5 ~ ~ 9,301* 1,793 6,431
1938.. 14,463 720 5 „ „ 9,301* 4,442 10,873
1939.. 17,039 720 5J „ ~10,231* 6,088 16,961
1940.. 13,492 720 5| „ ~10,232* 2,540 19,501
1941.. 15,836 720 5*., ~10,232* 4,884 24,385
1942.. 11,275 720 54 „ ~10,232* 323 24,708
* Includes directors’ interest (5 p.c.).
Curtailment of clothing sales to 75 p.c.
of average 1941 weekly values, with
coupon rationing to follow in a month
or so, has pricked the artificial prosperity-
bubble war spending has blown for re-
tailers —not before a grand public-buy-
ing finale, however, as a result of Can-
berra’s clumsy handling of the position,
which for the present has reserved
available supplies for privileged early-
door shoppers. Because of the activities
of hoarders, rationing (the only equitable
method of distribution when goods are
in short supply) has been indicated since
the first buying scramble last May. Syd-
ney statistics, however, appear to indicate
that a period of comparative tranquillity
had developed of recent months, which
makes the Government’s premature
announcement doubly unfortunate in its
results. The effect of rationing on retail
earnings will, of course, depend on its
basis. The one thing certain is an addi-
tion to costs.
Brisbane has behaved more sensibly
than Sydney, and part of the under-10
p.c. increase in department-store turn-
over during the period traversed by
McDonnell and East’s latest accounts
has been on account of the higher price
of most merchandise. With goods of the
right type on its shelves, McD. and E.
got its share of the bigger business, most
of it done on a cash basis. The apparent
paradox of lower profits reflects pro-
vision of £20,000 for taxation, as against
£9OOO for the year before, and £6643 (up
£4758) for depreciation, mostly in respect
of the freehold. That left just about
enough to cover another 5-y p.c. to the
ords., bringing their average for the past
decade to 4.2 p.c. Too much attention
should not be paid to recent superficial
conditions, but even before war took a
hand the business was getting into its
best-looking shape for years.
Stocks of comfortable volume are on
hand to woo the goodwill of customers
in the restricted trading ahead:
1935. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Raid capital.. £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages . . 49,500 47,250 32,187 25,186
Overdraft .. 41,259 47,901 50,512 55,465
Sundry creditors 14,964 . 17,903 21,398 26,360
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 128,091 127,539 126,283 120,210
Stocks. . . . 90,398 107,682 130,662 150,653
Book debts .. 64,994 60,680 59,304 57,078
Cash, etc. .. 14,629 20,923 14,945 11,957
Replacement will be a poser. Apart from
imports, normally Queensland looks to
other States for £3,000,000-worth a year
of things like clothing, haberdashery and
shoes, and the proportion is greater now
with local sources of supply almost
entirely given over to defence needs. An-
other especial problem of retailers is
A.R.P. expenditure, for which no tax
relief is forthcoming when such outlay is
reckoned to be of permanent asset value.
Illawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Rc— Re-
Mar., Profit. • Dividends. serves, serves.
1932 .. 8,058 8 p.c. = 8,000 58 40,791
1933 .. 8,050 8 „ „ 8,000 50 40,841
1934 .. 8,253 8 „ „ 8,000 253 41,094
Unexplained additions reserves, £3500.. 44,594
1935 .. 8,480 8 p.c. = 8,000 480 45,074
Unexplained additions reserves, £3401.. 48,474
1936 .. 8,346 8 p.c. = 8,000 346 48,820
Tax and bad debts reserves written
back, £2500 .. .. .. .. 51,320
1937 .. 11,871 8 p.c. = 8,000 3,871 55,191
Insurance adjustment, £2llB .. .. 57,309
1938 .. 14,581 9 p.c. = 9,000 5,581 62,890
1939 .. 10,905 9 „ „ 9,000 1,905 64,795
1940 .. 11,243 9 „ ~ 9,000 2,243 67,038
1941 .. 12,686 9 „ „ 9,000 3,686 70,724
1942 .. 10,797 9 „ „ 9,000 1,797 72,521
The figures are holding well, notwith-
standing that a third unit of the fleet—
three steel and two wooden vessels —has


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
One family in every two
enjoys some measure of
A.M.P
protection.
Does
Yours?
•pHROUGH the A.M.P. Society,
tens of thousands of men and
women are laying plans for having
as much money as they will need,
when they will need it most. To
learn how to make full use of
the Society, you should read a book
called "Peace of Mind.” It tells
how to plan for happiness and
security. Use this coupon to
secure a free copy.
USE THIS COUPON
To the A.M.P. SOCIETY.
On the understanding that it puts
me under no obligation, please send
me a copy of “Peace of Mind.”
Age last birthday
A.M.P.
Society
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart
and Canberra, A.C.T.
District Offices throughout all States
M
KEEP HEALTHY
THIS NATURAL WAY
jYou can end constipation naturally,
promptly, effectively with NYAL FIG-
SEN. Figsen is a pleasant-tasting laxative-
Chew one or two tablets before retiring*
Figsen acts overnight without disturbing
your sleep. No stomach upsets, no griping
pain. In the morning Figsen acts —mildly,
gently, but thoroughly. Figsen is equally
good for young and old. Sold by chemists!
everywhere. l/3i a tin?
The next best thing to Nature .. >
JMyaiFaff sen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
worries;
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEIi APPETAIVCE CO.,
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple.
WGI
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Head Office:
271-279 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE. C.I
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
SIR JAMES A. M. ELDER, K.8.E., Chairman.
THE HON. SIR FRANK G. CLARKE, K.8.E., M.L.C., Vice-Chairman.
T. C. ALSTON. GENERAL SIR HENRY G. CHAUVEL, G.C.M.G.. K.C.B.
H. G. DARLING. H. D. GIDDY. D. YORK SYME.
Chief Manager: L. J. McCONNAN. Chief Inspector: S. M. WREFORD.
New South Wales Board of Advice:
BRIGADIER THE HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
Chairman. RODNEY R. DANGAR.
D. 5.0., 0.8. E.. V.D.,
HUNTER WHITE.
M.L.C.,
BALANCE SHEET, 31st MARCH, 1942
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-300.000 Shares of £lO
each £3.000,000 0 0
875.000 Shares of £8
each 7,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
-200.000 Shares of £lO
each Fully Paid .... £2,000,000 0 0
600.000 Shares of £8
each £5 paid ... 3,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ....
Profit and Loss—Balance carried forward
£10,000.000 0 0
Dividend Payable 27th May, 1942 - —-
Notes in Circulation - -
Bills in Circulation
Deposits and other Accounts, including; Reserve for
Contingencies .... - - - —•
Contingent Liability, as per contra, in regard to obligations of
customers and others on Letters of Credit, Guarantees, etc..
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion. Australian Notes, Cash at Bankers, and at Short
Call in London - -
Commonwealth Treasury Bills - ■■■ - •
Investments (British and Australian Government and other
Stocks (at or under market value) -
Special War-time Deposit with Commonwealth Bank ._ ....
Bills Receivable in London and Remittances in Transit ....
Bills and Cheques on, and Notes of other Banks
Duty Stamps -
Real Estate, consisting of Bank Premises
At cost, less amounts written off.
Other Real Estate (at cost, less amounts written off)
Bank Furniture (at cost, less amounts written off)
Advances and other Assets (less provision for all ascertained
Bad and Doubtful Debts)
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian Currency.)
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, etc., as per Contra, £2,142,023/18/11.
The Net Profit, after deduction of all expenses, including
£284,047/2/4 for Income, Land and other Taxes, amounted to ....
Add Balance brought forward from previous year —.—
Making Available .._
From this sum the following appropriations have been made;
Interim Dividend of 3 per cent, on the £lO and £8
Shares paid on 26th November, 1941 _ ....
Reduction of Bank Premises Account ._
And it is recommended that a final Dividend of 2% per cent, on
the £lO and £8 shares, making 5 Yz per cent, for the year,
be paid on 27th May, 1942 -
And to carry forward
£289,758 17 9
143,577 9 11
'o the Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on the books
lt the Head Office and with the certified returns from the Branches. We have
btained all the information and explanations we have required and we are of the
pin on that the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account are drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company s affairs and of the
•csults of the business of the Company for the year, according to the best of
,ur information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of
he Company.
Melbourne, 11th May. 1942.
S. J. WARNOCK, F.C.A.(Aust.) ) A dit
J, R. BISHOP, F.C.A.(Aust.)
Reserve Fund amounting to £3.300,000, and the Accumulated Profits,
£138,336/7/8, are used in the business.
been taken over for national purposes,
causing discontinuance of some services.
Results for the past two years, however,
aren’t strictly comparable with their pre-
decessors, no depreciation now being
struck off the book value of ship property
—in at under £lO a ton gross, and obvi-
ously worth a lot more. A couple of
years back the Government was prepared
to pay a bounty of that much per ton
on steel ships of local construction, and
replacement costs have gone to the skies
since.
Last term output on the N. S. Wales
dairying South Coast was affected by
drought (since broken) and a shortsighted
man-power policy, and this meant not
only that butter and cheese cargoes were
at “extremely low levels,” but so was
the backloading of stores, etc. Importa-
tion of fodder to maintain stock partly
compensated, but at concession rates.
Moreover, continued increase in wage,
insurance and other costs have out-
stripped the previous term’s freight ad-
justments to such an extent that the
board is considering asking for another
increment. The result of all this was to
produce a surplus £lBB9 lower at 10.7
p.c. on capital, compared with 12.7 p.c.
in 1941 and 11.2 p.c. the year before
that, when £3120 was charged for depre-
ciation. Div. was left at 9 p.c.
These figures should be considered
along with the consistent earning power
shown in the first table;
1934. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities* . . 11,413 8,554 12,412 13,014
Ship property 48,980 24,880 24,880 24,880
Feeholds and
leaseholds . . 2,595 2,460 2,460 2,450
Plantj stocks, etc. 1 674 1,740 1,636 2,068
Book debts .. 8,704 17,176 17,407 11,301
Public securities, _
cash, etc. .. 94,554 133,807 141,203 149,331
* Including tax provision.
One source of that stability is the
patiently-accumulated pile of liquids,
mainly Government loans. At 295. lOd.
per share, the heap now amounts to only
2s. 2d. less than the price at which the
pound shares recently changed hands. It
gives the scrip holding possibilities.
Meantime, proposed Government profit-
limitation may not place a 7 p.c. div. far
out of grasp.
Morton Webber, widely experienced
Yankee mining engineer now residing in
Westralia, on gold and man-power:
In the hope that a balanced and con-
structive policy can be arriyed at and that
the goldmining industry will know where
it is, it is my opinion, gained from most
of the goldfields of the world, that not
one young mine or “prospect” in 20 ever
becomes a mine of importance. As a war
proposition man-power should not be used
m a hazard like this. I suggest that all
but producing mines be closed down, that
producing mines be allowed to continue
to operate and maintain production to
replace ore removed. If the latter is not
done and the war lasts another two or
three years Australia will find itself with
a lot of valuable but prematurely-gutted
mines on its hands at a period when
capital for re-exploration may not be
available.
Re the belief that mere unwatering pre-
serves an inactive mine, Webber cites the
above-water workings of a Mexican
silvermine he pumped out, which were
badly caved through air action, while
those which had been submerged for 200
years were intact.
jfc Jfc ❖ ♦
Westralia continues to fall down the
goldmining-dividend stairs. Total pay-
ments for the first quarter of 1941 were
£39,000, compared with £130,000 for the
same period of 1941. Sons of Gwalia is
to “defer” payments now, leaving prin-
cipal distributors in the West at Lake
View and Star, Boulder Persever-
ance, South Kalgurli, North Kalgurli and
Paringa. Wiluna is holding on to what
it has, and is saving up for a return of
capital. Gt. Boulder, so long as the
British excess-profits tax is levied, either
can’t or won’t give shareholders any-
thing. Yellowdine, Blue Bird and Golden
Horse Shoe, wholly engaged in the re-
treatment of old tailings, haven’t handed
out anything for some time.
* H: * *
A deposit of 16,000,000 tons of alunite,
estimated to contain potash worth
£32,000,000, is said to be waiting de-
velopment at the north end of Lake
Campion (W.A.). There is a railway
siding four miles away. A syndicate first
carried on, but was unable to continue.
The State Government, which has taken
over, proposes to expend £75,000 in pre-
liminary development, and as “an act of
common justice” suitably to reward the
syndicate in due course. The Common-
wealth Copper and Bauxite Committee
reckoned Government support “war-
ranted and justifiable.” There is said to
be enough of the stuff to meet Australian
requirements for a century.
H: * * *
Ngahere Gold Dredging admits that
the 3gr. values estimated to be in its
Grey River (M.L.) property just aren’t
there —evident since dredging started.
Returns to date have averaged only
1.32 gr. per c.y., which is showing less
than a Ud. margin over operating costs.
On that basis, to earn the “useful profits”
the board reckons can still be obtained
dredge turnover will need to keep hard
on the heels of monthly 350,000-c.y.
capacity. Including £2365 from loss-of-
profits insurance, net for the latest period
came to £18,753, which was applied to
debt-reduction, leaving £58,400 still in
the path of any return to shareholders.
Accrued directors’ fees have been cut
by £3BOO, or by three-quarters.
He sK * *
Installation of a new crusher at the
State mill, increasing capacity to 40 tons
per shift, dearth of the metal and rise in
Australian price should make Irvine-
bank (N.Q.), the far northern tin camp,
boom. A field of great potential-
ity if the price is right, it has been
existing on slight margins, except for a
limited amount of tinstone from small,
rich shoots. Department of Mines has
kept it rolling along on 1 p.c. to 2 p.c.
dirt. The Adventure, getting 455. a ton
for concentrates from slullings, is an in-
dication of the widespread distribution
of meagre tin values through large masses
of chlorite rock. In fact, the oldest in-
habitant records a mountain of low-grade
tin there, and shows like the Submarine,
on H p.c. ore, and the Omeo and Valetta,
on richer stuff, can all truck increased
outputs at the present price.


SANDBAGS
ARC CaSMHILTSR
%
'AND SO ARE
SA WAfCS/
Build slit trenches and air raid shelters by all
neans—but build your SAVINGS, too I The im-
irtant thing to do is keep the enemy well away
m our doors. The more money you save the
greater protection you are building around your
home ... For the money you save helps to provide
bombers, guns, essential equipment.
Don't spend foolishly—don't buy anything you
don't really need—look after the pence, and
watch the shillings and pounds as well. Before
you know it, you will have saved a substantial
sum to help AUSTRALIA TO VICTORY.
An Accounf with the
com monufflLTH
soumcs bd n k
will Simplify Saving
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Bank Credit and the Buying Orgy
The Commonwealth Government has
taken little heed of the warnings
addressed to it around the matter of
financing the war on truthful and clear-
cut lines. The Bulletin has given much
attention to the subject, but Federal
Labor’s policy continues to exhibit that
patent lack of foresight so amply demon-
strated by Mr. Dedman’s clothes-ration-
ing fiasco last week. It is not unusual
for Australian Governments to live for
the moment and let tomorrow take care
of itself, but in times like the present
one would expect some sober sense to
combine with foresight and produce an
earnest endeavor without fear or favor
to win the war and save the peace.
The man who tosses in his job to join
the A.I.F. has a right to expect that his
political representatives will govern to
the best of their ability without regard to
their Parliamentary jobs. Instead of
fearless, clear-headed and resolute gov-
ernment, Canberra, when it is not merely
an audience for the antics of such as
Eddie Ward, often gives the impression
that it is frightened of its own footfalls.
In nothing is this more clear than in
the matter of finance. No Government
in the Empire has been more scared of
passing war bills on to the voters than
that now in office at Canberra. Through
lack of knowledge or deficiency of
courage it has preferred bank-credit
legerdemain and excessive borrowing,
endeavoring to pass this off under the
euphemism of “the voluntary system.”
Borrowing (from the public) is un-
doubtedly a voluntary matter, but, volun-
tary or compulsory, it simply is not
correct war finance. War is an immediate
cost; like a doctor’s bill, it is money
spent in order to keep alive.
War wastes our substance; it robs
us of our men, materials and living
standards. The issue of additional
money or credit won’t make it other-
wise. But the system which Canberra
has adopted as a means of recording
and distributing the cost of war
actually portrays the voting majority
as being monetarily richer instead of
poorer. Such money and methods are
false. Though taxation on companies
and the higher personal incomes is
terrific, the great body of voters —and
spenders—have more money than ever.
There is an excess of credit in circula-
tion that amounts to inflation.
Through political weakness much of
Australia’s war effort is undisciplined
and disorderly. The work of many years
in industry and finance is regarded as a
political prize for “development” by jacks-
in-office and ignorant but cocksure poli-
ticians. Moral issues are lightly regarded,
and industry, thrift and national service
often treated with contempt. The work
of the industrious, the care and
thought of those Australians who have
endeavored to wake up to the world as
it is and keep Australia in step with the
world—these things are accepted without
gratitude or admiration by those who
have been failures themselves in science
or industry, but who by a gift of the
gab have found a way to the seat of
government. The false issue and the red
herring are their stock in trade. They
face up to no problem they feel can be
avoided for the time being.
So far as Australia’s finances are con-
cerned, the sands of self-delusion are
running out. The Menzies Government
tried hard to face up to facts when it
decreed that the pay-as-you-go policy
was the only one to pursue in war-time.
Fadden retreated somewhat from this
realism ; but it was Labor that grabbed
the “bank-credit” bottle and has been
swigging at it ever since. Labor doesn’t
believe in paying for anything it can
possibly avoid, and if it can’t avoid pay-
ing it chooses the most longwinded and
self-delusive means it can find. Bank-
credit war finance is disguise, delusion
and confusion. It is the symbol of weak
knees and incompetence.
The sensible thing to aim at as a war-
time financial policy is to keep the money
and credit to which the people may be
entitled down to the value of what is
left of the fruits of labor and industry
after the requirements of war have been
taken away. We have to remember that
money is only of value so long as it
entitles the holder to something that he
may want now or later on, such as
goods, property and services. When
goods, etc., are taken away from the
people for war purposes it follows that
there are fewer goods available in the
ordinary way, and it also follows that a
similar proportion of the money that
entered into the cost of the goods should
be taken by the Government, in the form
of taxation, from those who supply the
labor, materials, etc. Otherwise the posi-
tion is bound to arise where the people
will have more money than there are
goods, etc., available. And that means
inflation, with rising costs and prices, and
all the accompanying disorder and dis-
tress.
By refusing to tax all classes
adequately and fairly, and by indulging
in bank credit, Canberra is creating big
economic problems. It has made confis-
catory demands on the higher incomes, it
is true, but the biggest aggregate incomes
and consumption in Australia are repre-
sented by people earning £8 a week and
under. And all the incomes over £8 a
week won’t pay for war on its present
scale. The people earning under £8 a week
are paying an increasing amount of taxa-
tion, but they are not paying in proper-
tion to war’s cost. The Labor Govern-
ment has resorted to the dodge of asking
the Commonwealth Bank to create
money for it by paying war bills with little
more than book entries, assisted by
deposits commandeered from the trading
banks, plus the use of London funds,
In short, the Government deficit repre-
sented by war expenditure is being treated
as an asset in the national books
and money is being issued against the
“security” of it. No wonder the public
has so much money that a pandemo-
nium of spending followed the belling of
the cat by Mr. Dedman in the matter
of clothes-rationing! If rationing is
necessary, then money should have been
rationed, by taxation, long ago.
In the 10 months to April 30 the Com-
monwealth borrowed, altogether, £167
million to help pay for the war. Over
12 months to May 11 the central bank’s
holding of Government paper rose
from £38.2 million to £109.8 million. In
the note-issue department the public’s
demand for currency (up 50 p.c. in a
year) enabled the bank to buy another
£3O million of “debentures, etc.,” during
the year. But the £7O million rise in the
trading department is the best example
of incorrect and dangerous war finance,
Where money has been advanced to the
Government in this way the title to
it eventually passes to the people, where,
instead of being cancelled by proper taxa-
tion, a large proportion of it remains in
circulation, and it adds to spending
power at a time when available produc-
tion is being taxed heavily by the
demands of war. Put in another way,
inflation is bound to follow the mainten-
ance and expansion of credit volume
when the volume of goods and services
available for purchase has been reduced
drastically.
The Government was almost over-
readily convinced that gold was not an
essential war-time production. The
mining industry has already been greatly
affected. But Canberra continues to
create excessive bank money for its own
purposes. It is the “easy,” dangerous
way of meeting a problem.
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS'
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
The fifty-fifth Annual Meeting of the Company was held on the 7th
May, 1942. The Chairman (Sir John B. Peden) moved the adoption
of the Report and Balance Sheets, and the following are extracts from
his address:—
A copy of the Annual Report, Balance
Sheets and Accounts for 1941 has been
in your hands for some days. With your
concurrence I propose to take them as
d
’ „ , .. . . • „
The Company has contmu g
unstinted support to the national war
effort. It has maintained its own great
strength, which is the essential backing
for the obligations to its policyholders.
As compared with 1940, new business
was larger in the Industrial Branch, and
less in the Ordinary Branch and in the
total of both Branches. An outstanding
feature of the year’s experience was the
determination of policyholders to keep
their policies in force, with the result
that the increase in the aggregate of the
Company’s business was larger than the
increase in the previous year. In the
Industrial Branch the increase in the pre-
mium income was the largest in the his-
tory of the Company. In conducting the
business of each Branch there was a con-
siderable reduction in the expense rate,
Death claims arising from the war were
large, but not larger than were contem-
plated under the liberal principles adopted
in regard to war risks. Notwithstanding
the difficult conditions of the second full
year of war, involving high taxation and
increased death claims, it has been pos-
sible to allot bonuses at last years rates
to all policies issued by the Ordinary or
the Industrial Branch with participation
in profits.
Our assets are now 34 millions, the
year’s increase being £2,274,214. The
Life Assurance Funds grew by £ 1,602,461)
to £29,950,927. These are the funds
which, backed by the reserves and the
capital of a million, provide for the pay-
ment of nearly three-quarters of a million
of policies. The provision continues to
be made on the basis of the funds earn-
ing interest at 21- per cent., the most
stringent basis used in Australia.
The Industrial Branch issued 81,639 poli-
cies, assuring £4,248,956. The total
number of the policies of the two
Branches in force a P . the end of the year
was 747,767, assuring, with bonuses,
£98,410,966. The average sum, exclud-
ing bonuses, assured per policy is approxi-
mately £llB.
The total income for the year was
£5,219,680, of which £1,455,328 was in-
terest on investments. The interest rate
earned in the Ordinary Branch was
£4/13/8 per cent, and in the Industrial
Branch £4/15/8 per cent., in each case
before deduction of taxes. The corre-
spending figures in 1940 were £4/16/2
and £4/17/11, the decrease in 1941 being
a measure of our subscriptions to War
Loans at the low rate of interest which
they carry. With so large a proportion
of our assets in Government and public
securities, the yield is a tribute to the
sound management of our investments.
There has been a considerable reduc-
tion in expense rates over the past three
years. In the Ordinary Branch the ratio
to total income was 9.87 per cent, in
1939, 9.06 per cent, in 1940 and 7.79 per
cent, in 1941 ; and the ratio to premium
income was 14.54 per cent, in 1939, 13.29
per cent, in 1940 and 11.49 per cent.
in 1941. In the Industrial Branch the
ra tj o to total income was 25.92 per cent,
in 1939; 23-76 per cent> in 194 0 and 23.13
per cerd j n 1941 ; and the ratio to pre-
mjUm income was 32.58 per cent, in 1939,
29.66 per cent, in 1940 and 28.67 per
cent, in 1941.
The payments to policyholders or their
representatives during the year amounted
to £2,236,493, bringing the total of the
payments since the inception of the Corn-
pany to £43,125,408. The participation
of the Australian and New Zealand
forces in the war has led to a marked
increase in war claims. Those paid and
in course of settlement amount to
£160,000.
of our male staff at the outbreak of
war n 0 less than 42 per cent, are now
serving with the forces, and some of them
have won high distinction. The Board
wishes to record its appreciation of the
highly satisfactory work of the staff in
these difficult times. The amount of new
business written, for which the field staff,
depleted by many enlistments, was mainly
responsible, was a notable achievement,
Strength is the first consideration of a
n£ e assurance company. Its assets must
be su ffi c i en t to ensure the fulfilment of
ad ds obligations. A life assurance fund
j s the aggregate accumulation of savings
Q f nrany men and women heedful of the
future.
j n these times it would be well for all
to bear j n m j nd that, for sacrifices which
are compara tively small, families can
through life assurance be secured against
ca t as trophes which might otherwise
j eopard j se the prospects of every one of
the f r members
EEDY, in seconding the Chair-
man>s moti ’ said . _
Dis.inguish.ng marks of a well-
conducted life assurance company are
strength, capable management, rateful
selection of risks, strict estimation of
principles ot actuarial science, wise invest
n J ent ° f funds and honorable dealing m
all matters.
From its inception our Company has
been mindful of these essentials. One
important benefit that is being gamed
f rom i. ts record is that employers are
increasingly recognising the advantages
°f tbe plans for superannuation and pen-
sions that we are able to suggest for the
protection of their employees. We haw?
a specially trained staff to advise era-
Payers on these matters, and we antici-
pate an increasing flow of this class of
business.
A vote of thanks to the Directors,
Trustees and Staff was proposed by Mr.
E. P. Hollingdale, and carried by
acclamation.
A vote of thanks to the Chairman, pro-
posed by Mr. B. Latham, terminated the
proceedings.


* CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
favourite
cigarette
In B. 6/5/’42 the position of the pro-
ducers of “small” metals in connection
with taxation was analysed. It was shown
that in the case of King Island Scheelite,
though production of wolfram was
wanted urgently, barbarous taxation laws
had the result of actually reducing dis-
tributable profits if production were
stepped up. In the case of mining cos.,
too, the asset-exhaustion position was a
matter entirely ignored when ordinary
taxation legislation was applied to mining
cos. Now Treasurer Chifley proposes
to do something in the matter. A cut
of 20 p.c. on taxes paid by metal-mining
cos. (gold and coal excepted) has been
announced, and it will apply to all the
special war-time taxes as well as ordinary
income tax and the proposed profits
limitation. The exemption will operate
in respect of the current financial year
and for the duration. But though the
Treasurer has said that the concession
has been granted because “mineowners,
in carrying out the Government’s request
for maximum production, were reducing
the payable life of their mines during a
period of high taxation,” he also men-
tioned that the cut would not apply to
mining-co. divs. when passed on to share-
holders. In other words, exhaustion of
the asset —or the fact that divs. may partly
or wholly represent a return of capital
—is not being considered on a really
equitable basis but on purely makeshift
lines. Most mining shareholders should
benefit from the tax relief, but the big
man will still pay up to 18s. in the £
whether the £ represents return of capital
or not.
❖❖# - #
A. A. Calwell, Labor M.H.R., put
some devastating thinking into an
argument he picked in the House last
week. He said Myers, of Melbourne and
Adelaide, had built up their stocks from,
“say,” £1,000,000 to £2,000,000, and in
doing so had incurred a bank overdraft
of “perhaps £500,000.” The banks, he
added, were pressing for a reduction in
the overdraft, and so Mr. Norman Myer
had asked the Government for clothes
rationing, presumably so that he couldn’t
sell stock so fast as usual, couldn’t get
in cash at even the usual pace, but, by
some means unrevealed by Mr. Calwell,
would be in a better position to repay
the overdraft. Sage fellows, some of
these Labor members. In matters of
business they leave everyone else posi-
tively baffled. Calwell has now graduated
to the Senator Cameron class. In the
meantime Minister Dedman denies
that he was advised by Myers in the
matter of rationing, and Mr. Myer says
Mr. Cal well’s remarks were so “patently
incorrect” that they were “amusing
rather than annoying.”
* * * *
Mr. Dedman, the big man in “war
organisation of industry,” is in danger
of learning that there is far more
to the matter of trade, industry,
economics and public psychology than
he ever dreamed of as enthusiastic critic
of “the bosses” and the “financial
system.” In Australia at the present
time a number of dull politicians are
getting an education in ordinary com-
monsense at extraordinary cost to the
nation. “The voter is always right” is
a spineless Government policy ; discipline
must figure on the programme as much
as largesse. Good government relies
considerably on public trust, since
things done for a people’s good are not
always obvious as such on their introduc-
tion. But will the people ever trust in
the administrative judgment of the Min-
ister for War Organisation of Industry
again after the mess that was made of the
introduction of clothing-sales restrictions?
The exhibition of muddle, panic and
undisciplined selfishness follows closely
the condemnation by party and unions
of Mr. Ward’s ideas on the nationalisa-
tion of the coal industry. Mr. Dedman
and Mr. Ward are both severe critics of
established Australian institutions and in-
dustries. In a new guise and in oppor-
tune circumstances they have pushed old
fallacies hard and often. It is interesting,
if depressing, to record results when these
men have a real job to do themselves.
Lamentable failure has been the story.
* * *
Sydney Water Board’s £750,000 loan,
which carried £3 12s. 6d, per cent., was
80 p.c. subscribed. The underwriters, lan
Potter and Co., will take the balance of
about £150,000. The board’s previous
loan, which carried £3 11s. 3d. per cent,
was only about 60 p.c. subscribed.
;[; * * *
In the N. S. Wales Assembly
the Attorney-General, Mr, Martin, said
that the Crown Law Office agreed that
the operations of a concern known as
Coal Oil and By-products, Ltd., and the
persons connected with it did not call for
any criminal proceedings. “Consideration
of possible civil remedies should be left
to those people who have paid money to
thf» no.” The co. was formed in Dec.,
1940, and on its board were Arnold Stan-
ley Taylor, Cecil O. W. Lyne and Oswald
Ford. It was to produce oil, etc., from
shale and coal. The co. had canvassed
for subscriptions for erecting retorts at
Berrima and had entered into agreements
for supplying vaporiser fuel to sub-
scribers. Police inquiries clearly showed
that the co. had not carried out its obli-
gations, lack of supplies of power kero-
sene (used for fluxing) being one cause.
The co. talked of producing a million gal-
lons of fuel by the end of this month.
Growers in No. 5 wheat pool will be
paid 3s. 6.1 d. a bushel, f.0.b., represent-
ing a total payment of £26.8 million.
Guaranteed price for a 140-million-bushel
crop was 3s, 10d., but the harvest actually
ran to 153 million bushels. Mr. Scully
says that at present sales conditions are
particularly difficult, and the greater por-
tion of the crop will be carried over to
next season.
* * * *
In the House last week Mr. Spooner,
who held the job when the U.A.P. was in
office, criticised the present Minister for
War Organisation of Industry, Mr. Ded-
man. He said the methods being adopted
might jeopardise the economic future of
the country. More direct means were
wanted, including a revised plan of taxa-
tion on the middle- and lower-income
groups enjoying surplus spending power,
and a thorough plan of rationing and
rationalisation where necessary. Control
of investment, limitation of profits, price
fixation, rationalisation and man-power
matters had to be properly co-ordinated.
Spooner recommended the greater use of
Australian businessmen in the task, as
he doubted the capacity of civil servants
to deal with work so foreign to their
training. He also brought up the matter
of the appointment of W. H. Ifould,
retired N. S. Wales Public Librarian, as
Deputy-Director of War Industry in
N.S.W. He admired Mr. Ifould and his
capacity in “another sphere,” but “if he
could understand the complications of
Australian industry in such a short time
there was something wrong with Austra-
lian industry.”
-I- i’fi ❖
Pato Consolidated has declared a div.
of 15 cents a share, less Canadian
absentee tax (15 p.c.). This time last year
the distribution was 10 cents. Pato is
the most important of Placer Develop-
ment’s div.-paying subsidiaries now that
Bulolo Gold Dredging’s property has
been abandoned as a result of Japanese
action. Placer owns 1,150,000 Pato shares
out of a total of 3,200,000. The holding
co. has cut its interim from 60 cents to
25 cents.
* * * *
North Broken Hill has maintained its
interim div. at Is. a share, making 2s.
over the past twelve months. South’s
latest div. was 6d., compared with Is, this
time last year and Is. in December.
j|i $ •!• v
Australian Stock Exchange tone has
brightened slightly. The index of repre-
sentative ordinary shares has gone up
from a “low” of 93.76 for the year to
97.31. All classes of scrip were active
last week, and, though sellers as well as
buyers were more in evidence, the general
result was a firming. Allied markets
overseas were rather weaker.
* « V *
Canberra Labor is making extensive
use of A. W. Coles, the member for
Henty, who voted against Fadden’s Bud-
get. He has been occupied with war-
damage insurance matters for some time,
and now he has been appointed chair-
man of the Rationing Committee that
has been decided on following the Ded-
man debacle. The selection of the chain-
store man for this job was obvious. Not
so obvious were the other appointments
to the committee Senator Armstrong
and McCall, M.H.R.
* * * *
The Division of Import Procurement,
which in its lend-lease section for some
months had almost nothing to do, is
causing great trouble among merchants
where it demands returns of certain
stocks every month. Often more
detail is required in these returns than
the firm itself would want on annual
stocktaking, and that, of course, happens
only once a year. The D.I.P. has a lot
of necessary work to do in the matter
of arranging priorities of essential imports
and looking after lend-lease matters
generally, and towards such ends it
should direct the maximum attention. It
should reduce to a minimum all form-
filling foolishness. Some returns of
frozen and essential stocks are probably
necessary, but there is always the ten-
dency for Government departments to
overdo demands in this direction,
especially where private industry has to
bear all the inconveniences and loss of
time. The job of the D.I.P. is to help,
not to hinder.
Company Notice.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDENS LIMITED
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS.
The Hon. E. W. Holden, M.L.C. (Chairman of Directors),
speaking at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, held
at the Registered Office of the Company, Salmon Street, Port
Melbourne, on Friday, I sth day of May, 1942, said:—
Presented to you today is what can be termed
a War-time Balance-sheet, and it will be appreci-
ated that financial performance, in terras of
what we have been used to, has very little sig-
nificance
T , . . . . , , . ,
It is of far more importance, and obviously
of greater interest to you, to review the Com-
pany s accomplishment in the war effort of our
country, and to inform you of how effective
the organisation has been towards achieving
results.
Unfortunately, it is not possible to give you,
either in a general or detail form, just what we
are doing and how effective we have been, but
the information released from time to time by
the Department of Information has helped
to indicate to you the wide variety and the
extent of the projects upon which the Com-
nanv is pnpfmed
\ * n c. f ..
Actually the profit for the year 1941, after
makmg allowances for all trading expenses,
including provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts,
Depreciation and Amortisation, Income Taxes
and Auditors’ Fees, is £225,241. This profit
for the year compares with £451,190 for 1940
and £703,650 for 1939, although our turnover
has been greater than the previous year,
namely, £8,525,050 for 1941, as compared with
£8.127,400 for 1940.
’, u . , -
Q ® ur employees have increased from 5865 to
9300, with a Payroll for the year of £2,282,000,
and this in spite of 1346 individuals having en-
listed in various branches of the Services, and
some 60 who have taken up other important
war-time posts. It could, therefore, be said that
as a Company we are very much busier and
more actively engaged than has ever been the
case.
The importation and sale of motor vehicles
for civilian use has ceased, and the nature of our
business has completely changed over from the
importation, manufacture and sale of motor
i-i r ■ * ,
vehicles, refrigerators and the like to activities
that are of considerable importance to the
nation ...
Apart from the material contribution to the
war effort emphasised by this Company’s opera-
tions, there had also been established a healthy,
friendly relationship with many hundreds of in-
dependent concerns as a result of working
shoulder to shoulder for the common objective,
These manufacturers, large and small concerns,
have joined in together with us in an extremely
enthusiastic manner, so much so that, where
necessary, we have interchanged technical men,
shared in joint planning and generally pooled
facilities to get the best possible results in terms
of maximum production in the shortest possible
bme
whereas for our part we wish to thank sin-
cerely these hundreds of manufacturers for their
very fine co-operation and spirit of understand-
j ngj they for their part record with us their
own thanks and appreciation.
One excellent example is that of a major
project where virtually all the individual com-
ponents were manufactured by over 200 inde-
pendent concerns, with final assembly and test-
in S carried out by this Company,
Needless to emphasise, General Motors-
Holdens, Limited, have no financial interest
directly or indirectly in any Trading or Manu-
factoring concern in Australia other than the
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Proprie-
tary? Limited, to which this Company, with
others, was invited by the Commonwealth Gov-
eminent to become initial subscribers. In this
connection we are extremely gratified with our
association financially with an organisation
which has played no small part m Australia’s
aircraft production development,
Whenever it has been possible, we have been
pleased to support our Managing Director,
Mr. L. J. Hartnett, who, since June, 1940, has
jv e id the position of Director of Ordnance
Production, in which capacity he has been able
to use t 0 advantage his extensive experience in
technical training.
xhe keenness and enthusiasm of all the Com-
pany’s personnel to master the intricacies and
overcome difficulties associated with their new
work is something of which the Directors are
deeply appreciative.
It is also desired to pay a special tribute to
those Executives who have worked long hours
on seven days a week planning the change-
ovc,r, fr °T Peace-time to war-time production,
and by whose efforts and enthusiasm the greater
J f the remarkable progress was made pos-
sible.
It is the policy of this Company, with the un-
qualified support of its personnel, to utilise
everything it possesses and controls in an un-
limited and effective contribution to the war
effort of this country, which policy, it is grati-
fying to know, has the unqualified approvial of
the Ordinary Shareholders General Motors
Corporation of America.


THE SERVICE MAN
After Coral Sea.
“Ek Dum”; The battle of the Coral
Sea was followed by a lull, landmarked by
a few ominous incidents and by the insis-
tence of army authorities that the danger
of attack on the mainland had not been
removed, since Japan was still concen-
trating forces only a few hundred miles
off the northern coast.
How seriously the Battle for Australia
appears to be taken in Japan was shown
by Tokyo Radio’s statement that the Jap-
anese fleet was commanded during the
battle by Admiral Yamamoto, C.-in-C. of
the Imperial Grand Fleet, to whom, it
was said, General Tojo had cabled con-
gratulations on “the brilliant achieve-
ments of the Japanese Navy against the
combined British and American Fleets.”
Vichy Radio said on May 17 that a
large Jap invasion fleet was on its way
towards North Australia. “Invasion,” it
declared, was imminent.
The aerial fighting in the North has been
mainly on the initiative of the Allies, who
have attacked the Japanese base at
Deboyne Island, in the Louisiades,
almost every day and on May 12 scored
hits on transports at Kessa (Solomons).
The raid on Amboina took place on
May 13. A 3000-ton ship was sunk, two
others were damaged and the wharf set
ablaze. At Rabaul, three grounded air-
craft were wrecked the same day. There
had been no previous attack on Amboina
since the R.A.A.F. attacked it on Feb, 13.
Reconnaissance throughout the week
had shown that the enemy on the New
Guinea side was receiving reinforcements
of ships and ’planes. Once more bombers
were used against Moresby. On May 12,
damage there was slight; on May 13,
there was no fighting, mainly owing to
bad weather conditions. On May 14, six
“O” fighters attacked, but two were shot
down and one damaged.
On May 15 the largest force ever used
against Moresby, 26 heavy bombers
escorted by nine fighters, attacked
harbor shipping. This raid followed
the machine-gunning of the aerodrome
by 13 fighters. No damage was
done and two Jap fighters were shot
down. As the bombers come over at
20,000 feet, and normally drop their
bombs from great heights, it is little
wonder that their waste of high explosive
is very great. It was Moresby’s 50th raid.
Over Rabaul the same day, while attack-
ing transports, one of which was dam-
aged, Allied raiders found no fewer than
17 fighters waiting for them. They shot
down seven and the U.S.-Aus. formation
came home intact.
The week’s operations were topped off
by two smashing raids on Lae, in the
second of which incendiaries were used,
eight bombers on the ground destroyed,
an “O” fighter shot down, and fires left
which seemed to be consuming every-
thing burnable in the former capital.
A.A. gun emplacements and crews were
blown up.
The total bag for the week in the North
included 15 “O” fighters and two sea-
planes destroyed, 19 other machines de-
stroyed or put out of action, one merchant
ship sunk, five transports or freighters, a
tanker and a seaplane tender damaged.
The Japanese claimed to have brought
down 163 machines round the North up
to the beginning of last week.
Uncle Sam Reports.
“Ek Dum”: The first official report
of the U.S. Navy since the outbreak of
war remarks that the most encouraging
feature nf war arrot-ioc-v. ♦ • + u -I?
manner 1 wbiS ,‘ S T
IT™,’ " hlch ™"S: °( command in
. . a been implemented. It
decides that during the first three weeks
oi war 600,000 U.S. troops were moved
to battle stations.
In the Philippines the defenders were
virtually in a state of siege from the
first because of the Japanese dominance
of sea and air after the Pearl Harbor
raid. U.S. forces in the Far East con-
sisted of a relatively small force of
cruisers, destroyers and submarines, and
the loss of Prince of Wales and Repulse
put Japanese superiority beyond ques-
tion. Two-thirds of all U.S. submarines
in Asiatic waters were used to oppose
enemy landings in the Philippines. The
enemy force included battleships and
aircraft-carriers, but Uncle Sam’s under-
, water craft sank many ships and trans-
ports and the enemy pushed his way
ashore only by sheer weight of numbers.
Of the attempts to supply Bataan from
Australia, the report says:
Some naval vessels and blockade-runners
succeeded in getting through with food and
ammunition, but for every ship that suc-
ceeded two were sunk by enemy action.
When the harbor and landing-fields
became completely unsafe, aircraft was
transferred to Australia, and the existing
balance of the U.S. Asiatic fleet moved
southward. Hunger and exhaustion sealed
the fate of Bataan and Corregidor ; but
the defence of the Philippines will “stand
out as an epic of the fortitude and
tenacity of the U.S. and Filipino sol-
diers” ; and it “demonstrated the com-
parative weakness of the individual
Japanese fighter.”
The remarks on the Australian zone
are good reading. Combined operations
are declared to have “successfully
crippled Japanese shipping and shore
facilities in two ports of New Guinea.”
The Coral Sea victory is described as the
work of a task force of the Pacific Fleet,
assisted by Army ’planes and United
Nations naval units, which “inflicted
severe losses on the enemy.” Also,
“what appeared to be an attempt at
further invasion ended in the withdrawal
of the enemy forces.”
The most heartening paragraphs are
those dealing with high strategy. Uncle
Sam apparently does not own a “second-
front” mind. While his concept is
“offensive,” he believes that “sound mili-
tary policy requires the concentration of
all available resources for the main effort,
while there must be the maximum
economy of forces in the secondary
theatres.”
This, as is pointed out, “may result in
apparent reverses which are, within the
large strategic picture, actually successes.”
War on a grand scale spread over half
a globe must see months of sparring for
position before any decisive blows can
be struck.
Kerch and Kharkov.
“Ek Dum”: As seemed inevitable, the
first heavy strokes of the 1942 Russian
campaign were made on the southern
front. One, at Kerch, was a consolidat-
ing movement by the Germans. What
the other is nobody yet knows, except the
Russians and Germans round Kharkov.
There are no Allied observers with the
Russians; the world has its news from
Moscow Radio, from “reliable” reporters
in Stockholm, from “famous” reporters
in Ankara and from presumably cele-
brated observers in Berne, Switzerland.
All these, though anything from 400 to
1000 miles from the battle line, have
floods of positive information even before
the commanders on so intense a battle-
field can have collated it.
After the movements along the Ger-
man front which began about April 20,
the opening shots of the new campaign
were fired on the approaches to the
Kerch Peninsula in the Crimea on May 8.
The Kerch Peninsula defences were
first reached by the enemy at the end
of Oct., 1941. Tfie main Russian defence
line ran then from Theodosia about 25
miles to the Azov Sea, Behind this, in
the second week in- November, the Rus-
sians were reported by the Germans to
be resisting fiercely ; but the enemy broke
through,
Kerch stands, with Yenikale, on the
little jutting finger of land which almost
closes the strait between the Azov and
Black Seas. Once here, the enemy had
only to jump a strip of water half the
width of Sydney Harbor from Rose Bay
to Manly to be on the doorstep of the
Caucasus. On Nov. 17 the Germans
claimed the capture of both towns ; on
Nov. 18 they mentioned the destruction
of shipping in the Kerch Strait.
But the Russians fought back grimly.
On Jan. 1 they reported the recapture of
both Kerch and Theodosia. Five days
later they announced that the peninsula
was almost free c f the enemy. The
enemy, however, announced on Jan. 18
that Theodosia had been recaptured with
10,605 prisoners. The Russians, in their
turn, declared that they had taken Theo-
dosia again on March 3. Little more was
heard of Kerch until last week.
According to the enemy’s account,
the Germans moved forward at dawn on
May 8; by May 11 they had overrun
most of the peninsula ; by May 15 they
had recaptured Kerch and regained con-
trol of the Kerch Strait.
The Russians denied on May 17 that
Kerch had been retaken, but if it has not
been it has little chance, despite its intrin-
sic strength. The Germans had overrun
nearly 1000 square miles in a week,
though Russian warships were on each
flank. Naval fire operating from both
sides should be able to cover almost the
whole width of the main Kerch penin-
sula.
The bare-bone details of the official
communiques were lavishly embellished
with impressive statistics by the geniuses
of Berne, Stockholm and Ankara. Among
other forces which the Germans were
supposed to have used were 2000 dive-
bombers. If they used so many in so
small an operation dive-bombers must
be three for twopence in Germany and
trained ground crews as thick as thistles
after a drought.
A City’s Many Battles
Immediately following the news of the
enemy advance in Kerch came reports
that Marshal Timoshenko had “fore-
stalled the German offensive by striking
with mighty forces against Kharkov,”
and with devastating success. This battle,
characterised as the greatest of any war
and the greatest tank battle in history,
had as many mysterious features as previ-
ous happenings reported round Kharkov,
about which the famous reporters had
the good oil, but of which neither the
Russian nor the German High Command
ever appeared to know anything.
The Germans approached Kharkov
after they had taken Poltava, the key
approach town, on Oct. 2. On Oct. 25
Hitler’s H.Q. reported that
Kharkov, one of the most important
armament and economic centres of the
Soviet union, has fallen into our hands.
Russian communiques had nothing to
say about the Kharkov sector for nearly
a week, save that fighting was continu-
ing “in the region” or “in the direction”
of Kharkov, but on Oct, 30 the official
communique admitted loss of the city
and said the operation had cost the Ger-
mans 120,000 men and 450 tanks. The
enemy claimed 18,000 prisoners. The
Russians retired apparently about 45
miles eastward. Forthwith Timoshenko
took command of the whole of the
Ukraine and Crimean fronts, including
the Don area.
Then correspondents came into the
picture. In December they learned that
Timoshenko had “launched an offensive
on a 70-mile front across the Donetz
River with Kharkov as its objective.”
Examination of army communiques fails
to reveal that the Russian command had
any knowledge of anything but a local
engagement. On Dec. 4 the Germans
covered the fighting in one sentence: “In
the Donetz basin strong enemy attacks
were repulsed.”
Oh Dec. 19 reporters discovered that
another “smashing drive” on the Donetz
towards Kharkov had begun. The greatest
engagement reported by the Russians dur-
ing the period of this battle was one in
which “3200 German men and officers
were killed and captured and 15 guns, 53
machine-guns and 11 mine-throwers were
captured.” On most days the Donetz
was lumped with a number of other sec-
tors in which there was fighting.
Nothing daunted, the boo-boo boys
attacked again in the second week in
January. After a “desperate” engage-
ment which brought out the largest kind
of headline, they saw the Russians enter
Kharkov, in which there was “fierce
street fighting” (19 /1 / ’4l), having breached
the second line of defence, using 52-ton
tanks.
But Timoshenko again, apparently, had
not heard of his own operations. The
Russian official communiques for a week
before the alleged event and for several
days afterwards were occupied with local
fighting. Where specific areas were de-
clared they were not near Kharkov. Khar-
kov was not mentioned.
However, on Jan. 19 Hitler’s H.Q.
reported that the Russians were attack-
ing with strong forces all along the
Donetz “in severe frost.” The Russians,
who devoted considerable space to other
sectors, did not mention this battle except
by inference. They were wholly con-
cerned with battles on the northern front,
where 17,000 Germans had been killed
in a fortnight.
On Jan. 25 the Germans reported that
“several enemy tanks” had been “destroyed
in defence against an enemy attack near
Kharkov.” Neither side seemed to be
aware that “Russian operations are de-
veloping on a large scale from Kharkov
to the Azov Sea.” Next day the Russians
reported that “on the south-western
front”—about 400 miles long—they had
in two days “liberated 16 populated
places, taken six German ’planes, 16
machine-guns, 200 motor vehicles, 83
carts and killed more than 2000 Ger-
mans.”
On Jan. 29 the Russians announced the
capture of Losovaya, a railway junction
100 miles south of Kharkov and about
145 miles from Dnepropetrovsk. They
also spoke of taking Barvenkova, about
40 miles eastward. But not a word did
they say about the fact published in Aus-
tralia on Feb. 2 that their armies had
leapt another 100 miles or so and landed
on the Samara River, only 35 miles from
Dnepropetrovsk. The Germans asserted
on Feb. 3 that “in various sectors, par-
ticularly n.-e. of Taganrog, Soviet attacks
were repulsed with heavy losses.”
On Feb. 4 the Russians reported that
in one sector of the southern front they
had destroyed four German guns, five
machine-guns and a supply train. In a
“sector of the western front,” the Ger-
mans were said to have retreated in dis-
order, having lost 1800 men. On Feb. 5
fighting about Kalinin and Leningrad for
the village of “B” occupied the attention
of the Red Army H.Q., which remained
completely unaware that Timoshenko had
“broken through on both flanks of the
Kharkov front” and captured Petrovka,
85 miles east of Dnepropetrovsk.
Next day word of events in this sector
seems to have reached Red Army H.Q.,
as witness the official communique:
On one sector of the s.-w. front a re-
treating German infantry unit launched
a counter-attack, driving about 30 Soviet
citizens in front of them. Lieut. Ver-
shinin’s automatic riflemen attacked from
the flanks and wiped out the Germans.
The Soviet citizens remained unharmed.
That was the only specific mention of
the whole 400-mile front in that week,
but on Feb. 13 this appeared in a Rus-
sian communique:
A detachment of guerrillas operating in
one occupied district in the Kharkov region
made a sudden attack on a German-
occupied village, killing more than 40
officers and men.
Next day there was cabled an account of
how the Russians “repelled a heavy
counter-attack” and retook Krasnograd,
70 miles s.-w. of Kharkov. Neither Ger-
mans nor Russian headquarters men-
tioned Krasnograd, which has since
proved to be in German hands. Neither,
in fact, reported anything that week
except fighting on the smallest scale at
isolated points.
“Within Two Miles”
March 11 saw more heavy attacks be-
tween Kharkov and the Azov coast,
according to newspapers and radio. They
came to no more than the previous ones.
On April 15 Australia learned,
“according to reliable reports from
Stockholm,” that Timoshenko’s forces
below Byelgorod (40 miles n.-n.-e. of
Kharkov) had deeply breached the
German line northward of Kharkov.
Russian forward troops have swept
through the breach and reached points near
Rjepki [two miles s.-w. of Kharkov, on a
loop railway linking Kharkov with Kiev].
Russian pressure is also strong n.-e. of
Byelgorod, where motorised troops are
forcing an advance in the direction of
Tamarovaka to cross the Donetz near the
source.
The attack, if delivered, came to no-
thing, and when Kerch Peninsula was
smashed open on May 11 the Russian
forces were discovered exactly where they
were round Kharkov at the end of
November, save in two or three places
where they had moved forward a dozen
to 30 miles.
Timoshenko Strikes
However, another attack has now
begun, Russian communiques are
restrained, but newspaper and wireless
accounts are more sensational than ever.
London “Daily Express” says Timo-
shenko is using “2,500,000 superbly
armed and equipped men, with 3000
tanks and 1500 front-line ’planes.” The
3000 tanks at the week-end were
“locked in battle.” This gigantic force
“rumbled into action in the Battle of
Kharkov” after the Soviet gunners had
laid down “one of the fiercest barrages
in military history.” The Russians had
built round Kharkov two salients ; the
southern one with its spearhead at Loso-
vaya in the south, and the northern one
pointed at Byelgorod. Nevertheless, the
enemy had chosen to “build up his
greatest strength in the Kharkov region:
12 Panzer divisions of between 2500 and
3000 tanks, manned by 170,000 or so men,
and 100 or more divisions of other arms,
or 1,500,000 men.”
Ankara, not to be outdone, opined that
20,000 German tanks were being concen-
trated round Kharkov.
The distance from Byelgorod to Loso-
vaya is about 150 miles by road — a little


,ess by airline. Both these places he west
of the Donetz. But it was reported by
Reuter that “Axis dispatches say the
Rusians crossed the Donetz and
advanced seven miles towards Kharkov
The front was described as a 50-mile
front. It apparently was along the Donetz
to the east between Volchansk and
Chuguev, so that, though there is sup-
posed to be a giant pmcer in existence,
the operation is not a pmcer movement.
On May 14, “Red Star said that the
Russians had broken through the first
line of defence in a steadily-widening
breach. They had captured many forti-
fications and were hotly pursuing the
Cn Ecow Radio supplemented this:
The Russians are preparing to advance
against the German second line at Kharkov
and against the city itself. Marshal Timo-
shenko’s offensive is not merely a diver-
sion with the aim of distracting the Ger-
mans from the Crimea.
According to “Red Star,” the Germans
retreated hurriedly, abandoning large
quantities of materials. “A Moscow
report” on May 14 said that a German
pilot who flew to the Russian lines and
gave himself up declared that the Ger-
mans were already preparing to evacuate
Kharkov, and a steady trickle of refugees
suggested that only terror tactics had
prevented Kharkov from getting out of
control.
After three days’ fighting the Soviet
troops were credited with having
advanced to within 10 miles of the city,
crossing the Donetz on the way, and
tanks and infantry were said to have
swarmed in under artificial fog, captured
the north-eastern suburbs and penetrated
Kharkov’s second line of defence. The
Russian tanks were pouring through an
ever-widening breach in a flood, “includ-
ing hundreds of British Valentines and
U.S. heavy types.”
The figures given as the strengths of
the Germans and Russians are ridiculous.
It is unlikely that the Germans have
3,000,000 men in the whole Russian front
line, and if half of them are on a 60-
mile sector at Kharkov Von Brauschitsch
and Keitel must have gone insane at last.
The Official Communiques
The Russian official communique issued
on the night of May 14, after two days’
fighting in the Kharkov region, men-
tioned Kerch —where the Germans num-
ber four divisions —before Kharkov, and
at much greater length. The reference
to Kharkov reads:
Our troops in the Kharkov sector have
passed to the offensive and are successfully
advancing. Our troops continue to advance.
They have destroyed or damaged 150 enemy
tanks in fighting and captured large booty
and many guns.
The Germans that day declared:
German troops at several points on the
Donetz front are resisting strong enemy
attacks supported by tanks.
At midday on May 15, a Russian
communique:
Last night on the Kerch Peninsula stub-
born fighting continued. The Russians in
the Kharkov direction continued offensive
operations. Nothing important occurred on
other fronts.
The Germans on May 15:
German and Rumanian troops in the
Donetz region repulsed a Russian attack
on Thursday afternoon before the Russians
reached our lines. The Russians were
forced to break off the attack and lost
numerous dead and wounded. The Luft-
waffe repeatedly bombed enemy communi-
cations and concentrations in the Donetz
area.
On Friday evening, a Russian com-
munique said:
Operations are continuing successfully
on the Kharkov sector. One Russian unit
in one day killed more than 1500 Germans
and took prisoner 150. Another unit in
the same sector wiped out 200 Germans
and captured much war material. Russian
tankmen in a sector on the southern front
made a surprise attack on a German-
occupied village and killed 135 men, blew
up an ammunition dump and captured war
material.
The Russian communiques of May 17:
In the Kharkov region our forces con-
tinued their advance, exerting heavy pres-
sure on the enemy, who suffered severe
[in one translation “tremendous”] losses.
A Guards unit annihilated 500 Ger-
mans, took some prisoners and destroyed
15 tanks. Another unit occupied a number
of inhabited localities, annihilated 900 Ger-
mans and captured 28 guns. The Germans
counter-attacked in another sector but were
repelled, losing 45 tanks.
The German account that day:
Russian attacks in the Kharkov area have
been repelled with heavy losses. The
number of Russian tanks destroyed has in-
creased to 240.
The last Soviet communique on May
17 reiterated that fighting was continuing,
but Moscow Radio claimed that in an
advance of from 12 to 37 miles, between
May 12 and 16, 300 “inhabited places”
had been liberated, 365 guns captured,
1200 prisoners taken and about 12,000
Germans killed.
The official statements contain all
that is trustworthy about the battle for
Kharkov. Unofficial accounts are exag-
gerated and hysterical. In some instances
they seem to have been prompted by
enthusiasm for the opening of a Second
Front in Western Europe. In any case
such reporting cannot possibly help the
cause of the United Nations, all of
which have risen to their greatest heights
when they have had to contend with grim
facts which could not be embellished.
That is especially true of the Britons
at Dunkirk and during the Blitz., of the
Russians in their winter campaign and
of the Americans after Pearl Harbor.
From Delhi to Vladivostok.
“Ek Dum”: Without palliation of
defeats or blanketing of disasters in offi-
cial communiques, Burma’s campaign is
nearing its close. In Central Burma fight-
ing has dwindled to isolated struggles by
unco-ordinated British and Chinese forces
against the invaders.
Burma was really China’s defence
problem, since Thailand and Indo-China
and the part of the Burma Road across
the Chinese border were in General
Chiang Kai-shek’s area. If the Chinese
main forces were not strong enough to
inhibit or put a clinch on Japanese effort
in Thailand and stop the inflow of troops
into the northern depots of Chiengmai,
Burma could not be held.
For the British to attempt to hold it
would call for the maintenance of a
defence line inaccessible from a sea
dominated for the time by heavy Japa-
nese naval units, and linked to India only
by rough and broken mountain tracks.
Under the geographical and climatic con-
ditions, it is beyond doubt that no British
main front could have been maintained
in Burma. The proper place for the
main resistance was either along the
Thailand-Yunnan borders or along the
Indian border. The former was prefer-
able, but it could be fed with outside
materials only so long as the sea was
open and shipping was available. With
the vast calls on the Allied navies and
merchant navies which developed in a
dozen areas after the entry of Japan into
the war, it was plain that Burma would
have to be treated as a secondary front
by Britain and the U.S.A.
The “famous” correspondents at the
beginning of the campaign in February,
after the attack proper began, were cer-
tain that the entry of Chinese troops
into this area would seal the fate of the
Japanese invasion and rescue the small
and devoted British and Indian forces
from their peril. Some of them believed
that 200,000 Chinese were assembling,
and nearly all were certain, on the say-so
of an “Indian military observer,” that
the Chinese were “some of the best
equipped of Chiang Kai-shek’s armies.”
They were declared to be “armed with
rifles, bayonets, hand grenades, machine-
guns, mortars and automatic rifles.”
Other and more sober observers noted
that the command of the Chinese forces
was given to an American, Lieut.-General
Stilwell, after the initial stages of the
advance, and that a much-advertised
Chinese invasion of Thailand was
strangled at birth before it got anywhere
near Chiengmai.
Digging up the past is an unhealthy
job—especially for “famous” correspon-
dents. Some of those papers which were
most expansive in their statements two
months ago are now convinced that “the
British forces in Burma never totalled
30,000” and had one tank brigade
equipped with light 12-ton tanks as its
sole armored support. Also:
The Chinese troops sent originally to aid
Sir Harold Alexander did not Exceed from
6000 to 8000 men. They were ill-equipped
but fought with the greatest gallantry.
There were a few more Chinese after-
wards—two “armies,” which means two
divisions in European parlance, were
mentioned last week in one sector —and
it seemed that altogether the Chinese had
as many troops on the Yunnan border
and in Burma as the Japanese. But the
Japs had not only the advantages of con-
centration and vast aerial superiority but
were able to use the rivers and ports and
choose their striking points.
The enemy moved forward on all three
fronts with a deadly rapidity which has
carried him to the extreme north ot
Burma, where, according to a correspon-
dent, “the borders of Burma, India and
China meet” —which they don’t.
Here the enemy obviously is trying to
outflank the retiring British forces and
break across from the Myitkyma and
Naga Hukawng country over the Patkai
hills and into the Brahmaputra valley.
From where the Lahit River flows east-
ward from the Brahmaputra on the
Tibetan border a railway system paral-
lels the Brahmaputra on its east, and
runs the whole length of Assam to the
coast. This system links up with the
Manipur-road route, along which General
Alexander’s men are retreating. It divides
at Lumding, and goes south to Chitta-
gong on one side, and westward round
in a loop to the Jumna railway network
and Dacca; also, by a parallel offshoot
crosses the Ganges and reaches Calcutta.
The whole operation suggests that the
enemy is making a hasty drive in the
last weeks left to him before the Indian
June season to secure command of
Chittagong and of the Brahmaputra-
Jumna-lower Ganges valleys. This would
enable him to form the nucleus of a ring
round Assam, secure access to the rivers,
as he has done in Burma, and use them
in the same way as cores of infiltration.
The importance of these moves cannot
be overestimated. The river systems are
life itself in India; the bulk of the
390,000,000 inhabitants are crowded
along the rivers. In a country not much
more than half the size of Australia, the
most striking geographical fact is its
immense stretches of scarcely populated
country away from the main streams.
Conquest of the rivers means conquest
of northern India. Once the enemy
reaches the Brahmaputra valley, less
than 100 miles from the Burmese
border in the north, he has a clear
run of flat, not much impeded
country, carrying a heavy population all
the way to Delhi, and beyond that to the
Indus. Along his route would lie the main
cities, the main roads, including the
Grand Trunk, and the main railway net-
work of northern India.
Only distances are against him. Delhi
to Patna is about 700 miles ; Patna to the
Brahmaputra headwaters about the same.
It sounds a long way ; but much of the
road system is above flood level. And it
must not be forgotten that in the more
difficult terrain of Burma he has made an
advance of 400 miles in less than three
weeks. So India may shortly be fighting
for its life, with pincers trying to close
on Assam and a sword-blade on the north
trying to tear through Bengal, Bihar and
Orissa and the United Provinces to the
Punjab and Delhi itself.
As to communications, 200,000 refu-
gees have found their way from Burma
to India.
General Wavell said last week that
there were five Japanese divisions in
Burma. “He did not think that the
enemy would at present be able to throw
more against us.”
The Japanese are not supermen, and we
will stop them....we shall henceforth be
fighting on more favorable terms. The
enemy is bound to have considerable ditn-
culties with communications during the
rains and ours are steadily improving.
He is skilful in infiltration and mountain
warfare, but we are better prepared and
have fresh troops.
We hoped to hold north Burma until the
rainy season, but the Japanese pierced the
Chinese lines on our left and captured Lashio.
China’s problems are now immeasurably
increased. There is abundant evidence
that the Japanese have used the China war
as a training ground for their present
operations, passing formation after for-
mation through it, but never maintaining
a really large-scale force there. Some
estimates place the maximum at 16
divisions. The total equipped forces of
Japan are probably round 70 to 75
modernly equipped divisions and its mili-
tary potential is governed by industrial
factors
With China locked in, the Far Eastern
position is curious. If the Burma Road
could have been kept open long enough
it would have provided a route —later to
be supplemented by the North Burma-
Yunnan highway in course of construc-
tion —over which Allied armies mignt
have been carried for the reconquest of
China and the acquirement of jumping-
off places for attack on Japan.
Now, China is cut off from supplies
save from the U.S.S.R., which, for a
year at least, has shown no real disposi-
tion to help in that way. Japan’s bur-
dens on the Chinese mainland are
lightened. And at the Burma end of the
fight the Japanese are already 100 miles
inside the Chinese border at Teng Chung.
Hints continue to be thrown out that part
of the enemy’s plan is to attack Russia.
Unless the Siberian armies are greatly
weakened, it would seem that the advan-
tage of that move should be all with the
Russians. The U.S.S.R. Navy Commis-
sar declared in 1939 that Russia had,
based on Vladivostok and Rashin in
the Sea of Japan, the largest submarine
flotilla in the world—“over 100, and
more building.” If so, it could make the
coastal shipping lanes round Japan an
inferno. It could alter the whole naval
complexion of the Pacific war, since mer-
cantile ships and transports are Japans
greatest problem.
Two Russians, Tanin and Yohan, wrote
a book, When Japan Goes to War. Assum-
ing that Japan’s rapid armament was
directed against the U.S.S.R., they quoted
authorities to support the view that
Vladivostok could not be attacked by
fewer than 250,000 men, protected on the
Sungari flank by a force of up to 150,000,
and that at least 750,000 men would be
needed to operate decisively towards Lake
Bciilc.3.l
Such a campaign would be of the nature
of the Russo-German war. It would call
for large usage of materials —coal, oil fuel
and arms —as well as more shipping than
Japan might be able to provide. Russia
could certainly alter the complexion of
the war. But for the moment it looks
as if the Chinese area may become the
theatre of a stalemate, which will allow
Japan to concentrate on far-flung adven-
tures against India and/or Australia and
other Pacific possessions.
News About Prisoners.
“Ek Dum”: Little more information
is available as to the fate of Australian
prisoners of war in Singapore, but what
there is is in line with the news released
by the International Red Cross regarding
the prisoners from Guam, whose com-
mandant sent out a message that he
and his fellow-internees were well (B.
29/4/’42).
And it is now known that after the
first Japanese attack on Singapore on
Feb. B—the8 —the island fell on Feb. 15—A.1.F.
casualties were relatively small.
At the time of the attack, the line along
the strait immediately west of the Kranji
River was held by the 2/20th Battalion.
Beyond where the land bends round to
the south-west was the 2/19th, with the
2/18th disposed behind in defence in
depth to beyond Tengah aerodrome. The
western boundaries of this brigade area
ran to a road almost due east-west be-
tween Bukit Panjang and the extreme
westerly point of the island. To the east
of this brigade across the Causeway road
was the 27th Brigade—26th, 29th and 30th
Battalions.
Behind the 18th, 19th and 20th Bat-
talions were the 6/15th, the 6/Ist and
7/ Bth Punjabis.
The position changed rapidly, and from
Feb, 11 to Feb. 15 the A.I.F. perimeter
ran round Tanglin barracks, its H.Q., to
the west of the city, from where Holland-
road bends northward, to about the same
distance west of the barracks on the way
to Singapore proper. The main fighting
was away from this point at that stage.
From Rabaul last week came a pleasant
surprise for relatives not only of war
prisoners but of civilians interned there,
in the shape of a bag of mail which
was dropped at an Australian outpost by
a Japanese airman. “Above the havoc of
war,” as Mr. Churchill said in his tribute
to Rommel’s generalship, a decent act.
The letters were distributed through-
out Australia over the last week-end.
Two or three which have come The
Bulletin’s way say that the writers are
well.
The Minister for the Army is “pleased”
with early results of one of the half-
measures in which his Government de-
lights—A.l.F. recruiting among militia-
men. It is a wretched substitute for an
amendment of the Defence Act that
would place all soldiers under the same
obligation, but Mr. Forde avers it has
“proved popular with young men in the
A.M.F. camps” ; enlistments for service
anywhere “have been pouring in.” The
great test will come when the willing go
forward and the unwilling stay behind.
* * * *
Rome Radio reports the assembly of a
big British fleet near Tripoli and a con-
tinual stream of British reinforcements
pouring into Libya. On May 12 R.A.F.
fighters, under an Australian, and includ-
ing a son of “Gar” Waddy, the old-time
cricketer, bagged 13 Junker 52 trans-
ports —which usually carry from 24 to 30
men- —and two Messerschmitt 110’s.
Waddy made the best bag ; he got both
Me 110’s and two Junkers.
* * * *
Weather over the Continent held up
large-scale British air attacks after May 8.
Hedge-hopping raids call for good visi-
bility. Daylight sweeps have continued
over France. Berlin claimed that the
Luftwaffe had made a daylight raid on
the south of England late in the week.
* * * *
The Admiralty reports the loss of three
destroyers: Lively (1920 tons) and Jackal
and Kipling (each 1690 tons). They were
sunk by a heavy force of German ’planes
in the Eastern Mediterranean ; another
is safe. Over 500 men were saved —vir-
tually the whole complements of the three
vessels. The Germans claim to have
sunk a 9000-ton U.S. cruiser (Pensacola
class), a destroyer, an ice-breaker and a
small merchant ship between Spitzbergen
and North Cape. No confirmation from
Washington. British patrol action against
an enemy convoy in the Channel left two
German armed trawlers sinking, and two
German minesweepers were destroyed
and others damaged off Cherbourg.
* * * •
Several Allied ships were reported sunk
last week. The Canadian Defence Minis-
ter admitted the sinking of freighters
in the St. Lawrence, and another has been
torpedoed off the mouth of the Mississippi.
U-boats and Jap subs, are operating at
great distances from their home ports.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Melbourne should be very merry when
the planners of rationed merriment get
all their plots in working order. After
the Dug Out, which is crowded nightly
by men of the services, who dance and
eat and have a haircut, and even their
clothes pressed, came the announcement
that the Victory Belles would be increased
to 10,000 and that they would dance with
service men at a Prahran dance hall, as
well as at the Palais Royale (which is
part of the Exhibition building), every
Sunday night. Now, too, Earl’s Court
is to have its face washed, and it is to
be a three-decker entertainment house
with the dancers swirling on one floor
with Victory Belles, the games experts
in full blast on another and the quiet
folk, if any, on the third at tables, just
supping and talking. Not to be outdone,
the allied churches (Church of England
and Evangelical) have arranged with the
City Council for use of the old Bijou site,
on which a whacko new entertainment
centre is to rise. Also the Catholic Wel-
fare organisation has extended its hut at
St. Francis.
Though the “Great Clothes Rush” was
Australia-wide, Melbourne’s effort had
special twists of its own. People who
saw a long line of very large cars, piloted
by solemn chauffeurs, meandering up
Coll ins-street at snail’s pace first thought
that some important citizen was being
escorted to his last rest. But the sup-
posed funeral cortege, on closer inspec-
tion, turned out to be wealthy Melbourne
on the clothes grab. Chauffeur dumped
Modem at the first very large store, and
continued a leisurely way up to meet her
again, complete with booty, at last port
of call, keeping within cooee all the way
in case she made an extra-large haul any-
where. Among the milling mob were a
few refugees from Malaya and Java
whose need was really great. One of
these, when refused more than one
nightie, wailed, “But you would give me
more if you could see the awful ones I
brought from Malaya.”
This is holiday time for pupils of lots
of secondary schools, some of which have
been conducted in the country since early
in the year. Judge the delight of mothers
and fathers, accustomed to the supercili-
ous attitude of the “great public school”
child towards manual work, to find that
Jane and Bobby have been learning some-
thing of the dignity of toil. One mother
was positively overcome when her small
John chopped some wood after dragging
it all the way from the wood merchant’s ;
and another almost swooned at the sight
of the beds made by small girls who had
just risen from them. There is so much
to be said for the change of heart on the
part of the young that many parents who
at first made growling noises about the
expense of the migration to the country
are now rubbing their hands and purring
with satisfaction.
Smartest woman in uniform is Lt.-Col.
Sybil Irving, commander of the Aus-
tralian Women’s Auxiliary Service; so,
when she told interviewers that recruits
to the A.W.A.S. would be issued with
winter uniforms of same stuff and quality
as the officers’ it gave local girls a lift.
The uniform, as worn by Lt.-Col. Irving,
is of good cut, made of khaki worsted
which looks well and seems to wear well.
Summer uniforms were not so fetching ;
they might look smart when extremely
carefully laundered, but the color is too
light. Already winter uniforms in the
deep navy of the V.A.Ds. are rivalling
the air force blue of the W.A.A.A.F.S.
for glamor, and the clothes problem has
thus been happily solved for thousands
of girls.
Petite Sue GuIIett, by engaging herseii
to the military attache at the American
Legation, Lieut. Robert Odell, may find
herself, in the absence of wives of officers
of higher rank, a hostess of some weight
when she becomes, at the beginning of
June, Mrs, Odell. This will not dis-
concert the only daughter of the Gulletts,
who has seen much of society and inherits
from her mother, “Penny” Gullett, a nice
wit. The wedding at St. John’s, Toorak,
though shorn of peace-time magnificence,
should be of international interest, for
the Americans, though whales for work,
love social gatherings in their hours of
leave. Sue’s brother, Joe Gullett, went off
to the Middle East with early divisions.
Since her widowhood, the Gullett lady
has not let up one inch on the many war-
time activities with which she was already
connected.
R. W. Chenoweth, whose signature is
only too well known to taxpayers, stepped
out of his appointed part of Big Bad
Wolf last week when he was a mere also-
ran at the wedding of his elder son Geof-
frey and Patricia Robinson, of Croydon.
Geoffrey, like his father, is a man of
swift decision, and his stay in such hot
spots at Tobruk has not made him less
genial. Arriving on Monday he at once
commenced the preliminaries for his wed-
ding, which was celebrated next day at
Croydon, with a family party afterwards
at the home of the bride’s parents, »he
E. N. Robinsons. Geoff was with a
Melbourne firm of accountants before
the war.
Noela Adams, well known here for her
acting ability, which has been displayed in
many good amateur shows, has decided
that her future may be entrusted to the
care of Niel Shannon, son of Mrs. Ford
Shannon, of Barwon Heads. Fiance Niel
has just returned from Canada, where he
did good work which will shortly be
reflected in new efforts here. The
Shannon family has widespread ramifi-
cations and Noela and her sisters are
popular, the Dal Adams home in Hill-
street, Toorak, being a Mecca for folk
who like to mix intelligent talk with their
afternoon tea. No plans are disclosed,
but like most war-time engagements this
is not likely to be a long one.
Best speech for last week was made by
general secretary Louise Burton, of the
Y.W.C.A., in launching the social centre
scheme of her association at a big party
at the Lyceum Club. Guests were busi-
ness girls who collaborate with the
Y.W.C.A. in its efforts at social better-
ment. Louise sold the idea of a club
to which the men and women of the
forces could bring their girl and boy
friends, and it says volumes for the dis-
interested good sense of the business girls
that they were ready to back a move
which can mean for them only the privi-
lege of just waiting on men and women
who don’t want in addition friendliness
and dance partners, and giving an ear to
their woes, real or imagined. The same
girls have pledged themselves to raise
£5OOO towards a home for the centre,
a five-storey building in Flinders-lane,
with the kitchens, dance floor and games
rooms. Eve Ray made this picture of
Louise, who is fair as she is clever.
The show called “Costume Cavalcade,”
put on for the Red Cross by a big organ-
ising committee, aided by William Carr
of the National Theatre, proved that
tableaux are passe in this year of grace.
Also the effort was not up to previous
standards, largely owing to war taking
so many good actors away. Supported
by vice-royalty, reinforced by the Lady
Mayoress, with Mrs. Douglas MacArthur
for extra good measure, the show brought
a good house to the Princess for its
opening performance on Thursday after-
noon.
The “Cavalcade of the Allied Nations”
was all too obvious, and savored
too much of the Fifth-form Reader.
Abe Lincoln and the Gettysburg
address, Truthful George and the
Declaration of Independence were given
at too great length. George amputating
the cherry tree would have been more
entertaining, and possibly more pictur-
esque. The cause of Christopher
Columbus’s sudden dash for the wide,
open spaces was, however, satisfactorily
explained to a discerning audience when
Chris appeared in a hat so awful that his
sudden aversion to civilisation seemed
quite natural. Excerpts from “Orpheus
and Eurydice,” beautifully rendered and
produced, and songs in the approved
Cossack manner were highlights of the
show, and the use of the flywire which
gives the canvas grain of an oil painting
to a tableau produced a most effective
scene of ancient Russians growling
horridly and guarding the limitless dark
steppes.
From Sydney
Last week again, women with time and
money made hogs of themselves in the
matter of clothes-buying. The 25 p.c.
reduction in sales of clothes, of which
warning was so obligingly given, was the
signal for the greedy ones to rush the
stores. They kept it up for a week, too.
Some departments were cleaned out in
anything from a quarter to half an
hour. Others sustained the rush for one
hour, but not many stood the strain for
two. After that shop assistants got busy
on patriotic work. Some went off to make
camouflage nets. Others knitted. All felt,
no doubt, heartiest contempt for the
women who had cleaned up everything
in sight. Apparently these hoarders don’t
recognise the right of the business
woman, the munitions worker, the woman
tied to her home duties, to have their
share of raiment. A murrain on these
creatures to whom the word justice has no
meaning. May the moth ruin, the silver-
fish devour their ill-gotten plunder!
Matron Best (Royal Red Cross, First
Class), of the A.1.F., and a group of her
splendid looking army nurses, all veter-
ans of the Middle East, were smiling
centres of shifting groups at the Govern-
ment House party to Australian and
American Army nurses last Wednesday.
This was a late-afternoon affair, and it
was a strange feeling on leaving the
brightly-lit interior to step out to the
darkened entrance and find a torch being
flashed to guide from portal to car. Bus-
loads of young airmen arrived to give
male support. There were Consular
representatives, men in uniform and
women in smart suits and hats.
Lady Wakehurst mixed the Australian
and the American girls with an expert
knowledge. The Hon. Henrietta Loder
helped in the entertaining, Joan Holman
saw that every nurse had a glass in her
hand. Matron Best, whose campaigning
experience included Greece and Crete,
was one of the stars of the afternoon.
Other nurses talked rather longingly of
Eritrea, of Cairo, of Palestine. Nobody
spoke of hardship or of trying moments.
They talked as though they had been
privileged to have a nice holiday. First-
Lieut. Mary F. Parker, of the U.S. Army,
was a popular guest. Mrs. Ely Palmer,
whose party for the American girls was
still being talked about, was surrounded
all the afternoon. Mrs. Charley Lloyd
Jones, whose turban hat was among
things admired, brought her husband ; so
did Mrs. Ben Edye. Sister Farthing’s
smile was brighter than a new penny.
The Lyceum Club, of which she is the
youngest member, has been chosen by
Manly girl Brownie Downing for an ex-
hibition of her paintings and black-and-
white sketches. Brownie’s pencil is par-
ticularly fond of portraying children,
fairies and creatures of fantasy. She
writes dainty verse, and is busy on a
book complete with illustrations called
Invitation to Fairyland. In addition she
is one of Balgowlah’s V.A.s. and a helper
at Air Force House. A brother is in the
Air Force. Montgomery Dunn photo-
graph.
Model aeroplanes are a much-sought
prize in guessing competitions these
days. A few weeks ago there was a
model Spitfire or Kittyhawk or some-
thing in that line of sky business offered
to the holder of a lucky number at a
school fete. About 10 o’clock one Satur-
day night an elderly friend heard her
telephone ringing, she answered, and an
almost breathless voice at the other end
said: “Oh, Grandma, I thought you’d be
anxious to know about the aeroplane.
You’ve won it. I thought you’d like to
know before you went to bed.” “What
aeroplane?” asked Grandma, a trifle
dashed by the surge of excitement ting-
ling across the wire. “Oh, Grandma,
the aeroplane at the Fete. You’ve won
it!” “Oh, have I? Then I think you’d
better keep it, John.” An incredulous in-
drawn breath at the other end. “But,
Grandma, think now, are you sure you
don’t want it yourself?”
United States Minister to Australia
Nelson T. Johnson and his wife were the
reason for one of the big parties of last
week. This filled the Pickwick Club, as
day was turning to night, with members
of the American community. This was
the first chance the Minister and Mrs.
Johnson had had of meeting their com-
patriots in this city en masse and in social
mood. Graver occasions have claimed
them since their arrival over six months
ago. The president of the American
Society, S. Frank Martin, and a group of
the society’s office-bearers saw that mem-
bers were presented to the guests of
honor. Consul-General Ely Palmer and
Mrs. Palmer were notables. Captain J. A.
Villamor was another to whom the gaze
drifted.
Max Afford, writer of thrillers, prin-
cipal play adapter for the A.B.C. and a
writer of radio and stage plays, was the
guest of the Lyceum Club drama circle’s
May lunch. He talked about the mak-
ing of radio plays, and, since that is his
favorite medium, his words were of Aus-
tralian interest. He told that the broad-
cast play was one-dimensional, inas-
much as sound was the only way of
carrying the story and characterisation
to the listener. From start to finish his
speech was a complete lesson on the
architecture of radio drama. Max is tall,
fair, and has a pleasing voice. He has a
nice sense of fun, too. His story
of the studio search for effects to
make the sound of a tap dripping, and
how in the end, everything, including
peas dropped on. tightly-stretched silk,
having failed, somebody suggested just
letting a tap drip, was a little master-
piece. Max’s play “Lady in Danger”
has just been bought by J. C. William-
son.
St. Mary’s Cathedral gave its blessing
to the vows of Margaret Mary McEvoy
Davis and Lieut. Donald Maclurcan.
Margaret Mary is a descendant of that
William Davis whose name is an integral
part of the R.C. history of Australia.
Where the Davis cottage stood on
Church Hill in Macquarie’s day, St.
Patrick’s now stands. The bride was a
swirl of white organdie and tulle. Sheila
Tracey, also in white, ’maided. Douglas
Maclurcan, brother of the ’groom, was
best man. The wedding party was at the
Wentworth Hotel, Lieutenant Maclurcan
is a son of the Charles Maclurcans, of
Kurraba Point.
The ancients at their banquets cooled
their wines in snow plucked from the
nearest of Nature’s refrigerators. Mrs.
Ely Palmer, wife of America’s Consul-
General, tops off her own brand of gin
cocktail with ice-cream skimmed from
the electric refrigerator. This is said to
be a pretty good drink, and in the Con-
sular home it is named “Coconut Milk,”
but has been named “White Cargo” by
others to whom the recipe has been
passed. Why doesn’t some patriotic
committee get hold of the prescription
and sell it at sixpence a copy? It might
be one of those war-time inventions that
will make the world a better and a
brighter place. The cocktail was served
at a late-afternoon party which the U.S.
Consul-General and his sparkling wife
gave in honor of their country’s army
nurses.
Cynthia Garner, one of the most pleas-
ing of the Con. sopranos, had the novel
idea of giving her first song recital at
half-past five in the afternoon. This
was last Thursday, and the audience at
History House agreed that the crystal-
clear notes had never rung truer. Cynthia
has taken part in many of the Conser-
vatorium operas. She was the wandering
little lovebird Micaela in “Carmen,” and
sang the part of Mary (the lead) in
Vaughan Williams’s “Hugh the Drover.” .
The singer was all in white, with pearls
about her throat. The onlooker felt that
History House should have been illu-
mined by candlelight to make the com-
plete background. The Sunbeam Free
Kindergarten benefits. Cynthia is a
country girl—Coolah her home town.
She has been five years at the Con., part
of them as a scholarship holder.
Where would Bombadier Pat Taylor
and his bride have their wedding recep-
tion if not at the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron, Kirribilli? Pat’s father, Don
Taylor, was for many years one of the
squadron’s most ardent yachtsmen and
members. Mother, Mrs. Don Taylor, is
one of the leaders among the club’s
women members. The rooms were
massed with roses for the party. Bride
Patricia Edwards, only daughter of the
S. O. Edwards couple, of Artarmon, wa|
radiant in white moire. Bridesmaid
Joanne Tyrrell chose harebell blue. The
wedding was set in Shore chapel, Pat-
rick’s old school, and Padre Nigel
a’B. Backhouse tied the knot. Lieut.
Gordon Turnbull was best man.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Revelling in the heavy going, Don-
caster winner Tuhitarata completed a
hat-trick and landed some substantial bets
for stable-followers by defeating Denis
and Chatasan in the first Cambridge
Handicap at Ascot (Melbourne).- Backed
from fives down to favoritism at threes,
the Maoriland-owned horse followed
Chatasan and Aurie’s Star round the turn
and won running away. It was a good
performance considering that he is not
a big horse and was burdened with 9st.
lib., but, like his sire, Simeon’s Fort, he
is partial to rain-affected ground.
Simeon’s Fort won the Doncaster on a
very heavy track. Tuhitarata is so fit
that it is intended to keep him in work.
Aurie’s Star, rising ten, showed that
he is not a back number. He probably
needed the race, which was his first since
last spring, and, in addition, received a
check in the straight. The Australian
record-holder for six furlongs did well
enough in fourth position to suggest that
he might be hard to beat at his next
appearance on his favorite track the
Flemington straight-six.
Two old-timers. Somewhere, rising 12,
and Leporis, rising 11, gave their younger
opponents a galloping lesson in the
second Cambridge Handicap. Some-
where, who started at 25 to 1 and
defeated Leporis by half a length, has
the distinction of having won in Vic-
toria, N. S. Wales, Western Australia and
Tasmania. Several months ago he was
bought by his present owner, A. E.
Chance, for £2O, and Saturday’s success
was worth £175 in stakes. Chance, a
businessman, trains Somewhere himself
as a hobby.
Art Union, improving on his Moonee
Valley form of a week earlier, surprised
by defeating Damalis and Great Eastern
in the Granville Handicap. He battled
on better than usual to win by a neck,
but may have been lucky to beat Damalis.
Latter was in a bad way after the race,
his trainer considering that he “went”
just when he looked to have the race
won about 50 yards from home. Damalis
suffered a recurrence of tendon trouble,
and it will probably be some time before
he races again. Art Union, a three-
year-old colt by Brueghel from Jenny’s
Bag, is the second horse owned by Capt.
R. H. Richardson, and has won two races
for him. His first purchase, Edmonton,
also was a winner. Sir Richard, sensation-
ally backed from fives down to favorit-
ism at 5 to 2, finished only fourth after
having every chance, and Mollie Con,
winner of her two previous races, was
beaten some distance from home.
Nalong and Rua, winners at their pre-
vious starts, ran true to form by winning
the Albacutya Handicap and first Villiers
Welter respectively. Nalong won very
easily from Parida and the favorite, Gay
Roi, but Parida, though close enough at
the turn, had been forced to make up a
lot of ground after a slow beginning.
Rua won his race in really impressive
style from Procyon and Pannade, and
more will be heard of this five-year-old
Rulanut gelding, who races in the same
interests as Burrabil. Florin outstayed
Bronze Flight in the second Villiers
Welter, and Hullabaloo gave apprentice
rider K. Forrest his first winning mount
in the third Villiers Welter. Forrest, who
weighs Bst. 61b., is being educated as a
jumping rider by D. McCormick, Mel-
bourne’s leading trainer of jumpers.
* * * *
Kensington’s meeting at Ascot (Sydney)
was a financial and racing success. Fields
were large, and handicapper W. J. Frank’s
work was productive of several close
finishes. No rank outsiders were success-
ful, but some hot favorites went down.
McMenamin was seen at his best on
Jazbeau in the Flying Handicap. He had
that horse in front soon after the start,
did not bustle him when Milanja closed
on him and, shooting him away again at
the turn, scored a half-neck win from the
Queensland mare Chatting, who was
giving away at least three lengths’ start
to Jazbeau at the straight entrance, and
was generally accounted unlucky not to
have won. Elson was fourth, and he was
the only other runner ever really in the
picture. Cable Boy and Melrose headed
the remainder. Chatting is a half-sister
to Dashing Cavalier.
Backed down to even money for the
Kensington Handicap Chatham’s Choice
was comfortably beaten by His Lordship
(Wilson), who disposed of Overjoyed soon
after turning for home. When Chatham’s
Choice moved up in the straight he looked
like overhauling His Lordship, but he
raced ungenerously towards the finish.
Overjoyed shared the lead with Plimsol
in the early part, but, though in charge
approaching the turn, he weakened over
the final furlong. Gipsy Way, a middle-
distance winner in Melbourne, made a
good impression. After appearing beaten
at the top of the straight, he fin-
ished well to get fourth. Omapo was
again a failure, as was Connette.
Skerries (Duncan) had the first division
of the Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap won when he settled the pacemaker,
Silverelda, at the top of the straight, and
may now return to his best two-year-old
form. Brazen Boy finished fast to beat
Metaloff on the post for third, and is
worth following. In running there seemed
little possibility of even a place-getter
coming from outside the four mentioned,
though Okawa finished fairly. Henchman
and St. Elmo lacked nothing in condition,
but never really raised their backers’
hopes.
After Mannerheim had shown the way
into the straight in the second division
of the Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap he gave place to Beau Head (Parsons)
and Kimbell (Cook), and in a great tussle
over the last hundred yards the last-men-
tioned two dead-heated in time that was
officially given as a second faster than
that recorded by Skerries, which meant
between five and six lengths. Two’s Com-
pany, who was not one of the first six at
the turn, was third, and will not be out
of place in a longer race. Unplaced run-
ners in Fort Leon, Bomb and Silvermere
shaped respectably.
Vanity Fair’s failure in the Fourteen-
two Handicap can be overlooked. She
got away indifferently and struck a lot of
trouble. Te Rama (Cook) and Easy
Mark led throughout, and the former was
a little too good for the two-year-old.
Despite her big weight, La Vallee ran on
well to get third, and of the remainder
Shop Girl did best.
• ••*••
Addition (Cook) had an easy win in
the Encourage Stakes. She was behind
Cape Hero, Pall Mall, Donetia and Qui
Va La turning for home, but when fairly
on the straight she made short work of
the opposition. It will not be long before
she has another winning turn, and in
better company than she beat on Satur-
day. By The Buzzard from Calculate
(Caledon-Ashtaroth, by The Welkin) she
has an excellent pedigree. Donetia, in
leading for over six furlongs, showed a
lot of pace, but tired ; and Qui Va La,
who was fourth, after hanging in towards
the finish, will be all the better for the
race.
Heiron (W. Fellows), after being last
for over five furlongs in the first division
of the Welter Mile, rapidly made up his
leeway before turning for home, and,
leading at the leger, won by a neck from
Bona Fide. He had nothing to spare
from the latter, who was gaining on him
at the winning-post. Christopher Milne,
who had a clear run most of the way,
was a close third, while Lord Seremond
and Aranui, who led at the turn, died
away. Of the unplaced lot nothing was
doing better at the end than Shem.
Tragopan also ran well enough to suggest
the possibility of a return to his Queens-
land form.
Pinero (McMenamin) was always in a
handy position in the second division of
the Welter, but it was only by a short
neck he defeated Response, while Kenil
Gem was very little behind the pair, and
not far ahead of Kestrel, Beau Son and
Dyne. Owing to Kenil Gem weighing
in short, third money went to Kestrel, who
dropped back third-last before reaching
the bend, and then ran on again. Beau
Son had every chance. He led at the
half-mile, and was still in front at the
turn, but could not see it out. Pinero’s
race will greatly benefit him, and Dyne
is worth keeping in mind.
* * * *
An attendance of between 19,000 and
20,000 at the Newcastle Cup meeting
was further proof that the restriction of
racing is not lessening the demand for it.
Goose Boy, running even better than
when beaten a head by Rimveil in the
Brighton Handicap, won the Cup, but
was lucky to beat Katanga. Katanga, as
usual, was a long way back in the early
part of the race and 20 yards from the
winning-post attempted to savage Goose
Boy, which probably cost him more than
the half-head by which he was defeated.
Catch Up, in getting third, improved
upon his Cameron Handicap form, but,
though he will continue useful, he may
be a little too old to become a specially
good handicap horse. It’s Funny’s fourth
was a fair effort, but did not prove him a
first-class three-year-old even though he
is a St. Leger winner. He met Katanga
a pound better than w.f.a. Triggerman
was again disappointing, but Dewar’s
fifth with 9st. will cause him to enter
into calculations in the James Barnes
Handicap at Randwick on Saturday
next. As he was a fit horse at the com-
mencement of last December he is stand-
ing his racing particularly well.
* * * *
The Flying Handicap and the James
Barnes Plate are flat races at Tat-
tersall’s meeting at Randwick on Satur-
day in which apprentice allowances
cannot be claimed. At times an appren-
tice allowance is something gained, but
as a general thing it would be difficult
to say how much superior such riders as
Munro, Cook, McMenamin and Bartle
are to lads who can claim 71b.
Bearing on this the old-time racing-man
who summed up as follows was not wide
of the mark: “Good horse, good rider,
good bet; good horse, moderate rider,
limited bet; good horse, poor rider, no
bet at all.”
* * * *
A few days ago Beaulivre underwent
an operation to relax his off fore joint.
Since the operation he has walked
soundly, but though it appears as if the
desired result will be achieved that will
not be definitely known until he resumes
work.
* * * •
Reading had his first American run in
the Metropolitan Handicap at Belmont
Park (New York) last Saturday, and
finished tenth in a field of 12. Unless
he rapidly improves on that form, Ameri-
cans will be asking L. B. Mayer “Why
send to Australia for racehorses?”
* * * *
Sydney owners contend that in view
of the particularly large attendances at
their recent meetings Sydney’s minor
clubs should increase their prize-money.
In self-defence they may decide that it’s
advisable. Newcastle is going high in
prize-money for its principal races, and,
if there is an increase in the amount for
minor events, good and moderate horses
will be attracted, to the financial detri-
ment of Sydney clubs racing on the same
days.
* * * *
High Caste is to remain in N.S.W., and
goes to L. B. Israel’s Segenhoe stud. High
Caste will not lack opportunities, as his
great performances alone will commend
him to the owners of some good mares.
* * * *
Double-figure winners have been un-
usually numerous at Sydney meetings
since the commencement of February.
It does not necessarily follow that a long-
priced winner is a winner for every book-
maker. Few horses win absolutely un-
backed, and as bookmakers, as well as
punters, can bet unluckily, a few layers
are always liable to be caught for a hun-
dred or two, even though most escape.
However, as favorites have not been win-
ning out of their turn, the probabilities
are bookmakers are well ahead of backers
as a result of the last few months’ trans-
actions. Since the commencement of
February winners at 10 to 1 or longer
have been as under:
Price. Price.
Guild Hall .. .. 33 Stylish 12
Angus '25 Astrid ~ .. .. 12
Gallop 25 Metallise .. .. 12
Lord Valentine .. 25 Jungle King.. .. 12
Marcovelian .. 20 The Winger .. 12
Belle Doree .. .. 20 Veiled Threat .. 11
Artistic 20 Romero .. .. 10
Angus 20 Gundagai .. .. 10
Bragger .. .. 20 Sir Neith .. .. 10
Lo Dokes .. .. 16 March By .. .. 10
Grand Vision .. 14 Danny Boy.. .. 10
Sir Tennyson .. 14 Take Care .. .. 10
* * * *
Minister Forde recently expressed him-
self favorable to continuance of racing,
but the trouble may be to get sufficient
racecourses in metropolitan areas. Syd-
ney has lost Warwick Farm, Kensing-
ton, Rosebery and Moorefield, and, unless
rumor is wide of the mark, managements
of other tracks are experiencing anxious
moments. Rosebery hoped to hold its
next meeting at Canterbury, but has fallen
back on Ascot, a track that looks like
carrying a full share of fixtures during
the remainder of the year. If there is
further shortage of racecourses in Sydney,
perhaps permission will be obtained to
use Randwick to a greater extent. That
would be welcomed by the public, owners
and trainers.
* * * *
It is reported that in future backers
who wish to bet “on the nod” in Mel-
bourne will have to be well accredited.
Some heavy bettors have recently failed
to *me up to the mark. It is often said
by those following that calling “There's
nothing in bookmaking.” Perhaps so,
but no other business could afford to
contract such large amounts in bad debts
and still carry on. It would be interesting
to know how much is owing to some of
our principal bookmakers of the last
twenty years.
* * * *
At New York tracks programmes are
limited to seven flat races daily, but a
jamping race may be added. However,
fields the size of those common at Mel-
bourne or Sydney meetings are rare in
America. The jumping races in New York
are steeplechases, but though it was pro-
posed to hold hurdle races at a couple
of tracks this year I have not read
whether that idea was carried out.
* * * *
D. Nicoll, who gave 3000gns. for the
three-year-old Hippius (Hyperion-Edge-
law) at the Newmarket (Eng.) December
sales, was out of luck. He bought that
horse with a view to first of all racing him
in Brazil and then using him there at
the stud, but while on the way to Brazil
the steamer carrying Hippius was sunk
as a result of enemy action.
Miscellaneous
Melbourne had a high opinion of Rush
Milling till he met Vic Patrick. Now it
has a higher opinion of Patrick. Giving
the Filipino upwards of half a stone,
Patrick got all over him, and Jack Car-
roll stopped it in the fourth, when Milling
had a badly damaged eye.
* * * *
Since Ron Richards “retired” early
last year—here-emerged—the 11.6 title has
been vacant. Bobby Clarke (11.0) seems
likely to be the next holder, for whatever
the thing may be worth. One of the new
crop of returned soldiers, Robert de-
feated Tommy Colteaux (11.7) at Leich-
hardt in most impressive style, Colteaux
is a non-stop swinger, Clarke a perfectly
balanced pug and a clean, straight
puncher, and he outscored the slugger in
every round, earning a very popular
decision.
* * * *
Melbourne’s football team was led on
to the Richmond ground by Squadron-
Leader Keith Truscott, D.F.C. and bar.
The Richmond captain called for cheers
for “Bluey,” the ball was bounced and
Richmond proceeded to trounce Mel-
bourne by 30.16 to 18.9. There’s no sen-
timent in Victorian football. In the other
games, St. Kilda “murdered” Hawthorn,
16.13-9.17; “Sowth” did the same to
Carlton, 13.21-8.11; Essendon’s goal-
kicking prevailed against ’Scray, 14.8-
12.16; and Fitzroy beat North Mel-
bourne, 17.13-14.10. Collingwood had the
bye.
* * * *
University, Western Suburbs and
Parramatta are thus far unbeaten in Syd-
ney’s Rugby Union competition. Manly
was unable to pace it with the Students,
who made it 19-3. West downed Rand-
wick 21-11 and was racing away towards
the finish. The Parramatta forwards
(always a hard-working set) contributed
most to their side’s 17-12 win over Drum-
moyne. St. George scored its first try
for the season against East and led the
1941 premiers 9-8, but the second hair
was all East—22-12. Gordon bullocked
througn against North, 12-3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY
(Before acceptances .)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Hospital Hurdle: St. David, 1 ;
Browser, 2 ; Allanius, 3.
Nurses’ Handicap: Lamiere, 1 ;
Nalong, 2 ; Mandoric, 3.
Patients’ Handicap: Audacity, 1 ;
Portsmouth, 2 ; Parida, 3.
Austin Steeplechase: Dorset, I ;
Brightello, 2 ; Gold Glare, 3.
Charity Handicap: Saul, 1 ; Re-
nown, 2 ; Monvale, 3.
Benefit Plate; Basalt, 1; An-
thony, 2 ; Handspar, 3.
Sisters’ Welter: Chatsbury, 1 ;
Contact, 2; Alcmena, 3.
FOR TATTERSALL’S MEETING.
(At Randwick.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT
Hurdle Race: Gold Pan, 1 ;
Fiery Cross, 2 ; Kenil Gem, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap (colts and
geldings): High Flight, 1; Battle
King, 2; Sandman, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap (fillies):
Flying Shuttle, 1 ; Grand Vision, 2 ;
Temerity, 3.
Flying Handicap: Sir Andrea,
1; Kingsdale, 2 ; Valve or Chat-
ting, 3. .
Novice Handicap: Beau Timide,
1 ; Mutineer 2 ; Haripur, 3.
James Barnes Handicap: Dewar,
I; Katanga, 2; It’s Funny or Trig-
german, 3.
Welter Handicap: Brazen Boy,
1; His Lordship, 2 ; Happy Lass
or Bona Fide, 3.


NEW MOTOR CARS
Perhaps you’ve heard about this change-over—possibly
the greatest industrial revolution of all time. Its effect
is that the man-power, machines and factories normally
engaged in motor car manufacture are now operating
as a gigantic source of supply for munitions of war.
Take General Motors part in the change over. In
Australia it means that the 9,000 men and women
who are G.M.H. are now making war equipment
instead of motor cars.
In the General Motors factories of England, U.S.A.,
Canada, South Africa, India, Australia and New
Zealand it means that more than 300,000 people have
been switched to war production jobs.
It means that the tremendous productive power of
these plants is being used 100 per cent, in De-
mocracy’s fight.
That in turn makes available the planning ability 01
an industry, long famous for getting things done, to
organise and put into operation new plants for volume
production of tanks, aero engines, guns, shells, bombs,
and other essential equipment.
As an example, one new G.M. American plant on tank
production is now 7 months ahead of schedule —it
produced its first 31 -ton tank in 47 days.
That, today, is the General Motors story in Australia
as elsewhere ... no motor cars for civil use, but an
ever-increasing flow of weapons.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth
In these announcements, published from time to I
time, we are telling some of the war-time activities I
of General Motors in Australia and overseas. j|
but lots of weapons!
Who Develops Industry Serves Australia
BACK THEM UP-KEEP ON BUYING WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
SMOKE-OH!
“He was born in a flea-invested hovel in a
poor working district.” — “D.T.”
Started from scratch, so to speak.
-I- *1* *J* •I*
“Laundries may cut work.” — “S. M. Herald.”
At least that should be neater than
wrenching and hacking.
•J*
“Youth barred from dog-racing tracks.”
—News item.
To save him from going to the dogs.
•F 4* *F
“Firewood problem.”— “Argus.”
Those in authority should use their
heads.
•b *F 4*
Guilty!
“Many Judges profess a lofty ignorance of
all slang expressions and colloquialisms.”^
—“Sunday Telegrapm”
Their dignity it would disgrace, the
Thinking World would heave if, when
a lawyer, stern of face, recited facts
about a case, the Judge leaned down
and said with grace “Okay, I get you,
Steve !”
Yair.
4* 4*
“A bother of his supplied his address.”
—“D.T.”
Wife, or merely feminine entangle-
ment?
4 1 4* 4* 4*
For sale. Mixed bustness. Excellent position
in good shopping centre. Takings £0 a week.”
—Suburban paper.
Thus the bustness.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When the jelly has partly set whip it quickly
for five minutes. Then stand in cold water for
an hour.” — Woman’s paper.
Not without gumboots, surely!
“Works of art removed to safety.”
—News item.
Including clients of beauty salons?
•F *F *F *F
“Luminous lamp-posts, which can be seen
for a distance of 45 yards, have been adopted
in many British towns.” — “World’s News.”
Over here we still callously let our
drunks find the posts by banging into
them.
Verification.
The meteorologist bent over his desk,
studying the weather map keenly.
Around him were scattered a multi-
tude of reports from various parts of the
country. Carefully he noted the position
of the tropical storm in the north and
the direction of the low-pressure system.
He checked over the isobars and iso-
therms, barometer and prevailing winds,
finally reaching the conclusion that it
would rain. But it had to be verified.
He must make absolutely certain. He
dialled a ’phone number.
“That you, Grandpa?” he said. “How’s
your rheumatism?”
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It Started with Eve,” “Obliging Young
Lady.”— Theatre ad.
She should sue ’em for that.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Respondent said that his wife, who had for-
merly been a waitress in his restaurant, hit him
with a hammer one night when he came home
late. On another occasion she threw a kettle
of boiling water over him.” — Divorce report.
Load of Trouble.
“Feneck said he had not be able to buy
tomatoes for two weeks, when a Chinese came
along with a borrow full at 30s. a case.”
— “Sun.”
Ah Pong had only borrowed them, it
seems, but now he’s sorrowing. They
caught him when he overcharged ; he’s
had his fill of borrowing.
Long Tung.
His Title.
Peculiar what a difference
One letter makes in altering sense.
I pause to make my meaning plain —
When young Bill Smith went courting
Jane
It used to thrill his spirit when
She softly said “My treasure!” Then,
After the bonds were fastened, he
Found out he was her treasury.
N. A. EVANS.
Camouflage.
Camouflage is the art of making the
other chap think he sees something that
isn’t there by making the thing he
imagines is there to be the thing he
assumes isn’t there. This principle holds
good for all branches of camouflage,
like the wife conjuring a new hat out of
the household bills, or her mother dis-
guising herself as a welcome guest.
However, not till one joins the army
does one realise what real camouflage
means. A complete division once camou-
flaged itself so successfully in a 10-acre
paddock that two other divisions camped
on the spot without suspecting anything
amiss till their beer and tobacco began
to vanish.
Other examples of perfect camouflage
are making restful ease look like hard
yakka, tossing the browns as air-spot-
ting and using tram-tickets as 14-days-
leave passes. If a “shrewd head” is
sufficiently adept he can camouflage him-
self as a neatly folded blanket and spend
a peaceful day in the tent. Our sergeant-
cook is an adept at camouflaging old
boots as beefsteak.
There appears to be a great future for
camouflage. The man who discovers a
satisfactory way of camouflaging water
as beer, and vice versa for after hours,
will die honored by millions. And per-
haps some genius may arise who can
even camouflage Eddie Ward to look like
something useful.
KINGSMAN.
Objective.
Drink to me only with thine eyes
This night of love divine!
I prithee, toast me only thus —
Then I’ll have all the wine!
T. W. N.
His wife was ready for a row
When he showed tendencies to roam;
She used to wait ON him, but now
She waits for him when he comes
home.
H. M.
This Rationing.
“I’m sorry, sir, you can only have half a
shirt,” said the man in the shop politely
but firmly. “You can have either the
back or the front; or, if you prefer it,
one side complete with sleeve.”
The tailor was even more stringent.
“Only the waistcoat, sir, and trousers
either above the knee or, if you must
have them long, only one leg.”
The salesman who wanted to sell me
one boot was unmoved when I appealed
to him to consider what I would look
like with one old tan shoe and a new
black one.
I am now getting used to assistants
offering me half a pair of socks; yester-
day I got a tie, but unfortunately my last
threadbare collar has long been doing
service as a patch on a vital part of my
singlet.
When I went in to buy a hat I was
offered a sweatband with a ribbon on it.
Overcoats were off.
It’s getting too hot! Especially as it’s
starting to get cold.
H. M.
Knocked Him Groggy.
“Accused broke a bottle of beer over the
constable’s head.” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
You never seem to see or hear
Of drunken cops. Instead,
They seem so sober that it’s queer
To notice news like this appear:
“All trouble started ’cause the beer
Went to this copper’s head.”
N. E. BOTTLES.
Ziffs on the Green.
“Federal Parliament House will be without a
barber this week owing to the call-up. Other
Canberra barbers are also in the forces.”
— “Sun.”
The position must be faced that the
unadorned dials of our legislators may in
the near future disappear behind a
camouflage of facegrass. In certain in-
stances this will come as a real break for
officials and queer people in the galleries
who seem to like listening to the row.
After all, having to watch naked faces
opening and shutting for hours on end
is distinctly nerve-racking. On the other
hand, to watch from a distance physiog-
nomic foliage being agitated has the same
soporific effect as viewing the upper
branches of a distant gum waving in the
breeze. This should be great for every-
one except the “Hansard” writers. They,
poor devils, have to keep awake, and their
martyred efforts to do so in these cir-
cumstances would be a terrible thing to
witness.
But advantages would accrue not only
to those on the outside looking in. Take
the man who, clean-shaven, rises to make
his maiden speech. In the back of his
mind is that vital problem of what to do
with his hands. He commences: “In —
ah —support of —er —the—um—remarks
of—ah—the hon. member for —er —er —
Dingbat,” the while he furiously twirls his
gold pass. That isn’t the inspiration it
might appear to be. So he starts turn-
mg a treybit over and over in his trousers
pocket, still blindly groping for the
elusive words.
But take the same man should his
frontispiece sport a luxuriant herbage.
Heaving himself up on catching the
Speaker’s eye, he scratches his facemat
in an effort to recall the sparkling phrases
he had thought of in bed the night before
and discovers the bit of chewing-gum that
one of his playful fellow-back-benchers
had secreted there while he was snoring.
Here is something to keep his hands
occupied fully and unobtrusively even
should his speech run into a seven-hour
marathon. With the mental strain thus
lifted, Words flow from him like a gusher.
For those legislators who make it a
point of honor always to keep awake
for the first ten minutes of an important
debate or the introduction of the Budget,
the growing of a walrus moustache will
come as a blessing. By the simple
expedient of soaking it in bitter aloes or
cocky’s joy, according to taste and tem-
perament, and thoughtfully sucking it
while sitting on the backs of their necks,
interest will be found not to flag while
the flavor lasts. Should the “walrus”
become so long that it starts to get tangled
in the pewter handle in the bar, no
trouble should be found in getting a
member from the opposite benches whom
he has recently referred to as a “scangy
mongrel who should be in his kennel”
to, trim it with either a hacksaw or a
blowlamp.
The M.P. whose natural beard is just
a mangy-looking affair like those you see
on the pictures of Chinese mandarins
might be seriously embarrassed when on
the hustings, especially if his opponent on
the opposite corner has a glossy chest-
protector in fine tilth. But heavy mas-
sage with coarse sandpaper, followed by
application of a hair food comprising
bonedust,asafoetida and marrow from the
legbones of an auk, will work wonders. A
final touch-up with Curlypet should then
assure him of an overwhelming share of
the flapper vote.
During election-time the holder of the
nomination for a “safe” seat can, of
course, retain with impunity his wonted
insolence. But the “borderline” seat can-
didate who is cursed with a stiff beard
would need to be wary while campaigning
his constituency. Should he be admiring
a prospective vote’s infant he would have
to be careful lest the baby push its hand
up into his face-jungle and roar as loudly
as if it had fallen face-first into a patch
of bindi-eyes. Actually, if his_ electorate
were a country one, there might be burrs,
bindi-eyes or thistles in it.
Generally, nothing but good should
come out of the unrestricted hirsute
growth in Parliament. Certain it is that
members would get their hair off less often.
Bo.


Tj&TtSivllefot
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Aus-
tralasia, weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.;
6 months. 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s. (Ex-
change must be added to Country and
inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas
(British Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, I6s.; 3 months, 8s. To
members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any Address Overseas
(Foreign): 12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6
months, £1 2s.; 3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, and all places within
the British Empire, \\d. per copy. To
all other places, 2\d.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others per line.
Profit and Service
The cry of “production for use, not
profit” has once more been raised, this
time by a reverend gentleman who be-
lieves that Communism is “the most
Christlike experiment in the history of
mankind.” Though plausible to many,
this slogan completely begs the question,
for it is only through products which
give satisfaction that profit can normally
be earned.
Profits, in fact, are the reward of cor-
rectly forecasting the requirements of
consumers ; losses are the penalty for in-
correct guesses which lead to unwanted
production.
It is true that where monopoly exists
it is possible to gain large profits by arti-
ficially restricting output. This enables
high prices to be charged for inferior
products. That is why the public interest
demands the retention of competition,
which ensures that the greatest rewards
shall go to those who give the greatest
satisfaction.
On the other hand, advocates of “pro-
duction for use” want to abolish competi-
tion, and set up State monopolies which
will inevitably adopt a take-it-or-leave-it
attitude to the consumer. And, what is
perhaps worse, the losses due to unwantec
production will fall, not on private indi-
viduals, but on the taxpayers —that is,
everybody.— Col (N.S.W.).
After the War
It is very likely that the war will bene-
fit Australia in the industrial field by its
stimulation of scientific, chemical anc
engineering ingenuity (B. 29/4/’42), but
that is only one side of the picture.
The national debt, which is a heavy
enough burden now, will be a good deal
heavier when peace comes, and will have
to be borne by a declining population.
This will mean greatly increased taxation
per head, with a correspondingly adverse
effect on prosperity. If there is not to be
economic decline it will be necessary for
us to work harder and live more plainly.
It may be difficult to market our exports.
There will probably be a considerable
level of unemployment.
Australia’s greatest handicap, however,
will be her politicians. She will need in-
spired leadership to cope successfully
with post-war problems, but there will
have to be a surprising change in the
quality of her Parliamentary personnel if
she is to get it. Even the supreme test of
war has failed to produce a real states-
man. On the contrary, parochialism and
manoeuvring for party or personal ad-
vantage have been characteristics of most
of her Parliamentarians, whatever their
political creed. If they act thus during
war, what is their conduct likely to be
in peace-time.— Tom (N.S.W.).
It is refreshing to meet with an optimist
like “Keel Row” (B. 29/4/’42), who sees
glowing possibilities for the future of
Australian industry. At the same time one
pauses to conjecture whether the post-war
expansion of Australia’s industrial
machine would be either advisable or
beneficial.
We are but seven millions, and if the
entire organisation of war-time industry
—or even the greater part of it —is con-
verted to post-war production the
national market will be quickly over-
supplied. We must find overseas markets
for our surplus, but if we are planning
the large-scale export of a wide range of
both primary and secondary goods, what
shall we import to balance the trade
scales? And unless we import from
countries abroad and permit them to
build up credits with us, will they import
from us?
While the bulk of Australia’s exports
consists of primary products we are on
more secure ground than if we enter into
desperate competition with the highly in-
dustrialised countries in a scramble for
markets for manufactured goods. Let
them find markets here, and they will be
in a position to relieve us of our primary
surplus.
The present drift to the cities and
need for man-power in primary
industries add weight to the suggestion
that Australia is in danger of becoming
overindustrialised. With a return to
peace we will be confronted with a task
of the first magnitude in getting labor
back on to the farms and restoring land
to pre-war level. — Blue (Q.).
Veges.
Is there a vegetable shortage? Ask the
vegetable-growers.
I was at the Victoria Markets, Mel-
bourne, the other morning, and growers
were carting home truckloads of prime
cauliflowers to feed them to the pigs be-
cause there were no buyers for them. It
was the sapie the previous week with
carrots, beans and peas, which went to
the tips in quantities. The canning fac-
tories couldn’t take them because of
shortage of labor. Yet all these articles
of food were wanted in the Army, and
there are thousands of homes that could
do with a cauliflower or even a carrot.
Australia is a marvellously productive
country in the matter of farms and gar-
dens, but unfortunately it is even more
productive in the matter of control
boards and committees. —S. V. (Vic,).
I have about as much interest in
golf as I have in skittles, but I can’t
share the joy of the people who are so
exultant at the possibility of the authori-
ties in Melbourne digging up the golf
links to plant cabbages and carrots. If
“Wot’s the hours, mister ?”
they were interested in improving the food
position and not merely in tyrannising
over individuals who like a game they
don’t, they would have observed that
there are thousands of acres of the best
soil in the country lying idle all around
the city.
In one district I know of there
are dozens of river flats carrying a few
cows or an old retired carthorse which
are capable, if irrigated, of growing all
' the vegetables wanted. These flats are
owned for the most part by old people
whose families have lived there for
generations, and who have refused all
offers to buy, with the result that farmers
have been driven to break in and culti-
vate hillsides miles away. The Govern-
ment surely has power to see that these
properties are worked, and it could do
so without treating the owners unfairly.
—Hacksaw (Vic.).
Is Rationing Enough?
When announcing the introduction of
clothes rationing the Prime Minister
made the following illuminating state-
ment :
Because of the money poured out for
war, and the fact that much more money
was in your pockets, you spent more.
From this fact it follows that rationing
has become necessary not only because
war production has cut into civilian sup-
plies but also because the public has been
allowed to retain too much spending
power.
Recognition by Mr. Curtin that re-
peated appeals to the people to spend
less have not been sufficiently heeded
should lead his Government to reconsider
its attitude towards compulsory saving.—
Arc (N.S.W.).
Luxury Spending
I received a letter from the Prime
Minister asking me as teacher to address
my school on “the necessity for the
strictest curtailment of avoidable spend-
ing”—in the hope that the message would
be carried into the homes by the children.
The letter was in circular form, but
was sealed and so bore the full 2id. post-
age. I presume that the same letter had
been sent to all Australian schools. That
would mean considerable expenditure on
stamps and paper and man-power. The
instruction could have been issued
through the official journal of the Educa-
tion Department in each State.
Next, from the comments of people
to whom the children passed on my mes-
sage, such “appeals” will never stop
luxury spending, since the very people
to whom such appeals are addressed the
luxury-spenders —are too selfish to be
worried by appeals. If the Government
had the backbone it could prevent manu-
facture and sale of these goods (the
newspaper advts. still ask us to buy
them), and so tax incomes now that
there would be no excess money for
luxuries. Then we could more or less
“pay as we go” and not be burdened
with taxation after the war. And the
resultant post-war release of money
would do much to stimulate markets and
employment. — Chalkie (S.A.).
Aid to Malta
We have had appeals for bombed
London, for the stricken Poles and
Greeks. But what about brave little
Malta? Its hardy people have suffered
more than 2250 raids, have seep their
island home blasted, and have crouched
in dugouts for months. It is part of the
Empire. Yet why is it forgotten? Is
it because it does not offer spiritual allegi-
ance to Moscow? Anyway, nobody
seems to have organised medical aid for
Malta. — Valetta (N.S.W.).
Army Pay
Now that the base pay of U.S. Army
personnel in Australia has been increased,
certain newspapers and individuals are
again busy comparing American and
Australian rates of pay. No useful pur-
pose can be served by such comparison.
There is a very important difference in
the normal purchasing power of the U.S.
and Australian currencies, due (1) to
the 25 per cent, depreciation of the Aus-
tralian pound against sterling and all
foreign currencies in 1931, and (2) to
the further devaluation of the pound
sterling, and with it of the Australian
pound, against the dollar in August, 1939.
This latter cut was of the order of 15
per cent.
The first cut was necessary, at the pit
of the depression, to aid Australian ex-
ports when the country was in a desper-
ate economic plight; the second was a
measure designed to stop the flight from
the pound and provide a sound economic
basis for the war which followed on the
heels of the devaluation. We have en-
joyed, and are continuing to enjoy, the
benefits of these two measures, the com-
bined result of which was that the dollar
stands today at 3.27 to the £A, against
a gold parity of 4.86.
When we compare rates of pay or any
other values expressed in terms of the
currencies of the two countries, we will
naturally see discrepancies due to our
depreciated exchange.
All that does not go to say, of course,
that the Australian soldier is overpaid.
The U.S. can easily afford to grant its
armed forces a 20 per cent, increase in
pay without making an appreciable hole
in American finances. Australia may not
be able to afford a similar gesture quite
as easily, but that is beside the point.
The higher rates of pay of the Maoriland
forces are, in my opinion, a better argu-
ment in favor of an increase here than
are American rates. — Viator (Vic.).
So Many and So Few
About this never-was-so-much-by-so-
few business. I’ve been trying to apply
the formula to the N. S. Wales coal-
miners, and the result is something like
this: So much indifference is being shown
to the needs of so many by so few, and
so much tolerance is being wasted on so
few by so many, that never again will so
many have less sympathy for so few if
they don’t stop chewing the rag and get
on with hewing the coal. —T. F. W. (Vic.).
Most Entertaining
Why all this fuss about entertainment
for our American friends on our dull
Sundays? Aren’t we entertaining them in
all ways on all days? They have only
to read about us in our papers, listen-in
on us, study our form of government,
and then start laughing. Men from the
country that bred Mark Twain must
surely still possess a sense of humor.
The first laugh would come when,
answering Mr. Curtin!s call, they found
themselves beneath the Southern Cross-
Doughboys charged with the duty of
having to fight for this country in places
where, while our Defence Act remains
intact, our own Government cannot
compel Australians to serve!
The U.S. troops arrived here just in
time to see our State Government pen-
sioning off, in the midst of man-power
shortage, able-bodied, competent coal-
miners to provide the opportunity for
abler-bodied men to shelter in a pro-
tected industry. The risibility thereby
engendered had hardly subsided when in
came our Prime Minister with Regula-
tion 77 —the rule to end mob-rule, a rule
loaded with dire penalties for those who
dare tread on the tail of Australia’s coat.
Tightly holding their sides our Allies saw
Labor Minister Ward hop into the ring
daring the Government he is sworn to
assist to invoke Regulation 77 against
won’t-work workers. Eddie finds the big
solution —nationalisation of coal mines!
Then our U.S. friends saw Artie Fad-
den artlessly rising to challenge the Gov-
ernment on issues involving amendment
to the Defence Act. They heard ex-Prime
Minister Menzies support ex-Prime Min-
ister Fadden; they heard (or did they?)
ex-Prime Minister Hughes, who knew
everything, say nothing. The appeal of
Mr. Fadden for support for a resolution
to which he himself was opposed was
full of novelty. That Messrs, Hughes and
Menzies, both of whom had stalked
office on promises not to conscript men
for overseas service, should have thought
that Mr. Curtin, a pledged anti-conscrip-
tionist, should do it now speaks volumes
for the versatility of mankind.
The next item on the programme of
entertainment was a motion to disallow
Regulation 77. Eddie Ward played the
comic part. The motion, if carried, would
have given effect to Ward’s frequently
expressed view on the subject. It would
also have removed the present Govern-
ment, including Mr. Ward, from the Tart
Shop. But Eddie tricked them all and
voted to retain Regulation 77 and with
it the Government, his job and pay.
What more entertaining comedy would
our U.S. friends ask for? —G. R. W.
McDonald (N.S.W.).
“Had a Horse”
I have just sold one (1) bay mare, farm-
bred, draught, eight years old and a good
worker. She was sold for £l. The auc-
tioneer’s account charges me for commis-
sion Is., yard fee Is., railage 13s. 4d.,
untrucking, taking to yards and feeding
2s. 6d. Total, 17s. lOd. So all I get for
the horse is two-and-bloody-tuppence.—
P. L. (Vic.).


w
«ev»
tv
c»
\oV.®
V)6
ta
CfcW
fl®*
V\oW
Btv
VjOV
B» tte
w>dn
A\
d«t s
\c»
to
oXW*
tsovv
neS®
\OO
wtt*
Vtxdd
M©n eS
l»P 9
xvVJ
0»t
f\C&
a w> 3
ow
11
,oW e =;<-
\e^
e s*®
s<*9
11
UP* r
it***?
an 9
O*
on
“S'
S»* ut
tv*®
VYxC
in
«"* T
dC'* l^
*V\« T
Ocv*
b* 6 * 4
*\on
no
CO** 1
'pO' 1 '
Vv9
Vxt^®
eN c S
c
st* x
u o
rO n
vti%
CQ
C#VV*
an
in
»t\t
an
an®®
v-xa>
b®<*
on®
cv»
se*
xxen
<*w,
ct
time
AN
s
nXV
ot
ac
ov'
txO*
f'fO 111
«!0»
iti
CO*
me
v\e^n
W^ te
W>‘
;•
rt\en
ta
vn?n
vxovv
««*
rjftess
P cS -
c® sV
tw
aP2
ted
dvA*
\*n
-
W«n\
sed
on
i
aid
\n vv
\d
tvo*
co
Vxa vC
IVO
W
vW
etd»
AX’
vctn
c
,o
me
L 8
eai
v\V<''
dean,
goi-
t>e»
u?
«jet®
tvd
dev s
even
ion®
c&*
cd
SfJoeW’S
tUVIx
AC*
to\V
V)V
pvoda
ted
o"
petW
Y
Ja ES, the Darwin ack ack"
gunners brought down the enemy planes with Australian-
made -anti-aircraft guns. The above report, therefore, is
both a tribute to the gunners' courage and expert marksman-
ship, and the army of Australian workers whose efforts
contributed to the guns' production.
Not very many months ago, Australia's anti-aircraft guns
were in the blue print stage, setting an intricate engineering
task which was mastered in incredibly quick time only by
the keenest teaming of Australia's scientific and industrial
technicians. Output of these guns has now reached most
gratifying proportions, enabling a constant strengthening
of our resistance against aerial attack.
The gun's large-scale manufacture in this country was
, made possible primarily through the ability of Australia's
major steel producer, The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
to provide an assured supply of the quality steel which
forms the gun's major bulk.
Sieel in both adequate tonnage and variety was
necessary, as some 47 different types are incorporated in
the make-up of these complex weapons.
The meeting of the demand for steel for anti-aircraft guns
is only one of the calls successfully satisfied by The Broken
Hill Proprietary, which not only has kept steel production
abreast of wartime's extraordinary needs, but has given
Australia quality steel at the world's lowest prices!
This happy situation is the result of a long-term plan
of plant extension and modernisation, coupled with a
rationalisation of the country's steel industry, following the
amalgamation of B.H.P. with Australian Iron <S Steel Ltd.
in 1935.
Because of this far-sighted preparedness, the Australian
steel industry now turns out more than double the total 1935
tonnage, thus ensuring an adequate basis for the operation
and development of Australia's munition-making effort, and
the maintenance of essential civil undertakings.
m
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd
*
Iron and Steel Masters, Mine and Ship Owners, Colliery Proprietors, Ship Builders
Iron and Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W., and Whyalla, S.A.
Head Office. 422 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
-
m \
I fl
W-
