

The Bulletin
“Tl»e Bulletin,” Vol. 63—No. 3259.
VWkbkesday, July 29, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
ORIEL COLLEGE (WEST FRONT), OXFORD AND ST. MARY'S CHURCH.
CVF all Oxford’s colleges, Oriel may be
w regarded as possessing a peculiar Im-
perial interest in so much as it was com-
pleted in 1911 from designs, by Mr. Basil
Champneys at the cost of the great
“Empire-builder,” Cecil Rhodes. The
college was founded by Edward 11, at
the suggestion of his almoner, Adam de
Brom, the charter being dated April 12,
1326. The King presented a large mes-
suage known as “La Oriel,” whence the
name of the college, Oriel, being an old
French word meaning any portico, recess
or small room which was more private
and “better ornamented” than the rest of
the building. St. Mary’s Hall was origi-
nally the manse of St. Mary-the-Virgin,
presented in 1325 by Edward II to Oriel
College, by which society it was converted
into a separate place of education in 1333.
Somewhere about 1461, Bedell Hall,
founded 1294, conveyed to the college by
the University, was added to the site.
Among the famous men who studied at
St. Mary’s Hall were St. Thomas More,
George Sandys the poet, and the mar-
tyred Bishop Hannington. After a separ-
ate existence of over 500 years the hall
is again incorporated with its parent
society. The college was incorporated
by letters patent of James I in 1603.
The Hall, 1637, has a picturesque ex-
terior, marred somewhat by comparatively
recent necessary repairs. Over the en-
trance are statues of the Virgin and
Child, with those of Edward II and
Charles lin canopied niches. The chapel
adjoins, completed 1642, but altered at
various times. The Common Room is on
the ground floor and contains portraits
of eminent men associated with the col-
lege, such as Cardinal Newman, Lord
Morley, Seth Ward and Copleston. In
the religious life of England, particularly
in the last century, Oriel exercised a pro-
found influence, many of its members
taking a leading part in the “Tractarian”
movement, such names as Newman,
Arnold, Pusey, Keble at once suggesting
themselves. Cecil Rhodes was made an
Hon. D.C.L. in 1899. By his will, dated
July Ist of that year, among other large
bequests to the University was £lOO,OOO,
free of all duty, to his old college, with
a direction that a portion of the sum
should be used for the extension of the
college buildings to the High Street, as
illustrated, and also that £lO,OOO should
be held as a fund to maintain “the dig-
nity of the High Table.”


SmteJog* 1
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Pres
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
S.B. 342
The Red Page
S. H. PRIOR PRIZE.
Instead of holding the usual annual
competition inviting the submission of
manuscripts, the trustees of the S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize decided that the 1942
award should go to the book published in
Australia between June 6, 1941, and
June 6, 1942, which in their opinion was
the most valuable contribution to Aus-
tralian literature for the year.
After a thorough examination of liter-
ary works of all kinds published during
the period in Australia and New Zealand
(“Australia” and “Australian” for the
purposes of the award are to be read as
including New Zealand) the trustees have
accordingly decided to award the 1942
Prize (£100) to:
ITS HARDER FOR GIRLS,
By Gavin S. Casey.
This is a collection of the best of
Gavin Casey’s short stories, published in
book form by Angus and Robertson. The
book has already been reviewed on the Red
Page, and most of the stories originally
appeared in The Bulletin. Dealing with
contemporary Australian life, document-
ing (in the Westralian goldfields) a corner
of the Australian scene, showing—
especially in the masterpiece “Short Shift
Saturday”—profound grasp of character
and a notable mastery of words, Casey's
stories seemed in every way the most vital
contribution to the year’s Australian pub-
lication.
A work in a different category that was
seriously considered by the trustees was
Mr. Justice Ferguson’s Bibliography of
Australia. A lifetime’s labor recording
“every known publication, wherever
printed and whatever its subject or lan -
guage, having Australian reference” be-
tween the years 1784 and 1830 certainly
deserves some public recognition; but
some Government acknowledgment of a
work of national importance is called for
rather than a Prior Memorial award, of
which the primary motive is the encour-
agement of the practising, creative Aus-
tralian writer.
Conditions for the 1943 Prior Prize will
be the same as for 1942. No competition
inviting the submitting of MSS. will be
held. The prize (£100) will be awarded
to the author or authors of the book
which the trustees consider the most valu-
able contribution to Australian literature
published in Australia between June 6,
1942, and June 6, 1943 (“Australia,” as
before, includes New Zealand). No work
that has already won a monetary pri?e
will be eligible.
An Australian on Skis.
It seems natural enough for the Yogi,
rapt in placid contemplation, to think
beautiful thoughts about the nature of
God and man; and also quite natural
for a Wordsworth, sitting on a hilltop for
hours on end, to ponder upon the inner-
most mysteries and delights of high
places. But one would not expect the
sounding cataract to haunt like a passion
an Australian skier, whizzing down the
snow at 60 miles an hour. Elyne
Mitchell, proving in Australia’s Alps
(Angus and Robertson) that the skier
can be just as much of a contemplative
as the nature-worshippers who sit down
to it:
I looked across at my skis on the log, as
they caught the moonlight’s silver. They
were new at the start of this winter, and
now they looked very old. They had taken
me to some wonderful places—high hills
and deep gullies, down steep spurs and over
the mountain highways for many, many
miles. In all those places 1 had found
some peace and a sense of continuity—of a
tradition accepted, and one to be made.
Energy expended in our own hills, too,
has gradually taken on a new importance,
in days when relative values of things wc
might lose stand out, clear and cold. There
is greater adventure in the higher, unknown
mountain ranges of the world. But these
are the mountains of the land we love. All
our days spent in their stronghold, gladly
giving effort and appreciation, must’
throughout the years add the spirit of their
happiness to the hills. '
In a mountain evening or dawn, or a
moonlight night, entity is almost lost in a
transcending feeling, deeper even than love,
for the Mystery of the world and the uni-
verse. Body and soul dissolve into some-
thing all-embracing. If Truth lies in a
man’s heart, each to seek it and learn it for
himself, then, on the high hills, thrust
out from earth into the atmosphere, the
Way and the Light shine ahead.
Only because it lacks the heroic theme
does Australia's Alps fail to become a
book in the very best traditions of moun-
taineering or exploring literature. Every-
thing else is there: a considerable literary
skill, a passionate love of the mountains,
and that mysticism of the man-of-action
—-that curious blending of the spiritual
and the physical—which is to be found
in Conrad’s sea stories, in the journals
of polar explorers or climbers of the
Himalayas, in Sainte-Exupery’s dramas
of the aeroplane. Given some central
theme of heroic drama, Mrs. Mitchell
could write a very good book indeed
about the mountains.
This one, unfortunately for the general
reader, is to a large extent designed
as a guide-book for the winter-sports
enthusiast; descriptions of ski-routes
pioneered, narratives of the journeys in-
volved —difficult and dangerous enough,
but, for the armchair mountaineer, not
to be compared with climbing the Hima-
layas. For those for whom it is chiefly
intended, Australian and New Zealand
skiers, it fcouldn’t be better.
And, limited though its appeal is, the
ordinary reader who cares for moun-
tains, nature and Australian scenes will
find much that’s worth while. The moun-
tain landscapes are described with a
clarity equal to Mrs. Mitchell’s love of
them: white peak and ridge, gullies
where the snow-gums grow, rare and
beautiful effects of light:
The sun suddenly blazed up behind Gun-
gartin. Daylight so often brings reality,
but here was a strangeness inconceivable.
The full moon was still high in the sky,
opposite the stronger light of the sun. All
at once our shadows leapt westwards and
flared into a strange purple-blue, luminous,
as though we were figures on a negative
strip; living, luminous shadows, and so
deeply blue. Then we saw that every
shadow was the same, the shadows of the
rocks, and lumps and ridges of snow, and
the snow as it flew up from our skis and
sticks was blue, too, till it seemed almost
as if we were skiing in a bright blue halo.
Mrs. Mitchell loves the mountain
birds and animals as much as she loves
the high places they inhabit; she has a
fascinating description of the old-time
abos. coming to the mountains to feast
on the bogong moths ; there is a journey
in which all the animals seen are black,
even a black wombat; there is a chase
after the brumbies, and a brief history
of them; an intense, poetic love for all
nature, both for what it is and for what
it can mean symbolically to the spirit:
As we climbed towards the saddle on the
Townsend Spur, suddenly in the bright
blue sky above us skimmed a gleaming
silver hawk, banking and gliding, his body
reflecting the sunlight. Sometimes he would
come ' down dose, shining, shining, and
sometimes, with a few effortless N move-
ments, soar up high overhead. To me it
was the most perfect symbol of freedom
that I have ever seen —a silver hawk flying
over mountains deep in snow.
English Comic Verse.
Michael Roberts, introducing The
Faber Book of Comic Verse : —
I leave the reader to the simple pleasure
of recognising old acquaintances and of
grudgingly admitting new, and to the
more complex and perhaps greater pleasure
of complaining that I have not, after all,
unearthed his own private and unparal-
leled discovery.
As a shield against criticism that is, on
the whole, effective. It would be pleasant
if one of these editors (Roberts includes
an American or two) should happen to
hear of “Banjo” Paterson or C. J. Dennis
and admit them to the august company
of funnymen; but humorous ballads
mightn’t fit too well into the pattern of
The Faber Book, which excludes even
such notable vers de societe writers as
A. P. Herbert.
This collection of comic verse is intended
to include nonsense, parody and comic
satire, but not the more familiar comic
songs and nursery rhymes. I have, in
general, avoided “light verse” or vers de
societe, and I have made no attempt to
find suitable extracts from the longer
poems of Chaucer, Skelton, Marvell,
Dry den, Pope, Byron and Browning.
Within his limits, Roberts has made a
good job of the anthology. One looks
for the classics of comic verse, and. finds
Lear and Lewis Carroll duly present;
for less familiar pieces, and there’s the
exquisite epitaph on a dentist;
Stranger! Approach this spot with gravity!
John Brown is filling his last cavity.
Samuel Butler’s “O God, O Montreal!”
is in ; much Chesterton ; Belloc’s most
celebrated pieces, and also his brightest
couplet:
I'm tired of Love; I’m still more tired of
Rhyme.
But Money gives me pleasure all the time.
Roy Campbell’s “A Veld Eclogue,” which,
if it isn’t yet widely known, certainly
should be studied by all lovers of the
“wide open spaces” ; Calverley’s glorious
parody of Browning, and J. K. Stephen's
sonnet on Wordsworth:—■
Two voices are there: one is of the deep;
It learns the storm-cloud’s thunderous melody,
Now roars, now murmurs with the changing sea,
Now birdlike pipes, now closes soft in sleep;
And one is of an old half-witted sheep
Which bleats articulate monotony,
And indicates that two and one are three,
That grass is green, lakes damp, and mountains
steep:
And, Wordsworth, both are thine
For variation, and to get away from
the stock anthology pieces, Roberts in-
cludes oddments from good poets at their
worst, and from bad poets at their best.
Tennyson, for example, declaiming in
a rash moment:
Dash back that ocean with a pier,
Strow yonder mountain flat,
A railway hei;e, a tunnel there.
Mix me this zone with that.
Or Alfred Austin;
Winter is gone, and spring is over,
The cuckoo flowers grow mauver and mauver.
And among the masterpieces of the bad
poets, the Rev. Cornelius Whur on the
“Faithful Female Friend”; and John
Close “In Respectful Memory of Mrs.
Yarker”: —•
And have we lost another friend?
How sad the news to tell!
Alas, poor Mrs. Yarker’s gone—
Hark to the tolling bell!
Alas! how many now drop off—
What numbers are unwell;
Another mortal borne away—
Hark to the tolling bell!
And one Julia Moore, pleading gently
to her critics:
And now, kind friends, what I have wrote,
I hope you will pass o’er,
And not criticise as some have done
Hitherto herebefore.
Looking merely at what’s in the book,
for Roberts is reasonable in seeking to
avert criticism for what’s left out, there
are three weaknesses, though none serious
enough to affect the book’s value as en-
tertainment to any extent.
Item, there’s a certain taint of clubbery,
rather difficult to define, but exemplified
in the inclusion among “Useful Couplets”
of this one from John Marston (1598):
O what a tricksie lerned nicking straine
Is this applauded, sencles, modern vaine!
and this from Charles Churchill:
Caress’d and courted, Faber seems to stand
A mighty pillar in a guilty land.
Item, Roberts has a notion that anything
written about a university, especially
about Oxford or Cambridge, is automati-
cally funny ; there are at least twenty
university pieces, some no more than
undergraduate fun. The editor seems to
have had in mind an audience composed
chiefly of Faber and Faber’s bright young
men and of Oxford and Cambridge Old
Boys.
The third criticism is that a number
of verses have been included not so much
for their intrinsic humor as because they
happen to have been written by famous
men. Blake’s couplet on Cromek, for in-
stance —
A petty sneaking knave I knew.
Oh, Mr. Cromek, how do ye do—
though it may be mildly interesting as
a comment on Blake, was, as a specimen
of humor, clearly not worth putting in
a book that has such genuine epigrams
as Lord Erskine’s on Scott’s “The Field
of Waterloo”:
On Waterloo's ensanguined plain
Lie tens of thousands of the slain;
But none, by sabre or by shot,
Fell half so flat as Walter Scott.
Byron, Shelley, Tennyson, Swinburne
and (astonishingly) Burns are all feebly
represented. About the only “serious
poet” to emerge successfully as a funny-
man from Roberts’s editing is—most un-
expectedly—the gloomy A. E. Housman,
pondering on “Infant Innocence”:
The Grizzly Bear is huge and wild;
He has devoured the infant child.
The infant child is not aware
He has been eaten by the bear.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
They say that once you have seen the
Light—Astrology, for instance; or the
Pyramids ; or a diet of raw thistles as
the Answer to Everything—you find con-
firmation of your beliefs everywhere, So
that, having aired a theory last week,
based on the frequency with which a
matriarchal type of old woman crops up
in novels and talkies, that the English
and American peoples are longing for
government by a benevolent grand-
mother, this Page noted with a certain
awed horror for its own sanity as well
as the world’s that “Watch on the
Rhine,” staged at Sydney Minerva after
long seasons in London and New York,
once again set up an aged female as the
strength, hope and salvation of our time.
Played in triumph by Hilda Dorrington.
the hag—the Old White Duck—was dis-
guised this time as Fanny Farrelly, mother
of a Southern American family, whose
calm humorous strength symbolised the
established American civilisation, whose
agitation upon the arrival of a wandering
daughter with an anti-Nazi German hus-
band symbolised the awakening of
America into a wicked world, and whose
final defiant quackings indicated that
none of her ducklings was going to be
taken by the hawks.
What the deuce has gone wrong with
all the novelists, filmsmiths and play-
wrights that in the midst of a war in
which male heroism of the most magnifi-
cent sort is daily being displayed by the
fighting men, all that they can offer us for
a hero is the Old White Duck of a matri-
arch ; or, sharing the honors with Fanny
in “Watch on the Rhine,” an anti-Nazi
German? Doubtless there are “good”
Germans who dislike Hitler —and doubt-
less, as good Germans, they are all fight-
ing like, the devil for Germany. Even if
they are not, if they are still working for
Hitler’s downfall, they are not the heroes
of this war. “Watch on the Rhine” has
been hailed with delight as a sign of
life in the theatre, a piece of living propa-
ganda. So it is, in a way ; but it is not,
as one would like to see, propaganda for
the vigor and courage of democracy: it
is propaganda sentimentalising the
“good” German.
Political objections to the limelighting
of a “good” German and to the choice
of the Old White Duck as the only stal-
wart of democracy shouldn’t affect the
consideration of Lillian Heilman’s play,
regarded purely as a piece of drama
or of stage entertainment. But there
are strong literary and dramatic objec-
tions to the two heroes, apart from poli-
tics. Neither is an original character
study. The Old Duck, as the Red Page
pointed out last week, is the heroine of
an astonishingly large proportion of con-
temporary films, plays and novels. The
good, grim, glum, suffering anti-Nazi,
most capably portrayed by John Nugent
Hayward, has long been a stock type at
Hollywood.
Does it ever occur that actors portray
a character as the exact opposite of what
the author intended? That seemed to
happen twice in “Watch on the Rhine. ’
Because of the excellent work, obviously
in character, of Hilda Dorrington, Hay-
ward and Richard Parry, Whitehall Pro-
ductions make quite a good, solid show
of it. Better entertainment would have
resulted if Roger Barry, who is supposed
to have become “more like Joshua every
day” under the domination of the Matri-
arch, had shown in some timidity, some
primness, some legal fustiness that he had
in fact been forced into the mould of
his late lawyer-father. He surely could
not have been intended merely to portray
a vague cheerfulness. And, from the
dramatic point of view, the play might
have been saved if Hilda Scurr, acting
as the wife of the anti-Nazi, instead of
playing tearfully and clingingly, had
been the hard, fanatical, domineering
bluestocking both human probability and
Lillian Heilman’s lines seemed to indicate.
Since Leslie Howard is a skilful inter-
preter of Shaw and Shakspeare, it is diffi-
cult to understand how he could come to
write a play as awful as “Tell Me the
Truth,” placed before its public by the
Melbourne Little Theatre at St. Chad’s,
South Yarra. It evoked the reflection
that perhaps actors stand in the same
relationship to the plays they appear in
as virtuosi do to music. Mr. Howard’s
play concerns a New York family which
has expectations from the will of a de-
ceased relative —a series of “Charley’s
Aunt” situations too trifling to mention.
Frances Dillon did the best job at short
notice by taking the part of a worldly
spinster, but the rest of the cast were
helpless victims of Mr. Howard’s strange
conception of human nature.
The best music in Melbourne con-
tinues to be provided by the band of
ardent enthusiasts who projected the
lunchtime concerts at the Assembly
Hall, and news of the event is beginning
to penetrate amongst the multitudes toil-
ing in shop and office. The latest pro-
gramme was specially worth attention.
Violinist Gertrude Healy and pianist Rita
Hope collaborated magnificently in a
rendering of the Sonata in G Minor of
the 17th century composer Henry Eccles.
Then the richer texture of the Brahms in
D Minor was lovingly handled.
A sedate affair was the A.B.C.
orchestral concert at Sydney Town Hall
under the baton of Dr. Edgar Bainton.
Most enjoyable item was the “Meister-
singer” overture, Wagner at his strongest
and sanest, free from mythomania and
eroticism. Mozart’s best-loved symphony,
the “Pathetic” (K. 550), is, it is true, built
up of apparently trivial themes. They
have seldom, however, sounded so trivial.
Phyllis McDonald’s beautifully smooth
technique lifted the Bach A Minor Violin
Concerto a little out of the rut. The
Fifth Symphony of Sibelius was given
a conscientious, literal reading.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Men’s Overcoat, 6/-
sr
u
Men’s Suits, 5/-
Trr±=x~
Men’s Trousers, 3/-
Men’s Vests, 1/-
Men’s Cardigan, 3/6
S 3
Boys’ Overcoats, from 3/6
DRY CLEANING
SAVES
COUPONS
Ah! Those Coupons! They have brought to
all o£ us such care and economy where clothes
are concerned . . . nowadays we look at every
garment many times before disposing of it.
There’s nothing that will help your clothes
more than to have them carefully dry cleaned
and properly pressed.
The latest oddurless method of dry cleaning
is used in our Dry Cleaning Service ... it
removes every particle of dust and dirt and
leaves the garments fresh and revitalised . . .
it actually helps to preserve their wearing
qualities.
When you send your suits, coats and frocks
to us for cleaning, they are given the benefit
of specialists’ skill and returned-to you with
the assurance that you will be fully satisfied
with the results.
Our Dry Cleaning Service Section is situated
at the entrance of our George Street Men’s
Clothing Department.
Men’s Sports Coats, 3/9
%
Boys’ Knicker Suits, 4/-
V
Boys’ Trousers, from 2/-
'
Women’s Topcoats, from 6/-
UJ / /'^ r
Girl’s Tunic, from 3/9
11
Pleated Skirt, from 6/6
Women’s Frocks, from 5/9
f
Women’s Skirts, 3/6
Women’s Coat and Skirt, from 6/-
u
s
Dressing Gown, from 6/
2-J
;/
Women’s Blouses, from 3/-
Women’s Ensemble Suit, 8/6
Child’s Coats, from 3/6
I
■
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


NIGHT VENTURE
By OLIVER FILTER.
THE man knew
his way through
the bushes
along the creek,
and made hardly a
sound as he pushed through them.
He came out into the moonlight and
grinned at a startled rabbit as it
bounced away over logs and stones
and disappeared into the shadows of the
trees on the hill. Then the smile twisted
into an angry frown as he heard the boy
following through the bushes, snapping
twigs and tearing at the underbrush in
his anxiety not to be left too far behind.
From the moment he had consented to
the youngster’s eager request to be taken
on the expedition he had regretted it. As
the boy stepped out of the bushes he
turned on him sharply: “For Pete’s sake,
don’t make so much noise.”
The boy looked round him, staring into
the shadows. “I couldn’t help it, Bill,”
he said. “I couldn’t see where I was
going back there.”
Bill muttered something under his
breath and then, “I wish I hadn’t brought
you with me,” he said. “You’ll get us
both in trouble —you’re too young for
this sort of thing.”
The boy did not answer. Nothing he
did seemed to be right, and the excite-
ment that had gripped him when, after
months of refusals, Bill had agreed to
bring him this night was rapidly giving
way to a miserable feeling of helpless-
ness.
Bill swung easily up the slope towards
the trees, the boy, a little behind him,
hurrying to match his pace with the long,
easy strides of the man. On the top of
the rise was a fence, and on the other
side of it the dark silence of the trees.
Bill paused, searching for a path, and,
finding it, vaulted easily over the fence.
The boy followed, and in a moment the
tall, slender gums had reached over and
shut them off from the stars, while the
low, thick scrub obtruded on to the path
and dragged at their clothes as they
passed. Here and there the darkness was
haunted by shafts of moonlight which
turned the tree-trunks into long, naked
white arms reaching up from the dark
undergrowth to the shadows of the foli-
age overhead. Fear kept the boy close
to the man’s heels,
Suddenly the bushes a few feet from
the path shook and parted, and the
silence was shattered by a thrashing of
leaves as two startled wallabies thumped
away before them. It frightened the boy
to a shout, and he grabbed quickly at
Bill’s coat. Bill knocked his hand away
impatiently. “For heaven’s sake!” he
said, “they’re only wallabies. If you
yell or grab me again I’ll send you back
home.”
They hurried on through the darkness,
and presently the sky showed through
the gaps in the trees ahead of them. Soon
they were out in the moonlight again and
looking across the paddocks of grass,
silver with dew, that fell away in a
gradual slope to the dark line of trees
that marked the river.
“We’ll pick up the river path near the
bridge,” he said, and they moved on,
their steps brushing the dew off the grass
and leaving a trail of great dark gashes
in the silvered surface of the paddocks.
The bridge met the road before it
reached the river, and was supported
over the sloping bank by heavy wooden
piles. Around these floodwaters had
tangled such a mass of brambles and logs
that those who took the path along the
river could pass under the bridge only
by stepping out to a cross beam a few
inches above the water and walking along
it to step off at the other end. Bill had
done it so often that he crossed without
thinking, but the boy hesitated, wonder-
ing whether to walk back until he could
clamber up the bank, cross the road and
come down the other side. Then he
thought of what Bill would say, and
stepped gingerly on to the beam. It was
green and slimy. He wobbled nervously
to the other end and then jumped too
quickly for the bank. He missed his
footing and slipped, seizing at the ground,
towards the water. Bill grabbed him
roughly and hauled him to his feet. “I’m
damned if I know why I brought you
with me,” was all he said.
From the bridge they took a rough
path under the trees that fringed the
river. There were bushes and reeds here,
and their feet trod firmly one minute,
then slipped and squelched in places
where cows plodding down to the river
had cut and churned the ground to mud.
Every two or three hundred yards were
fences that ran right down to the water.
At one fence the bank of the river was
so steep and thick with blackberries that
they had to move away from the river
and cross the field almost in the shadow
of a large house. A dog barked and a
cow struggled clumsily to its feet and
stood looking at the trespassers with mild
curiosity. A sudden panic gripped the
boy and he bolted for the next fence.
The dog barked loudly and furiously.
Bill came striding swiftly and silently
to the fence, threw his six feet over it
in an easy vault and crouched down
behind a clump of blackberries. When
the barking had died away he turned on
the boy. “For two pins I’d give you a
belting and send you back home,” he
said.
They went back to the shadow of the
trees and followed the river for another
mile before Bill stopped and peered at
the opposite bank. “This is the place,”
he said.
He began to strip off his clothes and
the boy followed his example. “C’mon,”
he said then, and scrambled down the
bank and slid into the water.
The boy would have hesitated, but the
bank was wet, slippery clay and offered
no hold. At first he was pleasantly sur-
prised because the water was warm and
not cold as he had expected ; then the
warmth of it terrified him. It was like
a bed that had just been slept in or an
empty house with the haunting, intan-
gible atmosphere of people hidden in its
shadows. He thought of all the creatures
that lived in water, from sharks to croco-
diles. When he clambered on to the
opposite bank he had to stretch out on
his back and rest for a minute or two.
Bill crouched beside him, breathing
heavily and staring up the steep fifteen-
foot bank,
THEY clambered up the bank on all
fours, snatching at tufts of grass and
small bushes to haul themselves up. At
the top they both flattened out on their
bellies, Bill raising himself on his elbow
to peer across the paddocks. “This is
the place, all right,” he whispered. “It’s
lousy with melons. The house is right
up there on the hill near the road.”
The boy raised himself and saw the
melon paddocks stretching away on a
gradual slope to the top of the hill, where
the black silhouette of a small weather-
board cottage stood out against the sky-
line. They wriggled across to the edge
of the melon vines and the boy waited
while Bill slid among them, pausing here
and there to feel the melons. Presently
he came back and muttered “These are
all small; I’m going further into the
paddock to find a couple of big 'uns. You
wait here and keep nit.”
He moved quietly away, disappearing
one moment under the broad leaves of
the vines and then bobbing up a few
yards further on. Then the boy lost
sight of him, and suddenly the realisa-
tion that he was alone engulfed him. All
the hitherto unnoticed sounds of the night
swept in on him. The hoot of an owl
in the trees across the river brought him
round peering fearfully into tjhe shadows ;
the croak of a frog and an answering
croak from another created images of
someone creeping through the darkness
towards him; a cold, fitful breeze of
very early morning rustled the leaves of
the melon vines and made him shiver.
Then absolute silence for a moment and
only his short, quick breaths rushing
across his taut, fearful listening.
It seemed to the boy that Bill was
never coming back, and he tried to
count the minutes, but soon lost them in
the anxiety of watching and listening.
Perhaps Bill had lost his way and crossed
the river somewhere else. The thought
convinced him. “Bill,” he called in a
whisper. Then, after a minute’s waiting
and slightly louder, “Bill.” He called
and then waited, called and waited again
—several times —and then, in a half-
whisper, half-shout, “Bill”
His fear ran out of him when he heard
the rustling of leaves and scraping of
earth and then saw Bill half-sliding, half-
crawling through the vines. He was
grappling with two long melons, and at
the sight of them some of his early ex-
citement returned to. the boy. But Bill’s
first words brought the cloud of misery
around him again. “What in blazes
were you making all that noise for?”
he said.
“I thought you’d got lost and I got
scared,” the boy said. *
“You silly little idiot,” Bill said. “If
ever I bring you out with me again it
won’t be my fault.”
They started to wriggle back towards
the bank, but Bill suddenly stopped and
asked with angry impatience “Didn’t
you get a melon?” And before the boy
could answer, “For Pete’s sake, go back
and get one, quickly.”
He crept back to the edge of the vines
and felt hurriedly among them until his
hand brushed over the smooth surface
of a melon. He took it with both hands
and tugged, then, that failing, knelt over
and twisted it round and round until he
broke the stem. Then he grabbed the
melon and ran, half-crouching, after Bill.
They slid down the bank on their bare
behinds, jamming at the ground with
their feet to keep their balance and save
themselves from crashing headlong down
to the water. Bill wedged one melon
against a stump, held the other against
his chest and slid out into the water,
kicking with his feet. The boy was sur-
prised at the buoyancy of the melon. He
tvas less fearful of the water this time
and swam easily; by the time he
scrambled out on to the bank Bill was
halfway across the river for the other
melon.
HP HEY set out on the return journey,
I Bill with a melon under each arm
and the boy holding his first under one
arm, then under the other, and then
clutching it to his chest when those posi-
tions wearied him.
The walking was pleasant for a while ;
Bill was pleased with the success of the
venture, and, although he didn’t speak,
the mood transmitted itself to the boy.
Soon, however, Bill began to find the
two big melons an awkward burden, and
each fence kindled his impatience until
it flared up into a desperate anxiety to
reach the end of the journey. He locked
his arms tightly around the melons,
hooked his thumbs in his belt for sup-
port and increased the length and speed
of his strides. The boy was hard pressed
to keep up, and an aching tiredness crept
into his knees and thighs and reached
up to his back. When the white plies
of the bridge showed through the trees
he could think only of the miles they
had to walk from the bridge before they
reached home.
As they came up with the bridge Bill
dropped his melons on a grassy bank
and said “We’ll split one here.” He
rested on his haunches for a moment,
then picked up one of the melons and
carried it over to a stump and smashed
it in two. It gave off a sickly sour smell
and the inside showed white in the moon-
light. Bill flung the pieces on the ground
and snarled “A blasted pig-melon.”
The boy sat silent, fearful that any
comment would bring a storm of temper
about him. Bill came over for the other
melon and carried it to the stump. It
crunched as he smashed it and gave off
the same sickly smell.
“Well, this is a pretty business,” Bill
said disgustedly.
The boy had taken out his pocket-
knife and run it round the rind of his
small melon. The warm, thick, sticky
juice trickled out over his fingers and
tasted sweet on his ' lips. He said
cautiously “I think this one’s all right.
Bill.”
Bill came over and broke the melon in
two, dexterously twisting the two halves
upright so that the juice did not escape.
“Yes,” he said. “It’s a bit green, but it’s
a watermelon,”
Inside the boy was laughing, but he
turned a blank, almost surprised face to
Bill. He was anxious to atone for the
mistakes he had made, and to put Bill
in a good humor ; could he have taken
the blame for the pig-melons and given
Bill credit for the watermelon he would
have done so. He knew what to do, but
he asked “How do we eat it?”
Bill knelt down beside him and said
“Like this.” He plunged a hand into
one half of the melon and pulled out the
soft centre. The boy did likewise, and
they sat together eating the crisp meat
and spitting out the seeds; then they
broke up the rind and scraped the meat
off that with their teeth. When they had
finished they wiped the sticky syrup off
their hands in the wet grass and dried
them on their pants. Bill rolled a cigar-
ette, lit it and stretched out on his back
and idly watched the smoke curling up
to the trees. The boy wanted to talk,
but he didn’t know what to say and was
uncertain of the effect his words might'
have on the tranquil mood into which
Bill was sinking.
Presently they stood up and made their
way under the bridge, up the other side
and across the paddocks. The boy broke
the silence. “It’s a pity that melon wasn’t
quite ripe,” he said —although he knew
it had been,
“It wasn’t too bad,” Bill conceded.
“You should make sure by squeezing ’em
to see if they crunch.
Next time we go out
I’ll show you how.”
The companion-
ship in Bill’s voice
and the promise in his words was what
the boy had been seeking all night. As he
reached ont and took it his fears of the
night tell away. The warm rich smell of
the grass and its wetness against his legs •
the high-riding moon; the perfect
balance in the outlines of living trees and
the wdd appeal in the branches of the
dead ones—he hadn’t noticed those things
before He looked at BUI striding along
beside him. “It’s good to be out at this
time, he said.
*Bt’s thfe best time of all,” Bill said.
BASS’S HARBOR
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
WHEN Captain Cook, sailing across
from Maoriland in April, 1770,
made his first landfall on the Aus-
tralian coast near the northern
end of the Ninety Mile Beach, a suc-
cession of southerly gales blew the
Endeavour off the land, sight of which
he did not recover again until north of
Wollongong.
Botany Bay was the first haven he hap-
pened on, so Cook went in. Eighteen
years afterwards Governor Phillip went
in, too. There can be little doubt that
had Cook rounded the south head of
Twofold Bay the first capital of Australia
would have been founded 210 miles south
of where Phillip established it on the
shores of Port Jackson. It was 26 years
before any other navigator came across
the good thing Cook had missed owing
to bad weather. Oh December 19, 1796,
George Bass, surgeon of H.M.S. Reliance,
seeking what he might find in his ship s
longboat, turned into the double-bayed
inlet, and Twofold Bay got its name.
If Cook had had fine weather when
he came up the coast it is more than
merely probable that Sydney would have
been built hereabout. The natural advan-
tages possessed by this great and beautiful
harbor are incontestable, but they have
never been used as they might have been.
The aspect of Twofold Bay today is
nearly as disappointing as that of Port
Stephens, the other fine harbor of N.S.W.
.that has suffered a similar neglect. The
report of such a navigator as Cook would
have established the reputation of the
bay for all time, and, although Port Jack-
son must have inevitably come into its
own as one of the deepest and safest
ports in the world, Phillip’s first settle-
ment could hardly have failed to be
placed on Twofold Bay—probably in the
position where Ben Boyd established
himself in 1843, on the southern shore.
For many years Twofold Bay had little
history, and the only official record of
the place for a decade after Bass’s find-
ing it is contained in a dispatch of Gov-
ernor King’s dated March 15, 1806. • “I
am sorry to observe,” he writes, “that a
small private vessel (the sloop George,
owned by John Palmer), laden with seal-
skins, was stranded at Twofold Bay, near
the south part of this coast. The natives
in great numbers attacked the four men
belonging to the vessel, commencing this
attack by setting the grass on the sur-
rounding ground on fire and throwing
spears, which, according to report, ren-
dered it necessary to fire on them, when
some of the natives were killed. How-
ever much the white men may be justi-
fied, on the principle of self-defence, yet
I have come to think that the natives
have suffered some wrong from the
worthless characters who are continually
passing and repassing the different places
on the coast.”
There is hardly any further history of
the bay until 1825, when the three
brothers Imlay took up country in the
district, eventually acquiring an immense
holding, comprising upwards of 960,000
acres. Mount Imlay, the high and pic-
turesque conical peak southward of Eden,
commemorates their pioneering efforts.
They shipped cattle to Van Diemen’s
Land, and later went in for whaling.
Ben Boyd’s enterprises at the bay came
to nothing, but he very nearly succeeded
in realising the optimistic plans he formed
for the development of the port and its
hinterland, and it was something of a
tragedy for southern N.S.W., as well as
for north-eastern Victoria, that he failed.
The ruins of Boyd Town on the south
side of the big harbor are a pathetic
memorial to the non-realisation of a
great and far-seeing conception. Bui
some day Bass’s harbor will inevitably
come into its own.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63. —No. 3259
Wednesday, July 29, 1942
~^" ,E SPANNERIS
Not to Br THROWN
smo THE WO RKS
WITHOUT THE.
OFFICIAL SArNCTION
OF THE. N't ikiEßS'’
Federation •
(seufb) John CUP! N-
“SETTLED”—FOR THE FOURTH TIME IN SIX MONTHS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
H r An rscprrr, ,
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 8797 L *
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
r tf D V? 2 Ade,cdde Street, Brisbane,
Nb E w™z iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
SUICIDE BY LAWSUIT.
Gorged with easy money for which, in
one way and another, they were indebted
to the Commonwealth, and dominated by
ridiculous ideas of the importance of
their provincial outfits in the scheme of
things Australian, the Premiers refused to
entertain the perfectly reasonable pro-
posal of two Commonwealth Govern-
ments that they should retire from the
income-tax field for the period of the
war and 12 months afterwards.
lit vain did the two Prime Ministers
urge that full power to tax incomes was
necessary to the national authority, since
it, and it alone, was constitutionally
responsible for the preservation of Aus-
tralia, and that the corresponding power
existed in Britain, Maoriland and South
Africa, and was arriving in Canada. In
vain did they point out that the con-
fusion of State income taxes made it im-
possible for the Commonwealth to levy
an equitable income tax for war pur-
poses, that it had obliged the Common-
wealth Parliament to reduce its tax on
high incomes in the hope (not realised)
that this would keep the combined
imposts below 20s. in the £, and that the
existing chaos was infinitely wasteful and
vexatious to taxpayers—involving as it did
a wilderness of returns, assessments and
disputes, world without end, and the em-
ployment in these exasperating opera-
tions of thousands of men, mostly of
military age, who were needed for war
work. To the argument of national
necessity, to appeals for justice to tax-
payers, to guarantees of generous—too
generous—compensation, the Premiers
were deaf.
In effect they claimed for their alleged
Parliaments predominance in the income-
tax field. Their alleged Parliaments were
to continue to have the first bite out of
incomes (and, in some cases, to go on
taxing income from other States regard-
less of all other taxes on the same in-
come), and the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment to take a slice of what they chose
to leave. Grimly contrasting its vast war
deficit with the surpluses of the Easy
Money Boys, whom it had relieved or
was relieving of all unemployed-relief,
child-endowment and widows’-pensions
expenditure, and deciding that the time
had come for a definitive assertion of
the nation’s rights, the Commonwealth
Government appointed a non-party com-
mittee to prepare a report on uniform
income taxation ; and the committee did
a good job. On the strength of its
report, four measures were introduced
and passed.
No. 1, War-time Arrangements, author-
ised the Government to take into the
Commonwealth service such members of
the State income-tax staffs as it required
—the committee said 1000 could be trans-
ferred immediately to war services, with
an administrative saving of £250,000 in
the first year—and use State records,
offices and furniture. No. 2, States
Grants, empowered it to distribute among
the State Governments “the approximate
average” of their income-tax collections
for 1939-40 and 1940-41, less Common-
wealth expenditure incurred in unifying
the taxes and introducing widows’ pen-
sions. No. 3, Income Tax Assessment,
implemented the uniform tax plan, made
some changes in assessments and abate-
ments and struck out the deductions pre-
viously, and necessarily, allowed for State
income-tax payments. No. 4, Income
Tax, imposed rates of tax on earnings of
individuals and companies.
Five Premiers forthwith announced
that they would challenge the constitu-
tionality of the four measures in the
High Court. One withdrew, overawed
by a hostile party-conference resolution.
The others saw nothing discreditable in
using tax-money required for the war
effort to fight an expensive lawsuit
against the interests of the nation and of
their own taxpayers. Costs did not worry
them ; indeed, some of the Premiers were
at their wits’ end to keep their surpluses
down. And though the litigants were here
reminded ©f the High Court judgment in
Farey v. Burvett (1916), in which it was
laid down that “the power to make laws
with respect to defence covers everything
which may contribute to victory in war,”
and that “the responsibility for defence
policy lies not with the Court, but with
the Commonwealth Parliament and
Executive,” they took no notice. A sad
mistake on their part, for it was on the
rock of the defence power that their case
crashed.
Justice Williams held that the Arrange-
ments Act was “a valid exercise of the
defence power,” and upheld the validity
of the other three measures. The judg-
ments of Brothers Rich and McTiernan
were to the same effect; and their Honors
constituted a majority of the Court. Chief
Justice Latham’s pronouncement was in
favor of the Grants Act, the Tax Act and
the Assessment Act, but against the
Arrangements Act, declaring that, though
the Commqnwealth could establish its
own income-tax department, in the pro-
cess hiring State employees and taking
State property, the complete and specific
liquidation of a State department was
beyond its powers. That of Justice Starke
was against the Arrangements and Grants
Acts, but in favor of the Tax and Assess-
ment Acts.
In the words of the Chief Justice, “the
defendants contended that the four Acts
were valid and properly enacted under
powers specifically conferred upon the
Commonwealth by the Constitution”;
and in this contention, though the Court
was divided on two of the four measures,
they succeeded. But the discomfiture of
the Premiers did, not end there. The
Chief Justice took the opportunity to
point put that the Commonwealth Par-
liament could, if it wished, exclude the
States from all taxation fields.
It could end the political independence
of the States, and this could not be pre-
vented by any legal decision. The remedy
for any alleged misuse of power was to
be found in the political arena and not in
the courts. The decision must rest with
the Commonwealth Parliament and ulti-
mately with the people.
Justice Rich, who, with Justice McTier-
nan, was a party to the historic 1932 judg-
ment in which the High Court laid it
down that the Commonwealth could
“attach State revenues and other moneys
in the event of failure by a State to pay
to the Commonwealth moneys due under
the Financial Agreement”—in that in-
stance, to recover interest paid on behalf
of N, S. Wales, then misruled by Mr.
Lang—expressed the same opinion in his
own words. Referring specificially to the
Tax Act and the Grants Act, his Honor
said;
The Commonwealth scheme of imposing
income-tax rates so high as practically to
exclude State income taxation could be
applied to other taxes....lf the Common-
• wealth Parliament were prepared to pass
such legislation, all State powers could be
controlled by the Commonwealth —a result
which would mean the end of the political
independence of the States. Such a result
could not be prevented by any legal deci-
sion. The determination of the propriety
of any such policy must rest with the Com-
monwealth Parliament, and ultimately with
the people.
So ends the fiction that the States are
“sovereign.” They are, in effect, dying
on their feet, mortally wounded by their
own selfishness and arrogance. The
funeral should take place as soon as the
Commonwealth has leisure to make the
necessary arrangements.
On the Coalfields Front.
“Any Government that allowed essential
production to suffer because men would
not work when provision existed for the
speedy settlement of disputes would be
traitorous to Australia.” Who said that,
and when? Mr. Curtin, the Prime Min-
ister, in January. “Men who are not
in the fighting forces and who at the
same time will not work are as much
the enemies of this country as the
directly-enlisted legions of the enemy.”
That was Mr. Curtin again in the same
month —the second of the war with
Japan, whose scheme of conquest, with
Australia probably marked down as the
most glittering prize, was already far
advanced. The Prime Minister was, of
course, referring to the N. S. Wales coal-
miners, who, with the best natural condi-
tions in the coalmining world and all
manner of concessions, from paid holi-
days and pensions to elaborate machinery
for the prevention and settlement of dis-
putes, get the maximum of pay for the
minimum of toil (company shareholders
would be better pff had they invested in
Government securities instead), and
whose strikes and stoppages from March
1 to July 20 numbered 456.
In between Mr. Curtin’s dissertations
on the duties and responsibilities of Gov-
ernments and coalminers, his Govern-
ment issued a set of National Security
regulations. Mineowners were ordered
to keep their mines open “with strict
observance of existing pay rates, condi-
tions and customs of the calling” and
to return lists of all the men in their
employ. They were ordered to work.
Penalties for breaches by either party were
fines of £5O and six months’ imprisonment
on summary conviction, and, where in-
dictments were lodged, fines and im-
prisonment without specified limits. But
there was no prohibition of “strikes or
stoppages authorised by the duly-consti-
tuted committee of management of any
organisation of employees in the coal-
mining industry,” and after a few days of
unwonted industry this weakness seems
to have been discovered by “enemies of
this country.” They started their knavish
tricks agijin, and the regulations were
not enforced.
After three turbulent months, humiliat-
ing for the Government and dangerotis
to the country, the voice of the Prime
Minister was heard again. He said that
in the first quarter of 1942 there had been
a production loss of 664,000 tons in
N.S.W. coalmines —283,000 tons because
of strikes, 201,000 tons “on account of
absenteeism” and 180,000 tons “as a result
of the compulsory retirement of all coal-
miner employees at 60” —a State Labor
Government contribution to the war
effort. He declared himself satisfied that
“not more than 20 per cent, of all stop-
pages relate to matters between owners
and employees,” and had heard of only
two cases in which “provocative tactics
on the part of owners” were alleged:
in one of these, “because of the careless
action of a boy, the manager issued a
peremptory order that nobody was to
smoke near the pit mouth.” On the other
hand, there had been strikes for “many
frivolous reasons,” such as that a miner’s
drill was not sharp enough (this was pub-
licly denied by the drill-sharpener), a
bathroom attendant took a day off, a
wheeler’s horse went too fast, other
wheelers were reprimanded for leaving the
mine early, someone had put water in a
miner’s boots and miners objected to their
own check inspector’s report; together
with “strikes against industrial awards or
interpretations of reference board awards,
strikes on questions of promotion or
seniority and inter-union disputes.”
Mr. Curtin announced a new set of
regulations, enforcement to be suspended
until Mr. Ward, the Minister of Labor,
had “put the Government’s policy and
position to the unions concerned.” This
Mr. Ward did in his own peculiar way—
by attacking and threatening the em-
ployers, whom he held responsible for all
the stoppages—“whenever miners strike
they have ample cause for doing so.” He
wound up his tour by telling miners on
strike in the N.S.W. Government pit at
Lithgow—where, according to the admis-
sion of the N.S.W. Minister of Mines,
daily production has fallen from 1800
tons to 1400 tons and the latest annual
deficit is reckoned at £17,000 —that
“nationalisation is the only solution.”
These regulations likewise were never
enforced. Mr. Ward, already constituted
a court of appeal against awards and
decisions of industrial tribunals, said, un-
rebuked by his chief, that his consent
would be necessary and would not be
given. In May there were moments when
it looked as if Mr. Curtin would really do
something to strikers, but they passed,
with nothing done.
The Prime Minister’s next attempt to
get N.S.W. coalminers to do a full week’s
work for a country in peril of invasion,
and with hundreds of graves of Austra-
lians kitled by enemy projectiles (a full
week’s work is 40 hours on the surface
and about 30 hours underground), was
an effort at peace by negotiation. He
“conferred” with representatives of mine-
owners and the Miners’ Federation, and
their delegations “conferred” with one
another, and then with the Prime Minis-
ter and members of his Government.
Out of these discussions, necessarily pro-
longed because union delegates, like poli-
ticians, do not converse but make
speeches, there came what was designated
a code. It was full of provisions for this
and that, expressed in high-flown senti-
ments, and it was recommended to the
miners at a series of meetings extending
over six or seven weeks. Unfortunately,
if any attempt was made to apply the
thing during the fog of verbosity, it didn’t
work.
There were more stoppages after the
code was promulgated than before. For
the week to July 17 there were 64. The
coal position became so serious that the
Premier of South Australia was moved to
tell his people, after appealing to the
Prime Minister, to prepare for drastic
lighting and fuel restrictions, since his
State, which is producing almost every-
thing required for the war effort, from
ships to cartridges, had only a few
weeks’ stocks in hand ; and Mr. Mighell,
the Coal Commissioner, speaking on a
day when 2560 N.S.W. miners were idle,
said the position had “never been worse.”
I am sick and tired of the reasons given
for mines being idle day after day. Coal
from the southern and western lields is
urgently required for the railways. Unless
we produce more we shall have the greatest
difficulty in keeping up our supplies to our
troops at battle stations inside and outside
Australia, and in continuing the production
of the aircraft, guns and munitions on
which their lives, and perhaps the life of
every Australian, depend. The coal in-
dustry can easily do it if the employees
work anything like full time.
Mr. Mighell meant Maoriland as well as
other countries. Mr. Fraser has come to
Australia pleading for more N.S.W. coal.
Moved by these representations (he
must have known in advance of his
fellow-Prime Minister’s mission), Mr.
Curtin gave it out that he would consult
the leaders of the Miners’ Federation
again. Before he saw these gentlemen,
coming to Sydney for the purpose, he
spoke bitterly at Canberra in the strain
of his January addresses, saying that “any
workman anywhere in the democracies
who today argues with those in authority
about his industrial conditions, and fails
to work at the proper war job he is en-
gaged on, is not only worsening the war
effort of his own country, but acting in a
way which assists the Nazis against
Russia, the Japanese against China and
the Italians in Africa.”
As usual, the Prime Minister found
the “leaders” of the Miners’ Federation
ready to promise anything and every-
thing. On this occasion they agreed to
subscribe to the first lot of regulations
issued on January 9, the only noticeable
difference being that strikes are to be
illegal unless authorised by the Miners’
Federation. So if a general stoppage co-
incides with more Japanese bombings
of towns or cities or with a leap from
Papua to the continent, it will be lawful
if Miners’ Federation sanction has been
obtained; and Miners’ Federation sanc-
tion and financial support were given
to the Millfield miners, who struck for
two months against an award of Judge
Drake-Brockman’s reference board and
induced many other N.S.W, miners to
come out. Meanwhile the January regula-
tions, with the trifling alteration mentioned
and others of no great moment, are to
be referred to the familiar delegate
board meetings, management committee
meetings and rank and file meetings,
as was the “code.”
The president of the Miners’ Federa-
tion is a gentleman named Wells. Mr.
Wells has been called a Communist with-
out disputing the description, and a sym-
pathetic Sunday paper declared, again
without his disputing it, that Stalin was
his inspiration and guiding star. If Stalin
could turn from the tragic destruction of
the Donetz coalmines to long-distance
consideration of his alleged disciple and
the pranks of the men who give Mr. Wells
the empty title of leader, his thoughts
would assuredly be bitter. The Opposi-
tion leader’s protest against the “traitor-
ous” strikes drew from Mr. Wells the
brazen reply that “whatever the outcome
of the conference with Mr. Curtin, Mr.
Fadden can rest assured that the Curtin
Government will get more coal than any
Fadden Government could get.” It is for-
tunate for this person that he is an Aus-
tralian by the accident of birth, and not
an American. From December 7 to July
21 no American union leader could have
issued such a threat as that production
of a vital commodity would depend on
the color of the party in office without
imperilling his personal liberty. On July
22 members of the War Labor Board
announced that, if they got their way,
union leaders who failed to settle dis-
putes and insisted on stoppages would be
tried for treason, the punishment for
which is death.
In a sense, trade-unionism of the kind
that recognises no obligations to Australia
is on trial for its life. Through the
weakness of all political parties, Red
“executives” and disorderly factions have
been-placed in possession of powers so
great that they may with impunity not
only refuse to work when the nation is
in extreme danger but prevent other men,
unionists or non-unionists, from working.
In the case of the ironworkers at Port
Kembla, a dozen men who, in fulfilment
of their duty to the country, worked on
Good Friday and Easter Saturday were
fined by the union, and when, availing
themselves of their legal rights, they
appealed to the Arbitration Court, a
strike was ordered. For this sort of
unionism, the sort represented by Com-
rade Wells of the Coalminers and Com-
rade Thornton of the Ironworkers, there
is no future in Australia or any other
country.
The Curtin Administration has been
advised or instructed by the A.C.T.U. to
make unionism compulsory. If it acts on
this recommendation or instruction it will
be extremely unwise. Government in
Australia, in industrial matters and some
others, may be defined as government of
the willing by the weak, but the patience
of the willing, though they are ready for
anything that will help the nation to pre-
serve its freedom and assist its partners
to preserve or regain theirs, may be tried
too high.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Near Front.
From several quarters Australians were
last week reminded that there is a real
and active front only too near home.
The menacing prospect of this Pacific
front was first pointed to by the Japs’
landing at Buna, in Papua, within strik-
ing distance of Port, Moresby ; next by
their moonlight air raids on Townsville
and Darwin.
The Buna invaders were reported to be a
small party —“between 1500 and 2500” —
and the way from Buna to Port Moresby
was described as only a rough track, “not
good enough for vehicles.”
The Japs have succeeded before with
comparatively small numbers, and with-
out benefit of tracks, rough or otherwise.
The one important fact is that, whatever
the value to them of their position, they
are in Papua for the first time.
The raid on Townsville by four Jap
flying-boats was reported to have been
luckily harmless, bombs dropping “wide
of the mark” and “neither casualties nor
damage.” The one important fact here
is that Townsville has been raided for
the first time.
The meaning for Australians should be
that the threat is still there, as real and
deadly as ever, and will remain until a
successful blow can be struck to beat it
back.
The need for that blow and the deadly
nature of the threat were both pointed to
by Mr. Fraser, the visiting Prime Minister
of New Zealand. Mr. Fraser insisted that
a large and determined offensive against
the Japanese “was imperative before the
world war could be won by the United
Nations.”
There must be a successful Pacific front,
whether it is a second or a third front....
Indeed, it is possible that the Pacific may
be the scene ©f the final decisive victory,
and nothing should be permitted to obscure
that fact.
Commenting on the Townsville raid,
Mr. Forgan Smith also emphasised
the prime importance to Australians of
the Pacific front:
The answer to such a raid is the organ-
isation of an Allied offensive. Much has
been written and spoken about the neces-
sity of a second front in Europe, but the
front people here are most concerned about
is the defence of Australia and New Zea-
land. The whole war position will be
materially altered if in this area we are able
to take the initiative in an attack against
Japan.
The noisy minority, clamoring, with no
sense of realism, for an offensive front
anywhere but in the Pacific, has done
serious harm in obscuring both the
gravity of the Jap threat and the urgency
of offensive action, on the success of
which the very existence of Australia and
New Zealand depends. The tendency,
deplored by sundry members of the
Government, to slip back into the
earlier complacency is real enough.
Worse still is the apparently widespread
inability to grasp the magnitude of the
task to be faced right here on this front.
Apart from their losses at sea, the
Japs have as yet had nothing but success.
Their land fighting forces are still as good
as intact; they are steadily increasing in
strength. The size of the job here indi-
cated should be enough to sober the
minds of the most extravagant armchair
strategists. It should sober them further
to consider statements like those of the
U.S. War Shipping Administration, that
“shipping losses for the week ending July
19 were the heaviest of the war,” and
that “recent sinkings of Allied vessels
have greatly exceeded production.”
For Australia and New Zealand the
job on this Pacific front is big enough to
tax them to the utmost, without any other
jobs, and it is the one, above all others,
which has to be done.
Why Be Poor?
The old saying that it is better to be born
lucky than rich ought to be qualified
with the addition that it is better to be
born lucky in Queensland. In that para-
dise of the fortunate wars and rumors of
wars, threats to national security, calls on
the public purse for money to buy guns
and ’planes to stave off invaders and the
desperate expedients of a Commonwealth
Government to get more and more cash
can be ignored—provided one is lucky.
Consider “Lucky Nolan’s” confidences:
Lucky Nolan’s luck continues. Why not
get a slice of it yourself? Decide now that
next Casket you will invest in Nolan’s
lucky numbers and you are halfway to a
rich prize; *
Then we have the “Black Cat,’ with
“two lucky shops,” which seems to be
as lucky as, if not more so than, “Nolan,”
and the “Lucky Golden Dragon,” an ani-
mal owned and trained by one Bill
Edwards, which not only gets “big prizes
every Casket” but offers also “Health
and Wealth.” Plain “Lucky Bill Rankin”
seems ordinary beside black cats and
golden dragons, but still “Lucky Bill”
lands the bacon in big slices, according
to “Lucky Bill.” And “don’tfforget Lucky
Bill’s new game, Help Your Neighbor,
whereby Bill gives Id. for each full ticket
and id. for each share to the free service
canteens for all tickets bought trorn mm.
But who could resist the “Lucky Metro
Casket Agency” and its “Miracle La,dy of
the Gasket I .
July to December is a lucky period tor
Miss Reid, the Miracle Lady of the Casket.
It was in this period she broke all records
by selling three first prizes and one third
prize in six weeks. A lucky cycle is to
operate for the next six months.
It seems a serious oversight that
Messrs. Curtin and Chifley, to say nothing
of the man-power authorities and even
less of Mr Forgan“Jhof
from his State tax. ithat they
haven t consulted these lucky p p •
These very lucky people.
Corns, in Two Countries.
7 .
Though Communism is never mentioned
now by Australian Ilians or daily
newspapers it remains a live subject in the
United States. Time and Russian partici-
pation in the war have made no change
in the average American s attitude to me
Red gang—it flamed from contempt to
nnonr when the Red eane campaigned
and active support for the British Com-
monwealth Struggling alone against the
Avis masters nf Furone — and the release
of the perjured Browder had a very bad
reception from one end of the republic
to the other. It was denounced particu-
larly by the powerful American Legion,
and the Government, always sensitive to
public opinion, seems to have recognised
that it went too far
The liberation of the Communist leader
was followed by the- order for the deporta-
tion of Bridges to Australia, subject to
his right to appeal on legal grounds. The
order was significantly timed to coincide
with the arrival of Molotov in U.S.A.
and with equal significance, it was issued
bv Attorney-General Biddle, who has
been called the most “radical” member
of the Cabinet. An alien under American
law, Bridges was accused of affiliation
with the Communist party and Mr.
Biddle held the charge proved. Then, in
the words of the New York Journal-
American,” he “gave an authoritative and
official answer to a question about the
Communist party which the American
people have wanted answered for a long
time” in these terms. , ,
The Communist party of the United
a f ter j ts name was changed several times.
finally became “the Communist party of
advoC a,ed the
class struggle, which was described .as
entering the phase of civil war in America.
Illegal methods were also advocated,
where necessary, to carry on its work: sys-
tematic agitation in the army, the re-
nouncing of patriotism and the revolution-
ary overthrow of capitalism.
The Communist party teaches the violent
over*™ e ""
. ,• „ New York “Sun,”
fid hefp make it clear that we can
by and ftt same
st * nd firm in defence of our own
American system and our democratic
It sustains and strengthens the findings
of Judge Sears Instead of promoting
national unity, the commutation of the
has ha d in recent mont hs.
g a - d t^e «j ourn al-American”:
what ever the Courts finally do about
Mr . Br j dges that opinion about the Corn-
munist party delivered by the Attomey-
General of the United States will always
evidence. It is the stark truth —lt is
officially in the nation’s record now and
for all time beginning now that the Gom-
American U GoveJlment° has
pursued that purpose in the past, is now
pursuing it, and will continue to pursue
it as long as it is permitted to exist. ,
Save only the references to the release
of Browder—and . Mr, Forde s release of
the two Communists who ran an anti-
imperialist war” propaganda factory is
a parallel case—every’word quoted above
is applicable to the Communist party in
Australia, now, with characteristic
effrontery, demanding legal status, ana
bragging that it is going to get it. This
would obviously be an affront to Amen-
can opinion, and American opinion no
Australian Government can now afford
to ignore.
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
"I’ll be seeing you, gents!”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
(This OTJ Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It is surprising how quickly many suffereral
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
plogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
3 pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds of
Waste matter.
If your kidneys don't work well, this wastp
stays in the body, and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
is wrong with the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . -
Used successfully the world over by millions
of people suffering with backache and other
kidney disorders. They give quick relief and
Will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes. So bo sure you get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS,
POLITICAL POINTS
Because of differing methods of com-
putation and annual changes, the
number of income taxes on Aus-
tralians had never been authoritatively
established until Latham, C.J., settled
the question in his contribution to
the judgment which settled the pre-
tensions of State Governments. The
Chief Justice worked it out that there
were 23 —an average of 3 2-7 per “taxa-
tion authority.” Now there is to be oniy
one “taxation authority,” and in the full-
ness of time, as a result of the judg-
ment, there will be only one Parliament
and one Government.
During a week memorable in Austra-
lian political history, the State Govern-
ments were driven out of their income-tax
paradise, and the Commonwealth took
full control of transport. There will
never be another State income tax, and
transport should never be allowed to fall
into the Clutching Hands again.
One of the many things that the baffled
Premiers forgot was Constitutional Sec-
tion 109:—■
When a law of a State is inconsistent
with a law of the Commonwealth, the latter
shall prevail, and the former shall, to the
extent of the inconsistency, be invalid.
They and the rest of the State politicians
(498 altogether, of whom 60 are Min-
isters) will never be allowed to forget it
any more.
I rgan Smith, Playford and Willcock
too*, their High Court beating with more
or less philosophic resignation, but Dun-
stan showed chagrin. Perhaps he realised
that the judgment had left his circus in
the position described by the poet;
Like a god self-slain on his own strange
altar,
Death lies dead.
Dead are the State income taxes, dead
State “sovereignty,” dead State politics—
though in this case an appearance of ani-
mation may be permitted while a more
pressing job remains unfinished.
Charlie Chaplin is twirling his stick
again. Addressing a New York meeting
of non-starters —beg pardon, Second
Fronters —by radio, Chaplin “called for
an immediate Second Front, saying: ‘On
the Russian battlefields democracy will
live or die.’ ” On the Hollywood play-
fields Chappie will live.
A few hours before the High Court
judgment on uniform taxation, it was
given out that at the next Loan Council
meeting State Governments would be
asked to limit their loan expenditure
this financial year to £10,000,000. A few
hours after the High Court judgment the
Loan Council ceased to have any impor-
tance, so the State Governments should
get only the seven noughts.
One Griffin, a Mulgrave canegrower, is
to contest the Cairns (N.Q.) by-election
with abolition of State Parliaments as
the main plank in his platform. The
straight Griffin!
The buck is on the move again, this
time in regard to booze in '“Melbourne.
The “Age” having made some remarks
as pungent as its comments on racing
dates, Chief Secretary Bailey pleaded that
“the problem is a difficult one to admin-
ister.” He admitted being official head
of the department, but protested that the
police supervised the licensing laws.
However, he was calling for a “further
report.” Meantime, there is nothing to
prevent fighting men or civilians downing
30 beers and seven whiskies neat in an
afternoon.
Who says State Governments aren’t
contributing' to the war effort? The
N.S.W. Minister of Agriculture has set
up 28 committees “to advise man-power
authorities on all matters affecting rural
production.”
Sydney No-Water Board closed its
financial year with a money surplus of
£22,626. The water surplus is not stated.
Ward returned from Adelaide to Mel-
bourne by car. At Murray Bridge he
was asked (1) to prevent the introduction
of barmaids into S.A. hotels, (2) to have
the S.A. ban on racing lifted, (3) to raise
prices of dairy produce. At Tailem Bend
he was asked (1) to do something about
the tobacco shortage, (2) to note the need
for a canteen in the railway yards. Yes,
Mr. Ward is a high-ranking Common-
wealth Minister in a War Cabinet.
“In every particular in which the Min-
ister [Mr. Ward] has amended his politi-
cal doctrines,” remarks Adelaide “Adver-
tiser,” “he has done well; but his politi-
“ITS MOMENTS LIKE THESE”
“Inspectors are to visit workrooms and. if necessary, stop people in the street who might
be suspected of offences against the new clothing regulations.”
“You got any rubber about your person?”
cal history would hardly justify us in
regarding him as an oracle, or even as a
very reliable exponent of the whole duty
of man in time of war.” Or in time of
peace.
A New York “Daily News” reporter
in Melbourne, referring to Melbourne’s
“blue-nose Sundays,” points an accusing
finger at “the chief fly in the ointment”—
Dunstan. There have been six flies in
our national political ointment, but it
won’t be long now before they’re sieved
out of it.
From an American paper:
There is not a single thing you can name
that is vital to the protection of this nation
that was not developed by private enterprise.
The airplane, oil, rubber, steel, coal, the \
metal that enters into any part of a fighting
weapon, from a rifle to a super tank or a
flying fortress —each is the product of the
inventiveness, the initiative, the huge per-
sonal gambles of private enterprise. Private
enterprise, the genius that built the nation,
will now save it.
Essentially true also of Australia. Ameri-
cans in this country have nothing but
praise for what has been done by private
enterprise in the field of war production.
Being polite they don’t say much about
our Government railways with their dif-
ferent gauges and border breaks and
trains without steam heating or our
semi-Government-controlled ports.
On another little war:
Two old pals have fallen out —N.S.W. Lands
Minister Tully, who used to play Rugby League
football, and a Mr. Miller, who runs that
business in Sydney. As secretary of the
Rugby League Mr. Miller’s motto in the
last war was “Football as usual.” In this war
it is “More football than usual.” He has
also developed a passionate interest in the Aid
to Russia Committee —not to be confounded
with the Medical Aid to Russia Commit-
tee, a humanitarian and completely non-political
organisation which has Justice Halse-Rogers
for president. A vice-president of the Aid to
Russia Committee, Mr. Miller had “arranged a
mammoth patriotic gala for the Sydney Sports
Ground on Sunday,” and advertised it (yes,
advertised it), when Mr. Tully’s department
interposed with a veto. From the same quarter
was heard a vague reference to balance sheets.
Mr. Miller’s rage was terrible. “To put it
mildly,” he roared, “I am disgusted at Cabinet’s
disregard for everyone doing something for the
war effort.” If Mr. Tully is the determined
fellow he is said to be, he won’t let Mr. Miller
get away with that.
Dunstan said at Charlton (Vic.)
that he never thought he would live to
see the day when a farmer had to take
out a license to allow him to grow wheat.
He can scarcely be as cut up at the spec-
tacle of chicken farmers carrying licenses
to sell eggs. That was one of his own
board’s doings, and his board has been
a party to lawsuit after lawsuit.
Everard, acting leader of the Victorian
U.A.P., which has switched from Oppo-
sition to support Dunstan, who wrecked
a U.A.P. Government, said in Melbourne
that “for all it knows there may be an
extension of the life of this Parliament
for 12 months.” Cries of “Oh!” were
reported. Cries of something else can
be expected from the electors.
The Westralian Ronald Monson, who
is doing the campaign in Egypt for Syd-
ney “D.T.,” wrote unforgettably of a
field-hospital scene after the Australians
had given Rommel’s crack 90th Division
more than it could take:
Grey-faced wounded were coming in in
fairly large numbers. Several had to be
given blood transfusions. Well-nigh ex-
hausted Australians, grimy with the dust of
battle, their uniforms in tatters, their
wounds freshly bandaged, were giving their
blood for their more sorely wounded com-
rades because the supply in hand was ex-
hausted. After having fought a great fight
themselves, they were able to save the lives
of their companions. They thought nothing
cf it.
What an honor it is to belong to the race
from which such men sprang and to the
nation which bred them! Compared with
these soldiers, how infinitely little are
strikers and slackers and Second-Fronters
who, their own skins safe, would sentence
hosts of Tommies and merchant seamen
to death!
The smart young editors and leader-
writers who demand high commands for
Youth have suffered another shock.
President Roosevelt, who, by virtue of
his position, is commander-in-chief of the
American forces, has appointed Admiral
Leahy, recalled from Vichy, as chief of
staff; and the admiral is 67. Many
Americans, headed by Wendell Willkie,
wanted General MacArthur ; so Australia
has its own reasons for welcoming the
Leahy appointment.
A Melbourne ruffian, charged with an
offence against a girl, was let out on bail.
He availed himself of this freedom to
commit a ferocious crime on another
girl, whom he had threatened with a
revolver. Pursued when the poor creature
arrived home, half-dead, with her dread-
ful story, he shot himself. There ought
to be a National Security regulation to
prevent magistrates granting bail in such
cases.
Until recently the fury and malignant
lying of Communists were concentrated
on The Bulletin ; but F. Ehrenfried
Baume had a turn when he penned some
criticism of the Second Front. True to
the “principles” of his kind of journal-
ism, Ehrenfried twisted again. His latest
idea is that, since 300,000 soldiers were
taken from Dunkirk to England in “small
boats,” equal numbers could make the
return journey also in “small boats” ;
and presumably the tanks and other
heavy stuff could be manhandled from
one shore to the other. The one thing
certain about the Second Front, if it
comes off, is that none of the Second-
Fronters will attend it.
Badly, McKell’s offsider, has suddenly
gone all rural-minded. Unless something
is done about soil-erosion, he told an
enthusiastic reporter, N. S. Wales will
become a land of “chasms.” The superb
touch—not gullies or ravines or even can-
yons. “Chasms” for Badly and “spasms”
for the back country.
“Twenty Russian Questions” by “Life”
(U.S.A.) were put to Sir Stafford Cripps,
described as “Brilliant New Statesman in
Britain’s War Cabinet,” and the Brilliant
New Statesman answered them all in a
fulsome strain. No. 10 was “What per-
manent territorial boundaries does Russia
envisage for herself?” The answer, shorn
of guff:
It is necessary that there should not exist
small States close to the vital points of
SOviet industry. That means that the
Soviet Government must ask for the boun-
daries of June, 1941.
In other words, for permanent annexa-
tion of the little Baltic States. Finland,
as Germany’s partner, is a special case,
though still nominally a member of the
League. But the British Commonwealth
guaranteed the territorial integrity
and political independence of Latvia,
Lithuania and Esthonia, and though the
Brilliant New Statesman chooses to for-
get it, Australia, for one, can’t.
Lord Beaverbrook, demanding that his
adopted country (male population, about
22,000,000), which has been hard put to
it for three years, should “strike out
violently, even recklessly,” to help Russia
(male population, about 90,000,000).
Some short-sighted people complained
that we did wrong to put weapons in the
hands of Communists. I don’t understand
the complaint. Communism under Stalin
has produced the most valiant fighting army
in Europe. Communism under Stalin has
won the applause and admiration of all the
Western nations. Communism under Stalin
has produced the best generals in this war.
Which shows that his Lordship has fallen
completely under the influence of the
Leftists he employs, particularly the
“famous” John Gordon. To give Com-
munism all the credit for results of race,
history and geography is characteristic
Leftist thinking. Impelled by a sound
and healthy instinct, the Russian leaders
are summoning their soldiers to new
exertions by invoking the spirit of the
past. “Pravda” itself bade them remem-
ber “how our ancestors vanquished the
foe.”
The two principal points, “vetted” by
Judge Sears, bn which U.S. Attorney-
General Biddle ordered the deportation
of Harry Renton Bridges, “an alien, to
wit a native and citizen of Australia”:
After entering the United States oh April
12, 1920, the alien has been a member of
,a party, the Communist party, advising,
advocating and teaching the overthrow by
force and violence of the Government of
the United States.
The alien has been affiliated with the
Marine Workers’ Industrial Union, a part
of the Communist party, dominated and
controlled by it.
For his own part, the Attorney-General
was satisfied that the Marine Workers,
with Bridges as a principal, issued a sheet
called the “Waterfront Worker,” which
“showed his affiliation with the Com-
munist (party.” The “Waterfront Worker”
seems to be just like the cancerous Syd-
ney rag that calls itself the “Wharfie.”
Indeed, reading the Sears report, one
would almost think the Judge was writ-
ing about a Sydney waterfront Com.
In a Victorian by-election 28,000 of
45,000 electors voted, though voting was
compulsory. In a Westralian by-election
7500 out of 28,000 voted. Both were
Upper House by-elections. The people
are interested neither in Upper nor Lower
State Houses.


fl&titik
ana
The World’s Smallest Effective
Hearing Aid-the VIBRAPHONE
Perfectly safe —practically in-
visible—no wires, batteries or
headbands. They do not dis-
tort sound. Call or write now for particu-
lars of our 30 BAYS’ HOME TRIAL PLAN.
NATHAN HEARING AIDS.
Suite 6018, City Mutual Building,
Cnr. Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
’Phone: B\V 7569.
dsf
s
H
O
R
T
Several Short Stories are required for the forthcoming
issue of
Country Life Annual
Verse is Also Acceptable.
Those with an Australian flavour are preferred; length
2/3000 words.
Submit promptly to the Editor, Country Life Annual,
60a Pitt Street, Sydney. G.P.O. Box 368355.
s
T
0
R
1
E
S
BRANDALFRS
M*
ex'*
fcc.v
PENS
ds
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BRAMDAOB* * 00. UL BIBRLSUHAM. ENQ
PERSONAL ITEMS
Peter Fraser, Maoriland’s* Priminister,
ip Australia last week for a friendly chat
about problems of mutual interest, is
the second carpenter-by-origin to head
a Fernland Ministry. The first was Hall-
Jones, who had two months of Premier-
ship way back in 1906. Fraser did his
early carpentering in his native Scot-
land, but when he arrived in M.L. in
1910 he had to take up wharf-lumping.
Then, as now, he didn’t talk much, but
what he did say impressed his mates.
Inside a year he was president of the
General Laborers’ Union, Having
acquired facility as a writer, he then be-
came editor of the “Maoriland Worker,”
preceding Harry Holland in that chair.
Wellington Central put Fraser in Parlia-
ment in 1918, and he still represents that
constituency. He became P.M. when M. J.
Savage died in April, 1940. In war-time
he puts military necessity before politics,
and his War Cabinet represents all
parties. Not so affable as Savage, not
so bitter as Holland, Fraser yet manages
to combine the political dexterity of the
one with the firmness of the other.
From Custer, South Dakota, comes
Edwin S. Perrin, colonel in Uncle Sam’s
Air Corps and Deputy Chief of Staff in
AN AMERICAN AIRMAN.
Australia. Educated at the University of
Nebraska, Perrin followed up with four
years at West Point and special courses
at the engineering school, Wright Field,
and the University of Michigan ; subse-
quently he was engineering officer at lead-
ing fields from 1931-36. Latterly he has
had interesting work as technical observer
with the R.A.F. in Egypt, and as
observer of maintenance in Burma,
China, Java and Australia. He is 37.
Last year a blocky visitor, notable on
first sight for a thick tweed sports coat
so enveloping that only the tips of his
fingernails showed out of the sleeves,
and on first hearing for a Scots accent
sae thick y’ couldna’ ha’ cut it wi’ a clay-
more, blew into The Bulletin office and
hung around for a day or two asking
leading questions on Australia and getting
acclimatised. The visitor, Halliday
Sutherland, gives several pages of his
latest book. Southward Journey, to en-
thusiastic comment on The Bulletin,
particularly for its practical encourage-
ment of Australian writers. He is in
slight error on one small point. “I recall
with sinful pride,” he says, “that an
article by Halliday Sutherland appeared
in The Bulletin.” Alas, no! Dr. Suther-
land’s article, which had to do with army
treatment of a disease, was ruled out by
authority. The doctor was paid guid
money f’r it, too!
Westralian short story writer Gavin S.
Casey wins the S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize, 1942 ; details on the Red Page. At
35, Casey is now a private in the A.M.F.,
so there should be notable additions to
the excellent literary work by present-war
Diggers that has already appeared in The
Bulletin. This is all the more likely
since Casey’s inspiration has come so
directly from his own personal experience
in Westralian mines. He had also worked
on farms and in stores before turning to
journalism with a job as a reporter. He
has a wife and one son to share in the
£lOO Prize, which was awarded for his
collected stories, considered by the
trustees to be the most valuable contribu-
tion to Australian literature among books
published in Australia between June 6,
1941, and June 6, 1942.
Lists of the missing include three men
(specially well known in Melbourne—
Lieut.-Col. Allan Spowers, former
“Argus” director; Lieut. Ken Attiwill,
author; and Corporal Wilfred McCul-
loch, artist. Lieut.-Col. Spowers won the
D.S.O. and M.C. on Gallipoli, and, com-
manding a Victorian battalion in the
present scrap, was mentioned in dispatches
for his fine showing in stiff fighting in the
Middle East. He is thought to be a
prisoner. Attiwill (missing in Java)
sailed out of Melbourne on a windjam-
mer in 1929, and from his experiences
wrote his first book, Steward, which was
followed by a dozen others, A play,
“Once a Crook,” written in collaboration
with his wife, was produced in London
with Gordon Harker in the lead. Atti-
will’s brother Keith is chief of staff of
Melbourne “Argus.” McCulloch, while
in the militia, held a Melbourne exhibi-
tion which was opened by the camp com-
mandant. He then enlisted in the A.1.F.,
but still found time to paint pictures for
a second exhibition. In Malaya he volun-
teered for servce with a N.S.W. field
ambulance.
Passing of “Bible Joe”:
A fall on one of the city pavements along
which he had shuffled with his Bible, his Greek
Theosophy and his blackened billy for halt
a century put an end, at 91, to the life ot
Robert Gainsford Surgey, known as “Bible
Joe” to all Melbourne. Nobody knew where
he came from, but a remittance of £5 a month
came regularly to him from England and
was as regularly given away to all and sundry,
except on the occasions when some larrikin
waylaid him in a back lane and forcibly
deprived him of it. A devout theologian, he
was a master of the Greek Scriptures, and
frequently discussed them with the late Arch-
bishop Head—he liked to speak ancient Greek
rather than English. Occasionally some raw
young constable arrested him by mistake m
the small hours of the morning and took him
to the city watchhouse, but he would be back
on his endless beat next day. A Bulletin
artist, commissioned to decorate a real-estate
agent’s window with a large-scale map of
Melbourne, subdivided by a vision of the
future, once violently startled the old chap.
The job finished at nightfall, the artist got a
photographer to take a picture of it for presen-
tation to the boss next morning. The photo-
grapher rigged up his camera, the artist fired
a magnesium flash and the cameraman pressed
the button. There was a wild scream, a patter
of feet and a phantom figure flew down Collms-
street, spoiling the picture. The flashlight
had exploded in the face of Bible Joe, who
probably thought that the Millennium for which
he had waited had arrived and the devil had
taken over in this world.
Exit another odd Joe:
Joe Coyne, the American comedian , who
was in Australia in 1920 under J.C.W. man-
agement and appeared with success in “Wedding
Bells,” “Nightie Night” and “His Lady
Friends,” suffered a curious obsession. For
many years before his death Joe thought he
was a penniless stage failure, and nobody could
convince him that he wasn’t. When his large
wardrobe was used up he refused to buy an-
other pair of trousers, lived at the Carlton
Hotel on the assumption that he was there
at the management’s indulgence and refrained
from eating much because he said he could not
afford it. He would always plead poverty
when the bill came round, and the chit would
be sent to and paid by his bankers. For years
he smoked cheap fags and never spent a penny.
The notion appears to have got into his head
that he would share the traditional fate ot
mummers like Oscar Asche- who made fortunes
and frittered theih away. From that he appar-
ently came to believe his fantasy was real and
that he had actually been ruined. He left
£60,000.
That great worker on behalf of folk
in distress the Rev. George Cowie, of
Surry Hills, has been elected Moderator
of the Sydney Presbytery of the Presby-
terian Church of N.S.W. He did his big
job in the depression days, and if the
actual scores of thousands who bene-
fited had the voting he’d win any church
position whatever in a common canter.
Half a dozen experts from Maoriland,
with G. A. Holmes, M.Sc,, B.Ag.Sc.,
as leader, are going to Britain in response
to a British Ministry of Agriculture call
to help expand cropping and food pro-
duction. Holmes, who has been with
the M.L. Department of Agriculture tor
some five years, has been requisitioned
for expert examination of such things as
the lime industry, land development and
farming practice. A product of Waikan
and Otago Boys’ High Schools, Otago
University and Canterbury Agricultural
College, he was gold medallist at the
Canterbury College in 1923. Other
members of the party are A. A. Copland
(Timaru), G. S. Robinson (Levin), S. L.
Green (Palmerston North), A. A. John-
son (Stratford) and A. Longwill
(Pukekohe).
Appointed director of the newly-
created Amenities Organisation of the
Australian Army, Colonel Harold Cohen
was already associated with one of the
Australian Army’s prized amenities—-he
is a director of the Carlton (Vic.)
Brewery. As well, he is a C.M.G., a
C.B.E. and holds the D. 5.0., is M.L.A.
for Caulfield and was Solicitor-General
and Minister for Public Instruction in
the Victorian Ministry in 1935. He com-
manded the 6th Brigade, A.F.A., in the
last war, and in this one has done yeoman
service in the Middle East as Red Cross
Commissioner. Educated at Xavier Col-
lege and Melbourne Uni., he was
Supreme Court Prizeman in 1902. He
was president of Melbourne Rotary in
1926 and of Legacy in 1924. His new
job will be to organise inter-unit sport
and entertainment for the soldier.
As a youth Bill O’Sullivan boarded a
ship in Sydney to voyage round the
world. First port was Brisbane, and he
liked it so well he went no further. Bris-
bane took to him. He got a job in a
printing concern, and later helped to
found Jackson and O’Sullivan, now one
of the largest printing and paper firms in
the Southern Hemisphere, with customers
as far away as Africa. O’Sullivan packs
more nerve-power to the pound avoir-
dupois than Billy Hughes, whom he
somewhat resembles in size and wit, and
he was early in the picturesque and profit-
able post-war motor trade with E. G.
Eagar and Son, Then he joined Herston
Mills to make cardboard from waste
paper, co-operated with Malcolm New-
man and Artie Fadden to bring new
blood to the board of Mt. Morgan, and
got control of Watson, Ferguson, a cen-
BILL O’SULLIVAN.
tury-old printery. The best job he has
done, he reckons, has been to turn a
Brisbane garage into Mars Machine
Tools, which has already produced hun-
dreds of lathes and other precision tools
—and who had heard of such things
being made here before the present war?
Chairman also of the State Produce
Agency, as a hobby he spends half his
time on war-organisation work.
Chief court reporter on the “West
Australian” for some years. Bill Mur-
doch, son of the W.A. literary prof., has
worked out a shorthand system of his
own, and there are plenty ready to
bet real coin on the merits of it.
He had a good chance to show its worth
in the “Australia First” cases ; his reports
of the day-by-day proceedings were a
complete record.
RECORD-BREAKING G.-G.
Lord Cowrie, V.C., whose Governor-
Generalship term has just been for the
third time extended. Has been Governor-
ing in Australia so long that he is now as
much a part of the landscape as the
most respected gum-tree — S.A., 1928-34;
N.S.W., 1935-36; Governor-General ever
since.
Into the Silence;
Alfred S. Luscombe, the “father of Lloyd’s,”
for whom the other day the bell was rung for
the last time at 91 in London, was in Australia
in his young days. He came out in one of his
father’s sailing ships and, being adventurous
and anxious to miss nothing, got himself
strapped on to the outside seat on the stage-
coach trip from Melbourne to Sydney, so that
if he fell asleep he wouldn’t be dropped in the
bush He was a member of the corporation
of marine underwriters for 68 years.
A man who made a disability which would
have crushed most men into a benefit to others
died in Melbourne the other day. He was H.
van Assche, son of a former Consul for the
Netherlands in Melbourne. Losing his sight
in a motoring accident, he devoted his darkened
years with intense enthusiasm to the organising
of. auxiliaries of the Victorian Institute for the
Blind. He served in the last war.
At 84 Phineas Levi, M.L.’s oldest practising
barrister. Born in Sydney, he was in M.L.
as a boy of 11, and of his 60 years’ legal life
53 were spent in Wellington. He was an
authority on Masonry and wrote voluminously
on the subject.
At Castle Hill (N.S.W.), 80, Bro. Joseph
Hogan, who had been principal of six of the
leading Christian Brothers’ schools in Australia.
Born in Ireland, Jie was a Christian Brother
for 54 years in Australia and for 61 years
altogether.
In Sydney, at 70, R. B. Orchard; founder
(1897) of the Orchard jewellery firm; Federal
member for Nepean (1913-19); Minister for Re-
cruiting (1918); member of the Aus. Broadcast-
ing Commission (1932). He was one of the
trust which looks after the extensive Kunng-gai
Chase reserve.
F. J. Rau (79) had over 40 years as taxider-
mist at Adelaide Museum, and with his brother
Otto set up practically all of its fine beast-and-
bird collection. Also he trained his son Alan,
who now carries on the same work.
At Ellenborough (N.S.W.), at 80-odd, Alex-
ander Cameron, who, upwards of 40 years
back, took a leading hand in the capture of
the dusky bushranger Jimmy Governor. Mates
John W. McPherson, T. S. Green, W. Moore
and Fred Moore are still on deck. When cap-
tured Governor was escorted by police and
civilians to the local lockup at Wingham, and no
Governor, before or since, has attracted halt
the attention that Jimmy did.
At Hamilton (M.L.), 64, Albert Edgar San-
ford, who, crossing the Tasman from Victoria,
which he had represented at Australian Rules
football, tried to get Fern Islanders to cotton
on to the game, but, though it was played a
bit for a year or two, it soon petered out. He
played a fair game of cricket, with M.L. horse-
racing a later interest.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“L. de Rideau”; Strange how associa-
tions differ. The boy in the office told
me he was going to the opera but didn’t
seem happy about it. “Didn’t know
there was any opera on in Melbourne,”
I said. “Oh, yes, there is ; I mean Gilbert
and Sullivan,” said the lad. “Don’t you
like Gilbert and Sullivan?” I asked. “No,
I don’t.” “What do you go for?” I
queried. “Because I’m being taken.”
“What do you like then?” “Oh, I like
something bright like you get at the pic-
tures —you know, “The Mad Doctor of
Market-street” and “Dr. Jekyll and Mr.
Hyde.”
$ $ $ &
“Avon”: Maoriland, not content with
reducing the alcoholic content of beer,
has imposed on the liquor traffic restric-
tions that go far beyond anything promul-
gated during the 1914-18 period. Bars
are open, as in N. S. Wales, 10 a.m. to
6 p.m., save on Sundays, but they close
on Saturday afternoons from two to four.
It’s an offence to supply any member of
the armed forces, or a roof-watcher, with
booze in a bottle. Any policeman may
search any premises for sly-grog without
a warrant. On a police complaint a pub-
lican’s license may be cancelled by a
magistrate for two years. Advertising of
any intoxicating liquor or place where
it is sold is restricted to a single col. two
inches in newspapers. On picture-show
screens such advertising is prohibited.
* * # *
“Oxmead”: A political par. (B.
22/7/’42), traversing the assertion by two
British Ministers that “more Germans
have perished in Russia than were killed
on all fronts in the whole of the last
war,” remarks that this means “at
least 8,500,000 German dead” —a notion
which it scouts. But surely it doesn’t
mean that. How many Germans have
perished fighting against Russia prob-
ably only Hitler and his intimates know ;
but the total number of Germans killed
on all fronts during the last war wasn't*
much over two millions —the figures are
Whitaker’s. It wouldn’t take anything
like 84 million to exceed that: it wouldn’t
even take 34 million, with the Austrian
and Hungarian dead added to the Ger-
man total.
* * * *
“Eb’neezer Boy”; One of the advan-
tages of being a god is that if you don”,
like your heaven you can move to an-
other. Father Divine, the ebony
“Almighty” who has sprinkled Australia
with a few rosebuds and angels, got tired
of his New York heaven and moved to a
new one in Philadelphia, accompanied
by loads of watermelon, hot dawgs and
cream puffs. A Sydney paper then dis-
covered that the local branch heaven had
also decided to move and sent a reporter
to see about it. He found a rosebud dis-
infecting yair, disinfecting the old
heaven. The rosebud, being merely a
rosebud, couldn’t tell him much but
advised him to see one of the archangels
—“Get on to some of them heavenly
hosts.” So the reporter found the head
of the kingdom, a woman, who said she
was expecting some American soldier
angels to “skip and dance” at the next
meeting. She added that a certain Sydney
solicitor, presumably an archangel, had
met the Father, whereupon the reporter
looked him up and got this:
I lived with Father Divine at his place
[place!] and did nothing else but go to his
lectures. He’s doing marvellous work. His
is one of the greatest sociological experi-
ments of modern times. Of course, his fol-
lowers [angels, bud, angels!] are a mixed
lot.
Peace, she sho’ is wunnerful, boy!
¥ 4* $
“McLusky”; “Haggis Now Under
Control” burbles a Sydney “Sunday Tele-
graph” headline. This will be great news
for my Uncle Bucdeuch McHiccup.
He has been trying for some time to con-
trol a fine buck haggis sent to him Mast
Hallowe’en. He made the mistake of
keeping this haggis in close confinement,
whereupon it grew itself an overcoat of
long, white hair and became incorrigibly
aggressive. He tells me it roams over his
estate now and hunts his stags. His
statement is not borne out by my grand-
mother, who claims that haggis is made,
not born. An old Highland recipe in her
possession reads:
Tak’ an’ scrat a sleekit’s sark,
Pit havers intil’t, dreep’t wi’ bluid;
Add kelpie’s scunner, dour wi’ wark,
And bile it till it reeks gey guid.
This ode (or sloka) should be sung while
cooking the haggis, crooned while eating
it and later moaned while in hospital.
* * * *
“A.R.P.”: We march, we march, we
wardens of N.S.W.! Miles of roneo’d
and printed instructions flow over us
week oy week, and when the “heads” get
tired of that they set flowing more miles
of counter-instructions. Then we have
lecturers. The things those fellows know!
8.8. C. is not what you think ; it’s a liquid
and vapor tear-gas and it smells like
aromatic pear drops. The point in this
is that the lecturer (sly fellow) knows the
smell of aromatic pear drops. Then we
have our monthly magazine, “Action.”
Some dirty hound insinuated that it cost
more than it’s worth and that somebody
had fallen into a good job producing
it. This is refuted sternly, if not quite
convincingly, in the July issue, which,
among other things, begins an article with
“ Tn the bright lexicon of youth,’ wrote
Bret Harte, ‘there is no such word as
fail.’ ” Thus another popular mistake
is corrected, for many people have been
taught that the quotation is
In the lexicon of youth, which fate reserves
For a bright manhood, there is no such word
As “fail.”
and that it was written in Act 111, Scene
1, of his play “Richelieu” by Edward
Bulwer Lytton. Thank heaven, wardens
now know better than that.
"CHOCOS!"
“A Major”: Three hearty cheers for
which has declared war on
crooners, torch-singers, slush-bucket lyrics
and thefts from the musical classics,
What will annoy the devotees of croon-
ing most will be the nasty way the Com-
mission framed its edict, referring (one
can almost hear the Oxford accent) to
“any form of anaemic or debilitated vocal
performance by male singers.” It was the
late Will Rogers who expressed intelli-
gent sentiment about crooning when, in
a film made just before he died, he de-
dared “In this fair republic no crooner
has ever been permitted to live to a ripe
“ Aren't you ashamed of yourselves playing golf at a time like this?”
“What time is it?”
old age. One hundred and thirty million
Americans can’t be wrong.” 8.8.C.’s
ban on the flood of ditties, words and
music of which are both calculated to
make a cat sick, is another good move,
and the stopper on classical steals needs
no apology. Anything that restricts the
ability of Jake Snigglefritz, Abe Bootle-
baume and Zez Conspetto (they always
seem to do their crimes in gangs) to take
a tune for which Schubert was paid half
a crown and make a hundred thousand
dollars out of it must be welcomed with
joy by everyone who can distinguish
music from muck.
“Bo”: Those who sneer at digging for
treasure as a recreation can never have
explored second-hand bookshops. Pur-
suing this splendid indoor sport, I came
across Hitler’s Last Year of Power, by
Leonardo Blake (no relation to Sexton).
Leonardo studies the stars. Sub-titling
his book “a sensational message of hope
for the world,” the author modestly
undertook to “foretell major world events
for 1939-40”:
The European war which the signs in
Hitler’s horoscope tell us so much about
will not break out Before localised and
minor conflicts extend themselves to a
world conflict there will be a new German
revolution.
Leonardo airily dismissed the idea that
Adolf had any real hold over Germany:
When the day comes for Hitler to prove
that he really has welded the German people
into a unity, he is going to experience
the greatest disappointment of his life.
The author devoted a chapter to the
sticky end in store for the Fuhrer.
“Hitler’s Death Foretold” was the head-
ing, and the story lacked nothing but the
exact date. But it was worth sixpence
to read such comforting news, even if it
wasn’t true.
* * * *
“Nico”: The Australian Tobacco
Board estimates the yield of Australian
leaf this season at 6,500,0001 b., most of
it grown in Queensland, the amount a
30 p.c. increase on last year’s Common-
wealth appraisement. In the year before
the war Australian production was
4,045,8741 b. and Australian factories pro-
cessed 20,000,0001 b., most of it from the
U.S.A. Hopes are entertained for
a production locally of 9,000,0001 b.,
which, in view of the pre-war pro-
cess figures and the presence of
allies in the country, suggests that
the existing struggle for a smoke is
likely to continue. Like most dis-
ciples of Mrs. Nicotine, I continue
to be amazed at the manner in
which the average flapper keeps
herself supplied and entertain dark
suspicions that some sort of con-
spiracy exists between the gals and
dispensers of fags, leaving the mere
male to scorch his throat and
shrivel his lungs with dreadful con-
coctions handed out to those who
don’t know the ropes. My idea of
punishment for the Nazis who sprung all
this on us is to force them to smoke an
ounce a head a day of the stuff that's
making me bark this blessed minute.
* * * *
“X.S.”; Melbourne lawyers are im-
pressed by tfie swiftness of the procedure
at the court-martial of that soldier-charged
with three murders. In a Victorian
criminal court the Judge sits with a jury
of 12 and the 12 can ask questions only
through the Judge. In the recent court-
martial there were 10 Judges, and from
the Australian point of view they seemed
almost offhand. Judge-Advocate and
counsel for the defence strolled about
the court and, picking up exhibits, paraded
them in front of the bench of Judges.
There was no president of the court, but
when points of law were raised they
were dealt with by the Law Member,
quickly and concisely. There was no
raising of precedents or search through
tomes for authorities. A few minutes’
discussion and the Law Member would
snap out “Objection sustained” or “Ob-
jection not allowed.” Sometimes a wit-
ness was cross-examined on some aspect
of his evidence before the whole of his
evidence was completed ; otherwise the
taking of evidence followed the orthodox
Australian pattern. It would seem that
the rather informal atmosphere of the
business tended to allay the nervousness
of witnesses. Police witnesses with vital
evidence to contribute expected the usual
long examination, but they were out of
the box almost before they knew they
were in it.
❖ 'l* jfc
“C. 8.”: Who can fathom the mental
processes of the suicide? A middle-aged
man walked down to the ramp under
Prince’s Bridge, Melbourne, slowly and
deliberately filled his pockets with stones,
carefully placed a wallet on the balus-
trade and then walked into the deepest
part of the Yarra. But he did all this at
broad noon, within sight of scores of
passers-by. He was drowned before any
of them realised what was happening
before their eyes.
THE TEAM WITH A TAIL.
“The Prime Minister has three colleagues who
have made good, four or five who are shaping pretty
well and six or seven who are either misplaced or
should never have been in the Ministry” (B.
22/7/’42).
An ill-assorted lot, a curious pack,
That seems in very urgent need of riddling;
Four who have made the grade, including Jack;
As many more accounted fair to middling,
And half a*dozcn others, if you please,
Flagrant misfits or glaring n.b.gs.
The boat that holds too many passengers
In any trial of speed is bound to fail;
And in a cricket contest one prefers
The side that hasn’t got too long a tail,
That sort of batsmen whose persistent habits
Of being skittled gets them classed as rabbits.
An ailing body, most of us agree,
Should have its inefficient members purged
And reconsigned to that obscurity
From which they never ought to have
emerged—
And it remains in darkest mystery hid
How quite a number of these ever did.
Now all our aims are to one purpose bent,
The kind of Government our needs to fit
Australia as a whole would represent,
Not merely a precarious half of it.
Where patriotism beckons, surely faction
Should be regarded as a mere abstraction.
Well, Curtin, you’ve a knotty undertaking,
Hampered by those with whom you* must
consort.
And, spite of all the efforts that you’re making,
I doubt you’ll bring your vessel safe to port
Till, for a start, you tumble overboard
That catastrophic Jonah Eddie Ward.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.
STAGING A COMEBACK.
“An odd sideline of the war is that S.A. has got
barmaids again after an absence of 30 years.”
It took a war to bring them back
To their vacated perches
By Torrens side, as well supplied
With taverns as with churches.
Though wowsers scout the country’s needs
And .get the heeby-jeebies,
The times demand that Ganymedes
Should step aside for Hebes.
The first of all the radiant line
In some primeval era
Had for her daddy Zeus divine,
And for her mother Hera.
She handed tiddleys to the gods
While fluttering around them,
And looked her best, I lay some odds,
As thirsty patrons downed them.
And e’er since then the sons of men—
How firm the notion lingers!
Find tots and nips the sweeter when
They come from fairy fingers.
From cau-de-vie to 0.v.g..
From beer to sherry cobbler,
It holds a lot more zip, the pot,
An extra kick, the nobbier.
It took a war to bring them back.
And ne’er a licensed victualler
Can feel a doubt it’s come about
Along of Adolf Hitler.
With growing needs for martial deeds
Which every fresh alarm aids,
There’s other work for Ganymedes
And new demands for barmaids.
N.S.W
PIPARDS.


“Mac Hoots”: No heads have rolled,
no barricades have been erected in Syd-
ney streets, nobody has written the great
Song of Liberation, yet the Revolution
has been accomplished among us, and in
this humble par. I sing it. I refer,
brethren, to the astonishing Revolt of
the Shopkeepers. You have noticed,
have you not, that the girl in the tobacco-
kiosk is more curt than she was wont to
be; you have noticed a certain triumph
in the eye of the big-store salesman as
he announces that the quota for the day
has been sold; you have observed a
fiendish exultation in the egg-man as he
denies you eggs ; you have heard con-
tempt, have you not, in the voice of the
barmaid as she turns you from the door
with one cold, lonely, unwrapped bottle
of inferior poison? At first, all 1 thought
about this was how discourteous every-
body had suddenly become, and I put it
down to war-nerves and exasperation at
having nothing to sell. But later, as I
saw that what was expressed was not
exasperation but an unholy delight, it
dawned upon me: for years these shop-
keepers have been at our beck and call;
we, the customers, were always right—
and how it must have galled them! Now,
having nothing to sell, they are free of
us; a whole class has been liberated;
and I hope they will never be polite
again. I sing the Revolution, and if the
girl in the kiosk will kindly allow me to
purchase one or two small matches I
will go and light bonfires in the moun-
tains.
* * * *
“Loo”: Life, of course, all depends on
your angle. Elsie’s hero may be Liza’s
headache and so on. “How’s he going?”
said the flapper anxiously as her boy-
friend struggled to open the paper in the
crowded tram. “Oh, fine,” said the youth
vaguely, glancing again at the front page.
“Pushing the enemy back miles and miles
by now, I’ll bet.” “Who are you talk-
ing about?” said the girl. “Why, Auchin-
leck and the A.1.F., and the war gener-
ally,” said he. “Oh, that!” said she
sniffily. “Turn over to the comics, I’m
wondering how Tarzan’s going. He was
in an awful jam last night.”
« * * *
“Pawang”: While the court-martial of
a soldier for the strangling of three
women in the Melbourne brownout was
proceeding, a fourth woman was found
stripped and apparently strangled inside
the grounds of one of the leading hospitals.
A middle-aged invalid pensioner, she
had been attending the hospital as an out-
patient, and no clear motive has been sug-
gested for the murder, except the possible
one of robbery, a very unlikely theory in
this case. Murders in which the cir-
cumstances have been similar have always
gone in cycles in Melbourne—as well as
other places —and it is reasonable to sup-
pose that there is an element of sugges-
tion in it.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The reason given by an Eng-
lish tribunal recently for exempting a
“Tank, I suppose?”
“No, mister — I always build me fences like this.”
young woman from war-time compul-
sory service was that she objected on the
ground that she might be compelled to
wear trousers, which was against the
Biblical injunction, since Deuteronomy
(xxii, verse 5) hath it: “The woman
shall not wear that which pertaineth
unto a man, neither shall a man put on
a woman’s garment; for all that do so
are abomination unto the Lord thy God.”
Had I been the chairman of the com-
mittee I think I should have been tempted
to point out that the injunction refers to
the dress worn by men and women of
a specific race and generation. I shrewdly
suspect that in those days in that land
men wore skirts and women trousers.
Nowadays women wear skirts, trousers,
shorts or next to nothing, and it would be
difficult for a member of either sex to
obey the Biblical precept.
# * *
“Pitt St.”: A Sydney married couple
with a daughter of 16 have been enjoy-
ing the luxury of highly-priced furnished
apartments in the city’s toniest suburbs
for a couple of years. On
the strength of a plausible
manner and, doubtless, an air of
riches, they rented apartments
at as high as a fiver a week, paid
a week’s rent, then left it to the
owner or agent to get them out
and meantime got credit from
tradespeople. Then t something
slipped and they were convicted
of conspiracy to defraud. The
parents got 18 months’ each and
the daughter was released on
bond. There was a typical Holly-
wood scene of tears and embrac-
ings and “Oh, please, please, you
can’t do this to my mother,” but
the Judge was unmoved. And
now some nark is saying that thrs
sort of fraud is “facilitated” by
“fair rent” laws, framed with the
notion that the house-owner is
Public Enemy No. 1.
“Fernland”: Among rare gifts received
in M.L. for the Churchill Auctions is
a Henry Lawson item presented to the
hon. organiser (Pat Lawlor) by Tom
Mills, It is a first edition of Lawson’s
In the Days When the World Was Wide,
autographed by Henry. Interleaved in
the volume are an unpublished photo, of
the poet, taken by the late John Baillie,
of Wellington, and two unpublished
specimens of his writing, one being a
few lines of verse to the poet Tom
Bracken.
* * ♦ *
“Pat Ater”: Glad to hear that Sal-
vation Army Commissioner Smith, of
Maoriland, stands up for the Digger’s
right to take his girl for a walk (B.
15/7/’42). I remember how we Aussie
soldiers on leave in Cairo and Alexandria
used to feel when English girls resident
there turned us down because it wasn’t
nice to be seen out with a common sol-
dier. Australians, particularly, were
banned because of their independent and
unorthodox outlook. It hurt, because the
Digger, toughest of fighters, is a senti-
mentalist at heart, Londoners soon sensed
this and acted on it, reversing the judg-
ment of Cairo. At Durban, too, Miss
Campbell, who knew the Digger, became
almost a deity in their eyes because of
her championship of their right to full
social amenities.
“D.E.” : Musing on the great vogue of
dehydration these days, I think regret-
fully of poor Jack de Garis, for a brief
period King of Mildura. Dehydration
was one of De Garis s pet schemes , it
was part of his plan for the Kendenup
(W.A.) settlement, his most disastrous
venture. In this matter, as in others
he was the first Australian businessman
to do his touring by ’plane—h6 was ahead
of his time. He had too many irons in
the fire, too little financial support and
was too fond of applause in every form ;
and in a moment of despair he destroyed
htai““L losfa man with great
possibilities when it lost De Garis.
“Yair” • No woman likes to think she’s
a chatterbox. In fact, she’ll talk for
hours trying to convince you she isn’t
one. The par. by “Bo” (B. 8/7/’42)
about the Gallup poll in America which
found out what women talk about re-
minds me of the poll taken in our suburb
recently to find out what they don’t talk
fbout. The result was printed on a small
“And you call yourself a soldier! Why, the seam of your stocking is
crooked!"
card and sent to all prominent ladies of
societies: “As a result of the recent poll
it is found that the answer is ‘Nothing.’ ”
The result of the result of the poll has
been disastrous. Indignant at what they
consider a slur, the suburb’s ladies have
dropped every topic of conversation
except one. Now they only talk about
what they talk about.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”; “Bohea” (B. 15/7/’42)
praises tea, and personally I feel as he
does. But isn’t he just venting a racial
prejudice? A hard-working European 20
years in Victoria told me that when he
first arrived in the country he determined
to swear off wine and drink tea. It
depressed him, made him feel sick, gave
him spots before the eyes and other
symptoms, and finally, when he got violent
rheumatism, he went back to the vino.
He quaffs his vino at breakfast, at eleven,
after lunch, at four and during dinner,
and since he went back to his national
beverage he has never had a day’s ill-
ness or been in low spirits. I know an
Australian who drinks two quarts of
wine of his own making
daily, year in and year out.
He is 70 and expects to live
to 100. An Englishman I
knew in Malaya attributed
his immunity from malaria
to his habit of absorbing
two bottles of Bass daily.
H= * *
“L. de R.”: Premier Dun-
stan, of Victoria, is up
against another social-moral
problem. Man-power re-
quirements have intruded
into the bar-rooms, and it is
being suggested (especially
since South Aus. is to have
them again) that the Hebes
should be allowed to return
to their old stamping ground
and play their patriotic part
by pulling the beer-pumps.
It was in June, 1917, that
registration of Victorian
barmaids was begun with a
view to the elimination of
the tribe in a reasonably
short period. There were
3688 then. In June, 1936,
the number suffering the
stories of commercial
travellers with expressions
of deep ennui had declined
to 731. Now there are esti-
mated to be a scant 200,
though appearances suggest a larger
number owing to Bung’s habit of em-
ploying wife and daughters when there’s
a rush to the bar. Mr. Dunstan is
opposed to the employment of young
women as barmaids and suggests that
men beyond military age should be
engaged.
* * * *
“Zake”: Sydney street-corner news-
vendors are connoisseurs of mugs. Saw
one on a recent afternoon when the final
extra appeared write on his headline
board in large letters “Aircraft Carrier
Sunk!” and underneath in much smaller
letters "Amazing pictures.” It was really
like itaking bottles from bab.es. My
goodness, another one! 1 wonder it its
a Jap!”
."hXglst^ffiheh
tuppences. One could almost hear the
grinding of teeth as the victims dis-
covered pictures of the death throes o. the
Lexington, sunk last May in the Coral Sea.
* ■ • '
“C.Q.”: Every member of the corn-
mumty will have to accustom himself
to substitutes for all sorts of things in
the near future,” said a war-effort depart-
ment director in Melbourne. “It is a
patriotic obligation.” That probably
accounts for a spectacle presented in a
crowded tram the other evening. A
dignified-looking old lady, who might
have been 80, rummaged in her reticule,
drew out a fat cigar, lit up and started
puffing with every symptom of keen
enjoyment.
“Civis” remembers Sydney’s municipal
beginnings:
The first council began to hold its meetings
at the Royal, in George-street, on the site now
occupied by Dymock’s, and continued to meet
there until the beginning of 1843. The Royal
in those days had only one rival —Petty’s, It
occupied nearly an acre of ground, and was an
imposing building with three wide balconies,
combining the functions of a hotel, a coffee-
house, a tearoom, a club and a general meeting-
place. There were only one or two clubs, so
that merchants and professional men forgathered
in the smoking-room of the Royal to discuss
trade and commerce and the topics of the
hour. They were vigorous years those, and
there is a tradition that three businessmen met
there every morning, and always left an empty
brandy bottle on the table at which they had
been sitting when they parted.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: I see that Hjalmar
Bernard Bergruth was sentenced to one
month’s imprisonment at Melbourne City
Court for saying he was the captain of
an Australian warship. Fair enough, I sup-
pose, but it reminds me of old acquaint-
ances who, sometimes against their
will, are doing much the same thing.
One, an old warhorse of the Inky Way,
is now a squadron-leader, he has
never been up in a ’plane, let alone led
a squadron. I sometimes see another in
the uniform naval commander. He
would be seasick if he attempted a Bay
crossing. Still another sports the insignia
of a colonel, though he has never done
anything more martial than the marshal-
ling of figures in a ledger. I am told that
the reason for the uniforms of these
gentlemen is some regulation designed to
protect the prestige of the forces that
compels them to accept a rank commen-
surate with the salary they are drawing
for professional civilian services.
**' * *
“Cauboy”: Giving evidence before the
Parliamentary committee on broadcast-
ing, Herbert Davis acidly observed
that many people in Australia’s most
musical city attended “celebrity” concerts
to be seen rather than to listen, and that
he had seen a number snoozing at the
last “celebrity” concert at the Town Hall.
But that wasn’t so much disrespect for
music as a succumbing to the old-
fashioned habit of the siesta. The time
was 2.30 in the afternoon, when even the
birds, beasts and fishes take 40 winks if
they can get them. People didn’t sleep
at concerts when they were given in the
evening. I personally felt a momentary
and almost unconquerable desire to place
my head on my next-door neighbor s
shoulder and sink into slumber the
moment I heard the first bars of an over-
ture I usually delight in. I was shocked
at my own impulse until it occurred to
me that 2.30 p.ra. has strong associations
of somnolence for a chap who, like
myself, has lived 20 years in the tropics,


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: Dad was showing the new
parson around the farm when Hungry
Murphy appeared. “This is Hu—Mister
Murphy, Mr. Saintly,” he said, “the
greatest bor —er —battler this side of the
North Pole.” The parson shook
hands. “Glad t’ meet y’,” said Hungry
breezily; “I jist called along t’ see
if Mr. Greybox could lend me a set
of drag harrers fer a day or two.” The
look in Murphy’s eyes convinced Dad
that he'd better hop in quick to stop any
further demands on his generosity
Murphy might make, so he said, with
malicious cunning, “Oh, Mr. Saintly, Mr.
Murphy will no doubt be glad to contri-
bute to that scheme of yours y’ wus talkin’
about.” The parson turned to Murphy,
smiling. “Ah, a pet scheme of mine,” he
said, “for providing for”— — “Certainly,
certainly,” interrupted Murphy heartily ;
“put me down for a fiver.” “I —er —
would like it to be a cash transaction,
Mr. Murphy,” said the parson hesitat-
ingly. “That’s all right,” replied Murphy
breezily. “I haven’t any cash or me
chequebook with me, but Mr. Greybox
will gladly give y’ the money for me,
I’m sure, an’ I’ll fix up with him later.”
“Joe,” cried Dad in a broken voice, “give
Mr. Murphy them harrers, will y’,” and
taking the parson by the arm piloted him
quickly towards the house.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’ll accept “Zenus’s”
statement, that the sulphuretted hydrogen
content of Perth’s bore-water makes it
pure from a human consumption point
of view (B. 24/6/’42). B«t he’s backing
a dog that won’t fight when he attributes
to it properties inimical to plant growth.
The lawns and gardens of Perth’s Ascot
racecourse are watered solely from a
bore situated on the course; and the
horticultural attractions of the place are
held to be largely responsible for the high
spirits in which Westralian punters walk
home.
* t- * *
“Scuta”: The repeated bombing of
Lae by our boys and their U.S.A. cobbers
makes me wonder what is left to hit.
When 1 visited it three years ago the town
comprised a pub (no single glasses—a
bottle of beer or nothing), a store, a few
houses and an aerodrome with work-
shops. Its main use was as a Guinea
Airways base for ferrying machinery and
stores to Bulolo goldfields over the jungle
valleys and impenetrable mountain ridges
—an epic job. True, it became the capital
of the Mandated Territory after Rabaul
got its second coat of volcano dust, but
Government officials had hardly settled
in before the Japs took the town and the
Markham Valley hinterland. But, small
as it was, Lae had one great claim to
fame ; it was the proud possessor of the
only poultry farm in New Guinea. Its
proprietor ran it as a potboiler while his
cocoa plantation was coming into bear-
ing. Shady runs kept the birds cool and
dry in that muggy, moist climate. The
yards were fenced with the slim young
trunks of jungle trees, which took root
quickly in the fertile soil and soon
sprouted into leafy hedges. These will
survive the bombing—you can’t kill tropic
vegetation easily—but it’s a safe bet that
the chooks have disappeared behind Jap
belts.
* # % afe
“Aratta”: “I’m workin’ on me own on
a scrub-clearin’ contrack one time,” said
Bogan Bob, “in a damned lonely bit of
country. There’s a river close by me
camp, an’ one night I get back to me
hut with half a sugar-bagful of crays
I’d yanked outa the net I’d set that
mornin’, an’ chucked ’em inter a corner
by the fireplace, first tying a piece of
string round the top of the bag t’ keep
the crawlers from rovin’ about me kipsy
an’ nippin’ me shins. I light me lamp,
an’ I’m just gettin’ me fire goin’ when
the hut door is shoved open, an’ I look
up t’ see two of the toughest-lookin’
blokes I’d ever clapped eyes on. I ask
’em what they want. ‘YT dough,’ yaps
one of ’em, steppin’ in, follered be the
other, ‘an’ anythin’ else y’ve got worth
takin’. I backs inter a corner —fair scared
I wus, I don’t mind admittin’ —when me
leg hit agen me bag of crays what is
wrigglin’ about there. The feel of ’em
gives me a sudden brain wave. ‘YTe
just a day too soon,’ I ses. ‘Whatcher
mean?’ they yaps t’gether. ‘Well, jist
this,’ I ses. ‘l’m up here catchin’ snakes
fer a university cove in the city, I’ve
got four bags here full of beauties, tigers,
copperheads, black an’ brown, an’ he’s
cornin’ up t’morrer t’ gather ’em up an’
pay me. Like t’ have a look at some of
’em?’ an’ I reach down an’ grab up me
bag of crays, an’ start fiddling with the
string. But one look at that wrigglin’
bag in me hands wus ernough fer ’em.
They nearly knocked the door off its
“We're out of that, but I can strongly recommend this!”
hinges gettin’ out, an’ by their dials I’ll
swear they’re runnin’ yet!”
* * * *
“Snowy”; “Little” Henry staggered on
to the verandah of the shanty pub,
dumped his enormous swag and peered
at the long form propped against the post.
“Cold, ain’t it?” he murmured. “Silent”
Dan nodded. “Looks like rain.” Dan
nodded again. “Live around these parts?”
Dan’s head went again in silent affirma-
tion. “You been here long?” Dan
nodded. Henry looked hard at the long
slab of obmutescence. “By cripes, it’d be
good-oh,” he commented. Dan brushed
a fly off his nose. “What would?” he
muttered. The small man almost dis-
appeared from view as he slung his drum
up. “If I were an auctioneer and you
were in the crowd!” he growled, and
rolled off.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: One of the big laughs
the south-west W.A. abos. always had
was the plurry silly white pfeller travel-
ling around in the rain—and it does rain
in that region. Jacky’s mia-mia may
have looked a flimsy structure, but it
was always built on sound principles ;
the thick ends of the leafy boughs all
brought together at the top, the leaves
then shedding the rain downwards like
thatch. Inside this everybody packed,
along with all the family dogs. In the
centre burned the little two-piece wood
fire, the slight smoke finding its way
through the apex of the roof. So every-
one was warm and dry. And it was a
compliment never refused to let the afore-
said silly white boil his billy on this fire
when out chasing his ridiculous cattle or
something, and quite unable to light a
fire himself in the prevailing dampness —
though it was expected that the guest
in return should empty the makings in
tea and sugar into the camp billy. Nor
did Jacky and his family go hungry. Con-
trary to all talk about their being utterly
improvident, the dusky ones, seeing bad
weather coming, always laid in a good
supply of tucker —Too, roots, bardies,
fish, anything at all that was edible. At
a pinch they would even share this with
poor, silly white brother who didn’t know
enough to get in out of the wet.
* * ♦
“D.R.H.”: Although “8.4” (B.
24/6/’42) is on the right track, it should
be remembered that a ligature below the
elbow or knee, while it cannot compress
the arteries, does to some extent check
the venous flow, which is precisely the
object of the ligature in a case of snake-
bite. Mr. Blake’s venom is harmless
enough if it can be absorbed in suffi-
ciently small doses. Therefore, in the
case of a bite on the hand, a couple of
twitches round the upper arm first and
then two or three below the elbow are
called for. After a quarter of an hour
or so loosen the lowest band for a second
or two, tighten it, loosen the next and so
on in order up to the highest. Repeat
every quarter of an hour for about 24
hours in the case of a tiger snake’s nip.
The procedure not only prevents stag-
nation of the blood in the limb but also
releases the poison in very small doses
into the main bloodstream, where It is
effectively dealt with.
* * ♦ *
“B. A. Ker”: There is a chivalrous
streak in the canine make-up. For in-
stance, a dog will never fight a bitch
(greyhounds are an exception, man hav-
ing trained them to kill anything that
runs). Nor will a full-grown dog bite
a young frolicsome puppy; he might
growl a warning if the youngster be-
comes overboisterous, but generally he
merely stalks off with a ludicrous air of
ruffled dignity. Although my big fox-
hound was sudden death to bunnies, I
once saw him catch and hold a kitten
so small that it slipped through the mesh
of a ferret net —and the tiny creature
wasn’t even scratched! His attitude was
the same towards felines. The strangest
example I ever saw was demonstrated
by a ferocious mongrel cattle-dog that
was always kept chained after a couple
of savage attacks on strangers. A visitor
lost track of her little toddler and found
to her horror the child hanging to the
dog’s ear with one hand, gurgling delight-
edly as she smacked the man-eater’s nose
with the other. It was the only time 1
ever saw that mong’s tail wag—but he
refused to allow anybody but his owner
to “rescue” the child.
jj: 5H H*
“E.H.S.”: Is it possible to graft one
species of eucalypt on another, so that
several kinds of our beautiful flowering
gums could be grown on a common
stock? I have never heard of its being
done, but I’m inclined to believe that it
can, as I recall seeing a tree on Mt. Lind-
say (Vic.) that to outward appearance
was a stringybark until it forked about
15ft. from the ground; from the fork
upward one limb was covered with the
brown, fuzzy stringybark, and the other
with the grey, comparatively smooth rind
of the peppermint.
* * * *
“Pinjarrah”: There has been some
to-do in W.A. about timber-workers’
boots. Once saw an axemen’s contest in
the W.A. south-west, horizontal chop,
and every competitor except one, who
wore sandshoes, went at it barefooted.
Gave them a better grip on the log. As
for the danger of chopping a bare foot —
well, except for making the trotter cases
of castiron, any other covering makes
little difference should the axe slip. And
it would be much more likely to do that
with the wielder wearing a pair of heavy-
weight hobnails than with dancing
pumps. Axemanship is a matter of
balance, and nothing destroys balance so
much as heavy, unyielding boots.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had a line of
old rabbit-traps set down-river from his
camp, but every morning he was dis-
gusted to find nothing between the sprung
jaws but a few hairs or an occasional
foot. He scratched his head over the
problem, blamed the eagles, a fox, and
finally decided that rabbits were’t what
they used to be—“too danged eddicated,”
in fact. Then, seeing the newcomer across
the river pegging out a row of fresh
skins, the old bloke grew suddenly sus-
picious. After setting as usual that night,
he invited the suspect down to the pub,
chaperoned him into a state of paralysis,
and at daylight rode back alone to his
trap line. The result was as usual. Traps
pulled out and sprung, but not even a
feed in them for his dog. Day after day
he watched the row of skins over the
river increasing, and at last morosely set
out to ask the new bloke how he did it.
He found him cutting fresh wires.
“How?” the newchum answered. “Why,
me dog catches ’em. One dog like Blue
there is worth all yT blooming traps.
Brought me three quids’ worth last week.”
Seventyfiver nodded and was turning away
when a shrill squeal came from down
the river, followed by a metallic rattle.
Like a shot the dog came to life and dis-
appeared over the bank, to reappear five
minutes later with another bunny to lay
in triumph at the newchum’s feet.
* * * *
“Hay Street”; This everlasting argu-
ment about using a saddle as a pillow!
Jesse Hammond, author of Western
Pioneers, was a Westralian of the first
generation born to the bush. He was
one of a party which in the ’seventies
drove cattle from the vicinity of Cape
Leeuwin to the Murchison River, but
failed to get them right through the 2000
miles to the De Grey. Speaking of his
brother Evett he says: “He was hardly
ever out of his saddle, he was never out
of his clothes, and he had to sleep on the
ground just where he happened to stop,
using the seat of his saddle as a pillow.”
And saddles were big money to those
Gropers ; too big if reposing a head on
them at night meant their ultimate
destruction.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: The betrayed bush-bred
husband doesn’t always act benignly (B.
8/7/’42). I recall a carrier who had his
tin shanty on the common of a W.Q.
township. He came back unexpectedly and
instead of going up to the pub turned
in. Footsteps in the dark outside the
humpy prompted him to act: he reached
for a .44 hanging above the bed and
fired through the galvanised-iron wall.
The footsteps outside ceased. The morn-
ing showed the reputed lover of the team-
ster’s missus shot clean through the heart.
Apart from moral ethics, I’ve always
admired the marksmanship of that hus-
band.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: What memories were
stirred by Brian James’s tale “Two
Stacks of Hay” (B. 15/7/’42)! His
description, from bullocks to smoke-
stack, fits the first chaff-cutting plant that
creaked up and down our valley, and
when it was about we nippers would tear
off along its track at a pace we rarely
reached on the way home from school,
though when we overtook the crawling
wonder and clambered aboard our speed
was reduced to average. The Thomases
owned it —great bony men, as wild as the
wallabies which raided their crops ; and
when we went in anywhere to watch
them at work they’d snatch our hats and
fling them into the whirling flywheel, A
chip held against the rim would then
send them sailing a chain away—the
thrill of it was worth the pasting for
getting grease on our lids. Then after
leaving school came the great day when
I got a job on the rival plant—much
superior ; it boasted a tractor —and lived
with a team such as B.J. sketched so
well. Nobody knows the character of
a district better than the chaffcutter
men ; you can read people by the way
they feed casual workers —anyone who
cut chaff in that valley remembers how
the banquets at Fallon’s place offset the
junk and spuds of others. In fine weather
there is no better bed than on top of
an open stack, but I sometimes wonder if
it was that early Spartan training on shed
floors —slab, brick, concrete, rubble or
rock —during wet spells, which enables
me now to leave one ear on watch and
drop off so comfortably under a tree on
the nights I’m copped for guard.
THE KOWMUNG WATERS.
To where the Kowmung waters flow
By timbered slope and height,
A would not uncompanioned go
To camp again at night.
Nay, rather by lone reefs and capes
In darkness would I fare
Than know once more the sounds and shapes
That haunt the night hours there.
For there tall cliffs like to the walls
Of ancient castles loom,
And there the hawking night-owl calls,
Large-eyed in jungle gloom.
As there with eerie echoings
The hunting wild dogs howl,
Felt is the fear of feral things
That hither, thither prowl.
And whoso vigils there shall know
Chilled veins and bated breath,
While pallid mists drift by, as though
To keep a tryst with Death.
While shadow-shapes about him lurk,
Who there at night abides
Shall hearken mystic hands at work
Upon the dark hillsides.
For, when no leaf stirs in the breeze
And all else seems to sleep,
To him shall come the crash of trees
Apd stones that roll and leap.
Hands, mystic hands, he’ll hear that forge
A way through rock and soil,
That raze the ridge and fill the gorge
And ever tireless toil.
Thus, where the Kowmung waters flow
By timbered slope and height,
It is not well to lonesome go
And camp at dead of night.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Any cigarettes ?”
“Bo”: “This country’s regulation-
mad,” said “Tarcutta” Ted, “and as fur
back as I can remember it’s alwiz bin
the same. I on’y bin crook once in me
life —neally wriggled out from poisonin’
caused by a regulation.” I expressed
dubiety that a regulation could cause
poisoning. “Well, it’s a fact,” said Ted,
“an’ I’ll tell y’ how it happened. I was
one o’ the first across the Queensland
border with cattle when the tick scare
first started. When I was drovin’ in them
days I had a beard, an’ I got inter the
habit of chewin’ the ends of it when I
was thinkin’, which I did a lot of while
punchin’ ’em along. Well, I gets to the
border, they puts the cattle through the
dip, an’ some bloke reckons I might
have some ticks in my beaver. He
wanted me to shave it orf before I
crossed, but I flatly refused. Then he
points to a regulation, an’ says if I don’t
put me whiskers through the dip as well
I’m liable to get socked fer a heavy fine.
So, blast him, I goes through the dip. But
on the. road again I forgets about it, an’
starts chewin’ the ends of me beard as
usual! I don’t wake up for a start what
it is that’s makin’ me crook, although I’d
noticed a funny sort o’ taste. If it hadn’t
been fer a fencer I struck givin’ me a
half a pound o’ salt in water to bring it
up again I’d have bin the first dead vic-
tim of regulation-poisonin’! ”
* * * *
“B. 4”: The powerful owl is a monu-
ment of strength and stoush. The blood-
curdling shriek echoing down the moun-
tain gullies is designed to evoke a betray-
ing squawk from some unwary fowl.
Sniping from a pine head, this night
eagle marks, and later stukas, the homing
whampoo or bronzewing. The bandit,
too, is semi-nocturnal, as on different
occasions when I shot them down crashed
half-eaten young koalas, while another
held a turkey in its fist. One moonlit
night the dogs routed a native cat, which
was grabbed in full gallop and whisked
aloft. The choke dropped both, and we
found that pussy had been pithed by
the eagle beak, whilst steely claws were
hooked into the carcass. Unlike the big
owl, hawks drop two claws when striking
to take the shock.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Yes, bull spinifex, up-
ended, for the ideal camping place every
time (B. 15/7/’42), Its great advantages
are that it is bone-dry as well as wind-
proof, and that when you tumble out in
the chill dawn your bed at the touch of
a match springs into a flame that sets
the blood coursing. And there will still
be enough left to boil the billy and fry
the bacon —or the goanna.
* * * - ♦
“Gumsucker”: Tell “B. A. Ker” (B.
24/6/’42) that his suggested book of
eerie Australian yarns was written long
ago. Fisher’s Ghost and Other Stories
was a best-seller of the middle ’nineties.
As a kid of 10 I was conscripted, being
something of a “scholard,” to read it
aloud to the gathering around Biddy
Shannon’s log fire of a winter’s night.
A dozen times I read it—for there were
always new additions to the crowd. It
was only about 100 yards to my
own home, and I seldom failed to
break evens getting to that refuge
with Fisher’s and half a dozen other
ghosts sitting on Biddy’s post-and-
rail fence gibbering at me. But I,
doubt if the present blase genera-
tion would appreciate it; I know
a couple of V.A.Ds. who cus-
tomarily walk home at midnight
through a large metropolitan ceme-
tery, and they swear that, even after
six months of it they haven’t raised
one ghost.
“The 0.D.”; When I declared (B~
8/7/’42) that all the cockies I ever
worked for paid me promptly I didn’t
mean I was ever silly enough to start a
job without knowing what it was worth.
The doleful tale of “Ngaduri” (B.
22/7/’42) arises, not from any agrarian
dishonesty but from the sufferer’s green-
ness. And he bears out my point, for the
cheque did arrive. The fact that it was
below expectations was due to the cocky’s
playing with the temptation to have an-
other shot at a bloke who clearly demon-
strated that he was an easy target. Doubt-
less the navy has knocked some sense
into him. Once or twice it has happened
that I’ve started a job not sure of the
screw, but I never let it get beyond the
first week’s payday, when I firmly call
for currency in full. Moreover, show
the boss you know your worth and he’ll
generally respect it, even if he doesn’t
give you the job.
“Kanyapella”: I don’t know much
about brush turkeys (B. 22/7/’42), but it
doesn’t take other native fliers long to
wake up that something has gone wrong.
When the high-tension transmission wires
were run up to Echuca (Vic.) from the
Goqlburn Valley they cut almost straight
across the air passage of wild swans,
ducks, herons and other waterfowl pass-
ing north and south from the Riverina to
southern Victoria. The slaughter along
the five miles between Echuca and where
I hung out was heart-breaking to any
lover of native fauna, birds being killed
by the dozen every night along that
stretch alone. But after the wires had
been up about two months the casualties
fell away to almost nothing. Was it in-
stinct, cries of warning from the victims
just before the crash or some form of
avian telepathy?
“Wester”: Ducks and tin roofs (B.
22/7/’42)? In a western N.S.W. town a
pool of wet asphalt in the main street
gleamed under the hooded electric light.
Five black duck sighted it from above
and dived straight and true. Four reached
it; the fifth managed to get its air-brakes
on within a foot of death and whirled
away, crying its alarm.
* * * *
“Moree Murph”: A book pedlar per-
suaded me to buy on t.p. an edition of
The Children’s Encyclopcedia. The books
arrived full of wonders for the kids and
looking well worth the oscar. Picked one
up and the page fell open at pictures of
eagles. Looked once, looked twice, but
there’s no sight of the biggest and most
splendid of them all, our own wedge-
tail. Heaven knows what my eldest, a
born critic and know-all, will snort when
he finds the omission.
* * * *
“A. Perist”: When “E.H.S.” watched
those blitzed bees hovering around in the
empty air exactly on the spot where the
entrance to the old home used to be (B.
17/6/’42), he was witnessing something
familiar to the bee-keeper. Even when
the hive is shifted only a few feet from
its former site, homing bees will make
for the old stand and for a few moments
hover in uncertainty. But they have a
wonderful instinct that tells them where
the queen is located. So, after bumping
into nothing at the old entrance, they
turn to where the hive has been moved.
In the instance mentioned the queen evi-
dently had been killed. Have seen a
bee expert, on locating a swarming hive
high up in a tree where netting or any
other method was impracticable, open
the swarm and pick out the queen. Then,
placing the lady in a matchbox, he
descended, walked half a mile with
30,000 bees hovering around or resting
on him, arrived at an efnpty hive, slipped
the queen in, and within a few minutes
most of the mob too were inside. And
for an hour after latecomers, who had
sort of got lost on the way, kept arriving,
guided by their unerring instinct.
“That there cammerflage d’ make un show up nice and plain, boay."
“Mat’s Mate”: Me and the big fellow
were tramping in the Wimmera one time
and just out of Dimboola a yellow mong
attached himself to us. We had enough
to do to feed ourselves, but the mong
was so obviously pleased with our com-
pany and so pathetically grateful for the
few scraps he got that we let him follow
us. In Antwerp Mat got round the
butcher and came back to camp with
about 21b. of glorious steak, which we
proceeded to grill. When it was cooked,
I put it on a tin plate and was fishing
for the salt in Mat’s nosebag when he
let out a yell. The mong had pounced
on the steak and headed in the general
direction of Brisbane at 30 knots an hour,
with Mat doing 25 behind him and me
doing about 22 behind Mat. We lost
ground through losing steam by yelling
at the hound, and he soon shook us off.
Then we sat down and blew and thought
of that steak and cursed each other’s
carelessness and every dog ever whelped
since Noah’s time. Sadly we went back
to our swags and grimly dined on dry
bread and black tea, rolled the knots and
headed south. About two miles along I
looked round and there was the mong,
looking frisky, following. Mat dropped
•his swag, grabbed up a waddy and went
for it. It retired hastily, then stood at a
distance and eyed Mat, obviously puzzled
by this reception. That night it still hung
around, and as Mat from his bunk hurled
abuse at it the tyke cocked its head from
side to side, trying to understand. In
the morning, at Mat’s feet lay a long-
defunct cat and, sitting back from it as
pleased as Punch, was the mong. I had
a job to make Mat see that the mong
had honestly tried to repay him, but I
did at last. The hound was always tied
up while we cooked meat after that.
* * * *
“Munjong”: Intercommunication of
ideas from horse to horse may be a
matter of instinct, like the invariable
manner in which an attack of nerves in
a rider finds a response in his mount;
but it’s capable of easier explanation.
Equipped as he is with an incomparable
set of faculties which leave mankind
hopelessly out of the picture, the four-
legged friend still doesn’t think. What
he does do, if that keen observer of
animals Rudyard Kipling can be be-
lieved, is to use his voice. Rud’s theory
was that the “conversational” voices of
larger animals are pitched lower and
those of birds and small animals higher
than the human ear can register. That
the theory is at least feasible has been
proved by the successful use of whistles
whose note, while perfectly audible to
a dog, is pitched too high to be picked
up by humans.
* ♦ * *
“Arev”: Tom Higgins, ploughing some
newly-cleared land, felt a bump and got
down to investigate. Just visible in the
furrow was the corner of a box. Tom
remembered that old Ben, a hatter, had
“B. A. Ker”; The billygoat is
notorious for his perverted appetite, but
a sheep is no epicure either. I’ve seen
woollies leave luscious grass to eat, with
apparent relish, a greasy piece of paper.
No gum-chewing Hollywood actress ever
looked more vacuously happy than an
old ewe chewing a scrap of motor tube.
Charcoal is a special delicacy; an old
shed that had disputed the right-of-way
with a bushfire was a popular spot with
our few jumbucks for a long time. Inci-
dentally, to see a mob of maa-a-a-ing
charcoal-eaters, their white-ringed eyes
staring from blackened faces, is to recall
A 1 Jolson at his best —or worst.
once lived in that patch of scrub. He
was reputed to have had money left to
him by relatives in England, and he had
never tired of airing his hatred and dis-
trust of banks. Ben had said, too, that
he had no relatives in Australia, and not
a friend except his old dog, and when
it had died he had been quite alone. Tom
tore up to the toolshed and came back
with mattock and shovel. In a few
minutes he had the box —a large wooden
affair fastened with a heavy padlock —
exposed. But the wood was soft and
rotted, and Tom’s heavy working boot
went through it like paper, to reveal old
Ben’s treasure —the bones of his dog!
TOBRUK.
Aglow in the faint light like a blown rose
Flushed by the last flame of day’s funeral fire,
The broken town, squat by a hyaline sea,
Girdled about with torn and twisted wire
Like an old hag bedecked with tawdry strands
Of glass and string; a ragged crone
Whose eyes are filled with a strange beauty,
Sadly beseeching, haunted, and alone.
A woman mourning, dark and weeping,
Night glides up the desert from the east,
Filled with a passionate desire to love,
Confused by sorrow as a stricken beast;
A mistress, robbed of passion,
Come quietly to pray, and Spread
Her mantle over her lost loves,
Hang her black tresses gently about the dead;
To dream, till dawn bursts on her sanctitude,
Of the hard men who once came out to her,
And laughed. And took her to their arms.
And slept. Who were a part of her.
And in the lightless light, the desert.
Pallidly grey. A corpse. A vampire
Lifelessly filled with life. And stirring,
Sucking men’s blood to fire,
It to yet greater lust. And reaching out
For men, more men, to clutch and drown
Horribly in its gritty maw ...
The night, the desert, and the broken town.
Called by the night, ghosts stir
To a half life. Move out
From shallow tombs. Faint shadows.
Wisps against the stars. And stare about,
Bewildered, at the alien men
Standing where once they stood. Know passion,
Cry “And so we fell. . . We fell.
And were betrayed in this harsh fashion ...”
The desert mutters, sleepily surfeited.
They cry “We stemmed an iron tide
Through weary months. This was our duty—
To hold. We held. And died.
For us no drums rolled, bugles tore no heart.
Only the guns that shaped our doom dirged
for us,
Like lions thundering the fall of lions.
They spoke our epitaph, but could not break
u 5...”
And dull with bitterness they watch
The clattering Panzer columns rolling by.
Then blindly seek again the grave.
Turn for a moment and, with wry
Smiles, look to the stars . . . Are gone.
Night sighs. The Panzers rumble on.
A.I.F.
JOHN QUINN.


BUILD UP MILK PRODUCTION WITH
TRI-CAL-OS
BONE FLOUR
The most valuable mineral supplement
for increased milk production is Tri-cal-
os Bone Flour, with its guaranteed mini-
mum content of 33 p.c. phosphoric ax:id
and 40 p.c. lime. Being bone, Tri-cal-os
is definitely palatable, and in its fine
flour form is easily digested and assimi-
lated ~. Profitable milking can be car-
ried on for four or five months longer
by giving Tri-cal-os in the dry period.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058,
Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box
588, Perth.
£
£
‘
s
I! I
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS. HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON. „ T( _ n
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD,
Treating Fly Strike.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“R. Ney”: The main form (jE anti-fly
measures should consist of prevention by
reducing susceptibility. To this end selec-
tion and breeding, jetting, crutching, the
Mules operation and use of repellents are
in operation, though far from adequately.
All that by the way, there will still be
strike, and it can be expected heavily in
the coming spring, which will follow a
wet winter. Curative treatment and dress-
ings will be needed.
The ideal dressing should be stable, i.e.,
should cling to the wound and not be
easily dislodged by shaking or weather.
It should retain its solution, and the,
chemical constituents should maintain
their strength during storage. It must
penetrate readily to the wound and sur-
rounding wool, but should not damage
the wool nor be hard to remove in scour-
ing. It should withstand rain or urine,
kill maggots, be non-poisonous to sheep,
have healing powers and prevent restrike
lor a reasonable time. And it should
be cheap.
These things the C.S.I.R. faced in its
search for a good dressing, and it found
some tough problems. Those problems
are being increased by the war and re-
strictions on supplies. For instance,
when the price of glycerine made the
“glycerine-diboric” dressing prohibitive,
a boric-acid dressing, C.B.E., was evolved
in 1939. But C.B.E. needs camphor oil
and that is now hard to get.
Then came B.T.B., made from boric
acid, tar oil, bentonite, a wetting agent
and water. It can be made up on the
station, and so far has given good results.
The formula is: Mix 91b. of boric-acid
powder with 9{oz. of bentonite and 2ioz.
Agral 2 to a uniform powder in a 4gal.
tin. Add 2gal. of soft water and stir
for at least lOmin. Then add of
tar oil (straight fraction, boiling range of
J70-210deg. C.), and stir until the mix-
ture is uniform. This makes 3gal. of
B.T.B.30. For the same amount of
B.T.B.15 follow the same procedure, but
use of boric-acid powder and in-
crease the bentonite to 14oz. and the
water to 2|gal. B.T.B.15 is generally
good, but may not have the same value
against restrike and in a heavy fly wave.
Remember it is essential to follow the
order of the mixing.
Application is simple. Shear away
wool from the strike and dab the dress-
ing on with a swab.
“Graz”: Further experiments at Gil-
ruth Plains (Q.) by the C.S.I.R. demon-
strate that four-inch tails are the best
fly-flappers. In two field tests 711 ewes
were used, 240 having 4in. tails, 230 2in.
and 241 very short tails. The ewes
were ear-tagged and run together. The
fly-wave following heavy rains in
lanuary, 1941, was a fair test. Here is
the number of strikes observed from mid-
January to July, 1941; —
. Tail Groups .
Location. 4in. 2in. Short.
Breech only .. ..39 84 106
Breech and tail .. .. 9 17 37
Tail only .. .. 1 5 14
49 106 157
In one test 157 undocked ewes were
tried. These had fewer strikes than the
medium and short tails, but twice the
number that occurred in the 4in. group.
The fly is constantly on the offensive.
As counter rheasures 4in, mils and
“Mulesing” have given consistently good
results. Yet how many years will pass
before all growers adopt them? It can-
not be held that longer tails are unsightly
that is just a fancy. Thirty years ago
dense, massive wrinkles were objects of
admiration ; so were bullocks with horns
a yard long. But both are gone. There
is a moral in it for short-tail lovers.
Teaching a Colt.
“B.A.”: Don’t adopt the old “pullee-
haulee,” sweat-and-profanity method if
he hangs back —just slack up for a few
seconds and try him again with a gentle
pull. If he still jibs or attempts to pull
back, take a length of ploughiine, pass
one end over his neck and knot it to the
running part of the line so as to form a
loop about two feet in diameter and draw
it back to his shoulders like a collar. Run
the line along his off side, back under his
tail and bring it forward and take a
couple of turns around the main line just
over the coupling. Then pass the end
“You better do it where it Won't show, Margery."
through the “collar” on the near side and
on to the end of the halter.
Now take the halter in one hand and
the crupper line in the other and bear
lightly on the halter. If the colt refuses
to move or attempts to pull back, a
sharp jerk on the crupper line will bring
him forward at the jump. Keep a light,
steady strain on the halter. If he responds
to the head pull, well and good; but, if
not, bring him forward with another
jerk on the crupper and repeat the treat-
ment until he leads freely. I have seen
this method applied in many difficult
cases without man or beast turning a hair
or losing a drop of sweat.
The Breeding Sow.
“Huxave”: It pays to set aside a small
paddock for breeding sows. This gives
necessary exercise, and quantity of feed
can be based on available pasture. When
the sow’s condition is fairly good and
green feed abundant only supplements
needed are 21b. of grain a day to which
5 p.c. of meatmeal is added. When she
is poor, increase the amount to 31b. or
41b., up to 61b. if very poor, until her
condition is brought back. Skim-milk
can replace meatmeal at igal. per day.
Mixed grains are best, two parts of barley
to one of wheat, or a 1-1-1 feed of wheat,
barley and oats or 2 to 1 of wheat or
barley to oats.
Without green feed an all-grain ration
is too fattening. Make the ration two-
thirds grain and at least one-third rough-
age—pumpkins, mangolds or turnips, or,
failing them, lucerne or clover hay.
Cereal hay cut green is useful. All hay
should be chaffed and soaked for 24
hours; before feeding.
A sow close to farrowing is best in a
paddock on her own. She must have
daily exercise, and she’ll need 50 per cent,
bran in her food to tone up her system.
Overfeeding is dangerous. Feed her
lightly before and after farrowing. No
feed at all for 12 hours after the arrival
of the litter, or longer in hot weather.
Lots of fresh drinking water at all times.
After farrowing reduce the bran and
replace with pollard for about a week,
then back to the full grain ration. For a
large sow rearing 10 piglets an ideal daily
ration is 101 b. of grain and 3gal. of skim-
milk. Reduce for smaller sows and Jitters.
Once the piglets begin to drink more
cows’ milk the amount fed to the sow is
decreased and that fed to the suckers in-
creased until all the milk goes to the
latter. After weaning, piglets need a
mineral mixture of two parts air-slaked
lime, two parts bonemeal and one part
salt, fed at 2 p.c. of the grain ration.
Paspalum Is Overdone.
“Pat Ater”: There is too much reliance
on paspalum on the rich soil of the Cen-
tral Illawarra (N.S.W.), a habit that pre-
vents cows getting the balanced fodder
necessary for highest production and
health. On the rich volcanic soil of the
Kiama-Jamberoo-Gerringong belt pas-
palum grows like magic. Little else can
compete with it when it is let go. Even
white clover, usually so adaptable, is
choked out, though it will reappear in a
good early season, only to go under again
before the rampant paspalum.
It would not be so bad if Illawarra
dairymen practised ensilage, using pas-
palum while still succulent for storing.
Then clover may become established to
balance the pasture, the heavy paspalum
seeding being checked.
Better still is the sowing of special
pastures—after clearing out the paspalum
—with ryes, cocksfoot and clovers. That
must come if better times are to come
and dairying be lifted in the scale of
scientific farming, with the drudgery abol-
ished. Improved pastures mean rota-
tional grazing, even if much of the pas-
palum is retained, when it can be heavily
grazed to prevent rank growth and
spreading.
W. Cook, of Kiama, realises these needs
and is attempting improvement, but
present labor shortage hampers progress.
Cook finds Jap millet a splendid summer
fodder crop and is adding more of it to
his pasture supplies. The millet grows
quickly can be grazed twice in the ,5ason
and adds its quota in stored winter feed
Idat makes it more valuable than the
once-umversa! saccaline. A crop of maize
adds needed gram, or it can be turned to
pit silage in the milk-cob stage. Oats
are added by Cook as a winter fodder
“no farmer can do without them ”
Emphasis can’t too strongly be laid on
the need for stored fodder. Given that
those who rely solely on paspalum for
their pastures will not be caught again
as they were last year.
Paspalum can be cleared by cutting it
with a rotary-hoe 2in. or Sin. under the
soil surface. Thin, wiry roots are all
that go deeper than that. Don’t try to
cut the tall stuff; the stalks will wind
round the axles and stop the machine.
Cotton Cultivation.
“Mackay”: A fine even tilth, moist at
the surface and firm underneath, is essen-
tial for cotton. Careless preparation
means uneven germination, fewer plants
and lower yields. Weeding costs are
higher in poor stands.
Any canegrower can prepare for cotton
with his ordinary implements and a
spiked-tooth harrow for the final work-
ing. If planting is done after the rainy
season no pre-planting watering is needed.
For land not carrying cane stubble one
ploughing—6in. or Sin. deep-will do.
On stubble a second ploughing copes with
trash and weeds. Subsequent cultivation
should work the
surface without
disturbing deeper
layers. Use a disc
with spike-toothed
harrows attached.
Depth of work-
ing depends on the
weeds to be turned
in. Before seeding,
harrow and cross-
harrow, then sow
across the last har-
rowing. Pre-plant-
ing w a t e r i n g is
needed for July
and August sow-
ings. Where the
land is well graded
furrows are usually
spaced 3ft. 6in.
apart. On uneven
land “hilling” makes
a better job and
reduces waterlog-
ging in low parts.
“Hilling” means
making low, wide
ridges about 3ft.
6in. apart, the
space between tak-
ing the water. After
watering, the ridges
are worked down to a low mound on
which the seed is planted. On the Burde-
kin only delinted seed should be used. It
costs Hd. per pound in 1001b. bags,
enough for about six acres.
The Fowlhouse.
To delouse a fowlhouse,
lake down the perches, scrub ’em with
hot soapy water, then paint witth either
crude creosote or Diesel fuel oil. Creosote
is corrosive, so be sure the perches are
dry before replacing them. Burn old straw
and put new straw in the nesting-boxes.
A few plants of Stinking Roger with the
nesting stuff will give it an odor that
pests don’t like. Make sure there is a
large heap of fine sand, dust or wood-
ashes in the fowlrun at all times ; protect
it from rain or wind. Dust broody hens
with sulphur.
When spraying is necessary, Diesel fuel
oil, sprayed into and over the walls and
perches with a fine-nozzled force pump,
is excellent.
Kerosene emulsion is efficient and
can be made in a few minutes. Dissolve
8oz. of soft soap in Igal. of boiling water,
then add slowly Igal. of kerosene, stirring
vigorously to ensure perfect blending.
Stir for five minutes longer, then make
up to lOgal. of spray by adding 8gal.
of lukewarm water. More stirring will
be needed if the spray is not used at once.
Either of these sprays will kill fowl ticks


Wireless alone can meet th e
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT* CONSTANT* CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRON
RADIO VALVES
■xiiiSl-fe .iS
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
“BILLABONG” Centrifugals
PUMP
WA
BY THE ACRE
L
(
P
C=}
a
o
L>
v
su'sbj
I
MCE
' WRITE
TO
THE MAKERS
JOHN BANKS S SON Pty. Ltd
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
3 n
.
ZWiWrviSXS
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/“
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room —All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. Cable and Radio; Grancentrah
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
as well as lice. If ticks are found on the
fowls, they should not be removed but
should be dabbed with a tick-killer con-
sisting of equal parts of olive or salad oil
and kerosene.
Hints for the Farm.
“Valerin”: Lifelong experience among
sheep convinces me that “tetanus losses”
after marking are 90 p.c. bunk. Real
cause is gross carelessness ; the flock is
dogged into the yard, prodded through
the drafting race, the lambs overcrowded
in marking pens, dumped hard from the
rail, hurried back to the paddock and left
to “mother” as best they can. Keep an
eye on the “help” sent out to the job.
“Mullengah”; Coarsely grind or crush
wheat for dairy cows ; finely-ground grain
is not so well utilised. Don’t give more
than 50 p.c. of the grain in the concen-
trate ration to high-producing stock.
Moderate producers can be fed 75 p.c.
of wheat in the concentrates. Maximum
quantity fed is usually about 101b. per
cow daily. Mix the wheat with bulky
materials like crushed oats, bran, oaten
or lucerne chaff or silage.
“E.H.S.”: A Maoriland specification
for pigproof fencing: For the outer
boundaries six pig-barbed wires, one
plain wire and one ordinary barbed on
top. Six posts to the chain, with four
battens in between, wires to be spaced
one nearly on the ground, then two at
a height of 3in., two at 4in., one at 6in.,
one at 9in. and one at Min. Subdivision
fences: Seven plain wires, well strained,
with six battens between and six posts
to the chain. Wires to be spaced one
close to the ground, three at 3in.. and
three at 4in. Have gates 9ft. wide to
give access for vehicles and machinery.
“Canbelego”: Phalaris tuberosa and
lucerne have again proved their resis-
tance to dry conditions. In N.S.W. dis-
tricts, after seven years of drought,
Phalaris was still alive and responded
immediately to rain, although perennial
rye and cocksfoot had died out. Lucerne,
even on poorer types of hill country,
withstood the drought and made satis-
factory growth after rain. It did best
where it had been well established by
adequate topdressings of lime and super-
phosphate on clean, well-prepared seed-
beds.
“Will Court”: Ducks and poultry are
invaluable in an orchard. The trees shade
the birds and the birds scratch and aerate
the soil, destroy weed growth and insect
pests, and their droppings enrich the soil.
Muscovies will clean up much fallen
fruit, thus getting rid of fruit-fly larvae.
“Leccy”; Passionfruit vines respond
quickly to a dressing of two parts of sul-
phate of ammonia and one each of super-
phosphate and sulphate of potash. Spread
a handful about 2ft. from the stem and
water it in. After three or four days
stir the soil and water again.
“Sarina”: Grapevines and mulberry-
trees can be propagated from cuttings
planted during spring and summer in
sandy loam. To avoid trouble in trans-
planting, plant the cuttings in small card-
board boxes and plant box and all when
transplanting.
“Hux”: To stop hydatids, stop tape-
worm infestation of the dogs. All sus-
pected organs or parts of animals should
be burned or boiled down. Slaughtering
Acts and regulations provide for this and
the exclusion of dogs from slaughter-
yards.
Outback Occasions.
No. 46.
AFTERNOON DIVERSIONS.
Sunday afternoon at our place and
the Thorntons and their father and the
three Wilmot boys had come over. We
sat around and yarned about different
things, occasionally getting up to sort
out our dogs from the Wilmot dogs or
the Wilmot dogs from the Thornton dogs
or the Wilmot-Thornton dogs from our
dogs or vice versa. Sometimes the process
would be varied by the necessity for sort-
ing out the chooks and the dogs or the
cats and the dogs, all the dogs being
busy fellows who believed in getting
thoroughly acquainted with everything
about the place. There was great enthusi-
asm—among the dogs—when the Wilmot
staghound, a mighty beast with feet like
a horse and horridly suggestive whiskers,
discovered and resurrected the carcass of
a pig which had died of botulism or
something and been lying under some
bushes about a mile from the house.
We’d looked everywhere for that pig,
a fact which our dogs must have noted. <
When the Wilmot staghound found the
corpse, all the dogs rushed up to the spot
and held an excited debate, probably on
the point of whether or not discovery
conferred ownership on the finder. It
appeared the Wilmot staghound had very
definite views on the matter and was all
for eating the defunct pig at once, but
our dogs held stolidly for the rights of
location and the Thornton dogs, regarding
that staghound with suspicion, supported
them.
Anyhow, the upshot was that our old
Bungo, a great, lumping carthorse of a
dog that might have been a St. Bernard
but wasn’t, decided to have us decide,
and proceeded to bring the carcass home.
At first the staghound was inclined to
dispute this, but Bungo gave him a look
and the staghound waived all objections
and assisted in the task.
We first became aware of the doings
through our noses. That pig had been
lying among the bushes for upwards of
a week, and the nearer the clamor of
dogs came the nearer we were brought to
a realisation of what decomposition
means. Our brother and the middle
Wilmot had just got up and gone to the
end of the house to see what the noise
was about when the hounds rounded it,
ours and the Thornton dogs forming a
sort of bodyguard to the body and its
bearers, the Wilmot dogs acting as scouts
to the main force.,
Well, the dogs dropped their bone
of contention at our father’s feet, wagged
their tails and grinned at us and then
sat down and panted or walked round
stiff-legged and muttered insults. Our de-
cision was prompt. It was made with a
crowbar, picks and shovels, ourselves and
the visitors working savagely until we
had that pig a good four feet under-
ground. Then we boys were sent off with
shovels to attend to the pieces of pig
which marked the progress of the funeral
procession. That done. Father called in
a faint voice for tea.
Revived, we somehow got to talking
about work and digging and strength and
related things, and the upshot was a con-
test with the lazy-stick. After everybody
had pulled everybody else, with the usual
argument, Mr. Thornton did his favorite
trick. Most of us had seen Mr. Thornton
do his trick for years and, because he
was such a decent old cove and more
likely to give you his shirt than a black
look, we always appeared to be mighty
impressed and nobody ever beat him at
it. It consisted of laying an axe flat on
the ground, then taking the extreme end
of the handle in one hand and, keeping
hand, wrist and forearm on the ground,
lifting the axe and putting it through a
vertical half-circle to lay it the other way.
Anyone with strong wrists and a bit
of practice can do it, but we always made
great, struggling efforts, accompanied by
shouts of encouragement from the others,
and though we sometimes managed to
get the axe almost over never quite did
it, to the complete satisfaction of Mr.
Thornton, who would walk around flex-
ing his forearm and admiring himself
and at the same time being so unassum-
ing about it that we never could find it
in ourselves to disabuse him. It was his
only vanity and it hurt nobody.
After the axe-lifting there was a bit of
high-jumping and some hop, step and
jump. This, of course, was where we
boys shone against our fathers, though,
from what they said, none of us could
hop, step or jump with either the manner
or the ease of the young men of their
time. Our brother often said that back
in 1549 there must have been some won-
derful young fellows about, seeing that
each generation of old fellows always
reckoned their youth was greater than
the present one.
After the jumping we got on to weight-
lifting. That was where Father came in.
He was a great weight-lifter, was Father,
and knew all the knacks of it. He and
old Archimedes would have had a great
: session together on the finer points of
leverage. We boys have seen our father
manhandle whacking great logs, bags of
manure and wheat, heavy rams and
things like that as other men juggle with
palings, butts of chaff or pups.
This day Father got us to bring out
a bag of wheat and lay it on the ground,
Then he challenged anybody to lift it
from the ground, put it across the shoul-
ders and carry it back to the shed. If
you want to know how hard it is, try it.
We all had a go, and, though our brother
and Les Wilmot managed to get the bag
on to their shoulders, their strength gave
out at that point.
Father strode forth. He hitched his
pants, pretended to spit on his hands,
stood the bag up, stooped so that it rested
against one knee, locked his hands under
it and gave a heave. Up came the bag
and Father bent under it, his plan being
to move forward and straighten up with
it across his shoulders. At that instant
the Wilmot staghound—which had been
greatly interested —decided the bag meant
Father no good and he rushed it. For an
instant we had the fleeting spectacle of
bag and dog rising above Father, then
down went all three in a shower of
grunts, yelps and wheat as the bag burst.
It winded Father, frightened a week’s
growth out of Mother and put a sudden
stop to the day’s sports.


puendly- to- the
tyujJitincj, tyosicei- all
who nte- Qillette. Qladei
When you open a packet
of Gillette Blades, here’s a
way to double their life. Don’t tear the blade out of the
envelope. Unwrap it 'carefully. Don’t touch the cutting
edge. Pick the blade up at the end. And when you wash
a Gillette Blade, rinse in clean water and dry it gently on
a smooth towel.
With this care, you will find the keen, electrically tempered
edge of your Gillette Blades will last twice as long.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
B LADES
SIX SERVICES
for
Essential Transport
m
fd\
IGNITION SERVICE
A well serviced electrical
system prevents waste
of fuel and time, en-
sures engine efficiency.
Have battery and igni-
tion serviced regularly.
Your vehicles, being
on essential work,
need these Six Services
regularly. Because re-
placement of disabled
vehicles is difficult,
every owner, every
driver owes a duty to
the Nation to avoid
breakdowns and to
keep his essential
vehicle on the job.
BRAKE SERVICE
Fierce' brakes or dis-
torted brake drums
cause excess tyre wear.
Inefficient brakes are
dangerous to life and
load.
Itl
GAS PRODUCER SERVICE
Wise in the ways of gas pro-
ducers, General Motors
Dealers will give expert advice
and service, ensuring greatest
power from fuel, trouble-free
operation, longest unit life.
dsf
SS&u
Hi
sums v jo un
CORRECT LUBRICATION
The lubrication services of an
efficient Service Station keep
wear down to the lowest limit,
thereby preventing waste of
replacement parts, which are
a vital national asset.
r
m
fi
r\
w
OS
#
rr
LONGER LIFE FOR TYRES
Rubber is a vital war need. Proper
tyre service, with correction of
faults, adds many thousands of
miles to the life of an essential
vehicle’s set of tyres.
ENGINE CHECK AND TUNE UP
Without taking anything apart, an
efficient Service Station checks
accurately the engine carburettion,
compression and operating effi-
ciency, preventing loss of power,
loss of time, waste of fuel.
ds
AND SAVE BV BUYING WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
General Motors
Dealer
BEDFORD — BUICK—CADILLAC
—CHEVROLET — G.M.C. — OLDS-
MOBILE—PONTIAC - VAVXHALL
GENERAL
Brisbane -
MOTORS— HOLDEN'S LIMITED
Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
GMH 9/15
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy clean copies of Express to Hin-
dustan and the Long Lead, by M. H. Ellis. —
3291.
Instructions to construct and manipulate a
Pu.*ch and Judy show, also script of dialogue.
—3293.
Any details, such as name of author of words,
composer of music or publisher of an Aus-
tralian patriotic song entitled “Australia, God’s
Land of Morning Light,” which used to be
sung in some schools about 20 years ago?—
3289.
Postcard or other photographs of Kingsford
Smith, Keith and Ross Smith, A. H. Cobby,
P. G. Taylor, Bert Hinkler, Oswald Watt,
Arthur Butler, Ray Parer, J. C. McIntosh,
F. H. McNamara, Harold Gatty, Hubert
Wilkins, John Dugan, “Buss” Wagner, Paddy
Finucane and Wiley Post, also pictures of the
’planes in which they flew. —3290.
Address of J.S.P., who inquired concerning
storage-battery chemical equations.—3294.
Address of Dr. Arthur Strange, whose last
known address was care Barclay’s Bank, Bula-
wayo, S. Rhodesia. —3292.
Information Sought.
(1) Rudolf Hess is described as being a
prisoner of State. What is the distinction as
against being held as a .prisoner of war ? Any
extra privileges? (2) Any recent news about
Captain von Rintelen ?
(1) Hess is a prisoner of war and is treated
as such. The treatment of prisoners of war is
governed by international conventions. The
treatment of a prisoner of State is the affair
of the Power which holds him. Usually the
prisoner is confined in circumstances of com-
parative comfort without obligation to labor
and has more liberty than the ordinary prisoner.
(2) Not since his internment in Britain late in
1939.
* * * ♦
What is the story depicted by the willow pat-
tern in crockery ?
Kong Shee, beautiful daughter of a rich
mandarin, fell in love with her father’s scribe,
Chang, but as the father intended her for rich
old man he dismissed Chang. However, Chang
returned and carried off Kong Shee. The
father, with two slaves armed with whips, pur-
sued the pair, who escaped and lived in the little
cottage seen in the design, till the wicked old
suitor found and burnt their home. The lovers
were burnt to death, but their souls arose in
the form of doves. The genuine willow pat-
tern shows five trees —apple, peach, plum, fir
and willow —two doves above, two men on the
bridge with the father, and a temple in the left
foreground. Thomas Minton pioneered the use
of the pattern.
* * * ¥
Did trade-unionists in Melbourne refuse to
unload timber from Russia in 1930, and, if so,
for what reason ?
There was no case of unionists refusing to
unload timber from Russia in 1930, but that
was the year in which the Timber Workers’
Union started a campaign, supported by most
of the employers, to induce the Scullin Gov-
ernment to impose a tariff on imported timber,
most of which came from Finland and the
Scandinavian countries. It was successful. A
Victorian miller did complain in the press that
a ship had arrived with timber loaded by “slave
labor” in Leningrad. You may have heard a
distorted echo of the controversy.
♦ * * *
(1) Were the properties of German planters
in New Guinea during and after the last war
confiscated outright? (2) Did they receive com-
pensation ? (3) Generally speaking, how were
they treated with regard to their plantations
and business interests ?
(1) No, they were taken over at valuation.
(2) Yes. They were paid on the basis of valua-
tion in the mark at the rate of exchange when
appropriation took place (1920). (3) In most
cases valuations were reasonable, or even
generous, but delay in the settlement of the
affairs of many for three or four years caused
hardship, since in the interval German ex-
change became inflated.
* * * *
(1) What instruments constitute a modern
orchestra ? (2) What is the difference between a
symphony orchestra and a dance band ?
(1) Instrumentation of 8.8. C. Symphony
Orchestra, London, is typical. It consists of 12
first violins, 10 second violins, eight violas, eight
’cellos, six double basses, two harps; three
bassoons, double bassoon, two clarinets, E-flat
clarinet, bass clarinet, piccolo, three flutes;
four oboes, six horns, eight trumpets, three
trombones, tenor tuba, bass tuba, tympani and
other percussion instruments, and organ. (2)
Dance bands are much smaller. Instrumenta-
tion includes strings, wood-wind, brasses and
percussion instruments, with emphasis on saxo-
phones and trombones.
5F ♦ * ♦
Particulars of The Bulletin Prior Prize for
authors, date of closing and any rules and
conditions ?
Temporarily the practice of inviting authors
to send in manuscripts for judgment has been
abandoned. Until further notice is given the
prize will be awarded each year to the most
noteworthy contribution to Australian literature
published during the year—-the year being com-
puted as from June 6 to June 6.
* * sS *
How did the “Ode to Darwin’’ get past the
Religious Editor ( R.P. 18/3/ ’42) without some
cursing about “parodies” and “reprints”? I
first saw it in Robert Graves’s “Lars Porsena,
or The Future of Swearing” (1928).
Have another look at your Lars Porsena.
Graves refers to two “bloody” poems, but not
to the Darwin one. He mentions Goodge’s
“Stockman” and Dennis’s “Austral- aise,”
both of which first appeared fin The Bulletin.
In printing the Darwin “Ode” it was mentioned
that it was “anew version of an old Bulletin
outburst,” meaning that it derived from Goodge.
The Darwin “Ode” is not in The Bulletin’s
copy of Lars Porsena.
* * * *
•When a warship is training its guns on a
target, what allowance is made for the rising
and falling motion of the warship ?
The detail is too long to set out; but basi-
cally, all ranging depends on the use of a highly-
accurate visual range-finder.
* * * *
(1) How could a youth become a journalist
or reporter in Maoriland ? (2) Education
standard required? (3) Prospects?
(1) Try to get a cadetship on a country news-
paper. smaller and further outback the
better. There should be plenty of openings of
that sort just now with every fit male in camp
or on war-essential work. (2) Sixth-standard
pass at least, supplemented by copious and
omnivorous reading. (3) For the right type of
youngster, excellent.
* * * *
How can taste and smell be removed from
jug which has been used for measuring turpen-
tine ?
Wash jug in hot water and soap, and while
still wet sprinkle thickly inside and out with
chloride of lime, wrap in paper and leave over-
night. Next day wash again, and finally steep
24 hours in water strongly flavored with good
vinegar. A final rinsing should suffice.
Method of preparing candied peel from
oranges and lemons?
Peel off thickest white part of peel, soak
skin in salt and water for 48 hours (allow one
teaspoon salt to one pint of water), drain, cover
peel with fresh cold water and bring to boil.
Simmer till tender and drain again. For three
orange skins allow sugar and i-pint water.
Boil sugar and water together, not too fast,
pour syrup over peel in a basin and leave for
a week. Strain syrup into saucepan, boil, add
the peel and boil till peel is clear and syrup
nearly gone. Turn on to a plate rubbed with
oil or melted fat; dry in a fairly warm place.
Store in a tin.
* * * *
I wish to cement edges of canvas or cotton
fabric to glass with a cement that can be im-
mersed in water permanently. What do you
advise ?
This glue is not affected by moisture; Cover
broken-up glue with water (just enough to
cover) and steep till glue is soft but still re-
taining its form. Pour off water, replace with
raw linseed oil (to cover) and apply gentle heat
till glue is dissolved in the oil. This glue
dries quickly; use sparingly.
* * * *
Method of preserving and storing new gut
fishing lines which I do not expect to be using
for some time? Also any hints on the care
of same when in use?
Lines should be washed in fresh water after
use, then rewound and placed in an airtight con-
tainer and placed in a cool spot.
♦ * * H=
/ have made some hop beer and had trouble
with it on account of excessive gas. Practi-
cally all the tops blew off. How can I eliminate
some of the gas?
Your recipe must be faulty. Try this one:
Four gallons of water, 31b. crystal sugar, J-pint
yeast, ~}oz. bruised ginger, \oz. isinglass. Boil
hops and ginger in the water for half-hour,
stirring occasionally, add sugar, stir till dis-
solved, then strain into a large open vessel.
When nearly cold add yeast, cover, and leave
24 hours to work. Soak isinglass in |-pint
water, add to beer and bottle next day. Fit
for use in 48 hours —the longer the better.
Brief Answers.
E.F.S.: That model was discontinued in 1934,
when selling price was £14 5s. Assessed com-
pensation, £12, is £2 over current market value.
. ...A.E.W.: The 100 Best Puzzles, by Tom
King (Foulsham and Co.), about Is. 6d., can be
recommended. There is also a good puzzle
book in the Penguin series. Obtainable any
large bookseller, who should be able to supply
list of many others D.J.W.: No data avail-
able as to air resistance of various types of
bombs. As they are streamlined, application of
vacuum gravitation formula would not be far
out except in cases where the height is enor-
mous Quid: Can trace no record of such
a feat J.O’C.: It wasn’t banned. No space
these hard times for full-length quotation
A.E.H.: Information not available —their religion
is their own affair, anyway M.W.T.:
The article appeared in the “Age” of 5/6/’42.
. ...M.L.; The Commonwealth Child Endow-
ment legislation was brought in by the Menzies
Government —on March 27, 1941. H. E. Holt,
then Minister for Labor and National Ser-
vice, moved that the bill be read a second time
and said “It is my happy privilege to introduce
to the House a measure that will contribute
materially to the welfare of 1,000,000 Australian
children in 500,000 Australian families”
R.D.L.: It’s a wide question, but here is one
definition: “Totalitarian —a term denoting the
single-party, dictatorial system of government,
based on the ‘totality of the State,’ a% opposed
to the liberal conception of the State which
allots to the State only certain portions of life
while reserving others (and as many as possible)
to the free decision of the individual. The
‘total State’ extends the sphere of State in-
fluence over the whole of life, public as well
as private, and exacts full submission of the
individual to the demands of the State. National
Socialist Germany and Fascist Italy are types


Missing Friend.
I, ISABEL RAMSAY LETHAM, formerly
United States nationality, now Stateless, born
at Chatswood, N.S.W., and resident 13 years
in Australia, now residing at 12 Foam Street,
Harbord, Manly, intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-36.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce).
Launceston District Registry.
TO ANNIE MAY PEARCE formerly of Laun-
ceston in the State of Tasmania. —TAKE
NOTICE that a petition has been filed in this
Court endorsed with a notice to you to appear
and answer the charges in the petition of
WILLIAM THOMAS PEARCE of No. 118
Elizabeth Street Launceston in the State of Tas-
mania praying for a dissolution of marriage
In default of you so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said petition proved
and pronounce judgment in respect thereto AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid within Thirty days after the date
of this publication an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart
or at the Launceston District Registry Cameron
Street Launceston. — (1.5.) W. H. VERRALL,
District Registrar.
PART OF AN INCH
When error may mean death—when the lives of the
Empire's fighting men hang on the thread of extreme
accuracy —when the thousandth part of an inch may
spell disaster or success—then it is that Australia s
Industrial Army must give of their best.
Armed with the tools of Science, housed in a modern
factory, the men of E.T.C. take their place in the front
line of Industry, guiding with patience and extreme
precision the machines and instruments which produce
war equipment for the nation.
And out of the seeming chaos, above the din and
clamour of this wartime factory, runs a steady stream
of finely made equipment worthy to carry the com-
pany's hall mark— "A fecn/co Product."
Speeding through the skies on missions of defence or
destruction, men of the air arm may be content that
"they also serve" who carry on in the factories' front
line.
When the last battle is over and victory is won, history
will be written of the men who served on the industrial
front and gave of their best in a nation's need.
■
m
M
V-
i
mm
...
m
i f MK2
I
mm
m
mm
V
SHi
r
i
m
m
fds
lecnico
E. T. C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CHR. CARRINGTON RD. AND RENW I C R ST, II ARRICK * U I R. «. S. W.
3-33-41
f
ds
CRAVEN A
nevei vetim- tita/te,,
always smmik*flesh!
10 lor lid. 20 for I'lo
E 1867
PREVENT SORE THROATS
of totalitarian States”... .E.H.W.: Strathnaver
—twin screw, turbine, gross tonnage 22,283,
length 638.7 ft., breadth 80.2 ft., depth 33.1tt.,
speed 201 knots; Queen Mary—quadruple screw,
turbine, gross tonnage 81,235, length 975.2 ft.
breadth 118.6 ft., depth 68.5 ft., speed 28 knots;
Normandie—quadruple screw, gross tonnage
83,423, length 962 ft., breadth 117.7 ft., depth
91.8 ft., speed 28£ knots. H.M.S. Hood had a
gross tonnage of 42,100 tons, length 862tt.,
beam 105 ft., draught 28ft. 6in., 144,000-h.p.,
speed 31 knots... .C.V.M.; It is under the
authority of the Department of Commerce....
D.S.N.: In Sydney rent is paid for water meters,
but not for light or gas meters J.M.McL.:
Sorry, can’t help you; perhaps a firm manur
factoring razor blades could assist... .C.W.L.8.:
Curtis Brown, Ltd., 347 Madison-avenue, New
Y0rk....J.A.: Write to the Mercantile Marine
Office, York-street North, Sydney.... J.F.M.:
Try the Department of Agriculture, Sydney....
L.G.N.: Write legibly on one side of the paper.
Enclose stamps if you want contribution re-
turned. All matter accepted is paid f0r....
L.C.H.: Write to Naval Recruiting Officer,
Naval Staff Office, Edgecliff, Sydney.... J.M.G.;
The Public Library, Brisbane, should be able
to help you... .E.H.8.: Kodaks, Sydney or
Melbourne, should have the information....
J.M.G.: Suggest you get in touch with the
Curator, Taronga Park, Sydney... .J.K.R.:
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, are book pub-
lishers... .0.G.5.: Write to the Society of
Australian Genealogists, 91a Phillip-street, Syd-
ney ... .R.F.D.: Address of the publishers is
Robertson and Mullens, 107-113 Elizabeth
street, Melbourne... .H.H.S.: “Spoonfuls”
and “cupfuls” are correct... .R.R.: Write to
the N. S. Wales Prices Branch, Customs De-
partment, 2 Carrington-street, Sydney... .J.G.:
Sorry, don’t know the address; perhaps the
Trades Hall, Adelaide, could help y0u....
W.A.W.: Write to the Department of Patents
and Copyright, Trade-marks and Designs,
Commonwealth Bank Building, 3 Martin-place,
Sydney 1.M.L.: By applying himself dili-
gently to his work; you might obtain some
useful advice from the Sydney University
J.J.P.: Write to the Agricultural Department
or C.S.I.R. —both Melbourne G.A.B. and
C.T.: Write to the Taxation Department, Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
S.W.:
One day the British nation
—A wonderful creation —
Was called to war
Some days before
She’d made much preparation.
Spot:
Be courteous to “officials” when they tell you what
to do.
Remember on a small farm you only see a few.
There are thousands in the City, all at their battle-
stations.
Armed to the teeth with red-tape and a million
regulations.
A.S, —
Freedom from taxation
Is my present ambition.
K.H.C.: “Never will barbarous foe our
freedom lop.” True; but never did elegant line
so sadly f10p... .M.G.P.; Keep at it
H.E.H.: “This Empire poet is recalled once
more.” How can the Muse dance on those
flat feet? T.A.H.: Sing ’em or suppress
’em J.W.C.: That one dates from the last
war and has been attributed to about 75 dif-
ferent authors... But why did you
use the “thirst” phrase in the midst of all that
rain? J.D.: “They are not poetry and are
not meant to be.” When you’ve got such a good
theme, why not work on it and make it poetry?
P.D.McC.: Easy come, easy go J. 5.8.:
Charming as her dimple may be, and charming
as her twinkle, you should try to rhyme her
correctly E.D.: Dunno where you could
place those “Imps.” The Zoo, P9ssibly
E.S.: The sentimental touch ruins it....
M.E.J.: How on earth did you achieve that
lovely third stanza after the clumsiness of the
two preceding ones?
TO ARTISTIC (AND - INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
MBS : The oldest drunk-moon-reflection gag
vilely iilustrated E.D.: A mong. is pulling
at one end of a hollow log and the other end
has a hat over it and is saying something; so
w hat? P.L.G.: The fireman would have no
difficulty in stepping to the ground from the
top of that extension ladder R.V.L.: (1)
Complimentary covering letter ; (2) insufficient
postage ; (3) pictorial atrocity Billo: You
gave Dad feet that would make a traffic cop’s
look like those of a Chinese woman P.N.H.;
Joke about butcher putting cat through mincer
has no meat in it J.S.: Sketch of a couple
of booze artists standing before small beers and
a huge pile of counterlunch made us go out and
have a stiff one to get over the shock Bert
C.: Those characters might interest a pak-a-pu
ticket printer.


Can yon
rely upon
an individual ?
A Trustee should administer your Estate to
the greatest advantage of your beneficiaries,
a task needing business wisdom, constant
devotion of time to the duties involved over
a considerable period, and sound technical
knowledge. He must be completely trust-
worthy. Should you find a friend possessing
all these qualifications, and appoint him
Trustee—he may die before completing his
duties —age may sap wisdom—misfortune
may befall him.
But should you nominate The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited,
these circumstances cannot arise. Consti-
tuted under Act of Parliament, and answer-
able to the Courts, it is absolutely trustworthy.
It devotes its whole time and energy to the
administration of Trusts. It has the necessary
knowledge of the technicalities relating to
Trusts, is controlled by Directors of proved
capacity, and . . . the Company “goes on
for ever”.
Charges are moderate. For details write or
call upon;
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, 1958,760 .
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.0.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, 0.8. E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.O.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart: R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER; J, W. Russell French.
=■ Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes
and Agency Company Ltd,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : 87361. Branches in All States. 139 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
, Dividends ■,
Prefs. To Be- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£* £> £,£/£*
1932.. 27,254 13,152 4 p.c. = 20,816 148,501
1933.. 38,193 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 4,225 152,726
1934.. 34,272 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 304 153,030
1935.. 48,474 13,152 5 „ „ 26.020 9,302 162,332
1936.. 56,686 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 17,514 179,846
1937.. 73,835 13,152 5.8„ „ 29,923 80,759 210,605
1938.. 85,097 13,152 84 „ „ 44,235 27,710 238,315
To staff fund, £5OOO . . .. 233,315
From contingencies, £13,000. . .. 246,315
1939.. 56,366 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,225 11,989 258,304
1940.. 56,684 13,152 6 „ „ 31,225 12,307 270,611
Plantations written down £20,000,
“mainly” from inner reserves.
From dividend suspense, £6939 .. 277,550
1941.. 55,306 13,152 6 p.c. = 31-.225 10,929 288,479
To Fiji Bomber Fund, £5OOO .. 283,479
1942.. 61,770 13,152 6 p.c.= 31,224 17,394 300,873
To Fiji Fighter Fund, £5500 . . 295,373
“The book value of property in districts
mainly dependent upon the sugar and
gold industries now far exceeds that of
assets in districts dependent upon copra,”
the board of this big Fijian trader and
plantation-owner reported a couple of
years back. But the potent influence the
dried kernel of the coconut still exerts in
Island affairs generally is evident in last
year’s expansion of earnings, struck after
providing £47,292 (up £25,996) for depre-
ciation. Loss to the Japs of chief world-
producing areas of this source of vege-
table oil enabled the co. to liquidate its
heavy unmarketable stocks of a year ago
“at good profits,” a part only of which
has been taken up in the accounts under
review. Copra trading, however, is be-
coming a monopoly among the Govern-
ments concerned, and at this distance it
isn’t clear how Morris, Hedstrom and
others may be affected by the recent de-
cision of the United Nations to pool
accessible copra supplies and handle their
own distribution.
So far war has had no direct effect, in
the sense of material damage, in those
areas in which the co. operates. There-
fore no direct provision has had to be
made for war losses. Should these ever
occur, there is nearly £300,000 of visible
reserves, all in liquid form, available
for the purpose. A “certain amount of
further provision” in an internal manner,
to which the board now modestly con-
fesses, has been accumulated over a long
period and can be taken as no mean sum
either. Symbolic of this is the writing-
down of plantations which cost £120,000
to £26,508, while station properties in
Samoa, Tonga and Rotuma are admitted
to be in at a “purely nominal figure.”
Among other assets, subsidiary share-
holdings, shown at £87,637, are particu-
larly inscrutable.
Despite the additions to expense and
inroads into profit margins resulting from
Government controls, which are increas-
ing monthly, over prices, imports, ex-
change, etc., defence spending and the
changed outlook for copra brought an
expansion of £39,829 in gross earnings
from trading (£226,357). Exes, (in-
cluding something for bad and doubt-
ful debts and the heavier depreciation
mentioned) lifted £39,631 to £174,801.
Including a prior addition of £6821 (up
£2872) to insurance reserves and Austra-
lian investment income of £3393, there
was thus an extra £6464 to show to share-
holders at £61,770, That was enough to
meet the pref. charge and show 9.3 p.c.
on the £520,407 of ord. capital, against
8.1 p.c. for the 12 months before. The
div. was kept stable at 6 p.c. all round,
and from the balance the management
proposes paying for a fighter ’plane, a
war gift worth an estimated £5500.
Expressed in Fijian currency these
figures and those before would look 11
p.c. bulkier if converted to Australian
money:
1933. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £739,613 £739,613 £739,613 £739,613
Deposits . . 12,420 4,946 6,847 1,631
Creditors, etc. 18,228 18,999’ 19,156 36,285
Plantations .. ‘65,524 49,247 29,193 26,508
Land, buildings,
plant, etc. . . 331,762 303,195 303,900 278,070
Stocks, etc. .. 212,276 337,110 231,652 249,297
Investments &
cash .. 142,025 167,256 315,854 411,621
Capital value
branches, etc. 65,706 92,760 81,539 49,610
Book debts, etc. 132,596 133,950 129,967 116,113
Profitable utilisation of cash balances,
which amount to £228,632, is one of the
problems at the moment. Even if mer-
chandise stocks, the norm'al outlet for
these funds, were not impossible to replen-
ish fully, it would be risky policy to hold
large supplies in areas in which the Gov-
ernments concerned have made no pro-
vision for war-risk insurance. Unstated
holdings in Australian stocks were
written down to market values at the
end of March, and prices have risen since.
Prestige, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends \ To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 19,189 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 15,799 3,390 95,707
Share premiums, £5725 .. .. 101,432
1933.. 19,267 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 16,556 2,711 104,143
1934.. 19,796 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 331 104,474
1935.. 21,807 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 2,342 106,816
1936.. 25,540 8 „ 124 „ 22,270 3,270 110,086
1987.. 25,291 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 5,826 115,912
1938.. 10,968 8 „ 7J „ 16,659 110,221
1939.. 25,271 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 5,806 116,027
Prestige, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.*
Surplus sale plant, £4056 .. .. 111,346
1940.. 30,511 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 19,465 11,046 122,392
1941.. 30,120 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 10,655 133,047
1942.. 36,694 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 17,229 150,276
* Profits shown less outsiders’ interest.
After adjusting 1941 figures for £8585
short-provided for taxation, latest group
results show an advance of £6574. So
rationalisation and the big change in the
nature of production have so far done
net earnings no harm, present unprece-
dented taxation notwithstanding. From
a business entirely engaged in the manu-
facture of high-grade women’s hosiery and
lingerie, the co. is now one mainly occu-
pied on defence work. Assisting that
transformation have been a new depart-
ment for turning out specialised woven
fabrics and another for production of
clothing and kindred requirements of the
services—both developments within the
past 12 months or so.
All this and the launching of Dye-
craft Pty. the year before to expand the
specialised dyeing and finishing side of
things have been accomplished without
capital values getting much spread on,
cost being met from depreciation pro-
visions :
Prestige,
Ltd. , ‘ Cons. Figures
1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £215,259 £215,259 £215,259 £215,259
Outside capital! 29,950 30,000 30,000
Overdraft .. 69,299 27,968
Sundry creditors* 45,457 109,004 104,339 129,152
Freeholds .. 80,581 105,369 108,531 110,727
Plant, etc. . . 111,786 107,588 91,122 103,818
Shares other cos. 72,546
Stocks.. .. 134,816 216,572 294,165 244,997
Book debts, etc. 50,484 39,474 35,663 47,366
Cash, etc. .. 1,055 21,037 3,162. 31,216
t Prestige (N.Z.) prcfs. * Including tax/ provision.
In three years these allowances hive come
to £126,351, £40,150 being the latest
term’s contribution. So the working
assets are being well looked after, and
that has been the aim and (because of its
influence on costs) one of the secrets of
the management’s success all along. The
difficulty of replenishment made notice-
able impression on the big stock-pile
during the year. But the co. shouldn’t
itself now need to carry the reserves the
import problem dictated prudent when
producing solely for the civilian market.
Allowing for the taxation earlier men-
tioned, the expansion in last term’s earn-
ings was all on account of the efficient
Melbourne parent’s activities, £24,554 of
the profit coming from this source. The
parent’s equity in net of the pups was
almost stable at £12,140, though the big-
gest of them. Prestige (N.Z.), reported
reduced output owing to labor call-ups.
The aggregate of £36,694 thus shown was
sufficient to meet the parent’s 8 p.c. pref.
charge (£8244) and then show 25.3 p.c.
on its £112,209 of ord. capital, as against
19.5 p.c. and 19.8 p.c. for the two years
before.
The 10 p.c. div. that has almost invari-
ably gone out since 1930 left nearly as
much as was distributed to benefit
finances and, incidentally, lighten the im-
pact of profit restriction upon returns to
shareholders. Though the base restric-
tion stays at 4 p.c., the concession to
return a fifth of excess earnings leaves a
path open (even though a narrow one)
to increase rewards the harder and more
efficiently plant is worked, provided ade-
quate depreciation is allowed by the tax
man. Whether the new plant will prove
redundant at the cessation of hostilities
will partly depend on the extent costs can
be kept down now.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 36,051 8 p.c. = 35,496 555 156,745
1933.. 35,589 8 „ „ 35,496 93 156,838
1934.. 35,954 8 „ „ 35,496 458 157,296
1935.. 40,924 8 ~ 35,496 5,428 162,724
1936.. 41,006 8 „ „ 35,496 6.510 168,234
1937.. 36,911 8 „ „ 35,496 415 168,649
1938.. 42,915- 8$ „ „ 37,714 5,201 173.850
1939.. 40,191 9 „ „ 39,933 258 174,108
1940.. 42,530 9J „ „ 42,152 378 174,486
1941-. 39,685 10 „ „ 44,370 169,801
1942.. 27,529 8i „ 37,715 159,615
War-time operating costs have rendered
ship property a lot less profitable these
days, the prices office exercising rigid con-
trol over shipping freights. That is, as re-
gards those ventures the running of whose
fleets hasn’t been taken out of their
owners’ hands by the Shipping Control
Board. This hasn’t occurred with intra-
state shippers like the North Coast,
though there have been requisitions by
the Navy which have forced considerable
curtailment of normal services. Thus for
the second year in succession, and only
the third occasion since the early days
of the century, visible reserves were
drawn on to pay N.C.S.N.’s div.
Not that that in itself is any cause for
alarm, as one of the purposes of reserves
should be to equalise divs. between the
good times and the bad. And there are
reasons for believing that the heap shown
above is not the only provision of its
kind. Certainly, considering the size of
the fleet, there is no evidence of any
barnacles encrusting these assets:
1931. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £443,700 £433,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities* . . 30,859' 50,578 70,604 78,354
Ships .. . . 298,238 314,401 266,058 267,195
Freeholds, etc. 35,859 16,383 15,038 14,403
Liquids . . 318,837 357,568 425,194 417,813
* Including tax provision.
Because of priority buildings, the order
for a steel vessel has not been com-
pleted. A new wooden one, how-
ever, was taken over for service from its
local builders, but the cost of ships of
this type has become too expensive for
their limited carrying capacity. This new
commissioning isn’t apparent in finances,
final payments on which were apparently
covered by the year’s depreciation
(£20,000, down £2000). Of the fat pile of
liquids shown, £332,800 represents Aus-
tralian Consolidated Stock, and returns
from here are a handy stabiliser as far
as the div. goes.
In the shipping of farm and dairy pro-
duce to city markets and the backloading
of supplies for storekeepers and others —
a business largely immune from fluctua-
tions in the length of inter-State mani-
fests and vagaries of the coal trade—the
gamble is mainly with seasons, which
affect the volume of production. Though
the position has improved, Nature has
been obstinate over the past couple of
years, and with the man-power problem
which indiscriminate call-ups have
brought output has been reduced to a
level below which Britain has been willing
and able to provide shipping to take.
Combine this with requisitionings, the
50 p.c. increase in seamen’s wages since
war’s commencement, the climb in taxa-
tion, insurance, fuel and other costs and
the past two years’ recession in earnings
is explained. In p. and 1., the freight lift
granted early in the last term proved in-
adequate to offset these factors by
£12,156, reducing declared net to 6.4 p.c.
on capital, and £10,186 more than that
was distributed in the reduced p.c. div.
In the current term much will depend
on how another adjustment in freights,
which became operative from July 1 and
lifted them to 22i p.c. above pre-
war levels, pans out, and on precisely
what inner reserves exist to lighten the
modified 4-p.c.-profits policy Federal
Labor appears so definite about.
Moulded Products (Australasia)
, Dividends N Towards
Pref. Re-
Dee., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Share-issue and removal exes., £5431.. 5,538
1939.. 5,448 7 p.c. = 3,597 1,851 3,687
Share-issue exes., £1251 .. .. .. 4,938
1940.. 8,455 451 8 p.c. = 6,377 2,627 2,311
Share-issue exes., £lOOO .. .. .. 3,311
Share premiums, £3OOO .. .. .. 311
Reserves.
1941.. 8,368 1600 8 p.c. = 5,926 842 531
The versatility of plastics, base of which
is natural and synthetic resins, is oust-
ing wood, glass, stone and metal over
an expanding range of products. Plastics
can be almost any size, shape or color.
They can be shock-proof, fire-resisting,
acid-proof, heat- or electrically-insulating
according to the purpose in hand. They
can be moulded into intricate shapes like
telephones, stamped into minute parts for
electrical equipment, tooled to make
silent gears and pinions, or pressed into
indestructible polished surfaces for table-
tops and other furnishings. Though de-
velopment has been rapid, in the right
hands the possibilities appear to have
been little more than scratched over in
Australia. In some respects war has
slowed down that progress because of
the difficulty of obtaining essential


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt. •
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
IQ-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Personal and Missing friends.
GEHAN.—WiII any person knowing the where-
abouts of MICHAEL FRANCIS GEHAN
and WALTER CLARENCE GEHAN, children
of the late Kate Gehan, of Stawell, Victoria,
who died in April, 1904, please ask them to
communicate with the EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne?
TO DAVID YOUNG formerly of McKillop
Street Geelong in the State of Victoria Textile
Worker but now of parts unknown .-—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife DOROTHY ADEL-
AIDE YOUNG has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of
desertion Unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s Office Law Courts Mel-
bourne on or before the 20th day of August
1942 the case may proceed in your absence
and a decree for dissolution of marriage may
be granted and you may be ordered to pay
costs If you intend to defend this suit you
must also file an answer in the said office on
or before the 31st day of August 1942 Dated
this 22nd day of July, 1942.— PHILIP R-
FRASER, Yarra Street, Geelong, Solicitor for
the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARTHA ANN PETERSON and JOSEPH
MOLYNEUX late of Cremome Sydney
TAKE NOTICE that CHARLES CARL
PETERSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 960 of 1942 on the ground of adultery If
you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance before the Sixteenth day of October 1942
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from CLIFTON R. PENNY Solicitor 81
Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO MARY ELLEN SEYMOUR late of Ken-
sington.—TAKE NOTICE that FRANK
SIDNEY SEYMOUR has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 575 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance before the T enty-
third day of October One thousand nine hun-
dred and forty-two and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from MESSRS.
KALESKI & HARRIS Solicitors 39 Martin
Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERIC HAROLD CLULOW late of Mc-
Donald Street Lakemba in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN
MARJORIE CLULOW has filed a Petition for
DIVORCE No. 165 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance by the Ninth October
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition from
MAURICE JAMES McGRATH Solicitor 56
Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
OW
mm
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous arid
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for thi*
amazing new treatment.
z\m
T.JONES £ CO.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
The Queensland National Bank Limited
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE, 16th JULY, 1942.
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF T
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
The Directors now beg to submit the One-hundredth and seventeenth Report, with the
Balance Sheet and Auditors’ Report attached.
The Net Profit for the Year ended 30th June last, after allowing for Rebate on
Bills Current, Interest Accrued on Deposits and Interminable Inscribed
Deposit Stock, all assessments of Income Land and other Taxes, reducing
Bank Premises and Furniture Accounts £3OOO, making provision or Bad and
Doubtful Debts and all known Contingencies and including Recoveries,
To which is to be added amount brought forward from year ended 30th June,
1941
Omof whidfaif Interim Dividend was'paid'at the ‘rate of 5 p c. per'annum
for the Half-Year ended 31st December, 1941, amounting to
Leaving for Distribution
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows I{V . . ,
Dividend at the rate of 5 p.c. per annum for the Half-Year fcnded 30th
June, 1942
Balance to be Carried Forward
During the period under review our Institution has given every assistance possible to the
furtherance of the Nation’s war effort, all other considerations being regarded as secondary.
Severe drought cSions prevailed over the Southern portion of the State and Northern
New South Wales during the last half of 1941, which was followed early in the cunent year by
«fo £ its Interminable Inscribed
Deposit Stock. , . .
Reserves have not been drawn on during the year. , „
£3OOO has been written off for Depreciation of' Bank Premises and Furniture.
The Balance Sheet herewith is in accordance with the formula prescribed under the
NaU^gX%^ae i ßran B clS i o! SHatk af SouiSiok and Thursday Island have been
closerw^Hgton' ****** Branches have hlso been
The Queensland National Bank Limited
BALANCE SHEET as at close of business on 30th June, 1942,
as required by Regulation 12 of the National Security (War-time Banking Control) Regulations.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital —
400,000 Shares at £5 per
Share
£2,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
-350,000 Shares at £5 per
Share fully paid
£1,750,000 0 0
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Funds (used in the
business of the Bank)
Final Dividend Proposed ..
Balance of Profit and Loss
Account
£1,750,000 0 0
860,000 0 0
43,750 B 0
22,596 16 5
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Interminable Inscribed Deposit
Stock .. • • • •
Deposits, Bills Payable and
other Liabilities, including
Provisions for Contingencies
Notes in Circulation
Balances Due to other Banks
£2,676,346 16 5
3,005,496 4 0
10,024,015 3 0
4,156 12 4
Note. —All assets and liabilities
are expressed in Australian
currency.
£15,710,014 15 9
Contingent Liabilities (under
letters of credit, guarantees,
etc.)
£350,006 11 2
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash
at Bankers ..
Cheques and Bills of • other
Banks
Balances with and due from
other Banks
Money at short call —
(i) London
(ii) Elsewhere
Treasury Bills —
(i) Australian Government
(ii) Other Governments ..
Public Securities (excluding
Treasury Bills) —
(i) Australian Government
Securities (under cost
or face value)
(ii) Other Government
Securities
(iii) Local and Semi-Govern-
mental Authorities’
Securities
Special War-time Deposit Ac-
count with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia .. : •
Bills Receivable and Remit-
tances in Transit
£1,198,022 19 3
204,431 14 9
1,151,960 14 0
15,347 6 7
2,255,205 14 3
485,000 0 0
733,669 19 2
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting
provision for debts con-
sidered bad or doubtful)..
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Sites (at cost, less amounts
written off)
All other Assets
£6,043,638 8 0
9,036,485 11 9
589,187 10 3
40,703 5 9
£15,710,014 15 9
Contingent Assets
contra)
(as per
£350,006 11 2
I DOUGLAS STUART FORBES, General Manager, do solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
’ 1. The foregoing balance sheet is the balance sheet prepared, as at the close of " cmed^bv
June 1942, by The Queensland National Bank Limited m accordance with the form spe by
the Treasurer under the provisions of Regulation 12 of the National Security (War time Ba.nkm a
2. ?hf r c?ntent?ofihTsaid balance sheet are to the best of my knowledge and belief true and correct
AND I by virtue of the “Statutory Declarations Act” 1911-1922. conscientiously
believing the Statements contained herein to be true in every particular. farrfS
Declared at Brisbane the 16th day of July, 1942. _ _ . - . , & I ORBLh '
Before me, F. PACE, a Justice of the Peace in andi for the State of Queensland.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT in respect of the year ended 30th June, 1942,
as required by Regulation 12 of the National Security (War-time Banking Control) Regulations.
To Expenses, Head Office
Branches and Agencies (in-
cluding Directors’ Fees
£2941/6/4) .. •• •• £286,348 8 2
„ Income, Land and Other ,
Taxes • • ~ .. 51,842 8 5
„ Transfer to Taxes Suspense
Account .. .. • • 45,500 0 0
„ Balance, being Net Profit for
the year Carried Down .. 90,673 18 7
£474,364 15 2
To Transfer to Reserve Funds
„ Amounts written off 4Bank
Premises and Furniture ..
„ Other Appropriations
„ Dividends —
Interim Paid £43,750 0 0
Final Pro-
posed Pay-
able .. 43,750 0 0
£3,000 0 0
„ Balance Carried Forward ..
87,500 0 0
22,596 16 5
£113,096 16 5
By Discount and interest earned,
net exchange, commissions
and other income after de-
ducting interest paid and
accrued on deposits, rebate
on bills current at balance
date and appropriations to
the credit of Contingencies
Accounts (out of which
Accounts provision for all
bad and doubtful debts has
been made)
„ Transfer from Taxes Sus-
pense Account
£428,864 15 2
45.500 0 0
£474,364 15 2
By Net Balance brought forward
„ Net Profit for the Year
£22,422 17 10
90,673 18 7
Notei.— All amounts are expressed
in Australian currency.
£113,096 16 5
I DOUGLAS STUART FORBES, General Manager, do solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
’ 1 The foregoing statement of profit and loss is the statement of profit and loss prepared in respect
, of the year ended 30th June, 1942,by The Queensland National Bank Limited in accordance with
the form specified by the Treasurer under the provisions of Regulation 12 of the National {security
(War-time Banking Control) Regulations. ,
2. The contents of the said statement of profit and loss are to the best of my knowledge and belief
true and correct in every particular. . . .
AND I make this solemn declaration by virtue of the “Statutory Declarations Act” 1911-1922, conscientiously
believing the Statements contained therein to be true in every particular. wvdt. m
Declared at Brisbane the 16th day of July, 1942. , D - s - lOKBhs -
Before me, F. PACE, a Justice of the Peace in and for the State of Queensland.
We report that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit
a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank according to the information and explanations
given to us, and as shown by the books on the 30th June, 19J/2.
We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required.
LANCE A. JONES', F.F.I.A. I Auditors
16th July, 1942. E. D. SUMMERSON, F.C.A. (Aust.) )
W. HAMILTON HART, Chairman of Directors.
WM. A. JOLLY, Director.
The usual ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors will be held at the Banking House,
Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on Thursday, 13th August, 1942, at noon . , .
BUSINESS: To receive the Report and Balance Sheet as at 30th June, 1942. lo elect a Shareholders
Director in the place of Henry Cooke Morrow, who retires in accordance with clause 90 of the Articles or
Association; but is eligible for re-election, and offers himself accordingly. To elect two auditors and fix
their remuneration for the ensuing year.
machinery and materials from abroad,
but local sources of supply are being
developed.
Moulded Products is only one in an
industry which includes Die Casters and
A.C.L Dunlops started the co. off in
1930. The business passed into private
hands in 1936, and since the public was
invited in in 1939 there has been over
fourfold expansion in capital account:
Moulded
Products., M.P. and Subsid.
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital . . £24,502 £66,384 £88,183 £105,698
Liabilities . . 47,524 52,506 62,405 63,985
Freehold .. 5,339 29,945 31,183 45,122
Plant, etc. .. 24,670 34,167 37,098 39,995
Stock. . . . 28,906 31,795 55,033 73,367
Debtors, cash,
etc.. .. 13,553 23,815 29,059 23,974
Shares . . 967 *4,000 *4,000
* Modern Plastics (N.Z.).
The last 20,000 ords. were offered at a
3s. premium in July 12 months, and on
this and a previous issue there was
£14,302 at call when the books closed.
In all that development, a feature has
been the moderate lift in plant, the new
money finding its way mainly into free-
holds and stocks, the latter up another
£18,334 to guard against interruption to
imported supplies.
Production of normal lines gave way
largely to defence and other essential
requirements last term. Benefits of the
bigger trading, however, were scooped
up by taxation (£5447 heavier at £9586),
leaving the declared result £B7 lower at
£8368 before debiting share-issue exes, of
£lOOO. After charging pref. divs., that
pulled eaming-power on average ord.
capital back from 11.9 p.c. to 9.1 p.c.;
8 p.c. again went out, the p.c. prefs.
participating.
Though depreciation of £7661 looks
adequate, a little more conservatism in
profit disposition might not have been
out of place. The inability to accumu-
late anything in the way of visible re-
serves so far will make the 4-p.c,-profits
axe fall heavily —if it falls.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) is still awaiting
clarification of the effects of withdrawal
of labor from its goldmine and limita-
tion of profits before considering the
dividends usually declared in May. The
two interim distributions in respect of
1941 were unchanged. For 1940 the
final payment was 20 p.c., making 40
p.c. (less tax) for the year, against 50 p.c.
on the 10s. shares in both 1939 and 1938.
In 1941 the final declaration was accom-
panied by a first interim for 1941. Latest
monthly progress report shows that the
improvement in values in the No. 31
(bottom) level recently noted is being
maintained.
« * * •
On July 14 an Adelaide meeting of
Blue Bird Gold Mines, N.L., resolved to
wind up the co., and appointed C. W. L.
Muecke liquidator, an appointment con-
firmed subsequently by creditors. Three
days later certain Westralian creditors
successfully petitioned Chief Justice
Northmore in Perth for the compulsory
liquidation of the concern. Petitioners’
counsel said it was clear the co. couldn’t
pay its debts. Its liabilities —owed mainly
to Westralian traders —amounted to
£15,738, while its sole assets consisted of
mining stock, some plant and an auri-
ferous hole in the ground. The Adelaide
liquidator opposed the petition, but the
Chief Justice upheld the contention of the
petitioners that creditors in Westralia,
where all the assets were, would be preju-
diced by voluntary liquidation in a region
outside the jurisdiction of the Court.
Blue Bird distributed its golden eggs
among shareholders almost as soon as it
laid them. Like the cricket, it sang in
the summer and made no provision for
the winter.
* * * *
Accounts for the year to June of Edna
May Amalgamated, of Westonia (W.A.),
will show less favorable results when
they come to hand. Monthly figures in-
dicate a 23 p.c. fall in battery throughput
(16,000-odd tons) and from 9.2dwt. to
7.7dwt. in the gold yield over the plates
at a time when costs generally have been
cantankerous.
Hi * * ♦
From London:
Shareholders in De Bernales’s ill-fated West-
ralian goldmining group are uncertain how and
where they stand, and wonder what is going to
happen next. First, dealing in shares was
banned by the London Stock Exchange; then the
cos. which comprise the group were voluntarily
wound up and certain of their assets trans-
ferred to a new concern known as Australian
Gold Production, Ltd. The proposals, however,
couldn’t be carried into effect owing to with-
holding of consent by the British Treasury.
Later it was reported that the cos. of the gioup
which had local operating concerns intended to
ignore the Treasury’s refusal and do as they
liked. Silence has prevailed since.
• * * *
Takuapa Valley Tin, late of Thailand,
discloses its available liquid ’assets as at
Dec. 31 at £A77,073 net, of which £15,741
was repositing in Singapore. Ail but
£6375 of this was subsequently transferred
to London, so about ss. 9d. a share
should be in hand. A buyer of the pound
scrip at 3s. 6d. is therefore acting con-
servatively. Overrunning of the co.’s
properties came at a time when the
dredges were emerging from a lean
period, and —for the present at any rate
—mitigates the management’s foresight in
recently extensively adding to its holdings.


M
m
w
Wfo'ie 'Matt/
5000 POWELL
GAS PRODUCER UNITS
‘ON THE JOB’
h
I
m
HP
r
PROVE POWELL'S
OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE AND RELIABILITY
This preference for Powell, shown by thousands of experienced transport
owners, is a tribute to Powell's superior engineering, outstanding
performance and reliability.
Only Powell Gas Producers can give you . . . Government approved models
up to 40 h.p. . . . famous Bercsinsky Cleaner that reduces engine wear to
"less than with petrol" . . . Como upper-cylinder lubrication system
full range of spare parts and the H. C. Sleigh after-sales services.
Blowers are available for all models.
Insure now against emergency by fitting a Powell Gas Producer.
ds
H. C. SLEIGH
«r
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, or
Powell Dealers throughout Australia
POWELL
GAS PRODUCER UNITS
“Every Winter nad
Terrible Colds”
Nurse's Grateful Letter
“I want to thank you for the wonderful
cough and cold medicine, BUCKLEY S
CANADIOL Mixture. I bought the first
bottle last winter, for the old gentle-
man whom I am taking care of, for he
has had terrible colds every winter.
The first dose helped, and after the
third dose cold was gone—it does such
quick work.” Mrs. C. Davis.
Don’t take chances. For even the most
stubborn, racking cough swiftly yields
to the powerful influence of BUCKLE x s>
CANADIOL (triple acting), the largest-
selling medicine for coughs, colds ana
bronchitis in blizzardly cold Canada.
Get a bottle at any chemist or store.
Business, Rollery, etc.
Will War-time Controls Stay?
The question of “after the war” is
worrying many people willing to make
any sacrifice now to help win the fight
but afraid of consequences if the present
brand of politics endures. Disliking,
while tolerating, many of the war-time
restrictions and burdens, they feel that
the critical position of Australia has been
used to political advantage fay Labor, and
that the unnatural and experimental parts
of the party policy will be pressed on to
the nation with an iron clamp as an all-
time “system,”
But these worried people should not
overlook a few facts. They themselves
can be a potent force after the war in
bringing things back to normal. Again,
assuming that Labor is in office, the
hard facts of circumstances will be
against continuation of war - time
economic policy. People will be heartily
sick of “rationalisation” after they
have put up with restricted varieties
and quantities of food, clothing, luxuries
and entertainments for the duration, and
there will be a clamor —possibly too
soon —for “good-bye to all that.” They
will be after the improved living stand-
ards that they have been promised, and
they won’t get them under “rationalisa-
tion” as it is being practised.
The final proof that what may be very
good in war-time won’t work in peace
comes from the employment factor. When
the war is over the force that has ab-
sorbed all our resources of man-power
and clamored for more will have dis-
appeared. Whereas at the present time
man-power is so short that the Govern-
ment is taking men from industry for
war jobs almost without regard for con-
sequences (Melbourne and Adelaide have
so far felt this more than Sydney), in
the post-war period the big thing will be
to find work for men. Even if the waste
that has been caused by war is a factor
in providing employment, the issue will
not be nearly so simple and clear-cut as
it is at present. All the skill and ex-
perience which are possessed by industry
and which are not obvious inGovernments
and civil servants will be called upon in
order to smooth out the problems that
will come with the peace. The problems
will be far more multitudinous than those
we have encountered during this war. The
spirit of a people at peace is far more
complex than that of a people fighting for
its existence. That is why money can be
raised by a Government with compara-
tive ease in war-time, whereas in other
circumstances a 10 p.c. rise in taxation
rates would put it out of office.
Another thing which raises hopes that
the Commonwealth will throw off
nationalisation and irksome restrictions
after the war is the inbred individuality
of the Australian. If nationalisation
becomes a general policy it eventually
has to affect the body of the people, and
Australians are too realistic and vigorous
to suffer control by bureaucracy for
long. They recognise bureaucracy as one
of the greatest obstructions in their ordi-
nary peace-time existence. They will
not want its influence extended.
The present is an era of cheap money
and high wages. During the depression it
was considered a great thing to have
brought the interest on Government
securities down to 4 p.c. from anything
up to 6 p.c., whereas at present the Com-
monwealth Government is borrowing on
five-year terms at 2\ p.c. and on 16-year
issues at 3| p.c. Bank interest rates
have been reduced proportionately, and
right through the Australian economy it
has been seen to that rates offered are
not unduly competitive with Government
borrowing. Though industry has received
the benefit of cheaper bank accommoda-
tion it has not permanently profited ; the
Prices Commissioner has seen to it that
all cost reductions are reflected in prices
charged, and anything that might escape
his notice isn’t overlooked by the taxa-
tion people. Altogether the bond-
holder type of investor has made sub-
stantial contributions to the national wel-
fare during the present struggle. In
Britain it was pointed out recently that, in
spite of the terrific piling-up of debt as
a result of this war, interest-rate adjust-
ments had made the cost of servicing
the total national debt less than it was
ten years ago.
In Australia, since June 30, 1931, the
national debt has increased by £427 mil-
lion, but in the same time the interest
bill has fallen from £5B million to £52
million. Since the beginning of the
present conflict Australia has added £289
million to its war debt, bringing the total
national debt up to £1583 million on
March 31. Not all the increase in the
debt has been raised from the public on
the open market; a substantial propor-
tion represents short-term debt in the
shape of Treasury bills discounted with
the Commonwealth Bank and the trading
banks. The average rate of interest on
the total debt as at March 31 was £3 9s.
Bd. per cent., compared with a shade over
5 p.c. in 1931. The interest bill on the
£289 million added to our national
responsibilities since war began is £7.6
million a yeqr, an average of £2 12s. lOd.
per cent. The low rate here is partly
because of the small interest paid on
Treasury bills, and has been assisted by
the commandeering of deposits from the
trading banks.
Since war began the increase in the
national debt as a result of State loan
expenditure has been offset by reductions
in the old Commonwealth debt as a
result of the operation of the sinking
fund. The net increase in the total debt
is therefore the same as the amount of
debt charged up to the present war.
# * * *
Estimated defence expenditure this
year of “at least” £4OO million is an
increase of almost £lOO million on
the actual outlay for the year just ended.
Startled gentlemen have exclaimed
“Where is the money to come from?
The country will soon be bankrupt.”
Money is not the problem unless we
choose to make it so by abuse. It is
one of whether we can devote two-fifths
of all our work and production to war
and still live in reasonable contentment.
And the answer to that rests with the
people, not the Government or its finan-
ciers. The Government’s job is simply
one of arranging and apportioning the
£4OO million burden. It has arranged it
badly of late.
* * * *
Trade-union unemployment for the
March quarter was down to 1.8 p.c.
Nothing like that figure has ever been
known before. Soon there should be no
such unemployment at all if the present
taking of men in private work for Gov-
ernment jobs is any guide. All eligible
man-power is wanted, and great incon-
venience is being caused in a number of
industries. The task involved in man-
power allocation is a trying and thank-
less one, but it has to be handled care-
fully and expertly. It is no politician’s
job, and great responsibility rests on the
shoulders of man-power officials. The
big thing is to see that no man is taken
from a job of first-class importance and
that no good man is left doing work of
minor importance.
* * * *
So dry is the reservoir of labor-power
in Victoria that, as in England, women
are being coaxed from domestic life to
take part-time jobs in woollen mills—
mostly shifts, five days a week,
experience not mattering. And the wage?
As much as Bs. per week above the basic
State rate of 495. 6d. decreed in Mav l
♦ * *
Last season’s local tobacco crop is put
at 6,500,0001 b., an increase of 20 p.c. and
rather more than a quarter of 1940-41
Australian consumption of 22,319,0001 b.
Quality is reckoned a little better. In
the past the local product has largely
found its way into a blend for “roll-your-
own” smokes; “tailor-mades” almost
exclusively have been comprised of im-
ported tobacco.
* * * *
In 1939-40 the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment made a profit of £180,458 from
coinage. In the following year the figure
leapt to £752,471, rising to £867,889 in
1941-42. There has been a danger of a
shortage of currency in the Common-
wealth since soon after the war began,
and the Mints have been working over-
time. Coins dated 1942 have been cir-
culating in Australia for some time ; in
other circumstances they wouldn’t have
appeared until Christmas. Something
like the same reason that has caused the
doubling of the note issue since 1939
has brought about q demand for coin-
age. Business activity, need for ready
money by a more fluid population and
hoarding have all been contributors. The
profit on coinage comes from the differ-
ence between the face value of the cur-
rency put into circulation and the cost
of the metal used, plus other expenses.
* * * *
Canada’s Mackenzie King has said
that his Government is ready to “con-
script whatever wealth is necessary” to
distribute the burden of war’s cost equit-
ably. He was speaking during the debate
on the proposed granting to the Govern-
ment of rights to conscript both wealth
and man-power. He added that conscrip-
tion was at present unnecessary. In most
Empire countries wealth is already largely
conscripted through taxation. It is only
current income from wealth that is of
any value to the war effort, though by an
involved process some accumulated
wealth might be transferred to the rank
and file as compensation for their sacri-
fices of current income. But it is clear
fine houses are of no help to the war
effort. And so long as the Government
gets the output of factories at practically
cost price it has no other use for the
actual factories themselves.
« * * *
A Commonwealth production of 19
million gallons of power alcohol a year
is reckoned to be within easy reach.
Already 7| million gallons is coming
from sugar, and steelworks will be turn-
ing out five million gallons and gasworks
four million. Molasses distilleries pro-
duce 2j million gallons, and wineries
have a potential of five million gallons
annually. Wheat alcohol may add a
further 12 million gallons.


COLES OPPOSED
TO PROFIT LIMIT
Foolish And Unjust
niRECTORS of G. J. Coles and Co.,
Ltd., of whom Mr. A. W. Coles,
M.H.R., is managing director, are opposed
to the Federal Government’s proposal of
limiting profits to 4 p.c.
They urge shareholders to wire or write
immediately to their Federal members and
Senators strongly protesting against this “unjust
and foolish proposal” until it has been finally
discarded by the Government.
The circular states that directors were satis-
fied that the introduction of the proposal would
not contribute in any way to the war effort,
while on the. other hand it would impose need-
less hardship upon shareholders in companies.
Furthermore, it discriminated unfairly between
companies.
It is pointed out that many of Coles stores,
if run as separate companies, would escape the
imposition of this tax altogether, but because
the company was a large and efficient business,
using the minimum amount of capital, and
doing a large turnover on a small margin of
profit, it would be very heavily penalised.
It was doubtful if Coles could pay more
than 4 p.c. dividends under Federal proposals,
and as the great majority of shareholders paid
between 60s. and 110s. for the company’s shares
over the past 10 years the average return would
be under \\ per cent. The scheme would lead
also to a further drastic fall in the market value
of the shares.
The company already was heavily penalised
by the War-time Profits Tax, which was based
on the same method of return on capital. This
tax had taken more than 100 per cent, of ary
profits earned due to expansion of turnover
since the war began.
No rebate was allowed to shareholders in
respect of taxation paid by the company, This
meant that with payments by company and
shareholders from 60 to 95 per cent, of Coles
profits now returned to the Treasury.
From time to time in the past few days the
Government had announced amendments to
the original scheme, but these did not in any
way affect directors’ opinion that the scheme
was fundamentally unsound and inequitable.
Mr. George J. Coles is chairman of directors.
m
.
KEEP HEALTHY
THIS NRTURRL WRY
[You can end constipation naturally,
promptly, effectively with NYAL FIG-
SEN. Figsen is a pleasant-tasting laxative.
Chew one or two tablets before retiring.
Figsen acts overnight without disturbing
your sleep. No stomach upsets, no griping
pain. In the morning Figsen acts—mildly,
gently, but thoroughly. Figsen is equally
good for young and old. Sold by chemists:
everywhere. 1/3 a tin.
The next, best thing to Nature . , ,
NyalFigsen
THE GENTLE LRXRTIVE
ffinn nacre
IxUUil Uxiijljij
9 jr* ifuw trffiTiiw or
J»w JC#JCr «■» JCr JLwhMt Jl Jm fuff jEK tC Js&Aim %jm ®
5-*'
««
V. - ..
i
N
A
ii
' ' 3
w
“ "Without air support, naval strength is virtually impotent, whilst
Military operations, unsupported by ap adequate Air Force, are
greatly prejudiced and frustrated."
THE PRIME M|N,STER ’ rHE HON - JOHN cuRnN -
the full story of Australia’s war effort is told,
one of the greatest contributions towards eventual victory
will prove to have been that of hundreds of Caterpillar
Diesel Tractors and Waugh & Josephson Earth-Moving
Machines ... in building airports, arsenals, naval bases
and strategic roads in record time.
Only with the support of air, naval and military bases
can planes, ships and tanks make full use of their might.
The stamina, brawn and big work - capacity of these
famous tractors and earth-moving machines are provid-
ing these bases at a record low cost to the taxpayer and
are relieving hundreds of men for other essential war
jobs. Our armed forces have first call on our output.
Meantime we thank our customers who have given clear
right-of-way to our Victory effort.
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.
Unwin's Bridge Road, St. Peters, Sydney 'Phone: LA 3321
Marquis Street, Gunnedah 'Phone: Gunnedah 326
. Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton; Mr. R.
B. Tweedle, Port Macquarie — 'Phone; Port Macquarie 81; Mr. D. McDougall, 96
la. Kincaid St. Wagga — ‘Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne St., South Brisbane-
//§■. v. ‘Phone: J 1456; Rankine St., Innisfail — 'Phone: Innisfail 475
CT 1-33-42
no n; mr. n.
3ougall, 96
bane — A
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
The Commonwealth now being estab-
lished as the sole income tax authority
for the duration and one year thereafter,
it can go ahead with a full mobilisation
of financial resources, companies can
finalise accounts held up through lack
of tax knowledge and individuals can
calculate their own assessments with a
reasonable amount of accuracy, free
from the complexity of double-banking
inter-State provisions. No one outside
State politics is likely to want these re-
instituted, and it will make for a much
better pattern of industry through-
out Australia if they aren’t. For public
companies the Income Tax Assessment
Bill, 1942, provides for ordinary income
tax at the rate of 6s. in the £, an undis-
tributed-profits impost of 2s. in the £
and a super-tax of Is. in the £ on the
excess of taxable income over £5OOO, For
individuals, chief departures are that
over-£3-a-weekers, previously liable only
for war tax, are brought into the
tax net, the statutory exemption of £2OO
(which disappeared by progressive stages
at £400) is waived and a system of rebates
replaces the existing direct deductions
from income for dependants, gifts, etc.
Rebates now also apply (e.g., on charit-
able and patriotic gifts) in the case
of companies, but only at the appro-
priate rates of ordinary tax. Illogically,
the concession doesn’t extend to super-
tax and undivided-profits tax, which as
things stand impose a 15 p.c. levy on all
such donations.
* * * *
With its uniform taxation measures
bearing the insignia of constitutional
authority, the next step of Canberra
Labor is to get, if it can, its 4 p.c. profit
proposals through the House in the face
of a hornets’ nest of political and indus-
trial opposition. This ill-advised policy
has been fully and adequately analysed
here in respect of its likely adverse effects
upon production, both as regards outputs
and costs, and of its unfairness between
companies and shareholders, among other
things. The decision to return a fifth of
net earnings above 4 p.c.—how, when
and on what conditions haven’t yet been
determined —renders the scheme little less
unpalatable. The Government obviously
hasn’t followed the strifeful history of
similar provisions in Britain, where the
base percentage is a less-stringent 6 p.c.
If it is contended that the main aim is
to slow down the upward movement in
costs, the answer is that there is other
and more efficient and equitable machin-
ery available for the purpose without the
risk of impeding a maximum war effort,
It is instructive to note that even in Ger-
many a scheme to control all prices
through profit limits was thrown over-
board in April, when the 100 p.c. excess
profits tax was reduced to 85 p.c. More-
over, even there it applies only to profits \\
times greater than those of 1938, and is
not levied on firms which undertake
work on a scale of official prices. In any
profit restriction, one thing definite is that
adequate depreciation must be allowed if
the incomes of many shareholders aren’t
to be cut lower than intended. And the
meaning of “adequate” is something the
revenue-hungry tax man and prudent
industrialists seldom see eye to eye on.
* * * *
There was no definitive movement on
the Stock Exchange front in the week that
produced “rationalised” taxation. While
the news from Russia was discomforting,
that from Libya was more conducive to
confidence and, with hopeful speculation
as to modification of Canberra’s
economic policy, was sufficient to hold
prices in the main at opening levels,
* * *
Fining of Associated Dominions Assur-
ance in Victoria under the Industrial Life
Assurance Act for failing to grant a
policy-holder a paid-up policy and fur-
nish documentary evidence relating
thereto brought the co. into the spotlight
of the Victorian Assembly. Founded by
W. T. Page in Sydney in 1928, the co.’s
financial affairs are in no robust
condition. Documents lodged with the
Victorian Registrar-General show that at
June 30, 1941, policies assuring, with
bonuses, £1,595,960 were current, the
actuarial liability under which was shown
in the valuation balance sheet at £331,564.
At the same date book value of net tan-
gible assets was no more than £98,290,
a deficiency of £233,274.
# *
From Aug. 1 an extra Is. in Queens-
land to 3s. in S.A. and Tas. will go into
pay envelopes of city workers to cover
a further rise in living costs, now 17.9
p.c. above pre-war levels. This lift has
been partly of our own making and
avoidable ; much of it is due to factors
outside control. Biggest part (11 p.c.) of the
increase has been on clothing account,
for example—a reflection of our depend-
ence on imported cotton and silk fabrics
and piece-goods and to lesser extent of the
improved conditions the local clothing
trade has been able to command. The
new basic rates are in theqiselves an
initial step in the direction of a still
higher cost of living.


THE SERVICE MAN
Invasion of Papua.
“Ek Dum”: Last week’s communiques
from General MacArthur’s headquarters:
July 20: Activity in all sectors limited to
reconnaissance.
July 21: An aerodrome near Moresby raided
by 26 heavy bombers and 15 “O” fighters;
damage slight.
July 22: Allied bombers attack an enemy
convoy off shore from Ambasi-Buna (n. coast
of Papua); a direct hit on one transport.
July 23: The enemy, discovered in his opera-
tion by reconnaissance ’planes, lands a force
at Gona Mission, on the north coast of Papua,
after his convoy and landing parties, were
bombed and strafed from the air. One large
transport and a barge sunk; heavy casualties
inflicted on landing troops; an enemy float ’plane
shot down; two Allied fighter ’planes missing.
Allied airmen bomb barracks on Timor.
July 24: Allied airmen deliver five attacks on
stores and installations in the Gona-Buna area,
causing numerous fires. A 5000-ton transport,
apparently loaded with oil or gasoline, left
burning from direct hits amidships. Barges and
buildings at Gona bombed; fighters silence a
Gona a.-a. battery. Other fighters attack small
ship north of Salamaua.
July 25: About 45,0001b. of h.e. and in-
cendiary bombs dropped on target areas at
Buna-Gona. Large fires, started and an a.-a.
battery silenced. Cargo vessels forced to with-
draw northward under naval escort without un-
loading. Eighteen bombers escorted by 16
fighters cause slight damage to a Moresby
’drome, but no casualties.
July 26: An early night raid on Darwin; no
damage or casualties. Four flying boats in mid-
night raid on Townsville —the first on the east
coast. All bombs fall wide of target area. At
Buna, two enemy ’planes shot down and one
damaged and an Allied ’plane lost during many
raids ; Allied night raiders score hits on target
area at Lae; at Rabaul, one of 15 intercepting
“O” fighters shot down and two damaged
during Allied raid on aerodrome.
Any doubts about Japan’s intention to
move southward as opportunity offered
or of the enemy’s power io do it were
removed by the landing near Buna, across
the Owen Stanley range from Moresby.
It was the first landing on Papuan ter-
ritory, the first fresh one in New Guinea
sin£e early in March, and it was made at
points where there are a good harbor,
much flat country and the end of a rough
track 120 miles long connecting the
northern coast to the capital.
The track is not passable for vehicles,
but can be much improved in short order.
For half the way—to Kokoda—advance
by troops would be easy if unresisted,
and mechanised transport even now could
negotiate the first 30 miles or so.
After that the Kumusi River bars the
way, but army engineers would make
short work of its difficulties. The re-
maining 60 miles of the track across the
range is scored with precipice and gorge,
but it is 10-mile-a-day country. The in-
vaders penetrated 40 miles inland and
clashed with patrols at Awala,
In view of the fact that most of the
difficulties are at the Moresby end and
that the enemy can advance to the half-
way post at Kokoda in a third to a
quarter of the time needed to reach it
from the British side, there seems little
doubt that, unless “stopped quickly,
he soon will be attacking Moresby
from only 60 miles away instead
of 180 miles. He will have achieved
a base from which a land attack on
Moresby is both feasible and probable.
The whole of the thickly-populated
eastern Australian coast as far as Towns-
ville comes within the ambit of heavy-
bomber operation from Buna as well as
from the equidistant Louisiades. There
is plenty of flat land round Buna suit-
able for quick conversion into large-
scale aerodromes.
The raid on Townsville seemed like a
test of reach, plus reconnaissance, as a
preliminary to something heavier. When,
however, the enemy seriously attacks the
eastern mainland he may get a. shock,
though, as Mr. Curtin remarked, the
Japanese obviously have been “working
like beavers” since the battles of Midway
and the Coral Sea, so that their incur-
sions may be made with greater force.
Buna Blasted
The Buna expedition was first detected
by an Allied reconnaissance machine on
the afternoon of July 21. A big bomber
sighted what appeared to be a well-
organised transport convoy escorted by
cruisers, destroyers and minesweepers.
This, when it came to land, proved to
have good fighter cover from Lae or
Salamaua and strong a.-a. support.
The bomber shadowed the ships until
a fault in its oxygen supply forced the
crew to return home. In action again
at 6 a.m. on July 22, its observers found
landing barges already running from the
ships, which had increased in number
overnight. The main landing seemed to
be in progress at the Gona Anglican mis-
sion, about eight miles s.-e. of Buna. The
enemy force seemed to be about a regi-
ment of three battalions, with air units
and normal ancillaries.
The bomber, which had an Australian
co-pilot and observer, went down,
dropped a stick which covered the ships
in spray. A second stick was planted
squarely across the largest transport and
the barges tied alongside. One bomb
seemed to go straight down the funnel.
The stern was blown off the ship. Amid-
ships, it went up like an erupting vol-
cano and the air seemed to be full of
figures diving for the water. Neverthe-
less, equipment was to be seen piled
ashore. Troops were thick on the
beaches.
In the next few days the Allies used
everything they had, including, for the
first time in the New Guinea area, dive-
bombers. On Friday they made five
attacks, in which 45,0001 b. of h.e. and
incendiaries was dropped. Cargo ships had
to withdraw. The main force was still
ashore with much equipment and power-
ful a.-a. batteries after the week-end.
Many of the attacks were driven home
from low levels and m.-g. fire raked ships
and shore severely.
Townsville’s Thrill
The ’planes which struck at Towns-
ville came over very high. Searchlights,
stabbing the sky, picked up two of them
as tiny specks very far away. Beams fol-
lowed them for a time but lost them.
Twenty minutes later there were two
more silver specks in the sky, this time
higher still. A stick of bombs fell, so
remote that many people did not hear it.
There were no fighters up ; the only a.-a.
fire, from a single post, was light.
Picture-show crowds were homing
whep the raid started. The city was at
once plunged in abysmal darkness, and
people made their way to shelters in
good order. Police pronounced the pre-
cautions 99 per cent, efficient. There was
far less excitement than during the 1919
railway strike. The only casualty was a
warden who was run down by a jeep.
The raid drew a sensible comment from
Mr. Forgan Smith, himself a northern
member. He said that much had been
written about a second front in Europe,
but the front people were most con-
cerned about was in Australia and N.Z.
In the North Pacific
At the northern end of the Pacific there
was little change in the situation. Five
Japanese destroyers are reported to have
been wiped out in Aleutian waters, and
heavy U.S. bombers visited Kiska, but
the enemy still occupies three western
islands.
In Burma there was a week of lively
raiding, mainly in the Akyab region and
against Chindwin and other river traffic.
William Munday, “S. M. Herald’s” war
correspondent, reported on July 19 that
civil war had broken out in Arakhan
between the Moslem population, which is
pro-British, and pro-Jap Burmese. The
Moslems seized Maungdaw with a
scratch force headed by the chief clerk
of the district court and armed with rifles,
lathis, some bows and arrows and two
tommy-guns. Dead game, they were at a
pitiful disadvantage against a better armed
enemy who had Japanese support, and
were forced to give way after suffering
and inflicting substantial casualties.
There seems to be continual contact
along the wet Burmese frontier between
Japanese and British skirmishers, both
waiting for the end of the rains in two
months’ time.
In China there was heavy fighting
round Wenchow, which the Japanese took
for the second time in a fortnight. In
Chekiang they captured Sinchang, 200
miles south of Shanghai.
Rommel Draws Back.
“Ek Dum”: It seemed for a few hours
last week as if the real battle for Egypt
had begun. After the bitter local artil-
lery actions and strong Allied sallies
during the week ended July 19, Rommel
found himself forced to straighten his
line, into which two deep dents had been
driven. One was made in the northern
coastal area by the Australians, sup-
ported on their southern flank by the
S. Africans; one, in the centre, was
achieved by the Maorilanders and Indians,
with British and A.I.F. artillery backing, i
The Australian penetration to Tel
el- Eisa (sometimes called in the dis- J
patches the Hill of Jesus) had been about ;
five miles at its extreme. The enemy J
temporarily accepted the A.I.F. s ad-
vanced position as the marker for his
new perimeter. He had no other option, 1
since the A.1.F., having suffered com-
paratively few casualties and with reason-
ably fresh Westralians and as yet almost
untouched New South Welshmen avail-
able, was menacing his northern flank
defences and threatening to join with the
Maorilanders and Indians in the centre
to pinch off a large salient.
As he moved backwards the S. Africans
followed. Far south on the line another
straightening operation was in progress.
This was more difficult because of the
terrain. The line lay across the high
desert ridge which walls off the coastal
lowlands from the Quattara depression.
Here the enemy sucked the North of
England division after him, grim
Geordies and Lancastrians, some of
whom had fought all the way from
Gazala and were glad to be on their way
back, even if slowly.
The net result of the operation, con-
ducted with loud mutual recriminations
from the 25-pounders and the German
88 converted a.-a. guns, was that the
British Eighth Army had moved forward
from two to tdn miles and was on better
ground from which to attack.
An ugly hill parallel to its course
and inside its formations had inter-
rupted side vision near its centre—-Tel
el Ruweisat. This was now behind it.
During Rommel’s ticklish retirement,
which was skilfully carried out, in view
of the disjointed nature of his line and
the exhaustion of some of his troops,
the R.A.F., with no great opposition,
pounded his communications and con-
tinued to dig up his aerodromes and
quays all along the African coast. The
R.A.F. even did a little daylight excavat-
ing with heavy bombs as far afield as
Suda Bay in Crete, where it hit a couple
of ships and set fire to the pier. The
R.N. paid its third visit in four days to
Mersa Matruh and flung 400 shells into
Rommel’s depot- Later it made further
crushing bombardments.
Giuseppe Says Farewell
On the night of July 20 when they
went out, A.I.F. patrols in the northern
'sector found that the Italians, whose
“magnificent victories” Rome had been
trumpeting for a week, had been taken
out of the line and replaced by sullen
members of the hard-worked Afrika-
korps.
Musso.’s warriors, though “inspired”
by the,presence in the neighborhood of
their Duce, who, it seems, was in Libya
for three weeks, obviously had proved
allergic to Australians and night raids.
And Rommel seemingly had decided not
to give them cause to repeat the com-
plaint which some of them had made the
week before when they were captured,
that they had been unfairly attacked
while asleep,
- However, any troops might have been
excused for needing a rest in the cir-
cumstances. It was bad enough for the
Eighth Army, whose chief difficulties were
skilfully used enemy field artillery and
seasoned tank fighters ; but the Italians
had had to put up as well with the con-
stant ripsaw tactics of the British fighter
bombers, mixed up with heavy bombers
and salted with a deadly variety of
straightout fighters, ranging from the
Spitfire 5B downward to Tomahawks,
which are now only small fry in the
higher galaxy of air killers in the Euro-
pean and African zone. They had had
to keep one eye continually cocked
towards their seaward flank lest the R.N.
should sneak up on them and add a few
tons of steel a minute to the normal hail
from landward. Possibly, however, Aus-
tralian bayonets had been the deciding
factor. For 10 days no part-owner of
Musso.’s mare nostrum had been able to
guarantee that even the most innocuous-
lookiq£ dawn shadow might not rise with
a horrible antipodean yell and begin
puncturing Italian abdomens.
The German substitutes were unlikely
to have any Italian characteristics. They
were partly Rommel’s personal guard—
the Kiele Macht, pride of German war
correspondents. These soldiers from the
Baltic were brigaded with units of the
90th Light Division, which had been sent
in earlier to put a bit of starch into the
spaghetti before the final Westralian con-
solidation.
Auchjnleck Attacks
It did not take General Auchinleck
long to rearrange his forward positions
for fresh aggression. One of the best
bits of news from Egypt during the week
was that he was able, only 24 hours after
taking up the slack of the front left
behind by the retiring foe, to order a
new general attack.
The enemy was disposed about a mile
in front of the Eighth Army’s advanced
positions. The terrific barrage which was
loosed was, therefore, almost point-blank.
It continued for two hours along the
whole line without ceasing on Tuesday
evening, July 21.
The dreary landscape, smothered in
sand, shook and quivered; the whole
air seemed to shriek at once out of a
whirl of heat-blasted smoke.
Under its cover, as the night advanced,
Maorilanders, S. Africans and Indians
crept to forward positions in the centre
of the 30-mile-long line. The rumble
of the barrage grew louder. At 3.30 a.m.
on Wednesday it was replaced by sudden
silence. Verey lights soared into the
clouds of dust and fumes. Machine-guns
began a vicious chatter. The Germans
flung themselves on the advancing Maori-
landers, Scots, Indians and S. Africans.
Tanks loomed suddenly out of the
western darkness. But the Eighth Army
secured its first objectives and held on
to them.
A.I.F. Goes Forward
In the northern sector Australians
stood ready. At 5.20 a.m. on Wednesday
they went over the top and hurled the
Germans off the western end of the Tel el
Eisa ridge, but were forced back them-
selves by a grim counter-attack, reinforced
by heavy artillery fire. They clung for
the moment to the eastern end of the
ridge, re-formed and were reinforced
and threw the enemy off Tel el Eisa
with a harder bump than before.
Daylight saw the usual desert battle
picture the dead lying in the dust,
burning tanks sending up rolling columns
of oily black smoke, ’planes coming
home from their night of raiding, red-
eyed, unshaven infantry, bone-weary
artillerymen almost entirely epcased in a
coating of African pulver, and a long
line of prisoners driven on their
shuffling way to captivity like cows
coming in to the bails. By 8 a.m, hun-
dreds of them were packed in lorries and
on their way to Alexandria. The last
receding sound of battle which reached
them was the thunder of guns in the
central sector, where Rommel was
counter-attacking in a vain attempt to
regain his lost footholds on the western
end of Ruweisat Ridge. A few Stukas
were about, but the air was most un-
healthy for them that morning. The
Eighth Army’s umbrella is stout gingham
throughout.
Casualties Not Light
The A.I.F. now held positions well for-
ward, blit not forward enough. Fighting
went on fiercely and steadily all through
July 22. In the evening, the Westralians
thrust the Germans back another 2500
yards from where they were dug in
along the track down the Axis lines lead-
ing to Quattara.
Here the A.I.F. was H mile nearer
Libya than the Makhkhad ridge, which
had been in Australian hands for a week.
Two and a half miles still further south
on July 23 the S. Australians were well
established in a new position called Ruin
Ridge, which they had captured in a few
hours. The Victorians, however, found
the western end of Tel el Eisa too terrible
a proposition to hold. They were com-
pelled to retire to its centre and consoli-
date. .
German attacks grew in fury during
Wednesday, and the Australians were
forced to fight ceaselessly and some-
times desperately to hold on. For the
first time it was reported that their casual-
ties were “moderately heavy,” but so
were the enemy’s. His Berlin spokesman
said that the fighting on July 22 was the
fiercest Africa had known—as fierce and
as heavy as on any front.
In the north and centre there was little
abatement of the mutual onslaught on
July 2?, but in the southern sector the
fight had temporarily burned itself out.
The day, however, saw the Eighth Army
firmly holding the new positions, though
Rommel was bringing up fresh artillery
and his 88-millimetre guns were giving a
lot of trouble.
The advances- had been worth while.
The assorted bag of vantage points gained
included Deir el Shein Ridge, which
dominates the enemy’s lateral communi-
cation track southward.
German communiques were grim and
; displeased. The Berlin version issued on
July 24 was that a British offensive had
• failed, and that Auchinleck was able
s to claim some progress only because
Rommel decided to shorten his supply
line It was asserted that the Ger-
mans had shot up the New Zealanders
with “devastating machine-gun fire” and
had taken 1000 prisoners, and that re-
peated attempts by the South Africans to
turn the right flank of the tank army in
the centre had been beaten off.
The partly strategic nature of Rom-
t mel’s retirement was advertised by me


intensity of his protective minefields,
which, together with anti-tank strongholds,
proved a formidable barrier of self-sup-
porting salients.
The last days of the week saw a pro-
gressive falling off in front-line fighting,
but the air forces continued their devas-
tating work from Port Said, near which
two Italian flying-boats were destroyed,
to the Crete depots and Mersa Matruh
and Tobruk. Over 20 aircraft were de-
stroyed at El Daba on July 24.
The R.N. after its sixth bombardment
reported that Mersa Matruh was “flatter
than a pancake,” with shore buildings
and small craft blasted into small heaps.
The enemy was now forced to use
Tobruk and Benghazi as base ports, to
his great disadvantage.
At the week-end there were signs that
Rommel intended a fresh heavy attack
on the Australian lines.
Nowhere had there been any decisive
action. The struggle might even now turn
in anybody’s favor. General Auchinleck
seemed, on July 27, to be master of the
initiative, but the tide of battle cannot be
counted as fully on the turn until he
achieves a break-through on some part
of the front.
That sort of success has not proved
possible to date of writing, in spite of
enemy retreats. Amd while the R.A.F.
has ascendancy and the R.N. commands
coastal approaches, the Germans appear
to be better off for hard-hitting mobile
artillery.
Peril in Cossackland.
“Ek Dum”: Developments in Russia
are serious in the extreme. Newspaper
optimists are still at work, particu-
larly in the Beaverbrook press, whose
“famous” John Gordon declared in Janu-
ary that “Hitler’s armies in Russia are
about to be completely destroyed.” But
the facts are deadly.
Early in the week all the experts, com-
mentators and observers who view the
battle from 300 miles away in Moscow
or 1000 miles away in Stockholm seemed
convinced that around Voronezh the tide
was turning. The facts about what was
happening on the Southern Don remained
obscure. Headlines shouted of Rus-
sian victories round Voronezh, where the
Germans were supposed to be suffering
crushing defeats and to be losing even
their upper Don bridgeheads before
terrific onslaughts by fresh Russian
armies.
Up to July 25 Moscow categorically
denied that the Germans had taken Voro-
nezh, but that day the official propaganda
contained admissions that the city had
been penetrated, and Stalin’s newspaper,
“Pravda,” spoke of German forces being
“slowly driven from the city.” Moscow
Radio said that “Germans who infiltrated
the Voronezh' town itself are striving
hard to withdraw but meeting difficulties
at the river bridgeheads.”^
The Germans had claimed the capture
of Voronezh on July 7; but whether it
was true or half-lie is now of little
moment. The battle in that region seems
to have been an affair only of divisions.
Whatever the immediate conclusion, the
Germans’ main object at Voronezh was
to establish a barrier against Russian sup-
plies and reinforcements from the north,
and to prevent surprise attacks on the
rear of their loosely-moving formations
driving down td the Southern Don and
the Caucasian lines.
Von Bock’s Bloody Progress
The bald fact is that the present battle
began on June 24-25 or thereabouts, with
Moscow and all the “observers” assuring
the world that Timoshenko still held the
initiative and that Von Bock’s offensive
had been inhibited by the resounding
smacking which he had had in May.
Between then and July 26 Von Bock
overran what should have been either the
strongest or second-strongest holding
lines in the U.S.S.R. and took control of
the rich corn, coal and metal country
beyond the Donetz and of vast reaches of
deep river invaluable for transport at the
rate of 2100 square miles a day average.
In less than 30 days he had conquered
and occupied all the main points in an
area so large that if it were laid on the
Australian east coastal region it would
occupy an area bounded by the sea from
Pt. Danger on the N.S.W. border to
Mackay (N.Q.); by lines -from Pt.
Danger to Inglewood (s.-w. Q.) on the
south; from Inglewood to near Emerald
(C.Q.) on the west, and, on the north,
thence to Mackay.
The swiftness of this advance and
spread precludes the chance that there
has been any vast or deadly sapping of
German resources and man-power, and
it, moreover, involves the sickening
possibility that huge quantities of Russian
armament, much of it only just out of
the packings which brought it from hard-
toiling British factories, has been engulfed
intact and in fightable order in the Ger-
man flood. Berlin, for what its word is
worth, says this is so.
It is idle, too, to hope that the retreat
is strategic, that —as has been asserted
many times —Hitler’s objective is to anni-
hilate the Red Army and that loss of ter-
ritory does not matter, because the enemy
will dash himself to pieces against a
strong defence line already prepared
across the Cis-Caucasian neck from the
Black to the Caspian sea.
Stalin’s Plan
Stalin clearly stated his policy for 1942
in an order of the day dated Feb. 23:
Under the sledgehammer blows of the
Red Army the German troops are reeling
back to the west.... The initiative is
now in our hands, and, no matter how
much Hitler’s rusty, shaken-up machine
may exert itself, it cannot withstand the
pressure of the Red Army. The day is not
far distant when the Red Army with a
mighty blow will thrust back the brutal
enemy from Leningrad and sweep clear
of him the towns and villages of Belo-
russia and the Ukraine, of Lithuania and
Latvia, Estonia and Karelia, will free
the Crimea, and then once more the
red flag will fly victoriously over the entire
Soviet lands.
It was obvious from the rest of the
order that Stalin pictured the Germans
as remaining on the defensive, though not
yet completely routed. Read with Timo-
shenko’s order of May 12 in which the
marshal instructed his armies to “launch
a determined offensive.... to annihilate
the enemy’s man-power and hoist the
glorious banner of the Soviets over
liberated towns and villages,” it seems
to indicate that the Red Army command
actually believed that it had secured the
upper hand or could secure it.
This view could explain the breakdown
of effective defence in depth west of the
Don on the north-eastern and eastern
approaches of Rostov.
The advances in this region have been
too swift to make it possible that the
enemy was resisted strongly enough to
delay him; his pauses between July 6
and July 26 are consistent only with the
effects of geography, and even then his
progress has been startlingly swift.
Voroshilovgrad, for instance, seems to
have fallen on July 19, only 36 hours at
most after the Germans reached it,
though it was an important coal and
armament centre. With it, its owners said
good-bye to the last of their Ukraine re-
sources, even though some of the Lugansk
triangle towns apparently were not occu-
pied by the invaders, but merely cut off
from the Russian armies.
Four days later fighting at Novocher-
kassk on the Moscow-Rostov railway,
and only 30 miles from Rostov itself,
was admitted. This meant that the
enemy, converging at the rate of 20
miles a day, had cut the line from Ros-
tov to Stalingrad, on the Volga. Rostov
was itself virtually isolated from supplies
from all directions, save by one very
roundabout route. The city—its popula-
tion is over 500,000 —was assailed by two
sets of German armies, those of Von
Mannstein, which advanced from Tagan-
rog to the western environs last week, and
the main armies of Von Bock, driving
from the north and north-west.
The cutting of the Stalingrad line
seemed to have been achieved far to the
east as well as below Voroshilovgrad,
Before the week-end it was reported that
German spearheads had almost crossed
the territory of the Don Cossacks to
within 40 miles of Stalingrad and the
Volga. All over the land in the bight of
the Great Don Cossack river bend
columns of Germans, Slovaks and Hun-
garians appeared to be spreading rapidly.
On July 25 Berlin Radio claimed that
Rostov had been penetrated, but that the
occupation was being made slowly so as
to save life and property. Also, it was
asserted, crossings of the lower Don had
been made at strategic points. “Red
Star” the same day warned that huge
German reserve armies were being hur-
ried to the region where the Don and
the Volga are nearest for the attempt
on Stalingrad, which is 260 miles east
of Rostov. All Russian communications
between the Caspian and Black Sea
region and Iran were now in dire peril.
By July 26 the Germans had a wide
bridgehead south of the Don, near
Tsymlyanskaya, 120 miles n.-e. of Rostov
and only 30 miles from the railway from
Stalingrad to the Black Sea. A heavy
bombardment had started across Kerch
Strait. Novocherkassk and Rostov were,
for all practical purposes, in enemy
hands. The whole of the Don Cossack
country west of the 42nd degree of longi-
tude had been infiltrated by the invaders,
who were in possession of all the Donetz
coal region.
Caucasian Defence
Moscow talked of a main defence line
established across the Cis-Caucasian neck,
but the news was not as cheering as it
might have been.
If there is such a line ; and it is to be
of any use in preserving the north
Caucasian oilfields and the main oil
routes north-east of the Caspian, it must
have been built north of Astrakhan,
much of the way in low and difficult
country^and with the enemy in the Crimea
immediately behind its left flank. It the
Germans can worm their way down the
eastern Azov Sea coast or across that sea
the Russian flank position would become
perilous the moment the enemy s south-
ward drive joined with forces crossing
the Kerch Strait.
The logical barrier for a defence posi-
tion is along the Caucasian foothills from
Makach Kala, on the Caspian—which
many a British legionary of 1919 remem-
bers as Petrovsk —to Novorossisk, on the
Black Sea. This has the advantage of a
railway backbone ; but establishment here
means sacrificing the northern oilfields,
plus Astrakhan and at least 200 miles of
the Volga, and access to the Asiatic sioe.
With oil for two or three months
the enemy can block off the Caucasian
defence line if he ■ feels inclined
and leave it to its own devices
while he overruns the rest of the Black
Earth in the Tambov-Saratoy region and
seeks to cut off the Urals, interrupt the
Trans-Siberian railway and attack Mos-
cow from both sides. A 200-mile drive
northward from Voronezh would break
direct rail communication between Mos-
cow and Kuibyshev and the important
industrial areas of Omsk and Kuznetsk
in Asia beyond it.
Grave Dangers Ahead
It is no use the Allied nations shutting
their eyes to the power and immensity of
the German drive or to the fact that,
if the conquest of Russia proceeds
at its present rate, there will be at least
30 armored, 60 to 80 mechanised and at
least 100 other German divisions, with
fuel, metals and captured armament plants
for immense expansion available next
spring or before then for use in otner
fields. All this points the need, empha-
sised by Mr, Peter Fraser and Mr. Forgan
Smith, to get the worst of the Japanese war
out of the way before the spring of 1943
brings the possibility of actual collabo-
ration in the field between Japan and
Germany. This involves, at least, block-
age pi all chance of land communica-
tion between Germany and Japan in the
Far East and the providing of defences
on the western Indian borders sufficient
to ward off any German advances in
that direction.
So far, Japan has shown no signs of
having powerful armored mechanised
forces. Did she possess them on the
grand scale of Germany and Russia or
even on the more limited scale of Great
Britain, the Chinese war would long ago
have been over.
The East Asian war has been mainly
one of infantry with a limited mechan-
ised core, backed by strong light artillery
of great mobility, and well served. A
couple of seasoned German Panzer
groups, if they could be got to Asia,
would put an entirely different com-
plexion on the whole Pacific war, and
the danger of that being accomplished
is more imminent than most people are
lulled into believing by the persistent re-
luctance of newspapers to tell about Rus-
sian war events the kind of truth which
would be told twice over against British
generalship if it were concerned with
our own British Imperial effort.
On the First Front.
“Ek D.”: The Germans claim that in
six months they have sunk 616 Allied
ships totalling 3,843,000 tons, including
over 1,000,000 to::s of tankers. They
allege that 467 of these went down in'
American waters. Exaggerated, but there
is no doubt about the terrible toll which
is being exacted of men, ships and war
material.
One convoy passing to Murmansk
through the continuous Arctic daylight
suffered 230 attacks. Its gun crews were
at their posts for six days. Assaults were
made every few minutes and 2500 enemy
’planes were counted. Some ships were
lost, some crews died of exposure, but
the bulk of the convoy, much battered,
got through.
The U.S. War Shipping Board an-
nounced that the week ending July
12 had seen the heaviest ship losses of
the war, and that recent sinkings had ex-
ceeded production.
This was linked with the news of the
sinking of three more ships off the
American coast—one British, one U.S.
and one Norwegian. Before July 27 an-
other six were listed as lost.
Nevertheless, there are still optimists
in favor of diverting millions of tons of
shipping to the harebrained task of es-
tablishing a second front. The minimum
estimate of necessary bottoms in British
military quarters is 20 tons to a man, a
figure adopted by Mr. Lyttelton, the
British Supply Minister. His colleague
Mr. Eden said that Britain had been
sending overseas 80 per cent, of all the
munitions she had been making and every
soldier for whom she could find shipping.
She had, too, been straining every nerve
to replace the industrial output Russia
had lost.
To this a Russian war correspondent
added that British and U.S. supplies, which
mostly were carried in British ships and
under British escort, had been sufficient
to equip a 100-mile Russian battle front,
which means something like 300,000 men.
Over 5,000,000 tons of enemy shipping
have been sunk. And it must not be for-
gotten that the army of 100,000 or so
operating in Egypt alone must have ab-
sorbed as much shipping as an army four
times the size would need for operations
across the Channel if such operations
were practicable and there were no
heavier losses than on the long voyage
round the Gape.
Increases in Australian service men’s
pay and allowances are to be provided
in the Budget. With characteristic
modesty a flapper paper is taking all the
credit.
* * * *
Several more casualty lists, mostly of
missing of all States, from Malaya and
D.E.I. have been issued. Up to the week-
end about 6000 names had been released.
* * * *
U.S. shipyards are building 3230 naval
vessels.
* * *
It transpires that the Burns-Philp
Islands steamer Macdhui (4561 tons). Cap-
tain J. Campbell, which played an enter-
prising part in the evacuation of
and other N.G. civilians after war broke
out, was sunk on June 18 after two days’
heavy bombing. The captain, wounded
and suffering from burns, and 61 others
survived, although direct hits were made
on the ship—one wiped out a gun crew
of five, others landed on the holds and
a final one on the bridge.
* * * ♦
Allied nationals from Japan have
reached a neutral port with precise
accounts of Japanese ferocity to British
and Americans —particularly British —and
with reports of General Doolittle’s raid
over Tokyo. It did moderately heavy
damage and killed about 600. The fact
that bombers passed over the Imperial
Palace and that the Son of Heaven had
to bury himself in an air-raid shelter had
its moral effect.
* * * *
The feature of the air war fast week
was heavy raiding of the Ruhr and the
Rhineland, and particularly of Duisburg,
a great German inland port, bn which
40001 b. bombs were dropped. The Rus-
sians also made some raids. Spitfires on
July 26 destroyed nine of the new Focke-
Wulf 190’s in an afternoon, losing three
of their own machines.
« * * *
The R.A.A.F.’s old e s t-esta Wished
squadron in the western desert of Egypt
is part of a wing commanded by a Vic-
torian —Wing-Commander Clive Mayers.
Its head is Squadron-Leader Robert
Gibbes. It is 20 or more ahead of any
other squadron with the Eighth Army in
its totals of enemy machines brought
down.
* * * *
The difference which night fighters
have made to British defences was em-
phasised last week when a squadron of
Beaus turned out against German raiders.
There were 40 enemy ’planes over Eng-
land —apparently involved in a raid on
a factory near Bedford —and seven failed
to go home, Middlesborough, H.Q. of
Dorman, Longs, where most of Sydney
Bridge’s steel was fabricated, was heavily-
raided at the week-end.
* -1= * *
A new R.A.A.F. Coastal Command
Squadron in which one-third of the crews
are Australians is operating off the
British coasts and aims at becoming the
peer of the gallant old No. 10 R.A.A.F.
squadron, which holds almost every
record in the Coastal Command, in a
career which has kept the Common-
wealth’s pioneer Sunderland unit in
operation since the outbreak of war. A
new record was added to No. 10’s list in
May, when it broke its own monthly top
score of operational hours 785 by
flying 851. Its old score had stood un-
challenged for nine months. In mainten-
ance and repair work the squadron is
unequalled. Its ground-staff men think
nothing of 72 hours continuously on the
job. Not long ago they filled up 94 holes
and fitted 10 new plates to a damaged
boat in five days—the builders’ estimate
of a timetable was six weeks.
* * * *
Two light-force naval clashes in the
English Channel are reported. On July
21 small British craft attacked a much
heavier force off Gris Nez, fired a trawler,
damaged other ships and forced the
Germans to turn back. One British gun-
boat was heavily hit and lost. On July
26 one of two German anti-aircraft
trawlers was sunk at point-blank range
off the French coast.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Melbourne’s mannequin parade of war-
time fashions wasn’t by any means
wholly a depressing affair. Styles were
on the whole pleasant, if a trifle- more
abbreviated than those to which we have
been accustomed. Colors were good,
and, as the average woman is apt to over-
do trimmings, it. is conceivable that the
new regulations may make us a better-
dressed community.
One of the astounding results of the
coupon system in its first few weeks of
operation is the way some women have
used theirs up. It is no uncommon thing
to hear a woman say that she has only
five or six left. However, the lead in this
respect seems to go to a maiden aunt of
kindly disposition who, when questioned
on her apparently reckless indulgence in
clothes, revealed that she had spent all
but the last five of her coupons on
nighties and stockings for her nieces for
birthdays. Her only fear was that she would
have to see them go short at Christmas.
Whatever comes we tnust keep on danc-
ing. That is the summing up of talks
that have been going on in mayoral
circles for some months. The men of the
services on leave demand some entertain-
ment, and they almost all like a dance,
even the noa-dancers, who can sit about
in groups and swap yarns. So some of
the mayors of cities have circularised
their own people and announced a series
of patriotic (not mayoral) dances, pro-
ceeds from which, in some cases without
any deductions, will go to Red Cross,
Comforts or Prisoners of War Funds or
to two or even all three of them. The
only difficulty that has been hard to over-
come is that of the part to be played by
debutantes. Some women feel intensely
on this subject and argue that girls doing
War work, and they only, should be guests
of the evening. Others think that the debs. 5
groups are harmless and picturesque.
Curiously enough, the demand for
dances comes from workers. They have
judged, and rightly, that there is no
better way of getting many people to-
gether and giving them a cheerful night
than a ball. The cabaret idea comes into
the picture, but on the whole the new
democratic entertainments follow closely
on a more old-fashioned pattern. At last
week’s Armored Division Appeal ball
and pageant in the Town Hall, the Aus-
tralian Soviet Friendship League made
the centre of the evening the presenta-
tion of a cheque for £7OOO to War
Minister Forde. Dancing and floor shows
were the big draw, and the uniforms seen
on the floor included the munition
worker’s overalls as well as the service
men’s uniforms. To the big cheque
Bacchus Marsh shire residents contri-
buted £950 and the Timber Workers’
Union £770.
Women from the universities are tak-
ing a prominent part in a new organisa-
tion, Council for Women in War Work,
which, following some spadework by a
small committee, will hold its first rally
in the Savoy Theatre on Sunday after-
noon. University Vice-Chancellor Med-
ley will be chairman. President of the
council is Mrs. K. E. Fitzpatrick, a lec-
turer in the History School of the Univer-
sity, and hon. sec. is Mrs. E. G. Coppel,
who has courses in arts and law to her
credit. The idea seems to be to stress
the importance of women entering on all'
forms of war work, and to see that when
the women do go into the factories or
on the land they will be protected from
exploitation.
“Such Fun” might have been the sub-
title to “Patience” as presented on Satur-
day afternoon. John Fullard broke out
in giggles, and the company of Gilsulli-
vans in general seemed to have an extra
joke up its sleeve. Even the usually stately
and unbending Evelyn Gardner went all
hearty, and her Lady Jane was a woman
one would delight to meet in a committee
meeting any day or night. As far as can
be seen now, this is the last “for a long
time” of the G. and S’s. But the farewell
will be long and tender, for the season
will extend well into September, and if,
as has happened lately, the crowds
demand more than a week of any opera,
the cheery singers may still be in Mel-
bourne on Christmas Eve.
The cellar parties given last year in
the quaint cellars of Matthew Lang hay-
ing proved so successful and brought in
needed money to an army welfare fund,
the idea has commended itself to the
president and committee of a patriotic
fund which benefits a particular brigade.
Their party this week will be held in the
cellars, which are suitably subterranean to
satisfy the most exacting, yet are cheery
and in the soft glow of artificial light
look as romantic as the cave that Ali
Baba invaded. Round the walls are prints
of early Melbourne, which are situated
in different bays of the cellars so that
guests are kept perambulating to view
them, while deft waitresses circulate
among them with trays filled with ruby
and amber fluids. Major-General Savige’s
lady will be hostess.
Although there is a slight decrease in
the number of marriages celebrated each
week, the services still provide bride-
grooms much in excess of the numbers
peace-time days could muster. Kathleen
Harnetty, an ash-blonde with a good
serve at tennis, made Tuesday an impor-
tant date for Lieut. Frank Lynch by
choosing it for her marriage to him. The
ceremony in Newman College Chapel
included Nuptial Mass, and the bride was
in the traditional gleaming satin so suited
to her fair good looks. Two cousins of
the bride celebrated the nuptials in their
priestly capacity.
One of those to whom the Borovansky
ballet season has meant a real spot of
brainwork is Winifred Mac Donnell, pic-
tured here by Broothorn. She has been
back from London for a couple of years
after having studied at the Royal College
of Music, which has a historic link with
ballet dating back to Coleridge Taylor.
While in London Miss Mac Donnell
played for Sokolova and her troupe, and
was a student under Constant Lambert.
She specialised in eurhythmies as well as
piano. For the ballet season’s music Miss
Mac Donnell plays with Edna Bennett
(two pianos), the extra bits of various
ballets not yet written for the piano or
whose scores are not available for piano
being cleverly rigged from records. Each
evening of ballet ending with Russian
dances Eric Clapham has the task of
playing the other piano, relieving Edna
Bennett, and, as Mr. Clapham is particu-
larly clever at reconciling the records
with the pianos, he has been a tower of
strength to the performers,
Old Fintonians’ Red Cross Emergency
Service, to give this energetic band of
women its full title, seems to have got a
start on most volunteer associations and
to be keeping its lead. The branch
naturally had in mind the welfare of
children—at school or evacuated or at
home when mother was working—so
members have specialised in the child-
caring side of war work. By attending
lectures on the care of children, learning
mass cooking and doing volunteer work
in the casualty side of Royal Melbourne
and the ordinary side of St. George’s
Hospital the group has got its eye in on
the most pressing emergencies that war-
fare unlimited may bring to its door. By
linking up with the creche scheme of the
women of the University members are
also able to help with the care of children
whose,mothers are at munitions or tram
conducting or otherwise strenuously em-
ployed in the war effort. Congratulations
are due to Mrs. E. L. Wright, the group’s
superintendent.
The Borovansky season of ballet for
five nights this week has revived the
drooping spirits of ballet and art-lovers
generally. The two Borovanskys stayed
behind after the first De Basil season, and
have since endeavored to implant the
spirit of ballet in this new land. This time
there is a challenge to Sydney’s Kirsoya
ballet, because the Borovansky ballet is
dancing “Les Sylphides,” which the Kir-
sova co. was the first Australian ballet to
attempt. The inclusion of ballets the
choreography of which is by young Aus-
tralians has roused enthusiasm. The two
Martin girls have done the scenes for
Borovansky’s own ballet, a fantasy on
Greig’s Pianoforte Concerto, arid Laurel
Martyn, regarded as a choreographer of
promise, has arranged for the season a
production of a ballet of her very own,
and another with Dot Stevenson.
From Sydney
From now on women will walk in
“fashion for victory”—victory in the field
of Mars rather than in the garden of
Venus. The Department of Information
staged a mannequin show of the new
styles last week. All the girls on parade
were young and slim, and their legs were
beyond reproach. There wasn’t even one
“stylish stout,” as the American trade
terms it, to show the nine- or ten-stoner
looking on what she might reasonably
expect to look like in the restricted sweep
of hemline. However, experts hurried to
explain that, whereas the frock for the
small woman may be only 72 inches
wide at hem (for wool) and 78 inches in
other material, that for the O.S. woman
may have a sweep of 78 finches for wool
and 84 inches for other material. It is
just as well the extra inches are permitted,
otherwise the larger woman would be
going about looking like a bell instead
of the belle she knows she is. Hems
must be only two inches deep. The
length of dress varies according to height
and circumference, but is strictly regu-
lated.
Shirrings and tuckings will be looked
upon askance and must be of great
restraint. Undergarments are to be of
a cloisterlike simplicity, and the
woman whose soul yearns for bloomers
(though which of the sex does?) must
prepare to be disappointed. Bloomers
are among the “outs,”
( There’s a ray of comfort. The dresses
shown in the parade, though plain, were
quite attractive; and as already the
American and English patterns are being
pruned in line with Australia’s short cuts
to victory, the smart girl will still be able
to step out bravely, even though the new
regulations permit of no new evening
dresses for dancing or dining,
A season of four performances of
“Don Giovanni” will commence at the
Conservatorium on next Saturday after-
noon. Lily Kolos, pictured here, will be
the Donna Elvira of the piece. Isolde
Hill and Patricia Pringle are also starred
in the cast. There will be a Boden-
wieser ballet, and altogether the Con.
Opera Class feels this work will be one
of its great successes. Producing is in
the capable hands of Hilda Mulligan.
Florent Hoogstoel will conduct. The
first, fourth, sixth and eighth of August
are the dates of performances.
The “Coffee” Cantata was one of the
amusing happenings of last week. When
Bach wrote this bit of fun, the coffee-
shop of the day was evidently regarded
by the strict papas of Leipzig much N as
the cocktail bar is regarded by the tee-
total parent of today. However, in spite
of her father’s (Sydney de Vries) railings,
the daughter (Joan Mackaness) declared
over and over that she liked her coffee
and liked it strong. A. F. Hamilton was
the narrator, and the whole thing was a
melodious interlude between Monday’s
morning and afternoon. One poignant
moment was the aria “Has a father with
his children not a hundred thousand
cares?” when the listener reflected that
Bach spoke out of the fullness of know-
ledge, having 21 children. Lady Cowrie
was a delighted listener. Consuls and
their wives were thick in the audience.
The concert benefited the Allies’ Day
Fund.
Down in History House, near the
Quay, Edith Sterling Levis unleashed her
dulcitone, stencilling a sweet but light
background for Gwen Selva’s voice in a
group of old French songs. Bach streamed
out in three chorales interpreted by duici-
tone and piano, Roma Aria the pianist.
Clement Hosking sang, as only he can,
songs of the Hebrides, and then led his
folksong choir in songs of many lands.
Ella Schiller and Therese Spitzer played
a Handel sonata. Violet Kingston-Hewitt
and Jessie Webster supplied accompani-
ments. Lord and Lady Wakehurst were
in the audience and girls of the Red
Cross Appeal sold programmes. Prisoners
of war benefit. Mrs. R. M. Skeet was
one of the organisers.
The film afternoon for the Society of
Women Writers’ Benevolent Fund has
been postponed till Saturday, August 22.
The men and women of John Vicars
and Co.’s staff are the donors of the new
reading-room at an army hospital. This
is a splendidly-equipped and -furnished
haven. It has deeply-cushioned chairs;
its writing-tables and implements would
lure even a professional writer to wed
pen and ink. It is brightly curtained, and
its rugs are warm with color. Last Sun-
day afternoon large numbers of John
Vicars’ employees visited the hospital to
see the result of their generosity (£4O
they have contributed each payday. The
new reading- and writing-room was all
ready for the enjoyment of the soldier
convalescents. The commanding officer
of the hospital, was there, openly pleased
with the new surroundings. Nor is this
splendid group of workers for the Red
Cross content. Another reading- and rest-
room is to be built and furnished by their
donations.
The vestibule of the Town Hall was
turned into a small hall last Saturday
afternoon for the concert given by the
Lunchtime Music Club for the Lord
Mayor’s Fund. The Davidson lady, Mar-
garet Gillespie and Mrs. Hope Gibson
were responsible for the organising. Mrs.
Hope Gibson was supported by son John.
Star event of the afternoon was the
Mozart operetta ‘‘Bastien and Bastienne,”
sung by Joan Mackaness, Sydney de
Vries and A, F. Hamilson. Two dancers,
Evelyn Ippen and Bettina Vernon, pianist
Marcel Lorber, Doreen Price, Frances
Swales, Ruth Vernon, Bonnie Maguire
and Charles Mackerras were all impli-
cated in a programme which lured great
numbers of musicians and the musicianly.
The Kogarah branch of the N.D.L.
has been at work on camouflage nets
for the last 17 months. It finds that in
making 10,270 of these affairs it has used
16 tons of twine and 875 miles of rope
and has tied 37,000,000 knots. The nets,
all laid out together, would cover 46
acres. Some of the members are regular
tigers for work. In nine months a retired
businessman has made 180 nets —mostly
the large size, 24ft. by 24ft. There was
a party recently to celebrate these fine
achievements, vice-president R. C. Rose
in the chair. Brigadier Douglas gave a
talk on camouflage, and there were vari-
ous other speakers.
Consul-General for the Netherlands
Van der Mandele makes a speech that
holds no cliches and does not
obscure its meaning in a forest of words.
He opened the exhibition of Dutch
and Netherlands Indies Arts and Crafts
at the Historical Society’s rooms in
a happy way. Mrs. Van der Mandele was
another pleasant ingredient of the after-
noon. She is small, sparkling, and proudly
displayed the silver ornament in the front
of her beret, which is designed sailor-cap
style. The ornament is a submarine
carved out of a shilling for her by a
Dutch sailor. Mrs. Carl Gotsch’s jacket
displayed the clever needlecraft of Java.
The whole fabric is smoothly and closely
embroidered in dull rose and blue and
green till it resembles tapestry.
Like a blue skyline delf plates stood
high against the wall above Dutch paint-
ings, and silverware, above the old Dutch
clock, its face looking out on the world
from a frame of delicately carved wood.
Here was a model of a young housewife
of more than a hundred years ago, her
apron, coif and kerchief of the finest
lace worked on net. There was a clever
hand behind the stage-managing. When
Carl Gotsch was about to commence his
Dutch music, the great gong that might
have been a palace or temple piece in
Java boomed its mellow note.
Dr. Joan Fotheringhame, one of the
latest batch of graduates of Sydney
University, has had a notable aca-
demic career. She is the first woman
to win the Sidney B. Clipham and Craig
prizes for operative surgery. Dr. Fother-
inghame, just 22, graduated with second-
class honors, and shared the prize for
general proficiency among women stu-
dents. She was senior student of Sancta
Sophia within the Uni., and at present
she is a resident of R.PA. Dr.
Joan is a granddaughter of Mrs,
Fotheringhame, Sydney’s oldest press-
woman and the first woman writer h
Bulletin ever had. Another young g i r
doctor at R.P.A. is Elizabeth Himmel-
hoch (21). She shared the proficiency
prize with Joan Fotheringhame and took
second-class honors. Last week s conf
ring of degrees filled the Great Hall
the S University. Chancellor Bickerton
Blackburn officiated. Among the new
medicoes are 16 women.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce).
TO DULCIE FAY SMITH formerly of Hobart
in Tasmania the wife of NORMAN ALFRED
SMITH of Launceston in the said State of
Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE that a petition has
been filed in this Court endorsed with a notice
to you to appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of NORMAN ALFRED SMITH of
Olney Guest-house 15 Wellington Street Laun-
ceston aforesaid praying for a dissolution of
marriage In default of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said petition
proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereto AND take further notice that for the
purpose aforesaid within Thirty days after the
date of this publication an appearance must
be entered at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart. —
(1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM, Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Winterset failed to redeem himself in
the A. V. Ftiskens Steeplechase at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. Starting favorite at
6 to 4, he did not actually hit the front
at any stage of the race, and was beaten
five lengths by Dorset. Little excuse
looked possible for his failure, but owner
“H. J. Ascot” disagreed with general
opinion that the gelding was feeling the
effects of his recent racing. “His con-
dition was perfect; only the weight beat
him,” he declared.
Dorset, in receipt of 381 b. from Win-
terset, made most of the pace with
Fryar’s Hope, and was left in front when
the latter fell at the second-last fence.
Winterset was only a couple of lengths
behind him at that stage, but Dorset
drew farther away after crossing the last.
In viewi of his improved stamina, Dorset
can be regarded as a probable runner
for the Australian Steeple, in which,
however, he may be troubled to beat
Victory March for one. Victory March,
who dead-heated for third with Tempus
Fugit on Saturday, ran a close second
to Parentena in the National and is a
proved stayer.
- • • • • •
Lord Jevington, a candidate for the
Australian Hurdle next Saturday, upset
general calculations by defeating Virile
and Harley in the Aberfeldie Hurdle. He
won well after being carried wide by
a riderless horse at the turn, but has to
be taken on trust over the three miles
of the more important race. He was
hardly as impressive as Harley from an
Australian Hurdle viewpoint. Latter ran
on well, and, having raced only twice
since a spell, should improve. Harley was
placed in die National and Australian
Hurdles last year, but he has a big job
ahead to defeat Saul next Saturday. Most
danger to Saul may come from the G.N.
runner-up, Isambard. Latter ran well in
the Glen Orla Handicap on Saturday, and
has recovered from his injuries sustained
in the National.
Cellini followed up his Ascot Thou-
sand success of a week earlier, defeating
Hullabaloo and Berry in a close finish
for the Glen Orla Handicap. His two
latest wins have yielded £lO5O in stakes
alone, and he is a much better galloper
than his appearance would suggest.
Beamish would have done better than
fourth had he escaped trouble in run-
ning. Interference marred several races
during the day, and R. Heather was sus-
pended for one month after winning on
Lilette in the Brunswick Handicap.
Excuses were possible for Trustee and
Lilette’s stablemate. Cloudy Bay, who
filled the minor places. Lilette, a filly by
Piccadilly, is consistent with three wins
and a second from her last five starts.
Quezon, unlucky at Flemington at his
previous start, overcame the disadvantage
of a wide barrier position to record a
decisive win from Mating Call and
Tokalule in the Cooce Handicap. The
Brueghel colt has won twice over a mile
at the Valley, and looks like developing
into a really good stayer. Naval Revue
finished just too well for Sangallo in the
Derrimut Handicap, and Endeavour, who
is partial to Moonee Valley, surprised by
beating Florin and Paramente in the
Sunset Welter, last race of the season,
♦ * * *
Ascot was unpleasantly crowded on
Saturday, and we have had so much
racing at that Sydney track during the
past few weeks that greater use of other
courses would be a pleasant change.
More meetings at Randwick would be
generally appreciated.
Radical (Cook) had a much easier win
in the Flying Handicap than in the High-
weight at Canterbury the previous week.
Winnipeg was smartest away, but was
eased into third place behind Cradle
Song and Cable. Radical ran past the
last-mentioned two at the turn, and was
not after troubled. Phalaran finished
strongly in third place, and Diadem and
Kestrel were well clear of the remainder.
Ensign showed pace for a few furlongs,
and may strike something like his old
form a little sooner than generally antici-
pated. As this was Radical’s fifth win
of the season he has paid his way. Some
of Winnipeg’s backers found fault with
Munro for not making greater use of
him when he had an early lead, but no
matter how he might have been ridden
Winnipeg could not have beaten Radical.
Yours Truly (J. Thompson) was well
placed throughout the Rosebery Handi-
cap, and, joining the pacemakers, Many
Ways and His Lordship, at the turn,
eventually won by three-quarters of a
length from Ron Rico, who kept him
going right to the winning-post. Cable
Boy beat Astounding for third, the last
bit bothering the latter. Abspear was
not far from the leaders at the top of the
straight, but weakened, while Gilltowh
did not run as well as in his two previous
races. Yours Truly is now raced on lease
by his trainer, F. Dalton.
' ‘ *
General Smuts s win in the first divi-
sion of the Two-year-old Handicap was
accomplished in good style. Gryphon
and Judy Garland led at the half-mile,
but, though the latter then drew away
and turned for home a couple of lengths
ahead of General Smuts, that colt had
her measure half a furlong from home,
He won by three-quarters of a length,
but that did not fully represent the
measure of his success. Gryphon hung
on well enough to run third, and of the
others Chataroi did best, though Prince
Tuckiar and Afloat were fairly promi-
nent at the turn. Darke was on General
Smuts.
_'’. ‘ ‘ ■
Bedfords price suggested the second
division was going to be little more than
\ walkover for him. He had every
chance, being a close second to Antelope
at the straight entrance. However, he
was wanting as a finisher. Mastery (Cook)
* disposing of him at the leger and going
on to win easily from Santa Cruz, who,
running on well, cut Bedford out of
second money. Silent Flyer (a Soft Step
filly) and Antelope were nearest the place-
getters. Entally had backers, but was
always one of the tailenders. Mastery,
who cost 70gns., is by Piccadilly from
Bother (Pantheon-Bewilder) and is
trained by J. Carey. She has plenty of
staying lines in her pedigree,
......
Mit’s race of the previous week im-
proved him considerably, and, after wait-
in 8 on Te Rama and Scooter to the turn
in . the Fourteen-two Handicap, he won
ea sily from La Vallee. The latter made
U P ground over the last furlong, but was
unequal to seriously threatening Mit,
who, as he is a sturdy pony, will not be
stopped by a little extra weight. Mulley
rode him.
m • \r \
_9“ Va La and Ronswalk were the
T T , S i kes . but they lasted
° n . ly A° *°P °£ the straight, Tyrannus
~ . r . ie c^er ' ai le fast-finishing
e ?j Ge ™ d g*, d ‘ heat . < ;? h ' m ln ‘ he last
s,rlde - Wee Woo, with whom Tyrannus
accl cnay mterfered, was a good third.
and may have better luck next time.
Mabonga’s fourth gives him a chance in
this class of race. The favorite, Winnie,
was never a possibility, but struck her
full share of trouble. Tyrannus and Real
Gem were respectively ridden by R.
Parsons and D. Beckett.
Duke Cullen (Bartle) accounted for the
Welter Mile in easy fashion after Mar-
chotti had led to the turn, the minor
places going to Gallop and Brazen Lad.
The last-named never really raised the
hopes of his backers, and temporarily
does not appear likely to improve. Tel
Asm) who had done nothing in public
or private to suggest he was back to his
best, was never a possibility, though his
alleged pull in weight was said to have
been responsible for the poor acceptance
for the race.
* # * ♦
The fact of nearly all the Sydney clubs
being on the up-grade in respect of prize-
money should be pleasing to most owners
and trainers. Not quite all, as some of
the chronic grumblers will be inclined
to resent having one thing less to growl
about.
* * * *
Under the rules of racing dead-heats
are not allowed to be run off, but there
is nothing in them to stop a horse start-
ing in two or three races the same day.
It is decidedly unusual for a two-yeaf-old
to run twice in an afternoon, but Babil-
lard did so at Newcastle on Saturday and
justified that procedure by winning both
his races. Babillard, who is well named,
being by Talking from French Model
(Woorak-Southern Cross, by Spearmint),
is a September foal, and cost Miss Q.
McCann 1200gns. as a yearling. His
trainer, C. McLoughlin, is now hopeful
he may prove a Derby proposition.
• * * •
New York’s population dwarfs that
of Sydney and Melbourne, but its largest
attendance at a race meeting does not
approach that of either of Australia’s
principal cities. A crowd of 51,903 at
Belmont Park (New York) on Decoration
Day, May 30, was a record for the State
of New York, as was a tote turnover of
£A652,821.
* * * *
Beaulivre is not remaining in Australia,
the reason being that he is not in the Aus-
tralian. Stud Book, and consequently any
of his progeny foaled here would be in-
eligible for classic races. However, he
is in the Maoriland Stud Book, and his
stock thrown in M.L. will, so far as he is
concerned, be eligible for Australian
classics. The bar here is that he is
descended from the mare Sharkie. The
position is a peculiar one, but not so
anomalous as that of the Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups winner Rivette. Her
sire and dam are in the Australian Stud
Book, but negligence in connection with
her registration within a certain time ex-
cludes her and her progeny, the latter
consequently being debarred from classic
races.
* * * *
The Canterbury Guineas and Rosehill
Guineas may bring to light some three-
year-olds whose two-year-old form does
not greatly recommend them as Derby
candidates, but at present the field for
that race does not appear likely to be
strong in quality. Riverton and Hall
Stand are outstanding of the Sydney colts.
General Smuts may stay, and some smart
fillies are engaged, but they do not win
Derbies.
Regency, Burberry, Grain Trader,
Great Britain and Blue Valley are among
the Victorians engaged, but in view of
the possibility of transport difficulties
southern support may be on the light side.
Nor is Queensland or 'Maoriland likely
to be strongly represented. It can be
pointed out that Phar Lap and Peter Pan
started their three-year-old careers with
little to recommend them, and each won
the A.J.C. Derby. Similar developments
are possible, but if there were any betting
on the race very few would be supported
at this stage. However, with second
money £BOO and third £4OO, runners may
be numerous.
* * ♦ *
Of the yearlings sold at auction at
Randwick last season Bangster (Pen-
theus-Dixie Lass) has proved the greatest
bargain. Costing Mrs. I. Sterling 70gns.,
his three wins and two thirds have re-
turned her £1940. Of the four-figures
division, Battle Dress (Double Remove-
Lady Silvius) has done best in Sydney.
She has not yet caught up to her pur-
chase price of 1050gns., but is not far
behind it, with £895 for three wins and a
second. Riverton, with £1755 for two
wins and a second, is well ahead of the
600gns. he cost, and, though he failed in
Melbourne in the autumn, his prospects
of winning a good three-year-old race
or two are bright.
Double Birthday (Double Remove-
Cheer) is well ahead of the 350gns. paid
for him. His five firsts and three seconds
carried £763. Modulation’s (Manitoba-
Vocal) two Sydney wins gave £530 against
her yearling price of 350gns, I have only
touched upon youngsters sold at auction.
Important winners in Hesione (Brueghel-
Medmenham) and Hall Stand (Hall
Mark-Trasma) were catalogued, but not
sold as yearlings.
* * * *
Trivalve, winner of the 1927 A.J.C.
Derby, Victoria Derby, Melbourne Cup
and V.R.C. St. Leger (1928), was recently
destroyed at Alice Springs. A failure at
E. E. D. Clarke’s stud, he was subse-
quently bought for South Australia for
325gns. He was not a success there, and
was sold for 7gns. to go to a station
in Westralia. Later he was sold again for
less than a “termer.” During his racing
career he won £28,375.
* * * *
In answer to a correspondent, the fol-
lowing horses were weighted at lOst. or
over for the Melbourne Cup; Archer,
10.2 and 11.4, Panic 10.0, Volunteer 10.0,
Tim Whiffler 10.4 and 10.0, The Barb
10.4 and 11.7, Dagworth 10.0, Commo-
tion 10.1, Carbine 10.0, 10.5 and 10.12,
Wallace 10.0, San Fran 10.5, Wakeful
10.5 and 10.0, Poseidon 10.0, Poitrel 10.0,
Eufythmic 10.5, Windbag 10.0, Spearfelt
10.2, Phar Lap 10.10 and Peter Pan 10.6.
* * * *
For the fourth time W. Cook heads
the list of winning jockeys in Sydney, but
with racing so greatly reduced his total
is only 59 wins and three dead-heats,
against his 1940 record of 124| wins. He
is credited with having won over £21,000
in prize-money this season. Even with
the customary 5 per cent, for wins his
income is enviable, but the probabilities
are that presents from grateful owners
greatly exceeded the amount provided by
the rules. D. Munro is second with
wins, followed by E. McMenamin 48£
and J. Thompson 42£.
* * * sfe
For generosity, the action of the owner,
trainer and rider of Shut Out, after that
colt won the Belmont Stakes at Belmont
Park (New York) last month, would be
hard to beat. Mrs. Payne Whitney gave
£A6770 (half of first money) to the funds
being raised at New York tracks for war-
relief organisations, while trainer Gaver
contributed £A676 (50 per cent, of his
10 per cent, fee) and jockey Arcaro
£A436, half of his 10 per cent., after
deduction of expenses. Perhaps those
associated with the winner of the coming
£5OOO A.J.C. Derby will be tempted to
do something similar. Last week Shut
Out won another big three-year-old race,
the Arlington Classic, of the total value
of about £A26,700. That probably gave
the war fund another big contribution.
Miscellaneous
Another welterweight scrap at Leich-
hardt—Jimmy Dundee and Ron Mc-
Laughlin for the fourth time. Dundee
had won the third tussle with a swift
knockout; the fourth saw McLaughlin’s
attack, sometimes reckless, earn him a
victory on points. Although McLaughlin
appeared to hand out plenty of punish-
ment, Dundee was unmarked at the final
bell, whereas Mac’s eyebrows were
gashed open and his dial was bedabbled
with gore. Dundee had shaken him with
a lusty left hook to the hedd in the ninth,
but in many toe-to-toe exchanges the
101 b. lighter pug was second-best,
* * * *
The match between Footscray and
Richmond, two of the four leaders in the
V.F.L. competition, drew the biggest
crowd on Saturday. Footscray, going flat
out from barrier-rise, got an early lead
and desperately held off the Tigers’ rush
to come home under the whip by 19.15 to
17.20. South Melbourne also held its
place by beating Collingwood, 15.21 to
9.15. Fitzroy defeated St. Kilda, 12.14-
10.13, North Melbourne disposed of
Hawthorn, 9.10-6.16, and Melbourne gave
the books a turn-up and its barrackers
hysterics by downing the mighty Essen-
don, 14.20 to 12.12. *
***!(!
University (first) and Parramatta
(second) won their Union Rugby matches
on Saturday. Uni., 18-n// v. North at
“lemons,” was bustled into errors in
the second half, ending with 26-13. Parra-
matta handed Randwick a severe drub-
bing, 31-6. Manly is coming into the
picture. Playing West at the Village it
scored a fine try a minute before time
which gave it a 12-9 win and third
place on the table. East —19-3 against
Gordon —is next, and Drummoyne and
St. George (15-10) are having a tussle
for the wooden spoon.
FOR V.A.T.C. MEETING.
(At Flemington.)
(Before Acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Crimea Trial: Rippling Avon, 1 ;
Tunic, 2 ; Radama, 3.
Moondah Plate; Tea Cake, 1 ;
Burberry, 2 ; Fur Trader, 3.
Australian Hurdle: Saul, 1 ;
Isambard, 2 ; Harley or Con Devon,
3.
Balaclava Stakes: David Innis, 1 ;
Ballycummins, 2; Watchguard, 3.
Godfrey Watson Steeple: High-
land March, 1; Sachem, 2; National
Debt, 3.
Mornington Welter; Grandson,
1; Lugano, 2; Retnuha, 3.
FOR VICTORIA PARK.
(At Ascot).
( Before Acceptances.)
By "PILOT."
Encourage Handicap: Moonda-
rewa, 1 ; Dark Felt, 2; Mabonga
or Monaro, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Babil-
lard or Deneith, 1 ; Santa Cruz, 2 ;
Easy Mark, 3.
Fourteen-two Handicap: Mit, 1 ;
Te Rama, 2.
Flying Handicap: Phalaran, 1 ;
Winnipeg, 2; Postman or Plimsol,
3.
Welter Handicap: Gallop, 1 ;
Dick Whittington, 2; Widden, 3.
Victoria Park Handicap; Ron
Rico, 1; Buzzal, 2 ; Tidal Wave, 3.


*1?
«
/
“The secret s in
the 333’s blend!”
XISOSD-7.42
n Hnt
B £/f
Australia
expects
that every
tyre
today will
do its duty
Every Military or Civilian driver can
prolong the life of his tyres by careful
driving . . . thus eliminating excessive
tyre wear , . . and helping Australia’s
Offensive.
■t*.
THE Olympic TVBE (, RUBBER CD. LTD.
SMOKE-OH!
“Lost, Flemington racecourse, Sat., man’s
shirt.” — Melbourne “Age.”
So it isn’t only figurative, after all!
•F *F *F *F
“The gown needs only seven elephants, are
reduced to two guineas.”— “Sunday Sun.”
Our tip is that someone named Jessie
will buy it.
•F *F *F *F
“She had helped him to fame. then, one
moonlight night, she shot him.”— Story.
Thus she changed from guiding-star to
shooting-star.
•J*
American Methods.
“Australian businessmen will be forced to
study and adopt the methods of American
business offices.” — “D.T.”
And they have their advantages, as I
have gathered from an intensive study
of the talkies.
One of the greatest is when you are
a millionaire stockbroker and Amalga-
mated Horsehair drops two points.
Although you “go to the wall” you are
still able, months after your final ruin,
to order the chauffeur to get out the
cream phaeton when you want to go
down town.
And, while they last, the American
methods are good. You stroll into your
office at 10 a.m., sign two papers left on
your blotter without reading them, and
call your typist.
Then, noticing for the first time how
good-looking she is, you take her out to
an expensive lunch, which you charge up
to the firm.
Yes, they seem good methods to me.
Their introduction in Australia will save
me from having to go to the U.S.A.
H. M.
•F *F *F *F
“Furn. flat, in private home, suit bus.
—“Manly [A.S.IF.] Daily.”
A convenient stopping place.
•F *F *F *F
“Lovely Barbara B— has joined the ranks
of girls in full-time war jobs. She is at Ameri-
can headquarters and loving it.
HINT.”
—“Daily Mirror. ,
To whom? •
•F *F *F *F
Thermal.
“Human hair, which has a high tensile
strength, is widely used in weather recording
instruments.” — “World’s News.”
The storm broke suddenly in the obser-
vatory. Professor I. Sobar raged around
the new instrument like a tornado with
whiskers on.
“Look at it! ” he roared, freezing his
assistant with the heat of his words. “It’s
snowing, yet that damned instrument
keeps registering hot. Have you been
fooling around with it?”
“Well, sir, the hair broke and I
replaced it.”
“You did! Are you sure you put the
right grade in?”
“We’d run out of stock, sir, so I plucked
one from the redheaded typist, sir.”
E,
“Most of the troops in the unit were well
aware that the sergeant had once been a gun-
man.”—War story.
He would be just the type for drilling
them.
•F *F *F *F
“Dress smartly with French distinction. In
12 lessons you can design and cut any style of
garment. No materials required. Easy weekly
payments.”— “SM-HN ad.
That seems dressing with rather too
much French distinction.
•F *F F *F
“The hon. treasurer read the financial state-
ment for the year ended 31st December, 1942.”
—Club report.
He is referred to by club members as
a farsighted official.
4. 4.
“My daughter is 16, and says she is in love
with a man aged 28. I have tried to dis-
courage her, but she is wilful, and says she
will have her own wag. What should I do?
Mum.” — Letter to Dorothy Dix.
Let her have him, Mum.
•F *F *F ■F
Uniform Success.
“And still we get arguments as to why women
should not wear uniforms in certain branches
of war-work.” — Woman’s paper.
To be or not to be in uniform arrayed.
Thi,s is the problem still which has the
girls dismayed. Bright people write to
editors to show which view they favor.
Some arguments are fair enough ; some
have a cynic flavor. One side says
“Women’s place in home they never
should surrender,” The other, “Let the
girls have uniforms ; it’s added splendor.”
So there’s a very easy way to please
those for and those agin it: Supply one
uniform per girl—and put a nice man
in it.
Eve.
•F *F . *F *i*
“Prune poinsettias while the sap is dormant.”
— “Woman’s Mirror.”
The woman next door said she intends
to wait till he wakes up and then make
him do it.
■F *F * *F
Hollywood’ Jungle.
“Secret of Hollywood’s fierce gorillas.”
— “World’s News.”
The players all ape one another
When scenes are about to be shot;
And filmsmiths, though gruff,
May be harmless enough —
But they monkey around with the plot.
Chimp N. Eez.
The Challenge.
“Personal glamor is essential to your war
effort.” — Cosmetic advertisement.
The ravages of war are fell,
The battle-fumes corrosive.
The fighting gel would soon rebel
Were she denied, ’mid shot and shell,
A powder less explosive.
Take up the struggle with your faces,
The challenge of your hair!
Gird on the girdles of your graces
And tighten laces round the places
Where Nature seems unfair.
The sternest critic must allow
The action’s not redundant
With charms enow to deck the brow ;
The competition’s keener now —
The quarry less abundant.
P. M. L.
A Matter of Suction.
“Snakes, mosquitoes and leeches lie behind
blades of grass and jungle leaves and suck the
marching man’s blood, even through thick
woollen socks.” — “Sun.”
For people who doubt the power of
snakes to suck a man’s blood while he
is in perambulatory motion, let me re-
count my own experience.
As a Fellow of the Royal Fungalogical
Society I had made an intensive study of
hybridised mosses, and it was my prac-
tice to read a paper on the subject at
every meeting. After the seventeenth of
these the president suggested that I lead
an expedition of one to New Guinea to
try to discover an original specimen. The
other members were so heartily in accord
with the idea that I agreed to go.
Setting out from the mouth of the Fly
with my party of “boys,” I followed the
river up to the headwaters, without suc-
cess. Then a friendly headhunter whose
life I saved, or almost saved, by lending
him a pair of gumboots to cross a leech-
infested stream, told me he had seen, or
thought he hacf seen, such a moss near
the source of the Sepik River. Though
it meant crossing up to 200 miles of
what was up till then trackless jungle I
set out.
One day, climbing a steep track that
the “boys” had hacked with machetes
'through the jungle, I felt something cold
on ray leg and heard a sucking sound.
Looking down I saw a 7ft. banded snake
with a half-hitch around the calf of my
right leg and on its face a look of in-
effable rapture. One of the “boys” helped
me prise it off and I looked for a bite.
The head “boy” explained that such
snakes didn’t bite —they merely sucked.
But looking in my shaving mirror later
I was astonished to find that I was the
color of flour. I calculated that the
thirsty ophidian had got five pints of
blood out of me.
Thereafter these sucking attacks, which
mostly occurred when I was walking,
became more frequent, and to make up
•the blood I lost I was compelled not only
to eat more, but to drink a lot of port.
It was curious to see some of the smaller
snakes like the death-adder drop off hic-
cupping after a sucking bout.
What with my increasing fatness, due to
eating about seven times more than I
did normally, and the necessity of drag-
ging along sometimes yards of serpent
which persistently hung on, my speed was
somewhat impaired. Except for the tiger-
snakes, which hung on rather too enthu-
siastically, I tolerated short spells of suck-
ing, but when I awoke one night to find
an Bft. elephant’s trunk snake helping
himself to a gallon or so of my best
arterial gore I decided to do something
about it.
Long weeks in the humid tropics hav-
ing taught me how to open and shut my
skin pores at will so as to prevent colds,
I evolved a plan.
That night I awoke to find a 20ft. boa-
constrictor in the tent, going for his life
just above my ankles. It was a hot night
and I was sweating, but immediately I
closed all my pores. I could see a puzzled
look appear on the snake’s face, and 1
had to put forth all my willpower to stop
laughing. When I saw that he was flat
out, I suddenly opened up all my pores.
The boa shot back and cracked his skull
on the tent pole.
I recommend this method to anyone
else who has any trouble with sucking
snakes.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others per line.
New Orders
New-order projectors always assume
that those in unfortunate circumstances
are invariably the victims of economic
conditions, never of their own conduct.
Actually, the latter factor is usually of
some consequence and is often as im-
portant as tlie former. Thus all badly-
housed people are not in that situation
because they have no choice. Some, by
judicious use of equal, perhaps inferior,
earnings, have bought comfortable
homes; others live in hovels. Similarly
malnutrition is by no means inevitably
the result of poverty. Many stint expen-
diture on food because they prefer to
spend their money on other things.
Any scheme intended to raise living
standards that gives no encouragement
to thrift and independence of character
is not likely to prove fruitful. No society
can long prosper unless the great mass of
its citizens strive to be assets to the State,
instead of expecting it to be an asset to
them. Yet none of the many proposals for
new orders seeks to foster these qualities.
Such projects, however they differ in
detail, can be numbered under twc
heads. One lot is of the “something-for-
nothing” type, the certain ending eco-
nomic disaster. The other kind envisages
a socialistic form of economy, which,
though presented in tempting guise, would
mean, in practice, the enslavement of the
mass of men to a small clique.—A. D.
(N.S.W.).
Post-war Plans
I don’t agree with “Tobruk Rat” (B.
8/7/’42) that “much complacency preva-
lent here is due to vague platitudes re-
garding post-war plans.” The complacent
people are not troubling about post-war
reconstruction or any other serious prob-
lem. They are enjoying high wages and
salaries such as they never earned before,
and all they are thinking of is having a
good time while the opportunity offers.
What the future holds troubles them not
at all.
The people who are talking about post-
war plans are not complacent. They are
apprehensive. They are afraid we shall
be caught as unprepared for peace as we
were for war. If that happens, the result
may be almost as disastrous. There will
be chaos, from which will spring a heavy
crop of mistakes containing the seeds of
a further world upheaval.
It would be a very foolish person who
tried to work out details for life after
the war. But there are certain funda-
mental principles which must be observed
if this world is ever to know a lasting
peace, and it is not too soon to begin
thinking about them now. Was not Presi-
dent Roosevelt doing this when he
enumerated his Four Freedoms? —
Lucinda (Q.).
Churchill
In that article (B, 8/7/’42), you are less
than just to Mr. Churchill. To the chal-
lenge “Thou Art the Man,” Churchill
replies, “I am the man, and I willingly
accept all constitutional responsibility. I
do not, though, interfere with the tac-
tical handling of armies.”
He has enormous responsibilities and
shoulders them like a giant. He has
to —being afraid of incompetent col-
leagues. He towers above all that have
been tried, in mental strength and acti-
vities, Do you forget how he inspired
the nation after Dunkirk, how he infused
courage until we had ridden out the
storm in those months after France col-
lapsed, how he faced out that unspeak-
able threat to our whole cause, knowing
(as we could not) the black truth of our
danger? Is there any other man what-
ever who could have done it? — C. Wash-
ington White (Vic.),
Army Mission to Russia
The Government’s proposal to send a
military mission to study Russian
mechanised war technique suggests lack
of thought. By the time our experts
reach Russia the campaign will be
over or Hitler will again be caught in
the snow. Russia in winter is a place
where our experts will learn little else
except how to avoid freezing to death.
In any case the methods of this autumn
will be antiquated by next spring.
While all must admire Russian
tenacity, the end of the campaign alone
will determine the efficiency or otherwise
of tactics which would prove next to
useless in the jungles where Australians
are likely to fight it out with the Japs.
Australians have brains as well as guts,
so why continue this senseless game of
follow-the-leader? Can’t we take the
lead, anticipate, for a change, instead of
adopting European methods already age-
ing with the antiquity of three years of
war?
The Australian Government should
send out a call to inventors and factories
for new and better weapons and so keep
a jump ahead of our enemy. The Owen
gun was almost lost to us through depart-
mental inertia, but it is safe to say that
had it been entered in an arms competi-
tion it would have been in mass produc-
tion two years ago. Give our armies the
best equipment possible and methods of
using that equipment will develop auto-
matically.—Inko (S.A.).
In Quietness and Confidence
The Bulletin (17/6/’42) has done well
to challenge the value of a certain line
of B.B.C. propaganda.
The bravery that made Britain great
was noted for its modesty and a definite
magnanimity, and the Silent Service
“ Vegetables? Sorry , sir, this isn't the army!”
found strength in quietness. Modern
radio, boasting and hating, is injurious
to the national character. To judge by
results —the only practicable criterion in
war —a great service might be done to
the British cause if every war commen-
tator and propagandist among us were
sacked and our broadcasting restricted
to truthful news and artistic entertain-
ment.—J. W. R. (Tas.).
Design for War-winning
I’m not much taken with The Bulle-
tin’s recipe (B. 15/7/ ’42) for winning the
war. We are to systematically blockade
Germany and her allies, try to bomb the
soulcases out of them, trade in our own
circle, cut the Axis Powers off from the
rest of the world and wait until the
peoples of occupied countries become
difficult to handle.
Can we afford to let Germany stay on
the rampage until she gets what she is
after in Russia and then turn that, with
all the other valuable resources she con-
trols in Europe, against us, fighting our
blockade, intensifying her U-boat cam-
paign and increasing the battering power
of the Luftwaffe, at the same time build-
ing up to invade Britain?
With Russia fought back to purely
defensive positions beyond the Urals, and
with the Ukraine and the Caucasus in his
hands, Hitler would be able to concen-
trate on the job of beating us. The Luft-
waffe would have a more concentrated
target than ours, which would be spread
all over Europe and part of Russia.
Given a free hand in Europe, and with
Russia well battered, it would not take
the Germans long to link up with the
Japanese. The Japs have resources that
used to be ours, but they can’t do a great
deal with them. Let the Nazis and the
Japs link up, and those resources will be
utilised —to our great disadvantage—by
both parties.
“Divide and conquer” has been the
secret of Axis successes to date. Russia
is fighting alone and, without greater help,
may be conquered. Then, after a period
of consolidation, Germany would attempt
to isolate Britain by an intensive sub-
marine and aerial blockade. An attack
would follow. With only a few ships
getting through with war materials and
foodstuffs; Britain would be fighting as
Russia is fighting today.
Whether it is a second front or not,
we shall have to adopt a more active
policy than blockade and bombing to
prevent the enemy from using his re-
sources to give us a taste of that medi-
cine, too. So far, “divide and conquer
appears the mO|St successful policy that has
been tried. — James Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Training Australian Youth
At present the only organised bodies
in Australia for training youth for
national service are the Air Training
Corps and the Navy League, both ot
which are voluntary. As far as the army
is concerned, there is not even a volun-
tary corps in which lads can learn the
rudiments of the service, and on entering
they are forced to start from scratch.
Every lad on attaining 16 should be
compelled to decide in which branch of
the services he will serve, and should then
be able to attend classes at night and on
Saturday afternoons to learn the rudi-
ments of that service. At 18 he would
enter the service with two years of theory
behind him. — Armack (N.S.W.).
Working a Way Through College
Prof. Eric Ashby’s suggestion that the
American tradition of “working one’s
way through college” should be fostered
in Australia deserves a cheer. The normal
annual course at Sydney University com-
prises only 28 weeks of lectures and
from about two to four weeks of exam-
inations. While some time during vaca-
tions may be devoted to study, the aver-
age day student is far from being fully
occupied, and many would welcome the
opportunity of part-time employment
even during term.
Hundreds of evening students in the
Faculties of Arts and Economics manage
to obtain degrees, often with honors,
while working at full-time jobs. Most
law students, too, spend the greater part
of the day in an office. One wonders,
therefore, whether the necessity of earn-
ing a living while pursuing University
studies is as great a handicap as it appears
to be. The brilliant careers of many
former evening students suggests that the
hard way makes for success. — Arc
(N.S.W.).
The Price of Fish
Why don’t these boards and price-
fixing commissions recognise that they
are trying to bail out ladders, economi-
cally speaking?
Recently fish soared to fantastic prices
in Melbourne. A box of barracouta cost
955., flathead 635., garfish 1065., shark
115 s. There was an outcry, and H. E.
Bishop, Deputy Price Confishioner of
Victoria, issued a ukase reducing prices
by almost half in some cases and by two-
thirds in others. That, no doubt, is fair
enough from the point of view of the
consumer, but what about the fishers?
If the price they get for their catches
isn’t worth the time, labor and risk they
will go out of business. It is easy now
to get employment elsewhere at high
wages.
There would be some excuse for the
official belief in control and restriction
if there was no experience to go on. But
Victoria has had plenty of experience.
Wantirna and other districts around Mel-
bourne used to be covered with smiling
orchards. Since the Apple and Pear
Board came into existence whole orchards
are covered with weeds. After a season
or two of getting two bob a case for
apples which the board subsequently
sold for 14s, to 165., the owner has lost
hope and gone off elsewhere. One man
[ know who owned a perfectly-run fifty
acres has gone back to his old trade of
boilermaking. He’s still helping the war
effort, but his orchard, which used to be
a picture, is now a potential menace to
the district.—L. L. (Vic.).
Forced Unionism
National Security Regulations mean
just what the composite term implies and
should not be applied by the Federal
Government to hand out concessions to
any political section or invest it with any
special authority, such as would occur in
case of compulsory unionism being con-
ceded at the behest of the A.C.T.U
The Prime Minister has said that the
time for controversy has passed. He
has ruled out nationalisation of industries
on that score. Yet that is no more of a
controversial issue than is forced union-
ism. This suggested regimentation of
men and women is not opposed only by
employers. It has been proved to be
highly objectionable to large numbers of
employees who rest on the right of indi-
vidual liberty. The real effect of compul-
sory unionism would be to boost the
funds of trade-unions and add to the
arrogance and militancy of the militant
and arrogant variety.
Commonwealth statistics for the past
two years show that the proportion of
unionists to the total number of workers
employed is only 52 p.c., while 93.8 p.c.
of the total man hours lost has been due
to disputes in the most highly unionised
organisations, including, of course, the
coalminers.
Should compulsory unionism ever be
applied, in whom will authority be vested
in determining whether a non-unionist
will be acceptable or otherwise to the
powers that be in unionism? Will that
authority rest with the Government, a
tribunal or the unions? The issue here is
the bread-and-butter of the workers, in-
cluding our returned soldiers. —L. W.
(A.C.T.).
“Arrogance” and “Robbery”
I see that The Bulletin considers that
“no stronger blow has been struck at
provincial arrogance this century” than
the application of uniform income taxa-
tion. Well, since you do not hesitate
to describe the majority of my State—
Westralia —as arrogant, permit me to
describe the majority of yours as damned
robbers. Our opposition to unification
is based upon a firm belief that it will
allow you to rob us more easily than
you (the strong States) do now.
One example of Commonwealth
(strong States) treatment of W.A. What
has the Commonwealth done for what
is commonly referred to as our “Nor’-
west”? It is about four-fifths of the size
of the N.T., which, from 1911-37, re-
ceived £15,000,000 from the Common-
wealth.
Despite Section 96 of the Constitution
dealing with financial assistance to the
States —“on such terms and conditions
as the Parliament thinks fit” —the Min-
ister of the Interior in 1938 spoke when
here of “Constitutional difficulties.” In
the face of Section 96 of the Constitution
did ever a Minister make a poorer show-
ing than when he said “Constitutional
limitations were imposed upon the Com-
monwealth in matters which fell purely
within State jurisdiction. In addition,
there was a natural reluctance on the part
of the Commonwealth to go to the limit
in applying to its own territories conces-
sions which could not be equally applied
across the imaginary lines of a State
border to people engaged in the same
industries and in identical circumstances”?
From 1911-37 W.A. received £7,950,000
in grants. —J. R. L. B. (W.A.).
The Courts and Politicians
Referring to the use of air-raid shelters
for unlawful purposes, Mr. Heffron
(N.E.S. Minister in N.S.W.) said “The
first prosecution probably will be the
last, if Ministerial authority can influence
a drastic penalty.” In view of the fact
that the penalty for breaches of the
N.E.S. regulations is a fine of £2OO or
12 months’ imprisonment, or both, Mr.
Heffron could not have meant that the
penalties would be increased. The only
inference to be drawn from the remark
is that in some way he hopes to influence
the Court in its decision.
Surely Mr. Heffron is aware that our
Courts, in the exercise of their judicial
functions, are free from outside influ-
ences, including Ministerial authority,
thanks to a long-established principle of
British justice, and that Judges, magis-
trates and even Js.P. have sworn that
they will do right to all manner of people
after the laws and usages of the State
without fear or favor, affection or ill-will.
—Actus (N.S.W.).


1 &&S&
SOB
vn
si
TV^O
Bu
tb£
SV3B^
■ACj
iS?I
vfrL
r:^»
of H
fT ?i' ot
of * n
HB'S
onV
tW aW a
<rt>sse\
da* 1 ".
-.v »w
e.n® t * l y 'V*
,\*n«
Tin'S
y/Yvtcb
ttgZ&mz
?Va|
Lj kb«
,cV.i
Flfcen
lot
gntorti^ I ?l.Toed „heet« 4 l
ctoeer
wst lrradtets
»«5P
fas
Wittv
<B@tfs££,
1 ’ tn attS \vmeo spr °JL 400 ®a
®m S S sK ‘ 4
® r £«ff r* 0 was^j^-aiStevssa*
Ss^S^aassT
V>M£jfcS. o^'“**“
4 s -
KV« e ‘ :
■p
»fi :
9
*.
§mm
*
irn!
<s*
d/.
dAi*
*M
*
* A
¥»>.-
I
\JL
Below : Bomb
bodies awaiting
transit bases and
caps.
CREDIT for the gratifying successes reported above
belongs to our air force, whose keen vigilance and
skilled attack resulted in seven submarines being spotted
and promptly destroyed with Australian-made bombs.
The airmen s triumph is shared in part by the workers whose
labours provided the weapons for victory.
Many months ago, the deadly bombs which proved so
effective began to take shape in Australia’s munition plants.
For their manufacture (illustrated at right) steel was the
first and major material.
Bombs were only one of the many armaments, such as tanks,
guns, shells, ships and aircraft, whose urgent production
required steel in augmented volume and variety.
Due to the far-sighted efforts planned to give increased steel
productivity, for which The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.,
Ltd., was primarily responsible, the Australian steel industry
has been able to successfully meet war-time’s swollen de-
mands, same time preserving prices at pre-war levels,
which are the lowest in the world.
Such is the sound basis made possible by B.H.P. service and
efficiency which give Australia an assured supply of quality
steel for the development of our munition effort and the
maintenance of essential civil undertakings.
At Right: Calibrating the wall
thickness of a 2501 b. bomb.
Below: Internal inspection of
partly-completed bomb.
* * i
mMtMnnn
1
m
t
m
m.
m
.:■■■: ... :
A y ' ... '/
At Left : Giving
a B.H.P. open-
hearth furnace a
“drink” of
molten iron.
At Left : Completed
2501 b. bomb bodies
being checked before
despatch.
m%
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Iron and Steel Masters, Mine and Ship Owners, Colliery Proprietors, Ship Builders.
Head Office: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Iron and Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W., and Why alia, S.A.
