

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 63.—N0. 3262
Wednesday/ August 19, 1942
Priee 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmssion by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
ELY CATHEDRAL FROM THE HIGH ALTAR.
A MONG the great cathedrals of England,
memorials to the piety and religious
zeal of our ancestors, none is more notable
than that which “rears its noble bulk” on
the isle of Ely, a large but low plateau sur-
rounded by moors and marshes. Histori-
cally, it is a place of note. It was the
dower of St. Etheldreda, daughter of Anna,
King of the East Anglians, and she, about
673, founded a monastery near the site of
the present cathedral. The late T. G.
Bonney, M.A., in a monograph of the edi-
fice he loved so well, told us over half a
century ago how she became abbess, died
here and was ultimately enshrined. To her
memorial festival pilgrims crowded from
all parts, and the trifles sold at “St. Awdey’s”
fair have left their mark upon our lan-
guage. The Danes devastated the monas-
tery, but it was founded anew some 100
years before the Norman Conquest. At that
epoch it became a “Camp of Refuge” for
those patriots who declined to bow the knee
to the invaders. With the valorous deeds of
Hereward the Wake, all readers of Kingsley
are acquainted ; suffice it their rr ‘ance was
strong and long, the Normans txr fH g several
times beaten from off the isle with heavy
loss. But force majeure eventually told,
as in present-day contests. The monastery
which sheltered Hereward’s men, the church
at which they worshipped, have long since
disappeared. The foundations of the present
cathedral were laid by Simeon, the first
Norman abbot, appointed in 1082, though
most of it belongs to a yet later date. The
oldest work is in the transepts. The upper
parts of these are late Norman, the west
tower and remaining section of the fa?ade
not being completed until near the end of
the twelfth century. The amazingly beauti-
ful choir is partly Early English, partly deco-
rated, the eastern bays dating from some-
where about 1240, the western, practically
a century later. In 1322 the Norman central
tower “fell in with a mighty crash and was
replaced by the octagon and lantern, which
form the unique glory of Ely.” At this time
the great Lady-chapel, at the east angle
of the northern transept, was added. The
cathedral is rich in beautiful monuments,
while the windows are filled with priceless
stained glass. To the antiquarian the re-
mains of the annexed monastery—the ruins
of the infirmary, the ancient gateway, the
deanery, the Bishop’s Palace —make a special
appeal. The cathedral is 517 feet long from
east to west and the western tower rises to
a height of 270 feet. All must fervently hope
this superb temple of worship will escape
the ravages of “total warfare,” as inter-
preted by the Huns and their imitators in
the Far East,


Ttorg Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Phase rind, without obligation, your A etc Trv
llooklet, explaining how to H'rite for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Same
<Vy Address
MJ. 242
The Red Page
THE HEROIC IMAGE .
O’Connel, the giant sailor with the
silver plate in his head, has gone berserk
with drink. Lieutenant Fitzpatrick has
been called into the town to try to
prevent a murder.
“All right, O'Connel,. . that’ll do.”
At the sound of this particular voice,
saying this kind of thing in this way,
O’Connel, like some blazing arc light
whose carbons suddenly have been jerked
apart, instantly ceased all display of activity
and purpose. His stilled body did not lose
the impression of being charged with fright-
ful danger; but its white rage seemed, not
to disappear, but to subside darkly and
poise within itself. Only his big, swelling
hands continued to show movement, a very
slight movement: they were gradually re-
laxing their grip on the timber as if adjust-
ing themselves to the demands of a new and
unexpected necessity by which they had
been diverted. Then he turned around,
swiftly but without an appearance of sud-
denness, to tower above the officer
As the officer stood there, persistently
seeking for the lowered gaze of all that
destructive power flaring with irresponsi-
bility, he was conscious of little more than
that everything he had risked was hanging
in the balance “It was worse than in-
sanity trying to do anything with him when
he was drunk....He didn’t know what he
was doing, the men said, on account of
the silver plate in his head ”
All at once —at the very instant that the
officer, after nine or ten interminable
seconds of this confrontation, was begin-
ning to succumb to the notion that he had
made the great error of his career, of his
life —o’Connel’s arms, the arch of his back,
the angle of his neck, the muscles of the
long, prognathous face, framed by brutal
updating ears and unplentiful brown hair
that had a tendency to crinkle, seemed to
sag almost imperceptibly, fatalistically, as
if he were an .4Bgean warrior suffering, in
the midst of combat, a fatal intervention
of the gods.
“Come along,” said Lieutenant Fitzpat-
rick then, in the same tone as before.
As he said this, the officer turned and
walked to the door, which he went through
without a backward glance, a person, for
the eyes crowding the shadows around
the building, into whose head had not even
entered the possibility that he might not be
obeyed.
And it’s not a quotation from some
forgotten novel of Conrad. Nor is it
even from an English novel. It is a new
American novelist speaking—Marcus
Goodrich in Delilah (Dent), a novel of
the U.S. Navy.
It does not need the publisher’s glow-
ing introduction—“lt is our privilege to
present to British readers a novel which
takes its place in the tradition of Her-
man Melville and Conrad” —to call those
two giants into the mind when reading
Delilah. Nor is its sea setting, though
important, the strongest point of
resemblance.
Melville comes immediately to mind
because Delilah is the first American
novel since Typee and Moby Dick to be
written in English. That, it may be, is
an exaggeration ; but it is not a great
deal wrong in fact, and —if one omits
Henry James as an Englishman by adop-
tion —it is not at all incorrect in spirit.
Just as all American poetry since Whit-
man has, broadly speaking, been in the
American tradition, distinct from the
English—specifically American in spirit
and idiom —all recent American novels
have been distinctively American: col-
loquial, racy, idiomatic in style; satirical
in tone in the Dre F-Sinclair Lewis era ;
a strange blend of violence and senti-
mentality in the most recent Hemingway-
Steinbeck period.
Main Street and Elmer Gantry, Of
Mice and Men and For Whom the Bell
Tolls —only American novelists could
have written them. The small-town
Babbitt, the Wall-street Titan; the mon-
strous pervert Lennie and the strong dumb
ox of Hemingway’s fiction who drinks,
fights, suffers but does not think—only
American novelists could have created
them. The Yank as Babbitt and the
Yank as a tough guy—that is the Ameri-
can Janus the novelists have presented to
the world. And the figure, of course,
does not exist. Babbitt and the he-man,
like Steele Rudd’s Dad and Dave, are
caricatures; an exaggeration, it is true,
of a reality: but always, as Delilah
reminds one, an enlargement and a falsi-
fication of the American human being.
Certainly not the whole story ; possibly
as unreal a portrait of the mass of the
Americans as Dad and Dave are of the
mass of contemporary Australians.
Marcus Goodrich has made the momen-
tous discovery that Americans are human
beings.
His sailors are men, strong, hard and
heroic ; but they are not the tough guys
of Hemingway, Hollywood or the Aus-
tralian dailies. They speak the American
idiom, but they think like other men.
The politicians with whom the Navy is
eternally at war are Babbitts; but they
are also unmistakably the blood-brothers
of Whitehall. From the first page to the
last this novel sings the praise of America
and American seamen; but it sings in
the highest tradition of that literary lan-
guage which is the common tongue of
educated Americans and Englishmen
alike and, with only the dialogue altered,
could just as well have been written by
Conrad in praise of English seamen.
Naturally, it’s of great political interest
to Australians at the moment. It should
also be of great literary interest. It may
be the Answer to Hemingway.
From the philosophical viewpoint, it
is certainly the counter that has been
needed for so long to those weak-kneed
English and American novels, recently
discussed here, in which the heroic image
is reduced to some Old White Duck of a
matriarch ; and the counter, too, to those
American novels which find the figure of
virility in the ox, the sadist, the imbecile
or the bottom dog howling at his fate.
Its literary importance depends on what
Goodrich writes next, or in what return
to the great proise tradition of Melville
and Conrad it may inspire in other
writers. For in itself Delilah is not so
successful as to prove that its method is
the best. The style is too close to Con-
rad’s to stand as completely original.
The construction, because a central
drama is missing, is weak.
Delilah, the old destroyer, is knocking
about the Philippines before the U.S.
entry into the last war. In a series of
astonishing essays, vivid and profound
but not connected by any strong enough
central dramatic theme to make a true
novel, Goodrich describes the ship and
the men aboard her; their struggle
against the sea and its hardships, their
relations with each other, their wild
nights ashore, their adventures with
troublesome Filipinos; and, above ail,
the proud, lonely life each man leads in
his soul.
There are several attempts to make a
continuing drama. Faced with the diffi-
culty of every writer who describes men
of action —how to bring women into the
picture—Goodrich devotes one amazing
chapter to an account of how the ship
is “haunted” by women: some woman,
wife, mother, mistress or harlot, in every
man’s mind day and night: but the sense
of “haunting” vanishes in the next
chapter. There is a theme in the difficult
friendship between an officer and a
rating; but it is not strong enough to
hold the book together. A theme that
appears, vanishes, appears and vanishes
too abruptly in the heroic frenzy of the
mad Irishman. A theme, difficult to
make completely compelling to a land-
lubber, in the vicissitudes of the ship her-
self, A theme in the American declara-
tion of war, which changes the world for
Delilah and her men. But nowhere the
central figure and the central struggle
that make a string of episodes into a
novel, Typhoon, in effect, without the
captain’s wife.
A patchy novel, but the patches are
superb. Goodrich loves the sea, and
obviously knows the Navy through and
through. From his two masters, Mel-
ville and Conrad, he has learned to look
deeply into the spirit of man, to see him
as heroic and to write of him with
dignity.
11th Light Horse.
The book — History of the 11th Light
Horse Regiment, by Ernest W, Ham-
mond. The time —last war. The place—
Semakh, on the Damascus-Haifa railway.
The scene:
The Brigade moved off, with the 11th in
advance, riding in line of troop columns.
A low moon shed its pale light over the
countryside, but in the valley where we
rode it was dark in the shadow of the hills.
After travelling for a time, a halt was
called, and there was some discussion be-
tween our guide and the senior officers of
the Regiment. The former stated we were
more than two miles from the village, but
Major Bailey, our second in command, con-
tended we were much nearer our objective
than that. ~ .Wc mounted to move off and
had scarcely settled in the saddles when the
stillness of the night was shattered by a
terrific- burst of machine-gun and rifle fire.
Major Bailey’s opinions were vindicated;
wc were actually on the outskirts of
Semakh, and that first burst was straight
ahead, full in our faces. Fortunately, the
enemy gunners mistook the range; the
bullets whistled low over our heads like
the rustle of an immense flight of swallows,
and in the distance wc saw liny pin-points
of light dancing along the muzzles of the
guns like the flicker of lightning.
And the charge:
In recalling those few tense seconds,
when the guns opened fire, and while the
echo of the volley had not yet faded from
the hills, one sound must stand out clearly
to all who heard it. it was the booming
voice of Major Costello, commanding his
squadron to form line and charge the
Turkish guns. There was excitement of
course, but no panic. In response to the
Major’s command, four troops of “B”
squadron swung into line; the thin blades
of the swords sang as they leapt from the
scabbards; the horses jumped to the touch
of spurs, and in less than one minute “B”
squadron was racing straight at the enemy
guns with Major Costello at their head.
They had scarcely moved off when Lieu-
tenant Farlow, a very gallant and coura-
geous officer, was killed. Meanwhile Major
Loynes had formed “A” squadron into
line, and they too moved out at the gallop
close on the heels of “B” squadron. More
than two hundred horses thundered across
that moonlit plain, the drumming of their
hooves recalling the glory of Beersheba and
Sharia and “Iggoree” Flat. Grant’s “mob”
were charging the guns again, and nothing
else mattered.
And one of the score or more heroic
individual exploits for which awards for
gallantry were afterwards made:
Lieutenant Charles J. Clifford was
awarded a bar to his Military Cross for
conspicuous gallantry. While leading a
party of men in a charge on an enemy
field gun and machine-guns, his sword was
knocked from his hand by a chance bullet
and, drawing his revolver with his left
hand, the right being injured, this gallant
officer fearlessly attacked four German
gunners, killing one and capturing the re-
mainder. He then attacked four Turks,
bluffing them into submission with his
empty revolver.
The History of the 11th Light Horse
is presumably not intended for general
reading, but the quotation was irresist-
ible. Besides being a good representa-
tive sample of the book, it’s another
demonstration of something that has
often been stated on the Red Page—the
spirit and vividness with which a soldier
can describe the experience of action;
the high degree of literary achievement
which a known heroic theme can strike
out of a possibly unpractised writer.
It indicates, too, the enormous amount
of magnificent literary material that lies
in the memories of soldiers. No official
historian can gather it all in; a hundred
or a thousand war-books can gather only
a hundred or a thousand drops out of the
ocean of it. For the historian or the
Homer of the future, there can’t be too
many of these regimental histories.
Not all of Mr. Hammond’s book is of
the same standard as the extracts quoted.
There are, necessarily, smaller matters
recorded for the interest of ex-members
of the Regiment, Mr. Hammond writes
to The Bulletin in a covering letter;
A review would help us to contact many
of our members whose whereabouts are un-
known to us. The book has not been
written with a view to financial gain; we
are mostly concerned that every ex-member
of the Regiment should receive a copy.
Some personal experiences of members
of the Regiment help to complete the
picture. One last irresistible scene, from
a chapter called “Behind the Turkish
Lines,” by John Merson:
Halfway across I fell, shot through both
legs, and noticed that some of my mates
had gone down near by.
A lew minutes later the Turks swarmed
around us and began stripping uniforms,
leggings and boots from the dead and
wounded. As they approached me, “Big”
Brennan of my troop, though unarmed,
stood over me with clenched fists and, em-
phasising his attitude with a burst of
Digger “language” capable of scorching
everything within range, threatened to
knock the block off any “so-and-so” Turk
who dared to strip me. The Turks may
not have understood Brennan’s language,
but there was no mistaking his attitude, and
so a party of them stood off a distance of
ten feet with fixed bayonets and rifles at
the ready.
I was filled with pride and admiration at
Brennan’s blind, unreasoning devotion and
courage, but feared that the Turks would
shoot him down. I begged him to desist,
but he was in no mood to listen to my
entreaties to surrender, until I reminded
him that his action would surely bring dis-
aster to his captured mates. For a moment
he hesitated, then his clenched hands and
great frame relaxed and, resigning himself
to the inevitable, but with great self-
control, he turned his back on the enemy
and, kneeling beside me, began to dress
my wounds.
The History is handsomely bound and
illustrated with photographs. Mr. Ham-
mond’s address is Hon. Historian, 11th
Light Horse Regiment, A.I.F. History
Committee, Hamson Terrace, Wavell
Heights, Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Busman’s Honeymoon,” put on by
Miss Doris Fitton’s Independents at
North Sydney, gives mute inglorious Sher-
locks in the audience the egotistic enter-
tainment of guessing who bashed in an
old bloke’s skull with something hard
and heavy and left him unlovely and un-
lamented in the cellar. That entertain-
ment is suitably rounded off by the spec-
tacle of the villain being lugged oft to
the gallows, though this might strike
some as a rather severe penalty where
the crime has been so incredibly ingenious
and the acting hardly a hanging matter.
As a matter of fact there’s some very
good acting in “Busman’s Honeymoon.”
Only extra good acting can give individu-
ality to such stock characters as stage
parsons, yet Charles Tasman makes the
Rev. Simon Goodacre a definite original;
better acting could not be hoped for, ex-
cept from actual vicars. The same goes
for stock stage spinsters, and Gwen Oat-
ley, as Miss Twitterton, makes one of
these just as positively individual-
familiar, yet an original. Vaughan
Tracy’s representation of the stolid Frank
Crutchley, Dorothy Whiteley’s impres-
sion of an old gossip, and Harvey Ross-
Buchanan’s butler are other specimens
of acting altogether more sincere than
any detective comedy would seem to
require or deserve. More to the real
nature of such fare is Sumner Locke-
Elliott’s impression of the flash vulgarity
of a London Jew debt collector, these
comic eruptions and the inescapably
mechanical nature of the plot serving to
offset the efforts of most of the players
to translate the piece into serious drama.
Adelaide Repertory’s latest success at
the Tivoli is “Lot’s Wife,” by Peter
Blackmore. The title seems just a joke
till one realises that the scene, though
quite modern, is called Modes (which
is Sodom in reverse), and a Mr. Angel
comes in to announce that the city is
likely to be destroyed by volcanic erup-
tion. Thus the Biblical story is imitated
in a light-comedy setting of cameras and
charabancs and safety-razors. Lot and
his daughters flee to another mountain,
but Mrs. Lot is left behind while tele-
phoning to the police. The last act, in
which she has married again, and all the
family, having somehow survived, meet
among their own tombstones in the ruins,
is sheer farce which might well be by
Bernard Shaw. Cecil Reed produced,
Irving Johnston staged a thrilling catas-
trophe, and the Lot family divided the
honors evenly—Don Gilham, Roxy
Byrne, Meta McCaffery, Joy Watson, with
good support.
A theatrical revival has been indicated
for a long time in Melbourne, where the
demand has exceeded the supply ever
since the arrival of the American Army,
It is now announced that that tried per-
former Mayne Lynton has formed a com-
pany to stage good plays and will open
in September. One of the dramas listed
is Galsworthy’s “The Skin Game.” The
veteran Gaston Mervale will be director-
actor.
Hollywood has standardised its hero
for air-force films. A likeable, dare-
devil scallywag, disgraced by his kicking
over of all rules and regs., he makes the
final amende honorable in a burst of
glory. In “International Squadron” (Syd-
ney Mayfair) the pattern is followed
faithfully. Technically excellent, film is
action all the way. R.A.F.’s “foreign
legion” is shown in action, there is first-
rate realism in a London bombing, and
show-stealing work by James Stephenson,
who makes the star, Ronald Reagon, look
an amateur. Olympe Branda dimples.
In “Captain of the Clouds” (Sydney
Regent) the R.C.A.F. and the Empire
Air Training Scheme hold the spotlight.
Authentic glimpses, these, and the im-
mensity of the project is finely conveyed.
In technicolor, the film has a full quota
of thrills, with James Cagney as the
backwoods freelance commercial pilot
who does the final self-sacrificial act.
The MacArthur Gallery at Melbourne
National Gallery has been hung exclu-
sively with pictures by Australian artists
and reopened. It is full of memories for
the student of Australian painting. There
are George Lambert’s “Lottie and the
Lady” ; “The Giant Crab,” which Bernard
Hall so meticulously painted and which
went bad on the artist long before the
picture was finished without deterring
him in the slightest; a whole wall of
Phillips Foxes; a couple of Rupert
Bunny’s Georgian women lying somno-
lent by a lake, with swans in the back-
ground ; “Springtime, Heidelberg,” one
of the freshest of Condor’s landscapes;
Fred McCubbin’s hot-looking “North
Wind” ; a self-portrait by the talented but
ill-fated Hugh Ramsay; Longstaff’s re-
grettable attempt to make a portrait out
of a photograph of Alfred Felton, the
Gallery’s benefactor; the same artist s
celebrated balcony portrait of Melba;
Isaac Cohen’s General Monash ; Mein-
nes’s “Mrs. Dennis” ; and a lot of other
familiars, Meldrum's “Chinoiseries'
and the portrait of Dr. John Dale, the
City Health Officer, by Colin Colahan.
lately appointed official Australian war
artist in England, reflect modern tenden-
cies.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
THE SENIOR STORE”
4t>
A
. r'
n
\
r rf \ ij? T 3
if'/'.'* ■
-~s
(MX*
r
r K
■ /T
Tn-V'c-
' ' n - f~\
MX
r.ur
K ./V
,-: A.
-T
rz^^h.
TV
/V
$
-MTD^
k
d
r>
r i
n
no
r\^
ci
Ji
X
n
n
A
r
rC!
/
,
r
V-
SK
i'll
I Hi
o
.
\
y\
OPEN GREEN FIELD MOWERS of outstanding duality.and extra strong con-
struction. Specially designed for heavy duty, and guaranteed to give many
years of efficient service. Easy to work with. All machines fitted with Ball
Bearing Pitman. Cutter bar easily adjusted to run true with Pitman. 'Fitted
with skid on outside shoe and wheel'on inside shoe. Simple adjustment to
keep bend gear and pinion in mesh when worn. Fingers made of cast steel.
Heavy cast frame made for long service.
1 Horse, 3ft. Gin. Cut. Price, each £32/12/6
2 Horse, 4ft. Cut. Price, each £39/13/6
2 Horse, 4ft. Gin. Cut. Price, each £4l/ 2/6
Agriculture Implements—Fourth Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0./ SYDNEY


I SHALL NOT WEEP
By E. DITHMACK.
MY Auntie Em is dead. They are all
there in the next room with her —
t my cousins, my uncle, my mother
and her sisters. They are confused
and stricken with grief, numbed by the
blow that has fallen on them. Neighbors
pass in and out, solemn-faced, shocked.
They are kind people, simple-hearted
people. They liked my Auntie Em. They
remember only the good that she has
done, the many kindnesses.
Outside, against the split paling fence,
a horse or two are tethered. There are
motor-cars beyond the fence —nice
, modern cars with shining bonnets and
sleek, gleaming bodies. My Auntie Em
could never afford a motor-car. She
always said there were too many other
things necessary. But, then, she was like
that. She could never see beyond the im-
mediate and necessary things of life.
My mother and her other three sisters
are crying spasmodically as fresh mem-
ories sweep over them. They are remem-
bering the time they were all children
together and raking up incidents that
concern her. They like doing that now
that they are old. All day long I’ve heard
them saying “Poor Emily this” and “Poor
Emily that,” but I can’t remember loving
things. I can only remember things that
have made me hate her memory.
'T' HROUGH all the fabric of my early
1 life my Auntie Em formed a pattern
from the time I can first remember turn-
ing over the red velvet roses in the tin
hatbox and hearing her say she’d brought
them out with her from “Home” to the
day I went back to live with my mother.
I think of the night my mother took
me across the paddock to the squat slab
house where Uncle had made a home
for Auntie Em and had started the foun-
dation of a family. I can remember how
the trees looked in the shifting light as
we brushed past them crossing the pad-
dock, and how I’d expected every now
and then something to pounce out at me,
so that the four-roomed house had
seemed a haven.
For a long time I lay awake in bed
listening to the wood crackling on the
hearth and my Auntie Em’s voice
mingling with my mother’s in talk that
seemed to go on and on until at last 1
got tired of waiting and went to sleep.
A few days later my mother went
away. I can remember how 1 followed
my Auntie Em about the house, ten-
tatively asking questions such as when
would I be going home or when would
my mother return, finally asking, with a
hopelessness that was fostered by the
wish, “1 suppose she’ll be back tonight.
Do you think she’ll be back tonight?”
“Why do you want your mother back?”
she asked at last. “Can’t you run away
and play and be good without her?”
“I just thought she might be back to-
night,” I said, “or” —my heart sinking
because it seemed so far away—“to-
morrow.”
“Well, your mother will come back
when she comes back and not before.
Now, run don’t keep worrying
me with questions.”
There’s a little gully past the house
with a twisted quinine-tree growing in
the middle of it and a medley of empty
tins strewn about. I think it was a sort
of rubbish dump. I went up there to hide
my grief.
Every night after that, when it was
time for the train to pass, I’d stand on
the flagged verandah straining my ears
for the sound of the first rumble of its
approach. There wouldn’t be a breath
or sound, only loneliness pressing around,
and inside the house the children crying
or being admonished while Auntie Em
dished up the tea. And when the train
eventually came out of the night it would
roar past the siding, its red light showing
for a moment through the massed trees,
and I would go inside and try to choke
down my tea, living only for another
train to come.
It was summer, and I can remember
how my uncle used to mow and rake
the lucerne in the cultivation across the
creek, and how, on scorching hot days,
my Auntie Em would take his smoke-oh
across to him, the children dragging at
her skirt and the hot soil blistering our
bare feet. We would sit in the shade of
the haystack, and my uncle would look
at us with his blue, humorous eyes and
in his quiet way tease us all in turn.
While she was with him my Auntie Em
seemed to be a different person, forget-
ting to nag and bully. Sometimes she
would leave me to mind the children and
she would help to bag chaff or feed the
cutter while my uncle climbed on to the
stack with the hay knife to cut out
further slices to be chaffed.
On long summer evenings we would
walk across the creek to where he was
clearing new ground, and the smell of
the scrub would be mingled with the
smoke coming from the trash and burn-
ing logs. He would look to me like some
firelit giant as he plunged the crowbar
into the heart of a burning stump and
showers of sparks crackled and flew sky-
ward in a red starry glow. There was
always a deep silence over everything—
over the dim scrub bordering the cleared
land, the small house back on the ridge,
the far-off sky making things seem
remote and other-worldly. Only in our
immediate vicinity would there be any
sound of life —the roar of a flame licking
up a hollow tree, the crackling of sparks
and our subdued voices.
After she had been away for a month
my mother came back. I knew now that
she was working somewhere in the town
and would have a few days off each
month to come to see me. She and my
Auntie Em seemed to talk endlessly each
night after I had gone to bed. I would
hear the murmur of their voices, and
drowsiness would come over me until I
remembered all the heartbreaking things
I had to tell. Then I would jerk awake
and lie waiting, only to be lulled to sleep
again by the droning voices. In the end
my mother went away without knowing
of my misery.
I watched the buggy out of sight. I
watched until there was no further flutter
from the white handkerchief, and grief
rose in my throat until it was an intoler-
able ache. When there was no longer
the sound of creaking wheels or any con-
nection with hope, I turned and ran down
to the little gully. After a while my
Auntie Em came looking for me. When
she found me crouched down against the
quinine-tree crying as though time would
never bring the next month round again,
she shook me and hustled me up to the
house, telling me I was a namby-pamby
and a crybaby and giving me jobs
to do. “You’ll go to school next week,”
she threatened, “and that will give you
something to think about.”
AND now my Auntie Em is dead.
People pass in and out of the room —
her children; my mother, who is her
sister; my uncle —but I stay out in the
kitchen making tea for callers, or lean
against the door looking at the quinine-
tree in the gully. I do not weep now,
nor shall I weep when they carry her
out to her last rest.
My cousin Jim comes along to me—a
big quiet man and softly spoken, but I
can still see in him the boy who used to
hold me back alpng the two-mile road
to school while his sister ran ahead.
Then when she was only a speck in the
distance he would release me and run
like a hare so that I was left far behind,
panting out my fear and terror of the
gaping cracks in the black soil; of swag-
men that might materialise out of the
wide empty paddocks, or charging bulls
breaking through insecure fences. And
then from the small station near by I
would hear the goods train draw in, and
send up an incoherent prayer that I
might go on the train soon —soon
Jim comes lumbering over to me and
nods his head towards the bedroom.
“Going in?” he asks.
“Not yet,” I say, noticing how old he
is beginning to look.
“Hard luck for poor old dad,” he says.
“Yes,” I say.
I look out to where the new shining
cars are growing in a line along the road,
and I remember that my Auntie Em never
knew their luxury. She said it took her
all her time bringing up her family.
Perhaps when I grew older and had left
her I should have remembered those
things. I should have remembered all
the setbacks she’d had and how life had
seemed to her in this new, strange land.
I should have remembered the nights
when, with my uncle away taking a load
of produce to town, she would hear the
dingoes at the calves and, getting out of
bed, she would get the old breech-loading
gun from behind the door and ram in
shot and powder, then, standing on the
back verandah and shivering with fright,
she would pull the trigger and shatter
the night with a loud report.
I should have remembered the dry, hot
morning, her worries and anxieties, and
the sulphur-crested cockatoos filling the
air with their screeching. She would run
out and drive them off, so that they rose
like a cloud from the ripening corn and
flew across the cultivation to wait like
blooms on the bare, ringbarked trees for
a fresh assault,
I should have remembered —but those
things were swamped in the greater re-
sentment of a misunderstood childhood.
There was a time when 1 felt pity for
her. It was the day she ran, hatless, with
the convulsed child in her arms, to where
the train rounded a bend in the line.
The driver, seeing her signal, stopped the
train and helped her aboard, but even
the city doctor could do nothing, and
that night the baby died. My uncle went
to town the next day, but we children
knew nothing of what had happened until
word came that they were returning the
next evening.
We walked down to the siding to meet
them. It was dark when they got off the
train, but the guard was swinging a lan-
tern. My Auntie Em was carrying a
shawl on her arm, and when we crowded
round her and asked after the baby she
pointed mutely to the empty garment
and walked into the darkness.
And now my Auntie Em is dead. They
are bringing the coffin out to the hearse.
1 can hear their shuffling steps, the sobs
my cous j ns My mo ther passes me
with red-rimmed eyes, remembering the
gj r i w ho came out with her to this new
fand, very gay and happy, fifty years ago.
\ try to remember the woman whose relent-
less hands gripped my childish arm, whose
pitiless eyes saw only the husk of agony
as she dragged me away from my grief,
j shall not weep. Why should I weep?
Yet, as they pass me carrying that little
shrunken body with "its sharp tongue
stilled for ever, all that I can remember
is the picture of her plodding along the
dark road with an empty shawl dangling
from her arm, and I forget her harsh-
ness. I forget everything but the picture
of a human being passing along a path
that was never too smooth and very
often rough, and I bow my head along
with the others and weep.
FULL AND BY
By WILL LAWSON.
CAPTAIN BILLY McGEE, on the
poop of his barque the Alcestis,
picked up his binoculars when he
saw through the afternoon haze a
big tug lounging outside Sydney Heads
like a panther by a forest trail waiting
to pounce.
“What’s he doing there?” he muttered
to the mate, who stood near. “Looks
like the Wrestler. We don’t want no tug.
We’ll sail clean up to Snail's Bay.”
The Alcestis was timber-laden from
Vanikoro. The smell of the clean kauri
logs filled the ship, and at Snail’s Bay
they would be heaved overboard, to be
made into rafts and towed to the mills
on the waterfront.
The mate said nothing. He stared at
the tug meditatively as the barque opened
Broken Bay, fifteen miles north of the
heads.
“She seems to be losing way,” the
skipper said presently. “Better set your
sky-sails, mister. It’s dropping, and we
want to be inside when it swings round
to the south.”
With the added draught of the sky-
sails the barque began to step along
again. She was a good lump of a ship
and took some pushing.
“That’s the Wrestler all right.” Captain
McGee said after another long look.
“Wonder what in hell Bully Boyes is
waiting for? Not us, I bet.” He laughed
shortly, for he had a reputation among
tug masters of being mean in that direc-
tion. He said his ship was built to sail,
not to be lugged along behind a steamer.
Early that morning two big square-
riggers had been sighted, hull-down, to
the eastward from South Head, and the
Wrestler had hurried out to get a tow.
Even now two other tugs were out some-
where in the haze on the lookout too.
But when he saw the Alcestis rolling
along with a bone in her teeth Captain
Bully Boyes of the Wrestler had a good
look. “McGee’s still crowding that old
barque,” he told his mate. “Look, he’s
sending up his skysails with the wind
falling.”
“Maybe he’ll take a tow,” the mate
said, “if he finds himself caught by the
southerly.”
“Take a tow? Not McGee,” Bully
Boyes scoffed. “That man’d walk to his
own funeral to save the hearse.” He
spat over the rail.
“The wind’s dropping,” the mate said.
He wet his finger and held it up. “That
barque’ll be close-hauled in two-twos.”
He was right. The wind suddenly
dropped, puffed up again, then died away
while the steady draught of a gentle
southerly took its place. Boyes rang the
telegraph. “I reckon you’re right,” he
said. “We’ll give him a tow.”
The Wrestler headed for the barque
while McGee and his mate speculated
about her intentions. When she swung
round and steamed parallel with their
ship they understood that they were to
be invited to accept a tow.
“I’ll do it for ten quid,” they heard
Bully Boyes shouting through his mega-
phone. “Up to Rose Bay.”
“I’ll take it,” McGee shouted back.
“Come alongside and give us your line.
All hands take in sail, mister,” he told
his astonished mate while the big tug
ranged alongside, like a spider taking
hold of a wounded butterfly.
As soon as the towrope was made
fast she moved ahead as tugs do to take
the weight of the tow till sail could be
taken off the barque. But Bully Boyes
did not stop when the rope was taut.
'‘Full speed,” his telegraph tinkled to
the man below. The big propeller, deep
down, sent up a surge of heaving water,
and the barque’s sails were suddenly flat-
tened against her fore- and mainmasts,
with the fore-and-aft ones shivering.
“What are ye up to, blast ye?” McGee
yelled through his megaphone.
“Ten pounds,” the answer came faintly
down the rising wind. “Ye can’t expect
ceremony for ten pounds.”
The barque was moving at a good
twelve knots behind the powerful tug,
whose fires were roaring to make more
steam to meet the extra strain.
The barque’s crew were struggling to
get the sail off her, with the drag of the
speed and the wind against them. The
barque had suddenly been placed in the
position of a pretty girl whose skirts
had been blown over her head and left
her struggling blindly in the wind. On
his bridge high above the low hull of his
tug, Bully Boyes laughed till he cried.
But presently he stopped laughing, for
the fact began to dawn on him that the
crew of the barque were making no move
to take in sail. There was still something
like ten miles to go to the Heads. He
shook his head, puzzled, and stopped
laughing, but he could not do anything
about it, just carry on.
On the other hand, Billy McGee was
laughing heartily.
When the ignominious situation was
thrust on him by the tug master he was
angry. The struggles of the men aloft
to take in sail added to his rage. Then
an idea came to him and he laughed, to
his mate’s astonishment. “Get your men
on deck. Leave the ship as she is.”
“But what about the”
“Never mind. Do as I tell you. Get
the men on deck.”
Under his breath he muttered “I’ll teach
Bully Boyes a lesson. Let him tow her
like this. If he lets go he’ll lose his rope.”
So the two ships went southward
against the rising wind, the barque pulling
back against the tug, her gear creaking
and groaning and her fore-and-aft sails
flogging thunderously, all her glory and
beauty gone.
“The Old Man’s gone mad,” the boat-
swain said, looking aloft. “He’ll lose some
of them sticks and rags, you see.”
“Just when we’ve got a chance of bein’
in before the pubs shut, too,” a seaman
said. “That tug can’t keep this speed up.”
But she could, and she did. She
dragged the barque till, just off the Heads,
as the tug’s head was turned to go inside
and the signalmen on South Head were
staring and wondering who was mad in
this mess-up, Billy McGee shouted:
“Lee-braces! Make fast your jib-sheets!
Up with your helm, mister. Take her full
and by. Let go the towrope. Let him
keep his tow.”
The barque was moving now, every
sail full and hard as iron—making fifteen
knots, with the bone in her teeth. The
pretty girl had got her gear righted and
was treating her tormentors with scorn-
She was outsailing the tug, which had
slowed when her master saw, as he
thought, the barque getting out of hand-
steering gear gone wrong, maybe.
Close past the Wrestler the barque
sailed, while the skipper shouted “So long,
Bully! You’re too darned slow for us.
So long! Keep her full and by, mister!”


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3262
Wednesday, August 19, 1942.
SCRAM!
“But this is honorable Pacific Co-Prosperity Sphere."
“Oh yeah?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper Htfuse, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (.opp
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
A CURIOUS SENSATION.
On August 7 news of an extremely sen-
sational character was published, touch-
ing on the paucity of war aid to Aus-
tralia. The general effect of it was to
leave an impression of appalling weakness.
“For every American ground sol-
dier in Australia today,” it was stated,
“there are at least five Australian sol-
diers.” American airmen here were ad-
mitted to be “in much greater comparative
strength than Australians,” but still “only
a very small part of their country’s
potential in pilots, air crews and ground
staff.” American naval assistance “in
the area under General MacArthur’s
command” was “little more than would
counter the losses or services of Austra-
lian ships in foreign waters.” It was
added: —
To pretend that a tremendous flow of
aid is cpming to this country when in
reality it 'is only a trickle is doubly dan-
gerous.
*lf the intention behind the publication
of this sensational news was to give the
country a dose of the jitters the wording
could hardly have been better con-
structed. One of the reasons given for
publication was that it answered the
question (raised by Mr. Hughes, also
sensationally) as to why offensive action
was not being taken against the Japs.
That, if the information meant no less
than it seemed to imply, would have been
a mighty poor reason for giving the
enemy a present of such potentially use-
ful intelligence.
Closer examination revealed that the
thing was as remarkable for some of its
qualifications, and especially for some of
its evident omissions, as it was for its
revelations. On a check up the reference
to American airmen in Australia will be
seen to be decidedly tricky. “Only a very
small part of their country’s potential in
pilots, air crew and ground staff,” and
the rest of it, might mean anything. The
paragraph on American naval assistance,
read in the light of |he restrictive quali-
fication “in the area under General Mac-
Arthur’s command,” will be seen to be
just as dubious.
The fallacy in the whole statement
plainly was that it represented Australia
as completely detached and isolated from
the Pacific front as a whole. Its vast
omission was no less than the whole of
the rest of the Pacific, from the American
east coast to Papua. This extensive area
is the Pacific front, and Australia and
Maoriland are only items in it. To
reckon up aid to these countries realisti-
cally it would have to be shown what has
been done in this area generally. There
is no need to name places ; anyone with
any nous at all, looking over a map of
the Pacific, can see that the curious news-
paper sensation of August 7 was to a
large extent spurious.
No doubt it had its uses as a smother,
and as a necessary steadier of busybodies
trying to force political pressure not only
on the Government, but also on the mili-
tary leaders. That would justify Mr.
Curtin’s comment that it “only stated the
facts.” Barring its tremendous omis-
sions, it probably did. The beginning of
an idea of those omissions is to be had
from considering the operations since
launched in the Solomons.
Omissions allowed for, only one frag-
ment remained as an apparent statement
of hard fact —the description of the flow
of aid to Australia as “only a trickle.”
This, read along with Mr. Curtin’s sup-
porting remark, was particularly dis-
quieting. But the disquiet was allayed
by Dr. Evatt, who, while “deprecating
suggestions overstating the priority and
extent of supplies already sent to Aus-
tralia,’’ insisted that it was “equally mis-
chievous to understate what has already
been done.”
Dr. Evatt asked “What are the facts?”
and gave these:
Six months ago this country was almost
defenceless against Japanese invasion. To-
day, thanks to the efforts of the Austra-
lian Government and people, thanks also
to the splendid aid which has come, Js
coming and will come from the U.S.A. and
Britain, we are fast becoming a nation in
arms.
Continuing, Dr. Evatt described Aus-
tralia’s “debt to the U.S.A. and Britain”
as “very great.” Praising the Common-
wealth Government on a point on which
it merits praise, he declared that it was
largely due to its “ceaseless advocacy”
that
supplies have reached and will reach us
sufficient to enable unremitting effort by
ourselves in the future to make our country
secure from the invader.
With these remarks by the Minister
for External Affairs offsetting it, the one-
week sensation, with its quite contrary im-
plications, seems curiouser and curiouser.
It would say little for the Australian
spirit if this sort of thing was really
necessary to get from it the effort that
must be given to beat back and destroy
the Jap menace. If Australian intelli-
gence were at this date unaware of the
magnitude of that job no amount of sen-
sational overstatement would help. But
there is fair ground for inferring that a
good deal of this recent home-front
pother has been nothing but politics.
There is no room for politics in the
programme now facing Australia. For
the caperings of discredited politicans and
doubly discredited distant-front lime-
lighters there is no room, either.
All that needs to be insisted on is that
this job in the Pacific is Australia’s first
consideration, above everything else. At
this date it should go without saying that
it is a fight to a finish against a power-
ful and ruthless enemy. It is a job to
strain Australia to the uttermost, beyond
anything as yet more than dreamt of. But,
thanks to Australians’ own considerable
efforts, and thanks to a very great
measure of assistance, outside as well as
inside Australia, the job can and will
be done.
Advance, America!
The Battle of the Solomons is a planned
sequel to the Battle of the Coral Sea.
Nobody thought to mention that battle
when Mr. Hughes was performing as
military critic and victim of oppression—
when he had to take a mild dose of the
medicine he arbitrarily prescribed for
others in the last war the four Sydney
dailies were as furious as Billy—but a
reprint of the U.S. Navy Department’s
account of it would have neutralised the
effect of statements and comments that
were ungenerous and misleading.
The Battle of the Coral Sea was fought
in a series of engagements which ex-
tended over two months, and were “scat-
tered over 400,000 square miles of tropi-
cal seas,” Undertaken as part of a plan
to bring victory in the Pacific, it was a
noble contribution to the defence of Aus-
tralia.
Early in March the Japanese were
found to be “concentrating transports
and combatant ships in Salamaua and
Lae, apparently in preparation for an
assault on Port Moresby.” Occupation of
Moresby “would have afforded the enemy
a strategically located advance base from
which promptly to make further attacks
on Australia.” Salamaua and Lae had
“previously been subjected to air attacks
by United States and Australian shore-
based aircraft from Australia.”
On March 10 aircraft from a Pacific
Fleet task force joined these shore-based
’planes in attacks on shipping and shore
installations. The attack was so destruc-
tive —among other results, more than 20
ships were sunk or damaged—as to delay
for two months “any attempt of the
enemy to advance by sea to the south-
ward.” But “during April” he assembled
troopships and aircraft from carriers and
shore bases for an advance into the
Solomons and the Louisiades, and these
movements began early in May. Bases
for land ’planes were seized in both
groups, and the entire northern portion
of the Coral Sea was subject to daily
reconnaissance.
On May 4, however, a task force of the
Pacific Fleet caught a part of the invasion
fleet at anchor in and near the harbor of
Tulagi and “all but annihilated it.” The
Japanese losses were 12 vessels, sunk or
damaged, and six aircraft; those of the
Americans, three aircraft.
Three days later the main body of the
Japanese force was encountered in the
Louisiades. This time a heavy cruiser
and the new aircraft-carrier Ryukaku
were sunk, the latter with most of the
’planes she had on board, and 25 enemy
aircraft were shot down, the Americans
losing six. The attacking naval ’planes
were assisted by “shore-based army air-
craft from Australia.”
In a separate engagement that after-
noon Japanese aircraft sank the destroyer
Sims and crippled the tanker Neosho.
On the following day task-force ’planes
bombed another aircraft-carrier, the
Shokaku, and left her ablaze ; but while
they were attacking the enemy got the
aircraft-carrier Lexington, though she did
not sink for more than five hours. When
the Lexington drew off the battle ended.
American aircraft losses in the May
7-8 combats were not stated. They were
no doubt substantial; the Lexington’s
normal complement of aircraft was 81.
The enemy’s losses were reckoned at
more than 100 aircraft destroyed, 15 ships
sunk and more than 20 severely damaged.
And “two attempts to advance to the
south-eastward of New Guinea” had
been “disrupted.”
The Battle of Midway Island, by
materially reducing Japan’s striking
power, was another important contribu-
tion to the defence of Australia, though
not fought as such. The initiative was
with the enemy, whose object was to take
Midway. In this he failed, and he reeled
away from the island, having taken more
punishment than he could stand. His
main losses were three, possibly four, air-
craft-carriers, whose normal load was 240
’planes. Had the Americans followed
an “ourselves-alone” policy these air-
craft would have been available for
attacks on the Commonwealth. But in
manhood and machines our generous
Allies paid a cruel price for the victory.
Among those who laid down their lives
was Major-General Tinker, commander
of the Hawaii Air Force, who led all his
army bombers into action. And there is
an unforgettable picture of a flight of
15 machines which carried out a daring
attack at a critical stage of the battle, A
sacrifice was necessary and these Ameri-
cans made it: not one ’plane returned.
The Battle of the Solomons differs
from the battles of the Coral Sea and
Midway Island in that it is an offensive
operation, the first of its kind in the war
in the Pacific. The immediate object was
to effect landings in the Solomons, pre-
paratory to driving the Japs out of that
group and the Louisiades and then
tackling them in New Guinea and New
Britain. The landings were entrusted to
U.S. Marines, tough, well-trained men of
a force which made a great name in
France. Supporting the Marines in the
far-flung battle area were American and
Australian seamen and airmen.
In launching such an attack on an
enemy who had had time to improve the
strong natural defences of tropical islands
and was in a position to call up powerful
aerial and naval support, great risks had
to be taken and considerable sacrifices
accepted: Complete surprise was out of
the question, nor was a speedy triumph
possible. The American commanders
knew that it would be hard pounding
from the beginning and that their plans
would have to take into account the
probability of setbacks and the possibility
of a definite repulse.
The battle has been fought desperately
on both sides. That much is evident
from the American bulletins, which never
err on the side of extravagance. It is
evident also that the Marines can “take
it” and come again ; and that goes for
Americans, Australians, Britons and
New Zealanders of all the services. There
was a saying in the great days of the first
French Revolution that “with bread and
iron you can get to China.” The democ-
racies have bread and iron, men and
machines, a just cause and the will to vic-
tory. It is a long and rough road to
China, but the first steps have been taken,
and, please God, we will get there some
day, Americans, Australians, Britons,
New Zealanders and Canadians —
together!
Compulsory Unionism?
Compulsory unionism has arrived in the
case of Commonwealth Government
clothing contracts, and it is to be ex-
tended to all industries if union bosses
have their way. They have asked or
ordered the Government to introduce it
by regulation. This, according to Mr.
Fadden, ' the Federal Opposition will
resist. He says it will mean forcing
people who have no use for the Labor
party to subscribe to Labor-party funds.
In the form that exists, it means that
already, and in some cases it means more
than that.
Suppose a man or woman whose shop
has been closed by order of Mr. Ded-
man (this has happened to thousands
and, unlike union bosses, they are not
squealing) tries to get a job in a war
factory. If he or she lands it he or she
will be asked straightway to join a union,
probably the Federated Ironworkers.
Having no objection in principle, he or
she joins and pays for the ticket. In the
remote possibility of the new member
turning up the last annual report of the
State Industrial Registrar, he or she will
find that at the end of 1939 the N.S.W.
divison of the Federated Ironworkers had
15,720 members, with an income of
£19,880 (£18,520 came from “contribu-
tions”) and an expenditure of £21,260, not
a stiver of which was spent in benefits;
so he or she will be foolish to expect sick
pay or anything like that. But he or
she will get a copy of the “Ironworker.”
It is improbable that the new member
will care for the “Ironworker.” It is one
of those violent Russia First productions
which might be published anywhere. The
leading article in the August issue is
headed “Second Front Now!” and it
asserts that “we have more than a right,
we have a duty, to demand that the forces
and equipment now in Britain be used
immediately against Germany.”
There is a great deal more about a
Second Front; there are attacks on em-
ployers and administrative staffs (the
“arrogant short-sightedness of company
officials at Lysaghts, Newcastle,” is par-
ticularised) ; there is praise for the
Moulders on the score of their “declaring
the ‘lronworker’ their official organ” and
“imposing the requisite annual levy”; and
there are heaps of butter for “the
Ironworkers’ General Secretary, Ernie
Thornton.” For one thing, Ernie Thorn-
ton had, in his “characteristic forceful
style of calling a spade a spade vigor-
ously defended Mr. Ward and the coal-
miners from the bitter, ignorant and pre-
judiced attacks made on them” by the
two Adelaide daily papers. This Ernie
Thornton did in a letter in which he de-
scribed Mr. Fadden as “the greatest fool
ever to have been Prime Minister,” and
the Ministries to which Mr. Fadden be-
longed as “a motley crew —never was
such a bunch of incompetents gathered
together.”
As the new union member will find,
Ernie Thornton does a considerable
amount of travelling, and union business
does not occupy all his time. In Adel-
aide he was booked to speak under the
auspices of a so-called Political Rights
Committee whose origins and aspirations
are no particular mystery. The town
clerk jibbed at letting the outfit have
the use of the Town Hall, and Mr. Ward,
who providentially happened to be in
Adelaide, “rang the town clerk and dis-
cussed the matter.” Said the town clerk:
Mr. Ward told me that Mr. Thornton
had come to Adelaide to conduct a cam-
paign for the purpose of getting the workers
to maintain production and that Mr.
Thornton’s addresses in other States had
proved of great assistance to the Govern-
ment.
But the town clerk, “in view of certain
information placed before me,” was still
suspicious, and a deputation waited on
him. He asked the deputation for “a
definite assurance that the object of this
meeting is to counter absenteeism in in-
dustry and appeal for maintained pro-
duction.” The definite assurance was
given, but a gentleman said he would
not guarantee “that Mr, Thornton might
not advocate quite revolutionary measures
to achieve the winning of the war.” So
to the Adelaide Town Hail and Ernie
Thornton’s sugar-coated confession:
In the early days of the war people like
me did not believe that the result of the
war would affect generally the interests of
the workers. But when Russia entered the
conflict and was attacked by Nazism the
whole character of the war changed and
workers could no longer be pacifists.
In other words, the war to Comrade
Thornton was “a struggle between rival
imperialisms” till the Nazis invaded
Russia. Even in June, 1941, and at
an A.C.T.U. Congress at that, he “bit-
terly attacked supporters of the war
effort.” In time to come Australians will
marvel that the fellow was not deported
or interned.
Actually his power over Australian
workers who have supported the war
effort all along has increased as the war
effort has expanded. Of the 15,720
N.S.W. Federated Ironworkers in 1939
only 20 were females. Now there must
be thousands; in fact, the union every-
where has received a great accession of
members and funds. Mr. Fadden would
do well to inquire into its affairs, finan-
cial and propagandist, its methods of get-
ting and holding members and the activi-
ties of this Thornton and certain of his
associates, among them “Ironworker”
writers, prior to June 22, 1941,
As has been said, forms of compulsion
exist in trade-unions already. It will
be infamous if legal sanction is given to
them as a universal rule ; thrice infamous
if men and women who are loyal to
Australia and the British Commonwealth
in word and deed are placed in the posi-
tion of being gagged and bound victims
of Red racketeering.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Censored Billy.
The last man who should complain of
censorship is Mr. W. M. Hughes, who
in the last war secured near-dictatorial
powers and used them in a dictatorial
spirit. For example, he gave personal
instructions for the seizure of a whole
issue of Queensland “Hansard.” And the
late S. H. Prior, of The Bulletin, was
commanded to scrap a David Low car-
toon because Mr. Hughes objected to it.
His reply was “No Low cartoon, no
Bulletin.” The paper came out as usual.
In that war there was no direct and
close threat to Australia. The seas sur-
rounding it were almost safe waters. The
war was on the other side of the world.
Today the war is so close and menacing
that the greatest care needs to be exer-
cised in preventing any information that
might be useful reaching the enemy. In
these circumstances, overdone censorship
can be understood. In The Bulletin’s
own view it has been overdone ; but this,
though . irksome, seems preferable to
loose censorship. Where such severe
strictness is necessary, some abuses are
only to be expected.
Mr. Hughes should have had these
considerations in mind in his recent blus-
tering. In any case, whether or not Mr.
Hughes was wrongly censored is beside
the point compared with the real fault
in his outburst criticising an alleged
failure to do more than had been done
against the Japs in Papua, With gross
unfairness and reckless disregard of pos-
sible consequences he attacked “our mili-
tary leaders,” the chief of whom is, of
course, General MacArthur.
Mr. Hughes’s own failure to do any-
thing about the defending of Australia’s
northern outposts when he had the posi-
tion to do so itself disqualifies him now
from making the kind of attack he made.
Apart from that, there is the question of
any political interference in purely mili-
tary matters. There has been far too
much of this on the British side in the
present war. At times it would seem to
have come to a point where, one battle
having been lost, the politicians must
step in and sack the general.
What all the politicians who have done
their fighting on platforms need to realise
is that the military side of the war is for
military men, and the less political inter-
ference there is the safer.
"Wardism. 4 *
“Officers of Mr. Ward’s ‘lndustrial
Relations Division’ ” —that’s what he calls
it have, under Mr. Ward’s orders,
“watched closely a number of busi-
nesses,” and are “preparing a black list
of employers who refuse to provide ade-
quate facilities for employees.”
“Let no one tremble about Mr. Ward’s
black list,” commented John Heine, presi-
dent of the Metal Trades Association,
“for the name of every employer is auto-
matically inscribed thereon.” “Every
self-respecting employer will regard it as
an honor to be on it,” quoth Latham
Withall, secretary of the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures, who added
pertinently that “before any factory can
operate it has to be registered,” and that
“its buildings, appliances and conveni-
ences” are kept under surveillance by a
swarm of State Government inspectors.
Mr, Heine said more, and every word
was to the point:—
Let the Commonwealth Government take
notice that the effect of “Wardism” propa-
ganda is spreading. It breaks down dis-
aphne in the workshops, with consequent
inefficiency and deterioration in output. It
can be checked, because Mr. Ward speaks
only for the worst element in the trade-
unions, the Communists and the chronic
strikers and moaners ; the majority of hard-
working unionists are willing to accept
awards and do their job in peace.
Suitable amenities have been installed
in all modem factories, and stand as
monuments to the consideration and fore-
sight of employers. There are, of course,
smaller shops where many hard-working
employers do their best with the limited
means at their disposal, after paying their
taxes, but Mr. Ward must know that they
cannot compete with the latest canteen out-
fits installed in munition factories. In any
case, why is it necessary for Mr. Ward to
approach the matter with dire threats of
force and intimidation? Must he continu-
ally remind his followers of his readiness
to have a crack at employers, or does he
hope that employers will continue to suffer
his outbursts in silence?
. . , , • . ,
Communists and chronic strikers and
moaners a true bill. If the Prime
Minister will not dismiss Mr. Ward the
Opposition should ask for a select com-
mittee to inquire into his administrative
especially his relations
with Communists, etc. His support for a
Second Front in Europe need not come
into the picture, though, having prided
himself m Parliament on his refusal to
visit Europe during the last war, it is a
perfect example of his gall.
Justifiable Taxes.
As a sequel—the first—to the High Court
judgment in the uniform-income-tax
case the Commonwealth Government is
taking over taxation of entertainments.
This was announced at the Premiers"
Conference in Melbourne after the
Premiers had nearly exhausted themselves
discussing ways and means of reducing
the consumption of alcohol without
offending too many voters. “One more
nail in the coffin of the States,” Mr. Dun-
stan groaned ; and this alone justifies the
change. Other considerations are that
the national Government needs a great
deal more money, and that another
£2,000,000 or so can be got at no great
administrative cost from those who have
time and means to enjoy themselves while
the flower of the nation is facing the
enemy.
The present taxes on entertainments
yielded round £700,000 p.a. Westralia’s
last total was £96,600; that of N. S.
Wales, with six times Westralia’s popu-
lation, was £154,000. Obviously N. S.
Wales will have to furnish a large pro-
portion of the additional revenue, and
there is no reason to believe that the
increased tax will chill the enthusiasm of
those who flock to racecourses (horse
and dog), football grounds, theatres,
dance joints and so forth, having money
to burn.
But the Commonwealth Government
should do more than tax entertainments.
It should tax lottery prizes, as it did after
the last war. Not to tax lottery prizes,
which run from £5 to £20,000, when in-
(Continued on page 8.)
DOGS OF WAR.
“Fifty dogs of the first canine company have been delivered to their Army masters.”


QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
EXPERT CARE OF YOUR ESTATE
* By a Company with 56 Years ’ Experience,
JF you have appointed Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, Executor
of your Will, your Estate, on your death, will be in safe hands. It
will be administered firmly and correctly, but with sympathy and under-
standing, and in a personal and friendly way. The Company would
not have grown in 56 years to be one of the largest Trustee Companies
in the world if its service had been mechanical or impersonal. An
interview with a Senior Officer of the Company is suggested, or, perhaps
you would prefer to write for explanatory booklet?
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. ,T. Playfair. M.L.C.; E. R. Knox:
H. Norman Pope; Allen C, Lewis; W. Deucliar Cordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
- Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £59,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 8 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, puffiness tinder the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the IS
miles of kidney tubes flush out poison nis
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remeis;
mat will make you well and koep you well. \
comes are taxed up to 18s. in the pound
is wrong in principle and unjust in prac-
tice. The abandonment of the Common-
wealth lottery tax on prizes was intended
as a concession to Tasmania, and it had
unfortunate results in more ways than
one. Where Tasmania once had the field
to itself there are now lotteries in three
other States, and the wasteful business,
thrice wasteful in war-time, has grown
to amazing proportions.
The Commonwealth tax should be re-
imposed to the extent of at least 20 per
cent.
POLITICAL POINTS
W. M. Hughes, thundering against the
Australia-Firsters on March 27:
While one of them roams at large I shall
not be satisfied. We cannot make war in
this fashion, blithering about the Bill of •
Rights and Habeas Corpus and things of
that kind. This is war.
Last week the same gentleman and his
Sydney press supporters squealed to
high heaven because his attack on “our
military leaders” had been denied over-
seas circulation. But isn’t that also war ?
The mountain of the Premiers’ Con-
ference labored on the liquor question
and brought forth a mouse with 'two tails
—an hour off the daily drinking period
and reduction of wine supplies. This
will be another knock to the wine indus-
try, which has lost its export trade. Ameri-
can correspondents, notably Courtney (in
“Collier’s”) and Laytha (in the “Saturday
Evening Post”), have testified that the
Americans are delighted with the excel-
lence of Australian dry wines. It would
be idiotic to curtail supplies of these mild
beverages.
For declaring himself “horrified” at
what he saw on a professional visit to
Brisbane (“an unspeakable orgy of
drunkenness and harlotry night after
night”), E. J. Tait caught a terrific jolt
from Hanlon, the Home Secretary;
Pure slander; the words of a man who
was disappointed after a bad Brisbane
season. If the morals of Brisbane people
were as low as Mr. Tait alleges, more
people would have attended his plays.
“Habet,” as they used to say in Rome.
Westralian Senator Johnston did not
attend the hearing of the latest taxation
case against him, a Supreme Court action
claiming penalties for “evasions” and in-
volving a lot more. His counsel read a
telegram stating that the Senator was
suffering from a complication of dis-
orders, but postponement was refused.
Ex-Premier Collier and the late Alec
McCallum, Collier’s Minister of Works,
were Johnston’s partners in two pubs,
the enterprising but too - ambitious
Bertie having been interested in 17
altogether. He was a Labor member
when Collier was No. 2 in the Scad-
dan Labor Government and McCal-
lum was one of the party’s coming men,
but after four years he converted himself
to the gospel according to the Country
party. Recently he has shown a ten-
dency to return to his ancient beliefs.
Constitutional Section 45 is dreadfully
precise on the subject of financially em-
barrassed Federal politicians;
If a Senator or member of the House
takes the benefit, whether by assignment,
composition or otherwise, of any law re-
lating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors, his
place shall thereupon become vacant.
If this happens to Bertie Johnston, Labor
will have a chance of grabbing his seat
and making the state of parties in the
Senate 18-18. But it is a very remote
chance, for at a joint sitting of the West-
ralian Houses there would at most have
been 31 Labor members and, if all hands
were present, 59 others. Labor had a
better party vote when the last casual
vacancy in the Senate occurred—in 1936.
The Senator then chosen was Marwick,
C.P., now M.H.R. for Swan.
These amateur strategists switch from
one extreme to the other. For seven
months of the German war they were all
champions of the defensive and of the
impregnability of the Maginot Line. For
the last six months “Attack! Attack!” has
been their cry. Reckless taking of the
prescription would lead to mass mass-
acre. A Dutch admiral attacked in the
Battle of the Java Sea and the result was
annihilation. And the loss of Tobruk,
with all its garrison and immense sup-
plies, and the retreat to the El Alamein
line were results of an attack.
From a syndicated article written by a
competent observer;
Some day Australians will read in detail
about the dejection which spread among
militiamen in Darwin and round Moresby
in the early months; of the indiscipline
which followed the first Japanese air raids
on those towns; of the looting till each
had been picked clean.
Australians should have been told the
stark truth long ago. Americans were
informed early in the piece of the essen-
tial facts of the Pearl Harbor business.
Australians are still ignorant .of the
essential facts of the Darwin affair, and
have learned next to nothing of the
short and fierce campaigns in Java and
Amboina, though Australian soldiers'
were on both islands. And concealment
breeds complacency.
“What is called ‘a whispering campaign against Mr. Ward’ is to be denounced at a
public meeting in Paddington, Sydney.”
“Y’r Honor , the witness just whispered that I’m a political larrikin.”
"Witness, don’t whisper!”
At the Loan Council meeting it was
stated that among the amounts granted
was £600,000 for the Sydney No-Water
Board to use almost exclusively on the
Warragamba pipeline. Growers of vege-
tables, fruit and flowers are warned not
to be jubilant. The money is for pipes,
not water.
B.H.P.’s profits were down £275,000
for the year to 31/5/’42 and the dividend
was reduced from p.c. to 6i p.c.
Carlton and United Breweries maintained
its half-yearly dividend rate at 12£ p.c.,
and Tooths keep up their 12 p.c. Politi-
cians and Corns, who hate B.H.P. so
much never mention breweries.*
“Employment in hotel bars is shocking
work for girls,” declared Premier Dun-
stan piously. Pat came Mr. Curtin’s
answer: “We are not going to deprive
ourselves of men needed for urgent war
work merely to provide male dispensers
of beer.” Loud silence from Premier
Dunstan.
“Certain Opposition members” were
discredited with supporting Hughes in his
attack on “our military leaders” and the
censorship or something. The U.A.P.
ought to be asking itself what sort of a
state it has got into if the erstwhile leader
of the Labor, Nationalist and “Austra-
lian” parties is, at nearly 78, the best
leader it can get.
Abram Slanda’s protege Professor
Stone has become involved in a con-
troversy with Isaac Isaacs, and in a
“Hebrew Standard” letter, published on
August 6, he lost his temper:
If I thought Sir Isaac Isaacs intended to
convey that 1 “preach” to my classes any
particular view on matters of current con-
troversy, Jewish or non-Jewish, I would
feel it necessary to say that Sir Isaac
Isaacs was guilty of a patent untruth of
a shocking character If he did not so
intend it, I am still constrained to say that
such a reference in such a context might
be construed as either an ill-concealed
attempt to produce a certain impression
without incurring the consequences of the
law of libel, or as a piece of gratuitous
personal malice, or as a use of words with
reckless, disregard of their natural import.
Seemingly the Johnny-come-lately pro-
fessor is modelling his controversial man-
ners on Slanda’s.
Canada has brought in uniform
income taxation by way of agreement
with the provinces. No costly appeal
to a Court by provincial Premiers nor
any howl about provincial “rights” and
national “aggression.” But then the
Canadian Premiers never believed them-
selves to be Caesars in their own right.
A few weeks ago the N.S.W. taxpayers
learned from Mr. Badly, flatteringly
described as Minister of Mines, that
the daily output of coal from the Gov-
ernment mine at Lithgow had been
reduced by workstoppers from 1800 tons
to 1400 tons, and that the latest annual
loss would be between £16,000 and
£17,000. In the sixth week of the present
financial year Mr. Badly gave the
actual loss as £16,500, and asserted that
the mine was “now paying its way.”
Narks immediately pointed out that the
price of Government coal had been
raised from 14s. 4id. to 17s. a ton,
whereas “capitalistic” mines sell at 15s.
The profit, if any, is being made at the
expense of the Government railways,
which buy the Government coal.
It was alleged recently in Sydney’s
squealer press that U.S. war correspon-
dents in Australia had refused an invi-
tation to a tour of military establish r
ments because they had been asked to
pay their expenses, reckoned at £35. The
allegation was expressly denied by rep-
resentatives of seven American news
organisations, most of whom said they
had known nothing about the projected
tour, and, in any case, wouldn’t think of
objecting to pay expenses. The attack
was part of a campaign against E. G.
Knox, who, a Sydney journalist once, fell
trom grace by taking a job in Melbourne
and completed his crime by being named
head of the Army Public Relations Direc-
torate. The denial, though made by
rorde, did not appear in the squealer
press.
Curtin’s speech reminding Australians
that they must share in the common perils
ot the United Nations and be satisfied
with a fair share of the available arma-
ments was Curtin at his best. It may
not have been, but could be taken as,
intended for that small and noisy section
that wants lives, ships and weapons con-
centrated in one place for one object—
to save Russia and let the rest go hang.
It is gratifying to read that “a unani-
mous vote of confidence in the N.S.W.
Aid Russia Committee has been passed
by the N.S.W. Russian Medical Aid Com-
mittee.” As gratifying as it would be to
read that the Federal Labor Ministers had
passed a unanimous vote of confidence
in the Federal Labor Government. And
that would be almost a perfect parallel.
Curtin, addressing the commercial
travellers in Melbourne:
There are no arguments in Germany as
to whether one should have a waistcoat or
not or whether one has been misreported
or not.
“Misreported” is always Ward’s squeal
when cornered, and this was Curtin’s
first public thrust at his ill-conditioned
colleague. But he won’t expel Ward, nor
will Ward resign.
Tully says he is going on with his pro-
posal to inflict N.S.W. land tax on prop-
erties worth more than £20,000 with “a
view to breaking up large estates for
closer settlement.” The land already
carries Commonwealth land tax, osten-
sibly put on for the same purpose —never
achieved. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment, having cut out double and triple
income taxes by the States, ought to be
interested in a double land tax by one
of them.
From “Nineteeu-nineteen”:
Asked whether his censorship had reached
the heights attained in Hughes’s time, Curtin
said “Yes; but not the depths.” Capital; and
the P.M. could have been even more cutting
had he chosen to recall an occasion when he was
asked by one of Billy’s own lieutenants to censor
Billy. On his way back from Versailles Hughes
left ship at Fremantle and paid a morning call
on the politicians in Perth. Recounting some of
his experiences he mentioned his disagreement
with Woodrow Wilson, referring to the ill-fated
President as “the Deity” and again as “God
Almighty.” The moment he sat down Willie
Watt, then his Treasurer, paced up to the press
table. Curtin and another editor sat with
the reporters. Watt addressed Curtin by name
and then suggested to all at the table that the
terms applied to Wilson should be left out of
reports and comments, not having been seri-
ously meant. Curtin refused to give a promise;
and the invidious expressions appeared in the
next issue of the “Worker” with short and
appropriate remarks by the editor. A year or so
later Watt himself fell out with Billy and out of
Billy’s Ministry, and the cause of the quarrel
was not explained to the satisfaction of the
House that heard the “explanatory” speeches.


BRITISH NAVY’S TRIBUTE
“Submarine* using your batteries
averaged 10,000 miles per month, and
there is no recorded instance of your
batteries failing.”
This striking tribute was received from
the British Admiralty at the conclusion
of the World War, 1918. Needless to
say, Exide Batteries are again playing
their part in the present war. You,
too, can depend on Exide.
£xii>c
t
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE
STOPPED
ţ
ť
ŧ
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Jacksonian Prize, which dates
back to 1800 —the award of the Royal
College 6f Surgeons for the best disser-
tation on a subject in surgery —this year
went to a Maorilander, Dr. W. Bremner
Highet, graduate of Otago Uni. His win-
ning dissertation, which ran into 200,000
words and was accompanied by 200
photographs, took 12 months to complete.
Dr. Highet accompanied a Byrd expedi-
tion to Little America, was in Shanghai
when it was bombed by the Japs on the
opening of the China-Jap war, and spent
some time in the U.S. studying hospital
methods there.
Sydney Legacy Club is on the warpath
to capture fifty thou, of the best for one
of the best of causes —helping the
children of the service men who lose their
lives in this war. Judged by the aggres-
sive phiz of its president, W. H. Spooner
(depicted here by Frith), Legacy will
reach its objective. That phiz does not
belie its wearer. He went off to the last
war at 17, as a sth Field Amb. stretcher-
bearer ; had his 18th birthday at Lemnos,
the little Grecian island with the big
harbor (to say nothing of the best bread
the Diggers ever ate and the most violent
cognac anyone ever drank); from there
W. H. SPOONER.
to Anzac ; later to Flanders, where (at
Ypres) he was wounded and won an
M.M.; then into the Aus. Flying Corps,
with a commission. He is a brother of
Eric, the Fed. member (Stevens’s Down-
fall), and partner with him in Hunger-
ford, Spooner, the accountancy firm, the
secretary of which —B. O. Smith —is hon.
sec. of Legacy.
“Cauboy’s” Fysh story:
Ernest Fysh, the Melbourne art connois-
seur and controversialist (his death was re-
corded B. 12/8/’42), was very particular about
the pronunciation of his name. On one occa-
sion Max Meldrum, then the stormy petrel ot
local art, was to deliver a lecture. Passions
had been running high in the press on matters
of art, and the very important personage in the
chair, in introducing the lecturer, made some re-
marks about current disagreements and discon-
tents. Lionel Lindsay, not then a knight and
little known in Melbourne (he had just come
from Sydney to take up the job of Herald
art critic), arose in the body of the hall and
objected to some of the chairman’s observa-
tions. “Would you mind sitting down, Mr-
Fish?” said the chairman severely. ‘ You will
have ample opportunity for stating your views
when the lecturer has stated his.’’ “I am not
Fish ” said the potential knight indignantly.
“Lindsay is my name.” Suddenly a little figure,
even more indignant, arose in another part
the hall. “My name is not Fish, sir, he said
in a most aggrieved tone. “It is Fysh. Art
was taken with becoming seriousness in those
days, and nobody smiled even when Lionel,
exasperated at the chairman s censorship and
indifferent as to whether Fysh was Fish or
Fysh, abruptly left the hall.
Another Duntroon graduate to become
brigadier is W. J. (Bill) Christie, until
recently C.O. of an A.I.F. artillery regi-
ment in the North but now transferred. In
the North the new brig, fostered Rugby,
at which he had represented N.S.W. as
both player and Australian selector. He
was in France for the last show, and
after, while on army reserve, found time
to be C.O. of a militia regiment as well
as an advertising executive.
Tom Warhurst, wounded in Egypt, is
a young man with the quite unusual dis-
tinction of being picked for S.A. at both
football and tennis —and at the same
time.
Speaking with evident feeling, Minister
for Supply J. A. Beasley recently declared
that he knew of no more arduous work
than the cow cocky’s job. The son of a
farmer, Beasley worked on a farm in his
youth, but gave it up to become an elec-
trician, not with his father’s blessing;
the family thought that one of its
members had slipped if he took on any-
thing but farming. The rural experience
the member for industrial West Sydney
did have is extra handy in his present
job, which has a lot to do with food pro-
duction.
Adelaide Racing Club farewells its
president, James Hall, retiring at close
on 87 after a (possibly Australian record)
service of 42 years on the committee, the
last 23 of them as chairman. Committee-
men elected, Bickford, Haslam and C. A.
Reid. S.A. Jockey Club re-elects its four
retiring committeemen, Stanley Murray
(president), Keith Angus (ex-president),
Lawson and Barr Smith,
“One of Britain’s Greatest”:
The death in Egypt of Lieut.-General
W. H. E. Gott underlines one of the oddest
features of the present war —the lavish pub-
licity given to any military leader except British.
While Gott was never heard of till his death,
the German Field-Marshal Rommel—doing the
same sort of work that, by all accounts, Gott
did equally well —has become a legendary figure,
with, in the public mind in British countries,
all the “glamor” previously reserved for Clark
Gables and Gary Coopers. Not till his death
did anything come out about the quality ot
the man whose tank leadership in the desert
fighting earned him the name of “Strafer
Gott. Then, overnight, he, too, became a
legend, “the dominating figure in the desert
and one of Britain’s greatest He
was “imperturbable in action,” the most
popular Eighth Army commander,” and
"Britain’s greatest commander of tanks m the
field.” He “commanded in a tank or armored
car in the midst of the fighting” and “filled in
slack times at the front writing treatises on
desert warfare. There is no mention of him
in Who's Who. Evidently he was, like T. b.
Lawrence, one of those men that Britain always
somehow manages to produce for special occa-
sions and keep dark until their job is done.
Cabled during the Blitz, on London
that when the raids started Hubert Clif-
ford, the Melbourne composer-conductor,
now with 8.8. C., pulled a piano down into
an air-raid shelter and there, under the
eyes of his master, Vaughan Williams,
tried out a symphony he had just finished
composing. A recent like achievement is
that of Dmitri Shostakovitch, the Soviet
composer, whose Seventh Symphony,
which he composed under fire in Lenin-
grad, has been directed in New York by
Toscanini. Clifford can claim to be the
youngest composer to conduct an orches-
tra through one of his own works who
has ever appeared in Melbourne. When
he went to England he was given the
conductorship of Beckenham County
School, most famous of school orchestras.
New editor of Wellington (M.L.)
“Post” Jesse Richards Smith has been
with the “Post” for two decades, for
several years as associate editor to Joseph
Parker, Now in his early fifties, he
started journalism as a boy on the then
new “Dominion.” He steps into a job
that has had but three occupants in 56
years —E. T. Gillon (10 years), Gresley
Lukin (20) and Joseph Parker (26).
Appointed Air Liaison Officer on Mac-
Arthur’s staff at G.H.Q., S.-w. Pacific
Area, Squadron-Leader Clive Brewster, a
fighter pilot of the last war and chair-
man of W. R. Carpenters, Fiji. He re-
linquished his lieutenant-colonelcy and
command of a battalion of the Fiji
Defence Force to join the R.A.A.F. in
1940 as a humble flying officer. Since
then he has been in various jobs in
R.A.A.F. training schools, and succeeded
Wing-Commander Tommy White, an-
other ex-lieutenant-colonel, as command-
ing officer of the big Initial Training
School for air crews in Victoria.
The offer to a youthful clerk m a
Wellington (M.L.) bank of a position as
gunner on an outgoing merchantman was
accepted, and within 12 hours he sane
on his new job. Now, at 20, Lieut.
George Macdonald, D. 5.0., is said to be
the youngest commander in the Koyai
Navy. He won his D.S.O. for motor-
torpedo boat attacks on enemy convoys.
“L.A.W.”: Lieut.-Col. C. G. W. Ander-
son (B. 22/6/ ’42) was not Malaya s only
V.C. Another was Lieut.-Col. Arthur
Edward Gumming, Indian Army, severely
wounded in the abdomen by bayonet
while endeavoring to save the remnants
of his brigade. Lieut.-Col. Anderson,
A.1.F., is a Briton who came to Australia
from South Africa years ago and settled
in N.S.W.
Like the western America of the days
when six-shooters ruled the roost, the
Australian back country knew many a
man by the simple monicker which gave
no clue to his real name but a strong
clue to his birthplace, character or chief
physical attribute. A sort of survival lately
turned up in one “Montana,” a U.S. citi-
zen now with the R.A.F. in Egypt, where
an Australian correspondent located him.
“Montana” is true to type. He had a
hand in the Spanish civil war, bobbed up
in R.A.F. bombers over Europe as a
gunner and wireless operator, helped
hand out a few shocks to attackers of
Malta and is now fixing his hard dial on
Rommel’s crowd. Desert warfare should
suit a cove like “Montana.”
S. L. Black, product of the Royal Col-
lege of Veterinary Surgeons, Dublin, has
succeeded Geo. Marks (retired) as
manager of N.S.W. Dept, of Agricul-
ture’s Wollongbar experiment farm,
Alstonville, the Guernsey stud on which
includes cattle imported from Guernsey
Island before the war. Since landing in
Australia in 1923, Black has ranged
N.S.W. on one stock job and another
as far out as Bourke, with an interval
lecturing in veterinary science at Hawkes-
bury Agricultural College.
South Australia’s new Registrar-
General of Deeds, George Aubrey Jessup,
was so keen to get out of the general
civil service rut that, as a junior clerk
in the Lands Title Office 30 years ago, he
carted himself along nightly to Adelaide
Uni., and stuck at it till he collected a
diploma in Commerce and certificate in
Law. He has since put his specialised
knowledge into a book on land titles that
solicitors, land agents and the like accept
as standard. As lecturer for 10 years
GEORGE AUBREY JESSUP.
at the School of Mines he has put a
total of 500 students on their way. In
his younger days he was an amateur and
later a professional sprinter ; he had a
crack at the Stawell Gift. Now he goes
at an easier bat, but further; his idea ot
having a spell is a nice little 10-mile hike.
Colonel W. P. MacCallum, D. 5.0.,
M.C., Deputy Director-General of Medi-
cal Services and second in command to
Major-General Hurston, carries on from
a distinguished father-knight, Mungo
MacCallum, of Sydney University. Forty-
seven, he is a Sydneyite, and graduated
M. 8., Ch.M. in 1924. While a student
he served in the 1914-18 war, and was
on Gallipoli in the infantry and in
France on the staff, so he knows war
COL. MacCALLUM, D.S.O.
from the combatant’s side as well as the
succorer’s. In this war he enlisted in
1940, and was appointed Registrar of the
General Hospital, with subsequent higher
appointments. With his present chief he
served in Palestine, Egypt, Greece, Crete
and the N.E.1., about as wide a range
as any man. In times of peace he prac-
tises at Edgecliff, Sydney, and is hon.
assistant physician to the Royal Prince
Alfred and the Royal Alexandra.
Into the silence:
At Busselton (W.A.), Jerry Ryan, known to
two generations of politicians and actors as the
ideal hotelkeeper, an incarnation of hospitality
and good company, though t.t. Long ago Jerry
was a Dublin city councillor, but he never
tried public life in Australia, though keenly
interested in Australian politics, combining with
it a passion for farming. He brought UP a
large family, now worthily represented m tne
fighting services.
In Sydney, at 57, Frederick William Marks,
chairman of directors of Garratts, one or
Sydney’s oldest motor firmsalso chairman ot
the Metropolitan Meat Advisory Council, the
Theatres and Films Commission and Frmce
Henry Hospital, and a trustee of the Austra-
lian Museum. Without question one ot me
State’s top chartered accountants, he was called
on to carry out a wide variety of investigations
by a succession of State Governments, irrespec-
tive of their political color. A son, Cap-
tain John Marks, is in the A.I.F.
At Bowral (N.S.W.), H. Hiring Phipson,
who as a Pioneers lieutenant in the old A.i.r.
was a contributor to the Diggers P a P
“Aussie,” published in France. At his best a
a writer of satirical verse, he was subsequently
associate-editor of the now ‘S. M. Herald
publication “Home,” which poet Leon GJlert
(another 1914-18 Digger) has long edited.
At Ascot Vale (Vic.), at 59, A P. A Burden
known as “Pop” to the abos. of Victoria a
elsewhere. As president of the Australian
Aborigines’ League and founder of the Uplnit
Society, he did valuable work in brightening
the twilight of the “vanishing Australian Ihe
Black White Man was another ot his titles.
W T. McNiece (96), at Adelaide. He had
known Marcus Clarke, and always claimed
that McAllister in His Natural Life was drawn
from himself. He met King, the survivor, re-
turning from the Burke and Wills expedition.
McNiece was educated at St. Kilda (Vic.), and,
after working on Dimboola and Glenorc y
stations, became overseer at Swmton and
Lochiel. Later he was stationmaster on S.A.
railways.
In Adelaide, at 70, G. H. Goodall, remark-
able for having his statue there already. H
was in London as q.m.s. with the S.A. contin-
gent for the coronation of Edward VII, and
there “sat” to Adrian Jones as model for the
horseman in the dashing Boer War Memorial
now outside Government House gates in Adel
aide.
At 88, James C. Port, Westraha’s oldest
sawmiller and timber merchant. Bom at Gee-
long (Vic.), he had a hand in his father s
timber business there till the b>| Melbourne
slump sent them to Pfert Pine (S.A.). After
that partnership with Richard Honey, Adel-
Sfe and then together to the West, opening
sawmills first near Worsley, then near Mun-
daring. James Port saw the West s timber
industry grow from very little to the biggest
Australian export timber business.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Dhas”: I do not doubt that things
are serious in India ; but neither do I
doubt that too much publicity is being
given to the imbecilities of university
students. My “S. M. Herald” reported
with shocked solemnity that a statue of
Queen Victoria had been defaced with
mud, and that old shoes had been placed
upon the royal head. Near Parliament
House in Wellington (M.L.) there stands
a statue of the same good lady, and in
the days of my student folly I raddled
with red the stony splendor of the royal
stern. Years later, I learned with de-
lighted disapproval that my young
brother had placed a bottle of beer in
the upraised hand with which Dick Sed-
don declaims eternally to the legislators.
I do not think we were moved by any-
thing more sinister than the joy of life.
People tell me that the Duke of Windsor,
when he was out here as Prince, took a
somewhat irreverent interest in Sydney’s
statue of his great-grandmother, where
she stands plump (and not amused) by
St. James’s station.
“Well, gentlemen, what am I bid for this magnificent bull?”
“Mac Hoots”; I see that brother Mair
has cruelly taunted brother McKell with
not having tightened the N. S. Wales
liquor laws in any effective way—“absolute
cowardice” says ex-Premier Mair. Let
us have a little history. Before the last
election, when Mair ruled, six-o’clock
closing was just a joke, until during a
frenzy of pre-election virtue Mair sent
his minions on an isolated irritation foray
among the big hotels and fined your his-
lorian for drinking mineral water in a
lounge before dinner. Then came the
election, with both gentlemen—Mair
vaguely and McKell quite definitely—
promising to relax the restrictions. After
McKell had settled into power, brother
Mair cruelly taunted him with not having
relaxed ’em ; whereupon brother McKell
retorted, with some truth, that Mair himself
had always been frightened to relax ’em,
and, with less truth, that Mair had never
tackled the big hotels. And now we have
McKell fulfilling his promise to relax
the laws by tightening them, and Mair
from the snug dugout of Opposition
taunting him with not making still more
concessions to the wowsers they were
both going to defy. Brother McKell, I
am watching you! Brother Mair, the
eye of a man who was fined for drinking
mineral water is upon you!
• * * »
“Bycaster”: Conversation over the aif
between man in charge of 8.8. C. “Anzacs
Calling Home” session and Australian
service woman in England, formerly a
teacher of domestic science:
Announcer: And what do Australians
drink most of, tea or coffee?
Service woman: Oh, it’s about fifty-fifty.
So much for the observation of one
whose knowledge of Australia was prob-
ably confined to one of those polyglot
city districts. I’ll bet the lady it’s nearer
80-20 in favor of tea.
» ♦ • •
“Macann”: That “series of articles on
the Jewish question” (B. 12/8/’42)
brought trouble down on the “Saturday
Evening Post” in an avalanche, to judge
by the apologies the “Post” subsequently
made. The new editor, Ben Hibbs, ex-
plained in a leader that the authors of
three articles, Milton Mayer, Jerome
Frank and Waldo Frank, were them-
selves Jews. It was the Mayer contribu-
tion that started the trouble. The “Post”
was fairly flooded with letters protesting
against what was regarded as an attack
on Jews. “Naturally,” said the “Post”
editorial, “we deeply regret this mis-
understanding. That one misunderstood
article in the ‘Post’ could have caused
so much anxiety in the minds of its
readers is a matter of very real sorrow to
the new editor.” The pressure brought to
bear must have been terrific. So much so
that the “Post” anticipated its own pub-
lication of its apologetic leader by hav-
ing it printed in advance as an ad. in
other papers.
♦ • * *
“D.A.”: The island in the Solomons
discovered by Alvara de Mendana in
1568 and fought for by United States and
Japanese forces last week has caused the
usual uncertainty as to spelling and pro-
nunciation. Guadalcanal 1 was taught at
school, and this has the authority of the
Statesman’s Year-Book and Bartholomew's
Oxford Atlas (fourth edition), but not
the fifth edition of the same work, which
spells it Guadalcanal. Burns Philp puts
it down an “I” Webster’s gazetteer gives
“r” preference over “I.” Probably the
first time any controversy arose over the
matter was when the Prattens, of Allu-
vial Tin, ten years ago sent Percy Pen-
man over to test areas for gold-dredging
along the Tsarivonga River, and a co.,
Guadalcanal, Ltd., was registered. The
spelling was questioned in Sydney, but
those who had been to the island sup-
ported it. The position then arose of
The Bulletin’s J. B. Higginson writing
mining pars, in which he spelt the co.’s
name one way and—doggedly—the
island’s the other. It is a place which
has tantalised prospectors for years with
rich alluvial gold protected by difficult
boulders and fierce daily floods. Sylvia
Davis painted there while her father
searched for the metal, and the last to
be* attracted were E. G. Theodore’s Fiji
cos. Whatever the spelling of the island’s
name, no radio announcer has yet pro-
nounced the second syllable correctly—
the d is the Spanish th.
* x . »,* * .
Chevroford ; Lud Mayor Beaurepaire
can scarcely be blamed lor the drab way
Melbourne’s centenary was celebrated,
inasmuch as splendor is frozen by war-
time regulations. But it is consolatory
to recall the days when the southern
“He reckons a man looks too conspicuous these days carryin' an ordinary
golf bag!”
city had a real Lorenzo the Magnificent
for its civic head. That was John Thomas
Smith, who made money at everything he
turned his hand to and dispensed it just
as easily. Starting as a schoolteacher,
he became licensee of a pub, the
Adelphi, an occupation which, as with
many of his successors, paved the way to
the mayorship, which he held seven times.
His entertainments were numerous and
lavish. David Syme looked upon his
magnificences sourly, and in 1863 the
“Leader” gave this description of. the
foundation of the Smith fortune:
Places of amusement were unknown in
Melbourne at the time, hard drinking was
the order of the day (and night), and the
hard drinking was, at the Adelphi tap,
further stimulated by music and dancing.
Time was beguiled by this process (and
so were the senses of the visitors). When
incapable of further deglutition, they were
removed to what was appropriately enough
called the “dead house,” an apartment
above. The entrance to the tap was beset
day and night by abandoned characters
of both sexes, who challenged passers-by
to “treat” them and in the event of non-
compliance loaded them with abuse.
Smith, undaunted by such disclosures,
went off to England expecting a knight-
hood. Her Majesty’s advisers had other
ideas,
* * * *
“Ron T.”: War or no war, Mel-
bourne’s Poverty Point is still going
strong. Rendezvous for singers, dancers,
comedians, “straight men,” jugglers,
conjurors, acrobats, ventriloquists and
all other brands of vaudevillians,
the Point still assembles itself in Bourke-
street every Monday morning as in
days of yore. Earlier in the century,
when the show business was booming
and 15 out of Melbourne’s 16 city theatres
were in or near Bourke-street, Pointians
met on the old Orient Hotel corner.
Later, when the Orient was demolished
to make room for Foy and Gibson’s
store, they moved up the street to
the old Theatre Royal, and when the
Royal was pulled down they shifted
across the road to the Lyceum Theatre.
It seems to be an unwritten law that
Poverty Point Tnust be outside either a
theatre or a pub.
♦ * * *
“Hypochron”: I like the gentle touch
reported in an American journal which
fell into my hands. It tells of a number
of people who received mysterious paper
parcels by mail at New Year, each parcel
bearing the warning “Please do not open
until any sick persons who happen to be
in the home are well.” Inside each was
a calendar from a firm of undertakers.
* * * m
“Bernard Hackshaw”: I have long
been lost in admiration for the skill with
which the chap who selects Melb.
“Argus’s” Text for Today makes his
choice fit the most significant event re-
corded elsewhere in the paper. “Trust
not in oppression, and become not vain
in robbery: if riches increase, set not
your heart upon them” (Psalm’ Ixii, 10)
was the selection on August 6, and it
seems to me it referred to the action of
Professor Copland with regard to profit
limitation. “My righteousness I hold
fast, and will not let it go; my heart shall
not reproach me so long as I live” (Job
xxvii, 6) appositely coincided with Com-
missioner Duncan’s indignant refutation
of Mr. Hollins’s charges against Mel-
bourne police. I was puzzled hovtfcver
by the one on August 11: “And the king
loved Esther above all the women and
she obtained grace and favor in his sight
more than all the virgins ; so that he set
the royal crown upon her head, and made
her queen instead of Vashti” (Ether ii,
17). Then I reflected that when the Persian
king Ahasuerus deposed his queen and
put the daughter of the Jew Mordecai in
her place the new queen was instrumental
in frustrating the machinations of
Haman, the enemy of her people, and
realised that this was an allegorical pic-
ture of the triumph of Cold Tea over
Bung as exemplified by the liquor con-
trol proposals.
* * * *
“Bumble” remembers the days before
Sydney had a Town Hall:
Sydney’s City Council, lately engaged in com-
memorating its centenary, was curiously home-
less and vagrant in its early years. A com-
mjttee was appointed in November, 1842, to
] o ok for suitable offices, and its first choice
was the p u i te nay Hotel in York-street, rooms
a t (be Royal Hotel being rented temporarily to
serve as a meeting-place. In the following Janu-
ary th e council met at the Royal for the last
time, and thence proceeded in state to York-
street, where it continued to assemble for the
nex t 20 years, whilst endeavoring to obtain
from the Government a site for a Town Hall on
portion of the old Georgc-street cemetery,
which it didn’t succeed in securing until 1869.
J be Puitenay Hotel was used by the council
though lts functions were vested in Commis-
sjoners between 1853 and 1857) until 1854 f
when premises were rented at the top of King-
street in what was part of the Oxford Hotel.
In 1860 the city dads went into a building on
the fast side of Wynyard-square which after-
wards became the Imperial Hotel and had been
at one t j me tbe p rern j ses D f the Union Club.
Here the civic centre stayed uptil 1868, when
it moved into York-street, between Erskine
and Margaret streets The fpundat.on-stone
ot the present Town Hall was laid by the Duke
Edinburgh in that year, and the building
was completed in 1874. The council took up
its abode in the new building on the first site
SM” 1 * tafremS “
me clt V" a , , ,
VITAMINS.
“More than 20 vitamins are already known, and
more are being discovered almost daily (.*>■
12/8/’42).
Strange, is it not, how very few
A generation back had heard
About such things, or even knew
The bare existence of the word ?
Yet now, whene’er we think of scran
Or on the topic talk begins,
Be sure some scientific man
Will stress the need of vitamins.
Our rude forefathers ate their chops
And steaks and spuds, and found them fine,
And washed them down with malt and hops
Or, when they had the chance, with wine.
They carved the joints and drained the bowls
That adequately filled their skins,
Downing what best they liked. Poor souls.
They’d never heard of vitamins!
The guests Lucullus had to sup
Of choicest fare could choose their whack;
Old Falstaff stoked his carcass up
With roasted capons and with sack;
John Jorrocks filled the chinks with cheese
When courses three had had their spins.
How odd it seems that none of these
Had ever visioned vitamins!
So, down the ages, all mankind
Was sunk in ignorance about
The foods which dietitians find
None nowadays should go without.
And in the labs, a zealous corps
Of shrewd investigators pins
Its efforts to discovering more
Of these elusive vitamins.
I cannot say I greatly care
What measure of success they meet,
Tracking their quarry to its lair
*ln various articles we eat.
But I should like to know, I think,
What liquor they retail in inns
Is—next to milk —the richest drink
In point of view of vitamins.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
DE GUSTIBUS.
The highbrows of the music world —
How scornfully their lips are curled
At what they call buffooning!
It seems to get beneath their skin
And fill them with intense chagrin
That others should find merit in
Such things as jazz and crooning.
These ultra-classical grandees
Count it akin to ’a disease,
And violently quarrel
With anyone who may suggest
That stuff which suits his earholes best
Doesn’t deserve to be suppressed
As vulgar—or immoral.
The Philistine, it’s clear, resents
Advice from these superior gents
And reckons it as odious,
The sneer that, when musicians play.
He isn't competent to say
What —in his judgment anyway—
Is, or is not, melodious.
We cannot all, however fain,
Delight in caviare and champagne.
But why profess such high disdain
For lesser-favored sinners.
To whom plebeian beef and beer
With spuds and onions may appeal
A lot more appetising cheer
To furnish them with dinners?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“A.R.P.”: This war, with its blackouts
and brownouts, has evolved a new type
of busybody. This pest surges suddenly
out ot the night into a warden’s post
with a report that he, she or it can see
a light in someone’s house, often accom-
panying the information with allegations
of the most shocking nature against
the householder. Sometimes the pest uses
the telephone. It is something to study
a warden’s face when, having been jerked
from a steady 14 in crib or the depths
of a book, he answers the ’phone, to be
told by an unknown voice of a light in
some vague and almost inaccessible pait
of the suburb. Out our way we’ve even
been pulled out of bunk and reminded
that the lighthouse is lit up. One
of these nights a busybody will enter our
post and sink without a trace. Sandbags
are very useful for concealing dismem-
bered busybodies.
« * * *
“Pitt St.”: On the fifth day of the
Solomons battle I was in a Sydney street
at the noon hour. The first editions of
the afternoon papers were coming out,
and, having had the Solomons on my
mind for two days, I glanced anxiously
at the poster on one of the delivery vans.
In bold black letters it assured me “The
Moon Goes Down. Second Thrilling In-
stalment.” I’d never heard of a U.S.
or British battleship called Moon, so I
bought, only to find the words concerned
a serial by some American writer. Did
that poster-writer consider the instalment
more interesting than the war news, or
did he think most of his readers would
consider it so? If the latter, he may
have been right.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”; On August 12 the city
of Melbourne celebrated its centenary,
and a leader-writer suggested as material
for proud reflection the Botanic Gardens,
St. Kilda-road (“few cities have any vista
comparable to it”), the largest public
library and the wealthiest public art gal-
lery in Australia. Acting on the scribe’s
injunction, I switched out the light,
turned off the A.B.C.’s crooner at the
meter and went into the silence to do a
bit of reflecting. Unfortunately, although
the images that were conjured up by the
Botanic Gardens were wholly pleasant, the
only images that were conjured up by St.
Kilda-road were of the awful statuary
put up there by the City Council, and I
couldn’t help reflecting that, while all the
wisdom in the world may be stored up
in the greatest public library in Australia,
very little of it seems to have been
absorbed by Melbourne’s City Fathers. As
for the wealthiest art gallery in Aus-
tralia, it held an auction lately of pic-
tures for which it once paid thousands,
and they hardly fetched a dinar.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: That reference to the use
of the term Maoriland by The Bulletin
(B. 1 /7/ ’42) reminds me thqt nobody
seems to know who coined the word.
Thomas Bracken in 1890 had an edition
de luxe of his poems printed in Germany
with the title Musings in Maoriland, but
long before that the term was in use.
Alfred Domett, writing to England, spoke
of “a country lone and washed by lonely
seas, a true Maoriland.” Seventy years
ago Governor Grey, visiting a South
Island town, was presented with an
address of welcome by a local poet. Two
lines ran:
These pioneers—that noble band,
Who made their home in Maoriland.
In 1894 O’Regan (M.H.R., Inangahua)
pointed out to Seddon that New Zealand
was always “Maoriland” in the London
“Athenaeum” and The Bulletin, and
asked whether the Government could not
officially change the name. Seddon said
personally he had no objection, but the
Imperial authorities were not likely to
consent. He would ask about it. And
that was the last heard of the matter.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”; A newspaper ad. refer-
ring to a pub in a country town as a
“family hotel” awoke echoes from the
past. It was a general description in
former days, applied to themselves by
hostelries that wanted to emphasise their
respectability. Tradespeople were fond
of it, too, and “Families Supplied” was
generally added to the signs of butcher,
grocer, baker and milkman. The practice,
which has almost entirely disappeared
(possibly owing to the disappearance of
families), was the subject of dingy jests,
which used to puzzle me in my kid days.
It probably went back to the England
of squire and villagers, where “family
hotel” and “family butcher” were intima-
tions that the pub or the tradesman had
the custom of the family of the parish,
* * * *
“R.T.” (A.1.F.): We Aussies have to
away from home to be fully appreciated.
We’ve made a deep impression in Pales-
tine. The Jewish proprietor of the “Pales-
tine Post” told an “A.I.F. News” repre-
sentative that Australians in manner,
speech and dress reminded him of “big-
hearted, kind-hearted, happy-go-lucky
cowboys from down near the Mexican
border,” A Jewish girl in Tel Aviv said
she liked us because “you are just like
us,” while the Arab Mayor of Gaza diag-
nosed that we are (as of course we
deserve to be) popular because we are
“just like the Arabs.” The only crumpled
roseleaf is the firmly-held opinion of an
American Jewess, proprietress of an hotel
in Tel Aviv, who says Australians are
born kleptomaniacs. “They have
souvenired towels, soap, doorkeys and
even the cat’s kittens,” she said, and
added plaintively: “Now, I ask you, what
on earth do they want with the cat’s
kittens?”
He * * *
“C. Ma”: The old importing spirit
still breaks out in Melbourne sometimes.
A citizen was gazing reverentially at an
American officer, apparently just landed
and in one of those perfectly cut and
brand-new uniforms. “Why can’t we cut
suits and make stuff like that in this
country?” he asked regretfully. “You
can,” said the American. “That tailor's
shop across the road made this uniform
and the material is Australian.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: In the last war the supersti-
tious found a happy augury in the fact
that the first three letters of “Joffre” and
the first three letters of “French” made
“Joffre” and the last three letters of
“Joffre” and the last three letters of
“French” made “French.” In Melbourne,
scene of the three brownout murders,
someone has discovered that two letters
from “McLeod,” two from “Thompson”
and three from “Hoskings” make the
name “Leonskt.” The discovery is pro-
ducing an impression amongst those of
less robust intellect.
* * * ♦
“Doncaster”: First of sportsmen’s
bibles, older even than Wisden’s, Ruff’s
Guide celebrated its centenary this year
"We can't , eh? Well , well see wot Eddie Ward's got to say about that!"
with a special commemorative issue. Wil-
liam Ruff, who established the publica-
tion and was the first racing correspon-
dent of the “Times,” never made a bet.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: It is interesting to see a
fashion in process of creation. Time
was when “modernist” art attracted no
attention in Melbourne. Now it draws
10 times as big “houses” as the shows of
the orthodox persuasion. The opening
of the Contemporaries recently was
packed with people, and Harold Herbert,
criticising in the “Argus,” protested that
“the general gruesomeness of this show
is hard to take.” The same things
were said about the Impressionists, the
Post-Impressionists, the Futurists, the
Dadaists, the Vorticists and the Surreal-
ists in Paris, as well as of Van Gogh,
Manet, Monet, Gauguin, Sisley, Cezanne,
Matisse and others who are now recog-
nised to have been masters.
* * « *
“Pat Ater”; No reference to Sydney’s
old Royal Hotel should overlook its last
splendid service when it was a soldiers’
club for Diggers serving in the 1914-18
war. The Royal’s swan song was
chorused by soldiers’ voices singing hap-
pily in its corridors and clubrooms. It
was a great place for a yarn and to meet
a cobber; and out on the roomy veran-
dahs overlooking George-street we felt
like real bigwigs and right in the centre
of things. No Digger who went there
will forget the memory of Dr. Mary
Booth and her work for every lad in
khaki. There’s nothing like it in Sydney
now—more’s the pity. I mean a club
that not only Aussies but Allied forces
could regard as a central meeting-place.
* * * *
“Jayem”: It was at a school for am-
bulance workers. The M.O. who was
giving the lecture noticed Jonesy s lack
of interest and determined to dispel it.
“Supposing an enemy ’plane had dropped
bombs and a man was blown into the
air,” he snapped at Jonesy. “You as a
trained man were there. What would
you do?” Jonesy slowly took m the
question. “Fd wait,” he finally decided,
“until he came down.”
* * * * ~
“Bohemian”: Astronomers the world
over have been sorely disappointed at
the news from California that the grind-
ing of the mirror of the world’s largest
telescope will have to be postponed until
after the war. The expert technicians
grinding it have been transferred to wai
work. Among questions the great 200 in.
reflector is expected to settle is the nature
of the canals of Mars —whether artificial
or natural. The telescope undoubtedly
will extend the frontiers of the universe.
But it is the secrets of Mars that star-
gazers are most interested in. To dis-
cover that Mars was —or had been
—inhabited by beings with equal-to-
human intelligence would rock the scien-
tific world. Lowell was firmly of
opinion that the red planet had at sotne
time been the abode of beings of high
mentality.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Simon Harcourt-Smith,
who was secretary to the British Legation
in China during the Japanese aggression,
has written a book, Japanese Frenzy, iu
which he seeks to prove that the Japanese
are a people with whom violence is not
just an interruption of life’s ordinary
rhythm but a harmonic of the rhythm
itself. He attributes this to the predomi-
nance in the national diet of raw fish.
which tends to produce glandular abnor-
mality. Interesting, but unconvincing.
From the sixteenth century onwards the
Japanese followed a policy of isola-
lation which until 1853 was almost un-
interrupted. During this period there was
a lot of violence in the world for which
they, at any rate, could not be held re-
sponsible, and even in those days they
ate raw fish. Then their isolation
was broken—by Commodore Perry, whose
four warships steamed into Tokyo
Bay bearing presents for the Mikado
which included firearms, a toy railway,
telegraph instruments, books, champagne
and “many barrels of whisky.” The
Japanese were terrified at the strange
sight, and fled to their temples to pray
for deliverance. They have become very
violent since ; but I wouldn’t blame it
on fish.
“Naming”: “Silverfish” (B. 5/8/’42)
must know that it isn’t the pennyweight
to the ton that makes second-hand book-
hunting worth while —it’s the zest of the
search. I count as nothing the germs I’ve
swallowed in the peppery dust in my
years-long search for “Tommy Top-
bough Goes to the Races” and “Bill
Wattleberry versus Ginger Bluegum—
one ter win! ” as limned by Norman Lind-
say in the “Lone Hand,” Vol. I. Framed
as befits their worth, they now hang above
my hardly-used pipes. For 10 years The
Thompson Street Poker Club, issued only
in paper, was sought and then the search
abandoned on the assumption that all
copies had been thumbed out of exist-
ence, But in Bourke-street, Melbourne,
one day a privately-bound copy marked
in chalk Is, 6d. hit me in the face from
a frowsy window, and again 1 joined
friends of 50 years agone. I’m now look-
ing for Leech’s original Limericks, illus-
trated.
* * * *
“F.S.”: A Melbourne artist vouches
for the authenticity of this story from
Paris. A “modernist” painter, several of
whose pictures are in the Victorian
National Gallery, stayed behind when
the Nazis invaded France, imperturbably
painting. The news got around the
boulevards that he was engaged on a
picture entitled “War.” One afternoon
a Gestapo agent called on him in his
studio. “Did you paint that?” he de-
manded, pointing a menacing finger at
the canvas on the easel. “No,” said the,
painter. “You did!”
* * * *
“Avon” surveys the vegetable front:
Maoriland, being an extremely practical
country, isn’t wholly relying on appeals to subur-
ban gardeners to plant spuds and onions. For
one reason why not the Maoriland suburbanite,
to a man, always has tilled a kitchen garden,
and if he isn’t doing it now it is because he
has left home to undertake war duty. There
being no relief likely in that direction, a group
of North Island farmers has started the biggest
vegetable plot in the Dominion —1071 acres of
it. This, appropriately enough, is at Pukekohe,
where Bill Massey grew spuds; and Bill’s son,
J. N. Massey, M.P., was one of the three dele-
gates from the Pukekohe Production Commit-
tee who arranged a contract with the Govern-
ment —the Government agreeing to take all the
produce at market prices.. The Agriculture
Department takes friendly cognisance of the
arrangement, but the Government made it clear
it couldn’t guarantee to release labor. The com-
mittee delegates said that wouldn’t worry them.
They’d get the labor. Quite a good effort and
a good spirit, and it wouldn’t have been pos-
sible had not the Farmers’ Union taught the
men on the land how to organise and co-
operate.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The Marco Polo Hotel in
Melbourne, delicensed for eight years, is
now to be turned over to the wreckers.
In the roaring days of the
windjammer it was the most
cosmopolitan pub in the
southern city, and shipmasters
whose crews had deserted for the
goldfields sometimes got their- re-
inforcements for the homeward
voyage there by the method
known as shanghai-ing. One of
4 those shipmasters, tradition has it,
was a Norwegian who had been
a whaler. One evening in the bar
of the Marco Polo he got into an
altercation with a lawyer, one of
the young bloods of those days,
an expert swordsman and a dead
shot. Stirred by some insult the
sailor slapped the lawyer, who
challenged the mariner to a duel.
The Gent. One went off, confi-
dent of the outcome, to polish his
pistols and sharpen his rapier.
The duel didn’t come off, how-
ever. Like the apothecary in
“Uramao’s” “Maoriland legend”
(B. 5/8/’42), the Norwegian
skipper discovered that, as the
challenged, he had the right to
name the weapons, and he chose
harpoons. Melbourne is not
going to let Maoriland have a
monopoly of such legends!
♦ ♦
“F.S.”: “S.T.S.” (B. 5/8/’42) says that
words like “rag” and “Soccer” came
from the universities. So they did ; but
not from the professors. Melbourne
undergraduates call their Alma Mater
“the Shop,” but watch the expression on
the face of a professor when they use
this inelegant expression. As for scientific
terms and words like bicycle, telephone,
photograph, dynamite, electric, aerial and
so forth—how did “S.T.S.” get it into his
head that the universities produced
them? They came about through some
individual inventing something, and I
never heard yet of a university invent-
ing anything.
* * * *
On a voyager among islands now in
the news:
The name of Bougainville recalls the tine
fellow it was named after, one of the most
famous of the soldiers who fought under
Montcalm. In 1763, when France had to re-
linquish the idea of a French Empire in
America, Bougainville was planning one in
the South Seas. “The French nation,” he
wrote, “is capable of conquering the greatest
difficulties, and nothing is impossible, to her
efforts, as often as she will think herself equal
at least to any nation in the world.” So in
1766 he set out for the South Pacific with two
ships to see what he could find. He annexed
Tahiti—though Captain Wallis had already
claimed it for England—and then the New
Hebrides. Sailing westward, he found him-
self confronted by the outer edge of the Bar-
rier Reef, and was compelled to turn northward.
He came to the southern coast of New Guinea,
not far from where Torres struck it 160 years
before. He tried to get round the eastern point
of the big island, and had the devil’s own job.
But at length he rounded the point—“ Cape
Deliverance/” he called it —and sailed along the
north coast to Batavia, and thence home. How-
ever, it was many years before France had
any sort of an empire in the South Seas.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wester”: You have to take what you
can get these days, so we made the best
of the bloke that came up from the city
to work on the station. He frankly ad-
mitted that he’d never been in the bush
before, but said he was willing to learn.
“Know anything about horses?” asked
the boss. “Well, not about horses them-
selves ; but 1 can saddle one, if that’s
what you mean.” “That's what I mean,”
said the trump, and added that he’d find
a saddle on a peg above a brown horse
in the stable and he could put it on. A
few minutes later we went out, and there
was our new hand with the horse. The
saddle wasn’t only on ; it was fixed with
the most complicated maze of girths and
bellybands you could think of. “Thought
you could put a saddle on?” roared the <
boss. “Ain’t that right?” asked our new
hand. Profanely the boss assured him it
wasn’t. Then that hand brought
out a pocketbook full of clippings from
the Abo. pages of The Bulletin, most
of them headed “Surcingle,” “Propalong”
or “Bad Australian,” looked at the horse,
looked at the clippings and said dis-
gustedly “An’ they told me it was the
Bushman’s Bible!”
“D.R.H.”; Our colt-breaker isn’t the
first, nor will he be the last, to tell me
that “a stallion’s no flamin’ good f’r a
hack.” But I’m not so sure. For hard
work, seven days a week, on grass feed,
give me a gelding, bay for preference.
For a good hack I’d pick a chestnut mare.
But when I want something that will
make a short ride interesting and will be
always ready for that occasional 50-mile
lap, give me a stallion. An entire horse,
male or female, does not stand up to
drudgery as a gelding will. The mare
loses spirit and condition too quickly,
and the buck tends to sulk and brood.
But the same fire that smokes dismally
under continually hard conditions seems
to flare up in a burst of glory when a
sudden call is made. And then the horse
is superior to a mare only in his match-
less strength.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Anybody beat this? Four
of us camped on a Victorian road job
were cribbage addicts, and during four
days of rain we played solidly. My part-
ner and I were one game ahead on the
fourth day when the sun appeared and
we decided on a final run round the board
before resuming toil. We bolted, the
others froze. It was my crib ; we wanted
ten, they were eight short of the turn
for home. First play was ten, king, queen,
giving them the hole for the go. Then I
played a four, next man deliberately kept
it close,with a three for seven, my partner
made it 13 with a six, they paired for 19,
I had the third six for 25 and six holes,
and then down came the fourth six for
14 holes. We got another two from the
end play, and then I’m blowed if the first
take didn’t have a 24 and pipped us on
the post!
♦ * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: Gosh! What a
lad to move along “8.4” (B. 1/7/’42)
must have been in his “greenhide” days!
Well, I have not forgotten how an old-
time station brand grows on a beast
branded as a very small calf — bigger,
not clearer. I don’t know what a “ding-
bat” can read, in or out of a “blackout,”
but I know what I can swallow, and it
falls short of some of “B.4’s” claims. I
am writing this in the Dawson River
cattle country —the land of my birth and
rearing, and called by Lex McLennan
(B. 8/7/’42) “horsemen’s country.” Less
than thirty miles from here is a rough,
almost unimproved holding possessed by
an old chap who had his last mustering
and branding four years ago. It was a
hectic affair and I was at it. The cattle
were virtually all scrubbers then, bulls
nearly as plentiful as cows. What they
must be like now I leave “8.4” as a
cattleman to imagine. But out here we
don’t carry “bottles of blood” round with
us and we certainly don’t race our
coachers about. Arid our scrubbers don’t
fall over one another as his do. The
“bull-tossers” have to throw every beast
they want to tie, but despite “defective
vision” they seem to do the job quite
well.
* * * ♦
“Gumsucker”; Swallowing cherry
stones, is it (B. 8/7/’42)? As a kid
approaching his teens my seasonal job
was to give a hand at cherry-picking to
a Caledonian orchardist. McPhairson
was strong on the fact that “he paid me
tae pick the fruit, no tae eat it.” So
periodically he made a search of the
terrain to see if any freshly uncovered
cherry stones were visible. Being a grow-
ing kid, always hungry, I averaged at
least 200 cherries a day during a three-
weeks’ picking—and swallowed every
"No more parades. You're dismissed!"
"Does that mean I'm sacked. Sergeant?"
stone. And Mrs. McPhairson used to
marvel at my appetite when tea-time
arrived.
* * * *
“Zake”: Not only bird life suffers in
the trail of the rabbit poisoner. A cobber
of mine up in the Hunter Valley. (N.S.W.)
lost 20 colonies of bees; what didn’t
die in the hives were found along the trail
of a poison cart. Rabbits may be a
national pest, but the bloke who tosses
poison about indiscriminately to eradi-
cate ’em is a greater one.
“Aperist”: If “B. A. Ker” (B. 8/7/’42)
still wants to test the theory that it is
possible to remain perfectly still in the
presence of wild creatures and thus
escape notice I invite him to a seat beside
the entrance to the beehive. If the day
be bright and sunny he may sit there
indefinitely, watching the ebb and flow
of the tide of honey-gatherers. But, if
it be clouded and gloomy, with Apis dead
narked because of such conditions, let
him beware. For, though he keep as still
as the Sphinx, presently an irritated sting-
carrier will be up to see what he is doing
there, and if he doesn’t shift quicker he’ll
get the gun. -
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Aru, 70 miles from
Dutch New Guinea, now occupied by
the enemy, is a curiously shaped flatfish
group of sandy islands covered with coco-
nuts and ancient native graveyards.
Among its population of 20,000 were a
few Australians, pearlers, who paid in
blackwater and malaria for the for-
tunes they sometimes made. It was
while he was staying in the Aru Islands
about 1860 that Alfred Russel Wallace
made one of his most brilliant inferences
from observed data. The group is crossed
by numbers of strange natural channels
running generally parallel, and Wallace
could not explain them as having been
scooped out by tides, volcanic action or
any local cause whatever. Studying a
map of New Guinea, he came to the con-
clusion that they were extensions of the
huge rivers of the mainland which, pour-
ing down from the mountains, had once
meandered through a vast area of country
since submerged. If his hypothesis is
correct the Arus were once part of New
Guinea and hence of Australia.
* ♦ « *
“Old Sweat”: Digger initiative! At
the morning-tea roll-up of the Works and
Parks gang, tea was scarce and coffee
not plentiful. “Toss ’em both in to-
gether,” suggested one veteran. The
result was more like real tea than any-
thing I had tasted for years.
* * * *
“Frosty”: Reading Donn Byrne’s The
Power of the Dog, which presents the
rebel Irish view of the Duke of Welling-
ton, a scene slowly came back to
me—l, a youngster of seven or so, and
my uncle, a grizzled old Irishman, sit-
ting on a verandah facing the west and
overlooking Lyttelton (M.L.) harbor on a
summer’s evening. The hills, black-out-
lined against the sunset glow, had the
shape of a gigantic recumbent figure—
nose and chin unmistakably Welling-
tonian, and even, as I recollect it across
a gulf of half a century, suggestions of a
cocked hat and buttons on the cloak. The
likeness must have been noticed by
emigrants on the First Four Ships of
the Canterbury Settlement, and even by
earlier settlers, but I have never seen
mention of it in print. Doubtless there
are hosts of such curiosities of nature
resembling animals and men and other
identifiable forms scattered about Aus-
tralasia, but with the exception of the
Three Sisters in the Blue Mountains —
which certainly don’t look like anybody’s
sisters —they don’t seem to acquire more
than severely localised fame,
* * *
“E.H.S.”: “Gip” (B. 5/8/’42) describes
the N.Q. tiger cat as a “spotted mar-
supial,” That being so, it follows that
it is not a true cat, but a dasyure. Our
largest dasyure (Maculatuk), the spotted-
tailed one, is about the size of a domestic
cat, which is considerably less than that
of a fox. The great difference in size
between the N.Q. animal and Maculatus
and the fact that the latter is not found
north of Central Queensland coastal
areas appear to indicate the existence
of a hitherto undescribed dasyure in the
northern jungles. When I lived in N.Q.
some years ago I listened to many camp-
fire yarns about the immense kangaroo-
killing cats, large carnivora fesembling
the Tasmanian “Tiger,” alleged to infest
the jungle country, but when proof was
demanded the* only explanation offered
by the romancer was that a bloke from
the Atherton or Cooktown or somewhere
had furnished him with the information.
* * * *
“Betcha”: If “B. A. Ker” (B. 29/7/’42)
understood sheep, he’d know that those
woollies ate charcoal and rubbish because
they weren’t being fed right. Sheep no
more enjoy such things than a man en-
joys the vile concoctions he swallows in
an endeavor to cure some complaint. In
certain localities, even with plenty of
natural grasses, sheep need a lick to
supply certain properties deficient in the
leed, and if the lick is not forthcoming
the so-called depraved taste of the flock
merely signifies that the animals are striv-
ing to satisfy their dietetic needs. Actu-
ally, sheep are most particular feeders,
rejecting grass that is too long or pas-
tures fouled by a mob. And, in their
determination to eat wisely, the jumbucks’
feed sense ranges from a nice discrimina-
tion to pure cussedness. In drought-time
they often need patient teaching before
they will eat a variation such as grain,
nuts or even hay ; and I’ve seen one die
of starvation because it could not be in-
duced to eat something to which it was
unaccustomed. Yet, despite their fas-
tidiousness, sheep, damn ’em, must get
more complaints than any other animal
on earth!
* * * ♦
“Jesmond”: Came across an unusual
school today, dad and mum teaching
three youngsters how to vary their diet.
The school was operating on the northern
beach at Phillip Island (Vic,). The young-
sters were nervous of the water and the
old ones had a job to keep them quiet,
but eventually the old man pounced on
a fish and they all came trooping ashore
through the shallow water and disap-
peared into the scrub. They were foxes,
probably tired of rabbit now the mutton-
bird season is over and anxious for a
little variety in their menu.
* * * *
“J. Rilston”: What is mallee (B.
8/7/’42), anyway? Is it a peculiar species
of eucalypt or merely any thicket of
stunted gum? If the latter, W.A. can
show a few square miles of it out east
of North am and York, on the road to
Coolgardie. Travelling by train one
passes through a couple of hundred miles
of it. A small dark gum, not much more
than five feet tall, stem the thickness of
a man’s wrist. With eye-wearying same-
ness it fills wide valley after valley, climbs
to the top of each long ridge with the
suffering locomotive, and is there waiting
on the other side. Waterless country,
hard and hungry, the only game the
scarce kangaroo rat. Yet one realises
that only a few years ago tough Gropers
and a few others travelled through it
with no other transport than Swan River
brumbies. When the rush to the gold-
fields started hundreds of the greenest
newchums stumbled along the few tracks
through it. There are hundreds of thou-
sands of acres of it still no-man’s-land,
and always will be.
» ♦ ♦ m
“B. A. Ker”: The contrasting wing-
action employed by various species of
birds makes a fascinating study. Peewees
flog their way through the air with a
choppy full-winged stroke that is ren-
dered even more clumsy-looking by the
uneven tips of the wing feathers. Cranes,
• neck outstretched and legs turned back
in a continued line, wing along with a
slow, effortless “elbow” action. Most
sea-birds use the same wing technique.
Starlings and sparrows fly in series of
bursts, wings fanning with great rapidity
perhaps a dozen times, then folding to
the sides for a second, thus making a
wavering plane of flight. The swallow in
flight is a feathered poem, his gracefully
curved wings ever ready to veer, .bank
or glide in full advantage of wind cur-
rents. The hawk is almost as graceful
as, with his square-ended wings motion-
less, he drifts across the sky for hours or
hovers over potential prey, moving only
the very tips of his wings—almost like
fingers. But despite his undoubted speed
and aerobatics, I once saw an eaglehawk
get the father of a hiding from a clumsy-
looking, full-wing-actioned crow.
* * * *
“Billo”; Of all creatures of the air,
field and water I hold the common barn-
yard rooster the most chivalrous. Have
a magnificent chanticleer who lords it
over a harem of 20 hens. Tossed him a
thick slice of stale bread. Did he rush
with it into a corner and wolf it after
the manner of the average genus homo ?
With a fine delicacy he pecked out half
a dozen pieces and laid them in a row,
clucking to his favorites to come and
share the feast. Then he had a piece
himself. Ever the perfect gentleman.
* * * ♦
“Doubting T.”: Having been much
exposed to tough steak, I always
admired those Eskimo ladies who reput-
edly masticated various skins as a
preliminary to fabricating a husband’s
or a father’s clothing. But now I learn,
from our own Herbert Wilkins, that the
yarn is a myth. Says Herb: Eskimo
women hold skins in their teeth while
stretching them, and to the casual ob-
server it appears that they are chewing
the skins.” He also reports that since
the introduction of the radio into the
igloo the same ladies have taken to
high-heeled shoes and rayon hose for
summer wear.
AWAKENING.
1 used to take so much, so much for granted.
The things that hold such poignant meaning
now —
Roofs in the moonlight gleaming like lagoons;
The sudden aching beauty of a bough
Nimbused with light, sun-splashing yellow wine
Into grey chalices of hollowed rocks;
Buoy-bells of sorrel rushing in curled tides
Of icy dew; white rime of frost on shocks
Of cocksfoot grass. I loved all this in dreams;
But now I am awake I love it more.
So much I loved in sleeping, little stones
Shining with rain across the slippery floor
Of paddock slopes, where Java-sparrows flew
Like things of faery, and old thistles drew
Grey swords to prick the fingers of the wind
Groping at dawn through silken deeps of dew.
Lost mists as white as milk of dandelions
Drifting like shorn sheep under eucalypt
And drowsy gum; a robin in the dusk
Red as a rose dropped in some shadowy crypt—
All this I loved in sleeping! Now I wake
To solemn stern reveille of our guns
That shout defiance ’neath the Southern Cross;
That roar derision under southern suns;
I wake, and with the poet’s old despair
Weep that I cannot hold all Beauty fast
From hands that rape and feet that crush, and
eyes
That desecrate. Ah! now at last, at last,
I am awake and look or. loveliness
With rapture, and stark terror in my heart.
The furrows lap my feet with cool brown tides,
“This is your land!’’ they croon. The ground-
larks start
From secret coverts climbing heaven high—
“ Achieve, achieve, this is your land!” they cry.
“We cannot fail!” I whisper, and the words
Burn with the sunrise in the eastern sky!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Arev”: Jim Harrison was coming
up from the paddock when he saw the
swagman moving off from the kitchen
door, carrying on his billy-lid a steaming
meat pie. He moved faster when he saw
Jim, and within a few seconds was climb-
ing through the slipraiis. Said Jim,
“What are y’ thinking of, giving that
loafer food? Here I can't get a man for
„ . o , ,
love or money and you feed a lazy cow
a work. Oh. Mrs. Harrison
replied, the poor fellow s got a weak
heart and I didn’t like to refuse him a
bit of food Anyway, he did me a good
l“ rn ;, 1 , be f n a£ S ,°. me bo “if S
n, °mato sauce I m making. He
brought me eleven beer bottlesi he d
° u " d 'P | he scrub and I gave him a
J UI £u J .? no S c !? 1 = d h‘ s mouth to speak,
thought better of it and closed his mouth.
That beer he had bought on his birth-
ay and hidden in the scrub until he
™“' d “V h fu” P leS ,of k m the ho,el ;
keeper. And the twelfth bottle was not
empty. It was when Jim examined it.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Back in the early nine-
teen-twenties our little pub got one ot
the then new radio loudspeakers. Three
weeks later old Frank blew in from
behind Pnmgle. He couldn’t read and
he was a bit deaf. He was cuddling a
pot when there was a deep crackling and
a burry voice started speaking. Frank,
obviously puzzled, looked round the bar.
The publican grinned to himself and
waited. Then Frank traced the noise to
the trumpet, went over and examined it
and demanded to know what sort of a
gramophone it was. The publican ex-
plained about radio. Old Frank heard
him out, then said he’d go over to the
post-office and see the bloke doing the
talking. The publican explained that
the voice was in Melbourne. “Whatcha
givin’ us?*’ demanded Frank. “It’s din-
kum,” said the publican, “Gam,” came
back Frank ; “I can understand a voice
carryin’ over water on a still night or
over a claypan in a frost, but there ain’t
no bloke with a big enough voice to yell
out in Melbin, three hundred miles away,
an’ be heard here. An’ don’t try t’ tell
me it’s magnified. Y’re puttin’ somethin’
over me just because y’ think I’m a bush-
whacker.” And with a superb air o <:
injured intelligence he swept a suspicious
glance round the bar and departed. Later,
having had the mystery further explained
b y the storekeeper and others, he re-
rne<? a mollified and said, Look.
Y might be right, but tell me this. If
they can talk like that without wires,
what the hell did the Guv’ment want t’
go wastin’ all that money and wire
stringin’ up telegraft lines about the
country for? Tell me that!”
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: When dingoes howled
°fl e I winte , r ’ s ni S h j our mongrel bitch re-
phed. They got her and dragged her.
howling every foot of the way, into the
bush. We knew they wouldn’t kill her,
but that they would keep her in custody.
Dingoes don’t all sleep at once ; a couple
are always awake and watching. But
on the second afternoon after her abduc-
tion Ginger limped up to the house. It
was plain by the total absence of hair
on her belly that she had lain down
stiffly and forced the dingoes to drag her.
The rest of the day she spent in looking
for a safe sleeping place. She chose the
chaff “P en ” section of the stable and
J>° wled ou * sid ? ( lh | door “P"' we 8f e
her access to it. Every night thereafter,
until old age settled he y r _ s | e caraped in
|| lC s j ab | e and she never answered an-
other d i ng0 ’ s howl,
* * * *
.. Loo „. outlooks differ even on the
smallest subjects. In the dentist’s waiting-
room al Junctionville Sam Williams sat
an d waited for his wife, who was in the
Near b sat Mrs Palmer with
her growing dau y ght er. “Got f have
her teeth fixed ,” she said> a£ter the usual
sub j ecds c f stock, crops and the weather
bad been exhausted. “Mind y’, Jessie’s
teeth aren’t that bad," said Mrs. Palmer,
.. but have k a giri ’ s teeth good
ti II she snares a bloke and gets married.
After that, of cpurse, it don’t matter.”
Sam thought this over for a minute,
then, with pessimistic prophecy, he ! con-
fessed, “Well, I’m keepin’ me wife’s teeth
good because she might have to live on
corn beef and dog biscuits soon, and I
don’t want her teeth snappin’ off and
needin’ attention right in the middle of
a b a d season.”
* * * *
“Plane Creek”: When we exposed the
top of a buried “pudding stone” (round
basalt rock) we dug around it and tried
to blast its upper part away with dyna-
mite on three occasions. Results were so
poor that we gave up and decided to leave
that part of the canefield alone. One
hundred yards away from it, up a near-
by hillside, a surface “pudding stone”
which must have weighed close to 50
tons was being constricted by the thick
surface roots of a wild fig. Every day
saw the rock further cracked (the job
must have been going on for months),
and within a month it was broken into
five big pieces,
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Me and the big fellow
got half a year’s contract work in the
Victorian Mallee knocking down scrub
and fencing, and we put it on a store-
The trawler's skipper gets married.
“The wife's crook , Admiral , an has asked me to take her Watch."
keeper for credit for gear and tucker. He
did it—by taking over the contracts him-
self and then subletting them to us. After
cutting them out, we got more in the
district, and the upshot was that at the
end of 12 months we’d amassed a fair
amount of outstanding money and a big
store bill. On settling day it took us
and the storekeeper over two hours to
sort everything out, whereupon all three
adjourned for refreshment. Mat, pleased
with our balance and the visions of a
good time ahead, smacked the store-
keeper on the back and said “You’ll do
me, boy. Now you pick out the best
hat in y’r shop an’ take it as —as a —well,
just as a little somethin’, see?” The store-
keeper made gratified noises ; we downed
a couple more and went back to the store.
“Look,” said his nibs, “you blokes keep
t’gether, don’J y’? Well, y’ve bin straight
with me an’ I’m not forgettin’ it.” He
reached under the counter and brought
out a rolled document. “Here’s some-
thin’ f’r you that y’ll find mighty handy,
an’ if y’ look after it it’ll do y’ a year.”
Mat took the roll and we went off, a bit
puzzled as to what it could be. It was
a jsicture of snow and holly; it carried
the store’s name and a tear-off calendar.
* .I! * *
“Narrin”: I’ve never heard any doubts
expressed about a snake’s willingness to
bite while swimming (B. 22/7/’42), but a
lot of Murray-bankers reckon a tiger
isn’t dangerous if he does ,nip while in
the water. And, though I wouldn’t care
to try it, there is probably some truth in
the belief. The tiger snake’s teeth are
not hollow like those of the death-adder,
and when the venom flows down the out-
side of the fangs much of it is likely to
be dissolved in water or to be weakened
by the film of water on a bather’s wet
skin.
*** * .
“Bo”: Ted Burrows and his wife Em
were ideally suited. Both were happy-go-
lucky, and their 300-acre block was run
on haphazard lines. From early care-
lessness they had drifted to not-so-particu-
lar, and if the place was upside down for
a day or two while Mrs. B. did some
sewing, or if Ted husked corn in the
kitchen and Mrs. B. had to step over
cornsacks and dogs, it mattered not to
either. Even things for the table were
sometimes very lax, and Long Bill, the
new hand, who was a bit fussy, took it
to heart. So much so that he “chatted”
Ted about it one day. “Gripes, I’m not
that fussy, Mr. Burrows,” he said one
day after dinner, “but the dinner plate
was all greasy even before the scran was
put on it. That’s a bit over the odds!”
Ted lit his pipe, flicked the match on to
the verandah and looked with easy eyes
at the long bloke. “Well, Bill,” he
drawled, “it’s like this. It ain’t so far
from the coast from here as the crow
flies, and when a strong easterly’s blow-
in’ a certain amount o’ salt air comes in,
an’ that rusts things. We keep the plates
greased so that they won’t get rusty,'
see?” Long Bill looked at the unsmiling
face and started to talk about the chances
of the moths getting into the spud crop
again.
* * *
“Nor’-west”: Re that par by “L.J.S.”
(B. 1/7/’42) about the new hand demand-
ing pay for the job when the day was but
half completed—such tactics at one
period of Australia’s history were sound
policy. Right up towards the head of
the great Gulf, where Turnoff Lagoons
and the Nicholson River mark the old
cattle route from N.Q. into the N.T., one
finds Settlement Creek. Situated right on
the border, this streamlet got its name
from the fact that the wise drover refused
to proceed further without receiving his
cheque for past services. For those were
the bad old days of sovereign colonies,
when a debt contracted in Queensland
couldn’t be sued for in South Oss. Once
the unscrupulous boss-drover got his
minions a few yards across the dividing
line they might whistle for their back
pay—unless, as sometimes happened, they
were capable of “taking it out of his
hide.”
* * * *
“Scuta”; Bush life makes men touchy.
Old Gabe the German and Cockney Joe
had been mates for years. Netting in
winter and cross-lining or spinning the
rest of the time they knocked out a
reasonable living on a fifty-fifty basis.
But between the two, like the tongue of
a snake;, flickered an animosity a trifle
might easily arouse. That they had never
had an open breach was due to the safety-
valve effect of the fortnightly “bender”
they enjoyed together when they railed
their catch from the nearest town.
Camped with them on the Edwards, I
got a hint of this smouldering antipathy.
The river was low even for summer and
the fish were taking the spoon well; you
could see them following the lure as you
drew it diagonally across the stream from
bank to bank. But from being bright
and sunny the weather came over dull,
and I could do no good at all with the
spoon, yet I could see Gabe pulling them
out as fast as ever. Cockney Joe was
doing no good. Intrigued and annoyed.
I dropped my bamboo and went over and
asked Gabe whaffor. In a voice raised
little above a whisper he let me into the
know. “Now I tell you somedings,” he
said. “Yen der veather vas brighdt keep
der spoon-baidt shallow ; ven it vas dull
let her go deep. You will get snackd
sometimes but you vill also gedt der fish.
bud don’dt tell Joe!”
« * * »
“Domino”: The boss’s dog nearly
drove us mad during the shearing. We
would work a mob of sheep up to the
gate of the yards when the tyke would
run right around the front of them and the
job would have to be done all over again.
The boys went into committee and decided
that it must be brought home to its
fatuous master what a canine disaster he
was wasting good meat on. Next evening,
after the usual mucking round, we got
the sheep into the outer yard and were
filling some of the smaller yards. Bill,
who had provided himself with a stick
with a lump of turps-saturated rag tied
at the end, took up a position at the
rear of the boss and the mong. While
I engaged the attention of the boss, Bill
skilfully jabbed the turps under the
dog’s tail. With a howl of pained sur-
prise the boss’s pet took a flying leap
into the packed mob of sheep and started
rubbing his rump on their backs. The
eyes of the boss nearly started out of his
head. “Come out of that, you adjectival
so-and-so! ” he roared. But the tyke, heed-
less of admonition, started a yelping gallop
round and round the shed. “The blanky
dog’s mad. Get the gun!” shouted the
boss as he started after him at a lumber-
ing run. Bill needed no second order ;
but before he was halfway to the hut
the mong was over the fence and imitat-
ing a greyhound on its way to a distant
horizon, which it is still pursuing. The
boss still fefers occasionally to the queer
aberrations that attack dogs at times. .
THE HILL OF JESUS.
Brown men clamped their bayonets down
Hard on the bayonet boss. Grinned. Or with a
frown
Moved to the assault. Pressed through the
barrage hell,
Cold-faced. Ignored the clamorous knell
Of the tolling shells. And coughing tanks
Carved like a nightmare cortege through their
ranks.
But on the barren ridge they wrought their will,
And paid a bitter price on that red hill
Of Tel el Eisa—Hill of Jesus.
There was a time when one man died
On a cross of wood. And heaven sighed.
Now, angels weep at this later loss,
For the torn men, jagged on an iron cross
At Tel el Eisa —Hill of Jesus.
A.I.F.
JOHN QUINN.


ft
cr.jsap'*
PSOOf
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
■ -s**** V *
mr
-
TV, SIX
*
**
•W
v ■ *4
■ ..... • &
: ~t£ w . in "' N ' r
i ■ r
M’.wniMlMP.lll. Jl
3
Suiouaj
SJ.HOVSAI
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Flies and Management.
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“E. de L.”: When the research branch
of the McMaster Institute informs me
that it is useless to set traps for blow-
flies I believe it. It seems that in a
blowfly Blitz the shock troops are the
small metallic-green flies, which are
attracted only by live bait; also that no
other blowfly will touch live sheep until
the green fly has struck, hence the burn-
ing of offal and carcasses is no protection.
There was a time when 1 lost as many
as 25 p.c. of my sheep through fly-strike.
1 ran ewes, heavy cutters with breech-
folds, and I tried breeding on country
considered fit only for cattle prior to
1914. Grass seed in the flanks of sheep
cause them to bite at the injury, and
flies blow the wet place. McMaster, of
Dalkeith, and J. Ashton both advise light
stocking for good management. That is
true of the class of land they hold, but it
has yielded bad results on returncd-
soldier country for the following reasons:
Feed gets away from sheep in spring
and they concentrate on small areas which
they crop short. More than half the feed
runs to seed because of light stocking.
Corkscrew, needle grass, barley grass,
speargrass and wire grasses prepare all
young sheep for fly or kill them outright.
Old sheep avoid the high feed until seed
falls in late autumn. I get better results
with four- to five-year-old wethers and
heavy stocking. Preparation for the
winter is made by selling some sheep,
renting more country or buying feed,
with lopping later. I can keep my losses
below 5 p.c. in this way, running wethers.
The best practice is to buy or breed
•only plain-bodied sheep. To maintain
a high standard of health is most im-
portant. I find that tons of salt per
1000 p.a., well mixed with Stockholm tar,
is taken by sheep. This year I have kept
them free from purging and from the
nose fly, and I attribute this to the tar
and salt. They always have rock salt
as well.
Dark Fibres in Wool.
“Graz”: Growers jealous of the repu-
tation of their clips should keep out pig-
mented fibres. It is not enough to cast
out obvious dark patches, for wool with
the slightest trace of colored fibres can
be used only for making dark-shaded
fabrics. Clips showing dark fibres are
marked down by buyers.
Pigmented fibres are not all easily
observed, even at shearing time, and
classers should be careful not to spoil
top lines with them. A C.S.I.R, exami-
nation shows that the occurrence of pig-
mented spots on ewes increases as the
sheep get older.
No. P.c. with
Age. Ewes. Dark Spots.
1-2 years .. .. 416 1.2
3-4 „ .. .. 342 3.5
6-7 „ .. .. 216 15.7
Over 8 years ., 119 30.1
The result supplies another objection
to keeping old sheep. Some merino
strains throw too many piebalds. The
character of pigmentation is recessive
and can be bred out by using purebred
sires. Breeders finding too many dark
fibres in their clips should look for a
better strain of rams.
Storing Potatoes.
“Tuber McMurph.”: The Government
is crying out for potatoes, and there seems
little need to store ’em. Still, if it has
to be done with spuds intended for
human consumption the best way is in
the pit, which isn’t a pit but a heap of
the vegetables stored above ground.
Pick a site that is well drained and
as sheltered as possible. Make the pit
6ft. to Bft. wide and as long as you need ;
mark it out with two plough furrows
about 9in. deep and build the soil from
each furrow so as to form a low wall
round the pit space.
Starting from the bottom, build up the
heap of potatoes with the starting end
and the sides at an angle of about 45deg.
The finishing end will need the same
angle. As the heap progresses you can
thatch the parts already filled. Wheat or
rye straw or weeds are better than oaten
or barley straw because they give better
ventilation. The thatch needs to be no
thicker than will prevent sunlight getting
at the top layers of potatoes, and at an
angle of 45deg. the thatch will shed rain.
Make it firm against storm and wind with
"I'll show y' you're not the only one that can use his hoofs!"
a light covering of dirt or with rails or
sawn timber. If soil is used, keep it
below 9in. from the top of the thatch.
The potatoes must be dry before pit-
ting. If the weather is against getting
them dry from the paddock, you can cut
down danger from excess moisture by
standing drainpipes up every 4ft. or so,
with their tips 6in. above the top of
the ridge. The pipes will carry off the
excess damp. Properly stored, potatoes
will keep for weeks. This method suits
high, cool districts better.
Tobacco Seedlings.
“H.C.”: Make the soil into a fine tilth,
working fertiliser into the top three or
four inches; lib. to the square yard is
enough. Potato manure “E” or standard
tobacco fertiliser both contain all the
nitrogen, phosphoric acid and potash
needed.
One ounce of good seed sows a bed
100 yards square. Seed is small, so mix
it with sifted wood ashes, finely-sifted
sand or fertiliser. If with fertiliser, sow
at once or the will be injured. After
sowing, compact the soil with a light
roller or a piece of board. Follow this
with a light watering. Water regularly.
If a seedbed dries out before germina-
tion there will be trouble. In cold
weather speed up germination by making
the daily water slightly warm. Once the
seed sprouts, open the covers oh fine
days, but keep them closed at night and
on wet days.
Thin out later to one plant per square
inch.
An overcrowded seedbed is a good
mark for fungoid diseases. A likely one
is “damping off” —a rot in the stem near
the soil surface. To get it under control
use two parts of powdered bluestone and
two parts of fresh powdered rock
ammonia, measured by weight. Place this
mixture in a tightly-stoppered jar for 24
hours. A solution of one ounce of the
mixture in two gallons of water should
be given the plants twice a week till
they’re a month old. Use a copper or
pitch-lined vessel. As well as acting as
a fungicide, ammonia content of the
mixture speeds up growth.
The seedbed with the best chance of
success carries about 700 plants per
square yard. Number of seedlings re-
quired per acre varies from 5000 to 7000
according to spacing. That means that
10 square yards of seedbed supplies
enough seedlings to plant one acre, but
leaves no margin for any insect or disease
damage. Allowing 12 square yards of
seedbed an acre is safer.
Dog Ticks.
“Hux”: On N.S.W. coastal areas, if
the season is showery, ticks are bound to
arrive from August to November. Lan-
tana bushes are a favorite breeding ,
ground of the tick because bandicoots and
other tick-infested fauna shelter in the
shrubbery.
Feel the dog over every day. Run the
fingers right through the fur to the skin
and go over the whole body. Make
doubly sure around the head and neck,
inside the ears and lips and between the
toes. In addition, wipe the dog’s fur
each morning with a cloth slightly
damped with kerosene. This acts as a
deterrent to ticks trying to crawl into the
fur and often forces those that are dig-
ging in to loose their hold. Sixty hours
with a female tick clinging to him may
settle the dog.
For the next four months give the
dog’s health close attention. A course
of good dog powders helps. Worm him
if you think he needs it. Feed raw meat
at least every second day and good
cooked meat in between. A dog in good
condition stands a far better chance of
beating the tick.
Turnips.
“PC.”: Turnips and kohlrabi can be
sown now. Both do best in a light, rich
loam, preferably manured for a previous
crop. Heavy soil should be broken down
with decayed manure; sandy soils will
need strengthening with potash. Super-
phosphate is good, or “blood and bone”
well mixed into the ground before plant-
ing.
Sow in drills 12in. to 18in. apart if
cultivation is to be done by hand, but
allow 3ft, if a horse is used. Thin out to
9in. or 12in. between plants for swede
turnips and kohlrabi, 6in. for white
turnips. Surplus seedlings will transplant
successfully if the leaves are trimmed off
short, or they can be sold in bundles of
25 or 50 seedlings. Purple kohlrabi is
better than green, and good sorts of
turnips are champion Purple Top and
Elephant in the swedes, and White Stone
and Early Milan in the whites.
They must grow rapidly. Keep the
ground between the rows well chipped or
scuffled to conserve moisture and check
weed growth. If insects are about, spray
regularly during the growing period with
arsenate of lead, 11b. in 40gal. of water,
or dust with arsenate of lead when the
leaves are wet with dew in the morning.
Kohlrabi is ready for use when the
tuber is as big as a large orange. The
flavor of turnips is improved by a frost.
Poultry-pen Cleanliness.
“Langshan”: Get ready for
spring laying with pest-free
nests. Fibro-cement sheets
have no cracks for lice to
shelter in. One piece 4ft. x
Ift. for the back, one 4ft. x 6in.
for the front, and five pieces
Ift. x Ift. for partitions will
make four nests. Fasten them
together with angle-iron and
small screw-bolts; they are
quickly removed and make
demolition easy during disin-
fecting.
For nesting material I like
coarse shell-grit, with chaff,
pine needles or camphor leaves
mixed through it. Sterilise this
(one section at a time) once a
month with boiling water and
there’ll be a minimum of
trouble with vermin.
Gather droppings every day,
and provide a scratching pen
in which there is a plentiful
supply of ashes and soft earth.
Wash all drinking vessels every
day, and refill with clean
water. The breeder who
watches cleanliness gets best
results. ' .
Hints for the Farm.
“R. Ney”: In spring and summer the
sheep that suddenly gallops madly in a
circle, shoves its face into the ground or
into the fleece of a mate isn’t merely
being skittish; it’s trying to dodge a
plump grey fly which lays its eggs in the
jumbuck’s nostrils. From there the mag-
gots get into the passages between nose,
eyes and mouth. They hang on to the
lining of the nostrils, causing a secretion
of pus-charged mucus, on which they
feed, and the sheep appears “snotty-
nosed,” as if suffering from a cold. About
the only way to keep the fly off is to
keep on dabbing a bit of Stockholm tar
on the sheep’s nostrils for the period
from, say, October to January,
“Cobar”; Size and hardness of Noo-
goora burr make it one of the worst wool
pests. It often damages machines, and
some millmen won’t buy clips carrying
Noogoora. It has been found that 113
Noogoora burrs weigh loz., compared
with 638 Bathurst burrs, 725 trefoil burrs
and 1985 small trefoil burrs.
“Plane Creek”: Spuds like deeply-
ploughed land enriched with potash,


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
AJLSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HEN TY, HAY, MO REE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM
PROVIDES THE SAFETY AND COMFORT OF A
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
NO SMELL, NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 2000 in use.
Health Comfort Economy.
_____________ Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
£l7/17/6 f.o.b. Sydney, including 10% Sales Tax, plus
20/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
30 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency and
mechanism.
It is not just a
modified closet
pan.
It displaces pans
and saves sanitary
rates.
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
ANY HANDY-
MAN CAN IN-
STAL IT.
“SERVANT
PROBLEM”
ended...
'
im
~<D
ni (jig)
K
r
r-
■
p
x:
ii#>ii
AlUil
with an
Staff problems solve themselves when
cooking equipment is modern, in-
stantly available, easily cleaned and
designed for cool operation with a
minimum of attention.
These ideal service conditions are in-
herent in the AGA Cooker, which
operates on the scientific, efficient heat-
storage principle, burning continu-
ously ; cooking fast or slow as you
wish; heavily insulated; and finished
with a sparkling, easily-cleaned,
vitreous-enamelled surface.
You yourself will find the AGA a de-
light to use . . . delicious meals just
cook themselves.
Fuel cost? . . . here is another tre-
mendous AGA advantage! Fuel bills
are almost incredibly low. Take the
JfnOnand.HeatSiiKge.
COOKER
a»i in » «ir«i»
AGA .Model S.C., for instance, for
city and country homes. It is
guaranteed not to consume more than
£4/7/0 worth of fuel in a whole
year, with coke at 35/- a ton in the
city. (Freight increases price of fuel
in country, but annual consumption is
so low that amazing economy is pos-
sible anyw'here in Australia.) The
AGA Cooker is made in Great Britain.
Over 40,000 are in use in the British
Empire.
AGA Cookers are guaranteed against
faulty material and workmanship for
a period of ten (10) years.
It would be a pleasure to show you
an AGA Cooker, or, if you cannot call,
to send you illustrated AGA Catalogue
B 8 on request.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Inc. in N.Z.) Established 1852.
43 King Street, Sydney.
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
And at Wellington, N.Z.
South Australian Agents ;
Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Western Australian Agents :
Malloch Bros., Ltd v Perth.
Queensland Agents :
Queensland Primary Producers Co-opera-
tive Assoc., Ltd., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents :
A. G. Webster & Sons, Hobart,
m>
..+ ...; '--..
<gSfe
SB
M
**s3»
m:
B
&
:■: > ,
-4V
r
>
W|if< vjr pu- 7 .vw/ '
More and more people are smoking
made specially to prevent sore throats
CRAVE NA
I every day
"quality always tells!
10 for ll d - 20 for 110
3014
phosphoric acid and nitrogen. Land upon
which timber has been felled and burned
is ideal. Old horse paddocks usually pro-
duce heavy crops because of the horse
dung in the ground. If the seed is halved
dust lime on the cuts to prevent rotting.
Rows should be 3ft. apart; spuds 18in.
apart. Keep the ground well cultivated
and draw soil up to the plants as they
grow.
“Mullengah”: Best way to kill young
grass-trees is to stick a crowbar into the
tree and pour a couple of eggcupfuls of
power kerosene into the hole. It beats
arsenic.
“R.N.”: If 251 b. more were added to
each wool bale the saving to the Com-
monwealth in an average year would be
about 200,000 woolpacks, 3200 16-ton
railway trucks, 8000 lorry trips at least,
100,000 double dumps at 6s. 6d. each,
eight storage sheds of double-dumped
wool and 12 shiploads. Other economies
would include much less handling in
woolstores and savings in appraisement,
clerical work, paper and so forth.
“Sarina”; Some 30 years ago J.
Morgan brought some cuttings of Mada-
gascar rubber vine ( Cryptostegia ) from
Toowoomba to Mackay (C.Q.). A vigor-
ous creeper resulted and a cutting was
planted in the local park. From this vine
Bell, the park curator, produced a sample
of rubber that compares well with Para
rubber, and he demonstrated that the
vine is a prolific yielder of latex. The
vine should not be hard to propagate,
because it will grow from cuttings and
from seeds. The Queensland Department
of Agriculture is studying the vine.
Outback Occasions.
No. 49.
THE BIRTHDAY PRESENT.
My fourteenth birthday occurred on
a Saturday, so you can bet I looked for-
ward with some anticipation to our weekly
trip to town. I had taken care to re-
mind the family of the important anni-
versary, and though they pretended not
to regard my hints with any concern I
felt certain it was to be a big day.
When we were getting ready for town
I couldn’t find my Sunday boots. We
looked everywhere. Our brother went
all over the house and I went all under it,
but not a hair or a hide of the boots
could be found. Mother didn’t seem
very put out about it, which was strange,
and suggested I could wear my old
sneakers. I wasn’t going to be seen in
town in them and said so, adding that
I’d wear my working boots. Father then
developed one of his unreasonable moods.
Nobody, he said, was goin’ t’ wear
workin’ boots in his car after he’d cleaned
it out.
After a lot of argument and more
searching it was generally agreed that one
of the pups must have got away with the
boots and that they were around the
stables or somewhere and that time was
getting on and it was no good looking
for them until tomorrow. Which left me
with three alternatives: Wear the
sneakers ; go barefoot; stop at home. I
wore the sneakers.
“A nice thing t’ happen t’ a man on
his fourteenth birthday,” I snorted.
“Havin’ t’ go t’ town in busted ol’
sneakers.”
“Never you mind, pet,” said Mother,
putting her arm round me. “Think of
the old proverb about the man who
growled because he had no boots and
then met a man without feet.”
“What’s that got to do with it?” I
demanded, but she only smiled and away
we went.
Of course, as soon as we got to town
and Mother hustled me into the boot de-
partment of the store I woke up. “I want
a nice pair of boots for my boy,” she
said to the bloke. “It’s his birthday.”
The bloke got very enthusiastic. He
shook my hand and giggled and bustled
about and told Mother about his own
boys and how things had changed and
how was Father and did she like square
or round toes.
I took off the sneakers and Mother
told him they could be thrown away. He
took them gingerly and firmly dropped
them out of sight behind the counter.
Then he started putting on and taking
off boots, using my feet for the purpose
and talking away to Mother all the time.
In the end they picked a pair between
them, he laced them on my feet, Mother
paid and informed me that 1 could now
join our brother.
I’d had no more say in the choice of
those boots than the boots themselves.
As I walked out, with the polished soles
slipping on the floor, I seemed to be all
feet. I found our brother, and we went
round the town looking at the shops and
meeting fellows we knew.
About half an hour later a couple of
red-hot coals got into those boots and
started to burn my soles. Then some in-
visible hand got a grip with a pair of
invisible pincers on my right little toe and
started to pull it off. Before an hour was
up I was limping like a staked horse.
“Cripes,” I said to our brother, “me
feet are giving me what for.”
“It’s the new boots,” he said cheer-
fully. “New boots always do that. Y’
have t’ break ’em in.”
“But I can’t walk now. I’ll never
break them in.”
“Listen, they’re a birthday present,
aren’t they? From Mother. You’ll have
t’ wear ’em!”
I moaned and sat on the kerb and
wriggled my feet and suffered. Our
brother hated public demonstrations. He
didn’t want, to be seen with a crying
brother, so he said it would help if we
went behind the hotel and I stuck my
feet in the horse-trough.
I left the boots on while I soaked my
feet. It was heavenly. Then I squelched
about the yard, squirting water out of
the lace holes. It was dusty and the dust
caked on the wet boots till it looked as
though I’d walked 100 miles. My feet felt
better and I wiped off the dust and we
went back to the street.
After a bit the boots dried and the
agony started all over again. Our brother
had had enough, and he went away and
left me. I sat down in a doorway and
watched the people going past, and even
the knowledge that the rest of the family
was buying me presents didn’t cheer me
up. It couldn’t while I had those boots
on.
After a bit a stray dog came and sat
with me. People going past looked at
me in a funny way, but I didn’t care
because my feet felt better. Then I got
an idea. I hobbled back to that store
and waited my chance and slipped
behind the counter, and there were my
good old sneakers lying on the floor. I
whipped the boots off and the sneakers
on, and then the man came behind the
counter and yelled at me. I grabbed the
boots and bolted out the other end of
the counter through the store. The man
yelled again, and I looked back and saw
him and some of the other store hands
racing after me.
So I put my head down and fairly flew,
having the sneakers on. The same stray
dog came from somewhere and flew
beside me, howling encouragement.
Behind us a Small crowd also flew, and
other people stopped and stared. I beat
them to our car, dived in the back,
grabbed the mong and held him down
and lay there while the chase careered
past. And there I stayed till it was time
to go home.
When Father came he was full of a
story about a youth who’d stolen a pair
of boots from the store and bolted with
half the town after him. They reckoned
he was hiding somewhere in the lignum
swamp. “Poor little beggar,” said Father.
“If a man only knew, he could have
bought him a pair of boots.”
1 didn’t say anything, being anxious to be
ignored and to keep my feet out of sight.


SW
CM*
a*
itv*
s*
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
favourite
cigarette
How to make
Gillette Blades
last longer..
down a bit with your shaving. Spend
more time in lathering —use plenty of
water. Then see how much longer
your Gillette Blades last. And here’s
a further tip. Dry your Gillette Blades
carefully after use and handle them
only at the ends and don’t touch the
cutting edges.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
mean* safety, waste means disaster Buy Savings Bonds or
BLADES
AND SAVE STEEL
.. double the time
of the lather ..
A well softened beard is the
1 complete answer to men who
want to make their Gillette
Blades last longer. Slow
Our Service Department
Information Sought.
(1) Extent of Allied shipping losses in the
Coral Sea and Midway Island naval engage-
meats? (2) Japanese losses in the same cn-
gagements? (3) Outstanding features of the en-
gagements ?
(1) No exact official list has been issued, as
such information might assist the enemy. (2)
U.S. Naval Department gives the Japanese
losses in the Coral Sea engagement: Sunk, 15
ships, including one new aircraft-carrier, three
new cruisers, one light cruiser, two destroyers;
damaged, two other warships and 20 ships, in-
eluding one aircraft-carrier, three cruisers, two
aircraft tenders and three destroyers, and 100 air-
craft lost. Newspaper accounts of the Midway
Island Japanese losses were 14 to 18 warships
sunk, or damaged, including five aircraft-car-
riers. (3) Outstanding feature of both battles
was that the naval strength of Japan was con-
siderably lessened.
♦ * * *
Why is King George VI called by that name
when his first name is Albert ?
It was the King’s wish to continue the line
of the name of George, in preference to com-
mencing a new line and being called Albert I.
The present king’s grandfather, Edward VII,
whose first name also was Albert, made a
similar decision.
* * * *
Did the Russians at the Battle of Tannen-
berg cause the Germans to divert sufficient
man-power and materials from the Western
Front to allow Britain and France to win the
Battle of the Marne ? What were the dates and
the particulars of both battles?
Liddell Hart in The War in Outline says: “In
answer to the urgent clamor of their French
Allies, the Russians hastened their invasion
of East Prussia,” but this was met by equal
forccs of Germans already stationed on their
Eastern Front, and the Battle of Tannenberg
on August 30, 1914, resulted in disaster, as the
advance was checked and held. The only diver-
sion of German troops at that time was when
the Austrian Army collapsed before the cn-
slaught of a second Russian Army, and Luden-
dorff sent forces south to check the ebb and
hold the Russians. It was not until October,
1914, that the full tide of Russia’s mobilised
strength was realised, and the Allies’ hopes ran
high as the “steamroller,” under the com-
mand of the Grand Duke Nicholas, advanced
into Poland. Ludendorff, however, by a series
of clever moves, held up the advance, and
when winter set in both armies settled down
in trenches near Warsaw. From 1915 until the
final collapse of the Russian Front and the
signing of the Armistice between Russia and
Germany in December, 1917, many German
divisions were occupied on the Russian Front,
but there is no evidence that the first advance
of the Russian Army had any direct bearing
on the Allies’ victory at the First Battle of the
Marne on August 29, 1914.
* * * ♦
(1) When and by whom was the Australian
Wattle League formed in N.S.W.? (2) What
are its objects, and is there a subscription to
join ? (3) Is there literature available, and from
whom ? (4) What varieties of wattle are suit-
able for growing in a Sydney suburban area ?
(1) On August 30, 1909, by J. H. Maiden,
Curator of the Botanic Gardens, Mrs. J, W.
Kettlewell and Mrs. Clunies Ross. (2) Objects
are to stimulate Australian national sentiment
and connect that sentiment with wattle. Annual
membership fee is 2s. (3) The secretary, Mrs.
A. E. Watson, 19 Planthurst-street, Kogarah,
will supply literature. (4) There are at least
500 varieties of Australian wattles, all suitable
for growing in the suburbs of Sydney. Par-
ticulars can be obtained from the league secre-
tary.
* * * *
(1) Is there any food value in cabbage (raw),
lettuce, tomato, celery or grated carrot ? (2) Is
there any food value in the water in which
vegetables such as potatoes, carrots, peas,
beans and onions have been cooked ?
These articles of diet, generally considered,
contain a great deal of water, almost no fat
or nitrogenous matter, and very little carbo-
hydrate. But the amount of mineral matter
and vitamins they hold is relatively large and
bestows upon them much of the value they
possess as foods. (2) Yes. Use it in soup.
» * * *
What is a fair amount of sugar for an adult
per week, and what is the effect of too much
sugar?
An amount of about two ounces per day of
sugar greatly increases the capacity for arduous
physical labor. Persons who eat sugary articles
of diet to excess, without compensatory physi-
cal exercise, nearly always become overfat.
* * * *
(1) When was the Court of Chancery, Lon-
don, constituted? (2) Is this court still in
existence? (3) Has there been any legislation
(say in the past 10 or 20 years) providing for
its abolition or for the confiscation of its un-
claimed funds? (4) Is any estimate possible
concerning the amount of money under its
control? (5) Is there any past or present
publication containing particulars of the dor-
mant funds in its hands?
(1) The date of the constitution of the old
Court of Chancery seems to have been lost in
the mists of time. In 1679 it was referred to
as “a very ancient institution.” It was the
highest court of the kingdom next to Parlia-
ment and had both common law and equity
jurisdictions. (2) The Court of Chancery was
consolidated with the Supreme Court of Judica-
ture on November 1, 1875. This court has two
divisions, the High Court of Justice and the
Court of Appeal. (3) Not aware of any. (4)
It would appear in the annual Government
accounts. Possibly the Parliamentary Librarian,
Melbourne or Canberra, receives these. (5)
Advertisements appear in the press from time
to time in which advertisers profess to have
such lists.
* . .
Is the wire-haired fox terrier a separate breed,
or is ity as some allege , a cross between an Irish
terrier and a fox terrier?
It is not a cross between an Irish terrier and
a fox terrier. Here is the ancestry in detail:
The first wire-haired fox terrier in history was
Old Tip (1866), whose son was Old Champion
Pincher (1869), who begat Old Jester (1875),
who begat Young Jester (1880), who begat
Knavesmere Jest (1886), who begat ch. (U.S.A.)
Meersbrook Bristles (1892), who begat Meers-
brook Ben (1894), who begat ch. (U.S.A. and
England) Barkby Ben (1896), who begat ch.
(Eng.) Cackler of Notts (1898), who begat ch.
(Eng.) Dusky Cackler (1900), who begat Morden
Blusterer (1902), who begat Catch ’Em of
Notts (1904), who begat Comedian of Notts
(1906), who begat Olcliffe Captain (1912), who
begat ch. (England) Fountain Crusader (1919),
who begat the world famous ch. (England)
Talavera Simon (1924). It is a safe bet to say
that there is not a worth-while wire-haired fox
terrier in any part of the world whose pedigree
does not contain ch. Talavera Simon.
* * * *
How should the following lines be written if
they are not correct as shown ?: “Where is the
eager, dashing multitude? — the reckless, care-
free throng?’’ and “How strangely silent all is
now j—How strange the faces are !”
The question is rather indefinite. If it
is a matter of punctuation, the final note of
interrogation would serve for both questions
in the first quotation, the other being omitted;
-the dash could either be retained or a comma
used in its stead. In the second quotation,
one note of exclamation would suffice if the
“How” introducing the second‘sentence began
with a small “h,” when the dash could be re-
tained or a comma substituted therefor; other-
wise the two exclamation marks are in order
but the dash is unnecessary. If it is a matter of
grammar, the collective nouns “multitude” and
“throng” obviously refer to the same body of
people, and therefore the quotation is correctly
introduced by “Where is,” not “Where are.”
In the context, too, each noun represents an
indivisible entity, so should not have a plural
verb. In the second quotation, “all” means
“everything,” and is correctly followed by
“is.” "
* * * *
(1) Is it essential to have potatoes to prevent
scurvy if a variety of green vegetables is ob-
tainable ? (2) How does the Australian standard
of living in peace-time compare with other
countries ? (3) Are Norwegians considered a
physically small or big race, and how do Ger-
mans rank for size?
(1) No. Green vegetables are essential. (2)
Australian standard of living, so far as foodstuffs
are concerned, is as high as that in any other
country in the world. (3) The physical stand-
ards of Norwegians and Germans are about the
same as those of all other Europeans. Although
diet, environment and heredity play a part iir
physical development anywhere, yet the inter-
mingling of races, spread over thousands of
years, is a powerful factor in maintaining a
certain uniformity of build.
Brief Answers.
j, ’ * Brush 9^°^ es • with
hard brush dipped in strong ammomated not
water, dry in open air and press as usual. (2) In
sandy frost-free soils sweet potatoes can remain
m the soil during the winter store in
dry sand in dry, dark shed. Onions keep best on
netting to allow free passage of air.. ..T.D.W :
Remove old aluminium paint from stove with
caustic soda and water (be careful of hands),
rinse and dry, then apply a paste made with
equal weights of blacklead and bluestone
(water to mix). Apply with brush This burns
on and becomes a permanent black... .V.C.:
Fruit juices may be extracted from berry fruits,
apples, paw-paws, pineapples, tomatoes, grapes
and citrus fruits. A crusher or extractor is
needed for all hard fruits and a core extractor
for oranges, lemons and grapefruit. Apple,
grape and tomato juices need no sugar, and
salt may be added to tomato. For other fruits
Vic. fruit-pressing experts advise: Berry fruits,
two cups sugar to three cups juice; oranges
and grapefruit, one cup sugar to three cups
juice; lemons, li cup sugar to one cup
juice; plums, one cup sugar to two cups
juice. Dissolve sugar before boiling. Fill
bottles to H-in. from the tops, stand them on
straw or rags in a large vessel, fill vessel with
water up to the necks, then raise temperature
to 165 deg. F. for 35min. Lift out the bottles,
push corks in and dip each in parowax or
bottle wax. Keep in cool dark place. For
further details write to the Vic. Agriculture
Department, Melbourne F.G.: To preserve
lemon juice, press juice out carefully, strain
through boiled muslin into sterilised small
bottles. Into the top of the almost full bottle
pour about tin. of pure olive oil, cork tightly
and keep in a cool place. When needed soak
up oil with cottonwool. When opened the
juice must be used within 24 hours H. 8.:
For national security reasons the information
cannot be supplied K.J.D.; Send a written
application to Merchant Navy, York-street
North, Sydney, stating what sort of position
you desire K.McC.: The book is unknown
here L.G.W.: (1) to (5) The word “derma-
titis” merely means “an inflammation of the
skin,” and its causes, symptoms and treatment
would require several pages of description, owing
to the wide variety of factors in its production.
Send further details of your particular trouble.
. .. .N.S.: (1) Glaucoma is an ocular disease,
marked by heightened intra-ocular tension, re-
suiting in hardness of the ball of the eye, exca-
vation of the optic disc, a restriction of the


Wanted to Buy.
10-15 K.V.A. 3-phase Alternator. Star con
nected. Complete with control gear. 415 volts.
50 cycle. Direct coupled steam driven. Or,
alternatively, component parts for a complete
unit. —Box 782 J, G.P.0., Melbourne.
STAMPS
100 New Zealand s, all different 9/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/
We buy all Australians for Cash. Detail and
Air lilsts —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., H
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z- (Est. 56 Years.)
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
Ail in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £ 1/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
TO-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone BWIDBI for particulars
THAT
ENOUGH WORRIES
OF YOUR OWN
As an executor or trustee you are carrying an EXTRA burden In these difficult
times, when your own affairs demand every moment you can devote to them, the
responsibility of trusteeship is too often a handicap. You have enough worries of
your own. It is suggested that you allow this experienced and specialised
organisation to take the load from your shoulders and your mind Burns Phi p
Trust Company Ltd. is a permanent institution, under experienced and capable
direction. It has the combined knowledge of finance, taxation, and investments
which no individual executor could be expected to possess. The transfer o
responsibility can be made simply and promptly; and you will have
faction of knowing that the estate will be administered faithfully, efficiently,
and in strict accord with all terms laid down.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong
Manager—C. H. Chester
Joseph Mitchell
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE SXREET. SYDNEY'
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B * Sydney.
Giving Ceaseless Service!
■ASi
LI Mill”
M, * i f
~r; \
ill u i
88? gs
i
£3
/,*
a
;:■■•••■■■■
£*** : »
• V
I
«&«
P>
Ss»Oj>
%
RICHARD
m
%
m i
«»
m
;;Si?;?S3
m
»>. tin
?
i '
mM I
R.& M c B 7
All round the
clock relays of
Richards' work-
ers .. . men and women
. . . keep the throbbing
machines alive, active, and
productive. In harmony
with the ceaseless devotion
of the fighting forces,
there is no pause in the
efforts of R.I.L. workers
... no faltering in their
grim determination to pro-
vide the sure weapons that
will make Australia's
defence impregnable . . .
and, when the time comes
, . , Australia's attack
irresistible.
I RHUS
INDUSTRIES
limited
field of vision, an insensitiveness in the front
surface of the eye (cornea), a colored halo about
lights, and lessening of visual power which may
eventually end in blindness. (2) Certain drugs
are useful to reduce the tension and to tide the
patient over until an operation can be per-
formed ; but operative treatment is always
necessary to bring about a cure. (3) It would
cause dizziness. (4) Yes. Stimulants should be
avoided. {s} Heart trouble might cause dizziness.
J.F.T.: Symptoms may be due to prosiatic
enlargement, with an associated infection of the
bladder. Cannot prescribe remedy at random;
a medical examination is necessary. Patent
medicines are not likely to help W.A.A.:
Know of no textbook of Japanese origin, but
all good manuals' on affections of vision con-
tain the latest information on the subject of
color blindness. Try Robertson and Mullens,
Melbourne C.K.C.; Can’t undertake to
search for material for debaters. There should
be a file of The Bulletin at the public library
in your centre R.A.W.: Contents of a can-
teen of cutlery, not being absorbent in any way,
cannot permanently retain a “kerosene taint,”
so that if, after being washed in warm water
and soap, the articles again smell of kerosene,
the fault is in the container. Try this; Turn
out cutlery, wash in hot (not boiling) water
and good soap, dry and stow in clean drawer
or box. If in a day or two they are not odorless
(and they should be) the trouble is the canteen.
Wash that out and give it a good sunning
Meander: (1) The R.S.S.I.L.A. maintains that
if Australian Light Horsemen served in
France in the 1914-18 war they served as in-
fantry. (2) The local electrical supply authority
may be able to suggest textbooks. (3) Method
unknown here. Try writing to the “Popular
Mechanics” advertiser W.W.H.: (1) To
make floor polish from beeswax, shred £lb.
beeswax into a jar, add half pint turpentine and
stand jar in hot water (not on stove, as vapor
is inflammable) and stir well until thick; apply
sparingly. (2) To make boot polish from bees-
wax take one cup of turpentine, £oz. bicar-
bonate of potassium, |oz. nigrosene (in the
case of black boot polish) and five to ten
grains nankeen brown stain (for tan), one pint
of boiling water. Melt shredded wax in the
water, add potassium and stir well, dissolving
the stain in a little cold water. Add and stir
well while keeping the mixture simmering over
low heat. Take off stove, add the turps, stir
till mixture is creamy and then put into tins
H.R.K.: You will remain as at present
D. 5.8.: (1) Under National Security Regula-
tions, policies of service men do not lapse if
premiums are unpaid, but would be deductable
from payment in case of death. Suspended
premiums become payable at a date six months
after the man’s discharge or a period equal in
length to his service, whichever is the shorter.
(2) Will reply later. Position is being examined.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused;
B.H,: —
The close-cropped head, the cap, the cane.
All ape the sex of sterner strain,
While from the waist the limbs conform
In clothes and shape to female norm.
What national service needs require
Such strange and such confused attire?
Surely no vessels sail the seas
Equipped with sailors such as these —
Else Drake and all who ruled the waves
Would rise protesting from their graves.
G.D. (New Jersey, U.S.A.): —
Hear, oh Hirohita,
The roll of tank and freight.
The arming of a nation
Late, but not too late.
Can’t you hear, oh Hirohita,
An angry nation hum?
We’re moving swiftly forward
To put you on the bum.
R.E.R.: The tears spoil it T.1.P.: It’s
a safe bet that if you have to round off a
comic poem with two exclamation marks it’s
not funny M.A.K.: In the first place, arrows
don’t fly backwards R.G.H.: Far away
N.C.: It’s not much use asking rhetorical ques-
tions when you know that the answer is, in
fact, No H.E.P.: Pleasant; but that’s all.
A.V.B.: “Me and my old dog Willie are
used to a heavy load.” What exactly does
Willie carry? D.M.E.; “Eat with your knife
and say ‘Was yer’ ” as much as you like, but don t
rhyme “talk” with “fork” Carstairs: “Heart-
rending, by Gad!” is, by Gad!... .8.M.: “I ve
plucked the flowers from soft herbaceous fringe
about thy rocks.” Eke hast thou plucked
flowers of poetic verbiage from the pastorals
of the eighteenth century P H.: “Let all
the moons rotate across the sky.” They are
invariably grateful for a poet’s permission....
E.P.: flowers in hackneyed
rhymes K.E.C.: When you learn to take
more pains you’ll score T.McC.: “Deep,
deeper in the squalid mire—ah, me, the cursed
drink!” Ah, us, too, this morning K.E.G.:
A tlwme in the danger poem; but that chopped-
up prose is only an evasion of the labor of
writing poetry H.M.: Children building sand
castles again!... .E.D.F.: Turning “The
Leashed Heart” loose C.E.; Still promising.
B.T.; Slight RW.S.: Away with those
monstrous puns 8.M.: Elementary.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.R.C.: Your washwork doesn’t get sufficient
contrast in the tones... .K.McK.: Two old
gags; and the gent, sitting in the miniature chair
talking to the gigantic manager seems to have
his boots in water... .Bert C.; The cowhand
apparently had his arms amputated and two
cactus growths grafted on in their place
W.N.C.: Moss-grown humor and a few feeble
passes with a brush... .L.J.; Your superb confi-
dence that they would be accepted almost
stunned us into taking it 8.5.: A few
noughts-and-crosses puzzles held together by a
couple of wavy lines don’t make a building.
K.J.: Which is Mum and which the
mangle?


★ power
TRANSMISSION
ENGINEERS
Ludowici's engineering work-
shop — largest of Its kind in
Australia—produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment.
Since 1858 XUDOWICrS
have provided Australian Industrj
with the finest leather belting
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only our Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys, Bearings. Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
J. C. LDDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET), SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Before Bednme
Start Driving Out
BRONCHITIS
Sleep Sound All Night.
Enjoy a coughless night—sleep sound
and awake refreshed —just be wise
enough to take 2 or 3 doses of
BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL Mixture
(triple acting) before you go to bed—
it’s safe for the kids, also.
For bronchial coughs—for tough, old,
persistent coughs, take a few doses of
Buckley’s—by far the largest-selling
cough medicine in all of blizzardly cold
Canada —and feel as good as ever again.
It “acts like a flash.” At all chemists
and stores.
Siucklwfi
CANADIOL
MIXT U R E
A SINGLE SIP PROVES IT
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
From Accident Dept., £12,000 1
1935.-2,728,0181,242,504 619,316 10,954 1. qri n.-.o
Staff bonus, £5185 .. ..1 901,U 9
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO •• j
Profit on sale securities, £62,335 ]
From Accident Dept., £60,000 , 191 B q 9
1936.. 3.146.251 1,559,795 581,827 4162 ’ ’* * "
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..
From Accident Dept., £20,C00
1937.. 3.565.539 1,559,405 573,936 48,371 1,402,827
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ...
Unexplained addition res., £8624 ]
From Accident Dept., £20,000 ( , q 1 (.
1938.. 3.652.463 1,413,983 521,285 83,903 [ 1,00 ’
Superannuation Fund, £ 1000 .. J
From Accident Dept., £20,000 .. 1
1939.-3,769,186 1,530,963 523,061 79,658 ) 1,654,504
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..)
From Accident Dept., £20,000.. )
1940.. 3.864.411 1,502,362 504,588160,417 [ j 5 76 044
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. ! ’ ’
To Contingency Reserve, £140,000 J
From Accident Dept., £20,000.. I
1941.. 032.329 1,636,258 507,526 71,204 [ , 79fi R .,
Superannuation F\md, £5500 .. f ’
To Contingency Reserve, £105,000 J
Industrial Department.
Written
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1935. 178,868 215,378 431 ]
Staff bonus, £l9lB .. .. i 3,696,673
Superannuation fund, £9OO .. j
1936. .837,036 187,022 230,434 702] illifi si
Superannuation fund, £9OO ~ ) ’ ’
1937. .916,293 254,552 246.612 1,261 - 97 f>l „
Superannuation fund, £9OO .. ’ ’
Added guarantee fund, £B5O
1938. .981.657 351,217 252,852 2,131 ) 4,903,026
Superannuation fund, £9OO ..
Added guarantee fund, £ 198
1939 1,026,215 447,864 263,059’ 3,762 5,213,854
Superannuation fund, £9OO ...
Added guarantee fund, £BBO
1940 1,062,516 479,343 276,797 19,710 5,500,500
Superannuation fund, £9OO
Reduction reserves, £ 5677
1941 1,106,727 527,046 291,428 5,558 5,772,118
Superannuation fund, £5400 ..J
* Includes contingency funds, etc.
In the interests of economy no bonus
certificates were sent out this year; but
reversionary additions to sums assured
“at least equal” to the bonuses of the
past two years have been credited in all
cases, though, as is general, these rates
of necessity are somewhat lower than
those prevailing pre-war. This because,
firstly, the nation’s gain in the low-interest
cost of its war financing has been life
offices’ loss. Government securities and
mortgages being the chief investment out-
let of conservative managements, thus
making it prudent to conserve present
surpluses with a view to reducing valua-
tion rates of interest in sympathy with
taxation and the actual rates now being
earned. Because, secondly, provision has
to be made for the uncertain incidence
of excess war mortality, estimates of
which have become even more specula-
tive with the carrying of war to Aus-
tralian soil. At the outbreak of hostili-
ties Australian offices waived the war-
risk clause in existing policies, and war
cover within Australia is still available
to all except the flying arm without pay-
ment of extra premium. Present bonuses
should be regarded as of an interim
nature, to be supplemented later if the
contingencies provided against don’t
eventuate.
Despite war, the old-established
Colonial, whose business extends outside
the Commonwealth to Maoriland, United
Kingdom and South Africa, continues to
exhibit the progress of recent years. Last
term new contracts put on the books
totalled £11,443,362 (up £904,518), of
which £9,075,128 was in respect of Ordi-
nary and £2,368,234 Industrial assur-
ances. For its part, income, taking in
the healthy Accident branch, reached the
new high level of £5,274,059. Of the
increase of £213,536, £134,350 came from
premiums (£4,053,275) and £79,186 from
interest, rents, etc. (£1,220,784).
After meeting all legitimate claims and
exfts., including taxation (£99,957, up
£13,040), enough remained to add
£2,016,322 to policy reserves
(£28,672,686), earmark £llO,OOO for con-
tingencies (drawn on for £lO,OOO during
the year) and send £10,900 to staff funds.
Depreciation written off was £77,184.
Provisions of this mainly internal kind
over the past three years have amounted
to £341,354. During the same period
contingency, taxation and guarantee re-
serves (lave grown £357,245 net, raising
this support for assurance funds to
£941,571.
Assuming normal experience, these
assurance funds are themselves more
than sufficient for the purpose for which
they were created, showing the following
excess over actuarial liabilities under
policies:
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Ordinary .. £628,630 £702,885 £836,577 £885,746
Industrial .. 146,783 114,329 121,758 120,494
Accident .. 35,848 42.634 46,083 46,108
Total .. £811,261 £859,848 £1,004,418 £1,052,348
The carrying forward of heavy unappro-
priated surpluses has swollen figures in
the 0.D., where for the latest year
£316,714 is to be distributed in the form
of bonuses ; £300,000 will also be carried
forward on behalf of U.K. policy-holders,
who as a precautionary measure have
had nothing since the outbreak of war,
leaving a balance of £269,032 to go for-
ward unappropriated. In the smaller I.D.
the bonus distribution takes £98,466.
Disregarding taxes, amounts written
off, and allowing 3 p.c. as the cost of
annuities, further economy in running
the O.D. is apparent in an expense rate
14.2 p.c. of net premium income, as
against 14.9 p.c. in 1940. The figure
was as high as 22.7 p.c. in 1935. In the In-
dustrial section the corresponding figures
were 31.9, 31.7 and 33.4 p.c.
Policy and other liabilities are now
backed by £30,272,211 of conservatively-
valued assets: —
1940. p.c. 1941. p.c.
Public securities
and debentures. £13,526,798 48.4 £14,887,014 49.2
Mortgages . . 8,550,522 30.6 9,505,935 31.4
Freeholds, etc. ~ 2,957,013 10.6 2,972,097 9.8
Loans on policies 1,842,392 0.6 1,854,254 6.1
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 292,272 1.1 298,166 1.0
Cash and deposits 611,662 2.1 552,992 1.8
Other assets .. 177,144 0.6 201,753 0.7
The management assumes that lot will
earn 3 p.c. Actual net rate last year on
the mean life funds fell from 4.2 p.c. to 4.17
p.c., or 4.02 p.c. on all funds combined,
so there is a comfortable margin here
for the untoward. Of the mortgage item
over half represents home purchase
covered by life assurance and advances
to building societies under Government
guarantee.
Queensland National Bank
Net To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£> £ £ £
1932.. 74,088 4 p.c.= 70,000 1 . 878
Written off premises, £2,500 ) 8,8,044
1933, . i 5,540 4 p.c.= 70,000 ) „ 040 881 684
Written off premises, £2,500 f 3 - 040 881 * ftB4
1934.. 69,911 4 p.c.= 70,000 1 s7O nQ -
Written off premises, £2,500 * “
1935.. 72,192 4 p.c. = 70,000 1 _ R7R 787
Written off premises, £2500 ) ’
1936.. 73,648 4 p.c, = 70,000 1 . . 87 n q 35
Written off premises, £2500 ) I'l4B 1 ' 148 879, " J
1937.. 77,320 41 p.c. = 74,375 1 ... 88n 0 80
Written off premises, £2500 ) 44j 880,380
1938.. 81,671 4* p.c. = 78,750 1 , 91 88n 80 ,
Written off premises, £2500 ) 421 88U ’ BUI
193 ?-.;. 84 ’® 92 48 p.c. = 80,937 ) 755 881,556
Written off premises, £3OOO )
1940.. 91,031 5 p.c. = 87,500 J 889 O R7
Written off premises, £3OOO ) 031 88 ’
1944 ; • 90 - 835 5 p.c. = 87,500 j 335 882,422
Written oft premises, £3OOO )
194 ?-- ".674 5 p.c. =B7 500 1 174 882>6M
Written off premises, £3OOO )
A satisfactory showing, all things con-
sidered. The co. does about nine-tenths
of its business in its home State and over
the border in northern N. S. Wales. Here
and in southern Queensland a dry spell
was experienced during the latter half of
last term. However, toward the close of
accounts good rains assured the seasonal
outlook in Queensland, except in the nor’-
west and a strip along the southern bor-
der of the State. So, with a ready market,
good prices and prompt payment for
primary products, there was no increased
demand on the banks for assistance from
the man on the land. Also, advances to
manufacturers, retailers and other traders
have been curtailed, except for production
and handling of essential war goods.
Rationing has now reduced civilian con-
sumption and therefore trade turnovers,
while luxury goods are gradually disap-
pearing from the market as*existing stocks
are sold out.
All these and other things are reflected
in the Q.N.’s accounts by a contraction
of £1,015,186 in advances and a growth of
£1,445,494 in low-interest-bearing liquids ;
the net growth in deposits was £136,909;
1933. 1939. 1941. 1942.
£ £ £ £
Paid
capital. .1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Interminable
stock ..3,015.095 2,690,133 2,665,298 3,005,496
Notes . . 4,157
Bills, etc. 302.531 384,204 426,115 1 ni ,
Deposits 7,872,214 9,237,965 9,462,091 )
Liquid
assets ..4,612,512 4,151,337 4,598,144 6,043,638
Advances 8,694,760 10,200,491 10,051,672 9,036,486
Premises 549,253 573,593 578,862 589,188
Other assets 40,703
When the books closed, liquids amounted
to 60.2 p.c. of liabilities to the public,
advances to 90.1 p.c. of deposits, etc. (as
against 101.6 p.c. at the previous balance),
and the bank was holding only 355. 7d.
of the public’s money for every pound of
its own, including the interminable de-
benture stock. It is a strong position,
but it means low earning power.
The £90,674 (down £161) of profit
claimed by the Q.N. last term was 5.2 p.c.
on capital, against 5.2, 5.2, 4.8, 4.6, 4.4,
4.2 and 4.1 p.c. back to 1935. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) last year’s figure was a mere 3.4
p.c. The div. was kept at 5 p.c.
Indeed, so far as earning power is con-
cerned the banks have had their wings
clipped more than most other traders.
Credit, the banks’ chief stock-in-trade,
was placed on the rationed list early in
the piece, and the price of it —interest
rates —was fixed at a low figure, which
has been further forced down. Also,
their investment policy and power to in-
fluence interest rates have been circum-
scribed by legislation. Broadly speaking,
they are obliged to follow the policy of
the Government as expressed through
the central bank in granting credit and
m buying securities, and their surplus in-
vestible funds (roughly the growth in
Australian deposits since Aug., 1939)
have to be deposited with the central
institution at a rate of interest —less than
1 p.c. at the moment —designed to ensure
that their earnings don’t exceed average
profits for the three years to the end of
August, 1939, Thus the central bank now
broadly controls the flow and direction
of investment, and, within the limits of
its influence, has power to correct en-
croachments by private enterprise on
labor, materials and production needed
for the war effort.
To help offset the effects of rising costs
and man-power problems, trading hours
of the banks have been reduced and,
where there have been overlapping and
waste, some country branches have been
closed. The banks have played an impor-
tant part in the war effort, and continue
to do so. They had voluntarily agreed
to most of the restrictions now imposed
upon them, and as a patriotic gesture
they have undertaken to collect clothing
ration tickets free of charge for the
Rationing Commission.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Written off shares in other cos., £10,000.. 349,342
1932.. 14,820 2J p.c. =21,058 343,104
1933.. 41,037 5 „ ~ 42,116 342.025
Profit on sale of Consols. £B5Bl .. 350,606
1934.. 40,479 6 p.c. = 40,432 47 350,653
Surplus on realisation of assets, £12,549.. 363,202
From doubtful debts reserve, £452.. 363,654
Written off shares in other cos., £6958.. 356,696
1935.. 76,471 7} p.c. = 50,540 25,931 382,627
From doubtful debts reserve, £193 .. 382,820
1936.. 78,015 10 p.c. = 67,386 10,629 393,449
Surplus on investment, £4044 .. .. 397,493
1937.. 83,108 10 p.c. = 67,386 15,722 413,215
Tax provision written back, £7368 .. 420,583
1938.. 97,101 12* p.c. =§4,233 12,868 433,451
1939.. 98,340 12* „ ~ 84,233 14,107 447,558
1940.. 96.705 124 „ ~84,233 12,472 460,030
1941.. 98,636 12* „ ~84,233 14,403 474,433
1942.. 94,273 12* „ „ 84,233 10,040 484,478
Paid capital £673,862, it’s mainly a hold-
ing co., being an equal million-pound part-
ner with Australian Cement (paid capital
£760,433) in Australian Portland Cement
Pty., whose manufacturing activities em-
brace the two densest-populated States.
The Victorian works are at Fyansford,
where a highly efficient 300,000-ton plant
has the Victorian market almost to itself,
apart from what competition Tassie’s
Goliath co. offers, and that isn’t serious in
these days of restricted sea carriage. The
200,000-ton Kandos (N.S.W.) outfit isn’t
so fortunate, having to share its market
with four other producers, all up and
coming for a trade the two largest of
them could fill by themselves.
The working co. balances its books a
month earlier than this Kandos co. It
appears to be paying 9 p.c. or so, and
that after apparently attending to its own
internal financial affairs in liberal manner.
All of which speaks volumes for its effi-
ciency, seeing that of its £2,000,000 of
capital £650,000 represents goodwill
created in the merger that brought it
into being. The balance of the holding
cos.’ earnings comes mainly from com-
missions as agents of the operating ven-
ture and income from a growing swag
of liquids. In Kandos’s case, these now
amount to £224,829 —up £25,763 last
year, and the continued growth in which
suggests that another repayment of capi-
tal is only a matter of time, provided the


YOUR SOCIETY
and the War.
IN war, as in peace, mere is a
constant flow of Life Assur-
ance benefits to Australian
families that strengthens the
whole social and economic fabric
of the nation. Last year your
Society paid out £8,250,000 to
its members or their families; no
small contribution to the nation’s
well-being in difficult days.
Life Assurance builds family se-
curity and family security builds
national morale. It is one of
the few unrationed commodities
that men and women can con-
tinue to buy to the profit of both
themselves and the Nation.
Your Society provides £402,000,000
of Life Assurance protection to
its members in all walks of life.
This protection will enable the
holders of 1,672,000 policies the
better to withstand the financial
shocks of the present and to meet
after-the-war readjustments.
Your Society already has
£45,000,000 invested in Common-
wealth Loans, and is putting about
£500,000 into them each month.
Your A.M.P. policy, therefore,
is playing its part in financing
the war and, at the same time, is
protecting your family and your-
self.
A.M.P. Society
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman;
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., J. O. Meeks,
Esq., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart and Canberra, A.C.T. District
Offices throughout all States.
BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
Doctors say your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone i Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY. .
.JONES
CUISMIST. 319 George Street, Sydney.
MEN!
GLAND
TOXIC
This Advertisement does not purport to be a Prospectus. Copies of the
Prospectus of this Itsue have been lodged with the Registrars in the
States of Queensland. New South Wales. Victoria and South Australia.
P
b
!
COMPANY LIMITED (BRISBANE)
(Incorporated in Queensland)
£412,000 FIRST MORTGAGE INSCRIBED
STOCK AND REGISTERED DEBENTURES
(Principal Repayable Free of Exchange at
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Jan. 31st, 1954)
a
4
o
PER ANNUM.
INTEREST PAYABLE HALF-YEARLY FREE OF
EXCHANGE
ot any office in Australia of The E.S. & A. Bank Limited.
Minimum Subscription: £5O. Currency: Eleven years.
SECURITY FOR THE ISSUE
The Issue is secured by a Registered First Mortgage over the
Company’s freehold power-house property at Brisbane and
by a Floating First Charge over the whole of the Assets of
the Company.
NET TANGIBLE ASSETS BACKING: £343 for each £lOO
Inscribed Stock and Registered Debenture of Initial and
Present Issues Combined.
EXCESS OF INCOME for year ended 31st January, 1942,
over all working expenses, including depreciation but ex-
cluding income taxes and interest on Initial Inscribed Stock
and Debenture Issue, represented an Interest Cover on both
Initial and Current Issues of £482 for every £lOO of interest.
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES LIMITED, as in the case of the
Initial Issue, will act under the Trust deed as Trustees for
the holders of Inscribed Stock and Registered Debentures
of this Issue.
The Company has power to issue further Debentures to rank
pari passu with the initial and current Issues to a total
amount, including such Issues, equal to half of the paid-up
Capital of the Company.
OPERATIONS AND STATUS OF
THE COMPANY
CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY LIMITED has exclusive rights of
supply of electricity over a large and very important part of Queensland,
comprising the main industrial and commercial centres of Brisbane,
the cities of Ipswich and Gympie, the towns of Redcliffe, Southport,
Nambour and Coolangatta and 23 shires.
• The Company is carrying out
an Extensive Programme of Ex-
pansion, consequent upon the
Company having been entrusted
by the Queensland Government
with rights and obligations for
the co-ordination and development
of electricity supply throughout
its extended franchise area.
• The net proceeds of this Issue
of £412,000 will be allocated to-
wards the cost of this important
programme.
• Australia's War Effort will be
assisted materially by the Com-
pany's scheme of expansion. In-
creased electricity supplies are
required by industries engaged
upon War Contracts for Aus-
tralian and Allied Governments,
and, in addition, the Company's
development through rich agri-
cultural sections is greatly in-
creasing production of primary
foodstuffs.
• City Electric Light Company
Limited is one of the most impor-
tant Public Utilities in Australia.
TRUSTEE SECURITY IN QUEENSLAND
Loan underwritten by I. B. Were & Son.
APPLY AT ONCE
for the Prospectus, and make Application
on the Printed Form incorporated therein.
At any office in Australia of the
ENGLISH. SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.
or through any
MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE.
NOTE: INTEREST ACCRUES FROM DATE OF SUBSCRIPTION.
money isn’t wanted for fresh fields.
Liabilities, including taxation, are £24,376.
In N.S.W. cement production has been
on the decline since the peak of 1938,
and the fall has been accelerated by the
prohibition of private building. But in Vic-
toria direct and indirect defence spending
appears to have made up for any cutting
away of normal demand, and Victorian
supplies have been reduced by the smack
war delivered Goliath. Because of rising
taxation and other costs —uniform taxa-
tion is no help—the Melbourne holding
venture has already warned its share-
holders, however, to prepare themselves
for “a reasonable reduction in the divi-
dend in the future.” Meantime Kandos
goes on paying \l\ p.c. from dis-
closed earnings 13.9 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 14.6, 14.3, 14.5, 14.4 and 12.3
p.c. for the five years before.
Though each follows the other in the
matter of divs., respective yields from
Kandos and Australian Cement scrip
are 6.7 p.c. and 7.1 p.c. The difference
reflects market cognisance of Kandos’s
more robust liquid position and its greater
proportionate holding in the operating
co. —for each £lOO of its own, it possesses
roughly £l4B of the operating co.’s capi-
tal, against Australian Cement’s £l3l.
City Electric Light (Brisbane)
In pursuance of its changed method of
capital finance. City Electric Light is after
another £412,000 of 11-year first mort-
gage debenture money at 3 i p.c. to meet
its war programme. J. B. Were and Son
are again the underwriters. The issue
ranks equally with the half-million offer
last September, which carried \ p.c. more
in interest and went like hot cakes. Latest
accounts show the new issue covered 3£
times for capital, and total debenture in-
terest earned 4| times before taxation.
Uniform taxation has made Queens-
land stock more attractive to southern
investors
Triton, near Cue (W.A.), has become a
financial minnow. Restricted develop-
ment added nothing to ore reserves last
year, and the profit in the present total
of 249,000 (down 73,000) tons, value
6.4dwt., is obscure. Labor shortage,
loss in recoveries and the skyrocketing of
unit costs saw last year’s profit cut a
poor figure compared with results since
the commencement of div.-paying:
Yield,
Year Ton, Costs. Net r Divs.
Sept., Tons. Dwt. Ton.f Profit. Share. Amt.
1936.. 77,715 6.94 33/11 £91,078 -/6 £24,000
1937.. 75,825 7.11 37/5 85,228 1/- 48,000
Mar.,
1938*. 41,242 6.18 35/6 32,997 1/- 48,000
1939.. 111,408 6.4 34/10 116,167 1/- 48,000
1940.. 105,318 6.29 38/44 109,951 1/- 48,000
1941.. 97,317} 6.11 41/9 83,064 1/- 48,000
1942.. 71,006} 5.59 60/- 2,641 Nil
* Six months, f Including development. } Triton ore.
Only inclusion of a gold-tax rebate of
£5129 attributable to the previous year
made the difference between the profit
and a loss. No depreciation was charged
in determining the figure, but £2501 was
written off advance development from
somewhere. Of the 960,000 issued 10s.
shares, 200,000 are held by Western
Gold ; at March 31 they could see Is, 4d.
apiece in surplus liquids, including stores.
One of the main troubles is the costly
nature of level maintenance and mining
in the heavy ground at depth, which has
been only partly overcome by utilisation
of mill tailings in stope-filling. Extensive
diamond-drilling* in surrounding ground
“has so far yielded little of promise.
* * * *
Shortage of labor, soaring cost of pro-
duction, scarcity of and higher and higher
prices for mining requisites are troubling
Westralian gold-producers. One or two
talk of shutting down their mills and
having their ore treated by others. Some
may cease operations above and below
ground for the duration of the war.
Yankee-controlled Big Bell is named as
one likely to stop. Since crushing began
late in 1937 nearly 2,000,000 tons has
been milled here for bullion valued at
more than as many pounds. Nearly
£750,000 was expended before any return
was received from the ore. Pay-
roll was stated some time ago to average
£16,000 a month. Big Bell township,
which will be wiped out if the mine shuts
down, has a few stores, a church or two,
some starting-price bookmakers and a
pub said to have cost £20,000. The rail-
way which connects it with the main
Murchison line at Cue, 30 miles distant,
has been a source of substantial profit
to the State Government.
* * * *
Westralia’s Department of Industrial
Development reports that buildings
are being erected and plant installed
at the Lake Campion alunite deposits
and that, barring enemy action and delay
in transit, additional plant from overseas
is expected to be on the ground in time
to begin production of potash by the end
of this year. Plant to produce charcoal,
pig-iron and steel billets is also in course
of erection at an unnamed iron find in
the south.
* « * *
In less-profitable wash last term, Vic-
toria Gold Dredging, at Newstead, saw
profits fall £43,607, despite greater
throughput; but it is still Victoria’s lead-
ing gold div.-payer. With June’s Is. 6d.
distribution, capital of £129,500 has now
been returned 3| times over. Here is a
worm’s-eye view of the dredge’s progress
from the beginning:
Year, Treated, Gr., Costs, Net ( Divs.
Mar., O.y. C.y. Pence. Profit. Share. Amt.
1939*.. 1,217,750 4.27 4.08 £73,410 4/-£50,000
1940 .. 2,286,297 4.34 3.68 157,591 11/- 137,500
1941 . . 2,570,082 3.70 3.28 150,808 11/- 137,500
1942 . . 2,670,038 2.81 3.30 107,201 7/6 93,750
* 84 months.
About half the co.’s pay-dirt, the overall
average for which was around 3£gr., has
now been dug.
» * ♦ *
Arahura Gold Dredging (M.L.) is at
present showing sister-float Kanieri, ex-
periencing bother with heavy ground, a
clean pair of heels. Divs. of 4s. per
share (£60,000, plus tax thereon of
£17,500) went out last year, and another
Is. 6d. has been paid since the close of.
accounts. Before depletion and renewals
(doubled at £20,000), profit ran out
£40,439 higher:
Year Treated, Gr., Costs —Divs. N
Mar., ’OOO c.y. c.y. c.y. Profit. Share. Amt.i
£ £
1940*.. 2,760 1.97 2.32 d. 69,789 Nil
1941 .. 4,053 1.63 3.02 d. 64,821 3/- 46,350
1042 . . 3,186 2.84 3.91 d. 105,260 4/- 77,500
* Eight months, t Including div. tax.
Unit gold yields were the best yet. Per-
centage extraction isn’t mentioned, but
the previous report showed it had been
less than half bore indications, which
raises doubts whether the improvement
will be maintained over the remaining
life of the property, the selected area of
which was originally estimated to contain
48,500,000 c.y. of 3.2 gr. wash. Labor of
requisite dredging skill is in short supply.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.E.S.: No distribution to the 19,000 or so
policy-holders in the old People’s Prudential
Assurance has yet been made, and what may
eventually be paid it is impossible to say.
The company’s only assets are amounts due
under mortgage, collection of which is proving
a long-winded business that may take years
still, while it has not yet been decided whether
claims are to be admitted on an actuarial basis
or in proportion to premiums paid. Having
filed your claim, all you can do is wait.


ORB
BRAND
iP
iii
Galvanized Iron sheets tot
roofing, tankmaking, etc.
Fully approved for water
catchment and conservation.
i
S' m
m
*r. w.
m
f'S.
S' y
//////^
..•*> ST .V.*'
/l/VV
GLOBE
LYSAGHT
.WAR FINISH
LYSAGHT
.ROOFING TERNES
X^RINKIHC
GLOBE
BRAND
t
A lead-coated roofing and
walling sheet that is suit-
able where water conser-
vation is not a factor.
Both “War Fin-
ish” and “ Te.rne-
Coated” Sheets
are of equal ten-
sile strength and
are NOT dang-
erous to walk
upon, nor will
they shatter.
Because of the known unsuitability of lead-
coated sheets for water catchment and con-
servation, certain sections of the public
have confused Lysaght’s “War Finish”
Galvanized Iron with Lysaght’s Terne-
Coated Building Sheet. Lysaght’s “War
Finish” Galvanized Iron, although different
in appearance, is equal in quality to the
familiar pre-war “spangled” sheet and may
be used wherever water catchment and
storage Is desired. The Terne-Coated sheet,
however, is NOT suitable for such purposes
but must be used for general roofing, wall-
ing, etc., where water catchment is NOT
desired.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SVDNEY - MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
LBB-2860
f OWNER-SERVICE
GUIDE BOOK
FOR FORD CARS
t
How to keep your car in good running order.
How to find and fix minor mechanical faults.
With the best will in the world, your Ford
dealer simply finds it impossible nowadays to
give to private owners the service and prompt
attention rightly expected in the past. Many
mechanics are now caring for transport in the armed forces,
others are in munition plants. Further, the trucks and
vehicles on essential services have, under Regulation, first
call on his remaining mechanics’ time.
Your Ford Dealer must now carefully plan ahead the allo-
cation of his limited garage “man-hours.” As a private
owner you can help, if your car needs service, by bringing
it in when your dealer can fit in the work. Telephone in
advance and he will do his best for you, depend on that.
In this difficult situation, Ford owners will welcome the
means of dealing with minor mechanical troubles on their
own initiative. To help them, the Ford Motor Company
has just published an 'Owners’Emergency Guide Book.’ This
tells how to find and correct some minor mechanical faults.
POST COUPON FOR YOUR COPY. For your free copy
post coupon to address shown, or ask your local Ford dealer.
To Ford Motor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd.,
Private Bag,
NORTH GEELONG. VIC.
Please send me free and post free a copy of “Owners'
Emergency Guide Book."
Name
Address
Car Model
F 2 13.1 4,i
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Inc, in Vic.)
Business, Rollery, etc.
A Moral from the Victory Suit
The matter of the “victory suit” has
more in it, when given some beneath-the-
surface thought, than immediately meets
the eye. Here we have an example of
the effort of a Government Minister and
department to cope with a problem
arising out of the war. No doubt after
considerable deliberation by all concerned
a certain style of male and female cloth-
ing was decided on, and the necessity
to save material and labor was accepted
by the people as the reason for the
standardisation. At another point in
the source of clothing supply standard
cloth had already been introduced ; again
it was accepted that labor and, to some
extent, material conservation was the
desired end.
The standard cloth was received by the
clothing trade with something that varied
between moderate satisfaction and hos-
tility. The lack of variety was not criti-
cised so much; it was the quality of the
cloth. It was light in weight, Sydney
tailors said, and was not worth the tailor-
ing. Samples were like poor flannel,
soft and shapeless., One mill was so dis-
gusted with the stuff that it asked for
permission to put more weight into it.
Melbourne liked it better, but samples
may have varied.
So far as the male victory suit is con-
cerned, it appears that one person in
the Commonwealth approved of it. He
is Mr. Dedman, Minister for War Organi-
sation of Industry. He was so pleased
with it that he posed for the press photo-
graphers in one, standing bravely and
with his best foot forward beside his
office desk. This, the first of all victory
suits, had no vest, it had cuffless, narrow
trousers, it shrank from any suggestion of
patch pockets or combined flap and jet
pockets, and it had no buttons on the
sleeves. It had various other aspects of
austerity, including trimmings laid down
to the very half-inch.
So far the main effect has been to make
intending suit-buyers miserable. The plan
does not acknowledge the fact that out of
a rectangular piece of cloth a man’s
shape cannot be neatly cut and covered
without leaving odd pieces that must go
to waste unless used. It is from these
oddments that such things as pocket flaps,
coat-facings, trouser cuffs and other odd
items are made. It matters little whether
trousers are 19in. or 21in. around the
cuffs ; a suit-length usually provides for
the larger size. It is as much a matter
of width as of length.
As regards the vest, suit-lengths already
in tailors’ hands provide for a waistcoat.
Here again width as well as length figures
in the way tailors cunningly contrive to
cut the maximum value out of a mini-
mum of material. One of the first lessons
a budding cutter receives is in using as
little material as practicable to do a par-
ticular job. Suit-lengths that provide for
a waistcoat out of which no waistcoat may
now be made are going to show con-
siderable waste. The “saving” won’t be
much good for anything, certainly not
for making a pair of boy’s knickers, as
Mr. Dedman has suggested.
Even where tailors have cloth not in
lengths but in the roll, the prohibition
on waistcoats is being strongly resented
by many men, especially those in the
colder parts of Australia. It is contended
that a pullover is not as versatile a gar-
ment as the one it is supposed to
replace. Seemingly Mr. Dedman did not
even know that waistcoats are still worn
in England, and was equally at sea about
American decisions. Tailors say that
business is at a standstill pending the
reviewing of the victory suit that many
feel will have to come.
All in all, the standardisation of cloth-
ing in Australia can be taken as being
of dubious value. If, as has been sug-
gested, the standard suit is not a satis-
factory one, and is not worth putting
decent work into, then the scheme is
definitely a failure. As every intelligent
shopper knows, a certain amount of work
is required to get the framework of any
sort of garment established, and that a
little extra quality in the material or the
make may mean a wearing life twice as
long for little extra cost. The extra cost
to the consumer may be taken as the
measure of the extra national effort re-
quired and which might be considered a
charge on the war programrhe. But on
the other side of the picture there is the
extra service received and which should
make the need for replacement less fre-
quent. Many consider that quality,
adequately rationed, would be of much
greater value to the war effort than badly
conceived and cheeseparing standardisa-
tion. If a suit from which \2\ p.c. of
the labor has been taken lasts only two-
thirds as long as a normal suit, then we
are going backwards instead of forwards.
More than clothing and convenience is
involved in the principle of standardisa-
tion of civilian requirements. It will get
the Department of War Organisation of
Industry nowhere merely to make people
miserable. This department is concerned
with many major matters vital to Aus-
tralia’s war effort and civil life. While
necessary hardships and shortages should
be the very things to cause a stiff-
ening of backs for the war-time
task, unnecessary muddle and experimen-
tation may cause a stiffening of necks
in the entire matter of rationalisation.
The errors of Mr. Dedman and his de-.
partment have already been many. The
method of introducing clothes-rationing
was a memorable bungle. And now the
rationing of quantity in men’s clothing
is to be made severe to the point of
futility by a low standard of make and
quality of cloth. The prime motive of
rationalisation is to help the war effort,
not to cause inconvenience to the people
and increase bureaucratic importance.
Canberra should never be allowed to
forget that.
Following the sudden burial of the
Australian 4-p.c.-profits-limitation pro-
posal, attention has been turned towards
the British excess-profits-taxation system,
and, the information in the press appar-
ently coming from a common source, its
nature has been widely misrepresented.
It has been inferred that there is an all-
over profits-limitation of 6 p.c. on capital,
with the provision that 20 p.c. of earn-
ings in excess of 6 p.c. are allowed as a
post-war credit. That is a completely
wrong view of the situation. The British
e.-p.t. started off as a 100 p.c. levy on
all earnings in excess of an average estab-
lished in certain pre-war years. Even
Labor members perceived the flaw in
total obstruction of possible additional
earnings, and in the latest British Budget
20 p.c. of the excess earnings taken by
the Government is earmarked as a post-
war credit for expanding or reorganising
the co.’s business when the demand
changes from munitions to the more
varied and competitive requirements
of peace - time. The figure 6 p.c.
mentioned in Australia arises from the
fact that in his Budget speech Sir Kings-
ley Wood said “the provisions for con-
cerns with low profit standards have been
modified, and now in the great majority
of cases allow a profit standard of 6 p.c.
on the capital employed.” Referring to
the 20 p.c. post-war provision, the Chan-
cellor said: “I hope this clear and un-
equivocal undertaking will serve to indi-
cate once more the importance the Gov-
ernment attaches to tackling post-war
problems with foresight. From experi-
ence after the last war we know that the
happiness and well-being of our people
depend largely on the proper handling of
these problems.”
* * * *
At the annual meeting of Carroll,-Mus-
grove Theatres, owners of the Prince
Edward in Sydney, the chairman
stated that the co. during the year had
paid £BOQO to shareholders, £20,000 in
taxes, £lO,OOO in newspaper advertising,
and £24,000 to employees in wages and
salaries. Figures of this kind from other
cos. would be interesting. If turnovers
in relation to profits were published it’s
a certainty that many cos. periodically up
for criticism would show that it would
be difficult to pass on the whole of their
profits to the public in the form of price
reductions owing to the fact that there
isn’t a coin of the realm small enough to
represent, say, the refiner’s profit on a
pound of sugar or the margin on a pound
of salt. Profit aggregations often look
big until they are spread over the number
of consumers and shareholders. The
threat of a 4 p.c. profits limit recently
caused many companies to reveal the
number of their shareholders, their aver-
age holding and average dividend. In
most cases the figures were surprisingly
small. The average holding was 333 in
Anthony Hordern, 435 in David Jones,
350 in Felt and Textiles, 500 in Tooheys,
269 in Kandos Cement, and 500 in Yarra
Falls.
* * * *
The British post-war credit certificate is
a simple thing:
Certificate of Post-war Credit.
This is to certify that the undermen-
tioned sum has been recorded in favor of
...as the post-war credit
due for the year ended sth April, 1942,
under Section 7 of the Finance Act, 1941.
(Signed)
H.M. Inspector of Taxes.
It would appear to serve its purposes,
including that of non-negotiability, quite
effectively.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
J "" =— —BSpsl ii
vfel
c^-
TO
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G. Bulfin
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
*Ol
Security
Economy
Service
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
aaxran
‘viTvaxsav 10
{lncorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ; Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
VyJ.
H
n
&
4
•a /
%
w
%
W
«*:
*Ol
%
WA 45-41
§5
The American Eagle
builds his eyrie
The U.S. Army is no stranger to Masonite. For years before “the
Wonder Board” was manufactured in Australia, Uncle Sam’s
fighting men found Masonite a part of their daily lives. But
now the great American eagle must build an eyrie in Australia
—must have huts for troops, mess tables . . a hundred and one
urgent requisites. Naturally, the first choice was Masonite . .
Masonite fabricated in Australia—Masonite which is equal to
the highest quality board produced in the United States! And
so Masonite becomes the practical symbol of a great alliance
. . . the alliance of America with Australia ... of science with
nature ... of infinite utility with amazing economy.
Manufactured by Masonite Corporation (Au si.) Limited from Wood Fibre
MASONITE TEMPERED PRESDWOOO.. PRESDWOOD..TEMPRTILE..QUARTRBOARD OE-LUXE
DISTRIBUTORS
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
The Australian note issue, by its great
expansion since the war broke out, has
aroused fears of inflation in the minds
of a considerable number of people. The
total of the issue was £107.3 million
on August 10, compared with £48.5
million just prior to the outbreak of war,
and up from £72 million since Labor
took office on October 7 last year.
Actually the size of the note issue at
present cannot be taken as evidence of
substantial inflation in itself. Most of
the increase is in the hands of the
people, according to figures published
by the Commonwealth Bank at regular
intervals; little or none of the extra cur-
rency is held by the banks. It therefore
appears that the people are demanding
more notes for the purpose of retaining,
and it is not usual for people to want to
retain inflating money—that is, money
which is losing its value. And you can’t
force notes on to people unless they are
willing. No ; although some inflation has
already taken place in Australia since
the outbreak of war, with the threat of
still more, the increased note issue is an
effect rather than a cause. The Com-
monwealth is financing its Budget gap not
by issuing more notes but by discount-
ing Treasury bills with the Common-
wealth Bank, and over the last 12 months
no less than £64 million has been
obtained by this means. Although this
is a form of borrowing—at a very low
rate of interest —it is borrowing through
book entries only, and no Australian
citizen is directly deprived of buying
power thereby. But as the Government
is given buying power thereby we have
not an exchange of buying power but
actually an increase, with no correspond-
ing increase in national production. It
is therefore inflationary and fictitious
finance, and its effect eventually is to in-
crease prices and costs. It has been
partly responsible for the lift of 17.9 p.c.
in living costs since war started.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
In Melbourne last week War Organi-
sation Minister Dedman and Aircraft
Production Minister Cameron listened
to strong criticism of man-power adminis-
tration —at the Trades Hall. A member
of the electrical trades said man-power
had been so badly distributed that among
essential industries the war effort was
likely to be thrown into confusion.
Officials handling the distribution of man-
power knew little about industrial con-
ditions. A plasterer’s representative said
there was little science in the way tasks
were allotted to men called up. In an
allotment to the Civil Construction Corps
office workers had been given pick-and-
shovel work which they were incapable
of doing. Records indicated that 40 p.c.
of the men sent to the corps appealed on
medical grounds, and half of these
appeals were upheld. It will not be
enough for Ministers to act blindly on
the criticism of trade-union officials how-
ever right or otherwise they may happen
to be. It is not merely a matter of doing
something to pacify critics. The thing
is that certain statements have been made
that can be either proved or disproved,
and the charges are serious. If the Minis-
ters go into the matter with open eyes
they will probably find themselves as
much to blame as anyone. They are
only apprentices to their jobs, anyway,
even if Mr. Dedman has the “first-class
mind” Mr. Curtin says he possesses.
* * * *
Professor Copland, the Prices Com-
missioner, has come in for a great deal
of criticism in recent months. He has
been blamed for things he has been
obliged to do as a civil servant, and for
a number of others he apparently has
had nothing to do with. It is easy to
get matters out of their proper perspec-
tive, especially in these days of abbre-
viated news items and disturbed economic
and living conditions, Fadden, Leader
of the Opposition, has criticised Cop-
land for, “by economic dictatorship,
effecting profit limitation which the Gov-
ernment lacked the courage to ask Par-
liament to sanction.” As an attack on
the Government’s methods, probably jus-
tified. Later on Mr. Fadden stated that
his remarks were “not in any sense a
personal attack on Professor Copland,
who in the fixation of prices has rendered
excellent service to the nation. In the
fixation of profits, however, the Commis-
sioner is working at cross-purposes with
Treasury and taxation officials.” Though
in pre-war days The Bulletin did not
always see eye to eye «with Copland on
some economic questions, it credits him
with experience, ability and discretion,
qualities not everywhere apparent in the
present Ministry. He is the obvious man
for the job he is doing, which is an ex-
tremely difficult and important one.
• * * *
Stocks to have their selling bracket
widened last week included Broken Hill
Prop., Bradford Cotton, Felt and Textiles,
Gordon and Gotch, Yarra Falls, New
Broken Hill, North B.H. and Tableland
Tin. The market generally has the firmest
tone for several months, though still
down heavily on last year’s average, and
a number of leading stocks have been
jammed at the top selling price allowed
by the Treaury. As noted, many of
these have now been adjusted. The better
tone in the sharemarket at present has
mainly a political base, plus some regard
for possibilities of further inflation. Re-
lief over the abolition of the 4 p.c. plan
and the introduction of a single income
tax throughout the Commonwealth have
been tempered by the imminence of the
new Budget,
• * * *
Melbourne Steamship Co. has increased
its div. from 6 p.c. to 7 p.c. for the year
to June 30. This is an unusual circum-
stance among Australian public cos.,
shipping particularly. The rate is now
back to where it was in 1940, though still
less than pre-war.
* * * *
Apropos of the firm market for shares
in Adelaide Steam (B. 5/8/’42), in a
more speculative class United Provisions
ords. have had exceptional support in a
market that is still horribly depressed by
early-1941 standards. Highest price for
United Provisions ords. in 1941 was 10s.,
lowest ss. lOd. Lately there have been
sales of the scrip at 12s. Market support
appears to have been partly influenced
by the fact that the rate of earning in
the past has been comparatively low and
the shares are well below par, that there
has been a sustained demand for all
classes of food which the co. turns out
even though Asiatic markets have gone
for the duration, and that it is now pro-
posed to proceed with the canning of
vegetables on a large scale and with the
canning of meat to the limit of the
nation’s capacity. United Provisions
owns the businesses of I. C. Hutton Pty.
and Foggitt, Jones.
* ♦ * «
Part of Canberra’s war policy is a
Great Crawl to the Female three
coupons for a woman’s hat, six
for a man’s, and four for a pair
of man’s socks! There are tens
of thousands of Australian women
doing a fine job in this war, but there is
a lot of sickening stuff coming over the
air and appearing in the press. They
are marvellous, they are wonderful, they
absent themselves too much from work
—all in the same breath. Equal
pay with men is the latest economic
burden the country is threatened with.
Can’t Canberra forget about votes for
a while and get on with the terrific task
in hand?
* * * *
Through the Prime Minister Australia
was warned last week that the war pro-
gramme would mean various shortages,
including a sugar shortage and possibly
a scarcity of coal. Australia was going to
ship munitions in railway trucks, and
transport troops in trains. Internal lines
of communication would be used for
war purposes to compensate for the
growing shortage of shipping. War re-
quirements had to be given first place. It
is becoming plainer from day to day how
important transport is in the Australian
war-time scheme of things. We have had
some shipping losses in our own waters,
and the Empire and Allied nations gen-
erally have suffered severely. This throws
a greater burden on rail and road trans-
port, and makes coal production of
greater consequence than ever. It also
makes coal consumption, especially in
States that produce little or none, a
matter for rationing, coal being a bulky
commodity that consumes much of its
own weight in land transport. Transport
is also the key to the threatened sugar
shortage. It all comes from Queensland
or northern N, S. Wales.
• ♦ ♦ ♦
As things stand at present, in the
event of an air raid in Sydney any
N.E.S. vehicle crossing the harbor bridge
will have to stop and pay toll. If the
driver survives and retains his ticket he
may, by declaration, recover the six-
pence, plus 3d. for each passenger, any
time afterwards.
* ♦ * *
Though net profit of Olympic Tyre
and Rubber available for distribution
was £19,705 lower at £93,903 last term,
the drop was more than occasioned by
the short-provision to the extent of
£21,378 of taxation for the preceding
year. Furthermore, this year’s allocation
for War-time (Company) Tax was £lB,OOO
greater at £44,500.


THE SERVICE MAN
"The Marines Have Landed."
“Ek Dum”: Tulagi, in the Solomons,
880 miles from Moresby and 1120 from
Townsville, is a tiny elongatedisle shaped
something like the old “jewy” catfish of
east Australian creeks. It is so small that,
beside the 24-miles-long Florida which
curls a sheltering arm round it, it looks as
if a grasshopper could jump over it, as a
grasshopper could if it could negotiate
175 ft. and a palm-tree. Florida itself is
one of the most open islands —undulat-
ing grasslands and cultivation between
timber patches.
Tulagi had a Resident Commissioner
and was inhabited by British civil ser-
vants and a small commercial community,
plus the usual mop-haired native and
other races. It possesses all the conven-
tional Pacific features, such as moist
heat, coral and mosquitoes, and had the
usual brands of O.P.
Between Tulagi and the coast is another
speck, if some acquisitive Marine has not
pinched it for a souvenir—Makambo,
B.P.’s headquarters. It once gave its
name to s.s. Makambo, which one of its
officers christened “Davy Jones’s cradle”
—a delicate allusion to its rolling pro-
clivities. What tales Makambo could tell
of the “Old Days”!
Makambo is set inside a reef of peculiar
shape which runs far out eastward parallel
with the Florida coast, the shape of a
broad scimitar with the point aimed
menacingly at the end of the next reef,
which encloses Tanambogo and Gavutu,
which are linked, the kingdom of Lever.
Between Tanambogo and Florida the
Japs founded their seaplane base.
Twenty to twenty-eight miles south-
west of Tulagi is Guadalcanal or Guadal-
canar (2500 square miles), named after
a town in Spain. To the east is the
long island of Malaita (2400 square
miles). The island of San Cristobal
shelters the entrance to the passage be-
tween Malaita and Guadalcanal. North-
west of Florida is Santa Ysabel; south-
west of that New Georgia. All these
islands are clustered in a rough ring, a
sort of sea and island template for a
defence position on the Siegfried Line
model.
Tulagi and Florida are in the centre,
so that the waters round them are well
sheltered. All the approaches to Tulagi
are capable of being covered by long-
distance artillery from other islands or
by warships or fighters.
The only level bit of country suit-
able for aerodromes on any large scale
lies in the southern part of Guadalcanal,
which is about 80 miles long. This
suited Japan, with its eyes turned south-
ward. But the Japs’ possession of the
group has been challenged by Ameri-
cans and Australians co-operating in a
daring and dangerous offensive which, if
definitely successful, will have great
results and lead to greater results still.
Operations had been in progress four
days before Washington issued a com-
prehensive statement. The attack was
not the direct affair of the Anzac Area
Command, though General Brett with his
U.S.A.F. and R.A.A.F. men kept the New
Guinea bases, which might have given
aid or refuge to the enemy during the
battle, in a state of explosive ferment.
The main job was in the hands of
Admiral Ghormley, whose H.Q. is in
Maoriland, operating under the orders of
Admiral Nimitz, Naval Commander-in-
Chief in the Pacific.
The assault force used was from the
specially trained landing divisions of the
United States Marines. These landing
divisions can do anything from making
millionaire salad to climbing a palm-tree.
In U.S. naval circles they are supposed
to have two more plates of leather on
their necks than ordinary marines,
“Complicated and Difficult
After the opening assaults—“signifi-
cant,” said Admiral King in Washington,
“as the Allies’ first assumption of the
initiative and the offensive” —the enemy
began violent counter-attacks. On Tues-
day, August 11, Admiral King issued a
warning to airy optimists:
It should be understood that the opera-
tion now under way is one of the most
complicated and most difficult in warfare.
Considerable losses, such as are inherent in
any offensive operation, must be expected
as the price of hard-won experience which
is essential to the attainment of far-reach-
ing results.
He might have added that landings
from distant objectives across the sea
against an entrenched enemy with artil-
lery and land-based aircraft, and perhaps
armor, call for immense quantities of
shipping in relation to the force used, and
that beachheads cannot be consolidated
in a few hours.
Also, he might have called on Second-
Fronters to watch intently and reflect
that the difficulties of these landings were
not to be compared with those of an
attack on Europe from Britain.
In the Solomons the forces used would
be so relatively small that picked land-
ing units could be detailed. The enemy
was, by European standards, weakly en-
trenched. On the Channel coast, there
is defence-in-depth linking with other
defence-in-depth which reaches 300 miles
into Germany from the coast. Also 20
well-equipped aerodromes and a hundred
’planes for every one available to the
Japanese round Tulagi.
The first announcement from Washing-
ton declared that landings had been
effected at the cost of a cruiser sunk, two
destroyers and a transport damaged. It
added: “Our gains so far greatly out-
weigh our losses.” Admiral King men-
tioned that Japanese losses included many
’planes and numerous surface craft put
out of action.
l here was a period of anxious waiting.
On August 13 Marines H.Q. in Washing-
ton announced that the famous old regi-
ment “had opened the door to an Allied
offensive in the South Pacific.”
The naval communique issued in Wash-
ington on August 13 said:
U.S. Marines landed as scheduled on
three islands in the vicinity of Tulagi. The
Marines are now engaged in consolidat-
ing their positions. Supporting naval
forces have been engaged in bitter fight-
r ing, details of which are not yet available.
U.S. Army and Australian ’planes are
continuing their attacks on enemy land-
ing fields and shore-based aircraft. There
is substantial evidence that the Japanese
had planned and had well under way the de-
velopment of an enemy base in the Tulagi
area. Until more details are available it
is impossible to elaborate further on these
operations. All available communication
facilities are overtaxed by urgent messages
concerning operations. ,
Tokyo Radio, retailing an Imperial H.Q.
communique, gave an expanded list of
Allies’ shipping “losses”; “35 warships
and transports sunk and six more dam-
aged and believed lost.” Japanese losses?
Merely 21 ’planes which had “power-
dived into enemy vessels to wreck them,”
and a couple of ships damaged.
Taking a long breath, Tokyo’s trium-
phant announcer concluded: “Tune in to
Tokyo Radio for news which is really
dependable.”
Unperturbed by this rubbish, U.S
Navy Secretary Knox said that develop-
ments so far were “very good.”
Unofficial sources reported that,
strongly reinforced, the Marines were
pushing into four islands —Florida,
Tulagi, Guadalcanal and Malaita.
Marines H.Q. added: “The Marines
mean business. They intend to stay
landed.”
The Second Phase Begins
On the morning of August 14 the
battle had been in progress a week. That
it was proceeding well could be judged
by the timetable. If there had been de-
feat, the Allies would have been in retire-
ment before then. The time factor
assured that the Marines not only had
landed but, at least on some beach-
heads, had consolidated.
The Washington communique briefly
said that “operations were proceeding,”
but New York Radio stations added that,
despite attacks in the rear and fierce re-
sistance, the Marines had captuted a
Guadalcanal aerodrome. This could be
estimated as the first really progressive
and decisive step.
A place from which to take off land-
based aircraft, particularly torpedo car-
riers, would be the investing fleet’s great-
est need.
Against local defence with that advan-
tage, Admiral Ghormley’s ability to
put a force ashore showed his strength,
but not his power to hold out against a
powerful sea counter-attack and to keep
his supply lines open, once the first force
of his initial drive was spent.
The phase after the troops were on
the beaches would obviously be a race
between Japanese reinforcements, naval
and otherwise, and the Marines digging
in and providing facilities ashore which
would make their holding impregnable
until any future enemy move, no matter
how strong from the sea, could be dealt
with by additional Allied sea, land and
air units, and the seas and islands round
about were clear of the enemy.
The first round was won by the
Marines and their naval backers, but not
by much margin of time. As the first
foothold was gained on Guadalcanal,
there was news from Washington and San
Francisco that the enemy, with strong
naval backing, was attempting to bring
reinforcements. These were being pushed
off, the convoys carrying them broken
up by the Allied fleets and aircraft.
Vessels found by General Brett’s
bombers and reconnaissance ’planes in
Rabaul and other harbors advertised the
resources of the enemy, and encoun-
ters —unfortunately in bad weather —off
the New Guinea coast between Allied air-
craft and naval ships at sea indicated that
the southward flow of Japanese help had
begun.
Thus the opening of the second week
also saw the beginning of the second
phase—enemy naval counter-attack. It
was too early to say to what extent this
would develop, but up to August 17 there
was no suggestion that anything had
happened to endanger U.S. beachheads
or sea communications.
One thing was certain—the test was
psychological as well as physical. The
next week would tell the Allied command
whether the Japanese would show pru-
dence and weigh the stake against the
strength needed to hold it at such a dis-
tance from their main bases ; or whether
they would feel it important at a critical
juncture to save face with the Indians —
on whom at this moment a Japanese
failure might have specially salutary
effects—Thais, Burmese and North
Chinese by throwing in forces recklessly
and on a major scale.
Whether this was done also was likely
to give an important indication of the
direction of Japanese military thoughts.
What the Allied command discovers
about Japanese preparations on the
islands, yhat forces the enemy is able
immediately to apply against us, will tell
for sure whether he is engaged in large-
scale preparation for attempted invasion
of Australia and whether he has brought
the resources for its southward progress.
If he has in New Guinea and the Mar-
shalls forces commensurate with such
an adventure, he is unlikely to turn back.
Thus the Solomons battle may become
the beginning of one of the greatest
actions of the war and grow into a de-
cisive campaign for domination of the
south Pacific.
The Anzac Area’s Part
The story of Australia’s share of the
fight from the communiques:
August 10: While ground patrols inflicted
casualties on the enemy round Kokoda, Allied
medium bombers scored two direct hits on a
supply ship at Salamaua and left it burning.
A jetty was knocked sideways, several buildings
were blown up. and an a.-a. battery was silenced.
Gasmata had a heavy bomber raid. Many
hits were scored on Rabaul’s aerodromes in day
and night attacks and five “O” fighters were
brought down. The Allies lost one bomber.
August 11: Allied land forces strongly en-
gaged the enemy at Kokoda and forced his
withdrawal from prepared positions, inflicting
casualties. During a night raid Allied bombers
started fires on Rabaul aerodrome which could
be seen 50 miles away.
August 12: While reconnaissance ’planes
confirmed the sinking of an enemy steamer by
Allied forces in the Timor Sea, bombers
attacked further enemy ships with unknown
results and scored direct hits on the wharf and
buildings at Toeal (Kai Islands), some distance
off the west N.G. coast. Two “O” fighters
out of seven were shot down in dogfight north of
Samarai at the eastern tip of Papua; three
others probably destroyed and remaining two
damaged. One Allied ’plane was shot down,
others damaged. Hits were made near the run-
way in a night raid on Rabaul aerodrome.
August 13: Medium bombers attacked ship-
ping round Timor and installations around
island bases of north-west Australia with un-
known results. A 15,000-ton ship in Rabaul
Harbor was hit with heavy bombs and left in
flames; another large ship was seen sinking by
the stern; two medium ships were seen burning
and with a list. One “O” fighter was shot
down and from three to six were hit and
damaged when eight enemy fighters tried to
intercept the raiders, who reached home with-
out loss.
August 14: Weather conditions adverse in
N.G. area, but Flying Fortresses and medium
bombers made three daylight attacks on enemy
warships and transports. Results not known
because of bad visibility. The first bombers,
intercepted by six “O’’ fighters, shot down two
and damaged three. Medium bombers which
made the second run shot down one out of
seven interceptors. The third attack was not
interrupted. Though some Allied ’planes were
damaged, all returned.
August 15: Heavy bombers, in bad weather,
attacked a small escorted enemy convoy. Two
“O” fighters shot down, three damaged, out
of six attacking. Allied formations suffered
slight damage and minor casualties. All air-
craft returned safe. Our forward elements
engaged in a series of minor clashes with the
enemy at Kokoda.
August 16: Allied medium bombers attacked
enemy troops, buildings, road transport and
installations on s.-e. coast of Timor. Direct
W ts were made on buildings and fires started,
p” p i I?- er fi A n f faile^
tor Wa r“ P
„ . .
J °P rimous m the
”. P s ‘ttound the enemy-held
East indlan lslands o£ lhe north-west,
, . ...
Moresby m War Time
Meanwhile, though there has as yet
been no move in New Guinea, it has
been placed on a completely military
basis. Its civilians have been evacuated
almost to a man. Moresby’s, dusty brown
tracks have been carved into roads ; the
landscape around the town itself is pock-
marked with bombs, of which about 7000
were dropped without noticeably bending
the landscape. Less than a dozen men
have been killed in 70 raids and the small
war cemetery holds only 31 Australians,
three Americans, one Papuan soldier and
a . J a P war pilot as the result of nearly
eight months of fighting. Sergt. W. B.
Townsend, of the A.S.C., was the first
t' a tal war casualty.
Malta Gets Supplies.
“Ek Dum”: On the Egyptian front all
was quiet last week save for occasional
bursts of shelling, ground raids, probings
and reconnaissances and the ceaseless
activity of the air forces. Both armies
are now well dug in, both preoccupied
with the problem of supplies and rein-
forcements. It is significant that nearly
all the Italians before the A.I.F. posi-
tions have been replaced by Germans.
Last week several power barges—they
are about 100 ft. long—bringing stores
and ammunition for the enemy were sent
to the bottom, and for 12 minutes on
the morning of August 13 Italy’s Rhodes
defences were bombarded by a British
naval squadron under Rear-Admiral
Vian, while R.A.F. ’planes battered the
Maritza aerodrome on the north of the
island.
The main battle was a successful, though
costly, struggle by a powerful naval
squadron to push a convoy through to
Malta—the largest ever dispatched to
the invincible island.
Berlin Radio’s account was that Ger-
man and Italian naval and air forces
began to attack the convoy in the western
Mediterranean on August 11, and kept
up the attack for three days. Its escort
was declared to consist of three battle-
ships, four aircraft-carriers and flotillas
of cruisers and destroyers, guarding 21
large tankers and transports.
On August 12 the Admiralty an-
nounced the loss of the 22,000-ton air-
craft-carrier Eagle—the old Almirante
Cochrane, built for the Chilean Navy
before and during the last war, but
bought by Great Britain in 1917 and
completed as an a.-c. in 1924. She had
taken good toll in her day—her -’planes
were among those which smashed the
Italian fleet in Taranto Harbor on Nov.
12, 1940.
After the first day the enemy attacks
increased in volume but met strong
resistance. And, under Vice-Admiral E.
N. Synet, who commanded the invasion
fleet which occupied Madagascar, the
convoy reached Malta “in the face of
all efforts by large enemy concentrations,
which consisted of swarms of E-boats,
U-boats and dive and torpedo bombers.”
A squadron of Italian Bin.-gun cruisers,
with the usual type of support, gathered
but did not come within range of the
British escorts.
However, to the Eagle had to be
added the cruiser Manchester, 9400 tons,
12 6in. guns, one of the Southampton
class. Completed only in 1938, H.M.S.
Manchester had about the same comple-
ment as Eagle—about 750.
From both ships the bulk of the crews
were saved. Some from H.M.S. Man-
chester were believed to have reached
the Tunisian coast.
Two hits were scored by a British
sub., commanded by Lieut. A. G. Mars,
on an enemy cruiser, and the Axis heavy
ship formation turned away as soon as
F.A. aircraft appeared. One U-boat was
sunk for certain, another probably.
There must have been further loss at
sea, though no Admiralty details had
been issued at the moment of writing.
German claims were wildly exaggerated
—nine merchantmen of 90,000 tons
sunk, H.M.A.C. Furious listing heavily,
H.M.A.C. Wasp on fire and trying to
reach Malta (14/8/’42), two cruisers and
three destroyers sunk, three cruisers and
six more merchantmen of 51,000 tons
severely damaged—later the latter were
mentioned as sunk —and the bulk of the
convoy fleeing west.
On Aug. 16 London announced that
in the convoy battle the R.A.F. had shot


Divorce Notice.
TO CHARLOTTE VICTORIA MULLAN
formerly of 15 Elizabeth Street Melbourne in
the State of Victoria but now of parts un-
known Married Woman. —TAKE NOTICE that
your husband JAMES O’CONNOR MULLAN
has instituted proceedings for a divorce on the
ground of desertion. Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court of Victoria at Melbourne on or
before the Tenth day of September 1942 the
case may proceed in your absence If you in-
tend to defend this suit you must tile an
answer in the said office on or before the
Twenty-first day of September 1942 Dated the
Twelfth day of August 1942. —NOALL &
BYRNE, 325 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner.
down 13 enemy aircraft and lost four.
On Saturday the ships were being un-
loaded in Valeria Harbor, while the
R.A.F. staved off the gallant little island’s
2900th air raid.
According to an American correspon-
dent at La Linea, H.M.A.C. Illustrious,
five destroyers and either Rodney or
Nelson (35,000 tons, 16in. guns) had
entered the harbor, the battleship with
bows and sides damaged.
But the main thing was that the convoy
got through with fuel for the tight little
island’s fighter ’planes and food for its
courageous inhabitants.
Nearing the Caspian.
“Ek Dum”: The truth about the war
in Russia continues to be a grain of
sand in a hillock of rubbish presented in
newspaper and radio reporting.
The enemy High Command claims to
have taken a town. The claim is denied.
Then a days-old flood of description of
the fighting which preceded the supposed
capture is released from Stockholm and
other places. For ten days these garbled
descriptions give the impression that
the enemy is suffering bloody losses in
trying to win a position in which he
already is consolidated. Finally, the loss
is admitted, and another picture, as in-
accurate, begins to form.
Voronezh is not exactly a case in point,
but references to Voronezh have become
so confused that it is not sure from day
to day whether Germans or Russians
hold the city. Fourteen times in 19 days
the Russians drove back the Germans
and crossed the Don to the west, after
defeating and sometimes annihilating
Axis units and capturing inhabited places,
villages or—once —a sizable town un-
named. But there is never any claim that
an impression has been made on actual
Veronezh defences. And the status of
the sector may be judged by the fact
that it is under Hungarian command.
Further south-east, before Stalingrad,
attention has been devoted to the Ger-
man concentrations at Kletskaya, on the
north flank, and the south Kotelnikovo
flank, but no reporter had more than a
glimpse to spare for the central arrow-
point drive settled down at Kalach (B.
5/8/’42), only 40-odd miles from Stalin-
grad, a fortnight ago.
The Movement Against Stalingrad
At Kotelnikovo, the driving of a wedge
into the narrow Russian defences on the
high Don plain and the Ergeni Hills, be-
tween the Kalmuck Steppes and the river,
took only a matter of 24 hours after an
advance from the north side of the Don
at Tsymlyanskaya, which had taken about
a week.
So soon as the wedge was driven and
the southern barb of the push into
the Stalingrad defences had been brought
level with that at Kletskaya, and each
was only 75 miles from the threatened
city, it became clear that the Kalach
position harbored a dark-horse army
which had been steadily accumulating
resources.
At the beginning of last week Berlin
declared that Russians were streaming
eastward across the Don from captured
Kletskaya, while the Luftwaffe blasted
their ferries and transport columns. Pro-
gress was reported to be steady east of
Kotelnikovo, though there was strong
armored resistance. It was claimed
that the enemy here had been halted and
driven on to the defensive.
A Million Prisoners Claimed
Berlin on Aug. 13 officially announced
the end of a battle at Kalach, 40 miles
from Stalingrad, with the capture of
35.000 Russians and the destruction dr
capture of 217 tanks and 517 guns. It was
claimed that 57,000 Russian prisoners
had been taken and 1000 tanks and 750
guns taken or destroyed in the Don Bend
from July 23 to August 10, and that
since the beginning of the spring offensive
—April 15 —prisoners totalled 1,044,000,
tanks taken or destroyed 6271, guns
10.000 and aeroplanes 6032.
This would mean over 500,000 Russian
prisoners during the advance from Khar-
kov and Kursk, and 5,244,000-odd for
the whole period of the war. The half-
million are alleged to have been corralled
since June 26.
In the Caucasus
In the area further south, just north of the
Caucasus Range, the situation for the
defenders seemed for a time out of hand,
save in those regions where the enemy had
reached the mountains. He was moving
so fast along the foothills that it was
inconceivable that he was rheeting with
much resistance.
On August 10 his furthest-flung spear-
head was travelling along the northern
slopes of the Caucasus, 680 miles from
the commencement point of the present
series of battles at Kursk. At least 20
miles a day had been traversed by some
spearhead all through the progress of the
tremendous infiltration.
The Caucasus Rar\ge begins west of
Krasnodar, the refinery town and railway
junction, and Maikop, centre of an oil
region, both enemy prizes. It hugs the
Black Sea coast for some distance and
then forms a solid wall across the Cauca-
sian Neck to the Caspian Sea. On the
Black Sea there is a narrow littoral which
is connected to the main railway system
by the branch line through tunnels from
Maikop to the oil port of Tuapse—“Two
Ups” to announcers. The Caucasus is a
narrow range very level in its height
and only occasionally riveted down with
great volcanic peaks—it is like the
Pyrenees in conformation. Passes are
few and far between, and much of the
interval between them a sheer and solid
wall. If the Red Army has substantial
reserves, capable of being transported
and supplied, it should be able to form a
solid defence line along the Caucasus.
On August 16 Moscow admitted the
loss of Maikop after the oil wells had
been destroyed.
German procedure seems to be directed
to the two sea coasts, east and west.
Six Drives
By August 14 the southward attack had
split as follows:
One German force was pushing down
the Sea of Azov, encircling isolated Rus-
sian units and generally clearing the
region of its defenders. Another was
making its way over the Kerch Strait
from the Crimea at the extreme north-
western end of the ranges, ready to push
southward for 45 miles or so to the naval
base of Novorossisk.
Divisions near Maikop were fighting
for control of the rail, which would
enable it to drive to Tuapse, the oil port;
also for bridgeheads on the south of the
Kuban River.
A spearhead was fighting its way south-
eastward down the railway and pipeline
along the northern foothills of the moun-
tains towards Makach Kala, on the Cas-
pian, and the Grozny oilfields. It had
passed Georgievsk, and was about 60
miles from Grozny and 120 from
Makach Kala ; so that the loss of the rest
of the oil of the north Caucasian region
seemed imminent. The output of the Mai-
kop and Grozny fields is about 7,000,000
tons per annum. It is sufficient, or nearly
so, to maintain the German armies in
Russia even on their present scale of
operation.
Capture of both fields and the enemy
arrival at the Caspian would mean the
end of oil traffic from Baku and the
armament traffic from Iran, since, on
the 450-mile voyage to Astrakhan, all
tankers and cargo ships must become
accessible to both German bombers and
fighters. Even with Stalingrad and
Astrakhan unstormed, it is difficult to
see how traffic can be maintained on the
Volga with the enemy 40 miles away
and natural landing grounds for ’planes
everywhere.
From the main drive across the Black
Sea-Caspian neck, still another spearhead
branched south to the headwaters of the
Kuban River, where a new military road
crosses between Mounts Psysh (12,464 ft.)
and Elbruz (18,471 ft.) on its way to
Sukhum and the low littoral of Batoum.
This is the one serious adventure
directly across the Caucasus which the
enemy needs to make ; but it is very diffi-
cult, since the southern end of the track
will not carry wheeled traffic.
Road and rail and oil pipelines run
into low estuary country from the Black
Sea eastward from Batoum, and thence
through passes and river valleys to Baku
on the Caspian.
The distances from the Black Sea coast
are: To Tiflis, about 200 miles; to the
south Caspian, another 300 miles.
To reach Baku from Makach Kala
the enemy need make no mountain
crossing. A narrow strip of low coastal
land, served by a railway, runs along the
Caspian shore all the 240 miles to Baku.
Thus, by crossing only 40 or 50 miles
of real range country in the Cherkess
region, plus some foothills, it would be
possible for the enemy, if not strongly
enough resisted, to encircle all that
matters of the Caucasus region and cut
off supplies from Britain and the U.S.
sent by the Caspian route.
North of the Caucasian drive and
between it and the Kotelnikovo spear-
head, yet one more German column was
making eastward. It had passed Elista,
about 130 miles from Astrakhan, on
August 13, had slipped from the higher
land to the Kalmuck steppes and was
threatening both Astrakhan and the flank
of the defending armies of Kotelnikovo.
Position Summarised
Outside the Caucasian area the only
activity on the Russian front was reported
to be north of Rshev and south-east of
Lake Ilmen. Here the Germans twice
admitted last week that they were fighting
a “defensive battle,” but claimed the
repulse of the Russians.
The general Russian position by the
week-end was reaching the extremes of
peril. It has to be considered in the light
of the fact that Russia still possesses vast
territories and great man-power re-
sources, and should thus be capable of
waging such a war as China has waged,
and that for a longer period. But there
is small likelihood of getting suffi-
cient supplies from Asia to change the
face of the campaign, or even a tithe of
the transport necessary to lift food and
armaments for 2,000,000 to 3,000,000 men.
Except for one or two, widely spaced,
railways between Asia and Europe are
single-track and highways built for heavy
loads insufficient.
Forty-five divisions in actual fighting
on a defensive line would need 3000
rail truckloads (15 tons) of ammunition
alone delivered every full combat day.
The nearest of the new armament areas
is nearly 1200 miles from the Volga.
Assuming that only 600,000 men were
actually fighting, there must be at least
another 200 Red Army divisions in the
field for the Russians to make a come-
back. All these would have to be fed
and munitioned over roads and railways
from 1000 to 2000 miles or more long.
If the Germans secure control of the
Volga crossings, the next move in
Russia must be either north of Voro-
nezh or the Rshev region to cut the
traffic arteries .coming into Moscow from
the east and to close its fortress barrier,
which has a circumference of about 350
miles.
Once Moscow were enclosed nothing
outside it in European Russia would
be of much importance, except the
three Volga cities of Kuibyshev, Kazan
and Gorki (Nijni Novgorod). And the
fate of Moscow and Leningrad would be
determined by the resources which they
held within themselves.
Leningrad is besieged by only a few
divisions. To hold Moscow enclosed
might call for anything from 600,000 to
1,000,000 men. The enclosure accom-
plished, the rest of the country would
need only strong garrisons. Hitler would
then have at least 1,000,000 men for use
in other spheres.
But nature and the human spirit em-
bodied in the Russian soldier spoilt his
programme last winter, and he still has
great moral and material factors to
reckon with.
More A.I.F, veterans of the campaigns
in Libya, Greece, Crete and Syria have
returned to a country which has every
reason to be proud of them. Among
them was a battalion that won 30 deco-
rations in the field on three continents —
among them three D.S.Os., four D.C.Ms.,
eight M.Cs. and 13 M.Ms. They were
hard-earned battle honors Sergeant
Copelin, for instance, won his M.M. by
single-handedly putting a whole tank
crew out of action with a pistol which
he pushed through the peepholes. Nearly
all the lads looked in splendid shape, and
after a well-earned rest they will be ready
for anything the Japs can do.
* * * *
The enemy is learning from bitter
experience that it is one thing to take
“control” of country and another to get
rid of Australian service men. Italian
Radio has been complaining bitterly of
the operations of grim Australian left-
overs in Libya, and Moscow Radio men-
tioned 3000 Australians and Maori-
landers who are said to be fighting with
30,000 guerrillas serving out hot curry
to Axis garrisons in the Balkans.
No pains and penalties have succeeded in
forcing .the inhabitants to “give up” Dig-
gers in Crete, who are carrying on their
own war in their own way. In Timor
Aussies are reported to be still operating
on a considerable scale. Good old
Digger!
« ♦ ♦ »
A U.S. Pacific Fleet task force dropped
3000 shells into the main Jap camp on
Kiska in the Aleutians. The enemy mis-
took the first shells for bombs, and for
some time his a.-a. guns blazed away at
nothing. A Jap destroyer was hit and
set on fire; a cargo vessel was sunk and
two others were damaged. In this
and previous air attacks the Japanese
lost at least 20 warships or auxiliary
vessels, and in one onslaught seven
seaplanes at anchor were destroyed.
Tokyo reported: “All attacks have' been
victoriously beaten off.” A U.S. naval
officer from Pearl Harbor remarked that
because of the bad weather the warfare
was only stealthy and neither side was
making much progress.
* * * *
The disturbances in India consequent
upon the arrest of the Congress leaders
have not been sufficient to affect the war
effort. Outside Bombay, Delhi, Allaha-
bad and some belated mob violence at
Calcutta the atmosphere was calmer than
a normal Moharram festival. The Gov-
ernment’s methods are stern.
* * * *
The death of Lieut.-General W. H. E.
Gott, O.C. 7th Armored Division, while
flying to Cairo on leave was a blow to
General Auchinleck’s Eighth Army. Still
young as generals go, Gott was a front-
line soldier who shared the roughest
melees with his tank men.
*** ■ *
The U.S. Navy has reported the 420th
sinking by a U-boat in the American
zone. All the same, losses of ships along
the U.S. and American coasts have
recently been below the average for previ-
ous months.
* * * *
British ’planes dropped 13,000 tons of
bombs on enemy territory in July, against
8500 tons in July, 1941. Within the seven
days ended August 17, the two greatest
raids were a 200-machine attack which
laid 450 tons of explosive on Osnabruck
—of which the Grand Old Duke of York
was of yore appointed titular bishop
when seven years old, at a modest stipend
of £50,000 a year—and on Mainz, an
important industrial and traffic city on
the Rhine, about 100 miles s.-e. of
Cologne. Between July 12 and August 8
there were 13 R.A.F. attacks on Ger-
many—in one over 600 machines were
used ; in ten between 200 and 400. Only
one was by fewer than 100. Raids over
Britain were light—the Germans men-
tioned attacks on Ipswich and East-
bourne. Raid casualties in the U.K. in
July were 368 killed and missing and
803 wounded and sent to hospital.
* * * *
U.S. pilots are now flying their own
’planes on raids from Britain and in
Libya.
* * * *
Three Maorilanders waving white
handkerchiefs out of an Italian seaplane
arrived in Malta with five captive Italian
airmen. They had been shot down in
their own ’plane, had floated for 24 hours
in a dinghy and were taken into the
Italian seaplane. One of the Italians
became airsick; so an enterprising guest
knocked him out, appropriated his pistol
and forced the pilot to take the machine
to Malta.
* * * ♦
The crew of H.M.A. destroyer Nestor,
sunk by bombs on June 16 while on
convoy in the Mediterranean just south
of Crete, arrived in Australia recently,
all full of praise for their captain,
Commander A. S. Rosenthal, D.S.O. and
bar, of Walkerville (S.A.). Three-
quarters of the complement were South
Australians.
* * * *
A survivor of the Westralian battalion
told the official Australian correspondent
that the Germans held their fire against
the attack on Ruin Ridge until the bat-
talion had advanced about 1800 yards.
They then let loose with hundreds of anti-
tank guns, mortars, 88-m.m. guns, a.-a.
guns, m.-gs. and what seemed like
1,000,000 automatic rifles. Mortar bombs
exploded at the rate of 10 a minute, but
“the boys marched through as if they
were on parade.” The sergeant said:
You would see seven men tramping for-
ward in a line. A shell would burst near
them, but when the smoke cleared away
tlrere would still be five —still tramping
forward.
The facts appear to be that the Ger-
mans wanted an Australian battalion and
Ruin Ridge at any cost, and made a
concentration on a very short bit of front
designed rather to stop a division than a
battalion. And the massing of an effec-
tive counter-attack to rescue the West-
ralians was out of the question.
* * * *
First details established the Lan-
caster as the fastest large bomber —over
300 m.p.h.—the fastest large climber
among the giants with heavy bomb
capacity and the heaviest protection.
It carries eight tons of bombs and can
handle two night fighters—normally two-
engined machines of great range and
with heavy cannon armament —at a time.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Seldom has war-time entertaining been
so neatly timed and so successful as at
the Lady Mayoress’s afternoon tea in the
lower Town Hall, which began at the
moment the Lord Mayoral luncheon to
mark the centenary of Melbourne left off.
No sooner had the Lady Mayoress re-
ceived her guests and led the vice-regal
visitor with her following of two to the
circle of chairs for the elect than Mayor
Beaurepaire emerged from “above” with
Town Clerk Wootten, and it was at once
seen that they were escorts for the Gover-
nor. So they joined the ladies. Immedi-
ately the Governor insisted on meeting
everyone in the room and commenced a
round of the floor, shaking hands here
and there and asking of most how their
war work was progressing. Meanwhile
his better half had done precisely the
same in another quarter of the room.
When tea did arrive, some of the guests
had to wait till the first set of cups was
washed up before they could be accom-
modated with their tea, but that was just
war atmosphere.
New auxiliaries spring up everywhere,
and some fail for lack of the proper link
between the auxiliary and the object of
its service. But The Anchors, who are
now in their stride to work for the mari-
time services, include many girls whose
work takes them into close contact with
shipping, and they are going to put their
weight into work for the merchant sea-
men and for Navy House. Talking of
the seamen, someone has discovered that
they are omnivorous readers, and will
even tackle the three-decker novels of
the Victorian era, autobiographies and
travel stories. Anyone possessing un-
wanted books of that description should
send them to the Seamen's Mission, or
belter ring up the Mission, quote the
titles of the books and let th? authorities
decide whether they will do before start
ing on the hunt for a carrier to deliver
the tomes.
Blood Bank Week sounds rather grim,
but last week was really a cheerful one,
for it showed how many people of all
types are ready with the pink gore that
is asked for either to store or to give for
an emergency case. In the waiting-room
where the blood donors meet after they
have given the pint measure demanded
of each are to be found drivers of lorries,
ladies of leisure (still some left), girls
from study at business college or univer-
sity, bank clerks, male and female, and
lots of honest-to-goodness housewives
whose families know vaguely that
“mother” fits in a three-monthly visit to
the blood-bank clinic between bouts of
shopping. At the bank’s quarters are
V.A.Ds. and nurses and doctors, all ready
to do their work with silent efficiency.
The quarters themselves are the last word
in hospital equipment, and quite an eye-
opener for many of the donors.
Victoria prepared to do its bit for the
national Y.W.C.A. shilling drive at a
luncheon given by the chairman, Mrs.
Lyons (over from Sydney), and the
deputy chairman, Mrs. Gertrude Kumm,
of Melbourne. Mrs. Kumm bluntly told
her guests that it was getting hard to
raise money, but the need was the excuse
for this emergency drive. As most
families now have a daughter in one or
other of the women’s auxiliary war ser-
vices Mrs. Kumm may have a happy sur-
prise, for if there's one thing more than
another that people like to feel it’s that
the boy and girl not able to come home
on leave are having their week-ends and
long evenings at battle stations somewhat
brightened by games and books and danc-
ing. Y.W.C.A. huts which it is proposed
to build with the money from the drive
will provide all this and, for good
measure, a sort of guardian angel. The
name “welfare officer” for her is a bit
of a misnomer, for she’s as much inter-
ested in seeing that the girls get their
washing done and their letters stamped
and a bit of a laugh as in their being
kept fit for their war duties.
Women journalists who can’t join up
and have made the formation of a library
and newspaper section at Air Force
House their war effort were thanked very
heartily at the House’s annual recording.
If there’s one thing more than another
that the lads on leave appreciate at their
“club” it’s their favorite journal, a thriller
or other good story to take their minds
off events around them for a few hours.
When pretty Elaine Knox-Knight mar-
ried her returned soldier from the Middle
East, hundreds of old soldiers wished
luck to the youngest daughter of a man
under whom they had served in the 1914-
18 war, Lieut.-Col. Knox-Knight, who
d> e£ i on service. Her bridegroom, Captain
Wilfred Holden Sherlock, had as best
man Lieut.-Col. Balcombe Griffiths,
Elaine’s brother is Wing-Commander E.
g. Knox-Knight. Two sisters are Mrs.
Douglas Faulkner and Mrs. Milleaf.
Mrs. Knox-Knight, bride s mother, after
a successful career on the Inky Way, now
gives her friends more time to see her
at her home in Armadale or at an occa-
sional race meeting where she makes a
welcome appearance.
Kathleen Mary Scantlebury (Mary to
b er b ig c i rc i e G f friends) has announced
her enga g emen t to Surgeon-Lieut. Hugh
Catc bi oV e G f t h e well-known medical
family in Elwood. Miss Scantlebury was
ac] , -j and toppe d o ff her educa-
tion . commencing an arts course at the
Universityj interrupting this to become a
R . c transport driver. With both
ties ful j y engage d in the war effort,
f uture plans are ne bulous. Both the
Scant i ebury an d Catchlove families have
uted me dicoes since the early days of
A F ust ralian colonisation. Bridegroom-to-be
has brothers who also carry on the medi-
cal tradition.
with all its dancing and entertaining
areas pac ked out or else doing useful
for the duration Melbourne is
rap idl y acquiring a new set of rendez-
vous One of the most interesting of
tbese is the cellar cool of Matthew Lang,
next to tbe Legacy Club. Here many
we lfare and other war associations have
f oun d a haven when lent the cellars for
a “ r aise-funds” party, their efforts being
mucb helped by the chatelaine, Mrs. J.
Bowen Pain, wife of the Victorian
manager.
Mrs p ain> here pictured by Dickinson-
Momeath, i s a balletomane,and one of our
best j udges Q f a ballet or theatre show, for
before she married she had considerable
erjencc on the Lon don stage. Of the
many stars s b e has understudied or with
whom she acted Gertie Lawrence and
Evelyn Laye have left the happiest
memories, but Mrs. Pain’s repertoire of
stage stories is by no means exhausted by
them. A real treat is to hear Mrs. Pain
and Edwin Styles swap stories of the
English stage. They are both able to see
the sunny side of celebrities’ dispositions,
j n her capacity as Field Director of
American Red Cross activities Jane
Hashagen is one of the speakers most in
request at women’s auxiliary meetings,
Miss Hashagen, who has a breezy manner
an( j a cheery laugh, was the first Ameri-
can WO man Red Cross worker Victoria
saw> anc j soon was a well-known figure
on our streets with her field-grey uni-
form matched with grey cap of the kind
that men G f the French Army of the last
war donned. When sometimes she wore
her scarlet-lined coat over her suit she
was a po ilu of the old days to the life —
t b e WO man in the U.S.A. who designed
the uniform was obviously of the French
sc hool of design. Miss Hashagen’s daily
work at an American field hospital, she
says> so far is mostly keeping the sick
boys cheerful, and involves lots of shop-
ping for them,
After a period when they must have
f e i t neg lected, singers and players are
coming into their own as the best war-
time entertainers. On Sunday, Rita Miller,
fo r S ome years a singer in French opera,
was a so iojst 0 j s t at the afternoon concert in
jallis wing of the Un i. Con., and Etta
Bernard was the feminine star at the
Lady Mayoress’s centenary reception.
Muriel Cheek and her choir are doing
sterling work for the troops, and giving
pleasure at sundry recitals, and Margaret
Murphy was vocalist at a Melba Flail
recital, with Estelle Coady as pianist.
Hermia Barton, Elsie Fraser and Flora
McLean were associated at the midday
concert in the Assembly Hall. One would
search the peace-time annals of Mel-
bourne’s music in vain for such a number
of successful appearances in so short a
period by the city’s* own songbirds. War’s
silver lining, in fact!
From Sydney
The Town Hall was the centre of
attraction for social and musical Sydney
last Saturday. Ignaz Friedman and the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra made part-
nership to aid the Polish and Czecho-
slovak armed forces fighting with the
Allies. If Mr. Friedman were not a
noted pianist, he might easily be a film
star. He certainly has the head and the
profile for it. The concert had a fashion-
able audience. Guinea-ites sat in the
vice-regal aura, but the concert was just
as good for the cheap seats. The Cause
merited every chair in the house being
a guinea, but, alas! while nobody is
afraid of the big blue income-tax col-
lector, all must be prepared for him. .
The hall was crowded, and Nan
Garvan and Mrs. Walter Burfitt, the sec-
retaries, might feel proud. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly was president of the committee, and
spoke in the interval, her clear, decided
voice carrying distinctly without the aid
of microphone. Pretty girls, swinging full
red skirts beneath white blouses very
puffed as to sleeve, sold programmes.
In front of the stage the Polish
flag was draped. Lady Gowrie, Lord
and Lady Wakehurst, Ivie Price and
Peter Lubbock were in the audience.
The appointment of the week among
the sex is that of Mrs. P. Burke, of Mos-
man, as woman organiser for N. S.
Wales for the National Savings Cam-
paign. Mrs. Burke is a B.Ec. of Sydney
University, having taken her degree with
honors. She is a noted public speaker,
has worked on political campaigns and
has done extensive field work in market
research. Her job is to get in touch with
all women’s groups and movements, and
her talks will deal with the savings that
can be effected in the household budget
or the paring-off by the businesswoman
of still another little luxury and the con-
version of the savings into war stamps
or certificates. Mrs. Burke’s husband,
a soldier of the 1914-18 war, is a soldier
of this war, too. Two sons are in the
army. Norton Trevaire photograph.
Mrs. Roland Foster, now minus a way-
ward appendix, is at the War Memorial
Hospital.
The Red Cross wishes next of kin of
prisoners of war to know that if they
have not already been sending personal
parcels to their kinsmen they should
make inquiries from the Red Cross
bureau as to the service which is avail-
able to them. If for any reason the next
of kin themselves cannot send parcels
they can nominate somebody else to do
so. The society will, until further notice,
include free of charge in each of these
parcels one £lb, tin of chocolate. Next
of kin should, therefore, make allowance
in their future parcels for this extra half-
pound. This contribution does not, of
course, prevent next of kin sending
chocolate themselves.
There were two little girls in blue at
the Gladys Moncrieff matinee last week.
This was named “The Cavalcade of
Stars” and benefited the Women’s All
Services Canteen at Central railway
station. The small girls were both bidders
in the Dutch auction, which was blithely
managed by an expert on the stage,
with Vinia de Loitte as assisting merry
man down among the stalls. Previously
Vinia de Loitte (the Comtesse de Vilme-
Hautmont), very smart in her trig black
outfit, had whisked about selling her own
dry-cleaning recipe for the cause. The
Dutch auction brought a lot of money.
The first bidder started off with £lO,
which he promptly lost. For in a Dutch
auction the prize doesn’t go to the highest
but to the last bidder.
At a quarter to three last Wednesday
afternoon there wasn’t an empty chair in
the vestibule of the Town Hall, where a
concert was held in aid of the Mayoress’s
C.A.S. Rest Centre. Hazel Wedlock, Mrs.
Hope Gibson and Miss Black were busy
front-of-the-house hands. Mrs. D. Mil-
grove in brown tweeds drew the ggze ; so
did Noelle Lowe, who was with her
mother, Mrs. Norman Lowe, Mrs. Harold
Bott, who was to have sung, had to
keep a sudden appointment with the ’flu,
and Heather Kinnaird stepped capably
into the breach. Georgina McClean,
Josephine Bell, B. Drysdale, Lynda
Gregory, Gwen Aldis and Sydney de
Vries were other contributors to a fine
programme. A tea party for the per-
formers, hostessed by Mayoress Crick,
followed.
Malcolm Aronson has sent out invita-
tions to a “five to seven” party on Sept.
4 to celebrate his mother’s 80th birthday.
Mrs. Aronson (she’s an 0.8. E.) was in
former days one of the city’s leading
newspaperwomen, founder, and a former
president, of the Society of Women
Writers. The invitation is illustrated
with amusing sketches of the various
decades in Mrs. Aronson’s life.
When the war is over and the
ledger of war-time service squared the
Kindergarten Union will have a very
glowing credit entry. Last week it added
still another service for children to its
already long list. The Frank Saywcll
kindergarten at Moore Park has now be-
come a centre of C.A.S, activity. Hence-
forth it will be known as a child refuge,
and (should such calamities happen) its
special charges will be children left tem-
porarily homeless through air raids.
A very realistic rehearsal of the results
of a Blitz, was held on a recent morning,
Lord and Lady Wakehurst being present,
not merely as onlookers, but doing their
bit to make the lot of the “victims” easier
by serving them with drinks of milk and
so on. As the supposed homeless ones
arrived they had identity discs pinned on.
Some of the older ones smilingly received
first aid. Songs were sung and stories
were read. Knight Sam Cohen (president
of the Kindergarten Union) arrived com-
plete with sweets for all.
The Barbara Mortimer Thomas Mem-
orial Fund now stands at £240. Women
hockey players throughout Australia
have responded gladly. Miss Thomas,
who was an old P.L.C. (Pymble) girl,
went to England in 1930 as a member
of the Australian women’s hockey team.
She stayed on in London to study massage
at St. Thomas’s. The Australian girl
had a distinguished student career, gain-
ing first place in England for anatomy.
Later she joined the staff of St. Thomas s,
where she held a high and responsible
position.
During the hell of bombs which fell
on London in 1940, Miss Thomas and
three other staff masseuses of the
hospital died as a result of injuries
while “in action.” Now funds are being
collected in London to raise memorials
to these four brave women, in the form
of scholarships for training masseuses.
That in memory of Barbara Mortimer
Thomas will benefit Empire students
overseas. Kathleen Commins is secretary
of the Australian end of the appeal. A
group of friends of her Sydney Uni. days
last week added a picture to the collec-
tion in Manning House (within the Uni.)
and books to the library as a more per-
sonal tribute to Barbara’s memory.
Artist Joseph Wolinski had a heartening
experience recently. He was present
at the unveiling of his portrait of the
late Dr. Antill Pockley. This was done
by Dr. Bertie Schlink at R.P.A. hospital.
R.P.A. is also enriched by a painting of
Dr. Scott-Skirving by Fred Leist.
Joan Oswald-Sealy is going to be
missed at the Elanora Country Club,
where she has been secretary for some
years. Her popularity was shown by the
roll-up to the farewell party in her honor
arranged by Elanora s president, Briga-
dier Playfair, and Mrs. Playfair. A
W A A.A.F. officers’ training school down
south will be Joan’s address after a week
or so.
Great things are expected from Darya
Collins and Edmee Monod’s dancing in
aid of the Red Cross. This is a Conser-
vatorium fixture for August 26. These
two clever Dutch dancers have been
rehearsing in the ballroom of Merioola,
formerly the Arthur Allen home. Lady
Cowrie saw the girls rehearse their
numbers early this week. Both the
Governor-General’s wife and Lady Wake-
hurst will be at the recital. Olga Krasnik
will be the pianist.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Rippling Avon’s narrow defeat of
Hullabaloo -in the Glenara Handicap at
Moonee Valley on Saturday was received
badly by a section of the crowd. Unable
to reconcile her form with her inglorious
failure when equal-favorite for the Mala-
koff Stakes at Flemington a week earlier,
disgruntled backers voiced their disap-
proval as diminutive apprentice Sander-
son brought the mare back to the enclo-
sure, Rippling Avon was never a possi-
bility in the Flemington race, but on
Saturday she recorded a particularly good
performance to win in the last stride.
She came from last at the five furlongs,
and was forced very wide on the turn.
W. Short, trainer of Rippling Avon,
contends that improved going was re-
sponsible for the mare’s improved form.
She was unable to stretch out in the
heavy ground at Flemington, slipping and
sliding from the start, and appreciated
the firmer track at the Valley. Sgt. C. R,
Maskell, part-owner, and former trainer
of the mare, stated that the stable com-
mission on Saturday, when Rippling Avon
started at 7 to 1, was much less than at
Flemington. Rippling Avon is a five-
year-old by All Sunshine-Parilta, and
stays well.
Pannade’s defeat of the .favorite,
Appeal, in the first Argyle Handicap was
the signal for another demonstration —
this time against the judge. Demonstra-
tors were deceived by the angle, or were
talking through their pockets. Appeal
finished fast, fairly wide out, and would
have won in a few more strides, but there
was no doubt that Pannade had lasted it
out. Official winning margin was a neck.
Cups candidates Velocity and True
Flight showed up well in this race.
Velocity shd\ved a lot of dash for a
stayer, and True Flight, looking some-
what above himself in condition, ran
home strongly in sixth position.
Phoines, runner-up in a Newmarket
and an Oakleigh Plate, justified heavy
backing for the first Kiata Welter. He
hit the front over three furlongs from
home, and won decisively from Manpower
and Law Student. Phoines has raced only
three times since a spell, and should con-
tinue to improve. Nictate followed up a
recent Geelong win by defeating Charm-
ing Lady and Naval Revue, who was un-
lucky, in the second Kiata Welter. His
10-to-l success ended a run of outs
for rider H. Badger, who completed a
double on Iridium in the second Argyle
Handicap.
Amana and Night Life won their divi-
sions of the. Sydenham Maiden Plate
(for three-year-olds) stylishly enough to
suggest wins in much better company.
Amana, a fine type of colt by the dual
Derby winner Talking from the Epsom
winner Capris, won the first division
very easily from Mosfino and Register.
Last-named, who looked above himself,
finished well enough to hearten backers
who concede him a Melbourne Cup
chance. Amana also looks susceptible to
improvement. He has raced only three
times, and his connections are not with-
out hope that he will develop into one
of the best of his age. Night Life, a
Piccadilly-Moonlight gelding, won the
second division in the proverbial canter.
More will be heard of him.
Jenny Law maintained her consistency
by defeating Philander and Azan over
the mile of the Laluma Handicap, for
three-year-olds. Philander looked some-
what unlucky, but Jenny Law herself
overcame difficulties. This Law Maker
filly has recorded two wins and two
seconds from her last four races, and,
being a granddaughter of Frances Tres-
sady, winner’ of the Victoria Derby and
Oaks, she should not be troubled by a
distance.
« « * «
On Saturday morning Ascot, Sydney,
looked in for a wet afternoon, but the
weather cleared, and there was an excel-
lent attendance, though a little below
that of recent meetings.
Kimbell (Gollogly) finished strongly to
win the Flying Handicap by a neck from
Marchotti, after the latter and Silverelda
had led into the straight. Phalaran made
up ground over the final furlong to run
a close third, and as Beau Frere was
fourth, after a three months’ absence
from racing, his turn for a win should
not be long in coming. It’s Funny was
one of the field, and ran respectably,
considering he did not look ready. After
showing some of his two-year-old pace
to the turn Linemond tired.
Knox had a strong hold of Gallop
when that horse was one of the last two
at the half-mile post in the Ascot Handi-
cap, but when he was sent along in
earnest Gallop moved up so rapidly that,
though he had to go rather wide, he was
a winner nearly a furlong from home.
Yours Truly, after assisting in the early
pacemaking, did well to get second, a
neck in advance of Cable Boy. Dick
Whittington had a useful lead coming to
the turn, but could not see it out.
Nemisis ran fairly, but, though there was
money for Wee Woo, she met with inter-
ference, and was never a possibility.
When Moondarewa (J. Thompson) ran
up to Plimsol in the straight in the Trial
Stakes he looked like winning comfort-
ably, but the latter hung so well that
Moondarewa had to be ridden out to
beat him half a neck in a second slower
time than that of Gallop in the Ascot
Handicap later in the day. Widden,
second favorite, did not have the best of
luck, but could not have won even if
more favored in that respect, and, apart
from Prepare showing pace for five fur-
longs, the form of the other runners was
not of any account.
After getting to the front in the straight
in the first division of the Three-year-old
Handicap, Mastery was outstayed by
Marwin (Knox), who was badly placed
when the field settled down. General
Smuts was squeezed back at the start,
and as he was still a long way from the
leaders at the three furlongs did well to
run a fair third. Brueghmah, a Brueghel
colt, led into the straight, and finished
fourth, while of the others Spear Patrol
(by Spearfelt) made the most promising
showing.
The Somme (Irvine), who was having
his first race in the second division of
the Three-year-old Handicap, was in
charge after going a couple of furlongs,
and won by a head from Santa Cruz,
who was late in getting a clear run. Glen-
fort (Melfort-Euglena) attracted attention
by his fast finish in third place. Davinia,
who had not raced since April, will do
better next time. Always well placed, she
was too new to see out the seven furlongs
in time three-quarters of a second faster
than Marwin recorded in his division.
The Somme is a sturdy gelding by The
Marne from Bramba, by Repartee from
Foremost, by Multiform from Otterden.
He was a 300gns. yearling.
The usual collection contested the 14.2
race, and Mit (Doon), with the advantage
of a 71b. apprentice allowance, was a
sure winner from the top of the straight.
Bucolic’s (Powell) Welter Mile win did
not surprise those who noted how well
he ran, after commencing badly, in a
race won by Brazen Boy a fortnight
earlier. Glamour Lad and he cleared
right away from the remainder of the
field in the first half-mile on Saturday,
and after leading into the straight Bucolic
was not troubled to win from Christopher
Milne and Brazen Boy, with Glamour
Lad fourth. Now that Bucolic has re-
gained something of his old form a longer
race than a mile should not come amiss
to him.
* * * *
As some owners and trainers are
anxious for Government control of
racing in respect of prize-money, why
not go a step further and pool the
horses? That is to say, in order to
equalise trainers’ chances of making
money, let the Government take cotrol
of all racehorses, no matter by whom
owned, and allot them to the various
stables. An absurd suggestion, certainly,
and there would be a general retirement
of owners, but it would be a move
towards the visionary project of the
equalisation of wealth, and would find
favor with trainers of socialistic ten-
dencies.
* * * *
Even in the highest circles of owners
and trainers reversal of form crops up.
Less than a fortnight prior to winning
the New One Thousand Guineas odds ol
3 to 1 were laid on King George’s crack
filly Chariot in a field of 10 at Salisbury.
So far from winning, the best she could
do was to run a dead-heat for third. It
was her first defeat.
* * * *
As usual the books in their publica-
tion of double lists for the Epsom and
Metropolitan, before the issue of weights,
are seeking to safeguard handicapper
Wilson against the possible mistake of
treating some horses too lightly. Well,
he depends upon his own judgment where
handicapping is concerned, and book-
makers’ berley will not weigh with him.
It has not been so with all handicappers,
and early lists, in conjunction with a
little newspaper boosting, have on occa-
sions gained more weight for some horses
than was justifiable on form.
* * * *
Battle Dress has done well since he
resumed work in Maoriland, but accord-
ing to a Wellington exchange he is not
to be raced in Australia in the spring.
In two Cups lists issued after the appear-
ance of the weights he was fairly high up.
* * ♦ *
As was to be expected, there was con-
siderable falling-off in Epsom and Metro-
politan entries. There is not so much
rubbish from N.S.W. as usual, owners
and trainers having more time in which
to decide whether it was really worth
while nominating moderate horses. Mel-
bourne entries dropped considerably,
difficulties of transport being probably
responsible to a greater extent than the
decreased prize-money. There will be
a good betting market, and with Mel-
bourne owners that counts. The Derby
appears unlikely to attract many southern
runners, and as its value is again £5OOO
that will not be attributable to a lower
stake than of recent years or marked
superiority of N.S.W. three-year-olds.
Queensland has more horses engaged
in the two principal handicaps than usual,
and, though lack of Victorian support is
regrettable, it might be safe to bet that
runners for the Epsom and Metropolitan
will at least equal last year’s totals —16
each.
* * * ♦
Sudden development of form does
occur, but it will approach a miracle if
some of the horses left in the Hobartville
Stakes come on so rapidly as to give them
the slightest chance of success in that
race. In a handicap, Riverton and Hall
Stand would have to concede from a stone
and a half to two and a half stone to
several. Though it does not cost much
to withdraw them, the fact that they are
still in suggests that their respective
owners and trainers are in a high class
as optimists.
* * * *
The percentage of winning favorites at
Randwick last season was higher than
usual. Races run at that track totalled
159, and of these 58 were won by abso-
lute favorites, four by horses sharing
favoritism with another, the favorite was
one of two dead-heaters in two races,
there were four equal favorites for one
race, three for another, and in each these
included the winner. So favorites or
part-favorites gave a return in 66 races.
There was only one day on which all
the favorites or part-favorites were
beaten. On one occasion six of seven
races went to the popular choice, and on
another four and a half of six. Odds-on
chances won 14 races, five of these being
two-year-old handicaps.
* * * *
Paris, Hymettus, Poseidon, Uncle Sam
and Whittier each won two Caulfield
Cups, and with 8.11 —81b. more than last
year—Velocity has been given a reason-
able chance of equalling their record.
Veiled Threat beat him rather easily in
the Sydney Cup, but he will meet that
horse 91b. better in the Caulfield Cup.
The difference is sufficiently great to give
him bright prospects of turning the
tables.
Up to a fortnight ago Beau Vite’s pro-
gress was satisfying his trainer, but after
galloping at Randwick on Tuesday of
last week he was lame on pulling
up. He has ended his racing career.
While he may not have quite reached
the standard of Phar Lap or Peter Pan
as a stayer, Beau Vite proved himself a
high-class horse. He won 31 races, ran
second in nine, third in five and put to-
gether £26,680 in prize-money. In re-
spect of time, he holds one Australian
record —2. If for a mile and a quarter at
Randwick.
* * * *
In the way of instructions a prominent
old-time American trainer. Father Bill
Daley, is credited with having a formula
that he did not vary. He liked to see
his horses in the lead, and it is said of him
that his instructions to all his riders
were: “Go to the front, and improve
your position.”
* * * *
One of the hardest worked two-year-
olds in Sydney last season was the 14.2
filly Easy Mark. She started 14 times
for five wins, three seconds, two and a
half thirds, and £785 in prize-money. She
did better than any other of F. W.
Hughes’s big team of fillies.
# * * *
The Newcastle J.C. is eclipsing itself
with a £2150 programme on October 31
—Derby day at Flemington and a Moore-
field meeting in Sydney. The great Nor-
thern Cup will carry £1250 —£1000 for
first —and the Newmarket £5OO, and it
is to be hoped those owners and trainers
who have most to say on the subject oi
prize-money will show their appreciation
by nominating freely.
« * * *
In America the Federal Government
recently decided to levy a 5 per cent, tax
on tote betting. It is anticipated that
this, on top of the tax now charged, will
kill racing in many States. Florida, for
instance, is already burdened with a 15
per cent, deduction, and another 5 per
cent, would be a little too much for tote
bettors to carry.
Miscellaneous
Alleged to have been N.Z. welterweight
champion, Merv Willis failed to reach
N.Z. standards, as Sydney remembers
them, against Hockey Bennell at Leich-
hardt. Bennell took things easy most of
the time, though he made a show of
punching after the second round ended.
In the fourth Willis almost fell from
exhaustion, and a left that dropped him
to one knee did not seem solid. Came a
left and right that were real punches, and
he just managed to beat the count. Ben-
nell scored two more knockdowns in the
fifth. The massacre was then stopped.
« * * *
Most of the Melbourne teams had
more customers to please on Saturday.
Carlton, after trailing behind Fitzroy
three-parts of the journey, mounted an
offensive in the last quarter and drove
a wedge through the astounded Maroons
to a 17.13-13.20 victory. Essendon (11.17)
and Collingwood (9.10) was the closest
go of the others. Richmond beat St. Kilda,
18.20-8.8, “Sowth” whipped North, 22.13-
12.15, and Hawthorn took its usual medi-
cine from Melbourne, 16.22-7.15. It’s
still Richmond, Essendon, Sowth, Foots-
cray, Carlton.
* * * *
Though there are two competition
rounds still to be played “the four” for
the Sydney Rugby Union semi-finals has
been decided. West, needing a win
vagainst Parramatta, had to be satisfied
with a 14-all draw. University, Manly,
East and Parramatta will be in the semi-
finals, Parramatta for the first time.
Manly (25-6 against Gordon) and East
(15-8 against Drummoyne) won easily
enough, but Randwick, coming good too
late, scored try for try with Uni. and
drew 16-16. St. George beat North 18-12.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
(Before Acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Trial Hurdle: Pantoon, 1; Pro-
teus, 2; Arklow, 3.
Trial Handicap: Silvwin, 1 ; Sil-
vermane, 2; Lady Martarma, 3.
Yarborough Handicap: Night
Life, 1; Grain Trader, 2; Azan, 3.
Queensberry Handicap: Phonies,
1; Law Student, 2 ; Operatic, 3.
Ascot Thousand: True Flight, 1;
Prairiedale, 2 ; Hestia, 3.
Welter Handicap: Darraweit, 1 ;
Mollie Con, 2 ; Veiled Promise, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances .)
By “ PILOI ."
Jumpers’ Flat Race: Rameo, 1;
Anpapejo, 2.
Three-year-old Handicap: Main
Topic, 1 ; Davinia, 2 ; San Sebastian
or Aquatic, 3.
Flying Handicap: Soho, 1 ; Radi-
cal, 2 ; Common Sense, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Angus, 1 ;
Tuokool, 2; Bucolic or Bona
Fide, 3.
Brighton Handicap: Haridelle,
1 ; Ron Rico, 2 ; Pantler, 3.
Welter Handicap: Cadger, 1 ;
Trade Mark, 2 ; Plimsol or Royal
Emblem, 3.
FOR VICTORIA PARK.
(At Ascot).
(Before acceptances .)
By “ PILOT.”
Novice Handicap: Henrietta, 1 ;
Barrenjoey, 2 ; Turmoil or Looter, 3.
Fourteen-two Handicap: Scooter,
1 ; Mit, 2.
Welter Handicap: Dick Whitting-
ton, 1 ; Widden, 2 ; Mary Lou or
Gallop, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap ; Pall Mall, 1 ; Parsing, 2 ; Mar-
chotti, 3.
Flying Handicap: In the absence
of Radical Mannerheim, 1 ;
Milanja, 2; Cradle Song, 3.
Victoria Park Handicap: Amber-
spear, 1 ; Yours Truly, 2 ; Gun-
dagai, 3,


FIND NEW HEALTH
You cannot enjoy good health if you
suffer from constipation. To-night,
before retiring, chew one or two NY AL
FIGSEN TABLETS. Figsen is so easy
and pleasant to take; no nausea, no
griping pain. In the morning Figsen
acts thoroughly, effectively, yet so
gently and mildly. Figsen helps to re-
store a natural bowel action. Equally
good for young and old. Figsen is one
of the 168 dependable NYAL FAMILY
MEDICINES. Sold by chemists every-
where. 1/3 a tin.
The next best thing id Nature . ..
NyalFiffsen
THE GENTLE LAXATIVE
‘‘Good for a Lifetime”
No. 136
“TUMBA”
CATTLE POLEY
(Complete)
Note how the
combined flap
and skirt is
sewn direct to
the seat, thus
giving the
narrowest pos-,
sible grip. All
the dees are lined
with metal and
attached strongly to
the tree.
£l2/16/3
WITHER * STEVEMSOM CTJ;
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
Missing Friend.
RE FANNY BROWN, late of Glebe Street,
Parramatta, N. S. Wales. —WILL any person
knowing the whereabouts of THOMAS
ERNEST BROWN, formerly of Glebe Street,
Parramatta, and Beattie Street, Balmain, and
more recently of Claim Street, Boksburg,
Transvaal, South Africa, and formerly employed
by MorTs Dock Engineering Co., please com-
municate with SHEPHARD & SHEPHARD,
Solicitors, Parramatta, N.S.W., Australia?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL
late of 9 Pyalla Street Northbridge.—TAKE
NOTICE that DORA CAMPBELL of Oak
Street North Sydney has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1176 of 1942 on the ground of
your desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
this suit you may enter an appearance by the
31st day of October 1942 and you may obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. UTHER & UTHER Solicitors 350
George Street Sydney Town Agents for JOHN
H. YELDHAM of 137 Pacific Highway North
Sydney Solicitor for the Petitioner.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TO JOHN COCHRAN SMITH formerly of
15 Urquhart Street Hawthorn in the State of
Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
GLADYS COCHRAN SMITH has instituted
proceedings against you for divorce on the
ground of desertion for three years and up-
wards Unless you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court Law Courts William Street Melbourne
by the Tenth day of September 1942 the case
may proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs If you intend to defend
this suit you must also file an answer in the
said office by the Twenty-fourth day of Septem-
ber 1942.— DUDLEY A. TREGENT, 8.A.,
LL.M., of 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solici-
tor for the Petitioner.
LET
f ATLAS
CARRY THE
i BURDEN j
w
;3
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY,
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
A dog in
good work-
ing condi-
tion is an
asset, espe-
cially to-day when
labor is scarce. It
pays to watch his
health. If his coat
is dull, loose or
ragged, if he is
listless or ok his
food, start him
on a course of BARKO Condition Powders, which
ire a combination of valuable, nourishing and
restorative ingredients BARKO Condition
Powders are recommended for Cattle-dogs, S'heep-
dogs and Watchdogs.
barko
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
SMOKE-OH!
“Contrary to general beliefs about food
values, oysters are not rich.”
—Radio speaker.
Naturally not; they’re usually on the
rocks.
•J*
“During the course of the party a severe
fire broke out in the house.” — Short story.
Was it a Molotov cocktail party?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Thoughts on Holidays.
“Her husband would shortly have her holi-
days; but Lily couldn’t make up her mind.”
— Woman’s paper.
What a woman! Now Maria has no
such difficulty. When my holidays are
approaching she fills in whole weeks
thinking of how she will spend them for
me. She thinks of the garden and all
she wants done to it, the spare room
that she wants papered, more shelves in
the kitchen, putting up a bigger fowl
run and enough other jobs to occupy me
every day for about three months.
Fortunately, owing to the war, I am
not likely to 'get any holidays for her
to spend. Nobly I have been urging upon
her that that need not prevent her from
going away for a holiday.
I have great hopes. She will think it’s
her holiday. I’ll know it will be mine.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The years had not altered the major. He
was still a slim, military figure, suggesting
alertness and perfect condition.” — War story.
No major developments.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Artists are highly strung.”
—Fred Leist in Sydney “D.T.”
And some of the modernists deserve
to be.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Witness said that trouble started when the
parties, a poultry-farmer and his wife, inter-
fered in each other’s affairs.”
—Divorce report.
And so their feud went on : he made the
most
Unwarranted attempts to rule the roast;
While, on the other hand, his wife un-
loosed
A dictatorial urge to rule the roost.
Brian Bureau.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Natural Result.
“How to cure puppy love.” — “Sun.”
He was 16. So was Hilda. And, alas!
she could bewilder him at that love-
loving age. It was puppy-love in earnest,
and his thoughts were quickly furnaced
to the proper fiery stage. But by Time
he’s now been seasoned. And, as many
friends have reasoned, he was cured the
simple way. He had puppy-love quite
badly ; but he’s led a dog’s life sadly
since he married her one day.
Yair.
“This psychiatrist mentions that among his
cures was the case of a man who had for
years suffered from the delusion that he was a
radio comedian.” — Book review.
The patient differed from some others
similarly afflicted in that he didn’t actu-
ally go on the air.
4* 4* 4* .4* . ~
“Graham was in a seemingly inextricable
tangle. Try as he would he could see no way
out. His hands were tied. What was he to
do?” — Serial story.
Get his wife to snap the damned wool.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The joke is often out of place at a wed-
ding.”— Dorothy Dix.
However, a tactful whisper from the
officiating clergyman is usually sufficient
to set him in the right position.
•J*
“Earliest man primitively worshipped the
sunrise.” — “World’s News.”
Perhaps that’s what caused him to be
so early.
•I* •{«
“What should I get for a dandruff rash
that is spreading on the back of my neck?”
—Correspondent in woman’s paper.
Come, now—any offers?
“A film star who has just married a Polish
count told reporters that she was ‘inexpressibly
happy.’ ” —Film mag.
This is expected to influence her in
choosing her future husbands only from
Polish counts.
4* 4* 4*
“ ’Flu germs are often caught travelling in
crowded trains and trams.”
—Health Department brochure.
Still, though invariably without tickets,
they never seem to be prosecuted.
•b 4*
‘Murder in a diving bell is the theme of a
new thriller.” — “D.T.”
The plot is claimed to be watertight.
“Taxi drivers, one full, one relief.”
— “S.M.H.”
The relief is for the one who is full.
“Try walking part of the way to work.”
—Health note.
Anyone who travels by train can do
this. All you do is to keep walking from
one carriage to the next in search of a
seat.
The Patriot.
I have always been a citizen of patriotic
leanings,
And now and then it brings a small
reward;
For I'm busy stopping shortages by
seasonable gleanings
Of the things that people seem inclined
to hoard.
I've got tools in dozen lots and engineer-
• ing apparatus
Which I bought upon some sound
inside advice;
And although I mightn’t want them in
the lean days that await us,
Welt, it’s certain someone else will
at a price.
Although I’ve toyed, in moments of un-
thinking aberration.
With things that aren’t in certain quar-
ters done, •
/ can say I’ve always treated with a
proper veneration
The art of looking after Number One.
P. M. L.
Compassed.
‘'North said that he had tried to save money
but his wife, who had left him and the home
he had made in Broken Hill to live in Sydney,
had involved him in expenses which ruined
him.” —“Sun
To put his money south, at least.
North did his level best;
His wife expensively went east
And now it’s all gone west.
H. M.
Purple Patches.
“One of her letters to the co-re. read, ‘ 1
wish I could have you here this minute —you
would be asphyxiated!’” —“Daily Telegraph.’’
The asphyxiating type of girl friend is
not always to be recommended.
Consider my affair with Angeline.
Whenever we kissed good night on her
gasbox she invariably had to call in the
local warden and the staff of the First
Aid Depot. Once I had to be put in an
iron lung for three days before I could
be resuscitated. I tried numerous preven-
tive measures, including jiu-jitsu, smelling
salts and auto-suggestion, but I always
seemed to swoon off before they could
be adequately employed. But I loved
Angeline so terrifically that I still kept
trying.
At last I developed a bright idea. Next
time we were about to kiss good night I
whipped a foof of lead piping out of my
hip pocket and brought it down on her
new Super Glamor hair-do. She lay
down on the verandah without saying a
word. Kneeling, I kissed her tenderly
several times, then walked home feeling
very elated over the retention of my
consciousness.
After that she never asphyxiated me
again. In fact, she gave me the air.
T. W. NATHAN.
In Extremis.
My soul is torn with wild regrets !
Oh, bitter fate devoid of pity !
Poor wretch, I yearned for cigarettes.
And sought in vain throughout the city.
At last, when weeks had drifted by.
Within a shop I chanced to sight ’em.
Now, having bought a packet, I
Can’t buy the matches to ignite ’em !
T. W. N.
A Matter of Training.
“Victoria’s out-of-date barmaid laws were
not wanted in Sydney, the U.L.V.A. president
said. He added: ‘Barmaids handle men better
than barmen. Sydney barmaids are the best
in the world.’ ” —“D.T.”
This proud record is based on tradition,
which in turn derives from the solid
training which the old-style Sydney
Hebes got from the School of Barmaid
Training founded by my Uncle Claude.
The idea came to Uncle after an un-
pleasant incident. He had spent the
day, as was his wont, gravitating from
bar to bar, and at the old Royal he had
gone to sleep standing up. As a man will
do who thus snoozes he kept nodding,
and it was when the eighth pot was lined
up in front of him that he sneezed, result-
ing in his being soaked to the skin.
Intimately acquainted with every pub
within a five-mile radius of the Quay, he
got the backing from the Bungs for
what he claimed was an urgently-needed
school. All he asked was that they sup-
ply adequate beer for demonstration pur-
poses. With him it was a labor of love.
He it was who taught his pupils the
way to pull a pint with the collar on the
bottom. The customers, not observing
it, were satisfied, and even more so was
Bung. Also he carefully tutored the bar-
maids in the correct way to slam down a
schooner so that an inch cascaded, but
not ostentatiously, over the side, to slip
down the runnels in the counter into the
slop bucket. So skilfully were they trained
in mopping-up operations that they could
lift a customer’s elbow, wipe under it and
replace it on the bar without his being
aware of the fact.
Uncle Claude laid great stress on the
barmaid’s ability to conduct back-chat
according to the customer’s style. Some-
thing of an actor himself, clad in loud
overcoat witfy fur collar, lily in button-
hole and carrying a cane, he would come
in imitating a hamfat. With exaggerated
lift of his bowler he would announce
dramatically: —
“How now, fair Hebe? A quick brandy,
I prithee. My carriage awaits without.”
The beer-jerker would come back with
“I know, Sir Henry—without horses;
you’ve had to hock ’em. Soda or water?”
A minute later he would be back as
a navvy. “C’mon, Liz,” he’d bellow.
“A long sleever. ’Ow about me cartin’
y’r carcass along to the Bijou tonight?”
His pupil would quickly adjust her
style. “Garn! I wouldn’t be seen dead
wiv y’. Shift y’r mug along the other
end or I’ll swipe y’ one acrorst the kisser.”
Above all, he aimed for versatility in
his pupils. It was his opinion that a bar-
maid should be able to handle men diplo-
matically first and foremost, and in teach-
ing them he was conscientious to a fault.
So that any barmaid would be able to
say truthfully that she had when the
commercial leaned across the bar and
said “EhJFlorrie, have you heard-That one
about the parson and the lady organist?”
Uncle himself got around, picked up all
the commercials’ stories first and told
them to the barmaids at the school. If
the customer insisted on telling it the
barmaid knew exactly where to laugh,
and perhaps so surprised the customer by
beating him to the snappy part that he'd
spar up for a double-header when he’d
only had two fingers.
To round off their education and pro-
vide for contingencies should diplomacy
fail, my relative employed an old wrestler
who also knew jiu-jitsu. One day Uncle
Claude, thinking to test Bella, a back-
ward pupil, with a surprise, came in at
an unaccustomed hour for him perfectly
disguised as a bookie’s clerk. He had
had a busy day demonstrating, and he
stumbled up to the “bar,” loudly ordered
a pint on the house and chucked Bella
under the chin. Ten seconds later Bella,
using her 14-stone of trained muscle,
chucked Uncle through the window,
which happened to be closed.
So was Uncle’s school when he came
o.ut of hospital.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2 Id. per line.
One Income Tax
Let me add another nail to the coffin
of State Governments.
A shearing contractor operating in three
States, it was necessary for me prior to
uniform taxation to render four income-
tax returns —one Federal and one for each
State. This entailed two days’ work analys-
ing expenditure and making up four sepa-
rate profit and loss accounts. I was able
to handle the job myself, otherwise a
healthy little bill of costs from an
accountant would have been added to the
year’s expenditure.
Now, one return only is required,
which means a saving of one and a half
days in time. Multiply this saving by
the thousands of small businessmen in
Australia with interests in more than one
State and some small idea of the national
gain in time may be formed, to which
rnust be added the considerable saving
in the various taxation departments.
How much longer are we going to put
up with the various anomalies in com-
pany, marriage and divorce, transport and
other laws now controlled by the States?
—Shearo (Vic.).
An Income Tax Anomaly
Why is it that dependants are not
allowable as deductions until a year after
they become such? A man who sup-
ports his wife whom he marries on, say,
July 1 does not get any relief until a
year later.
Admittedly the tax is paid in respect
of the previous year’s income, but it
comes out of the current year’s earnings,
and a wife or a child should be allowable
as deductions immediately after marriage
or birth, not a year later. Incidentally,
the Taxation Department itself recognises
this principle on the form of claim for
a rebate from deductions made by em-
ployers. The criterion on these forms is
the fact that the dependant is fully sup-
ported by the taxpayer on June 30, 1942
(not throughout the preceding year). Why,
then, the anomaly in the final assessment?
—Viator (Vic.),
Federal and State Control
The question of abolishing surplus
Parliaments is drawing more and more
public attention, and practical people
would like to see the proposal set out
with concrete suggestions as to ways and
means for effecting the transfer. One
good illustration of Commonwealth
ability to take over State functions is the
Commonwealth Savings Bank. Could
all State functions be as effectively taken
over as the State Savings Bank was? Or
would it be necessary to create new gov-
erning bodies to handle some of the
more local functions of the State?
Departments covering law, health and
industry already exist, and matters under
those heads would greatly benefit from
coming under single control. The Com-
monwealth should be able to handle rail-
ways'as effectively as it has handled the
post office. Matters of land and mines
might require some local control, and
local government machinery might need
expanding to function in these matters.
Most State affairs could be brought
directly under Commonwealth depart-
ments, but some seem to require a local
understanding and might need either new
machinery or an extension of existing
local machinery for their successful func-
tioning. It seems about time some
detailed proposals were formulated. —
G.A.B. (A.C.T.).
Youth Training
’‘Armack” (B. 29/7/’42) was wrong
when he said that the only two organisa-
tions for training Australian youth for
the services are the Air Training Corps
and the Navy League. There is also the
Senior Cadet Corps, with detachments
in all G.P.S. associated schools, as well
as in other public and denominational
schools.
In each army command there is a staff
officer for cadets, and he has a staff of
experienced instructors. These instruc-
tors attend the weekly parades at the
various schools and give advice and help
with the training. During the holidays
courses are held to train cadets to be
cadet lieutenants and n.c.os. The boys
give up at least one afternoon a week to
this training, and each school has its
annual camp during one of the vacations.
The purpose of the corps is to train
boys for (he array and as potential offi-
cers and n.c.os. However, the training is
greatly restricted because of the lack of
equipment and so proves to be rather
boring. If more equipment were given
to the corps cadets would take the train-
ing more seriously, as interest would be
revived.
Before the war various units had cadet
detachments for those who, though they
had left school, were too young for the
militia. These were disbanded at the
commencement of the war, but should be
re-established so as to carry on this most
essential training.— Cdt. W.O. (N.S.W.).
What about the Boy Scouts, “Armack”?
As an old Scout I contend that there is
no organisation which gives anything like
the equivalent of Scout training for grow-
ing lads. It instils into boys the neces-
sity and value of discipline, healthy liv-
ing and loyalty to one’s country and
one’s mates.
As for “learning the rudiments of
that service” army, navy or air
force —which the lad intends to enter, I
would point out that each of the services
trains its recruits from the most elemen-
tary basis upwards, so there is little ad-
vantage in acquiring specialised know-
ledge of a rudimentary nature which is
more quickly assimilated at a later age.
Any well-trained Scout enters his chosen
service with general knowledge and ex-
perience which stand him in excellent
stead. There’s no need for these stunt
Youth Leagues while the Scout organi-
sation exists. —D. J. G. (S.A.).
Working a Uni. Passage
Those comments on Prof. Ashby’s
suggestions for encouraging students to
work their way through college are to
the point. But before a large-scale work-
able scheme can be introduced it will be
necessary for the universities to modify
somewhat their attitude. Work needs to
be spread more evenly, for lectures now
occupy only some 30 weeks of the year.
The present custom of taking things easy
until just before exams, and then going
like blazes for a bit could be eradicated
by introducing a scheme which com-
promises between the examination and
the accrediting system.
Schemes for “working their passage”
should clear out of universities the large
numbers of lazy, incompetent students
who place an additional strain on already
overtaxed equipment, and whose removal,
although possible in war-time, is a hope-
less task in times of peace when the uni-
versities are struggling for every penny
they can get. — Tonsi (Tas,).
Army Education Service
I agree with “0.F.M.” critics in their
contempt for such A.E.S. lectures as
“Bushmanship,” “The Stars,” “Jap Psy-
chology” and the like ; but the critics are
wrong in thinking that the purpose of
the service is merely to ram into soldiers’
heads knowledge of a non-military nature
just to fill in their spare time. All think-
ing soldiers agree that the worst part of
army life, far worse than the priva-
tions and discomforts of camp and
field, is the feeling that their minds and
intellects are slowly rusting away, and
that their finer feelings and sensibilities
are being coarsened by the nature of
their life and training. The more cul-
tured and educated a man is the more
pronounced is that feeling, and it is for
these particularly that the A.E.S., with
its opportunity for study, thought and
mental activity, is doing a worth-while job.
As for “Current Affairs” and “Salt,”
the reason they don’t appeal to the
soldier is because they won’t let him
forget the war, even in his spare time.
Even at a Morse code class, when the
instructor has been tapping out a mes-
sage from a newspaper for our practice,
I have heard the class implore him “For
God’s sake, get on to the social page and
give the war news a rest!” — Don 5 (Q.).
A Canteen Grievance
In the case of goods bought in bulk from
the Canteen Service for the use of the
men of my unit (miles from a canteen)
no discount or rebate is allowed. The
same goods, however, bought for the use
of the officers’ mess of Battalion
are subject to a special discount of p.c.
Why a discount should be allowed only
to those best able to afford the full price
is one of those army eccentricities
for which the soldier has invented the
phrase “Wouldn’t it?” — Don 5 (Q.).
Man-power Strangulations
Man-power regulations appear to be
encouraging a spirit of open defiance to
managerial authority in some defence
workshops, wherein an employee cannot
be dismissed except for “serious miscon-
duct.”
In a recent case an employee in-
correctly filled in his job card. When
the charge hand pointed this out he was
told to “fill the thing in yourself ;
it will give you something to do.” Spoken
to reasonably by the management, the
employee repeatedly called the charge
hand a liar, plus a few other things.
He was informed that he would have
to be dismissed, but he sat tight, aired his
grievances to other workmen in the shop
and finally had to be ejected by the
police. Man-power authorities ordered
his reinstatement. An appeal against
this decision was taken up by the Metal
Trades Association because of the im-
portant principles involved.
The man was dismissed on April 24.
The case was not decided until June 23.
Had the employer lost he would have
had to pay wages for eight weeks’ idle-
ness.
The hearing of the appeal took
days, and the employer was obliged
to prove every point by sworn and corro-
borative evidence. All witnesses called
were key men in his shop, and valuable
hours were lost. Although the employer
won the case he is still the loser by a
long way over time wasted by himself and
other men from the shop, plus correspon-
dence and interviews with the man-power
authorities.
Man-power regulations were intended,
among other things, to speed production,
and if this is an example we will never
catch up with the Japs. The employer is
penalised right or wrong. Why not
penalise the employee when his action
is deliberate and upsets production? —
Soldier (S.A.).
The Russian Way
Volume LXI, Part 3, at p.p. 470-471,
of the “N.S.W. Industrial Gazette” for
June, 1941, discloses the method by
which social discipline in Russia is en-
forced and economic efficiency therefore
assured:
An order issued by the Commissar of
the Food Industry of the Soviet Union on
25th October, 1940, provided that em-
ployees in some sugar refineries were to be
punished for their failure to fulfil the pro-
duction quotas prescribed by the Govern-
ment during the current season. The
punishment was in the form of a reduction
in wages of all administrative and techni-
cal workers, effective November, 1940. The
refineries were to be transferred in classifi-
cation to a lower-wage category, thus decreas-
ing the wages of all workers at the refineries
in question. Wages were to be restored to
their former level as soon as plant produc-
tion is up to planned requirements. This
order was published in “Food Industry,”
the organ of the Food Commissariat, Mos-
cow, 26th October, 1940. The general
punishment of all workers in these estab-
lishments appears to be an additional pun-
ishment for inefficiency. The Soviet wage
policy, which requires a mimimum output /
from each worker, already provides that
if his output is lower than that prescribed
he not only gets lower wages but he may
also be punished for repeated failure by
transfer to a lower-paid job.
It is now 22 years since Lenin insti-
tuted the system of payment by results
throughout Russia, but I do not suppose
that knowledge of the fact or the official
confirmation of it quoted here will avail
to dispel the cherished illusion of local
trade-unionists that a different and
Utopian economic system prevails there.
—F. P. Evans (N.S.W.).
Growing Spuds
Before I can grow more than an acre
of spuds in Victoria I must write to the
Department of Agriculture on a form
of contract with the Federal Government.
If I want fertiliser for my spuds I must
fill in another form and send it to the
Department of Supply and Development.
If there is any implement I want I must
observe the same procedure. To obtain
the seed for my murphies I must send an
application to the Deputy Potato Con-
troller of the Department of Commerce.
Before I can dig a hole to put my seed
in I must satisfy the Deputy Director of
Man-power that I am not eligible for
the army, the air force, the navy, the
mercantile marine or H.M.S. Pinafore.
I have also to show cause why I would
not be better employed shovelling dirt
in the Labor Corps. If I want water to
irrigate my spuds I have to go to the
Shire Council, and if I am less than 16
miles out from Melbourne I must get
permission from the Board of Works,
and if further out I must seek the kind
offices of the State Rivers and Waters
Commission.
As to how long these various pro-
cesses will take I have at least one cri-
terion. I applied for a seeder four
months ago; my plea was granted but I
haven’t got the seeder yet! I don’t know
what other authorities 1 have to court
when my spuds start growing and pests
begin to gather, when I need sacks and
when I want petrol to convey my spuds
to market.
We’re stripped for total war, thank
God! — Bumpkin (Vic.).
Our Language
There can hardly be any disagreement
with the statement that a language is “a
living, growing thing” (B. 20/5/’42). But
because it is just that should it not be
tended carefully and wisely? Should it
be allowed to run riot in its growth, ac-
quiring in the process ugly distortions
and disfigurements to and upon its limbs
and leaves and acting as a bountiful host
to a plague of pests and parasites? This
is where the usefulness of Fowler and his
kind comes in—they are the tenders and
nurturers of the “living, growing thing.”
This is a scientific age, and I think it’s
about time we began to treat the lan-
guage, which has had a more or less hap-
hazard growth, scientifically. In America
it has been advocated that disputed points
of pronunciation, spelling, usage, etc.,
should be decided by a Federal Commis-
sion, duly appointed or selected to serve
such a purpose, and I’m of opinion that
some such authoritative body is needed
in the British Empire. In the lack of it
men such as Fowler are doing a good job.
A language no doubt develops to some
extent “in pubs, on sheep stations and in
the streets,” but can it be honestly claimed
that it is always enriched from those
sources? Is it not as liable to be debased
as enriched, perhaps more debased than
enriched? I believe it is. A great deal
of dross already clutters up the English
language. To sanction every peculiar turn
of expression, every allegedly humorous
perversion of word or phrase, every bit
of “slanguage” that originates in pubs, on
sheep stations and in the streets and
whose authors may be illiterates or
ignoramuses, together with the corrup-
tions, solecisms and misuses of the lan-
guage with which the columns of the sen-
sational, irresponsible. press abound,
would play havoc with what should be
the finest instrumentality in the service
of civilised thought and culture.
After all, are not the corrupters of
such an instrumentality as much vandals
as are those who mutilate or destroy
architectural, horticultural, sculptural and
pictorial treasures or other things of
worth and delight to the eye and the
mind? — Ologist (N.S.W.).
“How's the time by your bomb, Otto?"


THE ELECTROLYTIC ZINC COMPANY OF
AUSTRALASIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Registered Office: Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent: R. N. Kirk & Co., 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Adelaide Agent: C. S. Stokes, Brookman Buildings, Adelaide.
London Office: 95 Gresham Street, London, E.C.2.
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Electzinc, Melbourne.”
r-
ittii
£ ijggi:.-: y ,
mMi
- ■- :■■■ ■-1-
PANORAMIC VIEW OF WORKS AT RISDON, TASMANIA.
THE first steps towards establishment of an electrolytic zinc
* industry were taken during the last war, with the object of
producing high-grade zinc within the Empire. Since then, the
industry has expanded greatly; new mines have been developed
on the West Coast of Tasmania, and various by-products are
being marketed. Zinc is used for galvanising and in the manufacture
of Brass, die-casting, alloys, paints \and for numerous other
purposes. It is also an essential constituent in the manufacture
of munition alloys.
THE ELECTROLYTIC ZINC GO. OF A/ASIA LTD.
Producers of
Electrolytic Zinc, A.Z. Brand
Zinc Dust, A.Z. Brand, Ordinary and Superfine grades.
Zinc Sulphate.
Cadmium, A.Z. Brand, in rods, ingots and anodes.
Cobalt Oxide and Sulphate.
Superphosphate.
Ns
A
Z
THE ELECTROLYTIC ZING COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Works: Risdon, Tasmania.
Mines: West Coast, Tasmania.
