

The Bulletin
Bulletin/’ Vol. 63.—N0. 3254.
Wednesday, June 24, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
NELSON’S “VICTORY” IN PORTSMOUTH DOCKYARD.
IT is peculiarly appropriate that at the
Empire’s greatest naval arsenal —Ports-
mouth —there should be found the
world’s most famous ship, at once a
symbol of that naval might which may
be said to have laid the foundation
of the structure known as “The British
Commonwealth of Nations.” No longer
does the “Victory” swing to her moorings
in the harbor. She is today “safely
ensconsed,” if such a phrase with aerial
warfare is permissible, in the dockyard.
All are familiar with the history of
Nelson’s famous flagship. Her career, to
end in the glory of Trafalgar, was at its
commencement somewhat inglorious.
For long she remained in Chatham Basin
and came to be looked upon as “an un-
lucky ship.” Her subsequent record
under the great Admiral demonstrated, as
is so often seen in human life, that early
failures or disappointments present no
accurate forecast of what the future may
have in store. The truly great vessel is
not, in certain particulars, precisely in
the condition she emerged from the im-
mortal naval contest. Take her masts as
we see them, for instance. About a cen-
tury and a quarter ago the dockyard at
Chatham received a brilliant addition to
its entrance. The mainmast of the ship
was ordered by the Lords of the
Admiralty to be placed here in its shat-
tered condition, recalling how much
Nelson had braved danger in the defence
of his country. However, that is a detail.
Externally, the “Victory” presents to the
observers practically the same appear-
ance as when Nelson led her in the naval
conflict that meant so much for the
British race. As she “reposes” today the
tripod masts and funnels of battleships
and cruisers in the background furnish a
striking illustration of changes in naval
architecture in under a century and a
half. During 1940 and 1941, German
aircraft paid particular attention to Ports-
mouth, and how deep was the Nazi desire
to “blast the Victory, the symbol of
British sea power,” does not require
elucidation. Happily, perhaps providen-
tially is the better word, the desire was not
fu'filled. May fulfilment never attend it.


Slor Minting
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
THE A.I.F. AGAIN.
ŵ
Murphy may not have realised it, but
both his flea poem and his cave poem,
sardonic though they are, belong to one
of the most pleasing of all the traditions
of soldier writing—the man of action’s
love of the life of nature: his envy (as
in Yeats’s poem about the political
prisoner who tamed and fed a seagull) of
the birds for their freedom ; his yearning
(as in that rather overdone ending to
All Quiet on the Western Front when the
soldier stretches out his hand to capture
a butterfly) for lost colors and graces of
life ; his sense of joy and wonder (as in
Edmund Blunden’s Undertones of War )
at the creatures of earth and air, the land
itself and the rivers, going on with the
routine of nature while men’s lives are
in turmoil; the sense of comradeship a
soldier comes to feel (as A. G. Austin
did in his charming “Old Rat and Bird
and Flea and Me,” published in one of
the previous Red Pages of A.I.F. verse)
with any living creature, however lowly,
that shares with him the experiences of
war.
Private “Egdon Kempton,” writing
from a hospital in the Middle East, finds
even a fly pleasant company:
Blending the natural world with the
human. Gunner Maurice F. Leask brings
back to Australia the memory of an
ẅ
ŵ
Though some amusing balladists have
emerged, there is no one so far to equal
“Banjo” paterson or C. J. Dennis. But
in one sdrt of light verse, in which Aus-
tralia stands unchallenged, the standard
still flies as high as ever —the adjectival
verses that (like Dennis’s “Austral-
-aise” and this war’s “Ode to Darwin”)
derive from Goodge’s “The Great Aus-
tralian Adjective.” Here’s Gunner James
ẁ
More Murphy:
I am sittin’ in me dugout cursin’ Hitler all
I’m worth,
Tryin’ hard to find a reason such as he are on
the earth.
He’s the cause o’ me discomfort and the reason
why I rave
When the Stukas drop their “bombas round
me Little Wadi Cave.
Lord, oh my, but how I shiver—and it isn’t
cold in there;
Bein’ truthful—well, I tremble when they re
droppin’ anywhere;
Half the time 1 can’t help thmkm’ that Im
in me future grave;
And I often wish I wasn’t—in me Little Wadi
Cave.
If it isn’t Jerry bombers it’s artillery galore
That is tryin’ hard to sizzle sixty-pounders
through the door. .
What I wouldn’t give to listen in again to Dad
and Dave,”
But instead I’m bearin’ “screamers m me
Little Wadi Cave.
Why our C.O. picked this wadi is a mystery to
mCj -
For it’s in the line o’ Stukas that attack Tobruk
from sea.
Jerry doesn’t stop at bombing—O dear no, the
dirty knave! —
For he often splatters bullets round me Little
Wadi Cave.
And I often get to thinkin’, as it isn’t water-
proof,
That the day will come when bullets will come
whizzin’ through the roof.
And I’m nearly always busy, often workin’ like
ci slave
There is little time for strengthenin’ me Little
Wadi Cave.
It's of very small dimensions, but with Stukas
on parade
I imagine it’s a kind o’ blanky hangar that I vc
made.
I perhaps have points of merit, but I’m cer-
tainly not brave
When they’re droppin’ thousand-pounders round
me Little Wadi Cave.
All these chaps who say it’s nothin’ when the
bombs are failin’ thick
Probably have never ventured where there’s
mangled dead and sick.
How I’d love these would-be heroes that the
game have got to save
Here beside me when the “bombas” shake me
Little Wadi Cave.
If I hadn’t joined the army, think how nice
and snug I’d be,
Sittin’ back at home in comfort where there’s
peace and luxury.
Boy, oh, boy! Will I be happy when I find
I’ve got to wave
To the lizards takin’ over in me Little Wadi
Cave.
Wastrel brother of the bee,
Let me take a turn with thee.
Come, prowler of the trousered vale.
With gyroscopic artistry
Forsake thy lowly flannel sward;
Wing this instant ceilingward;
But stop a moment’s wanderings
To wipe the hands and preen the wings—
Who could fail to wish to see
Humans topsy-turvily?
ẃ
w
Sweet, slurred consonants—steps begun...
Just hard fortune, little son!
Little Friend of All the Earth
(Plain to read, that, in your smiling!)
In your world is naught but worth,
Maids and true-men for beguiling,
Clouds and wind to wonder at.
Stairs to climb and dogs to pat.
In Elysian
Hours of moonstone set in gold
I shall shoulder you and show you
Hilltops, bird-loud woods below you—
(You’ll not think of me as old?)
Lancing rain on leaves...
We’ll sup.
Watching clucking flames go up . ..
Cakes to nibble .. . nuts to crack .. .
Whittington and Beanstalk Jack,
Bobsbeck brownie, elvish king,
Crossboned pirates beating keyward . ..
But, in Fortune’s reckoning
And revision,
Should the Wheel swing false to me-ward,
Make provision,
Saying “He came not, yet —’tis true
These were things he meant to do!”
w
ẁ
ẃ
Thomas’s variation, entitled
“Fergit It”:
Fergit the billiard-room,
Fergit the —— pub,
Fergit y’r civvy life,
With decent ; grub.
Fergit the pictures
Fergit the dance,
Fergit y’r one an’ only
An’ sweet ro- -mance.
Fergit y’r good times,
Fergit y’r job.
Pick up a rifle
An’ join the mob.
Fergit Ma- -laya
An’ Singa- -pore;
Jest do the —— right thing
An’ win the war.
Fergit y’r loathing
When y’ eat the stew;
Fergit the army ’eads
An’ the things they do.
Fergit the officer
'Oo snarls all day;
The ’alf-wit can’t annoy y’
When y’re in the fray.
Fergit the places
Where y’ used to roam,
Fergit the service
Which y’ used to get at ’ome.
Y’re in the —— army now,
Fer life y’re —— set;
Y’re in the thing fer good
So don’t fer- -git!
SUNDRY SHOWS.
From the Daily Mail Year-Book :
In 1941 the quickening pulse of war turned
the minds of film-makers to current events....
First, stories became more important than stars.
In the presence of great events this was in-
evitable. The so-called star system was an
artificial stimulant designed to maintain by re-
curring injections the box-office value of glamor.
When film-goers found that the man-next-door
was a more authentic hero in fact than any
famous film star, the spell of glamor was
broken. There arose a demand for stories of
good sense, unfailing sincerity and engrossing
interest.
Very, very true, and the few films that
have been made in Britain during the war
have proved it to the hilt.
It will be interesting to see if America’s
entry into the war has the same effect on
the Hollywood industry. Hollywood
over the last several years has re-
flected the gathering seriousness of
world affairs by an increasing pro-
duction of comedies which, in them-
selves, have aspired to fresh heights
of abandoned clowning and, almost,
lunacy. One result has been a reversal
of the theory that the ambition of every
clown is to play Hamlet, and a growing
number of players—beginning, probably,
with William Powell and Myrna Loy—
have forsaken drama and melodrama for
comedy. The last actress to step down
from dramatic peaks and abandon her-
self to comedy was Greta Garbo. She did
it rather timidly but successfully in
“Ninotchka,” but her latest attempt,
“Two-Faced Woman” (Sydney St. James),
is a lamentable experiment. It is the
usual matrimonial mix-up which Holly-
wood has worked on countless times, but
this version of it must have been prepared
by the Garbo’s worst enemy.
Best of some other recent releases are
“Hell’s Cargo,” an English production
featuring the admirable Robert Newton,
and “Woman of the Year” (Liberty), a
light romantic comedy with Katherine
Hepburn blowing through it like a gust
of fresh air. Of other current films
“Appointment for Love” (State) and “The
Men in Her Life” (Lyceum) offer escape
along paths of sentimental romance;
“Louisiana Purchase” (Prince Edward)
and “Moon Over Miami” (Regent)
through avenues of technicolor musical
comedy; and “Son of Fury” (Plaza)
through the nearest exit.
It is one of the ironies of life that just
when Melbourne was complaining of a
musical drought Friedman turned up and
rained his notes upon it; but the public
woke up to his existence only when the
flood of melody was passing. Although
some of the great gods were missing
from his programmes, no virtuoso has
played more consistently distinguished
music and none has played down less
to his hearers. Which possibly accounts
for the fact that an entirely new type of
audience, a lot in khaki, was attracted,
and the fashionable first-nighters were
conspicuous by their absence. The extra-
ordinary ease with which Friedman s
fingers tackled technical problems—
especially the jumps, runs, smashes and
hullabaloos of Brahms’s diabolic Varia-
tions on a Theme by Paganini—was no
doubt the admiration and envy of the
hundreds of students who attended the
recitals. If they keep their interest in
the piano at fever heat for 50 years they
won’t find any difficulty about it.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’ ’ —your guarantee of satisfaction.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
FARMERS - PROTECT STOCK!
HORSE AND
COW RUGS
"UNIVERSAL" HORSE RUGS, made of 20oz.
heavy Indian Jute Canvas, with blanket lining
and fitted with leg straps, breast strap and girth.
Sizes .... sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
Prices .... 29/- 30/- 30/3 30/6 31/6
"UNIVERSAL" NON-SLIP COW RUGS, made of
heavy Indian Jute Canvas. Fittings include lg-in.
solid leather straps and chafes at front and rear.
UNLINED—Sizes sft. Sin. sft. 9in.
Prices 15/9 16/3
BLANKET LlNED—Sizes sft. 6in. 6ft. 9in.
Prices 19/6 20/-
GENUINE O.M. GREEN BIRKMYRE WATER-
PROOF COW RUGS, felt lined, and fitted with
cross web belly straps, breast strap, and fillet
rope.
Sizes sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in.
Prices, each .... 56/9 60/- 62/-
GENUINE O.M. KHAKI BIRKMYRE WATER-
PROOF COLLAR CHECK LINED COW RUGS.
fitted with cross web belly straps, breast strap,
and fillet rope.
Sizes sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in.
Prices, each .... 51/6 54/9 56/9
birkmyre om
7mu
ami
mm
/ /
/
/
//
t
WATERPROOF
/
/
It is essential that Horses and Cows be properly protected from the cold
if they are to remain in first-class condition during the winter months.
The best way to do this is with good warm Rugs. Anthony Horderns Rugs
are well tailored throughout, and properly shaped to fit closely round neck
and shoulders of the animal.
HORSE RUGS. —Genuine O.M. Green Birkmyre Waterproof Horse Rugs, felt lined, fitted with leg
straps, breast strap and girth. At Anthony Horderns'■ gin 6 ft , 6ft 6 in . 7 ft.
Weis, each'ei/s eve ' 67/- 69/- 73/- w-
Genuine O.M. Birkmyre Waterproof Collar Check Lined Horse Rugs, fitted with leg strap, breast
straps and girth. At Anthony Horderns'. sft . 6in . sft. 9in. 6ft.
Wees, each'.'.'.'.' ■' ■'• ••'■'■'•'■'•'• ■' • • • • • • ™ 60/9 62/9 64/3
sm
w
<
DRAY COLLARS, 35/6
Dray Collars, made for hard service, two-
strap, hair-faced, canvas lined. Up to 21
inches. At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
each 35/6
(Over 21 inches, 2/G per inch extra.)
LIVERPOOL COLLARS, 42/-
Genuine Liverpool Horse Collars with body hand
whipped on to rim and hair-faced over rye straw
filling. Up to 21 inches. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 42/-
(Over 21 inches, 2/6 per inch extra.)
BALLARAT COLLARS, 42/-
Genuine Ballarat Horse Collars with reinforced
leather flange on side pieces, single return strap
with dee, hair-faced on rye straw filling. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 42/-
(Over 21 inches, 2/6 per inch extra.)
m
PLOUGH HARNESS
The man on the land will welcome this saving
on a very strong Plough Harness. Made of
selected Brown Leather with Blocked Eye
Winkers, Rope Reins, Pipe Collar, Hames and
Strap, Trace Chains and three-inch Plough
Backhand complete. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, set £3/19/-
PLOUGH HARNESS PARTS
Plough Reins, 54 feet long, with snap hooks fitted.
Sisal Rope. Price, pair 2/3
Braided Cotton, Price, pair ®/ 3
Waterproof Cotton. Price, pair •• • • 7/3
Leather forepart and rope handpart. Price, pair .. 11/6
Plough Chains, tested link, 8 lb. weight. Price, pair, 6/8
Plough Chains, tested link, 10 lb. weight. Price, pair, 8/4
Blocked Eye Winkers. Price, pair 13/3
Plough Backhands. Price, pair ■ 13/3
Kangaroo brand Plough Hames. Price, pair 24/
PLOUGH COLLARS
Strongly made Plough Collars, 1 strap, basil lined and best rye straw filled. Up to 21 inches. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price ~
(Over 21 inches, 2/6 per inch extra.)
w
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
HORDERNS
LOW PRICES
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0,, Sydney


WAY OUT
By GEORGE MULGRUE.
THE duststorm blew all afternoon,
but as the sun went down the wind
dropped and the dust subsided into
little rivulets of sand that ran in and
out between the tussocks of camel-grass.
The subaltern heaved a sigh of relief.
This morning it had been so thick he’d
got lost, taking his relieving officer on
a tour of the gun positions. Poor devil!
He’d be having all the dust from now
on! From tomorrow there could be a
duststorm every day for all he cared.
But it was just as well there wasn’t any
blowing tonight. It would be job enough
moving a crowd of men round on a pitch-
black night without the added misery of
a sandstorm.
It was the first moonless night for a
month, and the night they’d all been
waiting for, ever since the other mob
went off. Dawson had gone out then,
and he’d written since: “Hurry up and
get out of that damned place before we
finish the beer!” Well, this was it.
Within a few days he ought to be seeing
Dawson again. The last time when
they’d said good-bye they’d had one
warm can of Scottish beer between them.
And because it was warm it had frothed
put when they opened the.tin and they’d
managed to save only half a pannikinful
each..
He turned and looked up at the sky.
Except for the dull booming of some
shelling on the eastern perimeter, the
peace of evening was everywhere. He
shrugged his shoulders and, stooping,
walked down into his dugout.
It was almost palatial ; a large room
cut out of the side of a wadi, partitioned
off into sleeping quarters and a place to
sit in. The sleeping-room was covered
with a framework and sandbags; the
other just shaded over with hessian. In
the outer place was all his gear: his
valise, rolled ready to take away; a kit-
bag ; an Italian ammunition case, painted
green and with his name and number
patiently carved into its lid by his bat-
man ; his web equipment all together, in
“marching order,” ready for him to put
on.
In the sleeping quarters the English
subaltern, his successor, was sitting on
the bed. He grinned as the Australian
walked in. “Well —been taking a last
look at the old homestead?”
“Yes.”
“Can’t imagine you being terribly cut
up at leaving, if it’s always like this! ”
The Australian smiled. “No, I can’t
say I am. And yet, I suppose I will miss
the place, in a way. A bloke.gets attached
even to a dump like this. I think the
damned desert would get you in the
end! ”
The other shook his head. “Well, if
it’s all like this, me for England, home
and beauty. Or if I’ve got to go to a
war, let it be somewhere that’s civilised.
I should imagine an estaminet or two
would go rather well here!”
They both laughed.
“One thing,” the Australian said.
“That gun at Post Fourteen. Don’t let
your blokes wander about during the day.
Jerry’s as fly as hell round there. He’s
got an Emma Gee at those twin mounds
across the way. He won’t do a damned
thing for a while, and then, when your
chaps have got a bit careless, he’ll open
up and do them over. He’s done it
before with one of our gun crews! And,
anyhow, if your blokes walk about, the
infanteers over there’ll play hell. They
reckon we draw the crabs at the best of
times! ”
The Englishman nodded. “Thanks, I’ll
tell them. What about the gun to the
right of that one?”
“Not so bad for Emma Gees, but
they’ve got it pretty well registered with
mortars. They’ll let you have some of
those. As a matter of fact, I’ve already
suggested shifting it. Don’t know if your
B.C. will take the idea up. You might
mention it to him. But as long as your
blokes keep out of the actual gun pit as
much as possible and under cover they’ll
be pretty safe. Jerry’s prepared to give
and take a bit there. If you don’t throw
stuff at him he won’t trouble you much.
It’s only when some silly cow decides to
pop a few off from his Bren that things
happen!”
The Englishman dug into his kitbag
and produced a bottle of whisky. “I’ve
been cherishing this for some time, but
I think tonight’s a good enough excuse
for opening it! ” He poured out a couple
of generous nips. “I’m afraid there’s
nothing but water to go with it.” He
lifted his glass. “Cheerio, old man!” he
said. “God knows what I’d have done
without you. It would have taken me
months to get to know this place on my
own. All the best. And when you hit
Cairo, have a quick one or three at the
Gezireli Club for me, will you?”
The Australian drank, unsmiling. “Do
you know, I almost envy you in one way.
"There’s going to be a hell of a push here
any time now. There’s every indication
of it. I should imagine that they’re go-
ing to push old Jerry from here to
Tripoli. And, since we’ve had all the
dirt and muck and misery of these last
few months, I’d like to be in at the
death! ”
“I suppose you would.”
“You bet I would! Jerry’s been crack-
ing the whip at us for six months or
more now and I’d like to do a bit of the
cracking for a change. The times I’ve
seen those damned Stukas come over
without even fighter protection, because
they knew we hadn’t a ’plane to stop ’em
with! The best sight I ever saw was a
few weeks ago, when forty Blenheims
came over and demonstrated all right. It
shook Jerry a bit, too, I think. His
beastly little Recco ’plane hasn’t been
over since!” He looked at his watch.
“Well, I’d better be moving. My sergeant
should have the boys ready. All the
very best and don’t let ‘Spandau Joe’ put
it over you. He’s quite a sportsman,
really when you get to know him!”
They shook hands and the Australian
walked out to where his troop was
already packing itself into the trucks. He
watched his batman stow his own gear
and then, with a wave to the Englishman
standing at the dugout’s entrance, jumped
aboard and gave the word to move.
IN a short while the little convoy
arrived at a flat, sandy plain, where
low mounds were all that showed the
presence of a number of underground
dugouts. Among them was a dusty
square tent, sprawling drunkenly in the
direction the constant wind had pushed
it. An officer sitting outside on a chair
and trying to read by the rapidly failing
daylight was apparently the only living
creature in the place. He looked up as
the convoy arrived and smiled at the
troop commander. “Hello, Joe. Ready
for the big flit?”
The other nodded. “Yes. Where’s the
rest of our mob?”
The adjutant waved his hand vaguely.
“Your B.C.’s over in your quarter’s
doover. The battery’s scattered about.
You’ve got about two hours to wait
before you move off, so you’d better let
your blokes take it easy, too.”
“I’d better see what the Major wants
first. Anyone else going besides us?”
“No, only your battery—lucky swine!
I don’t move out till next week! Come
and have a cup of tea.”
“O.K. I’ll be back. I’ll just see if the
boss wants anything.” He yelled over
to the waiting troop. “Hang about a bit,
boys—l won’t be long.” Then he made
his way to a near-by dugout. Inside, sit-
ting on an upturned box and holding a
pannikin of tea, was the Major. He
looked up as the subaltern entered.
“Hello, Joe. Got your mob here?”
“Yes. I can let ’em go for a while,
can’t I?”
“I should say so. You don’t start for
quite a while.”
The subaltern went out and dismissed
his troop. “You’ve got about an hour
and a half, boys. You can do what you
like till then. I suggest you get a little
sleep, if you can. You mightn’t get
much tonight. I want you back here at
nine o’clock sharp.” He went back to
the Major. “I’ve told ’em to be ready at
nine. That’s about right, isn’t it?”
“Yes. Now, listen. I won’t be going
with you and I’m not going to hang
about here till you go. So I’ll give you
all the dope now. Mac will be in charge
of the party. You leave here at about
nine fifteen and should arrive at the har-
bor about ten. The destroyers are due
about then, but they’ll have to unload, so
you’ll probably be hanging about till
eleven or so. You know the rest of the
programme.”
“Yes. We walk down to the eastern
end of the North wharf. The blokes are
to sit down quietly under the lee of that
road that runs up from there. In the
event of an air raid, they’re to sit tight.
That is, if Jerry drops flares. If he
doesn’t, they’re to get under the arches
—right?”
“Right!” The Major nodded, “And
remember —no smokes!”
The subaltern grinned. “Don’t worry.
This is one occasion when we won’t even
have to tell ’em not to smoke.”
The Major put down his cup. “0.K.,
old man. I’ll get along. I’ve seen Mac
and the others.” He put out his hand.
“All the best, Joe. Save some of the
beer for me!” They shook hands and the
Major walked out.
The quartermaster-sergeant had been
sitting in the corner, busy with a primus
stove. He stood up. “There’s a rum
ration for your people tonight. Will you
look after it, sir?”
“Yes. Send it over to my truck. I’ll
issue it before we move off. You coming
with us tonight?” *
The “quarter” grinned and nodded.
“Too right I am! To hell with rear
parties! I’ve done all my handing over.
The R.S.M. can stay here and keep the
Major company.”
“O.K. then—l’ll be seeing you.”
He walked over to the tent, where the
adjutant was waiting for him with tea
and biscuits.
BY nine o’clock the night was black.
It took him ten minutes after leav-
ing the mess tent to find his way back to
the trucks. When he arrived the men
were all there waiting. He called over
the sergeant and began to issue the rum.
By the time he had finished the rest of
the battery had come rumbling up. In a
few moments the troop was packed into
trucks and the battery got under way.
The journey to the harbor seemed in-
terminable. The utter darkness took
away all sense of direction, and only by
crawling along at barely walking pace
were the drivers able to keep their
vehicles from falling into slit trenches
and crashing through dugouts, but at
last they were across the flat and on to
a tarred road. The going was better there
and the drivers speeded up. As the trucks
went faster the spirits of the men packed
in the back seemed to rise too, and they
began to sing. Perhaps it was only the
rum ration doing it, but they sang. All
the old dirty songs and some new ones
learned from Englishmen they’d soldiered
with. Some with Arabic catchwords.
“Sayeeda, bint, I like your charming
manner” The subaltern in the cab
smiled in the darkness. He was laugh-
ing aloud by the time they had got
through to the end:
“ —I think I’ll call you Lena,
Because it rhymes with Telahina.
You’re my little Gyppo bint;
You’re quaiscateer !”
Then suddenly a great light wiped
away the darkness and everyone’s voice
was still. Out in front of the truck and
up high were three brilliant lights, sink-
ing to earth almost imperceptibly. The
truck began to lose speed and the sound
of its engine died away. In the sudden
silence came the uneven rumbling roar of
a bomber’s motors. The subaltern turned
quickly to the driver. “Keep going, son!
Keep going. It’s no good stopping or
getting out. Just keep going!”
The truck began to move forward once
more. There was a whistling sound, fol-
lowed by five appalling crashes, over to
the right, but the truck kept moving
steadily ahead. Gradually the flares
grew dimmer, and as the last went out
the rumble of the bomber died away.
The trucks moved on, and soon the men’s
voices came again to the officer sittmg
in the front.
Half an hour later they were sitting in
the lee of the dock wall. The effect of
the rum ration seemed to have died away
and no one spoke much. Some of them
slept, sitting propped up in their clumsy
harness. The subaltern spoke softly to
his sergeant. “Only one more lap to go
now, Len. And they should be here
soon.”
The sergeant nodded. “Yes, I shan’t
be sorry when we hit Alex. It’s been a
bit of a strain tonight. ’Specially after
that bomber.”
“Hmm. Thank God it was only a
stray. I thought for a moment that they’d
come over especially for our benefit!”
The sergeant laughed. “You weren’t
the only one! Hullo —it looks as though
she’s on! ”
Into the harbor in front of them,
shadows, darker even than the gloom of
the water, came creeping stealthily. Now
and then a sharp word of command rang
out, and once or twice a hiss of steam.
Incredibly quickly, it seemed, men began
streaming up from the wharf, the wait-
ing troops chiacking them: “Brought
your cricket gear, mate?” “Don’t drink
all the beer!” “Who wants to hire a
decent bungalow?” And the Tommies
answered back: “What sort of place is
it, choom?” “’Ave yer killed many Ger-
mans?” “Garn! There ain’t no bloody
Germans ’ere.”
Soon the stream ceased and a voice
said “Come on now, lads. Look smart.
WeTe sailing in ten minutes and those
that aren’t aboard stay behind!”
Ten minutes later the gangway was up
and the destroyer was moving slowly to
the mouth of the harbor. The subaltern
went aft and saw his baggage taken
down into the tiny wardroom. There
was hardly space to move. Officers in
khaki lay about everywhere. A steward
came up. “I’m afraid all the settees are
taken up, sir, but I can rig you a folding
cot on the deck.”
The subaltern nodded wearily. “That’ll
be fine. Anywhere will do. I’ll be back
in five minutes.” He went on deck again
and made his way forward to where the
troops were bedding down in the crew’s
messroom. The crush was tremendous,
but every face was smiling. Wherever
they could find room soldiers were sitting
opening tins of food bought in the ship’s
canteen. The troop’s youngest gunner
was lying in a corner. In one hand was
an open tin of peaches, in the other a
sandwich made of a whole tinful of
tongue pressed between two slices of
bread. A seraphic smile spread over his
face.
The subaltern grinned. “Happy in the
service?”
The boy smiled back and held out the
sandwich, “Too right—have ago at this! ”
WHEN SILVER
WENT DOWN
BY F. PRITCHARD.
THE first cow went down in August.
It had been raining for days and the
sandy slopes behind our hut,
covered in bull oaks, were soft
enough for a beast to sink to the belly.
Rivulets flowed through the thin yellow
grass to make pools on the flat where the
sails of the windmill turned idly. The
rain had com© too late. It had not fallen
heavily enough in the summer to make a
reserve of grass for the winter, and now
the grass would grow slowly on account
of the cold. The cows, neglecting the dried-
out grass left from the summer, would
nibble at the new shoots and not get
enough. They would go down, particularly
those which would calve in the spring.
In the hut Mum had placed a sauce-
pan by the stove to catch the drips from
a bad leak. Outside the tank was over-
flowing. It seemed a shame water was
going to waste.
I found Silver lying among the drip-
ping bull oaks. When she saw me coming
she tried to rise. Her hindquarters hung,
trembling, for a few seconds, then sank
back to the wet ground. She must have
lain there a long time, for the grass about
her was flattened and muddy. One hip-
bone was rubbed raw.
I called the dog away and rode home.
“Silver’s down,” I told Mum. “Where’s
Oliver?”
“Down in the cowshed,”
My brother said nothing. He finished
washing the separator bowl and emptied
the vat of dirty water before he came
with me. Mum put on a pair of Oliver’s
boots, threw a cornsack over her head
and hurried after us.
The rain was drifting softly. It hung
in beads on the branches and the grass
and felt cold on our faces. Silver still
lay where I had found her,
Oliver went to her shoulders and told
Mum and me to lift the cold, stiff tail.
We both heaved ; then, as she stood on
her hind legs, Oliver lifted at the
shoulders. She was on her feet, weak
and stiff, for a few seconds, then she
collapsed like a punctured tyre. She rolled
her eyes and gave a drawn-out moan.
Oliver let her have a few minutes’ rest.
Then he ran at her with a stick and
shouted “Get up!” as he hit her on the
rump. She flinched and moaned but she
did not try to rise.
We hung about, and Mum pulled some
old grass and gave it to her. But she
did not eat it
“If we had some chaff” said Mum.
“She’s stiff,” Oliver said... “That’s
right, that’s right,” and he rushed to
Silver’s shoulder to help her as she tried
to rise of her own accord. Mum and 1
hung on to her tail. It was ludicrous and
pathetic at the same time. Silver sank
back to the ground.
“Damn her. If she would only try
more,” panted Oliver. “If we do get her
up she’ll be down by night.”
The rain came heavier, and it was get-
ting colder. Silver’s nose was resting on
the ground. No one spoke. We turned
away and walked home in silence. Oliver
got his rifle from behind the door, slipped
a couple of cartridges into his pocket
and went out. His face was savage and
unhappy, as it was when he had to kill
a calf. He sent the dog back, and it
watched him go and whined.
I washed up the breakfast dishes
noisily, but that did not prevent my hear-
ing the report of the rifle.
Next day, while I was driving a cow
and calf in, I passed the place. A pile of
logs was stacked there ready to burn
when the dry came, and two crows
flapped heavily out of sight. The ground
was green with new grass.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63. —No. 3254
Wednesday, June 24, 1942.
ANOTHER ROUND COMING ON!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp s
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
"KNOCKING" SOLDIERS.
“Knocking” soldiers has become a
favorite pastime among Australians given
to reproving other Australians and thank-
ing God they are not as other Austra-
lians are. The behavior of soldiers is a
stock subject for newspaper articles,
sermons and moral philippics by
feminists, aldermen and politicians, par-
ticularly the Minister for the Army, Mr.
Forde. Soldiers, it seems, waste food
in army camps, go joy-riding in army
caravans, get about in untidy uniforms,
neglect to shave and brush their hair,
wear their hats at the wrong angle or
don’t wear them at all, deposit their feet
on the opposite seat when riding in trams
or trains, drink to excess and make night
hideous with squealing flappers.
It is all true, to some extent. Anyone
whose business or pleasure takes him
about any of the big cities has met the
rolling-drunk soldier, alone, or with an
arm round a silly young girl, herself
sometimes far gone in liquor. But if the
observer is fair-minded he will allow that
for every soldier thus encountered he sees
a score who in behavior and appearance
(except sometimes in the cut of their
uniforms, and that isn’t their fault) are
above reproach. If he chances upon
Diggers returned from the Middle East
he will have reason to admire their manly
bearing and to conclude that their battle
discipline was the answer to a com-
mander’s prayer. He will judge rightly
if he decides that, for every soldier who
makes a fool of himself when on city
leave, there are fifty who, having sacri-
ficed their careers for small pay when
non-warriors are having the time of their
lives on high pay without in any respect
behaving like plaster saints, are applying
themselves with serious purpose to the
noble task of learning how to defend
their country against the horrors of
Asiatic invasion, and are ready to pay
the full price. And he will have a charit-
able thought for even the minority who
misbehave if he reflects that they are for
the most part what the depression, class-
war propaganda and a decade of indis-
cipline, for which politicians are partly
responsible, made them.
On November 1, 1929, a Labor Gov-
ernment of which Mr. Forde was a
member and Mr. Curtin a supporter, sus-
pended the compulsory provisions of the
Defence Act, and suspended they re-
mained until Australia found itself at
war again. No worse day’s work was
ever done in Australia, and we are ex-
periencing some of the manifold effects
even yet. An immediate result was that
the training strength of the military forces
fell below the number of volunteers taken
over by the Commonwealth from the
six colonies in 1901.
In February, 1929, the training strength
was just on 48,000. Australia then had a
citizen army worthy of the name. The
instructors were old soldiers of a fine
type. Many of the officers and non-coms,
were Diggers, and the young soldiers
were on the whole enthusiastic. When
the blow fell, many of them were induced
to remain as volunteers, largely by the
personal representations of the warrant
officers, but so many others drifted away
that by March 31, 1933, the training
strength had fallen to 27,963. The “peace
nucleus” was to have been 35,000, but
after making a show of trying to get
recruits the Labor Government reduced
it to 30,000.
As a reward for their exertions, war-
rant officers were the first to be re-
trenched. On the other hand, the
Defence Department clerks —they had a
union—were maintained at full strength
on full pay. The secretary to the depart-
ment was actually the highest-paid man
in the service—he received £5OO a year
more than General Chauvel, hero of a
hundred fights and leader of what was
left of the army, whose annual reports on
the plight to which it had been reduced
were ignored.
The Labor Government acted in the
belief that, in the beautiful international
situation which had come to pass, Aus-
tralia did not require more than a shadow
army, since it would be defended by the
League. Succeeding Governments in-
herited its faith in the League and its
opposition to compulsory military train-
ing, fearing the effect of reintroduction
on votes ; and the state of the army went
from bad to worse.
It was stinted in every possible way.
To get a few pounds for battalion funds,
commanders were reduced to asking
volunteers whose friends were driving
them home from camp for the return
halves of their tickets. In some districts
to wear the King’s uniform was to bring
insults and threats of violence from hood-
lums hunting in packs—a spirit which
still exists. At the end of 1935
there were only 28,000 militiamen on
the training strength. They were en-
listed for three years and trained for 16
days per annum, of which eight days were
spent in camp—unless the Government had
another fit of economy. Not till after
Munich was any serious attempt made to
increase their numbers. So although the
census of June 30, 1933, showed that
Australia had a total male population of
3,363,546 (only 410,200 less than the total
population at March 31, 1901) and that
adult males in the 18-35 age-groups num-
bered 954,000, of whom 620,000 were un-
married or widowers without children,
it entered the second and deadlier world
war with a militia barely equal to the
population (both sexes and all ages) of
a Sydney or Melbourne suburb, insuffi-
ciently trained and shockingly ill-
equipped.
By the Defence Acts of 1903 and 1904
“all male inhabitants between the ages of
18 and 60 were made liable to serve in
Australia with the defence forces in time
of war.” When events made it neces-
sary to exercise this power the job was
tackled, reluctantly and fearfully, on the
instalment plan. Meanwhile another
A.I.F. had been improvised, necessarily
at great cost —for the old parsimony was
no more, “damn-the-expense” having
come in—but with a success which indi-
cated how much more could have been
done at less cost if 10 priceless years had
not been wasted. The Labor party at
first didn’t want another A.1.F., but did
not push its opposition far. It has since
found the A.I.F. a handy thing to have
about the place, and is set on brigading
the A.M.F. with it, having in mind not
only the present necessity of such an
arrangement but the avoidance of a
Defence Act amendment under which all
units, the V.D.C. excepted, could be sent
to fight the enemy anywhere.
This may be politics, but it is not
magnificent. Indeed in Ministerial meas-
ures and addresses (except when the Prime
Minister has excelled himself) there has
been nothing calculated to fire the troops
with enthusiasm. The best that can be
said of the present Government is that in
a task for which it had no training, and
in a situation to which it has to adjust
itself with violent jolts, discarding one
prejudice after another, it has done as
well as could be expected. When doc-
trinaires have to become men of action
and anti-imperialists suddenly turn im-
perialist ; when opponents of compulsory
military training are obliged to accept it
and anti-conscriptionists to enforce not
only military conscription (thus far with
a string tied to it) but conscription of
labor; when soapbox spouters like Mr.
Ward have to pose as constructive states-
men, and when trade-union politicians
have to question trade-union “principles”
—such as that N. S. Wales coalminers
may strike when they please, even when
an enemy who has seized the N.E.1.,
Borneo and Burma oilfields is killing
fellow-Australians not far from the coal-
mines—it would be unfair to pitch expec-
tations high.
On Friday, while the Prime Minister
was asking for full support from the
trade-union movement in a situation
which he reviewed in most serious terms,
and intimating not obscurely that neither
the country (“not as strong as it should
be”) nor his Government had had it, 5000
N. S. Wales coalminers staged another
of their wicked holdups. It meant that
their mines would be idle for at least
three days. Simultaneously the N. S.
Wales Commissioner of Railways an-
nounced that his coal reserve was
“dangerously low.” Mr. Curtin must
sometimes wonder whether these coal-
miners would have *behaved so badly
if the young men among them had
done the military training from which
his party “saved” them. In the army
they would have learned habits of dis-
cipline, and perhaps unlearned some of
the nasty things which Communists
taught them. On the parade ground and
in the camp they might have imbibed
healthy Australian sentiments from men
well qualified to impart them, being
themselves Australians through and
through. Instead they have been plied
with poisonous propaganda in which
Australia has been presented as a no-
account country, which is to be delivered
from robber-capitalists by a Glorious
Revolution, and to be joined in an Asian
annexe to the U.S.S.R.
Communists have also been active in
camps and workshops, with results
which may have been reflected in
the misconduct of some young sol-
diers and in ruffianly attacks on others.
They have their own subtle ways
of “knocking” soldiers —British soldiers.
They persistently and poisonously depre-
ciate the British war effort, at the same
time glorifying that of the Russians. In
this foul work they are assisted by news-
paper writers and radio commentators
who, wilfully blind to such achievements
as that of General Alexander, who saved
the army in Burma and kept the enemy
out of India till the monsoons had stopped
invasion, magnify and sneer at every set-
back suffered by British arms while giving
Russians credit for successes which the
map belies. Some of these persons have
never been known to admit that any Rus-
sian general has lost a battle, let alone a
campaign. The outrageous Second-Front-
in-Europe campaign, the latest manifes-
tation of which is an eruption of expen-
sive posters bidding “the People of Aus-
tralia” to demand it in cables addressed
to Mr. Churchill, is impregnated with the
dastardly lie that John Bull is loafing on
Russia. How bad and mad it looks in
the light of Mr. Curtin’s grave statement
that current shipping losses are “beyond
our annual replacement capacity,” and of
the dreadful attacks on and the dreadful
losses suffered by the men who took the
ships to Malta and Tobruk, to that storied
port for the last time!
It is a thousand pities that hostile influ-
ences prevented the formation of a ser-
vice-men’s party in 1919. Had there been
such a party, the ideals for which the
Diggers fought would have been steadily
and sturdily championed in good and bad
times. From a service-men’s party Young
Australia would have heard a great deal
more about duties and a great deal less
about rights than it heard from other par-
ties, and propagandists of revolution and
a piebald Australia would have met
doughty antagonists wherever they
showed themselves. Nor would the fight-
ing services have been left to the mercy
of politicians whose heads were full of
Geneva moonshine. They would, on the
contrary, have been maintained at a level
consistent with the hard facts of
geography, population and history, and
when war came again it would have
found Australia ready. There should be
a service-men’s party after this war. The
service men will need it, and so will Aus-
tralia. There will be hostile influences
again, inside the R.5.5.A.1.L.A., as well
as outside it. They will have to be
tackled in the Digger spirit and over-
come.
Taxes in Two Countries.
With one eye on the second Liberty
Loan—it wasn’t going well—Mr. Curtin
made what he called “an early statement
of taxation plans so that taxpayers will
know their commitments and be able to
make necessary adjustments to meet
them.” For Australia this is an innova-
tion, and a very good one, though it is
established custom in Britain. The Prime
Minister went on to say that “no new
taxes, direct or indirect, will be imposed
in the Budget, which is to be presented
in August,” and that “the rates of tax
on individuals and companies embodied
in the uniform taxation plan will be
those applicable next year,” which begins
on July 1.
Obviously Mr. Curtin is satisfied that
uniform income taxation has arrived, in
spite of the effort of four Premiers to
thwart it (Mr. McKell was to have made
a fifth, but after the hostile resolution
of the State Labor delegates he retired
hurt); and it could assuredly be intro-
duced in other ways if the present
method were held to be unconstitutional.
But since other war loans will have to
be floated, and since taxpayers and con-
cerns with incomes of £4OO a year and
upwards, which account for only 30 per
cent, of total incomes, may prove un-
equal to the burden of finding nearly all
the subscriptions, the Government itself
may have to make “adjustments.”
During a financial debate in the House
of Lords, an indignant peer protested
against the “brutality” of the taxation
imposed on “the so-called rich.” “After
paying their rates and taxes,” he groaned,
“they will not have a penny left to buy
a crust of bread.” This is, of course,
overstating the case, but it is a fact that
“the so-called rich” have been hit very
hard, and not only in Britain —where
there is a far greater proportion of them
—but in Australia. Because of cold-
blooded extortion by State Governments
Australians in this class have been served
with demands for more than their income
for the 1940-41 year; in some cases, for
a great deal more. There will be no
more of this legalised robbery under
uniform taxation; all the same, the
Curtin-Chifley Government proposes to
take more from incomes of £2OOO and
upwards than the Chancellor of the
Exchequer is taking.
A comparison of taxes on income from
personal exertion is subjoined. The
figures (shillings and pence omitted) are
taken from Commonwealth “Hansard’
and from the Daily Mail Year-Book, and
they relate to four groups of taxpayers:
(1) without dependants ; (2) one depen-
dant ; (3) two dependants; (4) three
dependants.
Taxes Payable— ———
Group Group Group Group
Income. 1. 2. 3. 4.
£2ooo—Australian £BO4 £764 £734 £729
British .. 856 826 801 776
£3OO0 —Australian 1599 1554 1514 1509
British .. 1462 1432 1407 1382
£5OO0 —Australian 3374 3329 3284 3279
British .. 2837 2807 2782 2757
To all the British taxpayers in these
groups, post-war credits are payable.
They amount to £6O in the first group
and to £65 in the others, and they are
not forfeitable in case of death; indeed
they are exempt from estate duties. The
principle is embodied in the Finance Act,
1941, which “provides for the refund, in
a manner to be decided by Parliament
after the war, of part of the heavy addi-
tional income tax” imposed by that
measure.
The amount to be refunded is to be the
Individual’s extra tax, attributable to the
lowering of the Earned Income Relief
(from one-sixth to one-tenth) and the Per-
sonal Allowance (single, £lOO to £80;
married, £l7O to £140). These claims can-
not be bought, sold or assigned.
In respect of income from property,
Australian tax on £2OOO and upwards
will be considerably higher than British
tax, which in these cases is reducible by
post-war credits amounting to £l5 where
there are dependants, £lO where there
are none. A comparison of amounts
payable by taxpayers without dependants,
post-war credits excluded:
Taxes Payable
Income. Australian. British.
£2,000 .. .. £lOO5 £931
£3,000 .. .. 1902 1537
£5,000 .. .. 3702 2912
£lO,OOO .. 8202 6937
It seems useless to expect Australians
who have to pay such taxes to make mas-
sive subscriptions to war loans out of
annual income.
On “earned” incomes up to £5OO, the
Australian tax starts at £2OO ; the Curtin-
Chifley proposal is that a single man or
a widower on £2OO should pay £7 18s.
For bachelors and widowers the English
tax begin at £l2O, and the tax is £7 10s.,
but the taxpayer gets a post-war credit
for that amount. Married Britons with-
out children pay £1 6s. on £l6O, £7 3s.
on £lBO and £l3 on £2OO, but all these
amounts are to be refunded to them after
the war. On incomes of £250 to £5OO,
Australian and British taxes in the four
groups mentioned stand as follows (shil-
lings and pence again omitted):
. -Taxes Payable
Group Group Group Group
Income. 1. 2. 3. 4.
£2so—-Australian £l9 £9 £3 £1
British .. 47 27 II Nil
£3O0 —Australian 31 21 13 10
British 66 42 26 9
£350 —Australian 44 31 22 18
British .. 88 58 40 24
£4O0 —Australian 57 43 32 28
British .. 11l 81 56 39
£5O0 —Australian 84 67 55 50
British .. 156 126 101 76
But the Britons in these groups all get
post-war credits single men and
widowers, £ll to £26 ; childless married
men, £l5 to £3l ; married men with one
child, £ll to £3l ; married men with
two children, £9 15s. (at £300) to £2B.
Hitherto Mr. Curtin and Mr. Ghifley
have been opposed to post-war credits.
As in the case of other forms of com-
pulsion to which they were opposed, cir-
cumstances may be too strong for them ;
in other words, they may have to go in
for compulsory saving to get more war-
loan money. And in the long run many
of their own supporters, who are get-
ting and spending as they never got and
spent before, and who are deaf to appeals
for war-loan subscriptions, because they
have been taught to believe (though not
by Mr. Curtin or Mr. Chifley) that the
“capitalist” ought to find all the finance
needed, will thank them for doing it.
At present a great deal of money re-
quired for the war effort is going into
pub cash registers, bookmakers’ bags,
totes, starting-price joints and lottery
offices. Touching the lotteries, if the
Government can’t overcome its strange
disinclination to tax prizes, which was
done for years in time of peace, it
should at least insist on their being paid
in war bonds and savings certificates.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dunstan's Deposition.
Victoria’s Mr. Dunstan, having read a
Melbourne “Age” article questioning the
method by which the salaries of members
of boards and commissions were arrived
at, thought he saw a chance to prop up
the crumbling edifice of State politics.
Without stopping to think he told the
“Age” that Federal extravagance had
long been a sore point with him —with
him! —and commended the article:
Steps must be taken to see there is no
wild extravagance... .Wholesale duplica-
tion between Federal and State authorities
should be avoided Competition be-
tween the Commonwealth and the States
is not a healthy practice for a nation to
tolerate.
Then, probably realising that he had
said too much, he stopped. But the “Age”
recorded his words and there they stand,
good arguments for uniform taxation,
for abolition of State Parliaments and
Premiers, and all from the mouth of
the first Premier to announce that he
would take the Commonwealth to law
over uniform taxation.
Still, since Mr. Dunstan didn’t mean
his words to be taken that way, he
may at any moment recall them on the
ground that “such a contentious matter
should not be brought up at a time when
unity is so essential.” If he does, some-
one should remind him that the Scullin-
Spooner-Mills committee stated that
uniform tax would result in a saving of
£250,000 in salaries and release 1000 State
and Federal civil servants for other
duties, as well as effecting enormous sav-
ings in paper. There is also the enormous
saving of time and money that will be
gained by private companies and persons
no longer compelled to act as Govern-
ment agents without fee or rebate in com-
piling returns and gathering taxes.
Nobody seems to know just how many
Government employees this country is
carrying to the acre, but there is no ques-
tion that overstocking is rampant. If
uniform taxation means saving a quarter-
million in salaries and releasing 1000
people for other work, what would aboli-
tion of State Parliaments and their stag-
gering departments, boards and commis-
sions mean?
Abolition has come into public discus-
and c ommon Wealth Govern-
merd b as received hints that a referendum
on it s h o uld be taken. A Gallup poll, for
w hat it is worth, records that 60 p.c. of
those interviewed favored abolition, 19p.c.
were against, 15 p.c. were undecided and
6 p.c. didn’t answer. Only in Westralia and
Tasmania were abolitionists in a minority
— 35 p. c . to 48 p.c. and 34 p.c. to 40 p.c.
A referendum “at a time when....” may
be questionable. On the performances of
the Premiers, it might be just as well to
let them carry on a little longer. Almost
every word they say condemns them and
their useless Parliaments, and another
ygar Qr especially under uniform taxa-
tion, would make it unnecessary for a
Common wealth Government to seek a
referendum before acting.
The Ga]lup people> like s 0 many
QtherSj i nc ] udmg plenty who favor aboh-
simply cannot get the State com-
j t of their minds . Their second
_
9 , .
Should the States hand over their powers
to the Commonwealth, leaving minor
matters to local councils and State boards?
The answer was “Yes.” But why State
boards? Under abolition the States them-
selyes must cease to exist, and , for
purposes of either nationa i or local
““*«>>. ‘ heir s »P id borders raust 80 with
nem-
* Cease far Mare Asoirill.
A v#CIS@ fOr a¥a©re MSpiriis.
.
A general free-for-all seems to have
sprouted out of last years wheat crop,
though who s fighting which for wha or
why has got all mixed up with the
dust and cocky-chaff which Commerce
Minister Scully and sundry spokesmen
for growers’ organisations are kicking
up as they get more and more tangled
in the crop.
Getting down under the winnower
and squinting along the straw-walkers,
it looks as though part of the row is
over Mr. Scully’s announcement that the
Commonwealth Government contracted
to pay only 3s. lOd. a bushel for
140.000. bushels of last year’s
153.000. crop and that there-
fore the amount will now have to be
spread over the 153,000,000 bushels, giv-
ing the grower about 3s. 6d.
It was the Government that preceded
Mr. Scully’s which gave the guarantee,
Nature flagrantly ignored Mr. Scully’s
predecessor and the wheat boards and
the inspectors and went round sabotag-
ing the war effort and persuading the
confounded wheat to grow. When the
headers had headed it and the bags had
bagged it and the silos had siloed it,
poor old Mr. Scully found himself hold-
ing the bag—his Government having
happened in the meantime—and the bag
had more wheat than Mr. Scully’s Gov-
ernment, on the precedent of its prede-
cessor, had contracted to buy.
Then it was that Mr. Scully announced
that the price would be spread, and then
drills or plough-seats, but from office
being a popular past,me of annoyed sec-
retanes these days.
Shrinking in the blast, Mr. Scully man-
aged to cry through the noise that his
Government would pay 4s. a bushel tor
the first 3000 bushels on every crop next
harvest. No good. Up rose W. G. Cam-
bridge, of the N.S.W. Charmers and
Fettlers:
If Mr. Scully is determined to filch the
proceeds of the 13,000,000 bushels of ex-
cess wheat from poverty-stricken farmers
2y SIS
so under the pretence that he is carrying
out the previous Government’s undertaking
is not only confiscation and repudiation;
it is deceiving the farmers.
The barney involves about £2,490,000.
Mr. Scully and his colleagues and all the
various parties to the argument should
ponder gravely the effects that are apt
to arise when Governments set up boards,
commissions and similar things to'try to
teach Grandmother Nature to sue eggs.
♦
. i _ ui h .j a «?
Who d Be q Warden.
» ARP> » . It ’ s a grea t pity something or
some b od y doesn’t take the Sydney
Minister and his N.E.S. “heads”
to pieces, straighten them out and put
them together again. Only volunteer
wardens in city and suburbs, who have
to endure them, have any conception ot
the incredible performances stagec y
N.E.S. headquarters. „
The latest was a fair sample ot pre-
vious efforts, which have had a non-stop
run since N.E.S first took the stage in
N.S.W. The night after the enemy she
ing of Sydney, the public was told by
press and radio that all seaward iign
for 10 miles back from the coast mus
be blacked-out and that all others must
be browned-out That same mgb
wardens were called to their patrols and
° rdered to 8° out and see that thls waS
do £, e - . . „. 04 .
th at it meant any g * ‘ official
S£sltTii. w NEi d «^d
f™^ d from
which a light might be seen, but whether
warden was expected to swim out
and eit wasn q stated .
Anyhow, it seems wardens in one
su h ur b J seven miles inland, ordered sea-
ward ]ights t 0 be blacked out. There were
complain t s . Did the Minister stand by
his wardens and the only possible in-
terpretation of his order? He did not.
with all his usual threatening fury he
announced an “investigation” and de-
**
blackout Will not be given unless re
quested by the services. And the chiet
warden for the area said something
equally silly.
Wardening in the sovereign State of
N.S.W. is a job for men with the patience
of a Job, though he never suffered the
infliction of a Heffron or a Sydney N.E.S.
headquarters.
“WHO’S GOT A JOB FOR THE PARLIAMENT GANG?”
"Mr. Vincent, M.L.A., asked for the appointment of State Parliamentary Committees to harness the administrative and organising ability of rank-and-file members to
the war effort. Mr. Lang, he said, was one of the ablest organisers and administrators in the country."
“Well, boss, the boys have done a good morning’s work, so they’ve carried a resolution to adjourn for three months.”


“Good for a Lifetime”
No. 136
“TUMBA”
CATTLE POLEY
£l2/16/3
Wa
v
(Complete)
Note how the
combined flap
and skirt is
sewn direct to
the seat, thus
giving the
narrowest pos-
sible grip. AH
the dees are lined
with metal and
attached strongly to
the tree.
WAITHER v. STEVENSON KZ
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS; HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
j
■oxbow
aiaißim
fflr
IHIMIOI
m.
fssrssm^
&
■W.
a
&
4^l
W. G. Bulfin
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
KEEPS HER FIT
A clear skin and bright, sparkling eyes
are signs of radiant health. If YOU
suffer from constipation take one or two
NYAL FIGSEN TABLETS before
retiring; no nausea, no griping pain.
In the morning the action of Figsen is
■mild, gentle, sure. NYAL FIGSEN
helps to restore a normal bowel action
without forming a habit. Equally good
for young and old. Figsen is one of the
168 dependable NYAL FAMILY]
MEDICINES. Sold by chemists every-
where. 1 / 3 a tin.
The next best thing to Nature ...
AfyalFigsen
THE GENTLE LRXRTIVE
POLITICAL POINTS
It was here suggested that Dr. Evatt
should be sent to Washington. He went
to Washington, thence" to London and so
to Washington again ; and now he is back
in Australia. In bringing Australia’s posi-
tion before two war leaders with immense
powers, one of whom lacks imagination,
the Minister for External Affairs did a
faithful job for his country in circum-
stances which were without precedent and
may never be repeated.
On Monday the High Court began the
hearing of Dunstan, Playford, Forgan
Smith and Willcock v. the Commonwealth.
However the case may go, that of the
Nation v. Dunstan, Playford, Smith, Will-
cock and 600 or so others has been placed
on the list, and judgment is certain. Nor
will there be any appeal to any tribunal
—except, perhaps, the British Parliament,
and that only to ratify the will of the
Australian people in a formal Act.
Churchill was in Washington when
Kuala Lumpur was lost, and was “given
an uproarious welcome” when he re-
turned to London. He was also in Wash-
ington when Tobruk was lost. This time
the “uproarious welcome” may be indefi-
nitely delayed.
Curtin to the trade-union conference
at Melbourne;
Allied shipping losses are grave.... Ger-
many is exercising increasing strength against
Russia.... Britain is facing serious prob-
lems, raw materials and fatigue of workers
among them.... Things are wanted every-
where for the defence of Australia.,. .The
Government has a major preoccupation
with the conduct of the war, the difficul-
ties of General MacArthur and the almost
incalculable difficulties of supply. It is
called upon to deal with far too many in-
dustrial problems. The Prime Minister
cannot spend half of each day on internal
social and economic problems.
Yet that seems to be expected of him. It
is a rotten position, but it has been
working up for a long time. It is all an
effect of handling work-stoppers and
propagandists of revolution with kid
gloves.
Curtin got a pledge of “wholehearted
support” from the union men at Mel-
bourne. He handles these conferences
very well, also Caucus hullabaloos and
Parliamentary debates like those on the
Penton affair. In such matters he has
added cubits to his political stature this
last year or so.
As it appeared in Sydney “D.T.”:
Why All This Talk About Unification in
Australia? By Hon. W. J. McKell, M.L.A.,
Premier of New South Wales.
The N.S.W. answer to the McKnell ques-
tion is—McKnell.
McKnell’s Government, quailing before
the disapproval of the N.S.W. Labor con-
ference, abandoned its High Court case
against uniform taxation. So much for
its alleged “principles” and its devotion
to “the will of the people.” It heard the
will of a group of trade-union secretaries,
expressed in a few harsh sentences ; and
squibbed.
Carlton, a Labor M.L.A., threw a heap
of Macquarie-street mud at private per-
sons, the charges being such as would
have earned an unprivileged slanderer a
term in gaol, unless he could prove
that he was off his head. An inquiry
was promised, and it was made by a
detective-inspector. It blew Carlton to
ribbons, but though it was admitted over
a month ago that the Government had
his report it did not table the thing until
it was about to adjourn “Parliament” for
another month’s loaf. The N.S.W.
Assembly is dying, but it might at least
die decently.
“I know of nothing more ethically satis-
fying or more economically sound than
to subscribe to the future of Australia,”
said General MacArthur, investing £lOOO
in the second Liberty Loan. Words that
covered the whole field of Australian duty
in the matter.
More MacArthurisms. On the fall of
Corregidor:
It needs no comment from me... .It has
scrolled its epitaph on enemy tablets, but
through the bloody haze of its last rever-
berating shot I shall always seem to see
a vision of grim, gaunt, ghastly men, still
unafraid.
To the Australian press:
It is of prime importance that the public
be instructed so that they can summon all
their confidence, all their determination
and all their purpose in the support of the
war effort.
On MacArthur Day in the U.S.A.:
The action of my fellow-countrymen in
commemorating this day redadicates each
one of them to the immortal ideals of
West Point [his military Alma Mater] —
“duty, honor, country.”
Beyond question the man is a master of
English, as well as an inspiring General.
The post-A.L.P.-conference issue of
Lang’s “Century” was mostly about Mc-
Kell, and every reference to “Willie” had
boiling oil in it. One about “Willie’s”
wages-tax trickery closed with the words
“Reckless Promises Usually Wreck the
Promiser.” Our colonial oath they do!
Lang is Right!
Forgan Smith, of Queensland, has com-
pleted his tenth year as a Premier. It’s
a world record for a Labor Premier.
From the point of view of State Premier-
ships it will never be broken in Australia,
for Forgan is likely to be the last Premier
of Queensland.
Army Minister Forde has announced
that he won’t hesitate to take over club-
houses, however fashionable or exclusive,
for housing Army personnel. There are
large premises in each of the State capi-
tals that are seldom occupied, and when
they are it is for no useful purpose.
They’d serve a better purpose as Army
establishments than they do as State
Parliament Houses.
A couple of the Premiers bit at
Hughes’s description of them as “pinch-
beck Caesars, babbling about State
rights.” Adelaide’s Playford made “allow-
ances for him ; he has done good work
in the past.” Melbourne’s Dunstan said
he had been “the advocate of many lost
causes.” But when did Billy ever stand
up for State Premiers?
Vincent, a C.P. man, asked the Sydney
Government to consider the appointment
of Parliamentary committees to
harness the administrative and organising
ability of rank-and-file members of the
Legislative Assembly to assist the war
effort.
The Sydney “Parliament” was so startled
that it adjourned for another month.
When the lifting of the ban on Werri-
bee Farm beef was first mooted Dunstan
suggested that a report should be obtained
from the C.S.I.R. Dr. Bull, of that in-
stitution, now reports that a pure and
wholesome supply could be obtained if
the beef were properly inspected ; and
Dunstan’s Government has the inspectors.
This, Dunstan asserts, proves the exist-
ence of the dangers from the use of the
meat. Similar arguments could be levelled
against the use of the State’s railways,
trams, buses and bridges and the city’s
lifts and even its pavements. They might
even be used against the continuance of
State Governments. But nothing can
shake Mr. Dunstan.
E. J, Pemberton, superintendent of the
Vermin Destruction branch of Victoria’s
Lands Department, says rabbit-skins are
now so valuable that rabbit-trappers have
become farmers. They take only the best
and leave the does and young rabbits to
keep up the natural increase, which is
one reason why the pest is increasing.
Very reprehensible of the trappers, some
of whom are making £2O a week and
over; but how like the workings of the
civil service.
In the field of amateur strategy, Syd-
ney “D.T.,” so bold when it suggested
sending “a few A.I.F. divisions” to Java,
now seems to be running stiff. What
other interpretation can be placed on
these deplorable words? :
Somehow President Roosevelt and Mr.
Churchill must devise new ways to pro-
tect our ships at sea, to cripple the sub-
marines at their home bases, and to smash
the shipyards which are feverishly turning
out U-boats. That’s one big problem.
It is indeed, and thrusting it on two
politicians, however eminent, seems
unfair. Why don’t some of the “D.T.’s”
own miracle-workers have a shot at it?
In some of our Great Dailies, the
Molotov-Eden treaty was accepted in
a let-us-be-thankful-for-what-our-betters-
have-prescribed-for-us spirit. Melbourne
“Age,” on the other hand, stigmatised it
in a headline as “Incomplete,” and in the
body of its article laid stress on “a
marked anomaly.”
It can scarcely be called complete col-
laboration when Britain pledges resources
to assist Russia against one enemy whilst
Russia remains pledged to neutrality toward
another enemy equally bent on aggression
and conquest.
Yes, if David Syme could revisit the
scene of his triumphs, he would be well
pleased with his old paper.
From a Stafford Cripps rhapsody on
the Molotov-Eden treaty;
We shall do our utmost to help the
Soviet with the supply of materials and with
organisation for an offensive against Ger-
many in the West. We shall also do our
utmost to strengthen India, to assist Aus-
tralia and New Zealand and to secure our
position in Africa and the Near East.
So Australia and New Zealand are
among the “alsos,” Not quite among
the also-rans, for, as placed by the leader
of the House of Commons, they run a
dead-heat for third.
The McKnells and their Upper House,
after a lot of squabbling on workers’
compensation and third-party motor in-
surance, reached a “settlement.” At one
stage McKnell was threatening to ask
the people to abolish the other shop. The
people would welcome the earliest oppor-
tunity of abolishing both.
A.I.F. officers returned from abroad
were “amazed” at the ignorance of
“most Australians” about the part played
in the war by Britain and its fighting
men. Is it any wonder, since Australian
newspapers and radio commentators are
all too ready to extol foreign generals,
guerrillas and “pimpernels”?
t( Said a returned A.I.F. man to a
“S.M.H.” correspondent:
Believe me, when the day comes when
people are no longer prepared to die for
their country and take pride in dying,
that people must be written off.
Die? There is a section in Australia,
coddled by Australian Governments, that
won’t even work for the country at any-
thing less than high wages and overtime,
with a strike or so every now and then,
and full issues of tobacco and beer.
McKnell, in his weekly press article on
6/6/’42:
We shall do nothing to interfere in the
slightest with the war effort, but we shall
not give way on one more point involving
the future well-being and social develop-
ment of this community.
He meant, of course, that he would
“fight” uniform taxation. Then the State
Labor conference spoke its piece and
McKnell had to give way on his “one
more point.” What a statesman!
“The States can do useful and neces-
sary work in matters local in character,
but their day for posturing in the robes
of sovereignty is gone,” said W, M.
Hughes to the A.N.A. at Sydney. They
won’t even be needed for local matters.
A survey of the protests against the
coupon scale for clothes rationing sug-
gests that everybody believes everybody
else should be rationed but not himself.
In total war any attempt to repair dis-
locations should at least be given a fair-
go before being condemned. Anybody
outside would think the nation had been
stripped naked.
The Lords and Commons have recently
been discussing a suggestion from Lord
Selborne that after the war England,
Scotland, Wales and Ulster should have
separate Parliaments. Send them our six
Premiers as shocking examples of what
would happen.
A new voice has arisen asking for a
second front. It is that of Mr. Foo,
of Chungking’s Foreign Affairs Depart-
ment. He wants it opened against Japan
in the Pacific. Australian Commos. and
their fellow-travellers are expected to ask
Canberra to ban him.
Five thousand N.S.W. coalminers were
out on Friday—two months after Ward
“settled” all the coal strikes. Imploring
the men to go back, Wells, the president
of their union, acknowledged being a
Communist. That’s part of the trouble.
Wells and his mob have tried to Com-
munise the miners and succeeded only
in making anarchists of them.
According to Marr, M.H.R., the “A.B.C.
Weakly” has a staff of 24. Whaffor?
The American Federation of Teachers
has expelled “Communist-controlled
teachers’ unions,” and, as a result of an
inquiry that “revealed the shocking
spread of Communism among publicly-
paid teachers,” the New York Board of
Higher Education has decided on the
prosecution of 15 teachers on “charges
involving Communism or perjury.” Also
the Actors’ Equity Association, which has
for years been accused of being under
Red control, has by 552 votes to 288
decided that “any officer, member or
employee found to be a member of the
Communist party or any political subdivi-
sion thereof shall be subject to removal.”
So will “any member who advises,
teaches or abets the doctrine, duty,
desirability or propriety of overthrowing
the Government of the United States, or
of any State or political subdivision
thereof by force, violence or unlawful
means.”


THE BRITISH NAVY USES EXIDE
The British Navy—from battleships to submarines—
places implicit faith in Exide Batteries for essential
equipment. Bear this in mind when buying a new
battery for your car, radio or home lighting plant.
Obtainable from dealers throughout Australia.
STILL KEEP GOINS WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
BATTERIES
me
■MB
m
TT '
mam
m. *
Sig
'
Hfc
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Commonwealth legal team defend-
ing the uniform-tax law against the
States is headed by Professor Kenneth
Hamilton Bailey and Wilfred Kelsham
Fullagar, K.C. Bailey is an M.A., B.C.L.
and Professor of Public Law at
Melbourne University. A Rhodes scholar
and Australian delegate to the League
of Nations Assembly in 1937, he was
bora in Melbourne and educated there
and at Oxford, and is now regarded as
knowing more than can be found in
books about the Constitutional law of
Australia. Fullagar is also a Victorian
(bora Malvern, 1892), with an M.A. and
LL.M. from Melbourne Uni. Both men
served with the Field Artillery, A.1.F.,
in the last war.
Charles Kretsinger Gamble, America’s
Red Cross Commissioner in Australia,
has managed the affairs of Vacuum Oil
CHARLES K. GAMBLE.
in this country for 15 years and has been
chairman of the board since 1939. Before
that, like most oilmen, he had been in
pretty well every country —he was selling
oil in Greece when the 1914-18 war
broke out and reached Paris in time to
enlist with the first U.S. troops that
reached Europe. At the beginning of this
war, Gamble joined the executive of the
Victorian Comforts Fund, and his experi-
ence of welfare activities in Australia
selected him for U.S. Red Cross Commis-
sioner when the Americans began to
arrive in numbers. He has served on
various advisory committees to the
Federal Government on petrol matters
and flew the Pacific last year to present
Australia’s case for a larger share in the
world’s tankers. A Californian, he will
be 53 this year.
Arthur Joseph McElhone has com-
pleted his fortieth year as an alderman of
Sydney. He was elected for the first time
on December 1, 1899, but for two years
or so the city was controlled by commis-
sioners. McElhone was Lord Mayor in
1935 and has been chairman of the
County Council. He is just on 74. He
and a brother, who was also alderman
and Lord Mayor, inherited their bent for
public life ; their father, John McElhone,
was a M.L.A. for 23 years—after seny-
ing two other constituencies he died (May
6, 1898) as member for Fitzroy.
Acting Wing-Commander D. C. T. Ben-
nett, R.A.F., who received the D.S.O. for
a game bit of work in a raid on Trond-
hjem Fiord, German naval base, is a
Toowoomba (Q.) native who had his
early flying training at Point Cook before
joining the R.A.F. on a short-service
commission. On his way back to Aus-
tralia in 1935, Bennett wrote The Com-
plete Air Navigator, now a standard
work. He returned to England to join
Imperial Airways and made the then
world-record long-distance seaplane flight
and, later, the first British commer-
cial flight over the Atlantic. He was
awarded a gold medal for his civil avia-
tion work just before the war. On the
Trondhjem raid Bennett had Sergeant
Walmsley with him, and, when their
machine became a mass of flame from
shell hits, both baled out, landed and
were chased over the snowy mountains
into Sweden. Walmsley received the
D. for his part in the adventure.
King’s Birthday brought a C.M.G. to
Harold S. Wootton, Melbourne’s Town
Clerk. On Wootton’s broad shoulders
has fallen a large share of the
real work of the war relief funds,
blackout arrangements and air-raid
shelters —honorary most of it and lack-
ing the publicity that usually goes
with these things. But Wootton is used
to that. He is, or was, honorary secretary
of the Bushfires Relief Fund, the fund
established after the Wonthaggi coal
disaster of 1937 and the administration
of the relief measures during the 1919
’flu epidemic. In the unlucky police
strike of 1923 he had much to do with
the creation of the force of special con-
stables which saved the city from being
looted. Wootton joined the City Council
at 17 as a telephone boy and will have
been in its service for 33 years next
month.
Melbourne’s “sporting parson,” Canon
E. S. Hughes, is dead at 82. A University
man, Hughes stroked college crews
while studying for holy orders, boxed,
played cricket, football and most other
sports. After a serious accident impaired
his great physical strength—he was six
foot three and his architecture was in
proportion—he took up sport administra-
tion. President of the East Melbourne
C.C. in 1911, he became president of the
V.C.A. in 1932, and was as well known as
a witty speaker and conversationalist at
smoke socials where sportsmen for-
gathered as he was in the pulpit, in his
quarter of a century of ministration at
St. Peter’s Church, Eastern Hill. Other
interests were the Australian Board of
Missions, which he helped to establish,
Italian translations and ecclesiastical art,
many examples of which he brought to
this country. Born at Cobram (Vic.) in
1860, Hughes was helping to make
sovereigns at the Royal Mint when he
felt a call to the ministry.
Lloyd Dumas, of an old S.A. journal-
istic family, is the new chairman of
directors of the “Advertiser” company
in Adelaide. He has long been editor
and managing director, and now takes
the chair vacant by the death of Fred
“I SAID ‘NO IDENTITY CARD, NO RATION BOOK’!”
Downer. Lavington Bonython becomes
vice-chairman, and a seat on the board
goes to his son, John Langdon, grandson
and namesake of the J. L. Bonython who
built up the paper till it rivalled and
finally destroyed the old “Register,” and
so became Adelaide’s only morning daily.
Latest occupant of Maoriland’s
Supreme Court to step down from that
exalted post is Henry Hubert Ostler,
Supreme Court Judge since 1924. A keen
athlete in his youth, Ostler retained his
liking for sport in later years and made
big-game hunting in Africa his favorite
relaxation —he acquired 10,000 acres at
the south end of Lake Tanganyika. On
one visit he travelled by rail from Cape-
town to the border of Belgian Congo,
footed over 1000 miles across the Congo
into Tanganyika, travelled some hundreds
of miles across the lake and down to
Dar-es-Salaam. Born at Timaru in 1876,
Ostler was the son of a runholder in the
Mackenzie country, Canterbury ; after his
father died his mother took up farming
and carried it on successfully.
Into the silence :
In Adelaide, the day after receiving a C.M.G.
for half a century of public service, A. L. Read,
who succeeded Harry Blinman as Under-
secretary 10 years ago. He had charge of the
S.A. Centenary Celebrations and of the Duke
of Gloucester’s visit, was official secretary to
the Premier and Clerk of the Executive Council.
Frank Haworth, Assistant Controller of Gun
Ammunition Production, Ministry of Munitions,
while on a visit to Westralia. Haworth was a
1914-18 Digger and joined the ordnance factory
at Maribyrnong, Melbourne, after the war.
He helped to establish dozens of munitions
annexes, and in 1941 a mission to U.S. gave him
an insight into latest methods of production.
His brother, Captain W. C. Haworth, M.L.A.
for Albert Park, is overseas with the A.I.F.
Robert J. K. Reid, who passed over at 48
in Melbourne, after a long illness brought on
by war injuries, was president of the Gallipoli
Legion. He joined as a private, left with
the A.I.F. in 1914 and landed on the peninsula
in April, 1915. On his return he took up the
cause of the returned soldier and devoted him-
self to it to the day of his death.
At his home on the Isle of Wight, aged 75,
Leonard Raven-Hill, “Punch” cartoonist 1896-
1935. He excelled in sporting and boating
scenes. He was a contemporary on “Punch”
with Tenniel and Phil May in the earlier years
of his association with the paper.
In Sydney, at 68, Herbert Campbell-Jones,
whose tall, stern figure until a decade ago
dominated the post-war affairs of Associated
Newspapers. Born in the Goulburn Valley
(Vic.) he was one of the best-known Victorian
political reporters in the early days of Federa-
tion, was “Argus” chief of staff in the paper’s
prime, opened the London cable services of
Sydney “Sun” and became the paper’s manag-
ing editor in 1915. He was later managing
director of Associated Newspapers. In 1931 he
retired. In his later days he was a director of
Truth and Sportsman. He was a good news-
paper man, and his staffs knew him as a stern
disciplinarian.
In Adelaide, at 88, John McDowall, who
actually had 70 years with the Queensland
Insurance Company (and the Royal, with which
the Queensland merged). He was in the Mel-
bourne office in the ’eighties, in the Sydney
office in the ’nineties, and settled in Adelaide
about half a century ago.
Col. William DePassey, an Englishman who
was with the 17th Lancers in the Zulu War,
saw service in India and then settled in S.A.,
going to London in 1897 as instructor to the
Diamond Jubilee contingent. He went to the
Boer War in 1898 and became a C.O. of Com-
monwealth Light Horse; in 1914-15 he was
Camp Commandant in Adelaide. His home
after retirement was in Westralia.
In Melbourne, Clive Leonard, chairman of
the V.A.T.C. His father was a V.A.T.C. com-
mitteeman before him and was one of the
authors of the Australian Rules of Racing and
the weight-for-age scale. The son joined the
committee in 1911 and had his first term of
office as chairman in 1923.
If he maintains his present rate of
promotion, Flight-Lieut. Karl Millbrook,
new C.O. of an R.A.A.F. recruiting
centre in S.A., should become an air
marshal. Since the beginning of the war
he has risen from clerk general (aircraft-
man) to his present position, which
usually carries the rank of squadron-
leader. In the last war Millbrook joined
FLIGHT-LIEUT. KARL MILLBROOK.
up in 1915 with the 24th Battalion and
served in Egypt; in 1918 he transferred
to the A.F.C. and saw service in France.
In peace-time he runs a real estate busi-
ness in Melbourne.
To give him his full title with all trim-
mings, he is now the Right Hon. Sir Earle
Christmas Grafton Page, G.C.M.G., C.H.,
M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.S. and, of course,
M.H.R. His appointment as a Com-
panion of Honor brings him into line
with S. M. Bruce and Billy Hughes, the
only other two Australians living who
have it. Page has been Prime Minister,
Acting P.M., Minister for Commerce,
Treasurer, Minister for Health —and
M.H.R. for Grafton since 1919. He’ll
be 62 in August.
“Oliver Filter”: I see that Forgan
Smith has completed 10 years as Queens-
land Premier and is looking for fresh
worlds to conquer. Well, there were two
Maorilanders, Seddon, who had over 13
years as Premier, and Massey, who had
nearly 13; a South African, Hertzog,
who had 15 years ; and two Canadians,
Macdonald, nearly 13, and Laurier, over
15. Forgan’s 10 years are claimed as an
Australian record and a world record for
a Labor Premier. The latter claim is prob-
ably sound enough—although Seddon
was engaged to Labor, if not married to
it —but I object to the former. West-
ralia’s John Forrest was commissioned
to form a Ministry on December 22,
1890 ; on December 29 it took office, and
Bigjohn remained Premier until he re-
signed on February 15, 1901 —a few days
over 10 years and six, weeks. Smith was
appointed Premier on June 6, 1932
(i Queensland Year-Book), so by the end
of this week he will have had 10 years
and three weeks in that office. The
Queensland Premier is 55. Forrest was
53 when he resigned the Premiership to
represent his State in the Commonwealth
Parliament —for 17 years.
Forgan Smith has outlived four of the
Ministers who took office with him in
June, 1932 —Percy Pease (Lands), Johnnie
Mullan (Attorney-General), Jimmy Stop-
ford (Mines) and M. P. Hynes (Labor
and Industry). Four others —Hanlon,
Cooper, Bulcock and Bruce —are still his
colleagues, but Dash gave up his port-
folio, though still M.L.A. for Munding-
burra. F. Smith got his first sniff of office
in 1920 as Minister without portfolio
under Theodore, now chairman of the
Allied Works Council.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Cass”; In effect, that Judge has given
a sort of ruling that “all is fair in love.”
The lady declared that her husband had
misrepresented himself to her as a leading
Australian pug. Said his Honor, “That
kind of fraud is not a ground for nullity.”
It may be so, but what interests me is that
the lady allegedly was swept into matri-
mony in the belief she was hooking a
pug. Had the wretch sworn he was Clark
Gabble or Tiring Power I could under-
stand it, but a bruiser !
* * * *
“Bohemian”; In Auckland a girl was
waiting at a street corner. Up came a
young man who asked her “Am I the
bloke you’re waiting for?” The girl
called a cop, who took the young man’s
name and made an offensive-behavior
case of it. “Where does the offence
lie?” asked the magistrate. “In speaking
to the girl,” said the cop. “Nonsense,”
snorted the Beak. “It was cheeky, but
we are not getting so puritanical as all
that. Case dismissed.”
Jfc % 5£
“Swelpme”; My friend Martin is lean,
angular and, as a rule, anything but
demonstrative. So when his rather thin
voice wafted through the ether of a city
store at its shrillest crescendo and I
spied his arms waving wildly I correctly
hazarded that his deep sense of justice
had been badly cut across. The assistant
was insisting on a coupon, and Martin
was equally emphatic that he didn’t in-
tend parting company with any of those
few pink slips between himself and
nudity. And so gesticulating he was
ushered across to the “coupon adviser,”
a minx whose chief qualification is a dis-
arming smile surmounting shapely curves.
No, it wasn’t exactly on the rationed list,
but the salesman was correct, she loyally
adjudicated. Unconvinced, he appealed
to the authoritative-looking individual
stalking about with a gleaming “Super-
visor” adorning his buttonhole. Mmm,
just how much material was contained in
the article? About so much? Yes, he
was afraid this time the customer was
wrong. Murder in his voice, my be-
leaguered friend loudly called for the
department manager. “No coupon,” de-
clared the d.m. after long and careful
musing. With the glint of the man who
has accomplished great things in his eye,
out marched my friend, his little hot hand
clutching his hard-won purchase—a six-
penny neckband!
* * * *
“T.K.N.”: Long ago 1 was stirred by
a picture—one of Matania’s, I think —of
John Cornwall, aged 16, standing by a
.shattered gun-turret on H.M.S, Chester,
a telephone headpiece on his ears, mor-
tally wounded and awaiting orders. The
act gained him the V.C. Now comes a
story from the Indian Ocean of another
boy, again a telephone operator, asking
for orders on a sinking ship. “Leave the
station immediately,” came the order.
“Can’t, sir,” he replied. “Both my legs
are off.” He went down with H.M.S.
Cornwall, sunk by Japanese bombs.
Cornwall, V.C., was a “Boy, Ist Class.”
The other youngster is unnamed as yet,
but “Boy, Ist Class,” seems a fitting
rank for both.
$ $ *l*
“Tuohy’s Shade”: In his eleventh year
as a general help round a crematorium
Sebbo quit, giving no reason other than
that he wanted a change. But I could see
he mourned for a good job lost, and, after
a few pots, got the truth out of him:
“Well,” he said, “I bin takin’ tickets in the
lot’ry ever since it starts, and one night I
dreams a number, see. It’s 17,009. I wake
up and make a note of it. It takes me
seven lot’ries before I’m lucky enough
to pop in the day the girls is on the
seventeen thousands, an’ be shovin’ a
woman outa the queue I gets ticket
17,009 an’ goes home dead certain I’m
on the winner, see.” Sebbo paused and
refreshed himself. “Well, the day the
thing’s drawn I’m waitin’ f’r a telephone
call an’ reporters an’ all that, but nothin’
happens. Can’t make it out, see. I buy
a paper an’ me number ain’t there. It
fair had me beat. That night, just as
I’m knockin’ off, the manager asks me
t’ bring him the records book, which is
open on his desk. I picks it up an’,
happenin’ t’ glance down the column,
sees that that day’s two jobs had brought
the number o’ cremations un t’ 17,008
“Ten minutes' smoke-oh, girls, to powder your noses!"
for ten years. Yair, I was halfway home
in the train before it hit me, an’ couldn’t
get t’ the ’phone quick enough to snatch
me time.”.
* * * *
“23-4”; An agony advt. in my local
paper suggests one of those little domestic
interludes that have provided comic
artists and joke manufacturers with
material for ages. Obviously addressed
to a man, it says “Call or write for your
card, no hard feelings,” initials following.
I’ve spent a restless night thinking of that
fellow, bereft of his identity card, and the
possibilities that lie hidden in woman.
# * * *
“Clooter”; I am still pondering on a
report of the escape of two American
fliers whose ’planes crashed, published in
a most conservative daily. One of them
“was swimming a large river when he
felt a sharp pain in his left shoulder and
saw the snout of a large crocodile beside
him. He tried to dive under the croco-
dile, which bit him again, this time on
the right shoulder.” Then, the paper
soberly records, he drew his jungle knife
and made a pass at the saurian, which
withdrew. The other flier had left it a
bit late to pull his ripcord, with the result
that he was in for a nasty fall when his
’plane, which reached the ground ahead
of him, exploded. The blast blew his
’chute open, and he landed safe. You
can have your theories about all this, and
1 won’t even discard one that the croc.,
seeing that it was an ally, withdrew full
of apologies, but what intrigues me is
that I can’t be sure whose leg is being
pulled or by whom. I am keeping an eye
out for a limping reporter.
* * * *
“Bo”; Attending a Sydney theatre I
trooped out with the rest at the interval
after the first act. Most of us lit up ;
but conversation means slow smoking,
and fags were on the average about half-
consumed when the warning bell went.
A frugal soul or two nipped the ash out
and pocketed the unsmoked portion, but
the rest, including all the women, tossed
the unfinished cigs. into the containers of
sand as they hurried in. At the end of
the second act out came the inveterate
smokers again. It was then I noticed that
all the butts from the first interval had
vanished, no doubt in the interests of
hygiene. This time the interval seemed
even shorter, and when the bell rang the
mostly less-than-half-smoked gaspers
again went nonchalantly into the sand
bins. Strolling out after the show I shot
a glance at the sand containers to see if
the interests of patrons who might object
to the stale smell of cigarette butts had
been protected. They had. I now pro-
pose launching a syndicate to muscle in
on the legit, business, specialising in the
presentation of 12-act plays carrying two-
minute intervals between acts. I have
figured out that in these cigarette-famine
times the bumper concession should bring
in enough not only to afford a £5O-a-week
comedian, but to pay 15 p.c. after allow-
ing for taxation.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”; A Blitz, of lectures for
A.R.P. purposes on first aid, jaw frac-
tures, haemorrhages, antisepsis, emergency
dentistry, obstetrics, sanitary improvisa-
tion, bomb blast, gas contamination and
other more or less connected subjects
struck a Victorian country town and was
well and enthusiastically attended, par-
ticularly by the women. The lecturers
were all experts. After it was over the
most attentive submitted themselves for
examination, and some of the results
drew some interesting light on just how
much can be learnt from listening to lec-
tures. As an example, the question
“What is the first thing you would do if
a baby got convulsions?” brought the
answer “Remove its false teeth.”
* * * *
“Puella”: “C.Q.” is arguing very
loosely when he argues (B. 3/6/’42) that
a mare is as strong as a horse, there-
fore a woman is as strong as a man. He
mentions particularly the lifting of
weights by women. Two months ago I
was on a fruit-block at Renmark (S.A.)
where the workers were nearly all women
except for the foreman (exempt from
call-up till “after the fruit”). We girls
did men’s jobs on the racks, spreading
and shaking down, and filling sweat-
boxes ; but we were not paid men’s
wages. The boss had an unanswerable
retort to anyone questioning the justice
of this —women Were good pickers and
spreaders, but they were not equal to
men because they couldn’t lump “sweats.”
Sweat-boxes weigh from 261 b. to 361 b.
empty, and hold a bit over a hundred-
weight of currants when packed tight.
Women could not lift boxes averaging
1501 b. from the ground to the tray of
the truck, so this was always a job for
the foreman and the three lads. When
“C.Q.” has seen a mare lifting boxes
with her forelegs he can start talking.
H* V
“Zake”: In the Australia’s Most Cautious
Chap Stakes, T. H. Upton, Sydney’s No-
Water Board president, would beat all-
comers. Three months ago, when Sydney
was visited by a major deluge, the presi-
dent admitted guardedly that a year's
supply or more had run into the dams,
but to scotch any exhilaration he
followed this immediately by a lugu-
brious warning that the position was
still serious. It was over a week
before the president could bring him-
self to sanction even the lifting of the
ban on hot baths, but the ukase against
watering gardens by cans remained. Since
then the catchment area has been
drenched again with falls of up to four
inches ; the Warragamba River last week
was running strongly at 77 million gallons
a day (half of this was being pumped
and the other half running to waste), and
Mr. Upton felt impelled to make a state-
ment. Conscientious Sydney denizens
who still dabbled round in four-inch
baths and watched their vegetables wilt-
ing while their watering-cans were collect-
ing cobwebs pricked up their ears and
felt hope surge anew in their breasts.
Said the Caution Champ.: “Although the
board is desirous of helping vegetable-
growers, it does not want to do anything
which will affect the present position.”
It makes one envisage No-Water Board
members shedding tears of blood every
time they let their thoughts dwell on the
enormity of men using water they’ve paid
for (in advance).
* * * *
“Chevroford”; The reopening of the
old Melbourne Gaol, or what is left of
it, recalls one of the worst admin-
istrative boners in Victorian Parliamen-
tary history. Ten years ago, in further-
ance of building operations, an excava-
tion was planned between the inner wall
and the outer one, a scoop was set up
and operations were started. Clearly
carved on the bluestone escarpment of
the inner wall were sundry dates and
initials. Every schoolboy knew, even if
officials didn’t, that they were the first
letters of the names of Ned Kelly and
all the criminals down to Angus Murray
who had been executed in the prison,
and whose mortal remains were buried
opposite each bare and brief inscription.
Digging deeper, the scoop began to dis-
close the tops of a
series of plain
wooden boxes. Then
a thrust brought the
top of a box off, and
another unearthed a
skull, a thighbone
and a femur. The
news got round that
the relics of indivi-
duals famous in Vic-
torian annals were
being brought to the
surface, a crowd
began to gather, a
small boy made a
rush and was fol-
lowed by another
and another, and
soon the bones of
the malefactors were
being peddled for
cash amongst the
morbidly curious
and the antiquarians
of sensation. The
news got about the
city, there were pro-
tests and appeals for
official intervention.
Byt the time it arrived the bones
were so mixed that nobody could
safely say who were the original
owners. Bowing to outraged public
opinion, the Government then gathered
up what bones remained and had them
reburied in a cemetery.
LIES THAT DON’T MATTER.
“A M.L. Judge, trying a suit for annulment of
marriage on the ground of fraudulent misrepresenta-
tions by the husband, said that the law permitted a
man to tell the most dreadful lies to induce a
woman to marry him.”
There are various sorts and conditions of lies.
Some are viewed by the Law with implacable
eyes,
And punished with stretches in prison likewise
That are quite the reverse of congenial.
There are others, as palpable falsehoods, which
fall
In the heading of things of no moment at all,
That kind of transgressions or sins which we
call
Allowable, trifling, or venial.
When you’re put upon oath in a court of divorce
It’s well understood, as a matter of course,
You can toy with the truth, if you like, till
you’re hoarse
Beneath cross-examiners’ surgery;
You may go the dead limit in ruddy romance
And, ev’n though his Honor should eye you
askance,
Feel perfectly certain there isn’t a chance
Of being indicted for perjury.
As a glib politician, when votes you beseech,
Or even when making a policy speech,
The depths you may plumb or the heights you
may reach
In fancy or harmless mendacity,
Mild fictions for which there’s sufficient excuse.
Not those such as cooked Ananias’s goose.
Or rendered Sapphira a term of abuse
For persons who stray from veracity.
But of all these excursions away from the truth
There are none so exempt from reprisals for-
sooth
As the methods a man or an amorous youth
Employs into wedlock to carry him.
If the Judge, it would seem, is correct in his
views,
A suitor may tell any whopper he choose
With no apprehension of legal taboos
When he’s coaxing a woman to marry him.
N.S.W.
IFORD.
GONE WITH THE WIND.
“Stigmatising the Premiers as ‘pinchbeck Coesars,’
Mr. Hughes said that the States could do useful and
necessary work on matters local in character, but
‘their day for posturing in robes of sovereignty had
gone.’ ” —Address to the A.N.A,
You pinchbeck Caesars on your petty thrones,
You small tin gods in your respective zones,
You chaps who fondly reckoned you were It
In half-a-dozen places where you sit,
From where “a peerless harbor glittering lies”
Or “billows of two oceans meet” the eyes,
From where are “vine and olive intertwined,”
Or “peaceful streams” through “fragrant
forests” wind.
From where the “orchard blooms” mature and
fall,
And from the “youngest, fairest” State of all,
(I’m quoting, as presumably you guess.
From “The Dominion” by Brunton S.)
I wonder if you’ll find it hard to chew,
This bullet Billy Blazes bungs at you.
Time was you were accounted, one and each,
The biggest pebbles on your stretch of beach,
Monarchs, of sorts, of all you could survey,
Like Alexander Selkirk in his day.
How slow, how parlous slow, you are to learn
That those were times which never can return.
You still have ways in which to pull your
weight,
Although your roles are now subordinate.
Come, readjust your views and stir your stumps,
And grasp the handles of your parish pumps!
There’s necessary work and useful, too,
That still remains for Premiers to do
If but to demonstrate, in times like these,
They’re not unnecessary luxuries.
Cease, then, you six, to posture and to pose,
Like daws in peacocks’ plumes, in regal clothes!
Your kingly days, though-you may feel chag-
rined,
Are gone, emphatically, with the wind.
And Hughes, in all the full-packed years, I wis,
Of your political anabasis,
You never spoke a truer word than this.
N.S.W
T. THE R.


“I want to see someone about changing my son's number —131313."
“Yair”: The Doughboy got into one
of Sydney’s worst trams, one of those
high-stepped horseboxes, with a mini-
mum of glass and speed and a maximum
of rattle, which are dragged into service
duripg peak hours. The conductor came
for his fare, and the warrior pulled
out sixpence. “How many sections?” he
was asked. “There you’ve gaht me, bo,”
replied the stranger in uniform. “Make
it one stop this side of wherever it is you
figure we’ll collapse.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: I read that Frank Churchill,
writer of the Disney film-song “Who’s
Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?” has com-
mitted suicide at Paradise Ranch (U.S.).
It raises an interesting psychological
question. Though information is lack-
ing, it is not extravagant to suggest that
there was a big bad wolf, metaphorically
speaking, in the songwriter’s life which
eventually got him. All distinguished
writers have been obsessed with some-
thing. Dostoevski was obsessed with
the fear of going mad, and the chief
horror of his life was epilepsy. In every
one of his novels there is an epileptic,
and his descriptions of their feelings
have never been equalled. His epilepsy
might be said to have been the inspira-
tion for his novels. And why mightn’t
even a writer of songhits get his inspira-
tion in the same way? It has always
struck me that that Disney tune had
more feeling behind it than most others
of its kidney.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: In the Aldwych
Theatre, Australian Y-Emma H.Q. in
London during the last war, I saw myself
and cobbers —some afterwards maimed
and others killed —marching and waving
good-byes to friends along Wentworth-
avenue, Sydney. Although nobody (in-
cluding ourselves) was supposed to know
about our departure, it was a wonderful
send-off, and the “movie” made of it was
a good one. Some of the Diggers were
holding aloft bottles of good stuff thrust
into their hands as parting gifts; one
big warrior had a baby in his arms and
two women hanging on to him. Before I
got my Blighty that big chap had been
blown to pieces by a shell-burst. Still
in hospital blues, and given only a slight
chance of lasting more than a few
months, I felt a bit sick. Presently an-
other blue-clad Digger collapsed and the
film was suddenly stopped. I learned
later that it had come with a batch of
stuff carefully chosen in Australia “to
entertain the soldiers.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: A United States lieuten-
ant having expressed a desire to marry
his girl without shortening the amount
of Pacific that lies between them, the
question of proxy marriages is being
much discussed. Australian law makes
no provision for proxy marriages, but
there have been plenty of them in Aus-
tralia. Scores of young Italians and a
few Dutchmen have married in this way,
the exchange of a glove or some other
token by mail being sufficient to satisfy
the law in their home countries. Mar-
riage by proxy used to be so much the
thing in Java that it was the regular cus-
tom for a planter to make this emphatic
gesture before his intended bride left
Holland. The traditional jollifications
occurred at the time of sending the requi-
site cables, and were repeated on the
arrival of the dedicated lady. Such
marriages are legal in Australia if they
are legal in the relevant country. All
that an impassioned Doughboy needs to
do is to appoint a proxy in America and
to satisfy the celebrating parson or Gov-
ernment official that he is in a position
to make the union. But a similar
ceremony performed by an Australian,
whether in this country or any other,
would not be legal.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: At a recent party our
hostess served as a novelty port wine frozen
in cubes on sticks. It reminded me that
on the Somme during the winter of T 6
beer was sold from Y.M.C.A. canteens
in blocks. The beer having frozen, the
barrels were broken away and the amber
sawn into handy portions. “Bluey,”
chronically broke, “bit” the barman for
a dixieful of sawdust, and warmed the
cockles of h x is heart by melting the
precious particles over the nearest fire.
« * * *
“X.S.”: Gavan Duffy, J., had a diffi-
cult problem when he had to pass sen-
tence on a Mordialloc (Vic.) boy of
who had killed his father with a shotgun.
In his summing up the Judge pointed out
that the boy had pleaded guilty, had
determined on the crime, had pre-
pared the means and had fired two
shots, the second when his father was
lying helpless and in agony. Mitigating
circumstances, the Judge said, were the-
fact that the father was a habitual
drunkard who had caused his wife a life
of misery and fear and had cruelly ill-
treated the boy when he attempted
to interfere. The sentence was 12
months, to begin from the date of arrest.
The ancients viewed patricide with such
horror that no mitigating circumstances
were admitted. In the Mordialloc case
a kindly association volunteered to trans-
fer the family to a country district and
to find a job for the boy when released.
* * * *
“Camsa”: The sergeant-major at the
M.T. training camp started in as usual
on the batch of new recruits: “Any of
you ever had an accident?” A perky-
looking chap had been in one before the
war. Asked for details, he explained that
he was driving along a main road when
a motorist came out of a turning right
in front of him and stopped dead with-
out warning ; “so I had to hit him in the
back.” “What d’you mean by had to?”
the s.-major snarled. “Why didn’t you
swerve out and pass him on the off
side?” There was a pause, pregnant with
expectation, then: “Well, you see, sir, I
was driving a tram.”
K * « *
“Clericus”: St. Thomas’s, the principal
C. of E. temple in North Sydney, will
have its centenary next year. Before the
original church was built there was only
one Anglican parish on the northern side
of the harbor—that of St. Anne’s at dis-
tant Ryde—so some of the local Angli-
cans decided to build a place of worship
of their own. A site was given by the
Government, and £460 was raised by
public subscription. Among the contri-
butors were Alexander Berry, who lived
close by on his estate of Crow’s Nest;
Berry’s brother-in-law, Dr. Edward Woll-
stonecraft; William Miller, Assistant-
Commissary-General ; Thomas Walker,
Deputy-Assistant - Commissary - General;
Oswald Bloxsome, of “The Rangers,”
Mosman’s Bay ; W. B. Gore, of Artarmon
House, Gore’s Hill; James Milson, of
Careening Cove, and Conrad Martens.
Most of their tombstones are to be seen
in St. Thomas’s churchyard, which lies
about a mile away from the church in a
northerly direction.
J*C * * *
“C.Q.”: War areas aren’t the only
places where quick thinking is useful. A
heavily-loaded train was speeding at 30
m.p.h. on the line from Lilydale (Vic.) to
Melbourne when the driver saw an 18-
months-old infant standing on the line
with a dog. “We can’t pull up!” the
driver groaned as he rammed the brakes-
on. A couple of seconds later the boy
was sprawling out of danger with
nothing worse than a cut eye and a
bruised cheek. The driver’s mate had
instantly climbed down the cabin and,
hooking himself to a rail, smartly side-
kicked the infant with both feet to safety.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: The theft of William Dobell’s
“Study for a Woman Dozing” (B.
17/6/’42) was declared to be the first
honor of the kind ever paid to an artist
in any National Gallery in Australia. It
isn’t the first case of picture-stealing,
however. Somebody got away with a
water-color by Harold Herbert from a
show at the Melbourne Athenaeum when
Herbert was too far away to do anything
about it —he was sweating into his paint-
box in the Libyan Desert. If he had
been on the spot he would probably have
made a public announcement telling the
thief to keep it, being a generous fellow.
* * * *
“Nakh”: One of the difficulties of life
is to reconcile the spirit with the letter.
When Melbourne retailers were ordered
to protect windows against bomb shat-
tering, they began to board up their
shop-fronts completely. Then one or
two began to insert little peepholes.
Peepholes grew larger and larger and of
all shapes. If air-raid alertness con-
tinues long enough there will be little
"No 'sir-ing now , Prendergast! Call me 'Chief .'”
strips of wood round the edges of the
windows, and the thing will have become
a convention.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Without wanting to be over-
precise, one is sorry to find even The
Bulletin accepting the phrase “Hitler’s
alibi” for his excuse of adverse weather.
Alibi means simply “at another place” ;
and it is of course an accused person’s
best defence if he can show that he was
somewhere else at the time of the crime.
(Most crimes, that is: one of Lewis
Carroll’s neatest jokes was imagining it
as being pleaded in defence on a charge
of desertion.) But alibi does not mean
excuse, apology, defence or plea.
* * * *
“K.”; Frederick Oechsner, sometime
manager of United Press in Berlin, says that
Hitler hired a plastic surgeon to “reshape
his bulbous nose to a more heroic cast.”
Perhaps Adolf was influenced by the thin,
beaks of Caesar and Napoleon. No doubt
his aesthetic soul revolted at copying
Cromwell’s rugged proboscis, although
the Puritan was, in the opinion of many,
a greater military genius than either the
Roman or the Corsican. But what an
opportunity was missed for the greatest
joke in history! Imagine the consterna-
tion at Berchtesgaden if the Fiihrer had
taken off the nasal splints and seen in the
mirror a Semitic olfactory organ! The
perpetrator, escaped to Hollywood, might
have commanded a king’s ransom to
appear in a film depicting the incident.
♦
“Lord Luvus”: There is talk of books
being rationed, and sundry individuals
have rushed into print pointing out that
if this were done textbooks might be hard
to get. If I were chief book-rationer that
is just the class of book I should clamp
down on. The belief in textbooks is the
curse of the present age. We have text-
book professors of all sorts of things,
and textbook generals such as those
who built Maginot Lines. Most of the
worth-while discoveries in science, medi-
cine, philosophy, psychology, warfare,
etc., have been made by men who did
their own thinking and discarded the
textbooks —men such as Harvey, the dis-,
coverer of the circulation of the blood ;
Lister and Simpson, who revolutionised
surgery; Pasteur and scores of others.
It might be a good war measure if all
textbooks were confiscated and sent to
the Japs.
* * * * .
“V. Cluse”: Our suburb’s tame drunk,
meandering home in the small hours with
a pound of steak, managed to reach the
kitchen without waking his better half,
switched on the light, got out the griller,
placed the meat on the stove and then
discovered he was out of matches. In the
careful manner of the drunk entirely
familiar with his surroundings he searched
the kitchen. In vain. Then he made for
the bathroom. No luck. Cogitating over
the problem of whether a chance of
grilled steak was worth the risk of wak-
ing her, he stole into the bedroom and,
standing by the switch, put the light on,
gave a hurried look round, and switched
it off as his wife stirred. Then began a
process of switching on, swiftly searching
and switching off. After about a minute
of this he located some matches and got
back to the kitchen, when knuckles thun-
dered on the front door. “What’ve you
bin up to with them lights?” demanded a
couple of suspicious A.R.P. wardens. Our
drunk was in no mood for parleys. “Go
’way, get t’ herroutathish,” he whispered.
The wardens said some more. The drunk
paled as sounds came from the bedroom.
“Sh-sh,” he moaned, “forra luvamike shut
up. She’s wakin’ up.” Comprehension
dawned on the wardens and they backed
away apologetically. Too late. A female
fury fell on the drunk with loud remarks
about “sneaking home with drunken
friends and waking everybody up,” they
heard a male voice shout at them
“There! Shee wha’ y’ done, y’ ruddy
goatsh! ” and the door slammed. They
slunk down the side path, and as they
passed the front verandah a pound of
steak took one under the left ear and the
same female voice declared; “Take it
home to your family, you wretched man ;
they probably need it,”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “On the tramp one time,”
said Dan, “I struck a township an’ lined
up inter the pub. I’m in funds, for that
same mornin’ in a joint about fifteen
mile orf I’d struck a half-sozzled party
sittin’ on the pub verandah, an’ sold
him someone’s bike that was leanin’
against the post. Well, I order a pot, an’
the woman who pulls it tells me that on’y
a half-hour before a big red-whiskered
bloke had grabbed about twenty quid
in notes off the counter while her hus-
band wus makin’ up his money t’ send
t’ the bank, an’ had bolted inter the
scrub. They were out huntin’ for ’im
then. As I leave the pub I see the John
from the township I’d left that mornin’.
He spots me, an’ yells out somethin’ I
couldn’t catch ; but I get the wind up,
thinkin’ it’s somethin’ t’ do with the
mornin’s business, an’ tear inter the scrub.
Presently I spots a big holler log. I
duck into it, and the next thing I know
I get a coupla welts on the head, an’ 1
reach forward an’ grab a human leg.
It moves forward with me hangin’ on
to it, an’ we come out the other end
of the log, an’ I find the leg belongs to
a big red-whiskered bloke. We has a
bit of a scuffle, but he breaks away an’
nicks orf inter the bush. They never
caught him, I learnt later. Good luck
t’ him.” “A dead loss to Bung, eh?” I
commented. “Well, not exactly,” replied
Dan, grinning. “He got a few quid of
it back. Y’ see, the bloke dropped the
roll when we wus strugglin’ an’ I picked
it up.”
* * * *
“Tockeye”; I can believe “Bush
Naturalist’s” story about his barley
canister and the spider (B. 10/6/’42).
With the approach of the wet season on
my tropic isle I dropped a supply of
chewing gum into a glass jar with screw-
top lid and rubber washer. I forgot all
about it, but over a later it- came
to light. On opening it I found only the
paper wrappings and two white cock-
roaches, alive, No doubt the ’roaches
could be explained by the wrappings hav-
ing some eggs deposited on them while
they lay in John Chinaman’s store ; the
life in a dark cupboard would probably
account for the insects’ change of color.
But that they not only lived but grew to
maturity in an airtight jar is one of
Nature’s mysteries.
* * * *
“Valerin”: “A real good dog,” opined
old Mick, indicating a weary kelpie which
had parked himself on us ; “a bit too
fat for a drover’s, but he’s come a fair
way.” We wondered nobody claimed
the tyke. Trying him out on the ration
sheep, the “stranger” shaped well —got
them together, sneaked in, grabbed a
fat wether, turned him over like an artist
and looked back to us. “No blanky
wonder the owner never came to light,”
said Mick, “because he’s a flamin’ sheep-
stealer.”
* * * *
“N7Y”: Within the past few months
a fox has been killed on the Georgina
(W.Q.). How far out are they going?
I thought that dry country of cracking
heat would block ’em. But that brush-
tail was killed in the gidya country,
before the plains of the Barkly begin to
shimmer under their heat-waves. If
those fellows can run the open downs
they’re hardier than our own dingo. It’s
probably beyond them, but if they do
succeed then it’s good-bye to the last
stronghold of the plain turkey. Those
ground-nesters are easy to the fox ; and
the Barkly is the big breeding area for
the turks. But the plains' have beaten
the rabbits, and the cunning fellow is
up against a tough proposition.
♦ * * *
“Sur Cingle”: “The 0.D.” (B.
3/6/’42) says that we must be very
heavy-headed out this way. We are.
It’s through working all day and sitting
up half the night trying to educate some
Martin-place bushmen. And I have seen
saddles ruined through their being used
as pillows. One choom tried it with the
saddle right side up, his wooden head
on the seat. Any horseman knows the
effect on the tree and the webbing that
such abuse will have: just such a Weaken-
ing and spreading as I mentioned. The
other two dudes flopped the saddles
down on their sides and used the panel-
ling as a pillow, at the same time forcing
the kneepad and the edge of the cantling
down among the gibbers. If “The 0.D.”
thinks that’s good for horse furniture I
hope he gets as stiff a neck as those three
Wild West addicts deservedly got.
<
“D.R.H.”: The best seat for a tight horse
or a long ride I ever had was an English
hunting saddle. By cutting the serge,
taking out a handful of horsehair from
immediately beneath the place where my
knees rested, and stitching around so as
to leave a permanent hollow under each
knee, I had a saddle whose grip was
equal to any of the big saddles. But
there is one reservation: a light saddle
isn’t comfortable on a wide-backed horse.
# * * *
“Solitude”: Just been watching the old
-man roll one of his enormous backlogs
“May I help?”
into the fireplace, and have decided that
when it comes to fires the blackfellow
puts it all over the white bloke. Regard-
less of the supply, Jacko lights a fire
according to his needs; that is, sufficient
to cook his bit of tucker and enough left
to sit over and warm himself. By the
time he has finished it has gone out. But
there’s no “flamin’ blackfeller’s fire” for
the old man; he rubs his hands and
boasts we’ll have something decent. So
tonight, like all other first nights, we’ll
shiver round the hearth because the log
is too big to catch, and subsequent
nights while the thing lasts the room will
be so hot we’ll feel like Sunday’s joint in
course of preparation. Reckon Jacko’s
right, and the boss is one plurry big fool.
* Jp * *
“B. 4”: The period at which potency
of a snake’s venom commences depends
primarily y on (1) the order of danger to
man, (2) the locale of the bite, (3) the
life-cycle of the snake. Thus the bite of
a foot-long specimen of the death-adder,
tiger, copperhead or common brown may
prove fatal and should be promptly liga-
tured and treated. A common fallacy is
that, in the case of a bite on a limb
extremity, the ligaturing of the wrist or
ankle, is sufficient; but the poison Will
seep between the double bones. A liga-
ture applied above the elbow, knee or
thigh does the trick.
Jp $ sp *
“Yokel”: If the Maoriland country
telegraph systems are anything like Aus-
tralian I don’t marvel at “Herb Mul’s”
bushfire outstripping a telegram (B.
20/5/’42). The message in Morse may
travel at the speed of 182,000 miles per
second over the wires, but it’s when it
drops off the receiving instrument the
real hiatus begins. Eve known telegrams
to take days to reach the addressee;
have known them to be overtaken by a
letter written after the sender had readied
home. In fact, any countryman can relate
numberless semi-humorous anecdotes per-
taining to the negative speed of country
telegrams. So if “Herb Mul” any time
again is looking for an example of some-
thing to exemplify speed I advise him to
shy off a telegram sent to anywhere in the
bush. But don’t think I’m running down
G.P.O. services generally.
* * * »
“2LX”: Is there an old station in
Queensland that hasn’t got a One-mile
Creek? That creek is invariably one
mile from nowhere. If it’s not a “One”
then it’s some other numeral. They are
all that distance from some undiscovered
spot. Then there’s the Gum Creek. It
gets its name from a straggly clump of
coolibahs, Sandy Creek has a bit of silt
where others have mud. Almost without
exception the most desolate waterhole on
the place goes under the name of Garden
Hole. An old Chink in the shepherding
days probably grew a few radishes there.
There are cows of many colors lending
their names to creeks, paddocks, patches
of scrub and other spots. Taken all in
all, those old stations seem to have but
one thing in common: a monotony of
names.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Naturala” (B.
10/6/’42) wonders what would have hap-
pened if the Dutchmen had left a stal-
lion or two and a few mares on their
visits to this country in the seventeenth
century. Well, we might have had to
contend with conditions similar to those
experienced by the first settlers on the
River Plate.- The horses introduced by
the Spaniards increased at such a rate
that in less than 20 years they occupied
the whole of the great plains from
Buenos Aires to Patagonia. The animals
being there for those who cared to take
them, the pampa Indians abandoned their
old foot-slogging way of life and soon
became expert horsemen. Armed with
long, metal-pointed lances they made
periodical raids on the settlements, leav-
ing death and destruction in their wake.
The savages carried no baggage and lived
entirely on the flesh of animals taken
from the mob of reserve mounts which
always accompanied them on their
forays, and they were able to move with
such rapidity that regularly equipped
troops sent in pursuit found them mighty
hard to catch. The Australian aboriginal
has proved himself an expert horseman
not devoid of courage, and if the Dutch-
men had left those horses Black Brother
might have written a bloody page in the
history of our pioneers.
* * * *
“Maltster”: In his essay on the mystery
and the wonder of the seed (B. 20/5/’42),
“Bughouse” omitted just one point. When
the pollen or flour ferments and prepares
to germinate it produces by thkt fer-
mentation alcohol. Thus alcohol seems
to be an essential necessary at the genesis
of plant life, the spirit which by its in-
vigorating principle transforms the form-
less flour into the sprout that will ulti-
mately become the adult plant. This
same alcohol, which our oddly-wise fore-
fathers called spirit, when distilled from
a number of fermenting seeds and ad-
ministered to humans, will cause those
humans to “go through the hoons” and
do all manner of surprising things. The
reason for this is probably that the human
body in its process of being carries on
most of its functions by means of a
series of ferments ; alcohol infused into
these produces those surprising results.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”; “Murlonga’s” re-
marks on the handiness of the gin in the
paddocks at lambing-time (B. 20/5/’42)
recalls something. It was in the Victorian
gold-rush days. The boss was a hun-
dred miles away when his 19-year-old
wife was seized with her first-experienced
labor pains. In desperate anxiety my
mother, companion-help of 17, confided
the situation to old Jack, rouseabout and
only other white on the estate. “Oh,
that’s nothing,” said Jack. “I’ll get you
one of the lubras from the camp down by
the creek —she’ll know all about it.” She
did, though Jack insisted on her using a
little soap and water before starting.
Her fee was a 50 of flour and the same
of potatoes, given by a delighted boss
who arrived home two days later and
found himself father of a fine Australian
boy.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Nominate the hook-beaked shag
as No. 1 Blitzer of fish. A heavy and
awkward machine in the air, the odorous
marauder, using powerful wings and
driving pedals, flies, turns and twists
under water in relentless pursuit of the
doomed hors d’oeuvre. The strain on the
shag’s engine is terrific and demands con-
stant stoking on fish. Occasionally I have
seen thousands of shags that have
migrated to inland N.Q. waters to get the
change of diet necessary to existence. For
months after the raid those fish which
escaped by hiding in cracks or logs have
been as wild as brumbies and poor as
lizards.
* * * *
“Uess”: Midway Island (the atoll
Comprises both Sand and Eastern Islands)
was carpeted and forested by Australia.
Marram grass from our deserts and Aus-
tralian ironwood were taken to
Sand Island to hold the rich
(Hawaiian) soil, also imported.
The atoll derives its name, of
course, from the fact that it
lies almost exactly on the 180th
meridian, midway round the
world from Greenwich. Eastern
Island is referred to in R. L.
Stevenson’s The Wreckers.
* * «
“Zenus”: Bore water may
contain only a small propor-
tion of alkali or salt, be quite
potable for humans and yet be
unsuitable for kitchen-garden
plants. Perth has such water
in several of its many artesian
bores. Rising from a depth of
over 1000 feet and being
heavily impregnated with sul-
phuretted hydrogen, such
water is completely dead, void
of all bacterial life. Purer water by a pot-
able standard could scarcely be found
outside a chemist’s laboratory, yet plants
abhor it. Though it be poured on until
garden plots are soaked plants refuse to
do more than barely keep alive. But let
a shower of rain come, or even a good
watering with the fluid from the hills
reservoirs, and the plants spring to growth
as if anxious to make up for lost time.
Evidently bacteria in water are one of
the essentials to vegetable growth.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: If there is such a thing
as a philosophic fish, the Murray cod is
it. Once well and truly hooked, it allows
itself to be pulled in without a struggle,
only giving a sort of last-chance flip as
the hand comes down to grab it. A good
many have got away with that flip, too.
But it is when taken from a drum-net
and conducted to captivity in a cage that
your cod displays all the attributes of a
piscatorial Plato. It shoves its nose
against the upstream wall of the cage,
maintains equilibrium with a lazy fin-
and-tail motion and gazes thoughtfully
through the mesh without a sign of panic,
fear or annoyance. Whether it broods on
a life well-spent and therefore welcomes
the end before falling into sin, or whether
it gravely reflects on the common fate
of man and fish —the worms-to-worms
aspect—is a matter for speculation, but
anybody who has watched the cod in such
circumstances cannot fail to have been
impressed by the sardonic twist of the
lips and the faraway gleam in the eyes,
for all the world as though the fish were
mocking itself for having been fool
enough to go into a drum-net anyhpw.
Long after its more soluble parts have
been eaten, and its skull is thrown out
to moulder in the sun, that sardonic grin
remains. Lewis Carroll’s Cheshire cat
may well have developed its grin from a
diet of Murray cod. Lew probably never
heard of Murray cod, but the cat, being
capable of appearing and disappearing,
is almost sure to have cast up in a Murray
bend during one of its vanishing periods.
SYRIA.
ŵ
A.I.F.
ERIC IRVIN.


“Greasy”; Was busy chipping the rust
off my combs and cutters in readiness
for another run of sheds when the missus
showed me a bit in the paper about these
here women’s land-army girls going to
do shedhands’ work. The missus watched
me read the piece, then said: “There’s a
good job waiting for you at munitions.
Either you take it or I’m coming out on
that shearing business with you. What
do you think I am, sitting here at home
while me husband’s way out in the bush
with a team of young wimmen?” Unless
I can get Eddie Ward to talk to the
missus it looks as though I’ll be on
munitions.
“Old A.W.U.”: Any of you blokes see
where there’s a chance that lapd girls will
be working as shedhands at the shearing
this year? If you have, you’d better
polish up your language. Imagine your-
self dragging a sheep from the pen, find-
ing the fleece from the last one about
your moccasins and yelling: “Wool away
and jump back quick, I hate the sight of
rouseabouts! ” What’ll you
say when a sweet voice says “I beg your
pardon?” S
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat prided himself on
being a bit of a master with the long-
handled shovel, an instrument that is
used for almost everything except money
in Victorian irrigation districts. He had
a job cleaning the weeds and silt from
a head-ditch and was working away
merrily when the boss arrived and com-
mented tartly on the fact that Mat didn’t
seem to know how to use a shovel be-
cause his placing of the sods wasn’t done
the way the boss wanted it done. “Y’
told me t’ do it that way,” said Mat, lean-
ing on the shovel. “Did I!” snorted his
nibs. “Well, if you was the shovel man
y’ reckon y’ are y’d have known it wasn’t
the right way.” Mat unstuck himself
from the ditch, balanced the shovel on
the end of his chin, walked round in a
half-circle, caught the shovel dexterously
with a foot as it fell, whirled it like a
bandmaster’s baton and let it go so that
it plunged into the mud and stood up-
right, then said, “There; that’s me an’ a
shovel. But I’m a Paul Cinquevalli with
it, and Paul was a juggler, not a flamin’
clairvoyant. Do it your way.” It took a
half-hour kidding to get him back on the
job, after which he was left severely alone.
* * * $
“Tungora”: If “Beamish’s” boss
doesn’t get the head off that turkey that’s
sitting on those stones (B. 20/5/’42) he
won’t have much cause to ponder on
“how much that bloke weighs dressed.”
For nothing reduces the weight of a bird
so much as sitting. Muscovy ducks, for
instance, which normally weigh 41b., may
slip back to a bare 31b. or even
when completing their five-weeks sitting.
The reason is that the sitting bird’s tem-
perature rises and is maintained nearly a
“I tell you we ain't ’ aving no second front."
couple of degrees above normal during
the incubation period, a process which
naturally drains the fat from the body
tissues. Coupled with this is the long
spells on the nest without food or water.
It’s this rise in temperature that causes
the broody hen to go around in the
peculiar ducky manner that denotes her
condition.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: An excellent book on
Australian legends, myths and ghost
stories is awaiting an enterprising
author. Fisher’s Ghost, for instance, is
an unexplained phenomenon. Any old-
timer in Campbelltown (N.S.W.) will
seize on the opportunity to furnish all
the details, and the unbeliever is court-
ing trouble. There are a hundred water-
holes, creeks, etc. (why is water a neces-
sary adjunct to a ghost yarn?), sur-
rounded by as interestingly eerie—if less
substantiated —stories. When I was a
kid the historical Lansdowne Bridge, over
the Prospect Creek (N.S.W.), carried a
legend about a warder cold-bloodedly
drowning a number of convicts and being
drowned himself by one of his victims’
mates. Local history has it that a clump
of gigantic bamboos in the grounds of
Blaxland’s historic home on the Parra-
matta River (now Newington Hospital)
marks the spot where a vengeful convict
was shot dead as he crept towards the
crowded ballroom. I could name a dozen
more —figments, perhaps, of old-timers’
imaginations, but the makings of a pretty
decent Australian book nevertheless.
* * * *
“Prop.”: The old bloke picked up with
Dan on the track into Pinnaroo (S.A.).
They were both humping their drums and
any company was better than the crows.
After about a mile the old bloke stopped,
dropped his swag, placed his billy neatly
at one end of it and the tucker-bags at
the other, and sat down on the nap.
Then he took off his boots, took out a
cherrywood, cut a fill and lighted up.
After ten minutes he stowed the pipe
away, pulled on his boots, and rehar-
nessed himself. Then, with a pleased
grin, he turned to Dan. “Feel a different
man,” he confided. They plodded on
for another mile, and the old bloke
stopped and repeated his ritual. Dan put
up with it for another halt, but on the
fourth assurance that the old bloke felt
a different man” his patience snapped.
“Yair?” he snorted. “Then y’ must be
a total flamin’ stranger t’ y’rself be now.
An’ y’ won’t need me t’ talk to.” And he
accelerated.
* * * *
“Jumbuck”: I’d love to see “Sur
Cingle” (B. 13/5/ ’42) on our station in the
n.-w. Victorian Mallee trying to muster
sheep without dogs. In that plain coun-
try, where there is dense pine and box, as
well as thousands of acres of scrub, we
would no more think of leaving the dogs
at home than go into the pub of a Satur-
day without our pants. During the lamb-
marking, owing to the nature of the coun-
try, we miss a lot of sheep, and to save
driving the lambs back miles into the
yards we do the job on the run, using
our dogs as a yard while we catch the
lambs; 20 men couldn’t do the work
three or four dogs do in this fashion.
* * * *
“Aratta”: “Bogan” Bob, sitting in the
bar of Dooley’s pub, was meditatively
scratching the head of the cockatoo in
the cage standing on the counter. “When-
ever I see a cockertoo,” he remarked to
Dooley, “it alwus reminds me of ‘Lucky’
Ladd, a bloke I useter work with once.
He got his nickname while I wus with
him. It wus wheat-sowin’ time, an’ there
wus a plague of cockertoos in the district.
Y’ know what that means, with newly-
sown wheat. There wus a big dead gum
in one corner of the wheat paddock, an’
the blighters useter gather there an’ watch
their chance, thousands of ’em. They
were too cunnin’ for y’t’ get near with a
gun. So one mornin’ just on daybreak us
and the boss got busy on the branches of
that tree with a few gallons of liquid
cement. About a hour later, as usual,
along came the cockles an’ got busy
amongst the seed. Then the boss an’
us appeared yellin’, an’ the mob rosy
an’ flew to the tree. We mucks around
kiddin’ to work while them birds screw
us off. We give ’em a while for the
cement to set, then we make a pretence
of grabbin’ guns and aimin’ ’em at the
tree g Screechin’ like mad, them 2000
cockertoos tried to rise t’ fly away, but
they wus stuck fast. We’d nearly reached
the tree when, strike me pink! they starts
flappin’ their wings and” Dooley,
draped over the counter, spat in disgust.
“Yair, I know, I know,” he said. “They
flapped that hard they
yanked the tree up be the
roots an’ flew away with
it.” “Y’re a liar, Dooley,”
said “Bogan” evenly. “That
there tree was riddled with
white-ants, an’ when the
cockertoos flapped their
wings the trunk snapped
off at the butt. But it
must’ve been crook cement,
for when they’re about
40ft. up the tree broke
away and donged ‘Lucky’
on the scone. He put in
six munce at the horspi-
tal.” “What was so lucky
about that?” demanded
Dooley. “Strike me, y’re
dull!” complained
“Bogan.” “He wouldn’t
have got ‘compo.’ and half
a year’s holiday if he
hadn’t been dominoed,
would he?”
s * “Louden”: To see perfect co-ordina-
tion of speed in eye, hand and brain, go
and watch a gun fruit-packer. In April,
1916, at J. T. Davern’s orchard, Donny-
brook district, W.A., I saw Basil Krone,
present senior Government packing in-
structor in Victoria, pack 170 Australian
bushel or dump cases of Rome Beauty
apples for export in nine working hours.
Diameter of apples packed, to 3in.
I’ve forgotten the number of boxes of
each size in that total, but cases would
average 150-count, and each fruit was
wrapped. Krone was also a champion
casemaker. In a test in the same shed he
made six jarrah cases in five minutes.
Incidentally, the official casemaker at
Davern’s then 7 and in several other
seasons was ex-jockey Bob Ramage, who
rode Carbine to victory in the Melbourne
Cup and in nine other races. But Bob
was not in Krone’s class.
* * * *
“Yair”: “You blokes,” said “Cooma”
Con, “don’t know what force of habit
really is. Now I’ll tell y’. I useter to
be a sailor, and the old tramp I’m on
was wrecked. I was the sole survivor.
Washed up on a small tropic island, the
only thing I had to eat was bananas. I
et ’em every day for 20 years. Then I
was rescued. They took me on board a
ship and put a glass o’ beer in front of
me, thinkin’ I’d like one after so long.
Half an hour later they found me uncon-
scious from exhaustion, lying beside the
untouched beer. Yair, it was just force
of habit —I’d bin tryin’ to peel it!”
♦ * * •
“Jindivick”; Ideal camp sites (B.
10/6/ ’42) ? I like blackberry country. A
sprawling patch of blackberry two to
three feet high with plenty of brambles
well interlaced on which a few good arm-
fuls of bracken fern have been tossed,
and the blankets put on them, and you’ve
got Mother Nature’s natural cradle to
sink into. No lumps, no hard bed; just
a gentle swaying to lull a tired wanderer
to sleep. And no need to worry about
getting out again. By the time morning
comes one’s weight will have borne the
blackberries down almost to ground level
and will have robbed them of much of
their elasticity, so it’s a simple matter of
just walking off your bed.
* * * *
“Loo”: Young Tom had been learn-
ing the piano by correspondence, and
had painfully reached the stage where he
could strum out something that resembled
a tune. The bass notes of the Hogans’
farmhouse piano sounded something like
rocks dropping on a tin shed and the
treble notes were strongly reminiscent of
the rattle of empty milk buckets. We
lobbed in one night to find Tom trying
to make a punching ball of the instru-
ment while the rest of the family were
over in one corner catcalling, stamping
their feet, raspberrying and otherwise
heckling. “Doesn’t that make you wild?”
we asked above the din of catcalls.
“No,” Tom roared cheerfully. “Y’see,
I’m giving an item in the Mechanics’
Hall Saturdee night, an’ they’re tough-
enin’ me up in case the audience goes
crook.”
Kt * * *
“Jewboy”; I’ve happened across a few
hard-jawed tough ’uns in my time. One
could lift a 281 b. bag of spuds with his
teeth for the pleasure of a few beers;
many could unpick rope- and leather-
knots with their molars; and there are
thousands who scorned the use of a lifter
to open a beer bottle. But, compared with
the maids of Eskimo, they’re only
amateurs. Their pastime is to chew the
tough hide of the oghook seal into
pliability for the soles of the muckluck
weatherproof boots! No young woman
of that land can expect to get a husband
unless she can properly do that job. I’m
a-thinkin’ there’d be a lot of spinsters in
Australia if such teeth-exercise was their
pasport to marriage.
THE SPIRIT OF THE WEST.
“The spirit of the West is dead,” old Cameron
said that night,
While yarning on the homestead porch when
western stars were bright;
“The life we lived has gone for good, he
said, “and this I know;
The last remaining link will pass when we old-
timers go.
“These lads are fine when all goes well, but
when there comes a pinch
You find them pulling at the rein, to swerve
aside or flinch.”
A droving man in youth he'd been, but now
by range and creek |
His vast herds roamed the miles untold, so
well might Cameron speak.
Next day beyond the Gidgee Yard the restless
cattle broke,
And Cameron thundered in the lead before the
echoes woke;
At racing pace between the trees his stout roan
stockhorse strode
With hoofs that whistled through the grass,
and, oh, how Cameron rode!
He turned the spreading vanguard in, but as he
gathered rein
A wild bull charged him from the side and
flung him to the plain.
The old man, stricken, strove to rise, and with
an angry roar
The wild bull, maddened for the kill, lowered
his head to gore.
Then, riding down the potholed plain the race
that madmen ride.
With blood-beads forming on the spurs, young
Danny reached his side;
No time to use a stockwhip there —springing
as wildcats spring,
He landed on the big bull’s head to nose and
horn to cling;
And horsemen speeding to the scene could see
him twist and reef
With not a ghostly chance to throw the raging
ton of beef.
They saw the great head dip to toss,' the white
horns arcing wide;
And on the broken gidgee flat the gay young
stockman died.
Old Cameron rose on shaken limbs —the old
bold breed are game!
And through his shirt the warm blood seeped,
red as the sunset’s flame;
While, crashing through the undergrowth, they
heard the wild bull go,
“The spirit of the West lives on,” old Cameron
murmured low.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


LYSAGHTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
mm ■
\
'mm
■y?~
mi
m mm
m
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
Zoning for Shearing.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Bungaree”: In spite of short notice
to graziers in Zone 1 —west of the Dar-
ling — shearing has gone on fairly
smoothly. Around Bourke (N.S.W.),
where it is done practically throughout
the year in normal times, zoning
affects only those who usually shear in
July, August and September. Some
points have come to light worth the
notice of all woolgrowers.
Be sure you know the full effects of
the zoning scheme on your own case.
You should know what zone you are in
and the exact period during which you
may shear. At present there are plenty
of rumors, most of them misleading. A
lot of information published in news-
papers has been founded on surmise and
has misled many people. The Graziers’
Association of N.S.W. has published a
pamphlet on zoning. Obtain reliable
information from a local authority like
the stock inspector.
Many believe that if the closed dates in
their zone interfere with their general
shearing they have only to apply for
exemption to be allowed to carry on as
usual. That is wrong. The whole idea
is based on the shortage of shearing
labor and is an effort to give every dis-
trict in the States concerned an equal
share of such labor as is available. By
this means—that is, by spreading the
shearing season —it is hoped to get all
sheep shorn. That depends on several
things, the most important being labor
available, time lost through seasonal con-
ditions and co-operation of graziers.
No one knows what labor is available
for this season’s shearing, and a seasonal
workers’ register is being compiled for
the purpose of getting that information
for future years. It is certain, however,
that although sheds now shearing are
finding little difficulty in getting men the
position will be different from August
onwards. *
In fixing the date of starting make
ample allowance for (1) delays on ac-
count of wet weather—work out shear-
ing at the rate of 500 sheep per man per
week, (2) weak sheep, (3) shortage of
musterers and (4) possible delays through
illness of shearers or shedhands. If these
points are observed a grazier should get
a sympathetic hearing from the man-
power authorities if he finds it necessary
to apply for an extension of time
Too many regard zoning as an unwar-
rantable intrusion on their liberties. They
refuse to realise that 57 million sheep
have to be shorn in N.S.W. in the next
six months with the limited labor avail-
able and they think that only the shear-
ing of their own sheep matters.
Copper and Lambs.
“Huxave”: Enzootic ataxia has been
responsible for serious losses in copper-
deficient districts in W.A. It occurs in
lambs of ewes which have been grazed for
at least six months on such areas, but is
not found in healthy districts, even after
frequent transfers of stock there from
deficient districts. The longer the same
breeding flock is allowed to remain on
copper-deficient country the more acute
does ataxia become.
Lambs dropped in late spring or early
summer appear less susceptible. Some
stockowners believe that the disease is
worst when there’s abundance of succu-
lent feed and capeweed. Lambs may be
born dead or affected at any age up to
three or four months —but rarely before
they are three to six weeks old. Rapidly
growing and fattening lambs appear the
most susceptible. Those attacked at three
to four months usually survive and are
often marketable as fat lambs. Weaners
don’t develop the disease.
In field experiments at Gingin (W.A.),
tests showed that the disease rose to 100
p.c. when the ewes had their second
lambing on copper-deficient pastures.
There was a complete absence of ataxia
when the ewes were given a copper sup-
plement during pregnancy.
Bennetts and Beck, experimentalists,
state that ataxia may he prevented by
using only breeding ewes introduced from
healthy districts immediately before
mating. If the ewes are introduced
earlier, affected lambs may result. Breed-
ing flocks may remain on the affected
property if the ewes are moved over to
"Think I'll get the buckjump saddle—don't like the look in ’is eye this mornin'."
areas known to be healthy during their
gestation. Period for this transfer varies
from four to eight weeks. Change to
healthy country after the dropping of the
lambs may cut down losses if the disease
is not acute.
Trials proved that a daily intake of
10 to 20 mg. Cu during gestation pre-
vents ataxia. The copper supplement
can be given in salt licks containing
copper sulphate, tasty to both sheep and
lambs. Topdressing of pastures with
copper compound is even more beneficial.
Since this method ensures that all mem-
bers of the flock secure an adequate
intake of copper, better production is
likely to come about than from lick
feeding. Dress the pastures with copper
sulphate at the rate of 101 b. to 201 b. per
acre.
Copper promotes general growth in
lambs and has a good effect on adult
sheep. Given the right copper ration,
anaemia and other signs of ill-health dis-
appear in the breeding ewe and wool
growth is normal throughout.
Sub. Clover Values.
“Pat Ater”: There is a 12-acre pad-
dock of T. J. Naughton’s, near Tumut
(N.S.W.), which four years ago, after
good winter .and early spring rains, cut
over two tons to the acre of sub. clover
hay That, with some lucerne and mixed
grasses, made into silage, helped to see
its owner over two drought summers in
spite of heavy stocking. Pigs were
grazed on the stubble after mowing and
sheep finished off the spare surface burrs.
One of the supreme virtues of sub.
clover is that there is generally enough
seed sent underground to ensure suffi-
cient germination for ground cover in
the coming spring, apart from a good
stock of succulent surface burrs. These
can maintain a fair stocking of sheep
during summer.
T. F. Dowling, of Coolong (N.S.W.),
says that on a 12-acre patch which on
“native grasses” (mainly Poa bulbosa )
maintained seven sheep it is possible
now to keep 24 to 30 —according to
season —on the sub. clover as an all-the-
year-round ration. He admits to the need
for a more balanced fodder, and says
that the ideal is to sow the clover seed
among the outside pastures by a rough
scarifying and a spreader. Then it stays,
without choking the grasses. Sub. clover
in a good paddock will spread naturally
with a fair leavening into the pastures.
Initial sowing must be on a well-pre-
pared seedbed to get these results. Mould-
board ploughing and harrowing, with
lewt. of super, to the acre, is a good
method Sow it with 61b. of Wimmera
rye for the first few seasons’ grazing.
The clover may soon choke out the rye,
hut you have by then unsurpassed graz-
ing, stored fodder and a patch that will
increase with the years. No real farmer
can afford to be without it.
“K.Mc.”: Climate and rainfall haven’t
nearly as much influence on sub. clover
as suitability of soil. I have had several
failures in a 26in. rainfall and moderate
climate in N. S. Wales. The seed ger-
minated in well-tilled soil, and the clover
often had flowers in the spring, but set
little seed to carry on growth in the fol-
lowing autumn. The Dwalganup early
strain gave no better results than the
Mt. Barker mid-season type. Yet neigh-
bors only 13 miles away, in much the
same climate and rainfall, go to less
trouble and have it growing well. Farmers
in hot districts of South and West Aus-
tralia with rainfalls of only 12-15 inches
have established sub. clover and keep it
going with a periodical tonic of super.
My own efforts would have been better
rewarded had I sown lucerne, Wimmera
rye and local-type clovers.
Cowpea Crops.
“Mackay”: In Central Queensland
cowpeas are found useful as grazing for
stock, as green manure, as cash crops for
seed. Best returns come from crops
sown from mid-November to mid-
December.
For grazing, cowpeas will substitute
for lucerne in districts where lucerne
does not flourish. They’re high in pro-
tein content and give the right balance to
low-protein crops like Sudan grass. Sow
the peas in rows 2ft. Sin. apart and cul-
tivate once or twice. Given a good
chance, the crop yields six to eight tons
of fodder 70 days after sowing. At
Biloela Cotton Research Station, Victor
cowpea produced the heaviest growth in
the shortest time.
As green manure cowpeas give good
results in orchards or as a general farm
rotation. They’re deep-rooting and have
nitrogen-fixing habits. Broadcast or sow
through a grain drill at the rate of 151 b.
to 201 b. of seed an acre. In rotations
peas are good before cereals, particularly
winter crops of wheat and oats, but don’t
plant them before cotton crops. The
nitrogen in the soil brings about a rank
growth of the cotton-plant, and cotton
yields are consequently poor.
For seed sow in rows 2ft. 3in. apart
and 2in. to 2|in. deep, 81b. to 121 b. of
seed to the acre. Where conditions are
moderately good, seed harvests average
15 to 20 bushels an acre; the seed being
worth about 20s. a bushel. This crop
can be fed to pigs in the field with other
foods. Varieties selected for seed must
be those specially produced for seed pro-
I
duction. The Black Pea is the best, and
next come Poona, Groit and Brabham.
Hints for the Farm.
“Graz”: The rapid rate of reproduc-
tion of the large stomach worm, Hcemon-
chus contortus, is such that only a few
need survive to reinfest a property within
a few days. A female worm can lay
5000 eggs in 24 hours. One sheep could
harbor 400 female worms without show-
ing it. The 400 could litter pastures with
two million eggs daily. It’s not hard then
to understand the need for drenching and
paddock rotating of infested mobs.
“H.C.”: Colostrum is not only impor-
tant food for the new-born calf, but in-
creases its resistance to disease during the
first days of its existence. The cow’s milk
is usually normal seven days after calv-
ing, though it sometimes takes a fort-
night. Let these seven days elapse
before you mix colostrum with the other
milk. Cream from colostrum may result
in a whole delivery being graded down
to second-grade or tossed out altogether.
In cheese manufacture colostrum curdles
quickly with heat, slowly with acids and
rennet and makes only cheese of the
poorest quality.
“Mullengah”: Two necessities on the
dairy farm are a crush and isolation pad-


Are you
■watching
his health?
kf your dog's
•coat Is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he Is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —
start him now on
a course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole system.
w
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager'and Licensee. ~ F
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
PRELUDE
POWER
Before the shell can wing its way on
Its deadly mission—before the magneto
can produce the spark to tire the engine
or the starting motor whirl the sleeping
engine into life—before power may be
loosed—there is a prelude.
■
w
1
mm
m
m
m
?*#*
i
Vt
*A
¥a
I
■
>»
mmm
' •
X
The prelude to the power of active warfare is in the factory and as surely as the front
line of warfare is within range of the enemy's guns, so as surely does the front line pass
through the factory.
Here on the industrial front, the genius of the engineer is translated into steel, or to the
thousand substances which go into the instruments of war.
And in the factories of E.T.C., men of industry take their place on the factory front, pro-
ducing the essentials of war: from the finely machined "eccentric" to the rugged "hous-
ing" ..each to its part each to its place in the finished product.
Where lives depend on efficiency, error has no place; built with extreme precision and
accuracy, each product must be worthy of the company's hallmark—"A tecnico Product.
lecnico
r
ess
E. T. C. INDUSTRIES LIMITS
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. AND REN WICK ST.; MARRICKVILLE. H. S
D
. w.
2-33-41
dock. Bulls and young stock can be
handled easier and spread of disease
checked if suspected animals are isolated
where they can be watched. It is a good
idea to put new stock into the isolation
paddock for a while before letting them
join other stock.
Outback Occasions.
No. 41.
Going to the Pictures.
“Tell y’ what we’ll do,” said our
father, “we’ll go to the pictures.
We had been in town on the Saturday
afternoon. It was winter, and we usually
got home for tea on Saturdays in the
winter, after which we gathered round the
fire and read or yarned or just sat until
bedtime. Of course, when we boys got
older we frequently stayed in the town
for Saturday night with our mates and
had a good time—or thought we did—
but we were younger when this happened.
The reason why we weren’t going home
this Saturday night was because some-
thing had gone wrong with the car and
the garage said it couldn’t be fixed before
ten o’clock.
Our father had taken us all to tea at
the pub, which was a big event in itself,
because we could help ourselves to the
pickles and look at the other people
there and listen to their talk. It was
after tea, when we gathered together on
the pub verandah, that Father decided
on the pictures.
The pictures didn’t start till eight
o’clock, so we boys went wandering round
the place, keeping close together and
eyeing other boys. We had some pocket
money and bought lollies at a fruit shop
and went outside and ate them, standing
seriously against the shop window and
watching the people. Mother and our
sister went off looking at ribbons and
things, and Father had gone to see some-
body and said he would meet us at the
picture show.
Our brother and I went to the pic-
ture show as soon as they lit the lights.
We looked at all the posters stuck round
the place and watched the girl getting
herself ready in the ticket-box. Presently
a few people began to come. A police-
man came, too, and began to stand about
and look at us, and we shrank off into
the darkness and waited where he
couldn’t see us. We weren’t too sure of
policemen.
Our mother and sister turned up and
looked about, and we came forth and
joined them. More people came and
went in and several boys hung about.
Young men stood in a line on the foot-
path amd smoked and talked and laughed
and watched the policeman. A few dogs
came, too, and tried to get in, but were
turned back at the door, whereupon they
went round smelling people’s boots and
sneering at one another. One old, tat-
tered, cunning sort of dog went in behind
an advertising sign and curled up to have
a sleep, but kept waking up every few
minutes to bite himself in various places
and thump the floor with his hind elbow
as he scratched his neck. The crowd
thinned, and soon only we and the old
dog were left, the policeman having
slipped in last of all.
We peered anxiously into the darkness
looking for Father, and our sister began
to whine and our mother looked worried,
but we brightened as Father heaved in
sight. He looked mighty cheerful and
went up to the ticket box and spoke
heartily to the girl, who was just putting
her things away, and came away with a
handful of tickets and change. Mother
looked at him, pursing, her lips, but didn’t
say anything, and Father led the way
upstairs.
It was very dark after the bright lights
of the foyer and all we could see were
Father and Mother standing black against
the searchlight aimed at the screen. Then
a man with a torch came and led them
along the rows of dark seats and we
followed.
There seemed to be some trouble or
other. Father whispered to the man, who
whispered back impatiently and then hur-
ried away in the gloom. We boys felt
our way over feet till we encountered
empty spaces and sat down. We looked
at the picture, but we could see Father
still standing up and turning from one
side to the other.
Then a voice at the back said Sid-
down, can’t y’!” Father ignored it and
said in a loud whisper “Where’s the
boys?” . , ,
“Where’s the boys?” mimicked a voice,
adding “Siddown, y’ silly ol’ goat!”
Father turned and peered into the
gloom behind him. “Who said that? he
demanded.
A number of voices yelled to him to
sit down, but Father wasn’t going to be
bullied by anybody. He had his duties
as a husband and father and he was
going to carry them out. “Mind y’r own
flamin’ business,” he said to the dark-
ness.
More voices arose. Then the man with
the torch reappeared and spoke to
Father. Father spoke back at him. The
man with the torch said, “Listen, these
people want t’ see the picture. They
didn’t pay t’ look at you. Either sit
down or leave.”
Father had sat down halfway through
this, but the last sentence brought him
up again. “Yair,” he said truculently.
“I paid good money t’ come in here ah’
I’d like t’ see who’ll put me out!”
“Chuck him out!” “What’s the
game!” “Go ’ome!” A roar of voices
opened up and shrill whistles came from
all over the place. We boys shrank down
in our seats and hoped nobody could
see us. We didn’t know where Mother
was, but we knew where Father was,
because he’d jumped up again and was
yelling back at the voices.
The man with the torch reappeared,
accompanied by a large figure which
reached out and grabbed Father’s
shoulder. Father turned quickly, then
seeing who it was promptly sat down,
“Now you keep quiet or I’ll run you
in,” said the large figure. There was
silence after that, and we looked at the
picture. We were just beginning to
fathom it when a large whisper from the
direction of Father said “Are you all
right, Mother?”
There was another howl of protest
from all round and the policeman and
d -, e torch-bearer bobbed up like rabbits,
do y S saw Father go out with them,
accompanied by sarcastic farewells; then
Mother and our sister slipped out and, of
course, we had to do the same. “Must ve
bin a bloomin’ abo. tribe, somebody
said and we thanked the darkness. Out-
side Mother took charge. She spoke
lowly and winningly to that policeman,
and presently we were all headed for
the garage, where the car was ready. All
Father wanted to do by that time was
get home.


“The secret’s in
the 333’s blend!’
mm
m
%
mk7t
EXPRE**
/
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM
PROVIDES THE SAFETY AND COMFORT OF A
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
NO SMELL, NO FLIES, NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 2000 in use.
Health Comfort Economy.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
£l7/17/6 f.o.b. Sydney, including 10% Sales Tax, plus
20/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
30 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
w
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency and
mechanism.
It is not just a
modified closet
pan.
It displaces pans
and saves sanitary
rates.
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
ANY HANDY-
MAN CAN IN-
STAL IT.
Our Service Department
Wants.
The Queensland Lime and Cement Company,
Darra, Brisbane (Q.), would like to hear from
anyone knowing of gypsum deposits within
reasonable distance of Brisbane. The company
is prepared to analyse any samples submitted,
to investigate deposits brought under its notice,
and, should the material prove suitable, •to
assist in the development of the deposit.
Information Sought.
P.M s since Federation and dates of taking
office?
Edmund Barton (January 1, 1901), Alfred
Oeakm (September 23, 1903), J. C. Watson
(April 26, 1904), George Reid (August 17, 1904),
Alfred Deakin (July 4, 1905), Andrew Fisher
(November 12, 1908), Alfred Deakin (June 2,
1909), Andrew Fisher (April 29, 1910), Joseph
Cook (June 24, 1913), Andrew Fisher (Septem-
ber 17, 1914), W. M. Hughes (October 27, 1915),
S M. Bruce (February 9, 1923), J. H. Scullin
?H°ker 22, 1929), J. A. Lyons (January 6,
932) Earle Page. (April 7, 1939), R. G. Menzies
(April 26. 1939), A. W. Fadden (August 29,
1941), John Curtin (October 7, 1941).
* * * *
(1) Where were the 1914-18 Diggers born?
(2) What were the religions of the A.I.F. ?
(l)There were 94.722 born in Victoria, 90,350
m N. S. Wales, 29,353 in Queensland, 28,861
m S.A., 8642 in Westralia, 13,904 in Tasmania,
66,321 in the United Kingdom, 23,246 other
Bnl ,h and 3387 foreign. (2) Church of Eng-
land 166,994, Roman Catholic 66,205, Presby-
terian 51,821, Methodist 34,205, Jews 2304,
others 21,721.
* * * *
Description of Nauru Island and its phosphate
deposits ?
It lies about one-third of a degree south
of the Equator and 166 degrees 55min. east of
Greenwich, is an elevated island about three
and a half miles long and two and a half miles
wide, has a circumference of 12 miles and an
area of 5396 acres. With the exception of a
narrow coastal belt suitable for growing coco-
nuts and of a brackish lagoon, the island con-
sists of phosphate deposits overlying a bed
of coralliferous limestone. Nauru is com-
pletely surrounded by a coral reef, beyond
which the sea bed slopes sharply downwards
at an angle of 45 degrees. These two factors,
together with the presence of a strong equa-
torial current of two knots, materially affect
the shipping facilities of the island. The fact
that it lies in the latitude of the easterly
trade winds, which blow from nine to ten
months of the year, is also significant, since it
explains the comparative absence of rainfall,
a condition necessary for the existence of phos-
phate deposits. The origin of the deposits is un-
certain. The deposits do not appear to be
simple guano, and some authorities consider
them to be of a marine sedimentary origin
raised from the sea bed and subjected to
weathering. From a manufacturing point of
view the phosphates are very high grade,
exports averaging 85.4 p.c. tricalcic phosphate
and 3.4 p.c. calcium carbonate. Estimates
set the amount of phosphatic rock available
at between 50 and 90 million tons.
* * * ' $
Particulars of cotton-growing in Queensland?
The high price of cotton during the American
Civil War (1861-65) led to cotton-growing
in Queensland, and a maximum of 12,963 acres
was planted in 1871. After that, however, the
industry declined and did not revive until
1920-23, when the Queensland Government
guaranteed a price of 5 jd. a pound of seed
cotton. The area rose to 82,174 acres in 1924,
since when the Commonwealth Government has
assisted the industry by a bounty on the crop
and on the manufactured yarn, arid, later, on
the crop only. The Queensland crop is grown
mainly by dry-farming methods and the annual
average yield varies considerably, but is much
lower than the yield obtained when irrigation
is used. The average yield per acre for the
State over the last five years was about 3001 b.
In 1939-40 about 1200 acres were grown under
irrigation and, apart from some failures, yields
were up to four times as great as those ob-
tained under dry-farming methods. Present
production of cotton comes mainly from thfc
Rockhampton and Maryborough divisions, par-
ticularly in the Callide Valley and Upper
Burnett. The 1939 crop amounted to 17,527,709
pounds ungismed, which was grown on 41,212
acres. Some 2400 growers were engaged.
(1) What is the annuityrattached to the Victoria
Cross? (2) When was the Victoria Cross in-
stituted? (3) To whom is the Royal Red Cross
aw aided ?
(1) A special annuity of £lO a year is granted
to every recipient below commissioned rank,
with an additional £5 a year for every bar. If
a V.C. winner is unable to obtain a livelihood
on leaving the service the amount of the annuity
may be increased to £5O. (2) January 29, 1856.
(3) Founded in -1883, the Royal Red Cross is
conferred on women of any rank or matrons
who may be brought to the Sovereign’s notice
for acts of mercy in attending to the sick
or wounded m time of war.
* * * *
What are the railway gauges in the Austra-
lian States and their mileages?
The Official Year-Book of N.S.W., 1939-40
(latest available), gives these figures:
3ft. 6in. 4ft. sft. 3in.
, T e Gauge. Gauge. Gauge.
S - W 37 6167 241
Victoria ~ .. _ 4410
Queensland .. 6548 69
S. Aus. a’nd N.T. 2216 654 1480
Westralia.. .. 4655 454
Tasmania .. 772 . _
Australian capital 5
Smaller gauges were 122 miles of 2ft. 6in. and
11 miles of 3ft. in Victoria; 133 miles of 2ft.
in Queensland; and 18 miles of 2ft.- in Tas-
mama - t * ie o r ' vatc railways in N.S.W.
are 4ft. 84in., mostly connecting mines with
main lines.
* * * *
Origin of the swastika as used by the Nazi
party ?
It was worn by soldiers of the German Baltic
Corps on their helmets when they returned in
1919 from the fight against the Bolsheviks in
Finland and the Baltic States. The swastika
was (and still is) the State ensign of Finland.
The ex-Baltic soldiers joined nationalist volun-
teer groups in post-war Germany which were
hostile to the republican Government, continu-
ing to use the swastika as their badge. Thus
it became the ensign’ of extreme nationalism
and eventually the National-Socialists adopted
it. Claims that the swastika is an ancient
Teutonic or Nordic ensign are wrong; it occurs
in the relics of many earlier civilisations and
has been found in Mongolia, North and South
America, the Orient and in Palestine.
* * * t
Recipe for ‘sarsisoap ?
Put three gallons of water and three pounds
,of fat (containing no salt) into a kero, tin
and heat until the fat is melted. Add half a
pound of caustic soda in small quantities, stir-
ring constantly. Next, grind a quarter of a
pound of resin to powder, mix it with one
gallon of clean, sharp sand and add to mixture
in kero. tin. Boil for an hour and a half, then
pour into a" wet kero, tin to set. Cut into
pieces when set.
# ijs *
Recipe for making black and tan shoe polish ?
Dissolve two ounces of beeswax in three
ounces of turpentine, heating the turps by stand-
ing the container in boiling water. When wax
is dissolved and while still hot stir in two
drachms of nigrosene or other aniline black.
A few grains of an aniline blue will improve the
mixture. For brown polish, mix wax and turps
but add five to 10 grains of nankeen-brown
stain.
Brief Answers.
R.F.; In 1938-39 the Governor-General’s
salary was £lO,OOO, his “establishment” cost
£12,305, contingencies (official services outside
the G.-G.’s personal interests and carried out
mainly at the instance of the Government)
£5381 R.D.Z.: Norfolk Island was created
a distinct and separate colony under the jurisdic-
tion of N. S. Wales in 1856. In 1896 it was
made a dependency under the Governor of
N. S. Wales; then, by the passage of the
Norfolk Island Act 1913, it was accepted
by the Federal Parliament as a Territory of
the Commonwealth 8.T.D.; Approximate
number of horses in Australia is 1,700,000.
Approximate percentage in each State and
Territory is N. S. Wales 30.27, Victoria 20.56,
Queensland 25.53, S.A. 11.30, W.A. 8.65, Tas-
mania 1.81,'N.T. 1.81, A.C.T. .07... .T.G.D.:
Italian-born persons granted letters of natural-
isation in Queensland numbered 525 in 1931,
209 in 1932, 171 in 1933, 216 in 1934, 269 in
1935, 218 in 1936, 94 in 1937, 174 in 1938, 145
in 1939, and 111 in 1940. In 1940 letters of
naturalisation were also granted to 14 persons
born in Finland, 10 in Germany, 38 in Greece,
21 in Norway and Sweden, 39 in Russia, 75 in
other European countries, six in the U.S.A.
and 19 in other countries 8.K.P.: The
N. S. Wales N.E.S. Minister, R. J. Heffron,
was born at Thames, M.L., on September 10,
1890, and educated at Auckland. He is M.L.A.
for Botany R.L.S.: Write to the Army
Inventions Directorate, 117 Pitt-street, Sydney.
L.O’M.: Northern Ireland consists of the
counties of Antrim, Armagh, Down, Fer-
managh, Londonderry and Tyrone; it returns
13 members to the House of Commons, but has
limited self-government exercised by the
Northern Irish Parliament of two Houses and
a separate Government. Certain legislative and
fiscal powers are reserved to the British Gov-
ernment. Area is 5200 sq. miles and pop.
1,300,000... .W.E.R.; Yes... .A.H.H.: Hard to
say without knowing provisions of the motions.
If the amendment falls fairly within the scope
of the notice convening the meeting it is in
order and all subsequent acts done in pur-
suance of it are valid L.E.: The solicitor
was not under any duty to do as you suggest.
Write to the Registrar, Probate Division, High
Court of Justice, London, and ask him the
name of the solicitors who proved your mother’s
will C. 8.8.: Ejamage to orchard in cir-
cumstances outlined would not be covered by
war damage insurance L.V.T.; A good deal
depends on the terms of your lease, but un-
less the matter is provided for the garage
would become the landlord’s property... .J.C.:
You are not entitled to any such inspection as
of right. If you can prove any maladministra-
tion of the estate by the executors you can
approach the Court to have them removed. Ex-
ecutors file yearly accounts, which can be in-
spected at the Probate Office, King-street, Sydney.
See a solicitor... .H.C.H.; First step of sur-
vivor is to take out probate of deceased’s will;
second, to make a new will Femme: (1) No.
(2) No W.R.L.; The George Cross yields
precedence only to the Victoria Cross R.F.:
Harry Bridges was born at Kensington (Vic.)
on July 28, 1900, educated at Kensington State
school, at St. Brendan’s (Flemington) and
St. Mary’s (West Melbourne). At 17 he began
work as a clerk, but went to sea in a Bass
Strait ketch and abandoned all thought of a
clerical career. He went to San Francisco as
a seaman in 1920 and shipped for two years
froijn various U.S. ports; was arrested in New
Orleans for picketing during a seamen’s strike;
and had his last job as a seaman in Coast and
Geodetic Survey as quartermaster on U.S.S.
Lydonia. Shortly afterwards he settled down
in San Francisco, and from 1924 devoted him-
self to organising the longshoremen. He mar-
ried in 1924... .T.N.P.: The American Legion
is an organisation of U.S. veterans of the 1914-
18 war. All who served with the U.S. Forces
between April 5, 1917, and November 11, 1918,
may be enrolled as members. It has displayed
considerable political activities... .B.G.L.':
Write to the Mines Department, Brisbane....
L.R.V.: (1), (2) and (3) No. (4) Depends
on several circumstances which you don’t state.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
A.R.: — \
Prom U.S. to Britain, Dr. E. skipped the foam,
Determined there to ram everything home;
Into the populace he put a great scare,
Demanding for Aussie they take their share.
E.G.;
Also truly democratic
Are our cousins, brave, true and quick.
Americans! Ideals the same,
United we’ll all play the game.
A.S.: —•
1 heard a “conchie” the other day.
My blood was up and I was wrath.
. ...P.G.R.: It had the germ of a good idea;
but it developed into something like ’flu....
jL.C.: Your second line made high summer of
a winter morning; but she’s a bit crude for
print.... W.A.: Labored... .T.M.K.: Thought
admirable; execution weak... .E.J.: A par.
about your adventures would be more likely
to score... .P.J.1.: That’s an old ’un....
J.McC.: If you’ll stop writing verse about
rationing, we’ll give you a pair of trousers....
D. “I’ll go back as a rouseabout.” Away,
then ; away.... J.M.S.; Condense; control;
and don’t be satisfied with tags Jim
Domino: If you could stop writing lines such
as “We maintain our peering” or “Stopping
Bunny’s roam”... .E.D.: “Zipangu” the nearest
yet....W.L.: The title recalls Lewis Carroll;
and the verse doesn’t... .C.S.: It would have
taken Pope in his prime to do justice to the
crooning of your friend... .E.P.: All that the
house now needs is an electric chair for the
Muse....A.E.: It gets nowhere; and the con-
cluding rhyme is harrowing P.M.: Haven’t
you got your history a bit muddled?
H.C.8.: Somebody beat you to that theme....
W.P.; Don’t like the wedding... .M.G.; Not
far away F.V.K.: It belongs in a daily
E. : Too remote these days.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.M.L.: By the way the smoke is leaving
the funnels and the skipper’s sou’-wester is
billowing, there appears to be blowing one of
those strong north-south winds that mariners
tell 0f... .P.S.G.: With your shrouds and coffin
accessories you make a morbid jester 8.C.;
It was sometime in this era that that Jewish-
fireman joke was coined Les B.: You’ll get
no bidders for that auction-sale sketch.... The
Skipper: Clew ’em up, Skip., there’s heavy
weather ahead; but we must say you gave the
ocean a beautifully even marcel wave....
E.P.A.: Some joker seems to have been pulling
the lady’s left leg M. 5.8.: Would suggest
that half a housebrick could be improved upon
as an eraser of errors H.F.J.; Careful in
detail, but still on the stiff side M.S.H. : A
pictorial atrocity married to an old radio joke.
... .W.C.G.: So far the brush has you groggy
and holding on; but you have humor, and you
may get the decision in the 20th... .E.C.D.:
Ah, well, perhaps it keeps you out of mischief.
... .R.T.W.: Child with deeply-corrugated fore-
head and dial like a “dogs” urger’s sent back
for repairs P.S.R.: Your characters can
never unbend if you encase them in those
strait-jackets Bert C.: Splintery penwork,
and the poses are atrocious...-.T.S.W. : “I
have two recreations —golf and drawing”;
concentrate, son, and you may yet become a
plus man R.J.: So it’s a collaboration, eh?
Would be interested to hear which one did
the hacksaw work... .P.M.R.; Even the
calender on the wall baffles you! D.McL.;
A couple of skeleton-like females staring at
each other and a feeble pun about one of their
’usbands gettin’. shot G.A.: Decorative but
quite humorless... .M.G.: Judged by the size
of the bloke pushing it, the pram would easily
hold the entire War Cabinet.


GrinnelVs record
in the Battle for Britain
This advertisement is one of a series based
on verified records of the performance of
Grinnell Automatic Sprinklers in dealing with
fires caused by incendiary and high explosive
bombs during Britain’s first two years of war.
8i
m
m
/
B H
a
*6
m
n
■
i
I I
m
m
mmmm
mm
m
Hi
m
' m
m
m
: ■
■
m
■
- ■
Incident "A ,?
Fire-watcher quits
but Grinnell remains on duty
THE value of having automatic
sprinklers to find the incen-
diary which may be missed even by
the most zealous fire watchers is
shown by the experience of a large
British clothing establishment:
“In consequence of the enemy
aerial attack in our neighbourhood
on Sunday night and Monday morn-
ing last, a fire broke out at these
Works.
I
“The raid was heavy in the area in
which our factory is situated, and
our large one-storey building was
peppered with incendiary bombs.
Our Commissionaire was severely
handicapped by the fact that the
fire watcher working with him, pre-
sumably overwhelmed by anxiety
for the welfare of his family, left
the building and went home.
“The Commissionaire certainly put
out several incendiary bombs, but
two, falling near together in our
Cutting Room, started a fire which
was put out by the sprinklers.
“Six sprinkler heads came into
operation and although the fire had
gained quite a hold under the tables,
it was extinguished, and the damage
done was remarkably slight.
“Had it not been for the automatic
sprinklers there is no doubt what-
ever that the fire would have quickly
spread through the whole of the
Warehouse and cloth storage rooms.
It would have been far beyond the
efforts of the one remaining man to
extinguish the fire, and we could
not have hoped for the lire Bri-
gade’s assistance at that time.”
Records based on a careful analysis
of 250 incidents reveal
82%* SUCCESS AGAINST
INCENDIARY BOMBS
where premises were fitted with
GRINNELL AUTOMATIC
SPRINKLERS
* Of the 18% of cases where saves
were not effected , 2/3 of these were
due to complete breakdown of
water supplies , while the remaining
third was directly traceable to in-
adequate water supplies.
GIIINNELL
Automatic Sprinkler
Wormald Bros. Pty. Ltd. (incorp. in
fire protection engineers sin
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
Systems
y.s.w.)
CE I B*B 9
if
0,-L
J e s
P'd
°n
"v
1 y
of p O, H'
*st
' r e
Prj
oie
°rj t
et e
i-ot
vpd
e Cf
lOf,
£e
lot
®i'e
9Uj
e c/
el
OSk
fit
lo .*
W
>Of
e Pt
tty
IH/
Pe
°t/c
ip}
ii'e
0 0,
°hr.
°"r/
°Ps
GSI


m
■ t a
★ POWER
TRANSMISSION
ENGINEERS
Ludowiei's engineering work-
shop — largest of its kind in
Australia—produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment.
Since 1858 IPOWICI’S
have provided Australian Industry
with the finest leather belting.
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only our Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys. Bearings, Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET}, SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
INVESTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * «
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
For Bronchitis
Coughs, Colds
Canadiol Mixture Quickly
Loosens Things Up
It’s different —it’s faster in action —
it’s compounded on superior, medical
fact findings new in this country.
Buckley’s Canadiol Mixture (triple act-
ing) is the name of this amazing cough
and cold prescription that “acts like a
flash” yet is so pure and free from
harmful drugs that a child can take it
—and stop coughing.
One little sip and the ordinary cough
is eased—a few doses and that tough
old hang-on cough is silenced—it’s
wonderful to watch how speedily hard,
lingering colds are put out of business.
Right, away that tightness begins to
loosen up—the bronchial passages clear
—you’re on your toes again—happy and
breathing easier.
Get Buckley’s—by far the largest-
selling cough medicine in all of bliz-
zardly cold Canada —to-day. At your
chemist or store.
SJuckley'i
CANADIOL
MIXTURE
■A SINGLE SIP PROVES IT
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off or
_ , , Provided Added
t Ex- Contingcn- to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. cies, etc. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
32.. 9,144,567 5,540,825 1,380,037 30,236 2,193,469
, 33 - 9> 322 > 373 5,383,344 1,347,987 61,150 2,529,892
’34.. 9,714,268 5,353,985 1,017,985 51,044 3,291,254
35.10,179,608 5,665,654 1,135,176 29,172 3,449,606
36.10,747,661 6,445,849 1,203,947 119,285 7 , , on
From conting. res., £lOO,OOO .. I 4 >9'0,580
’37.11,197,066 5,681,864 1,291,292 60,166 1
From conting. reserve, £lOO,OOO .. C 1,/i3 > 744
38.11,629,215 6,436,313 1,279,263 74,244 3,839,395
39.12,182,925 6,200,352 1,324,168 671,168 ). Sl ,
Additional tax provision,' £175,000 f
40.12,711,226 6,411,681 1,263,920 671,890 1 . ICQ
Additional tax provision, £175,000 j
’41.13,113,267 6,638,662 1,523,970 207,226 4,743,409
Industrial Department.
Written Added
„ Ex- Off, to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Etc. Funds.
£, £ £ £ £
’32.. 2.103,758 796,026 536,082 3,461 768,189
33.. 2,171,268 800,834 552,582 7,359 810,493
34.. 2,310,472 853,034 533,936 5,651 917,851
35.. 2,460,767 964,512 582,580 4,280 909,395
36.. 2,679,507 1,095,085 641,792 1,558 941,072
’37.. 2,943,122 1,162,121 753,995 15,124 1,011,882
38.. 3,220,576 1,233,996 791,728 13,298 1,181 554
’39.. 3,444,913 1,518,872 823,260 47,699 |
Provision for taxation, £25,000.. f 4 .03U,U82
’40.. 3,682,750 1,586,091 851,757 80,540 7 , lon QCO
Provision for taxation, £25,000 f 4,139,362
’41.. 3,866,840 1,632,056 907,385 38,508 1,288,891
Australia’s largest and oldest life office
is a pillar of the war economy—loan
subscriptions in two years have exceeded
£l2 million—and the security of its con-
tracts is a sheet-dnchor to many in the
realm of domestic finance, too. To date
the office has paid £850,000 in war
claims. The strain —that is, the difference
between the sum mentioned and actuarial
reserves held against those policies—
hasn’t been significant, all mortality last
year being no more than 56 p.c. of ex-
pectation under the tables used. Claims
resulting from operations in the Far East
have yet to come to hand, however, and
the extension of war to Australian soil
has greatly increased the risks.
Since Sept., 1939, the cautious manage-
ment has provided against these things
by setting aside £5,584,474 for war con-
tingencies, and that after writing £744,217
of property, etc., which comes to the
same thing. Special reserves now amount
to £8,155,825, of which £4,649,568 is
hidden away in assurance funds. This,
taxation and the closing up of investment
outlets have affected bonuses, of course ;
but all offices have the same problems
to face up to;
BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1936.. 2,837,798 310,646 3,148,444
1937.. 2,944,883 327,885 3,272,768
1938.. 3,094,348 350,516 3,444,864
1939.. 1,996,493 377,033 2,373,526
1940.. 2,053,491 409,718 2,463,209
1941.. 1,055,801 192,514 1,248,315
For the term just closed, A.M.P. rates
will be only half those of the preceding
two years ; but at least one other major
Australian office and most of the English
have temporarily suspended the bonus
practice altogether. In all cases, sums
now set aside aren’t lost to policy-
holders; they earn interest, and, if not
required, will be available for distribu-
tion later or to lower the basis of policy
valuation, and so benefit the future.
Features of the latest year’s figures
are a 20 p.c. increase in new business, a
record addition to funds, continued
economy in management, and healthy
earning-power of the conservatively
valued assets. Amalgamating both Ordi-
nary and Industrial figures, the total of
new business put on the books was
£27,939,047, of which £20,886,822 (up
£3,958,959) was in respect of Ordinary
assurances and £7,052,225 (up £968,433)
Industrial. It helped put a lift of £383,265
in premium income (£11,306,041 net),
and, with an extra £202,866 from interest,
etc. (£5,674,066), left aggregate income
£586,131 bulkier at £16,980,107. Assur-
ance funds benefited by £6,032,300,
raising them to £129,635,546. That was
after paying £53,647 more in taxation
(£442,832), striking £245,734 off property,
etc., and charging a staff contribution of
£27,464.
Despite the new business increase and
the trend of costs generally, the ratio of
commission and management exes. (less
taxes) to Ordinary premium receipts was
unchanged at 11.32 p.c. In the I.D. the
figure on the same basis was 26.91 p.c.,
as against 26.41 p.c. Life assurance
bought from a sound office is possibly the
one unrationed commodity individuals
can continue to spend on to both their
own and the nation’s profit. War cover
within Australia is still available at the
usual rates of premium.
All available cash last year went
straight into Government securities:
t, „• ... „ 1940 - P-C. 1941. p.c.
Public securities £76,447,714 59.4 £83,405,218 61 7
Mortgages .. 31,347,000 24.4 31,981,273 23.7
Loans on policies 16,373,343 12.7 15,792,939 11 7
Premises .. 1,795,600 1.4 1,627,170 12'
Other assets .. 2,681,514 2.1 2,324,679 1.7
Total assets £128,645,170 100.0 135,131,279' loTo
Liabilities* .. 1,535,867 1,989,476
Net assets £127,109,303 £133,141,803
* Other than under policies.
The whole portfolio earned an effective
£4 Bs. Id. p.c. (down Is. Id. p.c.) on
mean funds, including fidelity, tax and
investment reserves, which is a very
satisfactory margin over the £3 p.c.
assumed when setting by policy reserves.
Bank of Adelaide
• . To Pc Rc—
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932 .. 66,776 4 p.c. = 50,000 16,776 1,070,571
Transferred to inner reserves, £30,000.. 1,040,571
1933 .. 53.727 4 p.c. = 50,000 3,727 1,044,298
1934.. 54,497 4 „ „ 50,000 4,497 1,048,795
Transferred to inner reserves, £25,000.. 1,023,795
1935.. 55,201 4 p.c. = 50,000 5,201 1,028,996
1936.. 57,973 4 „ „ 50,000 7,973 1,086,969
1937 .. 61,337 4* „ „ 56,250 .5,087 1,042,056
1938 . . 65,788 5 „ „ 62,500 3,288 1,045,344
To inner reserves, £20,000 .. .. 1,025,344
1939.. 71,121 5J p.c. = 65,625 5,496 1,030,840
1940.. 71,393 5i „ ~ 68,750 2,643 1,033,483
1941 .. 66,520 5i „ „ 68,750 1,031.253
Taxation, etc., written back, £55,266 .. 1,086,519
“To appropriations,” £45,330 .. ..1,041,189'
1942.. 59,583 5J p.c. = 68,750 1,032,022
Credit, chief stock-in-trade of the banks,
was placed on the rationed list early in
the piece. Further, the price of it —
interest rates —was fixed at a low figure,
which has been further forced down. But
with private investment controlled by
the State and Government borrowing
not so dependent as previously on in-
terest, and since rationing and price-
control have become more general, in-
terest rates have lost much of their
former importance, because they no
longer exert the influence they used to
on prices and savings.
Consumption is now largely curtailed
by rationing and prices are more or less
pegged by direct control, while wages
have gone up with costs. Also, non-
essential luxury goods are gradually dis-
appearing from the market as existing
stocks are sold out. One object of all
this is to sterilise, by an indirect but
nevertheless effective compulsion to save,
portion of the new money being injected
into the financial structure by Govern-
ment spending for war purposes; an-
other is to keep a curb on secondary
inflation, which usually gets a foothold
in such circumstances. At the same time
it helps to simplify the Government’s
problem of borrowing, and the lower the
interest rate on war-time borrowing, and
the more stress placed on taxation, the
less need there should be for drastic
methods of dealing with the interest
burden after the war.
On the other hand, low interest rates
affect bank earnings. Since the outbreak
of war a reduction in advances (for which
the highest charge is now 5 p.c., irrespec-
tive of the risk) has been accompanied
by a growth in demand deposits. And
the investment policy of the banks and
their power to influence interest rates
have been circumscribed by legislation.
Broadly speaking, they are obliged to
follow the policy of the central bank in
granting credit and in buying securities.
Also, their surplus investible funds have
to be deposited with the central institu-
tion at a rate of interest —less than 1 p.c.
at the moment —which will ensure that
their net earnings don’t exceed average
profits for the three years to the end of
Aug u 1939. The central bank now virtu-
ally controls credit, and, within the limits
of its influence, has power to correct
encroachments by private enterprise on
labor and materials needed by the Gov-
ernment. To help offset the effects of
rising costs and of man-power problems,
trading hours for banks have been re-
duced, and where there has been over-
lapping and waste some country branches
have been closed. As a patriotic gesture,
the banks have agreed to collect clothing
ration tickets for the Rationing Commis-
sion free of charge.
The Adelaide gathers about four-fifths
of its deposits in its home State. Its
average net earnings for the three years
to the close of accounts in 1939 were
5.3 p.c. For the 12 months to end of
March last the net result (down £6937,
owing to the lift in taxation and other
costs) was 4.7 p.c. on £1,250,000 of share
capital. On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) it was no more
than 2.6 p.c. That takes no account of
appropriations amounting to £45,330,
which were more than offset by transfer
of £55,266 from tax reserves, etc. The
div., which was kept at p.c., looks like
having a piece chipped off it.
Outstanding feature of balance-sheet
figures is strength:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Notes .. £6,574 £6,569 £6,569 £6,499
Bills, etc. 276,024 367,596 259,125 1 a ~ ao oln
Deposits. .7,000,719 7,391,501 7,782,410 j
Liquid
assets 3,252,263 4,650,449 4,737,884 5,967,340
Advances 5,950,855 5,010,078 6,156,909 4,522,286
Premises,
etc.' .. 395,416 422,997 468,939 455,354
Other
assets.. 160,175
Last term a contraction of £634,673 in
advances was accompanied by a growth
of £740,684 in deposits and of £1,229,456
in liquids. When the books closed, the
amount on special deposit with the cen-
tral bank was £599,000, on which 1 p.c.
would equal nearly half of one per cent,
on capital. Advances were only 51.5 p.c.
of deposits, liquids amounted to 67.8 p.c.
of liabilities to the public, and the bank
was holding only £3 17s. of outside money
for every pound of its own.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. ‘Reserves.
1932. . 10,044 6* p.c. = 8,938 1 QQft , 9RQ
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO j 61,996 1259
1933.. 8,619 6 p.c. = 8,250 ? fil
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO ) 61,865 1710
1934.. 9,725 6 p.c. = 8,250 } fi9 a , n . 9RII
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO S 62,810 2511
1935.. 12,055 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 ... „. R
Staff Super. Fund. £lOOO f 65,615
1936.. 12,840 6 p.c. = 8,250 ]- Q M 5
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO f 6y, ‘ idi>
1937.. 12,955 7 p.c. = 9,625 \ 7l
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO f
1938.. 13,478 74 p.c. =10,313 \ „ ... 9R7 ,
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO S 2873
1939. . 13,550 8 p.c. =ll,OOO 1 9 oa 97ns
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO f 75,280 2708
1940. . 13,712 8 p.c. =ll,OOO )77 409 9Q9^
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO f 77,492 29/3
1941. . 10,530 8 p.c. =ll,OOO t7c R 99 0-100
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO f 3183
--1942.. 78,072 7 p.c. = 9,625 74,969 3048
The uncertainties of war and National
Security legislation have made more
apparent than ever the need for revision
of wills as well as the advantages of the
corporate over the private trustee. One
result has been a steady increase in the
volume of business placed in the expert
care of the trustee cos. But the corpus
and other commissions charged by the
Union have remained unaltered, which
means that it has been unable to
pass on any or all of the burden of rising
costs. Also, the legislation just referred
to has so circumscribed the field of in-
vestment that Government loans at low
rates of interest are the chief outlet for
trustee and other funds these days. The
effect of this upon the earnings,
together with the lifts in taxation
and costs, has more than offset the gains
that would normally accrue front expan-
sion of business.
The Union, which has strong connec-
tions in pastoral circles, set up in Mel-
bourne 57 years ago and now has
branches at Sydney, Brisbane, Toowoomba
and Townsville. It doesn’t broadcast the
volume of trusts in hand, but gross earn-
ings from all sources continue to expand,
the improvement last term being £1896:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes.* Earnings.
1925 ~ .. £80,658 £59,905 74.1
1930 104,567 83,534 79.8
1935 .. .. 91,538 77,483 84.6
1936 .. .. 97,411 82,571 84.7
1937 .. .. 90,731 83.5
1938 .. .. 99,595 84,117 84.5
1939 . . . . 103,275 87,725 85.9
1940 .. . . 107,743 92,031 85,4
1941 .. .. 110,191 94,661 85.9
1942 .. . . 112,087 98,015 87.4
* Excluding reserved for taxes.
The provision for taxation was £6OOO
(up £1000). Taking this into the
reckoning, the net result (down £2458)
was 5.8 p.c. on capital (£137,500) as
against 7.6, 10, 9.8, 9.8, 9.4 and 9.3 p.c.
back to 1936. A point was chipped off the
div., reducing it to 7 p.c., the final being
at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was only 3.7 p.c.
On capital alone 6 p.c. will call for only


Position Wanted.
STATION MANAGER, 35, married, two
children, strong, active, no military ohhgations
would consider management property carrying
salary £520 p.a. or over. At present managing
large Queensland station (40,000 sheep, 100
cattle). Particulars experience, references o
request.—No. 306, Advt. Dept., Box 252188,
G.P.0., Sydney. -
Public Notice.
1 DEMOSTHENES ZACOVOUPOLOS, ol
Greek nationality, born at Salonika, Greece,
and resident 16 years in Australia, now residing
113 William Street, Sydney, N - s - W -» intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-36. .
Missing Friend.
JOHN AMOS CHATFIELD, or anyone know-
ing of his whereabouts, is asked to communicate
with Mr. A. Mackay, Solicitor, Mmyip, Vic-
toria.
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different
40 Pacific Islands, all different
We buy all Australians for Cash, Retail and
,•_ x ! S f s Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PIXX SXBEEX, SYDNEY
L. Mudjord, Manager.
Xeleplione 8W1931 for particulars
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
' unless you take this wise precaution. , ,
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 3 5
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
APPOInT” YOUR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
( Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
iv s w ■niR'FCTOBATE : Hon. Sir Henry Bracldon, K.B.E. (Chairman)
ftte W ChSST Hot Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.0.; *-» IJJU j
Robert 0. Wilson.
; Colin A. Sinclair
.. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
i. G. H. Shipway.
ta/653iM
m
HI
m
Security
i
Economy
Service
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
1914-18 —In such infernos as Gallipoli
and the Jordan Valley, the first Anxacs learned
to depend on rugged Richards Wagons and
tough Australian horseflesh to bring up vital
supplies.
NOW —The horse has been replaced by
the internal combustion engine, but the new
Digger, like his father, relies on the enduring
quality of Richards workmanship.
mm
\
mm
4 .
i.'.MiltO
THEY STILL PIN
THEIR FAITH TO
Body by Richards
i
Assembling Speeial R.I.L.
General Service Bodies
for Trucks and Utilities.
MM)
|RICHARDSJ
Campaign roads and cam-
paign loads are not for
weakling trucks. The fact
that the war of 25 years ago
and the more exacting war
of to-day both demand Richards bodies
is proof that Richards craftsmanship is
ever in the ascendant. The
enthusiastic army in the
factories ceaselessly pours its pre
of transport, aircraft, arms
ammunition into the fearless hat
the fighting forces.
RICHARDS
RR6
£l7B more than was netted last year, and
hopes are that the new uniform income
tax will mean a slight saving in costs
for the co. So a 6 p.c. div. appears to
be a reasonable expectation, subject, or
course, to war developments.
At the end of Feb. assets consisted of
Government securities £61,295, freehold,
etc., £139,717, mortgages £1416, debtors
balances £1449 and cash £24,304. Apart
from £93 of unclaimed divs., the co.
owed no man.
The decision to leave the Westralian
goldmining industry 30 p.c. of its pre-
war labor pool, or 4500 men, is open to
review again after three months, so indi-
vidual mines still aren’t able to see or
plan very far ahead. And even in the
short period mentioned further labor
may be withdrawn for Allied works.
Meantime most economic employment of
those men left the industry is a problem
in itself. For the first five months of the
current term the West’s gold production
has fallen 16 p.c. —from 447,5490 z. to
373,9250 z. To maintain fully every mine,
even at the expense of current produc-
tion, would be an important step towards
minimising post-war unemployment. On
the other hand, a shortage of Empire
exchange is still evident, despite Lease-
Lend. In Victoria the industry is to lose
780 of its present 1200 or so employees.
» » * *
A final div, for 1941 on North Kal-
gurli’s 1,100,000 issued 2s. shares is due
next month, and the belief of the market
is that a shilling will be paid. Develop-
ments in the co.’s three main blocks, Kal-
gurli, North Kalgurli and Croesus Pro-
prietary, continue satisfactory at depth,
good values and widths being mentioned
in every monthly progress report. In
1941 North Kalgurli and Croesus Prop.—
operations on the latter were restricted
to development early this year because ot
the labor situation— together showed an
operating surplus of £200,000 Australian
from an output worth £554,000.
* * * *
Two Westralian gold-producing cos.,
Sons of Gwalia and Golden Horse Shoe,
held their meetings in London the other
day. Capt. A. H. Moreing, Gwalia’s
chairman, said his board didn t know
how Australia’s drastic fiscal proposals
and mobilisation of man-power were
going to affect the co., but considered
it prudent to conserve financial resources,
and so deferred consideration of a final
div. Knight Frederic Hamilton at the
Horse Shoe gathering reported that,
allowing for a moderate curtailment of
operations owing to labor scarcity and
other factors, re-treatment of the last of
the dumps should be completed in 18
months to two years. A recent attempt
to turn the current tailings dump or Gt.
Boulder to profitable account found
values too low, indicating the thorough-
ness of modern metallurgical practice on
the Mile.
some time ago with Lake View and
to re-treat on an equal proht-shanng
basis its No. 3 dump, containing abo
half a million tons.
Lake * Qeorge Mines> which has ha d to
contend with one demned thing after an-
other in way of m-Utogjc* lata and
the yew to June 30,
down despite a 5* months strike
at the American smelter to which thg
concen rates are soid Capital £20,000
m shi mg p London (paid
George Mini[S L gave
capital, £1,110,000 stg.j, wmen gave
*65 239 stg for control and has smee
found £ A 7 7S, 6 °O by way of Ranees,
The bank has also put U P £A
chief security for which was an .o&A
months accumulation of concentrat
with a net valuation of £194,875. At the
London meeting in March hopes were
held that these would soon be reduced
to normal, and, though charges will be
heavier, there is a possibility that nothing
w ill be lost through the delay in reahsa-
tion because of the greater demand tor
war minerals. The co.’s southern N.b.W.
s iiver-lead mine isn’t as rich as those at
t h e Barrier, assay of the 2,000,000 tons
of estimated ore being 7.9 p.c. lead and
13.4 p.c. zinc, with a little copper (0.7
p.c.), gold (I.2dwt.) and other minerals
tossed in. There is an outlet for the
pyritic content of the ore, too, over
13,000 tons of this concentrate being dis-
patched to Australian Fertilizers last
term Feature of the year’s development
was the high average width of the lode
and strength of the walls in the Keating’s
section which rather compensates for
the Central ore-body’s higher mineral
content while one of the few things re-
maining to be done at the mill is the
achievement of still finer grinding. State
freight and power concessions are re-
fleeted in a shilling fall in unit operating
costs.
$ * « *
Copper shows that could make a good
response to the Commonwealth demand
for more metal are the Mt. Oxide,
Orphan and Answer, in the Cloncurry
(N.Q.) copper belt. All have pretty good
past yields. The Orphan has reputedly
a 10ft. lode of 10 p.c. copper ore proved
down to over 200 ft. Mt. Oxide is one
of the big deposits, handicapped by lack
of transport and capital ?q moment. Un-
proved reserves are pn
but in the core of it the
be 200,000 tons of 8


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
tva
Vlasta
In the business of keeping
essential transport running
without interruption, care of
tyres has taken on great im-
portance. Formerly, if a tyre
wore out 3,000 miles too soon,
the owner was the only loser,
but now such waste is a
national loss.
Millions of tyre miles are
sacrificed for want of special
care—yet the causes of waste
can be detected quickly by a
Service man trained to read
small signs aright.
Hie following are some of the
commonest causes of tyre
wastage:
(1) Rubber ts scuffed or
scraped off by road friction
... if wheels toe-in or toe-out
too much ... if brakes are
too fierce, or unequally ad-
justed or out-of-true . . . if
clutch is too fierce.
(2) The tread of the tyre
wears unevenly, therefore jails
too soon ... if wheels have
incorrect camber ... if wheel
bearings or rim are loose . . .
if an axle is bent ... if tyres
and wheel are out of balance
... if dual tyres are im-
properly matched.
(3) The bead is likely to frac-
ture ... if the rim is dented,
bent or rusty.
(4) A burst tyre . . . often
results from neglected or
skimped repairs of tread,
walls, casing or tube.
VJiat a driver cannot do to lengthen tyre-life, a
good Service man can. Since war needs made it
vital to save rubber, the 600 General Motor*
Dealers in Australia have studied the best way* of
tracing tyre faults and applying the cure.
Ask your General Motor* Dealer to Inspect your
tyre*. It will cost you nothing and may add
many thousand* of miles to the life of your tyre*.
HP 1 OF A SERIES
Serve and Save by Buying
WAR SAYINGS CERTIFICATES
General Motors
UP
BEDFORD — BDICK—CADILLAC
— CHEVROLET — G.U.C. — OLDS-
MOBILE—PONTIAC - VAVXHALL
GENERAL
Brisbane -
MOTORS HOLDEN'S LIMI
Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide -
TED
Perth
G
The Nation
has first call
on your
SAVINGS
IF you have enough Life
Assurance to give adequate
protection to your family in
the event of your death, the
A.M.P. does not recommend
you to take out any more
now. Put the money into
War Bonds instead. The
Nation has first call on your
current savings, and it needs
every penny you can spare.
Of course, if your family be
not protected, it is your first
duty to the Nation, as well as
to your dependents, to see
that it is; You must not
have your family become a
burden on others who are
already carrying their full
share of the wars burden.
So the Society’s advice is
this: See that your family
is fully protected. Put the
rest of what you can save
into War Bonds.
A.M.P. Society
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman;
0. H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., J. O. Meeks,
Esq., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A, Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith.
A. W. Sneddon, P.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Bead Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE . . .... ..
When certain glands fail, yon
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets, contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
CHEMIST, 819 George Street. Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Still Evading the Issue
The slow rate at which the loan filled
was disappointing and disconcerting.
Unemployment is down to 1.8 p.c. of
registered trade-unionists virtually to
nothing—and a huge volume of income
is passing to this class of people. Every-
one able and willing to work need be in
no fear of unemployment at the present
time. And though those who have only
latterly got jobs as a result of war-time
industrial expansion probably have very
little behind them in money even now,
the fact remains that a great absorption
of unemployed has been going on for
more than two years. Not only that, but
skilled and unskilled workers have been
reaping a great harvest of overtime. Up
to a late hour in the flotation of the loan
an adequate response from these people
had failed to manifest itself.
It cannot be stressed too often that the
war we are fighting is essentially a present
one. Except for minor social adjust-
ments, deferments and make-believe
amongst ourselves, it is strictly a matter
of “pay as you go.” Therefore the
people who are in the best position to
pay for the war are those whose incomes
have been swollen by war-time activity
and who so far have been spared
taxation on a scale that might have re-
duced their living standards. There are
hundreds of thousands of workers in the
Commonwealth who have found the flow
of the national income diverted their way
as it has never flowed before, and, mone-
tarily, they have never been better off.
But while they are in this favored posi-
tion from a purely monetary point of
view the fact that the country as a whole
is bearing such mighty burdens has
caused the Government to ration many
things, even essentials like food and cloth-
ing, and some of them produced in the
Commonwealth,
It is clear that money should have
been rationed, by adequate taxation, long
ago. But while war spending by the
nation is on a scale something like 30
p.c. of the total national income and
war-time taxation is less than 10 p.c.
of the same thing, it is perfectly deal
that, in money, we are not paying as we
go. And the most obvious feature of this
financial policy is that it is not for the
want of taxation of the higher incomes
that we are not paying as we go. Whereas
in the case of tens of thousands of over-
time workers it will be found that they
are far better off monetarily after paying
their war taxation, in the instance of the
people on higher incomes, especially
those on above £l5OO a year, the usual
standard of life has been cut to ribbons.
Yet it is from these people that most is
seemingly still expected from infuriating
gasbags like Ward, Minister for Labor
and National Service. When he is smoodg-
ing to the voting majority it would seem
that this Minister holds in contempt the
great national service performed by others.
It is those earning income other than
wages, principal supporters of most war
loans, who are now paying heavy taxes
for which they have no credits in the
form of wage-tax stamps. Further finan-
cial help for the war effort from many
such people has become an impossibility.
And the wage-earning class is not taking
over its share of the responsibility whole-
heartedly.
The position is that, while the coun-
try, in men, labor and materials, is pay-
ing as it goes, we have the anomalous
position where monetarily many of us are
not paying as we go. And this is largely
because of political reluctance to tax
those who are making big wages now.
They are definitely not paying their share
of war’s cost, and they have failed to
respond readily and adequately to the
Government’s appeal for urgently-needed
war funds. This avoidance of a national
obligation has imposed a great strain on
the Commonwealth’s economic and de-
fence organisation. And it has had the
result of doubling the burdens of willing
and patriotic citizens who are heavily
taxed and lending the last of their ready
cash at the same time.
If complete figures for the loan show
that it failed to receive the response ex-
pected—both in numbers of subscribers
and amount of money—then Canberra
should immediately reconsider its taxa-
tion policy. The Prime Minister has
promised that there will be no increases
in taxation in the August Budget. It is
a promise he may have to qualify by the
issue of a supplementary Budget later
in order to prevent the financial conduct
of the war assuming a totally false aspect.
Present methods are inflationary arid lop-
sided.
Australians are traditionally easygoing.
In order to get them to do an out-of-
the-way job they often have to be stirred
to action or compelled to act. In volun-
tary circumstances most enlistments in
the A.I.F. occurred when the Empire was
passing through its darkest hours this
war, and the most ready response to an
Australian war loan came earlier this
year, when the position in the Pacific was
threatening and gloomy. But man-power
is now compelled to take up whatever
task is allotted to it within Australia, and
that applies industrially to well as mili-
tarily. The people have accepted this
position with few protests. Why, then,
has not the Government the cour-
age and straightforwardness to compel
people to contribute their due to the cost
of war either by way of taxation or post-
war credits? There is far too much bor-
rowing and inflation in this country, and
it is utterly bad war finance. In this
respect our war effort is undisciplined
and disorderly. Unless the power to
impose discipline is displayed there will
be none.
Australia’s war effort is taxing patience
and tempers as well as endurance and
resources. The individual Australian is
equal to anyone else when it comes to
a pinch, and he can do most jobs asked
of him in an admirable fashion where
he feels so disposed. But in a war of
the present magnitude there is little scope
for individuality except possibly in the
actual fighting line. There has to be some
sort of grand plan in order to organise
a nation of seven million people where
one objective—the winning of the war —
is the national purpose. It is no use leav-
ing essential man-power and materials to
independent control; we have to concen-
trate our attack on the enemy in order
to hit hardest. But to an easygoing
country like this the regimentation of
man-power in particular has brought
aggravating problems. We have had no
previous experience of this sort of thing
whatsoever —in 1914-18, except for not-
so-heavy income-tax increases, the whole
thing was voluntary—and even compul-
sory military training was abolished by
Labor during the depression. With less
than three years of war behind us —about
six months of that was the “phony” war
period—it has been very difficult to build
up an effective and fairly constituted war
machine. Redundant and straggling
Governments, Government departments
and taxing authorities have stood in the
way of each other, while political plat-
forms that have no relationship with
realities have added to the waste, con-
fusion and disproportionate allotment of
the war burden. Only those willing to
be governed were governed until very
recently, and even now there is still
evidence of ineffective control. Frankly
the Commonwealth Government has
had no easy task ahead of it in the
best of circumstances. Our peace-time
political and social framework was not
one on which to base a war effort. Like
a luxury liner, it needed stiffening before
guns could be effectively mounted. The
stiffening has to come from all classes,
and money as well as man-power and
materials is necessary. The lower incomes
will have to contribute more. They repre-
sent the greatest economic power in the
land.
* * * *
Britain’s national debt on March 31,
1942, totalled £14,070 million, including
£1032 million of external debt described
as “arising -out of the war of 1914-18,”
and mostly owed to the United States.
At this date Britain was owed £3037
million by foreign Governments on
account of the 1914-18 war. Payments
in respect of these foreign loans have
been suspended since July 1, 1931, where
they were not suspended earlier. Of
Britain’s internal debt over £3OOO million
is represented by Treasury bills, a short-
term method of borrowing that carries
low interest but which in peace-time is
not used so extensively as at present.
Tax-reserve certificates figure at £l9l
million. Increase in the debt during the
year was £2675 million, while lend-lease
aid was in the vicinity of £6OO million.
* * * *
Goliath Portland Cement (Tas.), which
relied on the mainland for a good pro-
portion of its sales in other times, is
finding that shipping difficulties are cut-
ting turnover severely. No improvement
is looked for under present conditions.
Decline in output has been followed by
increased manufacturing costs per ton of
cement, and delivery charges are up.
But so long as enough profit is earned to
keep the pref. div. paid and provide a
small income for ord. shareholders the
co. should regain its excellent position
as soon as normal times return. It is
ordinarily a very economical producer,
and has strong finances.
* * *
The return on capital invested in Com-
monwealth airlines has been restricted to
6 p.c. Apparently this is after providing
for depreciation and losses of aircraft,
both likely to be heavy items, especially
these times.
* * * *
In August, 1941, John William Shaw
McArthur, Arthur Bridgewater, William
Bryce and Arnold Lovell were charged
with having conspired to cheat and
defraud certain persons of large sums of
money. On June 11 they were acquitted.
There was a plan to establish co-operative
stores, and some options were taken.
The accused contended that the organisa-
tion had spent all its money on developing
its plans and in setting up stores. A
National Security Regulation concerning
the raising of fresh capital left the co.
with “no alternative but to go into liqui-
dation. Every effort was made to keep
the stores going.”


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND—WESTLAND DISTRICT
(Westport Registry).
In Divorce —No. 107.
IN THE MATTER of the Petition of ISOBEL
MAY BALL of Westport in the Dominion
of New Zealand Married Woman for
Divorce. .
TO FRED BALL formerly of Mokihinui in the
Dominion of New Zealand Goldminer.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at Westport in the said Dominion citing
you to appear and answer the petition of
ISOBEL MAY BALL of Westport aforesaid
wherein she prays for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of desertion
and such citation intimates that in default of
your so doing the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition and to pronounce sentence
therein notwithstanding your absence NOW
THEREFORE take notice that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within ninety days after the
date of this publication to attend in person or
by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office
at Westport aforesaid and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage of the
proceedings A copy of the said citation and
petition will be supplied to you on your apply-
ing for the same at the Supreme Court office
at Westport aforesaid.
DATED at Westport this 27th day of May,
W. J. BLACKLER,
Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
MICHAEL BERNARD SCULLY is the
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at- the office of the said M. B. Scully
in Wakefield Street, Westport aforesaid.
TO CHARLES LEWIS also known as VIVIAN
DUFFY formerly of Argo Street South Yarra
in the State of Victoria but now of parts un-
known Labourer. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife OLIVE ISABEL LEWIS has instituted
proceedings against you for a dissolution of
marriage on the ground of desertion UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court Melbourne
within 14 days from the publication hereof
the case may proceed in your absence and you
may be ordered to pay costs AND FURTHER
if you intend to defend the said suit you
must within twenty-four days from the publi-
cation hereof cause an answer to be filed in the
said office. . . , , _ _
This advertisement is inserted by C. M. S.
POWER, of 283 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Public Solicitor for Victoria, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
FO WILLIAM WILLIAMS late of Sydney.—
LAKE NOTICE that JOHN ROBERT
HEDLEY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2184 of 1941 against his wife MARGARET
ANNE HEDLEY on the ground of her adultery
with you If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance on or before the 14th
August 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from C. P. WHITE Solicitor
160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO AMY LOUISE DUNSMORE late of
Dubbo.—TAKE NOTICE that ERNEST
DUNSMORE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2089 of 1939 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance on or before the 18th
September 1942 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from QUIRK & DAVID-
SON Solicitors Wellington N.S.W. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TcTjOHN LOUIS ARNOTT now of parts un-
known but late of 25 Stott Street Preston in
the State of Victoria Collector. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife HAZEL VICTORIA
ARNOTT has instituted proceedings lor a
divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at Mel-
bourne on or before the fifteenth day of July
1942 the case may proceed in your absence H
you intend to defend this suit you must also
file an answer in the said office on or belore
the Twenty-fifth day of July 1942 AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the sealed
copy Petition and the copy citation m this
suit may be inspected at the office of the
Petitioner’s Solicitors LEACH & THOMSON
of 472 Bourke Street Melbourne
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO W. NEVITT late of Hopetoun Avenue
Vaucluse. —TAKE NOTICE that HERBERT
SAUNDERS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1478 of 1940 on the ground of your
adultery with his wife DOREEN JULIA
SAUNDERS If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance on or before 31st August
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from E. A. CLEARY & CO. Solicitors
56 Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAISY MARIE ROSEWARNE formerly
of Paddington in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that CLARENCE ROY
ROSEWARNE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 817 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance on or before the 26th of August
1942 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from FRED MANNING DODD Solici-
tor of 12 O’Connell Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
fO ALEXANDER CHALMERS BANNER-
VIAN late of Burwood and Enfield. —TAKE
SOTICE that VIOLET AGNES BANNER-
VIAN has commenced a suit (No. 855 of 1942)
igainst you and is seeking a dissolution of
ier marriage with you on the ground ot deser-
ion for three years and upwards without just
;ause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
/ou are required to enter an appearance on or
before the 4th of September 1942 A copy ol
he petition may be obtained from CLIVE
LLARKE Solicitor for the Petitioner 79 Ehza-
aeth Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
:rar in Divorce.
THAT
*
the
TWO BOORS
WORTH READING
Two special books are available free of charge from Burns Philp Trust Company
Ltd. The first, entitled "The Task That Few Men Want," deals with the Company s
special service in connection with the execution of Wills and the administration
of Estates. The second book, entitled "Hand Over Your Worries, tells how
Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd. can assume responsibility for your personal
business affairs during your lifetime. It has special appeal to those living in
retirement, and to those whose professional activities are of an arduous
character.
These publications will be forwarded immediately on request. Both are of
particular importance in current circumstances.
DIRECTORS—James Burns
Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LI MIXED
7 BRIDGE STREET. NE %
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B - G > Sydney.
B.P. 19-42
m
10forlI d - • 20fori 10
E 1865
Also in Fifties
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
P R EVE N T
SORE
THR
The tone of the sharemarkets in Aus-
tralia continued strong last week. In
London the news from Libya had a de-
pressing effect, but in New York buying
support was fully evident. Apparently
Australian sharemarkets are taking heed
of Pacific affairs more than developments
in Africa and Europe, and considerable
store is set by political developments
within Australia itself. It was political
action that had as much to do as the
Japanese successes in causing the great
collapse in Australian share prices early
this year. The Government’s new
economic policy, now largely abandoned,
caused widespread alarm, the proposed
4 p.c. profits limit in particular having a
violent effect. This 4 p.c. policy has not
yet been officially discarded, but there
are hopes that it will be, grounds for this
view being strengthened by the utterly
impracticable nature of the proposal.
Added strength for market confidence
has come from the one-income-tax legis-
lation, which will dispose of the depress-
ing company-tax anomalies in N. S. Wales
and some other States, and from the
Prime Minister’s statement that there
will be no increases in direct or indirect
taxation in the Budget for the forth-
coming financial year. It is hard to see
how increased taxation is to be avoided
next year, but if increases do come it
will be astonishing if companies have
their burdens added to further. The
lower personal incomes are overdue for
attention. They represent the great earn-
ing and spending section. They also
have great voting power.
* * * *
When will Australians wake up to
realities? There is a popular school of
thought which believes that it doesn’t
matter whether the public subscribes to
war loans or not; that what money the
people fail to provide directly will be
put up by the underwriters, otherwise the
banks, and that everything will be quite
all right. It is true that war funds can
be provided on these inflationary lines,
but who wants inflation? Who wants
the confusion, depression and distress
that always follow the make-believe and
wishful thinking that is inflation? Infla-
tion doesn’t save us from paying for war
and similar things. We pay —twice. We
pay once for the war itself, and then we
pay a second time in the misery that fol-
lows the breakdown of an economic sys-
tem that has been deliberately made false.
We need more simple honesty and com-
monsense in our outlook. Politicians are
partly to blame for our unrealistic views,
but advertisers who glamorised extrava-
gance were also responsible for the
spreading of much popular nonsense in
pre-war years.
* * * *
When presenting Britain’s 1942-43
Budget Sir Kingsley Wood drew attention
to the incidence of excess-profits tax. He
said that the 100 p.c. tax brought in soon
after the conflict started was not dictated
solely by financial considerations but was
concerned also with the aim of taking
profit out of war. It had been necessary
to make changes, and now earnings of
6 p.c. on capital employed, including
borrowed capital, was the standard maxi-
mum in most cases. There are also special
provisions to encourage traders to em-
bark on developments required by the
war effort. Metal and oil producers are
being given special treatment. Losses on
plant are allowed as deductions both
for e.-p.t. and ordinary income tax, and
the allowable rates for depreciation carry
an automatic 20 p.c., while if there is
special wear and tear, such as in engineer-
ing trades working double or treble shifts,
then further depreciation provision is
allowable. In view of the argument that
100 p.c. e.-p.t. prevents industry making
provision for post-war reconstruction,
a 20 p.c. post-war credit of the tax is
allowed, subject to the condition that it
must not be used for dividends or bonus
shares.
* * * *
As last week went on and people began
to analyse the clothes-rationing scheme
a number of anomalies were detected.
Although the Prime Minister said a short
time ago that “the darning needle is now
a weapon of war,” the rationing people
apparently don’t consider the sewing
needle to be in the same category.
Anyway, the coupon cost of ready-made
clothes is not so expensive in many cases
as that of materials to make up in the
home—an utterly absurd situation con-
sidering that the best way of utilising
woman-power is to put it to work at
home in order to release factory workers
for direct war work that they are oest
able to handle. It is not improbable that
the list of coupon values will be revised.
Baby clothes are particularly expensive
when bought made up, and it will be
queer indeed if the present odd latio
between clothes and cloth is allowed to
stand.
at. * * *
A small increase in the Australian note
issue was recorded during the week to
June 15, leaving it at £100.6 million.
The Commonwealth’s indebtedness to
the Central Bank was again down
slightly at £101.7 million. There appears
to have been a definite check to the
growth of this tricky form of war
finance, and it is particularly unfortunate
that in the circumstances response to the
big war loan should have been so slow.
Taxation is the best form of war finance,
post-war credits are second-best, public
borrowing next and bank credit last.
* * * *
A United States Treasury proposal to
limit single incomes to 25,000 dollars a
year—President Roosevelt mentioned it
in his speech outlining the shape he con-
sidered the national war economic policy
should take —has been shelved by the
Ways and Means Committee of the
House of Representatives. If the sug-
gestion had become law 11,000 people
would have been affected and revenue
might have benefited by 184 million
dollars a year. That would not have been
a huge amount considering the under-
lying principle involved. Set limits to
earnings are not good policy when pro-
duction and still more production is
wanted in order to win the war.
at * *
Last week the Director of War Produc-
tion in the U.S.A., Mr. Nelson, told the
House of Representatives Committee that
the 94 p.c. excess-profits tax tentatively
adopted threatens the full efficiency of
the war programme. He suggested an 80
p.c. tax, and if a rate higher than
that were adopted that the extra should
be treated as a post-war credit. Canada
has a 79i p.c. excess-profits tax, while
Britain has had to modify its 100 p.c. idea.
* * * *
In Detroit, U.S.A., in order to get a
used car of 1940 or 1941 design in first-
class order it is necessary to pay approxi-
mately what the car cost when new.
Sales of used cars are nevertheless at a
low level, and are often transacted
according to the condition of the tyres.
Where unused cars are available the
price is usually 20 p.c. higher than a
year ago.
* * * *
A thing that those who hesitate about
investing in Government war loans (ad-
vance subscriptions may be made at any
time) should remember is that the bonds
are readily marketed at prices that allow
no loss to the holder, minimum prices be-
ing fixed by the Government. Certainly it
isn’t much good to the war effort to take
up bonds and then sell them, but the
chances are that once taken up the need
to dispose of them will not arise.
Averaged over thousands of people who
are hesitating it is a certainty that in the
majority of cases the bonds would be
retained.


THE SERVICE MAN
Loss of Tobruk and Libya.
“Ek Dum”: The campaign in Libya is
oyer. After a series of misfortunes, be-
ginning with the loss of Bir Hakheim
by the Free French, despite almost super-
human efforts to save it, the Eighth
Army retired fighting to the Egyptian
border. It has been forgotten by people
with short memories that Rommel him-
self retired before the onset of the Eighth
Army at the beginning of the year, and
that the Italians were driven from the
Egyptian border far into Libya by a very
much smaller British imperial army.
The enemy’s attack opened on May 26.
The capture of the very important Free
French post was reported on June 11. The
Germans had previously failed to break
the Guards Brigade at Knightsbridge or
to cut a way out of the Devil’s Cauldron
salient. Further north in the Acroma-
Gazala area the Italians had bounced
back stunned off the front of a North-
of-England division which afterwards
went sheer through two of Musso.’s crack
divisions.
The capture of the Free French posi-
tion and the subsequent fall of the
southern roads below the escarpment,
however, threatened the whole of the
southern flank of the Eighth Army and
its lines of communication to far beyond
Tobruk.
By June 12 the enemy was at Bir El
Gubbi, fighting for El Adem, and only
15 miles from the Tobruk perimeter, on
the south. By June 19 El Adem and
Sidi Resegh, 10 miles to the east along
the Trigh Capuzzo, were in Axis hands.
The enemy was bringing up guns up
to 9.2’s round the Tobruk perimeter,
down whose coastal interior roads the
brave lads from Acroma were pouring
in retreat only because they were out-
flanked, outgunned and outnumbered.
A German-Italian force pushed on
almost to the Egyptian border. The artil-
lery of Tobruk spoke on both sides.
Tobruk has no natural defence positions.
Though it withstood a splendid siege,
which will always form a noble chapter
in British Empire history, it had never till
last week been subjected to an over-
whelming tank and artillery attack, com-
bined with the 1942 brand of air on-
slaught. In any case, its harbor was a
mass of wreckage from the last defence
and from a splendid attempt to land all
manner of supplies by sea from Alexan-
dria, thus impairing the power of the
new garrison to hold out.
After a three-hour blast by swarms of
’planes and a day- and night-long artil-
lery bombardment, the lines were
breached. The foe poured in. What
the Germans had struggled for unceas-
ingly since April 9, 1941, came about.
Tobruk was in Axis hands, with
25,000 British and Indian troops, includ-
ing several generals.
The Eighth Army was forced to retire,
not through failure of courage, strategy
or tactics, but through weakness of
materiel, lack of power to bring fresh
reinforcements from a temperate climate
at a few hours’ notice, lack of man-
power, lack of shipping in relation to its
enormous problems of communication.
The Germans, it is now evident, have
in the past twelve months made effective
use of Italian resources and Italy’s geo-
graphical position.
As was pointed out more than once at
the end of the last campaign, when the
opposing armies settled down along the
Derna wadi front, the signs for the future
were ominous. It was mentioned on
this page months ago that the promotion
of Rommel to the rank of field-marshal
suggested that the next effort would be a
major one, in which at least 250,000 men
and all that that, implied in the way of
mechanical and air might would be used,
as well as Italian sea-power—never incon-
siderable, though mastered by a small
portion of the British Navy, splendidly
served by all hands.
The incessant attacks on Malta indi-
cated for months, day in and day out,
what was in the wind. It was known to
everybody that the Greek and Crete cam-
paigns had shown the enemy what could
be done in the way of the conveyance of
supplies by a swarm of Mediterranean
fishing boats and caiques.
The increasing air power had made the
Mediterranean convoys more susceptible
to heavy air attack, and the torpedo
bomber —whose technique was exhibited
by the British at Taranto and in the
Bismarck affair —brought new dangers.
British supplies and men must, because
of the long voyages involved, come in
concentration in large ships heavily es-
corted. Germans and Italians could slip
supplies across from 200 to 550 miles
of sea almost during single inter-
vals of darkness in streams of small boats,
in the aggregate carrying a heavy flow,
but individually scarcely worth a torpedo.
In Libya during three weeks of bloody
fighting the Eighth Army held its ground
with inferior man-power, lighter weapons,
fewer aircraft, 700 miles of desert at its
back and its only safe communication
line 15,000 miles long. In the end the
Germans and Italians have taken from
them a bit of land about the size of
Kerch. Most of it was covered only by
field fortifications. Yet press and radio
“personalities” are performing as if
General Auchinleck had lost the war.
Amid all this hysteria, the basic
features of the strategy of the Libyan
campaign, which is primarily defensive
to cover the Suez Canal, Middle Eastern
oil and the Nile routes, have been for-
gotten.
Rommel’s immediate objectives may be
summarised as:
(1) Alexandria, naval base —400 miles
from his present front. He has travelled
(save for his furthest spearhead) 40 miles
towards it in a month of hard fighting,
paying dearly all the time, and has not yet
even commenced to batter his way into
Britain’s most far-flung strongholds.
(2) Suez and the control of the Canal.
Port Said is 550 miles odd from Tobruk —
a long way when trying to push back even
a weaker foe who has naval support in
strength, railway communications and pre-
pared approaches mined at all crucial
points.
(3) The Nile and the routes to southern
Africa.
(4) Ethiopia, which it is important to the
Axis to deal with before the swiftly-pre-
paring bases are in working order there,
and because possession gives access to the
Indian Ocean.
These stakes are big; so will the effort
be.
Up to June 21 no attempt had been
made on the border defences. The enemy
has to take Mersah Matruh, immeasur-
ably stronger than anything he has yet
tackled.
If and when he succeeds there he will
still need to roll up a front a couple of
hundred miles deep for a further 200
miles, when he will be in a position to
besiege Alexandria. After that there is
the Nile Delta and another 200 miles or
a bit less to be conquered to reach the
Canal.
There are signs that other Axis opera-
tions are being synchronised with this
drive. The German High Command
cannot be insensitive to the valuable help
which Second-Front propagandists are to
them.
It is conceivable that if and when the
Libyan border defences at or beyond
Mersah Matruh were overrun another
movement would begin against the Suez
region from notth of the Mediterranean,
contemporaneously with a large-scale
attempted advance in Russia,
The plan might be to concert the three
drives so that they would be near their
climax 2\ months ahead, when change
of season along the Burmese border has
allowed the Japanese to begin their cam-
paign against India or the British theirs
against Burma.
Then the weather will be more favor-
able for fighting in Egypt, less favorable
for offensive operations from the air in
western Europe.
And the intervening two to three
months might have allowed Rommel to
establish large bases in the border coun-
try—if he still has it.
Also, in the meantime Hitler no doubt
hopes that the Allied nations will be still
shorter than at present of sea transport,
because of the U-boat and sea-bomber
war.
The Libyan battle has been something
of which gallant British, S’African and
Indian soldiery have no cause to be
ashamed. Every knoll has been fought
for, every wadi worth while contested,
every level patch of ground over 1000
square miles has become a cemetery for
burnt-out tanks and enemy infantry.
Victory is not yet ours, but our men
have shown that they have the stuff in
them that toughens under adversity.
There has been no squealing. And their
generals have scorned to attempt to cloak
the details of the reverse by the false
representation or concealment often used
in other quarters.
The Seamen's Part.
“Ek D.”: The essence of the power
to defend the vital Suez area depends on
the ability of the R.N. and R.A.A.F. and
of the enduring Royal Mercantile Marine
to keep the long sea lanes open. Every
day in these narrow seas, with the in-
creased range and carrying power of
heavy bombers, the task will become
more difficult still as the technique and
supply of land-based torpedo bombers
develop.
The adventures of two convoys in
the Mediterranean bringing supplies to
Tobruk and Malta gave a glimpse of the
growing hell through which seamen must
force their way in order to keep Medi-
terranean positions tenable.
A joint Admiralty and Air Force com-
munique said that the R.N. and Mer-
chant Navy, with co-operation of the
R.A.F. and the U.S. Air Corps, had de-
livered supplies to Valetta and Tobruk.
The convoy for Tobruk came from
Alexandria ; the convoy from Gibraltar,
the biggest ever seen in those waters, was
bound for Malta. For days the enemy,
from both sides of the Mediterranean,
flung everything he had at the ships—
U-boats, bombers of every sort, torpedo
bombers, surface naval craft from battle-
ships downward.
A Trento class Italian cruiser (Sin.
guns) was sunk, and at least two enemy
destroyers, plus a large number of enemy
’planes, were wrecked.
The Admiralty and R.A.F. in their
joint communique were constrained to
admit that the adventure was only a
“limited success.” The American leader
reported having hit one Italian battle-
ship 23 times and another 15 times, and
set fire to a cruiser and damaged a
destroyer, but the battleships were appar-
ently able to reach port.
From the moment the convoys—7o
ships each, the Italians said —came within
bombing range they were attacked by
swarms of 50 to 100 machines, but the
cruisers and destroyers sent up a bar-
rage. It was “such as no city could pro-
vide,” according to one captain, and
British aircraft rallied to the defence.
On the evening of June 14 an Italian
force including two battleships and four
destroyers was found by the R.A.F. off
Taranto. Long-range torpedo ’planes
attacked it that night. On Monday morn-
ing, torpedo ’planes from Malta and the
American Liberators simultaneously
swooped on the Italian battleships. After
they had been badly mauled and the
Trento-class cruiser had been set on fire,
the latter was sunk by a British aerial
torpedo. Hits were scored on an enemy
6in.-gun cruiser and a destroyer. The
enemy turned north on Monday after-
noon and staggered towards his base.
On Monday morning the R.A.F, and
F.A.A. attacked another Italian force
which had gone west past Pantellaria to
meet the convoy from Gibraltar. They
hit and set fire to a cruiser and probably
hit a destroyer.
The weight of the enemy attack put a
great strain on the British air fighter
forces working from carriers. Once
they staved off 40 Ju 87’s and 88’s, es-
corted by 20 Messerschmitt 109’s and
forced them to jettison their bombs. They
lost 17 ’planes in four days, apart from
a few losses over Malta.
After the convoys reached their destina-
tions they were still under attack while
unloading. And Malta had been
assaulted heavily in advance —10 raiding
bombers, three fighters and two others
had been destroyed in 24 hours to 10
p.m. on June 14.
Axis communiques claimed that only
two ships out of the Malta convoy
reached their destination. The Germans
claimed to have sunk four British cruisers
and destroyers, two escort vessels and six
merchantmen, totalling 56,000 tons, on
June 13 and 14, apart from Italian attri-
tion. They wrote that a destroyer and
eight merchantmen were hit with tor-
pedoes or bombs and set on fire, and
were so heavily damaged that their loss
was a foregone conclusion: also that six
warships and six merchantmen had re-
ceived direct hits. U-boats had sunk a
cruiser. Thirty-three British ’planes were
destroyed against 10 Germans. A second
communique summed up alleged British
losses in the two convoys as “14 mer-
chantmen of 111,000 tons and several
warships.” The convoy from Alexandria,
it was stated, had been forced to turn
back.
The Italians admitted the loss of the
Trento-class cruiser and the damaging of
a destroyer. They claimed 44 Allied
’planes shot down, a cruiser sunk and
other cruisers and destroyers badly dam-
aged in attacks on the western convoy,
together with a destroyer sunk and six
other naval ships hit with the Tobruk
convoy. In all, they had hit 30 ships,
some of which were sunk, had broken
up the Malta convoy and forced it to
retreat westward.
The Admiralty pronounced all these
claims “fantastic” and made it clear that
supplies were delivered to both fortresses,
though “at considerable cost.”
The terrific fight which these fleets had
to get through gives a prospective picture
of what a “second-front” movement
across the narrow North Sea, where air-
power is far stronger and more concen-
tratable and is backed by heavy artillery
with a range of up to 70 miles, would be
like.
It is reported that 269 ships have been
sunk around U.S. coasts since Dec. 7.
After a Year in U.S.S.R.
“Ek Dum”: All last week Sevastopol
was fighting for its life, and there was
news of fresh enemy attacks in the Khar-
kov sector. These were pictured by
“observers”—hundreds, in some cases
thousands, of miles from the battle —as
“desperate” attempts by Von Bock to
throw Timoshenko out of ground which
the latter had won in the May offensive.
One described the German attack as
being “on” Kharkov itself, though that
city has been in German hands since
Oct. 24.
Presently it was reported that Von Bock
was mustering a large force about 100
miles north of Taganrog. This seems a
more likely point than Kharkov for a
crucial attempt to drive across the
southern Donetz Basin to the Don. It
is the centre of a closely-knit triangular
tangle of industrial railways, of which the
southern side rests on Stalino and the
head of the oil-pipeline from the Cau-
casus—already well established in German
hands. The north end of the base of the
triangle is on the Donetz, s.-e. of Isyum,
scene of some of the heaviest fighting in
May. From the centre of the base
formed by these two points it is about 70
miles eastward to the apex of the tri-
angle, another great industrial city as im-
portant as Stalino—Lugansk.
With the triangle conquered, the enemy
would have the whole of the Ukraine;
also he would be on the south flank of
Timoshenko’s armies and only 220 miles
from the Volga itself. The intermediate
terrain is largely steppe and ideal for a
mechanised drive. A matter of 40 miles
beyond Lugansk the main railway from
Moscow to Rostov would be cuttable by
an easting advance. Operations at this
point could also be consonant with a
new attack on Rostov. ' At the week-end
Rostov was under heavy air bombard-
ment.
The truth about the Kharkov engage-
ment seems to be that it was a sharp
movement by Von Bock to take the Rus-
sian bridgehead still held on the western
side of a Donetz tributary, 20 to 40 miles
from the city, and to establish German
bridgeheads on the eastern side of the
river, as a preliminary to other and larger
operations.
Berlin asserted late in the week that
the bridgeheads had been taken at small
cost after the Germans had crossed the
Donetz tributary which runs close to the
main river. Moscow’s reply was that the
enemy failed to cross this river and that
the attempt cost 1500 men. Further, that
in three attacks the enemy lost 3000
men and that the Red Army was holding
the Germans, who claimed that rain had
slowed down operations.
By the week-end Sevastopol was in a
desperate plight. As our forefathers
knew, it is a fearsome place to assault
until the outside lines are passed. Then
it becomes a fearsome place to defend.
The town is on the right of a narrow
cliff-bound harbor, on a peninsula bitten
into by bays at right angles to the main
inlet.
The bay directly inland of the town is
the old man-o’-war anchorage. Inland of
this again, to the right, is the Redan;
to the left, the Chinaman-cap of the Mala-
koff. Then the hills climb up towards the
east, intersected by steep gullies until
they reach the high levels which formed
the British camping grounds in the
Crimean campaign of ’54-56.
On the left side of the harbor, oppo-
site the city, the hills rise parallel like
waves until about four miles from the
sea they reach the Inkerman West sum-
mits from which Raglan looked down
five days after the Battle of the Alma
in September, 1854. Inkerman’s ruins lie
a little to the east.
The natural approaches to Sevastopol
are from the Malakoff-Redan side
at or near Balaklava—towards the south
coast, where a ghostly French echo may
have remarked that bombing ’planes were
“magnificent but not war.” It was reported
on June 19 that on this side the invaders
were within two miles of the town, and
had reached the old man-o’-war harbor*,,
a mile from the naval base.
On June 21 “Red Star” admitted that
the intermediate defences had been
breached. The enemy seemed to hold the


Redan and Malakoft positions, the whole
of the Balaklava Peninsula and the
Quarantine Heights, south of the town,
which were surrounded closely save on
the harbor side.
If this was so, Sevastopol’s chances of
survival for any length of time were small.
It means the enemy must have heights
which dominate every feature of the city
and harbor, plus a stranglehold on water
supply, which so often in the present war
has proved the decisive factor in settling
the fate of sieges.
Conditions along the whole front on
the anniversary of the outbreak of war
gave little cause for celebration. Every-
where there were signs that the initiative
was in German hands, except in Bryansk.
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: It is evident still that
Japanese aerial bases along the north
Australian fringe have not lost their
power to strike ; but attacks continue to
be of a kind which might be described
as momentarily defensive.
Darwin had its third successive assault
on June 14, when 27 bombers covered
by 15 fighters came over. The sum total
of the damage was small and there were
few casualties, although the town area
was combed ; on the other hand, 11 “O”
fighters were wiped out. The Allies lost
four fighters ; one pilot was saved.
Tuesday, June 16, saw another three
squadrons of bombers over the harbor,
this time escorted by 25 fighters. They
arrived about noon, round about 25,000
feet. Their formation seemed to be go-
as-you-please at first, but moulded itself
into a V formation of V flights of three.
Bombs were released flight by flight,
but all inside a minute. Abandoned
houses, already opened by previous raids,
spouted rubbish. Earth geysers were
formed on open ground. Water splashed
round small vessels in the harbor. But
again the real damage was small, and
there were no casualties.
The one excitement was caused by fires
started round a machine-gun section by
incendiaries. A Penrith (N.S.W.) lieu-
tenant and a Mosman (N.S.W.) sergeant
found a tough job on their hands drag-
ging out collapsing gunners from among
wreckage in which flames were beginning
to feed on ammunition boxes. After
the rescue, the lieutenant dashed back
into the inferno and heaved the boxes
over a cliff just in time. He collapsed
while starting to thank the rescued for
their cheers. The rescued —with all their
belongings gone—continued cheering.
Some of them had risked their lives stay-
ing to get their guns out.
One of the enemy bombers went off
trailing smoke. Allied H.Q. reported the
loss of two fighters with their pilots in
process of bringing down an enemy
fighter and a bomber.
Berlin on June 21 quoted a Tokyo
claim to the destruction of an “arsenal,”
“shipyards,” oil-storage tanks and 12
R.A.A.F. aircraft, against a loss of two
Japanese, and firing two 8000-ton trans-
ports. It recalled Tokyo’s account of the
subs.’ “success” in Sydney.
The night before the fourth Darwin
raid Koepang had had another Allied
attack which met with feeble resistance.
Lae and Salamaua were the scene of a
strenuous day-and-night battle, which left
fires blazing among more broken instal-
lations and seven enemy fighters in the
sea. The raiders left behind one ’plane.
On Tuesday, June 16, Port Moresby
saw a sharp combat, after which only
14 out of 18 “O” fighters were able to go
home, though four Allied machines were
destroyed. H.Q. remarked that “This
action against superior numbers pre-
vented an attack oh our ground installa-
tions.” It also makes it clear that ’planes
are urgently needed in the North. This
was Moresby’s 60th raid. The 61st was
made next day at a high level, mainly in
the harbor area, by 18 bombers with nine
“O” fighters for escort.
The fight was fierce while it lasted. One
Allied interceptor was noticed in holts with
three “Os” but all turned out well. The
enemy scuttled off towards the north-east
minus a bomber and a fighter. It was
the first time since June 1 that bombs
had been dropped in Moresby.
Thursday saw still another attack,
mostly against shipping. A cargo vessel
was hit. Three “O” fighters and a
bomber were the expensive cost to the
enemy of this rare success.
On June 19 Rabaul had one of its
worst experiences since it passed under
enemy control.
The Allied force used was strong
enough to attend to the harbor, the
wharves and the aerodrome at Vuna-
kanau. One 10,000-ton transport was hit
three times. Other ships were damaged.
On the aerodrome runways were torn
up; a group of bombers on the ground
was destroyed. Only seven “O” fighters
and a couple of slow flat ’planes came
up to try to stave off the blizzard. One
was shot down, another was seen badly
limping.
On Sunday night Allied bombers were
over Rabaul again and damaged wharf
installations. At Lae two enemy bombers
were destroyed on the ground, and the
attackers fought their way out without
loss.
No further announcements have been
made about submarines on the coast. The
navies have been tirelessly busy. When
the story comes to be written Australia
will have reason to be proud of its
R.A.N.
Cook's Tour with Mars.
“Ek Dum”: A journey round the war
fronts is an experience which is apt to
deceive if the seats are booked in the
Peahen Press Express or the Radio Rover,
but not when the Prime Minister is in
charge of the party.
To the trade-union delegates at Mel-
bourne, Mr. Curtin laid stress on the
fact that nowhere in the world is there
any real room for rejoicing. Even
judging the Pacific battles with their
heartening damage to Japanese squad-
rons by the test with which every battle
must be judged—its consequences —there
is much to be desired.
In the Coral Sea battle, fought off our
own coast and at least 1500 miles from
even a minor Japanese naval base, the
Japanese are now reported to have had
from 70 to 100 ships. But though they
were harried for four days and it was
possible to reach them with the largest
’planes in the United Nations’ forces, as
well as with the aircraft complement of
the largest carrier in the world, it was not
feasible to pursue them to destruction or
to shepherd them into surface combat
with our naval fleets —the only kind of
combat which can prove absolutely de-
cisive or anywhere near it.
Coral Sea and Midway Mr. Curtin
described as “a merciful respite for Aus-
tralia.” But the Japanese, “showing
resiliency,” had struck at the Aleutians.
“Resiliency” is the right word.
Tulagi, the Louisiades and Lae and
Rabaul are all still in Japanese hands.
The enemy, with fresh types of ’planes —
heavy bombers and new fighters which
resemble the Hurricane —has been able
to make more assaults on Moresby. The
continuous and gallant R.A.A.F. attacks
against Koepang and Ambon have not
prevented a fresh irruption of heavy raids
against Darwin.
The foe’s ability to make raids with
18 or more bombers at a time, supported
by fighters, against northern towns, and
to replace fighter losses which sometimes
run into double figures in a day, justifies
the presumption that he threatens us in
some force.
The North Pacific Moves
The analysis of the Midway Battle
brings out some of the same features that
were present in the Coral Sea; but this
expedition represented a different stage
of attack.
It may have been comparable to the
original swoop on Rabaul, in which case
it failed. But Admiral Nimitz’s descrip-
tion of the fleet as consisting of 30 or
more vessels does not now suggest this,
in face of events outside the Hawaiian
area. It suggests that it was a powerful
feint to cover another operation. What-
ever the objective it cost the enemy
heavily.
Again the U.S. fleet was not able to
bring the Japanese ships to battle. It was
another case of hit-run. No ships ex-
changed shots. And the fact that con-
temporaneously a landing (or landings)
was secured in the Aleutians may have
made a heavy naval and air loss worth
while to the enemy.
There has been the usual newspaper
disingenuousness about the Aleutian
landings. The world has been told that
Kiska and Attu, now admitted to be in
Japanese possession, are uninhabited
islands of “no importance.” N. York
“Times” of March 6 in a special color
map of the Pacific showed Kiska as being
of apparently equal value with Dutch
Harbor. The names of both ports were
printed in identical large type.
The Japanese evidently considered it
of some importance. It must have been
obvious to them that with Dutch Harbor
in heavy-bomber range and no land
’drome in their own hands within hun-
dreds of miles, the entering of the bay
at Kiska involved considerable risks.
They must have felt them worth taking.
They made their attacks in bad, foggy
weather which hampered U.S. recon-
naissance and air defence. General
Arnold, head of the U.S. Air Force, an-
nounced that reports “indicated that at
least three Japanese cruisers, a destroyer,
a gunboat and a transport had been
damaged, some severely,” but the enemy
army units and their supporting naval
landing divisional troops at the week-end
were still in the islands, and the ships
enumerated showed that they must have
arrived in some force, though the U.S.
Secretary of State calls them small.
On June 19 Berlin reported fresh in-
vasions. Probably because of the fog
nobody knows clearly what is happen-
ing, but it is admitted that the enemy
has already “minor military buildings
in Kiska.
There are grim possibilities in these
events. The stern measures which are
being taken along the American Pacific
coast are evidence enough that neither
Uncle Sam nor Brother Maple Leaf
share in newspaper optimism.
A cable from China said that the
Chungking Cabinet had met to discuss a
report that a Japanese invasion of Siberia
was imminent and that “Japanese troops
were stated to be pouring into Man-
churia.” A day or two afterwards came
news that Jap ships and ’planes were
moving northwards from the N.E.1.,
Malaya and other points south. This was
interpreted as contributory evidence that
Soviet Siberia was to have its issue of
barbarism. It was inferred that the
Aleutians had been attacked as part of
the drive against the Soviets.
It seems —if the facts are correct —just
as logical or more so to assume that the
enemy in the Pacific is sucking back all
his specially trained invasion divisions,
his naval landing forces and his specially
designed invasion ships to consolidate and
amplify operations in the Aleutians and
use his full invasion plant and personnel
against the Alaskan and Canadian coast,
though they might be going home for
rest and reconditioning.
Uncle Sam has selected Australia as
a base. The S.-western Allied command
is his main West Pacific fighting com-
mand. He has poured men and shipping
into the Anzac area. He has sent his
leading fighting commander here—
General MacArthur. What more logical
move, while General MacArthur has his
eye on Japan’s front garden path in the
south, than for Tojo to slip out of his
back door and land a wallop on
that part of the Allied anatomy which
is disposed almost on his mat and
furthest from the United Nations’ point
of greatest preparation?
The scheme might have more to offer
in the way of rewards than an attack on
Australia. The Aleutians are close
enough to Japan for the whole weight of
that nation to be applied through them
straight from the shoulder.
A major blow would prejudice both
United States and Canadian ability to
take part in the Atlantic war and to send
supplies to Britain, Russia and the Middle
East, as well as Australia. The present,
climatically, is the best time for the attack.
In a few months expansion of shipping,
armies and industrial output on the Allied
side would make it impossible. Now,
too, the monsoon rains have stopped the
Indian campaign.
J. Bull v. the U-boats
It is not inconceivable that some such
blow against American northern ap-
proaches might even be contemplated in
conjunction with events in the Atlantic
and the North Sea. The Atlantic war
appears to have reached its height. U.S.
papers speak credibly of losses through
U-boats of 800,000 tons a month—more
than the output of the combined nations.
It is not too much to say that the
United Nations are fighting as much to
stave off a blockade of British shores
and routes as they are fighting to block-
ade the Continent. The dangerous posi-
tion in the Middle East and in Russia
makes more urgent the Allied need to
keep the sea routes open.
One translation of what Molotov said
to the Supreme Soviet in Moscow is that
“complete agreement regarding the for-
mation of a second front this year has
been arrived at.” Another gives his
words thus: “Complete agreement was
recently reached in London on the for-
mation of a second front in 1942. This
will create an insurmountable obstacle
to Hitler.” And after Mr. Churchill’s
arrival in the U.S.A. on another mission
Mr. Early, the President’s secretary, said
that “speculation on a second front is
perfectly justifiable.” That was before
the loss of Tobruk and Libya, which
makes a second front in Europe look a
madder proposition than ever.
It seems unbelievable that the Allies are
calmly telling the German High Com-
mand their intentions in advance to
enable the enemy to prepare himself. If
this course of action is being followed
it will needlessly cost tens of thousands
of lives. And it is very late in the year
to begin to organise a campaign in
northern Europe.
Over the past few weeks there has
been circumstantial news of movements
of German troops along the Lowlands
routes to the North Sea and of the clear-
ing-out of civilians and of increasing
activity along the Belgian and French
coasts.
These movements might not be dictated
by defensive considerations. Von Rund-
stedt, who has taken over command in
France, has had more experience of
moving large bodies of troops across
water than any other German Army
group commander. And the French coast
is just as logical a jumping-off point for
an invasion of England as it might be
as a landing place for an attack on Ger-
man-held territory.
With the U-boat war at its present
stage. Hitler might conceivably feel that
an invasion attempt would give the coup
de grace to British-American plans of
expansion before they were out of their
swaddling clothes, force the bringing of
large quantities of Allied shipping into
the North Sea, where it would be acces-
sible to German bombers, and inhibit
the sending of supplies to Russia and
the Middle East on any worth-while
scale.
He has as many divisions for an
attempt as Britain would have, and more
space to deploy his air force.
Japan and Russia
The Japanese-Russian situation is out-
wardly unchanged. There are good rea-
sons why the Japanese should not at the
moment antagonise Russia. The Chinese-
Communist position is little understood.
The Chinese Communist armies were
headed by General Ma, German-educated
and a personal friend of Stalin.
As Japan loomed larger on the horizon
force of circumstances threw them into
partnership with Chiang Kai-shek.
Since the outbreak of war in the Pacific
disruption has grown up between the
Chiangists and the Communist armies.
A Japanese attack on Russia would
instantly unite the Communists and
Chiangists. It would bring Russia to the
China coast —there would be no hope of
confining the war to Siberia if Russia
willed otherwise.
With Russian armaments and army
behind them, the Chinese probably could
isolate the newly-acquired Japanese
possessions in south-eastern Asia.
The new war would make Russia a
party to the defence of India. It would
loose Russian submarines to play hob in
the Japan Sea from Vladivostok. It
would force Japan to fight for sea-food
and other products which now come to
Japanese factories by amicable agree-
ment. Japanese cities would come within
range of Russian bombers.
A linkage between Russia and Uncle
Sam through the Aleutians and Kam-
chatka and the Kuriles would be one of
the most dangerous things which could
happen to Japan.
Emden was raided by about 300 British
’planes on the night of June 20, and
raids and sweeps over the French and
Belgian coasts continued. Heavy gun-
fire over the adjacent French coast shook
the English cliffs across the Channel on
the evening of June 20, and huge flashes
were seen, apparently at water level.
* * * *
British submarines have torpedoed
three ships of a Japanese convoy in
Malacca Strait. Admiralty described
one as “a very large ship.” The others
as “large supply ships.”
* * * *
The Admiralty admits the loss of
H.M.S. Wild Swan, an old destroyer, in
an attack 100 miles west of the French
coast, in which three Spanish trawlers
also were sunk by the Germans.
* * * *
An Australian Sunderland (Com-
mander, Flight-Lieut. B. R. C. Wood, of
Toorak) sank a submarine, which was
forced to the surface by bombs. When
bombs were exhausted the flying-boat
raked the U-boat, which fought back
with its m.-gs. The enemy submerged
trailing oil; then it went up in a gusher.
Afterwards the Australians for an hour
fought off a Focke-Wulff four-engined
Kurier, which was last seen losing height
badly.
J ** * *
In sight of crowds on the beach at
Norfolk (Virginia) two merchant ships
were torpedoed. One sank; the other
was towed to port,
* * * *
Though the Chinese are bravely resist-
ing, and have launched counter-attacks
against the advancing Japanese 30 miles
or so above Canton on the Pa River
along the Hankow-Canton railway, the
enemy has made headway during severe
fighting in Kiangsi and other provinces ;
and there have been new Japanese gams
in Fukien and new landings in Chekiang.
* * * *
The Japanese now claim to have com-
pleted the occupation of the Moluccas
and Celebes.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Clothes rationing wouldn’t have meant
any privation to the girls of the Furze
family. They lived in Tipperary, and
their dress allowance for a year was £25.
Nevertheless Natalie Simon (Baby Furze)
makes a fascinating figure in her cousin
Maude’s old evening frock ; and managed
to give more than one girl in the
Minerva audience last Friday night an
idea or two about a new use for the old
eiderdown. When, wrapped in one all
pinks and blues, she made her way down-
stairs from an arctic bedroom more than
a few registered a note on how to pro-
cure a couponless line in padded dress-
ing-gowns. The play “Spring Meeting”
changed its address from the Independent
Theatre, North Sydney, last Friday, while
the Minerva play, “The Importance of
Being Earnest,” is now showing at the
Independent.
As the June dusk was turning into
night last Saturday the Conservatorium’s
director, Dr. Bainton, was charming the
Lindfield Music Circle with a discourse
on Bach. Afer his lecturette Dr. Bainton
played some of the composer’s works.
The circle met in the Norman McLeod
home at Chatswood, and a programme
arranged by Charles Philip included
violinist Phyllis McDonald, vocalist Anne
Mills and accompanist Connie Stuart.
President W. Larke must have been
pleased with the audience, which num-
bered over 70. Mrs. Bainton, as guest
of honor, received a sheaf of the North
Shore’s choicest blooms. Niece Jocelyn
Targett helped Mrs. McLeod to enter-
tain. After the music there was a buffet
supper, the warm glow of poinsettia over
all.
The W.N.E. (Wednesday Nights Enter-
tainers) had a grand time at their fastness
at Christ Church St. Laurence last week.
The scene of their Wednesday-night
merrymaking for the soldiers is in the
church hall, and this was hung about
with flags of the Allied nations. Close
to the Union Jack, Old Glory and Aus-
tralia’s graceful emblem hung the flag
of the State of N.S.W. as it appeared on
official occasions before the days of
Federation. This has a white ground, a
Union Jack in one corner, and blazoned
on it is a blue and white starred cross.
That is a treasure of the Ben Edye family.
Reason for the brave display was the
second birthday of the group, which is
headed by Mrs. Ben Edye, organist Lilian
Frost and that master of dance rhythm
Bort Fahy. The Consul-General for
America, Ely Palmer, and his wife were
guests of honor; so was Mrs. Mowll,
wife of Sydney’s Archbishop. She cut
the cake. This was a splendid affair,
given aad made by Nancy Croker —a
foundation member. Its decorations were
martial, its icing showing red, white and
blue, with a soldier, a sailor and an air-
man on top. It was surrounded by tiny
flags of the Allies, Mexico’s flag bright
in the great company. Napcy, inciden-
tally, made all the flags herself. There
were games, a super-supper and a glit-
tering tap dance by two small students
from Frances Scully’s studio. Members
of the club who have kept the good work
going for two years or one year were
given badges by president Mrs. Edye. On
them the letters W.N.E. stand out bravely.
Helen Bainton, Norma Cox and
Dorothy White, known to the musical
world as the Cecilian Trio, are preparing
a programme of works by Loeillet and
Schubert to help the War Savings Fund
of the Memorial College of Household
Arts, Kirribilli. The concert will be given
next Monday afternoon at the Bible
House, 95 Bathurst-street. Vocalist of
the day will be Florence Roache.
Not even a world war daunts the
Kindergarten Union. It keeps steadily
ahead with its work of taking care of
the children. Last week still another
kindergarten opened its doors to young
Australia. The new centre is at Petersham
Park, and its premises were formerly a
sports clubhouse. Now it is painted
ivory and blue, and, with spring not far
away, the open space in which it is set
and the grassy stretches about it, its 32
small charges should be happily placed.
This is the 19th centre established by the
union. Nancy Dougan, a graduate of
the Kindergarten Training College, is in
charge. Leichhardt, too, will soon be
able to boast of its child centre.
It is just two years since the foundation
of Free France by General de Gaulle.
The anniversary was celebrated by
members of the Free French Delegation
in Sydney at a reception in the Aus-
tralia. The big room off the upstairs
lounge was crowded about six o’clock,
and Andre Brenac, representing General
d e Gaulle in Australia, was kept busy
greeting new arrivals. Mrs. Brenac was
newly-arrived daughter Mari-
anne demanding her presence at home,
over a| , flew th » fl £ f Franc and on
the long buffet tables stood bannerets
fth A _ f T orr „ ine
f T £ £ brig h, no te in the frocking
h mi {, iner ® Black frocks and dark
f f a uniform . But
h h n) ma d to £rivol . o ne or
ing after s o on frocks were seen,
0 of ,g e s wearers whispered she wore
, f k h J oossible now
l nd s w £ ith * hem her „ uch . m P en ded stock-
.
rs ’ , f ■ l6 - / n P
Breton sailor had its top brim and crown
f t]irniloi „ hlne i ast winter Mrs Kellv
| L J
the same hat was ■deep blue Every-
Consul-General de Noskowski and his
wife and the Consul-General for America
and Mrs. Ely Palmer were there. Mr. and
Mrs. Saksena represented India. There
were mem bers of the fighting services.
Mrs. j V y Moore, some of her Friends
0 £ p rance group, Sir Hugh and Lady
Poy nter, well-knowns of the French com-
munity and Peter Lubbock from Govern-
ment House were among the many. The
cock t a ;] s were champagne,
,
f Gladys Verona is the soprano chosen
f° Sl " g m ? rah , m i S R^ U 1 l m ’ hic , h Wll j
be f eatu [ ed at * he f h choral and
orchestral concert at the Conservatonum
™ Ju " e 21 ; . Thls 18 bmed to comm " nce
at two ln tb e a f ernoon. Ray-
mond . wdl b * the barit ° ne of the
® ai . l ? ° n tbe { 7°^r U ? 1 01 *
Silvia R. Walters, of Wollstonecraft,
has a full-time job in charge of Red Cross
Aids at the new Red Cross convalescent
home, Glen Mervyn, at Randwick. It
is the first institution of the sort to be
staffed by members of the recently-
formed Red Cross companies, who do
the same work as V.As. Silvia is a very
keen and enthusiastic worker and is
making a great success of her new
appointment. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
Australia welcomed home its Minister
for External Affairs, Dr. Evatt, and his
wife. They returned from abroad last
Sunday, full of new experiences. They
have met notables in the U.S.A. and Eng-
land, all actively in the cast of the im-
mense drama of civilisation now in
progress. Mfs. Evatt found America as
well as England deeply interested in
Australia,
Last Monday’s concert was the seven-
teenth given under the direction of the
Lunch Time Music Club. The guests of
the day were Major Charles Moses, of
the A.8.C., and Mrs. Moses. Soprano
Heather Gray and baritone Sydney de
Vries were the singers of the programme,
Neil McKay was the violinist and
Josephine Bell the accompanist. Heather’s
offerings included “O Sleep, Why Dost
Thou Leave Me?” and “Elizabeth’s
Greeting” from “Tannhauser.”
Chinese coats and robes rich with
embroideries in the striking blues and
reds of old Pekin are being drawn from
their camphor-wood chests in preparation
for the Dragon Festival Ball. The ball,
which is a yearly effort of the Young
Chinese Relief Movement, is always pic-
torial, and always stages some spectacular
little scene. On June 30, which is the
night of the ball, the Wentworth ball-
room will glitter with a parade of the
fashions of East and West, including
bridal groups. When actress Anna May
Wong was in Sydney she gave the
Chinese community a mandarin coat a
century and a half old. This will be worn
in the display. China’s Relief Funds and
Air Force House will benefit. The wife
of Dr. Hsu Mo, China’s Minister to
Australia, is the ball’s patroness.
From Melbourne
The hostel system for women war-
workers seems to be one of the outstand-
ing successes of Melbourne’s war experi-
ments. Women and girls fit into the
community life without the fuss and
bother which seem inseparable from most
masculine attempts of the kind. The
hostel of the V.A.Ds. in Kensington-road,
South Yarra, is just called “V.A.D.
Billets,” and the girls rule their own little
domain and have none of those tantalis-
ing sets of ironbound regulations which
make most folk who live in such places a
little irritable at times. These billets
meet the case of V.A.Ds. who work at
the Blood Bank or similar places where
Jiving-in is impossible. Judging by the
contentment of girls in billets, it seems
likely many of them will elect to live this
sort of life after the war, instead of in-
carcerating themselves in the conventional
boarding-house.
This city’s business girls are accumu-
lating laurels as a result of their bumper
success with a concert and rally at the
Town Hall last week. Annette Oldfield,
president of the Business Girls’ Commit-
tee of Y.W.C.A. War-time Services Fund,
made a good fighting speech at the in-
terval of the concert urging the audience
to shell out, which an astonishing number
of them did. She was backed up by Enid
Dentry and Pauline Shepherd as vice-
presidents of the committee, of which
Gwen Stockfield was an extra-efficient
secretary, with Dorothea des Renaudes
helping her. Lily Billings was treasurer,
assisted by Nell Yates.
Whenever State Government House
has visitors from other States the Dugans
take them for a morning stroll over to
the Mews, which has been converted into
a drying house for herbs. Here, every
day, dozens of women are busy unpack-
ing boxes and bags of fragrant plants
from every State of the Commonwealth
and putting them through the processes
by which they gradually become the
packeted, precious things which are
going out to our men wherever they are
fighting. Nowadays the herb-gatherers
don’t stop at providing cooking herbs ;
they also grow medicinal and semi-medi-
cinal ones, and by a scientific process
the workers at the Mews manage to put
as many as 14 kinds in the mixed
packages sent to the troops. Orders come
in fast, so if a reader has a corner of
her garden for a herb she will do a
national service by utilising it. Addressed
“Herbs for the Fighting Forces, Flinders-
street Railway Station,” bags and boxes
of herbs travel free on the railways.
Who’s to be the new Lady Mayoress?
At the moment the chances of the retir-
ing Lord Mayor deciding to take office
for a third term are considered good.
In that case his good lady (pictured here
by Broothorn) will stand by Lud Mayor
Frank Beaurepaire’s side and smile her
friendly smile at all and sundry for an-
other 12 months. For a woman with no
social ambitions she has done remarkably
well. Certainly she has made no enemies.
If Cr. Nettlefold becomes Lord Mayor
his daughter Barbara will be much in
the limelight. She has always been her
father’s companion owing to Mrs. Nettle-
fold’s delicate health. Cr. Connolly, the
other aspirant, has as wife the daughter
of a former Lord Mayor, David Hen-
nessy, and is brother-in-law to Bernard
Heinze, who married Valerie, another
daughter of the David Hennessys. It
was Cr. Connolly who was so active in
promoting “Hiawatha,” Cr. Nettlefold
has has great experience in war-time
entertainments, having taken the heavy
end of the job on many a committee
dedicated to this work.
With the opening of the American
Hostel and Canteen Melbourne is at last
comparatively well off for places to which
men of the forces may go for a meal and
chat. The American Hostel is up towards
the top of the city and takes a bit of
finding, so troops have not rushed it for
the first few days. But once they know
the track they will be sure to give the
place heavy patronage, for it is first-rate
for food and comfort, has a number of
beds for all-night boarders and a dance
floor, too. It is an interesting sight these
days and nights to watch the men of the
various Allied forces going with Aus-
tralian boys, now to this, now to that
hostel. The Dugout, Swanston-street,
continues to be among the most popular
ports of call for all nationalities and
service arms.
Retiring from active work, and fare-
welled at a large gathering got together
by Lady Mayoress Hawker, is Ethelwyn
Robin, Adelaide’s leading woman jour-
nalist. She has many good stories of
England’s last two kings and other visit-
ing celebrities. She was for a long time
on the board of the Repertory Theatre,
and is herself a fine actress in any role
from duchess to washerwoman.
The rush of women to act as auxiliary
police has not yet reached proportions
which threaten chaos at Russell-street
police headquarters. In fact, only a very
few women seem to have had the tejnerity
to apply. The qualifications are vaguely
stated as “experience in social work,”
and stress is laid on the necessity for
applicants being the right type. Actually
there are not left in this community many
women who are available for the 24
hours a day for which the auxiliary
policewomen would have to be on call.
Also, it takes some grit as well as experi-
ence to know how to handle a pert young
thing, possibly not quite sober, who re-
fuses to go home and leave the bright
lights of the city. But so successful have
the regular policewomen been that many
people would like to see many more of
them, trained along the same lines. Per-
haps Police Commissioner Duncan will
listen to the women’s societies, which have
in season and out urged more police-
women.
A romance where the couple con-
cerned have the same studious interests
is that of Lennox Brewer and Edna Gray,
both pharmaceutists. Their wedding will
take place early in July at College
Church, Parkville. Lennox Brewer, how-
ever, is known to scores of Gilsullivan
fans for his musical direction of the Gil-
bert and Sullivan Society’s efforts, by
which the Savoy operas are kept regu-
larly before the public. He has also
taken over the musical direction of
National Theatre Movement shows, and
acts in them too (he took the name role
in “Monsieur Beaucaire,” just staged). He
was a pupil of Mary Campbell, a close
friend of Melba, and he also studied
abroad with John Brownlee’s teacher
Dinh Gilly. The Gilbert and Sullivan
Society will mark its appreciation of Mr.
Brewer’s work just before the ceremony
next month.
The first night of “Monsieur Beaucaire”
at National Theatre, which is the hall
erected next door to St. Peter’s, Eastern
Hill, in the church grounds, was a suc-
cess notwithstanding that the very small
stage made the movements of the pannier-
skirted ladies in the minuet slightly like
those of automatons pirouetting on a
penny piece. Lennox Brewer sang the
name part well, and Sybil Stroud (Section
Officer Hood, in private life Mrs. Reg
Hood) put off her W.A.A.A.F. uniform
for the lovely drapings Of Lady Mary
Carlisle and looked the part to perfec-
tion. Rationing hasn’t yet hit this city
hard. The decorative wife of knight
Robert Knox had a bijou toque com-
posed of blue flowers, which, as you
know, are not rationed, and many cal-
culating eyes were on this millinery when-
ever the lights permitted a good view of it.
The anti-climax that has followed the
grand rush that preceded rationing has to
be seen to be believed. Shops are swept
spotless, assistants who have had time
to put in the curls and apply the lipstick
stand ready to assist modem, and lovely
temptations surround the ppssible buyer
on every hand. But it would be possible
to go into six departments without meet-
ing anyone who wanted to buy anything.
A girl who had for two weeks vainly
struggled on the outskirts of struggling
crowds at boot counters, fearing that her
tiny size might all be bought up, was
given the undivided attention of everyone
in a Collins-street shoe department, from
the manager down, and when she ad-
journed to the corsets the head of that
department stayed by her all the time
she investigated pantettes and brassieres.
“Where,” ask the shops bitterly, “are the
people who wrote in and rang up to
complain that they could not get near
us?” Gone with the wind, apparently.
Meanwhile in families there is fresh affec-
tion growing between members who can
wear the same sizes in any sort of
clothing.


Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes. Remember
the name DOAN’S,
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JEANIE CHRISTIE late of Yallourn in the
State of Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
DAVID CHRISTIE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 280 of 1942 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
are to enter an appearance before the 4th Sep-
tember 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JACK THOM Solicitor
350 George Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notices.
I, OLE CHRISTIAN OLESEN, of Danish
nationality, bom at Aalborg, Denmark, and
resident for 29 years in Australia, now residing
at 3 Darley Road, Randwick, Sydney, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-36.
I, HANS PETER NIELSEN, of Danish nation-
ality, bom at Copenhagen, Denmark, and resi-
dent for 29 years in Australia, now residing at
3 Darley Road, Randwick, Sydney, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-36.
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
David Spear and Highland March
enhanced their Grand National prospects
by impressive wins at Flemington on
Saturday.
A National outsider until Saturday,
David Spear forced himself into the mar-
ket by finishing strongly to defeat Con
Devon and Manaaki in the Toolambool
Hurdle. The G.N. favorite, Isambard,
was an absentee, but other strong fancies
in Cheery Jack and Saul were among the
unplaced division. David Spear’s start-
ing price of 20 to 1 reflected his indif-
ferent recent form, but there was no
fluke about his win. If he continues to
improve at the same rate G.N, success
might not be beyond him, even with a
penalty. By David from the King’s Cup
winner Spear Maiden, he is bred to run
almost any distance. In addition, he
stayed fairly on the flat, finishing fourth
in Rivette’s Caulfield Cup.
Saul weakened to finish fourth after
leading over the last hurdle, but, in addi-
tion to the fact that he was making his
jumping debut, there was some excuse
for his failure. He pulled hard, and
might have done better had he been
allowed to run along. He cannot be
written off for the National. Cheery
Jack, sixth, was making no impression
at the finish, but it was his first race over
hurdles for a year, and he, too, should
improve. Xanthia, who started equal
favorite with Boisterous, fell at the
second hurdle, but little harm was done.
Highland March’s great win under 12.2
in the Wanda Steeple led many good
judges to believe that he will be a danger
to his more fancied stablemate, Winter-
set, in the G.N. Steeple. They may be
correct, but there is no real reason to
think that the G.N. distance, 3 miles 1
furlong, will be beyond Winterset. He has
won twice at 2\ miles, and showed no
sign of weariness on either occasion. High-
land March was backed from eights to
11 to 2 op Saturday, and, after conceding
the leaders a long start from the half-
mile, won brilliantly from Bureaucrat
and the fast-finishing National Debt. He
met both those horses better than G.N.
terms.
Bureaucrat, although outstayed by
Highland March, shaped really well for
a horse having his first race over fences.
A mistake at the second-last did not help
him, and he impresses as sure to improve.
National Debt, racing for the first time
since February and starting at 33 to 1,
did well enough to suggest that he is
back to the form that won him the G.N.
Steeple a year ago. Great Treat, backed
to favoritism at 7 to 2, disappointed. He
showed no dash at any stage, and finished
a long way back.
Leading Melbourne jockeys H. Badger
and J. Purtell broke runs of “outs” on
Saturday. Badger ended a losing se-
quence of 30 mounts when he piloted
David Innis to an all-the-way win in the
Cambria Welter, second division, and
Purtell had ridden 17 successive losers
prior to his success on Sun Belle in the
Richmond Handicap. Sun Belle looked
like winning decisively when she ran half
a length in front of Centenary about 100
yards from home, but Centenary, who
had made the pace, fought back and ran
her to half a head. Sir Romeo finished
strongly in third place, but Rua, favorite,
was not dangerous over the final half-
mile. Isambard was outclassed in this
company.
A section of the crowd voiced its
disapproval of Reception’s win from the
outsiders Exactly and April in the
Rosny Plate. He had finished only fifth
to Aurie’s Star on the same track two
weeks earlier, but the latter, who started
favorite on Saturday, settled his chance
by hanging badjy. Azan, a 50-to-l chance,
raced along the grandstand (or “slow”)
side of the straight-six to defeat Little-
more, also 50 to 1, and Nebulous in the
Minook Two-year-old. Bookmakers
had another great result when Paramente
(50 to 1) and Manstar (25 to 1) dead-
heated for the first Cambria Welter.
* * * *
It is almost unnecessary to write that
Ascot (Sydney) was crowded on Saturday,
and that the difficulty of getting near the
tote helped to swell the bookmakers’ turn-
over. Well-backed horses won six races,
and only for the success of Mary Lou
the Ring, as a whole, would have experi-
enced a most unprofitable day.
•• * •
Radical, favorite for the Flying Handi-
cap, gave his backers an indifferent run,
and after Guild Hall had done the pace-
making he was headed in the straight by
Common Sense, who won comfortably
from Overbold. The last-named, who
commenced better than usual, was in such
a good position at the turn that his
chance appeared a winning one, but he
was a trifle new, and failed to maintain
his run. Magi, who was smart as a
two-year-old, was fourth, and is evidently
coming on again. Bon Bouche also
showed pace. Common Sense, a winner
in Brisbane, is trained by N. Russell and
was ridden by C. Powell.
In the Victoria Park Handicap, Trago-
pan (Knox), Chatham’s Choice and Many
Ways were the leaders from the time the
field settled down, and finished in that
order, Tragopan scored in easy fashion
in time that was only three-quarters of a
second outside the course record. It looks
as if G. P. Nailon has him back to some-
thing approaching his best Queensland
form, Buzzal was never dangerous, and
of the rough division Nemesis did best.
Ridden behind Ginger Lass, Ronswalk,
King of the Mist and March By in the
early part of the Novice Handicap, Winnie
(McMenamin) went to the front at the
turn, and scored decisively from Ginger
Lass and King of the Mist. Of those
behind the place-getters Whitefoot did
best, and it should not be long before
he wins a Maiden Handicap, Qui Va La,
who is not improving as a stayer, was
prominent at the top of the straight, but
dropped right out before reaching the
winning-post. The Gambler did not do
as well as at his two previous starts.
In the first division of the Two-
year-old Handicap, Double ißirthday
(McMenamin) squeezed home from Gry-
phon, and in the second division of that
race, Young Valais (Mulley) was lucky
to score a head win from Peter’s Pence
(a Peter Pan colt), who ran off at the
turn.
La Vallee (McMenamin) ran over her
opponents at the finish of the Fourteen-
two Handicap. Te Rama tired after
being first into the straight, and was cut
out of second money by Mit, who is im-
proving.
Mary Lou (Wrigley), who ran badly
at her previous start at Newcastle, sur-
prised by winning the first division of the
Welter Handicap. She outstayed Sober-
sides, who, though headed by Melrose
after going a little over two furlongs, led
into file straight. Quoted at 33 to 1 in
the ring, Mary Lou’s tote dividend was
at the rate of a little over 83 to 1.
Brazen Lad, who was slow in finding his
legs, being third-last after going a fur-
long, did well to finish a very close third.
Response was being hard ridden before
going half a mile to gain a forward posi-
tion and was never troublesome, nor was
Maradidi. The former’s chance was not
greatly affected by the interference he
experienced, Kenil Gem made the best
showing of the unplaced lot.
“W. Biey,” a liberal contributor to war
funds, has not had much luck recently,
and it was a pleasant change for him
when in the second division of the Welter
Christopher Milne (McMenamin) put in
a finishing run that was too strong for
Astounding and Bona Fide. No excuse
was possible for Bona Fide, as she had
a good run throughout; and though
Dark Night was prominent entering the
straight the last bit found him out. It
was the same with Overjoyed, who led
from Last Bow to the turn. Yours Truly,
who only recently concluded a spell, did
surprisingly well to run fifth.
Clive Leonard, one of Melbourne’s
best-known racing personalities, died last
week. A member of the V.A.T.C. in
1900, he was chairman of the club from
1923 to 1926 and again from 1937 until
his death. Among the horses raced by
him was the 1920 V.R.C. Oaks winner
Mufti, who also ran third in King
Ingoda’s Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
The B.A.T.C. handipapper’s decision
not to penalise the Monash Valley horse
Auction (last week, with my thoughts
wandering to the war, I wrote General
Monash) for the Doomben Newmarket
is one to which little exception can be
taken. Admitting that he won with 11.5,
and drops to 10.12, Auction will be meet-
ing a stronger field.
Gold Salute failed more than once
when backed in Melbourne recently, but
the support extended him last week, both
straightout and in doubles, shows that
someone has not lost faith in him. Since
the backing of the chestnut was an-
nounced it has appeared in print that his
owner denies responsibility, but he is to
run. If Gold Salute can handle the
Albion Park track he is bound to be a
stiff proposition in the Newmarket with
9.1, which is only a pound more than
he carried when he won the Cantala
Stakes. He ran fourth in the last Doom-
ben Newmarket with 9.12, and was
weighted at 9.8 for the last Doncaster,
Beaulivre being on the same mark. In
the Newmarket Beaulivre has to concede
Gold Salute 81b., so the latter cannot
be regarded as other than favorably
treated.
As Beaulivre continues to do well at
Randwick the operation to which he was
subjected a little while ago evidently
benefited him. Abspear, another trained
at Randwick, has been showing excel-
lent track form, but it is definite that he
is not going to Brisbane.
* * $ *
The A.J.C. continues to come in for
criticism because it did not build up a
big reserve fund when conditions were
favorable. Recalling the manner in which
the club was extolled for its enterprise
in giving big prizes a few years ago-
going so far as breeders’ premiums—it
makes one smile. Breeders, owners and
trainers had no fault to find then, but
at this late period we are told it was all
wrqng, and that the club should really
have given thought to the possibility of
a rainy day.
Now that the club is endeavoring to
keep its expenditure within bounds it
still fails to give satisfaction. When it
reduced the Doncaster and Cup from the
amounts originally announced in the
autumn it was freely criticised. It recently
decided upon lower prize-money than
usual for the Epsom and Metropolitan,
this probably in order not to disappoint
owners by making a last-moment cut;
but by many it is contended that such
procedure was a mistake, and that it
would have given greater prestige to the
two races if prizes similar to last year
had been announced, even if subsequent
reduction were considered advisable.
Racing folk are often difficult to please.
* * * *
“From the bottom to the top” is a
concise summing-up of the career as a
bookmaker of J. J. Hackett, dead in
Sydney. Starting in a small way in a
N.S.W. bush town, he finished as one
of Australia’s leviathans when he retired
a few years ago. No bet was too large
for him and his partner, A. Williams. Of
pleasing personality and thoroughly
straightforward, Hackett was respected by
the whole of the racing community. It
was not only as a bookmaker he shone.
An excellent judge, he had some substan-
tial wins as a backer.
* * * *
The idea of an increased number of
clash meetings on Saturdays is favored
by many owners and trainers. It has
been demonstrated that Sydney can carry
them, but there are tote difficulties in the
way, and before making any move in
that direction it might be as well to
ascertain if anything is possible in the
way of a fortnightly Wednesday meet-
ing, which would be more popular with
the public—and probably owners —than
clash Saturdays. Circumstances may be
against increased racing, but in Sydney
its popularity was never greater than at
present.
Miscellaneous
In their latest meeting at Leichhardt
Stadium, Ron McLaughlin (10.9 L) and
Jimmy Dundee (9.13) sent the cus-
tomers home early. For two rounds
each showed great respect for the other,
and more finessing than fighting was
witnessed. Then McLaughlin attacked
and with a left to the chin dropped
Dundee for “four.” Rushing in for the
kill Mac. left his chin open, and a short
right uppercut knocked him out. An in-
teresting Filipino, Lorry Gamboa (9A\),
scored his third Australian success by
knocking out Les Ritchie (9.3) in the
fourth round of a supporting contest.
* * * *
With a couple of stripes missing after
their wrangle with the conquering Essen-
don, Richmond Tigers received South
Melbourne on Saturday with growls of
anticipation- Then something like a Broken
Hill duststorm swooped on them, and
they emerged with barely a tail to
switch; South 11.20 to 10.9. St. Kilda
gave ’Wood a belting, 11.14 to 9.14, Mel-
bourne beat North Melbourne, 12.11-
11.10, Footscray was never headed against
Carlton, 12.19-10.12, and Hawthorn
battled futilely against Fitzroy’s 16.14 to
14.10. Essendon had the bye.
* * * *
University v. Parramatta was Rugby
Union at its best—hard, dogged and ex-
citing always. No tries were scored and
“Parra,” held the unbeaten Students to
a draw —3-3. Competition points now
are ’Varsity, 15; East (8-nil v. North),
14; Parramatta, 13. Manly had a good
win over Drummoyne, 14-3, and West
piled on 16 points to Gordon’s nil. St.
George astounded all hands by leading
Randwick 9-nil at “lemons”; neverthe-
less the Greens romped hpme, 24-12.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
(At Moonee Valley.)
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Maiden Hurdle: Manaaki, 1 ;
Fearnought, 2; Star Boarder, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Amazed, 1;
The Monk, 2 ; Hearsay 3.
Williamstown Steeplechase: Sole-
cism, 1 ; Patagonia, 2; Henry
Tudor, 3.
Port Phillip Hurdle: Cheery Jack,
1 ; Indignity, 2 ; Con Devon, 3.
Point Cook Handicap: Centenary,
1 ; Sea Power, 2 ; Similar, 3.
Esplanade Welter: Sir Richard,
1 ; Alstone, 2 ; Cellini, 3.
FOR ASCOT.
(Before Acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Fourteen-two Handicap: Mit, 1;
Easy Mark, 2 ; La Vallee, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap: Peter’s
Pence, 1; Gryphon, 2 ; Sandman or
General Smuts, 3.
Trial Stakes; Pall Mall, 1;
Widden, 2; King of the Mist, 3.
Flying Handicap: Overbold, 1;
Radical, 2 ; Bon Bouche or Magi, 3.
Ascot Handicap: Plimsol, 1 ;
Mutineer, 2 ; Buzzal or Abspear, 3.
Welter Handicap: Astounding,
1 ; Sobersides, 2; Nemesis or
Brazen Boy, 3.


THE MERCHANT NAVY
WAR POLICY
effected at
LLOYD’S
for
MASTERS AND ALL OFFICERS
OF THE MERCHANT NAVIES OF THE
BRITISH EMPIRE AND HER ALLIES
BENEFITS:
(a) SIX MONTHS’ PAY in the event of death
through any accidental cause, including Marine
and War Risks,
or
(b) A sum equivalent to TWO YEARS* premium in
the event of Total Loss of the ship in which the
Officer is serving by War or Marine Risks.
PREMIUM: ONE DAY’S PAY PER MONTH
Issued through
BENNIE S. COHEN & SON BENNIE S. COHEN & SON
(N.S.W.) Ply., Ltd., (Vic.) Ply., Ltd.,
263 George Street, 5 7 Queen Street,
Sydney. Melbourne.
SMOKE-OH!
“When women get together they all talk
about marriage and men.”— Sunday paper.
Or about anything else and at once.
ŵ
“Scientific tests reveal that the average person
has a higher degree of intelligence during
winter cold than in the summer.”
—Weekly paper.
Of course. Whoever managed to con-
vince his wife in summer that ice-cold
beer cures a cold just as rum does in
winter?
“Grandfather. —Will have to be respected.”
— “Sun” dog-racing review.
Well, isn’t it coming to him?
•f* *i* •i'
“People at King’s Cross heard the whine of a
shell and then plonk.”— Sydney daily.
The plonk was taken to get over the
shock of the whine.
Celebrations.
If you were a peaceful jellyfish
And I were a crazy crab,
I would tear you to bits in savage fits
And your blithery eyes I’d grab ;
But, seeing you’re not a medusa
Nor I a crustacean, I think
The best thing both of us two
Can do
Is to swallow another drink!
T. W. NATHAN.
Superiority.
“Whom do you think I met on the ferry
today? That silly Mrs. Dumplewick!
Yes, there she was, travelling on the
harbor and not a bit nervous about those
submarines—but wait till I tell you why!
“The Chinese greengrocer she deals off
knows another Chinaman supposed to be
a lucky one, and he gave her a charm,
my dear. And she thinks that just be-
cause she’s wearing it nothing can happen
to her! Isn’t it too ridiculous? I never
thought Mrs. Dumplewick had much
sense, but, really—after that! It just
shows you how absurd and illogical some
people can be!
“Of course, I had good reasons for
feeling safe. You see, I was born under
Sagittarius, and my Stars Book says that
today would be a good day for Sagit-
tarians to travel!”
T. W. N.
The Slave-drivers.
“The men who desire that their wives should
be nothing but slaves are fortunately rare in
Australia.” — Woman’s paper.
In the belief that Maria would be out
I had come home with the idea of having
a pleasant, easy Saturday afternoon. I
was soon disillusioned.
“There you are!” snapped Maria.
“Making the place untidy directly you
come into it. Here I’ve spent the whole
“Will you draw something in my autograph album, mister ?”
morning giving the house a thorough
cleanout and now you must come and
throw your hat down anywhere. You
want your wife to be nothing but a slave,
but”
Obviously there was going to be no
pleasant Saturday in Emohruo. Slipping
out to see if the corner store had any
cigs., I got half a dozen bottles and made
for Blobbs’s place. As I neared the door
I halted at the sound of voices—or, any-
way, a voice.
“No, I am not going out this afternoon.
I’m too tired after polishing through.
And if you think, John Henry, that you
are going to fill the house with your
drunken friends like you did last Satur-
day, making it filthy and untidy, you’re
mistaken. Much as you may wish me to
be nothing but your slave”
I sneaked away, shutting the gate
cautiously, and waited down the road for
Blobbs to come out and inquire for cigs.
at the corner shop. Together we went to
Binks’s house in the hope that Saturday
luck wouldn’t be out with all of us. But
Mrs. Binks was holding the floor there.
“... .your muddy boots on my floor!”
she was saying. “I’m not Quite nothing
but a slave, though that’s what you would
like me to be”
Blobbs held the beer while I went in
and told Binks that he was wanted at the
Warden’s Post. Then the three of us
retired to a near-by paddock. Even then
we couldn’t get away from the sound of
a high-pitched voice in the house behind
us telling her husband that she was no-
thing but a slave.
Anyway, three slave-drivers enjoyed
the beer.
H. M.
The End.
Oh, Isabel! Since naught avails
My fierce, consuming passion;
And my supreme endeavor fails
In such a hopeless fashion;
Since you declare you wish to be
C ln spite of all my praises )
No more than sisterly to me —
Well, you can go to blazes!
NAT.
Agriculture According to Adolf.
“The Germans have announced large-scale
cultivation of dandelion plantations.”
Dr. Bludblitz, Direktor of LG. Weed-
kulturgesselschaftfabrikenwerke, threaded
his way through a maze of machine-gun
nests and camouflaged pillboxes. A
simple soul outside his scientific field, he
wondered at times why a Fiihrer beloved
by his people without exception should
need so many precautions for his per-
sonal safety. Perhaps it was that the
Patagonians, incited by British propa-
ganda, contemplated coming to attack
him.
Ever and anon he would have to pre-
sent to the S.S. Black Guards his identity
card showing his photo, full face, half
face, profile and even taken upside down.
After half an hour’s “heiling” and heel-
ing he was ushered into the Presence.
From gloomy contemplation of an em-
bossed gold samovar, relic of a beautiful
but brief cemented-with-blood friendship,
the Fiihrer turned at the sound of foot-
steps. With sombre, unseeing eyes he
stared at his visitor until a heel-click and
a “Guten morgen, mein Fiihrer,” brought
him back to the everyday world.
“Ach ! Herr Doktor. You have come
to report on the agricultural situation,
nein ?”
“Ja, Fiihrer. It is coming along splen-
didly. We have ploughed under another
800,000 acres of maize so as to put in
crops of galvanised burr, khaki-weed and
skeleton plant. You will recall that Count
von Byvonn brought back the seeds of
many weeds when he was Visiting Aus-
tralia some years ago. It is hoped that
the juice from the galvanised burr will
greatly relieve the strain on the tinplate
industry. Khaki-weed pulped and pro-
cessed can be used for making cartridge
cases. We don’t quite know yet what
the skeleton plant can be used for”
The No. 1 Nazi’s brooding eyes strayed
to the map of the Eastern front with the
hundreds of little colored flags. He
uttered a short, mirthless laugh. “Skele-
tons, eh?” he mused aloud. “Ja! Plant
them, by all means.”
“In Bavaria,” continued Dr. Bludblitz,
“I have set aside half a million acres of
former pasture land for the cultivation
of bindi-eyes, Bathurst burrs, Parramatta
grass, inkweed, onion-weed, fat hen and
corkscrew grass. The bindi-eye and burr
fields, will, of course, be used to harden
Hitlerjurgen recruits. Already the first
crops have toughened the bare feet of
the 1926 class Sturmtruppen. When the
weeds are in their second year they can
be used for dropping fully-trained troops
on to their faces.”
“Capital! After that, they will indeed
be invincible. Our sacred soil could be
put to no better or nobler use!”
“The other weeds will yield a sort of
milk, much more beneficial, we believe,
than cow’s milk, which might make the
Herrenvolk too fat and therefore unfit to
lead the world. In experiments to date
the new ersatz milk from corkscrew grass
runs about 17 shudders to the pint, but
no good German will cavil at that if it
is for the Fatherland’s good.”
“No good German will be allowed to
cavil at it, especially as the crushed stalks
can be used for making anti-tank gun
wheels.”
“Exactly, Fiihrer. And then we have
extensively planted nutgrass and”
The Leader leaned forward eagerly.
“Nutg rass, eh?” he exclaimed, and he
licked his lips avidly. “It is edible, ja?
Perhaps a substitute for the nuts of per-
fidious Brazil?”
The eyes behind Dr. Bludblitz’s thick
glasses gleamed momentarily. “So far as
is known they are not poisonous,” he
said, “and may indeed even be nutritious
and palatable. Would ?nein Fiihrer like
the honor of being the first German to
try them out?”
“Nein ! lam humble; I detest pub-
licity. I will have my chief venom-taster
try them first. Now all this is very good.
Report to me again when you have ex-
tended the weed cultivation. You are
dismissed.”
Three months later the Herr Doktor
reported again. He told of the four
million acres that used to be under pota-
toes, sugar-beet and vegetables, and had
now been given over to wire-weed, wild
cherry, dock, mint-weed, Mexican poppy
and a new fruitless blackberry, the long
thorny canes of which could be used
either to replace barbed wire along the
new Suffrinkatz line of fortifications or
be used as a substitute for cauliflowers.
“Then,” continued Dr. Bludblitz en-
thusiastically, “there is the onion-weed,
which, although the onion part isn’t
edible, can be used when processed as
waterbottle stopper, tank tractor rivet,
gunner’s earplug, tommy-gun trigger or
lining for steel helmets. We have also
planted half a million acres of castor-oil
plant.”
The Leader’s face suddenly convulsed
in livid fury. “Dummkopf !” he roared.
“Do you think we need castor-oil?
Haven’t we enough rubber truncheons,
dolt? But wait! Let me think.” A few
seconds later he looked up. “Send the
crop to Musso,” he barked. “We’ll let
him have it cheap—cost, plus 450 per
cent. You may go, but submit to me
personally all future weed-planting pro-
grammes.”
It was some four months later that Dr.
Bludblitz again presented himself. This
time he came in great agitation. “Mein
Fiihrer,” he burst out, without even a
“heil.” “There has been a terrible mis-
take ! ”
“What has happened?”
“I gave orders by ’phone to my deputy
some months ago to sow another five
million acres in weed. The idiot thought
I said wheat. There is a 200-million crop
almost ready to gather. I”
The Fiihrer fell back in his chair, his
face deathly white. “Mein Gott !” he
exclaimed brokenly. “We are ruined!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
Australian Literature
Considering the handicaps, Australia’s
literary record during recent years has
been very creditable, especially in
fiction.
Few Australian authors, however, even
among the novelists, are able to support
themselves by the pen, unless fortunate
enough to hold journalistic posts. The
majority earn their bread in callings
remote from letters. Before a literature
of real merit can develop there must be
opportunity for one with literary talent
to make writing, apart from journalism,
a career. In every sphere of life the
amateur is inferior to the professional.
Greatness in any field is generally the
apex of a wide base of moderate achieve-
ment. Where any pursuit is practised by
few, there will be scant performance of
a high order.
For Australia to have a well-balanced
literature, with representatives of world
standing in every branch of the art, the
professional writer must have opportunity
to flourish. Australia’s present popula-
tion is not too small for that, if strong
interest be taken in local work by the
press and the reading public. Even if
30,000 people out of the country’s six
millions were to buy a particular book,
the author would secure a worth-while
return and the publisher a substantial
profit.
British and American firms have pub-
lished books by a number of Australian
writers, but, although they can provide
the Australian author with valuable addi-
tional markets, only local patronage will
develop a great literature. —D. Aitchison
(N.S.W.).
Education
That “a large proportion of the popu-
lation not only have empty minds but
are afraid of being alone with them-
selves” (B. 10/6/’42) is true enough, but
it is not wholly the fault of our educa-
tion* system. Education is not entirely
a matter of schooling. Every influence
in the environment is educational, bene-
ficially or otherwise.
Parents, companions and the life of the
community have a far wider influence
than that of the school —a teacher actu-
ally has the child in class for a matter
of five hours a day.
The Bulletin’s statement that it would
like an education system as good as that
of Scotland verifies my contention, for
where in Australia does one find that
passionate desire for learning which is
the common heritage of the Scot?
The environment of the modern child
tends to produce a distaste for learning,
thought and for its own company. First
there is the mad rush to push the child
through the school as quickly as possible ;
no leisure for thought is possible—one
must get the intermediate certificate at
15 in order to obtain a footing in the
commercial world.
Then there are the picture shows,
where thousands of children sit passively
hour after hour receiving entertainment
without effort.
From morning until night the wireless
blares. Properly used, it’s a valuable
educational influence, but the child, with-
out guidance, turns only to the appalling
piffle and rarely, if ever, hears the
cultural side.
With every thought ready-made for him
and with no incentive to strive, how can
the growing youth ever learn to think or
to find in himself the power to fill his life
without the presence of the herd? — Emsy
(N.S.W.).
The Bulletin (10/6/’42) is the only
Australian journal which has treated this
matter of Sunday entertainment sensibly.
That there are grave defects in our
“educational” system should be obvious,
but in case any doubt it here is the result
of an intelligence test to which some 923
recruits (militia) were subjected.
Only 317 were found to be “above
average” intelligence. The rest (60 p.e.)
were either ‘‘low average” or “inferior”
or else “very inferior.” They were not
a hand-picked bunch —all Army recruits
are now subjected to an intelligence test.
Far from there being any need for
more commercialised entertainment, our
most urgent need is for less of it. Be-
tween the press, the pictures and the radio
we seem to have produced a fair quota
of citizens who have been robbed of
their intelligence. Pater Unfamilias
(N.S.W.).
Army Education Service
“Ek Dum’s” criticism (B. 10/6/’42) of
the “Current Affairs Bulletin” of the
Army Education Service is very timely.
Underlying the whole idea is the curious
supposition, which still persists, that
brains and education in the Army are the
monopoly of officers. This may have
been the case in Marlborough’s time, but
nothing is farther from the truth nowa-
days, particularly in a democratic show
like the A.M.F. Among the n.c.os. and
rankers are men who have done more
important things in civil life and seen
more of the world than many of their
senior officers, let alone young subalterns
and captains who have never been out
of Australia.
This “service” is unnecessary. As
General Blarney recently pointed out, a
soldier’s job is to fight, and his training,
military and physical, should be solely
devoted to making him fit to do so. That
is the only kind of “education” needed
in the Army until the war is won. —
K. L. M. (N.S.W.).
The idea behind that paper-wasting
“Current Affairs Bulletin” is (1) it
is issued to every officer in the
Army, (2) the officers read it —in
their spare time —and then discuss the
“I can't buy a pram anywhere!"
matter therein with their C. 0., (3) the
officers then disgorge the contents of the
pamphlet to their men and initiate a dis-
cussion with them on the subject.
I have myself read only one of these
pamphlets. It was a very left-wing affair-
Its main object was to try to prove that
the United Nations could not lose the
war. There was, a catch in
it, for it quoted the authority of Max
Werner (!) as one who knows that we
shall win, but only just win ( we shall
studying this pamphlet in his s pare time,
* taS—on to his
platoon, who are then supposed to enter
into an animated discussion with him
about these current affairs. Imagine all
this on top of a very full training pro-
gramme and then you’ll realise why units
take no notice whatever of these “Bulle-
tins” which are alleged to deal with cur-
rent affairs.
Another wasted effort is the publica-
tion “Salt.” The Army loses about £4OO
an issue on it—and it doesn’t even reach
the average soldier. Wouldn’t It
(Home Forces).
I strongly advise critics of the A.E.S.
to go out with a unit of the service and
see what is, done.
Here is a selection taken from one
week’s programme: a young officer who
went through the Malayan campaign gave
a talk on the weapons which the Japanese
employ, their tactics and the obvious pre-
parations which they had made for the
taking of Singapore ; a man who knows
Japan and the Japanese lectured on their
psychology and their racial background ;
a bushman gave a talk and field demon-
stration on the methods used by our
aborigines for locating food and water
in the arid regions of Australia ; and a
fourth man gave instruction in navigat-
ing by the stars. All talks are illustrated
by films and lantern slides, and the atten-
tion given by our audiences and their
interest and thanks are both flattering
and encouraging. Last week the scheme
was enlarged to include camps of the
American Army now in Australia. All
this is carried on by a very small staff of
army personnel in addition to the volun-
tary helpers.—H. A. L. (S.A.).
The Merchant Navy
For over two and a half years Aus-
tralian merchant seamen have been
facing mines, bombs, torpedoes and
attacks by enemy raiders and ’planes, yet
they have received little recognition from
the press except in record of disaster or
other sensational news.
While endless columns are written
about the Navy, the Army and the Air
Force, the Merchant Navy receives scant
mention, yet the most casual observer
must realise that without it none of our
overseas campaigns would have been pos-
sible, and without doubt final victory will
depend, more than anything else, on
supply. , , ,
Merchant seamen have noted with
pleasure and gratitude that The Bulle-
tin has of recent months invariably
referred to the “Royal and Merchant
Navies.’’^- Steamship (N.S.W.).
The Way Boards Work
Jbe crying need of the moment in Vic-
torja is decentralisation. Transport has
gone back to the pioneer days owing to
petrol shortage , and we may yet see
bullock teams reappearing on our high-
wayS $o t h e obvious need for commu-
n^es no w is, as far as possible, to be
se jf. SU pp or ting, instead of further con-
„esdng the affairs of the already con-
|ested b cities
f thousand onions
wdl ag ’ a producer If x decide it isn't
worth iff T can,t ev . en give my onions
a^ a I W,^?^\u][™f in c S
th® only thing I can do is to 8
relievimf th<T vegetable
And this is caked reh mg g
shortage.
It is the same with apples. A neighbor
had a magnificent crop this year. They
are rotting on the trees or on the ground
because it doesn t pay him to take them
to the market. So he doesn’t mind who
takes his apples so long as they don t say
anything to him about it— l can steal the
fruit and make it into jam or preserves
for my own use, but if I collected more
than I could use and tried to sell it I
suppose I’d be doing a criminal act under
the Apple and Pear Board regulations.
It seems a funny thing that at a time
of national emergency and food shortage
food destruction should become a virtue.
—Bumpkin (Vic.).
Government Control
Last year a German financial journal
complained that the cost of rationing
and price control was itself a factor
making for higher prices. Our own Prices
Commissioner has said that perfect per-
formance of his job would require an
army of officials;' as large as the A.I.F.
And, more recently, Mr. Dedman stated:
“Few people appreciate the magnitude
of applying a ration card system to the
entire population If you think of the
Federal election and multiply it 100 times
you may get some idea of what was in
front of us.”
What fact is indicated by these three
related statements? It is that Govern-
mental interference in industry is enor-
mously costly in terms of human effort.
Yet many “New Order” enthusiasts want
most of the war-time controls to be con-
tinued during peace. In war they are,
unfortunately, necessary, because we have
to sacrifice all other objectives for victory.
Individual human wants, which in peace
provide the stimulus to productive effort,
must be restricted by the State. How,
then, can measures designed to hinder
normal economic activity be useful in
exactly opposite conditions?
Two things are certain about State
control. First, it is a costly burden.
Secondly, it is admirably designed
to prevent things being done.— Arc
(N.S.W.).
Freezing the Language
I have no objection to Fowler or any
other grammarian attempting to correct
the mistakes of journalese (B. 10/6 / ’42),
but the fact remains that the common
speech of today, with all its vigor and
directness, inevitably becomes the
accepted speech of tomorrow, approved
of even by university professors.
The language Shakspeare wrote would
not have been approved of by the univer-
sity professors of his day ; it would have
seemed coarse and uncultured compared
to the tradition. But eventually it becomes
the tradition in its turn.
The journalists “Ologist” complains
of are not in the same category, of
course. They attempt “fine” writing,
and their grammatical bloomers are just
common or garden ignorance. Neverthe-
less, the literary language of the future
is being made in the pubs and in the
gutters and even in the newspapers of
today. It is never made in the universi-
ties.—F. S. (Vic.).
Comforts
On June 2 we soldiers had an A.C.F.
issue, our first since February 13, and
our second in five months. We appre-
ciate the fact that the A.C.F. is doing a
good job, but, with many other fellows,
we are inclined to think that the “chaps
down south” get the bulk of the com-
forts distributed. Our issue, incidentally,
consisted of two handkerchiefs and two
small pieces of soap, one washing and
the other toilet.— February 19 (Aus-
tralia).
The Catch
I was lunching with an American in
a Melbourne cafe, and he was making
my eyes stick out with stories of the
affluence of the American worker. The
American worker would laugh at our
basic wages. Nothing less than a tenner
a week would interest him.
Then the girl came with the bill —2s.
for a meal consisting of minestrone,
spaghetti, a generous dish of meat with
vegetables, fruit and excellent black
coffee. “I would have to pay three times
as much for a meal as good as that in
New York,” my acquaintance remarked.
And it turned out, after all, that the
living standards of the two countries
aren’t actually very different. —X. S.
(Vic.).
An “N” Number
When “Viator” (B. 20/5/’42) writes of
Australian Army pay, which of the three
kinds of Australian soldiers has he in
mind? For instance, lam an “N” num-
ber on full-time duty. That is to say,
1 am’ not in the A.I.F. (for which 1
volunteered, but was rejected for being
44 years of age), nor in the militia, nor
in the V.D.C. (which is a fourth kind of
soldier).
I have been attached to a headquarters
formation, and live out, feeding and
housing myself. All that the Army
allows me for board and lodging is 16s.
lid. a week; and, since board, lodging,
fares, etc., cost me about £2 Jss. a week,
I am somewhat out of pocket by the
transaction. And I am a volunteer,
though I did not volunteer for service
at headquarters. Miles Ingloriosus
(N.S.W.).


FULL EFFECTIVENESS
1 NTO whatever channel the energies of men and women may be directed, by whatever means they earn a livelihood,
* and however they may make manifest their intention to help in the tremendous effort the Empire is making, the
development of certain qualities is necessary to full effectiveness. These qualities are:-
Observation Judgment Self-confidence
Concentration Decisiveness Initiative
Self-control Will-Power Organisation
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
jp ELMAN ISM develops these qualities. It develops them quickly and permanently. It creates desirable and
serviceable habits of mind and of will that continue and strengthen as time goes on. Thus Pelmanism is not
so much a study as a training designed to strengthen the mind and character and enlarge the personality as a
whole. It succeeds because it trains the conscious and the subconscious alike so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything that has to be done.
Scientific Training of Mind ,
Memory and Personality
The following excerpts are taken from letters received recently. We get many such letters. A gratifying
feature of our relations with students is the friendly communications we receive from time to time from
completed the course years ago. An extract from one such letter is included below.
SOLDIER—24th April, '42: “It is gratify-
ing to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life. 1 can hardly appre-
ciate its real value to me, as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—22nd May, '42: "I have taken
a fresh grip on things and consequently
feel the benefit. I used to dread Inspec-
tions, and stew over them before and
after. In this respect I am now looking
forward to this year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER—I4th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially
in regard to observation and general
efficiency."
CLERK—7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said there is no magic in Pel-
manism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have
enjoyed since studying Pelmanism, that it
takes on the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER—I7th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in
good stead since joining the A.I.F. There
is ample opportunity here for the appli-
cation of the Pelman principles of living,
and I am thankful for having taken this
Course of Mind Training.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, '42: “I
find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to
vastly increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE—IBth May, '42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
proved to be an outstandingly-wise
decision on my part. You would be
greatly surprised if I told you how much
I have improved and increased my earning
capacity in the last six and a half years.
People, many of whom are old friends,
wonder what’s the secret. I have enthu-
siastically recommended-it to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE— 12th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for
improvement and my aims have become
clearer. I applied for the Course to obtain
social ease, but quickly saw the wisdom
of your advice to aim at all-round
development.” •
SOLDIER—Ist May, ’42; “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and 1 am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am
not quite certain."
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
1 , ..
Pelmanism is a scientific training. Because it substitutes good and faithful habits of mind and memory for slovenl;
and fearful ones, it promotes steadfastness, definiteness and continuity of effort.
To the Telman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
30(i Flinders Fane, {Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a cony of
“The .Efficient Mind.”
N anie ..
Address
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with tho
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in JLondon.
The Institute has been established
in Melbourne for over 33 years.
New Zealand Inquirer*.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
Pelmanism is endorsed publicly by
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pelmanists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its effect
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
ality.
Title* of Chapters,
1. Groups.
2. Personality.
3. Body, Mind and
Spirit.
4. Speaking Easily.
5. Introductions and
Functions.
6. The Material of
Conversation.
7. Story Telling.
8. The Attitude of Mind.
9. Bad Practices.
10. Misunderstandings.
11. Furniture and Physi-
cal Conditions.
12. Meetings and Part-
ings.
13. Freedom and Actioi).
Public Speaking.
The Elements of
Command.
Temperament.
The Art of Meeting People
with chapters on
Public Speaking and the Elements
of Command
By E. H. WELFORD, Director, Pelman Institute (O/seas).
This book has been written primarily to meet an increasing demand
for exact information on the principles governing our relations with
other people. It is the fruit of personal experience supplemented by
acquaintance with the needs of thousands of pupils of the Pelman
Course, and it covers all the ground honestly.
Each chapter is followed by an ‘‘Application” to the reader's own
life and circumstances of the principles discussed in the chapter.
Orders nre accepted from the public at 5/- per copy posted.
51-
per copy posted.
Use the order form below or write to The
Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
To The Telman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send mfe a copy of “The Art of Meeting
People,” with chapters on Public Speaking and Th(
Elements of Command. I enclose 5/- cost and postage.
Name
Address
