

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63. No. 3268
Wednesday, September 30, 1942
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W„ Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
common consent the centre of that square mile
comprising “the City of London” is that irregular
space of w&ch the three principal overlooking build-
ings are the Mansion House, the Bank of England
and the Royal Exchange. In the first quarter of 1942
the authorities at Whitehall released a photograph
illustrating the damage a heavy Nazi high explosive
oomb caused during a blitz in the previous year,
whereby an immense crater was created in the area
immediately facing the front of the Exchange.
Across this chasm the Royal Engineers threw a
CENTRE OF “THE CITY”—1842-43.
bridge, which, it is presumed, will remain until all
danger from The Luftwaffe shall have “disappeared for
aye” and permanent reconstructive work undertaken.
This example of Hitlerian conception of “total war”
attracted an immense amount of attention throughout
the Dominions equally with the homeland. When
those sections of “the City” come to be rebuilt which
have fallen victims to Nazi bombing, it is a perfectly
leasonable surmise that architectural features will be
employed resulting in a “vision splendid” of the
precise character it was said, not inaptly, “it passeth
the wit of man to describe.” That being tfie case, it
may not be out of place to “turn the glance back-
wards” and see what this historic site looked like
a century ago. The illustration, reproduced from a
steel engraving published in 1842 by Thomas Holmes,
of 76 St. Paul’s Churchyard, depicts the Royal
Exchange, with the Bank of England on the left. The
Mansion House, had it been included in the picture,
would have been immediately to the right rear of the
omnibus. The reproduction of the scene is of value in
several particulars, not the least as displaying changes
in costumes of citizens and in vehicular traffic a
hundred years had witnessed.


fdfd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, withovt obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining haw to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
S.B. 242
The Red Page
WAR IN THE NORTH.
In The Bulletin’s “Aboriginalities”
pages during the past few weeks there
has been appearing something as new in
Australian literary history as the Jap
war is in the national history—war
poetry written by soldiers on active ser-
vice in Australia. • There was. for in-
stance, Arnold Gardners “A.I.F. in
Camp”: —
Tonight we sprawl beneath the stars, ablaze
With all the glories of these summer days —
The landscape’s swooning monotones; a tree
Bent dancerlike against the symphony
Of mountains and blue sky; the wind’s caress
Shaking the gums to golden loveliness;
River, flowers, birds, grass—we, giving
Ourselves to the hot sunlight, soldiers living
Life like a feast! Tonight we lie and dream
These things.
Yoked as we are to death’s dark team,
We shake the solemn heavens with our play.
Made one by joy and pride we go our way
Singing, though knowing not the path we tread,
The awful, sightless roadway of the dead.
Ours will always be this laughter, this fun.
Ours the beauty under the summer sun.
Arnold Gardner’s verse and similar
pieces in recent weeks were the first
ripples of what looks like becoming a
mild flood. The soldiers who fought in
the Middle East turned out some fine
verses in their homesickness for Australia.
When they have adjusted themselves
to the new scenes they should be
able to write an even more valuable
kind of poetry, a direct documentation
of the Australian landscape and of the
Australian fighting for his own shores.
Here is an example of what is happen-
ing : Sergeant Eric Irvin’s
Sapper E. Locke, back fjpm the desert,
sends
“Sig.,” back in Australia, submits this
fine verse written in the Libyan desert: —
And a R.A.A.F. man, “W.W.T.,” wrote
this in Australia
From the Middle East, Flying-Officer
J. A. Henderson sends one of the most
beautiful poems yet to have been written
on that traditional theme of the soldier-
poet
And John Quinn, who has seen service
in Syria as well as in Australia, offers the
equally impressive “Battle Stations” with
a purely Australian setting and motif : —
One thing that’s noticeable about the
Diggers’ or airmen’s verses is that —
naturally and inevitably—war’s an all-
time job for the mind as well as for the
body. Rarely is there a poem on a theme
unconnected with war. If it’s the desert
that’s written about, it’s the desert
as it relates to the war; if it’s the bush,
it’s the bush related to the war. Omar’s
jug of wine becomes Cpl. Guy Singleton’s
But occasionally, a poem not directly
connected with the war does slip through.
Here’s one by Trooper Eric Rolls, “Death
Song of a Mad Bush Shepherd”—and a
queer poem, it is : one of Lawson’s
“hatters” in modern dress: —
Anybody who’s met a “hatter,” either
personally or in Lawson, won’t be unduly
surprised at Rolls’s shepherd, but for the
benefit of those who haven’t here’s the
accompanying explanation: “The lone-
liness of the bush is oppressive and awe-
inspiring. There is horror in its vastness
and fear in its noises: so that the mind
of the bush hermit must at length crush
under the strain and he becomes a little
mad, subject always to the weird flights
of fancy that the bush at times arouses
in us all.”
Maybe, when it s all over, the losses
accepted and the gains understood, it will
be found that, by opening up the unknown,
by introducing thousands of young Aus-
tralians to the distant places of the bush,
this war will have been of overwhelming
benefit to the national life of Australia.
It s not a thought to be accepted with
complacence while the bitter struggle is
being fought out, while poems such as
Lieut. E. H. Whitford’s “The Voice on
the Wind” are of such moving authen-
ticity :
But if the trek to the bush does lead
to irrigation, land settlement and immi-
gration, there won’t be any illusions this
time that all the sacrifice was for nothing.
Already, as the poems show, Australians
have a new pride and love for their
country. Australian literature has already
benefited; and it should benefit further.
There isn’t any of the tradition of moan-
ing about Australia in the verses of the
men who are fighting for it.
“Rivers,”
written in Australia after his return from
active service in the Middle East: —
Here, where the mangroves’ hungry roots
Clutch eagerly the swampy soil;
Here, where the heat and undergrowth
Add to the burthen of our toil.
Memory plays its ancient tricks,
Transmuting dross, enflowering sticks.
Rolling rivers form the theme;
Rivers moving in a dream.
Swiftly-flowing, cool green rivers;
Lazy, dappled streams; and sluggish.
Oily, scum-infested rivers.
Old Litani and Le Tigre,
Ancient history’s winding streams.
Slim Nepean, winding Goulburn;
Rivers, these, still in my dreams.
On their banks and in their waters
Death has played his varied role.
Remembered are our missing brothers
From Litani’s banks he stole.
Yet the rotting and the growing,
Yet the budding and the frost.
Yet the reaping and the sowing
Form the cycle: little’s lost.
But Litani, Aliakmon,
Murray, Jordan, Wadi-Gaza;
But Nepean and Laloki
See not rotting, see not growing,
In their certain onward flowing.
O the splendid, proud indifference
Of a river’s onward thrust.
Teaching men how mean their path is,
Leading as it does to dust.
But Le Tigre, green, translucent;
But the Goulburn, winding, sly.
Cannot know the evil Fate is,
Nor how hard it is to die.
Death itself can hold no terrors
While the ideal cuts the track;
But the sky, the trees, the rivers, .
But the dreams of youth call —“Back!”
“Bush Camp” from his present
Australian address: —
White canvas gleams like frost now in the light
Of rays of daybreak stealing o'er the hills
To glint on silvery dewdrops glistening bright
On leafy branches where the peewit trills.
Huge trunks of gums as towering pillars rise,
All straight and white against the morning skies.
The soldiers in the tents soon stir and rise,
Breathe deeply of the perfumed air around,
Then wash the sleep from still half-opened eyes
While lazy mist is rising from the ground
And smoke from fresh-lit fires drifts slowly by
Till, lost to view, it rises to the sky.
Then soon the bush camp rings to sounds of
toil.
As shadows shorten with the rising sun,
I stand, and watch the battered billy boil.
And think of happy, peaceful days to come
When I shall roam the bushland as 1 may,
And there will be no war to bid me stay.
Dead, dreary sandhills, miles of rubbled clay;
Fierce, scouring winds, and weariness and
thirst;
Cold, restless nights partition day from day,
Each day monotonous as was the first.
Steel sky, grey sand, a sun of burnished brass,
Each day a suffered span we know must pass.
I close my eyes against the stinging pall
Of sand. Fast fly my thoughts away, and lo!
Once more I hear the dry leaves softly fall
From jarrah-trees when evening sea-winds
blow.
The smell of trees and fragrant meadow-hay,
Borne on the wind in land of Far-away.
I see the white mists rise in waxing dawn
While joyous bird-song all the bushland fills;
And sand plains, green and brown, and fallows,
fawn
In sunset on the breasts of rounded hills;
And lusty rains, and winds that writhe the trees;
Nostalgic autumn, languorous with bees.
I see my homestead, snug in gardens bright,
With blue smoke curling in the evening air;
And home we ride as falls the velvet night—
There’s music, by the fire an easy chair.
Then, fairy-stories told, and bairns in bed,
I court again the lovely bride I wed.
Australia, rich and fair! We know, who lie
In far-off lands, the precious jewel you are.
And we who fight, and we who, fighting, die,
In sweat and blood pay tribute for our share
Of those gold harvests you so richly yield—
Of leadership your children yet may wield.
How long—O Lord, how long?—before the
heirs
We leave for you mad, internecine strife
Forswear? You, golden heritage of theirs,
Will give to them a fuller, braver life,
When hand in hand in brotherhood they toil,
And each for all they till your fruitful soil.
For us who die, their triumph shall be ours.
O generations yet unborn, be glad
That we, whose blood now on the desert pours,
To save your heritage, gave all we had.
You must not fail! Our blood has pledged you
deep:
Keep faith with us, who faith in death will
keep.
“Reveille":
Reveille sounds. The east is bright.
Awake, Australians! Rise and dare.
Where Night keeps her age-old tryst with sun,
Bomb blast blends with roar of gun.
The watchword’s “Courage,” the password’s
“Fight,”
And your cobbers have died like men tonight.
The call’s to arms. Forget your play,
The line is our own fair earth and air.
Japs ride the wind with their cargo death,
And you’ll curse them both with your dying
breath.
The watchword’s “Fight” and the password’s
“Pay,”
Will you come and die with your mates today?
Awake, Australians! Let each man borrow
The spirit fine and the courage rare
Of those who fought for our land before
On Flanders fields and Anzac’s shore.
The watchword’s “Mourning,” the password’s
“Sorrow,”
For you must die like them tomorrow.
“Desert Graves”:
Two lie together, buried where they fell—
Two lonely heaps upon a desert plain.
Hie other’s steel perhaps—or some odd shell—
It was that caught and made them earth
again.
Stand and read, and say “A friend ... a foe.”
Pass, forget, and go across the sea,
And make a peace. But will these ever know
For what they died, or shape of victory?
Through all the ages—through a new-dead
year—
Can ever these two pitied heaps of clay
Give utter death to mortal hopes and fears,
Or know the other lies a yard away?
No! It is well that all forgotten dead
Forget—or do not know— the “world of lust.
The visioned Hell holds nothing half so dread
That men should die and quarrel in their dust.
But if these have a soul, as people say,
Carrion is all their stony covers keep.
They gave it for the pomp of yesterday:
They know alone if they should laugh or
weep.
Yours is this austere land,
Laid like a cold shield on the turbulent seas.
The years can give no higher destiny
Than this: that you shall put the ease
Of peace behind you; and stand fast
Though hell itself should smash about your ears
And from its smoking mouth spew forth
Red death, and monstrous fears
To haunt your days with shadows,
Tunnel night to a deep well
Of blackness brimmed with bitterness.
Now, if you fail to hold, you sell
The dearest heritage of all of time;
For, should this shield flake with that yellow
rust
That.'gnaws the core of nationhood away,
Then Freedom is betrayed. Betrayed the trust,
The hope placed in you by those little men
Chained to the juggernaut of blundering Force
That rolls its mucky wheels across the world
Crushing itself a mad and bloody course—
Could you then face the judgment of your soul
Down the long days of your new, dungeoned
life,
When strange men stood before you with a
sword
And Murder stalked behind you with his knife?
Why, when you tumbled to .some traitor’s grave
The very soil would vomit your weak bones,
The grass would shrink from such a sorry mess.
And the bleak stones
Would crush themselves on your encrusted head.
Take up the burden, then, of Time-to-come,
And stand your ground that Liberty may breathe
And walk without the threatening drum
Of war for ever at her heels.
If so you play the man and pay the price
That Honor ever forfeits from his sons —
Feel freezing in your veins the ice
Of death —and if your petty guts
Should feast some foul-billed crow,
Yet you’ll sleep calmly through eternity
And in majestic dreams you’ll know
Unutterable peace, and silence like a song.
A sharp-nosed dog will one day sniff that sod
And, tail down, slink away,
Sensing: there died a god.
“Jar of Rum”:
Let poets sing of the sunset hues,
A foam-flecked surf on a sandy shore,
A flower-filled garden and morning dews;
Their beauties have all been hymned before,
And the charms of nature leave me dumb: .
My lines are penned to a jar of rum.
Our eyes are full of the desert’s sand.
And blurred by glare from a brassy sky.
Then let us praise what is best at hand
Since beauty’s in the beholder’s eye.
So hold her aloft for all to see:
A full sealed flagon of S.R.D.
The R.H.A. and the Fusiliers
Who gave us a hand in old Tobruk
Will tell their children in future years
That without a doubt the place was crook.
What cheered you most when your hopes went
dud?
Your nightly issue of Nelson’s Blood.
When his tanks are through, the O.C. dead,
His arty pelting them very near,
The sergeant wounded, you lie in dread
And wait the lull when his troops appear.
Then slip your bottle and drink one quick
To give you guts and to help you stick.
When the water’s salt and full of scum
And they sit you down to bully stew,
Then add a noggin of o.p. rum:
It kills the germs and the rank taste too.
When your rifle’s rusty and far from bright,
Just fill the barrel and leave all night.
It’s wonderful stuff for desert sores,
And takes the bite from a brand-new pipe;
It fixes the tooth in your aching jaws,
It fixes your belly doubled with gripe.
It kills the bug and elusive flea,
And is just the thing for dysentery.
For ever cursed be the lousy “Q.”
Who has broken down the army’s grog
With cognac, tea and metho, too!
He’s done it again, the dirty dog,
And a million savage men shall rise:
You can see the bloodlust in their eyes.
0 Lord! the girl is dead
That lay to me in my bed.
O Lord, my Lord, her lips were red, her lips
were red, so ruby red,
O Lord, my Lord, her lips were red, her lips
were red, but now she is dead.
See, as her limbs unfold,
A beauty never told.
O Lord, but now my love is cold, my love is
cold, so palely cold,
O Lord, but now my love is cold, and she to
me would her limbs unfold.
At last there breaks the day
On the form that with me lay.
My love, my dreams, all fade away, my dreams
■and ghe all fade away.
My love, my dreams, all fade away and. Lord,
I am lonely in the day.
Must I take my sheep to water?
Must I take my sheep to slaughter?
There has been slaughter but there is no water,
for Drought has been, and Fire her
Daughter;
O Lord, give us water, 'for I’m tired of
slaughter, and the creeks are forlorn with-
out any water.
1 hear the curlew wail —
Such a melancholy tale.
When curlews wail in moonlight pale, in fear I
quail in moonlight pale;
A story of horror in moonlight pale, in moon-
light pale when the curlews wail.
At night I am racked by the howl
Of some unseen, shapeless owl.
For an owl is no owl but a monstrous ghoul,
this unseen owl is a monstrous ghoul;
A monstrous ghoul is this shapeless owl and,
Lord, I am tortured by its howl.
O Christ, as I lie in pain
Foul Death nibbles my brain.
And the noise of the nibbling waxes and wanes
as of frightened mice in a shed of grain;
And now it gnaws softly and now it gnaws loud,
champing and chewing—O Christ, the pain!
And now the plovers cry,
Telling me I die.
When plovers fly at night and cry, when plovers
cry at night and fly,
O God, I know I surely die —there is a death-
note in their cry!
“Wh° spoke?” cried the outpost, and listened.
Who comes?’'' cried his heart. All was still.
“Whose footstep creeps there ’neath the
branches?
Who whispered out there on the hill?”
”1 called,” came the voice through the dark-
ness;
“/ come,” sighed The Unknown to him.
The sentry, he staggered and crumpled.
“It is Death!” moaned the voice on the wind.
Robert D. FitzGerald’s poem which
appeared on the Red Page last week
under the cryptic title “Poly-poly”
should, of course, have been “Roly-poly.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
At Farmer’s Blaxland Gallery, Sydney,
the Royal Art Society presents for sale
over 150 paintings and drawings by its
members and friends, all free gifts. Full
proceeds go to provide comforts for the
men of the R.A.N. It is a bright show,
to which such well-known artists as Syd
Long, Erik Langker, Howard Ashton,
Will Ashton, H. A. Hanke, John Banks,
Robert Johnson, J. R. Jackson, J. Salvana,
John Alcot, Margaret Coen, Fred Leist,
G. V. F. Mann, Tom Garrett, W. Lister
Lister, G. K. Townshend and Datillo-
Rubbo, together with such promising
youngsters as Richard Ashton, Raymond
Lindsay and Sylvia Davis, have contri-
buted characteristic canvases. One of
the late Charles Bryant’s best marine
pieces is a feature, and a group of
Bulletin black-and-white artists that in-
cludes Scorfield, Unk White, Lock, Mc-
Gregor, Rice and Percy Lindsay purvey
the humor of the sea. The general quality
is high—such pictures as G. V. Mann’s
“Mosman Bay,” Will Ashton’s snow
scene, Howard Ashton’s “Evening Sky,”
Margaret Coen’s “Sunset,” G. K. Towns-
hend’s “Berowra Waters” and all Tom
Garrett’s monotypes would be outstanding
in any company—but prices are pitched
very, very low.
George Whinnen (now president) and
Max Ragless are prominent in S.A.
Society of Arts’ spring show, Ivor
Francis, an unconventional coming man,
leaves his ultra-modern fancies for a
Hogarth touch; and the biggest exhibit
is a sort of allegorical triptych by Mary
Harris, based on a North Terrace pano-
rama, The landscape (now called “out-
door”) prize goes to John Giles, with one
of his favorite ships in harbor. The valu-
able Melrose figure-award (Hans Heysen
and Louis McCubbin judging) has, this
time, some fine plaster modelling to con-
trast with the portrait paintings. Mar-
guerite Richardson’s restive horses are
excellent; but the award goes to her
“Crucifix,” an unusual piece of realism,
with the figure hanging in an extreme
of exhaustion and agony, and —a detail
which has caused much comment —seated
astride of a projecting bar.
A recent outburst of spring art in Mel-
bourne included the annual apparition of
the Twenty Melbourne Painters at the
Athenaeum and a show at the Sedon
Galleries of James Jackson’s well-known
and always pleasant views of Sydney
Harbor. The T.M.Ps. speak with 20
different voices, and some of them have
gone completely modern. Victor Cobb,
John and Will Rowell, R. McCann and
others retail current artistic; gossip, but
Arnold Shore and W. Prater show some
of the spirit of adventure. Mr. Shore’s
landscapes and still-life give back some
of the liveliness of Nature, but his “Anno
Domini,” a picture of Christ upon the
Cross with dive-bombers circling round
Him, is a subject-matter which calls for
less labored execution. P. Hurry and
Alma Figuerola have some well-observed
sketches, and in “Flat Rock Road” W.
Prater knocks off a pleasant bit of color.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
mM
\\
/ ■V'
m
m
m
■ 5 H
m
wss
n
'-i
■
Ira
r ; -
\)
\ '
H
COMFORTABLE, HEALTHY-FITTING SHOES are a national
necessity in these strenuous times, especially for men in the
Forces. "Tree" Brand Super Grade Shoes for Officers will give
miles of extra wear because of the quality that is in them, and be-
cause they fit properly. Made in first grade imported Zug or Zebu
on a good fitting last, in full and half sizes, they have genuine
welted extra stout leather soles. Also stocked in Brogues with
extra stout soles and whole golosh models. All have extra wide
welts. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, pair 49/6
12 Coupons Required.
• Men’s Footwear—Ground Floor, George Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


THE WAY OUT
By JON CLEARY.
THEY waited on the
beach for the boat
to take them out to
the freighter and out
of Greece, away from the
calamity that lay behind
them. They were the last to go. There
were McWhinney and the Kid, both from
the same company, the two New Zea-
landers, Andrios the Greek and the Czech
general and his batman. Everyone knew
it was his wife with her hair cut short
and in a uniform too big for her, but
nobody considered it his business.
The Kid had an anti-tank rifle slung
across his shoulders and was clinging to
the webbing so hard that his knuckles
showed white, almost as though he Were
getting courage from the mere feel of it.
All the way down he had been scared
stiff. They could see it as plain as plain,
but he had kept his mouth shut and
hadn’t whimpered.
The boat came back, ran in on a small
wave and beached. They all got in, and
in a moment, quickly, quietly, they
were heading for the ship. Black cut-
outs of buildings stood out against
a red glow behind them. Sometimes
flames showed through the windows
of the houses, blinking, like eyes in
the darkness. There was no sound but
the subdued crackling of the flames, the
swish of the water against the boat, the
occasional hand-smothered cough of the
general. There was no movement but
that of the boat and the wreathing of
the thick black smoke above the glow.
All of it was horrible, unreal. Once there
was a dull explosion coming frighteningly
out of the silence; then it was all still again.
They threaded their way between the
masts of two ships sunk in the raid the
day before. The masts stuck up stark and
forlorn, headstones above the ships
below. They reached the side of the ship
and clambered with difficulty up the rope
ladder hanging amidships. McWhinney,
the lance, who had led them down from
behind the German lines all through those
five days, was last up.
She was a big freighter, but now she
wasn’t nearly big enough. She was packed
tight with men. Most of the wounded
had been taken below, but there were
still some lying on the deck just below
the bridge. A nurse, her grey uniform
torn, without a hat, her hair falling down
into her eyes, was working amongst them.
She was cool and quick in her movements,
and though you could see it was an effort
she was smiling all the time. Long ago
her aid kit had run out and now she was
doing the best she could with the men’s
own field-dressings.
They moved up forward and found a
small space. The general and his wife
sat down on the deck and he put his arm
around her. One of the New Zealanders
nudged him and he took his arm away.
“Have you ever fired one of those anti-
tanks, Kid?” McWhinney asked.
The Kid shook himself as if from sleep
before he answered. “No.”
“Better strap it up to something then:
they’ve a kick like a mule.”
There was a horizontal bar connecting
two stanchions. The Kid updid the web-
bing on his rifle and strapped it to the
bar, the muzzle pointing towards the bows.
He tested the strapping, then sat down
beside the general and his wife and put his
head down on his arms and started to cry.
It was pitiful. All the days of escape
and living from minute to minute broke
out of him. He sat and quietly sobbed,
his heaving shoulders the only sign of
emotion. The others turned away. After
a while his sobbing ceased. And then he
started to talk. Words came tumbling
out of him. He talked of nothing in par-
ticular —he was just eager to keep speak-
ing—but it was mostly of home and things
before the war. They stood up soon and
with the others looked back at the town.
The engines were going now. The ship
started to move. A murmur ran around
the boat, a sigh of relief. The horror was
over ; they were on their way out.
THINGS stood out more cleanly in the
pale light before dawn. The shell of
the town was visible under the canopy of
thick black smoke. Buildings were heaps
of rubble; sometimes a wall standing,
missed in the sweep of destruction. Roofs,
entire, had slithered sideways over the
ruins below as if to cover the face of a
dead home. Shell holes showed in some
of the walls, ghastly, gaping wounds in-
flamed by fire. A breeze had sprung up,
and now the smoke slanted away to the
north, revealing as by a half-drawn cur-
tain the mountains behind the town.
Pink touched the peaks and the sun came
up from behind them, and down out of
its brightness came the ’planes.
There were eight of them in a long line,
guns blazing, and they were over and
past the ship before anybody could move
in his shock. Men were crumpled on
the deck and blood was starting to run,
and then, as if released by a single con-
trol switch, all those who could sprang
into action. The Lewis on the bridge
started chattering, and down at the stern
another could be heard in jittery harmony
with it. Most of the men on board had
weapons of some sort, rifles, tommy-
guns, Brens, and, finding what cover they
could, they set them up ready for use.
The ’planes went up into the clear blue
sky over the sea, banked, and came boring
down again. A rattle of gunfire went up
from the deck, and one of the ’planes
swung out of the line and, as if that was
the intention all along, continued its dive
into the sea. The last ’plane over let go
a bomb, and at the stern of the boat
planks and iron and men went up into
the air in a cone of black smoke. Screams
and yells mingled with the noise of the
guns. The world was blacked out and
all was sound.
The nurse was still on deck, still work-
ing. She was white and strained and she
looked at the point of breaking.
McWhinney went back to help her. She
was trying to drag a man with a shat-
tered leg back into the lee of the
companionway on the forward deck.
McWhinney took the man from her,
propped him against the wall and said
“Let’s go, Nurse. Want any more?” She
smiled wanly and brushed the hair back
from her eyes. “I wish all the noise
would stop.” She knelt and started to
strip the clothing away from the man’s
leg. McWhinney knelt beside her.
The ’planes were coming round in a
circle above the smoke over the town,
and light was on the underside of their
wings so that they seemed to be coming
back in on streams of sunlight. The Kid
was standing behind his rifle now, and he
was pressing the trigger and loading as
fast as he could. But he was too soon
and his shots were wide. They came
ramming in and the bullets spattered the
deck dike thrown gravel. The Kid whim-
pered, hesitated, then dived behind a
hold-cover. His fear was back again.
From where he was McWhinney saw him
flat against the cover side, his fingers
clawing the deck.
The ship was gathering speed now and
was clear of the bay. She was starting
to zigzag, and the wake behind her traced
her mad effort to escape. Twice more the
’planes came down, and they made an-
other hit with a bomb just aft of the
funnel. The deck was a shambles. Men
lay behind dead men and used them for
cover. The ’planes had broken their
line formation and were coming down
independently. They hung high above
the ship like carrion-birds, letting their
guns cool; then one dipped a wing and
fell down in a power dive. Its engine
rose to a shrill scream and it seemed as if
it was going to follow the bullets from
the guns right into the ship ; then it pulled
out of the dive and went away into a wide
curve on the echo of its screaming motor.
The Kid had a horror in his eyes and
his mouth was open so that you could
see the gums above his teeth. Suddenly
he uttered a strangled cry, and he was up
on his feet and behind the gun. The
’plane, was coming back now, and he
sighted along the barrel and
let go. Bits flew off from
beneath the ’plane, but in
a moment it was out of the
orbit of his sights. He was
hampered by having the
gun strapped to the bar. Frantically he
began untying the strap.. By the time
the ’plane was on its way back he had
the rifle to his shoulder. As it came
over he pulled the trigger and was
knocked head over heels backwards by
the recoil. Surprised, angry, he scrambled
to his feet and picked up the gun again.
The ’plane had climbed now till it was
about half a mile in front of the ship
and directly in line with it. It flattened
out and waited for a moment; then it
dropped and bolted down the ramp of
the sky. The Kid stood tensed behind
his gun. There was no sound now but
that throbbing of the ship’s engine and
above it the roar of the diving motor.
It seemed that everybody had realised
that the Kid had a personal grudge
against the machine and had stood aside.
Now the ’plane seemed to be all over
the ship and bullets made a chopping
path along the deck. The Kid steadied
himself and coolly, carefully, as if aim-
ing at a sitting target, pulled the trigger.
They saw the pilot rise in his seat as if
to get out and the wind bend him back.
The ’plane shot up into the air sideways ;
then a wing tilted and, with its engine
still screaming, it dived into the sea, and a
giant spout of water shot up to mark for a
moment the spot where it had gone under.
The other ’planes came down low over
the water about a quarter of a mile away
but didn’t fire ; then they climbed and
flew away again into the sun. The ship
straightened her course and headed for
the high white clouds on the horizon.
AN OLD GENTLEMAN
By MARGARET TRIST.
AUNT BRIDIE peered closely at my
grandfather’s topcoat and brushed
off infinitesimal specks of dust. It
was a big old coat, threadbare and
shapeless but cleaned and pressed to an
almost incredible degree. “Your grand-
father is a gentleman of the first water,”
she said firmly, as if this explained the
general shabbiness of the coat.
Out in his small back bedroom Grand-
father’s dressing progressed slowly. The
door was securely shut and bolted against
intrusion but sounds came through the
thin pine walls. Grunts and grumbles
and what at times sounded like swearing.
Aunt Bridie looked me squarely in the
eye. “Your grandfather never uses lan-
guage,” she said.
We went and stood outside the closed
door of Grandfather’s bedroom. A
groaning came from inside. “That’s his
boots.” Aunt Bridie spoke more to her-
self than to me. “Always been hard to
get on, those boots. Next time I hope he
gets a tie-up pair. Elastic-sides are no
wear for a gentleman.” She knocked
softly on the door.
“Don’t hustle me,” Grandfather called
thickly. The bed creaked as he bent for
the other boot.
“If he took it by the back and the
front, instead of by the sides,” muttered
Aunt Bridie, her face creased worriedly,
her forehead puckered. “Oh, dear! Will
he never be done? It gets to take longer
and longer each fortnight.”
“He gets older,” I ventured.
“He does not,” she contradicted in-
stantly. “He’s no older than he ever
was. Never will be,” she averred rashly.
This astonished me. Did one, then,
on attaining a special number of years,
stay put indefinitely? I was about to
ask Aunt Bridie, when the door opened.
There stood my grandfather in all his
glory of tight-legged pants and shiny,
sturdy boots. His coat did not match
his trousers —presumably another honor
reserved for gentlemen—and a soft silk
handkerchief, creamy-yellow with age,
was knotted about his throat. He looked
at us proudly out of his one good eye,
and stroked his thick white beard lovingly
with his soft, crinkled old fingers. “I used
to be a good figure of a man,” he said.
“You are still,” Aunt Bridie hastened
to assure him.
“I remember once”
“Never mind now,” Aunt Bridie broke
in quickly. “Get into your coat. Its
growing late.”
Grandfather’s room was narrow, with
a bare board floor and unlined walls.
There was a narrow iron bedstead. The
grey blanket had little squares of pink
and green and blue and yellow upon it.
Grandfather often told how he had been
staying with some blacks when the winter
issue of blankets was on and had swapped
tobacco and a string of bright beads
for it. Aunt Bridie would listen to this
story patiently, and then, when Grand-
father wasn’t looking, shake her head
and smile knowingly, trying to convey to
his listeners that of course he had never
been within miles of a blacks’ camp in
his life, let alone live in one.
Grandfather murmured blasphemously
as he and Aunt Bridie struggled with the
coat. She stared at me unblinkingly.
“Now, just stop still and let me get it
on you,” she ordered Grandfather at
last. A knock sounded through the
house. “O dear! There’s the cab. Keep
your arm down. There! ” She raised her
voice. “All right, Harry, we’re coming.
You’re early this morning.” -
“No fear,” Harry shouted from the
front door. “Same time as ever.”
“You are not,” asserted Aunt Bridie.
“I never recall you being so early before.”
Grandfather pulled his old grey cap
on to his head. Aunt Bridie and I
escorted him to the verandah. At the
front gate the cab stood waiting, a ram-
shackle black vehicle, drawn by an old,
lean horse. Harry the cabman, the cab,
the horse and Grandfather all had a
look of belonging to each other.
Aunt Bridie gave Grandfather his stick.
Harry took his left arm.
“Now, Harry,” said Aunt Bridie, “I
expect you back within the hour. Straight
to the post office and straight home, you
understand.”
Harry nodded. “Yes, Miss Flynn,” he
said obediently. His eyes looked every-
where but at Aunt Bridie.
There were four steps in front of the
cottage, and, what with Grandfather’s
gammy leg and Harry not being much
steadier on his feet than Grandfather,
they took some negotiating. Aunt Bridie
watched their progress intently. “I’m ex-
pecting you back, don’t forget,” she called.
As the cab drove off Grandfather
waved his stick through the flap at the
back.
Aunt Bridie sighed. “I don’t altogether
trust that Harry,” she said. “There are
some things your grandfather would
never do if it weren’t for him.”
AUNT BRIDIE’S cottage was on the
outskirts of the little town. From it
you could see the wide sweep of the
plains, and the road running, wide and
straight, for mile on desolate'" mile, and
far, far away, the blue line of the hills.
Seen from the distance they were high
and dark and secret. There were tales
that Grandfather told about the hills-
about the trees and the bright, noisy
birds; the waterfalls that cascaded, cool
and silver, down great boulders, and of
old corroborees when the moon was high.
In the staidness of the town these things
seemed fantastic. Sometimes Aunt Bridie
let him ramble on. “Your grandfather
has a head on his shoulders,” she would
say. “He thinks of things.”
An hour passed. Aunt Bridie, busy
with the everlasting number of tasks
she managed to find in the tiny house,
glanced from time to time at the clock.
At lunch she set only our two places on
the neat cloth. “Plague that Harry,” she
said. “I daresay he’s set your grandfather
down and forgotten to pick him up.”
The afternoon wore on, and finally
was gone. The grey dusk fell. The
lights of the town sprang up; in the pale
sky the stars came out. A noise that was
composite of wild yelling, a roar of
laughter, a series of ear-splitting squawks
burst on our ears. “It’s about time, too,”
Aunt Bridie said in a matter-of-fact tone.
She put on her coat and went out calmly
into the rapidly falling night.
From the verandah I watched in the
direction from which the noise was
coming. I could distinguish a bulky
figure making slow progress further
down on the opposite side of the street.
The light from a street lamp shone on a
long white beard. My grandfather was
coming home at last. I watched him
clutch desperately at one fence-post,
stand hugging it for a while, then reel
away, lurching and stumbling, in the
direction of the next post. His stick
seemed more nuisance than assistance.
Several times it all but tripped him. At
last he held it above his head. All the
time he yelled and shouted, sometimes
breaking into a song, sometimes laughing.
“Bridget! Bridget!” he called when it
seemed that his post was hopelessly elud-
ing him. Then “Got you, my beauty!”
he would shout as he found his temporary
haven. The fence ended abruptly some
distance from home. He managed to get
to a lamp-post and draped himself around
it, yelling wildly.
Aunt Bridie reached him there. He
abused her soundly, but obeyed her
docilely enough. She unwound him from
the post, placed his stick in his right hand,
and taking his left arm propelled him
home. He sang boisterously as he came:
“If a lady elopes,
Down a ladder of ropes.
She can go to Hong Kong for me.”
He was in high good humor, and many
were the tales he could have told, but
he was bundled unceremoniously off to
bed almost before his tea had settled. He
went protesting, but soon his heavy, con-
tented snores shook the little house.
AUNT BRIDIE oozed respectability
that night. She told of highborn
relatives and a big house somewhere, and
several times she mentioned the Church
and the Professions and the Arts, but
there was the remembrance of my
grandfather’s stories —of a drover
huddled over a lonely fire at night, bul-
lockies ranting in the ranges, a lonely
woman waiting in a shack.
We went to bed. In the morning I was
wakened by a heart-rending groaning. My
grandfather did not appear at breakfast.
“Your grandfather is indisposed,” said
Aunt Bridie firmly. She looked me squarely
in the eyes. “It’s his heart,” she said.
“He has a lot of bother with his heart.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3268
Wednesday, September 30, 1942.
“TARGET FOR TONIGHT.”
“Killer” Hughes to his Hellcats: “Things are rotten in New Guinea, so we’ll bomb our headquarters again. Give ’em everything you’ve got!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man •
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB: ’Phone 57971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Pfrth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
WOMEN AND WORKS.
For a considerable part of the present
session the Labor Government has been
under fire because of its exercise of
National Security powers, and in the case
of the Australia-Firsters only the clever-
ness of Dr. Evatt got it out of a serious
scrape. Last week it was called upon
to justify the existence of the Women’s
Employment Board and the proceedings
of the Allied Works Council.
To each of these improvisations the
Government appointed, as chairman, a
defeated Labor candidate, although it can
claim that it took one gentleman from
the County Court Bench and that the
other was a State Premier who after-
wards had a chequered career as Com-
monwealth Treasurer. To both concerns
it delegated great, though ill-defined,
powers, among them the power to fix
wages regardless of existing awards and
agreements. What the learned authors
of the awards think of this manoeuvre
may be judged from the remark of one
of them that “the Commonwealth has
become a most lavish paymaster, as far
as the wages of women in industry are
concerned.”
The Women’s Employment Board was
one of Mr. Ward’s contributions towards
winning the war. It has been a sore point
with wage-payers ever since Mr. Ward
nominated a lady with excellent Trades
Hall credentials to represent the em-
ployers. The Governments in Victoria
and South Australia were antagonised by
a board ruling overriding their anti-bar-
maid measures and granting barmaids the
same wages as barmen —wages consider-
ably above the pay of nurses, women war-
workers and soldiers. The cry went up
that the board was not only predomi-
nantly employee but “political” ; that it
was setting itself above State laws and
“sabotaging the arbitration system,” and
that unless it was halted in its career
Australia might wake up some morning
and find itself committed to equal pay
for the sexes, which would mean endless
industrial confusion, as well as vast
expense to employers and the nation.
This indictment was presented in the
Senate last week by way of a motion for
disallowance of the Women’s Employ-
ment Board regulations, and disallowance
was carried by a majority of one. The
vote coincided with the issue of a High
Court writ challenging the validity of
the regulations and the National Security
Act itself, “to the extent to which it pur-
ports to confer power to make such regu-
lations.”
The Government replied to the dis-
allowance resolution with a statutory rule
ratifying all W.E.B. variations
and interpretations” pending the passage
of a bill which is to give Statute-Book
sanction to the regulations disallowed,
and “generally to insure the encourage-
ment and regulation of the employment
of women during the war.” In the mean-
time the Government, if not interrupted
again, will set up “an appropriate num-
ber of subsidiary tribunals under the
board” (not literally) “to hear applica-
tions simultaneously in all States.” No
doubt all the subsidiaries will be ap-
pointed by Mr. Ward and the chairman
in each case will, if possible, be a defeated
Labor candidate. Presumably a roster
of defeated Labor candidates is being
compiled by the defeated Labor candi-
dates on Mr. Ward’s staff. A possible
difficulty is that there may not be enough
defeated Labor candidates still off the
Government payrolls to go round.
The Allied War Council is not Mr.
Ward’s affair. On the contrary, Mr.
Ward is one of its bitterest critics, having
no use either for its methods of drafting
men into its Civil Construction Corps,
so called, or for its Mr. Theodore or Mr.
Packer, whose faces annoy him. Of these
gentlemen he said in the House: “Both
can rest assured that I would welcome
the opportunity of making some desired
changes in the organisation.” Their
newspaper, the “Daily Telegraph,” he
accused of having published statements
which were “deliberately misleading and
designed to embarrass the Government,
and particularly myself as Minister for
Labor and National Service.”
This brought the Prime Minister to his
feet with an impassioned defence of Mr.
Theodore. With that gentleman, he said, he
was “entirely satisfied ; I have the greatest
confidence in his capacity: his work has
been patriotically done, and has about it
that degree of drive, energy and capacity
that I expected when I asked Mr. Theo-
dore to take the position.” It is unusual
for a Minister to attack a person ap-
pointed to a high position by the Prime
Minister, and more unusual for a Prime
Minister to defend an appointee attacked
by a Minister without dismissing the
Minister ; but then this is a very unusual
Government.
Mr. Theodore is called Director-
General. Mr. Packer is Director of Per-
sonnel. Assisting them in N. S. Wales
as Deputy-Director of Personnel is Mr.
Stewart Howard, who was employed by
Mr. Packer on the “Daily Telegraph”
before Premier McKell chose him to
act as his press agent and in other capa-
cities. As Deputy-Director of Personnel,
Mr. Stewart Howard gave a staff appoint-
ment to Mr. Peter Cruise, a turf com-
mission agent of credit and renown. He
has also had the handling of acrimonious
arguments with trade-union secretaries.
At first there were no acrimonious
arguments. From Mr. Theodore and
Mr. Packer and Mr. Stewart Howard,
and possibly Mr. Cruise and the editress
of the “Women’s Weekly,” N.S.W. trade-
union secretaries got a wages agreement
which seems to have given them almost
everything they asked for —“often,”
according to Mr, Lang’s paper—“with
grim threats” —and a lot more than they
expected to get. “One of the best awards
for many years,” Mr. Lang’s paper pro-
nounced it, and he gave some of the
features:
Wages, £7 3s. a week (tradesmen’s rates);
guaranteed week of 44 hours, with no loss
of pay for wet weather; no Saturday work,
except at penalty rates; two tea breaks
(smoke-ohs); 42 minutes for lunch; food
and quarters free; £4 16s. a week on enrol-
ment in the corps; £5 6s. while waiting for
a job; award rate on assignment; pay to
go on till discharged.
Workers’-compensation benefits with
a general application have been
added. They cover personal injuries,
industrial diseases and death “while tra-
velling on leave to and from the place
of employment and for the full 24 hours
of each day in camp.” Pensions are pro-
vided for widows, children and, in the
case of bachelors and childless widowers,
“dependants other than children.” The
provisions for temporary incapacity are
worth quoting:
During temporary incapacity a member
of the C.C.C. will receive a weekly pay-
ment equal to two-thirds of his wage at
the time of the injury, with a maximum of
£3 10s. a week, plus a children’s allow-
ance of 7s. 6d. a week for each child
under 16. These weekly payments are to
continue until the member is fit for duty
or until discharged or for six months,
whichever is the earliest.
Incapacitated members of the fighting
forces? Yes; they are provided for in
the same enactment —after a fashion.
To members of the forces discharged
while still unfit to earn a living and not
entitled to a pension, a special allowance
is to be granted. The maximum period is
13 weeks [not 26]. The rates are: Dis-
charged member, 255. a week; wife, 18s.;
each dependent child under 16, 2s. 6d.
(Jour children only to be paid).
These rates were announced at Can-
berra on a* day when city people were
gazing in startled silence at Damien
Parer’s pictures of soldiers, weary and
worn but game, on the march in the
ghastly Kokoda jungle, or, grey-faced
and suffering, being borne on stretchers
by kindly natives of whom Hubert
Murray would have been proud. Of
course the discrimination revealed is in
keeping with the theory that workers
(i.e„ unionists who vote the right ticket)
are more important than fighters.
The exultation of trade-union secre-
taries did not last long. Some of them
discovered that C.C.C. men were work-
ing under “Stone-Age conditions” and
that a ruthless form of industrial con-
scription was in operation. Labor
members declared that elderly fellows had
been taken from their homes and sent to
outback camps to do work for which
they were quite unfit. Opposition
members asked questions about compul-
sory unionism and the enforced extrac-
tion of union dues from pay-
envelopes without receiving specific
replies. Members of both parties asserted
that Allied Works • Council offices had
become cosy shelters for bookmakers and
the like.
Other complications arose. Mr. Cur-
tin had to admit that C.C.C. wages
differed in N. S. Wales, Victoria
and Queensland, and undertook to ask
the Federal Arbitration Court “to provide
a formula” —which must have made the
Federal Arbitration Judges grin, es-
pecially as they are not to be asked for “a
formula” to reconcile Women’s Employ-
ment Board ‘decisions. And a storm
worked up round the white locks of Mr.
Joseph Silver Ceilings, the “responsible”
Minister, who rather fancies himself as an
orator. In angry accents Senator Collings
declared that the Allied Works Council
had done and was doing wonderful
work; that the criticisms of Parliamen-
tarians and trade-union secretaries were
exaggerated, irresponsible, unjust and
false, and that the worst of the critics
were “liars,” who “are impairing the war
effort.” The scene shifted to the
Sydney Trades Hall, where there was a
first-class mouth-fight, Collings v. trade-
union secretaries, though particulars
have not been published. Presently the
“responsible” Minister received a press-
ing invitation to attend a Sunday mass
meeting of members of the Melbourne
building-trade unions and discourse on
his “reported attack on officials,” one
of whom, it was pointed out, is “a re-
turned soldier, who has probably done
more working and fighting for this coun-
try than have two-thirds of the old
gentlemen of the Senate put together.”
Newspapermen who have made
personally-conducted tours of Allied
Works Council camps have testified that
capital work has been done, often in
adverse circumstances, and that much of
it will be of permanent value. This is no
doubt true, for Australia has many able
field engineers, and such of the men as
are navvies by calling have few equals
anywhere. Moreover, in almost every dis-
trict, there are active and interested allies
whose assistance can be counted on when-
ever it is required. But the personally-
conducted tourists have also made it plain
that there has been great waste of money
and effort. Where war organisations have
to be improvised, and appointments go
by favor, and novices' throw their weight
about, as well as unlimited public money,
great waste is certain. .
Fighters and Workers.
Dr. Evatt, the Attorney-General, has
given out that an essential part of the
Government’s war policy is “to see that
those who have fought and worked receive
justice” in the “post-war reconstruction.”
Any Government which, in view of the
associated circumstances, could really
accomplish this would deserve to be rated
the very best any country ever had.
As to the workers, it may be possible,
even though “workers” appears to be a
confused term, for which Dr. Evatt and
Labor colleagues have a meaning of
their own. Even with the fairest definition
—“workers” embracing all those who are
working in any capacity on the home
front —it should still be possible to give
them a fair go, with the war won, and
perhaps the “four freedoms” established.
For those who fight, the promised
“justice” should, of course, be made pos-
sible ; but it will not be easy. It is a
vast and tricky problem looming up for
future solution, so difficult that the
machinery for coping with it should be
established and functioning now.
The great problem deserving and re-
quiring fair Government solution when
the war ends will be that of fitting those
who have volunteered and have been
called on to do the fighting back into
civil life, on at least an equal footing
with those who have spent the war-time
working on the home front. When this
problem arrived after the last war the
cure-all as many Diggers knew to
their sorrow and humiliation was
soldier-settlement. It was a miserable
evasion of responsibility to those men ;
all of them, in that war, volunteers. This
term “volunteers” is, like “workers,”
somewhat confused. It should never be
overlooked that a great weight of appeal
to individual patriotism goes to the
making of volunteer armies. Hence
the country, through the Government,
has as positive a responsibility to volun-
teers as to call-ups ; as, indeed, it would
still have if the chaps who went away to
fight the country’s war did so without
any encouraging whatever.
Soldier-settlement, as a solution, is
already being mentioned again by home-
fronters who have learnt nothing from
past experiment, or who are too intent
on securing their own position against
the future to care very much what may
happen to this war’s Diggers. These
Diggers, it needs to be emphasised, are
far more numerous than the last lot.
This time they include all the call-up
men ; and it makes no difference in the
problem ahead if a great many of them
never leave the country. Whether the
Diggers are call-ups or volunteers makes
no difference, either. It seems certain
now that it will be a long war ; the
longer it is the bigger and more difficult
the problem must become.
The worst-placed of all will be those
who, either by volunteering or by call-up,
go into uniform as soon as they turn 18.
None of these will have a trade or fixed
occupation to drop back into ; a great
many of them will not have had oppor-
tunity even to begin at a trade or set
occupation. They can be seen about in
uniform in their thousands, hardly more
than schoolboys. That they make at this
age such good fighters should be all the
more reason for the country’s future
special care of the survivors. The longer
the war lasts the worse off they will be.
The more training they have for the
fighting job, the less readily adaptable
will they be for fitting successfully into
civil life. They will be too old to be
apprenticed to trades'requiring five or six
years for qualifying. As surely as if it
had been done by Act of Parliament, the
trades are closed to them. They must
end up unskilled (potential) workers. In
the circumstances, if Dr. Evatt, or any-
body else, is going to see that these get
“justice” commensurate with their des-
serts, he has the job in front of him.
The older man in uniform —volunteer
or call-up—is in little better case. A few
are having their jobs held for them, but
this does not go for the very great
majority. Even for the few, jobs are
vanishing as businesses of one sort and
another go bung, or are completely
changed in the war effort; and where the
business doesn’t change, the man who is
away for years is almost certain to slip
back in his ability for his old job. Other
appointments may have to be made in his
absence ; men who remain behind at the
work will have improved out of sight in
ability. Even with a held job in his
favor, the man who is away for years
can quite easily return to an atmosphere
of fierce competition, with his war ser-
vice heavily in the balance against him.
The great majority of the older men
will not have even this sort of chance.
It will be useless to rule that firms they
have left by volunteering, or have had to
leave owing to call-up, will have to give
them all back their jobs. Many of the
business and other like places where
they worked will have disappeared;
others will be handling changed or much
depleted business, quite incapable of em-
ploying all former hands. Even those
who can be taken back into jobs they
had left or had had to leave will be in
the same case as those who have had
jobs kept for them —their years away tell-
ing heavily against them.
Compare the prospects of all these with
the position of those who remain in
work on the home front. No matter
what the work the home-fronter is doing
it is certainly not unfitting him for work
in the envisaged post-war reconstruc-
tion. It does not matter what the work
is, it can either carry him on directly
in the same line in post-war civil life,
or else it will have some counterpart
in that life. There is no civil counter-
part for soldiering, except, perhaps, in
the air or truck-driving. Those thus
qualifying are a special, comparative
few; soldiering as taught to the very
great majority is anything but a qualifi-
cation for earning a crust in civil life.
It is a heavy handicap, calling for tre-
mendous personal readjustments, which
is why in the “justice” Dr. Evatt has
hopefully in mind there will need to be
a great measure of sympathetic under-
standing.
The plain truth of the matter is that
those who have worked and those who
have fought will be on such a different
footing at the war’s end that it looks like
the beginning of prospective injustice to
so much as mention them together. Un-
less a miracle is performed, the great
bulk of the very young gone or called
into uniform for the duration of a long
war will, by the end, have sacrificed a
fair and decent start in life. The older
ones, compared with home-fronters, will
also have made altogether dispropor-
tionate sacrifice. How are these to be
compensated? Who will hold the scales
of justice as between them all and home-
front workers? It might well be asked
Who? when, at this present date, girl
typists in the Government employ are
being paid more than A.I.F. sergeants
—let alone privates—in the. front line
of the fighting in Papua; when thou-
sands of workers in many capacities on
the home front each draw as much per
week as a fighting private, corporal, ser-
geant and lieutenant put together; and
when no home-front worker, however
humble, is insulted with the screw of a
fighting private.
This set-up does not augur well tor
any hope of comparative future justice for
“those who have fought and worked ;
but then Dr. Evatt said nothing of “com-
parative” justice, nor has anyone else,
for that matter. Still, all will no doubt
keep in mind the important fact that,
just as the prospective problem of giving
fair justice after a long war to those who
fought is greatly enlarged by the in-
creased numbers of those thus engaged,
this very weight of numbers is some sort
of an insurance that there will a t roast
be a serious attempt. There be
enough of these in line for “justice to
swing any election in the country.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Prodigality as Usual!"
One unforeseen but characteristic result
of the change of Premiers in Queensland
is that the State has 11 Ministers where
it had 10. Mr. W. Forgan Smith is
staying on as Minister without portfolio.
It is announced that he is to receive
“only” his Parliamentary allowance of
£650 p.a., which is excessive, together
with “the usual privileges associated with
Ministerial rank,” among which are free
travelling and a private secretary. Each
of the other gentlemen has at least one
private secretary, and the tendency is
•for the private secretary to have an
“assistant.”
Hitherto every addition to the number
of Ministers at each of the seven centres
of government has become permanent,
and it is tolerably certain that the custom
will be followed in Queensland unless the
taxpayers kick hard. With the Common-
wealth in control of income tax, enter-
tainments tax, transport, public works,
man-power, widows’ pensions, child en-
dowment and almost the entire finance of
South Australia, Westralia and Tas-
mania, it is scandalous that there should
be 11 Ministers in Queensland and 50 in
the other States. Thirty would be a
liberal allotment for the little they had
to do. As for the alleged Parliaments,
their debates have got down to the
smallest of small beer.
It is already evident that the Curtin
Government was overgenerous when it
promised State Governments an annual
£33,489,000 out of income-tax revenue.
That has been demonstrated by Mr. Dun-
stan, who, after wailing that his Govern-
ment would be unable to get along on
the £6,165,170 allotted to it, budgeted for
a surplus of £85,000, after providing for
a prodigious issue of new expenditure.
The additional grants to the three States
alleged to be necessitous are also ex-
cessive, especially in the case of South
Australia. That State’s Government had
a surplus of £1,287,000 last year; on
Grants Commission figures it should get
a “special” gift of £1,470,000 from the
nation this year, but because this would be
outrageous £670,000 is to be “deferred.”
Another example of misplaced Can-
berra philanthropy relates to the distri-
bution of entertainments-tax revenue,
from which the five States that levied
entertainment taxes are to receive £765,000
in the first year. With its own expen-
diture expected to exceed revenue .by
£300,000,000, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment can’t afford this form of benevo-
lence or any other.
It is grossly unjust to the people that
six Governments and Parliaments which
have been relieved of so many of their
functions should be permitted to carry
on in the old prodigal way, as if the war,
which imposes on them no responsibility
whatever, did not exist. If they won’t
voluntarily do the decent thing they
should be put on half-pay for the rest of
the struggle for existence. For this just
and necessary reform the Government
charged with the whole duty of prosecut-
ing the war has ample powers, if it is
game enough to exercise them.
Blarney Speaks for Diggers.
Not before something of the sort was
due. General Blarney turned a vigorous
battery on wowseristic snipers of Diggers.
A month or so back one Hollins, a
politician in Victoria, had the hide to say
that “thousands of men in the armed
forces are suffering a perpetual hang-
over.” There was no notable defender of
the Diggers, who are fighting and dying
for people like Hollins, but when a Pro-
fessor Woodruff, of the same reasonably
safe address, mentioned the army when
talking about the “tyranny of liquor,”
the Diggers’ leader decided it was time
to put in a word.
General Blarney bluntly asked that the
“objectionable practice of using the Aus-
tralian soldier as a hobbyhorse in con-
troversial questions” should be dropped.
I regret to note a recurrence of the prac-
tice of holding up the Australian soldier
as an example of excesses in the use of
alcohol. There is no justification for this,
the chief result of which can only be to
undermine the public confidence in the
soldier, with consequent deterioration in
both civilian and military morale. The
great majority of the men whom I com-
mand have not the opportunity, even
if they had the desire, to consume exces-
sive quantities of alcohol. There is no
such thing as alcoholism in our camps.
Anyone who has been in any training
camp in Australia wifi know this for a
true bill. It mightn’t be a bad idea to
make that experience a necessary quali-
fication for anyone wishing to have a
lash at the Diggers on this score.
Guadalcanar.
J. H. M. Abbott recalls his impressions:
Across the opal-tinted waters of the wide
lagoon the curving stretch of beach gleams
against the sombre verdancy of the jungle-clad
hillside towering above the coconut palms.
No ruffling breeze disturbs the still surface of
the broad bay; the high tufting tops of the
palms are without the whispering rustle that
the slightest zephyr sets sighing through their
ragged fronds. It is hot and close and quiet,
the atmosphere full of that indescribable faint
aromatic fragrance of the tropics, the warm
air relaxing and enervating, inducing in the
human being a drowsy, listless laziness.
Everything reflects heat. The brassy waters
return it from their dazzling surface; the white
floorboards of the boat splash it up into your
face; seats and thwarts are hot to the touch.
And as we run up on to the white beach on
which hardly a ripple splashes, the glare from
the coral sand is almost blinding. Only the
dark coolness of the silent forest behind the
palm-trees and native huts relieves your aching
eyes. Over everything is the deep, cloudless
blue of a summer sky. Very high in the back-
ground are the upper slopes of the 10,000-feet-
high Lion Mountain.
So you land on Guadalcanar —Guadalcanal,
if you prefer it —not far from the flying-field
round whose borders the gunfire and bomb ex-
plosions shatter the age-old quiet of the place
today.
That open country where the flying-field lies,
nearly opposite Tulagi, in a westerly direction,
is strangely unlike every other part of the Solo-
mons. Nearly everywhere else the shores are
steep-to, and the dense jungle, starting at the
waterside, reaches to the top of each of the
succeeding ridges that make up the landscape
as viewed from the seaways between the islands.
In the great forests that smother the mountains
mighty trees support a deep-green roof through
which the sunlight filters in scarce and in-
frequent shafts of briliant radiance. Their huge,
vine-clad trunks rise up like cathedral pillars
out of the densest and most varied undergrowth.
Twisting vines swing from the spreading
branches that support the roof of dense foliage.
Here and there a banana or a sago-palm
catches gleams of sunlight on its shining
broad leaves. Red hibiscus flowers are bright
color-patches in the sombre green gloom.
Lovely ferns cluster at the foot of the trees,
and delicate mosses clothe their sides. Gay
parrots scream and squawk in the high tree-
tops.
But there is nothing of this in the wide extent
of open downs on Guadalcanar where is the
new airfield —only called into being since the
Japanese came to these parts. From the sea
the country appears to be a well-grassed open
area that gradually rises as it reaches inland
towards the wooded foothills of the ranges.
Nowhere else in the group is there anything
like this. And of all the striking contrasts that
may be found between Santa Cruz, at the
eastern end of the chain of islands, and Bou-
gainville, in the western, perhaps there is none
quite so remarkable as that which exists be-
tween this part of Guadalcanar and the west
coast of San Cristoval, along which you voyage
when coming from the New Hebrides to Tulagi.
The massive grandeur of the towering ranges in
the interior, the wild, primeval aspect of the
dense forests that stretch downward from the
summits to the coastline is infinitely impres-
sive. As it looks to day so must it have looked
to the Spaniards as they coasted along it over
350 years ago.
San Cristoval is typical of the group—this
part of Guadalcanar is exceptional. But it is
the possession of this part of the island that
counts in the present war, and these open slopes
below thp Lion Mountain have been and will
be the scene of bloody fighting.
Hugh Pye.
“The world knows nothing of its greatest
men,” and few Australians other than
wheatgrowers have heard of Hugh Pye
or the work to which he devoted his life.
He never figured in publications like
Who’s Who. When he died he was not
unfairly described in the Victorian
Assembly by a Labor member (W. G.
McKenzie) as “one of the greatest cefeal-
ists the world has known.”
W. H. Everard, deputy-leader of the
U.A.P., testified that the man’s “sole
ambition was to make two grains of
wheat grow where only one grew
before”; and mentioned some of the
many wheat varieties the Dookie man
had bred. He gave Hugh Pye’s philo-
sophy in Pye’s own words:
It is not easy to steer a course through
a maze of ignorance when doing pioneer-
ing work, and in the end to win the confi-
dence of those you wish to serve. You
cannot deceive the world for long if you
are a poseur, but if your purpose is honest
you will at least be given credit for honest
endeavor.
That was all the reward Pye sought, and
all the reward he received. Nobody con-
tradicted Fulton (C.P., Gippsland North)
when he said the dead scientist was “one
of the worst-treated men in the State.”
Like the Tommy of the Old Contemp-
tibles, he “took his wages and is dead.”
In the evening of his days he said: “I
hope that research work will be carried
on, and that it will create in the minds
of students the inspiration its association
always gives.” He himself was an inspira-
tion and an example.
A DAY IN THE LIFE OF THE ALLIED WORKS COUNCIL.
[With acknowledgments to Mr. Sol Rosevear, M.H.R., and Major-General Rankin, M.H.R.]


M
KEEP HEALTHY
THIS NRTURRL WAY
You can end constipation naturally,
promptly, effectively with NYAL FIG-
SEN. Figsen is a pleasant-tasting laxative.
Chew one or two tablets before retiring.
Figsen acts overnight without disturbing
your sleep. No stomach upsets, no griping
pain. In the morning Figsen acts—mildly,
gently, but thoroughly. Figsen is equally
good for young and old. Sold by chemists
everywhere. 1/3 a tin-
The nexi best thing to, Nature t t ,
MyaSFi&sem
THE GENTLE LRXRTIVE
THE
II MITE Insurance
SJ 111 I ELI COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Ail classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
d
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing’ new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEIj APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Dll
WE ARE
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
£l5/17/3
DOUBLE RIGGED.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles or
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 28lb. . .
N.S.W. Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order.
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
WALTHER t> STEVEMSOHH
L 395 CEORCE ST. SYPHeT]
595 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
m
POLITICAL POINTS
With the blessing of the Government
at Canberra new wage-fixing tribunals
which make their own rules have sprung
up in Australia; and a Labor Adminis-
tration at Perth has fixed the State basic
wage itself, in contempt of an Arbitra-
tion Court judgment and of the central
Government’s repeated assurances that
wages have been pegged. What Arbitra-
tion Judges think of these innovations
was indicated by Dwyer, J., in Perth and
by O’Mara, J., in Sydney—the latter m
an arid comment on the performances
of Ward’s Women’s Employment Board.
On Wednesday the Senate tried to sweep
the W.E.B. away by the disallowance-of-
regulation route, and Curtin came to the
rescue with a statutory rule. And idle
threats of a double dissolution came from
members with safe seats.
With charming unanimity, the House
passed a bill to put down profiteering
and black marketing. At Fadden’s
instance a committee representing several
departments is to advise on prosecutions,
and that gives no cause for enthusiasm ;
but the penalties look salutary enough:
three months (individual) and £lOOO
(company) on summary conviction; 12
months and £lO,OOO where an indictment
is lodged. They are minimum penalties ;
buyers as well as sellers are responsible,
goods or their value are forfeitable to
the Crown and convicted traders are to
display particulars of the offence for
three months after conviction. Hitherto
in the great majority of cases taken to
court notably those of Robert Reid,
Gilpins, Lewis Benjamin Isaacs and one
Gobbert, of Inverell—fines have been far-
cical. Power to repeat is to be taken from
soft-hearted or soft-headed magistrates.
Introducing his anti-profiteering and
-black-marketing bill, Dr. Evatt made a
long statement on the affair of Myers,
Melbourne. That concern made “approxi-
mately £250,000” by adding “about 3
p.c.” for two years to pre-war average
gross profit. There were over 40,000,000
transactions, and the Attorney-General
agrees that in the then state of the law
and temper of magistrates prosecutions
would have been unavailing, so Myers
were permitted to pass the £250,000 back
to customers. Spooner is right: it
should have been taken by the Govern-
ment for war finance.
The Ascot (Melbourne) proprietary
racecourse, which was to have one more
Saturday this racing year than the V.R.C.,
has been taken over by the military. As
if that wasn’t revolutionary enough, a
plan for Stadium bruising matches in
Sydney and Melbourne on the raceless
Saturday was blasted by a Curtin philip-
pic. The P,M. can’t have the reverence
for Wren which distinguishes other Labor
politicians.
The U.S.A. has an A.L.P., short for
“American Labor party.” It has numer-
ous enemies. One genially describes it
as “a weak and shabby special-privilege
conglomeration whose insignia should be
a black jack rampant on a Pink field.”
A good time has been had by all in
the Sydney Rugby League (motto: “More
Footbrawl than Usual”). Two clubs are
to get more than £3OOO each (“figures un-
precedented in the history of the Rugby
League”) and others amounts ranging
from £640 to £lB4O. Then there are to be
a special bonus of £l5O to each club and
a refund of portion of ground charges,
while an “effort is to be made to divert
programme sales profits to clubs.”
Patriotic funds? Not mentioned.
“Individualism” keeps on breaking out
—with a vengeance—from the Gosford
(N.S.W.) reformatory: 15 cases in four
days, 32 in a month, 150-odd in
a year. State police spend a great
deal of time chasing boys through
the Hawkesbury scrub, and there
have been thefts and damage to property.
It all springs from a so-called “honor”
system instituted by Mr. Clive Evatt, one
of the six Ministers of Education, under
which “individualists” are not locked in
at night.
It will be a pity if the latest newsprint
cuts lead to a further curtailment of
Commonwealth Parliamentary reports,
but this is only too probable an outcome.
Severely as newspapers have been
rationed in Britain, Parliamentary reports
are still main features of the “Times”
and the Manchester “Guardian,” and
every Churchill deliverance is faithfully
recorded even if it runs into two pages.
Here even the P.M.’s speeches, however
important, are cut to the bone, and war
PRESENT FOR A GOOD BOY.
“Mr. Wilson, the 'Independent,’ is to have his mortgage bank, the Act to come into
operation ‘only when proclaimed.’”
“There, Alec; but you’re not to start eating it for years and years and years!”
disclosures made by Dr. Evatt and other
speakers are left to “Hansard,” which is far
from being a bright and early publication.
People who want to know what is going
on in the world of affairs would cheerfuly
dispense with thistledown stuff if Parlia-
ment were better reported.
When is the Australian public to be
told what happened at Darwin? In a
recent review of the war situation Dr, Evatt
said that Darwin was “badly mauled” ;
but that is the extent of the information
vouchsafed to the people, though the
Government has had the report of an in-
dependent observer in its hands for
months. Of the results of bombings in
North W.A., Westralians have learnt
something from Wise, their Minister of
Lands, who, speaking from personal
observation, said “the enemy has upset
the way of living of very many people
in the North ; in some cases he has de-
stroyed all their assets and means of
livelihood.” He added that they were
carrying on with great courage, which
was only to be expected. With this sturdy
example of national spirit within its
knowledge, why should the Government
hesitate to give the nation the whole
facts about the bombings? *
Archie Galbraith Cameron at it again:
Ever since the last election this country
has been cursed with a Government that
will not govern and an Opposition that
will not oppose.
True, but incomplete. This country is
also cursed with a Parliament which
won’t exercise control of the public purse.
Dunstan pointed out a loophole in the
new horse- and dog-racing regulations,
which define greyhound racing as “be-
tween dogs in competitive pursuit of a
lure activated by mechanical means.”
Pursuit of the tin hare is prohibited in
Victoria, where Jive hares are used, and
Dunstan insisted on the omission being
rectified. Presumably the hares will be
informed.
Melbourne “Herald,” which opposed
uniform income taxation on narrow pro-
vincial grounds, has suffered a sea-change
very much for the better. It has come
out strong for enlargement of the Com-
monwealth Parliament, and for “a fun-
damental reconsideration of the future
of the States, whose insistence upon
sovereignty becomes ever less impressive.”
Accepting “fundamental reconsideration”
itself, the “Herald” suggests provincial
councils on the South African model, and
for Victoria it proposes one in Gipps-
land, another in the Western District, a
third “consisting of the northern border
areas and Riverina,” with Greater Mel-
bourne for a fourth. Excellent, and
worthy of a newspaper which has claims
to be regarded as the most readable after-
noon paper written in English. Certainly
it carries far and away the best service
of war news in Australia.
Canada has applied its censorship to
a bitter old Red named Dreiser, who used
to write dull novels. In an evil diatribe
against the English, whom he has never
forgiven for refusing to send their sons
to be slaughtered in Spain, Dreiser said
if Russia were defeated he hoped the
Germans would invade England, “which
has done nothing in this war except
borrow money, ’planes and men from
the U.S.A.”
Churchill has no intention of opening
a Second Front. He is afraid Communists
will rule the world, so he does nothing ex-
cept send thousands of Canadians to be
slaughtered at Dieppe. He did not send
any English, as far as I know.
The bloodthirsty old Communist didn’t
take the trouble to inquire. But if it is
true that Churchill has no intention of
opening a Second Front it is the best bit
of news Australia has had this year.
Lang’s “Century” takes it for granted
that the Big Fellow will become M.H.R.
for Reid, brushing aside the difficulties
in the way. One mentioned at an A.L.P.
branch meeting is that “some of the mem-
bers think it would be better for Mr.
Lang to go for a borderline seat, such
as Robertson or Eden-Monaro.” Neither
Spooner nor Perkins would object; on
the contrary, each gentleman would love
to have Lang for an opponent.
In the brief time allowed for discus-
sion of the £550,000,000 Austerity Budget,
which was pushed through while mem-
bers were asleep or half-dead, Marwick
(Swan, W.A.) brought up the subject of
motoring on the nod, the cost of which has
increased tremendously. He said Laz-
zarini—not Carlo Camillo, but the one
who is Federal Minister for something or
other—had been offered a seat in an-
other Minister’s car but had requisitioned
one for himself instead. “The meanest
thing you ever said,” screeched Lazza-
rini. Then he “explained” that he had
“ordered a car to convey myself and six
lady typists back to Parliament House,”
because it was raining and the “six lady
typists” might have got wet. And that’s
one of the thousand or ten thousand ways
in which the money goes; one of the
thousand or fifty thousand things which
account for the Austerity Budget reach-
ing £550,000,000.
From a Great Daily’s London cor-
respondent :
The tremendous battle for Stalingrad
has not yet decided the city’s fate, but
competent observers believe that it has
already decided this year’s eastern cam-
paign—in Russia’s favor.
On the same principle, the campaign in
North Africa has been decided in the
Empire’s favor because the enemy has
failed to take Alexandria. But none of
these “competent observers” would argue
that way. The rule for “competent
observers” is that Russian campaigns and
generals must be cracked up, and Empire
campaigns and generals written down.
Said Lady Astor in the Commons: “I
wouldn’t mind sitting on a platform with
a Russian Communist, but I wouldn’t
be seen dead with a British Communist.”
No doubt the lady would have the same
objection to being deceased in the com-
pany of Australian and American Com-
munists. New York specimens collected
a Second Front crowd last week and
“party” members went about getting sig-
natures for telegrams to the President
reading “What is holding up a Second
Front? Let us invade Europe now.”
Well, let us! Nobody’s detaining us.
Lines from the N, S. Wales Auditor-
General’s report for the year to June 30:
The amount of income tax for which
assessments had not been issued at the
close of the year was abnormally large.
Tax assessed and unpaid at June 30,
1942....£1,676,833.
Does this mean that McKell, who
promised to abolish the wage tax and
then tacked it on to income tax, budgeted
for a tax-revenue running to two or three
millions more than he needed for legiti-
mate requirements? Does it mean that
taxpayers were subjected to infamous
extortion? Oh no! Merely a case of
McKell’s department being a bit late with
assessments.
The Blakeley “investigation,” ordered
at the instance of the Federated Iron-
workers’ Union or Red racket, was re-
sumed last week at the Port Kembla
steelworks, and seems to have settled
down into a leisurely probing of charges
that staff men got repair jobs done with-
out paying for them. Similar allegations
have been current gossip at Government
enterprises ever since Government enter-
prises were started, and if they were all
made the subject of .one “investigation”
it would keep Mr. Blakeley and the law-
yers and the witnesses and the union sec-
retaries occupied till 1950. If the Gov-
ernment is not dead scared of Thornton
and his gang, it will call off the “inves-
tigation” and tell all the parties to get
on with their war jobs.


8
m
■■
THE FLEETS of the DEMOCRACIES use
BATTERIES
Still keep going when the rest have stopped
AT LEFT: American battleships in
formation with gun turrets raised.
AT RIGHT: One of Britain’s most for-
midable battleships patrolling the seas.
Vktsm
an
mm
PERSONAL ITEMS
Intent on missing nobody, the Man-
power people pressed their offensive home
on the staff of an aged prelate. Eventu-
ally they roped in a personal attendant.
Stumped for a bit, the aged prelate
(so runs the legend) remembered his
other position of chaplain to the
forces. Of the right authorities he asked
didn’t this entitle him to a batman? It
did. Couldn’t he nominate his own bat-
man? He could. Splendid! Now he
has his special attendant back as batman,
with the slight difference that now it’s
the Army that pays the screw.
“H.M.”: Damien Parer, the Depart-
ment of Information cameraman who
shot those films of the sinking of the
Macdhui and of the wounded being car-
ried from Kokoda, is building a reputation
for his New Guinea air photography.
They’re an enterprising lot, the Parers.
Ray Parer was the pioneer of commer-
cial flying in New Guinea, using at first
a crate very little less ancient than the
patched affair with which he and Mcln-
tosh did the England to Australia flight—
a classic of reckless daring. The original
Australian Parer, who ran a restaurant in
Melbourne, may be remembered quaintly
in these days of universal war as an en-
thusiast about Australian Rules football
who proposed (financing it himself) to
take two teams to Spain and Portugal.
The scheme fell through.
Alan Marshall, of Melbourne (some
of his short stories have appeared in
The Bulletin), thought up an under-
taking that deserved better luck. Mar-
shall was lamed by infantile paralysis
when a child, and has always had to use
crutches. Despite this, he set out with
his wife, per horse-drawn caravan, to
collect “messages from home” for publi-
cation in the Middle East Diggers’ paper
“A.I.F. News” ; the aim was to ask
mothers and others who had Diggers
over there for messages that would have
a special meaning for them alone, avoid-
ing customary generalities, and instead
conveying something of definite personal
interest. It was intended to plug away
on the job from Victoria up to and
through Queensland. A series of acci-
dents dogged the venture at first, ending
with Marshall breaking a paralysed leg,
and only narrowly escaping having to
have it amputated ; he had to spend three
months in Swan Hill hospital. All this
notwithstanding, the messages went
through. Now Marshall is back on the
job in the Mallee, and they’re going
through again.
Rev. B. R. Wyllie, of Geelong (Vic.),
has been chosen to succeed L. E. Bennett,
present principal of Wesley College (Syd-
ney Uni.), who’s about to retire after 19
years in the job. With an M.A. and B.D.
from Melbourne, a fine military record
in the last war, and experience with
students all over Australia (he was travel-
ling secretary of the Student Christian
Movement) Wesley’s new head has extra-
good qualities for the post. He’s 48.
Christopher Smith succeeds to the
post of Inspector of Entertainments
in S.A., held for the past 30 years by
his brother. He’s rather different
from the usual Government official,
being an architect with a strong bent
for the theatre, and having himself
erected many picture-houses.
Montesole, Man of the World:
Back in the censorship-squabbling days of
1936 Max Montesole (who has passed on at
52 in Perth) figured in a double-barrelled cen-
sorship rumpus in Sydney. A.B.C. billed a
“censorship discussion” between Max and
Norman Lindsay. Naturally there was wide
interest. The day before the event The
Bulletin announced that this “censorship dis-
cussion” would be Norman’s first broadcast.
Then, at the eleventh hour, A.B.C. showed how
it really felt about censorship by itself censor-
ing the broadcast right off the air! The
Bulletin subsequently published the discussion
complete under the heading “The Forbidden
Dialogue” (23/9/’36). The happening was
enough of radio for Norman; he remains one
of the select Australians who have never broad-
cast. Montesole, with his Westralian wife, Elsie
Mackay, once leading lady with Cyril Maude,
was at the time on an A.B.C. broadcasting tour
of the various States. In his day he had acted
with Beerbohm Tree, Frank Benson and Barry-
more companies, and he was with Ellen Terry on
her final English, American, S’African and
Far Eastern tours. In the last war he was in
the air with the R.F.C. till a machine-gun
bullet took him for its cue. Then he was chief
instructor in aerial and artillery camouflage.
Later, in N’York, he produced Maeterlinck’s
“The Burgomaster of Stilemonde,” and, meet-
ing Paul Robeson, introduced the dusky bari-
tone to Mrs. Patrick Campbell, and so started
him on his stage career. All who ever knew
Max rated him one of the best.
In succession to the late J. J. Holmes,
C. R. (Dick) Cornish has gone into the
Westralian Leg. Council for Northern
Province, which stretches out from the
Kimberley regions to embrace a huge
part of the State. A loco, workshop hand
in 1915, Cornish joined the 44th Batt.,
headed overseas with three stripes, was
commissioned in 1917, and came back
with a D. 5.0., after being recommended
for a V.C. Now keeper of a suburban
pubbery, he earlier had similar interests
around Carnarvon-Port Hedland, as well
as being a pioneer of the flourishing
banana industry on the lower Gascoyne.
In 1922 he figured in a tragic yacht
wreck along the coast. When the yacht
overturned in the darkness Cornish,
D. managed to reach the shore,
despite the reefs and swell, and then
tramped 40 miles through the bush to
Gin Gin. Rescuers set out at once, but
Dick’s brother and the third member of
the party were found dead.
Awarded the Distinguished Service
Cross (American) “for extraordinary
heroism in action in New Guinea” Pilot-
Officer Leigh H. Vial, of Camberwell
(Vic.). Now 33, he was educated at Wes-
ley College and Melbourne University
and was due for a commercial career
when he felt a call to the tropics, joining
the N.G. Administration Service. He was
assistant d.o. at Rabaul when the Japs got
busy. Back in Australia he got a return
ticket to his old stamping ground by
joining the R.A.A.F. A younger brother,
Lieut.-Colonel R. R. Vial, earned the
D.S.O. for bravery in the Greek war,
served over two years in the Middle East
and is now at an advanced base Some-
where in Australia.
How the man with the magnificent
pair of handlebars here portrayed by
Counihan has got through his highly
dangerous and distinguished career with-
out getting his face herbage caught in
a propeller is one of the mysteries of
modern aviation. He is Air Commodore
Frank Lukis, now Air Member for Per-
sonnel on the Air Board in Melbourne.
Born at Balingup (W.A.) 44 years ago,
he somehow or other was old enough to
get into the 10th Light Horse just after
the outbreak of the last war. In a
machine-gun section in 1916, in 1917 he
AIR COMMANDER FRANK LUKIS.
was a flying lieutenant in No. 1 Squadron
in Egypt and Palestine, By the time the
war ended he’d been twice mentioned
in dispatches, was a captain and flight
commander, and was just out of his
teens. Establishment of the R.A.A.F.
saw him adjutant at No. 1 Flying Train-
ing School, Point Cook, and he was in
command of various squadrons for the
next eight years. In December, 1939, he
took command at Laverton. Shortly
before he got his present appointment
he completed an outstanding job in
an operational area which became vital
as the Japs approached this continent.
Frith came away from sketching Mel-
bourne’s new Coadjutor-Archbishop, Dr.
J. D. Simonds, with two main impressions
—an unruly shock of black hair rising
surprisingly straight up from a massive
forehead and a vigorous and determined
personality. Dr. Simonds needed both the
Coadjutor-Archbishop of Melbourne.
vigor and the determination when he
went to further his studies at Louvain.
The course he took usually spreads over
three years. Because he had only two
years to complete it, he was granted per-
mission to combine the baccalaureate and
licentiate in the one year and go for his
doctorate in the next. He took all three
degrees with first-class honors, and found
time as well to visit most European coun-
tries. Something of both qualities was
also required in a rather different sphere
—when, before starting out for church
scholarship (he’s an outstanding authority
on Catholic history), he was a first-rate
Rugby player.
From C. B. Jennings, secretary Adel-
aide Chamber of Commerce:
On September 16 The Bulletin had a cari-
cature (quite good) of Roland Jacobs, but re-
ferred to him as the new president of the
S.A. Chamber of Manufactures. This should
have been the Adelaide Chamber of Com-
merce. Roland’s father, S. J. Jacobs, was
also president for two years, 1901-02 and
1902-03.
Hardly had Chester Parker arrived in
England as Queensland Rhodes scholar
for 1938 when the gun went off. He
postponed his plans to study law and
joined the R.N.V.R., being appointed to
the armed liner Dunvegan Castle as a
sub-lieutenant. Rescued when she was
torpedoed,' he went to a corvette as
lieutenant, survived bombings in the
Mediterranean and was then posted to a
submarine. Both he and the boat are
now posted “overdue and presumed lost.”
Born at Charters Towers, he went to
Collinsville State school and Townsville
Grammar before going to the Uni-
versity. In his last letter he stressed
the great comradeship existing be-
tween men in the submarine service.
Charles H. Wood, veteran cattle
salesman at Homebush (N.S.W.) yards
-—he is 74 —has sold more than
1,250,000 head of cattle and millions
of sheep in the 40 years he’s
been wielding the hammer. His
best figures for one year were 70,000
cattle and 700,000 sheep. He’s been sell-
ing for Pitt, Son and Badgery for 34
years, having started as an auctioneer
at. Goulburn (N.S.W.), where his family
has long been in the stock and station
line. He’s still credited with the best
voice of any salesman at Homebush.
Bishop John Stephen Hart, of Wan-
garatta (Vic.), is thinking of calling it a
day, after 15 years in his bishopric. Born
at Caulfield, Melbourne, in 1866, and
educated at East St. Kilda Grammar
School and Melbourne University, he was
ordained in 1893, became vicar of
Benalla in 1900 and then went to Middle
Park and St. Martin’s, Hawksburn. Dean
of Melbourne in 1919, he was twice
Moorhouse lecturer at St. Paul’s
Cathedral. He is a Fellow of the Aus-
tralian College of Theology.
Able to sport almost as many medals
as General MacArthur, Sgt. J. Cooper has
hobnobbed with royalty, fought Boers,
Turks, Germans and (with a persuasive
tongue) strikers. Born at St, Mary’s
(Tas.), he has rounded out a life cycle by
finishing his public service there. He was
a miner at Mt. Lyell when he left for
South Africa in the Bushmen’s Contin-
gent. Wounded, captured and then in-
valided home, he went back, saw the war
out, went goldmining at Jo’burg and
joined the Transvaal police. Malaria and
ague sent him home to the Tasmanian
police, but he was ashore as a sergeant
with the mob at the Gallipoli Landing,
and later went to France as R.S.M. and
was wounded at Bullecourt. He was
back in the Tasmanian force in 1919,
when, doing special duty, he began his
hobnobbing with visiting royalties. He
saw the roaring days of the West Coast
mines and the Geeveston timber strike.
With 10,000 flying hours in war and
peace to his credit, Captain Eric Donald-
son has given up “active flying” to lend
a hand in the Civil Aviation Department.
He joined the old R.F.C. in the last
shindy, made a name with a Bristol
fighter, won a D.F.C., and transferred to
the Australian Flying Corps. Later he
put in 14 years’ continuous flying with
Qantas and Qantas Empire Airways, but
it was his work with the Flying Doctor
service that won him the unofficial title
of “No. 1 outback pilot.” He’s had a
bird’s-eye view of pretty well every acre
of nor’-west Queensland and the Terri-
tory.
Back in his student days David Fleay,
Director of the Colin McKenzie Sanctu-
ary (Vic.) and winner of the Australian
Natural History Medallion, would bring
a flying phalanger or a koala out of his
pocket with the nonchalance of a con-
juror producing a rabbit. Later, neigh-
bors reported his backyard in Parkville
(Melb.) as “crawling with every sort of
reptile.” As a secondary-school teacher he
was always popular with students of
natural history, especially on the wombat,
as he always brought along a live sample.
Once, at a West Melbourne school, he
had a goanna roped by the off hind
leg to a table in front of the class.
The go. broke loose. Downstairs the
Head, startled by the pandemonium he
heard breaking out above, rushed to quell
the riot. Halfway upstairs he encoun-
tered the desperate go., looking from
below like a young crocodile, and he took
the stairs backwards five at a time. As
keen today as he was then, Fleay has
done a fine job at the Healesville sanctu-
ary. The Australian section at Melbourne
Zoo is another achievement to his credit.
Into the silence;
At Bendigo (Vic.), Mrs. Mary Bright, author
of five books of verse, including The Song of
the Happy Warrior, a large volume of war
verse.
At Safety Bay (W.A.), Robert Johnson, said
to be the oldest native-born Westralian. A
Fremantle product, he was in turn errand-boy
to the governor of Fremantle Gaol, steve-
dore, whaler and farm laborer. One cocky
for whom he worked paid him Id. a day.
In Melbourne, at 92, Robert Balfour Mel-
ville, formerly one of Victoria’s prominent
golfers, and a link with several distinguished
naval, literary and sporting families. Captain
Maitland, of the Bellerophon, who took
Napoleon to St. Helena, was an uncle, and
Captain Whyte-Melville, author of many
sporting novels and also of the song “The Place
Where the Old Horse Died,” often heard
round campfires in the old days, was a cousin,
as also was Robert Louis Stevenson.
Actor Fred Patey, known to several genera-
tions of Australian playgoers. He ran away
from a law course to take to the buskins, and
played with J.C.W., Pollard’s Lilliputians,
Bilanderson and Allan Wilkie. He was in the
great tradition. Refusing to take the knock
from the talkies, he toured the smalls with
a company of his own until a few years ago,
when his fine, mellifluous voice was given to
broadcasting.
At Blackburn (Vic.), Miss Mary Sadleir-
Forster, whose father pioneered as a pastoralist
in Queensland and N.S.W. and whose mother
established one of the early seminaries for young
ladies in Melbourne. The daughter taught
music and was the author of several songs and
instrumental pieces.
At 67, in Melbourne, A. V. Leggo, head of
Victor Leggo Chemical Co., Yarraville, with
branches all over Australia. Born at Bendigo,
he began as an assayer at Ballarat, set up a
metallurgical works at Bendigo and in 1913
founded the Yarraville concern, which did
veoman service in the last war in supplying
materials for munitions.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Zake”: When a warder’s bullet put
an escaping Sydney criminal in hospital
interviewers rushed round to question his
“girl-wife.” The pair, it appears, had
been wedded but a few short months.
Ah! What a flutter for feminine readers!
Clad in cute pyjamas and a natty dress-
ing-gown, the lady spilled her stuff to the
enraptured Fourth Estate, and the head-
lines made her a heroine had she
not sat devotedly by the side of her
spouse in hospital? Yes, and she would
still be waiting for him when he was free
again. How beautiful! Army nurses?
Mothers and wives of Diggers? They’re
not trews, brother. Push ’em over
to the back page between the Wollon-
gong dog draw and the Wanted to Buy
ads. and let the wife of Tommy the Thug
or Charlie the Cosher hog the heavy
type!
* * * *
“K.”: Much has been heard of late
of how the Japs have painted their heads
and faces green, the better to merge
with the surrounding jungle. It was
surprising, therefore, to see in Damien
Parer’s fine film “The Road to Kokoda”
Australian troops, tommy-guns at hips,
moving cautiously along jungle paths as
they stalked the wily Nip, their own faces
showing startlingly white against the
“Wot about a milk shake , Jock ?”
dark background. Even a deeply-tanned
face can be seen by an eagle-eyed sniper,
and many fair-skinned Aussies go only
the lightest of brown, some only pink,
The Jap, it has to be admitted, has
taught us a few painful lessons in jungle
warfare, but we are catching up fast and
in due time will probably be teaching
him a few lessons to which he may have
to scratch hard for an answer. But his
jungle camouflage has proved damnably
sound, and the pictorial evidence that
our emulation of this phase of his work
has been limited to draping a few leaves
over tin-hats is disconcerting.
“Taniwha”; War is a wind that blows
benefits sometimes in unexpected direc-
tions. For instance, about the most for-
lorn cause known to Maoriland’s prac-
tical politicians is the movement for the
completion of that part of the South
Island Main Trunk Railway linking Can-
terbury with Marlborough. For 70 years
this line has been under construction, a
few miles being added each decade.
Whenever anyone has arisen in Parlia-
ment to suggest that the job should be
hurried up and completed, so that it may
earn full revenue, there has arisen a howl
from the Northerners that the country
it runs through is so barren and unpro-
ductive, and so fearfully exposed to bliz-
zards and snowdrifts, that the line should
never have been started. “If the people
of those regions want to transport their
cattle, let them drove them over the
frozen rivers as their forefathers did” is
a pet piece of oratory —a canard, of
course. But now the War Administration
proposes to push on with the job with
all speed, “to save 100,000 gallons of
petrol and 400 or 500 heavy-duty tyres
a year,” as Railways Minister Bob
Semple puts it.
* * * *
“Arter” on a matter of aesthetics;
“Cauboy’s” attempted demonstration (B.
23/9/’42) that it is “quite easy” to appreciate
“modernist” art (“all you have to do is to throw
yourself into the feelings of the painter, try
to understand his feelings, identify yourself
with his emotions”) does no more than beg
the question. Why the dickens should I have
to attempt such impossible feats of deduction
as to discover why Modernist A draws men
like spiders, why Modernist B fits all races
with negroid features, why/ Modernist C de-
lights in representations of human viscera and
why a dozen other of our brave new artists
seem determined to give the impression that
they do their painting with their eyes tightly
bandaged? If an artist cannot convey to me
clearly, decisively and without room for de-
bate what he saw and what he thought of it,
why should I bother with him? Art history is
the record of men who made their meaning
gloriously clear —the lake-dwellers who scribed
on mammoth-bones, the sculptors of ancient
Greece, and, in nearer times, Raphael, Goya,
Velasquez, Rembrandt, Titian, Michelangelo.
We’ve had some hundreds of years in which to
assess those lads, and they still bulk as giants.
Might I suggest that that is because ordinary
intelligent men could understand them and
appreciate them without attempting mental
gymnastics?
* $ * $
“Pronto”: You wouldn’t suspect that
Senior Constable Johnhop is a lover of
children, but he is. The other Sunday
afternoon he headed a licensing squad in
a raid on a suburban hotel of which bad
reports had come to headquarters. Every-
thing had seemed O.K. —no signs of trad-
ing and no one except boarders and
family on the premises. The raiders left.
Outside several grubby youngsters were
playing in the gutter. “Why don’t you
play in the park, sonny?” asked Johnhop
benevolently of a redheaded urchin. “I’m
waiting fer me ole man,” was the reply.
“Where is he?” asked the senior, and
the kid answered “In the boozer. He’s
been there since dinnertime.” Back
went the police, and this time their search
was more thorough. One of the party
noticed traces of fresh mud on a ladder
leading to the roof, and there they dis-
covered seven guilty-looking customers,
crowded round the chimney pots,
* * * *
“Pawang” ; A memory of Queen Vic-
toria is conjured up by the recent story
from New York of a wealthy woman and
her daughter who for 23 years remained
completely cloistered in a suite at the
Hotel America, where the staff had in-
structions every morning to lay a freshly-
pressed suit, polished shoes, tie and clean
collar across the bed where the elder
woman’s husband died in 1919. The couple
might have died there if the owners of
the hotel had not decided on demolishing
the building. Queen Victoria’s ordering
of a similar ritual after the death of the
Prince Consort was simply reverential.
She had an enormous admiration for the
talents of Albert (justified, historians say,
by his alteration of Lord John Russell's
ultimatum to Washington when the Union
was struggling for its life), and the daily
performance in itself didn’t interfere with
the discharge of her monarchical duties.
But she incurred a good deal of criticism
“And always carry your identity cards in case you forget yourselves !”
by reason of her almost complete with-
orawal from public life for so many
years after her Consort’s death.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Melbourne newspapers are
encouraging their public with examples
of Austerity. They cite the case of an
actress who makes one hair-do go as far
as two did before. Nor has the eagle eye
of the reporter missed the spectacle of
a couple, fresh from the altar, leaping
from a Collins-street tram, dashing into
a photographer’s and dashing out again
to catch another tram, presumably for
the honeymoon. Unfortunately, the de-
scription of the bride’s dress sounded as
if it must have cost a few thousand tram
fares. And there is a detailed account
of the Austerity wedding cakes being
cooked at a domestic-economy college:
Two cakes strike a patriotic note, one
with a John Bull motif. Australian flowers
were chosen by two students to decorate
their cakes. One had sprigs of golden
wattle scattered over the icing, and the
other small pink gumnut blossom. Another
cake, iced in white, had the edges in a
lace pattern following the lace fan which
made the top decoration. One plain white
cake bad a blue rippled edging and a white
seashell covered with a very little tulle.
Another cake with a sea motif was pale
green with lines of white and had a small
sailing ship as a centrepiece. A pretty
pale-blue one with white apple-blossom
will be used at a wedding.
If this is Austerity, what must Luxury
be like?
“Craiser”: Lud Mayor Nettiefold,
of Melbourne, is prolific of ideas for
furthering the war effort, but some
of them seem to be put forth with
the tongue in the cheek —as, for in-
stance, his newest suggestion that
brides should go to the altar wear-
ing war savings stamps in their hair,
bonds in their corsage and certifi-
cates in their bouquets. That seems
to imply full bridal regalia, frowned
on by Austerity experts. The cash
involved in white tulle, Brussels-lace
veil, etc., would buy hundreds of war
savings stamps.
* * * *
“Bouquet”: Touching on those news-
stand posters (B. 23/9/’42). When a Jap
fleet was reported to be “retiring at high
speed” after the first American landing
in the Solomons, a George-street vendor
tersely epitomised on his board the news
that took up the front page of the Sydney
afternoon sheets. A stout businessman,
sparring up his tuppence, drily remarked
“Well, that’s what you’d expect of ’em”
as he glanced down at the chalked in-
scription, which read:
MARINES SCORE.
JAPS FLEA AMERICANS.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; It used to be the fashion
for prima donnas to appear on the con-
cert platform in Melbourne so arrayed
that the glitter of their diamonds made
it difficult for some people to concentrate
on their singing. In those days, too, it
was the custom that the applause should
be accompanied by the contents of half
the florists’ shops in the city and other
gifts. During one opera season competi-
tion between patrons in this way of ex-
pressing their appreciation reached such
heights that a Bulletin cartoonist did
a full-page picture showing Melba and
her co. standing by the footlights after
the final curtain while steam cranes
lowered crates of champagne to the
boards and workmen trundled barrow-
loads of chocolate and other foodstuffs
over the heads of the orchestrions. But
when a soprano sang at the Town Hall
recently she wore \yhat looked like a
prison warder’s uniform, and the bouquet
she got might have been bought for six-
pence. The New Austerity, apparently.
It should be added that Melba regarded
the offerings she got as a tribute to music
and sent the flowers, if not the cham-
pagne, round to the nearest hospital.
* * * *
“Zake”: I have always contended that
if this war kept going long enough it
would be brought home to Australia in
a very terrible manner. Now my worst
fears are becoming realities. With the
drafting of A.W.A.S. girls to battle
stations they have become, it appears,
enthusiastic warriors, and a sob sister, told
off to give ’em a stickful, describes how
they stand off and “shout commands at
each other” and “just love it.” The
development of a race of stentorian-
voiced females won’t bear thinking of.
I see in my, mind’s eye some poor post-
war husband coming home and, just as
he is about to hang up his hat on the
hallstand, being greeted by the sight of
his spouse opening her face about a foot,
inhaling deeply and then emitting a
welkin-shattering roar that will cause the
canary to fall from his perch and send
the dog and the kids bolting under the
house. Adolf has more to answer for
than he weens.
THE ONE THING NEEDFUL.
“Ever since the last election this country has been
cursed with a Government that will not govern and
an Opposition that will not oppose.”
—Major Cameron, M.H.R.
11l fares the land —or so it’s indicated —
Where there appears but little likelihood
Of party aims being subordinated
In time of peril to the country’s good,
Where there are Ins who’re regularly slated,
“Letting I dare not wait upon I would,”
And Outs neglectful of the why and wherefore
Of adequately showing what they’re there for.
Two quaint conglomerations—one expected
To make a meal of all it used to say.
To whoop for measures that it once rejected
And put its age-old principles away;
The other loosely-knit and ill-connected,
Uncomfortably-yoked for many a day.
And each with chaps who find it hard to smother
A marked antipathy for one another.
Come, Curtin, here’s a bullet for your chewing,
Who’ve been so mild and gentle hitherto.
A sterner test awaits in days ensuing
If you’d (like Mr. Bribing) see it through:
Quit telling people what you’d have them doing,
And tel] them what they’ve damned well got
to do.
You’re where you are, it’s gen’rally agreed to,
To give a lead—not to be giv’n a lead to.
Assert yourself, then, in the job assigned you.
Put down your foot and play a leader’s part,
As Cromwell did, and let me just remind you,
However stout they seem of brain and heart,
Some of those blokes your party’s ranged be-
hind you
Will be the ruin of your applecart
Unless you make it your immediate biz
To know and show what real ruling is.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
A MOOT POINT.
“The probable inability of the public to pick
winners, with so little racing form to guide them,
will assist the Federal Government in its objective
to reduce attendances and the volume of betting.”—
Sydney “Morning Herald
Dourly he sank a pint of old and mellow
And passed a hand across his furrowed brow.
“Lord knows,” he growled to me, “it takes a
fellow
Trouble and time enough to pick them now.
And with the minimum of form to study,
What chances will there be good things to
strike?
I tell you straight it gets my goat. It ruddy
Well gives a bloke the spike.
“With races somewhere every day, or near it,
And yards of printed comment on the same,
Good prospects of appraising equine merit
Were given all who dabble in the game.
Data of various sorts and most conditions
Were scattered far and wide, so you might
know
The safest and the soundest propositions
Whereon to plank your dough.
“And then the expert guidance! Few the
centres
Where helpful dailies didn’t specialise
In prophecies from half-a-dozen mentors
Designed to put the sturdy punter wise.
With all the wealth of wisdom you commanded,
The stock-in-trade supplied by many a pen,
A speculator couldn’t help being handed
A winner—now and then.”
“So now,” I said, while Hebe was replacing
Our malt and hops with an approving smile,
“I take it that you’ll go no more a-racing,
Denied so much that made it worth your
He missed a space, then suddenly he brightened.
“ ’Twill seem at first,” he owned, a tun
strange, , , ,
Yet, after all, I’m none too sure I mightnt.
Perhaps my luck will change!”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Wodgil”: Along with the rest of the
brotherhood of “sports” 1 was charmed
to read that Mr. Peter Cruise, “turf com-
mission agent,” had been appointed to
the Allied Works Council. Many a time
and oft I have followed Peter round the
Randwick ring and noted his Mammoth
Transactions with Dashing Bookmakers,
always admiringly recorded in “Terewth,”
sometimes with a portrait of Peter, his
well-nourished form outlined against a
“metallician’s” stand. I didn’t quite
understand how Peter came to be an
authority on Allied Works until Mr.
Joseph Silver Collings, who doesn’t go
to the races, gave this explanation in the
Senate:
Mr. Peter Cruise is 50 years of age.
He has had clerical experience and is pos-
sessed of shorthand and typing ability.
Mr. Cruise offered his services and his car
to the Allied Works Council through the
Director of Personnel, Mr. Frank Packer.
Mr. Frank Packer referred the application
to the Deputy Director of Personnel, New
South Wales, Mr. Stewart Howard, without
comment, recommendation or direction.
Mr. Stewart Howard was responsible for
the appointment. Mr. Cruise was accepted
for clerical work at £6 a week, and reports
of his work are satisfactory.
Mr. Collings made no reference to the
offensive description of Mr. Cruise as
“Packer’s Punter,” so presumably there
is no occasion for Peter to deny his
master.
* ¥ _ sf. *
“No Costs”; “Tuart” (B. 2/9/’42) and
“Oxmead” seem to imply that Parliament
Houses -are permanent sanctuaries and
that legal processes cannot be served
there. That is not the case in Queens-
land, at any rate. There the prohibition
prevails only when the House is sitting.
When the House is adjourned or in
recess service there is legally just as
effective as anywhere else. The question
arose in Brisbane when Maher, then
leader of the Opposition, was served by
a young barrister with process in a con-
tempt action at his room in Parliament
House. Fear of defectiveness made the
authorities re-serve the process on Maher
outside the precincts, and Maher, being
a sport, agreed to accept service outside,
so as to relieve the young barrister of
embarrassment. As a safeguard the
matter was fully probed by the authori-
ties, with the result that it was held that
the first service was effective, because the
House was not sitting.
¥•* * *
“Pitt St.”: Touching the question (B.
23/9/’42) whether Dedman’s Austerity-
meal law could stop a chef putting
several courses into one per medium of
a stew or goulash, what about the humble
meat-pie and that mystery of the race-
course and football ground the starvo?
You can generally get an idea of what
constitutes the interior upholstery of the
pie, but I defy any layman to describe
to me the phantasmagorical substance
which wears a bread-roll for an overcoat.
And who can look austere eating one?
* * * *
“Craiser”: The prevalence of Scott
and Dickens in second-hand bookshops
may be explained on the theory (B.
16/9/ ’42) that no respectable householder
thought his house furnished unless it had
a well-stocked bookshelf; but that
doesn’t explain the number of books by
Australian writers one sees in city
second-hand shops. Walking along a
street the other evening with a well-
known writer, I chanced to see a section
in one of these repositories labelled in
large red letters: “The Literary Dustbin,
6d. each.” “That’s a good joke,” said
the writer. “We might find something
good there.” Then he jumped back as
if he had been stung. His own name
stared at him from the row of titles.
It wasn’t one of his earlier works either
—it was his latest.
« ap * *
“Harold Hardupp”; Alcohol can be
distilled from any vegetable or fruit, of
course (B. 16/9/’42), but the stuff they
got from turnips must have been terrific,
according to the effect it had many years
ago upon the inmates of the Salvation
Army’s principal M.L. sanatorium for
alcoholics on an island in Auckland
harbor. The faith of the magistracy in
the institution caused a stream of constant
drunks to be passed on to the custody
of the home, and the revelation that the
inmates were maintaining a permanent
state of intoxication was startling. A
climax was reached when the patients
tore vegetables from the patches on which
they were expected to work and pelted
their guardians. After that a search was
made, and stills in which turnips were
turned into hooch were discovered
hidden in the bush-surrounded cave. Ever
since effective precautions have been
taken.
# * * «
“Ear Punisher”: Ancient custom
ordains that when a new Lud Mayor
assumes office in Melbourne he should at
the earliest opportunity proceed to the
City Court in full mayoral clobber and
take his seat on the bench. T. S. Nettlefold
enlivened the ceremony by relating that
on the only previous occasion he had sat
on i. bench—in Hobart—a man charged
with being drunk and disorderly and
asked what he had to say replied: “Well,
I may have been drunk, your Worship,
but you know how it is.” Reminds me
of the British district officer on a small
Bornean island (now, no doubt, a Jap
base) who asked a native lady charged
with maintaining a house of doubtful
repute to say where she lived. “Tuan
tahu,” she retorted archly (“Thou
knowest”).
* * * *
“Macann”: A wonder somebody
hasn’t dug up precedent to show how
badly Maxie Falstein has been done by.
A fair enough one cropped up lately in
England. Sergeant Peter King and
Private Thomas Cuthbertson, members
of a non-combatant unit, conspired to-
gether to make a two-man raid on the
French coast. They hiked 50 miles to
the coast in Cornwall, crossed the
Channel in a “borrowed” motor-boat and
armed with “borrowed” army pistols,
and attacked near Cherbourg; Return-
ing, they ran out of juice and drifted
for 12 days before a British destroyer
picked them up. For his part in this
rank offence all that happened to Ser-
geant King was that he was demoted to
corporal; Private Cuthbertson was given
28 days’ clink, same as poor Maxie, who
only assumed the offensive against his
commanding officer!
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A hairsbreadth escape,
literally speaking, was experienced by a
Melbourne woman who got out of a
train at a suburban station and found
somebody had slammed the door on her
“We'll charge 'em two-and-six to be taken with you, Prendergast, and
ten shillings with me!”
overcoat. The train started, and she suc-
ceeded in pacing it to the edge of the
platform. Then she fell beneath the
footboard. Grabbing a strut, she hung
on until the train stopped at the next
station. Slipping out of her coat, she
climbed down and under the carriage on
to the platform, shaken but otherwise
none the worse for her adventure. If
she had not been an exceptionally slim
woman she must have fallen at the first
hurdle. Victorian suburban platforms
finish off with a fence so close to the
trains that a moderately portly person
couldn’t get through the gap.
* * * *
“Yair”: Knowall Norman was with us
when we picked up a piece of paper
from the gutter. It turned out to be a
shopping list. Norm took it and said
“Ah, handwriting’s a marvellous study.
Difficult, too. But much can be learned
from if you know how to go about it.”
We suffered in silence. “Look at this
writing,” Knowall went on. “The writer
of this is easygoing, optimistic yet rather
foolish, inclined to daydreaming and of
a pathetically trusting nature.” “How
d’you make that out?” someone asked.
“Easy! ” said Knowall. _ “See here —the
simple-minded writer has formed letters
which spell the words ‘tin black boot
polish, 61b. potatoes, 2 «pkts. cigarettes.’ ”
* * * *
“Strathbogie George” : Sixty-odd years
ago the career of a gang of illiterate bush
larrikins, who had added wholesale
murder to their other crimes, was brought
to a violent end, the leader, Edward
Kelly, being hanged. For some years
afterwards sundry writers tried to throw
a sort of halo round the gang, whose
members became heroes to ill-balanced
persons. Time killed that, or most of it, but
I’m blest if this war hasn’t resurrected
Ned Kelly. An A.B.C. play actually
made the man a wordy philosopher;
.sornemis else Ms held him up as the
ideal guerrilla leader whom Australian
Diggers—any one of whom is worth ten
Ned Kellys—should emulate, and a Syd-
ney afternoon paper describes the mur-
derer as “Australia’s original commando
leader.” Before long bushrangers will be
hailed as martyrs in the struggle against
tyranny and oppression.
* * * *
“Avon” remembers a mysteriously
missing man:
One of the Sydney Sunday papers says that
Scotland Yard is still investigating the mys-
terious disappearance of “Victor Grayson,
M.P.,” supposed to have vanished while visit-
ing Australia in 1920. Old Parliamentary hands
say they have no recollection of Grayson visit-
ing Australia in that year. In fact, they don t
remember ever having set eyes on him. Perhaps
my testimony will throw some light on the
matter. Albert Victor Grayson, described as
an “Independent Socialist,” won the Colne
Valley seat (Yorkshire) at a by-election in
1907 by a very slender bare majority. the
young man was not held in much political
esteem even in Socialist circles —the ‘ Clarion
dismissed him with the non-committal remark
that he might be all right, but “the wine
is very new in the bottle” —and very shortly
after he was elected he left his constituency
to look after itself while he went for a tour
of the world with his wife —she was in a
theatrical co. and he tagged along. He was
through Australasia about 1908-09. He gave
interviews and public addresses in every sizable
town he passed through, and is remembered by
old reporters because of his habit of howling
“misreported” every time his utterances got him
into hot water. If he revisited Australia 11
years later it wasn’t as an M.P. —he had been
out of the House, out of politics and out of
public memory since 1910. British Labor Ms.P.
state that when they were touring Australia
“Labor Ministers assured them that Grayson
died in Australia,” but apparently those Labor
Ministers themselves are all dead now.
♦ * * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: “Desperanto”
(B. 16 /9/ ’42) welcomes Nulango to the
universal-language family. What for?
Is he going to learn Nulango or Esperanto
or Ido or Esperantido? Esperanto is
useless unless fresh artificial lingoes are
prohibited by international law. But as
soon as any universal language gets
nicely going somebody comes along and
invents a new one. Latin, or a form of
it, was once a universal language in
Europe, just as Swahili is in parts of
Africa and as Malay is all over the East
Indian archipelago, as English is wherever
two businessmen are gathered together,
as modern French is where two diplomats
are conspiring and as pidgin English! is
North of Twenty-eight. But these were
natural growths from their environment,
and such as are no longer used had a life
of their own until they were supplanted.
Some of them have even had a literature.
But what poet ;would write a lyric to his
love in Esperanto?
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: “H.E.R.” (B. 16/9/’42)
says I place James Cook in a wrong
category when I class him amongst in-
dividuals who were thought to be quacks,
because the circumnavigator had ortho-
dox scientific qualifications. So he had,
of a character necessary to conduct a
scientific expedition to Hawaii to observe
the transit of Venus. But he had no
orthodox qualifications as a dietitian, and
would anybody expect a ship’s captain
to be an authority on diet? Nobody
would ; but Cook was a dietitian, and a
revolutionary one at that. The authori-
ties of the Admiralty would have stocked
up his ship with salt pork and not been
in the least bit surprised if half the crew
died of scurvy, because it had never
dawned on them that scurvy was linked
with diet. Cook thought differently and
fed his crew on greens. His crew bit-
terly resented it, and had to be forced to
eat the stuff by Cook’s example. In
short, they thought their commander was
a quack dietitian ; and I suggest that the
University Institute of Dietitians, which
the Victorian State Government wants to
produce, would think the same of a new
James Cook if he came along.
* * * $
“J.H.M.A.” commences Australian
military history:
The first battle on Australian soil took place
in 1788 near Botany Bay,, and resulted in a
decided Australian victory. The convicts had
taken to looting the natives, for which one of
them paid with his life at Rushcutter Bay, and
not long afterwards another was killed by the
blacks a little way south of the site of Sydney’s
Town Hall. Sixteen convicts, arming themselves
with their working tools and heavy waddles,
sallied forth from the brickfields to avenge their
mate’s death. They marched through the sand-
hills and scrub in the direction of Botany, seek-
ing what natives they might find, but when they
got near the bay a large party of blacks attacked
them and put them to ignominious flight in
which one of the convicts was killed and
several wounded. When the best runners
reached the settlement, a party of marines
was sent to the rescue of the others and the
body of the dead man brought into camp.
Governor Phillip had the whole expeditionary
force flogged for going a.w.l.
'■l- * ¥
“Morimoto”: According to a Mel-
bourne “Argus” correspondent, the
Japanese success in scaling the Twen
Stanley Range is due to the fac hat
mountain-climbing as a physical and
spiritual exercise has been assiduously
practised since Shodo Shonin, who
founded a temple at Nikko in the eighth
century, succeeded in climbing Mount
Nantai after 16 years of effort. That
may be so ; but it is also a fact that
some of the highest peaks in Nippon,
regarded as unscalable, had to wait until
an English clergyman arrived to conquer
them. This muscular Christian wrote a
book in which he gave praise to the
climbing capacity of the Nipponese, but
pointed out that so much tradition had
gathered around the business that a new-
comer was able to teach the native some-
thing.
**• * *
“Feng-Shui”: How petty man’s efforts
at destruction are compared to Nature’s!
For nine months the Germans used an
immense number of aeroplanes and tons
of explosives to bomb Britain, but when
it was all over the nation seemed stronger
than ever. Nature in a few hours, by
turning on a flood, recently rendered
400,000 homeless in Bombay Presidency
and destroyed 60,000 houses. The Japs
in the six years of their war on China
have produced infinitely less effect than
the Yellow River does when it breaks
its banks and finds a fresh outlet to the
sea 1000 miles or so from its old mouth.
On one of those occasions 30,000,000
people are said to have perished. The
Germans are using huge mechanised
armies to immobilise the Russians; but
in a few short weeks Nature, ushering
in winter, will immobilise both.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: Another of my pet illu-
sions has gone west. I’d always believed
that the young Pacific Islander was kin
to a fish and could swim before he could
walk. Now my newspaper informs me
that when the U.S. Yorktown was going
down “Captain Buckmaster was pulled
on a raft. His personal messboy, a little
Polynesian, was terrified of the water and
hysterically fought off rescuers.”
* * *
“Merivale”: James Carroll (Timi
Kari to the Maoris he represented in
Parliament) put a trimmer over onetime
Attorney-General Francis Bell. The legal
knight built himself a home commanding
a wonderful panorama of Port Nichol-
son, and Carroll suggested a Maori name
for the residence —Tawa Roia. Bell had
the name painted up, and thought
it a very fine one till Apirana Ngata
called one day and cocked such a quizzi-
cal eye at the name-plate that Bell’s suspi-
cions were aroused, and he demanded a
translation. Ngata put the question off
till he was driving away, when he called
out “Look at your Maori dictionary,”
So Francis Bell, K. 8., P.C., K.C.,
thumbed through the little volume and
underlined the two words which glittered
in gold on his gate. Tawa, bush ; Roia,
lawyer. “Damn Timi!” he ejaculated—
but he let the name stay.
¥ * * *
“F.S.”: I am interested in Neville
Cardus’s dictum, quoted in B. 16/9/’42,
that there is more vitality in Australian
“contemporary” art than in Australian
music. How does he know? Suppose he
says that this picture is more vital than
that picture and somebody asks him
“What, then, is vital?” He could hardly
say that that which pleases him is vital
and that which displeases him is not,
because then he would be making his
feelings the criterion of vitality. Our
feelings alone can never be evidence of
excellence in anything, even cricket, con-
cerning which N.C. is also said to be an
expert. When Bradman first came out
as a batsman he displeased most people,
who thought his actions were awkward
and clumsy. They were judging him by
orthodox standards. Nobody would now
say he is a clumsy batsman, his scores
being there to disprove it.


ABORIGINALITIES
"Old-timer”: If he’s still above ground
and retains even a fraction of his appe-
tite I can’t help wondering what this
Austerity-meal business will mean to
“Aching Void.” First met him at Tapaim
vineyard, down the Murray, where he
came fruit-picking. At that first lunch-
hour he drew from his bag a cold leg of
lamb (whole), four huge tomatoes, a
half-loaf of bread, the inevitable tomato
sauce and lesser condiments. Thirty
minutes later he put the sauce bottle
back, threw the. mutton bone away,
brushed off the crumbs and had a five
minutes’ rest. Then he put the time in
until work started by idly picking off a
few bunches of sultanas. His meals kept
the picking gang in wonder for six weeks.
Later, on a night in Mildura, he pol-
ished off eight meat-pies at a sitting and
then went home to the boarding-house
and joined the cook in supper. These
and other feats paled into nothingness
when he struck the Gol Gol pub on
Christmas Day, They’d prepared a
dinner for 15, but after “A.V,” got going
12 of them had to go over to Mildura
for something to eat. Austerity and
“Aching Void” wouldn’t mix.
“Solitude”; The first time Seventy-
fiver neglected to call for his bread I
didn’t take much notice, but when bread
day again passed with no sign of him I
went across to see what was wrong. I
arrived at feed-time. “Take it away,”
he croaked as I dropped the loaf on
the table. “It ruins me war effort.”
“But, hang it, man, you’ve got to eat!”
1 protested. “Eat! Look at them, will
y’?” He pointed to a huge pile of chop-
bones on his plate and several well-
scraped shanks and a shoulder-blade in
the fireplace. “Ain’t I doin’ me best?
Gripes, man an’ boy, I’ve et it three times
a day for near three-quarters of a cen-
tury with hardly a break. At half a
sheep a week, how many’s that, eh?”
“Oh—er —something over 1800.” “Yair,
’bout two thousand quids’ worth o’ jum-
bucks.” He released his waistband and
speared another hunk of forequarter
from the camp-oven. “An’, strike me
purple, these city blokes reckon now that
we got t’ eat more mutton!”
* * * *4i
“Mat’s Mate”: We struck the town
just on dinnertime of one of those slow,
lazy, hot days and, having a few bob,
treated ourselves to a feed at the pub.
Afterwards we went out on the verandah.
I sat in a corner and Mat stretched out
full length in the shade on the floor.
Presently he was asleep. I sat and pon-
dered. There was a tiny patter, and the
house galah waddled out of the hall,
cocked a sardonic eye at me, surveyed
the sleeping Mat and with beak and
claws elevated itself to the verandah rail.
There it ruffled its feathers and sud-
denly shrieked “Go ’im. Blue! Go ’im,
Blue!” Mat grunted and rolled over.
“Hey! Hey! Hey!” shrieked the bird.
Mat ground his teeth. The bird eyed him
carefully, nodded its head,, then quietly
lowered itself to the floor and went and
stood by him, greatly interested. It tried
to make the grinding sound, failed,
erected its crest and let out a dreadful
shriek right in Mat’s ear. The big fellow
shot upright, got his back to the wall
and shaped up, all in one movement.
Then he saw the bird and me grinning
at him. “Aw,” he said disgustedly, “1
thought it was a blanky railway train.”
* * $ «
“B. 4”; “Scuta’s” statement (B. 9/ 9 / '42)
that gulpers always swallow the prey
head first may be proved by citing an
exception—the jewey catfish, whose per-
manently erect dagger and bayonets are
a bar to nose-holts. During the day
several jeweys back into a drowned log,
leaving a sentry at the door to dis-
courage visitors. Towards dusk, how-
ever, a pair of eels will combine to hunt
the jeweys out of their submarine jungles
into the shallows, where one secures a
tail hold and the bucking victim is slowly
devoured. The other patiently waits be-
hind the diner. Dunno what happens to
jewey’s head, as I always terminated the
cruelty per bullet or waddy. Recently
found two fresh jewey catfish bodies,
minus the heads, beside each other on the
creek bank. This has me and others beat.
Does “Scuta” know what depraved appe-
tite it is that prefers an austere diet of
bone and bayonets to beef?
* * * *
“Lurl”; Katoomba, in the N.S.W.
Blue Mountains, once had a Dog Face
Rock (B. 23/9/’42) that was a pretty
clearly etched profile. It towered hun-
dreds of feet above the Jamieson Valley
"It's not worth sixpence. Take it back!”
and was a sight for tourists until about
10 years ago, when it and a couple of
million tons or so of cliff-face slid into
the valley one night with a tremendous
roar. One of the mountain tracks takes
you through the landslide ; it’s like walk-
ing through a wasteland, the great hill of
broken and shattered sandstone having
covered entirely the timber and ferns for
50 or 60 acres.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The extermination of cats
in the Commonwealth has been urged on
Mr. Curtin by a writer who points out
that the quantity of food eaten by racing
greyhounds is as nothing compared with
the millions of saucers of milk and the
bales of foodstuffs that are fed to the
domestic tabby. The P.M. in refusing to
order the massacre retorted that cats were
useful as rat- and mouse-slayers. Most of
the cats of my acquaintance are as much
use against rats and mice as the dogs that
were once introduced by the cable com-
pany to the Cocos atoll. Rats had multi-
plied to such an extent on Palau Tikus
— i.e.. Rat Island —where the cable station
was situated, that the staff had to hide
their boots under their pillows, and the
company decided to import from Singa-
pore terriers of an approved rat-catching
strain. For a while they slaughtered the rats
in fine style. Then they grew so fat and
lethargic and tired of a continuous diet
of rodent that they would let the beasts
run over their bodies without taking any
notice. Most suburban felines are so
well fed by their pet-loving owners that
they have lost their feral instincts alto-
gether.
* ♦ * «
“B. A. Ker”: The township’s tailor was
a first-class craftsman —when sober. It
was the doctor’s bad luck that he placed
his order just prior to a breaking of the
drought. The finished suit scarcely came
up to expectations, and the irate medico
felt justified in saying so. The subsequent
verbal melee was a wholehearted affair,
liberally punctuated with “cloth-butcher,”
“horse-doctor” and similar pleasantries.
But Snips took the honors of the last
round with “Anyhow, when you make
a mistake you bury it!” Relations were
still somewhat strained when, three
months later, the tailor fell out of a
sulky, was carried home, and the doctor
rushed to the house. After a swift ex-
amination the medico turned to Mrs.
Snips and asked “Have you a rifle?”
Snips nearly jumped out of bed, “What
the hell do you want a rifle for?” he
demanded. “Didn’t you say I was a
horse-doctor?” purred the quack. “So
you are!” stormed the patient. “Well,
you’ve got a broken leg! ” was the omin-
ous reply of the medicine man.
* * * V
“Nor’-west”: The real dread of the
skin-diver isn’t the octopus beloved of
the fiction-writer but an uncanny creation
known along the pearl-banks as the devil-
fish. Once saw Darby, who invariably
wore a grin a yard wide, rise from the
depths with his copperish complexion
neatly white. “Devilfish, boss!” Dip-
ping into about 25ft. he had bottomed
on one of the fiends. Across the instep
of his left foot was a row of punctures
about an inch apart. Some rough sur-
gery with a blade razor, plenty of hot
water and Condy’s crystals saved his life,
though it was weeks before he could
walk again. He really should have died,
but the copious blood-flow probably
drained most of the venom from the
flesh. This devilfish must be about the
foulest creature of the sea. Ugly and
venomous, it lives by disguising itself as
a weed-covered rock. Seldom moving,
its fins and tail almost useless, it lies
waiting until some unwary fish of suit-
able size comes along to investigate—
then, snap! To perfect this disguise the
head and body have bony outgrowths
that exactly resemble a gnarled and dirty
rock. Yet its flesh is tasty enough,
though woe to the shark or other marine
diner that might attempt to gather a
meal. At the slightest touch the dorsal
fin erects, uncovering half a dozen
needlelike spines, each one of which,
through a deep groove, delivers a poison
comparable with that of the tiger-snake.
* * sH *
“Esk D.”; When old Dan got the
fencing contract at the. Nine-mile he
pitched his tent close by in the bend of
the river. An outsize goanna that lived
in a handy grey box carefully noted the
fact and carried on raiding operations
at the tucker-box whenever the chance
arose. Disdaining the use of rifle or
traps, Dan cut a 3ft. waddy and stalked
the thief on every likely occasion.
Several times the old go. just beat him
by a half-length or so to the tree and
spiralled up the straight trunk to the
hollow. Then one day Dan changed his
tactics and rushed around the opposite
side of the tree to the goanna. He says
the look of pained surprise on that rep-
tile’s dial as it found itself in the target
area put him off so much that he missed
by a clear two feet. Dan shifted camp
soon afterwards ; reckoned the place got
too lonely since the old goanna never
trusted him again.
* * • ♦
“Edjudina”: Reading of the Jap sol-
dier using a length of rubber tube to
suck a drink from swamp or river in-
duces thought of how handy such a
gadget would he- in the Centre* Doing a
parch well out from Laverton (W.A.),
Long Ned and I were obliged to resort
to proffered rewards in order to obtain
a drink, the rewardee being a sable
gentleman who, with his family, had been
induced to favor the camp with a call.
He would on the payment of one fair-
sized plug of bacca guide us to water.
He did, and by the way his eyes glistened
when he received payment he evidently
thought we were a pair of children who
should never have been let loose in the
spinifex. For the so-called waterhole was
just along at the other end of the ridge
from where we camped. It really was
a sand pit, as dry on the surface as
the contents of a pepper box. But a yard
down it began to show damp and a
foot deeper was water. As uncoverer
the diviner demanded first drink. And he
drank as daintily as a bird. Taking a
handful of withered grass he rolled it
to a ball, reached down the pit head
first and with the grass in his lips sucked.
So he drank and left the sand behind.
We had to dig a foot deeper to dip, and
then let the fluid settle. But with a crow-
bar or a spear and a rubber tube we
might have drunk with the minimum of
labor.
* * * *
“Hosstrailya”: Is Australia any better
off in respect of real horse-power than
Maoriland (B. 16/9/’42)? Well, if the
“sport of kinks” did all that is claimed
for it by its devotees this country would
now be teeming with first-class horses
and first-class horsemen. In place of
which, good horses are scarcer than
babies at King’s Cross, and not more
than one Australian in 200 can really
ride. Even donkeys and their four-footed
kin are dying out. In 1937 there were
no more than 260 donkeys and 35 mules
in all New South Wales. I bet the
troops in the Owen Stanley Ranges
would have been saved a lot of bother
if we had devoted more time to breed-
ing mules than to pampering useless
racehorses.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: It seemed like a slip first
time, but “Yokel” (B. 16/9/’42) has said
again that a day-old duckling “can float
and swim as well as its mother.” Having
the same fond illusions about ducks and
water, 1 caught four or five young Mus-
covies one hot day to give them a swim
—and a “cooler” —in a tub of water.
They splashed around ineffectively and
one sank. Drying and warming in the
sun saved the others, but the luckless one
who was “ducked” died. A subsequent
dressing-down by an enraged female rela-
tive with sundry references to “great big
boobs who don’t know that baby duck-
lings have to be taught to swim by their
pare~s” convinced me that blokes who
deal in theory should stick to it and leave
duck-rearing to women —and ducks.
if 3= * *
“Korda”: I fed a meat diet to a
colony of magpies for years. Jim Crow
would now and again get an eyeful of
the banqueting and settle down and
monopolise the joint without the slightest
protest. I realised then that, flat-footed,
the black-and-white is a sissy. But it was
a gee-gee of another shade when the
croaker tried to transport the surplus.
On the wing he was fought from every
angle. The aerial torpedo attacks of the
maggies soon gave the black devil
migraine. He sought peace and safety
by settling on a tree, and always got it.
if * * v ,
“Aratta”: “I’m sittin’ on me swag be
the roadside back near Tumblong,” said
Fred the Blinker, “when I hear a hissin’
sound. Lookin’ round, I see a scrubby-
lookin’ dial peerin’ out at me from the
bushes. ‘lt’s all right, mate,’ its owner
whispers. ‘l’m bein’ pursued by a narked
fee-male. It’s becos I won’t marry her.
Will y’ tell her y’ see me duck over that
there rise?’ —and with that he vanishes.
A minute or so later, around a bend in
the road a rawboned woman appears,
carryin’ an axe. When she gets nearer
I see she's in a flamin’ temper. She spots
me an’ comes tearin’ up. ‘Seen anythin
of a shrivelled-up freak of humamt}
what calls himself a man?’ she jerks out
‘No,’ I lies, prompt. ‘Why?’ ‘ ’Cos 1
want him,’ she snaps. She swings the
axe about, vicious. ‘Just t’ give the dirty
little hound this,’ she goes on, venomous.
‘He’s somewhere about here, an’ I’ll g £ |
him if I search for a week, an’ when
do he’s goin’ t’ be handed somethin he
won’t like,’ an’ she Wishes the axe abou
agen. ‘Gripes,’ I ses, fair scared. i
wouldn’t take an axe t’ a man, woul
y’? It’d be murder.’ She gives a hard
laugh. ‘Murder me foot!’ she ses. |
ain’t goin’t’ hurt the little wart. But i
want me rights, an’ I’m goin’ t have
them. An’ that’s why he’s gettm this
axe when I find him. Y’ see, he promise
t’ chop some wood when I gave him
handout a while ago, an’ bolted withou
doin’ it.’ ”
MOUNTAIN CATTLE.
When, wandering from outpost stations, our
sires had roamed away
And brought our dams to the ranges, far back
where the blue peaks lay,
They founded the herds of the wasteland that
over a vast domain
Have lived and loved in the mountains as
wild as the wind and the rain.
the scope of the open country that the heat-
haze hangs above,
The lure of the endless distance has never
been ours to love,
For, back where the tree-tops tremble and toss
when the high wind shrills,
Our joy is the gloom of vine-scrubs and our
heritage the hills.
In the tracts of tangled timber where never
a stockwhip cracks
The miles of emerald mazes are intertwined
with our tracks.
Who graze in the hidden valleys and come to
the reedy brink
Of a gilgai in the wilgas where a thousand
head can drink.
When young calves sleep in the tussocks in
the warm gold noons of spring,
And the dingo pack comes prowling, we gather
them in a ring—
A circle of spear-homs lowered, our bellows
lift to the sky.
And we stand at battle stations till the danger
passes by.
Our sires were brave crusaders who were proud
of their English birth.
They came from the dales of Durham to the
outposts of the earth;
And blood of these bold freebooters still pulses
along our veins.
As hot as the fire of lightning When storms
sweep up from the plains.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


“Bo”: Dad Conyers had set many a
trap for the big striped egg-gorging goanna,
but he had to cursefully admit that the
reptile’s education was impressive. When
a complete setting of a prize strain dis-
appeared Dad’s wrath overflowed. On
vengeance set, he went into the town-
ship to get a dozen china eggs, but the
storekeeper was out of stock. Not to
be beaten, he went around to Mick Bing-
ham’s billiard saloon and persuaded
Michael to lend him every white billiard
and snooker ball he could lay hands on.
He came in for them on Sunday when
there was no play, and Mick impressed
on him the necessity of having them
back first thing Monday morning. The
eight white round objects must have
looked tempting to any go. as they lay
in a heap of straw in the corner of the
fowlhouse, and Dad went over the wire-
netting with an eagle eye, and closed
every vestige of a hole. Late that night
he heard the squawking of hens and
went to investigate. A strong wind was
blowing as he cautiously opened the gate
and saw the old go., distended and breath-
ing stertorously, trapped in the yard.
Elated with his success, Dad bent to
pick up the thick waddy he had left
just inside the gate. As he did so the
gate blew wide open and the go., dis-
playing amazing speed for one so griev-
ously burdened, streaked behind him and
out to safety. For a week now the kids
have been searching for a defunct go.,
and Dad has been gloomily inquiring of
everybody what effect reptilian digestive
juices have on ivory. And what Mick
has had to say is nobody’s business.
♦ * * *
“M. U. Ray”: “Naturala” ought to
take a stroll down the Murray some
summer if he wants to see community
wasps, though we call ’em “paper-
nest wasps” (B. 23/9/’42). He’ll see their
nests hanging to roofs, under verandahs
and other places, each with its three or
four sentinels. The wasps are about the
size of a be», but thinner, a rich brown
in color and with a sting that must have
been invented in Hades. Some years they
reach plague proportions.
“B. 4”: “Esk D.’s” yarn (B. 9/ 9/ ’42)
reminds me of a mob of omnivorous
emus which raided my camp. I had just
"Now DON'T tell me you forgot to bring the wire-snippers .”
boiled all my 32.40 cartridge-shells to
shrink them, and left them to dry on a
sheet of iron while I had a snore. Hear-
ing a noise like the devil himself doing
a tap-dance, I raised the tent-flap and dis-
covered the mob jazzing about on the
iron and gobbling my shells. A quick dive
enabled me to get one fowl down and
strangle him. Cutting him open I sal-
vaged about a dozen shells and reloaded
them. Peeling the rooster, 1 discarded
my clobber, and, wearing the emu’s shirt,
I spent the next few days infiltrating the
mob and shooting those that rattled as
they ran. I recovered most of my shells,
all beautifully polished by the gizzard
department.
“Ex-C.G.”: A doctor at Elmore (Vic.)
has entered for the year’s most peculiar
case a man who called on him and asked
that eight rifle cartridges be removed from
his innards. He’d been out shooting, he
said, and was carrying the things in his
mouth when a kick from the rifle caused
him to swallow them. He wanted them
out as quickly asjpossible because he was
afraid they might explode!
* * * *
“Wang”: “There’s three of us camped
under a bridge,” related Dan, “an’ we’d
just finished a game of cutthroat euchre,
which I’d won, when a little fat, curly-
whiskered bloke puts in an appearance.
He ses ‘G’day’ affable, an’ stands there
lookin’ with sorta eager eyes at Sam, who’s
rifflin’ the cards in his fingers. ‘Care
fer a hand, mate?’ asks Sam. ‘Would
I what!’ cries the bloke, his eyes shinin’.
T bin hoggin’ for a game of cards for
munce!’ We’d been at it ’bout an hour,
an’ our visitor is enjoyin’ himself great,
when we hear someone slitherin’ down
the bank, an’ a tall, thin woman with
the acidest dial I’ve ever seen shows her-
self. She glares savage at us an’ taps
the fat bloke on the shoulder. ‘Put them
playthings of Satan down an’ come home
at once,’ she grits at him an’ stalks orf.
The bloke drops the broads an’ gets up.
‘Gotter go,’ he ses, sadlike, ‘an’ I wus
enjoyin’ it, too. My gosh, I’ll never hear
the end of this ; she’s a fair tiger agen
cards, or anythin’ else a bloke gets a bit
of enjoyment out of, for that matter. But
before I ferget, what I came down here
for wus to ask if one of yous blokes
wants a job.’ We each did, bad ; but
we shook our heads, emphatic. The cove
gives a sorta sigh an’ moons orf. Sam
grins at me an’ ses “Unlucky fer him
that bloke got caught be his ole woman,
Dan, but luckier fer y’, eh?’ An’ be
cripes he wus right. Y’ see, the prize
fer the game of euchre I’d just won when
he came in wus the job we’d heard wus
offerin’ there!”
« * * *
“Nipper”: A man in a nor’-west
N.S.W. town which averages about one
human and one goat (animal) to every
250 square yards of civic space has been
fined for riding his horse “in a manner
dangerous to the public.” On reading it
my memory slipped back to the days
when my old man’s beard bore no traces
of silver, in another small nor’-west
N.S.W. town. It was on a Saturday after-
noon, and the news that a “jumbo” race
was to be on spread like wildfire. Soon
the roof of the pub verandah was
crowded with grandstand patrons, in-
cluding the kids and even a dog or two,
books and punters raucously got their
bets set, and then from up near
Mclntosh’s store came a noise like a peri-
patetic earthquake as the 17-stone limb
of the law and 18-stone Bung raced
their steeds down the main street to the
finishing post at Farrell’s smithy. Women,
tearing tradition to shreds, herded their
kids and themselves into the safety of the
bar as the thundering hooves tore past.
Dear, dear, aren’t we becoming civilised!
“2LX”: The main point about break-
ing-in of colts, and the one most im-
pressed on me when I was a youngster,
was to “get inside” your colt mentally ;
think as he thinks ; become part of him
and teach him to have faith in you.
Directions are not printed to achieve that
result —every colt differs, even as humans
do. But a man soon learns the lines of
approach, chief of which is to keep close
physically; impress him with bodily con-
“GOLD!”
“Sh-h-h, you fool; someone might hear y'!"
tact. Apart from the moral effect of that,
it’s also a rattling fine axiom to observe
from a bodily point of view: the closer
you keep to him the quicker you pick
up his impressions and make moves to
safeguard against vice.
* * *
“Zake”: Touching the comforts and
discomforts of dossing places, I have
sought surcease from the cares of
day ensconced under trees, bridges,
verandahs, wharves, trucks and sulkies,
and in halls, grandstands, sheep-
and pig - pens, goods - sheds, waiting-
rooms, fowlhouses, boilers, haystacks.
hollow logs, silage pits, churches, caves,
drainpipes, boats, cowbails, cemeteries,
headers, slaughterhouses, morgues and
once in a steamroller parked on a road-
side. Oh. yes and once a tree.
t6C , * mv
Sou-west : I though Z
bush neighbors had go H
when I caught him ragging Y
fowl along by ast g. f pp f „
he was ffl st , _ a cam an d
Inspired by the mflux of Amenc d
their reputed love for turkey he had laid
out a few pounds on the gobblers and
their wives, but the foxes taste tor
turk. had forced Yorky back on the fox-
lore of his English fathers From four
points of the horizon he trailed h d -
ceased poultry lv win often
about my tracks a fox wi 1
a ’the fml?:
directional trailing Yorky planted a
circle of hidden rabbit traps. In the
centre he left the dead fowl and halt a
dozen broken rotten eggs. The lure
proved irresistible to more than one fox.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Winter before last Mac put
a bloke on to clean up the rabbits in one
of his back paddocks. “Thirteen bob a
day,” he suggested, “and I take the skins.”
The rabbit-eliminator didn’t like the
arrangement. “Well, you take the skins
then, and I’ll chuck in a quid a week,
How’ll that do?” “Yair, an’ if skins
slump I’m a gonner.” Mac was getting
fed up. “Look here then; you catch ’em,
and I’ll pay you so much a dozen.” “The
little ’uns too?” “No, they don’t count.”
“But” “I said no.” “Awright,
they’re your rabbits.” The bloke did the
job, collected, and moved on. This winter
the paddock was as thick as ever with the
vermin, and as no help was available
Mac set to work on it himself. He’d been
digging out for several days when, riding
through that way, I heard his raucous
voice calling down a blasphemous ven-
geance on all wandering job-men. “What’s
the matter?” I inquired as he wriggled
out of the burrow dragging an old doe.
“Matter? Look at that, will y’? And
every blanky one I get’s the same!” He
held it up. The bunny was wearing Mac’s
earmark, a distinguishing touch that had
been administered in the animal’s early
tb
* * * *
“Aperist”: Roused from a Sunday-
morning lie-in 1 rushed outside to find
the sun warm in a cloudy sky—and the
whole immediate atmqsphere full of bees,
Just one of the hives swarming months
before its expected time. Followed the
tiffle-hallowed practice of banging a
kero.-tin while the missus kept them from
invading the kitchen by means of the
fine sprinkler of the hose. Finally the
queen decided to settle on a near-by
lemon-tree. By the time I had a hive
ready ram had commenced Those bees
were no weather prophets, for there tbey
were well out in the wet until 1 spread
a canvas across the top of them. When
the rain ceased I proceeded to box them,
Now it is an axiom among beekeepers
that swarming bees once settled don t
sting even when disturbed. Trusting to
this I went at them with bare hands and
minus the smoker. But those bees were
mad—as mad as a man when he takes
the missus and the kids to the seaside
and it rains. Inside two seconds 1
had a dozen stings in the left hand,
Now I’m sure of two things—bees are
poor weather prophets and m tempera-
ment they don’t differ much from
humans. ; ...
* „ M f terrier had the
up CSs hung in
strips, and his tooth- and claw-scarred
chest and shoulders bore witness to desper-
ate battles with reptiles often as heavy as
himself. But one day he made the mis-
take of tackling a sft. copperhead, and
while he was sparring for an opening
snake struck with a ferocious yelp
hg bQred and tQre the reptile t 0 pieC es.
He frQm the effects of the bit^
, . u was vprv sick and donev for
da j/ less than a m P J h he
d weU as eV er, but his nerve
and fi hting spjrit had deserted him, and
the sound of a thunderstorm, even the
mos{ . distant sent him career i ng over or
through everything in his way. He died
in one
* P *
“Zake”; I’m convinced that horses
with their masters the attribute of
aC q U i r j n g g re y hair with advancing age.
j have seen several grey horses upwards
of 25 years of age—one was 32—and
jheir owners swore that their original
co j o j- s ranged from chestnut to black,
* * * »
“Jeff”: The boss gave the new hand
from the city plenty of latitude on his
first day at the farm, the cove looked
so sorrowful. That evening at tea he
prompted the new arrival to talk about
himself. “Y’ look as if y’ve ’ad some ups
an’ downs in y’r life, Joe,” he began,
“The war affect y’ much?” The sad-
eyed bloke looked dismal. “Yes, boss,’
he replied. “First rationin’ wus bad.
then comes orsterity. It did me outa
me job. B’fore the war I’d a beaut
motor, then rationin’ brings me down
to a ’orse an’ cart. Then this orsterity
business got me down to a gunny bag.
The boss was impressed by this fall in
a man’s fortunes. “ ’Struth! ” he ex-
claimed. “Wot kind of commercial
traveller were y’, Joe, gettin’ round with
a sack?” The new hand pulled a wry
face. “I ain’t been no
he rejoined. “I was a bottle-oh.”
* * * f
“Korda : They were 99 all when the
old prospector mulled an easy pot-toe-
red and left it easier than ever. Ti e
battery manager punched it home all
right, but the red struck the iron of the
pocket and split in halves, one half going
in the pocket and the other on the floor
Then the lid rose. The miners who hackee
the boss argued that if the ball had stuck
together it would have been in the pocket,
while punters who were on the old-timer
reasoned that it would have been on the
floor. The pandemonium gradually
drifted into the bar, where Dancing
Tommy declared it a dead-heat. And
that’s something you can t do to a billiard
match in cities.
FAREWELL TO EARTH.
Ah, this fair world, how loath we are to leave it!
Though all, behind its mask of loveliness,
Be hate and fury, strife, struggle and stress
What matter, when we don’t perceive it?
It is so fair, even in churlish moods,
As when, over a dull and surly sea,
A pall of inky cloud sullenly broods;
Or when, shorn of her glory, the dead tree
Stretches her arms forlorn to a wintry sky;
Or when the imperious orb, naked and fierce,
Crashes upon the sands of Araby,
The regions men have withered like a curse;
Or when, at the lonesome Poles, lapped in thick
gloom,
It puts the black cap on, pronouncing doom
On all but ice, snow, and the brutish rock;
Even in such forbidding times and places
Beauty is hid, the Venus in the block;
What wonder if we bid it all farewell
With backward-straining hearts and shadowed
faces?
Too willingly bewitched, to the magic clinging,
With ears attuned to chimes of elfland ringing,
The enchanted hate the breaking of the spell.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


m
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK tor Out MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
r
111
-
m
ESTABLISHED 1884.
Barked Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office; 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Salt and Sheep.
“R. Ney”: About the only time it is
necessary to give the jummies extra salt
is when feed is dry or it’s been short
and the sheep are getting a lot of supple-
mentary grain. Sheep will take salt at
all times and on all kinds of feed, but
they won’t eat so much of it when there
is good feed; that’s because salt to a
sheep on dry rations is what tomato
sauce is to a boundary-rider on cold
mutton, a condiment and an appetiser.
G. L. McClymont, a N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department veterinary officer, says
that salt consumption by sheep in his
State in normal seasons is 30cwt. a thou-
sand, rising to 60cwt. in dry years. Tests
in N.S.W. in which sheep have been
divided into two mobs and one allowed
access to salt have never shown any
benefit gained from the salt. This, of
course, could be expected in the west,
where there is bore water, saltbush and
even the very wind is salty, but it was
also true on New England and close to
Sydney and on sheep both fully and
partly grassfed.
All the same, salt has a place in sheep
management. It’s useful when sheep have
to be accustomed to strange feed or to
unpalatable stuff; in-lamb ewes may
need a little more than is to be got from
the soil; and, again when the feed is dry,
a correct balance of salt is an aid to
digestion. Oversupplying salt to sheep
will affect only the owner’s pocket; the
sheep will pass out what their systems
don’t want.
Lucerne on Spencer’s Gulf.
“R.C.”: At Wokurna, in the S.A. dis-
trict of Port Broughton, G. M. Cornish
and the Department of Agriculture have
been testing the carrying capacity of
lucerne. Two paddocks were used: ( a )
66 acres established in 1935 and ( b ) 35
acres established in 1934. Both were
scarified each autumn, and oats, barley
and rye sown. This increased the bulk
and variety of winter feed. It was found
that the cultivations stimulated lucerne
growth.
The rye made best growth in dry
weather and provided straw for summer
feed, but the cereals never outstripped the
lucerne. Wimmera rye grass, tried for
three seasons on 15 acres of (b), couldn’t
compete with the lucerne, and had to be
reseeded each season. No supplementary
crop was allowed to go beyond the hay
stage.
Early stands were given lewt. of super.,
later reduced to 9011?. per acre. Paddock
(a) was grazed half the time and spelled
the other half; ( b ) was grazed one-third
of the time, used for hay for four-five
months and then spelled. Hay from ( b )
in 1941 gave twice the amount of dry
food that had been used for sheep dur-
ing previous seasons. Neither paddock
was grazed at critical periods and both
were allowed to make good top growth
after rains.
Ewes carried over the five seasons aver-
aged 112 to the 99 acres and reared 125
lambs annually. It was estimated that
if sheep had been stocked instead of
lambs over the full season 167 could have
been carried. The sheep were given dry
feed—about daily— to balance the
ration in order to forestall entero-
toxaemia and bloat when lucerne growth
was too succulent.
Placing the annual return from the
112 ewes at 10s. a head and the 125 lambs
at 17s. 6d. each, gross returns from the
two paddocks were £165 7s. 6d., or £1
13s. sd. per acre. Minus 11s. for costs,
this left a net of £1 2s. sd. per acre.
During 1941-42 30 tons of hay were pro-
duced from {b), worth about £2 per ton,
or 30s. per acre net.
Rainfall is about 14iin. Lucerne in
both paddocks is as vigorous as it was
five years ago, though it has had to stand
up to one of the longest dry spells the
district has known.
Train the Farm Horses.
“8.A.”: Before putting a strange horse
in the plough team make sure that he is
used to chains as well as shafts. An
animal tractable enough in shafts may
play up when he feels the chains around
his hocks at the first turn in the furrow.
Teach a draught to work in chains
by driving with long lines, twisting and
turning and stopping and starting at
frequent intervals, until he no longer
shrinks from the touch of the chains
around his hocks. Put him through this
exercise in full working gear in order to
"No. we ain't got no gas, but we could give y' a lend of a ’ urricane-lamp."
familiarise him with the harness. He
should then be harnessed to a light log
or sledge and driven in chain-traces.
Precaution should be taken against
making the pull too heavy, otherwise the
horse may develop the jibbing habit, and
there is no sure cure for that. When the
horse has settled down to chain work he
may be transferred to the shafts, not
before.
Indigestion in Horses.
“Will C.”: Chronic indigestion in a
horse may prove fatal if not cured. Sus-
pect that “tucked-up” look. The stomach
may appear distended or there may be
pain after eating. A suffering horse will
grind his teeth, lick whitewashed walls
or wind suck. Constipated while resting,
he will scour on being exercised. The
dung has a bad smell and consists of
relatively unchanged food. The coat is
poor and full of scurf.
Have his teeth examined by a vet. and
make sure he is not infested with worms
or bots. Check up on his feed. If he
is fed and watered properly the trouble
is almost certainly caused by his bolting
his food. A few big stones placed in
the feedbox will stop that. Feed a suf-
ferer on green feed to which half a tea-
cup of raw linseed oil and 2oz. of soda
bicarbonate is added daily. Keep a lump
of rock salt in his feedbox and give a
small quantity of pure superphosphates
in the feed now and then.
For Dennis.
“Plane Creek”: Among best root
crops for pigs are Jerusalem artichokes,
sweet and English potatoes, mangel-wur-
zels and turnips. Turn them loose in the
fields to dig their own grub. Cassava
will grow well in heavy soils in Queens-
land, and arrowroot is worth a trial.
Pumpkins and squashes sfiould be grown
on every pig farm.
There should be grazing paddocks.
Lucerne and Kikuyu grass make excel-
lent pig pastures. Kikuyu can be raised
from seed sown in well-worked ground.
From 21b. to 101 b. of lucerne seed per
acre may be sown, depending on the den-
sity of the pasture required and the land.
Lucerne seed needs a very fine soil, and
a light rolling after seeding is recom-
mended. Kikuyu grass will give good
results in average soil. Put it in at the
rate of 1000 cuttings to the acre. Don’t
turn the pigs in before the pasture has
a good hold.
Inland Vegetables.
“H.C.”: Main aim of inland growers
with irrigation should be to get the crops
to root deeply. Use the furrow method,
making the furrows a bit deeper than
usual and allowing the water to run
slowly. Wide, shallow furrows and fast-
flowing water wash away too much of
the soil and moisten only the top. This
brings the roots to the surface and they
suffer in dry weather.
Cultivate the inter-rows or furrows
after irrigation to stop hardening and
caking, to improve aeration and to stop
weed growth. Fallow and green-manure
vegetable land to keep up its fertility.
If this isn’t done the land may go sick
temporarily by the washing-out of too
much organic matter. Inland farms that
are not irrigated need an average raim
fall of 26 inches, regular fallowing and
green-manuring.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bundalinga”: Stock badly-eroded
paddocks lightly in spring to give the
grass a chance and to encourage free
seeding.
“Mullengah”: Spend some of the in-
creased returns for pigs on a better boar.
That’s sound war economy, and the
breeder will benefit by it very quickly.
Cull the breeding sows heavily and the
improvement in herd quality will be
apparent.
“Plane Creek”: Bumblefoot is caused
when hens have to leap down from high
perches on to hard ground. Their feet
are bruised, and hard, cornlike growths
develop. These fester and turn into hard
lumps of cheesy matter. If they are be-
tween the toes, lance them by making a
cross-shaped cut with a sterilised knife,
and, alter squeezing out any pus, dress
them with carbolised vaseline. If on the
sole ol the foot, they should be treated
with hot fomentations and then opened.
After all matter has been squeezed or
washed out, rub around with a silver
nitrate stick. The wounds should be
wrapped up to keep out dirt and germs
and should be dressed with carbolised
vaseline. Strong acetic acid applied to
the warty growths before they fester will
cause their disappearance. Lower the
perches or soften the ground.
“Sarina”: External parasites will, if
present in sufficient numbers, cause a
serious falling-off in the bodily health of
poultry. The three worst parasites are
red mite, fowl tick and body lice. The
first two are encouraged by dirty fowl-
houses, cracked roosting perches and
nesting-boxes that are allowed the same
old straw for years. Body lice live on
the fowls continuously. They seldom
cause much trouble, however, for the
fowls rid themselves of the pest by shuf-
fling in a heap of fine wood ashes or
dust. Much trouble can be avoided if
the fowlhouse is cleaned regularly.
“P.C.”: It’s easier to prevent the
appearance of fruit fly than to deal with
them once they’re there. Run Muscovy
ducks in the orchard to clean up fallen
fruit or have vessels partly filled with dis-
infectant solution or strong salt and
water and dump all infested fruit into
them. Raking the fallen fruit into a pit
filled with quicklime is another method.
“D. McTurnip”: Watch out for
elephant beetles this spring, especially in
tomato or potato plots.
They’re about a half-inch
long with a hard shell, dull
brown or greyish. A swarm
of them can reduce a plot
of strong plants to ruin in
a night or two. By day
they hide in the ground
at the base of the plants.
Turn over the clods and
you’ll find them there,
especially if there have
been a lot of weeds about
or the plots are among
orchard trees. If beetles
are in ground ready for
planting, lightly broadcast
over it in the late after-
noon a bait made from
11b. of Paris green mixed
dry with 241 b. of bran, then
moistened to a crumbly
consistency with a couple of gallons of
water in which |lb. of salt has been dis-
solved. This bait can be sprinkled over
potato country before the crop comes
through. For standing crops, mix a spray
of 11b. of lead arsenate to 20 gallons of
water or a dust of 11b. of lead arsenate
to 41b. of hydrated lime or kaolin.
“Sailor Bill”; Best pumpkins for keep-
ing are those whose rind is tough. A
stalk should be left on. Then’ll keep best
in a dry, airy building on slatted shelves,
but look ’em over periodically for indi-
cations of decay. Early-planted pump-
kins keep better than late-planted be-
cause they have a longer period in which
to ripen.
“H.C.”: For the tractor gas-pro-
ducer use charcoal which goes through
a -|in. mesh and then over a 3-16 in.
mesh. It calls for frequent clean-
ing in the generator, but if the unit’s
in fair running condition the engine
comes over on to the gas in less than a
minute. Using petrol instead of kerosene
for lighting makes for a big saving in
the carburettor. Producers for tractors
should have solidly-built generators.
Lightly-built units get too hot.
“P.C.”: Look out for the sweet potato
weevil. When you dig “sweet bucks” bag
them immediately and secure the sacks to
prevent the adult weevil reaching the
spuds f and laying its eggs amongst them.
Volunteer plants left in the ground often


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
f
df
You can improve the quality and weight
of your clip by using Egelabra Rams.
One user writes: “We are now getting the
benefit of using Egelabra Rams. The 6-
tooth Ewes have cut 1021 b. and reared a
lamb as well; the AVether Hoggets have cut
over 131 b.”
RAMS now available from sgns. to 13gns.
EGELABRA
MERINOS
H. E. KATER & SON, Warren. N.S. W.
Tel : Warren 10.
Wireless; alone can meet the
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
INSTANT* CONSTANT* CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRON
RA D I O VALVES i
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
Tl Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC fROt'KIETAUV, LTD.,
83 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty.. Ltd.
r?, #
DE SPECIALLY
CRAVEN A vM,
tmei voiles- titetfte,,
always snmih*pedt!
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
THROATS
E 1867
become infested. The adult weevils feed
;>n the foliage of sweet potato vines and
may be got rid of by spraying with 11b.
of lead arsenate in 40gal. of water.
“Pat Ater”; Labor shortage is a prob-
lem when it comes to the matter of fodder
conservation, and it becomes sharper as
the need becomes greater. Somehow, it
must be overcome, or much good stuff will
be allowed to waste. Baled hay is golden ;
its value has been proved time and again.
Any other hay is hardly less valuable, if
more difficult to handle. Every ton of
ensilage or hay that can be conserved
now by grazier, farmer or dairyman will
stand him in good stead. The first duty
of the man on the land is to build up
reserves of fodder.
“C.”; The Commonwealth Vegetable
Seed Committee is anxious to make con-
tracts with market gardeners or anybody
who can undertake to supply tomato or
lettuce seed. Price offered is 25s. and 6s.
a pound respectively.
“Rural”: The U.S.A. Department of
Agriculture is experimenting with the
transfer of developed ova from a high-
producing cow to scrub cows. If it works
it will be possible to get 10 or 20 calves a
year from one good cow instead of the
usual one. During the heat period a cow
produces an egg every three weeks until
she becomes pregnant. It is supposed
that the quality of the calf would not be
affected by the blood of the scrubber. It
would mean that a farmer with one
high-producing cow and the services of
a good bull and some scrubbers could
achieve in one year what would have
taken 15 to 20 otherwise.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What financial assistance to buy a farm
can be obtained from the Rural Bank or else-
where ? (2) Would man-power regulations
stop a person unfit for military service and
employed in non-essential concern from buying
a farm, and could a person in the AM.F. get
a release to go on the land in partnership with
such a person ?
(1) It is necessary for an applicant to call at
the bank and discuss details concerning any
proposal which it is desired to submit. The
bank usually lends up to 66| p.c. of the esti-
mated sale value of the proposed security. (2)
Military and man-power authorities would
decide such matters on their merits.
» * * *
(1) What are the distinguishing features be-
tween a kangaroo, a wallaroo and a wallaby ?
(2) Are kangaroos found in the coastal areas?
(1) Main difference is in teeth, a matter too
complicated to explain here. Outwardly there
is not a great deal of difference, other than
slight variations in size, color and habits and
the location of the districts where they are
found. (2) Yes. The great grey kangaroo is
found in the open forest country of Eastern
Australia from Q’land to Vic. Wallaroos and
certain rock wallabies are found in the coastal
ranges and gullies on the eastern coast.
Outback Occasions.
No. 55.
THR BOTFRT LRIVRDERTD.
“We’ll get some Border Leicester,”
Father said. We were running merinos
at the time, and he’d been listening to
somebody talking about the money to be
made from crossbred mutton, crossbred
lambs and crossbred wool. Father came
home and there was a long discussion
after tea. Everybody had something to
say, but the discussion really amounted
to Father’s statement “We’ll get some
Border Leicesters.” Father was like a
timber-j inker bogged in black soil once
he got a notion —you couldn’t shift him.
Afterwards our brother used to say that
it would have been better had Father
said “Some Border Leicesters will ‘get’
us,” giving the sentence the American
meaning.
Anyhow, Father got word one day
and set off for town on the chestnut, tak-
ing Ruff, the nearest approach to a sheep-
dog we had on our place. Father took
delivery of eight long-legged young
Border Leicester rams in the town and
turned them into the road for our place.
He’d just taken delivery when Ruff took
to the agent’s dog and there was a fine
old mix-up, all the town dogs rushing up
to take to Ruff and all the country dogs
that happened to be in town —and some
that came in from the outskirts when they
heard about it—rushing up* to help Ruff.
By the time they’d sorted out every-
thing and unpinned odd bits of dog and
Father had said what he thought and
the agent had said what he thought, those
rams were two miles down the road and
going like steam. Father would have
caught them, only the chestnut caught
his hoof in a washed-out mitre drain on
the roadside and. Father having been
caught unawares and deposited on the
ground, the chestnut bolted home, trail-
ing the bridle and nearly giving Mother
heart failure when she saw him at the
gate.
Mother raced up the paddock and told
us, and we raced back and got the car.
As we shot out the gate we scattered a
little bunch of long-legged sheep hang-
ing about there, and wondered momen-
tarily to whom they belonged. We drove
right into the town, but there was no
sign of Father, so we drove round the
streets and there was still no sign of him.
We went to the hospital, but they had
no injured, dead or dying horseman
there, so we headed for home again.
Five miles out we picked up Father.
He’d been picked up by a bloke
in a springcart after being chucked off
the chestnut, but the bloke had taken
him up a side road, along another road
and back on to our road, which is why
we’d missed them. We transferred Father
from the springcart and raced home to
reassure Mother.
Then we drove off to look for the
Border Leicesters. We combed all the
roads, tracks, lanes, by-ways, short cuts
and T.S.Rs: we could find between our
place and the town, but* there wasn’t a
hair or a hide of those sheep. Then we
suddenly remembered the sheep we’d
scattered at the gate, and told Father,
and he cursed ifs for our stupidity, and
said hadn’t we any gumption, and he was
glad he’d had the sense or the luck not
to have more than two sons, and where
were our eyes, and a lot of other things.
We found the Borders in a lignum
swamp about a mile below our place and
got them back and in the horse paddock
just on dark. Then we had tea and
talked about crossbreds —or, rather, we
listened*to Father talking about cross-
breds —and went to bed.
Shortly after dawn Father pulled us
out and said the Border Leicesters were
missing. We got our horses and rode
about the roads and called on all the
neighbors, and finally went into the lig-
num swamp, and there they were again.
We put them in the top paddock and
strained up all the wires and went out
and got on with the fallowing. Father
brought our lunch up and we put the
nosebags on the teams, and Father said
in a funny voice “Hurry up with the
lunch, because you’ve got to go and find
some sheep. Them Borders has got away
again.”
We found the place where they’d
pushed through the wires and tracked
them through the Crown land behind our
place in a big sweep that brought us
back into the lignum swamp, and there
they were. “Damn the things,” Father
said. This time we got the brace and
strainer and ran two extra wires round
that top paddock and put the bl— (sorry)
Borders in again. They looked at us
loftily and stalked gravely into the shade
and lay down. “I paid ninety bob a
head for them,” Father said, “and already
they’ve cost double that in time and
trouble.” , Father sounded very bitter.
“Never mind,” our brother said ; “think
of the double prices for wool and meat
they’ll get y’.” Father looked at our
brother as though he didn’t like his tone.
Four mornings later Father came into
our room and said wearily “One of you
fellers better get up an’ go down in the
lignum an’ bring them sheep back.”
“Listen,” I said, feeling smart, “how
would it be if I went down there an’
camped an’ sort of shepherded ’em?
Wouldn’t that be cheaper?”
“Think y’re smart, don’t y’?” said
Father.
“Well,” said our brother to me, “they
can say what they like about the ol’
merino, but it only takes a one-wire fence
to keep him in. Blasted long-legged kan-
garoo sheep like them aint’ fit f’r farms.
They ought t’ be out in the million-acre
country.”
I brought ’em back and we tightened
up more wires. But it wasn’t any good,
They’d keep getting out, sometimes two
or three of them, sometimes the lot, and
always we’d have to go down to the hg-
num and fetch them back. Mother and
we boys tried to make Father see it was
best to sell them, but Father was a stub-
borp man. He wanted to breed cross-
breds and he was going to breed cross-
breds. He leased 10 acres of the lignum
swamp from the shire council, ran a
lightning fence around it and had a ram
paddock. It made him feel big. He used
to go into town and talk grandly about
“Me ram paddock. The Borders dion t
care.


How to make
Gillette Blades
last longer..
1
m
lather longer
and lessen
beard resistance
An extra few minutes spent on the shaving
lather will make all the difference to the life
of your Gillette Blades. Cut out the rush!
Spend more time in working up a rich wet
lather. The result will be happier shaving
and almost double-life from your Gillette
Blades. And here’s another tip. Handle the
blades only by the ends. Be sure to dry them
carefully, and don’t touch the cutting edges.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
. AND SAVE STEEL
Saving means safety, waste means disaster. Buy Savings Bonds or Certificates.
1
v*
"X
freedom
To be free to think, to act, to worship as we
will ... to voice our opinions openly . . .
to elect our parliaments ... to frame the
very laws which govern this great land. Thai
is the measure of an Australian ... a birth-
right worth defending to the last man and
the last shilling.
inserted in the National Interest by
the Manufacturers of
FELTEX
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
F 1.24.16
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy morocco-bound book Souvenir of
the Opening of the Hawkesbury River Bridge,
May, 1889.—3308.
To buy, new or second-hand, Collected Poems
of Rupert Brooke, with Memoir by E. Marsh.
—3309.
To communicate with anyone prepared to
sell, exchange or hire the “Saturday Evening
Post” from 1940 to date. —3310.
Information Sought.
(1) What is a division in military parlance?
(2) A regiment ? (3) Are there any regiments in
the Australian Army? (4) What exactly is
meant by ancillary troops? (5) What is a
brigade? (6) What is an army corps?
(1) In the most-used meaning of the term,
two or more brigades, under the command of
a general, comprising from 10,000 to 15,000
men. The term is sometimes applied to two
companies of infantry manoeuvring as one sub-
division of a battalion. (2) Usually 10 com-
panies, commanded by a colonel. (3) Yes. (4)
The term means subordinate or subservient.
In military usage a labor battalion might be
termed ancillary to fighting units. (5) Two
or more regiments under 'command of a
brigadier-general. (6) Two or more divisions
under single command.
* * * *
(l) /j there any difference between oleo mar-
garine and margarine? (2) Is butterfat used
in the production of margarine in Australia or
in England? (3) Constituents of margarine?
(1) Oleo margarine is a type of margarine
made from animal fat. Beef oleo oil is the
principal ingredient, this being the oily part of
rendered beef fat. “Margarine” is a general
term applied to butter substitutes, whether
made from a vegetable or an animal base. Oleo
margarine refers to a type of product; the
term “margarine” applies to the product gener-
ally. (2) No butterfat is used in the pro-
duction of margarine sold in Australia. Cannot
say whether or not it is now incorporated in
margarine sold for civilian consumption in
Great Britain; but it is known that 10 p.c, of
butter is incorporated in the British Army
ration margarine. (3) Margarine can be made
from a tremendous range of fats and oils.
Very generally used are coconut oil, beef oleo,
whale oil, peanut oil, cottonseed oil and palm-
kernel oil. Many of these oils must be hydro-
genated or hardened into a fat before use in
margarine manufacture. In Australia beef oleo
oil, coconut oil, peanut and cottonseed oils
pfactically cover the range. No whale oil is
used in Australia.
* * * *
What is the population of the 20 largest
cities of the world?
World Almanac’s list; Greater London
8,655,000, New York 7,380,260, Tokyo 7,001,650,
Greater Paris 4,933,855, Berlin 4,332,242, Moscow
4,137,018, Shanghai 3,490,000, Osaka 3,394,200,
Chicago 3,384,556, Leningrad 3,191,300, Buenos
Aires 2,364,263, Philadelphia 1,935,086, Vienna
1,918,462, Mexico City 1,754,355, Rio de
•Janeiro 1,711,466, Hamburg 1,682,220, Detroit
1,618,549, Budapest 1,585,678, Peiping 1,556,334,
Los Angeles 1,496,792. These figures are all
three or four years old, and do not reflect
war changes.
* * * *
(1) What caused the numerous lake basins in
northern Victoria and (2) why does a hill or
bank invariably border their eastern shores ?
(1) Presume you mean the north-west lakes
—Albacutya, Hindmarsh, Lascelles, Tyrrel, etc.
All are the ends of streams flowing down the
watershed from the Great Divide and through
fairly well rain-watered country. But the lakes
lie on or in the harrier of sandhills and lime-
stone country, with a low rainfall, between
the Wimmera and the Central North and the
Murray Basin. With limestone and heavy clay
beds and sand barrages formed by prevailing
winds through centuries, plus lack of rain to
reinforce the onward flow, a sort of natural
dam was formed. Ancient timber lines and
other traces suggest that once upon a time these
streams connected with the Murray Basin. (2)
Are you sure “invariably” is correct? Most
of such banks are formed by prevailing winds,
generally north in the area. Try Vic. Dept,
of Agriculture for more detailed information.
* * * *
Recipe for making orange peel into a sweet?
Use thick-skinned oranges. Soak peel for
three days in a brine made by dissolving one
dessertspoon salt in each pint of water. Lift
out peel, rinse in clear water, put into preserv-
ing pan, just cover with fresh amount of water
and boil for two hours. Remove peel, add two
pounds of sugar to each pint of watery bring
to the boil and then strain. While syrup is still
hot add peel and leave to soak for 24 hours.
Drain, roll in fine sugar and leave to dry. Can
be used for candied peel or candy.
3§6 _ SfC S|C
Recipe for Worcester sauce, using treacle ?
Take half a pint of treacle, one quart of
vinegar, half a pint of mushroom ketchup, half
an ounce of cayenne pepper, one small lemon
finely sliced, half an ounce each of salt, garlic,
bruised cloves and ground ginger. Mix in a
china basin, stir with a wooden spoon three
nr four times a day for five days, strain twice,
then bottle and cork tightly.
* * * *
(1) When was Union Rugby launched in
N.S.W. ? (2) Who were the N.S.W. R.U. secre-
taries up to 1904 ? (3) Where can a copy of
R.U. rules be obtained?
(1) Union Rugby was established in 1874
under the control of the Southern Rugby Foot-
ball Union; in 1892 the title of that body was
changed to N.S.W. Rugby Union. (2) W.
Fletcher (1874-83), W. Mont Arnold (1884-86),
A. Hale (1887), A. Hale and J. MacManamey
(1888), G. Graham and W. Belbridge (April
26 to May 3, 1889), G. Graham (1889-92), W.
Rand (1893-1904). (3) Apply to the secre-
tary, N.S.W. Rugby Union, 10-12 Spring-
street, Sydney.
* * * *
What are the cricket laws concerning (1)
“lost ball” and (2) “ obstructing the field”?
(1) If a ball in play cannot be found or re-
covered, any fieldsman may call “lost ball,”
when the ball shall be “dead”; six runs shall
be added to the score; but if more than six
runs have been run before “lost ball” has been
called, as many runs as have been run shall
be scored. (2) When a batsman hits the ball
and under pretence of running or otherwise wil-
fully preyents the ball from being caught he
can be given out by the umpire. The bowler
does not get the credit of the wicket.
* * * *
(1) Method of cleaning a light-colored drugget
floor covering? (2) Method of removing
coffee stains from same?
(1) To clean, go over surface, patch at a
time, to make a thorough job of it. Dip a
cloth in warm water and wet the portion you
are about to work on, sprinkle with borax,
then scrub with a brush and a good carpet soap
(or ammonia and soap), making a good lather.
Wipe the soap off and mop with clean warm
water —twice if necessary. To avoid a patchy
look, change the water frequently. (2) After
cleaning, lift carpet, pour hot water through
the stain and dry in the shade. Repeat this
process if necessary.
Brief Answers.
T.L.8.: It is customary for the mayor or
president of a municipal body to remain seated
at council meetings. At a public meeting the
chairman customarily stands when addressing
the meeting M.N.: Advise you to consult a
properly-qualified .person. A guinea saved now
may cost hundreds later on. Fee depends on
length and complexity of will. There are plenty
of reputable solicitors in Sydney R.M.: De-
pends on whether store made contract with you
or the builder. Probably you are liable, but
you can recover from the builder A.L.H.:
Wife is entitled to pension. Apply to Pensions
Officer, Southern Command, Victoria Barracks,
Melbourne, if husband was a member of Aus-
tralian forces, or to the equivalent officer in
M.L. if a member of M.L. forces K.D.H.:
Depends on terms of lease. Usually a lessee
does not have to repair property which has
fallen into disrepair through fair wear and
tear. You can only do your best C.W.G.:
An overcharge for plumbing is no breach of
price-fixing regulations. See a solicitor
M.R.; The plural of lettuce may be the sin-
gular form or you may add an “s.” J.A.A.:
Assessed for the particular year, not averaged
over three years. If you are in doubt you may
ask the taxation authorities for reassessment.
You appear to have been correctly taxed for 1940.
L.S.: The correct rendering is “He was
as good as, if not better than, his opponent”
H.W.M.: Jane’s Fighting Ships is an annual
publication, price £5 ss. Angus and Robertson
will order it from London for you A.8.H.:
Approximately 3 acres I rood 33 perches
E.E.W.: (1) Powdered manganese dioxide and
charcoal. (2) Any large bookseller could
supply a cheap book on the subject.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —
J.R.MacN.:
Destroyers sweep in vicious circles, submarines they
aim to squash;
Aircraft-carriers nose the oceans with their flush decks
well awash ;
While in humble merchant vessels seamen hear the
bulkheads groan—
Stand behind them, men and women, support Aus-
tralia’s new war loan.
E.M.T.:
If you look at it more closely, this policy austere
Is just a lot of hooey and not a bit sincere.
For there would be no taxes, our loans we couldn't
fill.
If we took too litei’ally Curtin’s austere pill.
.... J.H.: Try to write a more natural language.
L.P.W.: You are not the first that ever
burst into a sonnet about drought A.F.8.;
She nearly stepped in F.M.C.; Elementary.
Mack: She’s a wild and improbable
rumor G.M.: Call again K.N.: “Air-
man” should score elsewhere E.W.K.: Pity
“Australia” isn’t more Australian and less
Kiplingesque 8.C.: Rough G.M.H.:
“Go on, go on, I say, and beat these fanatics.”
Go on, go on, it’s patriotic but hardly poetic.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.V.: Judging by the way Mum is swinging the
axe she was born with two right hands
P.L.: You’ve put exactly the same faces on the
little boy, his father, mother and the dog
L. 8.: Received, one microscopic sketch of a
barrel standing on its end, unsurrounded by
fauna, flora, humans or anything. Whaffor?
C.S.L.: Jagged linework; and, remember,
massed, heavily-inked latticework doesn’t indi-
cate shading H.N.: That barmaid would
make the best beer taste like vinegar.


The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
I _ ••
Established 1879.
CORNER OF HUNTER AND BLIGH STS., SYDNEY
NoimmsNi
NVnVHISfIV NV
■. • '
m
1
Head Office: Corner Hunter and BUgh Streets, Sydney.
PURELY
MUTUAL
ANNUAL BONUSES
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £11,000,000.
Y y ..■ * ■ ■ .• ’ ’ I ■ ■' ' •
WILLIAM BENNETT,
General Manager.
ASSIST THE AUSTERITY LOAN BY THE


Correct belt tension, the all important factoi
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different slock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States.
1
1
SB
'''' :**': : :.- .
m
3S
%
%
V/M
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kufoey Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to ba
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflnessi under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
tip. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. If backache is bother-
ing vou due to t:red kidneys, try DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves. ,
£ £ £ £
1933.. 20,924 7 p.c. = 20,920 4 134,422
1934.. 22,406 7 „ ~20,920 1,486 135,908
Pref. Ord.
5i p.c. 7 p.c.
1935.. 30,265 8,613 20,920 732 136.640
1936.. 33.326 10,957 20,920 1,449 138,089
1937.. 48,417 10,957 36,973 487 138,576
1938.. 53,889 10,957 41,309 1,623 140,199
1939.. 69,792 10,957 55,856 2,979 143.178
1940.. 79,500 10,957 67,511 1,032 144,210
1941.. 84,461 10,957 73,321 183 144,393
6 p.c.
1942.. 74,440 10,958 62,846 636 145,029
Don’t deduce that the Queensland Froth-
blowers’ Club has suffered any diminution
of membership ; on the contrary, its ranks
have swollen, and pockets generally
have been well lined. The reduced profit
mainly reflects the leapfrogging of costs
during the year, the only ones to be re-
covered through price adjustments being
excise, now pushed up from 3s. to 4s. 7d. a
gallon, compared with the pre-war Is. 9d.
Moreover, in March a Federal order re-
stricting production and distribution of
beer to hotels to two-thirds of Jan.-Feb.
totals went out —it doesn’t appear to have
been fully achieved. Whether any con-
cession has been granted Queensland
brewers because of shifts in population is,
like the question of what canteen de-
mands are being met locally in these times
of congested transport, not clear.
Between them, the Queensland and
Castlemaine-Perkins cos. slake most of
Bananaland’s lengthy thirst. About a
decade back vigorous competition be-
tween the two developed for control of
pub properties in order to tie up the outlet
for their products, and in the matter of
capital development each has kept the
measure of the other since: t
New Issues.
Queensland Brewery. [ Castlemaine-Perkins.
Aug., 1934 . . £199,234)| Dec., 1934 ..£156,250
June, 1936 . . 249,043 | April, 1936 . . 260,416
Mar., 1938 . . 249,223 | Jan., 1938 . . 208,335
Oct., 1939 . . 249,383 j Nov., 1939 . . 250,000
t Pref.
In the case of Queensland Brew, this
next comparison shows more or less pre-
cisely where the £947,000 raised from
shareholders, plus nei&ly a half-million
from outsiders, has gone:
Paid 1932. 1937. 1941. 1942.
capital.. £298,851 £747,700 £1,246,666 £1,246,666
Liabilities 97,379 514,478 513,628 540,435
Fixed assets 286,433 1,181,013 1,641,595 1,670,789
Stocks . . 77,055 104,567 157,947 143,960
Book debts 167,862 127,261 125,166 121,452
Cash, etc... 8,265 12,586 22,118 32,831
The monetary and physical needs of the
war*machine have since called halt to the
process, which has left the co. with a
debt (mostly secured) £242,192 in excess
of more or less liquids. So far as the eye
can see, the new capital has no more than
earned the expanding dividend charge;
but brewers are a notoriously conserva-
tive fraternity.
The, declared contraction of £10,021 in
last year’s net earnings would have been
deeper except for a cut in the deprecia-
tion charge from £21,109 to £17,821. But
the true state of affairs partly depends
on what was first provided for “contin-
gencies” and the amount charged to
revenue for repairs, renewals, etc. Taxa-
tion isn’t indicated ; the general experi-
ence of most cos. was that retrospective
imposts caught them with insufficient in
hand for the purpose. Thus, after a
decade around 7 p.c., both profit-rate and
div. came down to 6 p.c. With turnover
pegged, one of the problems of the hour
appears to be hotel overhead.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
< — Dividends N Nominal
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.!
£ ' £ £ £
1933 .. 15,789 16501 24 p.c. = 9,729 164,792
1934 .» 27,855 1980 6 „ „ 23,350 167,317
1935 . . 28,614 1980 6J „ „ 25,296 168,655
1936 .. 29,318 1980 61 „ ~ 25,296 170,697
Earmarked for depreciation, £19,650.. 151,047
1937 .. 29,548 1980 7 p.c. = 27,242 151,373
1938 .. 40,019 1980 8 „ „ 36,338 153,074
1939 . . 35,802 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 154,206
1940 . . 35,080 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 154,616
1941 .. 37,497 1980 71 „ ~ 35,025 155,108
1942 . . 37,008 1980 74 „ „ 35,025 155,111
+ 5 p.c. from Oct. 1, 1931. f Subject to goodwill
( £25,000 ) and excluding depreciation reserve
( £71,172).
Hotels, of which the Australia is one
of the Commonwealth’s largest and most
fashionable, are only beginning to feel
the full effects of war measures upon
earnings. The usual flow of international
visitors practically ceased following the
outbreak of hostilities in 1939, but till
now there have been compensating fac-
tors, such as Government spending on
war account, wage lifts, spread of em-
ployment and the presence of Allied per-
sonnel.
The Australia is well equipped to take
advantage of these factors, many new and
attractive features—wintergarden, ban-
quet hall, bevery, new bar, additional
upper floors, etc. —having been intro-
duced following extension of the prem-
ises to Martin-place. The co. went a bit
into debt to finance these extensions and
additions, which added to overhead in
other ways as well. Also, to maintain
its prestige, the Australia has had to
keep up standards of comfort and ser-
vice which rising costs, including taxa-
tion, have made it difficult to continue
at a profit. So shareholders have got
little benefit from the extra takings.
Despite growing difficulties, after set-
ting aside an extra £3OOO for taxation
(£25,000) and making the usual allow-
ance for depreciation (£10,000) the net
result last year was down only £489. It
was enough to pay the prefs. their 6 p.c.
and show 7.5 p.c. on the £467,003 of ord.
capital, as against 7.6, 7, 7.2, 8.3 and 7
p.c. for the four preceding terms. The
div. was kept at 7y p.c.
How long it will remain there is an-
other question. Nearly every avenue of
hotel earnings is now subject to limiting
controls of one kind and another. Priori-
ties in railway travel have reduced the
number of country and inter-State visi-
tors to the city, beer is rationed from the
brewery and the price has been lifted
again, spirits are both scarcer and dearer,
and good wine costs a lot more than it
used to. For hotels which specialised in
luxury menus the hardest blow is the
austerity cuts in meals, which have been
reduced to three courses, ceiling prices
being breakfast 35., luncheon 4s. and
dinner ss. Luxury foods, which used to
be very profitable to vendors, will largely
disappear, smaller helpings of plainer
foods will be served, service will be re-
duced and managements will need to
budget very carefully for the volume,
variety and cost of kitchen output if
dining-rooms are to remain profitable.
Beveries, etc., where cheaper meals are
served, won’t suffer much. Hotels which
cater largely for high-class trade will find
renewals and repairs, which have an im-
portant bearing on goodwill, press
heavily.
Here is a comparison of the Australia’s
balance-sheet figures:
1936. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Stock.. ..£11,548 £8,499 £23,172 £16,454
Book debts, etc. 6,368 6,399 5,982 5,807
Cash, etc. . . 1,800 22,668 15,626 36,141
Liquid assets £19,716 £37,561 £44,780 £58,402
Mortgage 1 j 275,000 250,000 250,000
Creditors* j 6 04,<580 ( 28,534 37,517 49,965
Excess
liabilities £334,670 £265,973 £242,737 £241,563
Property and
equipment .. 917,149 962.517 962,517 962,517
Paid capital . . 422,169 500,003 500,003 500,003
* Including tax provision.
The most pleasing feature last term was
the growth of £20,515 in cash, etc.
The amount coming to sundry credi-
tors (up £12,448) includes provision for
taxation. The property item remained
unchanged; obviously much depends
upon what was spent on maintenance,
etc., and charged against earnings.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Off, Etc, serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1932 22,186 14,000 1000 7,186 231,500
1933 .. 20,760 14,000 1000 5,760 237,260
8 p.c.
1934 .. 24,947 16,000 3000 5,947 243,207
1935 .. 25,842 16,000 5000 4,842 248,049
10J p.c.
1936 .. 29,212 21,000 4000 4,212 252,261
Staff ins. reserve taken in, £10,000.. 262,261
10 p.c.
1937 . 27,021 20,000 5000 2,021 264,282
1938 .. 28,400 20,000 5000 3,400 267,682
1939 .. 31,419 20,000 5000 6,419 274,101
1940 .. 29,125 20,000 4000 5,125 279,226
1941 . . 26,818 20,000 2500 4,318 283,544
1942 . . 24,141 20,000 2500 1,641 285,185
Though business isn’t looked for out-
side N. S. Wales, this is the largest trustee
co. in Australia; actually, few in the
world can match its figures. Just before
war corpus and other commissions, etc.,
were showing a disposition to advance
by annual £lO,OOO steps ; over the past
two years the movement has been some-
what reversed, although the volume of
business entrusted to the co.’s care goes
on expanding and is likely to continue so.
Notifications, indeed, of appointment as
executor under wills at present surpass
all previous proportions. This just not
because of war’s artificial conditions, but
because of the growing appreciation of
the corporate trustee’s advantages in the
bewildering tangle of law these days
associated with the administration of
estates.
The seeming paradox of record busi-
ness for smaller returns is explained by a
smaller flow of commission earnings, both
on corpus and income account —the
former because war-time restrictions and
investment caution prevent realisations of
real estate and company shares, etc., with
the same expedition as previously, the
latter because prevailing Government
monetary policy has reduced the interest,
dividend and rent yields of estates under
administration. Thus, after providing for
contingencies, there was a contraction of
£3847 in gross earnings from all sources
last year, despite a net expansion of
£983,190 in the book value of trusts:- 1 —
Year Exes.
Ended Gross Ex- p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
1921 .. 18,432,862 77,404 55,261 71.4
1931 41,152,590 143,665 120,141 83.6
1934 45,812,450 132,468 112,379 psJ54.B
1936 .. 49,843,142 150,994 125,9831 3*^4
1937 .. 51,675,485 158,379 133,581 sSt
1938 . . 54,068,638 168,225 143,019 85.0
1939 . . 57,144,759 178,385 152,299 85.3
1940 .. 57,081,014 188,937 163,500 86.5
1941 . . 59,362,240 186,528 161,917 86.8
1942 . . 60,345,430 182,681 160,013 87.6
The pulling back of exes, bespeaks a
tight hold on controllable outgoings, see-
ing the part taxation now plays in things.
Still, these made off with 16s. more of
each £lOO of gross. Deducting the £2500
shown in the “written off” column
and sent to staff funds, but including
an addition of £1473 to commission-
reserved account —it comprises the un-
earned portion of corpus commissions —
the year’s surplus was left £2677 lighter
at 10.8 p.c. on capital, as against 12.1,
12.5 and 13.2 p.c. back to the last peace
year.
Just how much the trust side of the
business is turning in may be guessed at
from the fact that the co.’s own funds
themselves need earn less than 4.1 p.c. to
pay the 10 p.c. div. Along with £42,976
coming to outsiders or earmarked for
taxation, these funds at June 30 were
represented by Government securities,
etc., £225,155, premises and fittings
£116,455, mortgages, etc., £122,482,
debtors £3984 and cash £70,084.
Beau Monde, Ltd. (Melb.)
* Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, .serves.
£ £ £ £
1935 .. 24,024 25 p.c. = 19,130 4,894 68,797
1936 . . 30,034 25 „ „ 22,956 7,378 76,175
1937 .. 30,610 25 „ „ 25,507 5,103 81,278
Special tax assessment, £2099 .. 79,180
1938 .. 28,209 20 p.c. = 25,500 2,709 81,889
1939 .. 14,370 10 ~ „ 12,750 1,620 83,509
1940 . . 15,820 10 „ „ 12,750 3,070 86.579
1941 . . 13,022 10 ~ ~ 12,750 272 86,851
1942 . . 14,533 10 ~ „ 12,113 2,420 89,271
Just before the end of the year the co.
involved itself in a lot of expense, time
and trouble, and left shareholders with
uneven holdings, by returning 6d. on each
of its ss. ords., which were then con-
solidated into £1 counters. The sum in-
volved was £12,749.
Reduction in debtors through ration-
ing and the downswing of stock follow-
ing cessation of pure silk supplies and
Government control of what is left —an
acjvisory panel of trade members has
been set up to assist —had left the eo.
swollen with cash, as these figures bear
witness:
1 QQQ TQ.il IQi9
Paid capital.. £64,286 £127,764 £127,764 £115,015
Creditors . . 12,868 11,502 11,270 3,427
Tax provision 7,812 1,433 8,144 10,375
Freeholds . . 49,322 59,414 59,070 58,514
Plant, etc. . . 135,863 57,652 40,378 30,916
Stocks . . 69,810 83,478 103,607 65,554
Debtors .. 14,059 22,402 25,198 15,991
Cash, etc. . . 4,468 14,238 15,051 52,850
With effective demand restricted, the
stock position is reckoned “in a compara-
tively healthy state.” Public call has now
turned to lisle hosiery, a substitute which
the co. introduced over a year ago, and


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. , 86371.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN
No friend or acquaintance should he expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property*ownei and
the man-on-the-land. _.. ... . ... ~ .
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman);
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E,, M.L.C.; James Kidd; A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J.
FRAILTY
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
The Symbol of
Security I
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
liliiipiiiiil
h<,>
" «!
m
y ■.
■m-.
m
■>.
\ :
y : >.
m
v m
IKB . Main I
L ‘M nto
THEY STILL PIN
THEIR FAITH TO
Body by Richards
ff
I ts
Assembling Special R.I.L.
General Service Bodies
for Trucks and Utilities.
RIGKMIS
INDUSTRIES
ft. I
I P,&M C R 6
IT E D
1914-18 —ln such infernos as Gallipoli
and the Jordan Valley, the first Anzacs learned
to depend on rugged Richards Wagons and
tough Australian horseflesh to bring up vital
supplies.
NOW —The horse has been replaced by
the internal combustion engine, but the new
Digger, like his father, relies on the enduring
quality of Richards workmanship.
Campaign roads and cam-
p a, ’s n i° a< *s are not J or
weakling trucks. The fact
that the war of 25 years ago
and the more exacting war
of to-day both demand Richards bodies
is proof that Richards craftsmanship is
ever in the ascendant. The
enthusiastic army in the R.I.L.
factories ceaselessly pours its products
of transport, aircraft, arms and
ammunition into the fearless hands of
the fighting forces.
which it is also supplying to women's
services here and abroad in large quan-
tity. No plant replacement was under-
taken, but efficiency of the working assets
is declared maintained “unimpaired.”
For these hosiery and lingerie manu-
facturers, the difficulties of war-time trad-
ing, culminating in clothes-rationing, have
reduced output to 40 p.c. of pre-war.
Beau Monde estimates that milady’s
normal requirements of stockings—]ust
under a pair a week —have now been
forced down to the same figure a month.
But a saving of 70 p.c. in the labor
required for the war-time article, and
other economies, have so far enabled the
management successfully to adjust itself
to the new conditions. Moreover, the
spinning section is now turning out sew-
ing threads, yarns, etc., for essential pur-
poses, and a little more camaraderie in
the trade has replaced the old dog-eat-
dog tradition.
So great have been the savings that a
17 p.c. fall in gross earnings was accom-
panied by a 25 p.c. reduction in exes.,
after adjustment of the ’4l figures for
£2900 by which the tax provision fell
short. This year tax takes £10,916 (down
£1490) and depreciation, not neglected,
£9921 (down £862), leaving net £l5ll
higher at £14,533, or 12 p.c. on capital,
against 10.2, 12.4 and 11.2 p.c., to look
back three years. The div. stayed at
10 p.c. Meantime, costs press on, ration-,
ing’s full effect has still to show up, and
there are definite limits to further econo-
mies and the alternative activities that
can be developed.
Richards Industries, Ltd. (Adelaide)
Late motor-body-builders, now muni-
tioneers, the co.’s public £lOO,OOO offer of
6 p.c. prefs. is prompted by expansion of
the latter phase of activities. Reorganisa-
tion is going on, and commitments of
£96,000 have already been entered into
for new plant and buildings to house it,
with further extensions planned—most
of it not without an eye to the less-imme-
diate future. Recovery from slump was
rather remarkable, but war and events
subsequent thereto brought profits down
with a bump. The war programme, how-
ever, is now in full swing, and a surplus
of £20,532 showed up in the year to
June. There are 41,260 8-10 p.c. prefs.
and £215,085 of ords. at present on issue ;
£75,000 of the latter represents B shares
held by Chrysler-Dodge interests, to
which control passed four years back.
Now capital expenditure appears to
have largely ceased, Mt. Morgan (Q.) is
showing growing liquidity. Apart from
£100,500 of inscribed stock put by for
eventual redemption of the 200,000 pound
prefs., other more or less liquids, includ-
ing stores, are £293,810, against which
stands a mere £9554 of sundry creditors.
Only immediate outlay foreshadowed in
the latest accounts is for the major repair
or replacement of the reverberatory fur-
nace in the copper smelter,
* * *
Latest report about Wiluna (W.A.) is
that the present output can be maintained
until the end of the financial year in
March. Then a reduction in tonnage
treated may be made. Ore reserves at
31/3 / ’4l were 1,115,000 tons, value 3.sdwt.
About 750,000 tons has probably been
extracted and treated since. Because of
inroads on goldmining labor, co. has got
an extension of its two-year option on
the Mt. Charlotte-Hannans Hill group,
Kalgoorlie. It contracted to spend
£24,000 during the currency of the option,
but just as it was beginning to shell out
the palling-up of men for war work com-
menced. Only a skeleton gang is at
present on the group.
* * * *
From its string of Golden Mile mines,
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie (W.A.) today
posts a final 4-£d. stg. a share, less U.K.
tax; interim was of 3d., the full
rate for the year to March thus being
compared with 9d, for the 12 months
before. Subject to audit, profit was
£58,854 lower at £121,040; but taxation,
depreciation, etc. (£149,631 in 1941), have
to come out of that. Co. is yet another
to have a mill-expansion programme in
hand at the beginning of war and to be
caught by English excess-profits tax. But
for this impost a distribution of 2s 6d.
a share would have been possible, chair-
man Marmion said 12 months ago. It is
worth remembering. Large developed
and to-be-developed reserves await ex-
traction.
♦ * * •
Unwatering and development outgo
caused last year’s £8177 loss, declares
Swan Bitter (W.A.); gold yields were
more than enough to cover mining exes.
That refers only to the return over the
plates; another £1 a ton net profit from
the 2500 tons crushed is lying in the 3dwt.
sands. Nothing but optimistic reports
have emanated from the manager, but
no accurate count of ore reserves has yet
been made. Above 400 ft. in the Morning
Star these are “estimated” at 12,000 to
14.000 tons of Bdwt.-9dwt, stuff, with
20.000 tons probable averaging about half
as much, while a winze 74ft. below that
level' in the Big Lode is “reported to have
been in good values” —presumably by
the previous owners. Directors were
divided about giving an option to Hill 50,
and the matter was sent on to share-
holders. Measured by market values, the
offer of one Hill 50 for every two Swan
Bitters represented an immediate capital
gain of Is. a share to holders of the latter,
plus an interest in a proved mine at
present paying 6d. a share quarterly.
* * * *
Paringa (W.A.) goes on announcing
good developments in the ore pipe in
the 520 ft. level workings of its main
(Paringa) block. Assays from a winze
down 57ft. are stated to average 27.78dwt.
over a width of 53in. Soon after this
new source of wealth was struck it was
hailed as a second Oroya shoot. This
was only a short distance east of the Par-
inga holding, and at the old price yielded
millions of pounds’ worth of gold over
a length between a half to three-quarters
of a mile. It began in the Brownhill,
and, after passing through Brownhill
Extended, Associated Northern and
Oroya, petered out in the Associated,
which is now one of the Lake View and
Star group.
Though the expected improvement in
values didn’t materialise, yardage handled
by the Cocks Eldorado dredge (Vic.) was
a seventh better in the year just closed,
The behavior of costs renders the bene-
fits to net revenue doubtful, however,
Divs. actually paid during the 12 months
were sixpence a share, compared with a
shilling the previous term ; another Is.
6d. is to go out on October 23. There is
a little stream tin in the wash—not much,
but no doubt useful in more ways than
one at the moment. About years work
is measured up, and the acquisition ot
storage and settling dams from the
Pioneer co. announced a year back has
eased both water and slum-disposal
worries.


FAMOUS WRITERS
SHOW YOU SHORT CUTS TO SUCCESS!
Wouldn’t you like to make a second income
with your pen? Wouldn’t you like an absorb-
ing new interest—the thrill of seeing YOUR
name featured above stories —articles —plays
—poems —across the cover of the year’s best-
seller? This is your great opportunity. The
celebrated writers pictured on this page
have prepared the most practical and highly-
sj/ecialised Course in Journalism, Radio and
Story-Writing ever written. Never before
has so expert and authentic a Course been
made available to ambitious people. Imagine
being able to learn the success-secrets
of writers who have captured the most
highly-paid markets in the world.
Imagine being able to profit by their
many years’ experience—in a
few short months of fascinat-
ing study! No matter where
you live, nor how limited
your leisure, you
can learn with an
expert at your
elbow.
mm
m
VAKCE
PALMER
MYRA MORRIS
REX
GRAYSON
il
mm
BEATRICE
GRIMSHAW
XAVIER
HERBERT
MAX
AFFORD
WILLIAM
HATFIELD
Write (or
simply
mail the
coupon
below)
for your
free copy of the Pros-
pectus. Its profusely
illustrated pages will
tell you more about
these and other
noted writers who have compiled
the Course, and show how you,
too, can win success and financial
rewards in this delightful profes-
sion. No cost or obligation what-
soever if you use the coupon or mention “The
Bulletin.”
POST THIS COUPON NOW!
AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL
OF JOURNALISM
Where the Experts of Today Teach
the Writers of Tomorrow,
80 SWANSTON STREET. MELBOURNE
Australian School of Journalism, >■ g
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Please forward your Free Illustrated Pros- ■
pectus to— I
■
■
NAME
ADDRESS
Lmi
.STATE
I
THAT*
l et IL
IShoulder your
Worries
The possession of assets brings with it many problems. Involved taxation,
war-time regulations, and the many complications which these critical times
produce, make the control and supervision of assets a constant source of
worry. Burns Philp Trust Company Limited offers a service which will relieve
you of all these responsibilities. It is prepared and equipped to administer
and safeguard your estate during your lifetime, leaving you free to enjoy
your retirement or concentrate on your professional or business affairs, free
from the burden of estate control. Ask for particulars of this service.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
1 BRIDGE STREET A SYDNEY
PHONE: 87901. Box 5/, 3 B, G-P-0., Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Attack on Thrift
Australia would be in pretty poor
shape now if it had no factories, no
transport facilities and no pastoral and
mineral development. That is a state-
ment almost too obvious to need saying.
Yet apparently it does need saying when
one considers the declared attitude of
various members of the Federal Govern-
ment and the behavior of the Govern-
ment as a whole. Australia’s industrial
development represents portion of the
labor and savings of people individually
and in company. Any kind of defer-
ment of profit-taking that results in the
building up of the means of increasing
production represents saving—in other
words, thrift. A man may have a piece
of land of which he is able to cultivate
a quarter with the help of primitive tools.
If he does not spend all the income he
derives from it on himself he may be
able eventually to buy machinery that
will allow him to cultivate the whole and
quadruple his output. Only labor and
thrift enable him to do that. And his
production benefits the nation as well as
himself.
Thrift is best looked at in terms other
than money. Money is mostly a thing of
record and exchange ; its value is in what
it stands on. Improvement, say, of pas-
tures represents the use of labor for future,
not immediate, benefit. The establish-
ment and extension of factories repre-
sent the accumulation of labor and
materials in the form of plant, buildings,
etc., for a long period of future service.
If we don’t consume or waste all the
results of our efforts immediately we are
able to provide a base for greater and
easier production in the future, with im-
proved living standards Ifor everyone.
Yet it is typical of the Labor movement
in Australia that the majority of its
actions intended to improve the living
standards of the wage-earners strike at
thrift, and therefore at the base on which
improving living standards rest. The
present Commonwealth Government has
shown itself incapable of rational be-
havior in this regard. It has made far
too many concessions to impulsive greedi-
ness, ignorance and envy, and is an illus-
tration of the incompetence of the pro-
fessional politician as an administrator.
A short while ago Labor threatened
to restrict returns from savings invested
in industry to 4 p.c. regardless of merit,
though it increased wage and overtime
rates in some industries and did nothing
to interfere with full cost-of-living wage
increases in all. The 4 p.c. plan was
abandoned only when it was found to be
administratively impossible. Though it
has raised the rate of old-age pensions in
war-time the Government has reduced
interest returns on money lent to indus-
try and the Government to the lowest
rates on record. This cheap-money
policy has many things to commend it
if it is accompanied by equality of sacri-
fice in other directions, but the present
Commonwealth Government hardly
acknowledges that there is such a thing
as two-way traffic in these matters ; be-
cause the thrifty person has accumulated
a little “capital” he is the target of the
improvident and the incompetent, and
politically he must always give way to
the interests of the wage-earner whether
the latter be well paid or poorly paid, a
good worker or a bad one, a thrifty
person or a waster.
Income from thrift bears a specially
high tax; property income invariably
carries a higher rate than “earned” in-
come, whether, in comparison with other
incomes, the latter is fully “earned” or
not. This differentiation has always been
accepted by the thrifty so long as it was
kept within reason. It is only when this
sacrifice is treated with contempt by
others that resentment occurs. Contempt
and overbearing arrogance have lately
run riot.
Those who lend money to the Gov-
ernment, as many thousands have done
in this war from purely patriotic motives,
are blackguarded as “bondholders” every
now and then by a Labor member. This
lends color to the theory that if you
guzzle yourself with beer or do your
money on “the dogs” and let national in-
terests go hang you are a good citizen in
Labor eyes. And since Labor panders
to the improvident and importunate, such
people support the panderers.
The Budget passed in a hurry by the
House of Representatives is an affront
to thrift in every way, and the way in
which it was passed is an affront
to commonsense. The taxation scale
is loaded against those who save
and develop, while showing a sickly soli-
citude for the interests of the great mass
of consumers. In addition, it is super-
charged with inflation, and inflation is
a thing that strikes at savings and incomes
from savings, eventually undermining all
industrial activity and living arrange-
ments. In this fact alone is revealed the
essential value of thrift to the country
and the need for preserving the thrifty.
Thrift may be of little good without
labor, but labor is of little value without
thrift. A successful country can do
without neither. By stirring up hatred
between the two classes, and with a Gov-
ernment that is vote-struck talking about
“capitalistic wolves,” only impediments
are placed in the way of the co-operation
that is absolutely essential to the success-
ful prosecution of this war and mainten-
ance of our place in the world after-
wards.
Addition to Australia’s national debt
between June 30, 1939, and June 30,
1942, was £333 million. About half this
increase (£167 million between Sept.,
1941, and June, 1942) took place in
Labor’s period of office, which again
roughly corresponds (two months’ dif-
ference) with the period of hostilities with
Japan. A rough guess would suggest that
the present war has added about £8 mil-
lion to Australia’s annual interest bill.
That is one of the penalties of a weak
financial policy, and there are others.
* * ♦ *
The Government is hogging into bank
credit at a great rate already this financial
year. In three months it has added £3l
million to its debt to the Commonwealth
Bank, raising the total to £l3l million.
In the week to Sept. 21 the war expendi-
ture chalked up in this way was £6.6
million. Australia is getting an almost
blinding illustration of what happens
when politics are allowed to influence
national finance and appointments to
national financial management.
* ♦ * «
There is a too-easy acceptance in this
country of the idea that waste of money
is no waste at all—that, no matter how
money is spent, it passes into circulation
again and is capable then of doing a
good job even if it has just done a bad
one. The philosophy is popular among
retail traders, and something of the kind
was revealed in A. W. Coles’s defence of
the inflationary Chifley Budget. It all
arises out of a false picture of the nature
and work of money. Where a struggling
taxpayer is deprived of a proportion of
his income to meet the cost of war he
may feel the loss sharply ; if it had been
left in his hands it would probably have
been spent by him with care and dis-
cretion. After the Government has taken
it it may be used to pay for some pro-
ject that is eventually found to be use-
less, and the project in any case may
have been unnecessarily costly through
high rates of pay and slow work, bad
planning and other similar factors. In
addition to the loss suffered by the tax-
payer on the money side, the country
has also seen material, labor and time go
to waste. Had the Government bor-
rowed the money instead of taking it by
taxation there would be the difference
that, though the taxpayer would be
directly no worse off, indirectly he and
all other taxpayers would later have to
help pay interest on the debt created on
an “asset” that was of little or no value.
Waste is a very real danger to any
country, especially at a time when the
unavoidable waste of war is a burden in
itself. Besides representing an obstruc-
tion to victory it is an aid to inflation by
virtue of the very fact that after money
has done a wasteful job it still circulates
instead of being cancelled and the loss
allocated to someone.
* * * *
The trading banks, under the National
Security Regulation by which the
Treasury tied them hand and foot, will
not be allowed to subscribe to the Aus-
terity Loan, but will be encouraged to
convert their maturing securities. The
Commonwealth Bank has recently ac-
cepted from them an addition of £3 mil-
lion to their war-time deposits, carrying
the total to above £4O million.
* * * *
The Women’s Employment Board has
fixed a female wage equal to 90 p.c. of
the male rate for similar work in the case
of Michael Nairn and Co. (Aust.) Pty.
The award covers processes in linoleum
manufacturing and certain work in the
co.’s warehouse. For new workers there
is a probationary period of eight weeks
—the first four weeks at 60 p.c. of the
male rate and the second four weeks at
75 p.c. The award is similar to others
already granted. In the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court last week Judge
O’Mara said he did not propose to enter
the political controversy surrounding
wages paid to women. He added that if
the Commonwealth was the paymaster
for practically everyone at the moment,
and in some respects a lavish paymaster,
the Commonwealth, not he, would have
to take responsibility for one section of
the community not getting the basic wage.
The “lavish paymaster,” it may be re-
called, was responsible for introducing
the 40-hour week into the shipping in-
dustry by National Security Regulation
and without even the courtesy of a
proper discussion with the owners. The
thing seems to have been cut and dried.
Unbridled selfishness on the part of Labor
is threatening Australia’s well-being, and
those to suffer hardest will be Labor’s
adherents. The Budget “debate” last
week revealed the gross stupidity, so far
as financial matters were concerned, of
several Labor members. One in par-
ticular, while ostensibly advocating a
pay-as-you-go war finance policy, didn’t
suggest increased and better-spread taxa-
tion ; “national credit” and a capital levy
were to do the trick! Yes, gross stupidity
is not too hard a description.
* * * *
Unless more fertiliser supplies are
forthcoming the sugar-production target
of 600,000 tons for the coming season
will not be reached, according to sugar
producers’ secretary Curlewis. Shortage
of artificial manures had played a big
part in the drop from 745,000 tons to
640,000 tons in the present season’s esti-
mated yield.


Consider the Un
HtH ■iillli
M
&
r^'
*r\
■<e
m
n
Mi
mm
*1
m,
mm
m i
r ; M i. W:
ft^TQ
IhH|
wpppMWiii
M i
7
sm mm
■ •••
;• ?:
m
m
m
i s
smm
iifil
V v : ■ 7
■■
H ■ HI
H
■
■
■
m
iiliili
ii«
ual Features of the
REDLINE”
rtical Turret
LATHE
"FREDLINE" Vertical Turret Lathe
is a production lathe specially suit-
able for non-ferrous metals up to -Jin.
diameter and steel up to -gin. diameter.
It can be used for turning Nuts, Short
Set Screws, Small Bolts, Special Parts
requiring Knurling, Counter Boring and
Recessing, Special Washers up to Jin.
diameter, Clevis Pins, and a thousand
and one other jobs in Brass,
Bronze, Aluminium, etc.
Handles Die Screwing and
Tapping work expeditiously.
Maximum speed, 2,250 r.p.m.
• The revolving turret
has an 8-tool set up.
• 6 speeds ahead
3 reverse
® Speed, feed and
work - control levers
operated at high
speed without fatigue.
• The vertical feed
saves space.
Ask us to send full details,
specifications, etc.
Sole Selling Agents, All Slates . . • •
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE • PERTH
for Immediate Delivery
Manufactured by:
r*TXi**lii)l Manufactg: Co. Pty. Ltd. ]
L ?rr sfear ***** * m*> »* **> I
■ BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE*
“This is YOUR hour..
YOUR opportunity!”
—John Curtin .
if you value Liberty
you will be proud to make sacrifices to preserve it!
Australia at war calls to you to do your share in carrying the burden of
war, that your liberties may be preserved for you and for your children.
Get down to essentials. Give up for the duration all extravagances and
luxuries. Live austerely and save money. Your savings must be pledged
to Australia, to help her to carry on the war. The money which is needed
to maintain the men, materials, and munitions which give striking power
to our fighting forces must be provided by 1
the people of this free Commonwealth . . .
must be provided by YOU! You are not asked
to deprive yourself of necessities, as people
in other countries are forced to do. You
are not asked to endure hardships, such as
many other peoples are enduring. But you
are asked to make some sacrifices . . . small,
when set against the value of all you have
at stake. From to-day you are asked to
tighten your belt and deny yourself all but
absolute essentials. Be proud to do it. Save
money . . , and you’ll save Australia. Lend
your savings . . . and you’ll provide for your
country’s present needs and for your own
future benefit.
How you can invest in
Australia's War Effort
1. £100,000,000 Austerity Loan.
Bonds are £lO each and in multi-
ples of £lO. There is no limit to
the number you can buy. Advance
subscriptions may be lodged at
any Bank, Savings Bank or Stock-
broker. Interest starts on your
Bonds from the day of pur-
chase.
2. National Savings Bonds.
£lO each. Can be purchased either
outright or by paying £1 down and
£1 a month. Buy them at any Bank,
Savings Bank or Money Order Post
Office.
3. War Savings Certificates.
Cost 16/• each now and grow to
£1 in 7 years. Can be purchased
at any Bank, Savings Bank or
Money Order Post Office,
Subscribe NOW to the £100,000,000
AUSTERITY LOAN
The black-market legislation passed
by the House of Representatives last
week provides that before a prosecution
is launched it has to be sanctioned by a
committee of representatives of the
Attorney-General, the Prices Commis-
sioner and the department affected by
the prosecution. Minimum penalty for
an individual convicted before a magis-
trate is three months’ gaol and for a co.
a fine of £lOOO. Jury cases carry a year’s
gaol and a fine of £lO,OOO respectively.
The goods involved are forfeited to the
Crown, and for three months after con-
viction details of the offence must be
displayed prominently on the premises of
the offender. A buyer guilty of collusion
with a seller may also be dealt with. The
penalties are very severe —much more
severe than the Government would dare
to impose on trade-union agitators and
others whose efforts have the effect of
slowing down the war job and inflating
costs. In spite of their severity, something
of the kind is necessary provided the law
is used with the aim of catching the
flagrant and not the accidental type of
profiteer and black-marketeer, and pro-
vided all political motives are submerged.
But it can be truly said that inflated
wages and overtime, go-slow quota prin-
ciples in workshops, trade unionism gone
mad and a disgraceful Federal Budget
are doing fifty times more damage to the
war effort, the economic structure and
the welfare of the people than whatever
profiteering has so far escaped the eye of
the Prices Commissioner,
* * * *
Details of the Wilson mortgage bank
have been given in Parliament. The
bill provides for loans to rural producers
only of up to 60 p.c. of valuations, with
a limit of £4OOO. Repayments may be
spread over periods of from three to 35
years, and interest rates will be fixed by
the bank. The eventual functioning of
the bank is hedged round with qualifi-
cations. Mr. Chifley says that as it will
take some time for the Commonwealth
Bank to lay the foundations of the new
department the bill, if enacted, will
operate only upon proclamation. He
added that “the operations of the mort-
gage bank will, of course, be severely re-
stricted compared with the contribution
which it could have made if it had been
established when it was first recom-
mended by the Banking Commission in
1936. At present the whole financial
policy of the Government is directed
towards limiting new investment except
in connection with the war programme.”
Rural indebtedness in Australia amounts
to something like £4OO million, apart
from debts on implements and farm sup-
plies. Mr. Wilson’s idea in pressing for
a mortgage bank is a belief that his con-
stituents in the Wimmera want it. They
may hope that a Government bank will
be a benefactor to them. But they need
to consider what sort of treatment they
already get from Government depart-
ments before becoming too enthusiastic.
They can expect no better treatment, in
the long run, from a Government bank,
especially if various shades of politics
are allowed to influence it during its life.
And will all this troublesome mortgage-
bank stuff ensure Wilson’s vote?
* * * *
In his series of offensives on things
that don’t please him, Rosevear, the man
who beat Theodore for Dailey in 1931
and who doesn’t like Theodore’s Allied
Works Council, in the House last week
said that if Australia adopted the taxa-
tion operating in Great Britain “only”
£45 million more would be raised, and
if the British post-war credits system
were applied there would be “only” £3O
million additional from that. In other
words, what’s the use of walking round
in the snow to keep warm when we can
sit down and freeze to death comfort-
ably? In still other words, what’s the
use of trying to do any damn’ thing?
Let’s drink ourselves to death on bank
credit. The £75 million extra per year
which Mr. Rosevear says could be ob-
tained in Australia for the national war
effort by adopting British rates of contri-
bution, far from being a trifle, would (a)
reduce from £3OO million to £225 million
the necessity to borrow, and ( b) bring
the financial contributions of the people
more in line with the restriction in living
conditions already suffered, thus counter-
ing inflation to a large extent and assisting
rationing. Then there is effect (c) —hav-
ing done one sensible thing, the Govern-
ment might be encouraged to do even
more, to wit, reduce waste, deal with the
profiteer in overtime and get a bigger
war effort from a smaller expenditure.
By this means the £225 million might be
brought well below £2OO million. And
then we’d be getting somewhere in this
war, as well as maintaining our financial
health to meet post-war problems.
* * * #
At the opening of the Returned Sol-
diers’ League Congress Lord Wakehurst,
Governor of N. S. Wales, “emphasised
the need for austerity, and spoke of the
disastrous inflation that followed the last
war.” This thoroughly aroused the ire
of Calwell, M.H.R. Said Mr. Calwell:
I think it is great interference with the
politics of the Government for Governors
to talk about austerity or inflation. If the
Government is sincere about austerity let
it abolish the six State Governors. Let
Lord Wakehurst go back to England and
do a decent job there instead of drawing
£5OOO a year here and interfering with
Labor politics.
There is no need for State Governors
today. They have lived past their period
of usefulness. Forty years after Federation
State Governors are a decided anachron-
ism, and they are hindering the war inter-
ests by going about talking about austerity.
“It’s our austerity, our politics and our
inflation, and don’t anyone say a word
out of place.” Mr. Curtin had better do
the sincere and obvious thing and make
room in his Cabinet for a Minister for
Just-Us. Others besides Calwell would
be highly qualified for the job.
»••••*
Calwell’s outburst seemed to be a tacit
admission of inflation, and at the same
time a desire to “keep it dark.” In the
same debate Treasurer Chifley is reported
as having said that “the Opposition
speakers’ statements on bridging the
Budget gap were just a bogey. Their
statements about inflation were not to
the benefit of this country, and would
not improve the position.” Well, apart
from the war itself the Chifley Budget is
the most disastrous thing that has beset
this country since the depression. Labor
hates looking a fact in the face.
Among the smaller Government fry to
speak during the Budget session was
Riordan, of Queensland. Apparently he
had done some solid, almost wooden,
thinking, and he told the House that “in
England, where compulsory loans are
levied, the low incomes are taxed more
heavily than in Australia, while the high
incomes are not taxed as heavily as here.”
In spite of this admission of what is a
fact Mr. Riordan added: “The lower in-
comes in Australia are already bearing
more than a fair share of the burden.”
The Bulletin suggests that someone
gently tell Mr. Riordan that one of the
best things that could happen in the
long run for the whole of Australia’s
7,000,000 people would be for the “lower”
incomes to pay tax at something like
the English rate. The sickly and trans-
parent solicitude of Riordan and the like
is putting Australians to shame.


THE SERVICE MAN
Moresby at Bay.
“Ek Dum”: The enemy in New
Guinea is almost on the edge of the
Moresby “dry” belt, which lately has been
anything but dry. The wet season, nor-
mally due in November, seems to be
making an early start.
Enemy front positions last week were
not more than 50 miles from the port.
But to Australian commanders and to
Australian troops, his advance was, if
anything, a relief.
Australian cities thronged with laugh-
ing, spending people saw last week in a
film by Damien Parer something of the
kind of life Australian troops have had
to live in New Guinea on the Kokoda-
Owen Stanley front. They saw the foetid
jungle, the awful tropic mud, which is like
no other mud in the world, the drench-
ing rain, the immense wetness of every-
thing, the sluggish smoke of the camp-
fires finding it hard to rise in the humid
atmosphere, the wall of close-packed
lawyer-vine scrub, the pilots of ’planes
on which the isolated posts were depen-
dent for supplies and ammunition risk-
ing their lives across the dense treetops.
They saw the agonised wounded being
carried along lower mountain tracks, the
troops moving out in terrain so greased
with sludge that sticks were necessary
to help them hold their balance. They
saw the same men back after battle, wan
and drawn with tiredness or sapped with
the pain of wounds, most of their faces
smeared with a gallant attempt at a grin.
What the pictures did not show were
the things which try unseasoned new-
comers the most —the eternal smell of
rot and native, disease, insects, the immi-
nent oppression of tall mountains always
looming menacingly above, always full
of echoes ; the tropic-sore feet, the rot
which seems to get into every crease of
the body from the never-ceasing sweat,
the strain of maintaining alertness in list-
less, pulsing heat and the uncertainty of
vision which is due to the pallor and
green evenness of the light. New Guinea
foothill scrub with its dimnesses and its
even green is a camoufleur’s paradise.
When it is realised that the troops of
Kokoda reached this country acfoss a
high, wild range and fought in it, without
the help of animal or mechanical trans-
port and without artillery, against an
enemy in a position to approach from a
coastal base across a few miles of rela-
tively flat land, it is no wonder that it
was decided to establish the defence lines
nearer Moresby and to present the enemy
with the main difficulties which our own
men hitherto had endured.
What the enemy has achieved in the
way of bringing resources southward in
the few months he has been lodged in
New Guinea shows how serious he is
in his intention to make the southward
drive a major war. Not only is he across
the mountains in force, but he has
brought light guns and mortars. His
guns are mountain guns—about 70mm.,
but firing an abnormally light shell of
eight pounds or thereabouts. His mor-
tars are the type which he used in Malaya
with about a 4000-yard range, in the
kind of country in which he is fighting, in
which the range of high-velocity, flat-
trajectory weapons is limited, they are
more formidable than many a field gun.
The Army’s Task
Despite the shameful panic of editors
and politicians, there is little doubt that
the Australian Command is doing as
good a job as it can with its resources —
a very good job indeed, especially in the
face of disheartening criticism and lack
of praise.
Large numbers of troops have been
transported to New Guinea under diffi-
cult conditions. The nucleus of the
Moresby army is a seasoned lot of A.I.F.
units With plenty of battle experience.
More troops are available —thousands of
them. The flow of equipment has not
reached its maximum, but is steadily in-
creasing. Local training is the main
weakness but Australians and Americans
are adaptable.
And Australian-made 25-pounders are
now operating in the front line. Since
they are a combined field gun-howitzer,
this is good news.
The army has an air support such as
no British or U.S. force has so far known
in a land war in the Pacific. Our air-
men seem to have command over all the
enemy’s communication centres and
routes.
Though the Japanese undoubtedly have
very powerful naval squadrons and sea-
communication flotillas in the New
Guinea area, they have learned that they
need them. They have been navally on
the defensive since the Coral Sea battle
in May, and must keep their forces dis-
persed to protect their widespread
southern bases.
The land fighting on the Moresby front
last week consisted almost entirely of
scattered patrol actions, never large but
often of a gusty fierceness. But there was
no doubt about what was going on along
the southern slopes of the mountains. The
enemy has a large and swelling force
there already. He means to take Moresby
if he can by a large-scale effort; but
what needs to be emphasised is that he
is not yet able to take the initiative and
must first fight out the war of communi-
cations either by sea or in the air. The
rain, so far, is to our advantage.
It is an astonishing fact that the Japa-
nese air force has made no serious
attempt to blast Moresby or shipping
coming to it, to attack our front line from
the air or to shut off the Allied offensive
against his supply bases and communica-
tion lines. Three meagre raids on Mores-
by and three small attacks by reconnais-
sance flights on Darwin represent his
effort.
The Allied air attacks are still not on
a large scale by European standards. It
is hard to judge what relation the damage
they do has to the magnitude of the
enemy’s total effort. It is also hard to
estimate the reason for the fact that the
temporary control of the air has been
handed over to us almost without a
struggle. But it is always safe not to be
overoptimistic.
It would be dangerous not to realise
the swiftness with which the invaders
seem able to repair damage and replace
lost supplies. They are operating largely
in relatively calm waters, and their small
craft—fast, shallow-draught sampans
and landing barges—can handle large
quantities of materials even across a 400-
or 500-mile stretch of water in an in-
credibly short time. Some of the sampans
operating off the Australian coast before
the war were credited with speeds of 20
knots. Modern sea barges such as the
Germans are using across the Mediter-
ranean are capable of the speed of a
normal cargo motorship.
The Air War
Since September 22 the activities of the
Allied air forces in New Guinea were
roughly as follows:
On September 22 Allied bombers fol-
lowed up their attacks of the previous
week with a night raid on Rabaul
—Blanche Bay has much enemy ship-
ping, naval and otherwise. There was
heavy a.-a. fire, but no interception. A
large ship was hit twice. Airfield dis-
persal areas were raked over. All our
’planes returned. Two strong fighter
sweeps were made along the Buna-Owen
Stanley trail, in which more than 34,000
rounds were fired,
A Japanese-built trestle bridge at Wai-
ropi was badly damaged. Three motor-
launches and a barge were gunned and
left in flames. Fires spurted up from
machine-gunned positions at Kokoda.
Again no ’planes were lost.
Next day there were three attacks on
Buna, In the first, seven barges, a camp
and a dump were raked with bullet and
cannon fire. Six “O” fighters which
attempted interception failed. The second
and third attacks were against a variety
of objectives. The day’s work cost a
single ’plane. On the Kokoda trail a
pack train was broken up by fighters, and
Wairopi Bridge was strafed again. Most
of the work was done by Airacobras,
which operate as fighter-bombers.
On Friday there was more strafing of
Buna-Kokoda, centring in the Wairopi
bridge. A strong force raided Rabaul
Harbor in the early morning and hit a
cargo ship. All ’planes returned.
On Saturday Wairopi bridge, repaired
with great speed, was completely broken
down again at one end and several tons
of bombs were dropped on Buna. An-
other raid on Rabaul took place at night,
and a ship was hit with a 10001 b. bomb.
On Sunday it was reported that Austra-
lian Hudsons had destroyed a medium-
sized cargo vessel in the Trobriands. And
Monday brought the news that a heavy-
bomber unit had scored a direct hit- —
also a near-miss—on a 15,000-ton vessel
in Rabaul Harbor,
Moresby had three Japanese raids,
none serious, last week.
Toward the end of the week the Aus-
tralians before loribaiwa, in the Owen
Stanleys, took the initiative against the
Japanese frontal positions, backed by
25-pounders, In pouring rain and in a
sea of mud the enemy was forced back ;
but these actions were only outpost fight-
ing. Enemy positions at Efogi were
bombed. The Supreme Command on
September 27 reported: “No change in
the general situation.”
Australian patrols have been harassing
the enemy by land at the very gate of
Salamaua across the ranges.
In the Solomons
The position in the Solomons seems
to be working up to a crisis. It is pos-
sible that the enemy contemplates syn-
chronised operations against Moresby
and the Tulagi area. He certainly has
powerful forces in the islands.
The casualty lists of Japs compiled by
U.S. H.Q. dispose, once and for all, of
the myth that the invaders are occupying
forward points only with regiments
equivalent to our brigades.
During the first month of occupation
of Tulagi-Guadalcanal positions—to the
end of August—the U.S. Marines killed
or captured 3700 Japs in the Solomons.
In the Tenaru River battle on August
21-22 870 of a Jap landing force were
killed, the Marines losing only 34 killed
and 75 wounded.
The U.S. Navy reports 20 enemy ships
sunk or damaged, including a light cruiser
and three destroyers; moreover, 27
enemy bombers, 44 “O” fighters and two
observation ’planes were brought down
for a U.S. loss of 20 aircraft from which
several pilots were saved. Lost were the
destroyer Jarvis and a small auxiliary
ship ; the crews were saved.
The enemy still holds villages even on
Gaudalcanal, but they are under constant
attack by the Marines.
The air battle continues to rage up and
down the islands. Not only locally-
based craft are being used by the Allied
forces —it is heartening that in spite of
the needs of New Guinea the South-
western Pacific command can spare land-
based heavy machines to attack as far
afield as Buka.
All the indications are that larger-
scale operations are coming, and that
the last has not been seen of the Japanese
Fleet which, including battleships, was
turned back from the South Solomons by
Allied aircraft in the middle of the
month.
The enemy has been assembling men**
and materials on Santa Ysabel and at Gizo
and the Shortlands from Rabaul; and
these were bombed by heavy U.S. ’planes.
An enemy cruiser was damaged. On
Thursday three transports which seemed
to be bound for Guadalcanal were hit
from the air and forced to turn back.
There has been a sudden increase in the
“O” fighters in the skies : —20 tried to in-
tercept U.S. squadrons, which drove them
off and shot down one. But normally
the air war round the Solomons is one
of giants—Fortresses, Consolidateds,
four-engined Kawanisis.
Sea War and "second
Fronts."
“Ek Dum”: Persons who take no
account of seasons and the mechani-
cal side of war persist in shouting for
“a Second Front in Europe in 1942.”
It is the end of September. Soon winter
roughness of the Channel, the fogs, the
bitter cold, the rain, the condition of the
English and mainland countrysides will
rule out large-scale winter landing opera-
tions, as they have previously slowed
down long-distance air-raiding on an
organised schedule.
Moscow and Berlin are both feeding
the Second-Front propagandists—the first
in a sort of despair, the second with a
devilish eagerness. And baits are being
swallowed hook, line and sinker by the
peahen press.
The illusion is fostered that millions
of surplus trained Britons and millions
more of highly-trained and -equipped
Americans and Canadians are kicking
their heels in idleness in Britain.
The fact is that the great numbers of
Britons in uniform are mostly only
reaching the trained stage, and that only
a proportion of U.S. troops are trained
to any degree of efficiency. Their
numbers are such that they are as yet
only a major-general’s command in
Britain ; and their air force and their
stores reserves cannot yet have reached
a standard which justifies the beginning
of a major campaign against Germany.
Atlantic shipping and air-ferry services
will have to work many weary months
before the spadework is finished.
And the job will be all the harder and
longer because every day Russia becomes
more dependent on Allied resources.
The Gallant Convoys
The experiences of the convoys which
carry supplies to the Russians by the
northern route should be enough to
advertise the awfulness of the task likely
to be involved in attack on German-held
territory across the Channel and the
North Sea, These convoys have to
leave ports remote from enemy territory.
They plunge northward beyond the
Arctic circle, well away from land until
near the end of their voyage. At no
stage of the journey can they come under
fire of heavy artillery from the land ;
rarely do they face attack by land-based
aircraft —fighter bombers.
But every expedition is an epic of
fortitude. There are no gamer men
breathing than those who take part in
them. The convoy which got through
recently suffered the usual routine.
First, the long anxious watch for Ü-
boat packs. Then the redoubled vigi-
lance as waters are reached in which
the enemy minelayers are ever ahead.
Next the slow progress through an area
in which the seas hold serried ranks of
U-boats, and the heavy torpedo-bombers
come over 40 to 50 at a time. Lastly
the drive into Murmansk when every-
thing is flung at the weary voyagers —
torpedoes from air and sea, m.-g. and
aerial cannon spray from low-flying
’planes, heavy bombs in showers from
above.
The convoy —British, American and
Russian ships—got through, thanks to
the British Navy and Air Force. It did
not lose the 37 cargo vessels (out of 44)
and the four destroyers and two corvettes
and other naval ships which Berlin at one
stage claimed to have sunk.
According to Mr. Eden 75 British war-
ships saw the transport fleet through with
the largest total of supplies and muni-
tions yet carried from Britain and U.S.A.
The Admiralty report gave the details.
U-boats sighted the convoy on Sept. 9.
One was hit and probably damaged.
Several prowling U-boats were attacked
on Sept. 12. Next day there were U-boat
and aircraft attacks, and the first indi-
cation of minelaying ahead of the convoy
was seen. In the largest assault about
45 enemy torpedo ’planes were used.
Carrier-borne fighters and a.-a. fire de-
stroyed 13 and damaged many others.
On Sept. 14 another series of attacks
was warded off, and a U-boat was prob-
ably wrecked by depth charges. The
magnitude of the air operations can be
measured by the fact that 24 enemy
’planes were shot down.
On Sept, 15 still another U-boat was
probably destroyed. A final blitz by 24
enemy dive-bombers saw the weary con-
voy into harbor, less some cargo vessels
—the number has not been given.
It speaks volumes for the British Navy
that only a Tribal destroyer, the Somali,
and a minelayer were lost. The Somali
broke in halves after three days in tow.
The minesweeper was named the Leda.
Most of the crews were saved.
The air attacks had been peculiarly
nerve-racking, since they were made with
Ju 88’s and Heinkel Ill’s, carrying two
torpedoes apiece and diving below bridge-
level. One British aircraft-carrier dodged
17 torpedoes and a shower of bombs.
And H.M.S. Scylla, one of the little war-
vintage 5450-ton Didos, which carry
the R.N.’s new 5.25 in. guns, brought
down at least seven attacking ’planes, two
of which fell victims to an Australian
rating, Cassidy.
During one of the frays, the mine-
sweeper Harrier came alongside Scylla
while travelling at some speed, lashed
herself fast to the flagship and trans-
ferred 80 survivors from a torpedoed
ship. In the same way H.M. sweeper
Sharpshooter transferred 100 survivors.
The enemy lost at least 40 and prob-
ably 60 ’planes, most of them torpedo
bombers.
Attrition at Stalingrad.
“Ek Dum”: The fight for Stalingrad
had reached its final phase by the third
week in September. Correspondents
labored to prove that it was turning out
a great Russian victory ; at least, that it
was costing the Germans so dearly that
their strength was being dissipated and


Divorce Notices.
IN* THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND CHARLES ARTHUR KEAN
of 18 Bembridge Street Kogarah in the State
of New South Wales Civil Engineer.—TAKE
NOTICE that ENID ALICE ARTHUR KEAN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1947
of 1942 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards The Petitioner will ask that the Court’s
discretion be exercised in her favor pursuant
to Section 19 of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance by 2nd November 1942 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from Mr.
G. C. McCutcheon Solicitor 16 Barrack Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARGARET MARY SLOAN late of
Annandale Street Annandale in the State of
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
PETER MONAGHAN SLOAN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1422 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance by the
Thirtieth day of November 1942 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
DAWSON AND HERFORD Solicitors of No.
104 Hunter Street Sydney. DATED this 21st
day of September 1942. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS STEVENS late of Corembob
near Wagga Waega New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that DAISY MAY STEVENS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1144 of 194-
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance by the 30th of November 1942 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
LUSHER YOUNG & STELLWAY Solicitors
Waasa Wagga or their Sydney Agent C.
THROSBY YOUNG 16 O’Connell Street Syd-
ney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
they would be left permanently weak-
ened. Unfortunately these stories, all
written at second hand, cannot be
accepted.
Stress was" laid on the appearance of
Russian reinforcements, and it was gener-
ally suggested that these would turn the
tide. Actually, any large organised body
of reinforcements which could have been
of service must have been assembled
some time before. If reinforcements
could present victory to the stout-hearted
defenders with the enemy on the Volga
banks in force and in the interior of the
city, they could have kept Von Bock
from 'crossing the Don in strength three
weeks earlier.
It is safe to assume that if reinforce-
ments large enough to affect the issue
have been sent to Stalingrad they must
be an improvised force, or that their with-
drawal from some other point must have
created a weakness further north.
Information regarding the battle and
its extent is to be taken with more than
a grain of salt, because the Germans are
outdoing Moscow in their accounts of its
ferocity and indecision. It would suit
them to strengthen the impression in
Moscow and elsewhere that they are seri-
ously embarrassed by Russian resistance,
the splendid quality of which they admit,
while they prepare for new large-scale
movements on other fronts.
The measure of their sincerity may be
gauged by their explanation as to how
the Russian reinforcements are crossing
the Volga—an explanation swallowed
whole by Stockholm correspondents:
The Russians are using bridges invisible
from the air....the bridges are two or
three inches under water, and the Russians
cross them at night.
A bridge that depth beneath the water
is as plain from the air as a flapper’s
bare big toe at a cocktail party.
A place like Stalingrad is extremely
difficult to subjugate. The place is not
a city in the sense in which we understand
the term —most of it is a great mush-
rooming workers’ camp centring in huge
and hastily organised war factories. A
large portion of its streets are unpaved
and a very large proportion of its houses
are wooden shacks. Its 1200 acres of
tank factory and its command of the
Volga, however, resulted in the establish-
ment of strong defences, and the Red
Army has been throughout literally fight-
ing for the life of Russia in the battle,
since the Volga is the main artery.
The fighting last week was inside the
main fortifications. The enemy, it
seemed, was trying to clean defenders
out of the penetrated regions while the
Luftwaffe prepared for further advances
over ground in which land troops were
not engaged.
The admissions on both sides that the
fighting was “terrible,” “bloody” and
“fierce” did not necessarily connote that
huge forces were involved.
The Russian communique declared
each day that the enemy had been re-
pulsed with heavy losses or had come up
against “an impassable barrier.” But it
was admitted that he had reached the
centre of the city, and there was men-
tion of an attack on the main railway
station.
Losses listed by Moscow as having
been suffered by the enemy were, on
Sept. 21, six tanks, 14 lorries, two guns
and 300 personnel; on Sept. 22 (the
enemy using 40 tanks and 1000 shock
troops in one attack), 10 tanks, 40 supply
wagons and, in one sector, 400 soldiers ;
on Sept. 23, in the northern part of the
city, six tanks, 14 lorries, and more
than 400 killed; on Sept. 24 nine tanks
and 1550 men, with several guns cap-
tured. Figures which testify to the spirit
with which the Russians are fighting, but
scarcely squaring with correspondents’
claims that large relief armies brought
south from Saratov were burning their
way through a 15-mile-deep band of the
enemy flung round Stalingrad.
Civilians in the stricken city must have
been suffering enormous privations.
Sanitary facilities and water supply are
at any time limited. Under conditions
of continual air-blitz and heavy-gun
bombardment in most of the areas in
which actual street fighting is not in pro-
gress the ordinary amenities of life and
health must be non-existent and the food
supply disorganised. One correspondent
spoke of thousands of women and
children who had taken refuge in burrows
hollowed out in the sand banks along the
Volga shores. And some reports referred
to premature winter weather—snow and
rain—which must have added much to
the agony of non-combatants.
This unseasonable weather seems to
have ruled last week over a great deal
of the Caucasus region, where the only
major movement outside that at Stalin-
grad was what looked like the begin-
ning of a fresh drive on the Grozny oil-
fields. These fields are a major objective,
unlikely to be gained except through a
series of major battles —Grozny has a
population going on for 300,000 —and the
enemy was scarcely likely to begin his
drive in their direction until assured
that the Stalingrad battle was nearly over.
On September 24 Berlin propaganda
agencies began to prepare the way for
this or some other large movement by
the announcement that Stalingrad had
ceased to be tactically important as an
objective, and that other operations were
pending. A report of a German move
forward on the Terek River was coun-
tered by a Russian official communique
(Sept. 24) which declared that fighting
was going on there, but that the enemy,
and particularly two French volunteer
units, had failed in major attacks, 60
enemy tanks being disabled.
On September 28 Sydney newspapers
recorded “an admission by Berlin that
Russian forces have penetrated the main
German positions north of Stalingrad.”
Unhappily there was no such admis-
sion in any German short-wave broadcast
during the week-end, nor any reference
to such a desirable development in Rus-
sian communiques of September 27.
From several sources, enemy and other-
wise, it was announced that the Luft-
waffe had ceased to bomb the city for
fear of destroying German units.
It is all to the credit of the Russians
in Stalingrad that they are hanging on
grimly. It can be of no service to them
for people who are not in Stalingrad to
tell flattering tales.
Winter and Axis Plans
Winter is beginning early in Europe.
Unseasonable snow has fallen as far
southward as the Black Sea. Already it
is reported that Germans in Russia are
preparing laagers for the winter cam-
paign. This report has confirmation in
the slight withdrawals, all from bog lands
in the northern sectors around Lake
Ilmen and the Volkhov rivers.
Shrewd military observers are of
opinion that the Axis programme is
somewhat as follows:
(1) To encircle the Caucasian region and
get control of the Volga and all the main
rail routes into European Russia; then
to starve out central and northern European
Russia, meanwhile exploiting the resent-
ment of the Russians at the absence of a
Second Front, and persistently reminding
them of what Tani, the new Foreign Minis-
ter at Toyko,has called their “unchanged and
tranquil relations” with Japan. A series of
fortress posts would hold the eastern and
southern frontiers of the occupied lands
while production was re-established for the
benefit of the Reich. Any attempt to turn
Siberian resources to European uses would
be countered by a Japanese demonstration
sufficient to compel the maintenance of
large Soviet forces and resources in Asia,
but not necessarily pushed to the point of
war.
(2) Having established dominion over the
Russian grain, mineral and oil lands and
cut off supply routes, the Axis would then
go on the defensive on land in Europe,
thus easing the political situation in the
Balkans and near by. Public opinion
in Rumania, Hungary and Bulgaria is
far from being all that Berlin could desire.
(3) Japan would carry on war to the
maximum in all Pacific areas, except the
Russian maritime provinces, to disperse
Allied resources and compel Allied ship-
ping to be used to the worst advantage—
i.e., on the longest voyages and absorbing
the maximum naval strength by way of
escorts.
(4) The one offensive land zone in which
Germany and Italy would operate would be
the Middle East in an attempt to drive
the British out of the region before the
European spring, making Italy (economi-
cally in a bad way) safe and putting a
maximum strain on Allied shipping.
(5) So soon as Russia could be locked
up, the whole main concentration of
German effort, however, would be upon
winning the sea war, perhaps with a
secondary effort at breaking British morale
by renewed aerial attacks. The Germans
must recognise that victory lies on the sea.
If the U.S. election results should give
any encouragement, there might be a
peace offensive.
European Morale
Too little attention is being paid by
most onlookers to the conditions in
Europe. Anybody who follows the Ger-
man and Italian Radio programmes day
in and day out and studies the shifts of
policy and the apparent purposes which
they reveal must come to the conclusion
that the war is having its effect on Cen-
tral and Southern European morale —
that hunger is common, especially in
Italy ; that the wool and fuel shortages
are already severely felt and that the
drive of the production programme is
having its results on the German spirit,
which, as the last war proved, is not as
enduring as that of the British.
In summer in the flush of production,
changes in rationing in Germany showed
the way the wind was blowing—skimmed-
milk, for instance, was rationed, potato
issues were reduced, and retailers
were ordered to give preference to
children under three in the supply of
oats. Production of margarine was an-
nounced as stopped. Fruit crops which
reached market dwindled seriously
cherries, an important fruit in Germany,
from a normal 60,000 tons to 14,000 tons;
strawberries, to 45 p.c. of the 1939 crop.
Yet average working hours of agricul-
tural workers and their families from May
to November last year were 78.8 per
week. Children averaged 30 hours per
week while on holiday.
Britain’s most useful task while the
seas are least favorable for U-boat opera-
tion and bomber attack against shipping
will be to devote the winter to filling
British dumps and granaries against next
year and to taking care of Pacific and
Middle Eastern needs.
Raid on Benghazi.
“Ek Dum”: In spite of the arrival of
the full moon little has been happening
on the El Alamein front beyond the cus-
tomary strafings and patrols. Six or seven
weeks will now tell the tale as to what
British and Axis intentions are.
One of the most daring operations of
the campaign was a raid by a British
desert flying column on Benghazi, 500
miles or so behind the El Alamein lines.
The column —armored cars and lorry-
borne infantry—plunged deep into the
desert. It was charged with the job of
disrupting the enemy’s sources of help
while Tobruk was being attacked on Sep-
tember 13.
Their operations also synchronised with
a heavy British air attack on Benghazi
and the neighboring town of Barce, when
over 30 enemy machines were destroyed
on the ground and several more shot
down in the air.
The expedition seized the Gialo oasis,
230 miles s.-s.-e. of Benghazi, on Sep-
tember 15, and destroyed a large part of
the garrison and the dumps there ; then
apparently went on to Benghazi. There
is no report of the extent of its operations
there. It returned safe to its base.
R.A.F. raiding of Germany—assisted
by occasional incursions of Red Army
squadrons —continues to exact a heavy
toll. Early last week bad weather caused
a lull, but on September 23 heavy
bombers attacked the U-boat building
yards at Flensburg, on the Baltic.
Damage in the bigger raids is so exten-
sive that it takes time to survey. The
attack on Karlsruhe nearly a month ago
is now said to have destroyed nearly two-
thirds of the city, to have disrupted most
of its facilities and to have 'killed 9000
people. British official reports place the
area devastated at 271 acres.
« # ♦ ♦
Four of the new R.A.F. twin-engined
Mosquito bombers provided the fire-
works for a celebration at Oslo Univer-
sity, where Major Quisling and 20,000 of
his followers were holding an anniver-
sary celebration. The demonstration
came to a swift end and the parade was
held in air-raid shelters.
* * * *
Another Australian in the R.A.F, has
achieved high rank —Aif Vice-Marshal
W. A. McClaughry becomes air officer
commanding in Egypt. During the Battle
of Britain he commanded the important
No. 9 Fighter Group —nine seems to be
his number, since he left Australia with
the 9th A.L.H. Before the war he had
a big hand in the romantic opening up
by air of the Arabian Hydramaut.
* * * *
With the capture of Antananarivo, the
capital, most of Madagascar has come
under British control, and Sir William
Platt, C.-in-C., East African Army, has
announced the establishment of military
law throughout the island —“to ensure
law and order pending the establishment
of a friendly regime.” The capital was
entered by East African troops, supported
by British artillery and S. African tanks.
* ♦ * »
There has been more publication of
casualties in India since the outbreak of
the civil disobedience disturbances:
Killed by police and troops 721, wounded
1219 ; 40 trains derailed, with six people
killed and 72 injured. It sounds a lot,
but annual deaths from snakebite are
20 times as large, and the almost annual
Moharrum riot casualties as between
Hindu and Moslem have sometimes com-
pared with the figures.
What Americans Are Saying.
This column is intended to be an occa-
sional, and necessarily abbreviated, substi-
tute for “Uncabled Additions,” a feature
which will be revived whenever the news-
print position permits.
Before long the U.S. Army Air Forces will
be carrying 10 times as much freight and per-
sonnel by air as all the world’s commercial air-
lines combined.... General MacArthur notified
the Air Transport Command in Washington that
he needed 5000 pounds of certain special equip-
ment It was delivered to him in exactly two days
14 hours. Seven tons of army pay in currency
was carried to Australia in a few days, along
with cargoes too numerous and too secret to
mention. — Samuel Grafton, in the N.Y. Post.
Mr. Roosevelt has not been bragging about
any new secret weapons, but the Nazis will
see some which will knock their eyes out. The
Japs have seen a few already. In the Aleutians
the Army Air Corps sprang a new land-based
torpedo ’plane on the Nipponese, and accom-
plished much more damage than has yet been
officially claimed. These land-based torpedo
craft carry an unprecedented projectile which
leaves no doubts as to sinkings when it hits
Paul Mallon, in the N.Y. “Journal-American. ’’’
By high favor it is newly told how the British
Prime Minister, when he met the President in
August, 1941, urged him to hand an ultimatum
to Japan against further aggressions, and how
the President declined, saying he thought he
could “baby” the Japanese for three months
more. The “babying” actually lasted four
months. — Arthur Krock, in the N.Y. “Times.”
Four American aces in Australia, Captains
Hennon and Kiser and Lieuts. Reynolds and
Morehead, have among them shot down 28
Japanese ’planes and four ships. All four
have been decorated. — Byron Darnton, in the
N.Y. “Times.”
Russia, in its brave fight against Hitler, has
now no greater enemy than Communism in
the U.S.A. and England. Every time these Red
yammerers open their mouths they throw a
monkey-wrench into the Russian defence. Com-
munists will soon be men without a country —
outlawed and looked on askance everywhere,
even in Russia.- Benjamin de Casseres, in the
N.Y. “Journal-American.”
Labor leaders still demand privileges and
favors because they have given up the right
to strike. This is plain Bunk, with a capital
B. What citizen has a right to strike in a
war for his country’s existence? — Roger D.
Lapham, an industry representative on the
National War Labor Board.
With the thousands of United States marines
who arrived at a South Pacific port were landed
“Higgins boats” (amphibian tanks) and “alli-
gators and crocodiles” (tank lighters)—equip-
ment used by the marines in storming enemy
beaches and establishing bridgeheads.— N.Y.
“Herald-Tribune.”
The runways of this U.S. Army airdrome
are literally paved with gold. Mullock from
near-by mines was used to surface the air-
dromes. However, the gold is present in in-
sufficient quantities to warrant further pro-
cessing of it. — United Press dispatch from
Somewhere-in-Australia.
Seven of our P.39’s surrounded one Zero.
The Japs simply zoomed straight up and out
of sight. Our Airacobras simply didn’t have
the stuff to catch him. There’s no use getting
mad about it now. Our ’plane designers simply
guessed wrong. We know we’ll have newer
’planes over here in quantity. Meanwhile
every American should pay reverent tribute to
our kids who are flying the Kittyhawks and
Airacobras. Despite disadvantages, they have
knocked down three or four slippery Zeros for
every ’plane they have lost in combat. — Robert
Shellod, to “Life,” from Somewhere-in-Aus-
tralia.
Harry Hopkins is right—the British can fight;
they have demonstrated it again and again—but
he was mistaken as to the true nature of the
criticism of Britain that is spreading in America.
It is that the British men at the top lack
organising skill and overall planning ability,
and that the rank and file of Britain’s soldiers
and sailors are paying the penalty for the
weakness at the top.... There is still lacking,
both in Britain and in America, what is known
as unity of command and yet there is talk
of a second, third and fourth front. — David
Lawrence, in the N.Y. “Herald-Tribune”
Finland gave world-wide currency yesterday
[July 24] to the suggestion that the United
States might help extricate her from her position
as an ally of Germany and as a possible sacri-
fice to Soviet Russia. Some sort of post-war
guarantee appeared to be the price, and much
was made of the point that for six months
Finnish forces had sought only to maintain
their lines against the Red Army without
making any aggressive move. — N.Y. “Times.”
After careful study, some of Washington's
shrewdest diplomats are of the opinion that
the Anglo-Soviet pact has loopholes in it
as big as the proverbial barndoor. If they arc
correct, countries like Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia,
Finland and Poland may have little to say
about their post-war fate. It may be decided
for them by their more powerful neighbors. —
W. Philip Simms, in the Scripps-Howard
papers.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Austerity continues to hold the local
stage. Last week over 3000 women
betook themselves to the Town Hall to
learn Austerity cooking. General opinion
was that the demonstration was excel-
lent for the moderate-income group, but
not very helpful for the women trying to
manage a family’s meals on the basic
wage. One such sat near the front and
almost wept when lettuce was mentioned
as a salad ingredient. She lived in
South Melbourne in a little house right
on to the street, and her hubby didn’t
think much of salads. Her best moment
was When Dr. John Dale, austerely hand-,
some, suggested that one cooked meal a
day was plenty for a family from now
on through the summer, and that the
children could easily make up on whole-
meal bread and butter and jam. She
inquired his name, and called down
audible blessings on his head. Hints on
gas and electricity saving were good,
and anyhow it was a holiday to the
woman with a family to cook for to
see someone else getting a dinner ready.
The vice-regal determination to give a
thoroughly democratic touch to the open-
ing of Government House gardens on
Friday and Saturday afternoons from
2.30 till 6 p.m. to anyone who will sub-
scribe at the gates a bob or more to the
National Shilling Drive has been much
appreciated. Every announcement bears
the words “The Governor and Lady
Dugan will be present on each occa-
sion.” As Melbourne women are all
garden-minded, they have been forming
groups to go on one day or the other,
mostly to see if the vice-regal azaleas are
as good as those they grow in Rippon-
lea or the spring blossom as effectively
pruned and flowering as profusely as
that at home in Box Hill. The visitors
will get an eyeful of the herbaceous
borders and perhaps the herbs drying in
the vice-regal mews, and may discover
some of the memorial trees planted by
former Governors, their wives and dis-
tinguished guests.
Melbourne’s businessgirls are again to
the fore. One thousand of them have
formed a roster for working the hostel in
Flinders-lane, to which service women
may bring men friends. This means
washing up, dusting and sweeping, and
none of the fun of entertaining service
men which makes work at other canteens
and hostels jolly. Already at Toorak
House W.A.A.A.F. Hostel women have
shown that they have the generosity of
mind which enables them to wait on other
women.
The Free Kindergarten Union of Vic-
toria has chosen Mary Lush, a pioneer
in the movement, to be president in place
of the Armitage lady, who was compelled
by ill-health to resign within a few
months of taking office. Miss Lush was
for years the director of Bouverie-street
kindergarten, and to dwellers in that
centre she was guide and friend —as one
generation left, grew up and married so
young as they all do, it brought its children
for her to see, and later to become part
of its little community of youngsters.
Miss Lush, who has written a thoroughly
sensible book on her pet subject, has
been on the executive of the union for
many a year, and was acting-president
between Mrs. Harry Creswick and the
Armitage lady. Daughter of a former
leading businessman of this city, George
Lush, Mary Lush has executive ability of
a high order. The presidency is safe in
her hands.
The sons and daughters of the Consul
for the Netherlands and Mrs. Wright con-
tinue to supply news items. One son,
Major Harry Wright, has returned from
active service abroad, and the other,
Heathcote Wright, has a job in New
York with the British purchasing group.
Now daughter Rosemary has had a busy
fortnight preparing for her marriage with
Lieut. Garrick Wilson, from N. S. Wales,
to whom she has just announced her
engagement. Plans for the wedding at
St. John’s, Toorak, on October 10 in-
clude a formal bridal dress and sister Pat
Wright (in her last year Arts at the Uni-
versity) as ’maid. The to-be-weds, friends
of almost four years’ standing, hope to
make their home ultimately in Sydney.
The Consul will give his daughter away;
he and Mrs. Wright have a full-time pro-
gramme always before them in helping
Netherlanders from the East Indies with
the problems of settling down here.
The artistic and art-trained find scope
for useful service even under war con-
ditions. Example of this is Margaret
Persse, a designer of silk prints in pre-
war days, who finds her skill can be used
as a draughtsman. She announces her
engagement to Flying-Officer Harold
Berg, an architect when not at his coun-
try’s call. Persse family name is a form
of spelling “Percy.” This branch of the
family Harry Hotspur linked up with
counts the famous Lady Gregory among
its members ; she, it will be remembered
by the poetical, was one of the mainstays
of Yeats, urging him to continue his
work long before fame came. She her-
self wrote some of the most humorous
plays the Abbey Players ever put on.
One of the girls who have a personal
interest in the trials of Australian troops
“up north” is Pat, daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. H. Talbot Hamilton, who has an-
nounced her engagement to Captain
Philip Rhoden, of a family well known
in legal circles. Captain Rhoden, who
has been through the Syrian campaign, in
peace-time follows the family profession,
and, like his fiance, who did a science
course, is a Melbourne University
graduate.
The W. S. Cox family exercised a little
touch of the dramatic in making two in-
teresting announcements in one day last
week. Father, secretary of Moonee
Valley Racing Club, sent a gift from the
club of £5OO to Lady Dugan for her
National Shilling Drive for Women of
the Services. Son, Lieut, Murray Cox,
A.1.F., chose the same morning to tell
the world of his engagement to Joan
Riley, daughter of the A. E. Rileys, of
Hopetoun-road, Toorak. “Young” Cox,
as he is affectionately called by his
father’s friends, left Geelong Grammar
to join Victorian Scottish, and later the
A.I.F. Miss Riley will carry on with her
war job while there’s work to be done.
Joyce Greer, who scored such a
triumph as soloist with the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra, has a busy time
before her in Sydney. She said her au
revoir to Melbourne at a concert in the
Assembly Hall last week, the Mission to
Seamen benefiting. All her friends were
glad of the chance to rally round. Miss
Greer, pictured here by Athol Shmith,
hasn’t let the war upset her plans or
damp her spirits. She studied with Man-
nerheim in Europe, and just after the
Munich agreement gave the first London
performance of her teacher’s arrange-
ment of the Bach Organ Prelude and
Fugue in A Minor. Music is becoming
increasingly popular in this city, men and
women of the services demanding not
only the playing of it, but, through their
special education classes, instruction in
musical appreciation. The girls and boys
in uniform always fill the Friday night
Assembly Hall concerts given especially
for them.
A cable ffrom fiance’s parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Olson, of Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A., came to Shirley, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Donald MacGregor, soon after
she and First Lieut. Louis G. Olson had
announced their engagement. Shirley used
to be one of the most decorative mem-
bers of Melbourne’s younger set, but a
war job has kept her away from frivoli-
ties for a long time. The parental Mac-
Gregor is a director of Melbourne’s
biggest store, and Mrs. Donald is one of
the city’s very attractive younger matrons.
“Great Larks” might well have been
the name given to the concert in the
Town Hall on Friday night for the
National Shilling Drive. There was no
tenseness, and the performers seemed to
be just fooling, yet they were amusing,
especially the lad who would keep on
dusting a part of the wall in a thickly-
packed part of the audience after climb-
ing a ladder to do so. Perhaps this was
a sly dig, for the characteristic of Mel-
bourne activities connected with the City
Council is that they take place in
crowded spots at busy times. The
traffic at Flinders-street station is at the
moment daintily picking its crowded way
past roped-off steps.
It gave a glow to those who were hav-
ing their last good laugh at about 10.30
p.m., when the announcement was made
that an entrepreneur had bought the
show, bag and baggage (lots of the latter),
and would put it on his circuit. Principal
rejoicers were the women who organised
it and who saw another £5O in sight
for their contribution to the National
Shilling Drive, and also the Governor's
wife, Lady Dugan.
From Sydney
If he had been speaking with the
tongue of angels Red Cross chairman
Dudley Turner could not have evoked
more applause than when he announced
that the first shipment of food and com-
forts for war prisoners had arrived in
Singapore, The Assembly Hall in, Mar-
garet-street was filled almost to the brim
for the annual Red Cross meeting, and
there were salvos of applause at the
news. Letters and parcels, too, are now
going freely to P.O.W. in Italy and Ger-
many, and on the first day that mail
could go through for our soldiers
in Japanese occupied territory over
9000 letters were handled by Central
Bureau. Listening to the hundreds of
thousands of pounds that slip in and
slip out of the society’s coffers was rather
like a vision of a river of quicksilver.
So quickly does the money flow out that
some of the surplus shown in the balance
sheet for the year ending June, 1942,
had gone with the tide before the type
was cool.
Between £5OOO and £6OOO a year goes
into extra goodies for next-of-kin parcels.
Even a little extra tobacco allowance all
round pops the expenditure up by thou-
sands. Lady Wakehurst, who is State
president, made her remarks in cool, clear
tones. Lady Gowrie, who had made the
trip from Canberra to be present, in
the end could not come. N.S.W.’s chair-
man, Wilfrid Johnson, Minister for
Health Kelly, Colonel Mclntosh, Colonel
Colvin and Mrs. Hanson, president of
the Manly branch, were some of those
seated on the dais, whose background
was a super-red cross.
Efficiency and prosperity are in the air
at the Army War Comforts Auxiliary
lunch-rooms. From 12 to 2 the fifth
floor of 77 King-street is impregnated
with the delicious smell of coffee and of
well-cooked meats. From 12 to 2 the
lunch-room spins dizzily to capacity busi-
ness, The room seats over a hundred,
and over two hundred hungry are fed
daily. There’s a simple freshness about
the blue-and-white checked cambric cur-
tains and tablecloths. The overhead
even runs to flowers on the tables. Unlike
many war-time cafes, this one does not
have its supplies donated. Everything is
bought, and when it is all paid for the
Lord Mayor’s Fund benefits by £lOO a
month. The labor, of course, is all volun-
tary. The secretary is the well-known
Mrs. Keith Morris, whose husband
served in the 1914-18 war. The president
is the wife of Lieutenant-General Miles.
Chairman of the committee is Mrs. Fred
Watson. This photograph of Mrs. Keith
Morris is from Falk studio.
Corporal James Heather Gordon, V.C.,
of W.A., was decorated by the Gov-
ernor-General at Admiralty House last
Saturday. The corporal comes from Gin
Gin, and is one of those kindly-looking
but determined Australians who are
heroes without knowing it. Sad touch
at the investiture was that Pilot-Officer
Charles Richardson Digges, R.A.A.F.,
and Pilot-Officer Ronald Wilkins Taylor,
R.A.A.F., will never wear the D.F.C.
and the D.F.M. awarded to them for
their great bravery. The father of Pilot-
Officer Digges and the widow of Pilot-
Officer Taylor were at Admiralty House
to receive the honors to their dead.
Priminister Curtin should be a pleased
man this week. It really looks as though
Australia is toeing the line. For months
citizens have saved bottle-tops and
rubber. Now they are even saving brand-
new daylight! But isn’t it time to do
away with the word austerity? Let
there be a frugal meal or a plain meal
but not an austerity meal. Austerity
is now applied indiscriminately to every
sort of occasion. Last week’s opening of
Parliament has been described as “aus-
tere.” There was as usual a tea party
following the opening, and who, after
all, in previous sessions has been sur-
feited on caviare and champagne?
The Town Hall, for the concert to aid
the Y.W.C.A. National Shilling Drive for
Service Women, presented an animated
and well-dressed scene. True, members
of the official party did not wear evening
dress, but the body of the hall murmured
with the rustle of long silken skirts, and
some of the girls had even run to a rose
in the hair. The Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, led by Bernard Heinze, and
Corporal Philip Hargrave made splendid
partnership. Philip, who played with
great sensibility and judgment in the
Grieg Pianoforte Concerto, has grown
the sort of young man his admirers of
former years rather expected. Lady
Gowrie, because of illness, was not
present. Lord Gowrie, Squadron-Leader
Moir in attendance, brought a party from
Admiralty House. Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst, the Hon. Henrietta Loder, the
Chief Justice Jordans, and A.B.C. Chair-
man Cleary and his wife were notables.
Squadron-Leader Clive Caldwell was
in Sydney last week, spending his leave
with his wife, who was Jean Main, of
lllabo, near Cootamundra. The Squad-
ron-Leader brought home to his wife a
collection of gifts. The ones which will
be the most envied by her women friends
are the Nylon stockings. According to
rumor, Nylon will do anything but wear
out.
The narrow slit between Pitt and
Castlereagh streets that is called Rowe-
street is the turning-point for the col-
lector of fine furniture, china and prints
these days. Halfway down its length is
the Treasure Shop being run by Mrs.
Victor White for the Prisoners of War.
From the hand-painted chicken-skin fans
in the window to the mahogany wine chest
that reflected the afternoon light on its
polished surface, the shop, last week, was
just a temptation to forget that life was
real, life was earnest, and a lure to the
loiterer who loves fascinating trifles.
Sales were unexpectedly high. The first
day’s takings of £2OO were followed by an
equal rake-off on the second day.
Many pieces of furniture, including a
long satin-smooth mahogany sideboard
that suggested Regency days, had been
given by Mrs. White herself. On this
were displayed Baxter prints and a
collection of engravings, mounted on
table mats, depicting naval engage-
ments during the Napoleonic wars.
A case of old-fashioned jewellery given
by Miss Fairfax was among things
admired. One gold cross among her
offering had been quickly snapped up
for many guineas. The Hordern lady
had given two exquisite Chinese vases in
porcelain.
Up on The Bulletin’s third floor the
C.W.A. netters have found a new home.
They had to up frames and away, at
short notice, from their former address,
and director Mrs. E. A. Coghlan would
like all her workers to know that the
moving is completed and everything
ready for a full roll-up. It is desired
that there shall be no vacant chairs in
the long, well-lighted rooms. These are
already known to members of the
C.W.A. For a long time the association’s
spinners and weavers have made them a
hive of industry. Four thousand nets
weekly (large and small) are the hand-
some output of the C.W.A.
Helen Hall, in private life Mrs. Paul
Kellogg, whose husband is editor of the
U.S.A. magazine “Survey,” brings to her
work with the American Red Cross ex-
perience gained in her own and many
other lands. Mrs. Kellogg has come to
Sydney, and her work will be concerned
with American Red Cross Service Clubs
and Leave Centres in Australia. She is
on leave from the famous Henry-street
Settlement in New York, of which she
is Director. She worked for the A.R.C.
in France during 1914-18 war.
Some time ago a section of the mili-
tary took over a well-known girls
school. To accommodate the men
of war many alterations had to
be made. The gymnasium became an
avenue of showers. Classrooms be-
came offices, and the former scholastic
calm was changed to such an atmosphere
as would make Speed Gordon blink. One
thing, however, remains unchanged. It
is a notice that hangs on the wall or
what was formerly a dormitory: It
you need a mistress, please ring the bell.


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
SPRING MEETING 1942
FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10.
THE A.J.C. DERBY, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
(Colts and Fillies only.)
THE EPSOM HANDICAP, of £2OOO, ONE MILE.
THE COLIN STEPHEN STAKES, of £l3OO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
(Standard Weight-for-age.)
SECOND DAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17.
THE METROPOLITAN, of £3500, ONE MILE AND FIVE FURLONGS.
THE BREEDERS’ PLATE, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS.
(Colts and Geldings only.)
THE CRAVEN PLATE, of £l3OO, ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
(Standard Weight-for-age.)
THE GIMCRACK STAKES, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS. (Fillies only.)
6 Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
GEO. T. ROWE, Secretary.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The Hawkesbury meeting at Rosehill
provided something in the way of a dress
rehearsal for the A.J.C. spring meeting,
and attracted a large attendance. The
tote turnover was £33,987, against £12,718
at the club’s corresponding meeting at
the same track last year, when there
was one race less.
Freckles’s win in the Quality Handicap
proved what one run will do for a horse.
Backed and well beaten in Merrimba’s
race the previous week, he quickly out-
paced Flying Knight on Saturday, and
though at the turn it appeared as if Fer-
managh might overhaul him Freckles did
the better over the last furlong, Turner
keeping hard at him all the way. Prince,
who found the early pace a little too
fast for his liking, finished strongly to
gain third place, and when the winning-
post was reached St. Constant was doing
sufficiently well to dispose of the idea
that he is a back number. Faerie Queen
and Easter Time were others that made
up leeway in the run home, and Fer-
vent surprised by being one of the first
flight at the turn. From the top of the
straight, however, Freckles and Fer-
managh were the only two in it.
The Hawkesbury Handicap was a par-
ticularly good race, Dewar (Maxwell),
who put in his claim halfway down the
straight, ran a little erratically at the
end, but won by a head from Goose
Boy, with Veiled Threat and Two’s Com-
pany, who dead-heated for third, a similar
distance further away. Moondarewa,
Aralys and Dashing Cavalier were close
up, the last-named, who tailed off early,
making up a lot of ground from the half-
mile. Veiled Threat and Two’s Com-
pany came home strongly, and, consider-
ing he was chopped back at barrier-
rise, Moondarewa gave a good account
of himself. Shining Night ran right off
the course leaving the straight, and that
settled his chance. He worked up to
seventh at the turn, and then died away.
Angus tried to lead practically all the
way, but the top of the straight saw the
end of him.
Backers of Tidemark (J. Thompson)
for the Novice Handicap had to put up
with a very short price, the best offered
against him being 6 to 4. They had no
cause for anxiety, as, though Silver
Princess, Berne and River Gold led him
at the half-mile, Tidemark was second
to Silver Princess entering the straight,
and was a sure winner from the last-
named over the last furlong. Miss
Leonard, who ran third, was prominent
coming to the turn, and of the remainder
Kiaree did best, though without ever
threatening danger. Tidemark is still in
the Epsom, but with 7.5 he is unlikely
to effect a surprise.
In the Trial Stakes Wise Laddie
(Wilson) had a useful lead at the five
furlongs, and did not after give anything
a chance. Barrenjoey was a long way
from the leaders running along the back,
and though he eventually worked into
second place he was unable to trouble
Wise Laddie. Brumaire, of whom so
much was once expected, ran third, so
there may still be hope for a win by him.
The favorite, Wellesley, did not have the
best of luck in running, but as he fin-
ished fourth he may be worth following.
Of the others Royal Lancer did best
from the turn.
Grand Prodige (Shean) led throughout
the Three-year-old Handicap. In the
straight he ran away from Streamford
and War Effort, who were fairly placed
in the early part of the race, and it is
some time since a more decisive wi t has
been seen in a short-distance handicap
in Sydney. Niagara and Panbranch fol-
lowed the place-getters, and only for
being interfered with by one of the fallen
horses the latter might have run third.
Commando, who was solidly backed, lost
his rider early in the piece, as did Talarus ;
Barfelt fell and was killed. Grand
Prodige is by Beau Pere from the French
mare Providence, by Le Prodige. He
was sold privately as a yearling.
St. Elmo (Cook) won the first divi-
sion of the Welter Handicap, but, after
taking the lead from Lord Pentheus enter-
ing the straight, it was by the narrowest
margin he defeated Irish Sea. A hundred
yards from home Irish Sea looked like
taking St. Elmo’s measure, but he weak-
ened slightly in the last few strides. The
race will improve him. America, in get-
ting third, gave a glimpse of his two-year-
old form. He gained on the first two over
the final furlong. Magi ran well, as did
Tyrannus, but the heavily-backed Rod-
borough merely added to his recent
failures. He never raised the hopes of
his supporters, nor did Duke Cullen,
who was always among the tail-enders.
Guild Hall (Turner) gave Mrs. N.
Frazer and F. Dalton their second win
of the day when he lasted long enough
to beat Overjoyed a head. Third to
Dundalk and Young Valais into the
straight, he led just after commencing the
last furlong. Air Link, after being a
long way back at the three furlongs,
plugged along to get third, but never
looked a possible winner. Dick Whitting-
ton was not sighted, and of the unplaced
division Queenslander Spearace made the
most favorable impression.
* * * *
Tranquil Star rushed to Caulfield Cup
popularity after her decisive defeat
of Distinction and David Innis in the
Quality Handicap at Moonee Valley on
Saturday. Backed from tens down to
sevens, she was capably handled by the
stable apprentice K. Smith, and was
going right away at the finish of the
mile. Weighted in the Cups as Aus-
tralia’s best race mare, Tranquil Star
met David Innis one stone better than
Caulfield Cup terms, and her win gave
her a 31b. penalty. She has raced only
twice since a spell, however, and im-
presses as certain to keep on improving.
No Cup rider has been engaged for her,
but no difficulty will be experienced in
that respect.
Although outstayed, David Innis ran
well enough at the weights to retain his
Cup position. A drop of 141 b. will
assist him over the longer distance. Dis-
tinction, however, will need to improve
considerably if he is to be trainer I,
Holt’s fourth Caulfield Cup winner. On
Saturday he met David Innis 331 b. better
than Cup terms, and beat him less than
a length for second money. Phoines
(favorite) failed to run the mile right
out, and High Road was never dan-
gerous. Sun Valley disappointed, but old
Damalis, a w.f.a. winner earlier in his
career, showed up surprisingly well in
sixth position. He would have been
closer but for interference near the home-
turn. Damalis has been supported at
long odds for the Cups.
Improving on her form in the Men-
tone Cup a week earlier, Heart’s Desire
finished strongly to defeat Royal Decree
and True Flight in the Tullamarine Han-
dicap. She carried 71b. more than her
Caulfield Cup weight of 7.3, and either
is better than previously supposed or her
form did not say a great deal for the
Cup prospects of horses behind her.
Royal Decree was not entered for the
Cups. True Flight would have made
the finish more interesting had he ex-
perienced a clearer run. He is still a
Caulfield Cup possibility with a drop of
51b. to 8.8. Rex Buzz, carrying 101 b.
more than his Cup weight, failed at the
business end of the 10 furlongs, and Sir
Locket performed poorly. Primavera
made up a lot of ground over the last
three furlongs, and may be returning to
form.
Home James, one of Melbourne’s best
two-year-olds last spring, enhanced his
Victoria Derby chance by defeating
White Line and Soothe in the first Pascoe
Handicap. A rails-run contributed to his
head defeat of White Line, who was
forced wide on the turn, but he conceded
the Oaks candidate 201 b., and was hold-
ing her right at the finish. Home James
is not a big colt, and many keen judges
doubt whether he will be up to Derby
standard, especially in view of his failure
to finish closer than fifth to Leahero at
set weights in the Moonee Valley Stakes.
More will be known of him after the
Caulfield Guineas, which probably will
be bis next race. Cloudless, a gelding,
and therefore ineligible for the Derby,
finished strongly to defeat Grain Trader
and Huntingdale in a close finish for
the second Pascoe Handicap. By Spear-
felt from Perfect Day, he cost 500gns.
as a yearling, has raced only twice and
will improve.
• * « *
Apart from shortening Dewar’s Metro-
politan price, Rosehill results did not
affect betting on the A.J.C.’s big events
to any extent. Monday’s order was as
follows with most of the layers:
EPSOM.
Rimveil, Yaralla.
Gundagai.
Grand Fils.
Evergreen, Freckles.
Mildura, Fermanagh.
METROPOLITAN.
Dewar.
Dashing Cavalier, Moondarewa, Veiled
Threat.
Goose Boy, Grand Fils, Shining Night.
Evergreen.
Freckles, a failure in last year’s Epsom
with 7.5 after leading to the commence-
ment of the final furlong, looks like
making a better bid for that race this
year with 7.12. It is questionable
whether an additional furlong would have
enabled any of those he beat on Saturday
to have overhauled him. At the top
of the straight Fermanagh looked like
doing so, but did not finish as well as
Freckles, who will meet him 101 b. and
Prince 141 b. better. The extra fortnight
will do as much —if not more —for
Freckles as for either of those two.
The last bit of the Epsom may again
pull him, but he is certainly preferable to
any of those he met last week. Grand
Fils’s dash of the previous week was
completely missing, and in the Epsom
he will meet Freckles only a pound
better. Racing may be slowing him,
and, after all, his best chance may be in
the Metropolitan. Guild Hall’s narrow
win with 21b. from the minimum in the
Welter was not Epsom form, and the
way Tel Asur, Winnipeg, Gold
and Common Sense shaped in the Quality
Handicap did not put them in the lime-
light.
Since they last raced Yaralla, Rimveil,
Evergreen and Mildura have done well in
their work, but though heavyweights
have such a good record in the Epsom
middleweights in Gundagai and Freckles
may take a lot of beating this year. In
the last nine years six Epsom winners
have carried weights ranging from 9.10
to 9.2.
Grand Prodige, who made his three-
year-old opponents look hacks in the
Three-year-old Handicap, is still in the
Derby, but though he has pace enough
for that race his trainer says he is slightly
touched in the wind, and in consequence
may not be a starter. His inclusion in
the field would not disadvantage Hall
Stand. Grand Prodige is evidently a
“front runner,” and if he went out like
he did on Saturday Hall Stand would be
able to lie comfortably in behind him.
None of the other three-year-olds showed
anything approaching Derby form.
Dewar’s Hawkesbury Handicap win
strengthened his claim to consideration
for the Metropolitan, but four or five
other horses were a little too close to
him to make it certain he will again beat
them. He must, of course, be credited
with a first-class chance, but on figures he
has no marked pull over Goose Boy,
whom he will meet 41b. worse, and the
latter has shown form at Randwick as
well as on the minor tracks. They will
respectively carry 31b. and 71b. less than
last week. Moondarewa and Shining
Night were unlucky at different parts
of Saturday’s race. Despite a compara-
tively easy time on the training track
during the previous fortnight the former
ran really well, and that drop of 61b. will
do a lot for him. His defeat of Saturday
did not lose him any friends.
Veiled Threat impressed. He carried
only his Metropolitan weight and will
meet Dewar 31b. worse, but he did his
best work over the last couple of fur-
longs. The three weeks’ interval will
permit of improvement in his condition,
and the extra distance will not trouble
him. The same applies to Dashing
Cavalier. The Colin Stephen Stakes
should give an excellent idea as to the
relative chances of Dewar, Dashing
Cavalier and Veiled Threat in the Metro-
politan. In the former Dewar and Dash-
ing Cavalier meet at level weights, and
give Veiled Threat a pound. On figures
Dashing Cavalier has a pull in the w.f.a.
race.
Pantler is not improving, and though
It’s Funny looked bright he did not show
Metropolitan form in the Hawkesbury
Handicap. Two’s Company carried 21b.
more than her Metropolitan weight on
Saturday, but she runs better at Rosehill
than elsewhere. Of the rough division,
Aralys did most to entitle him to be a
Metrop. runner, and though success in
that may be beyond him he is likely to
pick up a race in Sydney.
* * * *
The further reduction of racing and
the resultant lessening of prize-money
are sure to bring about additional retire-
ments of owners, and make the business
decidedly hard for trainers. With pro-
grammes limited to seven races a day —
making the total for the year a little
over 270 each in Sydney and Melbourne
—competition is bound to be keen, and
even those trainers who are getting £3 10s.
or £4 a week for each horse in their stables
will have to win a share of the more valu-
able races to make the year’s operations
profitable either for themselves or their
patrons. Races of any kind are also likely
to be much harder to win than in the
past, as there is bound to be an all-round
improvement in class in many events.
* * * *
Notwithstanding that the cut in racing
was not so drastic as at first seemed prob-
able, the loss of the first Saturday in
every month is a knock for most people
associated with it, particularly breeders,
owners and trainers. Various restric-
tions are designed to reduce betting on
racecourses, but the Federal Government
is not going out of its way to dish s.p.
bookmakers; the mere banning of “bet-
ting and tipster telegrams” won’t do it.
Telephones remain; and it would be
absurd to contend that silent telephone
numbers are granted the same people year
after year without the authorities know-
ing the use to which they are turned,
* * * *
A fortune for £1 is possible—but not
very probable—in connection with the
Caulfield and Melbourne Cup double. In
one Sydney list the price going about 144
horses in the Caulfield Cup coupled with
any of 50 others in the Melbourne Cup
is 20,000 to 1. That, however, would be
a fair price straightout about some of the
horses engaged.
* * * ♦
A Parliamentary bill to put an end to
proprietary racing in N.S.W. is in course
of preparation. In Sydney Moorefield,
Ascot, Rosebery and Victoria Park will
be the clubs affected. It is understood
that an extension of Kensington’s lease
from the Crown will not be granted, and
it will therefore drop out. The clubs men-
tioned will probably become non-pro-
prietary on the debenture lines adopted
by Canterbury and Rosehill.
* * * *
Moorefield, Kensington and Rosebery
are forfeiting their racing dates (a day
each) for the remainder of the year. In
Melbourne last week it was confirmed
that Nov. 14 and 21 should be the
V.R.C.’s Cup meeting dates. Those of
the V.A.T.C. were changed from Oct. 10
and 17 to Oct. 17 and 24.
# * * *
The English Minister for Agriculture
has asked owners of horses and ponies, in
the general national interest, to destroy
any non-essential animals. It will be a
wrench for many men to take this step
with old favorites. No rationed feeding-
stuffs are now supplied except for agri-
cultural horses, pit ponies, town horses,
and a limited number of thoroughbreds
and hunt horses. The Minister pointed
out that the grass consumed by non-
essentials in summer and the hay in
winter should be kept for essential
animals.
Miscellaneous.
Having lost three contests in succes-
sion before he met George Elliott at
Leichhardt, the French welterweight
Maurice Dremon was given no chance
against the boxer who had beaten Blatch
and Bennell. He surprised everyone —
perhaps himself most of all —by boxing
Elliott for 10 of the 12 rounds. Elliott
had him down twice in the twelfth, but
had to be satisfied with the loser’s end.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
:JH }
P 11 '!!
ill
ill
nit
mm-
■
111
mm
m i
Modern high-ctess accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE," Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
PROVIDES THE SAME COMFORT AND SAFETY AS CITY SEWERAGE
WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
Besides Typhoid, Dysentery and serious diseases, many minor affections such as
Septic Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chills and Colds can be traced to unhygienic closets.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and runs off into the soil.
It eliminates closet pans and saves sanitary rates.
IT PREVENTS THE SPREAD OF THE BLOWFLY PEST.
There is no emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health and is fully guaranteed. Over 2200 in use.
Write or telejihono for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd. s xX^ E Kf iT SXDNEI
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 12J% Sales Tax.
Plus 25/- war surcharge; crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores , pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
Divorce Notices.
TO ROBERT LESLIE MURDOCK formerly
of Spring Hill near Orange New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that WHITELEIGH PEARL
MURDOCK has filed a Petition No. 639 of
1942 in the Supreme Court of New South
Wales praying for a divorce on the grounds
of your desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years or upwards You may enter
an appearance by the 30th December next and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. A. R. BALDWIN & CO.
Solicitors 11c Castlereagh Street Sydney. —
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorces
TO JOHN KENNETH MORRIS late of Main
Street Cessnock.—TAKE NOTICE that ALICE
MORRIS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1175 of 1942 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance on or before the 30th day of
November 1942 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from W. J. ENRIGHT
& BANFIELD Solicitors 11 Vincent Street Cess-
nock or their Agents TAYLOR &. KEARNEY
City Mutual Building Hunter and Bligh Streets
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ESTATE of WILLIAM BROWN.—The next-
of-kin of GEORGE WILKINS, HENRY
WILKINS and ELLEN WILLARD, children of
WILLIAM WILKINS and ELIZA NICHOLS,
or any persons knowing their whereabouts,
are requested to communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, re-
garding the estate of the abovenamed deceased.
ANNE GRANT, formerly Dickison, niece of
Elizabeth A. Dailey, deceased. Will children
or other descendants or Executor or Mrs.
Harry (Maggie) Kelly, please communicate with
R. E. LEWIS & SON, Solicitors, 379 Collins
Street, Melbourne?
BENJAMIN CHARLES DICKISON, nephew
of Elizabeth A. Dailey, deceased. Will he,
wife or any descendants or Executor please
communicate with R. E. LEWIS & SON, Solici-
tors, 379 Collins Street, Melbourne?
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different */“
100 Australians, all different «/■
40 Pacific Islands, all different «/•
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Cists— Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co.. 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
HAVE THAT PHOTO
COPIED NOW!
We cannot come to you, but you can
send to us. Send your photos, to us
to be copied. We enlarge, color and
frame. We will be glad to give a
auote on any work and the greatest
care will be taken with your originals;
pack your originals in cardboard.
Our address is:—
PROGRESS PHOTOS,
MIDWAY ARCADE,
256 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SMOKE-OH!
“Dogs enlist in the army.”— “World’s News.”
Will the spotted ones have a chance to
get stripes?
•I* >!• ►!- 4*
“Sugar-bags as costumes.” — “D.T.”
It’s doubtful, though, if they’ll make
the wearers look sweeter.
•J*
“Beer in glasses sells at 150 p.c. profit.”
—News item.
They’re rose-colored glasses for Bung.
►I- *l* *1- -I*
“Moira was young and enormously rich, but
her life was clouded by the thought that her
young son was very sickly.”— Woman’s paper.
The lass with the delicate heir.
❖ *J* ❖
“Hotelkeeper called up.”— “D.T.’’
Someone must have shouted.
*5- 'l* *l*
“It is most unfair to say that Sydney girls
spend too much money on cosmetics and too
much time in front of the mirror.”
— Woman’s paper.
But in many cases the reflection is
justified.
-I* 'h •h
“Wanted.—Board, two married couples;
willing share one room, two beds.”
—Lithgow “Mercury.”
Two beds! They are fussy!
“Girl who bit the constable.” — “Sun.”
She often bit a dud two-bob so that
she’d not be “had.” But when she bit a
dinkum copper, that was just too bad.
+ 4*
“One of the German Army rations is the
synthetic pork chop.”— “World’s News.”
The grunts of synthetic satisfaction
made by the consumers, however, are
genuine. .
*!• ‘l*
“Experiments have proved that certain plants
are extremely sensitive to smells.”
■—Radio gardening talk.
Perhaps that explains the aspidistra’s
shuddering as we dug some bonedust
around the roots.
Fixed Idea.
“Here’s the story of a woman who didn’t
change her mind in 24 years.”
— “World’s News.”
In most circumstances she has the usual
feminine mind-wriggles. For instance,
she never buys a hat without “almost”
buying 20 others first. She changes her
mind 20 times a day about which woman
friend she hates most. But there’s one
point on which she is fixed. For 24
years she has never changed her mind
about it. That is, as she tells her hus-
band : “What a goat 1 was not to change
my mind before marrying a thing like
you.”
Eve.
4*
o. s.
“We must accustom ourselves to having less
beef.” — Advt. in “S.M.H.”
“I only wish I could obey ”
Declared my typist Fiji;
‘‘But every day in every way
I’m growing still more'beefy !”
Nat.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
Vanishing Cream.
“You can make your hands irresistible.”
— Woman’s paper.
Her hands were irresistible, so soft
and smooth and white. Her fingers,
long and slender, were an absolute
delight. She held them clasped together
in an attitude devout. But evTy time she
tabled ’em she dragged the kitty out!
Perciva^.
“Orphaned early in life, John and his twin
sister Millie were adopted by a friend of their
father. Real happiness was theirs, for they
were treated just as one of the family.”
—Short story.
Put on half rations, eh?
•I* -I* 4*
Gardening Made Easy.
I.
Developing a “Tilth.”
[At a time when the national slogan is “Every
rhubarb counts,” and when backyard gardeners
who previously didn’t know a compost-pit
from a thrip are wondering why the parsnip
seed they sprinkled on top of the ground an
inch outside the fowlyard netting never came
“It’s all right , George — it's NOT the
man-power officer."
up, it behoves an expert to rise up and point
out the many pitfalls and ways of avoiding them
to those who, with that fine streak of optimism
which bespeaks the true gardener, hope to beat
the great vegetable racket. Anyone who, after
absorbing the many invaluable hints contained
in the following articles, can’t produce cab-
bages that have to be ringbarked before felling
operations can begin, or onions that need a sur-
gical operation to have their top three overcoats
removed, must be considered extremely dull in
the dome.]
How often has the amateur gardener
bought a packet of seed and turned to
his Garden Annual for cultivation advice
only to find that'the first requisite must
be ground “of a fine tilth.”
The prospect of pulverising rebelliously
iron-hard ground to the point where it
can be run through the fingers like sugar
is one at which the stoutest-hearted subur-
banite may well blench. He has three
courses open to him: (a) sock in with
a mattock and bash the turned-up sods
into the required fineness ; ( b ) wait until
flood rains have transformed the area
into a bog into which the tossed-in seeds
must get a grip (this method will necessi-
tate constant flooding with tap water to
keep it boggy or, in other words, as a
fine tilth would be if continually wet);
(c) using a breaking-up agent which
requires a minimum of physical toil.
As it is inconceivable that any man
would deliberately choose a method
which would reduce his spinal column to
a thing feeling like a red-hot spiral spring
and give him more corns per square inch
of palm space than a 14-stone woman
gets on a foot she encases in a size 2
shoe, (a) can be forgotten. Method ( b )
is all right for the man who is prepared
to stump around his garden permanently
carrying about 51b. of viscous mud on
each boot, and who, if he be a Sydney
resident, is willing to sneak out like a
thief in the night and risk a heavy fine
through helping himself to water he has
paid for (in advance). There remains
method (c), and the prospect of results
acquired with a minimum of muscular
effort and inconvenience must make this
one overwhelmingly appealing.
First select your bit of yard and burn
off any weeds, dog kennels, tins, old
sofas, etc., which happen to be covering
the ground. Then fit into your brace-
and-bit a lin. drill and bore holes here
and there, taking care not to have them
closer together than 2in. Into the aper-
ture thus started insert the sharp end of
'a lin. crowbar and belt on the top with
a sledgehammer until the hole is about
two feet deep.
Now cut some potatoes that you’ve
been sneaking from the kitchen for some
months into lin. cubes, making certain
that each section has an eye. Drop a
cube into each hole, and if your measur-
ing has been accurate it will go right to
the bottom. If you have to force the bit
of spud down, do it with a stick tied
around with wadding; this will ensure
that no damage is done to the eye. Be
sure, too, that the eye is pointing up,
otherwise the potato might wander any-
where in its search for light, and you
may have to excavate under Next-door's
fence for the resultant tubers.
After pushing the potatoes down, fill
up the holes with a mixture of blood and
bone, sulphate of ammonia, nitrate of
soda and superphosphate, thus ensuring
that the plant will be adequately fed dur-
ing its growth. Should you wish to save
time watering afterwards, soak the mix-
ture in water first until it is of the con-
sistency of boarding-house soup. Finally,
into the top of each hole drive a hard-
wood plug.
The idea, scientifically sound, is based
on the great ground-breaking-up quali
ties of the murphy, which all seed cata-
logues stress. The fast-growing spud,
driven relentlessly by gravitation and the
urge to get as far away as possible from
the blood and bone, forces its way up for
air. It gets as far as the hardwood plug
and, frustrated, throws out lateral shoots
in a frenzied effort to get out of the trap.
The tubers formed on the ends of these
tentacles swell, and even the hardest
ground must break up under, or even
over, this inexorable movement. Thus
not only will you be enabled to laugh at
potato queues, but the land will at the
same time be rendered into those minute
particles, a condition so allegedly essen-
tial for the cultivation of more delicate
BO.
Soft Pedal.
Dear lady, do not think me bold.
Nor turn your head away
With such display of hauteur cold,
But list to what I say :
You spurn me, bid me go my way!
That cannot be, I fear,
Whilst you yourself compel my stay
And hold me hov’ring near.
So please relax your high disdain.
Hear what I would entreat;
For in this overcrowded train
You’re standing on my feet!
S. U. BURBAN.
Philosophy.
Aunty was celebrating her seventy-
third birthday in the parlor of the Jeeby
Arms. Taking a long swill of bombo,
she drew out her hand-mirror and re-
garded her features. The bombo was
needed.
The canary might have had circles
under its eyes, but Aunty’s face was just
one vast diagram. Moreover, she had lost
her false teeth, which gave her the
appearance of trying to bite her own
chin.
Aunty put the mirror away with a sigh.
Then, still the game old girl that she had
always been, she picked up her glass.
“Anyhow,” she said philosophically,
“I won’t have any trouble convincing ’em
J’m over twenty-one!”
T. W. N.
Rhyme Without Reason.
This truth I’m telling’s proved by time :
That reason is the foe of rhyme.
As reason gets in rhyming’s way,
I sacrifice it day by day.
Reason’s loss is rhyming’s gain.
And so in order that my brain
May bear the best poetic fruit,
1 wrench up reason by the root!
You may think this is utter rot:
I wish it were; because I’ve got —
When the mad gift of rhyming’s gone —
No reason to fall back upon !
G. B.
War and Victory.
“Wedding-rings offered for war.” — “Sun.”
It’s just a bit of gold,” she mused.
’Twas more than that (as all men
know).
It was the weapon she had used
To keep her victim all confused
And rob him daily of his dough.
E.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
“Administrative’ *
After 14 months in the army, work-
ing mostly on the “administrative” side,
I have come to the conclusion that
there is no work performed in any of
these army offices (at least by those of
warrant-officer rank downwards) that
could not be done just as effectively,
and probably more expeditiously, by
groups of conscientious Boy Scouts and
Girl Guides.
I have worked in a number of
administrative formations, and ah were
alike in possessing a lack of organisa-
tion. If these offices were organised
efficiently the work could easily be done
with abdut one-third of the staff —pos-
sibly with less, if conscientious juniors
were employed. In many cases there is
duplication, not merely of local routine
work, but of formations in which men
are employed in separate buildings, and
often in different parts of the same city,
doing precisely the same work in regard
to the very same matters.
There are five groups into which our
army is divided (permanent forces, A.1.F.,
militia, home defence and V.D.C.).
If Private John Snooks of the V.D.C.
wishes to enlist in the A.I.F. he has got
to be discharged from the V.D.C., passed
through a recruit depot, and re-enlisted
and re-attested in the A.I.F. An
A.I.F. man, returned from overseas,
may be found medically unfit for
further active service but within the
medical category for home defence.
He has to be formally discharged
as an A.I.F. soldier, and formally re-
enlisted as a Home Defence soldier, and
allotted a new number with a new pre-
fix (N in place of NX).
The crowning absurdity is reached when
administrative soldiers have to unravel
the intricacies connected with the fancy
millinery which distinguishes these five
separate Australian armies from each
other. For instance—who may wear
canvas gaiters? The A.I.F. may, and
possibly militia who have been in fight-
ing areas. A Home Defence soldier must
not wear canvas gaiters. He must wear
cloth ones. The same applies to a pug-
garee band round the Digger hat, though
a puggaree band was the standard issue
to militia soldiers in days gone by.
If you are good at quizzes you can
solve this —the soldier is wearing ordi-
nary field service uniform with cloth
gaiters, puggaree band round hat, but
without the “Australia” shoulder badges.
Which army does he belong to? You will
find the answer (probably) in some of
the hundreds of amendments to General
or Special Routine Orders—upon which
administrative soldiers have to spend
hours composing, indexing, collating,
filing, world without end.
Possibly the solution would be to have
a pukka soldier in charge of the Army
Ministry—if we could get him into Par-
liament. But God knows how long a
pukka soldier would last in Parliament.
—F. J. R. C. (Home Forces).
Cost of War Items
Somebody ought to pass the word to
the War Savings Organisation H.Q. that
their propaganda is a bit squiffy. I have
two small leaflets which are inconsistent.
One is headed “Work, Save and Lend for
Victory.” It gives the prices at which
certain items of munitions can (allegedly)
be purchased. The other leaflet is headed
“What Your War Savings Help to Buy”
and contains a similar list. A compari-
son shows this:
Leaflet 1. Leaflet 2.
Rifle and bayonet .. .. £l4
Rifle £9
(Surely the bayonet alone
does not cost £5?)
Depth-charge .. .. 40 50
Bren gun .. .. . . 140 150
Vickers machine-gun .. 170 250
Naval torpedo .. .. 1500 2500
Fully-equipped field-gun .. 4000 5500
No date appears on either of the leaf-
lets ; so it is impossible to tell whether
the large quantity manufactured caused
an increase or a decrease as shown. —
J. A. Martin (Vic,),
Canteen Prices
The addition of the recent excise in-
creases to standard canteen prices has
added fuel to flames of resentment.
Ambiguity in officially-disseminated in-
formation has not improved matters.
News bulletins from the A.E.S. stated
that the increase in tobacco was to,
be 2d. per tift. This was confirmed
literally by “Army News.” As tins do
not hold a lesser quantity than 20z., it
was assumed the rise would be a penny
per ounce. When canteen prices were
adjusted, it was discovered that the price
had gone up 2d. per ounce. Now sol-
diers are under the impression that John
and Ben are trying to sneak back our
rise of 6d. per day.
The piece de resistance was an increase
of 3d. in our occasional bottle—we aver-
age one a month. The price went up not-
withstanding the fact that the beer was
bought months before the excise in-
crease was enacted. If a private tavern
perpetrated this upon wharfies, Eddie
Ward would probably scream for public
executions.
Anyhow, why should we pay excise at
all? Uncle Sam sends his beer and weed
thousands of miles to his troops excise
free. —NX a Million (A.1.F.).
Cock-eyed Liquor Laws
Sydney’s Metropolitan Health Officer,
Dr. Graham Drew, is credited with a
number of “do’s and don’ts” for the
benefit of the people’s health during the
approach of summer. One of his maxims
reads; “Don’t drink with meals. Take
alcohol only after sundown, then only
as much as the body can assimilate
medicinally.”
Can the doctor also prescribe a method
of obtaining alcohol for consumption
after sundown? It is now practically
impossible to buy bottled beer, and any
person desiring a drink must join the
“Speak up, man! Don't mutter!”
“guzzle-rush” just before 6 p.m. or do
without. If the doctor’s advice is just
another argument for abstention, it would
have been better to put it in plain words.
There is no doubt as to the soundness
of the “prescription” ; it is one which
many have followed in the past and
would do so again, if this were possible,
and this is one strong point in the case
for review of hotel trading hours. How-
ever, legislators are evidently so busy
satisfying both the brewery interests and
the wowsers that they have no time to
consider the needs of the large number
of moderate drinkers. Anti-guzzle
(N.S.W.).
Compulsory Unionism
It seems evident that the Government
is using its power and the National
Security Regulations to implement Labor
policy, of which compulsory unionism is
an item.
To the principle of compulsory union-
ism there should be no more objection
than to compulsory military service or
compulsory payment of rates and' taxes.
To all intents and purposes we have com-
pulsory unionism now, enforced by Arbi-
tration Court awards.
Unions must be registered and submit
their “rules” to the Registrar for his sanc-
tion and approval, as conforming with the
laws enacted, before registration. With
statutory compulsory unionism in force,
the law and regulations governing the
Registrar’s sanction would justifiably
meet a keener scrutiny by Parliament
than is at present given.
Statutory compulsory unionism to be
democratic must make provision by legis-
lative enactment for rank-and-file con-
trol ; then arbitration may be given a
fair chance. Not the rank-and-file con-
trol we are supposed to have today. Not
the mass-meeting and mob control, where
it is dangerous to criticise the dominant
group. Use the ballot-box, with proper
supervision, and those that risk mob
howls and threats will, if right be on their
side, have their reward and justification
in the measure of peace in their industry.
—A. C. (N.S.W.).
Broadcasting and Local Talent
Generally I agree with “Macaw” (B.
23/9/’42), but not when he insists that
the Broadcasting Act should have made
it obligatory to give time on the air to
Australian writers.
If he was thinking of A.B.C. I want to
say that A.B.C. will buy all the short
stories, plays and talks from Australians
it can get, but there is a condition —that
they be written in radio technique and
well-written.
If he was thinking of B-class stations,
let him listen to the “Dad and Dave”
drivel and the cheap melodrama of
serials, obviously carpentered here, and
ask himself whether he’d not sooner see
that tripe wiped out than expanded.—
C. S. (N.S.W.).
Plant or Improvement?
A judgment given recently in a Queens-
land case by Justice Douglas is of inter-
est to landholders. A mortgagee, fore-
closing on a dairy farm, claimed posses-
sion of the cream separator installed
originally under hire-purchase by a
machinery company for the outgoing
dairy-farmer. The separator was attached
to a wooden block by screwed bolts and
nuts, the block being set in concrete let
lOin. into the soil of .the farm. His
Honor held that an article “affixed even
slightly to the land” must be considered
as part of the land and not as a movable
chattel.
This raises the old argument as to
what constitutes an improvement and
what constitutes plant, and is a reversal
of generally accepted views. Shearing
machinery, in the case of a sale of the
property, has in the past been generally
treated as plant and sold as such when
the outgoing landholder has had a clear-
ing sale. Windmills, when installed on
Crown leases, have been held on more
than one occasion to be the property of
the lessee and removable by him at the
termination of his lease provided they
have been attached to the foundation-
blocks by screws. In general practice,
of course, they are sold with a freehold
property, but this is a matter more of
convenience than of legal rights in their
ownership. Shearing machinery and
windmills are affixed to the land in the
same way as the separator in the Douglas
decison wa%.
In view of the foregoing it would
appear that a considerable amount of
confusion and litigation will occur in
the future if this judgment stands. —
Shearo (Vic.).
School-leaving Age
Unless curricula are drastically altered
an extra year or so at school might do
most children more harm than good. The
present system teaches the child to use
neither his hands nor his head. It doesn’t
even teach him to read and write decent
English. Our schools are little more
than sweat-shops cramming students for
matriculation to a university which only
1 p.c. of them will attend.
Primary and high schools ought to lay
less stress on educating the pupil and
more—far more —on imbuing him with
the desire to educate himself. Once he
wants to learn, he will learn quickly,
pleasantly and thoroughly. More impor-
tant, he will not leave school handicapped
by the all-too-cpmmon delusion that he
is “educated.” He will leave determined
to go on learning.
A high-school graduate educated in
such a way would certainly be adjudged
backward by a present-day examiner, but
he would actually be far better equipped
for life than one stuffed with a mass of
undigested facts and figures, half of which
•have neither practical nor cultural value
and most of which he will soon forget.—
Ajax (S.A.).
“The Victorian Teachers’ Union for
40 years has fought to raise the school-
leaving age to at least 15,” says B. T.
Pearse (B. 2/9/’42). Why do they blame
the length of time and not themselves
for the poor results achieved by free,
compulsory and universal education?
They ought to ask themselves whether
there isn’t something wrong, perchance,
with the quality, rather than the quan-
tity, of the education provided.
It is long since I left school, but my
memory of it is that my teachers had a
superlative capacity for destroying every
vestige of interest a pupil had in his sub-
jects, not increasing it. The exceptions
maintained their intgrest in spite of, not
because of, their teachers. One of my
schoolmates was Bragg, the world-famous
physicist, but he would be a complacent
teacher who asserted that the school we
went to was responsible for Bragg’s extra-
ordinary prowess as a scientist. He was
regarded as a swot; the hero of the year
was the captain of the first eleven.
Has the system changed much? I
asked the boy in our office, who had just
been through the whole box-of-tricks
with passes in literature, geography, his-
tory, mathematics, architectural draw-
ing, commercial art and God knows
what else; “Now you’ve left school, how
do you spend the evening?” “Oh,” he
said, “I read the ‘Herald,’ listen-in to
the radio and then go to bed.” “Don’t
you ever study anything?” I said. “Study *
anything!” he said, astounded. “There’s
nothing to study.”— Lord Luvus (Vic.).
Laws and Morals
Politicians think in terms of regula-
tions, neglecting to think of the people
whom the regulations are to serve. This
drink and morality business, for example.
Because some few, suddenly “in the
money” or unbalanced by the war, are
overdoing the beer, Canberra and the
Legislatures of six capitals become
alarmed and new regulations are gazetted.
Police and most of the public will observe
these regulations just as much as they
think they need to, and the drunk will
still be with us.
Surely this is our country, and the
responsibility of living decently in it is
ours. The responsibility of a man’s being
sober rests first with himself. Let us
accept that responsibility and make the
consequences of non-acceptance suffi-
;iently severe and we can dispense with
externally-imposed closing hours and the
rest —they could never be adequately
policed even if they were meant to be.
And what is true of the regulation of
drinking is true of other moral questions.
Let Canberra give Australians the credit
of being Australian and get on with
things that are vital. —W. R. O. (Q.).
The Birthrate
If the average birthrate for the period
1911 to 1921 had been maintained in this
country there would have been 360,000
more people in Australia when the last
census was taken. In effect, about six
times the number of our dead in the
1914-18 war. Had we maintained the
Tl-21 rate of increase we would have
been able to call up at least nine more
army divisions for Australia’s defence,
I presume the absence of these divisions
may be regarded as a victory for the con-
traceptive industry.—C. O. M. P. (N.S.W.).
The Way to Avoid Inflation
I’m up against those commentators
who persist in saying that war loans are
good investments. In these days we are
not looking, or should not be for
good investments ; we are looking to save
our skins.
Another matter: there should be
no inflation. In war-time costs should
decrease. Millions of pounds’ worth of
value is being shot into the air and is
a dead loss never to be regained. Of
course, the price has got to be paid, but
the only way to do it and maintain a
semblance of stability is to pay as we
go —that means that everyone must be
taxed to the utmost limits.
With such taxation, prices couldn’t soar,
because no one could buy, so prices would
remain stable and nominal value and
intrinsic value would remain static. Our
children and grandchildren would have
some remnants of stability and assets to
make a start on. —J. S. Lipscomb (N.Q.).
Shoddy Footwear
A few days ago I bought a pair of
shoes at the highest price, expecting some-
thing that would give good service. After
I had worn these shoes half a dozen
times a large portion of one sole simply
dropped off. The remaining portion
proved to be of a composition similar
to pitch and rag. Yes, I know there's
a war on, but this sort of trick played
on civilians isn’t the way to win it. —
Deb (Tas.).


/r
ifmMiMgMfrrM'J* " « ■ ■: y '!C*
■/:■ •
i&' J
Wt
m
I
1111111
y ■ : ..-,x-
Mj
i
, :hm y -
in i
■
\
I - sjsgslssg ;
’
....
n
■
~*sg
Bl
.
■* >:
■■
[< ~.i
*p
Sum pie of steel being taken from an open hearth
A eel furnace at the B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works.
ww~ .««&:&*: iiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Sm *t*2s
m ■
.-■ .' V
?AV
TOVV&C&Vfca rr M
m >
V>.i
'iMMBm
{ &£.v A
TJ^W
■
SK*
’J'i
/ I • •#
•V-',
xc
• • •
WWW
iatls
At-
& ■ .
1
151
CTEEL is the No. 1 requirement for victory.
.Lessons taught by events on the world’s battle
fronts emphasise that the enemy’s strength in tanks
and firepower must be matched before we can
expect success. W&spwi
The production of steel, therefore, is our No. 1
industrial activity. Largely through the efforts of
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd., the Aus-
tralian steel industry is making available greatly
increased tonnages at the world’s lowest prices.
Both in volume and variety, B.H.P. Steel is being
produced to the industry’s maximum capacity, en-
suring supply of the material vital to both the muni-
tion industries and essential civil works.
Since war began, B.H.P. has pioneered the manu-
facture in Australia of three other strategic
materials, viz., ferro alloys, magnesium and
tungsten carbide, which with steel form a
quartet vital to effective munition produc-
tion.
As a result of the virile Australian private
enterprise evident in the triumphs cited here,
our industries are practically self-provident
in all essential materials, thus ensuring for
our fighting men a constant flow of efficient
weapons and equipment.
urns
.v}
m
i -
’
t.
S'lir
a/V»?
m
m
?*
-■ ■■*> -
Mi
mm
m
--■■
A
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
S. AUS.
