

GRAPE VINEGAR
No Finer Vinegar For All Usage
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3245. ,
Wednesday, April 22, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ST. M ARY'S CHURCH, BURY ST. EDMUNDS.
IT was not until attempts to impose totalitarianism on the free peoples of the world produced that “creation of the Evil One
called Total War” that the people of England realised, as perhaps never in their history, the extent of their love for those centres of
worship which linked them indissolubly with their forebears, from out of whose efforts they had become a great world-influencing
nation. To see such fabrics “blasted from the air and fall a mass of rubble” created something more than anguish. East Anglia
favourably situated for Nazi bombing ventures, has a wealth of structures, sacred and secular, going back in many instances to high
antiquity. The Suffolk town of Bury St. Edmunds is one of ,those towns, truly “ancient of days,” named after Edmund the Saxon
King and Martyr, taken prisoner and pul to death by the Danes in 870. In 1020 Canute founded a Benedictine Monastery here that
for splendour and magnificence exceeded every other similar establishment save that at Glastonbury. It was 585 feet long, 212 wide
and contained twelve chapels. The Lord Abbot had a seat in Parliament, possessed power to inflict capital punishment and judged
“all civil causes within the liberty.” The privilege of coining was conferred upon him by Edward the Confessor. In November, 1214,
on the defeat of John’s continental alliance, the barons held a meeting here and swore before the High Altar of the monastery to obtain
from the King a charter confirming the ancient liberties of England. Trouble arose in 1327 when the people of the town and
neighborhood attacked the monastery, reducing a large part of it to ashes. In the early part of the following century the exquisite
Gothic edifice, dedicated to St. Mary, was erected, and is “a matchless jewel of the town.” Its beautiful carved roof is the admiration
of all visitors. Not the least important memorial of the past the church contains is the tomb of Mary Tudor, sister of Henry VIII,
married to Louis XII of France and afterwards secretly to Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk, with the assistance of the then ruling
French King. This incurred the anger of Henry VIII, but through the good offices of Cardinal Wolsey the pair were forgiven and permitted
to return to England, where Mary Tudor died in 1533.


Learn
freelance
Journalism
ot HONE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL .
/•hare send, without obligation, your New Free
booklet cxplaniing how to Write jur Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
>.!!. M 3
The Red Page
AMONG THE WISE MEN.
Among all the new books relating to
the war —from the speeches and screeches
of My New Order to Henry Priestley’s
Diet and National Health— there is no-
thing of quite such peculiar interest to
Australia as Victor Bay ley’s Is India
Impregnable? (Hale, Ltd.). Nowhere in
S. D. Stirk’s The Prussian Spirit, more-
over, or in Eric Ashby’s Are We Edu-
cated?, or even in Reginald A. Smith’s
Towards a Living Encyclopedia, can
there be found such a note of good cheer.
Among his works of fiction, Mr.
Bayley lists Carfax of the Khyber and
Liquid Fury, so that he is presumably an
authority on his subject. At about page
200 of his examination of the possible
dangers to India, the author devotes
himself to the Japanese threat. He feels
there is some danger of Japan’s entering
the war, but it would not do to take the
threat too seriously:
No doubt Germany and Italy would
like Japan to join them openly. But Japan
is also occupied with her endless war in
China and she is unlikely to enter willingly
into other commitments for a very good
reason. In considering the position of India
and her potential enemies, it is not much
use adding one enemy to another in a pessi-
mistic orgy of depression.
Mr. Bayley points out that “with Manila,
Singapore, Hawaii and Guam Island as
bases, the power of the United States
Navy in the Far East would be decisive
in that part of the world.” Even if the
enemy occupied the mainland, he con-
tinues, Hong Kong could hold out “for
years” ; the island “cannot be considered
to be in serious danger.” In Singapore’s
case Mr. Bayley is still more hopeful:
Singapore cannot be attacked from the
land, for no army could march down the
thousand miles of tropical jungle which
covers the Peninsula —it is sheer impossi-
bility. So Singapore must be attacked from
the sea. But Singapore is impregnable.
Thus India, too, is “impregnable,” and
all is unquestionably for the best in the
best of all possible worlds. As Mr.
Bayley points out, with the inscrutable
wisdom of the East, all one has to do
is to stare at a bogey and half its air
force disappears: —-
It [a threat to the North-West Frontier!
all sounds very terrible, and the deep growl
of Bogey! Bogey! is still potent to awaken
alarm. And indeed it would be very foolish
to ridicule the old monster. Not by such
easy methods can he be exorcised. But,
like all bogeys, if he is resolutely faced, he
begins to shrink and half his terrors dis-
appear.
* * * •
From Mr. Bayley’s gay optimism, it is
natural to pass to Maurice Hindus’s
Russia Fights On (Collins) and to learn
that Russia, too, is impregnable. Mr.
Hindus believes:
Hitler cannot conquer Russia!
He may sweep over the Ukraine, up
central and northern Russia. He may seize
Kiev, Kharkov, Rostov, Leningrad and
Moscow. He may’ push eastward to the
Urals. But he will not win the war, be-
cause he cannot hold the Russian earth and
Russian humanity.
Among the howling nonsense of Is
India Impregnable ? there were passages
of unquestionable truth; there is no
reason, for instance, to doubt that the
population of India is round about
380,000,000; it was true that the Japs
had to face grave geographical difficul-
ties ; it remains true that invasions
through Burma or from the north-west
would be enormously difficult. But what
Mr. Bayley didn’t and couldn’t know
were the military facts of the situation:
the actual numbers of the enemy, their
actual strength in guns, tanks, ’planes and
ships ; the numbers of the defending
armies, and their strength in weapons
and equipment. So that really his method
of dealing with the bogey was to stare
at it with his eyes fast shut. The same
criticism applies to Russia Fights On.
Mr. Hindus knows that the Russian
people have fought and will fight bitterly
for their own soil; and he knows that
the task of policing Russia, even if the
army were defeated, would be enor-
mously difficult; he knows that the Soviet
has huge reserves of man-power. But he
does not and cannot know how many
German soldiers, how many German
tanks, how many German ’planes will be
pitted against the Russians, nor with what j
precise strength the Russians will oppose
them. Comforting words are always (if
one can forget Mr. Bayley) comforting ;
but, lacking exact military information,
no book of this kind amounts to more
than pleasing speculation.
Sc * *
From Tobruk to Smolensk (Faber), by
the commentator “Strategics” (the third
volume of his running-history of the
war), differs fundamentally from both Is
India Impregnable ? and Russia Fights
On in that the author, almost invariably,
is dealing with past events and known
military facts. When he does speculate,
he is usually cautious. His survey ends
before the entry of the Japanese, but he
has no illusions about the Jap menace,
and was aware of Singapore’s “vulnera-
bility from the land side.”
Yet even such an authority as “Stra-
tegics” can be misled. After writing
that the “Indian, British, Australian and
New Zealand troops” were “nearly as
perfectly equipped as they could be
made,” he declares that the position was
further strengthened by the arrival of
“numerous squadrons of the Royal Air
Force with the latest aircraft in com-
mission.”
“Strategics” writes clearly and
authoritatively about the Libyan cam-
paigns, Tobruk, Greece and Crete. His
account of the Russian campaign, ending
with the fall of Smolensk (“A milestone
had been passed.... The exact value
remained for the future to assess”), does
not, of course, deal with the winter fight-
ing. His summing-up on the position
before the fall of Smolensk was:
The three main territorial objectives,
Leningrad, Moscow and Kiev, were aimed
at as the symbols of a decision. It was
thought that if they fell, or if any one of
them fell, the Russian Army would be
thrown into such disorder that it would
be ripe for the coup de grace.... The Ger-
mans, in fine, had at very great cost
achieved very remarkable victories; but
they had so far secured nothing commen-
surate with the outlay. They were hag-
ridden by the dream of world dominion.
They continued to win battle after battle.
But even in Germany the impression was
taking shape that each battle won merely
led to another; and the victory and the
peace that were wanted were as far off as
ever.
S. D. Stirk’s The Prussian Spirit (Faber)
is another war book written with author-
ity and having, like From Tobruk to
Smolensk, some quality as literature. Its
thesis, that the root of the German prob-
lem is the spirit of Prussianism, is by
no means new, but Mr. Stirk’s case is
fully and most interestingly documented.
In order to prove that Nazism is merely
the continuation of Prussianism in a more
virulent form, and that this harsh, arro-
gant mysticism of blood and soil, the in-
spiration both of such German virtues
as “hard work, discipline, efficiency,
obedience, self-sacrifice” and the Ger-
man crimes against mankind, is funda-
mental in the German character, Mr.
Stirk goes to the literature of Germany
produced from 1914 to 1940, so that his
survey is of much literary interest as well
as political value.
The soul of a nation, in so far as it is
to be found in books, is revealed in every
class of literature, from the highest to
the lowest, from (to take an Australian
example) Bernard O’Dowd’s “The Bush”
to the comic-strips and astrology columns
in the Sunday papers; and Mr. Stirk,
recognising that, ranges from such works
as Spengler’s Preussentum und Sozialismus
(1920) to the “popular” novels of Anne
Marie Koeppen, whose heroines cannot
eat an apple unless in a Prussian spirit;
This is what goes through Haseltrud’s
mind when she is eating an apple. “Ah,
the apples of one’s homeland! What could
taste better? What are the wonderful fruits
of foreign lands compared with the rosy-
cheeked apples which ripen in our gardens
and in whose spicy freshness all strength
and all wealth seems to be hidden?”
Spengler, as Mr. Stirk points out, is
generally known only for The Decline
of the West, but his book on Prussian
Socialism (which might just as well be
translated Nazism) had a far greater in-
fluence on German youth. Like a good
Prussian, Spengler refused to believe that
Germany had been defeated in the field,
but lost the war because it had been
betrayed by “the England within.” “Criti-
cism at the wrong time, the longing for
a quiet life at the wrong time, the striv-
ing after ideals when rapid action was
required, constant grumbling”—these, to
Spengler, represented “the England
within,” the enemy and betrayer of Prus-
sianism.
The case of Thomas Mann, in view of
his repudiation of the Nazis and flight to
America, is especially interesting, for, tak-
ing him as an example of the best type
of German who nevertheless, in the 1914
war, reverted to Prussianism, Mr. Stirk
recalls that Mann in 1914 wrote an un-
easily “Prussian” defence of Frederick
the Great. Oddly, considering his world-
wide reputation and great influence on
recent English poetry, Mr. Stirk does
not consider the similar dilemma in which
the outbreak of the 1914 war placed the
poet Rilke. In 1914 Rilke greeted the
“war god” with sonorous joy; but he, ,
too, had he lived to see the Nazi Prus- ,
sianism, would surely have found it in- ,
tolerable. 1
* * * *
At which point it seems appropriate
to review the latest book by one Adolf
Hitler, apparently of Austrian origin.
Mr. Hitler, in My New Order (Angus
and Robertson), is unmistakably Prus-
sian. Indeed, if it is not going too far
to say so, he almost appears to have a
leaning towards Hitlerism.
The title of his happy little vol. might
convey the impression that Hitler wrote
if. That is not so. My New Order is
not a successor to Mein Kampf, written
by Hitler, but a collection of the gentle-
man’s speeches, edited by Raoul de
Roussy de Sales ( Nom d’un nom!), with
an introduction by Raymond Gram
Swing. It runs to 800 pages and is
packed with good clean fun from cover
to cover. Historically, it is of the first
importance; as literature, it suffers from
the fact that the Fiihrer is inclined to
repeat himself, and that his nearest
approach to~ wit is a low (and deplor-
ably anti-British) sarcasm.
The commentary, however, is excel-
lently written. Monsieur Raoul de
Roussy de Sales has a fine mind as well
as a resounding name.
* * : 1=
One of Hitler’s rare merits as an
author is that he never loses the capacity
to surprise. Even if one read some pro-
digious lie in the cables at the time when
it first burst upon an astounded world,
it remains astonishing today. Now, as
yesterday, his most notorious somer-
saults have the fascination of the im-
possible. But one of the sad things about
all the well-meaning booklets that are put
out by well-meaning persons is that they
never possess the quality of surprise. If
the title is in the form of a question {ls
India Impregnable ?) the reader always
knows what the answer is going to be.
So when (in pamphlets from the Con-
solidated Press) I. Clunies Ross asks
Should We Plan for Peace? the answer,
one knows, is Yes ; and when Eric Ashby
demands Are We Educated ? the answer,
of course, is No. And even though it’s
not in the form of a question, one knows
from the title of Henry Priestley’s Diet
and National Health that he’s going to
say we all eat the wrong things. The
pamphlets are good of their kind ; and,
if they lack the capacity to astonish,
there is, in the thought of the Consoli-
dated Press’s blossoming as a reformer
and benefactor of humanity, both a mild
surprise and an ineffable beauty.
• • * »
More elaborate than the pamphlets is
A. J. Marshall’s Australia Limited, the
latest of Angus and Robertson’s “Think
or Be Damned” series. One or two of
Mr. Marshall’s remarks are almost fit to
stand beside the whimsicalities of Is India
Impregnable?; for example, his spirited
defence of strikes in war-time (though it
is probable that his “wicked subversive
chapter” was written before Japan came
into the war); or his gentle absolution of
the daily newspapers from any respon-
sibility for their contribution to the
mental degradation of the nation:
A few months ago a Sydney daily de-
voted a few inches to an account of a
scheme of Dr. J. C. Bradfield’s to create
a beneficial sea in Central Australia —and
a three-column spread to an account of the
finding of a body of a girl who had been
lost in the Blue Mountains. You couldn’t
blame the editor of the paper
On the whole, however, Australia
Limited is a sane, lively, valuable piece
of debunking, with a particularly pleasant
analysis of commercial broadcasting as
an indicator of public mentality. Mr.
Marshall can prove to anybody that
everything is wrong with everybody (ex-
cept, presumably, the strikers); and
Australians generally (except, of course,
the strikers) remind him of “the legend-
ary gentleman who sat nodding over his
drink in the bar of the sinking Titanic
and remarked ‘Well, the damn’ thing
hasn’t gone down yet! ’ ”
* * * #
As Mr. Bayley might say, it is not
much use adding one bogey to another
in a pessimistic orgy of depression. But
neither would it be much use asking how
on earth the ordinary citizen (unless by
going on strike) is going to get on with
winning the war amidst this clamor of
prophecy and criticism.
Surrendering to the inevitable, there-
fore, and adding one perfectionist to an-
other in an optimistic orgy of exultation,
let it be said that Reginald A. Smith’s
recipe for the salvation of the world in
Towards a Living Encyclopedia (Andrew
Dakers, Ltd.) is for readers, writers,
scholars and publishers to co-operate
with himself and H. G. Wells in creating
a World Encyclopedia “to bring order
out of the prevailing chaos of the printed
i word.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Writing of the film “How Green Was
My Valley,” somebody said that it
doesn’t matter whether a film follows
closely the book from which it is adapted
or not. True perhaps of mud-and-blood
thrillers and Wild-West derring-do, but a
false premise when the quality of the
book is, as in the case of most good
books, bound up in the authenticity of
its characters, atmosphere and setting.
In the latter case —and unless the film
producer has a better knowledge of the
subject than the author—the film must
follow the book very closely indeed if it,
too, is to be an authentic picture.
Examined in that light, the film version
of “How Green Was My Valley” has
faults, particularly of characterisation,
which stand out like organ stops.
The most arresting quality of the book
is its magnificent prose, and that, of
course, is something which the screen
cannot reproduce. What it can do,
though, is replace the prose with acting
of the same high standard. So why was
Walter Pidgeon cast as the Welsh
preacher and Maureen O’Hara as the
Welsh girl he left to the misery of an
unhappy marriage because he didn’t
want to drag her into one of poverty?
Pidgeon is a sound actor and Miss
O’Hara a trim piece of work, but they
are not the artists the roles demand, and
both are so imbued with the Hollywood
technique that it stands out as plainly
as their clothes. The best American
films about England and English people
have been made in England with mainly
English players. Something like that
could have been attempted with “How
Green Was My Valley.” Surely, too, il
would have been possible to beg, borrow
or steal an actor like Michael Redgrave,
or, better still, Enllyn Williams, for the
role of the preacher. And although
Donald Crisp plays the part of Welsh
miner and father wth some ability, the
character is not drawn strongly enough
to hold its place firmly in the design of
the film. What a perfect job Wilfred
Lawson would have made of the role!
The film was directed by John Ford, who
has made some of the finest films ever to
come out of Hollywood and who is now
in charge of all official picture making
of the U.S. Navy. His usual method-
quiet naturalness at almost any cost—
is plain and well suited to the story of
the industrialisation of the Welsh mining
village. But although he drags the
players up to heights they’ve rarely, if
ever, touched, it’s not sufficient —most
of them remain Hollywood people and
not characters in a Welsh mining
community.
Other talkies; “The Great Man’s
Lady” (Sydney Prince Edward) —Bar-
bara Stanwyck’s wistful reminiscences of
her part in helping great man Joel
McCrea to become a U.S. Senator;
“Turned Out Nice Again” (Victory)—
George Formby, wife, mother-in-law
and old-fashioned underwear; “Here
Comes Mr. Jordan” (State)—bright
comedy, with Robert Montgomery as a
soul wrenched out of its body before
the body was dead and trying to find
another body because his own has been
cremated ; “Lydia” (Century)—Merle
Oberon’s reminiscences of the men in
Lydia’s life; “Quiet Wedding” (Prince
Edward) —good screen adaptation of the
comedy recently shown at Sydney
Minerva ; “Honky Tonk” (St. James)—
Clark Gable gamblin’ and shootin’, with
Lana Turner, a woman any sultan
would consider a fair swap for his com-
plete harem.
Since Gregan McMahon died and his
repertory movement got into the hands
of a committee the most consistent pur-
veyor of intelligent drama in Melbourne
has been Brett Randall’s Little Theatre,
which sports its oak at St, Chad’s, one-
time a church up a dark lane in South
Yarra. Seen at that address, Rodney
Ackland’s “Dance with No Music”—a
triangle play concerned with the private
and particular emotions of a group ol
English provincial actors—maintained
its interest to the finish despite a light-
ing system that kept going on and off
like Mr. Curtin making up his mind.
The Gilsullivans continue to keep their
end up at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, in
a repertoire so far off their usual beat
that the fist they make of it is quite sur-
prising. “Nightbirds” is their latest effort.
This is Johann Strauss’s 70-year old
opera “Die Fledermaus” in an English
version, partly the work of Clive Caie\
who also produces the current production
—and very ably. Tailleur Andrews,
Florrie Young and W. S. Percy first in-
troduced it to the Australian public in
1911 and it made an appearance under
the aegis of the Fullers later. Its theme
; is as flimsy as tissue paper, but the com-
poser has the knack of dissolving
absurdities in music.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the Salt of Business.
wsattoaWxi-
m
I IS
w -
I
<BBg
iiSi
I
V
i
ill
■:
W
n
1
I
V:
■p*
THE SENIOR STORE”
x
t‘ lv
iO
W
Q)
0&
Don't delay placing your
order for Autumn and Win-
ter Suits—select your Suit
now, while we have an un-
rivalled collection of mater-
ials, and you will be sure
of getting an All Wool Suit-
ing. Our Tailored-to-Mea-
sure Suits are smart and
serviceable in design, and
tailored with that attention
to detail that has made us
famous all over Australia.
Patterns gladly sent on re-
guest. Prices, from, £6/6/-
• Men’s Tailoring —Ground Floor, George St.
m
M
mi
m
sS?
mm
liPwd
I in
:
V
&
M\& ''A W*^:
pi
-'I : .
<:x\fi
■■
mmmm
•: : :::V:; ; :
um
ss&ss I
£M rY
MK
■ ESS®
iliiii
::
. ,
mm
:; ' ■
ii
v
krvi
SKSgg
i ■ , V
1
a
m
mm
mmm
■
m m
illSlßil
ALL WOOL AUSTRALIAN TWEED
TOPCOATS, fancy Mid’ Greys,
solid smooth-faced Tweed both
warm and smart, tailored in D.B.
or S.B. styles, rich art silk lining.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price, 95/-
AUSTRALIAN DONEGAL TWEED
SPORTS COATS, colourful and smart
Greys, Fawns, Greens, etc. Tailored in
our best possible manner. All sizes to
fit men 9 to 18 stones. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price, each 57/6
Gabardine Raincoats, £6'l0 7
Men's Gabardine Raincoats, Navy
Blue All Wool, proofed against rain,
in double breasted Raglan style with
all round belt, finished with smart
check linings. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price £6/10/-
• Men's Department —Ground Floor. George Street.
ALL WOOL WORSTED SPORTS TROU-
SERS, in Greys, Blues, Green/Grey, etc.,
to fit 30 to 44 inch waists. Style features
include English Cut, non-fray seams, 4
waist pleats, extended waist band, 4
pockets, 21/22in. cuffs. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price, each 27/3
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT. FAMOUS LOW PRICES POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


PATERNOSTER
By WILL LAWSON.
SAILING along in the
hot dust of the bush
road behind old Pater-
noster (that was his
name in his racing days, and
he could patter, no mistake, pacing like a
cow-camel), the old big house and its roll-
ing acres came suddenly into view from
behind some grey gums and I sat up in the
sulky feeling inclined to rub my eyes as
I would if I was seeing things. It was all so
old-fashioned —big colonial house, pines
and poplars around it and so many
chimneys you started to count them auto-
matically. But the thing that struck me
most, showing how a man’s business sticks
its nose in, was how dry it all was,
“Steady!” I said to Paternoster, who
was for quickening up and sailing on.
He shorted at the touch of the rein, but
I bore on the near one to swing him into
the wide open gateway—and him shaking
his head and fighting me. He didn’t like
that ancestral pile ; he even made a burst
ahead, with his muzzle pulled almost
square on, as we were turning.
I couldn’t see anything wrong with the
place ; it looked all right. Maize and
lucerne and sorghum grew in thin array
on the dry paddocks, and as we went
towards the house the drive swung under
some pepper-trees to the left, where there
was a big aviary full of parrots.
A WOMAN came to the kitchen door as
I reined in, with Paternoster still uneasy
on the rein. She looked at the horse first
in a calm, appraising way, then her dark
eyes slipped along the outfit to me, re-
garding me as she might a stray cow pass-
ing by. She stepped out of the doorway
into the hot sunlight.
“What did you want?” she asked in
a still sort of voice, very slow and sweet,
that went through me.
“Nothing special,” I said. “I just
wanted to see the boss.”
“He’s away at the other farm a mile
down the side road there. Can’t you tell
me?” She smiled as she said this, and
I answered: “Of course I can. I’m a
water diviner. Haven’t missed out in
forty years. I’ll find water if it’s here.
Guarantee it—no water, no pay.”
“Even in limestone. This is mostly
limestone, that’s why it’s dry, but things
grow—lucerne, even mushrooms, right
on top of the rise, too.”
“That doesn’t matter. I can try, and
I’ll find it.”
“Really. He’ll be glad. This drought
has made things tough. Put your horse
in that paddock where the lambs are.
Then come in and have some tea. Mr.
de Forest will be back any time now.”
“Thanks,” I said. “I’m not in a hurry
—a couple of hours won’t matter.”
I was thinking of Paternoster when I
said that. He needed a spell, for we’d
been on the go since dawn —and travel-
ling, too. Then as I led him away he
hung back. As plain as words he said he
didn’t like this place. And he took some
dragging along. A big horse, he was,
sixteen hands, bright chestnut and good-
tempered, which most chestnuts are not.
When I’d unharnessed him and let him
go for a roll on the dry grass I went back
to the kitchen.
"I™ HE woman called me in and set tea
■' and buttered scones in front of me,
then sat down opposite me in a chatty
way.
“So you’re a water diviner?” she said.
“It’s marvellous how you people can
find water —must be something magical
about it.”
“I don’t know what it is,” I answered.
“Something funny, I grant you, but it
works.”
We talked awhile, she looking side-
long at me often when she thought I
wasn’t looking, as if she tried to sum
me up. And at last she spoke what
evidently was on her mind.
“Are you any good at legal things?”
“That depends,” I said. “I’m a bit
of a bush lawyer where titles of land
are concerned. What was it —a will?”
“Something like that. I’ll get the
letter.” She rose in a swift, gentle way
she had, and seemed to glide out of the
room. If ever a woman had something
on her mind, I told myself, she had.
She was away about ten minutes get-
ting the letter, and she gave it to me to
read.
It was from a firm of London lawyers
informing Madeline de Forest, nee
Armstrong, that she would find it to
her advantage to communicate with or
visit them in person, as her grandfather
had passed away and left a great deal of
money to be disposed of ; before making
any division of it her whereabouts was
required—or proof of her death.
“Did you write?” I asked.
She shook her head.
“Why not?”
“He won’t let me. He says the money
will bring a curse on us, make us quarrel.
The truth is he doesn’t want me to have
a penny. I have never had since we were
married.”
1 “What do you want me to do?”
; “Could you write a letter for me —say
you know me and that I live here at
Greenmount?”
“I might do that,” I agreed cautiously.
“Yes, I don’t see what harm that would
do. But would they send the money with-
out a word from you?”
“I don’t know... Hush! Here he
comes! ”
I HEARD Paternoster whinny from the
1 paddock and walked to the door and
saw a gig turning in from the side road.
Paternoster saw me and watched me, with
his head half-raised from grazing, in an
intent sort of way. If I’d said a word
he would have come trotting to the
fence, but I turned back into the kitchen
to await the farmer.
The woman spoke to him outside and
he came in presently, looking at me in a
challenging, distrustful way. He was a
big man with grey whiskers and had a
long face and pale, cruel eyes that seemed
to have slept a lot in the moonlight.
“Good day,” I said, “I’m a water
diviner.”
“So I hear” —his tone was sceptical.
“We get a lot of you fellows along here.
And who said I want water?”
“Nobody. I just asked.”
“Good. Well, I don’t. And I don’t
want anyone meddling around here look-
ing for it. Mary, get this man’s turnout
and let him go.”
She turned obediently; she seemed
absolutely crushed in his presence. But
I wouldn’t have that.
“No,” I said ; “I’ll get my turnout.”
And as I went to pick up my hat off
the sideboard I saw the letter lying there.
I shoved the hat over it, then picked it
up with the hat.
“I’d better come, too. You might
frighten the lambs,” the woman said.
And he said, “Yes, go. And see that he
shuts the gate.”
As we walked to the paddock she said:
“You must excuse him. He doesn’t
mean it.”
“No? Tell me, ma’am. How long
have you put up with that sort of talk?”
“Twenty years.”
“And you with a fortune almost in
your pocket! I think you are foolish.
Now, look here, I’m going in to the rail-
way tonight. Be ready and wait by that
side road at midnight. He’ll be asleep,
won’t he?”
“Oh, yes. But” Then “All right,”
she said, “I’ll try. If I’m not there don’t
wait.”
“I’ll wait,” I assured her.
“What is your name?”
“Mat Larsen —I’m a Scandinavian.”
“I’ll be there, Mister Larsen,” she said,
and I got up and drove away.
I WAS waiting at the corner at midnight
I and a few seconds later saw a dim
shape coming across the paddock towards
me. At first I thought it might be De
Forest himself, but Paternoster grunted
a recognition, as he did to friends, and
I knew it was the wife.
“Have you that letter?” she asked first
thing as I helped her into the sulky.
“Yes.” I put my hand in my pocket.
It was not there. It must have fallen
out somewhere —but where? I told her
and she said:
“I thought there was something wrong.
He must have picked it up and knew I
had shown it to you. He’s afraid some-
one will help me to get the money.”
“Was he asleep when you left?”
“Sound asleep.”
But I had my suspicions after the letter
business, and sent Paternoster along at
his best clip—not that a man on a good
horse couldn’t have overtaken us ; but
old Pat flew, travelling on the grass.
And as we went the woman talked.
She made me feel I had known
her all my life. My blood boiled
at the things she told me, of her hus-
band’s ill-treatment of her, and I swore
he would never get her even if he did
follow —as I felt he would. I slipped a
hand out and held her small gloved one.
Then she whispered “Listen!” Someone
was galloping hard behind us.
I swung Pat off the grass then and sent
him along the hard road at his top speed.
There was a turn-off into a side road, and
for a second I thought of turning off,
but the man following woul4, soon have
found out. So we drove on till the
rider was close behind and shouting after
us: “Give me back my wife, you hound.
Pull up or I’ll settle you.”
I glanced at her to see how she was
taking it and perhaps, too, to get an
idea from her of what to do. And I
gasped.
She had drawn a revolver and, turn-
ing in her seat, she took deliberate aim
and fired twice. He shrieked and
swayed, then fell on to the roadway,
while the horse propped with a
scrambling of hoofs and galloped back
for home. I reined in and got down,
“Stay there,” I told her.
I found he was dead, shot in some
vital place. So I dragged the body into
the bushes at the side of the road, got
into the sulky and set Paternoster going
again. She never spoke till we turned
into the railway yard.
“I had to do it,” was all she said. “I
had to do it.”
“I know,” I told her, but I was doing
some hard thinking. The main thing
I wanted then was for this woman to
get away. I could look after myself.
And when the train rolled in and she got
in I said:
“You’re right now. Don’t stop till
you get on a ship. You have plenty of
money, you said.”
“Plenty,” she said ; “I stole it from him.
Will you be all right?”
“Right as rain,” I said, and watched
the train roll away into the dark. Pater-
noster nuzzled my hand, as if he knew
there was trouble. And so there was.
T' HEY said it was manslaughter, My
1 fingerprints were on the revolver which
they found in the bush near the body ;
and I remembered that I grabbed it from
her and threw it away after her husband
fell off his horse. No fingerprints of hers
—she was wearing gloves. And there
were only my footprints on the road-
way where I dragged him out of sight.
I was glad they never guessed she was
there. And in my evidence I said I was
driving alone when he attacked me.
Twelve years! With good-conduct
deduction, it left me ten years that I count
as a gap in a long life. In that time I
never heard a word of her. Sometimes
I cursed her, but mostly I was just won-
dering how she got on —and Paternoster.
I wished I had arranged for him to be
kept somewhere. I hated to think of
some brute flogging him along as he
grew old.
I got out at last. They gave me the
money they had got for my horse and
trap and some wages for the work I’d
done —about forty pounds all told —and
let me loose.
I T was a strange feeling, getting out of
1 gaol after all those years in its shelter-
ing walls. I was lost, wondering where
to go. But I soon recalled my friend
Paddy Lancer, about ten miles out on
the Short Line road. I went out there.
He fixed me up with a horse and gig.
“Where are ye goin’, Mat?” he asked.
“Out Toolong way,” I told him. “I’ll
bring the outfit back.”
“Sure, keep it, Mat, keep it,” he called,
but he knew I would not do that.
I wanted to go to Greenmount, just
to see it again. It was the only tangible
thing in my thoughts and I felt that there
I would find comfort. So I drove out,
behind a slow old neddy. Oh! it was
grand to feel the bush winds and smell
the hot dust and all. And towards even-
ing I passed the place where De Forest
died. Everything had grown out of
recognition.
When I came in sight of the house, a
horse in the paddock lifted his head and
whinnied, and my old crock whinnied
back. Then I thought I saw something
familiar about that horse in the paddock.
It was Paternoster —still alive. But he
didn’t know me. He only whinnied at
the turnout.
I drove into the drive with a queer
feeling of having been dead and come to
life in another place. And when I pulled
up by the aviary and a woman came to
the door —a white-haired woman —I knew
I had been dead or dreaming. For it
was she; her black eyes were still like
coals.
I got down and, looking at her, some-
thing inside me snapped and I burst
into tears. She put her arm around me
and guided me inside, sat me in a chair
and stood over me.
“Poor Mat,” she said. “I tried hard
to get you free. I confessed that I shot
him, but they wouldn’t believe me. They
said you told them you were
driving alone.”
“It was no good mixing
you up with it all. But
didn’t you go to England?”
“Yes, I went and arranged everything
and came straight back, to wait for you.
And I found Paternoster, and he’s been
grazing here all this time, waiting for
you, too. You remember.”
“Yes,” I said ; “I’ve thought of nothing
else all the time but you—and Pater-
noster. Get him m the sulky; we’ll both
go. I want to feel him sailing along
as he did that night when you sat close
to me.”
TOWN
By MARGARET TRIST.
TOWN was a great distance away—
about thirty miles. You went there
in the car, driving out through the
big gate on to the reserve, then down
the winding track among the straggling
gums, through the gate at Auntie May’s,
along a narrow, straight green lane and
finally out on to the main road. The
main road was rather dull, a black, flat
road, one side of it worn smooth by pass-
ing traffic, the other side given up to
ruts made last time it rained.
Town wasn’t a very imposing place
into which to drive —just a lot of iron-
roofed houses and pepperina-trees wilt-
ing on the street corners. Over in one
direction was the red roof of the church
and in another the square of shininess
that was the roof of the saleyards. But
you had no idea of its defects, and fondly
imagined that places like Sydney and
London were very much the same, only,
of course, on a larger scale.
You always went to visit your grand-
mother first. She made you a cup of
tea, which you drank in the front room
where all the photographs were. After-
wards you went up to the main part
of the town. The street was very wide
and had a row of electric lights sus-
pended along the centre above it. The
roadway was a red color, and there was
couch grass growing near the guttering.
The Lands Office and courthouse were
at one end of the street, and at the other
end the railway station and Grand
Western Hotel.
First you visited the bank. It was dim
and cool inside and you felt that you
had to walk softly so as not to disturb
anyone. The bank manager had bushy
eyebrows and horn-rimmed spectacles
and he knew a lot of things, but not as
many as he thought he knew, Father said.
After you had left the bank you went to
the post office and then to the shire
council.
The grocer’s shop was down near the
railway and you had to go down there
to give the order in. You sat
on a funny high chair with a small
round seat while Mother read out things
from a list and the grocer wrote them in
a book. Then he said “Come back at half-
past three and they’ll be ready waiting
for you.” After that he smiled and shook
hands and remarked that if the weather
didn’t soon break there’d be a drought,
and when you were outside Father said
that the grocer was a very intelligent
man and he couldn’t understand why he
hadn’t stood for Parliament.
Dinner at the cafe was very nice. You
enjoyed it, though Mother worried about
the chip in her teacup and Father got
indigestion afterwards.
After dinner there was the draper’s.
You tried on dresses down at the end
of the shop and Mother bought herself
aprons and a hat, and you talked till
suddenly you caught a glimpse of Father,
who had gone to the garage instead of
coming to the draper’s, walking up and
down on the footpath outside with his
watch in his hand.
You said good-bye to the draper, then
rushed along to the grocery store to col-
lect the order. You got some fresh meat
from the butcher and some bananas and
chocolates from the fruitshop. Then
you packed all the things in the car,
called in again to say good-bye to
Grandmother, and away you went over
the flat black road. As you looked back
you could see the dust lying in a cloud
over the town and the lowering sun
streaming over the roofs of the houses
and the saleyards. And somehow you
were glad of the cool greenness of the
lane after you turned from the main
road and the sight of your own home,
rambling among protecting trees and with
all the fire from the sunset flaming in its
wide front windows.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3245.
Wednesday, April 22, 1942.
FIGHT TO A — DEAD FINISH?
“Thought you was goin’ to settle ’im in the seventy-seventh, Jack.”
“Aw, I was only pulling my punches. I’ll knock him out next week or the week after.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland ; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
AS IN 1917 AND 1931.
In the January 24 issue of the “Western
Daily Press,” a Bristol newspaper, there
was an account of proceedings taken
against upwards of 1000 coalminers con-
cerned in an illegal strike.
These English coalminers had struck
without giving 21 days’ notice required
by the regulations governing their indus-
try to admit of disputes being settled by
conciliation. The Ministry of Labor
took this as a challenge to its authority,
and issued summonses against all hands ;
and all hands were punished. The strikers
were fined £1 to £3. Three of their trade-
union officials were sent to prison—a
branch secretary for two months, a
branch president and a member of the
committee to a month apiece, in each
case with hard labor. One of them was
a Justice of the Peace,
It was no doubt as distasteful to
British Ministers, so many of whom are
Labor, to take this action as it is to Mr.
Curtin to speak harshly to striking
N.S.W. coalminers and to shake his
monthly issue of regulations at them. But
the thing had to be done, and done it
was. That is government. What Aus-
tralia is getting from Mr. Curtin where
strikes are concerned is a trembling
shadow of government.
Mr. Curtin was at it again last week,
pointing regulation 77 at 450 engineers
who were holding up work in a “country
munitions factory,” in N. S. Wales, of
course (they “decided not to obey it,”
and the chairman of their union said
they were “ ‘fighting’ for a vital prin-
ciple”), and giving birth to another set
of regulations making it “illegal” for any
miner to absent himself from work “with-
out reasonable excuse.” The new issue is
very like the January improvisation, ex-
cept that recalcitrants, instead of being
liable to be fined “any amount” and im-
prisoned for “any period,” may be called
up for military service or sent to a labor
corps under military control. They
“may” be so dealt with at the instance
of the Coal Commission, and Mr. Ward
—who would be a perfect model for a
statue of Justice with one eye, the blind
one being turned on strikers —“may”
override the Coal Commission’s decision.
The new regulations were published on
a day when “three mines were idle be-
cause of strikes,” and “three mines were
idle because of strikes” on the succeeding
day. Explaining his reasons for his latest
Note issue Mr. Curtin said that in the
first quarter of 1942—which saw Rabaul
taken, with many of the surviving de-
fenders, Darwin seriously bombed and
Port Moresbyraided many times —283,000
tons of N.S.W. coal were lost because of
strikes and 201,000 tons “on account of
absenteeism,” besides which 180,000 tons
were lost “as a result of the compulsory
retirement of all coalmines employees at
60.” That was the work of the N.S.W.
Labor Government’s Mr. Badly, who as
Minister “controlling” the N.S.W. coal-
mining industry is a bad political case
of curvature of the spine and softening of
the brain, Mr. Curtin, reading from his
chapter of revelations;
At one mine on the northern N.S.W.
fields there were 60 possible work-
ing days from January 1 to March 27.
There were strikes on 14 days and the loss
of coal was 26,800 tons —16,000 tons
because of strikes and 10,800 tons because
of absenteeism.
In the same three months loss of coal
because of strikes amounted to 145,809 tons
in the Maitland district, 81,326 tons on
the South Coast, 45,999 tons in Newcastle
and 10,522 tons in Western where
“absenteeism is most marked.”
Though representatives of the miners
assert that stoppages are “forced by pro-
vocative tactics” on the part of owners,
there is little evidence that provocation
plays any material part in the loss of pro-
duction. Two cases only can be described
as provocation; in one, because of the
careless action of a boy, the manager issued
a peremptory order that nobody was to
smoke near the pit mouth.
“It is clear,” Mr. Curtin proceeded, “that
a section of the miners in N. S. Wales are
contemptuous of the requirements of the
country and of the orders and directions
of the Government, and are determined
to be a law unto themselves.” He was
satisfied that “not more than 20 p.c. of
all stoppages relate to matters between
owners and employees” ; the others were
attributable to —
Strikes against industrial awards or
against interpretations of awards as given
by the Central Reference Board or the
various local reference boards ; questions
of promotion or seniority and inter-union
disputes.
Strikes have “occurred for many
frivolous reasons,” in specific cases
because —
A wheeler’s horse went too fast; other
wheelers had been reprimanded for leav-
ing the mine early; water had been placed
in someone’s boots; a bathroom attendant
hadn’t turned up; the miners’ own check
inspector had made a report which was
not to their liking, and a miner claimed
that his drill was not sharp enough.
And all this in a country lying under the
threat of invasion; a country whose foes
are in possession of Timor and part of
New Guinea, as well as Java, Sumatra,
Borneo, Malaya, Singapore, the Anda-
mans and much of Burma, and which has
learned of the destruction, with all that
it means and portends, of the equivalent
of a great British fleet, besides many
American and Dutch warships and two of
our own Australian cruisers!
“Explaining” that his new regulations
could not take effect for six days, Mr.
Curtin gave Mr. Ward four days’ leave
from his man-power job “to put the Gov-
ernment’s policy and position to the
unions concerned” at aggregate meetings,
pit-head meetings, delegate-board meet-
ings and the like which are among the
curses of the coalfields. The hero to
Communists and conchies seized the
opportunity to attack the mineowners
wherever he went, alleging ’orrible
(though unspecified) cruelty on their part
to serfs rightly struggling to be free.
At each meeting on the northern fields,
according to the Labor “S. M. Herald,”
“Mr. Ward” proclaimed his “conviction”
that “whenever miners struck they had
ample cause for doing so,” This was in
flat contradiction of his Prime Minister’s
precise and detailed statement issued the
same week, and of his Prime Minister’s
references to workstoppers as “traitors.”
But Mr. Curtin had himself been moved
in the meantime to “warn mineowners”
—who could have been brought to book
at any time since he began issuing Notes
if there were anything in Mr. Ward’s
allegations. That gentleman saw in the
mineowners’ “irritation tactics” a vile
plot to oust the Government and threat-
ened an immediate inquiry into “manage-
ment of mines”—under one name and
another there have been scores of such
inquiries.
A crisis always finds Federal Labor
wanting. In its weakness and blindness
it is courting a repetition of what hap-
pened to it in 1917 and 1931. Nobody
wants a general election, but if Federal
Labor can’t or won’t govern a general
election will be necessary. And from a
general election fought on the war-time
strike issue Mr. Curtin himself would not
return even as a private member.
Brass and Other Fronts.
Tokyo announced last week that the
Japanese had taken 252,000 prisoners of
war, exclusive of civilians interned. It
did not give the number of Australians
among them, but there is all too much
reason to believe that it is round 22,000.
As we know from official reports and
from the accounts of officers and men
who made daring escapes, in Malaya,
Singapore, Java, the Java Sea, Amboina,
Timor and New Guinea, as in North
Africa, Greece, Crete and Syria, Aus-
tralian soldiers, seamen and airmen main-
tained the martial reputation of their
race, and the soldiers now in prison
camps did not surrender until a large
number of their companions had been
killed or mortally wounded (how many
remains to be told), and until surrender
was the only alternative to annihilation.
The sacrifice exacted of the dead and
the living was made in loyal devotion
to Australia and to the cause in which
it is fighting, and it is shared in all the
Australian homes in which there are
stricken or anxious hearts. But, great
as it was, it would have been greater if
leading members of the Amateur Strate-
gists’ Club had had their way.
Mr. Joseph C, Harsch, “staff corre-
spondent” of the “Christian Science
Monitor,” was in Sydney for a few days
after the fall of Singapore. Like many
other foreign correspondents, Mr. Harsch
fell among the wrong people and formed
hasty and incorrect impressions. In an
article cabled to his paper and pub-
lished (with certain omissions) in the
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” of Feb. 17,
Mr, Harsch referred with complacency
to “the extraordinary reaction here to
the arrival of the first two American
correspondents from the U.S.A. side of
the Pacific, H, R. Knickerbocker and
myself”:
We seemed to have embodied Austra-
lian' hopes. We have been interviewed
daily by most of the papers here. Our
presence seemed to have provided the mam
straw of hope on the horizon for assist-
ance.
If the gentleman had remained long
enough to continue his explorations he
would have learned that this was not
really the Australian view. Melbourne
“Age,” a representative Australian news-
paper, acidly denied that the Harsch-
Knickerhocker combination was “the main
straw of hope on the horizon for assist-
ance,” and condemned a “dispatch which
makes many sweeping assertions, pro-
nounces with assurance on strategy and
reeks of suggestions, offensive to many
Australians, that as a people we are
bitterly estranged from our kinsfolk of
Britain because of the misfortunes of
war.”
The “Age” went on in this strain for a
column of good, honest, forthright jour-
nalism. It said truly that “there is no
panic or pusillanimous shrinking from
risks in this country,” and that “Aus-
tralians are prepared to leave strategy to
competent and responsible authorities.”
Not so some of the people among whom
Mr. Harsch moved, and whose “whining
talk and vaporings” (“Age”) he com-
municated to his countrymen as the
authentic voice of Australia. These people
told him that “a few divisions of Aus-
tralian troops might make all the dif-
ference in a place as relatively small as
Java, but amount to nothing in the vast
expanses of this continent: they argue
that Australia can save itself only by
saving the Netherlands Indies.”
During the past few days I was re-
quested by several editors of leading news-
papers and also military observers here to
impress on America the extreme import-
ance of inducing the Australian Govern-
ment to commit itself to the defence of the
Netherlands Indies, and to throw every
available Australian soldier and gun into
those islands.
“Also military observers.” What mili-
tary observers? Mr. Frank Packer,
recently Lieutenant Packer of the
Armored Division and Puckapunyal, now
transferred to the Allied Works Council
under the command of Generalissimo
Theodore? The generalissimo himself,
who did not attend the last war and
had a big hand in the destruction of
the citizen army based on compul-
sory military training? He was men-
tioned in the Harsch article, though not
by name (his own paper added it), as
having “demanded,” being the “Tele-
graph’s” Board Chairman, “that Prime
Minister John Curtin fly immediately,
not to London, but to Washington.” The
Commander-in-Chief of the People’s
Army, to which Mr. Curtin was so
strangely hostile? Mr. Harsch gave no
clue.
The identity of “the several editors of
leading newspapers” is no mystery. The
“Daily Telegraph” stable swarms with
editors, and on the day it published the
Harsch article the “Daily Telegraph”
came out with a front-page pro-Harsch
leader, headed “Fight for Australia in
Java,” which showed unmistakably who
inspired the Harsch “arguments” and
“strategy.” One crazy passage in par-
ticular :
Java is relatively small and compact.
The troops we could concentrate there
would be infinitely more useful than the
same troops scattered thinly over this vast
continent.
But that was only part of the paroxysm
of midsummer madness:
We knew in our hearts a month ago, that
Singapore would fall. We should have rein-
forced the N.E.I. then, without waiting for
Britain or the United States.
Mr. Harsch says that if London and
Washington “permit the Australian Gov-
ernment to abandon the Indies, the chances
of Australian survival are desperate.” That
question must not arise. On the contrary,
the Federal Government must give the lead
to Washington and London by making the
maximum effort now to reinforce our allies
in the N.E.I.
We must do this not only because of our
obligations to the Dutch. To save ourselves
we must help to save the N.E.I. That
should be the basic principle of our
strategy. Australian divisions in the N.E.1.,
fighting alongside the Dutch and the
Americans, might stop the Japanese.
We don’t know where Japan will strike
along our vast coast. We do know where
she is striking now. That’s where our men
should be, that’s where we should be fight-
ing the Battle of Australia.
“We knew in our hearts” in January that
“Singapore would fall,” and, being the
masses of conceit “we” are, in constant
touch with Canberra, as the Theodore
appointment and the Packer transfer
demonstrate, it is highly probable that
“we” suggested to the Government then
that it should send “a few divisions of
Australian troops” to Java. Suppose the
Government had agreed to do so. Sup-
pose it had tried to send “a few divi-
sions” to Java. In the light of the bomb-
ing of Darwin, and of what happened to
the Allied squadron in the Java Sea (to
say nothing of the Bay of Bengal), it is
unlikely that many of the soldiers would
have got there. But if they had all
reached the steamy island, unacclimatised
and in strange surroundings, it would
only have been to share the fate of the
A.I.F. brigade already in Java and of the
Dutch garrison and their American and
British companions who were overcome
in a few terrible days. Every man in
the “few Australian divisions” would
have become a captive or a casualty, sacri-
ficed to flapper-paper notions of strategy.
Then the defence of “this vast continent”
would have become so dreadfully difficult
that it would have been necessary to resort
to heroic expedients, even such as the
calling up of editors of “leading news-
papers” and the refusal of transfers of
newspapermen (Mr. Lieutenant Packer is
not the only one) from combatant to
non-combatant units.
But the “Daily Telegraph” has learned
nothing from this adventure in newspaper
strategy, which might have had conse-
quences so frightful. With undiminished
arrogance it is demanding the taking of
the office nostrum in terrific doses —
campaigning, in its fashion, for a Second
Front. Not a Second Front in Siberia,
which for years it proclaimed a certainty
if the Japanese became belligerent, but a
Second Front in Europe. In this it has
the support, not only of Communists,
who (though supposed to be under a
legal ban) are rending the air with
similar “demands” at public meetings and
issuing acres of printed propaganda, but
the N.S.W. Aid Russia Committee.
The N.S.W. Aid Russia Committee
was understood to be a purely philan-
thropic concern, and as such it received
financial support from people who
wouldn’t care to be seen in the same
paddock with Communists, but—possibly
without the knowledge of some of its
office-bearers—it has become a Second
Front show. Witness a circular issued,
“on behalf of the committee,” by “Colin
Tannock, M.L.C., and Betty Wilson,
joint secretaries,” and addressed to “all
Trade Unions, A.L.P. Branches, Miners’
Lodges and Shop Committees”:
We wish to inform you that copies of the
pamphlet “Invade Europe,” by Mr. R.
Lockwood, are now ready for free distri-
bution ; and we would be grateful for an
order from you. This pamphlet is to play
an important part in our campaign for the
opening of a Second Front in Europe. We
would be grateful for your co-operation in
this matter.
Mr. R. Lockwood, like the “D.T.”
geniuses, has become an authority
on war without any irksome battle-
front or action-station studies. He
is convinced that the Russians have
the most wonderful generals, the most
wonderful army and the most won-
derful air force in the world, in which
case, and if current accounts of the Rus-
sian achievements in their winter offen-
sive—admittedly an epic of human
courage and endurance —are only half-
true, Stalin stands in no need of a British
offensive in Europe, much less cataracts
of words demanding one in the name of
Australia. With his preponderance of
man-power, and with the immense sup-
plies he is receiving from Britain and
the U.S.A., he should be able to knock
out the Nazis, and at least hold his own
against the Japanese, should the Japanese
attack the maritime provinces in breach
of the Molotov-Matsuoka neutrality
agreement, which was a year old on
April 13. For years the Commu-
nists and papers like the .“Daily Tele-
graph” swore by all their gods that this
is what the U.S.S.R. would do single-
handed if it had to take a war on two
fronts.
What Mr. Lockwood and his friends
don’t know about the difficulties and
hazards of mounting a British offensive
in Europe would fill all the Communist
books and pamphlets that have been pub-
lished since Das Kapital appeared. Mr.
Churchill knows only too well, and no
one has ever accused Mr. Churchill of
shirking a fight against odds. In January
he said that he had not surrendered to
the Second Front agitation because if he
had done so “every ton of our shipping,
every flotilla of aeroplanes and the whole
strength of our army would have been
fighting for its life on the shores of the
Low Countries.” And when he spoke
those words Singapore, the Dutch East
Indies and a great part of Burma had not
been lost; India, Australia and Maoriland
had not been placed in peril; the actions
in the Java Sea and the Bay of Bengal
had not been fought, nor had the destruc-
tion of merchant shipping, though serious
even then, reached the proportions re-
vealed in recent American and British
bulletins.
From the Bay of Biscay to the
northern tip of Norway there is not
a port or possible landing place which
has not been in enemy occupation for
nearly two years ; and every raid has
found the enemy well prepared. The
only possible countries in which a descent
might be attempted are France and Nor-
way. In Norway, when the thing was
tried in much more favorable circum-
stances, the British lost half their expedi-
tionary force, nearly all their aircraft
and many fine ships, including an aircraft-
carrier, with naval and merchant seamen


who could ill be spared. And it was
found no easy job to land an army in
France when the French were allies. To
land a necessarily greater army now
without the assistance of the French
Navy and port authorities, without whart
labor and machinery (if indeed the
wharves in any of the French ports
have survived the R.A.F.’s batterings),
with the Luftwaffe in possession ot
all the French airfields, with the Channel
passage lately made by the Scharnhorst,
the Gneisenau and the Prinz Eugen, and
with all the railways and roads leading
to the coast available for the transport
of enemy troops, would mean slaughter
and destruction on a vast scale.
Even if a landing were accom-
plished there would remain the prob-
lems of consolidating the positions
gained and going forward. It would
be necessary not only to gain but
to retain supremacy on sea and in the
air. Interruption of supplies and rein-
forcements for a few days would be fatal.
And failure might mean not only the
loss of the army, but, if scores of war-
ships and hundreds of merchant ships
were flung away, the loss of the war.
And there is the human factor, seldom
considered. Our naval and merchant
seamen have been under a terrific strain
for nearly 32 months. Magnificent men
as they are, they can be tried too high,
especially when they have to encounter
enemies who are comparatively fresh. Fit
men in clean ships have successfully
defied even clouds of bombers; with
weary men in foul ships it is another
story. Nobody expects Communists or
“Daily Telegraph” geniuses, with their
sneers at “Anglophiles” and an England
alleged to be “relatively inactive” in the
export of munitions, to have any con-
sideration for the lives of British seamen
or British soldiers or British airmen, but
ministers of religion should have other
standards. One, Bishop Burgmann, is
president of the N.S.W. Aid Russia Com-
mittee, and two others, Canon Garnsey
and the Rev. Churchward, are committee-
men. These gentlemen should know that
to ask for a Second Front in Europe is
to acquiesce in advance in a vast and
bloody sacrifice which might be unavail-
ing, the killing and maiming of perhaps
hundreds of thousands of good fellows
to whom, in common with the rest of
us, they should be grateful. Is that
Christian?
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Frontier States.
A country in the position Australia is
in has to keep an eye on its frontiers, or,
more specifically, on those parts likely
to feel enemy blows. Australia’s frontier
States are Queensland and Westralia.
They are good, sound, solid States whose
fighting men have proved their quality
in three wars, and their civilian morale
is excellent. Any enemy landing in either
is likely to find himself in trouble and
open to frequent and severe annoyances
from a variety of elements, natural as
w 7 ell as human.
There are no strikes in Queensland.
The only noticeable agitation is directed
against enemy aliens entrenched there.
Queensland, in effect, doesn’t intend to
allow anybody to take it in the rear
while it falls like a thunderbolt on any
enemy who appears.
It is the same in Westralia. In this
war, as in the last, the Westralians have
a splendid recruiting record. They are
proud of their two V.Cs., and their coal-
miners don’t care how fast the horse
walks or whose boots are filled with
water. And though they never know
what hour a large enemy force may drop
in from the Indian Ocean, the Westra-
lians go about their lawful occasions
calmly, determined to meet invasion
wherever it may come and to hurl the in-
vaders into the sea.
This is not to say that Australians in
parts less close to the enemy are any the
less tough or less game. But it is a great
thing in tough times to have frontier
States like Queensland and Westralia.
McKneli and a "Parliament."
Nowadays the Sydney dailies give less
space to the proceedings of their “Parlia-
ment” than to the fights and the “dogs.”
But one day last week the “Mirror” sent
a reporter to the Macquarie-street tart-
shop to get material for a paragraph or
two. and he got plenty.
Returning to his office he wrote that
it was “about time members saw the
importance of behaving like a Parlia-
ment in war-time,” instead of “like a
bunch of boys.” He had seen “Govern-
ment ranks” “dwindle” from 54 to seven
while Mr. Mair and Mr. Bruxner were
directing “a verbal barrage” at “Premier
McKell and his colleagues,” and “Oppo-
sition members fade away when Mr.
McKell rose to reply.”
Benches on both sides of the House were
practically deserted Mr. McKell became
so incensed in his address tp the empty
benches that he described the missing oppon-
ents as “curs,” a remark which he withdrew.
Both sides were in the political brawl.
Such exhibitions tempt a war-minded public
to think that it might be as well if the
show closed up for the duration.
And that is what should have hap-
pened at least two years ago. The
measure which produced such disorderly
scenes and so much absenteeism on the
part of the majority (the least of whom
or which gets £875 p.a., with a gold pass
on the Government trains, trams and
buses) concerned all N.S.W. taxpayers.
It was the Income Tax Management
(Amendment) Bill. Mr. McKell, asking
for leave to introduce it, said it was
designed, among other things, to exempt
from State income tax “the pay and
allowances of members of the naval, mili-
tary and air forces of any country which
is an ally” and, in respect of Australian
service men, “to bring our legisla-
tion into conformity with Commonwealth
legislation.” He did not explain what
“conformity” meant, but the president
of the Taxpayers’ Association did.
If the bill is passed members of the naval,
military and air forces returned to Aus-
tralia from service abroad will be liable to
tax three months after the date of their
return. Since State income tax will be
abolished within three months, the Govern-
ment could easily have let the present ex-
emption remain.
Thereupon Mr. McKell was driven to
admit that such was the idea —to clap
State tax on the service pay of commis-
sioned officers of the A.1.F., the R.A.A.F.
and the R.A.N. from North Africa,
Syria, Malaya, Singapore and the high
seas, who were exempt from State tax
when abroad. Perhaps realising that many
civilian taxpayers have a crow to pluck
with him over his glozing assurance that
they would pay less in income tax this
year than they paid last year in income
tax and relief tax, his courage or impu-
dence failed him. Muttering something
about taking up the matter in Canberra,
he said “the proposal to tax the service
pay of commissioned officers three
months after their return to Australia”
would be “dropped.” He and his crowd
will be dropped when the electors can
get at them, and his “Parliament” has
the death-damp on its brazen brow.
"A Strong Case/'
Premier Forgan Smith has had a lot to
say about “the preparing of Queensland’s
case” for the income-tax discussion at
Melbourne. Meantime, his Treasurer, Mr.
Cooper, without intending to do so, has
been putting up a very strong case in
favor of one tax.
Twitted about the continuance of his
Development tax, Mr. Cooper yelped that
the State still had 12,000 registered un-
employed, and that a fourth of the S.D.
tax was spent on rations. Mr. Bulcock,
Minister of Agriculture, had complained
that rural industries couldn’t get men and
that the. general man-power problem in
his State was “increasingly acute.”
Only one of these Queensland Min-
isters can be right.
Mr. Cooper further defended his S.D.
tax with the claim that about £250,000
of it was spent on “vital defence works.”
But Queensland taxpayers are already
contributing to the cost of “vital defence
works,” which are a national matter. In
any case £250,000 is a very small propor-
tion of the total, and Mr. Cooper doesn’t
explain why, with unemployment at 2.3
p. c ., 12,000 are drawing rations when a
y ea r ago unemployment was 4.3 p.c. and
11,883 were drawing rations,
Says Mr. Cooper:
if the people who are receiving ration
sustenance are not to receive it from the
other projects now given to men by reason
°f the State development tax money is to
be discontinued, who will employ them?
Mr. Bulcock seems to have the answer
que s,ions. Mr. Nimmo, deputy
Opposition prompted him with
his , Government s statistics: -
1931-32, £1,089,000; 1941-42, £2,345,000.
Labor and Industry Department employees;
1931-32, 163; 1941-42, 308.
A further, and final, answer should be
given by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment: all forms of State income taxa-
tion, no matter by what name they are
known, must cease.
GOING BACK FOR SAFETY.
“Pay and. allowance, of member, of the fighting services returned from abroad will be exempt from Federal income tax for
three months after their return. Thereafter their pay and allowances become assessable income."
“Hey, where are you fellows going?”
“Back to Tobruk.”


For Bronchitis
Coughs, Colds
Canadiol Mixture Quickly
Loosens Things Up
It’s different —it’s faster in action—
it’s compounded on superior, medical
fact findings new in this country.
Buckley’s Canadiol Mixture (triple act-
ing) is the name of this amazing cough
and cold prescription that “acts like a
flash” yet is so pure and free from
harmful drugs that a child can take it
• —and stop coughing.
One little sip and the ordinary cough
is eased—a few doses and that tough
old hang-on cough is silenced —it’s
wonderful to watch how speedily hard,
lingering colds are put out of business.
Right away that tightness begins to
loosen up—the bronchial passages clear
—you’re on your toes again—happy and
breathing easier.
Get Buckley’s—by far the largest-
selling cough medicine in all of bliz-
zardly cold Canada—to-day. At your
chemist or store.
StuMetfi
CANADIOL
MIXTURE
LA SINGLE SIP PROVES IT
BRANDAUER’S
fds
m
Wk
PENS
S3s®’
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBAHDADKS * CO, LMU BIRMINGHAM, ENG
Legal Notice.
Re Estate George Reynolds, Deceased.
Will any person knowing the whereabouts of
JOHN WILLIAMS REYNOLDS (commonly
known as Willie Reynolds), born in 189 L a
beneficiary of the estate of the abovenamed
deceased (or of his issue, if any), formerly of
Woombye, in the State of Queensland, but
last heard of when passing through Sydney,
New South Wales, on the Ist January, 1912,
as a passenger on an Adelaide Steamship
Company’s boat on the way to Adelaide, South
Australia, please communicate with Messrs.
Tully & Wilson, of E., S. & A. Bank Chambers,
Creek Street, Brisbane, in the State of Queens-
land, Solicitors for the Trustees of the Estate
of the abovenamed deceased?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES WILLIAM WEIR late of Linden-
dale near Lismore. —TAKE NOTICE that
CATHERINE JANE WEIR has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 572 of 1942 on the ground
of your, desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards You may enter
an appearance before the 7th May 1942 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from DICK L- McINTYRE Solicitor 2
O’Connell Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
HOW TO KEEP FIT
You can’t keep fit if you suffer from
constipation. Constipation saps energy,
makes you feel tired and “off-colour.
NYAL FIGSEN, the pleasant-tasting
laxative, ends constipation quickly and
naturally. Figsen is made from three
of Nature’s own laxatives—Figs_, Senna
and Cascara. That’s why Figsen is NOT
habit-forming, and why it is equally
good for everyone. Figsen is one of 168
dependable NYAL FAMILY MED-
ICINES. Sold by chemists every-
where. l/3i a tm.
The next best thing to Nature . > •
JVyai'Fiffsen
THE GENTLE LRXRTIVE
POLITICAL POINTS
Under Section 68 of the Common-
wealth Constitution, “the command-
in-chief of the naval and military forces
of the Commonwealth is vested in the
Governor-General as the Queen’s repre-
sentative”—the King’s since Queen Vic-
toria died. “As from” midnight on April
18, “all orders and instructions issued by”
General MacArthur, as “Commander-in-
Chief, South-west Pacific Area, in con-
formity with his directive,” are to be
“considered by the commanders of the
Australian forces as emanating from the
Commonwealth Government.” There are
no complaints from any quarter, but the
change will provide Dr. Evatt with ma-
terial for another of his constitutional
studies when he has time to write one.
Ward was due at Lithgow on Monday
by way of completing a four-day pilgrim-
age of the N.S.W. coalfields, during
which he attacked “the unscrupulous
mineowners,” the dailies, The Bulletin,
the Opposition, W. M. Hughes (“a Labor
rat from the past”) and all and sundry,
except Communists, conchies and strikers.
He repeated that Government ownership
of the coalmines was “the only solution.”
Employees in the Government colliery at
Lithgow welcomed him with another
strike.
Ward, quoted by a friendly reporter;
“The best way to destroy the present
Government is through [coalmine] stop-
pages.” True up to a point, though it
might have been better expressed. If
Curtin doesn’t get rid of Ward and
remove the blight on coal production by
resolute action, the country will get rid
of Curtin.
New car registrations in Victoria
dropped from 2381 in the last three
months of 1941 to 570 in the first three
months of 1942, so Premier Dunstan has
been driven to the sad course of reduc-
ing registration fees by 25 p.c. to keep
the small remaining fleet in commission
in case of emergency. If he had made the
gesture earlier a lot of old cars would
have been saved from the scrapheap.
The reduction doesn’t apply to vehicles
receiving more than 25 gallons of petrol
a month or using producer gas.
In a debate on Malaya and related
things in the Lords, Lord Hankey, who
was Lloyd George’s Secretary of Imperial
Defence, remarked:
I sometimes wonder if there has not been
a tendency throughout the war to make dis-
positions too much from the viewpoint of
sentiment and to undertake too many for-
lorn hopes, paying too little attention to
the importance of superiority at the point
of contact.
A very good description of the methods
of the highly-placed strategist who claims
descent from Marlborough,
In dealing with the internment of Aus-
tralians, Mr. Forde and his fellow-
Ministers might do worse than take a
leaf out of Canada’s book. Only sub-
versive activities lead to internment in
Canada, and these have to be proved like
any other offence. The suspect is arrested
and lodged in the gaol or lockup in his
own district. He must be informed that
he may see his lawyer and his family,
and he and his lawyer must be supplied
in writing with the charges against him.
He must be brought as early as possible
before a board, which consists of three
high officials from the Labor, External
Affairs and Immigration Departments.
Persons who are not aliens can be in-
terned only on the unanimous recom-
mendation of this judicial committee.
There is only one case on record in
which a citizen has been held after ac-
quittal by the committee —on special in-
formation received from abroad.
Canada is a strange country. Over
there they actually intern Communists
instead of lending them Town Halls to
hold their meetings. In February 106
Corns, were in Maple Leaf camps.
Last year the British Government
spent £125,000,000 on price stabilisation
but got results for it. There was no rise
in rents, “practically stationary since the
outbreak of war,” and the food index,
Eddie Ward and Charlie McCurtin in the World’s Greatest Ventriloquial Act.
Continuous Performance.
a year ago 23 p.c. above the level at
Sept. 3, 1939, has dropped five points.
And because there has been no necessity
to increase wages the tendency to inflation
has been arrested. This, unfortunately,
cannot be said in Australia.
There is to be no increase in the British
income tax ; on the contrary, exemptions
on small weekly incomes are to be
liberalised—to £2 for a bachelor, to £3
for a childless married man, £4 for a
married man with one child, and £5 for
a married man with two or more
children. But there are steep rises in the
taxes on beer, spirits, wine, pipe tobacco,
cigars and cigarettes, luxury goods like
silk dresses and entertainments. The
tax on entertainment goes up 50 p.c. on
opera box and grandstand seats, though
those who are satisfied with seven-
penn’orth of pictures will pay no more.
Whatever their party complexion, Chan-
cellors of the Exchequer are very careful
of the rights and needs of those to whom
every shilling is a consideration.
After a terrific inward struggle with
himself. Premier McKnell managed to
grant a reduction in motor-registration
fees of 20 p.c., less than any other State
which has granted reduction. Though
the Commonwealth asked for the reduc-
tion months ago, it is not to be retro-
spective but will date from the passing
of the bill. And there is no explanation
of why, after paying £1 on a quarterly
registration, the motorist is charged an
additional ss. for every quarter there-
after, though the total tax is £l. Further,
if a motorist registers for a quarter, pays
his £1 and then takes the car off the road,
for a month, it will cost him the full £1
tax to get it back again.
“S. M. Herald” ran it in bold type
across three columns, from “Our own
correspondents and A.A.P.”:
Pending the outcome of the discussions
now taking place in Washington and
London on the Allied general strategy for
1942, three important questions affecting
the South-west Pacific must remain un-
answered. These questions are: (1) What
strategical plan has General MacArthur
been instructed to follow? (2) What instru-
mentalities have been placed at his com-
mand for the purpose? (3) What degree
of latitude for co-operation between the
Commander-in-Chief of the South-west
Pacific zone and the commanders of
adjacent zones is envisaged?
They must “remain unanswered” in
public prints. If there is anything a
Japanese would give his hope of heaven
to know, it is the answers to those ques-
tions. But newspaper persons with in-
flated heads consider themselves entitled
to be taken fully into the confidence of
Roosevelt, Churchill, Wavell, MacArthur,
Pound, Brett and Portal.
Premier Dunstan has been “defied”
again, this time by State taxation officials,
who have signified that they won’t work
longer hours than 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. They
have made a bad case look worse by
appealing to Ward.
Premier Forgan Smith has informed
the press regarding the forthcoming
Premiers’ Conference on the single-tax
proposal; “I don’t believe in playing my
cards until the other players are seated
at the table.” It sort of suggests that,
like the other Premiers, he’ll be coming
in on a bobtailed flush and will be outed
on the showdown.
Ward got away with his appointment
of Garden (“revolution has stepped on
the stage”) as liaison officer or something,
and with other odd appointments to the
boards he is setting up at a great rate ;
but when, carried away by his own im-
pudence, he put a former employee of
the Printing Trades Union on the
Women’s Employment Board as “em-
ployers’ representative” in contempt of
the wagepayers’ own nomination, Cham-
bers of Commerce and the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures revolted.
They have nothing against the lady as
a former employee of the Printing Trades
Union, but they flatly refuse to recognise
her as representing them,
Forgan Smith is “understood” to have
pointed out that a single taxing authority
would take away from all State Parlia-
ments their basic function of controlling
finance within their own boundaries.
If such a plan were adopted State Par-
liaments might as well be closed and State
Government offices would merely become
instruments to administrate for the Com-
monwealth.
One of the best arguments yet put for-
ward in support of uniform taxation.
Ward accuses coalowners of “irri-
tation tactics” aimed at “destroying the
Federal Government.” So it was “the
bosses” who put the water in the man’s
boots and turned loose the horse that
walked too fast!
Another wild beast in human form has
been sentenced to death in Sydney for
rape and murder of a little girl. It is the
second case of its kind in a few months,
and, with the black cap on his head, the
trial Judge could hardly find words in
which to express his detestation of the
crime and the criminal; but N.S.W.
Labor won’t hang the monster. It is too
highminded.
Laval is back in office as head of a
Cabinet in which he has three portfolios.
Petain remains head of the State. Darlan
is Deputy Chief of State and Petain’s
designated successor, with command of
all the armed forces. Washington has
ordered its Ambassador to France,
Admiral Leahy, to return for “consulta-
tions,” because “the new Government is
dominated by elements dominated by the
pro-German, Laval.” That looks bad,
but the Admiral is not to return imme-
diately because of Mrs. Leahy’s illness.
Meanwhile newspaper designs attributed
to Laval—transfer of the fleet to Hitler
and attacks on Syria and Free French
territories are among them —remain one
vast surmise.
Warnings to civilians in the N.S.W.
N.E.S. way:
“5.M.H.,” Saturday morning; If the
alert signal is given at any time other than
2.30 p.m., realise that it is a serious warn-
ing of an impending enemy attack. “Sun,”
Saturday afternoon: The sirens will not
sound at 2.30 prompt, as previously an-
nounced. The warning may be expected
somewhere between 2 p.m. and 2.30 p.m.
“Sunday Sun”: Should the alert signal
sound before 2 p.m. or go twice suc-
cessively after 2 p.m. and before 4.30 p.m.,
it will mean a real raid.
Thank heaven, there was no real raid!
A flight of 16 ’planes passed over a
Sydney racecourse on Saturday while a
race was on. Jockeys, it seems, com-
plained “bitterly” and “official complaints
were lodged immediately by telephone.”
Jockeys who complain “bitterly” that a
mere war should interfere with their call-
ing must be in a reserved occupation
judging by the numbers of them there
are about.
Leading articles from selected Austra-
lian dailies are cabled to the Government
Publicity Bureau in New York in the
idiotic expectation of their being reprinted
in some New York paper. This is one of
the thousand ways in which the people’s
money is being thrown away.


Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants cany on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ’ If the answer
if'-Nn" just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
cost!
family,’ and for what little half-yearly
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., liTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria- A C.A Building, 118-126 Quern Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidney® contain 15 mile®
of tiny tubes or filters which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blo'odl
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
with smarting and burning, nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head-
aches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
(get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait 1 Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully!
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’Si
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at you? chemist
ft? Store,
PERSONAL ITEMS
Knight Owen Dixon, who takes over
Casey’s job as Australian Minister to
the U.S., looks exactly what he is: a
quiet, studious man with a reputation
founded on a most distinguished legal
career b.A. Melbourne University
1906, LL.B. 1908, M.A. 1909, called to
Victorian Bar 1910, took silk 1922,
visited England to appear before the Privy
Council 1922-23 and 1924, Acting Justice
of the Victorian Supreme Court 1926 (he
refused an offer of a permanent position),
Justice of the High Court 1929 and since.
A clear thinker and an equally clear
speaker, Dixon will be 56 next Tuesday.
One of the men conducting political
warfare for the British Government is
the Australian Rex Leeper. Born in
Sydney and educated at Melbourne
Grammar, Leeper graduated B.A. from
Melbourne University, went to New Col-
lege, Oxford, and turned up as a clerk
in the News Department of the Foreign
Office in the last war. From 1917 to
1918 he was in the British Department
of Information ; then he became a secre-
tary in the Foreign Office, then first secre-
tary to H.M. Legation at Warsaw, Riga
and Constantinople. He was to have been
Minister at Bucharest when Hitler en-
tered the picture. He is a son of the late
Dr. Leeper, who was chairman of the
Felton Bequest in Melbourne.
Colonel J. C. F. Slane, dead in Adel-
aide at 68, and Lieut.-Colonel W. S.
Hosking, dead in Melbourne at 52, both
served with the 27th Battalion in 1914-18
—Slane commanded the battalion in
France in 1916-17, and Hosking en-
listed as a private and came home a
major. The 27th had some fine men,
among them a future deputy Prime Min-
ister (Archie Cameron) and a future
Premier (Playford) —he was Slane’s bat-
man on Gallipoli. Hosking, whom one
of his battalion mates describes as “one
of the best-loved men the 27th ever had,
and one of the gamest,” managed an
Adelaide catering firm in civil life and
became Director of Canteen Services
shortly after the present war started.
To anyone who tries to sell three-
penn’orth of cat’s meat for fourpence or
suchlike the best warning is “Copland’ll
cop you,” and if Professor Douglas Berry
PRICES COMMISSIONER COPLAND.
Copland, Commonwealth Prices Com-
missioner since the outbreak of war, does
cop ’em —well, he’s over six feet tall,
broad in proportion, and determined to
jump suddenly on anyone who tries to
profiteer by anything from a ha’penny
upwards. Copland was born in M.L. in
1894, took his M.A. with first-class
honors in economics in 1915, was
lecturer in history and economics at the
University of Tasmania in 1917, was
professor of economics at Melbourne
University in 1920 and has been Dean of
the Faculty of Economics at the same
institution since 1924. Lest any critic
aver that the foregoing record doesnt
qualify Copland for the job of Prices
Commissioner, it can be added that he
received his D.Sc. for research into
currency and finance in Australia and is
the author of a small library of books,
When Brigadier-General Patrick Hur-
ley, Uncle Sam’s first Minister to M.L.,
S aw Coventry’s depiction of him he ex-
claimed “Darn it, son, you’ve made
me look like a darned bullfrog.” The
general is hereby informed that he has
been misinformed—no Australian bull-
frog yet discovered has displayed such
BRIG.-GEN. PATRICK HURLEY.
purposeful, intelligent features. Hurley,
now in his fifties, was admitted to the
Bar of the U.S. Supreme Court at 29
(1912) and was national attorney for the
Choctaw Nation from 1912-17. He went
with the A.E.F. to France as major, be-
came lieut.-colonel, and brought back a
D.S.M. Hoover had him as Secretary
of War in 1929-33, during which time
General MacArthur was appointed Chief
of S a a(
Admiralty Prince Louis of Battenberg
(afterwards the Marquis of Milford
Haven) was Second Sea Lord, then First
Sea Lord (1912-14). Public opinion ob-
jecting because he was born in Austria,
though he married a granddaughter of
Queen Victoria, Churchill removed him
from office—doubtless with reluctance,
for the prince was accounted a first-class
officer. His second son was then known
as Prince Louis Francis of Battenberg.
Now Lord Louis Mountbatten, he has
received rapid promotion from Churchill
in this war, and, as a fighting com-
mander, has earned every step. Since
March 18 he has been Chief of Combined
Land, Air and Sea Operations—which
means that, under Churchill, he is in full
control of the commandos, with the rank
of vice-admiral, the honorary rank of lieu-
tenant-general and air marshal and mem-
bership of the Chiefs of Staffs Committee.
Dukes of Hesse—he would pass for an
Australian. He is .
As the result of seveial long and
politely-worded telegrams between the
Prime Minister of Australia and the
Premier of it got remarkably
like the Curtin-Churchill-Casey business
at one stage—Tasmania has decided to
“raise no objection to the temporary
transfer” of R, G. Osborne, Acting
Assistant Solicitor-General, to an impor-
tant position in the Department or War
Organisation of Industry. The victim ot
all this political shuffling has been chair-
man of the State Finance Committee
since 1935, and his main hobbies, apart
from public finance and legal lore, seem
to be public finance and legal lore.
Jack Green, who used to combine agri-
cultural instruction with football down
Bega (N.S.W.) way a few years ago—he’s
a Hawkesbury College man —is now to
run the biggest vegetable farm in N. S.
Wales and probably in Australia. He’s
been given charge of the Yanco farm on
the M.1.A., which once took naughty
boys and turned them into respectable
citizens, and his job will be to turn 700
to 800 acres into fields of cabbages,
beans and carrots. After Bega, Green
went out to the Condobolin experiment
farm and did a pretty good job educat-
ing local farmers on fodder conserva-
tion and erosion control.
Commander D. C. T. Bennett, who
headed the R.A.F. raid on northern
Italian factories recently, is a Queens-
lander who learned flying in Victoria
he was a cadet at Point Cook from
1930 to 1931. He went to England on
a short-service commission, proved a
wonder at mathematics, got his first-class
navigator’s certificate, flew non-stop from
Scotland to S. Africa and then started
the first commercial route across the
Atlantic. When the present war broke
out he went into the Lockheed factory,
and since then has been mixing aviation
science with dangerous operational
flights. His biggest job was enlisting
recruits in U.S. for the Atlantic ferry
service, though nobody has beaten his
own personal performance of ferrying a
Hudson across the Pond in nine hours,
returning an hour later in a passenger
’plane and making the return trip in an-
other Hudson.
Maoriland’s Lieut.-Colonel Leslie
Wilton Andrew has added the D.S.O. to
his V.C. He won the V.C. as a corporal
in France (1917); he received the D.S.O-
for extricating his company from a diffi-
cult position, inflicting heavy losses on
the Germans and taking over the Sollum-
Capuzzo line in Libya in face of great
difficulty. He is 45, has a wife and four
children.
Bruce McF. Cousin, runner-up for the
N. S. Wales Travelling Art Scholarship,
in which he was placed third last year, is
an earnest young student who broke his
way into The Bulletin’s pages three
years ago with some excellent black-a&d-
white work. He has a flair for landscape
as well as figure drawing, a good decora-
tive sense, and a talent for making a
background interesting. At present he is
serving Australia’s Army as a camouflages
The first Dutch voyagers to make con-
tact with Australia thought it a howling
wilderness and, never having gone further
than the foreshore, peopled the empty
spaces in their maps with elephants,
tigers, mythical monsters and natives
who looked like Indian nabobs. Their
latest ambassador, Baron van Aersen
Beyeren, who has come from Iran as first
Netherlands Minister, is better informed
about the country —he saw service in
areas adjacent as a young man when he
was an official in a coal company in
Sumatra. Before that he had colonial
experience for ten years in the Nether-
lands Navy and took part in various
expeditions, winning the military Wil-
liam’s Order. Then he entered the
consular service and was Consul-General
of the Netherlands in Hamburg. Just be-
fore this war he left Holland to act as
Minister at Iran, and was in the sea of
events which culminated in the ousting
of German influence by Britain and
Russia. His wife and one son are still
in Tehran, and four other children are
in occupied Holland. ■
In a war like this a man appointed io
such a job as Deputy Director of the De-
partment of the War Organisation of
Industry for Tasmania (phew!) might
find himself called upon to go anywhere.
That won’t worry T J. McKinley, who’s
just been given the right to two lines of
foolscap for his title. He was three years
in London for the Tasmanian Fruit
Board and has made several business
trips to the U.S.A., Europe, China,
Japan and South America. A Geelong
(Vic.) native, he was early across the
Strait, did a term on the Hobart Marine
Board and on the Public Service Classifi-
cation Board and is member for Franklin
in the Tasmanian Parliament. Knows a
bit about fruit and wool and, of course,
about boards.
Into the silence:
At Eaglehawk (Vic.), Jimmy King, who
held many Australian athletic records including
that for longevity. He started at the age of 10,
and 65 years thereafter was still competing. At
50 he could do the 100 in lOf seconds. He got
away with 113 Sheffield Handicaps, a Carring-
ton in Sydney and ran second to E. S. Skinner
(U.S.A.) in the Stawell Gift. He trained Eagle-
hawk footballers for a generation.
In Adelaide, at 65, Baptist padre Donald
McNicol, who took the Word among the troops
in the Boer, 1914-18 and present wars. Scot-
tish-bom, he studied in Glasgow and Edin-
burgh, was 18 months in Gibraltar, and arrived
in Adelaide in 1910. After spells of service
in Tasmania and Victoria he returned to Adel-
aide and was a camp padre at the end. His
three sons are in the services.
In Melbourne, at 66, Hugh Hamilton, a Scot
from Carstairs who came to Australia in 1900,
joined the Vacuum Oil concern in Brisbane
three years later, was g.m. in M.L. in another
three years, and was assistant managing
director and g.m. for Victoria and Tasmania
by 1913. He was on the board of directors
in 1915, deputy chairman in 1924 and
chairman in 1938.
J. J. Daly, dead in Adelaide at 50, had a
meteoric Federal career. He studied law in the
office of Josiah Symon, K.C., and at 26 was part-
ner to Bill Denny, looking after the office while
his partner went in for State politics. But the
junior meanwhile became a recognised leader
in local Labor and Irish movements, and in
1928 S.A. sent him to the Senate. Within a
year he was leader of the Federal Opposition,
in another year Government leader in the
Senate, Minister for Defence, Acting Attorney-
General, and other things. In 1933 his support
of the “Premiers’ Plan” cost him the support
of narks in his own party, and he was defeated
at the general election of 1934.
The increased responsibilities of an
Australian Q.M.G. —heavy enough be-
fore Uncle Sam’s troops arrived —have
fallen on the broad shoulders of Major-
General James Harold Cannan, who took
MAJOR-GENERAL J. H. CANNAN.
over from General Smart, lately delegated
to Washington as Australian Army repre-
sentative. Cannan spent most of his week-
ends studying at military classes before
and after the 1914-18 war, during which
he had an excellent record —Gallipoli and
then commander of the 11th Australian
Infantry Brigade in France. He was the
youngest lieut.-colonel to command a
battalion on his arrival in Egypt in 1915,
and was eight times “mentioned.” Born at
Townsville (Q.) in 1882, he is an insur-
ance co. manager by profession and has
been an inter-State oarsman and lacrosse
player.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”: Adolf’s alibi about “the coldest
winter for 150 years” reminds me that
we Diggers found the 1917 winter in
France severe. The 1918 winter appeared
little different; yet the natives swore
it was the coldest they could remember—
the average length of memory being
about 40 years. When we struck some
heavy weather on the run from Colombo
to Aden our grizzled old transport
skipper pronounced it the roughest sea
he had seen in 30 years at sea. On the
run down from the Canaries somewhere
off Guinea our tub stood on its beam
ends a few times, and the skipper, an old
Orient seadog, told us that in a quarter-
century’s experience of the blue stuff
he’d never seen waves like ’em. I once
struck an electric storm in ironstone
country out from Boggabri (N.S.W.).
Old-timers assured me that a storm so
bad had never been known in the
district. Every hurricane, earth tremor,
duststorm, beer strike, heat-wave, snow-
storm, tram smash, drought, bushfire or
football brawl during my lifetime has, I
recall, always been “the worst in living
memory,”
“Nipper”: The Association of Build-
ing Societies in N.S.W., which has done
a fine job of work, never ceases hammer-
ing at the Government to do something
about the reduction of interest rates on
mortgages, and its many members cheer
on the stout efforts. Real hardships are
being borne by members who, through
enlisting or having been called up, have
to meet commitments entered into when
their incomes had not been whittled away.
Of the 14 financial institutions which
had made advances to the societies only
one, the deputy-chairman of the board
revealed, had been prevailed upon to
reduce its rates. A faint cheer rose when
the terms of the offer were disclosed — J
one-eighth of 1 p.c.! The way some of (
these concerns bang their saxpences about A
is fair amazin’!
* * * *
“Clooter”; Some sort of a new “un- I
written law” seems to have been estab- j
lished by the N.S.W. Cabinet. A woman I
whose husband was in a mental hospital <
admitted having handed him a firearm i
with which he ended his life. Convicted ;
of murder in the second degree, she got
a jury recommendation to mercy. The
Judge, seeing “no reason to suppose that
she was not on affectionate terms with
her husband,” passed the death sentence,
but assured the woman that he was confi-
dent “compassion would be extended to
her by the Executive Council.” That
body has set her free. Since insanity is a
disease, and in this case it was an incur-
able disease, the case sets a nice problem
in euthanasian ethics.
s|c * * »
“Zake”: My afternoon news-sheet in-
forms me that women shoppers are
a prey to “concern” because some shops
refuse to wrap “intimate” articles. One
indignant dame had selected in a city
store some underwear which was already
wrapped in cellophane. The salesgirl
refused to wrap it again and the cus-
tomer, apparently horrified at the idea
of letting the vulgar rabble see that the
unmentionables had blue butterflies
embroidered on them, refused to take
delivery. Another bought a topcoat and
flew off the handle because wrapping
was refused. Fancy expecting a woman
to wear it home —it might get soiled!
Still, we may yet see a beefy matron
with fine unconcern jostling along a
crowded city pavement with a pair of
corsets big enough to span a 16in. gun
stuck under one wing.
» * * »
“Avon”: Maoriland prohibitionists
have, of course, not been neglecting the
opportunities for enforcing their views
presented by war conditions. The
“Trade” in the Dominion, to avoid per-
haps worse restrictions on the already
tightly-restricted business, has on its own
initiative undertaken what the drys call
a “cleaning up,” main items in which are
denying drink to women altogether in
some hotels, restricting the hours during
which they can get liquor in others
and the policing of after-hours liquor
sales. The drys claim that these
measures have banished drunkenness. An
Auckland ecclesiastic recounts with joy
that drunks no longer besiege his vicar-
age on Saturdays (extent of previous be-
siegement not stated), and that prayerful
publicans have come to him asking his
advice as to cutting-off booze supplies to
their boarders. The clergyman was able
to assure them that they could deny
drink to anyone ; “the law is entirely on
your side.” To understand this attitude
one must savor the atmosphere of the
average Maoriland hotel, where licensee
and bar staff, beset by statutory pitfalls
and zealot spies, can scarce restrain a
shudder of horror when a customer who
has bought a pot of beer dares to down
the Demon with any appearance of satis-
faction.
* * * •
l “A.R.P.”: The changes wrought by
. war! In our golf clubhouse the explana-
l tion of failures once went something like
r this: “I was mistiming—my hips were
I beating my wrists,” or “I’d have done
• better if I could have kept my head
i still,” or “I wasn’t getting my shoulders
“ Don't let the others know, your Excellency, but there's a cup of tea
for you in the library!"
round flush with the line.” Now it’s
“Apparently there’s some disharmony
between my thoracic vertebrae and the
inturn of the femurs,” or “My metar-
tarsals were beating my scapulae on the
downswing,” or “If only I could have
kept the left phalanges firm on the
ground I’d have corrected the cranium
faults.” Of course most of the mob have
been attending first-aid lectures to N.E.S.
wardens.
* * * *
“Arpist”: Once the business of what
the Law calls “a common carrier” falls
into Governmental hands it begins to
bully its customers. Every railway
station, for instance, has huge posters in
small type, making known the thousand
and one offences for committing which
members of the public may be fined or
imprisoned. I once asked a station-
master why he didn’t display a poster
setting forth the rights of the railway
“I understand I'm in supreme command here, but I haven't received my
directive."
users and he nearly died laughing. This
by way of introducing the latest com-
mandment on the walls of Sydney’s
underground stations:—
Notice
Persons using this station as an air-raid shelter
MUST NOT
(1) Congregate on or near stairways or esca-
wh.vr. trains arrive
(2) Remain on p depart .
Directions given by staff must be obeyed.
I don’t know how the N.E.S. and A.R.P.
authorities regard this manifesto, but to
my mind it suggests that their jurisdiction
ceases at a railway station entrance, and
that in those stations, in any circum-
stances, the railways’ operational needs
come first and the safety of the public
second. If the newsreels are any guide,
England’s company-owned railroads have
to turn their underground platforms into
dosshouses whenever required.
* * * *
“K.L.”; Out our way some inconveni-
ence was caused to bus travellers by
schoolchildren who either missed or
wouldn’t travel on the special vehicles
provided. Complaints became many and
a transport inspector gave the service the
once-over. Upstairs he encountered
eight bright youngsters, nicely turned out
in school uniform and all slightly
superio^Said the inspector, courteously,
“You girls must understand that special
school buses are provided for children
and r - r *in passenger
buses. Said the prettiest specimeji,
snootily, “Teacher told us we weren t to
ride in school buses. They’re common.”
then he Teach ed cordlnd
stopped the bus. “Teacher ain’t runnin’
this flamin’ bus,” he howled, and almost
threw the eight into the street. A heart-
felt cheer arose from the straphangers
as they sank into the vacancies.
* * * *
, „ x- T
Kimber ; For years I have steeled
myself against yielding to the cursed
suburban tyranny of routine. Hence
you’d never see me always in the same
seat on the same tram, always drinking
in the same pub, always leaving home
and arriving back at the same time, or
doing any of the other thousand routine
things that your true suburban slave
does. My missus, too, I trained against
the same subjection. I showed her the
total absurdity of running accounts with
local tradespeople, broke her out of the
habit of always dealing off the same milk-
man or baker or grocer, taught her that
the true individualist gives no favors and
expects none, nor permits him- or her-
self to be bulldozed into anything with
the faintest semblance to routine. Now,
heaven help me, I’m paying the penalty
in full. I can’t get tobacco because it’s
kept for “regular customers,” and that
goes for other commodities, in respect
Q f w hich the missus encounters the same
trouble ; on crowded public transport
vehicles I find all seats pre-empted by
“regulars” of long standing (or, rather,
sitting) and I’m darned if the local barber
would shave me the day I ran out of
blades and could not get any from the
chemist because I wasn’t a “regular.” The
curse of 10,000 rebels on all “regulars.”
* * * •
“Cauboy”: The City Council Town
Hall and Baths Committee, the quaintly-
named body which deals with civic
aesthetics in Melbourne, has recom-
mended the use of the Town Hall for
Sunday-evening concerts for service men.
This might be made the means of filling
the gap the war has produced in Mel-
bourne’s music. But, unfortunately, the
committee is the same which fought
organist William McKie when he started
to provide free lunchtime concerts and
made them, in its opinion, too highbrow.
Its recommendation that more “popular”
programmes should be provided drew a
retort from McKie that his programmes
were already so popular that hundreds
had to be turned away weekly. In the
end he lost the battle and went to a high
post in England, depriving Melbourne
of one of its best musicians. There is
no reason except the reactionary stupidity
of officials why concerts for soldiers
shouldn’t be both popular and musically
excellent. But the tendency of official-
dom is to play down to soldiers, just as
it does to children. A recent “soldiers’
concert” at the Exhibition was a bad
example.
CONCHIES.
If I were a conchie, I’d take my stand
On certain lines that most of you know,
Writ by a poet in Yankeeland
A matter of eighty years ago
About war bein’ murder, and in the event
Of a soldier drawing his sword to kill
It won’t be his lawful Government
But he himself who will get the bill
And have to answer to God for the job,
If I were a conscientious ob.
If I were a beak that plea who heard,
I might be tempted, I think, to quote
Another equally pertinent word
From what Hosea Biglow wrote,
Viz., though war is horrid it’s best to press
It through when once you have made a
start,
And that civilisation does progress
Now and again on a powder-cart;
I’d show them that either side could seek
Backing in Lowell, if I were a beak.
If I were a conchie, I should feel
More than a trifle ashametj to say
That if thieves broke into my house to steal
1 should merely drop on my knees and pray,
Or that violence shown to my womankind
Or anyone whom I hold most dear
Would leave me utterly disinclined
And quite reluctant to interfere.
I’d can that blither, so help me bob!
If I were a conscientious ob.
If I had a homily to spin
A text from Shakspeare would do for me;
“ ’Ware of a quarrel; but, being in,
Bear’t that th’ opposed beware of thee.”
Not all may fight for their native land.
But some whom conscience will not permit
To think of bloodshed may bear a hand.
There’ll be always niches in which they’ll
fit,
I’d have them know, and I’d hammer it in,
If I had a homily to spin.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
POETS.
“Poets usually write good prose” (R.P. 15/4/ 42).
True, and why leave the reason undisclosed?
They’ve learned to keep their output crisp
From the restrictions and restraints imposed
On writing lucid verse.
They’ve grasped the art of how to get along
With no unnecessary waste of words,
Our true, authenticated minstrel throng,
Our real singing birds.
How smooth to those who’ve climbed Parnassian
slopes
Must needs appear the level plain’s expanse.
They who move easiest—the lines are Pope’s—
Are those who’ve learned to dance.
But these new bards, trained in no classic
schools,
These rebel products of our lawless times,
Who plough their way through rhythm’s ordered
rules
And take scant stock in rhymes,
These chaps who tax our patience with a lot
Of harshly unintelligible chat
Which sets the ’wildered reader wond ring what
The hell they’re driving at,
If such should switch from poesy to prose.
Ceasing their unmelodious notes to strike,
’Twould be at least a change, one may suppose,
Worth welcoming—but Heaven only knows
What would that prose be like!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Gip” : I’m sick to death of some of
the expressions in which politicians de-
light—“staggering” of hours, “pegging”
of tomatoes, “freezing” of claw-hammers
and “ironing out bottlenecks.” It was a
change the other day to read that the
debate on the increase of old-age and
invalid pensions had been “corked up,”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Lots of youngsters are get-
ting dropped on by examiners or em-
ployers for writing or typing “alright.”
But isn’t the time coming for it to be
accepted? For it now generally means
“certainly” or “I agree,” a quite different
sense from the old one, which will be
retained, as in “These answers are all
right.” Or take its perhaps
commonest use, the
humorous threat “You’ll
find out alright,” where it
simply does not mean
“everything cor r e c t.”
There are plenty of pre-
cedents for running the
two words into one. “Alto-
gether” does not mean
now “all together,” though
doubtless it did so origi-
nally ; similarly with
“always” and “also.” I
have never used “alright”
yet —but I predict that it
will come. The latest
Webster condones it to
the extent of an entry, say-
ing it is a form “com-
monly found but not
recognised by authorities
as good usage.”
“C.Q.”; Profiteering isn’t confined to
prices these war days. People—especially
women —have become so accustomed to
having everything done up for them in a
tin that they can’t believe that an article
can be any good unless it bears a brand
and a label. I walked into a Melbourne
hardware shop the other day and saw a
great stock of kerosene-tins all elegantly
labelled “A.R.P.—Sand,” “A.R.P. —
Water,” etc. A customer was laying in
a stock of equipment as recommended
by her daily paper. “And do you supply
the sand and water with the tins?” she
asked.
* * * «
“D.E.”: I see by the papers that a war
song, “The Aussies and the Yanks Are
Here,” “written by a United States Army
private, and set to music at sea,” is
going well in military hospitals and
camps. Two lines:
We’re all together now as we never were before.
The Aussies and the Yanks, sure we’re gonna
win the war.
The first line recalled to me “Dryblower”
Murphy’s “Big Brother in America,”
which is due for revival in a modernised
form. “Dryblower” (peace to his ashes!)
wrote it 34 years ago, when the first
Roosevelt sent his battle-fleet to Aus-
tralia, and it was a most spirited com-
position. When the battleships had gone
the poet-composer sold the rights to J. C.
Williamson, and the thing had a vogue
in musical comedy as “This Bit o’ the
World Belongs to Us.” But Williamson’s
version was not a patch on the original,
which began this way:
Sixteen ships of war, anchored in the bay,
Underneath the flag of Uncle Sam:
Built of Yankee steel,
Fighting top to keel,
Yankee from the rudder to the ram.
And as the boys go by
We hear the warning cry:
“Keep the broad Pacific clean and free!”
Chorus.
We’ve got a Big Brother in America,
Uncle Sam, Uncle Sam;
The same old blood, the same old speech,
The same old songs are good enough for
each;
We’ll all stand together, boys,
If the foe wants a flutter or a fuss;
And we’re hanging out the sign
From the Leeuwin to the Line:
“This bit o’ the world belongs to us!”
I was in Albany when the ships were
there, and fixed in my memory is the
sight of “Dryblower,” slightly sober (his
own expression), handing copies of his
masterpiece to the departing visitors as
they moved down to the wharf. Brought
up to date and with “brother” perhaps
substituted for “uncle,” Murphy’s song
would have a success denied to it in his
lifetime. Unfortunately the idea did not
occur to him until the ships had left the
Big Cities.
* * * *
“Ologist”: That newspaper lad who
placed “gravely” before “would be
jeopardised” (B. 8 / 4/’42) has evidently
fallen a victim to the prejudice that seems
to have grown up against dividing com-
pound verbs. Fowler says it is probably
a supposed corollary of the accepted split-
infinitive prohibition, but it is entirely
unfounded. A compound verb is a verb
made up of an auxiliary (or more than
one) and an infinitive (without “to”) or
participle. When an adverb is to be
used with such a verb, its normal place
is between the auxiliary and the rest.
Not only is there no such objection to
thus splitting a compound verb as there
is to splitting an infinitive, but any other
position for the adverb requires special
justification. If there are two or more
auxiliaries, the adverb is sometimes
placed after the first, but generally it
will follow the whole auxiliary. It should
have followed the whole auxiliary in the
particular combination of words under
discussion, so getting the smooth-running,
clear-meaning “would be gravely
jeopardised.”
* ♦ * *
“Strict Veg.”: Melbourne housewives
and others are bemoaning the shortage
of tea and going to extraordinary pains
“Give us an ’ arf-hour off now , sir, an' I'll do y'r watch tonight .”
to get it —there was even the theft of a
case that had fallen from a lorry. Why
don’t the tea-drinkers switch to good
Australian wine? There is lashings of it
in the country, and, bought judiciously, it
is cheaper than beer. It should be watered
down by at least one-fifth of water, as
is done in Europe, where wine is drunk
for breakfast, lunch and dinner. If it is
good wine, water improves it; if it is
bad, water makes it worse. A housewife
to whom I made this suggestion raised
her hands in horror. The drinking of
alcoholic liquors, especially wine, is asso-
ciated with moral degradation in Aus-
tralia, and the average wife, though she
may not mind seeing her spouse coming
home slightly elevated in the evening,
would feel apprehensive if she saw him
going off to the city with even a small
quantity of the juice of the grape warm-
ing his innards in the morning. Yet
many European races have used wine as
their only beverage for centuries, and
they are just as healthy and work as hard
as Australians. And even the righteous
British, man, woman and child, once
drank small beer for breakfast.
* # « *
“Cook’s Mate” remembers about a
certain red flag:
The mercantile marine, to which in these
troublous times we owe almost as much as we
do to the Navy, flies the Red Ensign. Merchant
and naval ships sailed under this flag in the
eighteenth century. The White Ensign was flown
in those days only when ships were under the
command of a vice-admiral, and the Blue Ensign
when a rear-admiral was in charge. So in all
his three voyages Cook sailed under the Red
Ensign. But he also carried the Union Jack on
a small flagstaff on the bowsprit—when he
approached a foreign port he “hoisted a ‘Jack’
on the foretopmast head.” When he went
ashore to take possession of an island or a con-
tinent he also hauled up the Union Jack —as he
did in Tahiti, Maoriland, Botany Bay and Pos-
session Island. The flag in those days lacked
the diagonal red cross of St. Patrick, which was
added in 1801 at the union of Great Britain and
Ireland.
* * * *
“K.”: I witness a little comedy each
morning. Into our outer suburban rail
carriage come a male flapper with nicely
varnished hair and his dreamy-eyed
blonde. They take their place beside a
pained-looking cove who spends most of
the journey into town between looking
morosely out the window and side-scowl-
ing at the pair alongside him. The ritual
has been invariable: the m.f. opens his
paper at the comic-strip section, com-
pletely ignoring even the screamer head-
lines of the war news. This while the
flapper in skirts is renovating her paint-
work. Having soaked up the latest about
Brick Bradford, Nancy and the others,
the m.f. hands the page over to his com-
panion, and while she is eagerly scanning
it he gazes into nothing. After that he
thrusts the paper aside, they lock hands
and whisper ecstatically until Wynyard
is reached. There, still in a dream, they
wander out of the carriage, and the
pained-looking bloke by the window
picks up with studied carelessness the
discarded rag. But the other morning
something must have gone wrong. The
flapper pair entered as usual, but the m.f.
wore a surly expression and his blonde
a pout. Throughout the run into town
they spoke not a word, and the m.f. read
—or pretended to read—his paper right
through. At Wynyard, still clutching his
paper, he stalked out at the lady’s heels.
The outraged expression of the pained-
looking bloke as he saw his free read
going was good to behold.
» * * •
“Nakhoda”: A “Times” correspondent
says the Russian thaw has revealed tens
of thousands of frozen bodies. It
reminds me of the experience of an Aus-
tralian in the employ of the old Chinese
Imperial Customs stationed at Chung-
king. Coming home one evening he was
shocked to see two dead Chinese rebel
soldiers lying on his front lawn, or six
feet above it, that being the depth of the
snowfall that winter. He told his native
“boys” to notify the authorities, and
next morning the cadavers had vanished.
He thought no more about it till the fol-
lowing spring, when, stepping out of his
front door one morning after breakfast
to enjoy a cigarette in the garden, he
nearly stumbled over the two bodies,
reposing on a flower bed. With tradi-
tional distrust of Authority, the “boys”
had disposed of the problem by digging
a hole in the snow and dropping the
corpses in it.
& $ $ *
“Morimoto”: Before showmen incor-
porate some tune or other in their
programmes as the national anthem
of some other country, they should
make sure the ditty selected is offi-
cial and recognised. In less night-
marish days than these a Japanese
cruiser put into a small British seaport
in Asia. The Governor gave a shivoo for
officers and crew, and it occurred to
somebody at the last moment that the local
band of natives should play the Japanese
national anthem. A hasty canvass re-
vealed a man who said he knew the tune,
and it was whistled over while the band
rehearsed it. When the band struck up
the visitors halted in joyful expectation,
then looked blank, and then offended.
The melody was one which was better
known in the Yoshiwara than in official
quarters.
* * * *
“No. 214”: Consider the Sydney
“court missionary” (his name is Jack
Creagh) and his works. A fellow who
had escaped a line by signing the pledge
showed me the docket which the earnest
Creagh always hands out, and the num-
ber it bore was 95,500. The cost of booz-
ing has gone up, like other things, and
the “clean-skin” drunk’s fine is assessed
at ten bob, where five bob sufficed in
happier days; but if the boozer signs
the pledge the fine is usually waived.
Even at the old lower rate nearly 100,000
pledges represent the saving of a lot of
money to the bibulous. Not Creagh
(who is many times forgiving) but the
Lav/ is harsh to revellers whose reappear-
ance shows that they are pledge-breakers.
But they are a hardy lot. “You signed
the pledge when you were up three days
ago,” accused the Bench in its sternest
manner. The drunk assumed surprise.
“What, y’ Worship? Signed the pledge?
Me? Cripes, I must’ve been drunk I”
Two pounds or four days.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Melbourne University Coun-
cil, having observed a demand for
trained social workers, has decided to
speed up the course for the Diploma of
Social Studies, and second-year students
will sit for their final examinations in
September this year, instead of March,
1943. But isn’t there something pathetic
in the notion that a diploma makes a
social worker? It isn’t recorded that
Florence Nightingale had one ; instead
of such official sanction she had the
opposition of the universities, Govern-
ment departments, War Office officials,
poor law authorities and the medical
profession when she set out to reform
the appalling sanitary conditions in the
Crimea. The university view of a social
worker’s qualifications reminds me of
the experience of an Australian artist in
London. He liked painting the slums, and
used to put up his easel in Whitechapel.
One day a curate with an Oxford accent
came along and engaged the painter in
conversation. “I envy you,” said the
clergyman, “I have been working
amongst these poor, unhappy people for
two years and haven’t yet oeen invited
spontaneously into one of their houses.
Yet you come along and in a few days
you have the whole population round
you. They seem to have told you all
their histories and you seem to know all
about them and I know nothing. What
is the secret?” “There is no secret,”
said the painter. “I’m not a professional
moralist; you are. Turn your collar the
other way about and get rid of that cleri-
cal hat and you won’t have much diffi-
culty with these people.”
* * * *
“Tasman Torres” speculates on the
beginning of Australian population:
Considering its island connections with Asia,
it’s queer that Australia should have been so
long the world’s terra incognita, since it would
seem easy for even the most lubberly seamen
to sail from land to land down the Malay
Archipelago till they reached the big continent.
But there are sufficient reasons. For one thing,
the tribes of eastern and south-eastern Asia
were not adventurous navigators. Moreover, the
Malay islands are fertile and attractive, whilst
the north coast of Australia is for the most
part barren and uninviting. Such Malays as
did come here must have compared it disad-
with their own country. For a
third reason, it happened by a curious series
of accidents that the European explorers of the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, when they
did come, struck the most unpleasant parts of
the long coastline, and missed the best of it in
the east and south-east. When, in 1770, Cook,
coming across from Maoriland, landed on the
east coast, it didn’t take Englishmen long to
recognise that Terra Australis mightn’t be such
a bad place to live in after all.
“You an' your scorched-earth policy!”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: We were making good
time along a western N.S.W. road by car
one night when the driver suddenly
slowed down, peered ahead and said
“Blimey, what’s this?” Coming round
the bend in the road were at least a
dozen pairs of headlights. They appeared
to be about half a mile ahead. While
we speculated on the presence of so many
cars in that lonely part the lights dis-
appeared. Assuming they’d turned down
a side road we gathered speed and went
on. Then somebody observed that we
hadn’t run into the cloud of dust that
should have been there. Also, when we
came to think of it, nobody had noticed
a side road, nor had anybody heard the
noise 12 motor-cars ought to make.
Somebody mentioned the Flying Dutch-
man and one thing and another, and the
friendly bush lost its friendliness and
looked secretive and ghostly under the
stars. By this time the driver had stopped
and the debate waxed strong. Then
somebody grunted and pointed. Up the
road shone more pairs of headlights, not
cars, but a troop of cats a couple of
hundred yards away, their eyes glowing
in the lights from our lamps. A collec-
tive sigh, a chuckle or two and on we
went, inwardly marvelling at the illusions
possible from darkness, lack of perspec-
tive and two bright rays shooting orb
from ourselves into the gloom.
* * » *
“Downhill”: Tom, who should know,
swears. that a bunch of bracken fern,
crushed and broken and then rubbed
vigorously on the spot selected by the
bull-ant for its ministrations, will remove
the pain and restore the patient to calm-
ness. Tom also swears that a medico
once told him bracken contains a defi- s
nite antiseptic. Who’ll corroborate it? V
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: Dan brought the news
about the jackeroo from the homestead
“Boss’s hunted Percy at last,” he an-
nounced. “Blanker ought’ve been hunted
long ago,” rumbled old Buff. “ ’Member
the time he went bush with the ration
cart an’ kept us waitin’ all day out at
the Deadman?” “Yair, an’ how about
when he boxed the rams with the home
paddock ewes?” chipped in Curly. “An’
when he staked ol’ Brownlock chasin’ a
fox?” “Boss get to him over them ration
sheep he perished?” queried the camp
boss. “Hell, no!” said Dan. “The ol’
bloke’s too easygoin’ for that. No;
Percy oiled the boss’s new poley saddle
—with engine oil.” And the silence of
horror and amazement descended on the
camp.
* * * *
“Aratta”: Dave was gazing enraptured
at the picture of a beauty-contest winner
in a paper he’d bought in the township.
“Ain’t she a peach?” he said, pushing
the paper under Dad’s nose. Dad snorted.
“She ain’t a bad-lookin’ piece of goods
in a way,” he conceded ; “but she ain’t
nothin’ t’ rave over.” “It ses here she had
the most beautiful hands an’ feet of all
the competitors,” Dave continued.
“Beautiful hands an’ feet!” scoffed Dad.
“I don’t see anything very beautiful
about them. Why, spare me days, Sarah’s
would knock ’em inter a cocked
hat.” Dave laughed derisively. “Queer
sorta beauty contest it’d be that Sarah
would win,” he said. “Who’s talkin’
about her winnin’ a beauty contest?”
barked Dad. “We wus discussin’ feet
an’ hands. An’ I’d back Sarah’s against
that half-naked tabby’s any day. Jest
compare the two lots. Feet an’ hands
is made fer use, not fer havin’ flamin’
pitchers of fer galoots like you t’ get
actin’ the goat about. What chance
would them trotters of hers have with
Sarah’s when it come t’ bootin’ a stub-
born cow inter a bail or stoppin’ a
chargin’ pig? An’ as fer her hands, I’ll
bet Sarah could lick the hide off her
milkin’ or swingin’ an axe.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: I’ve made a few experi-
ments in the culinary line with Austra-
lian bush birds, and I emphatically bar
carrion eaters (B. 15/4/’42). Most delec-
table, of course, are the pigeons, doves
and quail; next come young wild duck
in good nick, then some parrots. Once,
stuck for tucker, I downed a couple of
red-eared thrushes ; they were delicious.
Emu I wouldn’t eat, and scrub turkey
isn’t anything to write home about, but
mallee hen is worth travelling to enjoy.
Those who think crow is bad ought to
have a go at shag or crane; there’s
nothing viler on earth, stewed, roasted,
fried or grilled. Ibis failed to please me,
but I’m ready for a bit of plover or
curlew any time.
* * * *
“Cook’s Mate”: Recent discussions in
The Bulletin concerning the size and
capture of stingarees in Australian waters
recall the fact that Botany Bay was first
christened “Stingray Harbor,” and only
got its present title later in the voyage
of H.M.S. Endeavour. The evening
before the ship left her first Australian
port, “the yawl,” says Cook, “returned
from fishing, having caught two sting-
rays weighing near 6001 b The great
quantity of this sort of fish found in this
place occasioned my giving it the name
of Stingray Harbor.” But before reach-
ing Batavia Cook decided to change the
name. He made the necessary correc-
tions in his journal —the copy in the
Commonwealth National Library at Can-
berra shows them—so that the sentence
became “The great quantity of new
plants, etc., Mr. Banks and Dr. Solander
collected occasioned my giving it the
name of Botanist Bay.” “Botanist” was
finally corrected to “Botany.”
} ** * *
“Narrin”: Old Jimmy hit the bend
with tea and sugar, his swag, a fishing
line and a billy, but his tucker-bags
”I just dropped in to tell you, sir, I won't be in today.”
flapped as emptily as his stomach. At a
near-by cocky’s he put in a couple or
solid hours on the woodheap ; when he
lined up at the kitchen door he was
handed half a loaf of stale bread and a
chunk of mouldy cheese. Jimmy re-
strained his language till he reached the
river, when, just as he was about to hurl
the cheese at the usual sarcastic kooka-
burra, he saw an old kero.-tin. Dump-
ing his swag, the old bloke lit a fire, and
soon the scent of toasting cheese rose
to the treetops. A few moments later,
baited with the savory stuff, the tin went
into the river. Ten minutes after that
Jimmy was baiting his line with cheese-
fed shrimps. That night he dined on cod,
and the next morning he had a ten-
pounder to liquidate at the pub.
« * * •
“Wang”: “I’m workin’ fer a cocky one
time, along with a bloke called Fat
Harry,” related Dan. “One hot Sunday
mornin’ Harry went swimmin’ in the
river. The boss an’ me is sittin’ on the
back verandah yarnin’ when we hear yells,
an’ the next thing we see is Harry, stark
naked, tearin’ out from some bushes
growin’ on the bank, an’ a few yards be-
hind him ole Homey, the farm stud bull,
with his head down an’ bellerin’ real angry.
The bull paddick ain’t got a tree or a
scrap of shelter in it, an’ the nearest
fence is a quarter of a mile away, but
Harry starts sprintin’ fer it. He ain t
built fer pace, an’ halfway across he
drops, with the bull a coupla yards be-
hind him. The boss lets out a yell an
grabs up a pitchfork, an’ I do the same,
an’ we race towards the paddick, ex-
pectin’ every moment t’ see Harry tossed
in the air. But nothin’ of the sort hap-
pens. The bull starts sniffin’ Harry, an’
as we get nearer we see him lickin’ him.
Ole Homey sees us cornin’ at him, an
makes a rush at us. We yell t’ Harry t
get up an’ run, which he does. The bull
spots him, an’ goes after him. Ole
Homey soon catches up t’ Harry agen,
an’ blow me if he don’t start lickin’ agen,
an’ keeps it up till Harry reaches the fence
an’ scrambles through. ‘Well, I’m
damned,’ ses the boss as we hurry outa
the paddick. ‘Harry’s fat saved his life! ’
‘How?’ ‘Well, he was sweatin’ that much
when the bull first caught up t’ him that
Homey thought he’d struck some new
kind of rock salt.’ ”
« » * •
“Pacific”: Those countless cockles
who simply hate to see a live tree within
ten miles of their property, and who are
tired of the back-breaking job of ring-
barking, might like to borrow our dog,
a mixture of staghound, Alsatian and
cattle breeds. He believes his sole mis-
sion in life to be the destruction of cats
and possums, and whenever he trees one
of his enemies bites and scratches the
bark in his . frenzy. Many fair-sized
poplar gums, Moreton Bays and blood-
woods poke gaunt fingers to the sky as
mute evidence of his prowess.
* * * *
“R. Ney”: If he’s “convinced that
sheep can be more quickly and effi-
ciently handled by smart horsemen than
by all the prize poodles” (B. 15/4/’42),
“Sur Cingle’s” sheep experience must be
confined to backyards and horse pad-
docks. I’d like to see him in a 1000-acre
paddock, on the best horse he can find,
going through a flock for fly Either
himself or the neddy would have to hold
them in a corner while the other did the
dagging, and I’ve never seen a neddy that
could hold sheep nor one that could dag
them. Again, I’d like to see “S.C.” lead-
ing, say, a dozen horsemen trying to punch
5000 lanky crossbred wethers across open
country with rain coming up, a cold wind
running diagonally across the sheep and
scattered mobs of strange sheep all round
him. He could do it, if he had relays
of horses every couple of hours or so
and relays of men to ride ’em, but it’s
much cheaper and much easier on the
temper to have one horse, one man and
two or three good dogs. But maybe
“S.C.” doesn’t like dogs.
* * «
“Bad Australian”; I don’t know
whether those tigers which escaped from
a circus on the N.S.W. North Coast re-
cently were killed by shotgun or rifle fire,
but if I had the choice I would plump
for the shotgun. Why? Once while
sojourning in a far country I was out
with a 12-bore shotgun looking for some-
thing for the pot, and following a deer
path down into a steep narrow gully I
came face to face with a puma as big
as a mastiff. Convinced that without my
h.-v. express rifle I was a goner, I didn’t
“ There's one thing about it, Dig. —
in the army We're all on the
same level."
face the situation as confidently as I
might. However, things being desperate,
I loosed off both barrels of No. 2 into
the front elevation of that cat, and to
my amazement he collapsed and died
almost without a struggle—and the h.-v.
superstition departed from me for ever.
It may sound like rank heresy to the
big-game fellows, but I say give me a
12-bore d.-b. scatter-gun with a handful
of buckshot in each barrel and a range
of 10 or 12 yards and I’ll “liquidate”
any cat that ever came out of a jungle or
absconded from legal custody.
# * * •
“B. A. Ker”: Having seen kooka-
burras and their smaller cousins the blue
kingfishers rout goannas, and crow versus
eagle in deadly acrobatics, I thought I’d
seen the limit in feathered ferocity. But
it took a pair of sparrows to show me
what “malicious intent” really means.
The brawl starting in the treetop, they
fought savagely in hovering descent, never
more than nine inches apart, with beaks
working overtime. Most birds, upon
striking the ground, get in a couple of
swift pecks, then clear out. Not so with
the spags. In a writhing whirlwind of
beaks, claws and wings they broke every
rule laid down by the late Marquis of
Queensberry. Meanwhile, an impartial
bystander hopped around on the out-
skirts planting a hearty peck as oppor-
tunity offered. For a full minute the
melee lasted, then one of the combatants
flew away. The other died in my hand.
* * * *
“How E.”: The magnifying powers of
a horse’s eye (B. 11/3/ ’42) possibly ex-
plain how the prad came to be mastered
by such a comparatively puny creature
as man. It also helps to reveal the
curious conduct of Rory, a gelding I once
owned. I’ve often seen him trying to
swim in the horse-trough, thinking it
was Lake Budgaminta, where he was
reared. He was a great jumper, and as
he always thought the hurdle was about
50ft. high he jumped accordingly. 11l
never forget the day we ran him in the
Dingo Flat Steeplechase. Not being able
to get dope in those parts, we gave Rory
a good shot of whisky, and at the home
turn he was leading the field by about
17 furlongs, when he stopped dead and
refused to budge further. Examination
later revealed a bulldog ant running
across the track!
“Ec.”; Shrewdest horse I ever had was
an ex-city cab-puller that developed into
a fine packhorse. He hated going to the
store, about eight miles off, over a hilly
pack track after rain had rendered it
muddy. When fording creeks he found
that he could idle by drinking or pretend-
ing to drink. If the water was cold he
would raise his mouth out of it just an
inch or two, both eyes watching the rider.
If the rider leaned slowly sideways to see
if he was drinking he’d put his mouth
quietly in, but if the rider leaned over
quickly the mouth would be dabbed iq
so fast as to cause a splash.
AUTUMN.
The evacuation of Summer is complete;
The swallows have gathered and gone, a silent
fleet , , . ,
Of slim-bodied craft that darkened the air s
blue tide.
The martins have vanished, too, and the swilts
that beat , . ~
And slashed the wind with the sharp sickles ot
their wings ,
Have passed in a purple throng from the
countryside.
Now in her Romany insolence Autumn begins
Her slow invasion, firing the shadowy rings
Of brackens that beard the wet lips of gully
springs, „ , , .
Drilling her mists till the sweat from them drips
and thins . , .
The ti-tree’s grey battalions, spraying her white
dew-fire,
Cold as cavern-spawned water, over the grass
That, bleached to the blondness of binder-twine,
still smokes , . .
Among drought’s cooling ashes. The ambushed
briar
Spurts gouts of berry blood, and a clamminess
chokes
The old warmth till it dies like breath on glass.
Fog armies, shocked awake by the blackbirds
reveille, ,
March down from the hills past slumbering
sentry gums
To hold the spent river a prisoner, and morning
comes
Wan as a woman who has watched all night
by her dead.
Already there drifts a mildew of damp and
decay:
The paddocks sprawl dankly, the sullen gorse
broods, while all day
Machine-guns of wind spit bitterness at the trees,
Tearing red flesh of leaves from pale limbs
outspread.
Fixed bayonets of frost glare stark in the startled
sunrise;
While the black swans bugle defiance down cold
And the fugitive creek crawls by on numb hands
and knees.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was
given a horse and cart loaded with chaff
and told to deliver the chaff to a point
three miles away. Halfway there the
horse jibbed. Mat, who knew horses,
didn’t give way to rage, tried one or two
remedies in vain and was preparing to
sit down and wait when the man for
whom the chaff was meant appeared with
a lorry. Mat eyed his baulked caravan
thoughtfully, hailed the other, conferred
with him, and the pair of them quietly
transferred the chaff to the lorry. Mat
then tied the reins to a wheel, climbed
abroad the lorry, doffed his hat to the
jib and left. After unloading the chaff
he walked back. The jib had made up
its mind to go. But every time it moved
the tied reins jerked it to a stop. Mat
watched for a bit, then he said, “Well,
horse, y’ve come a thud. Y’ was bent
on stoppin’ here, so stop here.” And he
headed back for the town. He swears
that the look the horse gave him was
worth the three-mile tramp.
* * # *
“Jimblebar”: One of the oddest things
about the rabbit that crossed the Gibson
Desert to Westralia was that, by the time
he finished his long journey and arrived
at comparatively well-watered Kalgoorlie,
he had forgotten the way to drink. About
1906 the writer, resident at that salu-
brious spot, kept a captured bunny in a
cage for many weeks. Noticing that the
rabbit seemed to ignore the water tin
I withdrew the tin entirely. But Bunny
kept going for long after, apparently get-
ting sufficient liquid from the green vege-
table tops on which he was fed. Much
the same thing has been noted with cattle
brought down from the vicinity of the
Mac Donnell Ranges. When shown water
they merely sniffed and turned away.
Almost from birth they had been accus-
tomed to eating the desert weed para-
kelia, in that succulent plant finding both
food and water.
* * * *
“Zake”: One-hit Murphy, Tommy
the Bull, The Blizzard, The Blazing
Stump, Whirlwind Mike, Tiewire Tim,
The Firewalker, The Stonebuster, I
“Write to the Man-power Committee if you like, but I tell you honey-
mooning ISN'T a reserved occupation!”
have met them all—or most of them,
Invariably I found them mild-mannered
men whose chief vice was rummy, who
preferred as light a variety of toil as
possible and who looked with disfavor
on the consumption of more than two
beers. Yet I recall a scrub-cutter called
Cyril, a stringy ten-stoner, who would
still be socking in hours after the Jaullesl-
necked fourteen-stoner’s wind and muscle
systems had crumpled, and who even
when bitter July westerlies were howling
stuck to his usual attire of a faded black
cotton swimming costume, moleskins and
sandshoes. And there was Percy, a
Boggabri wheat-lumper, who was the
closest imitation of a threshing machine
I ever saw operate outside the bar. If
ever I hear of a man bending an eight-
gauge nail around his wrist I’ll confi-
dently gamble that his name will be Basil
or Claude.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: The modern brew of
beer, although capable of keeling some
blokes over, is sadly weak compared with
the ale of 50 years ago. One of my first
jobs as a kid was bottle-washing in a
brewery, with an occasional helping hand
to the cooper and barrel-steamer. Often
we would get in casks that had arrived
in Australia filled with imported ale, and
almost without exception these would
have a large plug of tobacco tacked both
to the bottom and the top, on the inside
of course. Tradition had it that the
“weed” gave sparkle to the liquor—it
certainly gave kick, and without doubt
hurried many a poor devil to the
“horrors.” From long saturation these
plugs would be too frayed and leafy for
successful pipe-smoking, but they were
highly popular among the brewery hands
as a chew, the combined flavor of beer
and tobacco being regarded as unique.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Anyway, why should
the digging-up of frogs to get a drink
(B. 4/3/’42) be considered the figment
of a novelist’s imagination? It was
Binghi’s most trusted standby in a dry
time, and many a white man has saved
his life by using it —my father among
them. Anyone who has been outback
when a drought has broken knows how
all the newly-filled swamps, lagoons and
claypans, which were only sheets of dry
mud a few hours previously, become alive
with frogs whose croaking makes the
night echo. Those frogs didn’t come
down from the sky with the rain ; they
burrowed up from the mud as soon as
the rain had softened it. When the swamp
had dried, months or even years previ-
ously, the frogs filled themselves with
water and burrowed deep into the mud,
there to make little cells for themselves
and lie dormant until the rain came once
more. Dig in the bed of any dry swamp
and you’ll find them ; when turned up-
side down and squeezed they disgorge
a teaspoon to a tablespoon of water.
* * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry’s new hand
got away to a bad start, and showed no
improvement, even though Harry kept
roaring him up. After a fortnight he was
still splashing the milk around and knock-
ing the cows about, and Harry boiled
over. “Gripes, Joe,” he said, “you’re
going from bad to worse!” “Yes,”
replied Joe, “I can see now that my last
boss wasn’t such a crook sort of a bloke
after all!”
* * ♦ *
“Peter the Porter”: The babbler who
turned up at our camp in response to
an ad. looked to have all the neces-
sary qualifications of a working black-
smith with St. Vitus’s dance. The dust of
many highways, as well as the grease and
soot of many previous meals, was still
upon him, and apologetically he ex-
plained his condition as being the after-
math of a bender. The first specimen
of his art was a huge shapeless mass of
hash. Followed a composite concoction
which had somehow gone wrong in the
making. Our apparent apathy seemed to
touch the babbler, who became thought-
ful for a moment. Then, confidence in
his latent power of sleight-of-hand surg-
ing in upon him, he remarked: “I see
youse blokes don’t seem to care much
about my slapdab. If y’ll wait a mo,
I’ll change it into a queen puddin’.”
“Solitude”; The old man, proud of his
sheep-dog, insisted that I watch his dog
yard a bunch of ewes I was going to
bring in. A kick on the rump started the
tyke in the right direction, and as soon
as it reached the mob the old bloke went
“You haven 't washed behind your ears, Mr. Featherstone!”
into action. Running-on-the-spot was
interspersed with violent spasms of arms-
outward-fling, while his raucous bellow
could be heard two miles off. “Go ’way,
there —fetch ’em —sit down —speak up-
go back —come behind here, Nigger!
Niggah !” Trunk-forward-bend was in-
troduced, followed by a minor attack of
convulsions. “Nig gah ! come back —go
’way —sit down, you fool! Nig gah ! I’ll
break y’r flamin’ neck if y’ don’t speak
up! Come behind —sit down —go ’way
there ; damn y’, can’t y’ come in to ’em?”
The dog halted in bewilderment. “Go
back, you useless cow —speak up —sit
down —fetch ’em —come behind!” The
mong again dashed into the fray, cut-
ting off the stragglers and snapping at all
the legs within reach, while the sheep,
having learned through sad experience,
charged towards the safety of the yards.
The old man closed the gate tri-
umphantly. “There y’are,” he puffed,
wiping off the sweat with a shirt sleeve ;
“told y’ that dog’d bring ’em without
no trouble at all.”
* * * *
“Bert”: I suspect that “Joe the Glut”
and his long-haired partner (B. 4/3/’42)
owe possession of their natural teeth
to some mineral property in the water
in which they stew their Kimberley steak
rather than to the varied diet they
enjoy. In the N.S.W. coastal coalfields
district I inhabit jt is unusual to see any-
one in his thirties with his own tatts.
One sometimes sees sets of crockery in
the mouths of High School kids. My
children are big, healthy and full of pep ;
but from time to time I’m obliged to get
them iron tonics or tin oxide to prevent
skin eruptions. A refugee from Europe
told me that he was the first of his
family to wear false teeth ; his teeth began
to decay two years after he took up
residence here. Doc’s explanation was
lack of lime in the drinking water.
* * * *
“Taragon”: Speaking of the equine
memory (B. 11/3/ ’42). To Boulder (W.A.)
came a circus, which included the inevit-
able horse that danced on its hind legs
to musical accompaniment. But a 60-
m.p.h. draught reduced the big top to
ribbons, and horses and ail else saleable
went to pay salaries and fares back to
more genial financial climes. Then on a
morning some two years later a chap
who snatched a crust peddling dinner pies
to casual workers around the vast Golden
Mile was in the Block Hotel irrigating his
windpipe preparatory to starting his mid-
day dash. Outside, harnessed to the pie-
cart, was a horse that had obviously seen
better days. Also bent on business was
the touring German band of those days.
Suddenly the band broke into a lively
waltz. Awaking from slumber the pie-
cart ex-circus artist, recalling his old act,
began to prance, rising higher on hind
legs until the door at the back of the cart
flew open and a cascade of pies fell on
the street.
“Propalong”: Moscow Jimmy was
holding the floor in the men’s hut after
tea when Cleanskin Billy dumped his
swag at the door. Billy listened to the
orator spouting that the bosses owned
everything an’ the workin’ man didn’t
have no chance, till he could stand it no
longer. “Listen,” he said, “I got two half-
notes. One I’ll bet y’ that I make more’n
you do in the next month. The other
one I’ll keep f’r workin’ capital. Jake?”
Jimmy had to bet, and, satisfied, the
old chap shouldered his swag and
mooched over to the store. A quarter
of an hour later he passed the hut door.
“Got me capital,” he shouted, waving a
bottle of strychnine. The next day Clean-
skin was camped snugly in the woolshed,
and when the rousie killed a sheep the
old chap begged the liver and paunch,
We saw him later dragging the innards
over the flat on the end of some fencing
wire, laying a trail. Then he plodded
round, putting down his liver baits. Dur-
ing the following weeks he was punctu-
ally on the job each killing day, and at
the end of the month he turned up at the
hut. “C’mon down t’ the shed ’n’ see
what I done with me capital,” he invited,
We went. The old chap had 63 fox-skins
neatly stacked by the woolpress. Jimmy
paid up.
*
: ® S ot a bob a nob to thin ou
brumbies. To save caitiidges we bui t a
brumby yard m a scrub and gallop d
fbe wild nags along calico-strip wings
into it. At the end we built a strong
crush with a double upright, where stoo
the executioner with a tommy-axe. An-
other Boong worked the end gate, and
as the brumby moved up to dash
through his jugular vein was chopped
The startled moke then dashed through
the now-opened gate, only to drop after
a short gallop. The Boongs then chopped
off the manes and tails, and buried them
i n the sand till the hair loosened. Stallion
mounds over a yard high were common
sights in brumby country in bygone days,
* * * *
“Bo’: “Most determined cove I ever
struck,” said “Roaring” Jim, “was Tom
Roberts, a Dorrigo timbergetter I teamed
up with one time. We’re gettin’ out
pine, big stuff, too, and in the bracken
one day Tom almost treads on a 7ft. red-
bellied black. He’s caught on the wrong
foot an’ couldn’t swing his Kelly, and Joe
slipped away. Well, Tom hounded that
snake all that week at odd times, but a
disappearing tail was the most he sighted,
Then one day, up on the springboard
cuttin’ a scarf, he happens to glance
across, and there’s the big Joe coiled up
sunnin’ himself on an outcrop about 100
yards away. Tom’s got no hope of get-
tin’ across without Joe sightin’ him. Then
I see him hop down, nick off in the oppo-
site direction to the wriggler, over to a
tree he’d ‘spotted’ that mornin’. From
there he takes a screw at another tree
to the left o’ that, an’ so he goes on,
calculatin’ angles, lie o’ the ground an’
how the breeze is, always workin’ round
to the left. Then he starts tearing in like
mad to each tree he’d marked, an’, spare
me days! with every second cut he’s
bringin’ out chips bigger an thicker than
a bookie’s bag after the last race. He
partly cuts each one, an’ then comes back
an’ brings down the one he was on when
he sights Joe. Yair, he worked the
“drive” all right; each failin’ tree brought
down the next one aimed at, all work-
in’ round in a circle, mind, an’ within
a few secs, the last one was tumblin’ right
across Joe. Got him just behind the neck,
an’ Tom puts up a record day’s tally inter
the bargain. Never saw a bloke like him! ”
THE LID.
The crown flaps gaily up and down,
The brim is like a leaf,
Which through the winter’s tear and frown
Has sadly come to grief:
This lid that I am singing of
Beats everything but rain;
Although it lets the cold wind in,
It lets it out again.
I know of nothing unforeseen
Or seen or dreamt about
Which can so closely strike the mean
Of letting in and out:
This lid that I am singing of
Beats everything but rain;
Although it lets the cold wind in,
It lets it out again.
A lid that will not fit the pot;
A tile that’s cracked and worn;
A shingle taken with dry rot —
These things it laughs to scorn:
This lid that I am singing of
Beats everything but rain ;
Although it lets the cold wind in,
It lets it out again.
N.S.VV.
WM. C. PRATT.


RECOMMENDED
FEED TRI-CAL-OS
BONE FLOUR THIS WINTER
AND SEE THE RESULTS
Tri-cal-os is the best source of calcium
and phosphorus for all stock. It contains
over 70% tricalcic phosphate, having a
guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric
acid and 40% lime. Tri-cal-os is pure,
wholesome and palatable, and fed regu-
larly will enable stock to make good use
of the winter fodders.
(/•>
Py* ~ •fyui i
r
es
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from—■
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne;
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; and G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Poultry Economics.
“Molecule”: Hawkesbury competition
results showed that average feed cost was
Bs., average market value of eggs 19s.
and average gross profit per bird for 350
days 11s. That would be very nice
if all chooks laid as well as competition
birds (average 210 eggs in 350 days), but
they don’t, nor do many receive as good
feed and management. It used to be
considered that poultry would pay if the
flock average did not fall below 12doz.
eggs a year, but on Hawkesbury figures
a 12doz. average would return only 4s.
per bird gross—-hardly enough.
A poultry-farmer living close to a
large city and buying all his feed except
green stuff should be able to keep close
to the 200-a-year average for his flock,
which gives a reasonable margin for capi-
tal outlay, labor, etc., whilst cost of
chicks and raising them to laying age is
largely if not entirely offset by sale of
the old birds.
The mixed farmer comes at it from a
different angle. He can’t afford to pur-
chase all feeds and pay freight on feed
one way and eggs the other. He must
reduce to a minimum the quantity of
bought feeds and must exploit his nearest
local market for eggs. A Maorilander
has evolved a system for dairy-farmers
running poultry as a sideline in which
the skim-milk of 15 cows furnishes suffi-
cient feed for 100 layers, with bought
feeds reduced to a minimum.
The skim-milk is converted into curds
and whey, the curds fed to the fowls in
combination with greenstuff, pollard,
maizemeal, wheatmeal, etc., the cereals
being preferably grown on the farm. The
whey is still available for pigs. Under
actual test conditions extending over two
years, the poultry gave an average return
of £6 10s. per cow. The return is stated
in this odd way so as to compare it with
farms which use all their skim-milk for
pig feed, and where a return of £4 per
cow is considered excellent. Put another
way, the average earning ability of a
gallon of separated milk when used for
curd-feeding poultry was 3.7 d. when the
whey was thrown away, and 4d. when the
whey was used as pig feed, whereas
returns from 182 M.L. farmers showed
that the highest amount which a gallon
of skim-milk could earn when used as
pig feed only was 1.96 d.
Incidentally, this Maorilander’s work
has created interest overseas, and is likely
to become the basis of post-war farm
planning, which envisages a return of
the self-contained farm unit as opposed
to overspecialisation.
Milk Production.
“Hux”; Cows capable of producing
5001 b. or more of butterfat a year when
well fed will still return 3001 b. on poorer
feed and at a cheaper “per pound cost”
than the cow ordinarily producing 3001 b.
to 3501 b. Good cows, poorly fed, mostly
show higher returns than poor cows well
fed.
Cows of 10001 b. liveweight which pro-
duce 3gal. of 4-p.c. milk daily actually
require 341 b. of good oaten hay and 41b.
of bran or 1101 b. of silage and 31b. of
oats. Either of these rations supplies
17.51 b. of digestible nutrients which con-
tain 2.11 b. of digestible protein, and en-
ables the cow to go on producing its
3gal. of milk without losing weight.
A cow fed wholly on spring grass or
crops like lucerne never milks as well
as the one given roughage like cereal hay
or silage. According to Powell, an
authority, experiments were made with
three groups of cows over 85 lactation
periods. Group A got a normal ration,
Group B a ration low in roughage and
Group C a ration that had been ground
and compressed into tubes.
The fat content of the milk produced
by Group C was reduced by 60 p.c. This
group did not secrete good milk until
changed over to the normal ration. Group
B cows were affected in much the same
way. Group A, fed on short green pas-
tures or nutritious crops plus roughage,
gave best milk returns. On the other
hand, where the feed is coarse and bulky,
and without much nutrition, it pays to
add lucerne hay, meadow hay or a silage
containing a fair percentage of legumes,
or a mixture of oats and bran. This even
balance throughout the year brings the
“Hey! Thought I told youse kids t ’ get on with y'r homework!”
herd up to the profitable level of pro-
duction. But it’s not possible without
conserved fodder.
Making the Best of It.
“Ben Cubbin”: Seeing that super-
phosphate is likely to be short for wheat-
growing this year it’ll have to be made
the most of. It’s better to use a reduced
quantity over the whole seeding area than
to plank down the full amount on one
part and leave the rest unsupered.
Harold Bartlett, a veteran wheat expert
of N.S.W. Department of Agriculture,
suggests round about 421 b. an acre as a
means of getting the whole area manured.
It is well to remember manorial tests
at a time like this. On a Temora
(N.S.W.) farm, for instance, a 12-year
test showed that 561 b. of super, an acre
increased the yield by seven bushels an
acre, but 841 b. of super, gave only an
added bushel, and 1121 b. only four-fifths
of a bushel. Evidence collected at
Wagga, Condobolin, Trangie and Cowra
showed pretty much the same result.
From this Bartlett gathers that 421 b. or
such lower rate as is compelled by neces-
sity will give fallowed land a fair go.
Tests on hay at Wagga over 19 seasons
showed that 561 b. of super, an acre gave
an added 12cwt. of hay; from 841 b. and
1121 b. came increases of only and
3cwt. respectively.
Stubble land doesn’t respond to super,
in anything like the same way as fallow.
Super, shouldn’t be wasted on it until
all that will be required by the fallow
is met. If there is any to spare, a rate
of about 281 b. an acre on the stubble
will serve. Anything less than that will
be wasted. If the stubble area can’t all
get 281 b., pop it on at that rate for as
far as it will go and leave the rest un-
manured.
Relying on the residual effect of past
super, applications is a snare and a de-
lusion. You might flounder a good crop,
but you’ve got a far better chance of
having to turn the sheep into it. If there
was a good crop the last time the pad-
dock was supered the odds are all on the
sheep.
Queensland Fodder Crops.
“Mackay”: Fodder crops in the
Maranoa (Q.) should provide hay and
grain. Sudan grass makes good hay.
Sown closely with a drill it yields fine-
stemmed plants, more palatable and
easier to cure than when the grass is
widely spaced. On a summer fallow
Ford or Warput wheat can be sown in
April for green feed and hay.
Sorghums, cut at the right stage, make
good silage. Cut just when the plants
are well in head to obviate risk of poison-
ing. If the grain’s allowed to form the
sap dries out and the silage is tough and
may become mouldy. Grain sorghums
can be fed off once the grain has formed.
Dwarf sorghums like Wheatland Milo
and Kalo are for the main planting and
Hegari for late.
As a rough guide for fodder cropping
allow 21b. of hay, 21b. of silage and |lb.
of grain per sheep. Then assume that
the yields are one ton of hay, six tons
of silage and 20 bushels of grain sorghum
per acre. On such a basis, the acreage
for 1000 sheep for a month’s feeding
would be 25 acres of hay, five acres of
silage and 10 acres of grain. With dry
grass of good quality available the
amount of hay could be reduced. Crop
yields vary widely and the figures given
are merely a generality.
For More Vegetables.
“Choko Pie”: The call is still for vege-
tables, and April is a good sowing month
on the east coast for carrots, parsnips,
swedes, beetroot, silver beet and peas.
White turnips can be sown coastal and
inland, onions, leeks, lettuce and broad
beans in all districts, French beans way
up north, early cabbages coastal and
inland and tomato seed for glasshouse
crops.
Look out for downy mildew in cab-
bage and cauliflower seedlings. Signs
are pale green or yellow spots with
speckles on the leaves ; under the spots
you’ll see the whiskers of the mildew.
Begin spraying when the seedlings are
an inch high and keep it up once a
week.
Make a Bordeaux mixture by dis-
solving 4oz. of bluestone in two gallons
of water. A little hot water will speed
dissolution. Do the job in a wooden
or earthenware vessel. Next slake 4oz.
of quicklime with a small amount of
water and make up to half a gallon.
Pour this through a fine strainer into the
bluestone solution, stirring all the time.
Add five fl. oz. of white oil and an ounce
of nicotine sulphate ; this improves wet-
ting quality and tricks aphids. Re-
member to get the spray on the under-
side of the leaves.
It makes spraying easy if cabbage and
cauliflower seed is sown in drills 4in. to
6in. apart. It also makes weeding easier,
causes less root disturbance at transplant-
ing and allows for alternate rows to be
transplanted. You’ll need a special
seedbed nozzle for the spraying; the
field spray nozzle is too coarse.
Another joyous little creature likely to
riot among young vegetables is the cut-
worm. For it there’s nothing better
than the poison bait. Get 11b. of Paris
green, 241 b. of bran, Boz. of salt and
2igal. of water. If there isn’t any Paris
green, substitute 9oz. of white arsenic or
arsenite of soda.
Mix the poison and bran thoroughly
while dry, dissolve the salt in the water,
then mix the lot into a mash. If arsenite
of soda is being used, dissolve it in the
water first. Spread the mash along the
rows late in the afternoon. Cutworms
are night workers and sleep under the
ground by day. Don’t let chooks or
stock get at the bait.
Shoot potato moths on sight. They
were thick last season, and if they get
into the seed held for next planting they’ll
do heavy damage. If you have
stored seed spuds, particularly
on the coast, dust them with
derris dust.
There are several ways of
doing it. Running the potatoes
down a chute and shaking the
derris over them through a
muslin bag is one; putting
potatoes and dust into a rotat-
ing oil drum is another. Allow
about ilb. of derris dust to
every bag of spuds, which will
cost about 3d. a bag. Dusting
won’t beat the grubs already
in the potatoes, but it will stop further
infestation, and if newly-dug potatoes
dusted at once the moth will be
stoushed.
Store seed potatoes in a well-ventilated
shed and, if possible, on a slatted floor.
Derris-dusted seed should be stored in
bags, otherwise the derris deteriorates.
Cabbage White Butterfly.
“Lane C.”: The white butterfly is one
of the worst pests of cauliflowers and
cabbages. Brussels sprouts, radishes,
mustard, kale and turnip-tops are likely
to be affected. It has a wing span of
about two inches and is white with black
touches at the top of the forewings. The
caterpillar when fully developed measures
about l|in. in length and is green with
a faint yellow stripe down the back. The
color usually suits the host plant.
Control by applications of lead arsenate
in the early stages of growth, followed
by dustings of derris powder when the
plants are hearting—lead arsenate at
10-day intervals at 151 b. to the acre,
derris dust at weekly intervals at 201 b.
Lead arsenate dusting should be dis-
continued six weeks before cutting and
should not be used where there’s danger
of contaminating any portion of the plant
intended for human or animal consump-
tion.
Hints for the Farm.
“Canbelego”: Pigs show remarkable
selectivity in different foods put before
them separately in hoppers, balancing the
ration with accuracy. Experiments have
shown'that the free-choice way is just as
good as when foods are mixed in correct
proportions before feeding.
“Will C”: The richer the soil the
better for radishes. I’ve had best results
in a bed of old horse manure, black after
years of rotting, with a few handfuls of
sand added. Water plentifully, and make
sure they’re ready for pulling in six


Wireless alone can meet the
exacting needs of communication
for Mobile Units...
| INSTANT ★ CONSTANT ★ CERTAIN
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRON
RADIO VALVES
STANDARD TO ARMY TRANSMITTERS & RECEIVERS
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
“FORRERS”
Self-Oiling Pump
MOTOR OR ENGINE DRIVE
100 LB. PRESSURE OR
230 FEET ELEVATION
CONTINUOUS PERFORMANCE
24 HOURS A DAY WITHOUT
ATTENTION.
llii
We are Sole Distributing Agents for
Forrers Pumps in every State in the Commonwealth except
Queensland.
John Danks c.Sqn P^W
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
SB
10forll d - • 20fori 10
E 1865 Also in Fifties
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
m
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
weeks. White Icicle is the best radish
for all purposes,
“Feline”: Should the leaves of cauli-
flower plants not curl over and protect
the forming heads as they should draw
them close together and tie in with sti ing
above the heads.
“Ninety-nine”; 111-treatment won’t im-
prove a jibbing horse. If he is properly
broken-in jibbing should not occur. At
the beginning the long lunging reins
should be used and only by one with ex-
perience and light hands. When satis-
factory progress has been made harness
might be worn, and a few days later the
horse may be hitched to a log. When
the horse is thoroughly obedient a cart
may be used. Kindness and patience, to-
gether with experience, are very neces-
sary in treating jibbing, and harness,
especially winkers and collar, should fit
properly to be comfortable. Sometimes
the open bridle instead of winkers over-
comes the trouble. All horses should be
broken-in to the open bridle.
“Sailor Bill”: Giant couch is good for
sandy creek flats, holding the soil and
providing abundant green feed. Plant
root sections 3 ft. apart, preferably after
rain. Don’t plant where there is any
chance of it spreading into a cultivation
paddock, for once it gets a hold it is
hard to kill. It won’t stand heavy frosts,
but withstands great heat.
“Bahb Dwyer”: Urine is actually more
important than dung, since half of the
nitrogen and two-thirds of the potash are
present in the urine. Stables and milk-
ing sheds can be covered with absorbent
bedding which will hold the liquid
manure. Where frequent spreading is
not practicable, make a covered concrete
manure pit. In such a pit manure can
be stored for a fairly long period with-
out losing much of its nitrogen, potash
and phosphoric acid content.
Outback Occasions.
No. 32.
THE WATCH ON THE TANK.
It was during the dry spell, and the
tank in the big sheep paddock was pretty
low. It had good rubble banks part of
the way down, but then it petered out
in yellow clay, and when the water got
below the clay and the sheep kept
puddling the edges it got boggy. Yellow
clay, when wet and puddled up, is more
affectionate than any other substance, in
that it clingeth closer than the proverbial
burr to the proverbial blanket.
The sheep grew weak and started
bogging badly in the tank. Every day
we’d have to go up and drag a few of
’em out, and then we’d have to nurse
’em for a while till they got on their feet.
After they’d got on their feet they’d
stand for a bit, head hanging, then waver
down to the tank and get bogged again.
We ran a netting fence around the
tank with a lane leading into one end.
There we dug a hole, put battens round
the edges as a sort of platform and then
allowed the sheep in by twos and threes
for a drink, shutting the lane up every
night. Our brother got a bit of board
and nailed it to a post and painted on it
the words “Customers must keep queue.
Anyone out of line won’t be served.” He
reported to Father several times that the
old, hoppy-legged ewe which we con-
sidered the cunningest sheep west of the
mountains had offered to lead the sheep
in and out if she was given an extra
drink a day.
Well, the idea worked all right for a
time. Then the Blue Waterhole up behind
the ridge dried out. The kangaroos and
wallabies from the scrub further out,
coming in and finding it dry one night,
immediately made for our tank. Our
lightning fence would keep merinos out
—one wire will stop a merino—but the
Toos simply ignored it, and the next
morning we came down to find the fence
wrecked in several places and about a
dozen ewes bogged at various points
round the tank.
We shed a lot of sweat and profanity.
Our brother wanted to mount guard on
the tank with a gun, but our father was
a soft-hearted man, and he said there
was something lousy about lying in wait
for poor creatures coming in for a drink.
“If I had a down on a bloke,” said
Father, “I’d never wait till he came into
the bar for a pot to lay him out.” Our
brother laughed scornfully, but you
could see he thought a lot of Father
for it all the same.
Father said the only thing to do was
for us to take turns at sleeping out on
the tank bank. This mightn’t stop the
’roos breaking the fence, but whoever
was on guard would be able to drag the
fence together and stop the sheep get-
ting bogged. We drew lots for the first
night and I lost.
We took a stretcher down before dark
then f had tea and went down. Our
brother and the dogs came down
and we all yarned for a while —of
course, the dogs yarned. Dogs always
join in anything unusual like that, and
have as much to say about it as anyone
else, if you know dogs. After our brother
went home to bed, Rusty and Raff stayed
with me. They weren’t too sure, they
said, what the big idea was, but if there
was anything doing they were going to
be in it. Raff, who is a sympathetic sort
of dog, got the idea I’d been excommu-
nicated or something, and he came and
put his head on my knees and wagged
his tail and swore to stand by. Rusty,
who is a wary sort of dog, went off and
scouted round the vicinity to make sure
no inimical presences were about.
After a bit I saw the lights go out in
the house and got into the stretcher and
lay and looked at the stars. Rusty, a bit
disgusted at the tameness of what had
looked like some sort of excitement, went
home. Raff lay down at the foot of the
bunk. We talked for a bit and then I
fell asleep.
Several times ’roos woke me up. Raff
would take after one in the darkness and
all the other dogs would race down and
take after Raff, and they and the Too
would disappear in the general direction
of West Australia. Then the other Toos
would assault the fence and I’d get up
and curse them in the darkness and pull
the fence together and “ho, ho” the sheep
out of it.
Just before dawn about half the ’roos
in that part of the country decided to
come in for a drink, and I fell out of
bed and Raff and I rushed among them.
There was a great splashing and barking
and yelling. Six or seven ’roos and a
herd of dogs and I fell into the tank at
one stage, and I slipped and slithered up
the bank and got stuck once or twice in
the clay. I got up the bank and squelched
up to the fence to keep the sheep out and
fell over the bunk in the dark. Before
I could get up a couple of hundred dogs
and Toos and sheep, all mixed up and
fighting like tiger-cats, cascaded over me
and I got tangled up in blankets and
wire and mud.
About this time Father and our
brother, both in their pyjamas and with
boots on, came galloping down, waving
sticks and yelling, and in the dim light
our brother landed me with a stick. He
said afterwards he nearly collapsed when
what he thought was an old red Too
called him a silly cow and swung a dirty
left at him. Father, who’d got up full
steam on the race down, hit the wrecked
fence and went headlong into the yellow
slush at the edge of the dam and got up
with his pyjamas covered with muck.
Our big kangaroo dog, who hated
strangers, suddenly caught sight of
Father and went for him, and Father fell
over backwards back into the slush.
Well, we beat the kangaroo dog off
and sorted Father out and scraped clay
off ourselves and, as the light grew
stronger, had a look around. Somewhere up
in the scrub we could hear the dogs enthu-
siastically chasing ’roos in all directions,
my bunk was on its side in a tangle of
blankets and mud. Father leaned against
a tree blowing and scraping himself with
a stick, and our brother lay down on the
ground and kicked and howled with
mirth. There were sheep drifting through
the holes in the fence and getting bogged,
but I didn’t care. My shift was finished,
and wearily 1 wavered home to breakfast.


A jfuendlu tip, ta tke
tytvice and all
w-lto- u&e QiUettßlade*.
mm
mm
When you open a packet
of Gillette Blades, here’s a
way to double their life. Don’t tear the blade out of the
envelope. Unwrap it carefully. Don’t touch the cutting
edge. Pick the blade up at the end. And when you wash
a Gillette Blade, rinse in clean water and dry it gently on
a smooth towel.
With this care, you will find the keen, electrically tempered
edge of your Gillette Blades will last twice as long.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
B LADES
02
w
iMU*
Mwmv oi
JfW
TIN —normally used in the coal-
ing of Galvanized Iron—must
be conserved for Government
use. To meet this situation John
Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd. has
perfected a galvanized iron sheet
with a new "War Finish." Equal
in quality to the familiar Orb and
Queens Head Galvanized Iron —
as indicated by the fact that each
sheet carries the well-known
Lysaght guarantee the only
noticeable difference is an ab-
sence of the familiar "spangles."
The public can rest assured, there-
fore, that in ordering and accept-
ing Lysaght Galvanized Iron
marked "War Finish," they are
making a very definite contribu-
tion to the War Effort and. at the
same time, securing a product
that will give every service and
satisfaction.
S ° L *SAQHTS
fi
ORB
0
uORRUGATE 0 AND P I A I
L 79
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.
■' itLLS&iMtNL * i*isn«r *Dmm puth
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy “Allegro” razor-blade sharpener (for
Wilkinson safety-razor blades). —3261.
To buy or borrow MacDonald’s The Bush
Boy’s Book. —3260.
To buy L. Stoddard’s Rising Tide of Color.
—3258.
Words of verse “Murphy’s Brindle Cow.”
—3259.
Information Sought.
Particulars of the Union Jack Chib and the
Union Jack Hostel, frequented by service men
in England?
The Union Jack Club, where sailors, soldiers
and airmen fraternise, is situated at Waterloo-
road, London, and was opened on July 1, 1907.
It was erected by public subscription as a
national memorial to those who fell in the
South African war and other campaigns; ex-
tended with funds raised to commemorate the
fighting forces in the 1914-18 war and further
enlarged since 1926 by the anonymous gift of
one of its members. Membership is open to
those below the rank of commissioned officer
who are serving on the active list of the regular
forces. There are 816 beds in the club. The
Union Jack Hostel provides lodging and accom-
modation for wives and children (with or with-
out their husbands and fathers) of members and
ex-members of the naval and military forces
below the rank of commissioned officer. It is
linked with the Union Jack Club, but financially
it is controlled separately.
* * * *
What is the “grape cure” and to what com-
plaints is it applied ?
From one to eight pounds of grapes are eaten
daily between meals and in divided quantities.
If the rest of the diet is adequate the patient
may gain weight while taking the “cure,” and
the grape juice may act as a gentle laxative and
diuretic. Credit for any results attained may
be put down to the circumstances in which the
“cure” is undertaken—the patient is enjoined
to pick the grapes himself, so obtaining a small
amount of exercise in the open air. It is mainly
in cases of habitual overeating and underexer-
cising that any benefit has been observed.
« * * *
Is it possible to give up smoking voluntarily ?
Certainly; it needs only will-power. Adver-
tised remedies mostly contain silver nitrate,
which causes an evil taste in the mouth when
tobacco is used, but they are not much use
unless there is a fixed determination to stop
smoking.
* * * *
Method of making drinking water from sea
water ?
In the circumstances mentioned in your
letter, the only practical method would be to
boil the sea water and condense the steam. In
recent years fairly complex resins have been
developed for water purification. Passage of
sea water through one set of these resins will
remove the acidic portion of salts, and passage
of the water then through a second kind of
resin will remove the basic portion of the salt.
At a demonstration given at a meeting of the
Royal Society in London two or three years
ago a sample of sea water was rendered per-
fectly potable in that way. Tire hitch is, how-
ever, that the resins are fairly difficult and
costly to prepare and their use in practice
requires a certain amount of chemical control.
Various water-softening firms in England are
developing the resins and are, incidentally, fully
aware of the value to Australia of a process
which would render brackish waters potable,
either for stock or humans.
va * * *
(1) Income of highest-paid C. of E. prelates in
England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales? (2)
Latest world’s religious statistics?
(1) England: Canterbury, £15,000; London,
£10,000; York, £9000; Durham, £7000; Salis-
bury, Oxford, Bath and Wells, each £5000;
Lincoln, Carlisle and Winchester, each £4500;
Gloucester, £4300. Ireland; Armagh and
Dublin, each £2500. Scotland: Glasgow, £1328;
Edinburgh, £1258. Wales: Bangor, £2900; St.
Asaph, Llandaff and St. David’s, each £2BOO.
(2) Figures to 1940 were; Christians (Roman
Catholics, Orthodox Catholics, Protestant
churches and Coptic Christians), 692,400,000;
non-Christians (Jews, Mohammedans, Buddhists,
Hindus, Confucians and Taoists, Shintoists,
Animists and unclassified), 1,860,010,000.
w * * *
Any information about hypnotism and mental
telepathy ?
Here is the verdict of a medical man: “The
use of hypnotism is now a recognised form of
psycho-therapeutics, and the methods of induc-
ing the hypnotic state are well known. The
practice of hypnotism was long tabooed as
quackery by the medical profession, but it has
since been extensively used on the European
Continent and in America in the treatment of
mental disorders; it is no longer regarded as
supernatural, but can be explained by present
knowledge of physiology and psychology. Only
a certain proportion of persons, however, are
susceptible to hypnotic suggestion, and it is
certainly not a method of treatment to be em-
ployed by the idly curious and uninformed.
The phenomena of telepathy or ‘thought trans-
ference’ include communication with the dead
or with the living at a distance. These com-
munications involve the participation of a third
party, the ‘medium,’ through whom the com-
munications are made or by whom the thought
is received and expressed, either verbally or by
means of automatic writing. Many mediums
have been detected in fraudulent practices
during seances, but nevertheless a number of
persons of high standing in the scientific world
are convinced that there are in the phenomena
of telepathy elements which are inexplicable in
terms of science, and who assert the existence of
forces at present unknown. Any good encyclo-
paedia contains satisfactory resumes of present
knowledge of both hypnotism and telepathy.”
* * * *
Method of making candles, using ordinary
mutton-fat ?
A good candle tallow consists of one-third
beef suet and two-thirds mutton-fat, both clari-
fied by boiling in water and removing impuri-
ties left on bottom. To harden, add jflb. of
resin to each pound of tallow. Wicks are made
of cotton yarn. To make mould candles secure
wick in centre of each mould by passing over
thin sticks at each end, pour tallow into the
mould and leave to cool for at least six hours.
The sticks are then removed and the candles
taken from the mould. Candles can also be
made by dipping—a number of wicks are
looped over a rod and dipped into very liquid
tallow until the desired thickness is attained.
Each layer must harden before the next is
dipped on.
* * * »
Recipe for peanut butter?
Place some shelled peanuts in a shallow
baking dish in a moderate oven and bake them
a light brown. Remove, roll out on to a
cloth, fold over and rub lightly to remove skins
—they are bitter and spoil the flavor of the
butter. Run the nut meat through a mincer and
then pulverise with a rolling pin or glass jar,
crushing as fine as possible. Place in sauce-
pan, add sufficient olive oil to prevent burning,
salt to taste and cook to a smooth brown mass,
stirring occasionally. Butter may be used in-
stead of oil if less salt is added. Pack into
jars, cover with greaseproof paper and allow to
cool before screwing on lids. Make small
quantities at a time for home use.
* « * m
Method of raising cyclamens from seed?
Mix equal parts of sandy loam and leaf-
mould and sterilise either by baking it on a
sheet of iron over a slow fire or saturating with
boiling water. Next day place the soil in
shallow pans (3in. deep) and sow seed. Cover
pots with glass to assist germination and keep
soil damp. Shift seedlings to pots when large
enough to handle. Tubers from these seedlings
will flower next year. Seed can be sown till
the end of May.
* * * *
What are the latest figures regarding book
publications in Great Britain and the chief
kinds of books printed ?
“The Bookseller” of January 4, 1940 (latest
available), gives these figures for 1939; New
books, 14,904; reprints and new editions 4493 •
translations, 305; editions-de-luxe, 58 ’ (those
under 6d. are not included, and also Govern-
ment publications except the more important
issued by H. M. Stationery Office). Top of the
ll «« we J e , Action, 4222; education, 1350;
children s books and minor fiction, 1303 • re-
ligion, 763; politics, political economy and
questions of the day, 704; biography and
memoirs, 689; and poetry and the "drama, 535.
* * * ,
Whet e did the type of paper called “foolscap”
get its title?
The designation came from a watermark
having the device of a fool’s cap and bells on
paper of this size, first used in 1479. The size
of the paper (17in. x is still standard
with manufacturers.
* * « «
How to treat soil in which a recent crop of
tomatoes , was badly affected with fungoid
disease ?
Give the beds a heavy topdressing of sulphur
or pulverised bluestone; after two days dig it
into the top 3in. of soil. A week later turn
the beds with a pronged fork, getting the treat-
ment to a depth of 12in. After a dressing of
lime and manure (at two-week intervals), plant
the area with beetroot, turnips and radishes.
The beds will be cleaned up ready to be used
for tomatoes next spring.
*
(1) Causes of muscular rheumatism ? (2)
Can it be cured? (3) Treatment?
(1) Cold, damp and atmospheric changes
appear to be determining factors in an attack.
Many patients seem to be able to tell from
their subjective symptoms that a change in the
weather is imminent, and that they will suiter
in consequence. (2) and (3) Medicinal treat-
ment is not always successful, but aspirin (10
to 15 grains three or four times daily) is un-
doubtedly helpful in relieving pain. Locally,
the application of warmth is useful. A hot
douche, which in the case of such joints as the
knee, wrist or ankle can be improvised by
holding the affected part under a hot tap at
three-hourly intervals, may be used with great
advantage. Local exposure to radiant heat or
diathermy is one of the best means of effecting
a cure. When pain disappears, it is important
that the joint should be kept moving in order to
avoid permanent stiffness.
* * * «
Any method of obtaining relief from Morton’s
disease or falling of the metatarsal arches?
A well-fitting shoe with room enough for the
toes and ball of the foot is necessary. A bar
of leather, in or on the sole of the shoe, opposite
the necks of the metatarsal bones (those im-
mediately behind the toes), may take the weight
off the tender joint and thus greatly lessen the
pain. A piece of elastic strapping bound round
the foot helps to restore its arch and may stop
the pain, but, obviously, such treatment can’t
continue indefinitely. The best way of dealing
with the condition is by increasing the tone of
certain small muscles in the sole of the foot by
faradic (electrical) treatment. The current passes
and the patient meanwhile does toe-flexing exer-
cises. If that fails, a cork support should be


dfd
fOR WMK MfH AND WOMfN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
liZl GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY,
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
on
GLUND
TONIC
TABLETS
The Bulletin
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Aus-
tralasia, weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.;
6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s. ( Ex-
change must be added to Country and
inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas
{British Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 16s.; 3 months, 8s. To
members of the Services Abroad ;
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any Address Overseas
(Foreign): 12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6
months, £1 2s.; 3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua,
Fiji, New Hebrides and other places
within the British Empire, lid. per copy.
United Kingdom, 24d. per copy. To all
other places, 4id.
r.
£
Newer but fever
NOW THAT THE MILLS are chiefly engaged
on defence orders, there are fewer Wenley Suiting
patterns this season. However, the designs available
are more original, distinguished and
smarter than ever before, and the super-
twisted tough weave as durable as ever.
V-
c<m
a
THE AUTHORITY IN CLOTH
STYLES
Distributed by the Distributors of Solti n e
All over the British
Empire, every
minute of every
day, smokers are
saying, 'Better buy
Capstan they're
blended better!'
i
i.
i
Ftme mw a
M/ CR] STS
XX 715C.4 42
Capstan Special Mild ..... Ked Packs
Capstan Medium Blue Packs
Capstan Full Strength .. Brown Packs
made. It bears upon both the longitudinal and
transverse arches of the foot and so supports
it both “along and across.”
m * * *
How do the tours of Great Britain and South
African Rugby Union teams compare in matches
in Australia and Maoriland ?
In Australia: Great Britain teams toured in
1888, 1899, 1904, 1908 and 1930, won 57 games,
lost seven, drew two; scored 1143 points
against 368. South Africa toured in 1921 and
1937, won 15, lost one; scored 578 points
against 114. In Maoriland: Great Britain toured
in 1888, 1904, 1908 and 1930, won 39, lost 17,
drew six; scored 708 points against 424. South
Africa toured in 1921 and 1937, won 31, lost
three, drew two; scored 655 points against 185.
Totals: Great Britain won 96, lost 24, drew
eight; scored 1851 points against 792. South
Africa won 46, lost four, drew two; scored 1233
points against 299.
Brief Answers.
A.R.: The firm mentioned manufactures
only the calcium carbonate; what it is used
for depends entirely on the advice of a doctor.
It is generally used (a) in certain discharging or
weeping skin conditions as an absorbent, ( b) in-
ternally as an astringent, and (c) internally and
in combination with other salts (e.g., those of
bismuth and sodium) as a gastric sedative....
A.8.P.: Opthalmology, Neame and Noble, 16s.
6d., and Diseases of the Eye, Parsons, 365. 6d.,
both from Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
X.Y.Z.: Bruise fresh taraxacum (dandelion)
root, press out the juice and to every three
volumes of juice add one of alcohol (90 p.c.).
Set aside for seven days, then filter. Dose is
one to two fluid drachms. Don’t think it
would do you any g00d... .K.D.P.: You do
not state your age nor for how long the trouble
has been present. The condition is probably
otosclerosis and is very resistant to treatment.
You should consult an ear specialist... .M.K.:
Get medical advice, preferably from an ortho-
paedic surgeon—there may be some small spinal
malposition which can be adjusted E.C.:
Ailments vaguely labelled rheumatism are
difficult to diagnose without examination; you
need careful medical examination and possibly
metabolic tests before any opinion can be
hazarded G.E.M.: (1) If there is no heredi-
tary taint on either side, the children of the
marriage will be normal. (2) Blood tests would
be of use in determining the absence from
either party of certain hereditary diseases. (3)
Any experienced doctor can advise on the
matter. (5) You and Heredity, by Amram
Scheinfeld, 165., from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney. (5) Consanguineous marriage is rela-
tively common in small isolated communities.
....W.A.N.: Only effective method is by ex-
cision of the pigmented area of the skin, and
that is often impracticable if the tattooing
is extensive. Know of no one in Sydney....
J.R.: Lars Hansen A.C.: Write to the N. S.
Wales Department of Agriculture, Sydney, for
a pamphlet on apple-drying... .L.A.C.G.; De-
pends on the fabric; if white or uncolored,
spread salts of lemon over the rust stain and
pour boiling water through, then rinse well.
For obstinate stains use oxalic acid. If material
is colored send to dry cleaners... .8.M.;
Nothing significant about glass bottoms in
pewter pots; there are (or were) thousands of
them in England. The glass bottom ensures
cleanliness W.T.H.: Apply to the U.S.A
Consulate-General, 7 Wynyard-street, Sydney,
for information regarding immigration laws and
regulations of the U.S.A 8.T.; To preserve
green peas shell them and spread on trays or
clean cloths to dry in the sun for at least two
days, taking them in at night. When dry they
should still retain their green color. Put
them into wide-necked jars (previously dried
thoroughly), make airtight and store in a dry
place. When required soak for 24 hours be-
fore using as green peas.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused;
J.R.;
O most immortal William Hughes,
To hail thee we invoke the Hughes.
O Atom, whom time vainly wughes,
None, none could fill thy tiny shughes!
How many saddles didst thou lughes?
What steeds have bade thee fond adughcs?
G.W.E.:
What oh! What oh! Come, boys, and ring a bell;
What oh ! What oh! Be sure and do it well—
We’ll shoot the little yellow cows
And blow ’em all to hell
When they try to land in Australia.
M. 8.:
It’s very doltish to assume
The worst is going to be your lot;
To ween life is bringing doom
When definitely it is not.
.. . .G.C.G.: If you want to swear at a Quisling
say something stronger than “His name is
drudge—a flunky to disgust”... .1.L.A.: “The
Four Winds,” a bit less vague, would have
found a haven... .E.K.: Eight lines can hardly
assume the dignity of an “Ode”... .A.D.:
“We’ll hell them everywhere.” So we will, but
it’s a hell of a verb... .N.W.H.: “Enclosed
prose-poem is not a reaction to camp life but
just one of those things.” Those things are
best kept in a bottle... .M. 8.: The rhyming
of “firm” with “return” would make a worm
squirm... .E.H.McG.: The thought of women
trammies has stirred your Muse to incredible
depths of doggerel... .1.M.; Picture of Aus-
tralians all busy digging their gardens with
their shovels on their shoulders and their
shoulders to the wheel reveals a greater talent
for acrobatics than for metaphor... .N.C.;
You haven’t dramatised the bushfire... .N.E.8.:
An essay in verse; not a poem.... A.N.8.;
Only a man with the talent of a Milton could
deal adequately with the enormities of the
breweries... .L.N.: We don’t reprint... .K.E.:
Try a woman’s paper... .R.L.: “1 burn, I
burn, I burn!” You should be placed in a
bucket of sand or sprayed with a fine nozzle.
L.G., E.C., J.T. and B.I.: Lost in the flood.
... .P.S.: Couldn’t swallow auntie ; “Mating and
Mate” also machine-made... .L.F.G.: A bit
too slight... J.H.: Feeble-minded father again
conducted firmly to the door, together with
ditto Uncle Jules... .E.C.R.: One notable fea-
ture —an Aucklander who speaks of “little
Auckland” M.1.D.: Too technical Stone :
The openings of your little stories are like
rockets—the conclusions, like the sticks....
A.D.E.: Trite... .M. 8.: Lay off the fine
writing... .1.W.: Gather you don’t like “Miss
Black”... .Z.V.W.: No market for synthetic
war yarns with so much real material about....
D. MacC.: Agnes may be ail you say she is
and more, but she certainly does not rhyme with
“magnets.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.H.0.; Gent, with half-melted face draped
over sliprails doesn’t appear to have any feet —
or is he so heavy they’re sunk underground ?
. ...H.8.J.: Daintily decorative, but they don’t
make joke blocks... .R.M.: Comic English
squire with riding crop, cloth leggings and
banger-tail coat roaring up lubra for poaching
a snake has the flavor of two hemispheres, but
that’s all J.W.S.: “I will be sending three of
the series of sketches each week”; the threat
has been noted, but there’ll be no appease-
ment policy here M.W.R.; The week’s
largest and most horrific effort M.G.D.:
You have a precarious half-toe-grip on the
bottom rung of a painfully Jong ladder
Bert C.: Welcome to topknotted abo. with
spear and his gin so cleverly camouflaged that
we mistook her for a stunted gum L.K.:
A couple of tailors’ dummies saying nothing
witty.... 8.F.G.: Apart from a wooden style
and a total lack of humor there is nothing
to prevent your becoming a famous b.-and-w.
artist.. . ,WJ.: Excruciating puns left an awful
taste in our mouths R.T.M.: Submitted
caricature to three men who knew the subject;
one thought it looked a bit like Pandit Nehru,
another plumped for Lord Halifax and the third
thought it slightly resembled a ringbarked mess-
mate ; are you sure it was meant for General
Tojo?


= What qualifications =
= should your trustee =
possess?
He should be thoroughly trustworthy, possess
sound business experience and have know-
ledge of the law relating to trusts. He should
be able and willing to undertake the some-
times very heavy and continuous duties
involved. An individual possessing such
qualifications is hard to find. Moreover, he
must eventually age and his powers decline.
Neither is he immune from misfortune, and
he may die long before the trust is completed.
To vest a trusteeship in an individual is to
leave the consequences mainly to chance and
it is a mistaken compliment to ask a friend
or relative so to act.
It is for these reasons that business men well
versed in affairs have for more than 63 years
appointed The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited to manage their estates.
The company’s services are devoted solely to
the care and management of the property of
its clients. Its Directors have wide experi-
ence and proved capacity and the duties
involved are not vested in one individual—
the company’s service “goes on for ever”.
Consult your solicitor or call or write for
further information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
I BLIGH ST., SYDNEY. AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £ 958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman);
D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
. Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
. NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
r— Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
—, W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder. CT
z_- N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
E Gen. Manager; W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
m
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stampbatteres,
amalpamatinc tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
and oil-filfers, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
’ Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
Dividends
pIT To Re- Deft-
Feb Profit 7p c. Ord. serves, cit.
■’ n £ £ £ £
1932 125 Nil Nil 142,530
Written off shares in other cos., £17,348.. 159,878
1933 858 Nil Nil 160 236
33 Prnfit
1934 4 946 Nil Nil 4,946 155,290
1934 4,940 Reserves.
Written off ord capital, £319,077 .. 163,787
Written off shareholdings etc., £157,238.. 6,549
„ ~ ,„ n .cm Nil 177 6.726
1936 76;39? 10,796 § 10 p.c.- 55,262 333
1937 101 089 20 799 12* „ „ 79,646 644 7.703
IS’iil ill" ” BUS ~oSI AlSi
1939 103,528 20,851 12J „ „ ‘ , >
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
Assets revaluation, £4882 179,249
1940154,060 20,851 i2ip.e.= 79,646 53,563 232,812,
1942 iluise 20,851 ill ”, ” 79:646 10,889 255:4i0
§ Arrears from Sept, so, 1920, to Feb. 28, 1935.
Thp since 1939 are designed to
give !f"tew 9 o£ ad JttT roup
• . r Q f Aro a,. rp f pr tn th e
holding co., General Industries, only, and
so take no account of undistributed earn-
ings of the two wholly-owned , subsi-
j. • r tri Mptfers
KFB Ltd The’former ran ds
at e and°Perth,
an associate. Metiers (N.Z.), Ltd., which
last year paid p.c. on its capital or
£64,937.
The efficient working cos. are the
largest of their kind in the Common-
wealth. They turn out a wide range ot
stoves (a line that was shareholders bread
and butter for a long time), baths, gas-
and Duller lor d S , , hard
heaters, enamel goods, builders nara-
w'are, radiators and other electrical equip-
ment. Obviously, therefore, the cos.’
fortunes are normally part and parcel
of those of the building trades, which
explains the nasty jar earnings experi-
enced in the early ’thirties. Though the
war-time need to conserve labor, material
and money has brought private building
practically to a standstill, a huge substi-
tute demand, limited only by the capacity
of the works and human endeavor and
skill, has taken its place in the produc-
tion of war goods, and heavy industry of
this type is easily adaptable to such a
change.
Though defence orders don’t carry the
civilian margin of profit, it was the up-
ward rush of costs and taxation that
mainly caused the recent setback in
these working co. figures;
Metiers, Ltd., and Metters K.F.B. Ptt.
, To
Dec., Profit. Dividend. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 6,470 Nil 72,088
Unexplained reduction in capital,
£182,361 254,449
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£97,428 157,021
1934.. 81,280 76,288 4,992 162,013
1935.. 96,189 78,021 18,168 180,181
1936.. 131,677 100,176 31,501 211,682
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 206,682
1937.. 142,269 100,347 41,922 248,604
Assets realisation res., £5023.. 253,627
1938.. 165,559 100,347 65,212 318,839
Unexplained additions. £5879.. 324,718
1939.. 152,847 100,347 52,500 377,218
Unexplained addition, £6lB .. 377,836
1940.. 111,090 131,612 357,314
Unexplained addition, £752 . . 358,066
1941.. 109,392 105,293 4,099 362,165
A deficiency of N.S.W. company law is
that there is no obligation on holding
cos. to indicate subsidiaries’ depreciation
or tax reservations. However, the allow-
ance for the latter proved £29,718 short
the year before last, after adjustments
for which little movement in latest net
earnings of the organisation is evident.
The £111,386 was enough to meet the
pref. charge and then show 14.2 p.c. on
the £637,167 of ords., and 121 p.c. went
out for the fifth successive year —a rate
worth only 7.8 p.c. before the ’34 clean-
up, however.
Consolidated finances have a bolder
appearance these days:
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £935,041 £935,041 £935,041 £935,041
Creditors .. 263,387* 132,808 170,096 170,160
Tax provision 98,441 170,173 265,388
Staff fund . . 15,138 12,645 11,755 15,521
Freeholds .. 341,625 314,176 318,101 335,164
Plant, etc. .. 384,693 400,119 410,530 428,206
Stocks .. 412,767 485,047 569,967 593,438
Book debts .. 201,123 242,875 279,790 285,841
S'hares other cos. 27,631 24,630 24,630 24,630
Cash .. .. 753 837 16,498 82,453
* Including tax provision.
Hidden reserves against stock, the biggest
(and normally slipperiest) item there, are
considered “quite adequate.” For the
present war work will remain the centre
of manufacturing policy. There will be
a lot of delayed building to assist the
wide range of industry from which
builders draw supplies in the post-war
transition.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd, (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
; 1935.. 2 8,954 15 p.c. = 23,255 1 5 199 176,367
Staff fund, £5OO .. •• 5
Inner reserves capitalised, £37,800.. 176,0 bi
1936. . 32,865 15 p.c. = 28,986 1 „ o 7 n 179946
Staff fund, £5OO .. 3 ’ 3 ' 9
Tax reserve, etc., taken in, £20,000. . 199,946
1937.. 35,765 l7i p.c. = 33,886 I 0 79 2 01,325
Staff fund, £5OO .. .-5 1,6
:i938.. 34,306 16i p.c. = 31,523 1 „ 283 2 03,608
Staff fund, £5OO .. •• 1 ’
1939.. 30,768 15 p.c. = 29,100]
Staff fund, £5OO . . .. i 203,276
Extra tax prov., £l5OO . . I
1940.. 31,593 15 p.c. = 29,100]
Staff fund, £5OO . . .. \ 202,269
Extra tax prov., £3OOO ..J
Inner reserve struck off shares, £5444.
1941.. 31,075 15 p.c. = 29,100]
Staff fund, £5OO .. ..1 200,744
Extra tax prov., £3OOO .. J
Complementary to official control of
advances to industry come restrictions,
most of which became effective from
March 27, on consumer credit in the
form of cash-orders and hire-purchase
contracts in order to curb the growing
demand for a diminishing stock of civilian
requirements. Curiously, operations of
moneylenders and concerns with domes-
tic credit systems apparently remain un-
fettered. In this and the neglect to
harness the great flood of cash-buying
Canberra, as usual, is only nibbling at
the cherry. Indeed, the only effective
and equitable obstacle to unessential
and obstructive spending is a system of
general rationing—wasteful in man-power
and irritating, admittedly, but a necessary
corollary to successful price control as
more and more recourse is had to the
central bank to finance war expenditures.
The measures which license cash-
order cos. also aim at protecting the
public, which used to pay a shilling in the
£1 on each order, and small traders,
from whom up to 15 p.c. discount was
frequently exacted in the suburbs. “Pre-
miums” on cash-orders are now reduced
to 9d. in the pound, and the maximum
discount charge to 10 p.c. —5 p.c. where
settlement is delayed longer than 14 days
after presentation of a cash-order to the
issuing co. (Not unusually the trader
used to wait 60 days for his money.) As
for the issuing cos., advertising is re-
stricted, canvassing prohibited, maximum
outstanding individual advance is limited
to £lO, and, what may pinch most, orders
may be issued only at such addresses
specified in the license and the Treasury
may further arbitrarily limit the total
amount of business to be accepted in
any quarter. H.-p. provisions aren’t so
wide, chief effect as far as Gordon’s is
concerned being that a minimum deposit
of 20 p.c, is now required instead of the
5 p.c. previously asked.
Gordon’s were pioneers of cash-orders,
and enjoy select connections, besides
doing a large furnishing and furnishing-
drapery trade. Wage-earners’ war-swollen
incomes and a high marriage rate main-
tained business last term, and gross
failed by only £5lB to cover extra cost
and tax outgoings. The £31,075 called
profit was 16 p.c. on capital. So the
div. was kept at 15 p.c., and, except for
£5OO sent to the staff fund, the balance
of earnings, with £1525 of the visible
lay-by, was earmarked for unforeseen
increments in tax bills.
The briskness of the furnishing busi-
ness and the disposition of city retailers
to tighten up on cash-order trading show
up in these solid-looking figures:
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £193,632 £194,000 £194,000 £194,000
Sundry cred.* 60,705 63,105 69,071 87,294
Overdraft .. 7,173 10,513 8,403
Pl plantf a et C d 118,622 114,247 111,962 109,656
Stock. . . - 24,866 36,074 45,389 52,938
Hire agreements 102,475 119,372 122,283 138,432
Book debts . . 67,058 74,861 71,186 63,806
Shares, deben- „„ „„„
tures, etc... 61,277 50,935 50,935 46,515
Mortgages .. 8,285 7,986 7,862 7,777
Govern ment
securities .. 76,817 76,817 79,817 80,817
Cash, etc. .. 28,784 13,882 14,349 7,571
* Including taxation.
Reduction in shareholdings reflects lop-
ping off of £5444 from inner reserves,
bringing book and market values into
line. War-time standardisation will even-
tually take toll of the present range of
stock.
At 355. for Gordon’s ords., the share-
market buys surplus more or less liquids
of 325., and total net assets at a dis-
count of ss. 9d. per share on conserva-
tive balance-sheet valuations,
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £
1931.. 21,830 8 p.c. = 22,100 2,130 21,031
Loss.
1932.. 3,559 Nil 20,472
Profit.
1933.. 19,553 6 p.c. = 16,800 2,753 23,225
1934.. 21,462 64 „ „ 18,200 3,262 26,487
1935.. 28,001 74 „ „ 21,000 7,001 33,488
1936.. 30,877 8 „ „ 22,400 8,477 41,965
1937.. 31,140 8 „ „ 22,400 8,740 50,705
1938.. 30,512 8i „ „ 23,800 6,712 57,417
1939.. 34,349 94 „ „ 26,600 7,749 65,166
1940.. 31,615* 84 „ „ 23,800 7,815 72,981
1941.. 24,932 84 „ „ 23,800 1,132 74,113
f Not including depreciation reserve—£l9s,s7B at
31/12/’4l.
Because Britain, which has been making
purchases on a basis equivalent to around
£lO at the mill, was unable to find ship-
ping to lift as much sugar as in previous
years, Queensland production of raws for
the past season was restricted to 737,000
tons, the aggregate of mill quotas. A
preliminary estimate of actual production
is only 697,000 tons, seasons and the
acute labor position in the cosmo-
politan sugar districts in some areas inter-
fering with the harvest. Total Austra-
lian output, which reached a peak of
928,000 tons in 1939, is put at 743,300
tons, and consumption around 400,000
tons. Britain, Canada and Maoriland
took most of the surplus, the undis-
posed portion of which is expected to be
shipped before the coming crushing
season, when labor, Nature and the
shortage of fertiliser threaten to reduce
the cut-off of cane. Disposal of the
surplus will also present an even more
sticky problem, unless some backloading
is possible.
Freight space was less crowded in the
early part of the year, and to encourage
early millings a bonus of 205.-30 s. per
ton was paid on production before the
end of June. Other features of war-time
marketing have been advance payments
by the Sugar Board before actual ship-
ment and Commonwealth grants to
augment storage space. Assisted by its irri-
gation system, Gibson and Howes, in the
bountiful Bundaberg district, experienced
no difficulty in producing its 23,000-ton
quota, and a final price of not less than
£l6 10s. a ton is expected, against last
term’s realisation of £l7 11s. 9d., when
8755 tons of “excess” production was
also paid for at the rate of £lO 6s. 4d. a
ton. After sending £13,602 to deprecia-
tion account and looking after “all con-
tingencies,” the result was a profit £6683
lower at 8.9 p.c. on capital, compared
with 11.2, 12.2 and 10.9 p.c. for the three
years before. Div. stayed at 8| p.c.
The accumulation of stocks reflects
tightness of internal and external trans-
port alike:
1935. 1937. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £280,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities* .. 26,463 29,283 51,453 118,978
F pfant! °etc d . S .’ 369,657 407,877 484,138 492,763
Stocks.. .. 30,277 38,729 42,192 143,879
Government ...
securities, etc. 15,000 15,000 20,000
Sundry debtors 33,861 29,678 40,707 14,403
Cash, etc. .. 22,068 23,123 11,272 1,524
* Including provision for taxation.
Mill and irrigation efficiency was further
improved last year, and a new sugar
store will help alleviate an embarrassing
position at the peak of crushing. Though
the northern canefields may be vulnerable
to enemy action, war damage insurance
will, of course, operate, and sugar
interests are approaching the administer-
ing commission to extend the benefits to
consequential losses.
A dubious aspect of the long-term view
is the war-time multiplication of world
producing centres of a normally over-
grown commodity. As far as Australia
is concerned, a solution may lie in
permanent adoption of output curtail-
ment.


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Anvr.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated nv
A. W, DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Anvi.
Public Notice.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
ALLIED WORKS COUNCIL.
EARTH-MOVING PLANT CENSUS.
The Hon. E. G. Theodore, Director-General
of Allied Works, has issued an Order under
Regulation 57 of the National Security
(General) Regulations, calling for a return of
all earth-moving plant and equipment.
All owners, agents or persons having the
control or custody of any such plant or equip-
ment are required to furnish in duplicate on
or before the 30th April, 1942, full details
of such plant in a statement addressed to: —
The Director of Mechanical Equipment,
Allied Works Council,
17 Queen’s Road, Melbourne, S.C.2.
The types of plant affected are as follow: —
Air compressors, portable;
Backfillers;
Boring plant, power or hand;
Brooms, road;
Bulldozers or trailbuilders;
Channelling machines;
Concrete carts ;
Concrete pavers or mixers, portable;
Cranes, mobile;
Crushers, stone, and screening plant;
Drills, rock or hammer;
Excavators and attachments;
Exploders;
Graders, tractor or horse-drawn;
Heaters or boilers for bitumen or tar;
Heaters, portable, pavement;
Loaders, bucket, front end, or conveyor;
Motor graders;
Pavement breakers;
Pile driving frames and monkeys;
Road ploughs;
Road rippers or rooters;
Road rollers;
Scoops, earth, of all types;
Sharpeners, rock drill;
Sprayers for bitumen, with or without lorry;
Tar macadam, hot or cold mix plant;
Tractors, crawler or wheel type;
Trailers or floats low load, also high level
superimposed;
Trenchers;
Welding sets, electric portable, on pneumatic
or solid tyres, complete with engine and
generator;
Workshops, portable.
The following are the details, which must be
set out in duplicate:—
(a) Type, make, model, size or horse-power
of plant;
(b) Winches and other equipment (in the case
of tractors);
(c) Date of purchase, cash purchase price
(exclusive of financial accommodation),
whether purchased new or in used con-
dition, and from whom purchased;
(d) Work on which the plant is engaged (if
on defence work state probable duration
of present job);
(e) Condition—good, fair or in bad condition;
(f) Itemised list of spare parts of plant in
owner’s possession, other than stocks of
spare parts held by an importer or an
importer’s agent;
(g) Place where plant can be inspected.
Plant must not be sold or otherwise dis-
posed of or moved otherwise than for the carry-
ing out of normal business operations without
notifying the Director of Mechanical Equip-
ment.
Suitable plant may be requisitioned, and com-
pensation will be paid in accordance with the
National Security (General) Regulations.
The Order applies to State Instrumentalities,
Municipalities, Road Boards, Manufacturers,
Agents, Private Owners and Farmers.
Any person who fails to make a statement in
accordance with the Order or who makes a
false statement therein will be liable on con-
viction to the penalties prescribed by the
National Security Act 1939-40.
All returns must be furnished on or before
30th APRIL,, 1942.
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST SEMI-GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKING
3r /o
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD
£750,000 LOAN
GUARANTEED BY THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
APPROVED BY THE FEDERAL LOAN COUNCIL
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION: £5O
PRICE OF ISSUE; Par CURRENCY: 13 years
The Board is the largest semi-government Undertaking in
Australia, serves 69 municipalities and shires (including the
City of Sydney) and is one of the largest employers of labour
in the Commonwealth.
APPLY AT ONCE
to any Branch of the
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
or the Head Office of the
SYDNEY METROPOLITAN WATER SEWERAGE
AND DRAINAGE BOARD
or
MEMBERS OF RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGES
Loan Underwritten by lan Potter & Co. (Members
of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
GILT-EDGE© SECURITY. Secured upon the Board’s
rating powers over all property in the Sydney Metropolitan
area.
FREE OF EXCHANGE. Interest payable half yearly
free of exchange. Have it credited to your bank account.
AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT. The Loan
is an authorised Trustee Investment in New South Wales,
Queensland and Tasmania.
INTEREST ACCRUES IMMEDIATELY. Interest will
accrue immediately from date of payment to the Bank.
INSTALMENT PAYMENTS ACCEPTED. Subscriptions
can be paid by instalments if desired, spread over 3 months.
Complete Prospectus available on application.
Baby Bonds
The Commonwealth is offering £lO
“baby bonds” for general subscription in
order to get much-needed war funds from
those who at present can best afford it.
Munitions workers and others are making
big wages now, and the opportunity for
spending it grows less as production and
imports for civil uses shrink. Taxation
has touched these folk comparatively
lightly, and in the main they represent
the one big class that is better off mone-
tarily than when the war started. The
bonds, however, are a handy sort of
investment for anyone. They are repay-
able in 10 years, carry 3 p.c. in the
meantime, can be bought at banks or
money-order post offices for cash or on
terms, and any quantity may be taken.
The Prime Minister asks that new sav-
ings— not money already deposited in
banks —be used as far as possible to buy
the bonds. As he says, it isn’t enough
to transfer savings from one stocking to
another; a new stocking of savings is
wanted. Subscription to these bonds will
help to beat inflation that comes from
overexpansion of bank credit.
Westralian goldmining cos. still wonder
what the future has in store. On March
26 the “West Australian” said that,
despite some initial secrecy and (even
denials, it was clear that an early con-
traction of gold-production was contem-
plated. Later the Federal Treasurer de-
clared, in effect, that rumor’s bark would
probably be found, to be worse than its
bite. Later still Westralian Premier Will-
cock announced in Parliament that he had
urged Prime Minister Curtin to make a
definite statement, not yet forthcoming.
Discontinuance of Westralian goldmining
would affect the State’s finances to the
extent of £2,000,000 or so a year.
* * * «
Shareholders of Pomme d’Or Gold
(W.A.) received on April 15 a first and
final liquidation div. of 7s. 3d, and 50
Coolgardie Brilliant paids for every 100
Pomme d’Ors held. This is all they got
notwithstanding reports extending back
to flotation in 1934 of “gratify-
ing developments,” “considerable ton-
nage assured,” “continuous clean-ups
a certainty,” and “nothing to stop regular
dividends being paid.” Shareholders of
Westralian cos. such as this, however,
don’t grumble ; just scratch their heads,
heave a sigh, and talk of the glorious un-
certainty of goldmining speculation.
* * * «
Bendigo goldfield’s sun was on the set
the whole of 1941, and the pace has lately
accelerated. Commonwealth non-allow-
ance of mining calls in full as deductions
from tax assessments has largely re-
moved the attractions of goldmining
to high-income earners, and the need for
labor, materials and equipment in more
urgent avenues of production is putting
even established producers in a position
where little development is now possible.
War Organisation Minister Dedman may
even yet put a kybosh on things alto-
gether. Leading div.-payers in 1941,
when almost general reduction in milling
grade occurred, were:
Milled, Gold,
Mine. Tons. Oz. Dividends.
North Deborah .. 11,723 13,388 £lOO,BOO
Deborah .. .. 17,025 6,849 36,600
C. Nell Gwynne .. 23,227 5,561 25,000
Ironbark South .. 7,213 3,048 18,700
Monument Hill .. 10,000
Hercules ~ .. 6,073 1,193 4,360
Ironbark .. .. 6,272 1,549 3,100
The total of the field’s distributions was
£85,851 lighter at £199,197, of which half
came from the North Deborah, where,
however, values have been cut in two
since the close of accounts. These divs.
exceeded calls by £27,542, compared with
a surplus of £177,397 in the year before,
when there were fewer cos. poking about
but the gold yield was 16,8620 z. bulkier
at 87,6230 z.
* ♦ # «
Cuthbert’s Misima (Papua) cleared
£35,657 in 1941. Production figures are
now of only historical interest, com-
pulsory evacuation of the Misima Island
mine having occurred in January. Chief
immediate concern of shareholders is
with liquid resources of £35,695 ; £14,804
of that is owing to outsiders, however,
leaving a balance of Is. 3d. per share.
Cessation of work came when the man-
agement had just got to the interesting
stage of developing the northern leases,
the limited work on which has “con-
firmed the original opinion that a large
tonnage of average-grade ore” can be
looked for. In the southern section there
is an oxidised reserve of 276,870 tons
(down 27,370 tons, or 70 p.c. of the year’s
extraction) ready to take out when active
operations are resumed—expected to be
“before the end of this year” by new
chairman Gordon Carter. Till his death
recently that position was filled by Frank
Hambridge, responsible for the float and
much of its success in the intervening
half-dozen years since.
♦ * * *
Sunshine Gold Development has a net
cash balance of £5OOO (about 6d, a share),
and there is about £l5OO of gold cached
away in New Guinea which may later
be helpful if a new start proves worth
while. In paying 2s, 6d. for the shares
the market speculates that it will be.
* * * *
In B. 1 /4/’42 and again in 15/4/’42
attention was drawn to the market under-
valuation of tin stocks relatively to the
cos.’ liquid resources. One such, Tong-
kah Compound, was dealt in last week
at 7s. 3d., whereas Australian credits
amount to 10s. a share and the co. also
has a £141,000 swag of shareholdings in
the four other Tongkah floats, none of
which is scratching for the rent. Thabaw-
leik was marked at 155., whereas liquids
of 245. 9d. are assured—more if Straits
Settlement and F.M.S. loans eventually
realise anything. Rangeng is another
Asian show with 58,700 shares issued and
cash or its equivalent of £52,980. The
ords. were last offered around 4s. Not
that the whole or any of these funds will
necessarily find their way into share-
holders’ pockets ; they may be wanted
for the later re-equipment of properties
—if the Jap leaves anything worth the
trouble.


POWELL OS THE JOB!
HAULING 18 ROOMS OF FURNITURE, POWELL PROVES ITS SUPREMACY
“I am now sure that ‘the make’ has
everything to do with producer gas
performance. Previously I had driven
another make from Adelaide to Melbourne
weekly for 12 months, and was prejudiced
against any gas producer. I have just
completed a trip from Melbourne to
Sydney in a furniture transport 45 feet
overall length, loaded with 18 rooms of
furniture, and fitted with a “T” type
Powell. On this trip I had absolutely
no trouble with the unit. I will not be
anxious to go back to petrol.”
POWELL HIGHLIGHTS: Heavy duty
construction throughout . . . famous
Bercsinsky Cleaner reducing engine wear
to “less than with petrol” ... a model
for every truck purpose . . . recommended
by the Ford Motor Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd. . . . only producer gas units with
Government officially approved models
up to 40 horse-power.
c. E. MILLER 0 CO.
317 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
'Phone: M 3978.
PO WELL
PRODUCER GAS TRUCK UNITS
t
m
$
a
I
#0
ip
im i nit'
hcs
W:y
0
m*
AA
□ k
»
3»' ' ' "’X
m
.
4****ss™*s**'’ • : .-.v
**
«
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
from H. C. SLEIGH, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
or Powell Dealers throughout Australia.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
War and Civilians
Living conditions in Australia with
~. , „
war at the door are changing every day
As in the case of any great reshaping or
the ordinary way of life, patriotism,
politics and heartburnings are mixed
up together. Australians are inclined
to criticise their fellows and their
neighbors for difficulties that beset them,
and this lack of perception is traded on
by professional “representatives” of all
kinds—politicians, trade-union bosses,
“association” officials and so on. The
“other fellow” is to blame for everything,
and we’ll have to deal with him before
we can beat the enemy—that is the
typical story. There is much such cheap
and idle criticism, especially in N. S.
Wales, where politicians like Ward
and McKell flourish and where most
industrial troubles generate.
Developments of themselves tell a
story. Last week General Blarney “in-
sisted that every civilian will have to
live down to the standard of the soldier
if victory is to be achieved.” He added
that “this country is having a very good
life ; there is definitely an orgy of spend-
ing in Australia.” The day before the
Queensland Full Industrial Court had
found it necessary to turn down an appli-
cation for an lls.-a-week increase in the
male basic wage. The request was not
based on living costs, but was a demand
for an improved living standard alto-
gether. A few weeks earlier a Westralian
Court refused a request founded on in-
creased living costs on the ground that
stabilisation of wages might act as a
temporary brake on inflation in the cost
of living. But while these tribunals have
held out against requests that fly in the
face of commonsense and facts, the
waterside workers have had their hours
reduced to 44, which in practice works
out as higher pay and longer annual
leave. This is in addition to any war-
time bonuses granted to them and to
»Wi they may be entitled
The Prices Commissioner now must
consulted be f ore any prices (except
tbose re i a ti n g to Government goods and all
livestock? perishables, etc.) are raised on
April 15 quotes, and gross profit margins
ma y only be maintained at the April 15
mo ney figure, not at the percentage. In
other words, there is to be no profit on
inflating costs and prices, and, it would
seena, no profit on any future increases
in sales tax. If prices continue to inflate,
the buying power of profits will drop.
While wages in most cases are con-
tinuing to advance with the increase in
living costs, and overtime earnings in the
ac tive war industries are very substantial,
earnings of investors are falling. This
may ra j se tbe theoretical argument as to
wbe ther investors are entitled to any
income at all, but it is only an argument
brought forward when the charge of
profiteering by industry is blown out.
In spite of the huge taxation being paid
by companies and investors, which
follows after price-control has operated,
there is very little appreciation or even
acknowledgment of the contribution m
political circles where such facts should
be part of the current ABC. The investor
most decidedly has less money in his pocket
these times even before he pays income
tax. After tax he is further to the bad-
Yet popular gossip is mostly to the effect
that industrialists are fattening on the
war. The truth is that if industry is going
to benefit from war-time expansion in its
activities it will only be after the war is
over,
In the meantime Labor is better paid
than ever and taxed moderately for war
purposes. Unemployment is the lowest
in Australia’s history, and the office boy
and the typist have to be treated with
great respect. While the office boy can’t
leave his job without permission from
the man-power authorities (he can’t be
sacked either), woman-power is free to
go where it will.
The individual is short of dozens of
manufactured things, and he (and she)
will be short of dozens more. The real
strain of war on the physical capacity
of men and machines is now being felt
in Australia.
Call-ups, red-tape and other conditions
are affecting production and harvesting
of food crops. The changeover of occu-
pations from peace to war hasn’t been
handled systematically. Much unneces-
sary hardship on the one hand and incon-
venience on the other have followed
transfers from industry to the army. Aus-
tralia has had to accustom itself to
entirely new problems since Dec. 7, and
not all the circumstances, political and
industrial especially, have been fortunate.
While money wages keep on rising
every couple of months, in Australia
dividends to many shareholders are fall-
ing. If there have been any increases in
divs. there have been at least 20 times as
many falls. Taxation is responsible in
most cases, but price control has pre-
vented profiteering even before taxation
is assessed. When the reduced div. is
handed on to shareholders the taxation
authorities haven’t done with it either.
It is taxed a second time, with no allow-
ance for what has been paid while the
money was in the hands of the company.
When Senator Cameron and Labor
Minister Ward stand up before wage-
earners and talk about “the big com-
panies” they are talking to people who
know almost nothing about the constitu-
tion of a company. Not many of those
who work for a big company know that
the “bosses” in it may be only minor
quantities so far as ownership is con-
cerned, and that ownership is spread
over hundreds, possibly thousands, of
average, thrifty people who desire to
avoid being a charge on the State in
their old age. Many wage-earners don’t
even know what a dividend is, and some
people are inclined to think that Senator
Cameron is no more enlightened on this
and other matters, though at all times a
brave talker. Eddie Ward, however, knows
better. He was once a capitalist, having
run a cut-price bakery business in a
Sydney suburb, Eddie was fortunate
enough to get out of the baking business
and was received into politics, eventually
aspiring to a Ministerial salary. Other
“capitalists” haven’t always been so for-
tunate. At a time when “capitalists” are
being doubly taxed on all their income
that comes from “share capital,” some
members of the Governments levying the
taxes are not even disposed to tell the
truth about such contributions. McKell,
Premier of N. S. Wales, is such a one,
and there are others,
* * * *
B.H.P. has cut its div. for the year
to May 31 next from 7\ p.c. to 6i p.c.
The final was at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a. If
some people are making money out of
the war, B.H.P. shareholders (and thou-
sands of others) aren’t doing so. B.H.P.’s
steel prices are still at pre-war levels.
* * * *
Australian Iron and Steel announces
greater production as a result of plant
increases over several years, which is
encouraging in view of the fact that ship-
ment of iron ore from Whyalla has been
restricted and more attention given to
ore from N. S. Wales, which is not so
suitable for blast furnaces, and is “only
of interest as a war-time measure.” Net
earnings, after providing an undisclosed
amount for taxation and £669,400 (up
£96,461) for depreciation, were £303,775
lower at £78,641. The pref. div. was kept
at 1\ p.c., and took nearly all the profit.
V * * *
Minister for Trade and Customs
Keane has issued two orders pegging
prices and charges for all goods and ser-
vices, with the specific condition that goods
and services under the control of the
Commonwealth and State Governments
will be excepted, and so will livestock
and perishable primary produce. Life
assurance is excluded from the declara-
tion, but other forms of insurance will
be within its scope. Banking services
have already been dealt with by special
regulations. “These declarations will be
followed by an order by the Prices Com-
missioner dealing with the determination
of prices under the new conditions,” said
Senator Keane. It seems that in any case
prices of anything may not now be in-
creased above those ruling on April 15
without permission of the Prices Com-
missioner. Gross profit margins must
be kept at the money figure of April 15,
not the percentage. The Minister stressed
the desire of the Government to wipe out
any chance of black markets developing
now that certain products were becom-
ing scarce.
* * * *
Britain’s 1942-43 Budget aims at an
expenditure of £5286 million, compared
with an actual figure of £4776 million last
year. Revenue will be £2244 million on
old taxation rates. That will be about
£156 million below the aimed-at revenue
total, and additional taxation, mostly in-
direct, will be introduced to make up the
difference. This will chiefly take the
form of heavy increases in the excise
on beer (up 2d. a pint), whisky (4s. Bd.
a bottle), wine (16s. a gallon foreign, 12s.
Empire), tobacco (10s. a pound), while
the entertainments tax will be doubled
and the purchase tax on luxuries will be
raised from 33i p.c. to 66| p.c. Even
then, about half the Budget total will be
financed by borrowings and similar aids.
Preference on Empire sugar and tobacco
is to be continued for a further 10 years.
Britain is not increasing income-tax
rates this year. It will actually increase
slightly the exemption allowances, but a
single man on £lOO a year will never-
theless be subject to tax. The post-war
credits scheme will be continued —in Aus-
tralia Mr. Coles objected to Mr. Fadden’s
scheme, and voted the Government out
of office —but these credits will not be
allowed as means of payment for income-
tax arrears. Every effort is being made
to prevent increases in living and other
charges, and price-stabilisation cost the
Government £125 million during the
calendar year 1941. In 1942 a greater
subsidy is considered to be necessary.
By one means and another the cost of
living has been checked notably. In
April, 1941, the price level of staple
foods was 23 p.c. above the September
3, 1939, figure. It has been brought
down to 18 p.c, now.
* * * *
The Victorian Government has decided
to allow a 25 p.c. cut in motor-car regis-
tration fees as from April 14. Only
vehicles not equipped with producer-gas
units and similar aids and those on a
petrol allowance of under 25 gallons a
month will be allowed the reduction.
* * * *
Minister Makin told the press last week
that since Labor assumed office seven
new N.S.W. munitions establishments had
been completed or were well on the way ;
there were five similar factories in Vic-
toria and one in South Australia. They
were all in country districts. One Vic-
torian project was running to £600,000
and another to £500,000.


Personal and Missing Friends.
SAMUEL CAULDWELL KAY, Englishman,
arrived New South Wales about 16 years ago.
Any person knowing address please communi-
cate with FISHER & MACANSH, Solicitors,
70-72 King Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO SPENCER ALSOP late of Bingara New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that WALTER
EDWIN GALVIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce from IRIS EVA GALVIN No. 884 of
1941 on the ground of her adultery with you
You may enter an appearance before the 16th
June 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from J. FRISBY ARNOTT
Solicitor 26 O’Connell Street Sydney— (1.5.)
C. K- BODY. Registrar in Divorce.
r
THAT MEAN SO
MUCH TO MEN ON
ACTIVE SERVICE
. Recommended by
PKOIIDS
dfdsfd
AVIATION GOGGLES—new officially-approved "Farnsborough"
type, with non-shatterable lenses. Specially designed to give full,
clear side vision and fully ventilated to prevent fogging. They fit
most comfortably and are much sought after by men In
all the Services, At PROUDS
42
>
Soldier's heavily silver-plated collapsible cup Ii
leather case—easily kept clean and very handy i
compact, solid
active service.
This is one of hundreds of useful presents for men in the
Services, displayed at PROUDS' Showrooms and costs only
19'6
PItOUDS
PTY.
LTD.
Jewellers :: Watchmakers :: Silversmiths
THE CLOCK CENTRE OF SYDNEY,
CORNER OF KING AND PITT STREETS.
\V
4F
' -Sr
P EDUCE personal spending that means more
tanks, aeroplanes, ships, munitions, equip-
ment, to be used by our men for our defence.
Here is a vital war-time job for you to see that
not a single penny is wastefully or unnecessarily
spent, and that every penny so saved goes into
the total war effort. Until Victory is won, the
Government needs all your savings, not only the
money you have now but all that you can put aside.
f
£lO National Savings Bonds mature 1952, bear interest
at 3 % payable half-yearly, are purchaseable for cash
or by 10°/ o deposit and instalments of £1 monthly.
Hiram urines som
AND
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
nsh
APPIY TO ANY- BANK OR MONEY ORDER POST OFflCE
Samuel Courtauld, who made millions
out of rayon and whose U.S.A. interests
and those of his fellow-shareholders were
sold for $62 million in order to provide
Britain with dollars before Lend-Lease,
at the age of 65 has come forth with
plans for a post-war “new order.” On
the assumption that production is a
nation’s most vital activity, Mr. Court-
auld advocates nationalised transport,
Government directors in all industries,
labor representation on boards and
elimination of speculation in industrial
stocks. He maintains that Government
control has come to stay, and that no
Government can tolerate all-powerful
industrial combinations or trade unions.
The Government must plan industrial
growth. He qualifies his contentions by
noting that the existing Government
bureaucracy has proved incapable of
conducting business efficiently, “so it
needs to be radically reformed.” But he
insists that Labor is going to share more
in both managements’ policies and indus-
try’s rewards. Because he made millions
in a period in which art.-silk undies
and female leg glamor were considered
more important than defence or national
politics is no reason why Courtauld’s
opinions should be accepted as the last
word in practical economics. What he
has said will no doubt be used, distorted
and piecemeal, by cranks and opportunists
for years to come. But, taken critically,
word for word, there are ideas in it, even
if they mostly hang on slender threads
like the possibility of “radically reform-
ing the Government bureaucracy.” When
he says that “gambling in industrial shares
is a malignant disease of industry” the
rayon king is very near the truth.
In January, February and March, said
Prime Minister Curtin last week, actual
output of coal from all N. S. Wales mines
was 2,619,638 tons, against possible out-
put of 3,198,393 tons. Of 578,000 tons
lost, 283,000 tons was on account of
strikes, 201,000 tons because of absentee-
ism and 94,000 tons was due to mechani-
cal breakdowns and other causes.
Absenteeism had become most marked
since the new taxation had come into
force, Mr. Curtin said that there was
little to substantiate the charge that
owners had been guilty of provocation.
It was clear, he added, that a section of
the N.S.W. miners was contemptuous of
the country’s requirements and Govern-
ment’s directions. These men were hos-
tile to their unions and officials, and were
determined to be a law unto themselves.
* sit * *
After a brief but refreshing recovery,
news about the naval losses in the Bay
of Bengal, the aloofness of India and the
Japanese inroads into Burma brought
dullness to Australian Stock Exchanges
early last week. Broken Hill Prop., after
stepping up briskly to 295. 9d., came back
suddenly to 275. Bd. The fall was abetted
by the publication of Australian Iron
and Steel figures, which revealed a heavy
fall in profits after providing for undis-
closed taxation, and later by a drop in
B.H.P.’s own div. The prefs in AT. and S.
itself dropped Is. 9d. in one day. The
Sydney index of industrial shares declined
from 96.22 on April 13 to 95.87 on April
18 ; it is clear that B.H.P. was affected
by considerations not general in the
market, though at the time steel issues
were slipping there was also weakness in
textile shares, Australasian Paper, Asso-
ciated Newspapers and mining stocks.
But there was a good demand for Tooth
and other brewery shares, and it was not
entirely a buyers’ market by any means.
The lowest level of the Sydney share
index in 1942 has been 93.76, highest
112.37. The “high” was registered before
the Federal Government announced its
“economic organisation” regulations.
Already insurance companies have col-
lected £1,700,000 in premiums for war-
damage insurance on stock, plant, furni-
ture and personal effects. The premiums
on real property, which will be collected
by the shire and municipal councils, are
not included in the foregoing. The
money will represent a handy aid to the
Government for war finance, particularly
as no claims will be paid until after the
war. Insurance of all fixed property and
plant and stock worth more than £lOOO
is compulsory.
at: 4: * *
There is talk that if it comes to a vote
in the Senate the Government may
attempt a compromise on the 4 p.c.
profits limit and allow a lift to 5 p.c. on
capital and reserves. There is also talk
that the Opposition might accept such
a compromise in view of the fact that
Labor has been working industri-
ously to build up a mass of snap-
election support by increasing old-age
pensions, kidding to strikers, spreading
all kinds of “social benefits” and bellow-
ing about what it is going to do to the
“capitalists” and “bosses” now and in the
“new order.” The Opposition will be
condoning a wrong if it accepts a com-
promise. There is more than profit in-
volved. There is the whole industrial
economy. Fixation of profits at high or
low levels is fallacious economics. Effi-
ciency depends on incentive and elas-
ticity, and the best way of preserving effi-
ciency is to tax war-time excess profits
heavily but not totally. Heavy taxation
is an incentive to efficiency and increased
output provided there are avenues left
open to meet taxation levies by working
harder. And it is increased output we
are after just as much as the taxation
revenue. The committee appointed to
examine the 4 p.c. regulations said
“thumbs down,” and thumbs down it
should be,
• * * *
Sydney Water Board is asking for
£750,000 of loan-money, rate £3 12s. 6d.
per cent., term 13 years. The rate is
Is. 3d. per cent, higher than the previ-
ous (£900,000) issue, which was put on
the market at an unfavorable time. The
underwriters on this occasion are lan
Potter and Co., Melbourne.
« sj. * *
The National Bank of Australasia has
announced that it is suspending publica-
tion of its “Monthly Summary of Aus-
tralian Conditions.” The bank feels that
with available and publishable figures
now on a greatly restricted scale the
material and labor involved can be better
employed in war work. The temporary
suspension of this public service ren-
dered by the National will be regretted.
It was the best thing of its kind in the
country.


THE SERVICE MAN
The War Takes Wing.
“Ek Dum”: The events of the past few
days have begun to demonstrate that,
contrary to terrified anticipation in arm-
chair strategical bureaux, British and
American staffs know exactly what they
are about, are working smoothly in con-
cert towards a specific objective and have
no intention of being forced into the
pace of a 100-yard sprint in a mile race.
The Allied plan, so far as it has re-
vealed itself, has been: Conserve re-
sources —build man-power and arma-
ments to irresistible proportions strike
decisively with crushing weight, but not
necessarily on land, sea and air at the
same moment.
This scheme links well with a sub-
sidiary plan which aims at imposing a
brake on the enemy’s power to match
Allied productive effort, to suck his
strength to parts distant from his main
centres and to put an extreme strain on
his communications. Great as is the
advantage of the enemy in length of lines
of approach to various theatres of opera-
tion, his tombstone will ultimately carry
the statement that communications were
the death of him.
An indication of how this game is
being played already is to be seen in the
Pacific. Every Australian or U.S. divi-
sion built up in Australia must be
matched along Australia’s fringes with
another Japanese division. Every unit of
aircraft planted at an operational base
within reach of the outlying Japanese
holdings must swell the burden of the
4000-mile artery which runs southward
from Tokyo.
Every time United Nations’ forces
operating from Australia or some other
point demonstrate a lengthening reach,
the Japanese enemy must not only add to
his strength at the points nearest to his
assailants, but intensify his defensive
forces further back. His long communi-
cations also give him a long flank vu -
nerable from both east and west.
Royce on the Raid
Thus the American raids round the
Pacific in the past few weeks were
notable not so much for what they actu-
ally accomplished —though the accom-
plishments were most heartening as
for what they could demonstrably accom-
plish, and for their usefulness in forc-
ing on the enemy a defensive policy in
an area in which he hitherto has preened
himself on having complete command of
the initiative.
Though no “great armada was em-
ployed in Brigadier-General Royce’s raid
on the Philippines, nor was “vast destruc-
tion relentlessly carried out,” as was
asserted in excited newspapers, the dash-
ing exploit was important as a prospecting
expedition, led by the operational head of
the Allied air forces in Australia in
person. The information gained was
more useful than the damage done. In
actual magnitude, the thing was compar-
able to the raids of 1941 by British
’planes against Italy from British shores,
though more deadly because modern
machines enabled the carrying of greater
bomb loads. General MacArthur would
not have sent his operational air G.U.G.
in charge of an expedition which would
have been ordinarily a lieut.-colonel s
command for the mere purpose of drop-
ping a limited load of 110 tons of bombs
in two days on an area where objectives
are diffused.
The Americans left an unnamed base
on April 11. They had three Flying
Fortresses and 10 two-engined NA
bombers—B2s’s. They flew straight to
the Philippines —by a short route it
might be 1300 to 1400 miles, which is
nothing to a modern British or Ameri-
can heavy bomber not fully loaded.
All, machines fitted with long-range
tanks have high ceilings—in any case,
the tropical ceiling is fairly low. The
intervening air is over large stretches of
sea. In between, on a straight line, the
enemy holds only two or three air bases,
and in the early stages there was fighter
protection. The flight went smoothly,
though one of the four engines on a
Flying Fortress gave out.
The prospectors arrived at dark on a
Philippine field. During that night they
took off their long-range tanks and
racked their bomb loads.
Brigadier-General Royce settled down
in his headquarters. On Sunday morn-
ing he sent out two Fortresses, which
scouted over the extreme south of Luzon
Island towards Manila. One playfully
sank an unsuspecting enemy freighter in
the strait between Batangas, the southern-
most railroad port of Luzon, and Min-
doro ; the other scouted over enemy ob-
jectives, smashed up any material and
positions which attracted its crew’s
attention, and came home full of news.
The third Fortress was on the ground
changing its damaged engine when the
outline of “Photo Joe,” an air mark
familiar to all Bataanians, was noticed
snooping in the sky. Shortly, a few
enemy short-range naval observation
float ’planes arrived in twos and threes
and came down to 2500 feet, but did no
damage.
The B2s’s meanwhile made for Cebu
Island. They flew over Cebu city from
two different directions, following the
courses of two convoys. After frolicking
round transport and docks with satisfy-
ing results, celebrated by a fine bonfire,
they dispersed and returned to their
ground, rearmed in spite of interference
by the enemy and blasted Cebu a little
further; also Davao, the southernmost
port of Mindanao and the whole islands.
By Monday morning the landing
ground was under constant reconnais-
sance. The proceedings on the American
side showed that Brigadier-General Royce
had considerable local resources. Fhs
bomb supply must have been local. He
had some fighters and ammunition on
the spot. The Japanese apparently felt
that a major operation was beginning
and they handled the situation gingerly,
sending in a stream of reconnaissance
machines. The general did not give
away his strength or weakness. He
placed one fighter at a time on the
’drome and laid out the corpse of a de-
funct Flying Fortress, which had met her
death two months before, to amuse his
visitors. It was done up nicely with
four faked propellers and a new coat of
paint, and all day on April 13 it absorbed
sticks of enemy ammunition.
Every time a reconnaissance ’plane
appeared the general’s lone fighter
formed itself into a welcoming delega-
tion, but after two Japanese had bitten
the dust the remainder viewed proceed-
ings from as near the zenith as they could
y An afternoon visit by 13 twin-engined
Japanese failed to find the U.S. force at
home, though they left their bombs on
the empty ’drome just the same, ihe
Flving Fortresses were on their own law-
ful occasions; the B2s’s were haying a
merry time in the southern Philippines.
The U.S. infantry near Davao cele-
brated their coming with an attack on
the Japanese ground forces, which were
moving reinforcements into the area.
Royce’s raiders plunged into the fray.
They are well equipped for all sorts or
air attack, and the landscape behind the
Japanese lines was soon full of smoke
and scuttle, as blissfully incautious troop
concentrations made for cover and bits
of aerodrome and sea transport fined the
lower air among the machine-gun bulle s.
The raiders shot down several float
’planes, blew up at least one bomber on
the ground and returned to their base to
reload for a second act.
They split again into two sections,
bound for Cebu and Davao, where they
found their 36-hour-old bonfires still
This time over Davao they also fnnnd
O-type fighters, the most serious kind ot
opposition, but they had the good cloud
cover of a tropic evening, and they timed
their return to their landing-ground for
dusk so as to give the Japanese obser-
vation ’planes, which dmgoed after them,
as little view as possible of their arrange-
mTheir long-distance tanks were fitted on
Tuesday night. On the evening of Wed-
nesday,'April 15, they were thousands of
miles away across Australia at their
home bases. Brigadier Royce Lieu-
tenant-Colonel J. H. Davies and Captain
Frank Bostrom were decorated tor
their exploits with Distinguished Service
Crosses, which rank next to the Congres-
sional Medal of Flonor, bear the em-
blem of an eagle with wings outspread
and are designed as the rewards ot
“extraordinary heroism m operations
against an armed enemy.
The material damage caused by the
raids included the sinking of three, and
probably four, transports and damage to
a further four; one cargo vessel sunk,
three landplanes and a seaplane shot
down, several landplanes and two sea-
planes damaged, a bomber destroyed at
Davao. The expedition lost one machine.
The Fortresses had bearded the enemy
on the doorstep of Manila and had
treated the beleaguered garrison of Corre-
gidor, with whose commander Brigadier
Royce exchanged messages, to the
heartening spectacle of Nichols Field
beside the Cavite naval base having its
hangars and runways torn up.
The material results were those of a
comparatively small-scale but successful
bombing raid conducted on modern
lines, designed from European experi-
ence, with some acknowledgments to the
Japanese air force technique over
southern China and elsewhere. But the
results went far beyond material damage.
They provided the main operational com-
mander of the air force in Australia with
a personal assay of Japanese strength.
They equipped several dozen picked U.S.
airmen as guides to Japanese objectives
in the Philippines, and they brought from
Manila 24 men, mostly of special value
for their knowledge of Philippine air
fighting. They proved to friend and foe
alike that medium-scale landing grounds
there must still be accessible to American
forces and operable for the heaviest
bombers, and that the air channels in
and out of the islands from Australia
were still open to Allied aircraft, and Jap
air defence in the Philippines somewhat
pottering and certainly inadequate.
With half the islands still in Uncle
Sam’s hands, the Japanese now have fair
warning that the capture of Corre-
gidor, Cebu, Davao and other military
objectives is not likely to end the Philip-
pine war. A link in their chain which
holds the eastern Indies, the mandated
islands and the Bismarcks captive and the
Japanese “mandated” islands protected
is perilously weak. The Philippines have
been scooped into the Australian war
zone. And Japanese air power in the
Middle South of the new “Co-Prosperity
Sphere” must be progressively strength-
ened, a process which will put the maxi-
mum kind of strain on shipping resources
and assembly plants.
A Call on Tokyo
Just to warn Nippon that it need not
hope to strengthen southern air facilities
at the expense of home protection, a
corollary series of raids was made on the
heart of the empire itself on April 18.
The moral effect was heightened by the
fact of their duration and by the initial
mystery which beset their place of origin.
All the news up to two days afterwards
came from Tokyo itself.
The attacks, according to Japanese in-
formation, spread over seven hours.
Tokyo Radio stations went off the air.
When they reopened, their announcers
sounded as if they had been through an
unpleasant few hours. Their stories were
conflicting and more than a little panic-
stricken*
Their first version was that “a. small
formation of American ’planes” had
“attempted to raid Tokyo and Yoko-
hama” and had been chased away (the
cowards!) by “the Japanese eagles, save
for some brought down in the sight oi
“great crowds.” It was, it seemed, an
enjoyable spectacle,” since, “as always m
the Pacific war, the craven Americans
turned tail” and fled after having failed
to reach any military objective. this
is another joke and propaganda stunt tor
American home consumption, said me
announcer shakily; but he added tha
the Japanese people would remember
that the U.S. forces had deliberately
bombed hospitals, schools and other cul-
tural establishments and machine-gunned
groups of people in the streets. It was
admitted that three large fires were
started in Kobe and six in Nagoya.
A second version said nothing of
pitals, schools or fires. It described he
bombing as “purely political, unlike the
raids on Pearl Harbor and elsewhere
the start of an attempt at a war of
nerves.” Not a single ’plane had pene-
trated the centres of Tokyo, Nagoya or
Kobe —no mention of Yokohama but
“one or two machines scattered a tew
bombs on villages round the outskirts.
The ’planes came from aircraft-carriers
which lay far out to sea and were either
shot down or escaped quickly.
Then “seven large ’planes jettisoned
their loads and “flew with full speed
helter-skelter to China, pursued by the
Japanese Air Force.” It was suggested
that they had come from Chungking.
Actually, the nearest point to Tokyo held
by the Chungking Government is about
1250 miles from Tokyo, so that it would
be in bare range of very moderately
loaded heavy four-engined bombers.
Behind these versions came others
evidently intended to reassure the Axis
world, but the raid had come near
enough to the Imperial Palace, which
rears its grey walls cheek by jowl with
the great department stores of Tokyo s
Central Marunouchi business and shop-
ping quarter, to move the Premier,
General Tojo, and his Ministers to call
on the Emperor, who was discovered
“composed as usual, though greatly con-
cerned.” And repeated insistence that
the Imperial Palace was not damaged
and that communications were still func-
tioning suggests that the bombers made
for the central Tokyo railway station and
at least reached its vicinity and that of
the Palace,
The long silence which followed on the
Allied side sounded as if the technique
of Pearl Harbor had been followed. Air-
craft-carriers would not give away their
whereabouts by reporting immediately.
It is certain, too, that they would not
have bothered to attempt a raid on four
cities except with a sky full of ’planes ;
also that, if they reached the industrial
areas of any of them with incendiary
bombs, the results would be damaging
among the tens of acres of flimsy
tatami walls and mat-covered floors.
On Our Northern Front
Because of heavy weather it was late
in the week before normal raiding over
New Guinea and Timor began to get
into its stride.
Koepang aerodrome and Rabaul harbor
were raided on April 16. The enemy
retaliated on April 17 with an escorted five-
bomber raid on Moresby. He dropped
45 bombs and lost one O-type fighter ;
two more were probably shot down and
others damaged. There was a small dog-
fight, but no R.A.A.F. machines were
lost, though there were a few ground
casualties. No damage was caused.
Darwin had an alert when 20 enemy
machines were sighted off the coast, but
there was no attack.
On Saturday and Sunday Rabaul had
full-scale raids by heavy U.S. bombers,
which pushed their way in through a
thick a.-a. curtain and small swarms of
busy fighters. One small vessel was hit,
others were touched by near misses and
seaplanes and small vessels were sprayed
with machine-gun bullets. Nearer
Moresby, fierce fights were in progress
between Zeros and Allied machines, in
which several of the enemy were hit and
two possibly did not reach their bases
across the range. A U.S. bomber crew
of eight were rescued in the jungle.
Sunday’s raid on Rabaul was heavier
than Saturday’s and the damage seems
to have been more substantial. No Allied
machines were lost.
There is a tendency on the part of
both newspapers and radio to over-report
the results of these daring attacks. A.8.C.,
for instance, on Sunday enthused over
the damage done to Rabaul docks.
All the docks in Rabaul would fit into
a radio uncle’s brainpan.
The R.A.F. Spreads Itself
It is not without significance that these
operations in the Pacific zone synchro-
nise with operations in Europe.
In the Mediterranean daily strafing
goes on along the African coast, while
the people of little Malta, still under a
thinning cloud of JuB7’s and 88 s, and
decorated with the George Cross, must
smile quietly to themselves as they hear
the unctuous voices of the 8.8. C. uncles
assuring the world that Chungking is
the most bombed city in the world, as
they did last week.
Little is heard of the Libyan raids,
but they wreak substantial damage. And
giant strafes are in progress on the Euro
pean continent.
These great raids are rendered doumy
terrible by the new technique. The Blen-
heim and the Hampden, with their speeds
in the 250-m.p.h. class, are giving place
to Hurricane single-engined bombers
and Douglas-Boston two-engined, tri-
cycle landing machines for short-range
work on aerodromes. And the huge
Lancasters, Stirlings, and
Halifaxes gradually replace the Whitleys
and trusty Wellingtons for long-distance
work, going with impunity where the
older ’planes could not travel without
fighter escort save at night, and shaking
the coast of England with their two-
ton monsters of destruction. The
bigger machines have the speed of the
fastest fighters of the first year of war,
and armament of the type which has
earned the Short Sunderlands their name
of Porcupines, without the bulky
outline of the fat sea-ships. The Bostons
and Hurricanes whirl along as fast as any
1941 fighter, and, well charged with
wing guns, bomb or gun the enemy m
daylight at choice.
Where squadrons of fighters went over
before there are formations of circuses.
Where bombers travelled in large forma-
tions at altitude, sedate and sinister
squadrons skim the lower air, gun-
bristling and contemptuous of the fighter
attack which trails behind
Early last month the English mentioned
“in telegraphic sentences, half-muttered
to their friends,” that there were a million
men in the R.A.F., and that production


Commonwealth of Australia—(Allied Works Council)
EARTH MOVING
PUNTS
NOTICE TO OWNERS
A CENSUS is to be taken of ALL EARTH MOYIKG
plant and equipment. If you own or have custody
or control of earth moving plant or equipment, either
new, in use or secondhand, you are required to
render a return in duplicate, setting out the work on
which it is engaged, Defence or otherwise, at the
date of filling in the return.
SEE PUBLIC NOTICE COLUMN IN THIS
ISSUE FOR DETAILS OF PLANT AND
EQUIPMENT REQUIRED BY AN ORDER
UNDER
NATIONAL SECURITY REGULATION
No. 57.
In order to fulfil the purpose of the Order, Owners
and others MUST NOT sell or otherwise dispose of
their plant, or move it otherwise than for the purpose
of carrying out their normal business operations.
The order applies to State Instrumentalities, Muni-
cipalities, Manufacturers, Agents, Private Owners
and Farmers.
Returns should be furnished to—
THE DIRECTOR OF MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
ALLIED WORKS COUNCIL
17 QUEEN'S ROAD, MELBOURNE, 5.C.2, VIC.
AVOID PENALTY
AND HELP THE WAR EFFORT
Send YOUR return BEFORE April 30th next.
of ’planes had overtaken Germany’s. The
scale of the subsequent operations
showed that the moment the weather
cleared for the entrance of spring this
vast force would not be without occupa-
tion.
The R.A.F. began to hurl its blows
at Hitler’s forces at the moment when
the German High Command, military
and political, could best do with immu-
nity. In a France at the crossroads and
under German squeeze, the moral effect
of the incessant rattle of British machine-
guns and the constant thud of the 4000-
pounders must be worth while.
In the Rhineland, the Ruhr and coastal
Germany the loss of material and work-
ing hours must be tremendous, and it is
imposed at a time when all the fighter
umbrellas which Germany can muster
are needed on the Russian front, where a
crucial land offensive is about to begin.
Many Australians are taking part in
all the European raids, which Berlin
Radio interprets, in view of the presence
of the American C.0.G.5., General Mar-
shall, in London, as part of some major
scheme.
Sunday, April 12, saw attacks over the
Ruhr, docks at Le Havre and over Haze-
brouck railway yards. The Air Ministry
described the fighter combat here as the
heaviest since the Battle of Britain.
Each day from then onward the fire-
works display expanded. There was not
an hour during the week just ended when
British aircraft were not over Germany
or France on destructive missions. From
Cherbourg to the nether Ruhr and Rhine-
land the whole industrial and harbor in-
stallations were methodically blasted
except those of the Netherlands. Day-
light hours saw a steady stream of fighter
craft passing over the Channel. The aver-
age usage of bombs per night is said to
have been over 250 tons ; the heaviest
dose 900 tons. At least recently once 600
tons was dropped by 300 aircraft, includ-
ing helpings of the 4000-pounders, which
are not now the largest available.
On April 16 upwards of 400 Spitfires,
with fast day bombers, were in action all
day over northern French ports, mainly
Le Havre and Lorient U-boat base. Over
Le Havre five Messerschmitt 109’s were
brought down in a dogfight in which the
R.A.F. lost two fighters, but losses were
next to nothing in other dogfights which
patterned the sky 25,000 ft. to 29,000 ft.
above the Channel fringes.
The Germans brought up more fighters
in an attempt to form a wall against the
flood of destruction pouring over the
Reich borders, but this did not inhibit
a heavy raid on Hamburg nor prevent
500 Spitfires at the week-end from escort-
ing droves of Bostons and Hurricanes to
new and deadly daylight blasting over
Cherbourg and Calais and of the great
shell-filling factory which serves the
Channel line at Marquise, between Calais
and Boulogne.
Lancasters Visit Hiller Land
Towards the end of the week, Lan-
caster bombers were mentioned as being
in action—four were lost somewhere
south of Paris, These fellows are the
newest giants, larger, deadlier and better
defended than anything else on wings.
The loss apparently was due to their
technique. They are built to carry the
maximum quantity of bombs a maximum
distance and to plunge through every-
thing that comes in their way.
Eight of them rolled across the Rhine
after the four had been wrecked and
blasted the great Augsburg Diesel-engine
factory to pieces. Augsburg, though in
south Germany below the Danube, is
closer to London in a direct line than
Berlin.
As the emptied Lancasters rose to
normal flying height, explosions began
which must have shaken the Brown
House in Munich less than 40 miles
away.
From Bataan to Burma.
“Ek Dum”: Though heartened by
General Royce’s raiding, the U.S, troops
in the Philippines are up against an
almost impossible task unless substantial
help reaches them soon.
There are at least eight Japanese divi-
sions in the islands, and gallant as the
stand may be and strong as Corregidor’s
fortress undoubtedly is, the end must
come unless military supplies are replen-
ished and sufficient air cover provided.
In the interim, Lieut.-General Wain-
wright and his stalwarts are doing a great
job, and the men of Davao and Cebu are
showing themselves full of fight.
New Japanese troops during the week
were landed at various points.
In Burma the Japanese are making a
strenuous drive to conquer the central
plain and Mandalay before the wet
season sets in. Allied resistance has
slowed it down, but each day shows a
little further penetration. Towards the
end of last week, in spite of vigorous
enemy attempts to prevent it, the Burma
oilfields, which yield more than 1,500,000
tons of oil a year, had to be destroyed,
As the Allies retire, the change in the
conformation of the land, which stretches
north to south in a series of five ranges
between the rivers from the central plain
as if from the palm of a hand, has
brought the Chinese forces of the Sittang
and the retiring British further west to-
gether so that Chiang Kai-shek’s men are
now involved on the Irrawaddy,
British naval units have stopped many
Jap landings on the west Burma coast,
The Indian Navy—which lost a sloop a
few days ago—has evacuated 40,000
Indians from the Assam fringes and cap-
tured dozens of dhows loaded down with
disguised Japanese soldiery,
Better air support is now available,
both at sea and over the land fighting,
It is being provided both by the R.A.F.
and the U.S. Air Force.
Slush in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: The war in Russia runs
its bewildering course. “Great victories”
reach the verge of accomplishment and
fall into the void. The beleaguered army
of Staraya Russa has been forgotten.
Spring has come in the south, but in the
centre and north-west it may not arrive
till the middle of May. Moscow reported
last week that the thaw had not reached
the central front and that in the Kalinin
sector there were still huge snowdrifts.
The Germans are unlikely to enter on
full-scale operations until they can cor-
relate actions with certainty on all parts
of the line. It is possible that the lag
in the German advance in the north last
June was due to the season, which had not
advanced as much there as in the south.
Large bodies of German troops are
being moved up. A number of generals,
exceeding any known retirements, has
been promoted, and the Germans speak
of intensified air activity and reconnais-
sances. Soviet communiques also pay
increasing attention to the air. They de-
clared on April 14 that the enemy had
lost 1103 machines in a month against
Soviet losses of 314. Berlin retaliated
with the assertion that the Soviets had
lost 20,600 machines since the beginning
of the war.
On the land front, the Germans report
occasional breaks into their lines by local
attacks, but in every case declare that
these have been flung back with heavy
losses. On April 13 Moscow began to
talk of “offensives in several sectors.”
It reported the “capture of a locality of
great importance on the north-western
front,” and of a strong point on the
Kalinin front. Soviet cavalry was
credited with having cut part of the Ger-
man supply lines on the Leningrad front,
where “the initiative is firmly in the hands
of the Red Army” and 9000 Germans
had been killed in 10 days to April 10.
On April 14 the Stockholm correspon-
dent of the London “D.T.” announced
the storming of Rshev, which is about
140 miles north-west of Moscow and one
of the strong points of the German hold-
ing line. It has been described as on
the point of capture several times since
Dec. 6. Moscow did not confirm the
Stockholm report. Moscow Radio, how-
ever, announced that General Zhukov’s
armies had “penetrated the enemy’s
second defence lines in the Bryansk
area.” Bryansk, 220 miles s.-w. of Mos-
cow, is an important railway and manu-
facturing centre, from which seven rail-
way lines pivot. Its capture would be a
major victory, but the casualties reported
—“3000 Germans wiped out”—did not
suggest heavy fighting or a very strong
line.
Byelgorod, key junction to the northern
approaches of Kharkov, also was un-
officially reported captured—for the third
time during the winter. Again.there was
no official confirmation. The same un-
official chronicle said that the armies of
Timoshenko had penetrated the inner
Kharkov defences and were “within two
miles s.-w. of Rjepki.” Again no con-
firmation.
On April 16 Kuibyshev, while not men-
tioning the capture of Rshev, spoke of
the huge booty taken “in the Rshev
area.” And it was said that a heavy
German counter-attack in the centre had
been beaten back near Smolensk, and the
wrecking of three German transports in
the Barents Sea in the north by Soviet
naval units was claimed.
Behind the noise of Stockholm and
the radio commentators appeared a pic-
ture of two restive and busy armies wait-
ing and watching for spring and work-
ing off their natural irritation by making
vicious jabs at each other.
MacArthur's Commana.
“Ek Dum”: The silly storm in a tea-
cup over General MacArthur’s command
is typical of the peahen press.
This is a naval and air war, and a
great deal depends on not letting the
enemy know where attacks are being
directed from. Neither John Bull nor
Uncle Sam is going to tell him in advance
anything which is likely to help him.
The first thing an army or naval com-
mander wants to know is who his adver-
sary is, because that at least gives him, in
knowledge of his opponent’s character
and past behavior, some inkling as to
how the foe will act and what his
methods will be. The experienced Swin-
ton once wrote a story round that theme.
In most wars it is inevitable that the foe
should have this vital fact clearly defined
for him. In the war in the Pacific, with
its many converging fronts, there is a
rare opportunity not to tell him. To this
the strategical command will cling tightly.
To disclose the limits of the commands
might also disclose the essentials of local
strategy.
The whole explosion of noise seems
to have been caused by the fact that
somebody discovered that the general’s
“directive” had not arrived or by the
reluctance of somebody at H.Q. to be
specific ; but the chances are that full
orders could not be drafted until the
general himself had advised the Com-
mand Council of his own views and those
of the Commonwealth Government.
There were bound to be difficulties of
some sort in the framing of a complex
plan to cover the largest single war zone
in history and in dovetailing it with other
war zones, equally large and equally
susceptible to attack at dozens of points
hundreds of miles apart, but the Aus-
tralian Minister in Washington says that
any troubles that existed were ironed out
long ago.
Mr. Curtin has made it very clear that
Australia, which has now become a mili-
tary area, in which every man in uniform
is “on active service,” proposes to leave
the problems of defence and offence to
the military commanders rather than to
editors.
All parties having agreed on organisa-
tion, Mr, Curtin on April 19 described
the completed command structure as
being based on a charter from Australia,
the U.K., the U.S.A., the Netherlands
and M.L. appointing General MacArthur
C.-in-C. in the s,-w. Pacific area.
The control of all Australia’s defence
forces has been delegated to General
MacArthur, and Australian commanders
will now accept his orders “as if coming
from the Australian Government.”
Mr. Stimson, the U.S. War Secretary,
says General MacArthur’s duty is the
“practical co-ordination and strategic
direction of all Allied forces in the south-
west Pacific ”
General Blarney is no longer a “Com-
mander-in-Chief,” but, under General
MacArthur, “General Officer Command-
ing Allied Land Forces” not only in
Australia, but in the whole command
area. Apparently the armies on Austra-
lian soil will be made up of mixed Aus-
tralian and U.S. divisions,
Lieut.-General G. H. Brett remains in
command of the Air Forces, and Vice-
Admiral Herbert Leary, U.S.N., of the
naval forces in the area. Lieut.-General
Wainwright maintains his command in
the Philippines under General Mac-
Arthur. Major-General Julian F. Barnes
will administer U.S. land forces in the
Commonwealth immediately subject to
General Blarney.
There are (Mr. Curtin says) to be no
national barriers in the choice of officers.
Japanese weapons brought to light
on Bataan include a sub-machine-gun
modelled on the Bren —.22 cal.; a light,
bipod-mounted 25.6 mm. m.-g.; a heavy
52mm. m.-g. A .32-cal. Luger-type pistol
is in use. There also —most interesting
of the lot —was a mortar with a stand
which fits the user’s thigh, is said to have
a 650-yard range and can handle hand-
grenades.
* * * •
One of Canada’s Munition Depart-
ment men says that the frosty Dominion
has already shipped 52,000,000 tons of
food and munitions from its eastern sea-
ports to Britain. Its aluminium industry
is able to cope with both its own needs
and those of the Old Country, besides sup-
plying Uncle Sam with 300,000-odd tons
p.a. The Canadian aircraft industry em-
ploys 40,000 men already, and has orders
for 8500 ’planes. There are 100,000 men
in the Canadian Air Force and 25 squad-
rons organised overseas. The Dominion
has put ten types of heavy guns into
production, has produced 12,000 Brens—
production is now over 3000 a month—and
9,000,000 heavy shells in 20 sizes. Twenty-
three new plants have been built to manu-
facture war chemicals —cost £30,000,000.
One aerial-bomb factory produces 10,000
5001 b. bombs a month. Eighty corvettes
and 60 minesweepers have been launched
since the beginning of the war, and this
year’s programme calls for the launch-
ing of a 10,000-ton merchant vessel
every five days and a corvette every three
days. It is working to schedule.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
If rivers of dollars are to flow in Mel-
bourne they surely will flow from Ameri-
can Red Cross, which has a most ambi-
tious programme of uplift and care for
the sick and wounded. The first four
field supervisors are here from U.S.A.
and getting down to work with the boys
from their own land. They seem likely
to solve most of the questions which are
agitating the public mind as to how to
treat American soldiers when on leave,
whether with food, music or dance. The
overlord of the American Red Crossers
is C. K. Gamble, who has been here for
15 years, and can show the new arrivals
the town. Wayne Clark is a New York
barrister, suave, polished, not overfree
with words ; Walter Howard, from Texas,
mixes the carefree western laugh with the
fiery faith of the born reformer ; Durnell
Matthews, soft-spoken but exact, has all
the answers to the questions everyone is
asking about the Red Cross sphere of
service ; and Clarence Lemke, from Troy,
New York County, strikes one as the
silent man who will probably be a whale
for work —eat it up, in fact.
Those who have it should dig out
their copy of the once-popular American
novel Daisy in the Field, for the vocabu-
lary of the American has not altered
much since the day of the sorely afflicted
Daisy. The four Red Cross men all
speak of work in the “Field,” meaning
here, for the field, to an American, is
any place where he fights. The new-
comers bring with them the atmosphere
of smaller towns which have not yet
grown so cosmopolitan as to forget the
Liberty Bell, cracked with ringing for
men to fight for freedom, and they talk
of the homesteads where Mother still
collects patches for patchwork quilts and
keeps the old recipes for Thanksgiving
Day dinners. The four should be able to
marshal all female Melbourne that can
walk or totter into Liberty Belles squads
to dance with the Allied soldiers. Mel-
bourne has caught on to the idea, though
how Melbourne girls are to discipline
themselves to leave the dance floor un-
attended and go back to a municipal
building where fathers or mothers will
collect them isn’t easy to see. Still, the
girls in Texas stood for it, so perhaps
Australians can.
Sad signs of this city’s changed way of
life are the vacant spots once occupied
by flower shops, over whose counters
exotic blooms passed at the rate of hun-
dreds of pounds’ worth an hour in the
busy season. One of the biggest in the
city has gone out and a popular suburban
one has followed -suit. Difficulty of ob-
taining supplies seems to be the explana-
tion. A leading suburban florist predicts
the transfer of the flower-selling business
to the fruit merchants, who are buying
up flower farms. Maybe so, but the fruit-
shop atmosphere seems all wrong for
such a delicate business.
There is a band of workers which steps
silently and dusts and sweeps only down-
stairs till noon so that tired airwomen
sleeping upstairs may not be disturbed.
A leader among these women is Mrs.
McEwen, whose husband was formerly
Minister for Air, and the scene of their
labors is Toorak House, now handed over
to the W.A.A.A.Fs. as a stand-down
hostel. These voluntary workers do all
the domestic duties, even to the garden-
ing, and workers at the week-ends are
nearly all businesswomen who might well
consider themselves entitled to a rest on
their days off. Everyone predicted that
no woman would toil voluntarily for an-
other, and when Mrs. McEwen began her
roster of voluntary workers her heart
was in her boots. But the miracle has
happened, and women are taking up the
entire domestic burden of Toorak House,
without the bait of men in uniform,
which cynics had said was what most of
them really worked for.
Previewers at the Harold Herbert show
of war pictures at Sedon Galleries divided
easily into those who came to see Harold
and his pictures and those who had the
urge to hear Bob Menzies. Bob said, in
effect, that he had not lived in vain now
that he had opened a show by Harold,
and Harold, refraining wisely from
wordiness, said “Thanks a lot,” and was
lost to sight behind the backs of Mrs.
H. P. Ogilvie, Mrs. Bob Menzies and
the Blarney lady, still in uniform.
Harold Herbert’s catalogue not only ex-
plained the paintings round the wall,
which were done during his period in the
Middle East as official artist, but gave
little word-pictures of the life there as
seen by Harold.
So completely all-Australian was the
programme given at the Lady Mayoress’s
third musicale that Byron, Longfellow
and “Woodsworth” were only mentioned
at the bottom c f j tj among the also-rans,
as it were Apart from the typing error,
no doubt due to the dominant place in
the Melbourne mind now occupied by
wood ( or i ts absence from the domestic
hearth ) tbe programme disclosed a fuller
a p prec i at i on G f the work of present-day
composers an d writers than can usually
be eX p ecte d Miss Ina Mornament is a
true musician wbo has done much
pleasant work as a composer, and poejns
- Joyce j en ki n , Mrs. Arthur Nickson
and Doris Barlow do not come amiss in
such a gathering . Eileen O’Keefe and
yiolet Jackson collaborated with Ina
Mornament in the performance,
rw
When Fll ITrgo -
nehus Van Woerden, R.N.N. ~
south from Java at the end of the her
Dutch fight for that fair island colony,
he probably thought he was saying go -
bye to all the happy things of life, u
on arrival in Australia he met roman
in the person of Marjorie (Lou )
£) un can, daughter of Gordon Duncan,
Q £ yac hting fame. The lass herself is
n 0 mea n yachtswoman, and in pre-war
days be Duncans always had a yacht
rea dy to sail out of Williamstown harbor.
There have been, in the days before the
war, many happy marriages between
Dutchmen and Australian girls, and
many Dutch families have come, when
their service in the Netherlands East
Indies was completed, to this country to
spend their retirement, so that it would
seem that the two races get along well
together. Antoine made this picture of
Miss Duncan.
Q E D uncan has more than one
reagon to feel a very p i eaS ed father this
He is facing a tide of good wishes
congratulations in respect to elder
11 B tr„rrxr
daughter Jean who became Mrs Harry
Clough at St. Mary s Church, Caulfield,
a £ o]dn i gb £ agoj thus recruiting another
keen lfer tQ the f am ii y . The two sisters
&re much alike and make an attrac .
tiye ■ Jean has a war job which
W - R con ti n ue in spite of matrimony. The
bridegroom is w i tb the A.1.F., so their
futufe lans are for « after the war ”
, . ~ ~ . .
Melbourne s new Anglican archbishop,
to be enthroned on the 28th, touches hie
at more points than the average arch-
bishop, through the possession of a veiy
active-minded family. The three Booth
girls will march with Melbourne’s young
people and doubtless will inform the
ar chbishop’s mind on what youth is
thinking. The eldest is a clerk, the second
i 3 a teacher of domestic science in a high
school, and the third is still at school,
an d with her pals of Melbourne Church
G f England Grammar School is finding
lessons at Eastern Golf Club quite a
change from the same studies conducted
under the school roof. Mrs. Booth is
herself y an old girl of the same school,
Mrs. Head, widow of the former arc -
bishop, has not announced her plans yet,
but all her admirers hope she will stay
here. She is a telling speaker, and has
done a good deal of quiet lecturing in
the church s girls schools,
Decorative Mrs. Esmonde Lillies has
joined the ranks of publicity women. She
w iu WO rk for the theatre, and take the
p i ace 0 f Mrs. Rex Potter while Mrs.
potter splashes a few spots of publicity
over Sydney for David Martin and his
“Claudia” show. Mrs. Lillies is one of
the daughters of one-time Parliamentary
i ea der Stanley Argyle, and ifi her girl-
bood was a noted beauty. She has sound
ideas on furnishing and decoration and
a pleasant manner, and should be happy
in her new- job.
From Sydney
Buckingham Palace did not overlook
the birthday of Mrs. Louisa Kennedy, of
Northbridge. Mrs. Kennedy is 100 years
old, and the King and Queen sent her
cabled congratulations. Lord Gowrie
and Lord Wakehurst also sent their good
wishes.
Women in uniform are at last to have
a club of their own. Bayswater House,
that bow-windowed landmark of King’s
Cross, has been taken over by the Coun-
try W.A., and plans for its reconditioning
are already in hand. A five-foot sign
over the door will carry its name —“The
C.W.A. Service Women’s Club.” There
will be no more than two beds in a
room, and these the latest in chrome
fashioning. If a service girl, tired after
a heavy week, wants to snuggle down for
a long Sunday morning in bed there
will be no one to say her nay. That’s
to be one of the privileges, particularly
stressed when the new venture was
decided on.
The roomy old house is right on the
tramline from the city. Buses, too, are
practically at its door. Something special
in cafeterias is promised, and this will
be the particular care of the Metro-
politan Group members. Mrs. George
Mack, of Trangie, an ardent C.W.A.
member, will be the club hostess. The
association’s president, Mrs. Jack Garry,
of Binalong, is putting all her enthusiasm
into making this club a real home. Lots
of books, magazines and writing materials
and deeply-cushioned easy-chairs will be
featured. Lady Wakehurst is very keen
on the idea, particularly as she knows
the splendid achievements of the C.W.A.
This club is not to be run for profit. As
long as it pays for itself the committee
will be content.
Mrs, P. Stacy, head office represen-
tative of the Hunter River group, came
to the city from Singleton for the C.W.A.
talks. Mrs. Stacy has been president of
the Singleton branch for 14 years, and
is very proud of that town’s new build-
ing. This contains a baby health centre,
a rest-room for women and children and
a recreation-room, very active just now
with camouflage-netters. Photograph
from the Peter Pan studio.
Annette Kellerman, now running an
entertainment unit for the benefit of the
Red Cross, had two pleasant surprises
connected with her opening night. The
first was the letterhead which Red Cross
Headquarters has issued for the theatrical
unit’s correspondence. This shows a pic-
ture of Florence Nightingale in the left-
hand corner, and on the right, somewhat
lower down, one of Annette, quite classic
in design. The second was the arrival of
an Army captain who had known the
Sullivans (that’s Annette’s name out of the
diving tank) in New York. With him he
brought two friends, so the Stars and
Stripes were well represented.
Already the unit has made a hit, and
Red Cross groups are lining up
three-deep to book it. The costumes and
materials are provided by Annette, who
has given a wardrobe gathered over
years, in every country, to be adapted
and made up for the various sets. She
herself appears in a bewildering array,
starting with a burgundy flash of pail-
lettes and proceeding by way of an
apricot feather ballet costume, one of
cyclamen plumes so blazing with rhine-
stones that it would be arrested in a
brownout, to a glittering Oriental robe
and an unbelievable headdress. The
show, words and music written by
Annette, is called “We’re All In It.”
Quite a snappy prologue is the march of
the girls from the local train or bus stop.
They step out in light-blue uniforms, red-
braided, swinging over one shoulder a
scarlet cape.
Everyone has heard of Flynn of the
Inland. Surely the Flynns of Centennial
Park will go down in history as the
Flynns of the Interior. The father was
Dr. John Flynn, ot Centennial Park. His
six sons are all doctors. One of them,
now Rev. Frank Flynn, entered the priest-
hood, and he officiated at the wedding of
his youngest brother, Captain Gregory
Flynn, and Margaret Murray Curtis.
Margaret, too, should know a tibia
from a breastbone, for she is the only
daughter of the Dr. Murray Curtis
couple. Surgeon - Commander James
Flynn, R.A.N.V.R., was best man. Two
of the brothers are in the R.A.A.F. Mar-
garet, in her bonnet hat with its fall of
tulle veil and her rose-white crepes, was
a picturesque bride. She was attended
by Florence Flynn.
Sydney hasn’t yet seen the American
Army nurses. To this city, so far, they
seem to be like the catechism definition
of angels: pure spirits without a body.
From their pictures they are splendid,
upright young women who wear their
uniforms with dash.
Mrs. A. C. Aubry is now vice-chairman
of the American Centre, of which, inci-
dentally, R. S. Hauslaid has become chair-
man since its first chairman, A. C. Aubry,
has become a major in Uncle Sam’s
Army,
Last week the lift at Endeavour House,
Macquarie-place, must have felt itself the
hub of this State. It was busy descend-
ing and ascending with the 90 delegates
to the C.W.A. Conference session. Lady
Wakehurst showed her interest in the
movement by attending the opening meet-
ing and giving one of her stimulating
little talks. The principal office-bearers
for 1942 are the same as in the previous
year. In fact, they were re-elected un-
opposed, Mrs. Jack Garry remains presi-
dent, Mrs. Hubert Fairfax is again the
secretary and Mrs. C. W. D’Arcy the
treasurer. During the year just ended
the C.W.A. has given £22,999 to patriotic
funds, and his given to other organisa-
tions and objectives no less than £27,439.
And after these disbursements the asso-
ciation has assets of £113,516. How’s
that for finance?
Don Nicol’s sketch “Sailing Up the
Clyde” was an outstanding number of
the Revuedeville at Prince’s last Friday
afternoon. This was the name given to
a party which practised the gentle art
of drinking tea (or rather coffee) to the
accompaniment of music. Don might
have been Harry Lauder as he described
the hard-working, much-bombed Clyde-
siders. Don’s humor, like all the best
brands, seems to be a mixture of laughter
and tears. The R.A.A.F. Training Corps
benefited, and there were numbers of fly-
ing men among the guests. Terry Walker,
star of “Claudia,” twinkled for a brief
moment of speech. Rita Fox was the
compleat organiser. One of the after-
noon’s hostesses was Mrs. G. P. North-
Hunt, of Singapore.
Eight weeks from their meeting Kath-
leen Weir, a daughter of the Major
Weirs, of Yass, became the wife of Colin
Galbraith, of Edgecliff. St. Mark’s at
Darling Point was the scene of the wed-
ding, the Australia that of the reception.
The young bride and her sister Pauline,
who attended her, were a bright and
sparkling pair. Courtenay Beale was
best man.
Nuala Browne, daughter of the
Brownes of Binalong and Kirribilli, be-
came the wife of James Rogerson, also
of Binalong, last Saturday. The Star
of the Sea chapel at Kirribilli blessed the
vows. The bride wore a frock of soft
blue wool. Sister Ethna ’maided. Cedric
de Mestre was best man.
Every woman must be deeply stirred
by the problem of war-deprived orphans.
How are they to be taught that terror
does not lurk at every turning? Other
wars left fatherless children,. but the
Nazis take the war right into the home
circle, and often pick off the mothers as
well. These orphans are the central
figures in Journey for Margaret, by an
American author. The absorbing part of
the book, to women, is that devoted to
the work of Anna Freud (daughter of the
psycho-analyst professor) in her child rest
centre at Hampstead. How fears are
withdrawn and self-confidence and a
knowledge that there is still tenderness
in the world implanted makes heart-
breaking reading—heartbreaking in the
right way.
The new Furlough home at Orange has
already 10 families in residence, 22
children among them. The women are
mostly widows of soldiers or wives of
prisoners of war. The Parker lady
(matron for the duration) is seeing to it
that all her guests have a good rest and
holiday. House fittings and, in some
instances, clothes have to be provided,
therefore the Furlough House committee
asks its friends for donations. The
greatest need is wool-filled quilts, as the
cold is very severe in Orange. Furlough
House rooms, Pitt-street, Sydney, will
welcome gifts.


Notions
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Canterbury had a satisfactory meeting
in every way on Saturday. The weather
was fine, attendance and tote turnover
were large, entrance and acceptance fees
gave a good return, and the racing was
excellent, though not altogether enjoyable
for backers, owing to the defeat of all the
favorites. The track was in great order,
and in every way the hearts of debenture-
holders were gladdened.
B. Payten’s stable furnished the first
two favorites —Anpapejo for the Hurdles
and Astrid for the Flying. Neither was
placed. Anpapejo was specially dis-
appointing, as, though his track work
was good, he could not get further for-
ward than the middle of the field for
the first mile and finished sixth. Three
furlongs from home King’s Cross had a
long lead, but Rameo passed him soon
after entering the straight, and then The
Winger put in his claim, winning on the
post. Of the remainder Glaucus shaped
best, and, improved by his run, may do
even better next time. Shot Gun also
made a fair showing. Mag Mort and
Blackie Miller will be helped by a longer
distance.
Astrid commenced so badly in the Fly-
ing that she lost her chance in the first
hundred yards, and, though the second-
favorite, Martheus, led into the straight
from Lagoon and Guild Hall, Lagoon
had him beaten nearly a furlong from
home, and Guild Hall cut him out of
second money. Over the last half-mile
there seemed no likelihood of the winner
coming from anything outside the three
place-getters. Winnipeg finished firth
after being slow in finding his legs.
Though Melvale has been a failure since,
at his first start, he ran third in a Decem-
ber Stakes, his fourth suggested there is
still hope for him. Valve did not flatter
his backers at any part, nor did Irish Sea,
who ran sixth, and may now need a
longer trip than six furlongs.
After Minamurra had shown the way
into the straight to War Effort and The
Beaver, the finish of the first division
of the Two-year-old Handicap was fought
out by Sir Neith and Afloat, both of
whom came from a long way back at the
half-mile. Sir Neith, who scored a half-
head win, is a brother to Romero, and
was a 350gns. yearling. Sandman, who
was always fairly forward and ran
fourth, will win races, and, while Jona-
than Jo, Davinia and Ayarpee did not
improve upon their previous efforts,
Brueghelier (Brueghel 11-Intuition) made
a promising showing.
Main Topic and Marwin were unlucky
in being badly placed soon after the start
of the second division of the Two-year-
old Handicap, but there was merit in
Jungle King’s win with 9.1. He settled
Movitta before reaching the straight, and,
though half a furlong from the winning
post it seemed as if Main Topic might
overhaul him, he hung on well to beat
the latter half a length. Despite his
recent defeats Marwin is worth follow-
ing, and Sequel and Tralena are still win-
ning possibilities. Great Scot did not
run as well as at Rosehill,
•••»••
A horse has to be solid to win an 11-
furlongs race from start to finish, and
Angus and Climax, in cutting at each
other from barrier-rise to the straight
entrance, settled their chances, though
Angus struggled on to get third. Gun-
dagai, who was in a handy position for
the first mile, got to the front at the
leger, and won by a head from Early
Bird, who, making up leeway from the
turn, ran her best race for some time.
Triggerman was fourth but never looked
like winning, nor did Dewar. Fearless
Fox was a pronounced failure. Third
at the turn, he tired in the straight.
Marcoperi showed a return to form
in the first division of the Trial Stakes,
taking the lead when the field settled
down and holding it to the finish. Penny
Tan was his nearest follower most of the
way, but tired in the straight, and the
minor positions went to Fort Leon and
Happy Bay. In most of her previous
races Happy Bay commenced smartly
and weakened at the finish. This time she
was slow to get going and came home
rather well. Although unplaced, Poi
Morse did well under his big weight, and
Glendower and Vanity Fair ran respect-
ably. Fermanagh led throughout the
second division.
Brazen Lad’s success in the Ashbury
Handicap appeared almost certain oppo-
site the leger, but Gallop, who was a
long way from the leading division at
the turn, finished so brilliantly that he
fairly ran oyer him in the last 50 yards.
It was Gallop’s best staying effort. The
Beau Pere gelding Beau Timide put in good
work from the turn to get third, and His
Lordship was another who made up
ground in the straight. Beau Son, who
led round the turn, tired in the last fur-
long, but may not be far off a win.
Scarlet Ranger, who had every chance,
had nothing to do with the finish, but
did a little better than the favorite, Con-
nette, who was ahead of only a half-
dozen runners turning for home.
* * * 9
J. Purtell, one of Melbourne’s most
capable jockeys, broke a long run of
“outs” with a winning double on Mel-
chett (10 to 1) and Dapper (.15 to 1) at
Mentone on Saturday. After a fall
at Flemington on Jan. 26, Purtell re-
corded a sequence of 72 losing rides —
sufficient to break the hearts and banks
of system backers who based their bets
on his mounts —and the crowd did not
forget to acknowledge its appreciation
of his return to form.
Bev Rose, last home at Ascot a week
earlier, improved considerably to defeat
Palencia and Somerset in the Powers-
court Handicap. Starting at 12 to 1 after
longer prices had been bet, she hit the
front about a furlong from home and
won decisively. S. Ralph had been en-
gaged for Rev Rose, who invariably runs
well at Mentone, but he was injured in
a fall earlier in the day and apprentice
D. Walker was substituted. Bev Rose is a
five-year-old by Beau Fils from Love
Lane, and, according to her owner-
trainer, G. Kennedy, is lucky to be racing.
Early in her career she was injured so
severely that it was feared she would have
to be destroyed. Saul, favorite for the
Powerscourt Handicap, may have done
better than sixth had he not lost ground
at the start and received a check in run-
ning.
David Copperfield gave bookmakers a
33-to-l result and returned a tote divi-
dend of better than 62 to 1 when he beat
Panka and Manurere in a “blanket”
finish for the first Tinamba Stakes. David
Copperfield’s barrier behavior at Ascot
a week earlier had brought a warning
from the stewards that a repetition would
result in his being barred from racing in
the metropolis, and on Saturday he was
ridden without a whip by apprentice B.
Robert. Latter’s real name is Brian
Robert Smith, but there are so many
Smiths riding in Victoria that the V.R.C.
considered it would be advisable for him
to drop the surname for racing. Wheat
Sheaf, favorite, weakened towards the
finish, and All Veil, second favorite,
was never really dangerous.
-••••£
Trainer H. Freedman landed a double
with Bluebeard in the Boisdale Hurdle
and Dapper in the second Stratford Han-
dicap. Dapper, a three-year-old by Gay
Lothario from Mons Star, showed great
pace as a two-year-old, but the mile on
Saturday was generally thought to be
beyond him. However, he hit the front
at the top of the straight to win nicely
from Duomint and the favorite, Cloudy
Bay.
«••••*
Haros, a Hellespont colt, recorded a
very easy win from Portsmouth and
Altona in the first Avon Handicap.
Jameson, backed as if unbeatable, failed
to run on as well as expected and fin-
ished a poor fifth. Haros cut out the
seven furlongs half a second faster than
Malt Brew, winner of the second division
of the Avon Handicap. Malt Brew
looked to be hopelessly placed on the
turn, but responded gamely to Badger’s
vigorous riding and defeated Reply Paid
and Lamiere in a head and neck finish.
More will be heard of Malt Brew
(Harinero-Porcia), who is a stable-mate
of the Sydney Cup runner-up Velocity.
* * * *
In Sydney two-year-old racing of im-
portance has finished as it commenced,
so far as the colts are concerned. Bang-
ster led off with the Breeders’ Plate and
concluded with the Champagne Stakes.
wifi get a distance is a matter of guess-
work. His sire, Pentheus, shone at a
mile, and on Bangster’s maternal side
his pedigree includes more sprinters and
middle-distance horses than stayers.
The same can be written of Hall Stand,
who, though he won the A.J.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes in a fashion that suggested
anything in reason could be expected of
him, cut up so badly in the Champagne
Stakes that it is difficult to forecast his
future. Riverton and Baroda were dis-
appointing in Melbourne, but the former
grew very rapidly after his December
Stakes win, and in a measure that may
have been responsible for his failure. By
a Blandford horse, Midstream, from
Talking’s sister Social, breeding gives
him claims as a potential stayer, and
Baroda’s trainer is also hopeful of him
in that respect.
It would be possible to mention a few
other Sydney colts that, on breeding and
looks, may yet reach Derby standard,
even though their form up to the present
does not place them in that class. It is
probable that, to a greater extent than
usual, backers will have to look to early
form next spring to guide them in the
selection of the Derby winner. Young
Idea, in 1935, was the last Champagne
Stakes winner to account also for the
Derby. Nuffield and Reading were beaten
in the former, but each won the A.J.C.
Derby.
* * * ♦
Following are the Sydney fixtures
under A.J.C. rules for the remainder of
the season, but, owing to circumstances,
change of venue will be forced on at
least four clubs:
May 2. —Canterbury Park.
May 9.—Moorefield.
May 16. —Kensington.
May 23.—Tattersall’s Club.
May 30.—Rosebery.
June 6. —Hawkesbury, Rosebery (clash).
June 13, 16.—A.J.C.
June 20.—Victoria Park.
June 27. —Ascot.
July 4.—Kensington.
July 11. —Moorefield.
July 18.—Canterbury Park, Kensington (clash).
July 25. —Rosebery.
* * * *
M. McCarten is definite that at present
he has no intention of retiring as a
jockey in order to take up training. Why
should he when, as on last Saturday, he
demonstrated that he retains the nippi-
ness to win sprint races in large fields?
There is more money in racing for the
man who rides winners than the one who
trains them, and there is certainly not
the same worry. Unless a trainer is
regularly turning out winners there is not
much in the business for him at £3 10s.
a horse—few owners care to go beyond
that —and even when it comes to pay-
ment for a win the jockey generally re-
ceives greater consideration than the
trainer. While a jockey’s services con-
tinue in demand he is well advised to
stick to that calling in preference to
launching out as a trainer.
* Hc * *
It is only fair that when a horse is
balloted out of a race at one meeting in
Sydney it should be exempt when next
in a race for which a ballot is necessary.
If it has to take its chance in every ballot
it would be possible for it to keep on
missing a run. That would be rough on
the owner and trainer if it was reckoned
sufficiently forward to have a chance in
any race in which it might start.
* * * *
At Canterbury on Saturday ’planes
zoomed down to within a few feet of the
horses when they were returning to the
weighing-yard after running in the
Hurdle Race. Perhaps they were too tired
after their efforts to become excited, but
I particularly noted that not one took the
least notice of the unaccustomed noise.
• * * *
Owing to the restriction of racing
breeders will not find themselves in such
a happy position as formerly. They can
scarcely afford to keep young stock to
look at, and it seems as if they will have
to race to a much greater extent than in
the past or lease their horses on easier
terms. The latter course may be pre-
ferred, as, though prize-money opportuni-
ties will be lessened, it is possible it will
now cost more to have horses trained.
* * * *
A reasonable sweepstakes for acceptors
would appear to be the best solution to
keeping entries within limits. Some
owners evidently do not mind paying £2
in entrance and acceptance for horses
they know have little chance of success,
but it is probable they would baulk at,
say, an extra £3 in the way of sweep-
stake for a £2OO race, and there would
be fewer horses trained in public. There
are trainers who can, on track work,
form a good idea of their horses’ pros-
pects, but others need form in races to
guide them.
* * * *
High Caste’s brother Nizam not
half-brother, as I wrote last week —com-
pensated for his Trentham failure by
winning the Manawatu Sires’ Produce
Stakes a week later. He was favorite,
and defeated Voltaire a head in 1.30 for
seven furlongs on a track affected by
rain. It was in t£e last couple of strides
Nizam got to the front, after making
up -some lengths in the final furlong. As
a finisher he evidently takes after High
Caste. His three-year-old engagements
include the A.J.C. Derby.
* * * *
Veilmond has had a good innings this
season as the sire of important winners,
Veiled Threat having credited him with
the Sydney Cup, Velocity the Caulfield
Cup, and Rimveil the Epsom Handicap
Last season All Veil won the Newmarket
for him and Rimveil the Villiers. Veil-
mond’s own wins included V.R.C. and
AJ.C. St. Legers, and he was second in
both Derbies. One of his best handicap
efforts was when he ran third with 9.11
on a heavy track in the Sydney Cup
won by Johnnie Jason, 8.4. At the close
of his racing career Vejlmond was sold
to A. W. Thompson for lOOOgns. He
must have been lightly used in the 1939
season, a& only two yearlings by him
were catalogued at the recent sales —colts
from Lunae Lumen (dam of Dark Sky
and Moonray) and Mitebite, a Moabite
mare. Lunae Lumen’s colt was sold for
160gns. and Mitebite’s son for 140gns.
* * * «
At the recent AJ.C. meeting Hall
Mark was the only sire with more than
one winner. Guild Hall and Pamiett each
scoring one win for him. Veiled Threat
gave Veilmond first place in prize-money,
and the cost of winners sold at auction
as yearlings was as follows: Veiled
Threat 600gns., It’s Funny 375gn5., Beau
Vite 900gns., Pannett 85gns., Guild Hall
90gns., Tuhitarata 350gns., Angus
140gns., Yaralla 1200gns. Bangster 70gns.
and Streamford 900gns. Hall Stand was
catalogued last season, but was not sold,
his present owner buying him early in
the current one,
• * * *
As a rule conditions for important two-
and three-year-old races of the AJ.C.
and V.R.C. are issued in May of each
year and entries close in June. This year
it is probable each club will depart from
the usual order of things. It is no cer-
tainty that Randwick will be available for
spring racing, and Flemington also seems
to be in doubt. Consequently each club
may be forced into reducing the value of
“young” races and taking entries for
some later than usual. There would be
no pressing necessity for early entry for
two-year-old races to be run next
autumn, or for 1943-44 three-year-old
events.
* * * *
The luck of horse-buying was empha-
sised in the purchase by L. Tufano of
Market Wise, one of America’s best
horses, who last year defeated Whirl-
away at Belmont Park in the Jockey
Club Cup, running the two miles
in 3.20 f. Market Wise, now four years
old, is called the “Cinderella horse,”
this because of the fact that wh.en he was
two years old Tufano was bargaining for
a horse named Flank, for whom $2500
was asked by the Brookemeade Stable.
They said they would throw in Market
Wise if Tufano would give $3OOO for
the two. He did, and up to the end of
February of this year Market Wise had
earned $110,990 (about £A33,700). A
substantial return for $5OO.
* * * *
Apart from California, no American
State is going in for reduction of racing.
New York’s five principal clubs have a
greater number of days than last season,
and H. B. Swope, chairman of the New
York State Racing Commission, is hope-
ful that contributions for war relief from
that State’s race tracks, breeders, owners
and others associated with racing will
total over £A6,000,000 for the year.
* * * *
At a meeting of the committee of the
Nebraska Thoroughbred Association in
February a resolution was passed that
race clubs in that State should be asked
not to accept entries of horses more than
10 years old for any race, or of maidens
more than six.
George Elliott (10.6£) and Jimmy
Dundee (10.0) had a return fight in Leich-
hardt (Sydney) Stadium on Thursday
night. This time, instead of waiting until
the 12th round to use his heavy artillery,
Dundee brought it into action early. As
it happened, Elliott was the pug who
looked like scoring a quick knockout
when a short snappy right to the chin
dropped Dundee before they had been
fighting a minute, but Dundee was back
fighting savagely at “seven,” and Elliott
was cautioned for punching after being
ordered to break from a clinch. Dundee’s
torrid attack won him the next four
rounds. Elliott began to lead rights pro-
miscuously in the sixth. Most of these
missed, and, after an exciting toe-to-toe
rally in the seventh, Dundee got home
with a left hook to the point. Down went
Elliott, clean out.
» * * «
People were turned away from the
Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night,
thousands of them, and they were lucky.
Those with seats and standing room —•
13,000 it is reckoned—saw a half Jit Ron
Richards and the Alabama Kid go
through one of their performances. They
boxed in patches, Richards being on the
canvas three times and the Kid once ; but
the crowd counted them out many times,
and in the tenth spasm Jack Carroll, the
referee, declared it “no fight.” And
Carroll was right.


IHk
garrs niiiyi'lßFllißWn i
Keep Essential Transport
$
FIGHTING
FIT
Today, vehicles spare parts
time labour are too
precious to be wasted in put-
ting right things that should
not have gone wrong.
If your car or truck is on
essential service, don’t risk
breakdowns. Your General
Motors Dealer will arrange to
make a periodical inspection
and report, which costs noth-
ing and may save you much.
Such reports prevent trouble.
A very small fault put right
today may save a major break-
down later.
Your General Motors Dealer
can serve you well. The
special plant and methods for
inspection, servicing and re-
pair work which he equipped
himself with in peacetime are
today an indispensable asset
to you and, through you,
to the nation.
If you are changing to Gas
Producer operation, see your
General Motors Dealer about
a “Nasco” unit .
dsf
General Motors
Dealer
BEDFORD —BVICK CADILLAC
CHEVROLET — G.M.C. — OLDS-
MOBILE-PONTIAC - VAUXHALL
GEN ERAL
Brisbane -
MOTORS HOLDEN'S LI
Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide
I TED
Perth
GMH4-15
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALICE MARY PEARSON.—TAKE
NOTICE that GLADYS BEALE KING has
filed a Petition No. 380 of 1942 m this Court
praying for a divorce from NORMAN
FRANCIS KING on the ground of his adultery
with you You may apply to the Court tor
leave to defend the charge if you so desire A
copy of the petition may be obtained without
charge from ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG AND
KENNY Solicitors 160 Castlereagh Street Syd-
ney.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
for*
Discard the old typo
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street. Sydney.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
annual income exceeds
£4,900,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager-
SMOKE-OH!
Sweets.
“ ‘I have noticed that Australians don’t seem
to give their womenfolk candy much,’ said an
American.” —“Sunday Sun.”
Some girleens may think it’s dandy
To be wooed with sugar candy ;
Other girls are rather faddy
And prefer a sugar daddy!
Me.
•1* *E *E *E
“Endeavor to be in a calm and unsettled
frame of mind “—“Astrology.’’'
Obviously intended for one of those
women who have “a very even temper—
always wild.”
a *E *1* *1*
“Advocates of Esperanto claim the language
can be learned with less than an hour s study.
— Weekly.
What takes the rest of your life is find-
ing someone who can understand you
when you learn it.
♦E *E *E
“In Central Australia a drought may cause
the death of all living creatures.”
—Magazine article.
Paradoxically, it’s when the rain comes
that frogs croak.
»E -I* *1*
“When you have the sponge mixture in the
dish give it a slight thump on the (
If the table collapses you’ll know that
either the thump was too heavy or the
cake fell out of the tin.
•E *E *E *E
“Gerald with a dramatic toss of the head
flung back the superabundance of his fair hair.
‘Yes,’ he said defiantly. M have got a good J° b -
Do vou want to know what I make?’
: —Short story.
We already know —the barbers wild.
The Sum Total of “All.”
“If my husband says he paid for the house,
all I can say is that he is wrong.”
—Wife in divorce action.
What a woman!
Maria would make a great deal more
of it than that. She would rake up a
history of all the debts she says I have
not paid, then she would pass on to talk
about my men friends, their vulgarities,
turpitudes and their insults to her, which,
if I was a man, I would have resented.
After a passing reference to my moral
backslidings and my general coarseness,
Maria would gradually work her way
round to her favorite theme, the mongrel
family from which I sprang and which
explains everything.
But I’ll admit she quite often starts ott
with “Well, all I can say is” .
Given by any woman, I suppose it is
a delusive statement.
H. M.
“With a sinister gesture Roderick leaned back
in his chair, and his lips parted in a long searing
look. But Odette was unconscious of its im-
plication.” — Novel.
Perhaps she had her ears shut.
•j. *i* *i*
“Witness said accused had had several
whiskies before he left the flat. He was the
spr.”— Sydney “ Telegraph.”
We know— half-sprung.
4* *1* •J*
“Paderewski recovered quickly. Later he gave
full credit for the saving of his hearing to this
famous surgeon, who performed the operation
on his ear Biographical item.
That’s how easy he thought it was.
•p 4* *•*
“Don’t believe all you hear.”
—Official warning.
What about when you’re driving up to
a level crossing in the brownout and
a train whistles?
The Home Front.
“Is your home prepared for total war?
— Woman’s paper.
Speaking for the wife, I think it is.
When I started to total up her outlay on
hats she nearly made a total wreck of
me. I was retreating according to plan,
when the enemy straddled the target and
scored a direct hit with “Why don t you
get that hag of a barmaid to total up
your drink bill!” .
That old battleaxe Auntie landed m
the target area with “How about that
powder-puff in his week-end fishing kit!
The only difference between Auntie and
some 5001b. bombs is that the bombs
are equipped for delayed action.
Even that ancient pain in the neck
Gran’pa torpedoed me with “And, by
Christopher, if ever I catch ’im at my
mm again I’ll screw ’is scraggy neck for
’im! ”
I think our home is always prepared
for total war.
Don McM.
*1* -I- *1- *!■
“The haunted look had come back into his
eyes.” — Story, woman’s paper.
His spirited wife caught him looking at
Sue
With devilish thoughts in his glance.
His eyes then grew haunted; for, oh,
how he knew
He hadn’t the ghost of a chance!
E.
•b 4* *b *b
“For a few moments he saw them stand
together, a sickly couple, thin, pale, under-
nourished.” —Short story.
Both from the same boarding-house?
•!< -b *1*
Even a canny stockbroker can be a
fool when it comes to the bonds of wed-
lock.
•b *b *b *b
Then there was the man who thought
there were only two kinds of women
the one who wants everything she sees,
and the other who seizes everything she
wants.
•J. .Jr »J. *J*
Personal Tragedy.
He was perusing the morning paper
when his face became suddenly tense.
He had seen something in the engage-
ments column which sent a chill to his
heart. Angela— his Angela—was to
marry another!
He gave a gasp of dismay. To think
that he had failed when he had seemed
so near success ; that the great craving of
his life must now remain unsatisfied! It
would have been bad enough if he had
been prepared for the blow, but it had
been so horribly unexpected. Bitter tears
welled up in his eyes, and his fingers ran
tremblingly through his hair.
“Oh, gosh!” he muttered. “And to
think that her old man won the lottery! ”
Nat.
The Tumbler.
“When his wife told him that she had fallen
in love with an acrobat in a circus he left hei.
—Divorce evidence.
When he heard that the man on the
flying trapeze
Had enraptured his wife with the greatest
of ease,
’Twas he took a tumble ; and the chances
were slim
Of that circus man making a clown out
of him !
DON.
The Art of Wardening.
They said I was now a full-blown
warden, and to report at 1.30 p.m. on
Sunday for the full-scale N.E.S. test.
Jollup, the local chemist, is the Senior
Warden. “Well, Mr. Boobe,” he began
importantly, “you are now in the organ-
isation. The block you will patrol runs
from Boronia-avenue along Mary-street
to Jonathan-road and back along”
“Jonathan-road?” I broke in. “Isnt
Parkinson’s place there?” t M
The S.W. turned up his book. “Yes,
he said. . ~ „ .
“Then I must decline, I said firmly.
“If I saw an incendiary bomb fall
on Parkinson’s fernery I’d blow it with
the bellows to make sure it kept alight.’
We had a terrific argument then, and
in the end I graciously withdrew my
objection, but made certain mental reser-
vations.
“Now don’t forget,” the S.W- re-
sumed ; “1.30 p.m. sharp, and you must
bring your official handbook, authority
card, whistle, armband, N.E.S. badge, gas
respirator, steel helmet, pad of report
forms, rattle, torch”
“But what will I do with the horse
when the raid starts?” I asked.
He frowned. “What horse?” he
demanded.
“The one I’ll be using to carry those
things around,” I replied.
The S.W. looked at me coldly. “The
official instructions are that you are 'to
dispose them about your person.’ ”
It was while I was planting out some
blackberry suckers in the front garden
after dinner on Sunday that the wife
came rushing out.
“Didn’t you hear it?” she asked.
“Hear what?” I said.
“The hunger go off just now. That's
the signal for the start of the air raid,
isn’t it?”
Now any other fellow who is as keen
a horticulturist as I might have gone on
gardening and say that he’d had an
attack of beri-beri or something. But
a sense of duty is strong within me.
Hurrying inside, I had a quick shave and
bath, cut my toenails and pressed the
pants of the pin-stripe suit I favor for air-
raid work. I’d have been at the Warden s
Post within three-quarters of an hour
of the hunger going off had it not been
for having to find the whistle (lohnny
had it out in the paddock playing train
guards), the tin helmet—it was up the
yard full of muddy water and tadpoles—
and the rattle, which was eventually
located in the baby’s cot. I also got the
wife to run up a white armband in case
of an unexpected eclipse of the sun.
As I galloped up the road towards the
Warden’s Post there came a shriek from
my front gate. Turning, I saw the wife
waving a few things. It was the respira-
tor, pad of report forms and torch, and
she also had a mattock which she thought
I might need, our own stirrup pump, a
thermos of tea and some scones, my
raincoat and umbrella.
The S.W. looked up as I entered. Appar-
ently things weren’t going smoothly.
As he opened his mouth to speak 1 held
up my hand. “Pray don’t apologise for
starting before I arrived,” I said briskly.
“Now, what are my orders?”
He gulped, and it was a full halt-
minute before he could trust himself to
speak. Poor devil! No doubt he was
being harassed by the divisional warden.
At last he grabbed a paper and said
hoarsely: “There’s been an HE. bomb
dropped on McGoogan’s place in Mary-
street. Go there and make your report.
Leaving only the mattock and goloshes,
I departed. _ , ,
When I knocked at McGoogan s door
a woman opened it. She had shoulders
like Peter Limutkin’s and a pendulous,
heavy blue jaw. As I raised my tin hat
a couple of tadpoles fell on to the ver-
andah. „ T U
“I’m an air-raid warden, 1 began.
“Now, listen carefully. A bomb has just
fallen on your home. Your husbands
been blown sober, you are full ot gas,
your four kids are walking cases, the t.p.
furniture is too far gone to be worth
repossessing, the gas is leaking and you re
showing a light within the meaning o
the Act 5 9
The iady put her hands on her hips.
“Y’re a liar, y’ sawn-off runt!” she said
dispassionately. “None of them things
has happened. And how do I know yr
not a bandit. Where’s y’r authority.
I put down my stirrup pump, umbrella,
torch, rattle, pad of forms, handbook,
respirator, whistle, thermos, scones an
tin hat and went through my pockets.
To my chagrin I couldn’t find it. r
looked at her severely. ■
“I’ve left it at the Post, I said, out
I’ll be back. And any attempts to frus-
trate the working of the N.E.S. by pre-
varication, mendacity or lying will be
severely dealt with”—and with that part-
ing shot I left.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Salvage
The salvage drive for aluminium prob-
ably owes its success to two factors: (a)
the focusing of attention on one com-
modity, thus underlining its importance
and scarcity, and ( b ) the psychological
appeal of the idea of changing kitchen
discards into deadly fighting ’planes.
What about brass and other metals for
which industrialists are scouring the
country and scratching their heads?
There is probably more scrap brass in
the form of broken or old-fashioned
hearth furniture, knobs, rails, name-
plates, stair rods, ornamental oddments,
etc., in the average domicile than there
ever was of aluminium. Some of the
articles could be well replaced by wood.
The generalised appeal for scrap metals
has not been striking enough to move
the householder and his wife to hunt
the stuff out of lumber-room and junk
shed or strip off unnecessary trimmings
and deliver to a receiving depot. If the
specific needs were set forth, as in the
aluminium appeal, there should be a
mighty harvest that would relieve a lot
of headaches in industry. The Scouts
and schoolchildren would be ready
enough to do another enthusiastic job in
the house-to-house collection. Whit-
worth (Vic.).
War Taxation
“A.L.” (B. 25/3/’42) has overlooked
the effect of taxes and borrowings on
post-war recovery. The only legitimate
business ventures in war-time are those
which supply the public with essentials
and the Government with war materials.
An income tax that leaves enough money
with the public for speculative ventures
or luxury buying is allowing resources to
be diverted from the war effort. That,
despite the restrictions on the issue of
new capital, is happening now.
The less we tax now the more we must
tax after the war to meet the interest
on present high volume of loans. A high
post-war tax will discourage business at
a time when business will need all the
encouragement it can get. On the other
hand, a higher income tax now, with cor-
respondingly lower borrowings, will allow
a lower tax rate after the war—and a
quicker business recovery.
But what Government has the courage
to tax all incomes down to the “bare
essentials” level?—L. G. (N.S.W.).
The War and State Rights
Victoria’s Premier Dunstan is rend-
ing the air with cries at the iniquitous-
ness of the new Federal taxation pro-
posals. A particularly bad feature, in
his opinion, is that the annual pay-
ment of £6,666,000 to Victoria should
remain fixed so that “social services” in
his State “cannot be expanded.” Mr.
Cain, his Labor batman, ran him a good
second with complaints on the same
ground. Both gentlemen seem to think
that the higher the expenditure in this
direction the better off the State. But
is it?
Why don’t they look at it from a dif-
ferent viewpoint? Why don’t they con-
clude that the fewer charitable com-
mittees there are handing out largesse,
the healthier the community? There are
dozens of committees in Victoria of this
sort. Nobody asks himself whether the
good they do might not be overbalanced
by the evil. The biggest committee of
them all arose in the late depression. It
ladled out millions of the taxpayers’
money to the unemployed, and the more
it ladled out the more unemployment
there was. Finally the place was full of
able-bodied men picking the weeds out
of country gutters—a few of them are
still at it—and thousands of youths were
growing up who had never done a day’s
work in their lives and seemed perfectly
content never to do one. A lot of money
was expended in making ugly parks out
of natural beauty spots, and when the
war started a scheme was afoot to destroy
completely the beauty of the Yarra.
Overnight Victoria became the muni-
tions centre. New industries were started
and unemployment vanished. Half the
things that had seemed to be problems
and were regarded as problems by Vic-
torian legislators vanished with it. Mr.
Dunstan assumed the role of the State’s
Father Christmas, though he wasn’t re-
sponsible for starting the war that saved
his Ministry’s bacon.
The way the State Government was
trying to solve the problem was only
aggravating it. If the money it is allowed
to handle is restricted it may be com-
pelled to do a bit of thinking. Force of
circumstances may even oblige it to cur-
tail its enormous civil service and the
departments and commissions which are
eating their heads off in compulsory idle-
ness or superfluousness. Adversity never
did any individual harm and it forces
communities to become inventive. —C. Q.
(Vic.).
Sacrifice ?
Today all men physically fit are liable
to call-up, provided they are not in a
“protected” job. In many cases they
have left well-paid positions and severed
home ties, but they are doing it without
much of a grumble because of the
abnormal times. They are making a sac-
rifice.
On the other hand we have the reserved
occupations, reserved simply because the
men in them can do the jobs now re-
quired. Is it right that the man whom
fortune and circumstance made a fitter
should be better off than, say, a grocer?
Should the man who now happens to
be in demand take advantage of the war
“ There's something wrong with that bloke, Joe!”
at the expense of his fellows? Today,
men in reserved occupations have their
jobs, their home life, their recreations and
are earning more money than ever before.
Where is their sacrifice?
To my way of thinking every other-
wise eligible man in a reserved occupa-
tion should have a standing wage of
somewhere about £6 a week, or, at most,
enough to keep him and his family on
about the same standard as a soldier and
his family.—J. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Job for the R.S.L.
Why do returned soldiers discharged
from the army because of wounds have
to register for military service. This
despite the fact that they may be in re-
ceipt of recently-granted war pensions.
It would be only just and decent to
exempt such men from the necessity to
register. Imagine the feelings of a man
who, having volunteered and served over-
seas and then received an honorable dis-
charge, is compelled to register for com-
pulsory military service within Australia.
He may not be called up, of course, and
he may not even pass the medical exami-
nation, but surely the question of his
hopping in for a second go is one that
should properly and could safely be left
to him. — Macaw (N.S.W.).
Where Are the ’Planes?
One of the many mysteries of the
war is what becomes of aircraft built
for war purposes. Either wastages or
losses or construction figures, or all of
them together, are grossly misconceived,
or huge stocks of machines are being
stored up.
At the beginning of September last the
Air Ministry put the loss of R.A.F.
machines at 3082 for the two years of
fighting. Production estimates have
varied so much that it is impossible to
place any reliance on them, though!'. P.
Wright, a world’s authority, at the end
of November considered that Britain was
turning out just under 2000 per month,
with Germany building 300 or so per
month more and U.S. almost equalling
the German figure. Canadian figures at
the end of the year were about 300 per
month, including trainers.
Yet in every campaign except Second
Libya there has been a severe British
shortage. In the first Libyan camp/iign
Gloster Gladiator biplanes were still in
use. Greece and Crete were almost bare
of British machines. Two squadrons of
American Tomahawks did most of the
work in Syria.
Malaya’s fighting was notable for the
number of aerodromes which had been
prepared and for the number of ’planes
which did not arrive, though 1000 were
said to have been spared for Russia.
As for Singapore, the arrival of Buffalo
fighters was reported a year ago, with
“considerable strengthening of air defence
throughout Malaya.” On May 16 “strong
army, navy and air force reinforce-
ments” arrived. On June 21 the arrival
of U.S. bombers was officially announced.
In July it was chronicled that Australian
pilots were flying the latest U.S. machines
over Malaya. On August 6 large re-
inforcements arriving included R.A.F.
personnel. On August 8 a British official
spokesman in London said that Singa-
pore’s air strength was greater than any-
thing Japan could bring against it. On
August 16 “powerful A.I.F. and R.A.A.F.
reinforcements” were delivered in “the
largest convoy since the war began.” On
August 25 the largest single contingent
of R.A.F. men, “including crews and
hundreds of ground staff,” as wsll as
R.A.A.F. men, landed. On Sept. 9 the
arrival of more bombers and war
materials was mentioned.
Further R.A.F. reinforcements dis-
embarked on Nov. 6 and an R.A.A.F.
squadron was spoken of favorably on
Nov. 8. A squadron of Australian Beau-
forts landed on Dec. 6, the day before
war broke out.
Yet the impression afterwards was that
Malaya was almost empty of machines.
There is undoubtedly serious weakness
somewhere. Despite all the nonsense
which is being written by correspondents,
some of whom would not know a Stuka
from a tipdray, Japan has nothing which
approaches the Messerschmitt 109 E, with
which the Zero fighters are being com-
pared. It has nothing within cooee of
the 12-gun Hurricane, the cannon-fitted
Spitfire or the Beau, or even the best of
the American fighters, which still have a
lot of catching up to do on the best of
the British machines. But its machines
are certainly in advance of most Allied
naval machines and are designed primar-
ily for naval war.
This was demonstrated—very unhap-
pily for us—in the Bay of Bengal.
Air support is evidently a very mys-
terious subject. This history of it does
not make pleasant reading.—E. H. M.
(N.S.W.).
Teachers
Complaints by teachers about the ardu-
ousness of their profession (J 3. 1/4/*42)
ring hollow. School hours are from nine
till four in primary schools, from nine
till three-thirty in secondary schools, with
no work on Saturday. There are three
lots of holidays in the year, including a
stretch of six weeks at Christmas. A
State-school teacher cannot be dismissed
save for a grave offence, and is retired
•on pension at a specified age. What
other vocation is there that offers
such attractive working conditions? Even
the permanent civil servant, though
having most of the advantages of his
educational colleague, gets but one set
of holidays a year.
Of course, there is a certain amount
of drudgery in teaching, but not more
than in most occupations and a good
deal less than in many. Any normal man
01 woman should be able to manage an
average class without experiencing appre-
ciable nervous strain. In any event, what
there/is of it in that profession is no-
thing to the task of farmer, business-
man or responsible employee. And they
haven’t the security and plentiful holi-
days of the schoolie.—Lyle (N.S.W.).
A.R.P.
The other day an appeal went out
from Adelaide’s Lud Mayor for laborers
to dig trenches. On the Saturday after-
noon a dozen responded. The Chief
Magistrate was disgusted at the apathy of
citizens and expressed himself in no un-
certain terms.
On the following Saturday 20 girls
came along to dig, but blistered hands
and fatigue were soon in evidence. Later
that day I counted 50 men (mostly young)
in a near-by hotel.
The State Premier has full powers in
A.R.P. matters, and some of us are won-
dering why he doesn’t exercise them. If
men will not raise a finger for their own
protection, what’s wrong with a spot of
compulsion?—A. D. (S.A.).
Wool Levy
Sixpence a bale (B, 8/4/’4l) won’t
break us and may save the pastoral in-
dustry, provided the funds are earmarked
for the specific purpose of conducting re-
search in all phases of wool processing.
Many countries have doubtless per-
fected wool substitutes which will come
into keen competition with the real thing
later. Our woollen mills have made
excellent progress, but there are still tech-
nical improvements—designing, for in-
stance-—which manufacturers must look
to.—Valerin (N.S.W.).
The Death of Art
In this practical age the public has
no time for poetry. Printing ushered in
the change from verse to prose. Today
the public would not buy a publication
printed regularly in verse. It has so
changed its course that it will not buy
anything but easily-digested prose of
words not exceeding two or three syl-
lables. Shakspeare is no longer a finan-
cial success except perhaps in Northern
Europe, where his plays are performed
unexpurgated. He has been outmoded
by Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck,
Where would Shakspeare, Milton,
Tennyson or Burns fit into this “com-
mercial modern scene’’? Not as they
fitted into their own. Private enter-
prise would sidetrack them from their
former penury and hardship into highly
lucrative jobs. Posterity would naturally
suffer as their genius submerged into
mass-produced mongrelism for publish-
ing companies, film studios, advertising
agencies or tourist bureaux ad infinitum.
The baroque York Minster boasts
carving and sculpture that £20,000,000
would not buy today. And it was never
paid for! Men created it to the glory
of God for giving them their lives on
this earth. A wonderful ideological age
has passed—an age before trade-union-
ism rendered such services impossible
without severe repercussions. The petti-
fogging laws of balanced Budgets and
material appearance have ruled art into
the discard.
Art is ruled by a kind of governor law
that it must always bring a loss, and in
the battle of wits the all-too-frequent*
tendency is to seek comfort and security
first. Great works of art were never
produced in such circumstances. Who
today would starve in a garret to paint
pictures, write books or operas or com-
pose a symphony until blindness or the
debtors’ gaol overtook him? Great work
is torn from its creator with a mind in
a state of tension bordering on madness,
or with a body in pain goading its victim
on under stress of tremendous emotion.
It is highly problematic whether even
a magnificent opus such as Julia Ward
Howe’s “Battle Hymn of the Republic”
would be favorably or very widely re-
ceived now in this year of ill-grace.
What medium would present it? The
younger Americans would declare it
“nuts” and smother it with “swing-hits.”
In a market overloaded and weighed
down with “potboilers,” cheap novelettes
and ephemeral newspapers such a work
would be suffocated. Nor would it sell
in pamphlet form, since the public in-
variably wants pamphlets gratis—for
ever associating them with “ologies” and
“isms.”—E. C. S. (N.S.W.).j


m
If
■
■■■
■
m
'' * *' ****
i
■
■
Wm
m
>1
»«iii
y■.■-•• '•: '-
I
m
>■,- :
H
m
■■■■
I
a
-
mm
m
i
i?- •
■
■r
•^<.:v, :
m
1
mmrnm
flfeflH
Hfe
lip
Tapping a Blast Furnace at Night
So Much —So Soon!
RISING to the occasion when most vitally needed, Australia’s steel industry has registered
an amazing performance in successfully meeting the nation’s extraordinary war-time demand
for iron and steel.
No “too little, too late” tab may be applied to our steel industry, which not only has kept
production abreast of demand, but has given Australia quality steel in an increased number of
varieties, at the world’s lowest prices!
The organisation largely responsible for this excellent economic situation is The Broken Hill
Proprietary Co., Ltd., Australia’s major steel producer.
With a view to making Australia independent of overseas sources of supply, the B.H.P, Company
in 1935 commenced a programme of plant extension and modernisation.
The already efficient Newcastle Steel Works was given increased productive capacity by the addition
of several open-hearth furnaces and a new battery of coke ovens. Electrification of vital rolling-mill
plant and new reheating furnaces further added to the general improvement in efficiency.
Following an amalgamation with Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd., that company’s Kembla Steel
Works was also modernised and extended, a new blast furnace capable of producing 1000 tons of
pig iron per day, a new coke ovens battery and several open hearth furnaces being amongst the
most important items of plant installed.
The B.H.P. Co. also originated in Australia the manu-
facture of the previously imported ferro alloys, and the
lightweight metal, magnesium (essential in aircraft
construction).
Reinforced by these developments fruits of The
B.H.P. Company's foresight the Australian steel
industry now turns out approximately double the 1935
tonnage of steel, thus ensuring an adequate basis for the
operation and extension of Australia's munition effort
and the maintenance of essential service undertakings.
■
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Iron and Steel Masters,
Mine and Ship Owners,
ColUery Proprietors,
Ship Builders
Iron and Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W., and Whyalla, South Australia.
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, S. A. Limestone Deposits: Devonport, Tasmania.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
