

GRAPE VINEGAR
No Finer Vinegar For All Usage
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 63.—N0. 32*17
Wednesday, March 25, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BROADCASTING HOUSE, LONDON, BY NIGHT.
WHEN the history of the fourth decade of the 20th century comes to be written, more especially in its relation to London and the Empire, Portland
Place will figure frequently in the narration, for in it is “that ugly factory-like building, Broadcasting House, headquarters of the B.B.C., w 11c a P
an important part in the life and death struggle in which the British realm was engaged. Most Australians who have visited London are familiar wn
Portland Place, which forms a continuation of “Upper Regent Street,” at the intersection of Oxford Street, and in what we may cal times P a $ ™
chiefly remarkable for its inordinate width, and the Langham Hotel, in its early days the finest in the Metropolis and still one ot the very best nmeis
in Europe. This famous hostelry, overlooking, as it were, the southern entrance to Portland Place, is closely associated with the character of the thoroughfare.
John Nash at the behest of the Duke of York, the Regent, planned a road to connect the site of Carlton House with a suburban palace proposed in
Marylebone Fields, and thus Regent Street came into being. His plans received a shock when operations north of Oxford Circus came to be considered. A
sharp bend westward was found necessary, crested by Foley House, on the site of which the Langham now stands, as the owner, on selling the land
across the fields” towards the Marylebone Road of to-day, forbade the erection of any building calculated to intercept his view of the Hampstead Heights,
which he greatly enjoyed. Here, a local historian discovered the cause for the remarkable width of Portland Place, as the Foley covenant placed no restriction
upon the building of houses on either side. As Crown property stopped short at Langham Place, the scheme for a Royal Palace in Marylebone Fields came
to naught. Foley’s determination to preserve his view of Hampstead Heights was a fortunate one for posterity, otherwise the Portland Place of (his present
had never been. The home of the British Broadcasting Corporation, located here “obliquely across the road from the Langham,” is in every sense a “great
centre of Empire,” its influence radiating into every quarter. The B.B.C., as a serai-Government institution, has been criticised foi sins of omission and
commission. For all of that it has done, and is doing, a magnificent work, as “listeners in” in every part of the British realm can testify.


Learn
freelance
Journalism
ni HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S,B. 142
Just Published.
OF VITAL IMPORTANCE.
HOW TO IDENTIFY
JAPANESE AIRCRAFT
by George B. Graham, with 66
illustrations of Japanese Aircraft,
hints on identification methods
and sound advice upon Air Raid
Precautions.
Price 1/- (posted 1/2).
BUY FROM YOUR NEAREST
BOOKSELLER.
1( he will not secure it for you, then
send 1/3 tor a copy to Robertson ami
Mullens, Ltd., 107-109-111-113 Elisa-
beth Street, Melbourne, C.l. If more
than one required send 1/- per book
and 3d. postage for every three
copies.
The Red Page
Take a Seat, Mr. Gog arty.
“Reader,” said Fielding after about
500 fruity words on the splendors of the
landscape ; “Reader, take care. I have
unadvisedly led thee to the top of as
high a hill as Mr. Allworthy’s, and how
to get thee down again without breaking
thy neck, I do not well know.”
How any reader is going to contrive to
climb down from the first three pages
of Oliver St. John Gogarty’s Going
Native (Constable; Angus and Robert-
son) is a problem just as difficult and as
dangerous. Writes Gogarty:
Gloriously the sun in its setting lit the
ancient hills and brought out their colors
in purple and gules, dark green and golden
brown, as if it shone on and revived some
old heraldic tapestry. The immemorial
hills of Ireland, that were melted and
moulded in the crucibles of primal fire
out of which they were poured undulating
into rotundity to be struck suddenly
motionless and turned into everlasting rock
at Time’s first word of command, glowed
again from within, alive with light, as if
they remembered the chastening flame that
gave them immortality. Above the moun-
tains’ lovely line, which is the hieroglyph
of the gods, streamers spread against the
sky, flaming as from a conflagration in
some further western island where earth
and air met in mystical communion and
the unageing heroes feasted withdrawn for-
ever from our common day. It was aljnost
two thousand years ago that Finn and his
companions ranged these hills and the
father of Oisin sang the first spring song
recorded in our land, a song the dewy
freshness and simplicity of which can
never be reached again. On these hills
majestic men moved whose names are
known and fabulous and whose fame and
stature are undiminished with the passage
of the years. From the high dells in the
mountains rose the great antlered elks that (
drew down from the exposed heights to
browse on the plains that made the Liffey
a broad-margined stream. Those mighty
heads shall be seen no more against the
sky. They have passed in the eternal pro-
cession of the great things that are gone
from the hills and forests of the ancient
land. All gone but the imagination that
shelters and preserves them beyond the
reach of Time or Change.
It was, in short, sunset.
Mr. Gogarty proceeds:
Yeats, the chief vessel of that imagina-
tion, stood before me in his garden on
the foothills of the Dublin mountains. He
stood very tall and stately as if his magnifi-
cent countenance was transfigured in the
light.
Yeats was at home.
He raised his right arm in greeting and
bowed his head in a way suggestive of a
strange resignation to my presence or the
interruption by the mundane of his com-
munion with his kin in fairyland. He was
recalling me to himself. For a living in-
carnation of a spirit from beyond our
ordinary world was he, untroubled by the
. common routine and necessities of our
mortality, one of the proud Immortals
who somehow had touched earth like his
own Oisin and had sojourned on it and
walked among lesser men.
Yeats has observed that Mr. Gogarty
has called on him.
The eagle face, aureoled by hair as
white as the blossom of faery thorn, turned
to me ; his hand indicated a garden seat,
Mr. Gogarty (fortunately without
breaking either his or the reader’s neck)
has taken a seat.
From then on, the book forgets about
the Celtic Twilight and begins to be a
novel. Gogarty is replaced by a Mr.
Ouseley whom Yeats, declaring, as in
his verse, that “Romantic Ireland’s dead
and gone,” sends off to inspect England
and the English. Life among the English,
soulless as he had expected but sur-
prisingly Rabelaisian, or Shakspearean,
or Fieldingish, gives Gogarty an excuse
to make a pleasant roaring noise for
about 300 pages and Ouseley an oppor-
tunity for several amatory adventures,
an examination of the crossword puzzle
as a deterrent to love, a debauch with a
vicar and the discovery of still-living
Shakspearean characters of the Falstaff
and Doll Tearsheet variety.
Gogarty is reputed to be one of the
wittiest conversationalists in Ireland. But
he has never quite managed to get his wit
onto paper. Most of his bon mots in
Going Native consist of a preliminary
mountain of laughter followed, with an
apologetic air, by a very insignificant
mouse of wit. Here’s one worth quoting,
however; “England has forgiven us mag-
nanimously for all the injuries she in-
flicted on us long ago. It is high time
now that we forgave her.”
Linklater's Autobiography.
Portrait of a novelist at work:
When I arrived in Barra he woke before
his usual time —indeed, quite early in the
afternoon —and I saw him first in a loung-
ing-suit, old rose in color with lapels of a
darker hue, of a thickened silk material.
He was two days unshaven, and his hair
hung like a mother raven shot upon the
nest. His clothes resemble the adjectives
in a poem by Gerard Manley Hopkins*
chosen for their texture and color, and
often most arbitrarily joined.
He works with the persistence of a fana-
tic in circumstances of considerable luxury.
In a high-backed padded chair in the corner
of a room, a mere closet of a room but
papered with gold, he will sit through the
night under a funnelled lamp, the rest of
the closet an aureate dusk, a hundred or so
books of reference within easy reach; while
in the adjacent room, the connecting door
wide open, one of his secretaries —Chrissie
with her soft voice and lovely eyes, Nelly
with her London kindness—will feed a pair
of enormous gramophones with continuous
records, progressing in a single night, as
may happen, from a symphony by Brahms
through a little Cesar Franck and a few
Beethoven quartets, to a Mozart concerto,
and before the dawn an hour or so of
Sibelius.
This arduous but mollified routine he
will maintain, if he is alone, for weeks on
end.
The novelist is Compton Mackenzie;
the word picture by Eric Linklater in his
autobiography The Man on My Back
(Macmillan; Angus and Robertson).
With the portrait of the artist at work
goes an entertaining description of Comp-
ton Mackenzie reciting from Dickens
and from Wordsworth in the exact in-
tonation (he swore) with which those
giants had once recited their own works.
Compton Mackenzie’s father heard
Dickens reading and learned to mimic
him ; Mackenzie learned to mimic his
father. As for Wordsworth —Compton
Mackenzie’s “melodious hooting” was
based on his having heard Wordsworth’s
great-nephew chanting the poems in the
style he had learned from his uncle.
Perhaps the best of all Linklater’s
literary anecdotes is a tribute to Shak-
speare :
There was a medical student, a cheerful,
solid creature with the sly strength of
Aberdeen, who casually attended a lecture
or two on Shakspeare and went home to
read King Lear. It was a June evening,
warm and sunny, and presently the chim-
ing of a clock reminded him that he must
keep a rendezvous. He put a marker in
Lear: the old man was shivering and curs-
ing in the storm, poor Tom was a-cold,
and the pages roaring with the loudness of
the gale. The medical, going out to meet
his girl, put on a winter coat and tied a
muffler round his neck.
There’s a good Conrad story, too.
Linklater’s father was a sea captain, and
on one of his fare visits to his family
was asked his opinion of Typhoon —
Linklater being in a state of rapture over
the book;
“Nothing in it,” he said. “A book about
a storm.”
“But what a marvellous storm! ”
“It’s all right. He doesn’t make mis-
takes, he was a sailor himself. But what’s
the point of writing a book like that?
Everybody’s seen a storm.”
Which, of course, shows how beauti-
fully exact was Conrad’s portrait of the
skipper in Typhoon : that’s exactly what
he would have said! Linklater’s father
was so perfectly a Conrad type that when
a Chinese comprador attempted to bribe
him he hurled him overboard by his pig-
tail ; and, having once tried it and not
being able to bear seeing so many idle
people aboard a ship, he refused to com-
mand passenger ships.
Because of his long absences at sea,
says Linklater, his father was quite un-
able to cope with family situations; —
Once, I remember, when I was perhaps
eight or nine years old, I was ordered from
the room for some vile offence, and my
father followed to reprove me. I was badly
frightened by his bulk and his brown, angry
face. But he was utterly at a loss. He
shook a furious finger at me and exclaimed:
“If you behave like that again, boy, I —I —
I’ll pull your nose, sir!”
When he can draw such convincing
portraits, and when he has contributed
so much gusto and humor to the con-
temporary English novel, Linklater has
no need to speak so disparagingly as he
does of his own writings: “I am not an
artist but a carpenter.” The criticism,
from the viewpoint of serious literature,
is probably justifiable. But among the
run of contemporary novelists Linklater
stands out as one of the few who do
tell a story instead of trying to reform
the world, arid as a humorist he has
hardly a competitor. A good clown’s
better than a bad Hamlet, and a good
clown isn’t a “carpenter.”
He might never have written his first
novel, he says, if a girl he had known
hadn’t suddenly blossomed as an author
and filled him with envy:
So I sat down on the instant, and
after composing five or six versions of
my first chapter I found one that seemed
a little less clumsy than the others, and the
rest of the story fell into line with relatively
little trouble. But without provocation I
might have continued searching for the
formula, the magic incantation, till this very
day; and never finding it, for there is none.
Juan in America, he reveals, was origi-
nally planned as a poem; an imitation
of Byron, in Byron’s stanza, on the
model presumably of Gilbert
Frankau’s One of Us and One of Them.
“But, having begun to take pleasure in
the looser and more variable rhythms of
prose, and flinching when it came to the
point of finding 30,000 rhymes, I un-
horsed the infant poem in its first canto
and bade it walk. Its steps were slow.”
The Man on My Back suffers in places
when Linklater, trying to live up to his
reputation as a humorist, forces the
humor. It’s all right to be flippant when
he’s describing Boy Scouts in India —
“They ran hither and thither, and gave
the Scout cry, and jumped over poles”
—because the incident doesn’t matter ;
but he tries so hard to be funny about
his adventures in Scottish nationalism,
about his own work, his personal life
and his experiences in the last war that
the forced jokes crowd out facts that
would be interesting. On the whole,
however, it’s a pleasant, readable narra-
tive, with some good travel stuff —
especially his journey into the Caucasus
—to distinguish it from the usual auto-
biography of the successful novelist.
Sydney Humorist.
Miss Pennycuick’s Nightie was a good
catchpennycuick title for J. B. Blair’s
humorous yarns reprinted from The
Bulletin and published by Frank John-
son, but the schoolmistress who lost her
nightgown, though not without a certain
charm, could never be the most interest-
ing figure in a collection that included
the Lord Mayor of Sydney who walked
naked from Central station to the Quay.
The humor of the title story, in fact,
is a risky sort of humor; not because the
nightie comes off, but because it’s doubt-
ful if the story does. There’s a good
humorous situation created by the mys-
terious nightly disappearance of the gar-
ment while its owner is blissfully sleep-
ing ; but the solution, by the great detec-
tive Stagnant Waters, is utterly fantastic.
Similarly when a number of most estim-
able assassinations are carried out upon
politicians at Canberra: the story’s faintly
plausible, the solution mad as the meat-
axe with which the murders weren’t com-
mitted.
Pure nonsense, admittedly, is a respect-
able kind of humor; but when a giant
Burmese spider creeps in as the deus ex
machina of “Miss Pennycuick’s Nightie,”
the reader, instead of being caught up
with the garment, is let down with a
bump.
“The Strip Stroll,” however—and many
of the rest of the stories —never soars
into the incredible. It is possible (for the
purposes of fictional satire) that a wealthy
eccentric should leave £2,000,000 to the
Sydney City Council on condition that
the Lord Mayor should walk naked from
Central to the Quay; it is possible that
the council, the city and the newspapers
should be split into two camps over the
propriety of the Mayor’s endeavoring to
earn the money; and it is still faintly
possible, and therefore uproariously
funny, when the Lord Mayor—instead of
being whisked away by a giant Pata-
gonian butterfly—does attempt the strip
stroll.
That story, as well as being a delight-
ful piece of lunacy, is a satirically realistic
comedy of Sydney bumbledom. There’s
the saving touch of the nearly-possible
again in “The Last of the Beer Mug
Readers” ; in “The Ferry Pirates”; in
“The Fire Engine of Treacle Creek”; in
“The Lost Tram” ; in “That’s Cricket’s”
priceless moment when the batsman at the
bowler’s end, having beer taken, insists
on taking block; in the mad but un-
scientifically-credible story of the ship
that fought a duel with itself and finally,
firing right round the world with its hush-
hush long-range guns, sank itself in
triumph ; and in the wonderful dreami-
ness of Dreamy Bentwhistle:
“Aren’t you Dreamy Bentwhistle?
Weren’t we in the same class together at
school?”
He pulled out a notebook and consulted
it.
“Yes, my name’s Bentwhistle, though
why you wanted to call me—what was it
you called me?”
“Dreamy. That was your school nick-
name, you know.”
“Was it? What was?”
“Dreamy.”
“Dreamy what?”
“Dreamy Bentwhistle.”
“Why Bentwhistle ?”
In addition to the merits of its humor
—and the merit of bringing humor into
the contemporary Australian short story —
Miss Pennycuick’s Nightie is noteworthily
virtuous for the pleasant naturalness with
which Blair accepts Sydney scenes and
people* m a., siibjsfil. fat jatire.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Serenely objective Russian history be-
came a living Warning when Melbourne
National Theatre staged “The Patriot”
The doomed Paul the First, who
could never find out what was hap-
pening in his own kingdom, was
the helpless victim of his own offi-
cial propaganda, like the modern Gov-
ernments which have fitted themselves out
with Departments of Information to
cheer themselves up. Consequently Paul
thought that everybody was against him,
except the man who was most certainly
against him —his Foreign Minister, Count
Pahlen. The National Theatre people
acted the play well for the most part.
By the best Sydney Tiv. standards, Bob
Dyer’s humor in “Artists and Models” is
very funny, and, with lights out and the
audience in darkness, the laughter he
evokes almost dislodges the cherubs on
the Tiv, ceiling. But when some of his
patter calls for a lighted theatre and
members of the audience are plainly
exposed to each other, the volume of
guffaw is more than halved. An interest-
ing problem for the A.R.P. authority on
the psychological effect of blackouts.
The show is fast, punctuated by “Mo,”
smartly costumed and presented with the
selective extravagance that typifies all
Tiv. shows. The Tiv. never adopts that
hopeless “anything-will-do-as-long-as-it’s-
flesh-and-blood” attitude.
It seems to be the aim of most Ameri-
can and English actors to figure in a
play or film which will permit them to
take a crack at the Nazis. Leslie Howard,
in “Pimpernel Smith,” at Sydney Lyceum,
is the latest; his graceful acting carries
the thing off perfectly, and some of the
lines are a delight—“ Even if Professor
Schwartz has proved definitely that
Shakspeare was German, you’ll still admit
that the English translations are very
good.”
Russell Drysdale’s show of oils at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, seems to
be intended to shock the Philistines. His
canvases are populated by attenuated,
elongated figures with ghastly faces, re-
calling the more bloodcurdling efforts
of Matisse and Modigliani. Despite
these eccentricities Drysdale has a mas-
terly touch with interiors. In “Medical
Examination” and “The Bath” (the latter
an uncontorted figure study) the lighting
is admirably managed.
There were two mysteries about the
show of “Australian Art for the Theatre
and Ballet” at the Education Depart-
ment’s Gallery, Sydney. One is why a
country which has hardly any theatre
left should be able to produce two acres
of drawings of stage settings and cos-
tumes, and the other is why the majority
of the artists have found it necessary to
pretend that they never learned to draw.
Thea Proctor, Daryl Lindsay, Adrian
Feint are notable exceptions to a bad
rule.
By no stretch of the imagination could
the display of official war artists’ work
in the Mural Hall at Myer’s, Mel-
bourne, be described as extraordinary.
Ivor Hele paints troops, hospitals,
dressing stations, shelled cities and a
couple of generals ; Frank Norton paints
warships and munitions factories; and
Harold Herbert paints in his facile
manner desert scenes and a bombard-
ment in which the shellbursts look like
clouds that have drifted into the picture.
The Felton trustees have appointed
that onetime stormy petrel of Australian
art Max Meldrum as a member in suc-
cession to the late John Longstaff. Mel-
drum is probably the first member the
committee has had who is capable of
judging a picture, not on who painted it
but on how it is painted.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
*****
Rodex" Raincoats
"Rodex" Raincoats, London
tailored, smartly styled for
town wear. Proofed by the
best process. Button to neck
Raglan styles. Fly front,
vent back, storm cuffs. In
serviceable shades of
Fawn. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price# each, £6/17/6
UNILLUSTRATED
"Burberry" Raincoats
These world famous Rain-
coats by "Burberry" are
available in light, mid, or
dark Fawns. Tailored from
a proofed Gabardine that
will stand heavy weather.
The check linings are also
proofed. Loose fitting Rag-
lans with two-way collar,
full skirt, vent back, and
accessible pockets. Can be
had with or or without all
round belt and buckle. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price
each £9/9/-
Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Tailored
Craftsmen
After braving the oceans our
precious Coat imports have arrived
from Britain —still the same quali-
ties that have won world renown.
Cut and tailored with masterly pre-
cision and detail# their qualities
and workmanship throughout are
superb. Come wind, come
weather, you'll be set for the
season with these!
m
"Dexter" Raincoats
English Gabardine Raincoats
by "Dexter". These famous
garments are available in 3
gualities. Proofed woollen
Gabardines in Fawn, Grey,
and Dark Brown. English Rag-
lan styles with fly front, step
lapel, vent back, and access-
ible welt pockets. At Anthony
Horderns'. Prices, each,
£lO/10/-, £l2/12/-, & £l5/15/-
r
<y
m
If
Vi
L, I -
C. i
V ;»
/.
■\
VUHI
Tailored Suits
Unfortunately we can t all wear
Uniforms —quite a number of us stilll
have to wear the conventional suit.
That being so, we naturally want a
suit that combines style, appearance,
and lasting quality. Anthony Hor-
derns' take pride in every suit they
tailor, irrespective of price, and can
offer an unrivalled service to any
part of the Commonwealth. Suits
tailored to measure. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Prices, each, 6 to 17 Guineas
Men's Kookaburra
Underwear
The famous Kookaburra Under-
wear, natural Wool and Cotton,
medium winter weight. The
Shirts have short sleeves.
Sizes .. Shirts Underpants
34 ins 9/6 10/6
36 ins 9/11 10/11
38 ins. .... 10/6 11/9
40 ins 10/11 12/6
42 ins 11/9 13/3
44 ins 12/9 14/6
a Men's Department—Ground Floor, George St.
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


SKEET BUILDS A SHELTER
By JOHN K. EWERS.
EVERY morning in summer the sun
roused Skeet out of his bed on the
front verandah long before any of
the others thought of getting up. His
mum and dad were asleep in the first bed-
room, his sister Muriel in the second.
His older brother, Tim, was dead to the
world on a stretcher on the back
verandah. Skeet would stay in bed until
he could stand it no longer, then he’d
hang around waiting for the others.
Weekdays weren’t so bad. Mum was
generally up at half-past six, bustling
around to get them off to work or school.
But this was Sunday, and no one ever
got up on Sundays until after nine. No-
body, except Skeet. Sundays or week-
days were the same to him. He had to
get up!
It had been hot all the week, but today
was going to be a corker. As he leaned
on the wooden balustrade, gazing over the
tops of the picket fences that subdivided
the long row of semi-detached houses,
the barely risen sun burned like a fire.
Skeet went into the bathroom and
stepped out of his pyjamas. The water
in the shower was pleasantly cool. It ran
smoothly over his lean young body,
loosening up some of the drowsiness of
a hot night and a hotter morning. By
the time he was dressed the paper had
arrived, so Skeet collected it from the
lawn and sat down to look at the comics.
He chuckled aloud for five minutes, then
turned to the war pictures. There was a
full page of them every Sunday. Skeet
reckoned the war was pretty exciting, but
it was a bit of a cow when you were only
twelve and couldn’t do anything about it.
Opposite the war pictures there was a
whole lot telling you what to do for air
raids. There were plans of trench
shelters, and how to black-out and stop
glass from shattering. Skeet’s mum was
always on to his dad to build a shelter,
but he said, “Aw, they won’t come here!
They haven’t got an earthly!”
Skeet wondered if they would. They
were getting pretty close. Anyhow, it
would be fun to have a shelter. But they
could never afford these ones in the
paper. No one in Rose-terrace could,
unless they all put in and built one. And
what hope was there of that, with blokes
like his dad? If Skeet or his mum kept
at him too long, he’d get wild and say
“Let the landlord do it. It’s his property.
It ain’t for us to go diggin’ up the back-
yard.”
Skeet felt miserable. He was tired of
being a kid and having nothing. But he
was going to have something some day.
By cripes, he was! He was going to have
a decent job, too. He wasn’t going to be
like his dad, satisfied with anything that
cam© along. It was all right now there
was a war on and there was plenty of
work. But Skeet could remember times
when his dad never got anything for
weeks on end.
Then he thought suddenly: “Gee,
wouldn’t a bloke be stiff if a bomb
lobbed on him and blew him to bits
before he had a chance of being any-
thing?”
He sat down on the edge of the
verandah to get it straight. He had all
sorts of ideas about the things he was
going to do when he grew up—that is,
if he grew up; if he didn’t collect a
bomb or something.
WHEN Skeet’s mum got up an hour
or so later and went to the bathroom
to wash the sleep out of her eyes, the
first thing she saw was Skeet’s pyjama
trousers lying on the floor. She felt sud-
denly angry. Over and over again she’d
told him not to leave them there.
She went to the back door and yelled
“Skeet! Skeet! Haven’t I told you not
to”
She stopped short. In the left-hand
back corner of the yard was a heap of
yellow sand. She hurried across and
peered down.
“Skeet, in name’s sake, what are you
doing?”
He stopped and grinned up at her. He
was filthy dirty. Sand clung to his sweat-
ing face and body and matted in his hair.
“Hello, Mum! Like my air raid
shelter?”
“Skeet, what will your father say?”
For reply, Skeet threw out another
shovelful of sand.
She stood looking anxiously down at
him. “You mind it don’t fall in on you,
that’s all! That sand’s terrible dan-
gerous.” Then she remembered why she’d
come. “Skeet, your trousers was on the
floor again. I do wish you’d remember
to pick ’em up an’ put ’em under your
piller.”
“Sorry, Mum. But I can’t stop now.”
“All right. But don’t forget next time,
that’s all.”
Skeet stooped to his shovel and she
went back humming a snatch of tune. She
picked the trousers up, folded them and
took them out to his bed on the front
verandah.
At breakfast Skeet was quiet and sub-
dued. Tim chivvied him, but Skeet said
nothing. His mum looked anxiously at
his face, pale now the flush of working
had worn off.
“Don’t you go overdoing it, my boy.
You ain’t got too much strength to
spare.”
His dad wasn’t up yet. He was still
nursing a hang-over. Skeet wondered
what he’d say when he knew. Muriel
was fussy and excited about it. She told
Skeet what a pal he was, making a
shelter. She said he was a real hero and
he’d save all their lives. Skeet said
nothing. He knew Muriel well enough
not to be taken in by anything she said.
It wasn’t until lunchtime that his dad
got up and saw what was going on. He
ticked Skeet off and told him that prob-
ably the landlord would kick them out
when he knew. He had no right to go
digging up the yard. Why didn’t he come
and ask him first? Then Skeet’s mum
took a hand. She said: “Can’t you leave
the kid alone? He’s tryin’ to do some-
thin’, which is more than you are! ”
One word led to another until they
were going hammer and tongs. Skeet sat
silent, his eyes on his plate. He felt hurt,
deep down inside him. He was angry
with his dad. He didn’t care if the land-
lord did kick them out. They might get
a decent house to live in then.
After lunch, his mum made him lie
down for a bit. “You’ll be knockin’ your-
self up,” she said.
But as soon as she’d gone off for her
afternoon snooze Skeet sneaked out to
his hole again. Gee, but he was sore
when he got up off that bed! He could
hardly straighten himself out. But after
a quarter of an hour he got into the
: swing of it again and the stiffness went
; out of his bones. The back fence was
casting a bit of a shadow now and it
was pleasanter working.
AS the afternoon wore on it got hotter
in the house, so Sheet’s dad shifted
out on to the bed on the front verandah.
He sprawled on the bed, wearing only a
pair of shorts. It was too hot even for
a shirt. He was studying the sporting
pages of the paper, trying to puzzle out
how he could pick the treble he’d
nearly won the day before. He’d had the
first two horses, but Ailsa Belle had let
him down in the Welter. She’d win next
week, the cow! He was wondering who
to take with her.
Sheet’s mum came out of the bedroom,
wrapped round in a faded pink gown.
She brought a chair from the dining-
room and placed it in the passage, where
she could catch any faint breeze that
might spring up.
“That lawn’s lookin’ awful,” she said.
“You might as well be waterin’ it as
lyin’ there.”
Dad squinted at it through the panels
of the balustrade. “Does look pretty
crook, don’t it?”
He got up and stretched. Then he
went down and turned on the tap. He
brought the hose back, a sluggish stream
running out one end. Sitting on the floor,
he poked the hose through the panels and
let the water dribble slowly on to the
parched grass.
“Dunno why I’m doin’ this,” he said.
“Shouldn’t be surprised if we get a thun-
derstorm tonight or tomorrer.”
She made no comment, but her mind
was busy thinking about Skeet working
out in the back and his dad sitting there
doing nothing. Tim and Muriel were
away enjoying themselves. Skeet didn’t
get much fun out of life. But he was a
good kid. He’d run rings round the rest
of them, one of these days.
A FTER a bit she got up and went out
1 Y to see how he was getting on. She
found him standing at the entrance to
the shelter, looking at his finished job.
“Hallo, Mum! I was just cornin’ to get
you. Come down an’ see how you like it.”
She stood nervously on the edge of the
crazy-looking structure. “Goodness, is
it safe?”
Course it is! Look! ”He ran quickly
down and up the steps he’d made out
of empty boxes. “Come on!”
She took his outstretched hand and
followed him gingerly. From where she
stood on the sandy floor she couldn’t see
anything aboveground. A cool, sweet,
earthy smell filled the dugout. It was
cooler and fresher than she’d felt all day.
“Like it?”
“It’s lovely. You must be worn out.
Skeet!”
She rested a hand lightly on his
shoulder and he leaned against her, glad
of the support. Then he said suddenly:
“Will I go an’ get dad?
She shook her head. “I wouldn’t worry
him if I was you, son. He’s like a bear
with a sore head today. Leave him alone.
An’ don’t take no notice of anything he
says. They can’t turn us out for doin’
this. They ought to be glad to think
we’re tryin’ to save our lives so’s w© can
go on payin’ the rent.”
She gave a strange sort of laugh.
Skeet helped her up the steps and then
went down again to have a last look at
his shelter before he went to have a bath.
They’d be safe enough down there. It
wouldn’t matter if a bomb dropped on
the house and smashed it to bits. He
hoped one would. Then, perhaps, they’d
go somewhere else and live, somewhere
that didn’t have a front yard the size of
a handkerchief and a backyard that
was nothing but yellow sand, some-
where that didn’t have only a thin wall
between the houses on each side, so you
could hear rows going on when one or
the other of their next-door neighbors
had a few drinks in ; somewhere where
he could have a room of his own with his
books and things, and not just a bed on
the front verandah where the sun drove
you out every morning in summer and
the rain beat in in the winter.
VISIT TO THE LUTTS.
By T. HUNGERFORD.
THINGS was different in those days ;
wasn’t no moving pictures and
motor-bikes then ; we had to make
our own fun. The Lutts owned a
farm about three miles from our place,
and we used to go over to play with the
Lutt kids. They was twenty in family,
not countin’ Mr. and Mrs. Lutt, none of
your ones and twos and squawkin’ about
too many mouths to feed ; they used to
bake a- whole sheep Sundays, and not a
bone left to tell the tale. Them Lutt
girls used to plough an’ harrow with the
men from daylight till dark, and would
make two of you. Great hobnail boots
they had and skirts above their ankles . . .
not proper it wasn’t, then, but they
had to work.
I remember they had a big red bull
called Strawbry, what had grew up with
them Lutt kids crawlin’ all over it, slidin’
down its back an’ off its rump, and it
used to lie in the yard near the house.
He was the biggest bull I ever see ; a
neck like this ... an’ horns like this
... an’ eyes as big as y’r fist, blacklike,
with red in them. Well, we was fright-
ened of Strawbry, and used to stop at the
fence, a post an’ rail fence it was, and
look at Strawbry, an’ he’d look at us
quietlike, an’ we’d holler and squeal “Are
you there, Mrs. Lutt?” till the Lutt kids
came runnin’ out an’ all squealed back
“C’mon in, Strawb won’t hurt you,” an’
they’d run to the bull and crawl all over
him, pull his ears an’ twist his tail, but
he’d never take any notice. We’d climb
up the fence and drop over the other
side and make a bolt for the kitchen
door. Mrs. Lutt always seemed to be
bakin’, an’ we’d have hot scones and
cream and home-made jam. They had
about fifty cows, and an old mare an’
a couple of dogs used to go to the river
paddock and round them up night after
night, and never leave one behind. The
mare used to bring old Lutt home market
days as drunk as a fiddler, an’ no one
ever interfered with her,
WHEN we’d had our scones and
cream, we used to go out with the
Lutt kids to see what we could do. When
Dad an’ Mum came with us, like on
Sundays, Dad and Mr. Lutt would walk
out in the crops an’ talk about farming
and pigs, and Mum and Mrs. Lutt used
to sit under an apple-tree in the yard
an’ talk about the marryin’s an’ funerals
in the district, and every now an’ then
would lower their voices and laugh out
loud like something funny had happened ;
Mrs. Lutt was a laughing woman, with
little brown eyes, and jolly for all she’d
had all the little Lutts, an’ was never
happy unless she had kids all round her,
an’ all eatin’ their heads off. We used to
say “No thanks, Mrs. Lutt,” like we’d
been told, but she’d say, “Go on, there’s
plenty more where that come from. I
never yet knew a kid that had enough! ”
an’ she’d laugh and hold her stomach
and wink at Mum, an’ we didn’t need
much pressing to have more.
I remember they had a bull-calf down
the paddock. We’d wait till he had his
head down feeding, an’ a couple of us’d
creep up behind him and grab his tail,
an’ squeal blue murder. Off he’d go, like
a shot, kicking and bucking, with us
runnin’ behind hangin’ on like grim
death till he spilled us off. Then his
mother would come bellerin’ up, and
we would have to make a dive for
the fence. Lookin’ back, it don’t seem
so excitin’, but it did then —we didn’t
have no picture books and clockwork
trains ; we had to make our own fun.
That’s why we used to spend so much
time at the swamp. There was birds
galore and stretches of bulrushes where
the reed-warblers used to hang their
nests, an’ in matin’ season you never
heard such warblin’. But, best of all, the
wild ducks used to feed in the shallow
lagoons, an’ we used to trap them some-
times. You had to squirm pretty close
on your belly, and you’d hear them
quackin’ and gobblin’ quietly amongst
themselves just like they was talkin’ about
how much food they was getting, or
something.
'"THIS day I never did forget. We
1 already had two ducks in a bag, an’
Eugenia Lutt was carrying them. There
was her and Alec Lutt and me. We come
to a likely stretch of water, one we
didn’t remember goin’ in before, and
from a clump of reeds about the middle
we heard some ducks quackin’. Alec, he
was the oldest, said “Ssh!” and stepped
into the lagoon. I followed, an’ ’Genie
came after me. We was pretty intent on
not scaring the ducks, an’ everything was
quiet as a hot Sunday afternoon, when
we heard a squeal from behind us, and
when we turned to bawl out “ ’Genie” all
we could see was her hand clutching the
bag with the ducks in it. I guess she had
side-stepped a bit after a blue water-
hyacinth that was growing near, an’
gone into a deep hole. The ducks went
up with a great splash and a squawk over
our heads, but we never looked at them
even. Alec made a dive into the pool,
where ’Genie had disappeared altogether,
and I splashed to the bank an’ went
screeching through the swamp at the top
of my voice. I never knew mud to cling
so, and bushes to be so thick. They
caught my face an’ hair, and although I
didn’t know it I was a pretty sight when
I met Mr. Lutt racing over the paddock
on our old Smoky, who pulled the cart
over from our place. He had heard me
screaming, and dashed out and kicked
old Smoky in the ribs and headed for
the swamp. He yanked me up behind
him, and I led him to the lagoon.
? When we got there Alec had pulled
’Genie out, and she was lyin’ on the
bank, still and white with her eyes closed,
an’ Alec was holding her hand an’ cry-
ing. Old Lutt gave him a knock back-
wards, tipped the ducks outa the bag,
pulled a feather out of one’s wing and
stuck it down ’Genie’s throat. She
choked, and brought up about a gallon
of brown swamp water, an’ after a while
she was sittin’ up taking notice. We
stuck her on the horse and walked back
to Lutts’, where Mum and Mrs. Lutt
were in a great stew. Mrs, Lutt grabbed
’Genie, an’ hugged her close, laughin’ and
cryin’, and ’Genie said “Anyway, I didn’t
let go the ducks! ” and old Lutt said “Just
as well you didn’t—if I catch you kids
down the swamp again I’ll knock your
dam’ heads together, ducks or no ducks,
so don’t forget!” and Mrs. Lutt said
“Now, Henry, don’t scold the children.
They’ve had a big enough fright already.
All’s well that ends well, so let’s go and
have a cup of tea,” and she walked into
the house and busied herself in the
kitchen as though nothing had happened.
That night we was cornin’ home just
after sundown. It had turned cold, and
us kids was cuddled up under some
clean chalfbags in the back of the cart,
playing “My Uncle Sam Kept a
Grocery” ; I couldn’t spell very well, so
I was lying there just listening to the
jingle of the harness on old Smoky, and
smelling the bags and the horse-sweat,
and the sway of the cart was sending me
to sleep, so that I just heard Mum, like
she was a long way away, threatenin’
“ and if ever I bring you visitin’ the
Lutts again it’ll do you good!”
But I didn’t worry . . . she always
forgot before next time, and as I went
to sleep the evenin’ star was shining still
as you like above the trees, an’ I could
hear frogs croaking in a swamp just off
the road.


The Bulletin
Vol. 63.—N0. 3241.
Wednesday, March 25, 1942.
SPIRIT OF 1942.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webh
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp:
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : J Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
GENEROSITY AND JUSTICE.
Last week was crowded with events
which gave Australians substantial
reasons for rejoicing.
Out of the north came graphic accounts
of the punishment inflicted on the Japa-
nese invasion fleet by Australian and
American bombers. Out of the north also
came ’planes bearing General Douglas
MacArthur, his wife and small son, his
secretary, his Chief of Staff (Major-
General Sutherland), Brigadier-General
Marshall and 12 other staff officers. They
had made a daring journey from Bataan,
scene of one of the great episodes of the
war, dropping down at Alice Springs.
The moment Washington learned that
they had made ,a safe landing it an-
nounced that, “in accordance with the
request of the Australian Government,
made on February 22, the President” had
“directed General MacArthur to transfer
his headquarters from the Philippines to
Australia, with command of all the land,
air and naval forces of the United Nations
in the area east of Singapore”—which
includes not only Australia and Maori-
land but the Philippines. At the same
time, the veil having been lifted by Wash-
ington, Mr. Curtin announced that the
hero of Bataan would have under his
supreme control “very substantial Ameri-
can forces in Australia.” That, of course,
was already known to many Australians,
on whom the fine quality of the Ameri-
can service men, their workmanlike con-
centration on their multifarious jobs in
scorn of entanglements with which Aus-
tralians are only too well acquainted, and
their ardor to get at the enemy and drive
him back to his own country had made
a profound impression.
The P.M. mentioned also that, “on the
recommendation of the Australian Gov-
ernment,” the President had appointed
Lieutenant-General Brett —already in Aus-
tralia and with personal experience of
Australian airmen’s work in the Middle
East and our Near North —to command
the Allied air forces in the Anzac zone.
The gratitude of this Commonwealth
to the President and the American nation
has been well expressed by Mr. Curtin,
and it will be no evanescent sentiment.
Looking at the photographs of General
MacArthur, Major-General Sutherland
and Lieutenant-General Brett, with their
strong faces and intellectual foreheads,
we know that, in our great need, the
Americans have given us of their best.
We know also that in sending their
national hero to Australia they have
charged themselves with the responsibility
of saving it as a free white English-
speaking nation, as far as it lies within
their power, for it is not in the nature
of that great people to let MacArthur
down.
But with all the goodwill in the world
they cannot do the whole job or
even the greater part of it. Under Mac-
Arthur’s leadership, and with the help
of his gallant forces and of the indomit-
able Royal Navy and Merchant Navy,
Australians must in the main save them-
selves by their own exertions. This most
Australians realise, and this all Austra-
lians will do.
It is unfortunate that the generous
American gesture should have had British
reactions which gave an impression of
chagrin. Nothing could have been more
unfortunate than a London “Daily Mail”
outbreak as cabled to this country:
Australia is in imminent peril, but there
is little we can do. Time presses and we
are so far away. Our hands are full.
This is infamously unjust to the Royal
Navy and the Merchant Navy, which are
helping Australia in divers important
ways, and it plays into the hands of a
pestilent section which, notorious in other
years for hounding Britain on to war, has
swung into yelping depreciation. This
section has presented Britain as a Blimp,
selfishly hanging on to ’planes for the pro-
tection of the United Kingdom, and has
spat venom at British generalship (really
a bit better, on the whole, than it was in
the first World War, and much better
than in the Boer War) and British
Conservatives who were not mad for war,
knowing that the Empire was unprepared.
At the same time it has extolled every-
thing Russian: glorified “encirclements”
which have led to nothing in particular,
celebrated victories which are not sup-
ported by the evidence of the map, and
demanded a Second Front in Europe,
while saying nothing about a Second
Front in Siberia and as little as possible
about such things as the renewal of the
Russo-Japanese fisheries agreement in the
fourth month of Japan’s attack on the
U.S.A. and the British Empire.
This detestable stuff is contempora-
neous with and may be a copy of a per-
nicious Transatlantic agitation to which
Lord Halifax has replied most effectively.
In a broadcast from Washington, the
British Ambassador gave moving details
of what his nation has done and suffered
—6O per cent, of the national income de-
voted to war expenditure ; 80 per cent, of
total military production “and every sol-
dier for whom shipping space was avail-
able” sent overseas ; expeditionary forces
fighting in two continents, from the Arctic
Circle to the Equator, with casualties
“more than 70 per cent.” of the British
Commonwealth total; two great Italian
armies destroyed and a third, “well stif-
fened by Germans,” expelled from Egypt,
with the loss of 500,000 men ; 1,500,000
regulars and 2,000,000 “part-time sol-
diers, whose full-time work is mostly in
war industries,” guarding 3000 miles of
British coasts ; three enemy capital ships,
13 cruisers, 53 destroyers and many sub-
marines sunk by the Royal Navy and the
R.A.F., and 5,250,000 tons of Axis ship-
ping sunk or damaged ; the Seven Seas
patrolled since September 3, 1939, with
sinkings kept down to one ship in 200 —
though that statement reveals heroism and
suffering which had never been surpassed
—and 9396 German and Italian aircraft
shot down by the R.A.F., “whose exploits
have fired the imagination of the world.”
By preventing invasion of the British
Isles the R.A.F. saved the cause of free-
dom everywhere. And production has been
carried on in spite of efforts to smash our
factories and break our morale. Today we
are turning out five times as many tanks
as at the feverish time of the Dunkirk with-
drawal.
A year ago Britain’s big cities were suf-
fering savage German air raids. Today the
enemy is beginning to learn what heavy air
attacks can mean to great centres of war
production. Our aircraft are not only
carrying more bombs than formerly, but
heavier ones; some weigh nearly two tons
and bigger bombs are on the way.
No country has ever had to endure such
continuous, widespread and heavy bomb-
ing. To the end of 1941 we lost 43,357
men, women and children killed and 50,000
seriously injured.
A truly noble picture of an embattled
nation, which will survive lost campaigns
and ineptitude in high places as it has
done many times in its history. Aus-
tralian politicians and newspapermen,
who supported “collective security” and
“resistance to aggression” (without sug-
gesting or making more than a shadow of
preparation for such resistance), when
Australia could have rejected both, have
no case against Britain. They are not
even entitled to indict Mr, Churchill on
the score of the calamities which
have resulted from his methods of
making war. It was they who helped
to give him his excessive power.
At the general election 18 months
ago the Ministerial and Opposition
parties were more intent on trading on
his reputation, as it stood then, than on
securing for Australia and its fighting
sons their rightful share in the direction
of military policy. That supremely im-
portant matter wasn’t even mentioned
during the election campaign, but can we
ever forget those U.A.P. posters (“Men-
zies is with You, Churchill”) or the
claims of the other side, now in office,
that the A.L.P. had its own Churchill,
Mr. Curtin?
Anyone with a spark of imagination
must realise that the relations established
by the MacArthur appointment will have
a lasting effect on the future of Australia
and Maoriland. But from that future
Britain can never be dissociated.
From "Lieut." to "Mr."
Though it wasn’t always so, a beautiful
understanding exists between the Sydney
morning papers. In the hectic pre-war
days they were twin enthusiasts for
“sanctions,” “collective security,” “Our
frontier is on the Rhine,” war for Czecho,
Firm Action in Spain and all the rest
of it, though never for conscription or
any nasty circulation-loser like that. The
last election found them running almost
identical tickets of “outstanding candi-
dates” and licking their wounds in com-
pany after the funeral. And though the
military plans their unblooded young
lions produce for the instruction of the
benighted service chiefs are apt to
differ, there is no loss of friendship.
When the Curtin Government dug
up the “Telegraph’s” Mr. Theodore and
named him Director-General of the
Allied Works Council, in spite of his
political record and his part in the worst
day’s work ever done in Australia, the
skittling of the citizen army based on
compulsory training, the “Herald” was
enthusiastic. Forgetting all that it had
written about the exploded politician in
the past it burbled that he had been
“shabbily treated in May, 1940,” that he
was a shining example of “brains” and
“leadership,” and that he at last had “a
war post consonant with his powers.”
It was therefore natural that an an-
nouncement of earth-shaking importance
concerning another “Telegraph” boss
should be “exclusive” to the “Herald.” It
appeared on the leader page at the foot
of a column (possibly the work of some
dyspeptic printer), and was in these
terms;
Mr. Frank Packer.
Mr. Frank Packer, Managing Director of
Consolidated Press, Ltd., has been seconded
temporarily from the Armored Division to
assist in preliminary organisational work
with the Allied Defence Council.
In one edition of the “Herald” the
word “Defence” was almost inked out.
Possibly someone had last-moment doubts
as to whether Mr. Frank Packer was to
become an Assistant Organiser of Vic-
tory or do something or other for Mr.
Theodore’s dirt-job show. But what in-
trigued people who have followed the
Managing Director’s military career, the
rigors of which have been tempered by
visits in uniform to remote race meet-
ings, was the substitution of “Mr.” for
“Lieut.” If he has only been “seconded
temporarily from the Armored Division”
at the earnest request of Washington,
Whitehall or Wantabadgery, why deprive
him of his military title, presumably won
in fair competition with less-qualified
warriors? This conundrum should have
a special interest for Mr. Eddie Ward,
now Minister for Labor and National
Service, who, when merely member for
East Sydney, showed a lively interest in
Lieut. Packer. In witness whereof,
take this extract from “Hansard” of June
20, 1941 (p. 233):
Movements of Lieut. Packer.
Mr. Ward: Can the Minister for the
Army inform the House whether Lieut.
Packer, who is at present in camp at Pucka-
punyal, Victoria, is given special leave so
that he can almost every night attend
Menzies Hotel? Can the Minister also
state whether Lieut. Packer has special
duties which take him to that quarter, and,
if so, will he supply hon. members with
any information he possesses as to the
nature of such duties? Has Lieut. Packer
had previous military experience, and, if
not, can the Minister state the reason why
he has been given commissioned rank? Is
it a fact that Lieut. Packer has leased a
considerable portion of the residential
accommodation at the hotel at Broadford,
and, if so, is this an indication that Lieut.
Packer does not expect to be sent over-
seas? Finally, is it intended to change the
name of the Puckapunyal camp to that of
“Packerpunyal” ?
Mr. Spender: Lieut. Packer is attached
to the Armored Division and gets no special
consideration at all. Recently he was at a
newspaper proprietors’ conference regard-
ing newsprint. An application was made
that he should be given leave of absence
for two days while the discussion took
place. Apart from that, I am unaware of
Lieut. Packer having received any leave that
has not been given to other officers. He is
a member of the A.I.F. and, as far as I
know, is a very good officer. He is con-
nected with Consolidated Press and expects
to go overseas. Personally, I consider that
he made a very big sacrifice when he en-
listed.
Some months afterwards the British
Minister of Information, without refer-
ence to the Australian Government, in-
vited a party of newspaper proprietors
“to pay an informal visit to England to
see and inquire into any matters of in-
terest to them.” It was suggested that
Lieut. Packer would be one of-the com-
pany if the authorities chose to release
him from his military duties. He stayed
behind. About the same time the “Tele-
graph” printed bitter attacks on service
chiefs which drew strong protests in both
Houses, though it was not suggested that
Lieut. Packer had anything to do with
them.
And now, with the enemy killing Aus-
tralians —service men and civilians —on
the Australian continent, as well as in
Australian territories, Lieut. Packer of the
Armored Division becomes plain Mr.
Packer of the Allied Defence (or Works)
Council, “seconded temporarily to assist
in preliminary organisational work.”
Prodigious!
A Memory of Banyuwangi.
Banyuwangi, which was bombed by
’planes from Bali as a prelude to the
invasion of Java, is the terminus of the
island’s principal railway and of the
1000-mile postroad built with forced
labor by Napoleon’s lieutenant, Daendals,
at a cost of 100,000 lives. Hence it
marks the furthest point reached south
by the aspirant for world-conquest who
preceded Hitler. It is also the landing
place of the Darwin-Singapore cable,
worked for 30 or 40 years past mainly
by Australians.
Banyuwangi is a typical Javanese pro-
vincial capital. There is the redolent native
market. There are the two vast plains
or aloen-aloens, one fronted by the
native regent’s palace and the other by
the office of the Resident, representing
the authority of that remote white queen,
Wilhelmina, now more remote than ever!
There are the European shops vaguely
reminiscent of Paris ; the bungalows of
the Dutchmen and Eurasians set in
pleasant gardens ; the kampongs of the
natives beset with trees and fenced with
bambdo, full of music and the sounds
of feasting at night time, since weddings,
circumcisions and communal celebra-
tions for the calving of a cow or the
return of daddy from Mecca are every-
day occurrences; there are the Chinese
kampong, the Arab kampong and the
kampong of the Balinese, who supply the
brothels through the length and breadth
of the archipelago.
Down by the Boom is a harbor full
of bat-winged dukongs, which sail out to
the fishing grounds on the land breeze
in the morning, returning in the evening
on the sea breeze with their outriggers
clipping the waves and their sails rhyth-
mically swaying, like women going to
market with their arms akimbo. A few
big junks with stumpy foremasts and
covered with children and chickens, with
eyes painted on their prows and with high
poops, are reminiscent of Chinese influ-
ence.
The hot, moist foreshore is lined with
coconut plantations which merge into
miles of towering sugar, with the chim-
neys of the refineries sticking above it.
Then the irrigated ricefields start step-
ping up the foothills. One day they are
plots of brown mud. Then the rice
shoots begin to appear and the fields, of
every shape and pattern, run through all
the gamut of green tones up to brilliant
emerald. Then one morning you look
out of your bedroom and see miles of
gleaming water like a stairway set with
blazing mirrors, the Dutch engineer hav-
ing turned the cocks which flood the
ricefields from one end of Java to an-
other. Next day they will be green
again, the water having been drained off.
Above the ricefields begins the jungle,
pitted with planted rubber, tea and coffee.
Then the primeval forest begins, similar
in kind to the temperate forests of
Europe. If you look for the peaks of
the three volcanic mountains you will
find them where you least expect them
—hanging, two of them perfect cones,
in the sky, above the white blanket of
cloud which enwraps the mountains. One
of them, her topknot shattered, is gently
smoking her pipe and contemplating the
destruction she wrought, probably in pre-
historic times, when she slopped over
and poured a stream of molten lava,
since covered with jungle and plantations,
down to the narrow strait between Java
and Bali. Its peak is inaccessible, being
covered with ashes, but from the others
you can see the still white waters of the
Java Sea on one side and on the other
the stormy blue of the Indian Ocean.
Further north is a 10,000-foot plateau
to which Hindu zealots in the seventh
century built a stairway up which pil-
grims climbed to worship at the shrines
and temples, covered with carvings of
gods and demons, which the early archi-
tects built in the crater of a still-active
volcano. The interminable rains filled
the crater with water, but, nothing
daunted, the zealots dug a vast system
of drains which saved the holy places.
Somebody has planted the slopes of the
mountain with Australian bluegums as a
preventive of malaria, but the natives
use the leaves for fuel and sit and cough
in their chimneyless houses while the
white smoke and smell of eucalyptus
streams into the outside air through every
crevice.
With the best intentions in the world,
all the Dutch succeeded in doing to
this garden of Eden was to despoil it,
though they did not go as far in this
direction as some other European nations.
They at first forced the native to grow
strange alien crops for export and then
gave up compulsion. But the process had
started, new needs were created, an enor-
mously rich class of Chinese and Arabs
replaced the native rajahs, and, although
the population rose like a flood, they
gave the natives nothing except modern
gadgets to replace the balanced economy
that had sufficed them since the dawn of
history.
I remember on one occasion a ship
called in at Banyuwangi and an enter-
prising advance agent distributed cheap
kerosene lamps gratis to the sur-
prised population. A few weeks later
another ship loaded with American kero-
sene hove in sight and started selling
kerosene to the lamp-owners, who had
hitherto been satisfied with a piece of
twisted coconut fibre dipped into a coco-
nut .shell filled with coconut oil —after
that it became a monthly visit. Now
they have electric illumination, no doubt.
If the Dutch are expelled from Java, the
monuments they will leave behind will


not be carved monasteries and temples
and shrines whose sculptured eaves look
lacelike, but rice mills and sugar and
tobacco fabriks, not to mention the ex-
clusive little European club at Banyu-
wangi. There, 30 years ago, I used to
sip gin pahits and eat satis and listen to
stout Dutch planters expatiate on the
beauties of their beloved Insulinde and
shake their heads over the Yellow
menace.
It has been revealed tragically that rail-
ways, concrete roads and sugar fabriks,
however efficient, did not promote loyalty
in the indigenous population. In Java,
as in Malaya, the debacle was largely
caused by the complete indifference of
the native as to who were to be his
rulers.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Churchill, Curtin, Casey.
Dr. Evatt, arriving in the U.S.A. to
urge, among other things, the establish-
ment of a real Pacific War Council at
Washington, instead of the queer substi-
tute for one set up at London, was met
by Mr. Casey, whose head was in a
whirl. Mr. Casey, who, if he had re-
mained in politics for another 18 months,
would have seconded the vote of thanks
to the Corio returning officer, had, it
transpired, accepted an appointment as
British Minister of State in the Middle
East, with a seat on the War Cabinet if
circumstances permit him to take it.
The appointment was, of course, made
by Mr. Churchill, who met Mr. Casey
when he was in the U.S.A. last Decem-
ber. Mr. Churchill’s intentions were
communicated to Mr. Curtin, with a
request for Mr. Curtin’s views, in a per-
sonal message dated March 12. Mr.
Curtin replied that, while the offer was
a tribute to Mr, Casey, that gentleman
had established relations in U.S.A. which
were valuable to Australia, and that it
would be very difficult to find a successor
who could make the same contacts in a
reasonable time. He suggested that, for
the present, no “approach” should be
“made” to Mr. Casey.
Mr. Churchill came back with the sug-
gestion that Mr. Curtin should review
his attitude. Mr. Churchill had, it
seemed, communicated his intentions to
Ministers and Chiefs of Staffs, and had
ascertained from Mr. Casey that Mr.
Casey was “particularly eager to change
his position” ; and Mr. Churchill thought
Mr. Menzies might “fill the gap.” The
reply from Mr. Curtin was that Aus-
tralia did not choose to obstruct Mr.
Churchill’s wishes or Mr. Casey’s ambi-
tions, but it did want Mr. Casey to
remain at Washington until Dr. Evatt
had discharged his mission.
Then Mr. Casey was heard from
by radiophone. He said he had
received the Churchill offer, which
had taken him by surprise, had dis-
cussed it with Justice Frankfurter,
Mr. Harry Hopkins and Lord Halifax,
and would accept it conditionally on the
Australian Government being agreeable,
whereupon he would remain in Washing-
ton long enough to acquaint Dr. Evatt
“with essential facts and people.” Mr.
Curtin’s answer to this was that he under-
stood Mr. Casey’s mental perturbation,
and that the matter lay between Mr.
Casey and Mr. Churchill.
Mr. Curtin thereupon made a state-
ment to the newspapers. This brought
a cable from Mr. Churchill stating that
the conditions laid down by Mr. Curtin
had been “completely fulfilled” by Mr.
Churchill’s instruction that Mr. Casey
was to do everything to assist Dr. Evatt
in Washington. As for Mr. Curtin’s
press statement, Mr. Churchill could not
comprehend it, and Mr. Churchill felt
that he would be under an obligation to
disclose the contents of Mr. Curtin’s
second cable. Mr. Curtin replied that he
would welcome publication of all his
cables to Mr. Churchill, and intended,
for his own part, to produce all the com-
munications in the House of Represen-
tatives. He mentioned also that 8.8. C.
had announced Mr. Casey’s appointment
hours before Mr. Casey himself had
cabled his acceptance of the offer. The
communications closed with an expres-
sion of each gentleman’s determination
to publish the full text (Mr. Churchill got
in first) and with the word “Regards.”
In cynical quarters the incident is
regarded as a continuance of a private
war which has been raging for some time.
Meanwhile Australia and Mr. Casey part
company. He is an awf lly nice fellow, and
has shown some diplomatic ability and
great earnestness in Australia’s cause.
But in view of the uncertainties of British
politics he might be wise to bespeak a
barony for himself while the going is
good.
The Six Calamities.
Some knowledge of the dreadful Austra-
lian taxosaurus, of which there are seven
herds, six extremely voracious, must
have penetrated to America, According
to a Canberra statement:
It is understood that before American
troops came to Australia the Common-
wealth Government gave an undertaking
that they would not be called upon to
pay tax.
The Americans must have got a
shock to learn that there were six other
Governments in Australia with power
to tax anybody unfortunate enough to be
caught within their boundaries. The
Canberra statement added:
The Commonwealth Government wrote
to the States suggesting that they, too,
should grant exemptions. Replies have not
yet been received from all the States
[l9/3/’42], but it is expected that they will
act similarly.
There should never have been any
question of taxing these allies. The spec-
tacle of the thing being referred to
provincial politicians ought to con-
vince Australians that it’s time their
Governments stopped making them
ridiculous in the eyes of civilised peoples.
The Commonwealth Government itself,
far from “suggesting” tax exemption for
American troops in Australia, should
have ordered every State Premier to see
that it was granted.
And since the motor-car has become
of paramount importance as a means of
evacuation of the civilian population, and
for all sorts of other emergency services,
such as taking invalids, the sick and
pregnant or nursing mothers to the coun-
try, the Commonwealth Government
should have ordered every State Premier
to cut motor registration charges. These
are so steep in the two most populous
States and petrol rationing is—necessarily
—so severe that in Victoria registrations
of motor vehicles have dropped 26,966
in a year and in N. S. Wales 35,000
motorists have taken their cars off the
roads.
There is, of course, the possibility that
Mr. Curtin’s Government is deliberately
allowing the State Governments to make
themselves look superfluous. The Pre-
miers cannot be blind to the fact that
unification is creeping on them steadily—
week after week their powers are being
gently taken from them —and their in-
ability to prevent it must be maddening.
Recent Loan Council meetings have
been in the nature of painful operations
to the Premiers. They have been asked
not only to reduce motor taxation but to
vacate the income-tax field in favor of
uniform taxation administered and gath-
ered by the Commonwealth. This hits
them in the softest spot.
But the Commonwealth Government
is not resting there. It has assumed con-
trol of racing and other commercialised
sports, of the liquor trade, of road and
rail transport, of bulk handling of wheat.
Commonwealth Ministers and Federal
officials are displaying impatience with
obstacles raised by State privileges and
there is an annoying persistence in re-
garding State matters as of little import-
ance.
All this, of course, arises from the war,
and the galling part—to the Premiers—
is that their own public, easy as it may
have been in normal times to rouse that
public to a defence of State “rights,” is
not just now in the mood to listen to
Premiers. It is doubtful if it ever will
be again, for no observant man can miss
the point that every time a Common-
wealth power exerts itself to the oblitera-
tion of a State power the country bene-
fits. In fact, it is evident that State Par-
liaments and their herds of officials don’t
matter any more —are, in fact, useless
burdens and every Commonwealth
move makes it clearer.
A Needed Corrective.
Australia’s flapper press has never
ceased to flaunt its sex obsession, so it was
only to be expected that on the Sunday
set apart as a national day of prayer one
of the leading flapper papers should stage
a Beach-Girl show. A country trying to
stave off invasion by Asiatics must have
gasped at the picture of a “Beach Girl
parading yesterday afternoon” while
across the top of the picture ran a head-
line “Japanese Airman ‘Beasts.’ ” Signi-
ficantly enough, not one Australian ser-
vice man could be detected in the crowd
shown seated in the foreground of the
picture.
When the news of the A.E.F.’s arrival
was released, the flapper press let out
a whoop of joy, and sent clouds of
reporters to ask Americans what they
thought of Our Girls. The effect was
startling. Said the U.S. Command spokes-
man: —
Australian people have been kindness
itself. Our men have been invited to private
homes, to parties, to dances... .The men
are more interested in their job than in
leave-breaks The Command dislikes
published comments by members of its
forces about Australian girls I don’t
know why they should always be asked to
give opinions on Australian girls... .Steps
are being taken to prevent this emphasis
on girls in publicity.
The stricture could have come from
no better source. Americans, like Aus-
tralians, don’t believe in cheapening their
own or any other women, the flapper
press notwithstanding.
.
McKell, Martin, Badly.
Premier McKell, who met his “Parlia-
ment” for four hours or so on Feb. 25
and then closed down because —contrary
to his own , Government’s regulations—
the building had not been blacked-out, is
losing the services of his Attorney-
General, Mr. Clarrie Martin. Having dis-
covered that “my task and responsibili-
ties as Attorney-General have been con-
siderably lessened,” Mr? Martin, with Mr.
McKell’s cordial concurrence, is to “give
added impetus to the State’s war effort”
by taking a job as lieutenant on a divi-
sional headquarters staff, “on the under-
standing” that he “will not receive any
military pay.” Nothing about his pay
as Attorney-General, which, as a result
of members and Ministers raising their
own salaries in a year when the State
went nearly £4,000,000 to the bad, exclu-
sive of loans, is £2095 p.a. Taxpayers,
who have been hit to leg by Mr. Martin’s
Government, will fail to see any magna-
nimity in Mr. Martin’s refusal of lieu-
tenant’s pay if he is to go on drawing £4O
a week for a sinecure.
With Mr. McKell’s blessing, Mr.
Martin was responsible for getting two
Maorilanders, aged 34, appointed to the
Sydney University Law School when his
predecessor, Mr. Manning, Professor
Peden, Justices Halse Rogers and David-
son certified that there was no occasion
for such appointments in war-time, and
resigned from the University Senate
rather than be parties to the exclusion
of the claims of two Australian candi-
dates serving overseas. In his attitude
Mr. Martin was supported by 141 stu-
dents of the Law School. Under the
new man-power regulations, law students
are no longer “reserved,” so the Univer-
sity may presently have a Law School
without students. However, should this
lead to a renewal of the battle, in which
Mr. Abram Landa, M.L.A., with inco-
herent shouts of “Nazi and Fascist
tactics,” charged till the forts of Con-
servatism fell, Lieut. Martin will be
above it.
Mr. McKell retains the services of
Mr. Badly, his Minister of Mines. Mr.
Badly is the genius who, in the last
month of the second war year, hit upon
the brilliant notion of retiring coalminers
at 60 —General MacArthur is 62 —on
pensions furnished by taxpayers and con-
sumers, with allowances for wives added,
plus Commonwealth child endowment in
the case of qualified families. Mr.
Badly began paying pensions without
Parliamentary authority. The effects of
his brainwave on production have been
pointed out by Mr. Norman Mighell, the
Coal Commissioner. A concrete case
was mentioned last week by the super-
intendent of Caledonian Collieries:
In Aberdare Central 83 changes have had
to be made because of the pensions scheme.
Since employees were retired at 60, output
has decreased by 200 tons a day. There are
now 28 inexperienced miners in the pit.
This when supplies of Dutch oil have
ceased, when transport from other
sources has become murderously hazard-
ous, when battles may be lost if the fac-
tories cannot turn out munitions enough
for lack of coal, and when the lives of
a great many non-combatants, women,
children, invalids and old people, may
depend on the railways having sufficient
fuel to carry them to safe places.
Because of the strikes and the pen-
sions, which aggravated the strikes, the
coal position in Australia is as bad as
or worse than it is in Britain, where the
Minister of Economic Warfare has con-
fessed that “production is grossly insuffi-
cient, consumption is excessive and stocks
are much too low” ; and the invasion
threat to Australia is far worse. But
nothing can shake Mr. Badly’s convic-
tion that he is a public benefactor. He
protests that Mr. Mighell was wrong in
saying that 2000 miners two years
younger than General MacArthur were
retired on pensions.
The real number is between 1500 and
1600, and they were not all miners.
In the last pre-war year, when Australia
could get all the petrol it wanted, the
average number of men employed in and
about N.S.W. coalmines was 15,815.
What did Mr. McKell say when he
met “Parliament”? Oh, yes: “We have
built up a magnificent organisation in
N. S. Wales. We are doing a terrific
volume of work for the Commonwealth
authorities; the pressure is becoming
more and more terrific every day. We
propose, after very deep, mature and
careful consideration, to —ask the House
to adjourn for a period of approximately
five weeks.”
Atrocity Allegations.
The opinions of “Feng-Shui”:
If Mr. Anthony Eden had been anything of
a psychologist, which he obviously isn’t, he
would have kept his mouth shut about the
Hong Kong atrocities, even if the evidence had
been overwhelming. Atrocity stories give great
and perhaps needless pain to the relatives of
prisoners of war, but serve no useful purpose.
They served no useful purpose in the last war,
which produced the corpse factory, the crucified
Canadian and the mutilation of Belgian children.
The Belgian atrocities were trotted out when
the war was going very badly. It was alleged,
for one thing, that Belgian children were arriv-
ing in Britain armless. The British public was
horrified, and plenty of people went down
to the wharves at Dover expecting to
see little Belgian refugees waving their stumps
from the decks of steamers. _ After the yarn
was laid in Britain it persisted in Australia, and
when some of the Belgian children were sent
to this country there were still gullible people
prepared to see at the docks in Melbourne the
sights that had never been seen in Dover.
One of the interesting things about the Hong
Kong stories is that the only alleged eyewitness
—an “anti-vice crusader” who escaped—-is
extremely explicit in repeating what other people
told her but dismisses in a couple of lines what
she claims to have seen herself. In one news-
paper account (though not in others) she is
reported to have said that the Governor, Sir
Mark Young, set off to surrender the city and
had not been seen since. This may be pic-
turesque, but it is not history.
We have had reassuring statements from
General Bennett, A.I.F. nurses and civilian
refugees about the behavior of the enemy _in
Singapore. And the N.E.I. Government, which
has been closer to the enemy than any of the
atrocity-mongers, including Mr. Eden, says that,
apart from some humiliation of white officials
in front of natives, no reports of atrocities were
received in Java, and rumors of rape were offi-
cially discounted. Reports from the outer Dutch
possessions indicated that, with no access to
liquor, discipline was maintained amongst
occupying troops, and civilians were reason-
ably well treated. All this does not prove that
Japanese did not behave barbarously m Hong
Kong, but it has to be borne in mind.
Clamor. Glamor, "Drammer."
“Old-Timer” lets himself go:
In the appalling uproar welling from every-
body except the men in the fighting services,
the ordinary citizen, trying to do what he can,
is not allowed to obtain a reasonable picture
of the war or his own circumstances. The
papers shriek disaster at him one moment,
hope the next, trouble or threats the next.
The radio is no better. Small things get
prominence at the expense of big and important
things. .
Every time the enemy makes a sortie there
is a howl for somebody’s head. The wildest
and most irresponsible stories, assertions and
suggestions, the most fantastic ideas of strategy,
the most ill-founded allegations receive public
notice out of all proportion to their true value.
All sorts of people are howling for their
“rights” and all sorts of politicians are “assur-
ing” them that their “rights” will be protected.
Nobody ever says a word about responsibili-
ties. The more noise you make the more
notice is taken and the more chance of getting
what you want, no matter how selfish the
want. And board after board, committee after
committee is being created t 9 add to the noise
and confusion. In the midst of it all the
average Australian, not sure whether he is
under the authority of Prime Minister or State
Premier, War Cabinet or State Cabinet, worried
by signs and portents he cannot ignore, trying to
sort out of all the clamor a few realistic things
on which to base thought and action, refuses
to believe anybody and becomes a sour critic
of everything. „ .
And to this clamor is added glamor. A
gallant airman like Brendan Einucane is
adopted by the flapper press. His every move,
his every word is chronicled as faithfully as
were those of the reigning film actor a couple
of years ago. So the public is led to expect
wonders, and when a German squadron ol
warships, covered by a mighty force of fighter
’planes and land-based guns, succeeds in run-
ning the gauntlet, there is instant disappoint-
ment, which finds expression in comments un-
just to the fighting men, who can’t be every-
where all the time. .. T ,
A story conies out of the Balkans or Russia,
based on the merest hearsay or more probably
on the imagination of somebody, about a farmer
and his “guerrillas.” They are credited with
the “capture of many enemy tanks and con-
voys ” and the article is run under double
headlines. Day after day these questionable
yarns are featured. The public reads of
“French Pimpernels,” Dutch Grey Shadows,
Russian “Boadiceas,” all belting the hides off
German armies from behind the lines. No
wonder the less-balanced section of that public
is led to demand “People’s Armies or the
“right” to form themselves, or somebody else,
into “auxiliaries.” . .
This “glamor” evil comes out again in re-
ports of the doings of social lights, every one
of whom who cares to get herself photogiaphed
knitting socks or collecting bottle-tops or run-
ning a tea-fight for the Chinese Orphans Fund
is dubbed an “energetic war-worker. The
Army nurse who leaves behind all those com-
forts dear to the feminine heart and goes ott
to strange places with the fighting men is lucky
to be even noticed —though she surely must pie-
fer it that way, having regard to the company
“Drammer,” of course, is supplied by
“famous” correspondents, who seem to think
that people are far more interested m _ their
doings, adventures and opinions than they
in the’fate of nations. Thus, in hemidst of
Singapore’s agony, space was given to one ol t e
gentlemen who had his pen shaken fjo ml i
hand by an explosion. Another, caught in
Darwin raid, moved heaven and earth to get to
a telegraph station to send south the story ot
his escape. Another bobbed up in Java, harried
the already-harried Governor-General of the
N.E.I. for an interview, and was then allowed
to dramatise himself in a full-page version.
It is all diverting the nation’s thoughts from
the real issues, the real actions, the real needs.


QUEENSLAND'S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1/’3B.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria; A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Give us young men. We must have
young, fighting generals. There are too
many Blimps in the army. We need
leaders in their forties or even younger.”
You could have read it any time in recent
weeks in some Australian papers. The
Americans sent them MacArthur. He is
62.
The Casey affair suggests that Curtin
ought to keep copies of Churchill’s
speeches and refresh his mind with them
occasionally. Churchill said this in the
Commons on Jan. 27:
The Australian Government has specifi-
cally asked that an accredited representa-
tive have the right to be heard in the War
Cabinet in the formulation and direction
of policy. We, of course, agreed to that.
It was taken for granted that he meant
Page. But he had already “had a whole
evening in a train with Casey in America
and learned from him that he was very
anxious for a change.” And he had other
“changes” in contemplation.
A “Sunday Telegraph” (Sydney) note
on the Casey business:
Canberra insiders expect.... Opposi-
tion back-bench Anglophiles will have the
hardest of jobs to produce any argument
for Casey’s action.
So that’s what the “Telegraph” sort of
journalism has come to. Members who
don’t hold their oath of allegiance cheap
are sneered at as “Anglophiles”!
With characteristic modesty, Sydney
“D.T.” claims that it suggested the Mac-
Arthur appointment to Canberra. An-
other theory is that, instead of Canberra
getting the tip from the “D.T.,” the
“D.T.” —notorious for its yells that fight-
ing men are too old at 60 —got it from
Canberra.
One of those “roving reporters” from
Sydney has turned up in Russia, and he
modestly recounts a personal experience:
When told I was an Australian, the Red
Army man said “They are coming from all
parts of the world to fight the Fascists.”
To fight the Fascists. Splendid!
The same “roving reporter”:
Many Russians ask you, “When is
Britain going to create a second front?”
It makes one wonder what will be the
mood of these people if, say, by June or
July Britain has not created a Second Front
in Europe.
Probably the same as ours if Russia, say,
by June or July has not created a Second
Front in Asia.
Land valuations in N.S.W. municipali-
ties are made by the Valuer-General, a
State Government officer, and at the end
of last year, in contempt of the fact that
there is a war on, they were raised right
and left, with startling increases in rates.
Canberra has a better idea. Under
National Security Regs. Federal land tax
is to be assessed on the values obtaining
on June 30, 1939. The same measure of
protection should be extended by Can-
berra to ratepayers, and dated back.
Keith Murdoch in one of his syndi-
cated articles, now charged with emotion;
I would urge once again, and plead, that
the large trusting and promising British
communities here should always be given a
priority, second only to that of the British
citadel. There should be priority above
Russia for vital aeroplanes.
In none of his previous articles —and he
has written stacks —did Mr. Murdoch
“urge” and “plead” that Australia and
Maoriland should get “priority above
Russia for vital aeroplanes.” If he had
so urged and pleaded the Reds and Pinks
would have been at him like a plague of
mosquitoes.
Ward put his finger on a weak spot
when he condemned the week-end habit
in war-time. For once he was effective
without being offensive.
Charles Henry Brand, Old Digger and
Senator, has the floor:
There is not an ex-service man in either
the Advisory War Council or the War
Cabinet. A leavening of men with war
service would be an advantage.
A decided advantage. Brand himself
would be an acquisition to the Advisory
War Council, which has no Senator
among the ten.
“A move is being made to exempt
American forces in Australia from in-
come taxes.” That’s how A.B.C. put it.
It is one of the humiliating results of
allowing seven bands of politicians and
bureaucrats to Harbor the notion that
everyone and everything are subject to
seven income taxes. Curtin should make
it clear that any State Taxation Depart-
ment found in possession of a list of men
who have come to fight for Australia will
be disqualified for the duration.
Badly, the N. S. Wales Minister for
Mines, who grew up in a coalmining
THE TOAST IS “CASEY” GENTLEMEN!
union, was at the Rothbury shooting,
and, with the Japs at our northern gate,
has seen coalminers strike against his
own pensions scheme, is shocked to the
depths of his sensitive soul at the pro-
ceedings of the Sydney Housewives’ Asso-
ciation. That concern. Badly cries in
his agony, actually expels members —
expels them, by all that’s holy! Badly
is so broken up that it looks as if he
will abandon everything pertaining to his
portfolio—salary excepted—for the rest
of the war so as to keep an eagle eye on
the Housewives.
Duff Cooper presents his report to
J. Bull:
After I had been two months at Singa-
pore events were moving so rapidly that I
no longer delayed sending home my report.
I completed my report and sent it to
London by a special member of my staff.
The Cabinet had insufficient time to make
any decision on my report when war broke
out.
Tite Barnacle couldn’t have done better.
On Thursday night Army Minister
Forde stopped racing at Rosehill (Syd-
ney) on Saturday, declaring that the
course was needed for military purposes
and he wasn’t going to have training in-
terrupted. It was a pretty big “meeting,”
as meetings go, and the club might have
had longer notice ; but the principle is
unassailable, if applied all round. There
were races as usual at Ascot (Mel-
bourne); in fact more than usual: 15
races, run at 20-minute intervals, and
there were to have been 19 if something
or other hadn’t happened. Apropos,
somebody should inquire in the Reps,
this week how many racecourses in which
Wren is interested have been taken over
for military purposes.
Because a South Coast (N.S.W.) miner
had been killed his fellow-pitmen took
the day off. Nobody ever objected to
such a gesture in time of peace, but in
war and in a besieged country desperately
short of coal it’s carrying sympathy and
sentiment too far. It is improbable that
the habit will spread to the A.M.F.,
the A.E.F. or the R.A.A.F.
The Sydney press was allowed to re-
mark on Thursday and Friday that Pre-
mier McKell and his Education Minister,
Clive Evatt, were “not in agreement.”
Evatt’s advice to young inmates of reform
schools to “be individualistic” and conse-
quent violent results were alleged to be
the cause. Maybe McKell doesn’t believe
in his Ministers being “individualistic.”
The Sydney Government is a great
hand at cutting off its nose to spite its
face. Its refusal to reduce motor regis-
tration fees to reasonable levels put thou-
sands of cars off the Sydney streets —the
N.R.M.A. reckons the total for N.S.W.
at 35,000. One result was that its Harbor
Bridge celebrated its tenth year with a
loss of £35,140.
Curtin, commenting on State control
of liquor:
If the States cannot, under a complete
authority to regulate hours of liquor sale,
manage this business, it appears there is
very little the States can do in respect of
the conduct of the war.
That was patent even before the war
began ; and Curtin is expected by every
patriotic Australian to do something
about it before the war ends.
“For us there are no more parties;
Mr. Curtin is Australia’s leader....
There are no rights worth a damn until
we have beaten the Japanese.” From
“Truth,” the “Newsletter,” the “Tele-
graph” or “Smith’s Weekly”? No;
from “S. M. Herald” of March 21.
Howls and thuds of fainting members
were heard in the neighborhood of the
Union Club, and had the Fairfax family
vault been opened that day
Playford, the S.A. Premier, is grabbing
sporting ovals in the Adelaide area and
fitting them up as casualty-clearing
stations for air raids. Adelaide is as keen
on football and other sports as other
capitals, but it has a somewhat different
Premier.
People who try to make sense of news-
paper and radio accounts of the fighting
in Russia are wondering what proportion
is faithful reporting and what propaganda
for a second front in Europe—not
Siberia. The agitation for a second front
in Europe (not Siberia) has broken out
violently again in British newspapers, and
to F. Ehrenfried Baume, “as M. Lit-
vinov declares” (between Ehrenfried and
Litvinov there is the sympathy of the
circumcision), it has “become an urgent
necessity.”
Clear-minded people in Britain now
realise that Litvinov’s statement was in the
nature of an ultimatum, and that Russia is
no longer asking for a second front, but
telling Britain, and in no uncertain terms,
she must have an army in Europe before
the end of this summer.
Ehrenfried turns from this entrancing
subject to sneer at Wavell, whom he
accuses of having “committed the strategi-
cal error of dispersing forces.” One thing
is certain: If Churchill is mad enough to
send an army to Europe, which would,
among other things, put the whole ship-
ping position to a desperate hazard, Eren-
fried won’t be there.
People unfamiliar with Broken Hill
and the ways of its union bosses were
mystified at a resolution passed by “a
mass meeting of unionists” apropos of
“Mr. Curtin’s appeal” for a thousand men
from the Hill for “urgent defence works.”
The resolution was to the effect that “We
offer no opposition [!] but insist on
Broken Hill mining wages and conditions,
to be protected by Barrier Industrial
Council job committees.” A local paper
prints a letter from Theodore, in which
it is said that “the works have been
approved of by the Joint Chiefs of Staffs
Committee and are of extreme urgency,”
but “there is no intention to use com-
pulsion.” It attributes to Theo. a state-
ment that “if the men did not volunteer
then the matter would be dropped.”
Queer yarns are in circulation at Can-
berra. One is that enthusiasm for the
Washington job began to ooze out of
Casey when influential Americans opened
fire on the subject of conscription. An-
other is that a national Government is
not far off.
Beaverbrook is to “carry on the work
he had begun in pooling the resources
of the United Nations.” He will not be
“regarded as a member of the Govern-
ment or a Minister of the Crown”; he
will “act under the general direction of
the Minister for Production, Mr. Lyttel-
ton.” Other duties he will perform “will
not include diplomatic duties.” Thus
spake Attlee to the Commons. No voice
is reported as saying “How have the
mighty fallen!”
President Roosevelt, annoyed by ama-
teur strategists, quoted /Emilius, the
Roman consul. Conducting a war against
the Macedonians, and similarly plagued,
/Emilius offered the amateurs of his day
ship, horse and tent to go to Macedonia
and run the show. No takers. Ahnilius
was fortunate in that there were neither
half-baked journalists nor half-baked
radio commentators in his day.
Reminding everybody of his promise
that, should his Government produce a
surplus, it would be, “subject only to
some restoration of the cash position,”
handed over to the Commonwealth for
war work in N.S.W., Sydney’s McKell
mentioned that he couldn’t recall any
similar act of “magnanimity” by the
Mair Government. So it’s “magnanim-
ity” for a State Premier to hand over
ill-gotten gains!


a
Kirn
QUICK RELIEF
THIS NATURAL WAY
Here’s how you can get prompt, pleasant
relief from constipation. To-night, before
going to bed, take one or two NYAL
FIGSEN tablets. Figsen is easy and
pleasant to take; no stomach upsets, no
griping pain. In the morning Figsen acts
—-mildly, thoroughly and effectively.
Figsen is so gentle and natural that, only
for the pleasant relief it brings, you would
scarcely know you had taken a laxative.
Figsen is sold by chemists everywhere—
-1/3 i a tin. The next best thing to Nature ,
NyaEFigsen
THE GENTLE LRXRTIVE
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
CANBERRA LABOR’S FOUR-PER-CENT.
FOOLISHNESS
AUSTRALIAN ECONOMICS IN THE MELTING-POT
March Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
Leather Portfolios
For those bulky papers in Black
and Brown Seal Grain Cowhide;—
Ideal for Military Requirements.
16in. x llin. —with 3 divisions.
Price: 84/-
Others; 107/6 and 112/6.
C. E. KUCHING
“For Everything in Leather
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(near Wynyard Stn.). ’Phone: 8W7133
PERSONAL ITEM S
Last news of A. M. Blain, M.H.R. for
the N.T., was received in a note dated
January 29, written from Malaya. He
wrote that he was well and had just en-
joyed a reunion with three other Aus-
tralian surveyors —George Irving and H.
Ward (Brisbane) and Alex. Graham
(Perth). He reported them all well and in
the best of spirits and living together in
one house waiting for the arrival of the
Nipponese, who had been following one
of them down the peninsula.
Archie Galbraith Cameron, M.H.R.,
will be 47 tomorrow. He doesn’t look it;
in excellent shape since he went soldier-
ing again, he would pass for 10 years
younger. At Canberra he continues to
give and take hard knocks with perfect
enjoyment of both.
Blackburn, V.C., whom the Japanese
in Java claim as a captive, is a brother
of Charles Bickerton Blackburn, the
Sydney medical knight, who himself saw
service in the first world war. Both were
born at Woodville (S.A.). The V.C. is 18
years younger than the doctor.
“El Verdugo” on Richard Gardiner
Casey, who is to be British Minister in
the Middle East:
He is long, dapper and well-groomed,
courtesy itself. His clothes are English, his
moustache suggests the Guards of a departed
era. But he is Australian, owing his Englishry
to the spoonful of gold which was placed in
his mouth by Mt. Morgan. Born at Brisbane,
he went to Melbourne Grammar and Mel-
bourne Uni., then to Cambridge, where he took
an honors degree in mechanical science. He
still jras the habits of a qualified engineer.
He came back to Australia to apply his know-
ledge to the family properties at 24, but at
once enlisted in the first batch of the first A.I.F.
and was commissioned immediately. His fluent
CASEY. HE goes to Cairo.
knowledge of German placed him on the staff
at once.
Casey’s first A.I.F. job was the interrogation
of the Emden’s officers and men, and be-
fore the war was over thousands of prisoners of
war had made his acquaintance. He came back
with the D.S.O. and M.C., gave a few years
to family business, and in 1924 began seven
years as political liaison officer in London —he
shouted himself the salary. He was no orna-
ment in the job. He spent time and money
freely. Nothing was too much trouble to him.
Passers-by noticed that his heart was still in
Australia.
He returned during the depression, and
dropped cosily into politics as M.H.R. for
Corio (Vic.). He was soon Assistant Treasurer,
then Treasurer and Minister in Charge of Scien-
tific Research and Development. Unlike most
other Ministers, he acquired a home in Can-
berra. His light was always burning, and Joe
Lyons affectionately christened him “On-the-
Spot” Casey. But Corio was tiring of the U.A.P.,
and it was a fortunate day for Casey when he
was named first “Envoy Extraordinary and
Minister Plenipotentiary” to Washington. His
52nd year will be spent as the first Australian-
trained member in a purely British War
Cabinet —Brendan Bracken, a fellow-Australian,
is in the Ministry. In Cairo he will have less
time for squash rackets and flying, his two
recreations, but more scope than ever for his
talent, which is organisational rather than rhe-
torical.
If Eugene Gorman, M.C., K.C. (now
Lieut.-Colonel), is named as a successor to
Casey, the Americans will get a bluff and
rough-and-ready Australian accustomed
to mixing with all sorts of people. Gor-
man is just as much at home with stable-
boys and jockeys—he was one of Mel-
bourne’s leading racing men in peace-
time —as he is with the intellectuals of
the Council of Civil Liberties. He got
his M.C. for daring work in the last war
with the 22nd Battalion —he published
the battalion history. In this war
he galvanised things in the Middle East
as Comforts Commissioner, made a re-
markable escape from Greece and was
then appointed Consul-General to the
N.E.1., with Ministerial status ; but the
Japs got in before he could take up his
duties. Gorman was born at Goornong
(Vic.), educated at St. Joseph’s, Hunter’s
Hill (N.S.W.), and had one of the biggest
legal practices in Melbourne at the out-
break. He is a member of the V.R.C.
committee.
Around Cootamundra (N.S.W.) about
three years ago you might have sighted a
young man in a hurry. Life
flowed fairly leisurely about
Coota. in those days and
you’d have wanted to know
who the bundle of energy
was. “That’s young Gordon
Walker,” you’d have been told.
“Came out here from Eng-
land as a lad, got himself a
couple of thousand acres,
called it Magunyah, and went
in for export lambs. Did he
do any good? Listen, he
stuck pasture into that place,
stored fodder, collected prizes
in farm contests and with his
lambs at local shows, then
sent some lambs to Smithfield
and won the cup for best
export lambs. The most en-
thusiastic farmer in the dis-
trict, he ought t’ make a name
for himself.” Two months
before war broke out young
Walker found time to join
the local militia. The same
enthusiasm marked him, and
when he passed into the
A.I.F. and got to Malaya with
a captaincy he was grabbed
by the G.O.C. as A.D.C. Was
Major-General Bennett wise?
Well, the two Gordons got clear of Singa-
pore, and they have been reunited in
Sydney.
The Royal Society didn’t give Dr.
F. M. Burnet, assistant director of the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in Mel-
bourne, a Fellowship for nothing. He is
one of the world’s leading navigators of
the fogbound seas of infectious-disease
biology, and his latest findings on the
behavior of wogs are eagerly awaited
wherever two or more research workers
are gathered together. A few months ago
he announced that the worst scourge of
humanity, influenza, would soon be
tracked to its lair. Burnet has a flair for
making scientific exposition attractive.
He is 43, was born at Traralgon (Vic.),
and passed through Geelong College and
Melbourne University to the Lister Insti-
tute, London, where he held the Beit
Fellowship from 1926 to 1927. Then he
came to his present job in Melbourne.
S.A.’s new Judge, Herbert Mayo, K.C.,
comes of an old and distinguished S.A.
family—his grandfather, George Mayo,
arrived in Adelaide over 100 years ago
and was one of the first Fellows of the
Royal College of Surgeons to practise in
Adelaide, Herbert’s brother Elton is
Professor of Industrial Research at Har-
vard University; his sister Helen was
one of Adelaide’s first women doctors,
JUDGE MAYO.
and is a leading child-welfare worker ;
and another sister, Penelope, wrote Life
and Letters of Col. William Light —their
great-grandmother was Light’s house-
keeper. The new Judge, who is 56,
studied at (and rowed for) both Mel-
bourne and Adelaide Universities before
starting a country practice in S.A. Lat-
terly he has figured in most of the State’s
cases in the High Court. He is chan-
cellor of the diocese of Adelaide and a
past president of the Law Council of
Australia and of the S.A. Law Society.
E. H. W. Meyers, promoted from com-
mand of the Ipswich battalion of the
V.D.C. to brigadier and Corps Com-
mander for Queensland, is a hard-bitten
Digger with a fighter’s head and
a disposition to match. Born 45
years ago at Cairns, he served with the
9th Battalion in Gallipoli and France,
acquiring two bars to his M.C. —a dis-
tinction shared by only two other A.T.F.
officers —and promotion. In civil life
Meyers is an Ipswich auctioneer and
estate agent. He succeeds that veteran of
the S’African and 1914-18 wars Brigadier-
General L. C. Wilson, now 70, who has
done fine work in organising the V.D.C.
on an effective footing since the outbreak.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, Stephen Carey Carter, the
northern State’s leading figure in charitable
work; for 42 years of his 71 years he was secre-
tary of the Charity Organisation Society. A
son is with the A.I.F. abroad.
In Melbourne, A. O. Davies, who served in
the 1914-18 war and came home with grave
disabilities which didn’t prevent him thinking
of fellow-Diggers—he founded the Port Phillip
Returned Sailors and Soldiers’ Co-operative
Stevedoring Co. and was its managing director
for two decades.
At Coolangatta (Q.), at 53, John Paul Crowe,
known in Brisbane and Sydney sporting and
hotel circles. One of the original members of
the Queensland State Government Insurance
staff, he resigned and took up innkeeping.
Among the hotels he managed were the Gresham
and Lennon’s, Brisbane, and Aarons’ Exchange,
Sydney. He was a keen cricketer and Rugby
Union player in his younger days.
From Cottesloe to Mirbdo North, all across
the western and south and south-eastern parts
of Australia, everybody who has ever kicked a
football knows what Sherrin stands for. Syd
Sherrin made footballs for Australian Rules
clubs for over a score of years, the work of
his hands booted all over the place. In his time
a featherweight boxer of skill and one of the
best amateur boxing refs, in Australia, he is
dead in Melbourne at 54.
Rev. H. A. Wittenbach, killed in Hong Kong.
He was a graduate of Ridley College, Mel-
bourne, and after a brief curacy at St. Mark’s,
Fitzroy, became assistant and then principal of
Holy Trinity College, Canton, During the Sino-
Japanese affair his mission was a sanctuary
for native refugees fleeing from the wrath of
the invader. He was finally driven to Hong
Kong, where his wife and two children are still
ostensibly living.
At Auckland, MX-, aged 80, a former Super-
intendent of Police, Charles Hendrey. London-
born, he arrived in MX. in 1876, joined the
Armed Constabulary, and took part in the
capture of Te Whiti. His police service extended
from 1881 to 1926, mostly in Auckland.
At 96, at Cobden (Vic.), Mrs. Elizabeth
Dalziel, who saw the first bullock team arrive
at Port Fairy. She would have thought the ob-
jections of the trammies to female bus drivers
old-fashioned —she was regarded as one of the
finest bullock drivers of her day, male or
female.
In Sydney, at 68, Harry Brown Sevier, the
Berger’s paints man. An American from
Tennessee, he came to Sydney 31 years ago as
Berger’s g.m., and when the Australian com-
pany was floated he became managing director,
afterwards chairman of directors. Sevier was
president of the N.S.W. Chamber of Manu-
factures for four years (1927-31) and of the
Australian Chamber in the 1931-32 year. His
only son (there are a widow and four daughters)
is overseas with the R.A.A.F.
In Sydney, at 67, Frank Hambridge, mining
man, ore-buyer, accountant and good fellow.
South Australian by birth, he was with British
Broken Hill as a youngster, and in later years
he was appointed to work out Mt. Morgan and
Mt. Lyell costs. He spent many years in
Queensland, was a director of Mt. Isa and
chairman of directors of New Guinea Goldfields
and Cuthbert’s Misima. Marjorie Hambridge,
the violinist, is his daughter.
Nobody has done more to help Aus-
tralian literature in Melbourne than John
Kinmont Moir. He was founder (and is
Knight Grand Cheese) of Melbourne’s
Bread and Cheese Club, the group of
enthusiasts whose motto is “mateship, art,
letters,” and who wash it down with
beer, every member possessing his own
flagon. Since its inception the B. and C.
Club has published a small library of
books by hitherto unknown authors,
among the most recent being Spikenard
and Bayonet, by Shawn O’Leary, the first
book of front-line verse to be printed in
Australia in this war. Among other sub-
literary activities, Moir inaugurated the
Golden Wattle movement, which distri-
butes throughout the world seeds from
the tree planted on A. L. Gordon’s
grave. A wild enthusiasm for the ill-fated
poet sent him travelling for three years
collecting Gordoniana, which now reposes
KNIGHT GRAND CHEESE.
in four large illustrated folios in the
public libraries of Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide. Born on the Gulf of Car-
pentaria in 1893, and manages the credit
department of Payne’s, Ltd., Melbourne.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Shaun Mclsrael”: I noticed where
some omadhaun remarked that what he
called “the old spirit” was missing in
Britain, and it took me mind to St. Pat-
rick’s Day, which happened about the
time the remark was made, and me mind
was troubled more by the question of
what’s happened to the Irish. A few
years ago in Melbourne ’twas our duty
and pleasure to be dressing ourselves in
green ribbon and harps of Erin—“ ’Ere
y’are, wear y’r color, ribbonsanarps f’r
sixpence”—and downing tools for the day
and meeting the boys along the Bourke-
street pubs. Then we’d line the street,
begob, and cheer the procession of Irish
national costumes behind Irish pipes, all
heading for the Exhibition and the sports
which went on day and night. Now,
truth to tell, the Day do be passing and
sorry a one to note it, and St. Patrick’s
men in Australia and America a-hogging
to mix in with Deutscher, Dago or Jap,
while in Erin itself our brothers are
neutral. Sorry I am to say it, but the
world dwindles for want of an Irish king.
* * * *
“Ex-Vic.”; Keeping the young Aus-
tralian within appointed bounds is a pretty
impossible task, as shown by the eager-
ness with which he volunteers for armies
to go abroad and the way he penetrates
into remote corners of the world if he gets
half a chance. Take young Rosewall, of
Bendigo, too young to talk very well, but
not too young to dodge away from the
girl in charge of him, go to the local
railway station, board the Echuca train
and be found wandering on Echuca plat-
form. His parents (dad got special leave
from an A.I.F. camp to join in) almost
tore Bendigo inside out for a night and
day before word came that the little
cove was safe and being consigned home.
He is four.
* * * *
“Vicar’s Warden”: Some of the most
radical and unconventional ideas I have
ever heard on religious subjects have
been promulgated at Synod sessions by
members of the Anglican clergy. There
are always a few independent minds in
that flock. Bishop Colenso did far more
to disturb faith in the literal correctness
of Old Testament history than did Tom
Paine. Colenso got into hot water, but
a couple of generations later his views
ceased to shock the most timorous
curates. Dean Inge has treated New
Testament figures in a fashion that
amazed his most broadminded fellow-
religionists—for a week or two —but the
Church of England is by now well used
to such shocks. I was scarcely surprised
therefore to hear that, at a Maoriland
conference of all denominations on
Christian Order, it was an Anglican
parson who rose and roundly condemned
special days of prayer on the ground
that it was “merely calling on God to
tidy up the squalid messes made by ow
own ignorance and incompetence.”
“Adelaide”: Married women, please
note! It has been decided by an Adel-
aide Court that, to a charge of having
used indecent language in a street, the
plea “Well, I was only talking to my
husband” is not accepted as a sound
defence. Ten shillings and costs.
* * * *
“Medicus”: Tell “C.Q.” (B. 4/3/’42)
that it is pure tripe to say that
two Collins-street surgeons “performed
miracles of manipulation for 1\ hours.”
No operation in the history of surgery
has taken 1\ hours, and two surgeons
performing an intricate operation would
be inclined to tell a third party to go to
Hades. I know, because I’ve been operat-
ing for 20 years or more, and not minor
surgery either.
* * * *
“Zake”: The flapper press’s public has
been told everything about our visitors,
from their tastes in girl friends to the
"Not now, Ted. Wait till they get ’alfway across.”
color of their socks. It remained for an
American officer to give the flow of blurb
a cold dash. “What do you think of Aus-
tralia?” asked an interviewer. Said the
American: “No so bad. But what does it
matter what we think of your country,
anyway? We’re here to do a job, and
the sooner we do it and get home again
the better we will like it.” Good on you,
cobber!
- • • • • •
“Tummas McNarrrk”: I love the
innocent reporter when he lets himself
go. One of him, having accompanied
the first flight of American troops, gave
an elaborate version of how the trail was
hidden:
No lights or smoking were allowed on
the decks. Even cigarette ends and orange
peel were placed in receptacles and not cast
carelessly overboard to leave a telltale trail.
The ships steered zigzag courses to throw
submarines off the scent. Cinema films
could not be shown. Electric razor blades,
to which the Yanks are prone, could not
be used, and wireless silence was main-
tained, radios being forbidden.
And, “on the second night out one sub-
marine was seen only 50 yards ahead
of our ship. It quickly crash-dived and
did not reappear,” Probably it feared the
young man was going to interview it,
* * * *
“Nakhoda”; Since the affair with
Japan started my sapient Melbourne
morning daily has told me successively
that the Nipponese legions were doomed
to perish (a) at the hands of the fiery
Ho Ilos of the Philippines ; ( b ) before
the blowpipes of the head-hunting Dyaks;
(c) on the flickering krises of the Malays
of Kuala Lumpur ; ( d ) by the proboscises
of the anopheles mosquito in the swamps
of the Celebes ; ( e ) on the parangs of
the dauntless Balinese, who would amuck
as one man the moment they saw a
Jappo ; and (/) in the smothering arms
of the ricefields of Java. None of these
redoubtable allies of the democracies
appeared on the scene when they were
wanted, and I almost despaired until I
read a dispatch from Darwin that as yet
the enemy had not encountered the abori-
ginals of Melville Island, reported to be
sharpening their spears and hiding behind
the bushes. The dispatch pointed out that
the native weapon had obvious advan-
tages over modern armaments, inasmuch
as the latter are noisy and a resolute abo.
could silently strike an invader dead at
a distance without his knowing what had
struck him.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A word in support of the
plucky “W.M.,” who (B. 11/3/’42) scoffs
at the tradition that “dawn” and “morn”
make an unforgivable rhyme. Someone
having once called this a “Cockney”
rhyme, reviewers ever since have been
afraid to accept it. Yet I have main-
tained for many years that the rhyme is,
on the contrary, perfect—given a stand-
ard educated pronunciation. Some years
back I took the trouble to get an opinion
from the Prof, of English Literature
at every Australian University. The
majority agreed with me, and any who
didn’t were usually cautious in hedging.
I meant to print them all; but Archi-
bald Strong, of Adelaide, was so confi-
dent of the rhyme’s perfection that he
was actually libellous about some col-
leagues who said the opposite. I returned
his note to him to be toned down a bit.
but unhappily he suddenly died, and it
could not be found among his papers.
The odd thing is that, at every other
point, modern usage tends more and
more to accept the merest similarity of
sound as serving for rhyme. Why then
strain at this particular gnat?
* * * *
“Bo”: There must be something about
beer that makes people who sell it think
along woozy lines. When the Sydney
Government was at long last bludgeoned
into closing up “night clubs,” the UL.V.A.
emitted little cries of joy and said that
now the traffic would flow back into the
legitimate hotel trade. Less than a week
later, when the one-third cut in beer sup-
plies was made, the lamentations of the
Band of Bungs contained a wail to the
effect that the cutting out of “night clubs”
and home deliveries had been a heavy
blow to the Trade. Any day now I expect
some beer-jerker to tell the world that
he is getting rich because 90 p.c. of his
customers have drifted to the pub across
the way.
* * * «
“Dominie”: Like “Cauboy,” I have
never read the dramatised versions of the
Biblical stories by Miss Sayers, but I
have had to tell Biblical stories to
children. Once a week it behoves me to
doff my cap and gown and simulate a
clergyman. Let “8.P.” stand in front of
a dozen or two children —of any age—
and read to them the most beautiful piece
of prose in the Bible, or even the most ex-
citing story in it, and note the reception it
gets. The blank, bored looks of children
who do not understand the context of the
old-fashioned style is sufficient proof that
it is necessary to talk to them in their
own language. Tell the young ’uns in
everyday language, include a few collo-
quialisms, dramatise suitable passages,
then watch their interest in the story.
Henry Lawson wrote poems, “The Ballad
of the Elder Sons” and “The Good
Samaritan,” based on Biblical stories, and
children certainly enjoy these more than
prose-reading from Scripture books. No
one could say that Lawson’s language is
strictly academic when he talks of “quid”
and “pub.”
¥ * * *
“Blue P.”: I never heard of the per-
son, Roscommon, whose name is
appended to a verse on my desk calendar
for 12/3/’42, but he might have been
writing of the present:
Be not too rigidly censorious,
A string may jar in the best master’s hand,
And the most skilful archer miss his aim:
I would not quarrel with a slight mistake.
Perhaps some of our mistakes haven’t
been slight; all the same it might help to
remember Roscommon sometimes.
“Full again?”
"No. On'y two-thirds!”
DISQUIETING.
“Chief Secretary Badly said that the disquieting
feature of the N.S.W. Housewives’ Association was
the ruthlessness with which dissentients from the
chairman’s rulings were removed by the police and,
in some cases, expelled from membership.’’
Man’s inhumanity to brother-man
Has been a fruitful theme, since time began,
For many a mournful theologian;
But more inhuman,
And just as ruthless, too, occasion’lly,
When on material points they disagree,
Can woman, gentle-tempered woman, be
To sister-woman.
In man-run Parliaments, one’s quite aware,
A chap’s allowed to vary or repair
Or qualify a statement that the Chair
May deem improper.
But where the scene is purely feminine
There’s sterner and more rigid discipline.
Quick through the door goes the offender in
Charge of a copper.
Strange, is it not, how many a placid dame,
Swift to forgive and just as slow to blame,
Who’d sooner softly shield than sourly shame
An erring brother.
Should deal and take the sort of jars and jolts
That one associates with thunderbolts
When harassed housewives get in verbal holt?
With one another?
And those who dare dispute the stern decree
Of an implacable majority
Find that their dash is done, their seats must be
Forthwith vacated.
Beyond the pale they go, into the cold,
Disconsolate as Ishmael was of old,
Incontinently booted from the fold,
Expelled, disrated.
Such cattiness he hardly looked to find
Among our amiable womankind ;
It grates upon the Ministerial mind,
He views it sadly.
Come, sisters, give these bickerings a break!
Now is the time each other’s hands to shake
And plant the axe—-if only for the sake
Of Mr. Badly.
N s w -
T. THE R.
PRESS PITFALLS.
“Say, Dad,” declares old Inkpen’s son,
“I need some guidance clear
Of traps and pitfalls I must shun,
And snags from which to sheer,
Now that I’ve hopefully begun
A journalist’s career.”
“Don’t tangle up your ‘ors’ and ‘nors’ ”
The old ’un counsel gives;
“There’s nothing sets on editors
Such grimly scowling ‘chivs’
As mixed and muddled metaphors
And split infinitives.
“Be careful with your ‘won’ts’ and ‘wills,’
Likewise your ‘shalls’ and ‘shan’ts.’
Eschew unnecessary frills
Or there’s an even chance
Your screeds may swell the stuff that fills
The basket’s wide expanse.
“And when to inquests you are sent
Or bid of fires to tell.
Cut out ‘rash act” for one event,
And for the other —well,
Be warned ‘devouring element’
Is unforgivable.
“And, lastly, if to verse you’re drawn,
And fain would toot your horn,
Keep it in mind, my son, that ‘dawn’
Affords no rhyme for ‘morn’
Except”—Dad finished with a yawn—
“ For coves who’re Cockney-born.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS


“V.C.”: We, too, were digging school
trenches (B. 18/3/ ’42) on a blazing Satur-
day afternoon, the mob comprising but
one who’d ever had more than a nod-
ding acquaintance with a mad Mick or
a banjo before. He came late, after the
first wild enthusiasm had worn off and
when blisters were rising on hands and
long-idle muscles were shrieking in pro-
test. He surveyed the toiling crowd, now
silent and grim-lipped but battling on,
grabbed a pick and whaled in like a
machine, obviously taking a pride in
showing his strength and ability. We
watched his flying arms while we panted
and sweated, each of us afraid of his
contempt for our puny efforts. Then a
philanthropist arrived with a carload of
alcoholic refreshment. Men who’d
hitherto been content to sip a
small beer now put a quart up
and left it there till it was empty.
Then, with a gleam in their eyes,
the blistered and sweat-stained
softies rushed back to that trench
and threw earth about like 40
mad bulls getting ready to charge.
And the expert? The one who’d
eyed us with disgust? Out to it
under a tree in the playground,
happily unconscious of the gibes
and jeers directed at him from the
swiftly-deepening trench.
“Pawang”: Psychologists are attached
nowadays to the Army. A few ought
to be attached to the Cold Tea party in
Victoria, which has succeeded in pro-
hibiting sales of bottled beer by hotel-
keepers and licensed grocers after 5.30
p.m. Nine-tenths of the excessive drink-
ing in Melbourne is a desire not to drink
beer but to defeat Authority. It is in the
same category as the desire of a small boy
to steal apples from the farmer’s orchard
when there are more apples than he can
eat in his father’s backyard. The obvi-
ous way to limit drinking is to have no
restrictions whatever.
» * « »
“Caballer”: The pace of modern war
notwithstanding, I doubt if anything in
it tests the physical stamina of men as
Gallipoli did. Practically every colonel
in the first 16 battalions to land was a
man of over 50. Very few of them saw the
show through. There were no great dis-
tances to travel —we held only 500 acres
at Anzac—but the steep, rugged country
told on the older men. In France, any
rank from colonel up had a fair amount
of comfort. Transport was available and
the country level. On the peninsula,
everybody from lan Hamilton down had
to climb. I was the guide appointed to
take a middle-aged C.O. to his head-
quarters at Russell’s Top. “Where is it
now, guide?” he gasped as we came up
the Razor Edge. I pointed to the
towering heights above us, “You dont
mean that cliff where those birds are fly-
ing, do you?” he protested. I assured
him it was Russell’s Top. He halted,
gazed at it for a moment and then shook
his head at me. “Not there, my boy,
not there,” he said. “Only eagles and
blanky fools would live in a place like
that.” Quite a number of us who dwelt
in that health resort were willing to
agree with him.
& * * * *
“Cheeser”: The Old Digger has not
changed much with the years. After the
camouflage expert had “dressed” them,
two of them —both V.D.Cs. —were
planted in a patch of green scrub and
instructed to wait while the c.e. brought
the platoon to find them. The camou-
flage was a great success. After half an
hour’s search through the scrub by the
platoon the disguised Diggers were still
unfound. The expert was mightily
pleased. But when even he couldn’t find
them he tried the nearest pub, where his
worst suspicions were proved to be well-
founded.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: If the bosses were as
good as the bossed in Melbourne, the
city’s A.R.P. system would be perfect.
Within three minutes of the alert being
sounded in the recent test the entire
population had tucked itself away in the
appointed shelters and, except for the
watchful wardens, Collins and Bourke
streets looked like Sunday morning. It
was officialdom that was lacking. It has
to account for the fact that the muddling
and muffling of the signals caused hun-
dreds of people to troop back into the
streets, having mistaken the Raid Im-
pending signal for the All Clear. And
nobody had thought of some of the little
things that matter. When trams stopped
passengers dutifully bolted for the
shelters. When they returned they found
they had to pay a second fare because,
as dear old officialdom explained later,
it would have been impossible to ensure
that tickets were offered again only by
original passengers!
“Caubo y”: Melbourne’s A.R.P.
authorities need the services of an acous-
tician. The sirens at the first rehearsals
were in many areas inaudible above an
ordinary conversation. Reform was
promised by Chief Arpist Dunstan, but
at the second trial the sirens’ apologetic
wail seemed to be even more muffled.
Obviously it is a matter of timbre or wave
vibrations. Officials might study the ex-
perience of listeners at the Town Hall
vocal concerts. There are dumb spots
in various parts of the hall for certain
instruments and the degree of audibility
varies with the weather. A sensitive
singer has to account for the presence or
absence of furs amongst the women and
of dress shirts amongst the men by vary-
ing her volume. The strings, though
small in volume, carry better in certain
places than the brass and percussion;
and it has little to do with distance. An
outsize in policemen’s rattles would prob-
ably awaken citizens to their danger
more effectually than the moaning siren.
“E.L.T.”: Tell “A Major” (B. 4/3/’42)
that “Advance, Australia Fair” was writ-
ten and composed by Peter Dodd Mc-
Cormack over 60 years ago. He was a
teacher under the N. S. Wales Education
Department. I had an original copy of
the first edition published by McCormack
for his pupils’ use. “The organist
Craven” would probably be Tom Craven,
a Manly resident. He married McCor-
mack’s niece.
* * * *
“Jarro”; Following “Tonsilitis” (B.
10/12/’4l), I beg to offer up “unbend”
to the sacrifice as a ridiculous word. To
unbend a thing should mean to straighten
it out again after it has been bent. Eng-
lishmen are popularly supposed to be
unbending (meaning stiff and rigid—that’s
all right), but are blamed because they
don’t wnbend. And what about invalu-
able”? By all the laws of commonsense
it should mean “not valuable,” whereas
it is always used to mean “extremely
“Of course. General, it's when We pass the next barrier We really test
the defences!”
valuable.” And ' overlook From
where he stood he overlooked a magni-
ficent valley” could mean he missed
seeing it altogether. Again, it seems to
me silly that most pertinent remarks may
be most impertinent.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: There is at least one patriot
in Melbourne after Mr. Curtin’s own
heart. He was posting his application
to serve his country in Class 5, age 16
to 60. His back was bent like a water-
wheel, his beard swept the pavement, his
eye dropped rheum and his palsied hand
had filled in his address as an old men’s
home and the date of his birth as
December 4, 1912. “You’re older than
that, aren’t you?” I said. “Yes,” he said.
“I’m about 57.” “Then you were born
in 1885,” I said. “I dunno really what
year I was born in,” he said touchily,
and dropped the form into the postbox.
He was certainly over 90, maybe over
100.
“Nakhoda”: If the Japanese got
Vichy’s passport to the island of Mada-
gascar they would again be in contact with
Malays, The population of Madagascar
numbers million, and the most im-
portant branch is the Hova race, whose
language is allied to the dialects of
Malaya and Oceania. How the Malays
got there is wrapped in the same obscu-
rity as the origin of the dodo. They were
evidently warriors as well as navigators,
as the last native sovereign, Ranavalona
(1883), was a Hova and succeeded in
resisting French aggression for two years,
« * * *
“L. de R.”: Melbourne hasn’t many
historical buildings, and even a boot fac-
tory’s need for air-raid shelters doesn t
seem to justify the projected demoli-
tion of the rear part of Governor
Latrobe’s cottage, Victoria’s first Gov-
ernment House. The cottage was
brought to Australia in sections 103
years ago and erected at Agnes-street,
Jolimont, in bushland overlooking the
Yarra. It is now submerged in fiats, fac-
tories and houses and belongs to Bedg-
good and Co., shoe manufacturers. As
a centenary gesture the Bedggood family,
which has preserved the cottage, planted
a nineteenth-century garden around it,
but now it is needed for their employees
as a shelter from bomb splinters. Pre-
mier Dunstan has announced that he will
give the matter consideration. Successive
State Governments have declined to buy
the relic for the nation, although 50,000
people visit it yearly in peace-time. There
are vacant blocks adjacent.
» * * *
“Morimoto”: It may be a war corre-
spondent’s furphy, but it would not be
surprising if General Masaharu Homma
committed hara - kiri because of his
inability to defeat General Mac-
Arthur. There are two occasions when
a Japanese may come to think that
honorable death is preferable to dis-
honorable life —when he has brought
great disgrace on his family and when he
has brought disgrace on his country. In
either case, if he commits suicide, not
only is the disgrace forgotten but he has
automatically raised himself to divine
status. Instead of his discreditable be-
havior putting a stigma on his family,
he has surrounded them with a. halo, and
in these days of daily papers it is front-
page stuff. A third and more modern
reason is romantic love, largely produced
by American movies. If a young couple
fall in love after the Hollywooden
fashion, they are up against the age-old
belief that a man’s wife should be chosen
for him. By way of protest the frus-
trated pair may sign a death pact and,
tied together, place themselves on a rail-
road or popularise a volcanic crater by
throwing themselves into the boiling
cauldron. The flapper press takes the
case up, it becomes of national interest
and scores of other couples follow their
example.
* * * •
“Irisher”: “How do you pronounce
Finucane?” asks “D.E.” (B. 18/3/’42).
The only one of that name I ever met up
with had a business down in Moama
(N.S.W.), and was known far and wide
in the district for good works and a
hearty disposition. “This,” said the cove
who introduced us, “is Teddy F’uoofc’n.”
I never heard anyone else pronounce it
differently and Edward himself accepted
it, though possibly he’d grown tired of
correcting people.
* * * ♦
“V. Cluse”: Our drunk blundered into
the local police station, swept an alarmed
arm back at the browned-out suburb and
declared “Bin terrible accident! Up on
tramline. People layin’ everywhere. Ter-
rible, terrible. Get help.” The eager
young cop in the station was about to
spring at the telephone and call out
ambulances, repair gangs, police rein-
forcements and fire brigades when his
sergeant walked in. Quickly he explained.
And the sergeant, in the old, imme-
morial manner of the force, said “Well,
we’ll just take a stroll up and have a
look.” Presently they came on a scene
truly alarming. By the light of torches
several people were doing what they could
for four or five men, lying or sitting on
the road and bandaged in all sorts of.
places. Up strolled the force, glanced at
the N.E.S. armbands on “injured” and
first-aiders, bade them good night and
retired to the station. “Never be
stampeded, young feller,” warned the ser-
geant, and detailed the young cop to
guide our drunk home.
* * * »
“Bumpkin”: Some years ago I was
approaching Berlin from Russia and as
the train neared the city I noticed thou-
sands of little plots of ground, each with
a house on it too small for
human habitation, “Unless I
have been misinformed,” I said
to a German, “Berliners aren’t
pigmies, so what are those
for?” He explained that
almost every tenement and flat-
dweller in the Prussian capital
rented a plot and grew vege-
tables on it in his week-ends.
It satisfied his craving for
nature and supplemented the
nation’s food supply in event
of a crisis. For the first time
in history, Australians think
they may be in the same posi-
tion and are planting up their
suburban gardens, if they have
them. Twenty-five years ago
in the boom years enterprising
land-agents from Melbourne
subdivided the environs of the
southern city into suburban
allotments on the basis of an
eventual population of
2,000,000, and thousands of
clerks and spinsters put down
deposits on blocks that still
remain vacant. The result was
the immobilising of thousands
of acres of good dairying
country for a generation. It
would do no harm to the
owners if these blocks were
compulsorily leased to people who wanted
to raise veges on them.
* * * *
“Torestin”: In order to requalify in
Australia alien medicoes, whatever their
qualifications, are compelled to do the
final three years of the normal six-year
medical course. Hence there crops up
the absurdity of a man with a European
reputation working alongside lads. Such
was the case with Dr. X, vaguely from
Austria, vaguely known to be a specialist
in several lines. Questioned as to whether
he had read a certain weighty textbook,
he was able to assure the examiner that
he had, “In fact,” he added, “I wrote it,


ABORIGINALITIES
“I'll keep 'em busy here while you duck round an infiltrate 'em."
“Old-timer”: Lofty and Dan were
good mates until the pub acquired Emma,
fair, buxom and blue-eyed. In no time
L. and D. had eliminated all other com-
petition, but there seemed no way of
knowing which had the inside running
with the filly. The pair would take her
walking, and each would claim to be as
good as the other at anything she could
name. They showed her feats of strength
in the backyard with logs, dragged in
witnesses to prove their horsemanship or
shearing ability and even skited about
how many fried eggs they could eat. In-
evitably it ended in the real thing, and
one night the mob gathered on the river
while the rivals, stripped to the waist,
prepared for battle. Somebody tipped
them that somewhere up among the
native willow Emma herself was hidden
to watch the struggle. They got to it.
Lofty’s style was to cross his left arm
across his chest, stand up straight and
make haymakers with his right. Dan put
his head down and rushed, fists flailing.
Honors were about even till Dan, up the
bank, made another rush. Lofty stepped
aside and Dan went into the river. As
he rose and shook the water out of his
eyes, Lofty rose beside him. “Yair,” he
howled, “an’ I’ll swim y’, too.” Both
promptly struck out for the far bank,
climbed up and continued the brawl
there, leaving the maddened crowd to
guess what was happening. Presently
they swam back, pushed through the
mob, stopped before the willow clump
and unanimously announced “We’ve
woke up, see.” Then they headed for
the pub.
* * * #
“The 0.D.”: “Tiny” (B. 18/3/’42)
should visit an optician or take a course
in being made observant if he’s “been
over a lot” of this country and never
seen anybody whittle a stick. I’ve done it
myself, frequently, while waiting for a
mail coach on a lonely road or while
squatting on the haunches discussing
weighty matters with bushwhackers. In
the part of Victoria graced by my youth-
ful enthusiasms we’d developed it by tak-
ing a green stick and cutting out bands
of bark to give it a barber’s pole effect in
green and white. You’d find those sticks
lying about anywhere. And hasn’t “Tiny”
ever seen a man point a stick, then cut
it off and point it again, every few inches
until he’d used it all? That’s whittling.
• * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I’m doin’ a bit of a
starve out Euchareena way,” said Mat,
“an’ comes t’ a place back from the road
an’ pops it on the missus fT some scran.
She gives me a severe look, retires an’
comes back with some cold boiled spuds.
‘Here,’ she says, ‘these’ll fill y’ an’ fatten
y’! ’ Well, I’ve eaten a lot of funny things
in me time an’ plenty o’ times I bin so
hungry I coulda ett straw, but there’s
somethin’ about a cold boiled spud that
gives me the willies, fair dinkum. Well,
I backs off an’ makes down the road,
shovin’ the things in me nosebag with a
idea of makin’ a fire an’ fryin’ ’em, but I
strikes another joint an’ gets a decent
handout. I’d passed a big shed on the
way and makes back t’ it fT the night.
In the momin’ I’ve got the billy goin’
when who should bob up but the woman
that gimme the spuds. ‘lt’s me husbin’,
she says; ‘he come home drunk an’
pushed me out an’ locked all the doors.
He’ll be all right soon, an’ be lookin’ f’r
me.’ I don’t say much. Then she says,
‘lt’s cold. Do y’ mind if I stay be the
fire.’ I says that’s all right; then I asks
her if she’d like a bit t’ eat. T wouldn’t
mind,’ she says, real polite. So I gets
them spuds out an’ hands ’em t’ her an’
says ‘Here, these’ll fill y’ an’ fatten yV
An’, blime, she looks at ’em an’ then
at me an’ bursts inter tears. I ain’t any
good when wimmen cry, so I hands her
me tea-billy and a bit of scran an’ leaves
her to it. Gripes, wimmen are funny.”
* * % *
“Zake”: What speed can a bushfire
get up to? Was up in the Colo ranges
(N.S.W.) once when the flames came
through scrub that was half green. A
nor’-easter was doing about 30 to 40
m.p.h., but in that scrub the fire took
the best part of an hour to get through
four miles of the stuff. On the other
hand, in “rung” country up in nor’-west
N.S.W. which was carrying dry grass, I
have seen a fire keep pace with the wind
behind it. In the Victorian Dandenongs
speeds of up to 60 m.p.h. have been
vouched for, and in the pubs in Gipps-
land old-timers will swear that they’ve
hit 80, though how they got the speed-
ometers on to the bushfires I could never
discover.
* * * #
“Eureka”: The shortest reference I
ever saw was carried by a farmhand. He
received it from a N.S.W. South Coast
cow cocky, and it read; “Jim is a
good man.”
♦ H= * *
“Bo”: The little nuggety bloke sitting
in the shade of a gum sapling by the
road fence greeted with a surly nod the
other swaggie who had come along.
“G’day, mate!” said the drum-humper
who had just arrived. “Got any
idea how far it is to Bluegrass
Bend?” The sitting one grunted
and spat out: “H’m! That blanky
place!” “Why, what’s wrong with
it —the beer no good?” asked the
other. “Aw, it’s orright,” conceded
the nuggety one, “but of all the
places a man could lob in” “A
bit lousy on the handouts, are
they?” interpolated the other. “Aw,
no, it ain’t that. As a matter o’
fact, they’ll give y’ pretty well any-
thing y’ ask for there, but, strike a
light, to think a man was unlucky
enough to strike that joint”
“The john make you get a move
on?” pursued the other. “Ar, no ;
as a matter o’ fact, he was a pretty
decent joker—his missus give me
the best feed I’ve had for
munce” ‘Well, what the hell’s
wrong with the place then?” asked
the prospective sampler of Bluegrass Bend
hospitality. “Well, I’ll tell y’,” said the
nuggety one. “I’d dropped me knot out-
side the pub while I’m in there havin’
one at Bung’s invitation when a blasted
bloke on a horse comes up and stops out-
side the pub, and his damned nag puts
his blanky hoof fair on me quartpot! ”
* * * *
“Naturala”; “Notaden” (B. 25/2/’42)
says that the skin glands of the toad carry
an irritant that makes it undesirable as
food. He is referring, of course, to the
imported giant toad of N.Q. No Austra-
lian frog or toad is armed with such
glands, though the reptiles do, in some
instances, attain similar results, but by
different methods. Anyone who has
handled big frogs knows this, that just
as the captor’s hand closes the captive
emits a strong jet of fluid, which,
although it has little effect on the tough
skin of a human, must have a very dis-
concerting effect when thrown into a
predatory animal’s mouth or eyes. Which
is why those white-tailed rats go for the
frog’s throat instead of grabbing the rear,
as does the innocent cat, dog or duck.
* * H: 9fc
“Fitzjay”; The explanation of a horse’s
recognition of its master was settled to
my satisfaction the other night by my
old prad. Groping home in the blackout
I stubbed my toe
against a stone
and said a few
things. Immedi-
ately there was a
friendly neigh
from out of the
darkness, and old
Lifebuoy came
prancing up.
* *
“P i c k e r”:
Down the Dia-
mantina there are
always blocks of
land untenanted
which can be
taken up by any-
body with a mob
of cattle to fatten,
and which are
usually grazed
over by neighboring cattlemen. A
young fellow from one of the dis-
trict’s cattle families was getting advice
from the commission agent as to a block
which would suit his own requirements
for the next six months. “Now this is a
good block,” urged the agent, laying his
finger on the map. “Thingummy Creek
will be running for six weeks, and it’s
had some good storms. Besides, you
ought to know it like a book ; it’s right
up against your old man’s run, where
you grew up.” “Yair,” said the young
fellow, poring over the other end of the
map. “That’s the trouble; it’s too close
to the old man —wouldn’t pay to run a
goat there.”
* * * *
“Molong”: News of Old Sammy’s
death has brought a pang to the hearts
of the Wellington shearers. Sammy, a
ram of mature age, for years acted as
decoy to the mobs awaiting the barbers’
attentions. But it was not until he had
a quid of chewing tobacco in his jaws
that he would consent to lead his fol-
lowers up to the pens. He was that rare
thing a ram with brains—appreciative of
holding down a cushy job and lightly
snapping a scornful paw at the prospects
of nicotine poisoning.
* * * «
“Bangadang”: A big flock of white
cockatoos were disputing the claim of a
Tumut (N.S.W.) cocky to a good maize
crop. After racking his brains to find
a way of beating the inevitable sentinel
on the old dry gum he tried tying the
d.-b. shotgun to a strong and well-cobbed
cornstalk and running cord lines from
near the base of near-by stalks to the
triggers of the cocked d.-b. When the
flock swooped to attack the ripening
corn it wasn’t long before the pirates
got the shock of their young lives as the
weight of their bodies caused the stalks
to sway. After two mornings of nerve-
shattering explosions the cockatoos,
swearing horribly, made off for, parts
unknown,
* * * *
“Solitude”: The old man didn’t know
Whitenose was a jumper until the day
he found the horse gone from the yard
where he’d left the animal. The new logs he
added would have discouraged the average
small jumper ; but next day the yard was
again empty, with the gate shut and the
bark on the new rails not even grazed.
Evidently Whitenose was no slouch. The
old man spent two days making a job
of it next time, a job that would have
brought tears to the eyes of a record-
smasher. Then he put the stock-
chaser inside and retired for dinner.
After an hour spent stoking up and toast-
ing his boasted success, he returned to
find the nag once more feeding quietly
outside the yard. He stared stupidly.
He must have been nurturing all the
while a champion! He returned the
horse to the yard and hid behind the
shed. For nearly half an hour old White-
nose dosed in the sun; then, waking to
restfulness, he wandered to the gate, lifted
the fastening with his teeth and took him-
self outside. He was just ambling off
when he stopped, turned as if he had
forgotten something, closed the gate with
his rump and clicked home the catch.
* * *
“Narrin”: With his shiny new gun
Percy, up from Adelaide on his first
trip to the Murray, was given a possy
where he had about 20 shots at the ducks
for nothing and then, getting restless, de-
cided to explore. He tried walking
through the lignum, found he couldn’t,
and began to crawl. Imbued with the
spirit of the chase or something, he
dragged himself through half a mile of
spiky tangles, meeting a tiger snake
literally face to face in the process. And
then across 100 yards of heavily-wooded
lagoon he spied three ducks just behind a
jutting bank. An intermittent quacking
came from the lonely three as the hunter
went into action. Lowering himself into the
black mud and green slime he wormed
his way through the foot-deep water until
he reckoned himself within range. Then,
cautiously raising and carefully sighting,
he let fly. The ducks were lost in a cloud
of spray. The hunter started forward.
Then from behind the bank erupted one
of the party, his punctured duck-call still
in his hand, looking for the assassin who
had sunk his decoys and nearly spoiled
himself.
# * * *
“Snobby”: Those fellows who sling
off about the depraved tastes of goats
have a limited knowledge of the subject.
Admittedly town goats will eat anything,
but a wild goat is one of the most
cleanly eaters on four legs. It will refuse
to eat any object another animal has so
much as mouthed with its lips. Horses,
cattle, sheep have no objection whatever
to salt from a common trough or from
one lump. A goat will knock it back if
there is no uncontaminated portion.
"When youse blokes've finished your game will you give us a hand with
the surge — he's got a busted appendix!"
QUEENSLAND STEERS.
North of the netted border the grassland rolls
away
Over the downs and valleys, across the foothills
grey,
And there with snow-white faces and shoulders
flaring red
The wild-eyed sons of freedom, the Queensland
steers, are bred.
The spear-horned steers of Queensland! The
old grey drovers know
Wild tales of blood and battle, mad rides with
stars aglow,
When crashing through the thickets on flats
the night-dew damps
The squadrons of disaster have thundered from
the camps.
Calved to the coastal country, bred on the blue-
grass plains,
Run from the miles of mulga when white foam
creamed the reins,
Their myriad battalions have trooped the stock
routes down
Since the Gulf was unknown country and Bris-
bane just a town.
The Queensland scrubs are lonely and Queens-
land plains are wide,
And over Queensland pastures the world’s best
stockmen ride;
And there upon our story in letters bright as
flame
The range-run steers of Queensland have left a
deathless name.
Queensland.
LEX MCLENNAN


“ That's Wot comes of teamin' prospectin' by correspondence."
“Wippegong”: Was boiling the quart
pot beside a rugged redgum when the
fussing of a willie wagtail drew the eyes
to her nest about four feet overhead.
None of your well-hidden nests here ; it
sat fair at the end of one of those knotted
limbs which lurch out, then writhe back
toward the earth and finally die —clear in
the view of all that walked, crept or flew,
and the little missus snuggled on to her
eggs with devotion and swagger equally
displayed. A week later I camped under
the same tree, and in the dusk could see
the cobweb cup was gone ; but in the
grey dawn a ghostly little form came
flitting down from twig to twig and,
finally stopping on the spot where the
nest had been, she wriggled into imagi-
nary comfort, and then settled down on
the eggs which were not. For half a
minute she was still. Then Kirrikiditcha
called her from across the creek and,
waking from her trance, she sped to
join him in a frenzy of rebuilding on a
slim branch well out over the water.
Are humans the only beings who make
pilgrimages to the old homestead?
♦ * * *
“B. 4”: Stunning fish by rifle bullet
depends mainly on the hitting power of
the rifle, elevation above the fish,
proximity of fish to the surface and com-
pactness of the shoal. The old 450 Mar-
tini-Henry was good on surface-feeding
mullet, the .32-40 fair, but the übiquitous
.32 useless, unless on the surface. Have
stunned a black snake a yard submerged
with a .303, which can also turn up
mullet from a shoal that deep if fired
down from a bridge. On the Gulf I’ve
collected a sugar-bag full of rifle-fish with
a .22 as they rose to spit. But here’s a
way to get cheaper bait than by using a
rifle. Make a bullock whip with a wire
thong fastened loop-the-loop; and if
you’re a hefty lad you’ll stun plenty
small fry on a rising tide.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”; The forcing up of a
large submerged object by means of a
depth charge was a trick practised by
whalers long before the technique was
applied to the hunting of U-boats. It
started when the Norwegians invented
the explosive harpoon and the small
whale-chaser. With “fish” plentiful No. 1
victim was inflated with compressed air,
flagged and then cast adrift, to be re-
covered later after others had been
chased, though sometimes the air escaped
and the carcass sank to the bottom. But
whalers, especially when working off a
coast, have a good idea of location, and
depth charges of dynamite often did the
trick; for the dead whale, being just
heavier than salt water, needed only a
comparatively slight kick to send it tem-
porarily to the surface, where a harpoon
and line would be ready to fasten on
again. And plenty of edible fish came
up with it.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: “Mac Moses” speaks only
for himself when he says (B. 25/2/’42)
that to the white the emu has little
attraction as poultry. After a months-on-
end diet of damper and “dog” a slab of
the big striding bird comes as a gift from
the gods—though, of course, as with
other poultry, the bird’s age is a vital
factor. Out beyond Mt. Margaret (W.A.)
we found the oldest of cocks was wel-
come. Boiled long enough in a kero.-tin
emu thigh will become soup. Boiled not
quite so long and thickened up with a
handful of dried potatoes it becomes
stew. Boiled whole for an hour and then
roasted in the camp oven it certainly
took a bit of chewing, but was superior
to spinifex ’roo done the same way. As
a preliminary, however, it is desirable to
draw the leg tendons. This is done by
cincturing the skin around the knee-joint,
cutting the big tendon at the back right
through, then screwing the still attached
leg round and round until the rest of
the sinews loosen, when a final tug-o’-war
effort drags them out. With that mass
of strings removed from the meat half
the tenderness battle is already won.
Your poulterer plays the same trick with
the ancient rooster that he palms off as
a year-old cockerel.
“ Cripes , it Was ’ol in there!”
“Pip the Fed.”: Suspect that “Nor’-
west’s” cobber (B. 11/3/’42) who plunged
a red-hot poker into his beer originally
came from some place like Horton-cum-
Chortonhole, and used to visit the
Shoulder of Mutton hostelry at the
other end of its High-street. There the
red-hot poker is kept waiting for the
customers, who wouldn’t think of downing
the wassail without performing the rite
in winter. Patrick McEvoy in The Gorse
and the Briar asserts that the iron oxide
which the poker leaves in the beer
“is worth all the tonic in a chemist’s
shop.”
*
“O. No”: Surely you Queens-
land “brumby ridders” aren’t going
to let “Dig.” get away with that
little piece of his (B. 18/2/’42)
about the meataxing of the surplus
brumbies! Seems to me that the
putting through a crush (wild
horses take a bit of putting through
a crush, too) and the meataxe are
rather a slow method, and just how
are the men to deal a death-slash
when a horse jumps out of a crush
at the rate of lightning?
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: There is no need
for “The 0.D.” to “envy” anyone
who has had the opportunity—and
patience —to observe a rabbit dig-
ging a burrow (B. 11/ 3/’42). If he
really pines to witness bunny at
his labors he need only catch a
litter of kittens and place them in
a fine-wire enclosure. When they’ve
attained maturity they’ll be tame enough
to demonstrate their excavating technique
in broad daylight. He will also observe
that the placid and timid rabbit can put
on a surprisingly interesting scrap when
there is a female in the case. And re
his facetious query as to whether the
gangs work under a civil service award,
I can assure him they do not, and refer
him to his own par. for confirmation. If
“warrens suddenly appear where none
was before,” there can be no suggestion
of Government bureaucracy —I seem to
remember that the Sydney underground
railway is still unfinished after a couple
of decades. The rabbit always completes
his jobs.
* * * *
“Feathers”: Thanks to those fellows
who have been telling us that the ducks
in the south get into their nests by crawl-
ing up the hollow roots of trees. It’s
just what I’d expect a southern duck to
do. Here in the quick-growing tropics
they adopt a more original idea. When
a hen duck feels the urge she selects a
suitable seed of a gum-tree, plants it at
the edge of the water, and by the time
the eggs are ready that seed has grown
into a tree round her and she has her
nest made to order, to her own size, with
all mod. cons. .
* * * •
“Snowy”: My mate Ginger considers
himself something of a buckjump-rider.
He got the saddle on a chestnut filly,
and, with a roar of “Let ’er buck!” he
was on her. She bucked right enough.
Ginger came to earth in a cloud of dust,
and the saddle wasn’t long following.
As he sat in the dust abusing everything
and everyone he could think of, a smarty
on the rails grinned and said “Got
thrown, eh, Ginge?’ “No!” snarled
Ginge. “I wus just tryin’ to do a one
and a half, an’ I overdid the half! ”
* » # ®
“H.J.”: Hori was sitting on the kerb
smoking a stub of a pipe with evident
enjoyment. I caught a whiff of the tor ere
and, being on the lookout for a deadly
insecticide, approached him from the
windward side. “Good stuff you smoke,
Hod,” I said. “How you make him?”
The ancient Maori looked up and his
innumerable wrinkles patterned into a
grin. “I krow te bacca, te missus dip
him in te treacle and make him into
ensilage,” he said.
M * * *
“Solitude”; The old chap had been
months getting together a decent pack of
rabbit dogs, and was expecting big results.
so I was a bit surprised shortly after
his collection was complete to find him
looking so glum. “Rabbits! ” he snorted.
“A man can’t depend on what them
things’ll do next, They’s about as re-
liable as a weather prophet.” It appears
that, deciding to make an example of
his first catch and get rid of the burrow
under the rocks at the same time, he
had lashed a suitable charge neatly to
bunny, lit the fuse and shoved the rodent
down the mouth of the burrow. Then,
whistling the dogs, he had streaked for
safety. But the rabbit failed to justify
the old bloke’s theory and, tearing out
of the burrow, had smoked across the
flats with the pack all out in pursuit.
The old chap had done what he could,
but the wind was against him and the
pack eager for the kill. Then had come
the eurhythmic exhibition, with dogs
Catherine-wheeling and rocketing in all
directions. “No,” their disgusted owner
sniffed, “there weren’t none of ’em
killed, but, blastit, none o’ the useless
cows’ll look at a rabbit now! ”
* * * *
“Don McM.”: “Morning, morning,
morning,” breezed the book canvasser
after picking his dainty way across the
clods to where Joe Chalker was unsuc-
cessfully trying to convince a young colt
that ploughing was good for it. “Mr.
Chalker, the great day has arrived,” chir-
ruped the optimist. “For the ridiculous
sum of five guineas, you, sir, are to be
preserved for posterity in our magnificent
publication entitled Men of Mark in
Buloo. I am collecting material for this
great work of national importance. You
will take your rank with the notable
men of this district; those men who un-
flinchingly faced the task of making this
district what it is today. In fact, sir, if
space allows, I might embrace your wife
in” “Get out!” roared Joe, making
for the biggest clod he could see. “The
last windbag who came around tryin’ to
sell things tried to embrace me daughtei
Maggie, and I’ll be damned if I’ll stand
’ere and listen to any impudent sod
boastin’ that he can get fresh with a
man’s own wife.” Before the clod had
gathered any momentum, the startled
gatherer of life stories had cleared the
last fence near the road.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Sandy had shoulders like
the village blacksmith, and speculation
was rife among the mob as to why such
breadth should fail to pull its weight.
Some of ’em reckoned the old hand was
“swinging it,” and consequently loaded
him with all the heavy jobs, which he’d
puff and grunt over and finally abandon.
Then one day the big roan landed a
hind hook in his midriff. Sandy took
the count, and we solved the mystery. I
was with the party told off to hunt
brandy and bandages when a yell from
the patient’s hut where he was being
stripped brought us all crowding in.
“Six,” counted Jim, dropping a greasy-
looking shirt on the heap at his feet and
turning to peel off another. “Seven-
eight.” Those shirts got darker as they
went. A sleeveless sweater again saw
the light of day,
a long-forgotten
waistcoat and a
dejected singlet.
Finally, Sandy’s
familiar figure
was heaped im-
posingly on the
floor, but who the
little runt on the
bunk was no one
seemed to know.
* *
“Wippegong”:
The rigors of
aerial warfare call
for training exer-
cises far beyond
the conventional,
and we in
amongst them
take little notice
of stunts on the
ground or off it.
So it was that
our bright boy
had no audience
when in taking his
bomber steadily
down the runway
he suddenly swung
to starboard, gave
his motors full throttle, raced 100
yards, steadied, swung to port, charged
the far fence, spun round and for a while
appeared intent on taking off down wind.
By this time he had drawn the academic
interest of sundry stragglers, but he upset
all their learned opinions by dashing away
from the straight and narrow, describing
two erratic circles, then going flat out for
the far corner of the ’drome. It was when
topping the slight rise in this direction
that the immediate object of his
manoeuvres became apparent. He was
chasing a hare.
EMMA’S WELL.
If you care to wander the South Head Road
And, wandering, crave for a restful spell,
You’ll come, nigh the crest of a winding slope,
To a spring that is known as Emma’s Well.
There you may halt, as I halted oft,
When youth was mine and all weather fair,
And slake your thirst with the water cool
As wine, deep-cellared, that gushes there.
Since by that spring in the winding road,
Companioned gaily, I loved to range,
Though much is altered, yet much abides
Beyond the moulding of man to change.
Though gone are the heath and the tall gum-
trees.
Yet whoso muses may vision still,
With eyes on the Past, dead passers-by.
Who paused at that well and drank their fill.
Revealed to him shall be spectral folk,
Folk old and youthful, who rode or strode
Through the dust and heat of a long-dead day,
And blessed that well on the South Head
Road.
And there shall he see ’neath an eerie moon,
A moon seen only in mystic dreams,
Staid coachmen, footmen and powdered dames
In carriages drawn by ghostly teams.
Or, while in some fancied sunset’s glow,
The trees of the wayside droop and drowse,
A vision of Wentworth may be his
Home-faring alone to Vaucluse House.
Or, letting his fancy still take charge,
The dreamer there at the wellside may
Glimpse Dailey, lover of prose and rhyme,
As he rides past through a twilight grey.
Thus named from a sonnet that Wordsworth
wrote,.
By whom so christened no tongue can tell,
Nigh the crest of a slope on the South Head
Road,
Reflecting the Past, lies Emma’s Well.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Parched and Withered Pasture
Tri-cal: It is important to commence hand-
feeding before all the natural pasture is lost.
Many a flock has been kept in condition by
careful use of handfeeding and pasture. If
you leave it too long the sheep may be too
poorly to manage on the minimum ration,
and losses may be heavy. Have a word with
the veterinary officer; he will look over the
pasture and the stock and decide whether
delay is justified or dangerous. All the time the
sheep are on poor pasture keep them supplied
with the Tri-cal-os Bone Flour and salt mix-
ture, and, if you handfeed, include the Tri-cal-os
—remember to increase the quantity for the
lambing ewes.
/■l~
■XC'
is
IUUM*
Get Davis Gelatine to send you their folder about Tri-cal-os.
35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box
Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Write to G.P.O. Box
758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O.
Old Farmer.
EGELABRA
Merinos
WILL RAISE THE WEIGHT
AND QUALITY OF YOUR CLIP.
BGEEABRA Bams inherit high yield of
wool of splendid spinning quality. They
pass this inheritance on to their progeny.
By using EGELABRA Rams for a few
years you can greatly Improve your flock
and the income from it.
Bams have now been classed and are ready
for delivery.
PRICES: 5,6, 8, 10, 12, 15 guineas.
- m
e^KjjcSsaM!
H. E. KATER & SON,
Egelabra, Warren, N.S.W.
Four times W inner $
of Stonehaven Cup.
Tel.: Warren 10.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lambing Losses.
“Bungaree”: Fairly heavy mortality
has already been reported among lambing
ewes. The two causes chiefly responsible
show similar symptoms, but origins and
treatment are entirely different. Preg-
nancy toxaemia must be caught in the
early stages or treatment is useless.
Hypocalcaemia, or grass tetany, is similar
to milk fever in cows, and an effective
treatment is available.
Pregnancy toxaemia is caused by the
heavy drain on the ewe In the
two months before lambing. When
grass is dry and lacking in nour-
ishment the ewe may appear in
fairly good condition, but has been
unable to get enough protein from the
feed to nourish the lamb. Affected ewes
separate from the mob, take no notice of
dogs or men and refuse to eat or drink.
The apparent blindness which accom-
panies this trouble is the chief difference
between it and hypocalcaemia. The dead
ewe will usually have twin lambs.
Cures have been made by feeding ewes
on chaff or hay well soaked with
molasses. Drenching with molasses and
water has served in the early stages. The
only successful treatment is preventive.
Ewes on dry grass require additional feed
during the six to eight weeks before
lambing feed rich in protein. Good
lucerne hay, meatmeal or bloodmeal is
recommended,
Hypocalcaemia may occur any time. It
is caused by a sudden drop in the lime
content of the blood and usually affects
ewes in lamb, though other sheep are
susceptible. It is usually brought on by
droving, yarding or shedding sheep and
is particularly noticeable at shearing time.
Ewes become paralysed in the hind legs,
lie down on their briskets with heads
outstretched, and when picked up cannot
stand. If they have not been down more
than 12 hours they can usually be saved
by an injection—4oz. of calcium gluco-
nate and loz. of boracic acid in a clean
saucepan with 1J pint of water and
heated until the powders dissolve. When
cool, it is bottled and kept tightly corked.
The dose is 60 c.c., injected under the
loose skin of the ribs, preferably with a
20 c.c. syringe. Split the dose into three
parts and give each in a separate place.
Syringe and needles should be thoroughly
sterilised before use, and five minutes
after administering the ewe should be
lifted to her feet. Put her on the best
tVpd straightway.
Growing Vegetables.
“North Arm”: A lot of things affect
the exact period, but from planting to
maturity allow two months for French
beans and lettuce, three for silver beet,
beetroot and white turnips, four for
carrots, cabbages and potatoes, five for
broad beans, cauliflowers, swedes and
parsnips, and eight months for onions.
Anybody who can do it should have a
shot at growing some of them; out-
backers with an irrigable acre or two
can get profit as well as pleasure out of
it. Vegetables will be precious in com-
ing months, invasion or not.
It looks as though regular seedsmen
will be able to supply only about 50 p.c.
of current needs. State agricultural de-
partments want to hear from people who
can grow for seed varieties of red beet,
cabbage, carrot, lettuce, early onions,
tomatoes, swede and table turnips. Tech-
nical advice will be given and prices for
seeds are guaranteed. Pre-harvest ex-
penses of not more than £25 an acre will
be granted under certain conditions, and
it is hoped to get farmers and workers
in seed production on the reserved occu-
pation list. Act as quickly as possible.
Diseases will have to be watched. Cab-
bages, cauliflowers and turnips get black
rot and black leg, both carried in the
seed. Before sowing, tie Jib. of seed in
a cheesecloth bag and dip cauliflower seed
in water at 122 deg. F. for 18min. and
cabbage and turnip for 25min. Spread
the seed to dry in a warm, shady spot.
Use a kero.-tin holding 3gal. of water.
Have a wooden lid on it with two holes
to let in a thermometer and a stirring
stick. Suspend the seed bags with
string. A small kero, lamp under the
tin will keep up the temperature. Keep
“ Supposin' We 'ove a spell, Ma ?”
it out of draughts. The temperature
must be maintained all the time,
“H.C.”: Deep rich soil for parsnips
or a good sandy loam. Get the plot
ready by trenching and cultivating deeply
and throw in a heavy dressing of stable
manure well before sowing. Before sow-
ing, work the ground to a very fine tilth.
Sow the seed very thinly about half an
inch down, rake over very lightly and
pack with the spade along the drills. A
light covering of crumbled old horse
manure or old sawdust helps germination
and prevents the surface from cracking
and caking. Allow about 15in. between
rows and thin out to Bin. between plants.
Sow up to May in coastal districts and
end of March inland.
“B.”: A three-year rotation system for
inland vegetable growing under irrigation.
Have three sections—A, B and C —of
two acres each. Section Ais sown in
March, 1942, with field peas, vetches
and oats for green manure. Short fallow
from August to December, when late
pumpkins, seed and green beans, late
tomatoes, peas, lettuce and beetroot are
planted. The last of them mature in
July, 1943, and the section lies a bare
fallow from August to February, 1944.
The fallow is sown, according to calen-
dar, with cabbages, cauliflowers, turnips,
carrots, parsnips, onions, cucurbits,
melons, squashes, early beans, two plant-
ings of peas and lettuces and tomatoes.
All should be harvested by February,
1945, when the rotation begins again.
Section B’s crops should have begun
in February, 1942—cabbages, cauliflowers
and turnips, small areas of carrots and
parsnips, onions, early pumpkins, cucur-
bits, peas, lettuce and early tomatoes in
order. From March, 1943, green-manure
crops are grown till August, then there
is fallow to end of December. Then
comes sowing with late pumpkins, seed
and green beans, late tomatoes, peas, let-
tuce, beetroot, etc., the last ready for
marketing by July, 1944. Then a bare
fallow till February, 1945, and start again.
Section C begins with late pumpkins
in December, 1942, and seed and green
beans, late tomatoes, peas, lettuce, beet-
root, etc., follow. After August, 1943, a
bare fallow tjll February, 1944. Then
sowing with cabbages, cauliflowers, tur-
nips, parsnips, carrots, onions, cucurbits,
early beans, peas and lettuce and early
tomatoes, which finish in February, 1945.
In March, 1945, green manure crops are
planted and the soil later given a short
fallow from August to December, 1945,
when the next rotation starts.
This system keeps on returning satis-
factory crops, since the soil at all times
is well rested and fertilised and clean
cultivation is assured.
Baldmin in Victoria.
“Corowa South”: Four out of five
Baldmins among 16 crops in the Ruther-
glen (Vic.) wheat competition filled the
first four places, two dead-heating for
first. Dundee, Waratah and Free Gal-
lipoli were fairly represented, and there
were a Bobin and a Ranee crop.
J. A. Morrow, of Rutherglen experi-
ment farm, who judged the crops, points
out that after a tough fallowing period
there was good rain early in January, pad-
docks were quickly worked and sowing
was done by April. Normally, this might
have brought weeds, but there was an-
other dry spell after sowing and the
weeds couldn’t get a start. The wheat
held its lead and the 16 crops averaged
about 12 bags.
In this district it has been proved that
a July fallow will outyield an October
fallow by nearly two bags an acre, but
though the fallows were late last season
sheep, in most cases, beat the weeds, and
it begins to look as though less working
and more grazing offer easier and more
profitable methods. The district is an
old one, and a shrewd wheat-sheep
arrangement will do much toward keep-
ing the soil in good nick.
Morrow gives some striking figures on
the use of subterranean clover on the lay
land and its effect on wheat yields.
Wheat sown on clover without manure
gave 26.2 bushels, on fallow without
manure 14; on clover with Jcwt. of
super. 34.5, on fallow with the same
26.1 ; on clover with lewt. super. 37, on
fallow with the same 29.4. This seemed
about the best, since IJcwt. of super,
on clover gave only 37.4 and the same
on fallow only 30.3 bushels, the in-
creases on both clover and fallow for
the extra Jcwt, hardly justifying the cost.
F. Jenvey and G. R. Pearce, Spring-
hurst men, shared first prize. Their
crops touched 14 bags. Jenvey’s pad-
dock was pasture for eight years, was
cropped in 1937-38, was lay in ’39 and
fallow in ’4O. It was ploughed in early
October, harrowed and cultivated by
January and worked thrice afterwards
before being sown in May with 701 b. of
seed and lewt. of super. Pearce ploughed
in August, with a harrow after the
plough, left it till January and then
worked it thrice before sowing in April
with 681 b. of seed and 1001 b. of super.
Their crops were fine stands of Bald-
min and, like the third crop, finished
well, filled out their grain and showed
no effect of the dry winter and spring.
Hints for the Farm.
“Canbelego”: Pastures need firm seed-
beds. Concentrate on light harrowings.
If deep working is necessary to control
weeds, use the roller to firm the seed-
bed or wait for another rain before sow-
ing. Months of careful work can be
ruined by cultivating too deeply just
before sowing.
“Bundalinga”; Cut bracken in autumn
and burn it as soon as fires are safe.
Sow grass seed, with superphosphate,
directly into the ash. Don’t let the ferns
develop; knock the fronds off as soon
as they appear. Graze the pasture judi-
ciously to enable it to stool and prevent
it seeding the first year.
“Canbelego”; With ample
skim-milk, calves get suffi-
cient protein and carbo-
hydrates in a simple grain
mixture. Lacking lucerne
hay, make up mineral defi-
ciency with one pint of lime-
water to 10 gallons of milk.
Most grains can be fed whole,
but wheat and sorghum
. should be coarsely ground.
Feed skim-milk at blood tem-
perature. Teach the calf to
eat roughage early.
“Bald Hill”: Shortage of
nitrogenous fertilisers means
that farmers must make their
own. In orchards and vine-
yards, tick beans, field peas,
sub. clover or crimson clover
can be grown and ploughed
in. In vegetable gardens, precede every
crop with a summer fallow, a crop of
tick beans or cowpeas or a dressing of
farmyard manure, sheep manure or com-
post. On larger areas, where field crops
are grown, get a leguminous crop into the
rotation either to be fed-off or harvested.
' “Cargo-road”: To rainproof bagging
or hessian, dissolve 101 b. of bluestone in
35gal. of water in a wooden vessel. Sepa-
rately dissolve 11Jib. of washing soda
or 4Jlb. of soda ash in sgal. of water.
While stirring, add the soda solution to
the bluestone and put in a wetting agent
like Wetsit or Agral 3, and stir well.
Immerse the bags until everything is
thoroughly soaked. Dip twine which
may be used for sewing them. Run the
bags through a wringer, when they can
be used at once or dried and stored.
“B.”: Cauliflower seedlings are ready
for transplanting when 4in. to 6in. high.
Run a long-bladed knife underneath the
roots in the beds, cutting them off at a
depth of 2in. Immediately after prun-
ing, water the beds heavily to encourage
the growth of bunches of fibrous roots.
When plants are lifted, portion of the
top growth should be cut away to make
up for the feeding roots usually lost in
transplanting.
“Horatio”: Queensland has a record
number of pigs, 436,447, an increase of
45,114 for the year. Despite a decrease
of 3053 in the horse population, there
are still 442,757. Cattle numbers rose by
12,012 to 6,210,810, the highest since
1925. Sheep, at 23,936,099, were over a


FACE EIFE
equipped with Knowledge and
Understanding.
young man or woman who faces life
so equipped, is assured of a happier
future and more contented family relationship.
The New H. & R. applied Psychology Course
and Training Service gives you a thorough
knowledge of the causes of emotional stress,
and helps you to gain natural thought control
through better understanding of yourself.
Write for Free, Illustrated Brochure.
Department of Distribution :
Hemingway & Robertson
Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne, C.l.
Offices in all Capital Cities, Newcastle
ami Launceston. 38AA/P9
“Every Winter had
Terrible Colds”
Nurse's Grateful Letter
1 Want to thank you for the wonderful
and cold medicine, BUCKLEY’S
boffin Mix t ure -1 bought the first
mnr, winter, for the old gentle-
h a , n^\ 01 ? 1 am taking care of, for he
The terrible colds every winter,
thivri h' t do ? e helped, and after the
aiiipt ~o se, c old was gone—it does such
quick work.” Mrs. C. Davis.
stiihwJ™r e ohances. For even the most
tofho« m ’ rackin & cough swiftly yields
CA»^ ful influence of BUCKLEY’S
selling lO i J - (tri P le acting), the largest-
brnm-f,^ edlcine for coughs, colds and
Get Oku? blizzardly cold Canada,
a bottle at any chemist or store.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
17
EPENDAB LITY
4S
V
A FACTOR OF VITAL IMPORTANCE
EFFICIENT COMMUNICATION
BETWEEN SEA, LAND AND AIR.
AUSTRALIAN MADE
RADIOTRON
Valves . , . Ahvays Available
STANDARD TO AIR FORCE TRANSMITTERS AND RECEIVERS
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
BILLABONG
HAND, POWER
AND
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
SpHEpSpiS
DESIGNED TO
MEET THE
STATION OWNER’S
and
Farmer’s Requirements
SEND TO THE MAKERS FOR ALL
PARTICULARS
JOHN DANKS&son
Ply. Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
rr
mi
SSB
Tf
Til
ri
fT
rr~n
hotel grand central
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY. & BREAKFAST
e/fl Hot and Cold Water Single Rooms from 7/6
jj" Double Rooms from 157-
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from
Double Rooms from
. Tln in date Dinine Room —All Meals ala Carte.
Spacious, Up-to-date Um ng G.P.0., Sydney.
Telephone; BWIS3I (7 lines). G. C
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Cable and Radio; Grancentral.
Mc-kT AY Manager.
n f a million fewer than in 1940,
Stand's record jumbuck year,
Don’t waste case wire
‘ C nails-both are going to be short,
npfence demands for tying wire are
D e ‘ en hut fruitgrowers may be allowed
hea T ™ pc of last year’s supplies.
wi || be just about enough nails to
2 o round.
urr r” • In recent years orange crops
WA have been reduced by rotting
m , rn, ltur e navels on the trees and m-
? eased droppings caused by water-spot—
ie r ind imbibing water. White oil sprays
the damage. Eliminating white oil
o avs makes for a longer disease-free
SL period. Liability to water-spot
increases with maturity and heavy rams.
Outback Occasions.
No. 28.
WHAT, NO TEA?
When Father got back from the town
tint Saturday night we little dreamt what
was in store-or rather, what was not in
the store It was about halt-past 10 and
our mother had put the kettle on when
she heard the car coming in the gate. We
helped Father get the things inside and
Mother began to search among them.
After a bit she looked at Father and
said, “Didn’t I put tea on the order?”
“Yes,” he said, with a funny sort of
look, “you put tea on the order.”
Mother went over the things again.
“It’s no good,” said Father, “there isn’t
any tea. There isn’t any anywhere in
town. 1 tried everywhere.” He sat down
suddenly with a beaten look. Mother,
with her routine baulked for the first
time in years, also sat down. She put
her hands together in her lap and looked
around the kitchen in a lost sort of way.
There wasn’t anything she could do. Like
Father, she just had to sit there and put
up with it.
Presently she said, “Couldn’t you have
borrowed a bit from some of the cafes
or somewhere?”
Something dawned on Father. He stood
up suddenly. “Gosh,” he said, “y’ don t
mean we’re right out —no tea in the
place! ” ,
“Not a skerrick,” said Mother. Father
sat down again. “Cripes,” he whispered,
“1 didn’t know that! ”
We children felt that we were in the
presence of terrible privation. No tea!
It was incredible. We could imagine the
homestead burnt to the ground, the farm
denuded of stock and crops by fire, flood
or drought, ourselves with broken limbs,
our mother sick in bed, our father with
Barcoo rot — anything! But we’d never
visualised a time when Mother couldn’t
make a cup of tea.
After a bit our brother said, “S’pose I
hop on me horse an’ canter over t’ John-
son’s. They might be able t’ lend us a
bit?”
Father thought this over. Then he
said, “Here, we mustn’t lose our blocks.
Let’s get t’ bed. We’ll see about it in the
morning.”
We went, Mother remarking, “This is
the first Saturday night since I was a girl
I’ve gone to bed without any tea.” We
thought she was going to cry.
On the Sunday, after thoroughly scour-
ing the district, we managed to rake up
about half a pound in dribs and drabs.
The way some people went on you’d have
thought we were asking for their farms.
Old Dinny Hayes said, “Look, there’s me
horses, me seed wheat, me haystack, me
dorgs, me cheque-book. Help y’rself.
Take what y’ want. I’ll even lend y’ me
saddle-hack, an’ nobody but me has ever
ridden her. But don’t ask me fer tea,
’cos y’ just ain’t goin’ t’ get any.” We
drove on. -
By the Wednesday our half-pound was
gone. Father adopted a resolute line. It
was absurd, he said, for a family to be so
upset because it had been deprived of
what was, after all, merely a sedative, a
drug. Nobody got fat on tea. It was
not recognised as a food. Good heavens,
he said, think of the poor Greeks, or the
starving Yugoslavs or even the British
people on short rations. It showed a
poor spirit, he added, to be moaning
about tea. Let’s make up our minds to
forget it.
We boys did our best, but Father wasn't
much of a help. We’d be working away
up the paddock, going through the sheep
for fly or perhaps cleaning out the tank
drains, when Father would suddenly head
for the house, go about 25 yards, stop,
look foolish, come back and go on with
the job. We boys would look at each
other, knowing that it was 10 o’clock and
that always at that time we either went
to the house for morning tea or Mother
brought it up to us.
Mother was like a woman with a deep-
seated grief. She was touchy, silent;
said she was very tired and wondered if
she ought to take a week’s holiday and
go down and see her sister. Father would
say, “Aw, you’d look silly gettin’ there
an’ findin’ she had no tea, either,” and
Mother would murmur that it was impos-
sible to hide your thoughts from a per-
son after you’d been married to him for
20 years.
One night, just on sundown, we were
sitting on the verandah, not saying much,
when a bagman dropped his swag at the
gate and came up.
“How’s things?” he said.
“Not bad,” said Father civilly.
“Could y’ spring us a bit of tea and
sugar, boss?”
Father rose up. He seemed to swell.
In an awful voice he declared, “We
haven’t tasted tea in this house for five
days!”
The bagman stepped back. “Bloomey,”
he said in an awed voice.
Father sat down and buried his head
in his hands. Mother got up and went
inside. We children just sat there. The
bagman stared thoughtfully into the west.
Suddenly he dived into his pocket,
produced a small flour bag in one corner
of which was a tiny dark knob, pressed it
into Father’s hands with a convulsive
movement of sacrifice, then turned and
hurried away. Astonished, Father
opened the bag and examined the knob.
“No,” he cried. “No. I can’t do it.”
And he got up and ran after the bagman
and brought him back and took him in-
side. We followed. There we learned
that the poor fellow, overcome by
Father’s agony and recognising that
Father was a man of substance, while he
was but a stranger passing who had en-
dured many privations, had pressed upon
Father his last few leaves of tea.
It was almost a celebration. By some
skill, Mother managed to get six cups of
reasonably good tea out of that little black
k no b— we strongly suspected she had
soaked bag and all in the pot, but could
never make her admit it and we sat
around it, sniffing the steam from the
cups and taking little sips, prolonging the
joy.
Next day the storekeeper rang up to
sav he’d received a consignment of tea
and was rationing it among his cus-
tomers. Father was in town almost be-
fore the telephone stopped ringing.


nm.
&§SsS&
m j
Ike. “Reclamadon Squads"
of the Civil Front
The work of the “reclamation squads” on the field of
battle is paralleled on the civil front.
The civil truck or lorry that thunders from one war
factory to another is a unit in mechanised warfare.
Every vehicle on essential work is in the war.
Every hour saved when repairing such a vehicle
better still, every hour saved by forestalling and pre-
venting breakdown is an hour gained.
Along Australia’s roads are the workshops of 600
General Motors Dealers. These with their efficient,
modernised equipment, their rapid, scientific methods,
their skilled staffs are “reclamation squads” of the
civil front.
If your vehicle is doing essential work, bring it in for
inspection and report, which costs nothing and may save
you much. If you are changing to charcoal, see your
General Motors Dealer about a “Nasco” Gas Producer.
General Motors
Dpolpii
UsHli llil BEDFORD — BVICK—CADILLAC
MW VU ■ W ■ — CHEVROLET — G.M.C. — OLDS -
MOBILE—PONTIAC - FAUX HALL
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN'S LIMITED
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
Pf(|pMWHll!awrwwriißa«»
farfwwf
v
WT*:
wsJL
I p—t-r— f'fS&Si
ORB
CORRUGATED AND P L A I
JOHN LYSAGHT {AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.
SUN E Y ME LB lIIIEUtItUE Aflfl AI fl f PER IM
*T®HE next time you buy Gal-
vanized Iron the iamiliar
"spangled" finish may be missing.
This is due to the fact that tin.
which is normally added to the
coating, must be conserved for
essential war purposes. . . .
There is, however, absolutely no
loss of durability or quality and
each sheet carries the well-known
Lysaghl guarantee. In presenting
this new "War Finish," therefore,
John Lysaghl (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
is confident that it will be widely
accepted as a necessary contribu-
tion towards the successful prose-
cution of the War Effort.
Our Service Department
Wants.
Country newspapers: Position wanted by re-
turned soldier (1914-18 war). Good education;
experience as freelance and district correspon-
dent.—3s27.
To buy E. A. Weston’s novels Happy Hawkins,
Friar Tuck and Happy Hawkins Again. —32s6.
Information Sought.
(1) Who wrote the music of “God Save the
King” —John Bull, Arne or Purcell ? (2) Who
wrote the words? (3) What countries besides
Britain have used the air as a national anthem ?
(4) In what estimation has the turn been held
by great composers ?
(1) The earliest printing of the air and words
(and these in nearly their present form) was
in the English publication Harmonica Anglicana
in 1742. In 1740 the popular singer Henry
Carey had sung the composition at a dinner,
claiming authorship of words and music. Sub-
sequent research has found a resemblance to
the air in a piece in a MS. book of works by
Dr. Jan Bull (variously dated from 1588 to
1619), but there is a strong suspicion that the
MS. was doctored just before the claim was
made late in the eighteenth century. There is a
Purcell air with a colorable resemblance- in a
book of harpsichord pieces printed circa 1683-
1696. Arne comes into the matter merely as the
“arranger” for Carey when the latter sang the
song at Drury Lane Theatre in 1745, its first
really public performance. On all the evidence
Carey has as good a claim on the melody as
Purcell has and a much better one than Arne
or Bull has. (2) Carey holds the field in this
respect; it is suspected he got some of the lines
from an old Latin edition of the Bible. (3) Den-
mark, Prussia (and later all Germany), Switzer-
land and the U.S.A. (4) Beethoven admired
the air, wrote variations on it, and put it in his
so-called “Battle Symphony”; Weber used it
in his “Battle and Victory” and in his “Jubilee”
overture; it also appears in Brahms’s “Triumph-
lied.”
* He * *
I have just seen in the Australian Museum,
Sydney, some human heads shrunk to less than
half normal size. How is this done ?
The following method was described in an
issue of the “Australian Museum Magazine” and
attributed to the Jivaro Indians of Ecuador: The
head and part of the neck were severed from
the body, the flesh slit up the back of the head
and the bones carefully removed, leaving the
flesh and hair only. The slit was then sewn
up, the lips skewered together, the eyelids drawn
down, the eyebrows held in place with small
pegs and the nose and ears plugged with cotton.
The aim was to preserve the normal propor-
tions of the head when it was filled out with
hot sand. Next each head was placed in a pot
filled with fresh cold water and brought slowly
to boiling point. At this point, so that the
flesh would not be softened, the head was with-
drawn and found to have shrunk to one-third
of its original size! Hot sand was then poured
into the head to toughen and shrink it even
further, the sand being renewed as it cooled;
the outer surface was ironed over with hot,
flat stones. The treatment was carried out over
48 hours to draw the oil and fat from the face,
which was then considered “cured.”
*•* * *
(1) How long has Father Divine, the Ameri-
can negro preacher, been carrying on his
preaching ? (2) What are his beliefs ? (3) Has
he a large following in Australia or in Sydney ?
(4) If so, where and when do his followers
meet? (5) Is it possible to procure the monthly
magazine ‘‘Peace, the New Day” ? (6) Is it
a fact that Father Divine has been publicly
flogged, and, if so, for what reason ? (7) Any
books on the subject ?
(1) He set up his first “Heaven” at Sayville
(Long Island), Oct. 27, 1919. Moved to Har-
lem, New York, 1932. Has been a preacher
since young manhood. (2) He professes to be-
lieve that he is God or that through him God
is fully manifested. He enjoins continence on
his followers. (3) A few hundred, at most. (4)
Melbourne and Sydney are the two centres.
Chelsea has been headquarters in Melbourne.
(5) Not on sale in bookshops but possibly
might be procured on order. (6) No record
of this. As a young man was sentenced to six
months in Chatham County Chain Gang No.
4. (7) God in a Rolls-Royce, by John Hosher
(New York, Hillman-Curl), and The Incredible
Messiah, by R. A. Parker (Little, Brown and
Co., Boston).
* * * *
(1) How many Presidents have been elected
for the U.S. of America? (2) Which were
assassinated ?
(1) From George Washington, the first, in
1789, inclusive of Franklin Delano Roosevelt
(now in office), there have been 32 Presidents
of the U.S. (2) Abraham Lincoln (16th), James
Abram Garfield (20th) and William McKinley
(25th).
* * * *
What was the badge issued to men who en-
listed in 1918 but were not sent overseas or not
called up for service because of the Armistice ?
The Demobilised Recruits’ Badge, issued to all
A.I.F. recruits who on November 11, 1918, were
in training in Australia or had actually enlisted
but had not been called into camp, and who,
because of the Armistice, were demobilised. It
was also issued to those members of the
R.A.G.A. who enlisted therein for training for
reinforcements for the Siege Artillery Brigade,
A.1.F., and who actually volunteered for service
in the A.I.F.
# * * *
Cause and cure of eczema?
Exciting causes of eczema may be many. The
eczema reaction may be called forth by certain
microbes and fungi, while chemical irritations
are numerous. Many drugs (lysol, formalin,
mercury, etc.) are responsible, as also are
substances derived from plants (primula,
ivy, clematis and many others). Consti-
tutionally, excessive sweating predisposes to
eczema, and diabetes is often complicated by it.
Some protein foods seem to be a direct cause.
Treatment consists of removal of crusts, if
present, by starch poultices. In acute stages,
watery lotions of calamine or lead are used;
after “weeping” is over, protective creams and
pastes. Indolent patches are frequently treated
by fractional doses of X-rays. In acute forms
of the disease, complete mental and physical rest
is essential. Many patients benefit on a diet
of milk and vegetables. Internally, drugs are
of value only in exceptional cases.
4> * * *
What exactly is peat?
A product of decayed vegetation found in the
form of bogs in many parts of the world. The
plants which give origin to these deposits are
mainly aquatic, including reeds, rushes, sedges
and mosses. They die and rot; as decomposi-
tion proceeds they become waterlogged and
sink to the bottom of the pool and, in time,
are compressed and carbonised. Peat in its last
and most characteristic stage is compact, dark-
brown stuff resembling black clay when wet,
and some varieties of lignite when dry.
Method of tanning a snakeskin?
Tack the skin on a board, scaly side down,
scrape clean of flesh, etc., then dust over thickly
with two parts of salt, one part of saltpetre and
one part powdered alum. After a few days
wash the skin without removing it from board,
rub it with neatsfoot oil, stand in a warm
place outside and leave for two days. Wipe
off oil, make some whiting hot and rub the
hot powder into the skin with a piece of flannel.
♦ * * *
Recipe for a liquid fox decoy?
Of many scents and combinations tested
“fetid bait” has proved most successful,
especially in attracting wolves and coyotes to
the traps. It is made as follows: Place i-lb.
raw beef or venison in a wide-mouthed bottle
and let it stand in a warm place (but not in
the sun) for two to six weeks, or until it is
thoroughly decayed and the odor has become
offensive as possible. When decomposition has
reached the proper stage add a quart of sperm
oil or any liquid animal oil. Lard may be
used, but prairie-dog oil or Tonquin musk is
best. If this cannot be produced, use in its place
loz. of dry, pulverised castoreum (beaver
castor) or loz. of the common musk sold for
perfumery. Mix well and bottle securely until
used. After setting the trap apply the scent
with a stick or straw or by pouring from the
bottle to the grass, weeds or ground on the
side of. the trap opposite that from which the
wolf would naturally approach. Never put
scent on the trap, as the first impulse of the
wolf after sniffing the scent is to roll on it.
This bait is also said to be very attractive to
horses and cattle, which are sure to tramp
over and paw out the traps if set where they
can get at them.
* * H= *
Henry Lawson wrote verses entitled ‘‘Gipsy
Too.” What is the third stanza, and when
was it published ?
The verses are dated Manly, August, 1902,
and the third stanza runs:
And the old queen looked in my palm one day—
And a shrewd old dame was she.
“My pretty young gent you may say your say,
You may laugh your laugh at me;
But I’ll tell you the tale of your dead, dead past!”
And she told me all too true;
And she said 1 that I’d die in a camp at last,
For I came of the Gipsies, too.
* » * «
(1) A person enters a tobacconist’s shop at
midday and asks for tobacco. The assistant
replies that tobacco and cigarettes are for sale
only between the hours of 9 to 10.30 a.m. and
4 to 1 p.m. Can customers demand to be
served, as those hours are not fixed by law ?
(2) Can a person demand that a shopkeeper sell
an article that is displayed in the window with
or without a price ticket? (3) An article in a
shop has, through error, the wrong price ticket
attached. Can a prospective purchaser demand
the article at the price stated?
(1) No. (2) No. (3) No.
* * * *
(1) In International Lawn Tennis Federation
rules what is the law concerning prizes? (2)
What was I. Crawford’s ranking position by
N.S.W.L.T. Assoc, between 1930 and 1939?
(1) Money, cheques, orders for money, con-
sumable goods or wearing apparel (other than
such as is necessary for the pursuit of the
game or court) or orders on shops for the
same shall not be offered, given or accepted as
prizes at tournaments. The amount actually
paid for a prize shall be the sum (if any) adver-
tised as the value thereof. The maximum
value of a single prize which may be won by
a lawn tennis player in any one event shall not
exceed £2O. (2) No. 2 in 1930; No. 1 in 1931,
1932, 1933, 1934, 1935; No. 2 in 1936; No. 3
(equal with J. Bromwich) in 1937; No. 4 in
1938; No. 4in 1939.
» * * *
How to save a cupmssus hedge (10 ft. high),
which is failing through drought?
Dig a hole near the trunk-base of each
withering shrub large enough to hold a half-
kerosene-tin or similar vessel (in which small
holes have been made in bottom and sides),
and pour in surplus household water. The
addition of rotted manure in the containers will
stimulate growth. Cut away dead growth and
thin out some of the limbs. Shrubs which do
not respond quickly should be replaced with
young stock. April to June is a good plant-
ing time.
Brief Answers.
A.8.G.: The Sydney-Melbourne telephone was
opened in 1907... .W.P.C.; The Westralian


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO ROBERT MEADE BROWN late of Burra-
gorang Valley—TAKE NOTICE that ETHEL
BROWN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2372 of 1941 on the ground of desertion without
reasonable cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance on or before the Ninth day of
June 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from C. JOLLIE-SMITH AND
CO. Solicitors 185 Elizabeth Street Sydney. —
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
53
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
ym
ti m
81l
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,900,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes. Remember;
the name DOAN’S,
iiiii
rO R ferfect cigarette
■aSURESMOKE FINER'
■tasting 777'S VIRGINIAS
' v
*XS- '■ • \
:. ~ ••:• 'sl.s/Vs .
m
,:> x
li, > %
777
m/////Jll S»E.NjE*S /
\J\RG\N\N _
* THREE SEVENS *
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
VISCACELLE-WRAPPED FOR FRESHER
1678-1.42 .
FLAVOUR
Goldfields Water Supply supplies the eastern
goldfields and towns along the pipeline with
water from Mundaring Weir on the Helena
River, near Perth. The system consists of 1720
miles of pipes and 13,670 services. Mundaring
has a capacity of 4650 million gallons, and in
1939 supplied 1,735,000,000 gallons... .W.D.:
In 1885, in Germany, Gottlieb Daimler drove a
bicycle powered by a petrol engine of his own
invention....R.F.D.: (1) No. (2) No. (3) Can-
not prescribe; see a doctor... .V.D.D.; The
Great Eastern paddle steamer was launched in
1858 and was then the largest vessel afloat....
R.N.P.: Early in 1826 the Sydney Turf Club
secured a site on the Parramatta-road in the
vicinity of Grose Farm (where Sydney Univer-
sity buildings now stand). The work of form-
ing the race track was so heavy that racing had
to be postponed until June 14, when 2000
people saw Junius win the opening event,
Brisbane Cup, heats, twice round, weight for
age, Junius won the Brisbane Cup in April of
the following year, but lost to Scratch in 1828.
. ...L.G.: Answers to 1001 Questions on Dry
Cleaning, Wet Cleaning, Bleaching, Spottings,
Finishings, etc., published by the National
Cleaner and Dyer Publishing Co., New York ;
and Practical Dry Cleaner, Scourer and Gar-
ment Dyer, edited by W. T. Brannt... .D.F.:
Australia was represented at each Assembly of
the League from its inauguration in 1920, and
at nearly all conferences of the International
Labor Organisation... .G.L.: Native gold is
too soft for use in making jewellery ; to im-
prove the wearing quality both copper and silver
are added and the proportion of gold in the
finished alloy denoted by the carat number —
nine-carat gold contains 9-24 of pure gold and
15-24 alloy D.R.L.: Cannot furnish private
addresses ; letters posted to this office will be
forwarded... .W.W.G.: The words of “Rule
Britannia” were written by James Thomson
(altered by Mallet); the music, ascribed to Dr.
Arne, is said by Schoelcher (in his Life of
Handel) to have been taken from an air in
Handel’s “Occasional Oratorio,” composed in
1746. But the song and music were printed in
Dr. Arne’s masque “Alfred” in 1740....
C.D.F.: The generally accepted Australian, and
probably the world’s, record for blade shearing
belongs to Jack Howe, who on October 10,
1892, at Alice Downs, near Blackall (Q.), shore
321 sheep in seven hours 40 minutes. His
average for the previous week was 259 a day,
or 1437 sheep for the week. J. Hape is
credited with 378 sheep in eight hours 54
minutes at Dannevirke, Hawke’s Bay, ML.....
F.N.P.: No, catgut is made from the intestines
of sheep F.R.: Apply to the Officer-in-
Charge, Mercantile Marine Office, York-street
North, Sydney.. . .R.F.; Steam the face by
holding it over boiling water and apply a coal-
tar soap rubbed well in with a piece of soft
flannel.
Answers to Correspondents-
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability ,s undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused :
W.J.:-
My heart is gone, 'my spirit broke,
For I can’t buy a bloomin’ smoke;
And none dare ask his mate for some
As in the good old days of Hum.
I’ve searched the pockets and the pouch—
Confound and blast this stoush!
B.D.: —
Now there is war throughout the land —-
Which shows man’s inability
To live at peace with fellow-man;
And makes of life a mockery.
Just pay your taxes if you can
And hide away your crockery.
8.H.0.N.:
His salary is meagre and perhaps he lacks gentility,
But Members of the House should realise
A country Banker’s life is one of great responsibility
And useful to the Nation and Allies.
.. . .F.R.8.: No goblins, please... .P.E.S.; Keep
at it... J. 0.; If he knows you write lines such
as “Whilst soldiering humdrums performing 1
do,” it’s no wonder the sergeant screams....
M.J.D.: Much have we travelled in the realms
of gold, but never yet at King’s Cross saw
“Suave Senors side by side with tawny Huns.”
. ...LJ.D.: “Sonnet” not far off... .F.C.:
“One day written will be a story.” On no day,
written in that manner, accepted will be a poem.
H.H.B.: A pleasant stream, but it doesn’t
get anywhere in particular... .M.W.: Incoher-
ent....L.G.: Try a daily... .N.G.: Scrap it
and try to write a better one on the same theme.
... .X.Y.Z.: “Brainwave” indistinguishable from
a hundred others P.L.; When you rhyme
“moves” with “lose,” do you want us to pro-
nounce “lose” as “looves” or “moves” as
“mooze”? P.H.: Nearly L.M.L.: For
the parish mag K.H.; Apart from the fact
that likening trees to sentinels is one of the
most hackneyed similes in the language, have
you ever seen sentinels asleep “with nodding
heads which truly keep in rhythm to the wind”?
... .J.E.: The dots are very good dots J P.:
“Aloof; majestic; virgin-pure”; all tags....
W.E.J.: It’s a story worth telling in prose....
M.M., C.E., M.A.K. and R.D.T.: Missed.
R.S.C.: Well written, but too woeful and
dolorous for our taste L.McI.: Your Cousin
Jack can’t talk his own lingo F.W.0.: Too
slight H.H.: The dream dreamt by Sir John
Traverson in the lounge of his London hotel is
on its way back N.E.C.: Not this time
R.M.: You harp too much on the abnormal.
. ...M.T.: Still too sombre.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
KJL.R.: Decorative, but devoid of humor
S.C.G.: What is he looking so cheerful about
after his wife has dominoed him with the
flat-iron? ... .J.D.: Perpetration, not art
V.K.M.: Beach flapper is lopsided and has
claws in place of hands... .C.R.8.: The cement-
mixer looks as if he has just emerged from his
own machine... .8.W.: Still pondering on
whether the object near the pig-trough is a
willy-willy, a bushfire, a waterspout or the
cocky J.R.V.: With whom is Hitler supposed
to be conversing—Mussolini, Jack Lang or Darby
Munro? ... .P. 8.: A choice collection of gawks
and hobbledehoys T.D.W.: Promising; keep
to your present depth and let us have a few
more samples... .W.W.: The pub that kept
such a barmaid would quickly go back to
brewery management... .Bert C.: The giantess
with the ingrowing orbs is homeward bound.
J.M.: Your mopokes could find no perch
on the cashier-tree... .T.W.F.: Gent, address-
ing another as Mr. Wurple appears to be talk-
ing to his own twin... .Billo: Try joke on
verger; bury drawing.


Ton
cannot bequeath
your judgment
or experience
The judgment and experience a man accumu-
lates in his lifetime cannot be passed on to
his dependents. For this reason it is doubly
important that he should take the necessary
steps to ensure that his estate is managed with
competence and fidelity.
For more than 63 years The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited has
provided the impartial advice and assistance
of a permanent corporation as Executor,
Trustee, Attorney, Agent, and in other capaci-
ties of a fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the company ensures
continuity in the execution of a trust, which
cannot be provided by a single individual.
Charges are fixed and moderate and ample
security is provided. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for full information,
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ctd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman);
D. Stuart Murray; John Pordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hllder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors—W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ;F. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.; E. E. I). White, Esq. ; H. C. Morrow, Esq.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 142 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The T. and G.
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
'35 2,048,039 304,532 791,521 951,986 10,903,619
’36 2,252,513 341,548 760,221 1,150,744 12,054,363
’37 2,455,024 380,343 817,855 1,256,826 13,311,189
’3B 2,672,551 381,388 867,986 1,423,177 14,734,366
Written off premises, £10,000.. .. 14,724,366
’39 2,870,889 390,033 972,094 1,508,762 16,233,128
Written off premises, £10,600.. .. 16,222,528
’4O 3,056,735 408,060 1,102,177 1,546,498 17,769,026
Written off premises, £12,530.. .. 17,756,496
To contingency fund, £52,500.. .. 17,703,996
’4l 3,251,974 466,286 1,170,241 1,615,447 19,319,443
Written off premises,-£18,871. . .. 19,300,572
To contingency funds, £50,000.. .. 19,250,572
Industrial Life Department.
’35 2,436,215 709,995 555,123 1,171,097 11,463,511
’36 2,627,311 755,398 857,907 1,014,006 12,477,517
’37 2,824,455 798,805 1,079,236 955,414 13,432,931
’3B 3,010,170 836,831 1,224,800 948,539 14,381,470
Written off premises, £10,000.. .. 14,371,470
’39 3,116,960 859,460 1,428,731 828,769 15,200,239
Written off premises, £10,600.. .. 15,189,639
’4O 3,255,367 914,594 1,679,556 661,217 15,850,856
Written off premises, £11,220.. .. 15,839,636
To contingency fund, £47,000.. .. 15,792,636
’4l 3,379,107 981,163 1,740,427 657,517 16,450,153
Written off premises, £17,056.. .. 16,433,097
To contingency fund, £10,000.. .. 16,423,097
Accident Department.
’39 162,082 61,802 75,869 24,411 181,286
’4O 162,732 62,218 69,910 30,604 211,890
To contingency fund, £5OO .. ~ 211,390
’4l 164,124 77,344 60,072 26,708 238,098
To contingency fund, £40,000.. .. 198,098
War has failed to halt the progress of
this big mutual office. Main feature
last year was the lowering of the basis
of actuarial valuation from 3 p.c. to a
stringent all-round 2| p.c., except for
pure endowments. The “cost” of this
more conservative estimate of future in-
terest earning isn’t indicated, but it has
been helped by the reservation of a
quarter-million over the past three years
for actuarial contingencies—this in addi-
tion to the special appropriations shown
in the opening revenue analyses. The
idea is to render future bonus-paying an
easier matter and at the same time
strengthen the co.’s ability to counter war
contingencies. Dwindling investment re-
turns have been the big problem of all
life offices as a result of the nation’s
cheap-money policy, the inroads of war-
time taxation and control of the capital
market. On total mean funds, the Tem-
perance and General, for example, is now
netting £3 19s. 6d. after deducting taxes,
etc., compared with £4 3s. 9d. in 1940
and £4 6s. for the two years before that.
Also conspicuous is the reversal of the
post-1937 decline in business-writing.
New policies issued last year assured
£8,361,468 (up £290,026) in the Ordinary
branch and £6,465,870 (£519,028 higher)
in the big Industrial department, carrying
the total of all assurances on the books at
the end of September to £100,972,377.
Including the Accident section, annual
income had then attained to £6,795,206 —
£5,230,654 (up £240,961) from premiums
and £1,564,552 (an improvement of
£79,410) from interest and net rents. After
meeting all claims —war casualties were
remarkably light—and exes., £2,300,035
remained, of which £36,290 was struck
off premises, £lOO,OOO reserved for
general contingencies and £2,163,744
added to assurance funds. These now
amount to £35,871,767. Also belonging
to policy-holders, though not available
for immediate distribution, is the contin-
gency and fidelity fund of £764,916.
The stronger basis of policy valuation
of necessity meant a temporary con-
traction in the surplus available for
bonuses, which behaved this way;
Net surplus:— 1938. 1939. 1940. . 1941.
Ordinary .. £533,511 £567,886 £586,776 £582,736
Industrial .. 410,551 366,957 352,951 312,239
Total .. £944,062 £934,843 £939,727 £894,975
For actuarial contingencies £lOO,OOO is
being set aside and £470,112 in the O.D.
and £285,761 in the I.D. distributed in
reversionary additions to policies at rates
which, in present circumstances, are still
attractive. The balance is carried forward
as further provision against the untoward.
The security for policy contracts is of
this solid calibre;
Public 1940. p.c. 1941. p.c.
securities ..£18,886,863 54.4 £20,481,582 55.3
Loans . . . . 11,854,248 34.1 12,470,232 33.7
Freeholds .. 2,990,871 8.7 3,140,356 8.5
Cash, book debts,
etc 955,418 2.8 945,642 2.5
Excluding taxes (£179,832, up £59,741),
cost of managing that portfolio and
collecting premiums absorbed 15.8 p.c, of
those premiums in the O.D. and 34.1 in
the I.D. That compares with 15.2 p.c.
and 33.8 p.c. respectively in 1940; an in-
crease partly reflecting expanded new
business and partly special war costs, in-
cluding gratuities to agents on service.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 101,130 7Jp.c.= 103,210 29,810 1,393,045
1932.. 88,511 2i „ „ 88,750 43,913 1,398,893
1933.. 96,687 2J „ „ 38,750 47,400 1,409,430
1934.. 38,972 2| „ „ 38,750 32,480 1,377.172
1935.. 127,751 Nil 61,672 1,443,261
1936.. 263,958 5 p.c. = 77,500 76,759 1,553,130
1937.. 420,404 15 „ „ 232,500 76,472 1,664,562
1938.. 224,149 12£ ~ „ 193,750 73,556 1,621,405
1939.. 252,393 7i „ „ 116,250 91,186 1,666,362
1940. . 275,860 8J „ „ 135,625 92,935 1,713,662
1941.. 265,316 „ „ 135,625 95,975 1,747,378
Like other local metal producers, Lyell
is an important contributor to Australia’s
war effort. The co. is the only large-
scale producer of fine copper in the
country. But output isn’t enough for
both defence and civil requirements, so
ordinary trade demand has been severely
rationed, and none of the stuff has been
available for delivery to the British Gov-
ernment, which agreed to take up to 7000
tons p.a. Soon after the outbreak of
war the Australian price of the metal
was fixed at £63 17s. 6d. per ton. In
Feb., 1940, the figure was lifted to £76,
partly to meet heavier costs and partly
to encourage an increase in production.
For the same reasons —costs having con-
tinued to advance —the price was fixed
at £B6 10s. in May, 1941, and has re-
mained there since. Of the £B6 10s,, 30s.
goes to a Government-controlled pool to
provide a bonus of £5 per ton on in-
creased output by established cos. and
on all copper from other Australian
sources.
In the latest term more crudes were
treated, thanks to the new short
head cone crusher, at work for the last
nine months of the period. Still, there
was a small reduction In output of
copper, owing to lower-grade ore and
reduction in recovery. Gross return from
mining was £1,049,450 (up £42,190) and
from dividends £104,951 (up £13,787).
Higher wage and tax rates and increased
prices of materials bumped up costs, and
after deducting the charge for prospect-
ing, depreciation, etc., the net result
(£169,341, down £13,584) was 10.9 p.c. on
the £1,550,000 of capital (6.7 p.c. from
divs.), against 11.8, 10.4, 9.7, 22.1, 12, 4.2
and 0.4 p.c, back to 1934. The div. was
kept at 8f p.c. On capital and reserves
combined 4 p.c. is equal to 8.5 p.c. on
capital alone.
Investments comprise the following:
Shares Fully
Company— Paid to £l.
Oom’wealth Fertilisers and Chemicals:
311,174 7 p.c. prefs. 1 q O 7 4ti
596,257 ords. .. J " ••
Cuming Smith and Mt. Lyell Fanners’
Fertilisers .. .. .. .. 459,000
Australian Fertilizers .. .. .. 93,750
Wallaroo—Mt. Lyell Fertilisers .. ~ 27,150
Metal Manufactures;
49,204 7 p.c. cum. par. prefs. 7 n(V7
883,793 ords j "
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries.. 30,000
An extra 104,969 £1 ords. in Metal
Manufactures was taken up last year.
Returns from the fertiliser businesses are
likely to contract.
A heartening feature is that the
diamond-drill has proved the downward
continuation of the lode in the Royal
Tharsis at least 300 ft. below the level
of the North Lyell tunnel, as well as
disclosed a lot more low-grade ore in
the West Lyell and Lyell Comstock
leases:—
Reserve ( Average Assay
Ore, Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. P.c. Oz. Oz.
1935 .. 7,593,000 2.05 0.17 0.020
1936 .. 8,825,000 1.90 0.14 0.016
1937 .. 9,894,000 1.69 0.13 0.016
1938 . . 11,146,000 1.52 0.11 0.015
1939 .. 10,458,000 1.52 0.11 0.015
1940 .. 10,620,000 1.47 0.11 0.013
1941 . . 15,760,000 1.15 0.07 0.012
The reduction of costs, following im-
proved recoveries, changes in mining
and metallurgical methods and the intro-
duction of large-scale mechanised open-
cut operations and improvements and ex-
tensions to plant, has enabled the co.
to treat low-grade stuff profitably.
The mine, plant, etc., together figure
at £856,331, hydro-electric equipment
£185,101, railway (the co. owns the line
from Strahan to Queenstown) £216,494,
shares in other cos. £1,732,391, more or
less liquids £706,253. The amount com-
ing to outsiders was £390,165.
Foy and Gibson (W.A.), Ltd.
f 'Dividends —^
Year Net Pref. To Re- De-
July, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. flcit.
£ £ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £12,319.. .. .. 12,319
1937. .41,303 8,092 p.c. = 11,906 7, n Rio i 707
Interest payment vendor, £ 10,693 J ’ ’
1938. .43,031 13,500 54 p.c. = 19,330 10,201 8,494
1939.. 40.001 13,500 5J „ „ 19,439 7,062 15,556
1940.. 40.621 13,500 5J „ „ 19,483 7,638 23,194
1941.. 40.291 13,500 5 \ „ „ 19,483 7,308 30,502
Consistency of earnings is the feature
since the present co. took over from the
old-established proprietary of similar
name in 1936. Purchase consideration
was £550,398 (book value of net assets
acquired), paid £325,000 in cash and
£225,398 in f.-p. ords. The price included
nothing for intangibles. To meet the
cash payment, 225,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs.
and 125,000 ords., underwritten by the
vendor, were offered the public. So con-
trol remained with the Melbourne parent,
an affiliation which has been particularly
helpful on the buying side.
Settling overseas purchases on the nail
and local ones within a month means
that mark-ups are kept competitive; and,
recognising that successful merchandising
is a matter of attractive shopping facili-
ties as well as value, the management
over the past five years has spent £53,446
(partly from earnings) on a modernisa-
tion programme, as yet unfinished. The
results stand out in the growing volume
of customers now coming to the west end
of Perth’s Hay-street, at one time con-
sidered just out of the shopping block.
The benefit to earnings, however, has
been mainly scooped up in taxation
(£18,792, up £6792, before Mr. Chifley
got to work in 1941); controllable out-
goings have been actually reduced to 1937
dimensions.
At the end of July merchandise
appeared to be of very substantial vol-
ume and variety, thanks to early antici-
pation of replacement problems:
Prospectus. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £577,762 £579,247 £579,263
Liabilities ..£44,221 45,023 36,737 59,322
Tax provision. . 12,492 13,516 17,241
Freeholds . . 343,692 369,298 359,268 359,551
Plant, etc. .. 36,782 42,479 55,781 54,156
Stocks .. 160,288 164,065 192,242 211,994
Debtors . . 43,318 59,740 44,288 50,424
Cash, etc. .. 10,739 33,517 18,491 27,579
It promises a satisfactory showing for the
year that ends four months hence. Profits
afterwards, of course, may be restricted
to something like 4.2 p.c. on Toy’s capital
(against last term’s 6.9 p.c.) by the new
economic controls, which will rather
rudely deflate the prosperity bubble that
war-spending has blown for many re-
tailers.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 533 Nil 533 9,582
1933.. 187 Nil 187 9.769
Renovations charged to reserves, £2191.. 7,578
1934.. 940 Nil 940 8,518
1935.. 2,854 p.c. = 3,250 8,122
1936.. 5,856 4 „ „ 5,200 656 8,778
1937.. 7,033 5 „ „ 6,500 533 9,311
1938.. 8,898 6 „ „ 7,800 1098 10,409
1939.. 5,858 4i „ „ 5,850 8 10,417
1940.. 6,934 5 „ „ 6,500 434 10,851
1941.. 6,507 5 „ „ 6,500 7 10,858
“The business of the hotel continues to
expand,” cheerfully reports the chair-
man ; but, in less-exuberant tone, “ex-
penses steadily increase,” both in the
way of servicing and provisioning the
bed, tucker and beer ganae. It is to the
bed-and-tucker side that the management
will be devoting more attention now that
Sydney’s populace has to find other occu-
pation for a third of the time previously
given to liquor consumption.
The hotel, built on leasehold, looks
across Belmore Park to Central station,
a first-class position before Governments
squeezed private bus transport off the
road and the underground began carry-
ing teeming thousands past the Sydney’s
doormat into the heart of the city.
The lease has till 1960 to run. Including
improvements, at the end of December
it figured in the books at £185,768, less
sinking fund of £52,286-—£133,482 net:
1930. 1937. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £130,000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft . . 45,334 15,969 16,220 14,265
Creditors .. 4,858 5,120 5,058 6,216
Leasehold .. 164,349 143,670 136,964 133,482
Furniture, etc. 26,288 14,305 12,489 11,851
Stocks . . 3,674 4,286 10,896 11,145
Book debts, etc. 3,329 5,907 2,986 2,669
Sinking - fund
insurance .. 8,618 12,926
Until three years back, the board had
been unable to invest amortisation
charges outside the business ; so no effec-
tive provision was being made for ulti-
mate redemption of the £130,000 of
share capital. Then, however, sinking-
fund insurance was effected to cover the
book value of the building within the
term of the lease at a premium cost of
£4309 p.a.
Accommodation requirements of ser-
vicemen are filling in most of the blanks
in the visitors’ book left by inter-State
travellers and abandonment of the
R.A.S.; but cost and tax trends suggest
that the theoretical maximum 4.3 p.c.
rate of earning on share capital permitted
under Canberra’s economic plans may
prove a struggle. On that basis, however,
the pound shares would yield 9.5 p.c.
at 9s. —mean of the new minimum and


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated oy
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street. Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
fd
f
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W
POWELL ON THE JOB!
HAULING 18 ROOMS OF FURNITURE,
"I am now sure that ‘the make' has
everything to do with producer gas
performance. Previously I had driven
another make from Adelaide to Melbourne
weekly for 12 months, and was prejudiced
against any gas producer. I have just
completed a trip from Melbourne to
Sydney in a furniture transport 45 feet
overall length, loaded with 18 rooms of
furniture, and fitted with a “T” type
Powell. On this trip I had absolutely
no trouble with the unit. I will not be
anxious to go back to petrol.”
POWELL PROVES ITS SUPREMACY
POWELL HIGHLIGHTS: Heavy duty
construction throughout . . . famous
Beresinsky Cleaner reducing engine wear
to "less than with petrol” ... a model
for every truck purpose .. . recommended
hy the Ford Motor Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd, . . . only producer gas units with
Government officially approved models
up to 40 horse-power.
Vowel l
PRODUCER GAS TRUCK UNITS
C. E. MILLER 8 CO.
317 Collins Street. Melbourne. Cl.
'Phone: M 3978,
TMMVTkI ATV IAVIWVDV from H - C - SLEIGH, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
liuiuLUlAlL 1/IjLItIJiII or Powell Dealers throughout Australia.
PREVENT
m
4*:
E 1867
CRAVENA
meithey be„
always stMolkfpestf!
10 for lid. 20 for I'lO
maximum prices. War-damage insur-
ance, of course, covers the property.
Four p.c. profits will be no incentive
to metal miners liable to investment-co.
taxation to step up or even maintain pro-
duction of undersupplied minerals. Briseis
Tin, for example, will be asked to
deplete shareholders’ Tasmanian asset
for net returns (before any amortisation,
etc.) of £7OOO p.a. Though prices were
more favorable, recoveries, costs and dry
seasons conspired against the co. in the
year to December, with these results:
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Overburden, c.y... 215,000 277,000 202,000 205,000
Drift, c.y. ’ .. 772,000 741,000 752,000 733,000
T. 0., tons. . .. 544 505 i 6814 593
Average, c.y. . . 1.681 b. 1.521 b. 2.031 b. I.Bllb.
Yield, c.y . . 29.44 d. 31.19 d. 43.4 d. 40.93 d.
Costs, c.y. . . 16.15 d. 16.0'2d. 16.54 d. 18.98 d.
Profit ‘. . . . £28,232 £25,001 £40,624 £32,953
Divs. —Share . . -/3 1/- 1/3 1/-
Amt.f .. £8,063 £32,802 £41,016 £32,953
f Including Tas. div. tax.
Taxation charged was £24,008, down
£6605. The oxide assays 74 p.c. pure metal,
which is now £320 a ton locally and more
oversea. Below-normal rainfall is causing
headaches with tailings disposal and over-
burden removal, the latter admitted too
little ahead of drift treatment “to be de-
sirable.” Depending, of course, on metal
prices, the most profitable years of Briseis
appear to be behind. On full recoveries,
it has no more than 2000 tons of oxide in
sight for the next six years ; prospects
beyond that are in the lap of fate.
=H * * 4=
Malcolm Newman’s commission from
Canberra to step up copper-production
(among other things) should lead him
more to his home State, Queensland, than
to the others. Perhaps the biggest poten-
tial lift is looming up at Mt. Isa, where
a fine body of 3 p.c. to 4 p.c. copper ore
is being developed underground in the
Black Star, Nos. 7 and 8. There seems
the probability of a lode 100 ft. or more
through, and, conservative as geologist
Blanchard is, he seems to think it might
prove large enough to alter the centre of
gravity of copper-production. But these
are early days to talk of that. Mt.
Chalmers is another big show to which
Newman is not unknown. Mt. Morgan
tests of a 500-ton ore sample should be
available soon. At a stretch, and with the
improvements suggested by Adam Boyd
at Canberra recently, Mt. Morgan could
rocket its copper quota. It was hardly
put out by the 20in. February disturb-
ance, whereas last year a much smaller
rainfall made things considerably messy
below No. 5.
* * * *
“L.”: Queensland Government is
granting £2OOO to continue official drill-
ing of its coastal low-grade oil-shales.
A hot debate in Parliament some five
months ago wakened the Government
up, and the first bores were put down
at The Narrows, near Gladstone. These
deposits were known to the fathers of
the present race of Port Curtis
fishermen, and have even helped to boil
the billy, the shales outcropping along
the coast. It’s highly doubtful whether
low-grade shales will relieve the fuel posi-
tion during the present war, however ;
for one thing, the required machinery is
going to be durned hard to get.
4= * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) has declared a 9d. div.,
payable April 8. “Present unsettled con-
ditions” have decided the board to post-
pone the second and final call of a shil-
ling on the 125,000 contribs. issued to-
wards the end of 1941.
* * * *
Accounts of Youanmi, which recently
ceased goldmining in Westralia, show a
surplus of £1799 last year. Ore reserves
on June 30 were 141,346 tons of 6.2dwt.
value. Co. extracted and treated the best
of these before it gave up.
* * * *
From London:
At the Wiluna annual roll-up, chairman
Frederic Hamilton, always worth a hearing, said
that any appreciable increase in costs, whether
from wages, social services, State or Federal
taxes, would render the bulk of Wiluna s
million-odd tons of ore reserves unpayable. Be-
tween 1931 and 1941 Wiluna had produced gold
worth over £A8,750,000. The State and Federal
Governments, to say nothing of the whole
economy of Westralia, had derived benefit from
this amount far in excess of anything received
by shareholders. Neither the unions nor Gov-
ernment could both have their cake and eat it.
Taxation and wages were only two factors.
Others were the man-power problem, the rise m
commodity prices, and the difficulty of main-
taining stocks of essential chemicals. Any pre-
diction of the remaining life of the mine in
view of the narrow margin upon which it was
working could be only conjecture.
Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd., the Westralian
operating co., netted £A251,388 last
year, compared with £A217,180 for the
previous 12 months. Australian taxation
took £50,499. At the end of October
surplus cash, including Government secu-
rities and gold in transit, had reached
£A7l4,B4B—over 9s. a share.
* * * *
London-controlled Edjudina Consoli-
dated (W.A.), in a belated annual report,
says some of the plant on the co.’s idle
goldmine has been sold to pay debts, and
that what remains should be sufficient to
carry on mining and treatment in a small
way. The year’s loss was £2084.
* * * *
Rates of Taxation, 1941-42, from
N.S.W. Taxpayers’ Assoc., at 55., is a
complete schedule of the tangle of Corn-
monwealth and State, Maoriland and
British taxation, both for companies and
individuals, with the bases of assessment,
rebates, exemptions, etc., concisely ex-
plained. Profit-limitation proposals are
also dealt with as far as they have been
made known.


m
•v
m
m
l
FREE with each service watch
* Frauds will supply one
oj these stout leather protector
wristlets. Write for free illustrated
Catalogue.
'
-
and Air Force carry with it an extra
glow of pleasure .... Let it be a watch from
Prouds. It will be ever-dependable and dis-
tinctive, combining smartness with precision
time-accuracy.
Shown here are a few of the large—and
moderately-priced—range from which Prouds
invite you to choose.
807-
Watches from
£6/10/-
PROIJDS Pty. Ltd
Cr. King & Pitt Sts., Sydney
6
&
m
but FEWER
NOW THAT THE MILLS are chiefly engaged
on defence orders, there are fewer Wenley Suiting
patterns this season. However, the designs available
are more original, distinguished and
smarter than ever before, and the super-
twisted tough weave as durable as ever.
yy,'s'S / .
THE AUTHORITY IN CLOTH STYLES
Distributed by the Distributors of Solti tie
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Trade and Trade Routes
The mind is inclined to stagger when
contemplating the position of Australian
trade in present circumstances. Diffi-
cult enough before, vastly greater prob-
lems have sprung up since Japan
attacked. Wool is sold to Britain for the
duration and one season thereafter, and
we have shorter contracts for most of
our other production ; but what sort of
shape will our external trade actually
take so long as trade routes continue
to be increasingly menaced by Japanese
expansion in the Pacific and Indian
Oceans? The greatest problems, apart
from those of essential imports, will
arise in connection with production that
cannot be stored for a lengthy period,
such as dairy produce and agricultural
products, of which wheat will be the
chief item. It isn’t that wheat can’t be
stored for a time; the big problem is silos.
Wool stores well, and so do metals.
Our contract with Britain in connection
with wool does not involve us in ship-
ping problems; that is a matter for the
purchaser. Australia gets paid on
appraisement—which is very convenient
for Australia. In present circumstances
the value of wool produced but not con-
sumed within the Commonwealth would
average about £5O million Australian a
year. Butter exports usually run to about
£l2 million, wheat and flour to around £l4
million, meat to about £lO million, and
base metals, etc., to £l3 million. Where we
have contracts of sale for things other
than wool they are usually for a short
term. Almost invariably Britain has been
the buyer. Australia’s trade naturally in-
terlocks with Britain’s as it does with no
other country or set of countries except
part of continental Europe. Whether
Britain is to remain a buyer will largely
depend on the British Navy’s ability to
keep the Indian Ocean open to its mer-
chant fleet.
Butter, wheat and flour, meat and
base-metal exports in the aggregate run
wool export values pretty close. In addi-
tion, miscellaneous exports other than
gold would come to another £4O million.
Nearly two-thirds of our merchandise
exports, in other words, are almost
entirely at the mercy of shipping facili-
ties, subject to our ability to store some
of these products and not to prepare
others (such as livestock) for shipment.
We don’t yet know how damaging the
threat to our shipping lanes is going to
be. We don’t know whether enemy activi-
ties of the Indian and Pacific Oceans will
be as serious to us as the Battle for the
Atlantic has been to Britain. Although
for a long time Australia has become
accustomed to the idea of reduced
imports, it may have to face up to the
actuality of a further big drop in certain
kinds of imported living requirements.
This enforced reduction in our imports
may make the financial necessity for an
export income not so pressing as before,
and lend-lease supplies may have a
helpful effect. But there is the problem
(within Australia) of the producer to be
considered. If merchandise can’t be sent
away from this country, what is going to
be done with it, and how is the producer
going to be paid? Will this reimburse-
ment come from funds raised in the shape
of another tax on the people as a whole?
If it comes to a pass where produc-
tion can’t be sold abroad, pending the
diversion of some landmen to other
activities it will only be right to
treat losses on surplus exports as a
national tax, on much the same principle
as war-damage insurance is regarded as
a national responsibility. Until new
useful work can be found for men now
producing stuff likely to be unsaleable,
the burden of war on the community
will be felt to an aggravated degree, since
production that is not useful to ourselves
and which cannot be exported amounts
to the same thing as no useful produc-
tion at all by those concerned. They
might as well be unemployed. A state
of affairs of this kind, of course, will
depend for its seriousness upon the
transport difficulties already referred to.
Britain will be quite happy to take all the
foodstuffs it can find shipping and safe
trade routes to carry. At present this
position is speculative ; but all our trade
with the “East” except India has now
gone for the time being. Even B. S. B.
Stevens has lost his job.
Rather violent readjustments are tak-
ing place throughout the entire Austra-
lian economic system. With unemploy-
ment down to 3 p.c. of all registered
trade-unionists the strain on our man-
power is acute, and rationalisation of
manufacturing for home consumption is
already taking place. It will probably
be carried a good deal further as time
passes. Clothing may be standardised,
and many more semi-luxuries removed
from the consumer’s reach. The man-
power register contemplates the allot-
ment of necessary tasks to the popula-
tion in place of unnecessary jobs. The
more serious the position becomes, the
greater will be the elimination of work
which can be done without.
It may happen that, with lend-lease aid
coming to Australia in greater quantities
and shipping services between this coun-
try and the U.S.A. expanding as a result
of the arrival of American fighting forces,
the Commonwealth will be able to reach
some reciprocal trade arrangement with
the U.S.A. on the basis of backloading.
It may be possible for the United States
to make room for Australian land pro-
duce by some industrial readjustment with-
in the U.S.A. Ordinarily that country
and Australia produce a superabundance
of foodstuffs, but the demand for muni-
tions suggests that eventually America
may feel the pinch in regard to labor.
Already Australia’s isolation has been
a disadvantage to it in matters of trade
during the war. It went short of petrol
for a long time before matters became
serious in the Pacific, and the quick
“Atlantic ferry” gave the Americas, in-
cluding Canada, great trading advantages
when time and ships were so precious.
But the British-Australian wool purchase
has been a standby at a time when it
would be impossible to sell all our wool
production among Allied and neutral
countries, and impossible to ship it even
if it could be sold.
In an hour like that which Australia
faces the principal problem is undoubt-
edly one of getting supplies here with
which to sustain the war effort. The
problem is physical rather than financial,
since if we can’t import we can’t export,
and for immediate purposes exports are
no good without imports. Restriction of
exports naturally follows restriction of
imports where transport is the key to the
situation ; where trade routes are normal
Australia’s exports govern its imports to
a major extent, Australia having always
been happy to spend most of its external
income. Restriction of overseas trading
will mean a further inevitable decline in
Australian living standards. Not only
shall we find ourselves short of imported
civil goods, but difficulties of bringing
war goods to this country may mean still
greater transfers of man-power to war
industries within Australia.
Though there is nothing good in the
outlook at the present time, investors in
well-handled industrial concerns listed on
Australian Changes should not despair
and sacrifice their stocks. Shares are
among the few things that haven’t ex-
perienced price inflation since war began,
and all of them are at particularly de-
pressed levels at the present time, partly
because of the nearness of war to Aus-
tralia s lifelines and partly because of
the political bias of Australian taxation
laws and economic arrangements. The
times are most difficult and confused.
Ihe Federal Government is of the kind
which has scarcely a good thought or
good word for the employer. Composed
mainly of professional politicians, some
of whom have been “agin” almost every-
thing since the day they were born, its
outlook is not realistic in industrial
matters. Other members have kidded to
voters so long that they now kid them-
selves. (Wishful thinking is not confined
to matters of war.) But realities govern
our lives in the long run, and eventually
Australia will return to realities in in-
dustrial affairs. Australian industries will
ultimately figure in their correct political
perspective.
* * * »
From “A.L.” (N.S.W.):
It is estimated that the privately-owned wealth
in Australia totals not less than £4OOO millions.
A levy of, say, one per cent, should produce
£4O millions. Such to be in nature of a gift,
free of interest. Some points in comparison
with the loan policy may be mentioned: —
The levy system calls for sacrifice (which
should be a basis of our war effort), whereas
the loan system does not.
The loan system calls on the depositors in
our banks but not on the overdraft men, who
are probably much the wealthier class.
The loan system imposes the burden of sac-
rifice on posterity (which is not to blame for
this war or our unpreparedness), whereas levies
impose the sacrifice on the generation which
failed to guard against the mess we’re in.
The trouble about capital levies is this.
Capital, or credit (such as bank loans or
notes) based on capital, is not, when we
get down to the substance behind the
shadow, of much use for fighting a war
of the present dimensions. Capital repre-
sents past savings ; what we want for
war purposes is current income. We want
to turn as much of the nation’s produc-
ing capacity as possible to war needs,
and the best way of doing that is to take
current income from the people in equit-
able and immediate taxes. The fairest
means of getting at the man with big
assets and an overdraft is to tax his in-
come. Admittedly, this country is bor-
rowing too much, and in many cases,
especially where money put into loans
comes from capital instead of savings, a
capital levy might serve the purpose just
as well. But in many other cases it
wouldn’t, owing to the clumsy and often
impracticable nature of most capital
levies. Borrowing isn’t really necessary,
anyway. The fact that Australia can
supply the labor and materials for its
war effort out of living standards shows
that it can also supply the money out of
taxation.


Missing Friend.
WILL ALBERT ERNEST WILKINSON, for-
merly of 4 Dare Street, Coburg, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please communicate
with MESSRS. O’DONOHUE & BREW, Solici-
tors, 109 Swanston Street, Melbourne?
Public Notices.
I, HJALMAR LANGEVAD, of Danish nation-
ality, born at Copenhagen, Denmark, and
resident 28 years in Australia, now residing at
86 The Boulevarde, Strathfield, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
I, CATHERINE LABOVITCH, of Rumanian
nationality, bora at Clifton, New South Wales,
and resident all my life in Australia, now resid-
ing at 158 Birrell Street, Bondi Junction, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
To MATTHEW McCUE late of Port Kembla. —
TAKE NOTICE that MERLE McCUE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 323 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards. If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
on your behalf on or before 11th June 1942
and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from E. A. CLEARY AND CO. Solicitors
56 Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Legal Notice.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
RE JOHN FITZGERALD, late of Canungra,
in the State of Queensland, Farmer, de-
ceased, Intestate.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be next-of-kin of the abovenamed
JOHN FITZGERALD, late of Canungra, in
the State of Queensland, Farmer, deceased,
who died on or about the Twenty-first day of
August, a.d. 1941, at Canungra, in the said
State, are hereby required to forward proof of
their relationship to the PUBLIC CURATOR,
Brisbane, on or before the Thirtieth day of
June, 1942, and that after the expiration of
the last-mentioned date the Public Curator will
proceed to distribute the assets of the said de-
ceased amongst the parties entitled thereto,
having regard only to the claims of which he
shall then have had notice.
DATED this Seventeenth day of February,
1942. J
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator, Brisbane.
“SORRY!
.. .WE NEED
THESE TUBES
FOR BOMBERS ”
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
E. V. T. WHITTLE,
Directors'. .
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
A. E. BOND F. W. HIXSON
Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The needs of the nation come first ... and so the B.T.M. Gold Drawn
Precision Steel Tubes normally used for frames, chain and seat stays,
handlebars, pillars and forks for first-class Australian cycles are now
providing the toughness and strength for our powerful bombers. B.T.M. Cold
Drawn Precision Steel Tubes are filling many war-time roles. They sail with
our warships ... go into red-hot action with our tanks and guns, and are
indispensable to our rail transport. They are grand war-workers! If
cycles are scarce, remember it’s because the trend in munitions is
to “Make it with Tubes.”
‘Sjjfo/iTuit 4ft/L
(a ust.)pty.ltd.
KILBURN, SOUTH AUSTRALIA ★ 16 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY ★ 118 QUEEN ST.» MELBOURNE
R. &L Me
C 142
“Almost complete” figures for the £35
million loan showed 240,285 subscribers
for £48.1 million. War-savings certifi-
cate sales now exceed £32 million since
selling began. Against this total have to
be put certificates cashed before maturity.
Canada is floating its second great war
loan —“victory” loan —the amount being
$6OO million (about £l7O million Aus-
tralian), the same as last year. But up
to March 13 cash subscriptions totalled
$827 million (£235 million), and there
were conversions of $152 million. At this
stage the oversubscription was propor-
tionately greater than in the case of the
recent Australian flotation, though, per
head, Canada’s annual borrowings are
bigger than Australia’s public loans.
Canada is also taxing more, the result
being that inflation and use of bank credit
are better controlled than in this country.
* * * *
Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau
in the U.S.A. has denied a rumor that
the Government intended to confiscate
savings accounts as an aid to war finance.
Such stories were circulated in this
country earlier in the war. During
the recent loan operation in Australia
some depositors who had fairly large
and/or static accounts in the Common-
wealth Savings Bank were circularised
on behalf of the flotation.
# * *
The maximum rate of interest on over-
drafts has been set at 5 p.c. Three-months
fixed deposits will carry \\ p.c. and two-
years 2 p.c. The movement may tend
to encourage subscription to war loans,
more of which are indicated soon. There
was a building-up of deposits in the trad-
ing banks during the quarter to Dec. 31,
but since then a large quantity of this
money has been transferred to the Com-
monwealth Bank at the direction of
Treasurer Chifley by virtue of the powers
allotted to him by himself and his col-
leagues.
* • • •
Canberra is “confident that a workable
scheme of uniform taxation” can be
worked out between the Commonwealth
and States. It’s up to the present Com-
monwealth Government to achieve this
necessary end. It gave the former Gov-
ernment no end of advice.
* * * *
Huddart Parker did all right last term
in spite of war, Government charters
and other adverse factors. The worst
feature, from the financial point of view,
was the heavy taxation. However,
assisted by payment of portion of the
pref. div. arrears by Hebburn, Ltd., the
parent concern maintained its 12 p.c. ord.
div. without difficulty. The co.’s strong
reserve position is an attractive feature
in present economic circumstances. From
the legal point of view there may be no
necessity to cut the div. in 1942-43 below
10 p.c. at the worst.
* * $ *
Up to the present Australian life assur-
ance cos. have not raised premium rates
for war-service risks in Australia or in
respect of civilian casualties. An in-
crease in general rates may follow any
invasion attempt or concentrated aerial
attack. But assurances taken out before
any such rise will be free of special
loading. In view of these possibilities
and the freedom of premiums up to £lOO
a year from income tax, prompt assur-
ance now isn’t a bad idea.
* * * *
A speaker over 2KY, the Sydney
Trades Hall radio station, last week
talked about the difficulty of obtaining
£5 million a year in slump times to re-
lieve unemployment and the “ease” with
which £250 million was being found this
year “to carry out work of destruction,”
He was referring, of course, to Aus-
tralia’s defence vote. The 2KY blatherer
was named Jordan. Labor blatherers are
such authorities on these matters. If Aus-
tralia has another depression after this
war it can thank the financial policies of
the various Labor Governments, especially
the Federal, for a great deal of it. Like
most weak institutions and people, the
Labor party doesn’t want to pay for
anything, now or later, if it can possibly
help it. It prefers such things as bank-
credit finance and “abolition” of unem-
ployed-relief taxes. The fact is that
£5 million a year could very easily be
found to relieve unemployment pro-
vided the people, including wage-earners,
were ready to pay only a small proper-
lion of the taxes that they are paying
now. It s always up to the people. Jf
Labor believes that the £2do million for
defence is being found “by the Govern-
ment” without taking it out of someone’s
pockets it’s only because Labor isn’t
feeling the pinch—or the bite—like other
sections
* * * *
Howard Smith, Ltd., which has in-
terests in shipping, coal, cement, sugar
and 8.H.P., has reduced its ord. div.
from 5 p.c. to 4 p.c. The chief coal sub-
sidiary, Caledonian, has kicked in with
3 pC- on its prefs., the same rate as last
term—half rates have been paid on the
pre f s> now s i nce 1939, but arrears still
amount to 1U years, and are increasing,
Howard Smith shares show comparatively
fl market depreciation. Highest price
. .... ~, L., , , . „u~ llt
“ 194 * 3d - i lates j quo ‘ e J' s
18s. 9d. One reason for . 7
market is that the co, is hig y P
ised, and the 4 p.c. 1 P' V
shouldn’t affect it. Which goes to show
the extent to which politics have affected
share prices in this country as distinct
from invasion fears.


THE SERVICE MAN
Unified Command.
“Ek Dum” : The appointment of General
MacArthur as commander-in-chief in the
Anzac area, which embraces the Pacific
east of Singapore, and therefore Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, marks a definite
step forward. Not only the Allied war
effort but the Australian war effort
needed more than anything a commander
who would infuse strength and unity of
policy and a faith in the command
through all ranks.
The Commonwealth Defence forces are
rich in staff and administrative men of
high calibre, but the war has so far failed
to throw up a Monash.
Behind all the “glamorous” flapper-
press nonsense about General Mac-
Arthur, which must have amused him
and his staff, is the solid fact that he is
a general and strategist of proved quality.
His reputation had gone far beyond the
English-speaking peoples even before war
broke out. He has traditional associa-
tions with the zone which he commands
—his father was C.-in-C. in the Philip-
pines before him. A West Pointer, he
had been chief of the General Staff of
the United States Army. What is rare
in staff men, who are primarily the archi-
tects of strategy and planners of tactics,
he is a leader of forceful character and
firm mind.
The general’s appointment was part of
an orderly sequence of events, planned
in December and gradually implemented.
The basic structure was complete in the
first week in February, after the appoint-
ment of the Allied Command Committee
in Washington, arranged by the confer-
ence of military, naval and air chiefs
which met on January 28.
The Division of Command
The division of labor in the Southern
Hemisphere had already been decided
upon. The appointment of separate local
commanders for eastern and western Aus-
tralia at the beginning of the new year
sealed the decision, afterwards clarified
by Mr. Churchill on Jan. 28, that all the
area on the east of Australia and its com-
munications with the American conti-
nent should be America’s function, while
the communications of the Indian Ocean
should belong to the British zone.
The Allied world command and re-
sponsibilities in what is primarily a war
of the oceans for the present are divided
as follows:
The defence of Britain, of the east Atlantic
Ocean routes leading to Europe, of the routes
to Russia by the north, of the North Sea and
the 1700 miles of coastline held and fortified
by Germany, is a British responsibility, with
what support Uncle Sam can afford.
The vast sweep from Gibraltar which in-
cludes the Mediterranean, the whole of Africa,
the Middle East and India is also primarily a
British responsibility, with what help Britain can
get. Obviously it can now get little or none
from Australia. In this area a quarter of the
world’s population is out of Axis control, de-
pendent mainly on British protection. The
sea route from one end of it to the other is
15,000 miles long at its extreme points. It
reaches from German frontiers on one side to
the Japanese front on the other side; from the
Atlantic to Australia. This zone holds the
Indian Ocean and Middle East oil supply.
Britain is actually holding back the, Germans
and Italians and Japanese on aggressive land
fronts over 3000 miles long. At any one point
of this vast distance a major offensive may
be launched at any time, on more than half
of it against (Britain herself.
The Pacific east of Singapore and the Atlan-
tic approaches to America are primarily the
responsibility of America and the British
Dominions.
With the aid of British and U.S.A. materials,
Russia is holding a front of 1100 miles on its
own soil, 500 miles behind its frontiers.
Britain’s Part
Since the beginning of January, the
material resources of Britain and the
United States to all intents and pur-
poses have been pooled. Their navies and
armies are operating not merely factu-
ally, but technically, as a unit. Their
commands have been unified.
There is an insidious propaganda going
on in Australia to cause division between
Britain and the Dominions by the
creation of a feeling that British failure
in the Far East has been the result of a
crumbling of the structure of the Empire,
and that Australia and the other
Dominions are being rescued by a bene-
volent Uncle Sam from the mire into
which the muddling British have thrown
them.
The fact is that Germany always has
considered and still considers Britain as the
chief enemy of the Reich. The Germans
have never failed to realise that victory
oyer Britain means command of the sea
and air. Until Uncle Sam came in their
radio grimly intoned 200 times a day in
30 languages:
England began this war. England always
stood for war. Germany’s victory will end
this for all time.
To the Germans every war save that
against Britain has been subsidiary, and
still is subsidiary. John Bull is still
carrying the brunt of the war. He has
had an average of over a million men
in the active front line at sea, in the R.N.
and Merchant Navy, and in the air alone
since war began, apart from millions
training in his own defence and land
forces engaged in various areas abroad.
Britain must continue to bear the
main burden of the war until Uncle
Sam has gathered his strength. Presi-
dent Roosevelt realises this as well
as anybody. The Dominions must
recognise this too. One of the most
vital ingredients in Allied strategy must
be unity of purpose and unity of direc-
tion as between Britain, the whole British
Commonwealth and the Americans. The
proper place for anybody who tries to
prevent that unity is the internment camp.
It is not quite clear how far eastward
General MacArthur’s command goes. It
certainly covers east Australia and the
screen of islands along the eastern coast
of the continent and the mid-Pacific. The
naval command is already in the hands of
Admiral Leary, U.S.N., and the air
goes under Lt.-General Brett, U.S. Army.
Uncle Sam’s forces are not merely in
the Commonwealth because of a benevo-
lent urge to save Australia from inva-
sion—though that urge exists —but be-
cause the U.K.-U.S.A. Staff Council has
decided that Australia must be saved as
a base for invasion.
It is one of two bases from which
blows might be struck directly —and will
be struck directly—at Japanese territory
when proper forces are marshalled. The
other one is India. That will be the heart
of the Indian Ocean zone, which is as
vast as the Pacific zone and carries four
times the population of the Pacific, in-
cluding the East Indies and the Philip-
pines.
From India, with the co-operation of
the Chinese and possibly the Russians if
they change their policy, or Japan
changes it for them, blows can be struck
directly at the heart of Japan. From
Australia the same chain of stepping-
stones which the Japanese have used to
reach our shores may in time be usable
to reach Japan itself.
Allied Strategy
The Allied strategy is much the same
as the later strategy of the Napoleonic
wars, when British and Allied prospects
were no better than they look today.
Napoleon had forced his might to the
ends of the civilised earth. His commu-
nications were stretched to their limits.
Britain was the sole bulwark in the west,
Russia in the east. He had overrun Spain.
Wellington appeared—a junior general,
who suffered as much from armchair
strategists and newspaper advisers as any
modern commander —and turned Portu-
gal into his base. His method in strategy
as in battle was characteristic. He invari-
ably placed himself in a position in which
the enemy had the longest possible
way to come to him from main
bases and had to undergo the greatest
dangers and the most tiring kind
of experience possible on the way. He
allowed his foes all the exertion of attack,
fighting on his own reconnoitred ground.
With his troops fresh, he turned defence
into offence only when he had worn
down the resistance of the French, forced
them to deplete their supplies and torn
holes in their formations, and when the
weight of his reserves and shortness of
communications were all on his own side.
The early history of the Japanese war
was not unlike the early history of the
Peninsular War. Wellington wrote that
the latter had “begun by the French seiz-
ing the armies, the fortified places and
the resources of the Peninsula.” But he
added after a while that it was a “war
of magazines”—of resources —and that so
soon as the French had to fall back on
the resources of France the “war would
‘not last long.”
In 1811 he “had brought to a trium-
phal issue a defence which astounded
soldiers and statesmen throughout the
civilised world,” and that with troops
vastly inferior in numbers and war experi-
ence.
The stage is all set for a somewhat
similar development in the Pacific, over
the centre of which the Japanese have
raced with more speed than that with
which Napoleon overran Europe. They
are in the centre of a vast circle
in which they are the dominating power
so long as the fighting remains reason-
ably near their main bases. This central
position, however, becomes a disadvan-
tage when they are forced to fight at
extreme distances.
Surrounding them are (1) the U.S.S.R.,
within hundreds of miles, not yet a com-
batant, but still to be strongly guarded
against, and thus immobilising consider-
able Japanese forces of every nature;
(2) the Canadian-Alaskan-Aleutian island
front whose spearhead is little more than
2500 miles away—Canada is closer to
Japan than Sydney, a powerful enemy
and war arsenal; (3) the U.S. Pacific
front, with Honolulu as a spearhead;
(4) the Australian front, with its great
series of stepping-stones to link with
Honolulu, and with its back door to
Europe via the Cape still open; (5) the
Indian front; (6) China, where the Japa-
nese military head is buried as in cotton-
wool. All the points which Japan can
attack are now literally thousands of
miles from Japan, which, however, dare
not fail to attack them.
History will probably agree that
though the Japanese advances to the
outer edges of the Allied empires in the
mid-Pacific have been swift, the fighting
by which they were achieved wa§ unim-
portant ; the loss of ground a temporary
reverse. The attack has so far, except in
one isolated instance, not been made with
or called on to resist the use of heavy
land weapons or large formations. Japa-
nese air formations have never exceeded
100 two-engined machines, in contrast to
the aggregations of 500 often used in
Europe. Bombs dropped on cities have
been mainly 501 b., with odd helpings of
200-pounders, against the 1000- to 4500-
pounders in use in Europe. Ships em-
ployed have been mainly cruisers and
destroyers, A.-a. defence has been feeble
and with short-range, light guns.
Japan now has to carry to battle points
—several battle points—thousands of
miles from its factories and war works
and bases the heavy materials necessary
to defeat in major warfare—such as has
not yet occurred in the Pacific —enemies
already established in great bases and
strong in man-power. Japan must assault
those bases from the sea with a limited
mercantile marine and a not inexhaust-
ible navy and air force.
The enemy must attack two bases at
once and decisively if he is to have the
slightest chance of winning—Australia
and India.
General MacArthur has arrived in
Australia as a leader trusted by Uncle
Sam and John Bull at the open-
ing of this new phase of the war. It is
his job to get the Anzac area swiftly on
a war footing. It is Australia’s job to
stop gabbling and back him up with
every ounce of brawn and muscle —to see
that the enemy batters himself to pieces
against Australia’s gates.
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: War moves closer and
grimmer to the Commonwealth every
day ; but the grimness is not all on one
side. The general color of preparations
advertises to the enemy that he is about
to come up against the swelling might of
170,000,000 people in the Pacific, apart
from what forces Britain can provide and
the strength of India, which is enough
to keep a few armies busy.
The completion of the Anzac High
Command defined the kind of force it
is intended to oppose to the enemy at
the extreme range of his communications
—and the kind of command.
General Mac Arthur had a strong moral
advantage over his adversaries when he
left the Philippines; and he left in a
manner which had all the marks of enter-
prise, originality and daring.
He and his entourage, including his
wife and small son, made an 800-mile
voyage by sea through Japanese-infested
waters in four Thorneycroft motor-boats,
a type of small vessel developed by the
British Navy after the last war. The first
of these boats to come to the Southern
Hemisphere was with H.M.S. Hood and
broke all records on Sydney Harbor in
1924.
Leaving his flotilla, somewhere between
Borneo and Dutch New Guinea, the
general stepped into a Flying Fortress,
landed in the astonished little town of
Alice Springs, almost in the dead centre
of Australia, made the 1000-mile trip to
Adelaide in what the Commonwealth
Railways are pleased to describe as a
train, and came on to Melbourne.
With his installation in Melbourne, the
imposing head-staff structure of the
Anzac command was complete. With a
former chief of the U.S. General Staff as
C.-in-C., the chief of the U.S. Air Force
(Lieutenant-General Brett) as his deputy
and ranking U.S. and Australian
field and flag officers, it was an earnest
that the effort made in and from the
Commonwealth would be on a major war
scale.
The central naval command in the
Pacific remains with Admiral Nimitz at
Pearl Harbor, because Pearl Harbor is
the one base available which can handle
a battle fleet, and because it occupies a
pleasingly forward flank position on the
line of advance toward Japan. The U.S.
and Australian forces will become for the
war period virtually a single army.
General Mac Arthur on arriving in
Melbourne said:
I am glad to be in co-operation with the
Australian soldier. I know the Australian
soldier well from the World War days
and admire him greatly. I have every confi-
dence in the ultimate success of our joint
cause, but success in modern war requires
something more than courage and willing-
ness to die. It requires careful preparation.
This means the furnishing of sufficient
troops and sufficient materials to meet
the known strength of a potential enemy.
No general can make something out of
nothing. My success or failure will depend
primarily upon the resources which the re-
spective Governments place at my disposal.
My faith in them is complete. In any
case, 1 shall do my best. I shall keep the
soldier faith.
Copies of this little speech might be hung
with advantage in the offices of all war
Ministers and editors (“attack, attack, as
the Dutch did”!).
The transport across the Pacific of
materials sufficient to wage a major war,
with limited shipping, will be a long and
heavy task which must be eased as much
as possible by Australian production.
Meantime sufficient strength will have to
be maintained to prevent large-scale Japa-
nese landings. The Japanese have the
advantage in preparations, in approaches
and in naval and air strength over the
north for the moment, but there already
is plenty of evidence, both on the north
Australian and Burmese fronts, that the
situation is slowly but surely changing.
Uncle Sam’s Arrival
Australians had known for several
weeks that American troops and airmen
were pouring into the country. They
saw pleasing evidences of growing air-
power and of the presence of types of
machines of last year’s vintage, such
as Singapore only dreamed of and Burma
knew in the most limited quantities.
American uniforms had become such a
familiar sight that the release for publi-
cation of the news that Uncle Sam’s men
were here carried a double assurance of
the solidity of the infusion.
This was reinforced by events in the
north and particularly on the New Guinea
front. Japanese raids continued from
Darwin to the Solomons, and for the first
time penetrated the Australian interior,
but they were limited in individual extent
and made in a new atmosphere. No
longer were there tales of Wirraway pilots
performing hopeless deeds of gallantry.
The second week of March revealed itself
definitely as a turning-point in the his-
tory of the New Guinea invasion; the
first blasting of the enemy ships, at Sala-
maua and Lae as the beginning of organ-
ised resistance instead of merely a gust
of fury.
Tomahawks Appear
At Salamaua, instead of a few Hud-
sons, the enemy had found himself
assailed repeatedly both by Hudsons and
Flying Fortresses. When he moved
farther afield into Torres Strait, he saw
his machines falling out of the sky under
the guns of Tomahawks, a very different
experience from chasing Wirraways.
Washington issued its story of this
adventure early in the week. It had taken
place on March 14. Nine Tomahawks,
though outnumbered by a formation of
bombers and fighters, shot down a
bomber and a fighter. Eight came home
undamaged ; the ninth rammed an enemy
fighter and both crashed to destruction.
On March 16 and 17 enemy aircraft car-
ried out widespread reconnaissances over
New Guinea and adjacent waters. There
were sporadic raids.
Darwin was attacked again on March
16 by two formations, each of seven
bombers, which dropped about 100
bombs, mostly “anti-personnel,” around
the R.A.A.F. station, though they did not
attack the town. They operated from
about 15,000 feet, damaged a building or
so but no aircraft, killed two R.A.A.r.
men and wounded 11 service men and a
civilian.
On March 17 a large enemy twin-
engined bomber flew over Moresby,
which had been left alone for three days,
at 2000 feet, and made off seaward with-
out attacking.
On Wednesday it was the Solomons
turn. Tulagi, the seat of government,
was bombed twice, the first time by three
flying-boats, which dropped 18 bombs
from 7000 feet, slightly damaging a fly-
ing-boat ; the second, by four flying-boats


and five heavy bombers, which laid eggs
in the sea well as on the town, but
caused no injury to people or property.
The main island of Florida, off which
Tulagi is an isolated speck, collected a
bomb or two and had three casualties.
On March 19 a few bombers in V
formation attacked Darwin from 16,000
feet, dropped 25 bombs and smashed
a little civilian property, killed two and
wounded seven or eight. Moresby had
its 14th attack, directed at harbor in-
stallations and shipping. The eight
machines used were kept high by
vigorous a.-a. fire. They released 40
bombs during three separate runs. One
machine left the formation apparently
damaged.
Enemy ’planes had on the previous day
been seen on reconnaissance near Cape
York. They were O-type fighters, sug-
gesting the proximity of a carrier. Later
an attack was made on shipping in the
vicinity, but it wrought no damage.
March 20 saw two more short raids
on Moresby, one by four fighters, which
twice machine-gunned the aerodrome
from 200 ft., and the second by a single
heavy bomber, which dropped six fruit-
less bombs from 20,000 ft. before a.-a.
fire chased it away.
Westralian ports had been neglected
since the attacks on Broome and Wynd-
ham. Derby now had its first raid —by
two cannon-firing fighters which swept
the streets, without hurting even the
local goats. Broome, after reconnaissance,
was bombed for the second time. The
aerodrome, as before, was the target;
50 bombs were dropped, and one civilian
was killed.
These two last attacks possibly were
connected with two raids by the R.A.A.F.
on Koepang aerodrome earlier in the
week.
The climax came in the week-end.
Darwin was raided on Sunday morning,
March 22, for the sixth time. No
damage or casualties were mentioned,
and an enemy aircraft was believed to
have fallen into scrub or sea. Later in
the day bombs began to fall on the
Katherine, the old depot of the over-
landers, 204 miles by rail from Darwin
and 130 miles or so inland. An abo.
was killed, another wounded.
The R.A.A.F. reported that unidenti-
fied aircraft had been seen over Towns-
ville during the past two days. The
menace was drawing nearer to the south.
Enemy claims about the week’s opera-
tions were, as usual, lavish. Some were
relayed through Berlin, which mentioned
the arrival of strong Jap naval forces in
Torres Strait. Tokyo Radio hinted at a
landing in the Solomons and alleged that
11 Austral-American aircraft had been
shot down at Moresby and 14 on Horn
Island, where Thursday Islanders usually
spend their honeymoons.
Enemy Flotilla Smashed
All the Japanese raids on Australian
territory during the week had only
“nuisance value” status. The R.A.A.F.
and their American allies gave back a
good deal more than they got. It was
remarked generally that, with the growth
of a.-a. defence, enemy bombing has
become much less accurate than in the
first stages.
The 8.8. C. on March 18 gave details
of the losses inflicted on Japanese in-
vasion convoys in New Guinea waters.
These included two heavy cruisers sunk,
a light cruiser heavily damaged and prob-
ably sunk, three other cruisers damaged,
five transports, a gunboat, an aircraft
transport, a minesweeper and several
small craft destroyed, and one destroyer
probably, and two possibly, sent to Davy
Jones’s locker —23 ships in all sunk or
damaged, including 12 warships. Mr.
Curtin said these losses represented 10
days’ operations.
To this tally the R.A.A.F. and the
Americans added in a vigorous attack on
Rabaul on March 20.
Fighting through a heavy barrage and
naval fighter patrols, the Allied squadron
came in ceiling high and began bombing
at 27,000 ft. Bombs fell just fore and
aft of one heavy cruiser, which rocked
in a lather of foam. The bombers
attacked again. Black smoke rose from
the cruiser. Looking back, as they went
home, the pilots saw her burning and
sinking. A second cruiser was hit and
seemed to be damaged.
On Sunday Lae had Allied visitors.
They left after driving off O-type
fighters and apparently destroying one
of them. The operations were brief but
fruitful. Three bombers and nine fighters
blazed on the ground; two bombers
and three fighters were damaged; troops
were gunned as they ran for shelter.
As they went home, the formation was
attacked by more O-type fighters, one of
which absorbed a thousand-shot burst
and disintegrated. Another was dam-
aged.
There were three raids on Koepang,
and the n.-w. wing of Australian air
defenders from the N.T. blasted Saumliki
on Yamdena Island, the largest of the
Tanimbars (B. 18/3/’42), about 300 miles
off the Darwin coast. From here, if he
is left alone, the enemy’s bombers could
penetrate as far south as Daly Waters.
Japs on N.G. Mainland
Unfortunately, these operations did not
prevent the landing of troops in the
Markham Valley region between Lae
and Salamaua. The enemy seems to be
in control of the seaward end of the
Markham Valley and threatening the
goldfields and inland aerodromes. He is
across Francisco River, south of Sala-
maua. He appears to have the assistance
of local missionaries and the chances
have been heavily canvassed as to
whether he can cross the ranges to
Moresby.
“S.M.H.’s”young man calls the Japanese
move inland “a desperate gamble to stake
everything on a final attempt to wrest
supremacy from the Australians in New
Guinea.” He stresses “the miles and
miles of malarial swamps and jungles,
crude native paths and precipitous ravines
through 13,000 ft. peaks —some of the
toughest and most dangerous country in
the world.”
Tough and dangerous, some of it is
but not nearly so dangerous as some
Asian country already penetrated. And
the cold fact remains that a few days ago,
with only rough maps and no display of
arms, 32 businessmen traversed the 250
miles or so from Wau and Salamaua to
Moresby, via the Lakeami River (down
which they travelled by canoe for 90
miles), and along the southern beaches.
The invasion, so far, consists only of
advance troops paving the way for
greater influxes behind. Its main pri-
mary objective is to get control of ad-
vanced aerodromes.
Conditions in New Guinea generally
seem to be unsatisfactory. Control over
the natives has been relaxed in outlying
districts. Planters coming through from
Wewak in the north brought word of the
outbreak of tribal war and head-hunting.
There is no news of the Australian
force in the interior of New Britain
beyond Tokyo’s assertion that 700 men
had surrendered because they could not
feed themselves, and that with them had
been captured the Australian plans for
defending Rabaul.
Threat to India.
“Ek Dum”: With the initiation of a
new drive northward by the Japanese in
Burma on March 18 the struggle to keep
India’s gates closed began again.
For ten days the enemy brought up re-
inforcements by land and river to assault
General Alexander’s defences on the
Prome-Mandalay Road. The Irrawaddy
and the Sittang have been turned into
main Japanese arteries, but the Japanese
heart-beat is affected by sudden and
severe attacks of thrombosis caused by
large clots of British, Indians and Chinese
in the main supply channels.
The bridges across the Sittang and the
Bilin destroyed by the retiring forces
apparently had not been repaired. The
preliminary struggles in the new phase
are confined almost entirely to the Prome-
Mandalay Road because of the newly
mechanised nature of the war.
Linked with the British forces in the
northern sector, whose furthest flank is
400 miles from the coast, are the sth and
6th Chinese armies. These, with all U.S.
troops, land and air, in the Chinese, Bur-
mese and Indian areas, are under the com-
mand of Lieut.-General Stillwell (U.S.A.).
The Chinese were reported at the week-
end to have hit the enemy hard on March
19 and 20 at Pyu, 35 miles south of
Toungoo, 80 miles n.-e. of Tharawaddy
and about 120 miles north of Rangoon.
The Chinese seem to have taken the
initiative, but the operations, though
vicious, were not on a large scale. The
enemy lost about 700 men. On March
22 the Burma communique reported all
quiet on both British and Chinese fronts.
The Japanese claim to be 125 miles
from Mandalay at their furthest point of
penetration. Vichy declared on Sunday
that fighting between Chinese and Thai
and Jap troops was going on along the
Thai border, and that a heavy battle was
in progress along the Prome-Mandalay
road. Tokyo reported that Bassein, in
the west Irrawaddy mouth country, is in
Japanese hands, and that forces are
being landed there to outflank the Allied
armies. It is easier to say than to do.
Both sides have been engaged in lively
air raiding. The Americans destroyed 15
’planes on the ground at Moulmein.
Russia, Germany and Japan.
“Ek Dum”: A long series of optimistic
reports came out of Moscow, London
and Stockholm last week. Many of them
were from enthusiastic unofficial sources
and read like propaganda designed to
induce the British to institute a Second
Front in Europe, which M. Litvinov
declared to be urgent. The official Rus-
sian claims were far more modest.
The battles reported to be in progress
late in the week included thrusts by the
Russians at Kerch and out of Sevastopol;
a tank assault by the Russians on Tagan-
rog, 36 miles from Rostov on the Azov
Sea ; a renewed Russian drive towards
Dnepropetrovsk, where the Russians
claimed on March 20 that 16 fortified
positions had been captured; and an
offensive which had penetrated into
Kharkov. Some correspondents reported
that the Germans were leaving Kharkov
and were burning the city. There was
no official confirmation up to the week-
end.
Joined with this battle was one for
Poltava, to the s.-w., and the German
supply lines into Kharkov, At Orel the
Russians’ encircling grip was said to be
tightening and thousands of Germans
to have been killed.
Weeks previously it had been reported
from Moscow that a flag of truce had
been sent to Orel to serve General
Guderian with a demand for surrender
as an alternative to annihilation. On
March 22 Moscow announced that,
“as a desperate measure,” Hitler was
sending back from Berlin several generals
who had been dismissed for previous
failures, including Guderian.
On the Viazma-Rshev-Smolensk en-
clave, the Russians officially contented
themselves with claiming the capture of
many more inhabited places and the en-
circlement of Gshatsk on the main
Smolensk road 40 miles west of Mojaisk.
800-boo boys are, however, convinced
that anything from 75,000 to 200,000
Germans are now imprisoned by Russian
armies on the central front. Moscow
claimed on March 22 that 20,000 Ger-
mans had fallen on the central front in
10 days.
At Staraya Russa, the 16th German
Army was said to be crumbling, but it
was still fighting back. Round Lenin-
grad the Red Army was “dealing with a
threat from German forces in the
Karelian Isthmus.” Various authorities
report the assembly of a large enemy
force at Vipuri as a preliminary to an
assault on Leningrad from the north-
west. The Germans admit fierce local
attacks by the Russians, but say they
have been repulsed.
Linked with the propaganda for a
Second Front is almost invariably the
suggestion that Japan may attack Siberia
shortly and that there Russia is doing
the Allies a vast service by immobilising
great Japanese forces.
Japan would have speeded up her opera-
tions against Australia if she could have
drawn reinforcements from home stations,
but her operative timetable against Aus-
tralia has been slowed down by Red
strength in Siberia.
That came from Sydney “Sun’s”
London “special correspondent,” who
quoted no authority. Chungking only a
few days before had reported that troop
trains were moving southward from
Manchukuo choked with Japanese troops.
On March 21 Kuibyshev announced
the renewal for a year of Japan’s agree-
ment with the U.S.S.R. to maintain the
huge Japanese fishing industry which is
carried on from Russian territory in Sag-
halien, and which is an important factor
in the feeding of the Japanese army.
Vale, Yarra!
“Nobby II”: A Dutch merchant ship
coming to Australia picked up Sub-
Lieut. F. R. Marshall and 13 other
members of a convoy escort, which con-
sisted of H.M.A.S. Yarra and a small
motor minesweeper, destroyed by the
Japanese south of Java.
In heavy rain the two Australian
ships, with an Indian naval sloop and
six vessels under convoy, left Tanjong
Priok, the port of Batavia, on Feb. 27
for Tjilatjap. Early next morning two
ships separated in the tropic mist.
In the afternoon the remaining four
were attacked by a submarine, which was
driven off, A third ship was detached
for Colombo, and the others steered a
careful way along the south of Java
towards Tjilatjap, which was approached
on March 3. The convoy was instructed,
however, that because of the swiftness
of the Japanese advance it should try to
make the Australian coast.
The Indian ship now left the convoy.
There remained Yarra, the motor mine-
sweeper, a passenger boat and a tanker.
That night another submarine was
driven off. The ships scattered but re-
joined each other. At 6.40 a.m. on March
4 the Japanese attacked in force —three
Bin.-gun cruisers and two destroyers,
with six aircraft.
Poor little Yarra, with her 14-knot
convoy and 4,7-inch guns, had not a
ghost of a chance against them. Outside
Yarra the armament of the convoy con-
sisted of one anti-submarine gun, a
Hotchkiss and two light-calibre m.gs.
on the minesweeper and two m.gs. on
another ship.
Yarra scattered her brood and flung
out a smokescreen in a gallant attempt
to save them. But the cruisers moved
too fast. They turned their heavy guns
on the convoy and kept them firing.
They planted shells on the little mine-
sweeper at 1800 yards.
According to Sub-Lieut. Marshall,
shooting at first was bad —a heartening
fact in view of the apparently well-
supported statement that in the battle
against the Allied squadron in the Java
Sea eight-inch Jap cruisers opened—accu-
rately!—at the unprecedented range of
28,000 yards.
The sweeper’s crew scuttled and aban-
doned ship. After they had got away a
cruiser closed range and raked the little
vessel with pompoms till she sank on
fire. The crew were adrift on two Carley
floats, and were left to their fate while
the enemy dealt with the merchant ships.
Yarra continued firing valiantly till put
out of action. She was then bombed until
she sank. Meanwhile, one of the two
civilian ships sank and the other blew up.
At 8 a.m. the Japanese steamed away.
During the day the 14 survivors of the
minesweeper’s crew of 16 on the floats
saw two lifeboats in the distance, one
under sail. Towards evening a steamer
believed to be Dutch hove to in the dis-
tance, too far to see the signals from the
floats.
About 6 p.m, on March 7 another
Dutch vessel picked the survivors up and
brought them home.
On March 22 Mr. Curtin announced
that 13 ratings from Yarra had been
rescued from a raft, and were now in a
British port. Her complement was 142.
The presence of those cruisers seems to
account for the fate of H.M.A.S. Perth.
It might also account for the small-
formation aerial attacks on the north.
The Japanese reported on March 16
that 50,000 Allied prisoners had been
taken at Bandoeng, among them many
Australians, British and Americans. A
further 11,000 were declared to have sur-
rendered at Baruk, 12,000 in the Bru-
garmi area and 15,000 at Soekaboemi.
Tokyo Radio said that all prisoners would
be interned near Batavia.
* * * *
The crew of an Australian seaplane
rescued a few days ago are fervently
thanking their luck. Their lumbering
ship was attacked by nine Jap fighters
and set on fire, with one engine wrecked,
but they managed to land under heavy
m.-g. fire. They took to their rubber boats
before their ’plane went down and were
picked up by a merchantman, which was
bombed and abandoned. A midnight
landing on the coast from lifeboats fol-
lowed. Next day a message written large
on the sands was seen by an R.A.A.F.
’plane and a naval vessel sent to rescue
them.
* * * *
With the moulding of the A.I.F. and
A.M.F. into a united force, the only dis-
tinguishing privileges which A.I.F. men
will retain will be the grey borders to
their unit badges and the much-prized
brass “Australia” on their shoulders.
A.M.F. (and R.A.A.F.) men in the Com-
monwealth will receive equal pay with
A.I.F. (and R.A.A.F.) men abroad, in-
cluding deferred pay after six months’
service, to which they have not been
entitled unless on “operational stations.”
The increases will be made retrospective
to Dec. 7, the day Japan entered the war.
* * * *
A number of R.A.A.F. men, pay corps
and nurses evacuated from Singapore
before the capitulation have arrived in
Australia. So have many R.A.A.F. men
who have seen service in the Middle East.
* * * *
General MacArthur’s successor on
Bataan Peninsula is Lieut. - General
Jonathan Wainwright. He was promoted
from major-general’s rank last week. The
Japanese celebrated his appointment by
demanding his surrender. He celebrated
by ignoring the demand. The U.S. still
holds 60 per cent, of the Philippines.
* * * *
The added sea dangers resulting from
the entry of Japan into the war —Tokyo
claims sinkings in the Indian Ocean and
the Bay of Bengal—have been marked by
an increase of 50 per cent, in Lloyd’s
cargo insurance rates. The rate from the
Americas to Australia is now 15 p.c. and
from Australia and M.L. to Africa £7 10s.
* * * *
Malta is being raided almost every
day, and sometimes all day. The new
Spitfire squadrons are making the enemy
pay dearly. The island has now had its
2000th raid. Libyan objectives were
attacked by the R.A.F., and R.A.F.
Wellingtons and the F.A.A., supported
by warships which steered a perilous
way through the minefields, carried out a
surprise attack on Italian-held Rhodes,
from which all ships and bombers
returned safe.


NATIONAL ART GALLERY OF NEW
SOUTH WALES, DOMAIN, SYDNEY.
LOAN EXHIBITION
by
TWO DISTINGUISHED ARTISTS
MARGARET PRESTON
AND
WILLIAM DOBELL
NOW ON VIEW
Admission free.
Open daily—
Weekdays: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Sundays: 2 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.
WILL ASHTON, Director.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Melbourne got its first impression of
General MacArthur on Saturday. Crowds
lined the route from Spencer-street
station to Menzies, and cheered as the
tall American, looking very pleased with
his reception, drove past with his exten-
sive entourage. At the station to meet
the Commander-in-Chief of the Allied
Forces were Commonwealth Ministers
Forde, Beasley and Keane, the heads of
the Australian naval, military and air
forces, and such high-ranking Americans
as Lieut.-General Brett and Vice-Admiral
Leary. Greetings were .brief, and the
general then posed for the press photo-
graphers and inspected an American
guard of honor that included a Filipino
detachment.
General MacArthur’s lean length was
clothed in a thin material khaki uniform
loose at the neck —no tie, no badges of
rank, no decorations —not even a ribbon.
There’s a cocky strut in his walk, and he
tilts his hat over one eye in the Beatty
manner. He read a little set speech in
a parade-ground voice with a rasp in it.
Mrs. MacArthur, much younger than
her distinguished husband, has an en-
thusiastic smile for everything Australian.
Four-year-old son Arthur reserves judg-
ment. He is reputed to be interested in
kangaroos, of which he has seen pictures,
but of which he is still a bit sceptical.
“Little woman, big job” could be said
with truth of Mrs. Jean MacArthur, who,
with her famous husband, provides
Melbourne tea-tables with their most
popular topic. Petite, gentle, soft-voiced
and dark, Mrs. MacArthur might have
furnished Shakspeare with another of his
quieter heroines. She can’t be more than
five feet nothing. Little Arthur has
also set the gossips wondering whether he
will continue to wear the playboy suit in
which he arrived, with its long trousers
and little jacket reminiscent of a Dickens
boy like Pip, though the oversea soldier
cap rather mixes the periods. But biggest
speculation of all is about the strong men
armed with clubs and pistols in the belt
who guard the General. They make dear
old Melbourne feel that it has wakened
up to find itself Chicago.
Now that the cat has been allowed out
of the bag about the American presence
in our midst the work of the American
Women’s Auxiliary Corps is getting some
well-deserved limelight. At the Hos-
pitality Bureau on the corner of Eliza-
beth and Lonsdale streets hamburgers
of the most fragrant and appetising kind
are “on the air” and the favorite Ameri-
can soft drinks flow like water. Dough-
nuts, too, are for the asking, and the only
trouble of the boys is to pay for them.
Not lack of cash —oh, no! —but they take
out a handful of money and say to Mrs.
Prytz “Now, Sallie, what do I pay?”
for our coinage still defeats them. Pri-
vate hospitality is proceeding apace, the
only advice given to would-be hostesses
being “Feed them anything, American
or Australian, but don’t, 1 if you want to
ever see them again, try them with lamb.
They get so much of it.” Some of the
visitors say that they like athletic games
best and accept invitations only to those
parties at which they will get exercise
from tennis or golf or squash. One
charming young officer has become an
expert on our gardens, public and well-
known private ones, the like of which, he
declares, cannot be seen in any State of
the Union.
No one was surprised that the
American women had organised for the
boys from their own country so well,
for among them, as has been learned
since they began their annual ball for
the Children’s Hospital, are some very
good brains and some highly-trained
ones. Mrs. Erie Dickover, the Consul-
General’s wife, has a compelling per-
sonality notwithstanding her soft voice
and gentle ways. Mrs. Jandrey, pretty
young wife of the six-footer Vice-Consul,
is so energetic that she took up Univer-
sity studies as soon as she came here,
and Mrs. Norman Picot, who has been
organising secretary for the Children’s
Hospital, is worth her weight in gold,
and then some, to any committee. Mrs.
Herbert Allen, Mrs. Bacon and Mrs.
Sallie Prytz all know all there is to learn
about running things, be they balls or
tea-parties or canteens, and Mrs. Clymer
has a quiet effectiveness which makes
her a perfect hostess for a home or a
hospitality bureau. Soon, of course,
there’ll be a hostel at Centenary House
for the American troops as well as their
present bureau, and then won’t the
Americans be busy!
Last week the University, being struck
by the horrid thought that its towers and
spires would make an extremely good
landmark for Jap ’planes viewing our
city for the first time, waived all usual
lectures in favor of A.R.P. demonstra-
tions and lectures. Women students
learnt A.R.P. and first aid, and made
camouflage nets in between bouts, while
the men —that is, the few left who are
doing reserved courses —made up digging
parties to dig slit trenches. A.R.P. films
shown on the spot shamed the most
ambitious detective-story writers by dis-
closing two casualties per floor in a three-
storey house and three (happily un-
harmed) persons buried in a cellar. Any-
how it was a good shake-up for some
of the more complacent people of the
“it-never-could-happen-here” type. Vice-
Chancellor Medley hit straight out from
the shoulder, too, in his advice to be
up and doing.
The Australian Women’s Auxiliary Ser-
vice has been quietly gathering strength,
many people, owing to the fact that not
all A.W.A.Ss. were in uniform, being un-
conscious of its presence in any numbers.
They are doing all the tough jobs that
the Services can provide, from washing
up to orderly duty, from waiting at table
to typing for hours on end. And the
women who have undertaken these types
of work are not girls just needing a job,
but hundreds who have left well-paid
work for their country’s sake. Even the
Governor-General registered surprise the
other day when he walked down their
lines at Glamorgan Training Centre and
asked one girl and then another what
had been her peace-time occupation and
what she expected to do in the Service.
The A.W.A.S. is lucky in having splendid
officers who inspire the ranks with their
own white-heat enthusiasm. Among them
is Major Kathleen Deasey, whose pro-
motion has just been gazetted, and whose
picture was made not long ago by
Broothorn.
Will “The bride wore grey” become a
new fashion note in accounts of the dozens
and dozens of weddings which are each
week recorded? If many of the brides-to-
be saw Athalie Stephens, who till last
Friday was Athalie Cuming, it is likely
that it will. Athalie is one of Melbourne’s
pale silvery gold young blondes, and her
grey suit was worn with the whitest of
accessories, not one touch of color other
than the white, even the orchids she wore
being the same celestial blanched tone.
Athalie and her mother, Mrs. D. M.
Cuming, came over from Adelaide a few
years back and have been an exceedingly
decorative addition to our highest social
circles. Bridegroom medico Carl Stephens
expects to answer the call-up as soon as
his term at a leading city hospital is com-
pleted. He had extra good support at the
altar, with Gunner Randall Deasey as
best man and his uncle, Rev. Charles
Matear, assisting Canon Murray with the
marrying.
The Carl Stephens wedding wasn’t the
only one the Stephens family put on last
week. On Saturday Diana, daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Douglas Stephens, followed
her cousin’s example and took Hans de
Wolf for better or worse. At this wed-
ding there were more picturesque person-
alities to the square foot than at most
such ceremonials. Mrs. Douglas Stephens
is perhaps Melbourne’s most decorative
social leader, and her daughters all in-
herit not only good looks but a flair for
setting them off with effective dressing.
However, the De Wolf family is almost
as striking-looking as the Stephenses,
Hans and his brother Peter being typical
good - looking Dutchmen. Not every
Stephens was able to attend the cere-
mony : Diana’s medical brother is on
active service and sister Lucille is in
London, taking a very active part in
coping with England’s retort to Hitler.
From Sydney
The final of a series of afternoon
parties for new arrivals from Malaya
and the Pacific Islands was given by the
Governor and Lady Wakehurst last
Wednesday. The party was not so large
as the previous ones. One wondered if
the cold spell had immobilised our guests
from the tropics. Even Sydneyites inured
to the sudden swoops in temperature
shivered miserably in hastily-dragged-
forth suits from last year. But the
children who came had a grand time in
the ballroom hammering toy blocks of
wood, with such intensity you’d have
thought they were practising for build-
ing up the new order.
Lady Wakehurst hostessed in the grey
suit she had worn earlier to the lunch at
the Army Comforts Auxiliary Cafe at 77
King-street. The big catch of the after-
noon’s guests was the Major-General
Gordon Bennett couple. The General,
asked by Lady Wakehurst, made a little
speech thanking the people of Malaya
for the hospitality shown to the A.I.F.
He told of the quick establishing in
Kuala Lumpur and in Singapore of the
Anzac clubs, and of the unremitting
service of the committeewomen. Talk
everywhere was of the arrival of General
MacArthur, his wife and their baby son
Arthur. Apart from that, Bertie Kelly
talked music to Helen Mo, daughter of
China’s Minister in Australia. Bill Kelly
and Mrs. Bertie Kelly ; Mrs. Brennan,
whose doctor husband is still away
north, and whose wide-brimmed black
felt hat had a dash of Mexico about it;
Mrs. Miriam Fowles ; Mrs. Thornton, a
friend and former neighbor of Marie
Ney ; and knight Sam Cohen, looking
after small evacuees with the kindliness
that makes him the ideal president of the
Kindergarten Union, were others in the
bright rooms.
“Point Valaine” is the new play for
the Minerva. This will commence a
season next Friday night at eight o’clock.
“Point Valaine” is an intense play, one
of whose characters is a White Russian
and another a playwright. The play-
wright is a sort of modern Greek chorus.
He sees and senses the impending tragedy
while the people concerned plunge on to
the inevitable. Alfred Lunt and Lynne
Fontanne were the New York leads.
Roger Barry, now recovered from the
illness contracted on service in Malaya,
is in the cast.
Joyce Hutchinson is a pianist with that
rare, twofold talent; she is an accom-
panist of sympathy and a soloist whose
playing is crisply fresh and bright with
expression. Joyce played the accompani-
ments for Harold Williams at the recent
concert of the Killara Music Club, and
the blending of voice and piano is still
receiving complimentary comment. Joyce,
a Conservatorium product, is known to
A.B.C. listeners.
Those consistent and untiring workers
at the Army Comforts Auxiliary Cafe
at 77 King-street popped a cheque for
£lOO into the Mayor’s War Fund last
week. This makes £250 since Christmas
that the busy chop-house has contributed
towards comforts for the soldiers.
Administrator of the Fund Cyril Docker,
in his speech of thanks, told that the
donations during the past two months
have not been rolling into the fund as
generously as in former days. Lady
Wakehurst, who lunched at the club,
made one of her neat and sincere speeches
in praise of the auxiliary’s work, and
added her best wishes that the aim of
raising £lOO a month for the Mayor’s
Comforts Fund might be achieved. Mrs.
C. G. N. Miles, the president of the club,
beamed at the eulogies raised to the
cafe workers.
Trouble has come to the pleasant Ham-
bridge family. The father, Frank Ham-
bridge, one of the most widely-known
metallurgists of Australia, died last week
after illness that had had him in its
grip for three years or so. No longer
will the tall, strongly-built figure be seen
in Bridge-street, where his offices were.
The funeral prayers were read over him
last week while the small fane of Christ
Church, Lavender Bay, was filled with
the sad yet hopeful strains of “The Land
o’ the Leal.” Daughter Marjorie repre-
sented the family at the service, Mrs.
Hambridge being ill in hospital and son
Rhodes in England, where he is rounding
off his medical course. Frank Ham-
bridge was as a young man an inter-State
player of lacrosse. All the States of Aus-
tralia know him, particularly Queensland.
Maoriland, too, holds many friends.
Wild gusts of wind, accompanied by
the saving grace of rain (Oh, the merry
bathtub brimming over once again!),
blew art-lovers through the doorway of
the National Gallery last Thursday
afternoon. The attraction was the show
of Margaret Preston’s and William
Dobell’s works. These are hung in ad-
joining courts —very amiably, like a
couple, so to speak, not divorced, but
separated by mutual consent. Margaret’s
pictures are hung to show the progres-
sive stages of her art. Youth gives those
wildflowers through which the bush itself
breathes. Today’s pictures show her
adaptations of aborigine rock-carvings
and designs.
The dazzle of light in “Dry River
Bed” and the landscape painted from
top side, “Flying Over the Shoalhaven,”
were among the much discussed by know-
ledgeable ones. These included president
of the Society of Artists Sydney lire
Smith, Mrs. Neil McEachern, Joshua
Smith and Norman Friend, just back
from North Queensland with a bagful of
sketches. Director of the Gallery Will
Ashton looked in. William Dobell, of
the versatile brush, was there, his por-
traits of Elaine Haxton and “Scotty”
Allen being favorite exhibits. Mrs.
Charley Lloyd Jones was another who
viewed the exhibition on the opening
day.
A wedding of interest was that of Dr.
Jean Marian Hellestrand, resident medi-
cal officer of the Rachel Forster, and Dr.
Francis Harrison, resident medical officer
of the Cessnock Hospital. Jean and
Francis and Jean’s brother Alan all
graduated last year. Bride’s sister, Olive
Hellestrand, is in her second year of
medicine at Sydney University. She and
Dorothy Meyers, of Rockhampton, were
the bridesmaids. The Hellestrands are
a Bexley family. The Harrison home is
in Singleton.
The Sydney Day Nursery Association
is putting up its sign at still another can-
teen. This time it will be at a military
camp in N.S.W. The committee of the
nurseries deserves praise for the enterprise
which has already opened canteens at
the Technical College, at Army House
and close to another point of great acti-
vity. Home cooking will be the lure.
Mrs. S. Read will be in charge. There
will be two cooks, a small staff of
cleaners and a company of voluntary
helpers. Since the war has called so
many mothers into munitions and other
war-time jobs, the nurseries have been
called upon to look after many more
children than formerly. The association
welcomes the children, but to look after
them in an efficient manner money is
needed. The canteens are a steady source
of income.
A word of praise is earned by the
calendar published by the Junior Red
Cross this year. This, as in previous
years, is sold for the benefit of J.R.C.
activities. These include country and
seaside holiday homes for the children of
soldiers. Soon, unfortunately, there will
be even more claims on these generous-
hearted young workers. Even now it is
not too late to invest in a calendar. This
year a bunch of bush flowers in a green
glaze jug is a striking centrepiece.
Heather MacLeod and her Pilot-Officer
William Campbell, R.A.A.F., bought the
wedding ring on Wednesday morning
and were married in the afternoon at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point. It was just an-
other case of fixing the date a little bit
earlier than had been first thought of.
Heather wore powder-blue spattered with
white spots. Her hat was a summer felt
in the same shade. Bridegroom is a son
of the W. R. Campbells, of Wahroonga.


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
WARWICK FARM AUTUMN
MEETING
IHeld at Randwickl MARCH 28th, 1942
The Liverpool Handicap of £6OO, Six Furlongs.
The Warwick Farm Autumn Cup of £750, One Mile and a Half.
AUTUMN MEETING, 1942
APRIL 4th and 11th
The Doncaster Handicap of £2OOO, One Mile.
The Sydney Cup of £5OOO and a Gold Cup valued at £2OO, Two Miles.
6 Bligh Street, Geo. T. Rowe,
Sydney. Secretary.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Ascot’s (Vic.) 15-race programme on
Saturday was featured by a double pro-
test after Starsimon had defeated Sunixa
and Radama by a head and a neck in the
sixth division of the Kilmorey Trial
Handicap.
Starsimon, favorite at 2 to 1, veered
out over the last 50 yards, hampering
Sunixa, who, in turn, carried Radama
wide. Connections of Sunixa protested
against Starsimon, and the Radama party
protested against both. Morris, rider of
Radama, was unable to prove his case to
the satisfaction of the stewards, but the
objection of Sunixa’s jockey, J. O’Brien,
was sustained, and Sunixa placed first.
Sunixa completed a double for O’Brien,
who had won on Sheer Joy earlier.
Kelos, winner of the Newmarket, failed
by a head to withstand a challenge from
Adelaide-owned Penaton in the second
division of the Eclipse Handicap. Kelos
reproduced the speed that had character-
ised her Newmarket win, but she is not a
really big filly, and the task of conceding
231 b. to Penaton, a smart galloper of the
same age, was just beyond her. Denis
finished third after having every chance,
and Queen Baccha made up a lot of
ground in fourth position. Queen
Baccha will be better suited by seven
furlongs. Penaton is a three-year-old
colt by Pennant, and his hardiness is re-
flected in the fact that he has had more
than 40 races and thrives on the treat-
ment.
* * • • • 4
Wheat Sheaf justified her favoritism for
the first division of the Eclipse Handi-
cap, but only after a desperate struggle
with Phoines and Sangallo. The Mani-
toba filly has raced only twice for as
many wins since a spell, and might de-
velop into one of our best sprinters.
On Saturday, however, she carried only
7.12, or 131 b. less than Kelos, of the
same age and sex, in the second Eclipse
Handicap. Phoines ran on well and may
now need a longer distance than six fur-
longs. Vale’s promising fifth drew atten-
tion to her immediate future.
High Falutin, a “trial” horse, recorded
his best win when he defeated Havers
and Darraweit in the Belhaven Handicap.
He was a long way back halfway
through the race, but moved up third
entering the straight and finished gamely.
He is an aged gelding by Windbag, and,
as Havers also is eligible for restricted
class races, it would seem that our open-
company stayers are not a particularly
good lot. Havers may have been un-
lucky to lose on Saturday, as she lost
ground at the start and was forced wide
rounding the home turn.
H. Badger, premier Melbourne jockey
for the last three seasons and out with
a clear lead so far this season, won four
of the 15 races on Saturday. His easiest
win for some time was on Lilette in the
first division of the Kilmorey Trial.
Although she had not raced since finish-
ing fourth in the Oaks last spring,
Lilette started favorite, and, dashing away
from the field before the turn, won by
10 lengths. Lilette, who is in the same
stable as Kelos and All Veil, is by Picca-
dilly from Urunalong, and more will be
heard of her.
Southerly and his half-sister Silver
Light won the fifth Kilmorey Trial and
the first Grafton Welter respectively.
Southerly, bought cheap in Sydney
several months ago, was racing for the
first time in Melbourne, and, leading most
of the way, fought on gamely to beat the
favorite, Great Peak, by a head. Owner-
trainer S. Murphy purchased Southerly
principally as a hurdler, and the Windbag
gelding is likely to do well at that branch
of the game.
* * * m
On the first day of its autumn meet-
ing the Rosehill Club received an inti-
mation that, owing to other require-
ments, it was improbable its course would
be available for the second day. The fol-
lowing Monday it was understood it was
possible for the meeting to take place.
On Thursday last the club was notified
its course was required immediately. It
is right that war emergency should over-
ride everything, but the short notice left
Rosehill with little hope of going on
with its meeting on any course. In ex-
penses in connection with its preparation
for the meeting the club was considerably
out of pocket, but, unless insured against
the weather, it might have fared even
worse. Intermittent showers on Satur-
day morning made conditions decidedly
unpleasant, and the attendance would
have suffered.
* * * *
The A.J.C. committee had a long sit-
ting on Monday, but at its conclusion
was unable to make any definite an-
nouncement regarding future racing at
Randwick—either Saturday next or the
autumn meeting.
♦ * *
If the Doncaster Handicap takes place,
and the Sydney Cup does not, leading
bookmakers who are betting on the
double will pay starting-price to those
who select the winner of the first leg.
* * * *
On Monday the order of fancied Don-
caster and Cup favorites was as under:
DONCASTER HANDICAP.
Rimveil.
Evergreen.
Beaulivre, Yaralla.
Soho.
High Caste, Nightbeam, Tuhitarata, Ami-
able.
SYDNEY CUP.
Beau Vite.
Pantler.
Dashing Cavalier, Dewar, Velocity, Tran-
quil Star.
It’s Funny, Moondarewa, Veiled Threat.
Buzalong, Triggerman.
$ $ $
Thanks to Sydney support Newcastle
had big fields for all its races on Satur-
day, but, with the weather unfavorable, the
club did not get much of a crowd. There
were about 100 runners for the eight
races, and Red Bruce landed the most
valuable event, the Welter Handicap, of
£42 for first. In four races first money
was £22, but there was a fair betting
market, and at minor meetings that
generally means more to owners than
prize-money. It must be added that
Newcastle provides opportunities for
moderate performers, and for some time
to come that will be one thing for which
many Sydney trainers will be thankful.
* * # ♦
Reading was weighted at 8.10 for the
Santa Anita Handicap, and, with the
maximum 9.4 and the minimum 7.2,
was fairly treated, Challedon and
Mioland headed the list, followed by
the three-year-old cracks of last season,
Whirlaway and Market Wise, who re-
spectively had 9.3 and 9.1. Alsab, who
performed so brilliantly last year, had
7.12, which is 41b. above American
weight-for-age for a three-year-old in
March, equal to October in Australia.
As Santa Anita was abandoned and rac-
ing has temporarily ceased at other
courses in California, Reading’s first
appearance in America may be in one
of the other States. Taking a line
through the way Challedon and Mioland
were treated elsewhere early this year,
Reading would probably be weighted
much the same as at Santa Anita.
* * * *
It would seem strange nowadays if,
after winning the A.J.C. Derby, a horse
were to run in a Maiden Stakes at the
same meeting. At Randwick in 1877
Woodlands won the A.J.C, Derby, beat-
ing a hot favorite in Chester. That did
not prevent Woodlands running in the
Maiden Stakes three days later. The con-
ditions of the race read “maidens at the
time of entry,” and consequently Wood-
lands was eligible. After Woodlands
won the two races mentioned he was
easily beaten by Chester in the A.J.C.
Mares’ Produce Stakes. The latter then
went on to win the Victoria Derby,
Melbourne Cup and V.R.C. Mares’ Pro-
duce Stakes, but later in the season he
was beaten by First King in the Cham-
pion Stakes and V.R.C. St. Leger.
* * • •
Some old-time trainers shone at getting
their horses ready without having public
form to guide them. It is doubtful, how-
ever, whether they could develop form
in their horses with the same rapidity as
many of our present-day trainers. It
is not unusual now to see a horse fail
badly when starting at anything from 20
to 33 to 1 and yet a fortnight later-
even less—go out at a comparatively short
price and either win or go very close
to it. Knowing what is possible in the
way of improvement in a week on the
training track I have never favored “re-
versal-of-form” inquiries, but it is easy
to understand other people holding
different views.
* * « *
Queenslander High Rank did not do
as well as expected when he visited Syd-
ney in the spring, but it is possible he was
feeling the effects of the racing he did in
Brisbane before coming south. In finish-
ing fifth in the Epsom Handicap with
7.12 he at least ran fairly, but after that
cut up badly in the Final Handicap, for
which, with 8.9, he was well backed. He
is to be a Doncaster runner with 7.10,
and as his recent track work in Brisbane
was excellent his chance of a win
may be better than suggested by his posi-
tion in the double charts —provided there
is a Doncaster.
Trainer B. Payten has had a good
innings in Sydney this season, and has
also scored in Melbourne. With 29i
wins at Sydney meetings to his credit he
has given his patrons cause for satisfac-
tion. Like his late father, he is evidently
able to get the best out of two-year-olds.
♦ * * *
Gordon Richards, who had a leg
broken in England last May, resumed
riding work in December, F. Darling
again had first call on his services this
year, Lord Astor second and Lord Glanely
third, but the latest reduction in racing
may have led to other arrangements in
respect of the last-mentioned tw0....
Another English item is that Steve
Donoghue’s son Stephen, a sergeant in
the R.A.F., was killed in the North Sea,
* * * *
In William Inglis and Son’s catalogue
of last autumn, 61 breeders and 76 stal-
lions were represented by 538 yearlings.
This year the respective totals are 49, 56
and 300. Ninety-six fillies will be offered,
and of the remainder 198 are colts and
six are geldings. Nearly everything cata-
logued has a pedigree that makes special
sprinting or staying ability possible, and
intending buyers are at the advantage of
knowing that, in greatly reducing their
contributions, breeders are offering what
they believe to be their best. Nevertheless
that does not dispose of the element of
luck which enters into yearling-buying,
and it would be safe to bet that those
realising the highest prices do not prove
the most profitable racing propositions.
The breeders with strongest numerical
representation are: P. Miller 54, H.
Thompson 28, St. Aubins Stud 27, A. W.
Thompson Pty. 18, E. A. Haley Pty. 16,
A. J. Matthews 14, Sledmere Estate 11,
Thompson and Basche 11, Hunter White
nine and Lyndhurst Stud eight.-
# ~ »
Last year Velocity was a moderate
third to Lucrative and Pandect in the
A.J.G. St. Leger, but finished ahead of
the 7-to-4-on favorite Tranquil Star. In
that race he was plodding on at the end,
and as a result met with some support
for the Sydney Cup, in which he had
7.5. In that race, however, he finished a
long way behind Lucrative (first) and
Pandect (third), who respectively gave
him 111 b, and 71b. Since then he won
the Caulfield Cup with 8.3. Unplaced in
the Melbourne Cup with 8.7 and the Aus-
tralian Cup with 9.0 were performances
that did not put him in the light of a
high-class stayer, and it is doubtful
whether the field he beat in the St. Kilda
Handicap with 8.12 was sufficiently
strong to warrant his present prominence
in the Sydney Cup quotations with 8.9.
One thing that may help Velocity is the
distance racing he has done recently, but
improvement on even his best deeds will
be necessary to enable him to win the
Sydney Cup.
« * « «
While horseracing in Sydney is greatly
reduced people in other parts are not
being deprived of their simple pleasures.
There were dog meetings at several
country towns on Saturday.
* » w *
French Model, whose son by Talking
topped the list at 1200gns. at last season’s
yearling sales in Sydney, is represented
in the catalogue by a full brother to that
colt this year; and Capris has a full
sister to the colt that was sold for
lOOOgns. Special interest will attach to
the prices they realise, Battle Dress, at
1050gns., was second on last year’s list,
but her dam, Lady Silvius, is not repre-
sented this time, nor is Society, dam of
R.verton. The catalogue includes a
brother to the December Stakes winner
Bangster, and it would be safe to bet he
will realise more than the 70gns, the
latter made last year.
* * * *
Contending that the Los Angeles sec-
tion of California was in the danger zone
of the war, the State and military authori-
ties recently announced that the Mexican
border would be closed if people per-
sisted in driving to Agua Caliente on
Sundays for a day’s racing.
* * * «
In America there is strong opposition
to marked interference with racing, and,
except in California, it seems like going
on as usual in the other States this year.
In New York 180 days—five more than
last year—have been announced at the
five major tracks, Belmont Park, with 42,
getting the lion’s share. At Churchill
Downs (Kentucky) the Derby will be run
as usual, the date being May 2 and the
added money $75,000 (a little over
£A22,500).
* * ♦ *
The totalisator turnover for 1786 days’
racing in 16 States in America last
year was $517,382,107 (approximately
£A 157,370,000). The State of New York
with 178 days was the principal contri-
butor with $133,982,574 (about
£A40,250,000), and that State’s revenue
from the machine approached
£A2,782,000. When Senator Dunning-
ham was fighting for the legalisation of
the tote in New York, and said it would
probably return the State $10,000,000
annually, he was treated as a joke, but
only for America’s entry into the war it
is probable that amount would have been
reached this year. As it is it may. There
is a proposal to increase the State’s
share of the 10 per cent, deduction from
5 per cent, to per cent. California, with
$100,090,417 for 284 days, was next to
New York in machine turnover, and the
total amount contributed to State revenue
by the 16 States was $20,863,946 (about
£A6,346,180).
S « « «
In Ireland the Government of Eire
subsidises racing. This year the amount
donated was £9500, five clubs in Class I
receiving £9OO each, eight in Class II £4OO
each, and all clubs in Class 111 £lOO each.
At a Class I meeting the grant must be
apportioned to not fewer than three
races and more than five. In Govern-
ment races all entrance and acceptance
fees are added to the prize in the pro-
portion of 75 per cent, for first, 15 for
second and 10 for third.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Woodlands Hurdle: Indignity, 1 ;
Lord Jevington, 2 ; Xanthia, 3.
Hollymount Handicap: Haros, 1 ;
Bayard, 2 ; Bobby Pearce, 3.
Rothwell Steeplechase: Cheery
Jack, 1 ; Giant Killer, 2 ; Benduli, 3.
Alister Clark Stakes; Zonda, 1 ;
Tranquil Star, 2 ; Burrabil, 3.
Moonee Ponds Handicap; Wise
Counsel, 1 ; Mercury Bay, 2;
Havers, 3.
Sherwood Handicap: Spearmain,
1 ; Gay Revelry, 2; Cloudy Bay, 3.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Hurdle Race: King’s Cross, 1 ;
Kenil Gem, 2 ; Light Dragoon, 3.
Trial Handicap: Catch Up, 1 ;
Addition, 2 ; Wellesley or Comet, 3.
Fairfield Handicap: Main Topic,
1; Niagara, 2 ; Angel or Davinia, 3.
Chipping Norton Plate: Beau-
livre, 1 ; Beau Vite, 2; Yaralla, 3.
Liverpool Handicap: Panchio, 1 ;
Flying Knight, 2; Soho or Ever-
green, 3.
Autumn Cup: Pantler, 1 ; Veiled
Threat, 2 ; It’s Funny, 3.
Cabramatta Handicap: Over-
bold, 1 ; Brazen Lad, 2; Gundagai
or Lord Valentine, 3.


ft. %
A
A '■
«> t
3toU*-
-
j/V tka tf**
I i
//>?
IS A CHECK !
A cheque is a record of expenditure;
it enables the payment of accounts to be
made in the privacy of the home. Pay-
ment by cheque makes it unnecessary to
keep large sums of money in the house,
thus avoiding the risk of loss by fire or
theft. Further information will gladly
he given at any of the Bank s 338 branches
in Australia.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
84 years experience of Australian Banking
1 2/16/42
STILL
a job lo do
THE LIBERTY LOAN
HAS CLOSED-BUT THE
WAR FOR LIBERTY
GOES ON. REGARD
YOUR INVESTMENT IN
THE LIBERTY LOAN AS
A FIRST INSTALMENT.
START INVESTING IN THE
NEST
WAR LOAN
now!
INTEREST COMMENCES IMMEDIATELY
SMOKE-OH!
“For years my husband was a martyr to indi-
gestion, and tried hundreds of patient medi-
cines.” —From a testimonial.
But they weren’t as long-suffering as he.
* * * *
“It is regrettable that Mr. has decided
to leave the district. For years he has inter-
ested himself in the public life'of the town, and
had beer with the Shire Council over a long
period.”
Another shire president with a well-
stocked cupboard, eh?
•F »F *l* *F
“Enough steel to make six tanks has been
salvaged from the House of Commons.”
Our seven Parliament Houses would
yield enough hot air to fill all the barrage
balloons.
•£■ *F *F *F
“Eastern Command Hygiene Service
cream to prevent mosquito and sandfly bites.”
The diggers want something to prevent
ear-bites.
“Goodenough told her finally that he
couldn’t marry her because her family was not
on the level of his. He (> said he intended to
marry his cousin.” — “Sun.”
This Goodenough was haughty stuff;
His family pride’s a whim.
Only another Goodenough
Was good enough for him.
HAMER.
“Tenants advised to sue landlord.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
And yet other papers are advising that
pleasures during war-time should be cur-
tailed !
►l* *l<
“Army corrects flat feet.” —“Sunday Sun.”
No army could correct the real flat feet.
They are feet which move forward very
cautiously, inch by inch, then abruptly
spring upwards, lifting their owner three
yards into the air. This peculiar gait is
necessary and second-nature to a pair of
properly-trained flat feet. Otherwise you'd
never get around the furniture in your
“large” modern flat without barking
your shins twice per room.
ELM.
Awful Hardship.
“Sydney Rugby League footballers will not
smell as sweetly this year. Evil-smelling oil and
embrocation will replace the perfumed powder
that has been used by trainers in recent years to
assist massage.”— “D.T.”
Loud will the front-row “pig” be now
complaining.
No longer, ’cos of Armageddon, has he
"June Roses” to be massaged with when
training,
Or violet talc to sprinkle on his chassis.
With horrid, smelly oil he’ll be anointed;
Hot-bathless, from his practice he’ll
be coming
In evil mood and badly disappointed —
Yet, though he’ll not be whistling, he’ll
be humming!
K.
N.E.S.
Returning from the N.E.S. lecture,
Mrs. Fitzwiggin walked with a swift, firm
tread bespeaking self-confidence in
excelsis. She felt capable of handling any
emergency, and almost wished that one
would occur so that her ability might be
proved. She had learned how to handle
incendiary bombs, how to guard against
blasts, all about first-aid, how to disarm
an enemy, all about everything. Above
all, she had learned the necessity of
remaining cool.
At her front door she mused on the
contrast between herself and her hus-
band. How helpless he would be in an
emergency! He would probably panic.
Just as well that she was there to be
relied on!
She entered the bedroom and switched
on the light. A moment later she emitted
a shrill scream and fled towards her hus-
band’s study.
“Oh, Henry! Quick! Help!” she
yelled. “There’s a spider on the bed! ”
T. W. N.
Unguarded Moments.
“Servants are indiscreet.” — Woman’s paper.
We’re troubled with a maid like that.
She doesn’t stop
To think, or mind what she is at,
But lets things drop!
P.O.M.C.
The Art of Filling-in.
The Inquiry Clerk saw me holding the
Civilian Identity Application form which
he had half-filled in last week and turned
four shades paler. For a second he con-
templated escape, but finally, with a
hopeless look, he held out his hand.
“Bothercurst-Dulwobble or something,
wasn’t it?” he asked.
“Switherhurst-Gulbobble,” I corrected.
“Yes, yes. Well, now, where were we?
Oh, your age. When were you born?”
I pondered. “I think it was on a Sun-
day morning about twenty past two, be-
cause I remember Father saying he got
lumbago getting out of a warm bed to
go for”
“Listen! What day, month and year?”
I told him the 3rd of April, 1900. He
wrote it down. “That makes you 41
last birthday,” he commented.
“That’s ridiculous,” I replied sharply.
“I know I’ve turned 43, because the wife
gave me a new lawnmower for my 43rd
birthday last August”
“But you said your birthday was in
April!” he shrieked.
“Now, listen!” I said evenly. “I ought
to know when my own birthday is, surely.
I tell you mine’s in August. It’s my
wife’s that’s in April. Mine is on the sth
of August. I always remember it because
little Johnny’s comes between ours on
the 15th of July and Essie’s is”
“All right, all right,” he said. “Now,
were you natural-born?”
“Indeed, no! ” I said. “I believe
Mother had an awful time”
“I don’t want to hear about that!” he
shouted. “Were you born in Australia
or not ?”
“Of course I was! ” I replied with dig-
nity. “Do you think my mother would
have been silly enough to have left
Warrnambool especially to go abroad so
that I could be born in Indo-China or
somewhere?”
After a minute he simmered down.
We had no trouble over whether I was
married —he just took a glance at the
shine on my navy suit and wrote it down ;
but an argument developed over the
children I support. He contended they
were dependent on me if they were under
16 and I supported them, whereas I in-
sisted that as Dorothy spends two weeks
each year with her grandmother she
wasn’t wholly dependent on me.
He glanced at the next question. “Now,
what occupation are you engaged in?” he
asked. “We’ve got to be exact in this.”
I thought hard for a minute. “I work
on boilers,” I announced at last.
“Well, you’re a boilermaker then,” he
said, writing it down.
“I certainly am not,” I replied.
“But you work on boilers, don’t you?”
he insisted. “Clean them and fix them
up and all that?”
“Yes,” I replied.
“Well,” he said hotly, “that makes you
a boilermaker. Now question 7; ‘State
precise nature of business or industry in
which you are now engaged.’ ” And
he wrote down “Engineering.” I pointed
out it was wrong.
“Well,” he said, “if you work on
boilers it wouldn’t come under glass-
blowing, would it?”
“No,” I said. “It would be under
either catering, smallgoods manufacture
or feather conservation.”
“What the hell do you mean?” he
roared.
“Well,” I explained, “a boiler in the
trade refers to a fowl too old to roast,
but good enough for boiling. I work at the
markets plucking and dressing boilers.”
He passed over the form with shaking
hand. “For God’s sake get someone else
to help you,” he said brokenly.
“Certainly,” I replied politely; “after
all, it’s only an official form. But what
area officer will I post it to?”
“You don’t post that to an A. 0.,” he
said. “It’s to go to the returning officer
for your electoral division.”
“But what has he got to do with en-
rolment under Class 4 of the call-up?” I
demanded. “Or have you been filling in
the wrong form for me?”
An attendant was picking him up as
I left.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
From a House-owner
My husband and I are an old couple
who exist rather frugally on the rents of
three houses. One of our tenants re-
cently left the district owing us a good
deal of money which, we are told, under
existing legislation, it would be useless
to try to collect. Because of this tenant’s
carelessness, we had to meet the expense
of cleaning up and repairing the house,
which is still unlet. Our agent assures
us that until he can secure a good tenant
the house is better empty, because the
new regulations re landlord and tenant
are all on the side of an unscrupulous
lessee in avoiding payment and causing
trouble.
We have reared and educated our
family in the bush and found lots of hard
work and self-denial necessary. We
passed through droughts and enforced
clearing of prickly pear at huge cost;
there were an increasing overdraft and
laws that catered mainly for employees.
Finally, being too old to work, we sold
out and invested our modest capital in
house property. We have since learned
much about high rates, recurring repairs,
empty houses and, latterly, mounting
taxation.
So far, we have paid our way. But,
hampered by a vote-catching Govern-
ment so tenderly disposed to defaulting
tenants, the question is: Can we still con-
tinue to do so? Must we, who have
never been lazy, be forced into financial
difficulties? Does the Government want
to provide two more old-age pensions for
those who have done their best to avoid
having to accept them?— House-owner
(Q-).
Moratorium Regulations
“Inko” need have no fear that the
moratorium regulations will be defeated
by mortgagees inserting in their mort-
gages a clause that no Commonwealth or
State moratorium shall apply to the trans-
action (B. 11/3/ ’42). Such provisions
are not worth the paper they are written
on. Most, if not all, State Moratorium
Acts expressly prohibit “contracting out”
(negative any clause in the mortgage in-
tended to deprive the mortgagor of his
rights under the Act). So far as the
Federal War Service Moratorium regula-
tions are concerned. Section 7 provides:
Where a member of the forces or a
female dependant of a member is liable to
pay the principal money secured by a mort-
gage or the purchase money under an
agreement for the purchase of land... .the
time for payment of the principal or pur-
chase money shall by force of these regu-
lations be postponed.
The note on these regulations in the
Law Book Company’s War Legislation
Series is that the right to “contract out”
is impliedly excluded, and the English
case Bowmaker v. Talbot 57 T.L.R. 435,
a decision on a similar English Act, is
quoted in support of the principle that
a debtor cannot contract out or waive
the benefit of the moratorium regulations.
Most mortgagees insert the clause
“Inko” objects to as a bluff; it succeeds
sometimes, too, more’s the pity.—
Solicitor (Q.).
Fight!
From my diary:
Feb. 16: Wrote for permission to rejoin
the militia unit with which I trained.
Feb. 19: Received courteous reply thank-
ing me for offer of services.
Feb. 23: Further reply inquiring would
I re-enlist? Replied same day “Yes.”
March 4: Further letter asking had I
registered in Class 111 call-up. Replied
same day “Yes.”
March 6: Further letter asking me to re-
port for medical examination. Reported
and passed. Allotted to unit and stated my
readiness to enter camp next day. I would
receive a call-up.
Today is March 12, nearly a month
after my first application, and I am still
waiting for the call-up. Tonight’s Gov-
ernment pep talk in the evening paper
puts me in a sarcastic mood:
Get ready to fight! Get ready to show
these slant-eyed smash-and-grabs that Aus-
tralians don’t lie down. Fight like a
demon! Forget everything else except war
to the knife. Fight!
—Junius Jr. (Q.).
History in the Making
Future historians will find a wealth of
surprising material in our Great Dailies,
particularly with respect to our amazing
methods of government. Take this three-
day gleaning as a sample:
“I say that a Japanese attack on Australia
is coining very quickly,” said Major-General
Gordon Bennett in Sydney. “It might not
be a matter of months but of weeks.”
On the same day:
The Social Services Minister (Mr. Hollo-
way) said that the Government would intro-
duce legislation to increase the rate of old-
age pensions to 255. a week... .The cost of
the increase will be nearly £2,000,000 annu-
ally, and additional taxes will have to be
imposed to finance it.
And Mr. Curtin put his foot down:
Mr. Cameron said that in the last few
weeks certain regulations had been intro-
duced which, under the guise of preparing
the country for war, were an attempt to
bring in a new financial policy and estab-
lish an entirely new order. In replying, Mr.
Curtin said that he was not ready to be
answerable to muckraking attacks which
were a mere holdup to decisions the Gov-
ernment might make.
Next morning a gentler tone prevailed
in Canberra;
Members of the Federal Government
will hold important conferences in the week-
end with a delegation from the Aus-
tralasian Council of Trade Unions and
other Labor bodies on the labor corps
plan There are indications that the move
to conscript labor in the manner proposed
will be opposed by the unions. The Minis-
try is anxious to explain to the unions
the necessity for the move... .Union views
“ Sergeant , I'd like you to meet my people !”
on the operation and smooth working of
the system will be sought.
And Parliamentary muckrakers are to
be properly muzzled:
After the next session the House would
meet regularly on the fourth Wednesday of
each month, subject always to any emer-
gency.
But a non-political one spilled some
troublesome stuff next day:
“Australia is not producing enough coal
for her needs,” the Commonwealth Coal
Commission chairman (Mr. Mighell) said
today. “Undoubtedly the compulsory re-
tirement this year of 2000 men in the
N.S.W. mines is the greatest drawback.
This means that about 11 p.c. of total em-
ployees have been forced to retire at 60
years. Though many applied for exemp-
tion from compulsory retirement relatively
few exemptions were granted. Lost pro-
duction from this cause alone is estimated
at about 30,000 tons a fortnight —or nearly
750,000 tons a year.”
And the Miners’ Federation put its
foot down:
“Work might stop at eight mines if a dis-
pute at the Richmond Main was not
settled during the week-end,” said the
miners’ general secretary (Mr. G. W. S.
Grant) “Judge Drake-Brockman’s de-
cision in the matter was unacceptable to
the miners, and a compulsory conference
called during the week by the Federal
Labor Minister (Mr. Ward) down
without reaching a settlement.”
By which time the future historian will
probably go out for a drink. — Colbun
(Q.).
Sound and Fury
With each fresh reverse there comes
a spate of heroic talk from national
leaders. Most of this talk is mere
rhetoric, meaningless repetitions of re-
sounding phrases and exhortations,
couched in almost threatening language
and aimed at the bewildered civilian
urging him to ‘‘perform his allotted
“Every human entity we have has his
or her allotted task,” says the Prime Min-
ister. This is very far from being the
case, as anyone with any sense and who
can keep his (or her) head clear amid the
streams of oratory knows perfectly well.
Many of the human entities I know are
just beginning to wonder what it’s all
about, and why they can’t get all the tea
and sugar they want. I can’t think ot
one with a task “allotted” other than to
fill his (or her) belly and get up in time
to go to work in the morning. We have
been doing this for ages. There’s no-
thing different about it now.
The most laughably absurd trivialities
engage our earnest attention at this “criti-
cal” time, the latest being heated objec-
tion to some sort of bogey-man poster
displayed by the Government which
“might undermine civilian morale!”—
R. H. G. (W.A.).
An All-round Team
If John Curtin were picking a cricket
team for a Test match he would cer-
tainly choose it from the best that
this country could offer. Yet Priminister
Curtin, when picking a team for our
most desperate struggle, with Australia’s
freedom at stake, insists that it be selected
from a particular row of seats. So I’m
wondering, justifiably, I think, whether
Curtin is really an Australian Prime
Minister or just another party echo. —
T. G. (Q.).
“Famous” Correspondents
I read in my Melbourne morning daily
a report of a valedictory to a staff man
who had been given an official position.
The managing director vouchsafed the
opinion that the young man in question
was in the line of famous war correspon-
dents. That seems to confuse “famous”
with “distinguished.”
Deeming, the wholesale wife-murderer,
was famous, but he certainly was not dis-
tinguished. The only war correspondent
I know of who was both famous and
distinguished was Tolstoy. He was sent
to Sevastopol during the Crimean War
as a lieutenant in the Russian army, and
his insatiable curiosity about life and
human nature took him to those parts of
the beleaguered fortress where the fight-
ing was hottest. He wrote a book in
which he flattered nobody’s prejudices but
which so intrigued the Czar that he sent
a message to the commander to “take
care of this young man —his life is valu-
able to Russia.” It was his experience at
Sevastopol and other places which gave
Tolstoy the material for War and Peace,
a picture of the horror and folly of war
that has never been equalled.
The correspondents complacently
labelled “famous” may some day do
equally fine work, but why acclaim them
in advance? — Lao-dah (Vic.).
Malaria
“Cook’s Mate’s” paragraph (B.
11/3/ ’42) connecting Captain Cook with
Batavia recalls the great navigator’s
remark that when the discovery of
Australia had been forgotten he
would be remembered as the first
ship’s captain to take a crew around
the world without a single case of
scurvy. But, as “C.M.” remarks, Cook
had no prophylactic against malaria. That
had to wait another 100 years for the
advent of another great man, Ronald
Ross, who received precisely the same
treatment from the Indian Medical Ser-
vice that Cook got from the Admiralty.
Ross kept sending in reports from his
station on his researches. Just at the
point where he had almost traced the
fever down to the activities of the ano-
pheles mosquito the authorities trans-
ferred him to a district where there were
no anopheles mosquitoes and delayed his
discovery sufficiently long for two Italian
investigators, who had read his articles
in medical journals, to claim the credit.
It took another 50 years before the rulers
of British tropical dependencies could be
forced to put Ross’s simple principles
into practice, and it was only when the
Singapore Base was started that malaria
prevention was put on a proper footing.
Without Ross the campaign in Malaya
would have been a fight, not between the
British and Jap forces, but between them
both and the anopheles mosquito. —
Pawang (Vic.).
Don’t Blame the Climate
Lady Brooke-Popham told a London
interviewer that she was amazed at
the deadly inertia of the white population
when she arrived in Singapore. In
the same breath she told a story of a
lady whom she asked to give two hours
to A.R.P. daily, and who refused because
it would interfere with her tennis.
The lady probably put as much energy
into playing tennis, bridge and dancing
daily as the average navvy puts into a
day’s work, so it is not the climate or
the native servants that account for the
inertia. Moreover, whatever else the Japs
may be suffering from at the present
moment, it isn’t inertia, and they are in
the same climate. Nor did the early
empire-builders like Clive, Hastings,
Brooke and Raffles and their contem-
poraries suffer from it. Nor can the
former Spanish and Portuguese empires
and the Dutch East Indies be accounted
for on Lady 8.-Popham’s hypothesis.
But they can be accounted for on the
hypothesis that men like St. Francis
Xavier, D’Albuquerque and Jan Coen
had a passionate belief in what they were
doing, infused other people with it and
thus had a driving force which, as Lady
8.-P. says was conspicuously lacking in
Malaya and Singapore. Feng - Shui
(Vic.).
Drink “Problem”
One of the first recorded “scandals”
in the colony of N. S. Wales was the
illegal grog trade. It still goes on. There
were illicit stills and drinking dens when
I was a boy and when my grandfather
was a boy. The booze trade has been
the subject of protests, deputations, con-
ferences, commissions, inquiries and
probings for generations. The Liquor
Acts have been revised, reviewed and
amended many times, always with the
experience of years of abuses in all coun-
tries to guide the framers.
Sly-groggers’ methods have not altered
in all that time. The old tricks suffice.
Now legal advisers to various Govern-
ments are sifting and combing laws and
regulations to see whether they have
power to deal with people who flout laws
which should have been made watertight
long years ago. What a commentary on
our political intelligence!
Fines won’t stop the illicit drink traffic.
A fine of £lOO with, 12 months to pay
is the equivalent of a license fee of less
than £2 a week to ply a calling in which
the profits are enormous. Gaol without
the option is the solution, with sentences
long enough to make the convicts learn
a useful trade. — Mac (N.S.W.),
“Tom” or “Thomas”?
Is the use of “Tom Paine” in-
stead of “Thomas Paine” derogatory to
the man who played so important a part
in the American Revolution? Some
Rationalist papers seem to think so,
among them the London “Literary
Guide.” The December, 1941, issue of
the “Guide” noted that “rarely does one
find a phrase from Thomas Paine quoted
in an advertisement” and commended a
certain firm as being “probably unique in
paying this tribute to a heretic,” one ot
the firm’s advts. having at its head a
Paine declaration pertinent to the times.
More remarkable still, according to the
“Guide,” was the fact that the firm gave
the author’s name in full, not as “Tom
Paine,” which “derogatory abbreviation,”
as the “Guide” styled it, we allegedly
“owe to the rancorous desire of the pious
to depreciate an enemy they could not
defeat.”
This seems rather a far-fetched idea ;
but what if we do so owe it? We
have moved a long way since Paine’s day
in thought and custom ; and in an age of
abbreviations, of snappy twists to names
of persons and things, and of familiar,
easy modes of expression few would agree
that “Tom Paine” is derogatory or de-
preciatory—indeed, most would maintain
that it is complimentary. It comes pat
to the tongue and the pen, and that is
obviously why it is used. Could anyone
possibly believe that the Bulletin con-
tributor (4 / 3 / ’42) who dealt with a Great
Daily’s maltreatment of a fine Paine
quotation used by President Roosevelt
wrote “Tom Paine” other than in an
admiring spirit and in accordance with the
custom of the age? — Roswil (N.S.W.).


The Head Office Building of
the T. & G. reflected in the
River Yarra.
m
m
m
m
KV/5
Ml
> *.
M
I ■■■ ■ s ■
I
-
«
111
U.J
*
ra
w*
ail
Hi
HI Ilf It I
ill
lilii
liiM
M-
mm
mm
m
■
»
■
11
jypv
M •
* '
■■■■:•: S ...: ■§S
|iii H. m
i
...
Hi I
■'
IMB
IN the 64 years of its existence this Society has lived through a large part of
Australia’s history. In peace and in war, during good times and bad, it has
steadily increased in size and in ability to benefit the community, until today it
is recognised as one of the strongest Life Assurance Societies in the British Empire.
A Progressive Society with a Reputation for Stability and Service
&
cAilvthud JUa
O'
